
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Board ofTrustees elects new chair 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 

Richard Notebaert. a 10-year member of the University Board of Trustees, was 
elected to a three-year chair term Friday, 
becoming  Notre  
Dame's  sixth chair­ 
man.  

"It has been a privi­lege to serve as a Trustee of Notre Dame for the past 10 years, and I am honored that 


the Trustees have Notebaert elected me as their sixth chairman," Notebaert said in a statement Friday. "I look forward to 
joining with our president, Father John Jenkins, in advancing our position as the premier Catholic research universi­ty in the world." 
Notebaert, 59, has been chairman and chief executive officer of Qwest Communications International Inc., a Denver-based broadband, data, voice and image communications company, since June 2002. He succeeds Patrick McCartan, who was chairman of the board for seven years. 
Notebaert's term will begin on July 1. 
"I am confident that under his leader­ship, the Board will continue to provide the leadership and support we need to make Notre Dame the premier Catholic research university in the world," University President Father John Jenkins wrote in an e-mail. 
Notebaert has served as chair of the 

University Relations and Public Affairs and Communication Committee. Notebaert is also one of the University's 12 Fellows, who make up the "University's ultimate governing body." Fellows are charged with electing Trustees, adopting and amending bylaws and "maintaining Notre Dame's Catholic character," according to the statement. 
Notebaert received his undergraduate and graduate degrees from the University of Wisconsin. 
Notebaert is a member of the board of directors of Aon Corp., Cardinal Health Inc., the Denver Center for the Performing Arts and the Denver Art Museum, according to the statement. His professional activities include mem­
see BOT/page 4 
Off-campus options draw students 
Break-ins, disorderly house ordinance don't deterfuture residents, say local landlords 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Assistant News Editor 
From the threat of burglary to the city's disorderly house ordinance to the perils of unplowed South Bend roads, there is plenty to give students pause before they move off campus. 
Local landlords, however, report no drops in the number of students leasing one of their homes or apartment complexes -saying, in fact, that factors that might drive future resi­dents away are not factors at all. 

Burglary concerns 
Turtle Creek Apartments general manager Francie Schmuhl said break-ins-one of the biggest fears of students moving off campus -are easi­ly avoided, as long as the stu­dent takes simple precautions. 
"Preventing break-ins depends largely on the com­mon sense of the resident," Schmuhl said. "You don't leave your iPod laying around in your car for everyone to see and you certainly shouldn't leave the front door unlocked either." 
She said there were no bur­glary reports filed at Turtle Creek in December, despite the holiday migration of most stu­dent tenants-an achievement she credited in part to the pres­ence of. a state trooper and a county officer who permanent­ly reside in two of the 192 
see HOUSING/page 4 


Stadium Club Condominiums, pictured above, is a popular apartment complex for students looking to live off campus. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDROTC 


con1petes in tourney 
Event attracts teams from across nation 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Notre Dame Air Force ROTC hosted its 21st annual basketball tournament this weekend, drawing Air Force, Army and Navy cadets from universities nationwide to the Joyce Center for the largest athletic ROTC gathering in the nation. 
Cadets from Texas A&M, San Diego State University and the University of Georgia were among approximately 400 tour­nament participants. 
Although a few teams were unable to make it to the tourna­ment due to weather condi­tions, 14 women's teams and 38 men's teams competed in the three-day event. 
"It was extremely competitive ... in the beginning, there were a lot of weaker teams coming [to the tournament] for fun but in the final rounds it got very competitive," said sophomore Air Force cadet Nathan Loyd. "In many games, last second plays decided whether a team would have to start their long drive home or stay for another game. A couple of games were won by points scored in the very last second of play." 
Texas A&M beat Notre Dame's Navy team in the men's finals Sunday. Each team was placed in a bracket of four 
see ROTC/page 3 



Keenan Revue skits amuse, offend audience members 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
With skit names like "Gaybraham Lincoln" and "A Big Fat Floppy Cavanaugh" listed on the program, the 2007 Keenan Revue organizers set the tone before the curtains even opened Thursday. 
Nothing was safe from the Keenan Revue writers. who targeted everyone from Breen-Phillips girls to University President Father John Jenkins during the three shows this weekend. 
Popular skits included "Talk Love with Dos Padres," which featured two priests answering a fictional Notre Dame sex hotline to give students advice, "Catholic Disney World," a rendition of Aladdin's "A Whole New World" with inside jokes about Notre Dame substituted for the original lyrics and "And Then We Got In." which joked about what students learn after arriving at Notre Dame. 
see REVUE/ page 4 


; . 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 5, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Gallle tillles 
6:17p.m.: William Joel sounds mediocre singing the national anthem. 
6:21: Ford commercial. "I like to live on the edge." Unoriginality leads to minus 13 mega-bonus points. 
6:22: CBS game preview with the same music as Oldie Olderson's post-Army highlight reel. Sweet. 
6:23: Jim Nantz introduces the cap­tains, Laura Hunt and Dan Marino. Nantz mistakenly tries to turn the coverage over to Peter Oosterhouse on Amen corner. 
6:24: Nantz introduce Tony Kirinty as the head referee for the game. Apparently Ed Hochuli is off tonight. Immediately, Brian Urlacher claims title of most jacked person at the game. 
6:26: Phil Simms appears on screen. If he's an egotist, he'll mention how he went 22-of-25 for 268 yards and how two of his in completions were drops. But he's not, so he doesn't. 
6:27: As Jim Nantz makes the first ref­erence to Devin Hester going to college at Miami and how Indy has trouble cov­ering kickoffs, Hester finishes the sen­tence by going 92 yards for the score. Memories of Glendale enter the mind. 
6:29: Rex Grossman appears on the highlights, proclaiming the glory of God for allowing Peyton Manning to be the first quarterback to have to take a snap tonight. "I can't mess up on the side­lines." 
6:30: Jamal Lewis' second consecutive kickoff return for a touchdown in Super Bowl XXXV stands as the only such score. 
6:31: Peyton Manning nearly pulls a Rex Grossman. Grossman sits on the sideline handing a small chicken over to the Colts' masseuse. 
6:32: Nathan Vasher makes Peyton Manning look like Reggie Ball. 
6:34: Chris Harris intercepts Peyton Manning's third pass attempt of the night. Manning is now 0-for-3 with two deflections and an interception. Bears fans rejoice. Grossman cheers, then freezes, realizing, "Crap, that means I have to go in." 
6:35: Bud Light makes a good first impression with the Rocks-Paper­Scissors ad. 
6:37: Grossman completes his first pass for six yards. His passer rating is 91.67. 
6:38: Grossman gets plowed and near­ly throws a interception on third-and­four. 
6:39: SalesGenie.com pays $2.6 million for 30 seconds on the Super Bowl. They pay $2.60 for a writer and producer. 
6:41: The game truly begins. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The article entitled "Senior works at homeless shel­ter" in the Jan. 31 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly stated the time and place of the information session for rhe Summer Service Learning Program. The session is Tuesday, Feb. 6 at 7:30 p.m. In the article entitled "Graduates see diploma flaws" in rhe Jan. 31 edition ofThe Observer, it should be clarified that the misspelling ofword "chairman" on rhe Aug. 2005 and May 2006 diplomas was due to a rransposition of the first "a" and the "i". The article entitled "High rurnout likely for Late Night Olympics" in the Feb. 2 edition ofThe Observer should have been attributed to news writer Katie Kohler. In the body of the story, assistant direc­tor for instructional programs and special events at RecSports Bill Reagan's name was spelled incorrectly. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE SUPER BOWL AD? 







Emily Hennessy  JJ Cappa  Meghan Magargee  Michell Chresfield  Walter Machnicki  Levente Borvak  
freshman  junior  freshman  junior  senior  grad student  
Lyons  Keenan  Lewis  Breen-Phillips  Keenan  offcampus  
'The ones with  "But he has a  "Doritos,  "No speaka  "K-Fed  'The Budweiser  
the crabs [Budweiser]."  chainsaw [Bud Light]."  because the girl reminds me of  English [Coors Light]."  [Nationwide Insurance]. "  smack greeting. ,  

myself" 
Competitive eater downs a record 182 wings 
PHILADELPHIA Professional competitive eater Joey Chestnut devoured a record 182 chick­en wings to win his second consecutive Wing Bowl, a gut-busting annual event that draws thousands of revelers to the city's sports complex in the pre-dawn hours. 
Chestnut, surrounded by buxom "Wingettes," had a crown adorned with tiny rub­ber chickens placed atop his head Friday as his winning total was announced. He also won a 2007 Suzuki Grand Vitara for out-eating his com­petitors -including a pair of Lt. Paul Vernon said. 

Police said the 6-foot-4 street performer was seen arguing with a tour guide who had expressed concern the Star Wars wookiee impersonator was "harassing and touching tourists" in vio­lation of city law. 
Security guards escorted Young off theater property, but he decided to strike back and head-butted the tour guide, Vernon said. 
"The lesson here is you can have the force with you," Vernon said. "You just can't use illegal force." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

pros who also advanced to the finals. 
"I love to eat," said Chestnut, 23, of San Jose, Calif. "Today I was swallow­ing wings, swallowing bones, whatever it took." 
Wookiee Impersonator arrested in California 
LOS ANGELES -A man dressed as Chewbacca was arrested after police said the street performer head-butted a tour guide operator in front of Grauman's Chinese Theatre in Hollywood. 
Frederick Evan Young, 44, of Los Angeles was booked Thursday for investigation of misdemeanor battery, police 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a:: 
1.&.1 :I: 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
...J c( (.) 


0 

HIGH 5 HIGH 0 HIGH 7 HIGH 10
...I LOW -3 LOW -3 LOW -10 LOW -3 IN BRIEF 

As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, poet Lolita Hernandez will read today at 
10:30 a.m. in Room 210 of McKenna Hall and at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Higgins Labor Research Center presents the film "The Take" today at 4:30 p.m., fol­lowed by a lecture by Julia Lopez, a visiting fellow with the Nanovic Institute. Both the film and lecture will take place in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Visiting professor of political science Alejandro Poin~ will give a lecture entitled "Does Public Funding of Political Parties Improve Governance? Evidence from Mexico's States" Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center, Room C-103. 
Samuel Gregg, director of Research at the Acton Institute for the Study of Religion and Liberty, will give a lecture enti­tled "Beyond Legal Compliance: The Moral Life & Business" Tuesday at 6 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, former poet laureate of Queens, New York Hal Sirowitz will read Tuesday at 8 p.m. in the Oak Room at South Dining Hall. 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, essayist and humorist David Rakoff will speak Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 13 HIGH 18 LOW 3 LOW 7 
Atlanta 47 I 28 Boston 16 I 7 Chicago 6 I -6 Denver 44 I 24 Houston 66 I 43 Los Angeles 80 I 51 Minneapolis -2 I -16 New York 19 I 11 Philadelphia 18 I 8 Phoenix 78 I 48 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 19 I 7 Tampa 65 I 45 Washington 23 I 13 
Monday, February 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
RecSports launches magazine 

By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Students found a new source of reading material last week when Notre Dame's RecSports delivered a copy of its new magazine to the mailbox of every on-campus resident. 
The inaugural issue of Rec features articles about student­athletes and details ways to become more involved in the recreational activities offered on campus. 
The magazine profiles stu­dents Maureen Spring and James Zhang and contains information on club sports, nutrition and RecSports' new personal trainer program. 
Co-director of RecSports Sally Derengoski said planning for the magazine began at the start of this year. 
"We wanted to do something that was fun, enjoyable and informative," Derengoski said. "This is a little bit different than what RecSports normally does. We have a lot of good stories about students to share." The two writers for the maga­
She said students have zine, seniors Katie-Rose Hoover responded enthusiastically to and Sara Woolf, were part of the new magazine. that focus group. 
"I've received many phone "Our goal in writing this is to calls and e-mails about the provide students that are magazine," Derengoski said. already active in RecSports with 
"We're lucky because over 90 percent of stu­dents participate in some aspect of RecSports, and our magazine is for them, and those who don't know much about what we have to offer." 
Junior Matthew 
"We wanted to do something that was fun, enjoyable and informative." 
Sally Derengoski co-director RecSports 
more information and to tell stu­dents that aren't involved not to be intimidated," Woolf said. 
Originally, RecSports intend­ed to publish Rec just once a semes­ter, but strong stu­dent response may lead to more fre­

Smith said Rec helped him learn more about what RecSports offers. 
"I felt that information about RecSports was scattered before, so it's good to have it all in one place," Smith said. 
The magazine was a result of a focus group conducted to determine what kind of stories and information students want­ed to read about recreation. 
quent issues, Derengoski said. 
"Many students have called and asked us to publish more frequently, but it's something we'll have to look into," she said 
The next planned issue of Rec will be available in September 2007. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
beat the South Dakota State Air Force Team in the women's finals. 
Nick Possley of Notre Dame's Navy ROTC won the overall MVP award for the men's division and Stephanie Thompson of Marquette won the women's MVP. 
While the basketball tourna­ment is an annual highlight for Notre Dame's ROTC, it also inspires teams from around the nation to prepare all year for the opportunity to travel to South Bend. Loyd said teams like Texas A&M will already be fundraising and holding tryouts for next year's compe­tition. 
Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC cadets, led by junior Tony Crosser, were in charge of organizing the tournament. Crosser said he began plan­ning the first week back at school. 
As head basketball tourna­ment officer, Crosser was in charge of sending out invita­tions to every ROTC unit from across the country, finding facilities for the event, order­ing trophies and making T­shirts and programs. 
"I definitely consider the tournament to be a success. It was a lot of hard work and the staff did a wonderful job when I as playing and couldn't be there," Crosser said. "All the other teams were telling me that they wanted to come back next year." 
Sophomore Air Force cadet Brian Woodlock. who was in charge of finding referees for the tournament, said the event was a great way to interact with other ROTC cadets. 
"It was a competitive atmos­phere, but it was also a lot of fun to meet other cadets from across the country ... and have a good time together," he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
teams, and the winning team from each bracket moved into single-elimination playoff rounds. 
The Marquette Army team 



. ! ! 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 5, 2007 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
Turtle Creek apartments. 
Officer Derek Dieter from the South Bend Poliee Department (SBPD) -also a member of the South Bend Common Council ­advised students contemplating off-campus residenees to comb the neighborhood they're con­templating before they commit with a deposit. 
In his capacity as councilman on the city's Health and Public Safety Committee, Dieter said high tenant turnovers in any given neighborhood usually sig­nal a large number of students -since they only need housing for a handful of semesters -or a significant degree of unrest, if South Bend's permanent resi­dents also fail to remain there for extended periods of time. 
The committee, he said, moni­tors these turnovers and other indexes to serve as a "barometer for the threats in the city." 
Some of these threats include criminals who trail out-of-state license plates to pinpoint student residences, Dieter said. 
He advised off-campus stu­dents to take preventive actions against such lurkers by "closing your blinds, leaving the lights on when you go out and fustalling a simple alarm system." 
"These measures will tip the odds in your favor," he said. 
The SBPD told The Observer earlier this year the number of break-ins at student residences in South Bend during the winter vaeation decreased from eight in 2005 to three in 2006, which they attributed to increased pre­ventive measures, including additional alarm systems and requests from the residents for patrols to circulate their neigh­borhoods during their absence. 
One of the break-in incidents last month occurred at a student residence on St. Peter Street, one of landlord Mark Kramer's 175 Millhouse said he was "com­properties. pletely oblivious" to the ordi­
"We've talked to our student nance when he signed his lease tenants about taking preventive contract -but fellow junior action to deter further break-ins, Brett Lilley said he kept the edict and many of them have taken in mind when he selected his that advice," Kramer said. "As a home for his senior year. result, this year we haven't Lilley will be residing in Castle received many calls about secu­Point Apartments on Cleveland rity concerns in any of the prop­Road -conveniently outside the erties." ordinance's jurisdiction. 
Junior Jack Millhouse will live "I knew the ordinance didn't in one of Kramer's houses on apply to Castle Point because it's 
Washington  located outside  
Street this fall,  South Bend," he  
and though threat of crime  "We try to educate the  said. "And that really sealed  
in the neighbor­hood did con­cern him, he said his desire  students to make sure they stay out oftrouble with the police, and so  the deal for me because I don't want any trou­ble, and with  
to  share  a  far none of them have  the ordinance  
house with five friends his sen­ had problems."  you could get evicted after the  
ior year carried  first warning if  
more weight.  Mark Kramer  your landlord  
"I  heard  landlord  doesn't want to  

about the recent wave of break-ins but I figured I could just take most of my valuable stuff home on breaks," Millhouse said. "Plus, I read somewhere that the cops were stepping up efforts to make additional drive-bys and things to scare the burglars while we're away." 
Millhouse may have developed a strategy to elude thieves, but in the fall he and his housemates will have to deal with another concern: the city's disorderly house ordinance. 
Disorderly house ordinance 
Since mid-2005, students off eampus have had to abide by a new amendment to South Bend's disorderly house ordinance, which stipulates that the city can send tenants -and their land­lords -a notice to abate after a single noise violation. 
If the noise violation reoccurs, both parties will owe the city a fine, unless the landlord evicts the tenant within 30 days. 
color jokes -espeeially those about Saint Mary's girls -this
Revue 
year's show was less offensive, said Saint Mary's student body
continued from page 1 
president Susan Mcllduff. 
In addition to the skits, the Mcllduff contrasted this Revue Revue provided entertainment in to the performance in 2004, when the form of music and dancing. Saint Mary's students picketed The audience seemed to appreci­outside in protest of the show. ate the first musical number, "We only cut one skit. It didn't "Rock & Roll All Nite," performed just bash Saint Mary's, but it was­by band members with KISS-style n't comical. It was outright ridicu­face paint backed by pyrotechnics lous," Mcllduff said. and a group of male dancers who Since the Revue takes place on stripped down to Saint Mary's their boxers. campus, 
"Best choreog­"We only cut one skit. It College student raphy ever. I was didn'tjust bash Saint government looking out at representatives
Mary's, but it wasn't 
the audience and have been able everyone seemed comical. It was outright to screen the to enjoy it," said ridiculous. " skits for years, Damon Jason, Mcllduff said. Keenan junior "We do cut
Susan Mcllduff
and Revue things, [but] we 
dancer who has student body president want it to be performed in Saint Mary's funny ultimate­past Revues. ly," she said. 
Senior Aileen "Everyone can Wu also enjoyed the musical num­take a joke and that's what the bers. Revue is, but we don't want it to 
"The music was good, especially be outright ridiculous." Panic! At the Disco's 'I Write Sins Despite treading the line Not Tragedies,"' Wu said. between humorous and "ridicu­"Another great Keenan Revue." lous," the Keenan Revue seemed 
The audience's reaction was to please most audience mem­eonsistently positive despite a few bers. technical difficulties. "Since I'm not gay or [overly] 
Sophomore Ryan Oakley said he feminist, I just saw it for its humor. thought "the Bird Flu skit with the However, if I were otherwise, I Wiggles" was funniest. Freshman definitely would have thought it Edward Yap said the Revue was pushed the envelope and might an "outstanding show," but picked have been offended," freshman "Talk Love with Dos Padres" as Anna Pavlov said. "Personally, I his favorite. just thought it was funny." 
While in the past, the Keenan Revue has been a source of con­Contact Eva Binda at troversy with its frequently off-jbinda@nd.edu 
run the risk of 
getting fined in 
the future." 
However, the ordinance hasn't 
adversely affected every apart­
ment complex in South Bend. 
"I've never evieted a student 
for violations related to the noise 
ordinance, nor would I," Kramer 
said. "We try to educate the stu­
dents to make sure they stay out 
of trouble with the police, and so 
far none of them have had prob­·lems." 
Still, junior Marina Cardona 
also leased a Castle Point apart­
ment for the 2007-08 sehool 
year, hoping to eseape the noise 
restrictions the University and 
the city have imposed on her. 
"I just look forward to deciding 
my own quiet hours," she said. 
Lilley and Cardona might have 
more breathing room in deter­
mining the volume of the music 
and the amount of friends they 
may entertain Friday nights, but 
not all students have fled South 
Bend to eseape the disorderly 
house ordinance. 
Kramer said he recently pur­chased Notre Dame Apartments and Lafayette Square Townhouses to meet the rising demand for off-campus student residences, and more than 50 students have already signed leases to occupy his properties during the 2008-09 year. 

"Demand is high and increas­ing," he said. "We're signing leases two years in advance, so I wouldn't say the noise ordinance is discouraging students from moving off eampus." 
Stadium Club Condominiums property manager Susan Miller said the complex was also "almost full." 
Along Bulla Road, Miller said, Stadium Club neighbors a 20­year-old series of senior citizen residences, allowing the apart­ment complex to offer students "a quieter, more residential area." 
"We have our share of parties but generally they're not half of the parties you find at other apartment complexes," she said. 
Miller said 42 of the 52 Stadium Club apartments were already leased to students for the fall. · 
One of those students living at Stadium Club may be junior Frank Guerra, who got a taste of independence for the first time during his semester in the Washington D.C. program. 
"I really have enjoyed the apartment lifestyle and I feel a lot more responsible for myself, cleaning and cooking and taking out the trash," he said. "It seems like I had been missing out on that these last two and a half years." 
Guerra cited the absence of watchful rectors as another fac­tor that drove him to lease an apartment off campus next year. 
"Oh wait, du Lac still applies off campus," he said, laughing. ''I'll be sure to remember that." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
BOT 
continued from page 1 

berships in the Business Council and the International Advisory Council of the Executives' Club of Chicago. 
In April 2003, President George W. Bush appointed Notebaert as a member of the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee, which provides industry-based analysis on policy and tech­nical issues, according to the Qwest Web site. 
Notebaert and his wife, Peggy, have two daughters and five grandchildren. 
The Board of Trustees was established 40 years ago "when governance was transferred from the Congregation of Holy Cross to a two-tiered, mixed board of lay and religious Trustees and Fellows," the statement said. 
There are currently 53 active members and 35 Life Trustees on Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 



~--~----~----------------~-----------------------------------------------------------­







ORLD & NATION 


Monday, February 5, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Italian officer killed in soccer match 
ROME -Months after a game-fixing scandal shook Italian soccer, the sport was rocked again when rioting by fans left a police officer dead and scores of people injured. 
The mayhem, during a game between Sicilian teams Catania and Palermo, prompted soccer offi­cial<> to suspend this weekend's matches_ the first time that has happened in more than a decade. 
Italian soccer officials canceled Wednesday's exhibition game between Italy and Romania, and threatened to extend the suspension. 
Italian Premier Romano Prodi promised drastic measures and a "radical change." 
"People must understand that there must be a turning point." he said. "We can't keep risking the lives oflaw police officflrs." 
Michel Platini, the newly elected president of European soccer's governing body, promised to work with ItaJy to end the violence. 
The violence comes just months after celebra­tions following the national team's World Cup vic­tory in Germany last summer. 
Colombian mine explosion kills 32 
SARDINATA-An explosion tore through a makeshift coal mine in remote northeast Colombia on Saturday, killing 32 miners, a civil defense oflicial said. 
Hescue crews had located the bodies buried more than 1 ,300 feet below ground but were unable to safely remove them, said Yesid Arias, who was helping to coordinate the operation. Officials had previously reported that three miners were dead and 28 were missing at the mine in the remote hamlet of San Roque, 255 miles northeast of Bogota. 
"We have orders to work through the night , but unfortunately there's still plenty of trapped methane gas that's making it unsafe for work crews to stay underground for any extended period of time," Arias said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
States oppose National ID plan 
WASHINGTON -A revolt against a national driver's license, begun in Maine last month, is quickly spreading to other states. 
The Maine Legislature on Jan. 26 overwhelm­ingly passed a resolution objecting to the Real ID Act of 2005. The federal law sets a national standard for driver's licenses and requires states to link their record-keeping systems to national databases. 
Privacy advocates say a national driver's license will promote identity theft. The law's supporters say it i<> needed to prevent terrorists and illegal immigrants from getting fake identifi­cation cards. 
States will have to comply by May 2008. If they do not, driver's licenses that fall short of Real ID's standards cannot be used to board an air­plane or enter a federal building or open some bank accounl<>. 


Senator calls for U.S. climate summit 
WASHINGTON -The head of the Senate's Environment Committee called on the White House Friday to hold a summit grouping the 12 largest greenhouse-gas emitting nations. 
Sen. Barbara Boxer's comments came on the heels of a report released by a U.N.-sponsored panel of climate scientists which said there was little doubt the man-made emissions are to blame for global warming. 
''I'm calling on the president to convene a summit at the White House of the 12 largest global warming emitters," she said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Two arrested for South Bend murders 
SOUTH BEND -Two men have been arrested and formally charged with the murder of four homeless men in December. 
Daniel J. Sharp, 56, and Randy Lee Heeder. 50. both of South Bend. are in police custody -Sharp in St. Joseph County and Reeder in Berrien County in Michigan -according to prosecutors. 
The bodies of Michael "Shan" Nolen Jr., 40, and Michael Lawson, 56, were discov­ered Jan. 9. inside a manhole in the 600 block of South Scott Street near the Prairie Avenue railroad crossing. 
CoMPn.Eo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
SUDAN 


China calls for UN intervention 
President warns reluctant Darfur rebels to 'join the peace process' 
Associated Press 

ALJAILI Chinese President Hu Jintao told Sudan's leader on Friday he must give the United Nations a bigger role in try­ing to resolve the conflict in Darfur and also said China wanted to do more business with its key African ally, Sudan state media reported. 
In what appeared to be China's bluntest message to Sudan on the Darfur crisis, Hu urged President Omar al-Bashir in a face-to-face meeting to boost the U.N.'s "constructive role in realiz­ing peace in Darfur" along with the African Union, the official Sudan news agency SUNA reported. 
China buys two-thirds of Sudan's oil and is the largest investor in the country, giv­ing it some leverage with al­Bashir's government. Sudan has defied a U.N. Security Council call for the under­powered African Union mis­sion of 7,000 troops in the western region of Darfur to be taken over by a U.N. operation of 22,000 peace­keepers. 
China usually refuses to mix human rights issues with diplomacy, but Hu has come under international pressure to use his clout with Sudan to push it to accept U.N. peacekeepers in Darfur. More than 200,000 people have been killed in four years of fighting in the region between rebels and the army, backed by the notorious janjaweed militia. 
Human rights activists expressed concern ahead of Hu's eight-country tour of Africa that China is over­looking abuses to gain access to Africa's resources. Africa has become an important source of oil and other natural resources to feed China's rapid economic growth. 
Sudanese officials briskly ushered journalists out of the room Friday when Hu began voicing his expecta­tions on Darfur to al-Bashir. Later, a Sudanese official told The Associated Press that Hu had told al-Bashir his government "should work more earnestly to get the rebels who did not sign the Darfur peace agreement to join the peace process." 

The government signed the peace agreement with one rebel group last May, but other rebels rejected the accord as inadequate and the conflict escalated. 
This week, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki­moon urged Sudan to accept a compromise deal by which a U.N. force would deploy in Darfur in a "hybrid mission" with African peacekeepers. Ban has also asked China's 
U.N. ambassador for help in trying to persuade the Khartoum government. 
Sudanese Foreign 
Minister Lam Akol insisted that Hu's words on Darfur were not hostile. 
Akol told reporters after the meeting that Sudan was willing to see the mixed U.N. and African Union force deployed in Darfur "as soon as funding and troops were secured." 
Diplomats in Khartoum said Hu's position on Darfur could be linked to Chinese concerns about Sudan's sta­bility, as well as that of neighboring Chad. The Chinese have recently improved relations with Chad, which also has impor­tant oil reserves and is fight­ing rebels in eastern provinces. Chad has accused Sudan of backing its rebels -a charge that Khartoum denies. 
Diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the issue is not set­tled, said the U.N. is pushing to have 10,000 to 15,000 peacekeepers in the region. Akol said Sudan would agree to whatever number a committee of Sudanese, 
U.N. and AU experts decid­ed. 
However, Sudan has a record of backtracking on agreements concerning Darfur, and some presiden­tial advisers say al-Bashir has not agreed to anything more than an advisory role for the U.N. 
Sudan wanted to draw attention to the trade and investment side of its rela­tionship with China. 

VENEZUELA 


Chavez backs environmentalists 
Associated Press 

CARACAS -His ambitious social programs are built on Venezuela's petroleum wealth, but President Hugo Chavez is increasingly talk­ing up environmental causes and urging the world to cut back on oil use to fight global warming. 
He wants to use some oil rev­enues in a venture to manufacture solar panels and has begun doling out millions of energy-saving fluo­rescent light bulbs to homes nationwide. 
Some critics say Chavez's cam­paign is mostly rhetoric, noting this is a country where govern­
ment subsidies have gasoline prices at 12 cents a gallon, car sales are booming and vehicle exhaust chokes litter-strewn streets. 
But Chavez says Venezuela can be an example, and he has begun exhorting his followers to drive less and take public transport. His government plans a windmill farm to generate electricity on the Caribbean coast and is exploring more uses for cleaner-burning nat­ural gas. 
"Venezuela is one of the coun­tries that least contaminates the environment, but nevertheless we want to give an example and be at 
the vanguard," Chavez said at a news conference Thursday. 
He called U.S. oil consumption­which handsomely funds his gov­ernment -a leading cause of the world's environmental troubles. 
"They're destroying the world," Chavez said, citing melting gla­ciers in the Andes and predictions of rising sea levels. "The human race will be finished if we don't change the world capitalist sys­tem." . 
Leftist ideology colors Chavez's views, and he has spent time dis­cussing the dilemma of climate change with Cuban leader Fidel Castro, his friend and mentor. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 5, 2007 
Kids join weight-loss surgery trend 
AP 
Kevin Federline is featured in a clip from the Nationwide Super Bowl ad "Life Comes at You Fast." 
Super Bow1features con1peting, funny ads 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Along with the trademark Clydesdales, talking animals and high-end computer graphics, there was a new entry this year in the annual show­down of advertisers in the Super Bowl: amateurs. 
Starting in the first quarter, a goofY spot for Doritos showing a hapless driver distracted by a pretty woman passing by marked the first time a purely amateur-created ad aired during the Super Bowl. Frito-Lay, the PepsiCo Inc. division that makes Doritos, ran an online competi­tion to pick the winning spot. 
Katie Crabb, a freshman at the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point, was the winner of a separate contest by General Motors Corp. and had her idea for an ad made into reality by Chevrolet's marketing division. 
Despite being made by a new­comer, that ad was true to the tradition of using oddball huinor in Super Bowl ads, showing a number of men stripping off their shirts -and some other articles of clothing -at the sight of a new Chevy HHR rolling down the street. 
Sight gags were back, includ­ing one from Bud Light early in the game showing a rather unusual tactic for winning at rock-paper-scissors-throwing an actual rock at the head of your opponent. The gag wasn't completely new, however, since last year Sprint Nextel Corp. fea­tured a phone with a "crime deterrent" -which turned out to be throwing the phone at someone's head. 
FedEx Corp. combined a sight gag with another trademark of big ticket Super Bowl spots, fancy computer graphics, with an other-worldy ad showing an office worker drifting off into space from the world's first office on the moon, only to be clob­bered by a passing meteor. 
A lot is riding on the ads, and not just because CBS Corp. is charging as much as $2.6 mil­lion for a 30-second spot during the game. With some 90 million people watching, it's the most­viewed program all year on tele­vision and the ads are subject to intense scrutiny, both by ama­teurs and the marketing indus­try. 
Coca-Cola Co. was back in the game after a long absence, tak­ing on its rival Pepsi with a num­ber of creative ads, including an homage to Black History Month with an understated ad showing the changing shapes of Coke bot­tles over time as milestones in black history appeared along­side. Other ads also highlighted Black History Month and high­lighted the fact that, for the first time, both coaches in the game are black. 
Some of the uses of humor didn't resonate well with experts. Stephen Greyser, a pro­fessor at Harvard Business School specializing in communi­cations and the business of sports, said the rock-throwing spot by Anheuser-Busch Cos.' Bud Light was "attention-get­ting" but also "had a nasty char­acter to it." 
Bud Light, which often swings for the fences with wacky jabs at humor, scored better with Greyser with a different spot showing an auctioneer saying wedding vows at hyper-fast speed. Greyser said that spot had a much broader appeal. 
The job-search company CareerBuilder ditched its long­time office-monkey pitchmen of years past in favor of a jungle combat scene among office workers, where office supplies become weapons. Think of "Dilbert" meets "Lord of the Flies." 
Tim Calkins, a marketing pro­fessor at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University who runs a panel of students to rate the ads, called this year's batch a "mixed bag," saying advertisers were "being safe," with no one "pushing the edge of either creativity or taste." 
An ad early in the game for Blockbuster Inc. with computer animations of animals trying to push, click and -ouch -drag an actual mouse resonated well with members of his panel, who said it was creative and also delivered the company's mes­sage. The panel found a spot by King Pharmaceuticals Inc. show­ing a guy dressed up in a giant red heart costume "puzzling," while Garmin International Inc.'s oddball spot with a showdown between a superhero-like char­acter and a monster made from maps was deemed "hard to fol­low.'' 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -As the popu­larity of stomach surgery has skyrocketed among obese adults, a growing number of doctors are asking, "Why not children, too?" 
For decades, the number of kids trying weight-loss surgery has been tiny. The operations themselves were risky, with a death rate of about 1 in 50. Children rarely got that fat, and when they did, pediatri­cians hesitated to put the developing bodies under the knife. Only 350 U.S. kids had such an operation in 2004, according to federal statistics. 
But improvements in surgical technique and huge increases in the number of dangerously obese children have begun fueling a change of heart. 
A group of four hospitals, led by Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, are starting a large-seale study this spring examining how children respond to various types of weight-loss surgery, including the gastric bypass, in which a pouch is stapled off from the rest of the stomach and connected to the small intestine. 
Three more hospitals have approval from the Food and Drug Administration to test how teens fare with a proce­dure called laparoscopic gas­tric banding, where an elastic collar installed around the stomach limits how much someone can eat. 
The FDA has hesitated to approve the gastric band for children, but surgeons at New York University Medical Center reported in the Journal of Pediatric Surgery this month that the device holds promise. 
13 to 17, who participated in hospital supervision. But so NYU's study shed nearly half far, not a single one has their excess weight over 18 slimmed down enough to take months, while suffering rela­surgery off the table, said Dr. tively minor complications. Jeffrey Zitsman, associate 
Crystal Kasprowicz, of St. attending surgeon at Morgan James, N.Y., said she lost 100 Stanley Children's Hospital. pounds from her 250-pound "That battle can only be won frame after having the band in a few instances," he said. installed at age 17. The studies have followed a 
''I'm a totally different per­huge surge in the popularity of son," she said. obesity surgeries among 
Before the procedure, adults. The American Society Kasprowicz said she took med­for Bariatric Surgery estimates ication for a rapid heartbeat that more than 177,000 and was showing Americans had signs of develop-weight-loss sur­ing diabetes. gery last year, up 
Every effort she "It's one ofthese from 4 7,000 in made to stop get­quick-fixes that 2001. ting bigger failed. Not everyone is
isn 't a fix at all. " 
Dieting didn't pleased that kids work, she said. might be next. Her heart prob­Joanne Ikeda "I don't think lems made it hard nutritionist altering the 
to exercise. Even walking up stairs was a challenge. 

Now, she's off the heart drugs. Her blood~sugar levels are in check. She also feels better about herself. 
''I'm very outgoing now," said Kasprowicz. "I hike a lot ... I go to the beach in the sum­mer now. I'm not as self-con­scious when I go shopping for clothing." 
Similar studies are under way at the University of Illinois Medical Center in Chicago and at the Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of New York-Presbyterian, which recently opened a weight-loss surgery center for teens. Doctors there expect to con­duct about 50 operations this year. 
Children are only considered candidates for surgery after they have spent six months trying to lose weight through conventional methods under human digestive 
tract is a solution 
to the problem of excess weight," said Joanne Ikeda, a nutritionist emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley. "It's one of these quick-fixes that isn't a fix at all." 
Doctors, she said, still know relatively little about the long­term effects of such operations on the very young. 
The federal Agency for 1-Iealthcare Research and Quality released a study in July that said four in 10 weight-loss surgery patients develop complications within six months. Among adults, mortality rates among gastric bypass patients remain at between 1 in 100 and 1 in 200 patients. 
Laparoscopic gastric banding has been shown to have a much smaller death rate ­about 1 in 1000 patients -but complications do occur. 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesb,an, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame fam1ly, their fnends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Evewone is welcome and confidentialitY is assured. 

CCHE CUUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 
. •.. 

Monday, February 5, 2007 


MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 

12,653.49 -20.19
}ones 
UfX Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,865 157 1,366 2,570,371,488 

NASDAQ 2 475.88 +7.50 

-HYSI·•-•-••••••••-••·•··-•,.~IJ-:!~ittllillill~allllllllllJlllllll! 
Nl~~l·~II1i·tli¥~11tlllllllfiiR.~IIi! 
fTSE IOO(l.Dndon) 6,310.90 +28.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
S&P 500 I ,448.39 +2.45 

MOTOROLA INC (MOT)  -0.50  -0,10  19.85  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +1.22  +0.08  6.63  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS(SPY)  +0.14  +0.20  144.81  
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.32  +0.14  44.16  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.21  -0.0 I 0  4.827  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  +0.0 I 0  5.00  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.14  -0.007  4.926  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.33  -0.0 16  4.818  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.72  59.02  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -I 1.50  651.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.38  104.68  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.1500  
EURO  0.7717  
POUND  0.5088  
CANADIAN$  1.1836  




IN BRIEF 
Alternative fuels cause rise in com price 
NEW YORK -Forget about oil as the inflation bogeyman we should fear the most. The surging price of corn is the latest threat to Americans' wallets, and where it hits them may go beyond the supermarket. 
The issue here really starts with the govern­ment's push to increase the use of alternative fuels like ethanol to reduce a reliance on foreign oil. Since most ethanol produced here is made from com, that burgeoning boom is straining com supplies, and boosting prices. 
That makes everything from soda (sweetened with high fructose com syrup) to the steak from corn-fed beef more expensive. It's also crimping ethanol producers' profitability, which could lead to calls for increased federal subsidies to keep them afloat. 
This could particularly hurt consumers on the lower end of the income scale, who spend 16 per­cent of their discretionary income on food com­pared with the 11 percent for those in the top­income quintile, Merrill Lynch chief North American economist David Rosenberg said. 

Indiana lnsing 890jobs in plant closure 
CONNERSVILLE, Ind. -Visteon Corp. plans to close an eastern Indiana auto-parts plant, idling 890 employees, the company announced Thursday. 
Closing the plant in September is part of the company's three-year plan to fix, close or sell about 30 facilities to make Visteon more globally competitive, Visteon spokesman Jim Fisher said. 
"We've done a very thorough review of this facility," Fisher said. "We do not believe there is a viable business case for continuing to operate it." 
The plant in Connersville, some 60 miles east of Indianapolis, has about 7 50 hourly and 140 salaried employees. It produces climate control products like heating and air conditioning sys­tems for several vehicle manufacturers. 
"Some of that work will go away as certain products reach the end of their production run," said Kimberley Goode, vice president of corpo­rate communications for Michigan-based Visteon. "Most of the remaining work will move to other Visteon plants." 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Bush wants to spend $2.9 trillion 
Plan to reduce deficit directs money to Iraq, cuts health care costs, keeps tax cuts 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Pres­
ident Bush will send 
Congress a $2.9 trillion 
spending request today that 
seeks billions of dollars more 
to fight the Iraq war and 
tries to restrain the spiraling 
cost of the government's big 
health care programs. 
Responding to the new 
political rea-lities of a 
Democratic-controlled 
Congress, Bush will propose 
balancing the budget in five 
years, matching a goal put 
forward by Democratic lead­
ers. But Bush would achieve 
that feat while protecting his 
cherished first-term tax cuts. 
The arrival of the massive 
four-volume set of green 
budget bo'Oks, which will 
cover the budget year that 
begins next Oct. 1, will be 
followed by months of 
debate in Congress. 
Democrats charged that 
Bush wants to make painful 
cuts across a wide swath of 
government programs while 
protecting tax cuts that will 
make the deficit worse after 
2012. 
"This budget is plunging 
us toward a cliff that will 
take us right into a chasm of 
debt," Senate Budget 
Committee Chairman Kent 
Conrad, D-N.D., said in an 
interview Sunday. · 
"In real terms, Bush's plan 
is going to have very sub­
stantial cuts by the fifth year allow only modest growth in Bush's budget would boosting insurance premi­
of this budget in all of the the government programs achieve nearly $100 billion ums paid by the wealthiest 
domestic priorities from outside of defense and in savings over five years by Medicare recipients, those 
education and health care to homeland security. He is trimming increases in making more than $80,000 
law enforcement and veter­proposing eliminations or Medicare, the health insur­annually for individuals and 
ans," Conrad said. "With sharp reductions in 141 gov­ance program for 43 million $160,000 for married cou­
Democrats in control, we ernment programs, for a retirees and disabled, and ples. 
will have different priori­savings over five years of Medicaid which provides More people would be 
ties." $12 billion, although health care to the poor. forced to pay the higher 
The federal deficit hit an Congress has rejected many The restraints in Medicare monthly premiums because 
all-time high under Bush of of the same proposals over spending would total $66 the administration would 
$413 billion in 2004. It has the past two years. billion over five years while stop indexing the income 
been declining since that Bush also will seek to trim the savings in Medicaid levels for inflation. Bush also 
time and the 2008 budget spending on farm subsidies would total $12.7 billion. wants to make high-income 
projects it will continue to by $18 billion over five Most of the Medicare savings Medicare recipients pay 
decline and show a surplus years, mainly by reducing would come in slowing the more for their drug coverage 
in 2012, three years after payments to wealthier farm­growth of payments to hos­as well as the higher premi­
Bush leaves office. ers, an effort certain to pitals and other health care um they are now paying on 
To accomplish those spark resistance among providers. But $11.5 billion the insurance for doctors' 
reductions, Bush would farm state lawmakers. in savings would come from visits. 

Stocks strong amid weak job numbers 
Associated Press gain in nine months in December, ris­Broader stock indicators were high­
ing 2.4 percent. Also, the final er. The Standard & Poor's 500 index 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a Reuters/University of Michigan con­rose 2.45, or 0.17 percent, to 
strong week narrowly mixed Friday sumer sentiment reading for January 1,448.39, its highest level in more 
after the market absorbed a weaker­rose to 96.9 from 91.7 in December, than six years, and the Nasdaq com­
than-expected employment report its highest level in two years, but fell posite index advanced 7.50, or 0.30 
that curbed investors' bullish senti­short of a preliminary reading of 98. percent, to 2,475.88. 
ment following three days of straight "They're by no means terrible num­For the week, the Dow was up 1.33 
gains. bers here," said Andy Richman, fixed­percent, while the Nasdaq gained 1.66 
The January jobs report, which income strategist at SunTrust Bank's percent and the S&P rose 1.84 per­
showed the country's unemployment personal asset management arm. He cent. 
rate at a four-month high of 4.6 per­contends the readings signal the Bonds were little changed following 
cent, came as a surprise on Wall Federal Reserve's strategy of standing the eco~omic data, with the yield on 
Street. A reading of 4.5 percent had pat on interest rates is working. "This the benchmark 10-year Treasury note 
been expected. The Labor Department validates their wait-and-hold flat at 4.83 percent from late 
report signaled employers were more approach is starting to pay off." Thursday. The dollar was mixed 
cautious than expected in adding jobs The Dow Jones industrial average against other major currencies, while 
in the new year. The economy added fell 20.19, or 0.16 percent, to gold prices fell. 
111,000 jobs last month, below the 12,653.49. Shortly after the opening light, sweet crude settled up $1.72 
150,000 that had been expected. bell the Dow logged a fresh trading at $59.02 per barrel on the New York 
Investors also received word from high of 12,683.93 before moving Mercantile Exchange. 
the Commerce Department that U.S. lower; the previous high, set concerns in the Middle East, and 
factory orders showed their biggest Thursday, was 12,682.57. cold weather in the U.S. Northeast. 
-.--~---,-------,----·~~ 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 5, 2007 
THE OBSERVER The -wheels of a dream. 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINEss MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK . 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Univen;iry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. &litorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the rigb.t to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as aa:urately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe &litor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available. to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract infOrmation. 
Qr=tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilfoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ~(USfS 599 2-4000) is publishai l\IIOnday through Friday accpt durl~ exam and "VllCition periods. A subsoiption ro The Observ~ i.s: $100 for one aadcmic year; $55 fur ona:: san:cster. 
The Observer is p®lished at: POSTMASTER 024 Smnh Dining HaU Send adM:ss oom:crions co: Nom: Dame. IN 46556-0779 ThoObsemo Periodical postagt paid ar Noue D~ P.O.Box779 and add:i~ mailing offices. 02o Sooth Dining Hall 

No«< Dame, IN ~6556-0779 
The Observer is ;t member oft~ Associated Press. All: ~roduction rights MC tc:sctVcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey John-Paul Witt Ken Fowler Viewpoint Bill Brink Lianna Scene Brauweiler Marty Schroeder Graphics Madeline Nies 
Racism is certainly a strange bird: rec­ognized by some, overlooked by others, even considered extinct by a few more. It is tempting, at times, to take a look around modern America and conclude that color blindness 
truly has become the norm. 
After all, we have certainly come a long way from the period portrayed in PEMCo's latest musi­cal, the pre-World 


War I days of Joey Falco "Ragtime." In an era when members of all Forty Ounces races resorted to vio-to Falco lence and overt racial slurs simply as a means of sur­vival and self-preservation, it was easy for the United States to glance in the mirror and recognize the hypocritical duality of the so-called American dream. 
Early in "Ragtime," Coalhouse Walker, the show's black protagonist, glances around at the promise of American democracy and proudly sings, "We'll see justice, Sarah; we'll see plenty of men who will stand up and give us our due. Oh, Sarah, it's more than promises; Sarah, it must be true. A country that lets a man like me own a car, raise a child, build a life with you." Of course, the dark side of 1906 America ­racism, violence and the preservation of class stratification -quickly punctures the wheels of Coa:lhouse's dream. 
Today, however, we seem above that. The American enlightenment of the 1960s, led by prophet-philosophers like Martin Luther King Jr., opened the nation's eyes to the tragic cruelty of a country that promises equality but gives nothing. Today, almost 40 years after Dr. King's assassination, racism, some would say, is also dead. 
After all, a conspicuously big deal has been made of the fact that African Americans currently hold the posts of secretary of state, Supreme Court jus­tice, House majority whip and the chair­manships of the House Judiciary, Ways and Means, Homeland Security and Ethics Committees. Other races, as well, are strongly represented politically in 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
such posts as attorney general, secre­tary of commerce and secretary of labor. The leading Democratic candidate for the presidency in 2008, Barack Obama, is the son of a Kenyan. One could also point to the fact that yesterday not only gave America its first black coach to appear in a Super Bowl, but its second as well. On top of that, there are individ­uals like Oprah Winfrey and BET founder Bob Johnson, both of whom are listed as billionaires by Forbes. 
However, to steal a line from Hamlet, this nation doth protest too much, me thinks. 
If racism actually ceased to exist, very little would even be said about the unusual success of these nonwhite indi­viduals. If racism were truly dead, for­mer Virginia Sen. George Allen would never have faced public shame for call­ing an Indian man a "macaca." If racism really died along with Dr. King, Democratic presidential hopeful Joe Biden would have had no reason to refer to Baraek Obama as "the first main­stream African American who is articu­late and bright and clean and a nice­looking guy." If racism was gone, the drunk Louisiana State fan sitting behind me at the Sugar Bowl would never have told me that Notre Dame was lucky not to have a n-----quarterback like them. 
Even here at college, where students are supposedly taught to look beyond the confines of race, racism has made headlines lately. Two Southern universi­ties -Clemson in South Carolina and Tarleton State in Texas -have erupted in a firestorm of racial tensions in the past few weeks because of photos posted online of white students attending Martin Luther King Day parties. At Tarleton State, students were shown cel­ebrating the holiday by drinking malt liquor out of brown paper bags and eat­ing fried chicken while dressed as gang members or Aunt Jemima. At Clemson, some students even wore blackface to their party. 
Fortunately, these schools have had the issue of racism thrust into the open, and both are now actively engaged in black-white dialogues and discussion groups about the topic. At Notre Dame, however, the question of racism often remains unaddressed. 
While no one has yet to me a formal complaint (most likely due to the over­whelming whiteness of the campus), race-based party themes pop up here all the time, too. "Ghetto Fabulous" parties, "Hampton-Compton" parties, and proba­bly dozens more in which racial stereo­types are encouraged have certainly taken place in numerous dorms, apart­ments and houses in South Bend in recent years. I've been to many of them myself. 
Sure, racial humor is a remarkably easy way to make people laugh -partly because in a diverse nation like America, everyone's a little bit ra,cist. The sight of white students wearing black face and dressing as Aunt Jemima, however, is a tragic play on an era of overt racial oppression that no American should use as an excuse to get drunk. You don't see many "Holocaust" themed college parties, and while no event can possibly ever be compared to the systematic killings of that period, racism certainly can be considered America's enduring, albeit less blatant, equivalent. 
It's about time we grow up a little, and a good start would be to make a con­scious effort to think before we crack subtly racist jokes or throw overtly race­themed parties. Yes, it's a lot different than engaging in the racial violence depicted in "Ragtime," but America still has a long way to go toward becoming a truly fair and equal nation, and every lit­tle bit helps. 
With far larger issues facing America in the very near future-global warm­ing, poverty and terrorism -it is time to recognize the oneness of the American people for the sake of the greater good. To quote "Ragtime's" Coalhouse Walker once more, "And say to those who blame us for the way we chose to fight, that sometimes there are battles which are more than black or white." 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. He encourages everyone to attend the forum on "Ragtime" and race in America at 7:30 
p.m. on Wednesday in Washington Hall. 


OBSERVER POLL 

What was your favorite Super Bowl commercial? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
: ·..•. i; i •· a.·· : e:..,. •• •·e·····} :·
Sb 't L'tt
....· n ··-... ,·II ·~·· .·...... :./.. , , .r 



to the Editor at 

www:ndsmcobsefVef.eom 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
· "It is better to have less thunder in the mouth and more lightning in the hand." 
American Indian proverb 


~~~--------------------~--------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, February 5, 2007 
LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Questioning 
Siegfried's claitn 
to manliness 
We applaud the residents of Siegfried for raising money for South Bend's Center for the Homeless during their Day of Man. However, we believe that Tom Martin's claim that Siegfried is "one of the manliest dorms on campus" is unfounded. 
Fortunately for the Ramblers as well as all other dorms on campus, there is an opportunity this weekend to truly prove your (wo)manliness. At 2 p.m. Saturday, beginning in front of Morrissey Manor, there will be a two-lap "Polar Run" around South Quad. This race is a dorm competition (we will even provide everyone with body paint) and the winning dorms can make uncontested claims as the manliest or womanliest dorms on campus. 
After the race, there will be free hot cocoa and cider and we will be collecting money for St. Vincent de Paul. If you missed out on Siegfried's Day of Man or are looking for another way to prove your (wo)manliness while sup­porting a good cause, come to Morrissey's Polar Run this weekend. 
Zach Einterz and Jon Stefely junior, sophomore Morrissey Manor Feb. 3 
page 9 

U-WIRE 
Where'd the Renaissance n1en go? 
I can't formulate my feelings of aversion about the way things are going in this world into an outline. I can't look at a piece of art and tell you what tech­niques invoke such emotion in me. I can't play music. I don't know what the heck I am looking up at on a clear summer night. 
But I can feel. I can absorb Brenna all of those things and create Mcnamara some abstract way of describ­ing them. And I get happiness Daily Kent from that. Unfortunately, that's Stater my problem. I could earn a Kent State doctorate in "feeling," but in University reality it's emotions that are cheap, not words. In a world that is becoming so technical, so mathematic, is there any room for cre­ativity? 
We live in a society obsessed with the bottom line. We are in a rush to get to the top, fmd the easiest solutions and be successful. It's not a phone any­more, it's the iPhone. They aren'tjust doctors, there are pediatric orthopedic finger doctors. As Americans, we can't just be. We have to be the best. We have to specialize. So long to mom-and-pop shops. They're replaced by corporate chains that offer much more of everything, except persol)ality. It's good to go to a lawyer that specializes in eviction processes -obviously he knows his stuff. Good for him. But I'm one of those flighty people who fmd attending classes upon classes about writing con­tracts a bit dry. 
Yes, people do have different strengths. There's an enormous difference between the left brain and the right brain, this is only natural. But I'm just posing the thought that possibly our society is being influ­enced by all the pressure to fmd the fastest solution and the hardest facts. Emotions and instinct are far too abstract for such a concrete world. 
In this path to success, too many times a person must rule out passions and hobbies because they aren't on this narrowed down road to making money. Now, it seems pointless to even wonder what stars I see in the night sky unless I'm an astronomer. I can appreciate a painting, but if! can't have it, recreate it, or major in art history, my passion seems fruitless. I am pissed at our country and this mean­ingless violence, but since I'm not part of the govern­ment, I am just preaching or being ridiculed for being so idealistic. 
Where did the Renaissance men go? Those men of Da Vmci's time who were masters of art, poetry, astronomy, anatomy and architecture. Congratulations to anyone nowadays who could accomplish all of that. Hopefully you didn't get too many people asking you, "How are you going to turn all those majors into a career?" 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 2 edition of the Daily Kent Stater, the daily publication ofKent State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

U-WIRE 

Macs n1ight be pretty, but not n1uch else 
If you read the paper Thursday, you know that Ball State University stu­dents can download the full top-of-the­line version of VIsta, Microsoft's new operating system, for free. I'm going to download it. Why? Because I'll Joanna be getting a $400 Lees operating system and software Daily News suite for free. I 
Ball State 

think it's a great Universitydeal. Insert howls of derision from Mac users here. Follow this with me blowing raspber­ries at the Mac users. 
I've used both Macs and PCs for lots of things since I've been at college. In fact, as long as I've been computer lit­erate, I've been able and willing to use both systems. I use Macs in my jour­nalism classes and when I'm at work. They're excellent machines for graph­ics, movies and audio work (as the commercials remind us daily). 
But aside from that, there's not much else they can do. 
I've never liked that I can hardly do anything on a Mac without using the mouse. I'm a touch typist, so my hands prefer to stay on the keyboard as much as possible. On a Mac (like the one I'm using to write this column), I can use the keyboard to perform about 20 dif­ferent functions, most of which still involve the mouse in some capacity. 
On my trusty little Toshiba (which runs Windows), the number of key­board functions is Limited only by the number of menu options in each pro­gram. I simply press Alt to highlight the toolbar, then navigate through with the arrow keys until I find what I want. Easy-peasy. 
Granted, most Mac programs have keyboard shortcut<; for most of their menu options. But do they really expect me to remember every single combination? When I'm on a roll and I want to change my font, I don't want to have to stop what I'm doing and look up the "shortcut." I might as well just do everything with the mouse. 
Of course, there's always the ques­tion of reliability. Windows 95 and 98 made the "blue screen of death" famous, and PCs are notorious for crashing, eating files, deleting data, etc. Macs, on the other hand, have the reputation of an armored car. 
Except that in five years, I've lost more files to Macs than to PCs. I've owned two Wmdows machines since I came to college, and in all that time I have yet to see a single blue screen of death. Sure, I get a few security prob­lems every now and then, but that's why God made Norton AntiVIrus. PCs get spyware because the world runs on Wmdows. The only reason Macs don't get viruses is because no one's both­ered to port the viruses over. The ratio of time spent versus computers infect­ed is just too lousy. It's hard to deny hackers are a practical bunch. 
Macs sell themselves as the comput­er for cool, sophisticated hipsters. PC users, ifthe commercials are accurate, are a bunch of dumpy businessmen in plain suits. But what the commercials don't show is that when the Mac guy's trust fund runs out in a few years, he's going to be flipping burgers because you can't base a career on the strength of your iLife portfolio. Meanwhile, the PC guy will be sitting pretty in his condo in the Bahamas, sipping a daiquiri and watching his stocks mature. Turns out those boring spreadsheets were useful for some­thing after all, huh? 
Macs may be pretty, but like I said: The world runs on Windows. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 2 edition ofthe Daily News, the daily publication ofBall State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~~~ 

~~N\~D~.~~ ~~~~1 
c~c~~coW:(o t<\ 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Monday, February 5, 2007 
Keenan Revue lackluster compared to past 

DVD REVIEW 

'Lambs' DVD adds little to horrific, historic film 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Ediror 

Just in time for the upcoming "Hannibal Rising" comes a new two-disc "collector's edition" of Jonathan Demme's "Silence of the Lambs." The film that made Hannibal Lecter the cine­ma's most famous cannibal, "Lambs" was also a critical smash, winning all five of the major Oscars at the 1991 Academy Awards (Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress and Best Screenplay). 
The second film based on the novels of Thomas Harris -the first is 1986's "Manhunter," directed by Michael Mann and starring Brian Cox as Lecter -"The Silence of the Lambs" launched Anthony llopkins into superstardom and solidified Jodie Foster as a major talent. It follows rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Foster). as she pursues the serial killer Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine). Starling and her boss, Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn). employ the hPip of incarcerated serial killer Hannibal "The Cannibal" Leeter. 
Lecter slowly leads Starling to the mur­derer, but through a series of mind 
Silence of the Lambs 
Two-Disc Collector's Edition MGM 

of print. MGM 
games that threaten to break down the fragile agent. 
"The Silenee of the Lambs" is anchored by its strong performance and the sure­handed direction of Demme, who gives the film a stylish -and somewhat styl­ized -look .and feel. Hopkins' perform­ance is one of cinema's all-time greats, and he managed to take home the Best Actor statuette, despite less than 20 min­utes of screen-time. Foster more than holds her own, and her strong-willed performance also won her a Best Actress Oscar. 
"Lambs" is also a modern classic, and its plethora of awards helped make it a template for its genre -it is the only horror film that has ever won the Bnst Picture Oscar (though the term "horror" has to be used loosely). As a chilling and disquieting pieee of psycholngieal drama, it remains nearly unsurpassnd, especial­ly by its inferior sequels, "Hannibal" (directed by Ridley Scott, with Julianne Moore in the role of Starling) and "Hod Dragon" (directed by Brett Ratner). It's difficult to believe that "Hannibal Rising" will come close to matching the effectiveness of "Lambs," espeeially with­
out llopkins. who 
was the lifP-blood 
of the series. 
Tlw two-disr. eol­lector's edition is no less than the third DVD edition of "The Silence of the Lambs." The first was the Criterion Collection edition, which eventually went out 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Ediror 

While this year's Keenan Revue fea­tured several hilarious skits, the show did not match previous levels of great­ness. Slightly tamer than past produc­tions, this weekend's show still featured the Revue's trademark humor -just not as much as in past years. 
The Revue followed a Dr. Seuss theme with the title "One Fish. Two Fish, Red Fish, Revue Fish." The opening skit went by the same name and cleverly introduced "fish" common in the Notre Dame community (the "jersey-chaser fish," the "Lizzi Shappell fish" and the "Osama Bin Laden fish"). 
The strongest skits were usually the simplest. In order to provide time to­prepare the more elaborate pieces, there were short 30 second to one minute-long skits in the vein of a one­liner joke. The skits "Stepladder," "GEICO" and "Jedi Inferno" were among the best of this variety. They worked so well because of their punch and quick wit -there was basically was no time to screw it up. 
The worst skits were the exact oppo­sites -they seemed like they would never end. While these often had good intentions and funny moments, they dragged on too long, often losing what­ever humor they initially had. Among these was "My Heart Hurts All the Time," with a guy singing about the sad story of his life. While it was humorous at points, it quickly lost audience inter­est, especially since it came close to the end of the first act. 
That skit was quickly outdone by "Driving My Uncle" less than a minute later. Again, while the idea of a kid driv­ing around with his very bizarre uncle is funny for the first couple minutes, it quickly waned and got stranger and less funny the longer that it was allowed to continue. This skit did not have the per­tinence to those familiar with Notre Dame and came across and funny but too random. 
Similarly, the second half of the Revue was marred by such failures as "Th£1 Wiggles" (an overly long mockery of children's shows), "Gaybraham Lincoln" (a terribly unfunny and mildly offensiv£1 portrayal of a play about our 16th presi­dent being gay), and "A Big Fat Floppy Cavanaugh" (a string of sexual innuen­dos and jokes told only using the names of female dorms on campus). 
There were also several skits that were good, but definitely short of great. Among them was "The Keenan Revue News," usually considered a favorite amongst audience members. While it was stronger and funnier than much of the Revue, it wasn't as good as in past years. Poor and off-timed delivery along with a lack of enough Notre Dame-oriented events hurt its overall performance and effect. 
"Talk Love with Dos Padres" had two priests working as Notre Dame sex-help phone operators. This was a genuinely funny skit that wasn't given nearly enough attention and could have been made longer to replace one of the afore­mentioned skits that weren't very funny. Similarly, the skits "Next" (a parody on the MTV show, but with a search for a savior) and "Go Fish!" (where guys play the game of "go fish" with girls' lD cards at the dining hall) had the poten­tial to be a great deal funnier if organiz­ers had devoted more attention and time to them. 
Thn standout performanees included "Legnnds," whieh mocked the old game show "Legends of the Hidden Temple," "Catholic Disney World," an outrageous­ly funny parody of the song "A Whole New World" from the Disney film "Aladdin" explaining why Notre Dame is the theme park's Catholic equiyalent and "Captain Planet and the Inconvenient Truth," which played on the "Captain Planet" cartoon show and Al Gore documentary that decries global warming. Easily the best skit of the evening was "And Then We Got In," which involved two guys hilariously explaining the non-academic precon­ceptions of Notre Dame and what they learned upon arrival. 
The 2007 Keenan Revue had its moments, but it couldn't stack up to those of the past. Although it was evi­dent much thought and hard work went into the Revue, it wasn't the best Keenan has offered. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

courtesy I . Anthony Hopkins created one of the greatest villains of cinema when he starred as Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter in 1991's "Silence of the Lambs." 
rnleased its own "Special Edition." which was intended to coincide with the the­atric:al release of "llannibal." Unfortunately. this new version isn't as complntn as it eould b£1. It indudes most of the special features from the speeial edition. with a eouple of new documen­taries and the teaser trailer. The docu­mentaries are nice, interesting and informative, but the features from the coveted Criterion edition -a commen­tary track from the director, screenwriter and stars in particular -are nowhere to be found. The audio and visual quality haven't been upgraded since the last release, which was more than live years ago, so there really isn't a reason for anyone who already owns the film to upgrade. 
"The Silence of the Lambs" deserves better than this edition, and it's unfortu­nate that tl:w Criterion is out of print (and its special features with it). Fans of the film might've hoped that Criterion would have reacquired the rights and released a new edition with upgraded picture and sound. As it stands, "Lambs" is a dassic in its own right, even if the new DVD doesn't do it justice. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


' . 

THE OBSERVER 






CENE
Monday, February 5, 2007 
page 11 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
New Orleans Jazz Orchestra heats up DPAC 
Irvin Mayfield brings Big Easy culture to South Bend 

David Pulphus provides the musical backbone of the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra with his bass lines during its Saturday concert at the DPAC. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Writer 
From the moment the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra walked on stage Saturday and bridged the tuning of its instruments straight into a melody, the group filled the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Leighton Concert Hall with an energy it doesn't often see. Flexible and stirring, the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra is not one to miss. 
Director, composer and trumpeter Irvin Mayfield established the non-profit orchestra in 2002. The group presents the strong tradition of music in New Orleans culture, mixing jazz, blues, swing and spirituals. It has performed in arenas like Ravinia, Jazz at Lincoln Center and the Congressional Black Caucus. It also symbolically re-opened New Orleans with the first major cultural event after Katrina -a performance of "All the Saints" at Christ Church Cathedral. The 16-piece orchestra tours the country not only as a talented musi­cal ensemble but also as an ambassador from the Katrina-devastated city. 
Mayfield is a Grammy nominee and a member of Los Hombres Calientes, which was nominated for two Billboard Latin Music awards and one Grammy and won a Billboard for "Volume One." He is also highly involved in New Orleans politics and culture, serving as the city's cultural ambassador. 
The players are as good performers as they are musicians. On Saturday night, they joked with each other and the audi­ence throughout the concert. Mayfield treated his introductions to each song as a personal conversation: explaining the context of the songs, introducing his uncle who sat in the audience and "dedi­cating" the performance to getting back at the Bears for beating the New Orleans Saints in 
The trumpet section of the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra generates the lively and exciting sound that characterizes some of America's best jazz musicians. 
strong and subdued with bassist David Pulphus and rose from there as the rest of the orchestra gradually joined in with both instruments and voices, humming and singing, "People in the city better get to higher ground." As the music wan­dered away and then came back to its center it soared to greater heights. 
In "It's a Creole Thing, You Wouldn't Understand," Evan Christopher "put the sexy back in the clarinet," according to Mayfield. Christopher dis­played the fluidity and 
January. The audience Flexible and stirring, mystery of the instru­tasted every instrument ment.
the New Orleans Jazz 
as each musician took his "Someone Forgot to solos. During these, the Orchestra is not one to Turn the Faucet Off, fellow players gave mur­miss. Probably Steve" inter­
murs of approval and whooped their apprecia­tion, displaying their own love of the music. 
The orchestra's first song after the opening, "Second Line" from Duke Ellington's suite dedicated to New Orleans, was cool and fun, featuring the clarinet and trombone. 
Mayfield composed the next song, "Higher Ground," which was inspired by a statement by a 911 operator during Hurricane Katrina. The song was meant to encourage not just the people of New Orleans, but all Americans, Mayfield said, to rebuild one of the country's treasures. "Higher Ground" began twined a feeling of over­
flowing tension and urgency with an oblivious fun, illustrat­ing how as a child Mayfield left the faucet running for five hours while his mother was away. 
Mayfield introduced· "Ballad of the Hot Long Night" by saying that jazz ballads are one of the most meaningful mediums for love songs because they embody "love that words can't express." The softly sensual song led by pianist Victor Atkins was beautiful. 
The vocalist on "Route 66" twisted and turned through the piece and passed it on to a wonderful small ensemble featur­ing the clarinet, trombone and trumpet. 
The orchestra concluded with "May His Soul Rest in Peace," composed by Mayfield in memory of his father and the other victims of Hurricane Katrina. The song was both mournful and filled with hope. Mayfield's trumpet rose above the rest of the surging orchestra, moving the audience and laying the souls to rest. 
It was also wonderful to hear the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra try its album, "Strange Fruits," which features the Dillard University Choir. "Strange Fruits" 
. builds on Billie Holiday's song by the same name -which protested the prevalent lynching of African Americans in the South during the early 20th centu­ry -expanding it into a nine-movement jazz oratorio. Like its concert, the CD covers a wide range ofjazz sound. The concert featuring the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra also marked a new experiment between the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and Legends of Notre Dame. Audience members had a chance to purchase the first dinner and performance packages offered by the DPAC, which provided savings on both. Overall, the New Orleans Jazz Orchestra provided a wonderful evening of jazz. It strove to connect with its audi­ence while incorporating truth into its music and personality into its playing. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 5, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL -BIG EAST 
Villanova grinds out home win over Louisville 
Syracuse ends three-game losing streak; UConn tops Rutgers in overtime; Marquette, West Virginia pick up wins 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Shane Clark scored 12 points and Mike Nardi had 11 to lead Villanova to a 57-53 win over Louisville on Saturday. 
Curtis Sumpter scored 10 points and Scottie Reynolds had 10 assists as Villanova (15-7, 4­5 Big East) snapped a two-game losing streak with a win the Wildcats sorely needed if they want to crack the top half of the Big East standings. 
Earl Clark led the Cardinals (16-7, 6-3 Big East) with 14 points while all four of their double-digit scorers failed to reach that mark. Terrence Williams, Juan Palacios, David Padgett and Edgar Sosa were all non-factors, combining for only 24 points. 
Sosa, who averaged 11.2 points, didn't get going until it was too late. He scored his first bucket on a layup with 39 sec­onds left that pulled the Cardinals to 55-50 and hit 3­pointer with 4.3 seconds left that made it 57-53. But it wasn't enough and the Cardinals snapped a four-game winning streak. 
The Cardinals never led until Williams hit a 3-pointer early in the second to make it 30-29. 

After a small Villanova run, Williams evened it at 34 after another 3-pointer, making his only minor contributions. 
Syracuse 75, DePaul 69 
Eric Devendorf scored a career-high 27 points, including four free throws in the fmal 35 seconds, and Syracuse beat DePaul on Saturday to halt a three-game losing streak. 
Syracuse (16-7, 5-4 Big East) rebounded after being humbled 103-91 by No. 21 Notre Dame on Tuesday night. DePaul (13­11, 4-6 Big East) lost for the fourth time in five games. 
The win was No. 742 in head coach Jim Boeheim's 31-year career at Syracuse, breaking a tie with former Temple coach John Chaney for 14th on the all­time list in Division I. It also avenged an embarrassing 108­69 loss last year to DePaul, which made 16 3-pointers in handing the Orange the worst defeat of Boeheim's Hall of Fame career. 
Andy Rautins hit a career-high six 3-pointers for a career-high 18 points and Devendorf tied his career high with five 3s. Terrence Roberts had seven points and six rebounds, and Demetris Nichols had eight points. 

AP Marquette guard Jerel McNeal goes up for a shot in the Golden Eagles' 69-62 win over Providence Saturday. 
Draelon Burns, who had a career-high 26 points in DePaul's 66-58 win over Connecticut on Wednesday, again scored 26, Wilson Chandler had 11 points and 13 rebounds, and Sammy Mejia had 12 points and seven rebounds. Karron Clarke, who was 5-for-5 on 3-pointers and finished with a career-high 27 points in last year's win, had six points. 
Connecticut 61, Rutgers 50 {OT) 
Jeff Adrien had 19 points and Connecticut ended a five-game losing streak Saturday by beat­ing Rutgers in overtime. 
Connecticut (14-8, 3-6 Big East) won despite not scoring a field goal in the final 4:3 7 of regulation or in the extra peri­od. 
The Huskies' last field goal, by Craig Austrie, put them up 42­34. 
But the Scarlet Knights chipped away and pulled within two when Anthony Farmer hit a 3-pointer with 11 seconds left in regulation. 
UConn extended the lead back to three, but Farmer grabbed the rebound of a missed free throw by Stanley Robinson, drove down the right side of the court and hit a running shot from just behind the arc as time expired. 
Another 3-pointer by Farmer with just over three minutes left in overtime gave the Scarlet Knights the lead at 50-49, but UConn ended the game on an 12-0 run, all on foul shots. 
UConn was 24 of 36 from the line. 
Adrien scored 14 of his points after intermission. Jerome Dyson and Austrie each had 13 points for UConn and freshman center Hasheem Thabeet added eight points, 11 rebounds and five blocked shots. 
Jaron Griffin led Rutgers (9­14, 2-8) with 18 points, and Farmer had 13. The Scarlet Knights played without J.R. Inman, the team's leading scor­er and rebounder, who was attending funeral services for his grandmother. 
Three other Scarlet Knights ­Adrian Hill, Hamady N'Diaye and Ollie Bailey -fouled out. Bailey gave the fans an obscene gesture as he left the court. 

Marquette 69, Providence 62 
Jerel McNeal didn't want to spoil Dwyane Wade's big day. McNeal had 18 points and tied 
a career high with 12 rebounds, and Dan Fitzgerald had four 3­pointers to help No. 14 Marquette win its seventh straight game, beating Providence on Saturday. 
The victory came as Marquette retired Wade's No. 3 jersey at halftime. 
"It was a real emotional day for him," McNeal said. "We defi­nitely didn't want to mess that up by losing." 
Sharaud Curry led Providence (14-7, 4-4 Big East Conference) with 17 points. Herbert Hill added 14. 
With the victory, the Golden Eagles (20-4, 7 -2) reached the 20-win mark for the second straight year and fourth time in coach Tom Crean's seven-plus seasons. 
The Golden Eagles last won seven straight conference games in 2002-03, Wade's last with Marquette, en route to a 27-6 season and Final Four berth. 
"We can get a lot better," Crean said. "I tell the team I was part of 22 straight at Michigan State as an assistant." 
Wesley Matthews made all 10 of his free throws and finished with 12 points for the Golden Eagles. 

Providence, coming off its first road win of the season at Connecticut last Saturday, held Marquette star Dominic James to six points, tying a season low, on 2-of-11 shooting but had no answer for McNeal early. 
West Virginia 81, Seton Hall 
70 
For the next three years, Seton Hall and Rutgers are going to regret not having recruited Da'Sean Butler of Newark a lot harder. 
Butler capped a show for both New Jersey schools over the past four days by scoring a career-high 21 points to lead West Virginia to a victory over Seton Hall on Saturday. 
It was the second straight career game for Butler, a back­up freshman forward who had 17 in a win over Rutgers on Wednesday. 
"It was definitely special com­ing back to see my family and just to play against the teams we were playing," said Butler, a for­mer Bloomfield Tech player who came into the game averaging 
9.5 points. "Rutgers and Seton Hall are well coached and play hard. It felt real good to come on and play real well here." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER. $6,500. CALL 243-5454. 
2002 Dodge Neon 4 Door Excellent condition 54,000 miles Two owners $4,500 Call323-5318 or 634-4605. 


FoR RENT 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 

Leases available for 2007·08: 3,4,5 bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
Luxury townhome,walk to NO. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk to Univ. Call561-596-0194. 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. 
1 mitoND. 614-985-5003. 
2·6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­SON/MO .57 4-329-0308 
Newly renovated home for rent, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, close to ND/SMC. Available now and for 07­08. Inquire @574-289-7791. 

WANTED 
CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN PERSON. UNIVERSITY MARATHON, 
405 933N IN ROSELAND. 
HOURS WILL VARY AND NO CALLS. 
Help People with Disabilities. In-Pact, Inc. is looking for dedicated, caring people who can help people with disabilities like Autism, Mental Retardation, and Downs Syndrome. 
You must have a high school diplo­ma or equivalent, good work ethic and a desire to help others. 
WE PARTICULARLY NEED PEO­PLE TO WORK IN SOUTH BEND, MISHAWAKA, ELKHART AND GOSHEN. 
You must be available weekends and evenings. If you are ready to join a team doing important and interesting work call: Tracey at 574-217-9346. 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. 
For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. We want to help. 
Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
'There is no bad weather, only inad­equate clothing." -Ukranian proverb 
Da Bearrrrssss! 
Da Goltz! 
Observer game watch parlay! 

-------------------------------~---~~------,-------~--­




OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 13 



last 10 
4~5-1 
7-2-1 4·5-1 7-3-0 3-7·0Boston 23-24·4 50 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Atlanta 29-18·8 66 5·5·0 Tampa Bay 29·23·2 60 ·· 8·2·0 Carolina 26·22·7 59 3~4·3 Washington 22-25·7 51 N·O Florida 20-24·10 <50 ..>.5-4-1 
Western Conference, Cefltral Division 
team record pts. last ro Nashville 37·14-3 71 7·3-0 Detroit 33·14-6 72 7-2·1 St. louis 21·24-8 50 6·3·1 Columbus 21·27·5 47 5·5-0 Chicago 19·26·7 45 2-6-2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Calgary 29·17·6 64 6·2·2 Vancouver 29·20·4 62 5·2·3 Minnesota 29·21·4 62 7~2-1 Edmonton 26·23-4 56 5·5·0 Colorado 25·23-4 54 · 4•5·1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts; · last 10 Anaheim 32-13-8 72 4-4·2 San Jose 34·18·1 69 6·3·1 Dallas 31-20·2 64 5·4·1 Phoenix 24-27·2 50 4-6-0 los Angeles 18-30-7 43 2·7-1 
CCHA Hockey Standings 
team 

1 NOTRE DAME 
2 Michigan 
3 Miami (OH) 
4 Michigan State 
5 Nebraska-omaha 
6 lake Superior 
7 Ohio State 
8 Alaska 
9 Northern Michigan 
10 Western Michigan 
11 Ferris Stale 
12 Bowling Green 


Women's College 
Ba~.l<,~tball MIAA Stan 
team 

.1180 (/.......18-1
1 Calvin 
2 Hope ·1·~ 18-2 
3 SAINT MARY'S 8-4 9·10 
4 Olivet 1?!\5 10·9 
5 Albion 1-6 12·9 
6 Alma 5,-7 9·10 
1 Adrian 3~10 8•12 
8 Kalamazoo 2-10 3·17 
9 Tri-State 241 4-17 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Syracuse at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN 
Texas at Texas A&M 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

MIAMI -A wet and wild Super Bowl, the winning conditions for Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts. 
A team built for indoors found its footing on a rain­soaked track· and out­played the Chicago Bears to win the NFL title 29-17 Sunday night. The Colts were far less sloppy, par­ticularly their star quar­terback, who proved he can indeed win the big game-the biggest game. 
That's what it was for Tony Dungy, too. He became the first black coach to win the champi­onship, beating good 
friend and protege Lovie Smith in a game that fea­tured two black coaches for the first time in Super Bowl history. 
It was a game of firsts: the first rainy Super Bowl and the first time an open­ing kickoff was run back for a touchdown when sensational Bears rookie Devin Hester sped down­field for 92 yards. 
And not since the Buffalo Bills self-destructed with nine turnovers in losing to Dallas 14 years ago had there been so much messi­ness. The first half was marred by six turnovers, three for each team. Even football's most clutch kick­er, Adam Vinatieri, missed 
IN BRIEF 

Woods' _putter drops him to 
third in Dubai Classic 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates ­Exasperated by his poor putting, Tiger Woods headed home after one of those rare weeks in which he did not win a tournament. 
He finished two strokes behind winner Henrik Stenson in third place Sunday, unable to make a successful title defense at the Dubai Desert Classic before a gallery that included Roger Federer and Michael Schumacher. 
Woods can take consolation in knowing his streak of seven straight victories on the PGA Tour is still alive, but he knows there's work ahead. 
"That's one of the worst putting weeks I've had in a long time," said Woods, who shot a 3-under-par 69 to finish at 17-under 271. ''I'm going to go home and just kind of figure it out. Hopefully get my putting organ­ized before I compete again." 
a chip-shot field goal, and an extra point attempt was botched, too. 
The second half wasn't quite so ugly, but when much-maligned Bears quarterback Rex Grossman's wobbler was picked off and returned 56 yards for a touchdown by Kelvin Hayden with 11:44 remaining, it was over. 
Chicago (15-4), which led the league in take­aways this season, fmished with five turnovers, includ­ing two interceptions by Grossman. 
The Colts (16-4) will take it. It's their first title since the 1970 season, when they played in Baltimore. 
Manning ended up 25­for-38 for 24 7 yards, with one touchdown and one interception, and was the game's most valuable play­er. 
It was confirmation of his brilliance, even if he didn't need to be dynamic. The son of a quarterback who never got to the play­offs, Manning has been a star throughout his college career at Tennessee and his nine pro seasons with the Colts. 
Now he is a champion. 
It also was a validation of Dungy's leadership. He helped build Tampa Bay, one of the NFL's worst franchises, into a con­tender before being fired after the 2001 season. 
Irvin, Thomas voted into NFL 
Hall of Fame 
MIAMI -Michael Irvin wrapped his arms around Thurman Thomas in the kind of hug that new Hall of Famers share. Somewhere, Paul Tagliabue could only envy their emo­tional display. 
Michael Irvin had 65 touchdown receptions in his 12-year NFL career. In all, eight quarterbacks helped him reach Canton, led of course by Troy Aikman: 
"That embrace Thurman and I had, we talked earlier, we were falling apart on the phone," Irvin said. "We don't sound like cool people that played a tough game right now." 
The former Dallas Cowboys receiv­er with the off-field woes and three Super Bowl rings, was among six for­mer players voted into the Canton shrine Saturday. But the commission­er who guided the NFL for 18 years before retiring last summer didn't even make the first cut. 
Webb shoots even_par during
final round to win upen 
SYDNEY, Australia-Karrie Webb captured her third Women's Australian Open title, shooting an even-par 72 in the final round Sunday for a six-stroke win. 
Webb, who began with a four­stroke lead over Wei Yun-jye. of Taiwan, finished with a 10-under 278 total at Royal Sydney. Wei shot 7 4 to finish second at 4 under. 
"Hopefully, it's a good start to a good year," Webb said. "Obviously, four days ago I would've been happy to sit in the clubhouse at 2­under, so it exceeded my expecta­tions to finish at 10-under on a very good golf course." 
Paula Marti of Spain and Minea Blomqvist of Finland each shot 69 to finish tied for third at 2 under. Brittany Lincicome of the United States and Shin Ji-yai of South Korea also had 69s, finishing anoth­er shot back. 

page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 5, 2007 



* 
We believe community service is a part of our job description. Last June, we asked our US staff of 29,000 to take a day away from work and help their neighbors. We called it 29k/30. 
Learn more about this project and others. 
Visit pwc.com/community 
.. 
"' 
"' 

. " 
,
• • 


*connectedthinking 


e 2007 ~U.P-All ngnta ~-~PI~*~ to~~ l.LP ~ ~ fmMd ~~(If. a two~~ h­~~~otottw~~ofi'-~~Cif~-·~Md~~tii'\My. ·~·..... ··~of~llf'!­~-Wre-prt)ll.id to bit Ill\~~ 1:100 Equlll Oppl)liUtllty ~­

Monday, February 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Pistons earn win on the road in Cleveland, 90-78 
Lue makes game-winner in overtime to lift Hawks over Nets; Raptors hit season-high points in win over Clippers 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Rasheed Wallace stepped out of the shower area and reset the track on the portable stereo in Detroit's locker room. Seconds later, he swayed to the boom­ing beat and began to rap. 
"Afraid of none of you cow­ards," he shouted, spitting out lyrics along with hip hop star Nas. 
Wallace might as well have been singing about the Pistons. 
On the road, they fear noth­ing. 
Chauncey Billups scored 18 points, Chris Webber and Wallace had 15 apiece and the Pistons reminded Cleveland who's the boss in the NBA Central with a 90-78 win over the Cavaliers on Sunday. 
Billups added 10 assists, Wallace 13 rebounds and the division-leading Pistons won their fifth straight regular-sea­son game over the Cavaliers, who pushed them to seven games in last year's playoffs. 
With their third win in a row, the Pistons improved to 15-9 outside Michigan's state lines and are the only team in the Eastern Conference with a winning road record. 
"We expect to win," Billups said. 
The Pistons controlled the tempo from the outset and never allowed a crowd of more than 20,000 fans to begin the Super Bowl partying. Detroit kept it quiet by limiting LeBron James' dunks, and any time Cleveland had a defensive breakdown, the Pistons hit an open jumper. 
"You make a mistake, they know how to exploit it," James said. "We didn't make too many mistakes, but as soon as you make one, they make you pay for it." 
This Pistons' squad is very similar to the one which beat Cleveland last May with one big addition: Webber, who signed with the club as a free agent on Jan. 16 and was fac­ing the Cavs for the first time with his hometown team. 
Webber's presence is bad news for the Cavaliers, who don't appear ready to dethrone their northern neigh­bors. Webber scored 13 points in the first half on 6-of-7 shooting when the Pistons grabbed control and never let go. 
"When Ben Wallace was there, you could kind of relax on the offensive end when he was on the floor," James said. "But now they have five guys that can easily score 20 points. They are a much better team with him [Webber]." 
Detroit is 7-3 since Webber arrived. 
Hawks 101, Nets 99 (OT) 
The way the Hawks mobbed Tyronn Lue at halfcourt after his game-winning shot in over­time, one might have thought Atlanta won a title instead of stretching a road winning streak to three games. 
You have to start some­where. 
Lue hit a 23-foot jumper at the .Quzzer to lift the Hawks to an overtime victory against the New Jersey Nets on spot in the weak Eastern Conference. 

Joe Johnson scored 37 points and Josh Smith atoned for a sub-par game by scoring six of his 14 points in overtime to help the Hawks win their ninth road game. That's more than they won on the road all last season. 
Lue's game-winning shot came after Vince Carter hit a clutch 3-pointer to tie the game at 99 with 2.9 seconds to play. 
After a time out, Lue took the inbound pass, dribbled to the 3-point line and launched his game-winner with his foot on the line. The Hawks tackled . him at halfcourt seconds after the shot hit nothing but net. 
Vince Carter had 27 points to lead the Nets, who lost their third straight since returning from a West Coast road trip. It also marked their fourth loss late in a game in the past eight games. 
"It's a tough loss," Carter said. "We can't be inconsistent and up and down during the course of the game. With us down bodies, we have to come out and play hard and scrappy from start to finish." 
Rookie Marcus Williams had 14 of his 18 points in the fourth quarter and overtime for New Jersey, and Jason Kidd added 13 points, 11 assists and five rebounds. 
The Hawks' best season on the road since 2000-01 was 10-31 in 2003-04. Their three­game winning streak in 00-01 came in a year when they went 7-34 away from home. 
The Hawks came close to blowing this streak, squander­ing leads of seven and four points in the final 3:23 of reg­ulation. They had a chance to win the game in regulation, but Smith, who was 2-of-14 before the OT, missed a wide­open 3-pointer from the right corner. 
Raptors 122, Clippers 110 
Balanced scoring helped the Toronto Raptors gain ground atop the Atlantic Division standings. 
Chris Bosh had 27 points as six players reached double fig­ures for the Raptors, who had a season-high point total in a victory Sunday over the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Morris Peterson added 18 points for the Raptors (25-23), who have won three straight. 
T.J. Ford, Anthony Parker and Jorge Garb~osa each added 17 points for Toronto, which shot 58.7 percent from the field. 
"It's unbelievable," said Toronto's Jose Calderon. "Everybody in this locker room is better than they were in the preseason because we've learned to play as a team." 
A cheer went up in the Raptors' locker room when Tyronn Lue hit a jumper at the buzzer to lift Atlanta to an overtime victory against New Jersey, putting Toronto three games ahead of the Nets. 
The Raptors haven't been .500 this late in the season since 2001-02. 
Cuttino Mobley scored 24 points and Elton Brand had 21 points and 10 rebounds for the Clippers, who had won seven of their past eight games. 
"Give them a lot of credit, they played well, they made shots," Sam Cassell said. "Everything we did to try and stop them, they did better." 
Ford and Calderon, Toronto's two point guards, combined for 27 points and 19 assists. 
Calderon had 10 points and 12 assists and started in place of Ford, who has been both­ered by a sore right ankle. 
"Things are going well right now with the situation, but it's not my call," Peterson said of the point guard shuffle. 
Toronto scored a season­high 66 points in the first half and shot 70 percent, tying a franchise record for shooting percentage in a half. 
Bosh had 19 points to help Toronto to a 66-54 halftime lead. 
Bosh's driving layup gave the Raptors an 18-point lead ­their biggest of the game ­with 6:10 left in the third quarter. Peterson had three 3­pointers late in the game to seal the victory. 
Toronto shot 12-for-20 from beyond the arc. 
Garbajosa, who had strug­gled in recent weeks, made four 3-pointers. 


Sunday, posting their first three-game road winning streak since December 2000. 
"This was a big win for our team," Hawks coach Mike Woodson said. "This is the sec­ond game I've had my nine­man rotation due to all the injuries. From a coaching standpoint it's nice to see us pull through like we did, but we still have a long way to go." 
The win was the fifth in seven games for the Hawks (18-28), which put them 3 1/2 games behind Miami (22-25) in the race for the final playoff 
BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER STUDY INTERNSHIP PROGRAM 
--May 22 ..:.. August 17, 2007 · 
THIS SUMMER, ADV~E YOUR STUDIES .AND GET THE WORK EXPERIENCE YOU SEEK 
Arts and Culture 
YOU CHOOSE 

Business and Management
TWO COURSES IN: 

Environmental Studies Graphic Design and Mass Communication International Studies Politics and Public Policy Psychology and Social Policy 
WE'LL ARRANGE YOUR INTERNSHIP. 
APPLY BY APRIL 23. 
617-353-5124 
www bu. edu;summerlinternship 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, February 5, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall to Yellow Jackets in finals of ITA 
ND SWIMMING 
ND tops Louisville on the road 



Sample fares From South Bend to: Sample fares From Chicago to: Chicago $131 London $273 Houston $182 Rome $289 
$299 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
It was nearly a perfect weekend for Notre Dame. 
For the first time in school his­tory, the Irish advanced to the finals of the ITA National Indoor Tournament, but a red-hot Georgia Tech squad stung No. 4 Notre Dame's dream of victory. 
Yellow Jackets freshman Amanda Craddock defeated Irish junior Brook Buck in three sets (2-6, 7-5, 6-2), clinching a 4-2 vic­tory over Notre Dame (5-1) and the title for No. 6 Georgia Tech (4­
0). 
"They just have really good sin­gles and really good doubles play­ers," Irish freshman Cosmina Ciobanu said. 'They just played better than we did." 
Before Sunday's final match, the Yellow Jackets faced No. 1 Stanford in the semifinals Saturday. The Cardinal had not lost in their last 89 matches -an 
Squad sets four pool records at Cardinals' Ralph Natatorium 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
The No. 19 Notre Dame women set four pool records at Louisville's Ralph Natatorium on Saturday en. route to a 154-89 road victory over the Cardinals in the team's final meet of the sea­son before the Big East Championships. 
Senior Katie Carroll contin­ued her impressive season with pool record times of 
2:00.46 and 4:52.35 in the 200-yard butterfly and 500­yard freestyle, respectively. Those two wins increased her team-leading number of indi­vidual victories to 17 on the season. 
Carroll, along with sopho­more Christa Riggins, fresh­man Megan Farrell and sen­ior Rebecca Grove, was also part of the record-setting 400-yard freestyle relay team that touched the wall in 
3:27.48. Sophomore Claire Hutchinson was the final swimmer to etch her name in the record books when she won the 1,000-yard freestyle with a time of 10:17.08. 
Saturday's victory over Louisville brought Notre Dame's dual meet record to 8­1 on the season. It is the 15th time in program history that the. Irish have accumulated eight or more dual meet vic­tories in a season. 
On the men's side, the No . 

17  Irish  dispatched  of  
Louisville  147-94.  Notre  
Dame  won  seven  of the 13  

NCAA record that spanned the past three years. Georgia Tech snapped that streak with a 4-3 victory, winning the fmal two sin­gles matches of the meet to com­plete the upset. 
On Sunday, the Yellow Jackets came out firing against the Irish, claiming the doubles point to take a 1-0 lead. After the teams split the first two doubles matches, the unranked tandem of Whitney McCray/Kristi Miller upset Notre Dame's pairing of No. 11 seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson 9-7 to claim the point lor Georgia Tech. It was the first time all year the Irish lost the doubles point. 
Yellow Jackets freshman Kirsten Flower knocked off Irish freshman Colleen Rielley (6-2, 6­1), and Tech sophomore Christy Striplin defeated Christian Thompson (6-1, 6-3) to give the Yellow Jackets a 3-0 lead. 
Catrina Thompson put Notre Dame on the board with a hard­fought victory over Miller (6-3, 2­6, 6-1), and Ciobanu kept the 
events to help them obtain their 11th dual meet victory in 14 tries this season. 
Leading the way for the Irish were sophomore Jeff Wood and freshman Andrew Hoffman, who each picked individual as well as relay victories. Wood won the 200­yard backstroke, and Hoffman touched the wall first in the 200-freestyle. Both were also members of the vic­torious 400-yard freestyle squad along with freshman John Lytle and senior Ted Brown. 
Freshman Andrew Deters 
. built on recent strong per­formances by winning the 1,000-yard freestyle with a 
pressure on the Yellow Jackets by beating Tarryn Rudman (7-5, 6-3) to pull the Irish within one. With the win, Ciobanu earned a perfect 4-0 record in her singles matchP.s for the tournament. 
But Craddock's victory over Buck ended hopes of an Irish comeback. The final singles match between Notre Dame soph­omore KelcyTefft and Tech senior Alison Silverio was suspended before it could finish because the Yellow Jackets had aln~ady won the title. 
The Irish reached tho finals with tins over No. 18 Clemson and No. 10 Baylor in the early rounds and then a victory over No. 8 Northwestnrn sophomore Nazlie Ghazal (7-6, 7-6) to boost the Irish to their first ever finals appear­ance in the tournament. 
The Observer was unable to contaet Irish coach Jay Louderback Sunday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
team season-best timfl of 9:25.35. 
Notre Dame dominated the diving events on the evening, taking three of the top four spots in each the one and three-meter diving. Junior Steven Crowe posted a career best total of 352.28 to win the three-meter diving, and soph­omore Michael Bulfin won his ninth event of the season with a total of :333.53 points in the thrne-meter diving. 
Neither men's coaeh Tim Welsh or women's coach Carrie Nixon could be reached for comment Sunday. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

' 
L------~----------------------------------------------------------------·------------~---------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Sno-w delays Belles' trip to league leaders 
Belles coach Jennifer Henley
Squad will take on 
and told her to wait a few minutes.
Calvin tonight in 
Before long, the game hadrescheduled contest been called. 
Henley said the delay's 
effect would be more psy­
By BILL BRINK chological than anything Sports Writer 
else. 

"It changes our routine a 
Saint Mary's Saturday little bit, and tests us about game against Calvin was our mental ability," Henley postponed due to heavy said. snow in the central Michigan The Belles worked hard in area. The game was anticipation of this big game rescheduled for today at 6 and were slightly let down 
p.m. at Calvin. by the delay, she said. 
The Belles have won four "The team was a little dis­straight heading into the appointed. We were pre­game and are 9-10 on the pared and ready to go," she season, including an 8-4 said. "But it was out of our record in MIAA play. Calvin control -there's not much leads the MIAA with a per­we can do about it." fect 11-0 conference record Saint Mary's has the luxury to go along with its 18-1 of a bye Wednesday. Its next · overall mark. scheduled game after 
The Belles were on the bus tonight's league matchup is Saturday, ready to leave for Feb. 10 at Kalamazoo. Grand Rapids, Mich., when Saint Mary's athletic director Contact Bill Brink at Lynn Kachmarik called wbrink@nd.edu 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
Watson closes in on 4-lllinute lllile 
Junior wins the Meyo Mile in nation's third1astest time this season 
jumpers also represented well. doing well and getting us readyBy JAY FITZPATRICK It was a positive meet overall for what counts the most -the 

Sports Writer 
for our team." Big East conference champi­
Notre Dame senior onships," Jacques said. 

For another year, the high­Christopher Jacques set a new The Meyo Invitational is the light of the Meyo Invitational personal best in the long jump squad's final tune-up before the was the men's mile run. at 7.44 meters. Big East 
Notre Dame junior Jake Jacques' previ­Championships
"I have my coach to

Watson took the Meyo Mile hon­ous personal Feb. 17-1&. ors this year, running the third­best was 6.82 thank for that and all Even though fastest mile time in the NCAA at last year's some athletes
the training that we've 

this season at 4:00.71. Watson's Blue and Gold will head north
done and my teammates

time was also the fifth-best ever Invitational. to Ontario for for an Irish runner and good "I have my who have helped me the Windsor enough to qualify provisionally coach to thank Invitational
in practice. " 

for the NCAA Championships. for that and all Saturday, the 
In the 3,000-meter run, the training majority of the Wisconsin All-American Chris that we've done Chris Jacques team will spend Solinski set a national season­and my team­Irish senior the next two best time of 7:52.42. mates who have weeks focused 
But the Irish distance runners helped me in completely on were not the only squad to per­practice," he said. "It is defi­the Big East meet. form well in the Meyo nitely an accomplishment I "I think the team is definitely Invitational. Notre Dame's field knew we were capable of and ready for a great performance team and sprinters also held with [Irish coach Joe Piane's] at the Big East," Jacques said. their own against the tough help we made it possible." "As long as we keep training competition. The Irish met Big East quali­hard and listening to our coach­
"''d say as far as the distance fying times for 35 events during es, we should be in great shape squad goes, almost all the girls the weekend competition. to win another Big East cham­had season bests, which we're "We've been training all year pionship." all really excited about," Irish round and the coaches have distance runner Emily Wauford been doing a great job of having Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at said. "And the sprinters and us ready for the season and jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish topple Seminoles in early-season home matchup 
its winning streak with a 5-2 The Irish went 2-1 in doubles Notre Dame early momentum. David Goulet and Jo.ey Atas 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
defeat over No. 13 Florida State play to give them the opening Senior Barry King and sopho­defeated Keckley and Parbhu in 
Sports Writer 
Friday. point. more Brett Helgeson secured a close 9-7 nail-biter. King and "It is a significant win for us Sheeva Parbhu and senior the doubles point with an 8-6 Helgeson rallied for the Irish Experience on the courts led because I'm pretty confident Ryan Keckley took a decisive 8-win over Jonathas Sucupira with an 8-6 win over Peter to an Irish sweep of three home Florida State is going to be a 1 win over Florida State's Ytai and Bradley Mixson. Rodrigues and Dylan Arnould to matches this weekend. top-1 0 team this year," Irish Abougzir and Jean-Yves "Doubles was a weakness last take their second win for the 
No. 11 Notre Dame started off coach Bobby Bayliss said. Aubone at first doubles to give year and it's turning into a weekend. 
Attention: JUNIORS and SENIORS interested in applying for a 
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP 
(for two yearx qfxtucfy at O:>iford) 
MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for two yearx ifxtucfy in the United Kingdom) 
MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for oneyear ifxtucfy in Ireland) 

Come to an information meeting on Wednesday, January 31 at 7pm in 117 DeBartolo or Tuesday, February 6 at 5:30pm 
in 118 DeBartolo I 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 105 O'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
strength," Bayliss said. 
No. 14 Stephen Bass opened up singles play with a 6-2, 6-4 win over Abougzir-avenging his 3-6, 6-4, 6-1 defeat last year to the Florida State junior. 
"I think [Bass] got a measure of revenge," Bayliss said. 
The Seminoles grabbed their first point of the day when Aubone triumphed in singles over No. 30 Parbhu 7-5, 7-5. Seniors Keckley and King helped the team get back on track with wins at third and fifth singles, respectively. Keckley started the match off slow but quickly rallied to take the match 6-4, 6-2 from No. 76 Maciek Sykut, improving to 12­2 for the season. King captured the final match of the night at No. 5 singles with a 6-4, 6-3 victory over Mixson. Helgeson captured a win at No. 4 singles earlier in the night over Sucupira, taking the first set 6­3 and jumping out to a 5-0 lead in the second to finally take it 6-3. 
Notre Dame continued its winning streak Sunday after­noon, upsetting No. 8 Duke 6-1. The Irish once again jumped to an early 1-0 lead by taking dou­bles play 2-1. Duke's No. 4 

"Going into the season there was some question about [King and Helgeson's] ability to blend together successfully and they really proved themselves," Bayliss said. 
Bass and Andrew Roth grabbed a 9-7 win over Kiril Dimitrov and Ned Samuelson to give Notre Dame the doubles point. 
Singles play was a battle of ranked competitors. No. 14 Bass took the win at first sin­gles with a 7-6 (7-4), 6-2 win over No. 80 Rodrigues. Parbhu made up for his fall Friday night with a 6-1, 6-3 win over No. 100 Atas. Keckley and Helgeson -both unninked ­defeated ranked opponents. Keckley battled it out with No. 84 Arnould to finally triumph 7­6 (9-7), 7-6 (8-6). Helgeson fol­lowed Keckley's lead by knock­ing off No. 54 Dimitrov 6-2, 6-3. 
The Blue Devils gained their only point of the match when Goulet defeated King 6-4, 7-6 (7-5) at No. 5 singles. Roth fin­ished out the night with a 6-7, 6-4, 6-1 win to Aaron Carpenter to five Notre Dame the 6-1 upset. 
The Irish concluded their weekend with a 7-0 blanking of Toledo. 
While Bayliss was concerned the second match of the day might have been difficult physi­cally for Notre Dame, the team proved it was up to the chal­lenge. 
"It's always a little risky play­ing a double header after play­ing a team as strong as Duke," Bayliss said. "But the guys showed a lot of courage." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 5, 2007 

Sweep 
continued from page 20 
during a 5-on-3 advantage when junior Mark Van Guilder found him open on the doorstep, and the rookie slipped it past goaltender Jimmy Spratt for his sixth of the season. 
The Falcons got one skater out of the box after the goal, but before they could return to full strength the Irish power play struck again. 
This time, defenseman Brett Blatchford fired a pass from the point and Thang, who was parked down low, deflected it into the back of the net. The goal -Thang's 16th on the year -put him one "ahead of Van GuildBr for the team lead. 
"We know that unit has been productive throughout the sea­son. It's just a matter of find­ing more consistency with the other unit," Jackson said of the Irish special teams. 
Bowling Green tied the score in the second period with two goals of its own. Sophomore Brandon Svendsen put the Falcons on the board when he got just enough behind the puck to put it over goaltender Dave Brown's shoulder with six minutes left in the first. 
Senior James Unger then evened out the score at 4:22 in the second when he took advantage of a long rebound from a John Mazzei shot. Brown made the initial save but was not able to regain his feet to stop the second attempt. 
The score remained tied until Irish senior Michael Bartlett netted the game-win­

ner for the Irish on a rebound opportunity of their own. With less than a minute remaining in the second, linemate Jason Paige took a shot from the top of the faceoff circle and Bartlett sealed the deal in a serum in front of the net. 
"I decided to keep [that line] together because they played well against Miami last week­end," Jackson said. "They gen­erated some good cycle plays for us on offense and I can always trust them defensive­!y. " 
Notre Dame 2, Bowling Green 1 
Bartlett played a key role in Saturday's victory as well, scoring the first Notre Dame goal for his third of the year. 
Once again, the senior was down low to pick up a rebound goal when Brock Sheahan's shot from the point was turned away by Jimmy Spratt 7:31 into the second period. 
Freshman Kevin Deeth added another power-play tally for the Irish seven min­utes later. After gaining con­trol of the zone, classmate Kyle Lawson zipped a tape-to­tape pass to Deeth, who tapped it on net and beat Spratt in the five hole. 
The stingy Irish defense took over from there, holding the Falcons to three shots in the final period (15 total), and Brown had no problem turning away the few chances he had to face. 
Notre Dame will put its five­game unbeaten streak on the line Friday when it returns home to face Nebraska-Omaha Feb. 9-10. 
Scare 
continued from page 20 
Mountaineers coach Mike Carey said. 
At the outset, it seemed like neither team would have much success offensively. Notre Dame didn't score for the first 3:19 of the game, and West Virginia (15-8, 6-4 Big East) didn't get onto the board until 5:35 had elapsed. 
But behind eight first half points from forward Crystal Erwin and six from guard Charel Allen, the Irish went on a 20-6 run to open the game and took a 38-17 lead into the inter­mission. The Mountaineers tally for the first half marked the fewest points the Irish have allowed in a half this season. 
"Give them credit -they took us out of our offense," Carey said. 
The second half started off with more Irish domination as Notre Dame built up a 60-36 lead with just under 10 minutes to play, but an offensive slump and a Mountaineer hot streak allowed West Virginia to make a game of it by the end of the fourth quarter. 
"West Virginia's a really good team and they didn't play as well in the first half as they nor­mally do," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "You could see in the second half what a good team they are." 
Mountaineer center Olayinka Sanni scored eight of her 16 points in the fmal 10 minutes of the game, including six during a 16-2 West Virginia run that helped the Mountaineers cut Notre Dame's lead from 62-40 to 64-56 in a 4:27 span. 
"We had that little bit of a lull, land] we gave up too many easy baskets to [West Virginia!," McGraw said. "I think we got tentative. We were afraid to foul and we didn't play our best defense ... that kind of turned the game around for them." 
With 3:27 left, Irish freshman guard Ashley Barlow made a layup that broke a 14-0 West Virginia run and allowed Notre Dame to increase the lead back to 1 0 and curb the Mountaineers momentum. 
"I knew we hadn't scored in a while, [so] we tried to run the play and they left the lane wide open so.I took it," Barlow said. 
McGraw was pleased with Barlow, who finished with 17 points and eight rebounds. 
tion, as well as sophomore foilists Emilie Prot and Mark

Wins 
Kubik, junior foilist Jakub continued from page 20 Jedrkowiak and senior foilist 
Frank Bontempo. top-1 0 teams in the NYU "It was very important to Duals in Manhattan, the Irish bring the confidence for breathed those who easier don't have
''All those who got the 

against the the big three club chance to compete ...:.... experience," teams. With Bednarski
really all of them fenced 

the lower said. "All
very well ....

level of com­those who petition, Sometimes they were got the some of the even losing a bout, chance to team's top compete ­
but they were trying."

fencers had really all of the event off. them fenced Senior Janusz Bednarski very well. ... s a b r e s Sometimes
Irish coach 

Valerie they were Providenza, even losing Patrick Ghattas and Matt a bout, but they were trying." Stearns sat out the competi-Cota, who is a regular in 
"I thought that was one of her better games," McGraw said. "She did an outstanding job pur­suing the ball." 
Barlow's rebound total was second only to Allen's nine. The Irish were dominant on the boards, outrebounding the Mountaineers 46-23. 
"We were really attacking the boards," McGraw said. "We held them to three offensive rebounds in the first half so I thought that was outstanding." 
Still, the Mountaineers didn't go away quietly, and West Virginia sophomore Sparkle Davis' 3-pointer with 1:10 left cut Notre Dame's lead to 68-63 -the closest the Mountaineers came in the second half. 
The Irish made 9-of-1 0 from the charity stripe in the final two minutes, including 4-of-4 by Allen, who finished with a game-high 26 points. For the game, the Irish were 33-39 from the line. 
"Thank God we're good free throw shooters because it came down to making free throws when it counted," McGraw said. "We sure weren't going to stop them." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
the Irish lineup, said her teammates made sure the fencers getting a rare chance to compete heard the sup­port. 
"The best part of the week­end was cheering each other on," she said. 
Bednarski said the bouts were an important tune-up for next weekend's Duke Duals in Durham, N.C. Air Force, Duke, Johns Hopkins and North Carolina are the scheduled opponents in Durham. The Falcons are ninth in the current USFCA poll on the men's side while the Blue Devils received votes but are outside the top 10 in both the men's and women's rankings. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Silver Point Capital Q 
Representatives from the Chicago office of Silver Point Capital, a multi-strategy investment fund that currently manages over $6 billion of capital will be available to answer questions regarding hedge funds, private equity, distressed debt and other alternative investment strategies on Wednesday, February 7th from 5 pm-5:30 pm in the Stadium Room at The University Club. 
This will be structured as a Q & A session so please come prepared with any questions you may have about the industry and career opportunities in this sector. 
Silver Point is made up of a diverse group of individuals with backgrounds at firms such as Goldman Sachs, The Blackstone Group, Texas Pacific Group, Wells Fargo Foothill, Madison Dearborn and Merrill Lynch. The firm based in Greenwich, Connecticut currently employees over 200 individuals with additional offices in London, Chicago, Atlanta and Los Angeles. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Loss 
continued from page 20 
get off to a good start, it's an uphill battle." 
The Bulls took a 31-26 lead into halftime and extended the lead to as many as 10 early in the second half. 
Notre Dame recovered and took a 46-44 lead with 10 min­utes left but couldn't hold on. 
Forward McHugh Mattis led South Florida with 23 points and 16 rebounds. 
"Mattis was fabulous tonight," Brey said. "He made every big play and cleaned up every missed shot. We had a hard time with him." 
Guard Colin Falls led the Irish with 26 points, but Notre Dame struggled in the paint. Forwards Luke Harangody, Rob Kurz, Zach Hillesland and Luke Zeller combined for just 14 points on 6-of-19 shooting. 
"We couldn't get much inside offensively," Brey said. "We need to be able to get it inside to take a little pressure off our shooters." 

Kurz, who was nursing a sprained ankle, played 19 min­utes off the bench. He collect­ed one rebound and four fouls but did not score. 
The junior had been averag­ing 14 points and almost nine rebounds. 
"The first thing we have to do over the next few days is get Kurz healthy," Brey said. "He gave us some minutes but he was hurting." 
The Irish will try to bounce back Thursday against DePaul in Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Ill. 
"I still think we have a very good basketball team," Brey said. "We just have to get some rest and get healthy and get ready for a tough one on Thursday." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~------------------------~-----­
Monday, February 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
AN'{WA'JS, l'fv\  RuNNINt:r  NO ~(:!. ••. LE.M~I  
fO"  5\Ut:>E.N\  1!!>0P'j  s-ruDE.NT -:!us•  
DE.Ni,,...NI> I'D U\(.E:.  I HArJu CUT />.\  
-ro  C.ORNE!t 'fo..A To ..,-AU.:.  -:!U5T  V!Sl"T a.Jft  
A.S.OUT  SOME  \ MPORT A.K>T  

BLACK DoG 
OH ADAM, TH I.S IS 

So l'ERFE(T. IT'S 1...\K.E. wE. 'WUE. MAI>E Foil.. eACH O\H£K.. 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
ISSUE5 

BUT WE WEJ!..EtJ 'T. '(~<J \NEU. MADE Forz.. ME.. No\J 6-ET. CDoKI/.J~ THAT DINNS.'S NoT (roNN.... MAr.:c_ ITS.E.l...F. 
AM P.N 
u ~e.. you LAf'UN"'-'/ CAM•'PI.Ibl'~l 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
LIAMMORAN 



CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
huh?" 38 Emptiness relations
5 Machinist's tool 39 Get older
10 Study all night, 2 Sweetie pie say 40 Gift recipient 3 Head case? 
14 Common cause 41 Lemon peels, 4 Finale of postponement e.g. 
5 Nonprofessional 42 Alumni15 Rural units 6 Part of a French45 Toward shelter
16 Olympic playswimmer's 46 Passe 
7 Cereal "for kids"assignment 47 Beauty's 8 Haw's partner17 Regis Philbin counterpart 9 Languageand others 50 The Beatles, suffixe.g.
20 Hive occupant 52 Na Na 
10 Place for21 Ariz. neighbor hangers55 There's one in22 Actor Milo 17-, 26-and 11 Impetuous23 Actress Farrow 
42-Across 12 A few chips,
24 Foal's mother 
59 Gen. Robert say, in poker 26 Motion picture 
13 Tableland academy honor 60 Alaskan native 
18 Japanese33 Tureen 61 Transnational cartoon style accessory currency 
19 Jewish circle34 Hands (out) 62 Wines to serve 
dances 35 Wall St. deal with beef 
23 French miss: 36 Mystery writer 63 Singer Turner Abbr. 
_Stanley and others 

24 SettingGardner 64 Comic Sandier 25 Working without 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

26 North Dakota's largest city -rl-;-t;:+::.~ 27 Slacker 
":":T:-r=T"":"""1 

...;;.+~=+::;,.t 28 Danish birthplace of Hans Christian Andersen 
.;,;+.;;;+,;,..t.;=+;~;,.t 29 Sacred choral work -:::+.:+.:~ 30 Irving Berlin's "When You" 
31 Back-of­newspaper section 
32 Nonverbal O.K.'s 
33 Bit of foliage 44 Dunkable treats 52 Simple earring 37 Reason for an 47 1930's boxing 53 Zeus' wife R rating champ Max 
54 Molecule part
38 Sell 48 Vogue competitor 56 Flier in a cave
40 Airline once said to be "ready 49 Mimicked 57 _ Lilly, maker when you are" of Prozac
50 Square in the 41 Nintendo's The first column of 58 Actor Stephen
Legend of_ bingo 
of "The Crying 43 Pulverizes 51 Water Game" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 
JJ1JJM&1J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CLOAV 
j
I I r [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
CARPH 
j
I I r [j 
DAMALY 
[IJ I I 
www.jumble.com
tGROITE j
J rx 
1 1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHEN THE 00-IT­YOURSEL-FER SUM­MONED A PL-UMBER, HE MADE--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: THE rI I I I J"r I I I J" 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's I Jumbles: MOLDY OFTEN INNING CUDGEL Answer: What the ship's captain did when he got a computer -"LOGGED" ON 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jennifer Jason Leigh. 44; Christopher Guest, 58; Barbara Hershey, 58; Roger Staubach. 64 
Happy Birthday: You will have several choices this year and. if you are honest with yourself, you will excel. Don't become sidetracked into thinking you can make fast cash. Don't make things harder on yourself by looking for the easy way out. It will only slow you down and push you in the wrong direction. Your numbers are 6, 19,23,28,33,45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You've been working hard for a long time and need to start reaping the rewards before you get discouraged. Do something nice for yourself. Give your work a creative twist. It's time to shake things up a little.*** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Get on with the things that excite you. Love is looking hot so spend time with someone who rocks your world. You may feel like helping others but, before you do, make sure that you aren't being taken advantage of.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stop trying so hard to please everyone around you; start pleasing yourself. You can make some interesting assessments regarding your work and your future. Set the wheels in motion and you will see how quickly you can reach your goals. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): An opportunity to travel or to do something with someone who is quite different from you will be to your advantage. You won't have to overspend to do what you want. Be inventive and you will teach others how to have fun. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stop trying to impress others. There is no point wonying about what others think or do. Look at the big picture and see what you have to do to make the best of the situation you are in. Now is not the time to make irrational changes.** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Travel or educational pursuits should be on your mind. Check out the possibility of taking a trip for enjoyment and learning. A partnership is looking good. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This can be a fabulous day if you interact with friends. Socializing will bring about some fascinating ideas that can be implemented into a project. Don't be afraid to make some changes to your home. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be too quick to try to solve a personal problem. Wait until you have had time to think things through. It may be your own jealousy or desires that are causing the problem in the first place. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can count on friends and relatives to help you out if you need it today. Make some adjustments to your living arrangements and you will be much happier about the conditions you are living under. Believe in yourself. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you are experiencing professional problems. consider alternatives. You can make some personal improvements that will help to build up your confidence. If you are happy with who you are, you'll attract new friends or lovers. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll want to be in control but that could easily backfire on you today. Going it alone can bring about the best results. Rely on yourself and you will not be let down. Give others the same benefit of the doubt.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Partnerships will dominate your day. Whether you are considering one or involved in one you should be able to come out on top. Money can be made and deals formulated. You will be lucky in love and fortunate where investments are concerned. **** Birthday Baby: You are thorough, precise and very methodical in financial matters. You are inventive, quick to make a move and adapt well to change. You will go to great lengths to get your way. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consulrations 


---..,---------------------.­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, February 5, 2007 
page 20 
HOCKEY 

Skating to the top 
No. 2 Irish sweep No. 8 Falcons; top-ranked Ne.w Hampshire splits series with Maine 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
For the second week in a row, Notre Dame got off to a slow start on a Saturday night. And for the second week in a row, the Irish fought back for points. 
After falling behind 1-0 in the first period against Bowling Green Saturday, Notre Dame scored twice to complete a weekend and season sweep of the Falcons, putting itself in the mix for the No. 1 ranking. 
"[Bowling Green] played their best series of the year. They made it difficult to create a lot offensively," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "It was a 


matter of grunting out or grit­ting out a couple of wins." The pair of wins brings the 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 2 Irish -who beat the Falcons twice in November ­to 23-5-2 on the year and 17­3-2 in conference play. Jackson's squad will find out today if it's earned the nation's top ranking after current No. 1 New Hampshire dropped a 4-2 contest to No. 9 Maine Friday night. 
Notre Dame 3, Bowling Green 2 
Notre Dame earned a tough win Friday against a deter­mined Falcons squad. A pair of power-play goals in the first period from freshmen Dan Kissel and Ryan Thang gave the Irish enough of an early edge to hand the Falcons their ninth straight game without a win. 
Kissel got the scoring started 
see SWEEPIpage 18 

JESSICA LEE!The Observer Irish junior right wing Evan Rankin storms up ice during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Miami Jan. 26. The Irish continued their push for the nation's top ranking, sweeping No. 8 Bowling Green this weekend. 
Bulls use slovv tempo, strong rebounding to down Irish 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
,Notre Dame's road woes returned Saturday. 
The No.19/21 Irish could not capitalize on momentum from their first true road win of the season -a victory over Syracuse at the Carrier Dome Tuesday -and fell to South Florida 69-63 at the Sun Dome in Tampa, Fla. 

Notre Dame (18-5, 6-4 Big East) dropped to 3-5 away from the Joyce Center this sea­son and fell to sixth in confer­ence. 
The win was the first over a ranked team this year for the Bulls (12-11, 3-6 Big East), 
and South Florida students stormed the court after the game. 
"We've had a couple people storm the floor on us this year," Irish coach Mike Brey said in a post-game interview, referring to the crowd's reac­tion when struggling St. John's topped the Irish in Madison Square Garden Jan. 23. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Squad survives Mountain scare 
Notre Dame nearly squanders 24-point lead to West Virginia 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Not even a 25-6 West Virginia run in the second half could help the Mountaineers overcome Notre Dame Sunday in a near­empty Joyce Center. 
The Irish (14-8, 5-4 Big East). who had amassed a commanding lead and led by as many as 24 with 9:19 to play, were able to weather the -Mountaineers' attack en route to a 77-67 victo­ry. 
"At least we didn't quit," 
see SCARE/ page 18 


The Bulls' intentionally slow boards was the key to the tempo held Notre Dame 20 game." points below its season scoring Notre Dame scored just 11 average. South Florida's 48-38 points in the first 10 minutes rebounding advantage -of the game and just 26 in the including 16 offensive boards opening half. -made the Bulls' strategy "We were digging out of a even more effective. hole the whole time," Brey 
"They hurt us with second said. "On the road, if you don't shots," Brey said. "Their ath­letic ability on the offensive see LOSS/page 18 
FENCING 
Foilists go undefeated as team sweeps Duals 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame junior foilist Rachel Cota wanted the women in her weapon to go undefeated against Purdue, Michigan Stahl and Indiana in the Midwest Duals Saturday. 
The foilists delivered. 
En route to sweeps on both the men's·and women's sides, the Irish women foilists went 27-0 against the lesser com­petition. Cota, junior Melanie Bautista and senior Colleen Walsh each went 9-0 for Notre Dame. 
"What they promised they delivered," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
The Notre Dame men beat Indiana 22-5, Michigan State 20-7 and Purdue 24-3. The Irish women topped the Hoosiers 23-4, the Spartans 25-2 and the Boilnrmakers 27-0. 
Women's sabres Ashley Serrette, a sophomore, and Anna Rodriguez, a senior, both went 9-0 in their bouts. 
"It was a good weekend to get our skills back together," Cota said. "It's just good to get some wins under your belt after the tough competition last weekend in New York." 
A week after facing four 
see WINS/page 18 


SMC BASKETBAll 
NO TRACK & fiElD 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
NBA 
SUPER BOWL XU 
MEN'S BASKETBAll 
w 

C.) Belles at Calvin 
ITA Indoors 
Pistons 90
Meyo Invitational 
Colts 29 
Villanova 57 
z 6 p.m. 
Cavaliers 78 
Bears 17 
Louisville 53 

Notre Dame beats
Irish junior Jake
::5 

Snow postponed the 
three top-20 teams 
Chauncey Billups
Watson captures the 
Devin Hester returns 
Shane Clark scores 12

= c:c contest, which was 
Meyo Mile in time of 

before losing to red-hot 
scores 18 as Detroit 
the opening kickoff for 
points as the Wildcats 

originally scheduled 
4:00.71. 

Georgia Tech in finals. 
tops Cleveland. 
Chicago, but the Colts 
earn a crucial Big East
=: for Saturday. 
rally for the win. 
victory. 

page 17 
page 13 
page 12

page 16 
page 15
page 17 






