
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Research center construction begins 
New Harper Hall cancer research facility to be a collaboration between Notre Dame, IUSM-SB 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
University President Father John Jenkins said the construc­tion of Harper Hall, a center for cancer research for the Indiana School of Medicine -South Bend (IUSM-SB), will perpetu­ate a "legacy of love" when he spoke at the groundbreaking ceremony Friday. 
The cancer research center is made possible by a 10 million dollar gift from Mike Harper, a South Bend native whose wife Josie died of cancer in 1999, Jenkins said. The state of Indiana then matched the 10 million dollars, making Harper Hall a joint effort of IUSM-SB and Notre Dame, he said. 
"Cancer touched the Harper family and took Josie, Mike's wife, but in response to that sadness, Mike and his family responded with generosity and vision," Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said the research center is at the core of the University's mission to educate and serve. 
"This is an area we really emphasize. LThe hall] is a place that not only passes on knowl­edge, but discovers knowledge through research," he said. "Science at the service of humanity is what Harper Hall is about." 
see HARPER/ page 4 


Students lamen~ unexpected Syracuse loss 
Seniors mourn cold, disappointing last game in Notre Dame Stadium to 2-8 Orange 
abnormal. Many seniors were seen crying at the game or expressing anger. 
Senior Andrew Balsley, said the game "was definitely a poor showing. Everyone was pretty angry that we lost to such an awful team. There was a lot of swearing and people being mad at Weis for having such an awful game. We at least got to enjoy half-time and the marsh­mallows and that tradition for seniors. It got worse and worse as the game went on and we couldn't close it out." 
Marshmallows were not the only white objects thrown throughout the game. 
Students caught throwing 
see GAME/page 3 


By NORA KEN~TEY News Writer 
The atmosphere on campus since Saturday's game has been a grim reflection of the disappointments endured by fans and players this weekend in Notre Dame Stadium. For seniors, this last home game was especially saddening. 
Senior Allison Lang was emo­tional about watching the game from the student section for the last time. 
"I personally didn't care about the score at the end of the game. It was just the fact that it was the first big 'last,"' she said. 
Lang's emotions were not 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND prof featured in new play 
By ROBERT SINGER NewsWri£er 

A life of scholarship rarely translates into the drama of the stage, except in the case of Notre Dame professor and leading Schubert scholar, Susan Youens. 
New York playwright­actress Anna Deavere Smith has written a portion of her latest play "Let Me Down Easy" about Youens. 
According to Youens, Smith selected her for her work on the 19th century Austrian composer Franz Schubert. 
"I regard it as a testament to Schubert more than to me," she said. "She contact­ed me because my misl"ion in life is to convert as many people as I can to a greater love and understanding of Schubert's music." 
In a life cut short by death at age 31, Schubert com­posed almost 1,000 works, including many later works in which he contemplated human mortality -the same idea that Smith wanted to explore in her play. 
Smith is famou's for her unconventional approach to theater. The only cast mem­ber in the play, in scene after scene, she portrays the lives of many real people who all have some connection to an over-arching theme of human frailty. In a montage of worldviews and life stories based on interviews with her subjects, Smith explores this 
see PLAY/page 4 

Seniors to choose 'Legacy' gift 
Students can vote online; gift to Eco-Fund, CSC among three options 

By AARON STEINER 
New~ Writer 
The senior class has an opportunity to leave a legacy that goes beyond their sto­ries, achievements and memories. The Senior Legacy gift will leave a last­ing impact on the University by aiding students in unpaid internships, strengthening community relations through a gift to the Center for Social Concerns, or growing the size of an Eco-Fund to help sustainability initiatives. 
Seniors arc currently vot­
ing on the three options for the class gift, known this year as the Senior Legacy. Joe Gagnon, a senior and co­chair of the Student l)evelopment Committee, said that the committee had a few ideas of their own, and hear suggestions from oth­ers. 
"[The committee] voted among the ideas. and select­ed the top three," Gagnon said. The committee is com­prised of about 30 under­graduate students, mostly students. 
Now, the senior class can vote online -until November 30 -among those three choices: creation of the Unpaid Internship Fund, a gift to the Eco-Fund and planting one tree, or a gift to the esc for community based projects. 
"Two of the gifts arc expanding on things that already exist," Gagnon said. 
The Eco-Fund was created by a gift from the Class of 2008, he said. The fund helps to pay for sustainabili­ty initiatives on e~mpus. The donation would double the size of the fund. 
see GIFT/page 3 


Study abroad at SMC reflects national trends 
By LIZ HARTER 
Saint Mary's Ediwr 
The Institute of International Education recently released the 2008 Open Doors annual report with support from the U.S. Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. The report shows an eight percent jump in the num­ber of U.S. students studying abroad and a seven percent increase in the number of international students studying at U.S. colleges and universi­ties, a trend reflected by stu­dents at Saint Mary's. 
The College has more than 20 different study abroad opportu­nities in locations in Africa, South America, Europe, Haiti, South Korea and China. With the number of sites more than doubling in the past five years, according to a press release. 
There are also seven interna­tional students enrolled at Saint Mary's from the countries of China, Myanmar, Vietnam, Iraq and Guatemala. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney said internationaliza­
see ABROAD/page 3 

....
------------------------------------------------------------~~--~-~ ~---~ 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Living under the dome 
The Golden Dome has never been this collegiate Mecca located half-way across the world from me. In fact, it's about a five minute drive from home. I'm a "townie," and I happen to be very proud of it. 
Notre Dame has always been in my backyard, so the saying goes. I grew 
Amanda Gray 
up tailgating near campus and wear­ing Notre Dame 

News Writer 
Cheerleader outfits on Halloween. There were always houses that would give kids extra candy for some Notre Dame pride. 
This vintage Notre Dame poster has hung in my living room for as long as I can remember, and even considering going to a state school (i.e. Purdue) was considered treason. Most people here are very proud to live so near to this landmark of college education that peo­ple honestly do travel half-way around the world to attend. 
I never saw it with its golden halo. 
I completely abuse the fact that Notre Dame is so near to home. I'm pretty close to my family, so it's nice to make it home to dinner when I can, or at least get off campus for a few hours when the Notre Dame bubble gets to me. 
That's the thing-being here feels like I could be 400 miles away from home, not just four. 
The Notre Dame bubble is an impene­trable force that keeps the surrounding areas like Mishawaka, my dear horne­town, and South Bend from entering. Sometimes this can be a good thing, because people didn't come to Notre Dame to experience the northern Indiana lifestyle. They come for an edu­cation, maybe some football, but defi­nitely not corn mazes and other hap­penings. However, I wish it were differ­ent. Growing up here, I can only sing its praises and beg people to break the bubble and try something new. 
Get off campus! Go explore the place that I am ridicu­lously proud to call "home." 
Try Hacienda, some of the best high­class Taco Bell ever made, or go to the Farmer's Market on a Saturday morn­ing. If that isn't your thing, try going to downtown South Bend, which, admit­tedly, isn't much, but still is fun, or going to any of the several South Bend Chocolate Companies in the area. 
Our mall isn't much, but it's the best shopping you're going to get in the area, until you hit Chicago or Indianapolis. And don't forget to hit up the 24 Hour Coffee Shop, also known as the Gag and Heave (or G and H. but don't let them hear you say that!) for some of the cheapest, greasiest, and tastiest food. 
If you're a music fan, please, please, please check out Orbit Music, in the Town and Country shopping center in Mishawaka. It's not that far away, and there is a bus route to there. Check it out if you even remotely like music­there's something there for everyone. 
I want to help break the stigma that there's only corn (and Notre Dame) in Indiana. 
I hope the other "townies" feel the same way I do! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Oct. 21 edition ofThe Observer, the story "Craft store helps developing nationsn was bylined incorrectly. Sarah Mervosh wrote that story. The Observer regrets this error. 
Monday, November 24, 2008 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD REDO ANY OF THIS SEASON'S FOOTBALL GAMES, WHICH ONE? 


Francys Verdial Caroline Dau Alyssa Pinon Conor Bindner Pat Voll 
senior senior junior junior senior off-campus Pasquerilla East Holy Cross Hall Sorin off-campus 
nYesterday·s ..Yesterday's ''The Pitt game ..Syracuse, ..Dallas game-but game-but -four because it Cowboys-I only the only the overtimes too might be Weis's felt like we had 
,,

tailgating and marshmallow many. last home that one.·· 
,,

snow part.·· fight. not the game. 

negative degree weather or the snowball fight. ,, 


DAN JACOBSfThe Observer 

Seniors climb on the goalpost at Notre Dame Stadium after Notre Dame's loss to Syracuse on Saturday. Seniors were permitted to walk on the field because it was their last home game. 
OFFBEAT 
Turkey bowling part of town's festivities 
CINCINNATI -Set up the pins, clear the lanes and try not to roll a gutter bird. 
Cincinnati is warming up for Thanksgiving with its traditional Turkey Bowl, an annual outdoor event using frozen turkeys in place of bowling balls. 
Contestants will try to knock down 10 pins Tuesday by sliding rock­hard birds down a lane on the holiday season ice skating rink on down­town's landmark Fountain Square. 
The person with the 
highest score after three rounds wins $100 cash and "WKRP in Cincinnati" DVDs including the series' famous "Turkeys Away" episode. 
That's the one about a station promotion in which live giveaway turkeys are dropped out of a helicop­ter to their deaths ­because the station man­ager thought turkeys could fly. 
Man accused of urinat­ing on arresting officer 
ALBUQUERQUE -The Albuquerque Police Department has turned to the want ads for snitches. 
An ad this week in the alternative newspaper The Alibi asks "people who hang out with crooks" to do part-time work for the police. 
It reads in part: "Make some extra cash! Drug use and criminal record OK." 
Capt. Joe Hudson says police received more than 30 responses in two days. He says one tip was a "big one" but wouldn't elaborate. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
LIJ :X: 
=r 
LIJ 
~ 
.... 
****.·**· 
* * * *

<(.) * * *

....0 HIGH 34 HIGH 32 HIGH 35 HIGH 37 LOW 32 LOW 30 LOW 30 LOW 26 
IN BRIEF 

A seminar entitled ''Americans in the Treasure House: Travel to Mexico in the 
U.S. Popular Imagination, 1876-1920" will be given by Jason Ruiz. assistant professor in the Department of American Studies. The event will be held in room 208 McKenna Hall today at 4 p.m. It is sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies' Interdisciplinary Faculty Seminar Series. 
Zhigang Suo, professor of engineering and applied sciences at Harvard University, will pres­ent a seminar on the thermody­namics of large deformation in soft active materials on Tuesday at 3:30 p.m.. The lecture, enti­tled, "Thermodynamics of Large Deformation in Soft Active Materials" , will be held in room 138, DeBartolo Hall. It is sponsored by the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 
The Entrepeneurship Society is having a series of presenta­tions on business entitled Case Study Challenge. The event is Wednesday from 5-7 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo. 
Direct from Buenos Aires, Argentina, Estampas Porteiias presents a new, fresh look at tango on Wednesday at 7 p.m.. A combination of live music, alluring dances and just pure fun, Tango Fire is an event for everyone who wants to move and shake. This event is held in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in the Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets are $48, $38 for faculty/staff, $36 for seniors, and $15 for all students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Atlanta 56 I 35 Boston 45 I 38 Chicago 38129 Denver 57 I 34 Houston 76 I 46 Los Angeles 71 I 53 Minneapolis 32 120 New York 48 I 43 Philadelphia 48 I 41 Phoenix 82 I 57 Seattle 55 I 41 St. Louis 49 I 29 Tampa 77 I 58 Washington 50 140 

Monday, November 24, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Gift 
continued from page I 
The gift to the CSC was something many committee members felt strongly about, Gagnon said. 
"A lot of people on the 
committee really stressed wanting to improve rela­tions with the community," he said. The one-time gift would be used to fund com­munity-based projects. 
The final gift would create a 
unpaid," Gagnon said. The stipends provided through the fund would help cover liv­ing costs. 
The Senior Legacy is used to directly address some­thing that stu­dents see a need for, Gagnon said. 
"We feel like we've been here four years, and we're in the best position to say, what's missing" or "what doesn't get enough atten­tion, or needs more atten­tion," Gagnon said. 
Gagnon said that students can officially con tribute to the Senior Legacy until Dec. 31, 2009. 

"Jt:r;; our history that we're going to leave behind ... it's our way ofsaying thank 
, 
you. 

Joe Gagnon Student Development Committee co-chair 
"It's important as an 
promote the 

alumni ... to start giving back early. '' 
Kevin Marvinac Student Development Committee co-chair 
"We will choose our offi­cial class gift," Gagnon said, but seniors can choose to designate a donation for whatever they desire. 
"They're technically con­tributing to the Senior Legacy if they contribute to their dorm, or something else," he said. 
The Student 
Development 
Committee will 

added that the focus is not on the amount raised, but the percentage of participa­tion. 
"It's our history that we're going to leave behind," Gagnon said. "It's our way of saying tl\arik you." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
chosen gift, Gagnon said. 
K e v i n Marvinac, a senior and the other commit­tee co-chair, said that stu­dents can con­tribute dona­
given us so much," he added. 
"It's impor­tant as an alumni ... to start giving back early," Marvinac said. "Giving back is one very tangi­ble way that alumni can really stay involved." 
G a g n o n 

I Game 
continued from page 1 
snowballs at fans, players, or 
authoritative figures were dealt 
with harshly. 
Freshman Julie Cooney said, "we watched a guy get removed from the stadium for hitting a police oflieer who was standing on the field. Obviously he didn't do it, as his friends and the entire section were protesting the impossibility. If you could hit a guy in the back of the head with a snow ball from section 34, you would replace Jimmy Clausen." 
It is unclear whether or not the snowballs were aimed at the players. 
Sophomore Brian Monson said, "I don't think it was intended for the team, but you're that far away. You're not accurately going to throw the snowball at the team. It's something that you wouldn't expect from kids here at Notre Dame. You think they would show some class, some restraint. My roommate feels very strongly about this. He got hit." 
At his Sunday press confer­ence, Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis was asked what he thought about members of the student section throwing snowballs towards the team throughout the game. 
"I was taken back about it, to tell you the truth," he said. "I was caught a little off guard 


Abroad 
continued from page I 
tion is a priority for Saint Mary's in her five-year strate­gic plan, "The Path to Leadership 2012," which was released last fall. 
Mooney's plan calls for increasing the percentage of students who study abroad by the time they graduate to 50 percent and increasing the number of international stu­dents who study at the College. 
Mooney :tnnounced this fall that the College has joined the American Council of Education's · (ACE) Internationalization Laboratory to work on achieving these goals, according to the press release. 
ACE invites a handful of col­leges to work in its laboratory for 

18  months,  the  ..Today's graduates  "It  was  an  
press  release  must be prepared to  excellent oppor­ 
said, allowing them the opportu­nity to review the College's current  work and compete with colleagues from around the globe  tunity for me, and for all the girls who want to study  
array of interna­tional initiatives, assess the inter­national expertise  and potentially to spend some portion oftheir careers liv­ abroad," said Kelly. who stud­ied in Seville, Spain for the  
of the faculty, and review the College's global  ing outside ofthe United States.,  entirety of her sophomore year and participated  
education plans,  in the Poland to  
among  other  Carol Ann Mooney  Prague program  
things.  President  over  Spring  
"Today's gradu­ates must be pre­ Saint Mary's College  Break her fresh­man year. "It's  
pared  to  work  the  reason  I  

and compete with colleagues came to Saint Mary's." from around the globe and She said she chose to study 

Ph~ase rec~~le The Obs~;rver. 

COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer The football team gathered by the student section for the alma mater after Notre _Dame's loss to Syracuse Saturday. 
because they started coming early. And I think that maybe it was meant in fun at the start of the game. But it's a dangerous thing. And it's just something I wish would have been avoided." 
Because Syracuse was 2-8, plays such as Toryan Smith's interception and lateral, as well as a win, were expected. 
"We made a lot of mental errors which is the same thing we've done all season. I don't know if it's a player thing or a coaching thing but there are so many mental lapses," Monson 
potentially to spend some por­abroad because she wanted to tion of iheir careers living out­live in a culture that she had side of the United States," only read about in books. 
Mooney said in the press 
..To prepare our
release. "To pre­
pare our stu­students to fully dents to fully participate in the 
participate in the 
emerging global 
emerging global 
community, we community, we must 
must expand expand their their opportuni­
opportunities for
ties for interna­
international
tional studies and further studies.,, internationalize 
. the College com­
Carol Ann Mooney
munity and its 
President
curriculum." Junior Meghan Saint Mary's College 
Kelly said she thinks it is won­derful that Mooney has made studying internationally and bringing international students 
to Saint Mary's a priority. 

said. 
In the end, the loss was unable to quench the undying loyalty of the seniors. 
"It was really cool that the sen­iors all went on the field and took pictures after the game, Lang said. "We were on the field to take pictures and walk out through the tunnel and see all the senior football players with their uniforms and it was a really good interaction." 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
minutes and students [who study abroad) like myself want to be able to pass by every sin­gle day the famous buildings they have learned about in class and experience living in a city where history was made." 
Kelly said Mooney isn't the only person who has made internationalization a priority. 
"I can tell how much the pro­fessors care [about it]," she said. "Dr. Dave [Stefancic] took us to Poland and he is just obsessed with the culture as I was, and Professor [Jennifer] Zachman, who sent us to Spain, came to Spain and took us to dinner. 
"They have experienced the culture already and they want us to be just as passionate about it as they are." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 
"I wanted to live with a real family ·::1nd get an idea about how they go about their daily lives, because I wondered if family life there was any differ­ent than what I am used to see­ing at home," Kelly said. "I wanted to hear the language every single day instead of just inside the class­room for 50 

new program at Notre Dame -the Unpaid Internship Fund. The fund was an idea that the committee devel­oped with the Career Center. 
"You'd apply to the Career Center if your internship is 
tions of any size. 
"It's really important to give, no matter the gift amount." he said. 
Graduation is an impor­tant time to "start giving back to the University that's 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 24, 2008 
Harper 
continued from page 1 
The research done at the center will influence the lives of so many people, Jenkins said. 
"The work of discovery [at the center] will alleviate suffer­ing and cure people," he said. "It is such an inspiring gift." 
Jenkins said part of Mike Harper's vision for the project was making the center a joint venture of public and private efforts. The speaker of the Indiana House of Hepresentatives, Pat Bauer, was responsible for matching the 10 million dollar gift from Harper, he said. 
Bauer said matching a dona­tion to a private establishment is not a common practice, but he said the center has the potential to do a lot of good in the state. 
"When they asked the state to match a gift from a private school, I thought, that's never been done, but when I saw that amount of money, I thought, we can't pass this up," he said. 
Bauer said the project was not too difficult because there was already a partnership between IUSM-SB and Notre Dame. 
"We were putting fthe money] in an area where we already had a partnership," he said. "This public/private partner­ship thing is blossoming in many more ways." 
Dr. Stephen Leapman, execu­tive associate dean of education affairs at IUSM-SB, said the research center benefits the students who will have an 

Play 
continued from page 1 
universal theme through var­ious topics like spirituality, genocide, and the catastro­phe of Hurricane Katrina. 
"I imagine that her interest arose from the Schubertian combination of immense cre­ativity and a death sentence with an indeterminate span of remaining life," she said. "Schubert's illness was one in which you could not know or predict how much time you had left." 
Although she is confident that she was chosen as a subject by Smith for her musical scholarship, Youens is unsure of how she was dis­covered. 
"I don't know how she came to know me. That's a mystery. I really don't know how this happened." 
Youens focused on the dedi­cation Schubert showed toward his musical calling, the "absolute devotion to the creation of beauty in sound" and "a kind of responsibility to his art and craft that I find a completely admirable model for how to live." 
When audiences leave the theatre, Youens hopes that people will have a specific goal in mind. 
"My hope is that people will leave the play, go to Amazon.com or the nearest record store and buy copies of Schubert and listen to them," she said. "That's the purpose of my scholarship, to send people to the music." 
After Schubert was diag­nosed with a fatal disease at age 25, he knew that he had an unknown and possibly limited time in which to accomplish his musical aims. 
"Schubert in the last six 

opportunity to work there. 
"Our graduate and medical students benefit because they see their role models conduct­ing research and they want to emulate them," he said. "There is an important connection between research, education and student involvement." 
Dr. Rudy Navari, assistant dean of IUSM-SB, said that the center will benefit the region as well as the students. 
"In addition to the effects on the two major universities, the gift has energized the Northern Indiana community," Navari said. "I receive phone calls and emails every day from health care professionals in the area who are excited ... and very proud we are going to have a center of excellence in cancer research." 
He said cancer research has always been a big priority with the Medical school and the cen­ter will allow the school to expand its capabilities. 
"We have major resources so we can develop cancer research for the next few years," Navari said. "This gift will continue to make a differ­ence in many years." 
Mike Harper, the benefactor of the gift, thanked both uni­versities and the state for working with him to make the cancer research center a reali­ty. 
He said his wife Josie would be very happy with the center's potential to help so many peo­ple. 
"She's very proud right now," Harper said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
years of his life knew he had a death sentence handing over his life," she said. "He made a conscious decision ... that both his life and his music would tell about what constitutes and good death and a good life." 
According to Youens, her work on Schubert is also rel­evant to another theme Smith wanted to explore in her play, "grace under pressure." 
"It's as if he said to himself: failure is not an option," she said. 
"Music is so intrinsically valuable that it deserves every effort that I can put into it," she said. 
Youens does not necessarily see her seleetion as an affir­mation of her career as a seholar. 
"Scholarship is about tak­ing part in an ongoing con­versation. New generations and new pairs of eyes exam­ine these works and they see different things in them," she said. "It's Schubert who is going to endure." 
When asked if she plans to return the favor by writing a scholarly interpretation of Smith's plays, Youens laughed. 
"No, I don't think I'm quali­fied to talk about the theatre arts, though I'd love to be able to return the favor," she said. "I think I'll leave that to theatre critics who know what they're talking about." 
Youens' character will join many others impersonated by Smith during "Let Me Down Easy," including a Harvard philosopher, a former gover­nor of Texas, Ann Richards, jazz musiCian James Andrews, human rights activist Samantha Power, and opera singer Jessye Norman. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Leaders push to aid Zimbabwe 
Carter, Annan decry humanitarian crisis during South Africa visit 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG -Kofi Annan, Jimmy Carter and Graca Machel visited a church housing Zimbabwean refugees Sunday as they continued efforts to ease Zimbabwe's humanitarian crisis even though they were barred from entering the country. 
The former U.N. secretary­general, the former U.S. pres­ident and human rights advo­cate Machel, who is married to Nelson Mandela, said Saturday they were denied visas for a mission to assess 
. the needs of Zimbabweans, many of whom are suffering from hunger and disease. The three arc members of The Elders, a group Mandela formed to foster peace. They have insisted their visit was not related to regional attempts to get President Robert Mugabe and his rival, opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, to imple­ment a stalled power-sharing agreement. On Sunday, the three talked to men, women and children who have fled Zimbabwe and sought refugee at the Central Methodist church in down­town Johannesburg. Carter spoke to 14-year-old Kennedy Manyani, an orphan who crossed the crocodile-
infested Limpopo River into South Africa by himself three months ago. 
"I came because my grand­mother could not afford to buy me clothes, food," he told Carter. 
More than 1,600 people are squeezed into the church with many more sleeping on the pavement outside. An estimat­ed 3 million Zimbabweans live in South Africa and millions of others have fled to neighbor­ing countries in search of jobs and security. 
While Zimbabwe's political crisis occupies politicians, the humanitarian crisis is deepen­ing. The health system has collapsed and a cholera out­break has killed nearly 300 people in Zimbabwe, the United Nations said. 
Annan said at the church it was extremely important for southern African countries to realize that regional efforts were needed to control the cholera epidemic. 
The three were met with cheers as they made their way through the cramped build­ing. 
"Their visit boosts morale. It shows us that we are not alone," said Herbert Nedi, 24, who helps at the school and adult education center the church has started. 
Zimbabweans, who were 
the targets of anti-foreigner violence in South Africa this year, daily face the risk of arrest, beatings, harassment and sexual assault. 
The church was raided by police this year and a number of refugees -most of whom are undocumented migrants -were deported. 
"We are very vulnerable here," said Bishop Paul Verryn. 
On Sunday, Carter, Annan and Machel met with Botswana President Seretse Ian Khama and representa­tives of aid agencies and Zimbabwean social organiza­tions. They met with Zimbabwe's main opposition leader on Saturday and are scheduled to meet South African President Kgalema Motlanthe on Monday. 
Khama has been one of the few African leaders to openly criticize Mugabe. 
"Our biggest concern is that the focus is moving away from the plight of the Zimbabwean people, who are currently suf­fering through starvation and diseases," he said after an earlie.r meeting with Motlanthe in the South African capital, Pretoria. 
Annan said Saturday that Zimbabwe gave no official reason for refusing them visas for the mission. 


Monday, November 24, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia wants to look for oil in Cuba 
HAVANA -Russian oil companies could soon begin searching for oil in deep Gulf of Mexico waters off Cuba, a top diplomat said just days before Hussian President Dmitry Medvedev visits the island. 
Hussian oil companies have "concrete projects" for drilling in Cuba's part of the gulf, said Mijail Kamynin, Russia's ambas­sador to Cuba, to the state-run business magazine Opciones. 
Kamynin also said Russian companies would like to help build storage tanks for crude oil and to modernize Cuban pipelines, as well as play a role in Venezuelan efforts to refurbish a Soviet­era refinery in the port city of Cienfuegos, according the article published this week­end. 
Seventeen killed during U.S. raid 
KABUL, Afghanistan -The U.S. military says its troops killed 17 insurgents during a raid in southern Afghanistan. 
A U.S. statement on Sunday says helicop­ters carried the troops into the Shah Wali Kot district of Kandahar province, where they clashed with the militants. 
It says the clash Saturday killed 17 insur­gents, while no U.S. or Afghan troops died. 
Southern Afghanistan is the center of the Taliban-led insurgency. More than 5,200 people --mostly militants -haw~ died in insurgency-related violence this year, according to an AP count. 
Several African nations such as Senegal, Kenya and Angola are among those that could contribute extra troops, council diplo­mats said, speaking on condition of anonymity because talks are still under way. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Wisconsin plane crash kills three 
MARSHFIELD, Wis. -Authorities in Wisconsin say a small airplane has crashed in the backyard of a house in Marshfield, killing the three people on board the aircraft. 
No one on the ground was injured. 
Officials said the plane had caught fire after the crash late Saturday and burned the back wall of the house. 
Marshfield Fire Department Deputy Chief Roy Dolens told WSAW-TV that it wasn't immediately clear whether the pilot was try­ing to land at the Marshfield airport or if the plane had just taken off. 
Federation aviation investigators were expected to examine the crash scene. 
Rhodes scholars announced 
PHILADELPHIA -A University of Pennsylvania student who organized an exhibit about Lenape Indians living quietly in the state is among this year's winners of Hhodes Scholarships. 
Abigail P. Seldin, of Tierra Verde, Fla., curated the exhibit "Fulfilling a Prophecy: The Past and Present of the Lenape in Pennsylvania," which opened at the University of Pennsylvania Museum in September. 
She is one of 32 men and women from across the United States to win the presti­gious scholarships for study at England's Oxford University. The winners' names were announced early Sunday. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Referee has heart attack during game 
HEBRON, Ind. -The Porter County coroner says a basketball referee who became ill during halftime of a girls junior varsity game died later at a hospital ofan apparent heart attack. 
Coroner Vicki Deppe says 56-year-old Thomas 
P. Duffm of LaPorte was treated at Hebron High School by paramedics Friday night and then taken by ambulance to Porter Memorial Hospital where he wa,;; pronounced dead. 
The junior varsity game was completed with the officials who were to have worked the varsi­ty game, and school officials postponed the var­sity game_ 
GEORGIA 










Shots fired at Georgian convoy 
Rounds erupt on fifth anniversary of Georgia's Rose Revolution, no one hurt 
Associated Press 

TBILISI, Georgia -Shots were fired near the motor­cade carrying the presidents of Georgia and Poland on Sunday -the fifth anniver­sary of Georgia's Rose Hevolution -Georgian offi­cials said. No one was hurt in the shooting. 
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili, who led the pro-Western 2003 upris­ing but whose popularity has waned in recent months, blamed Russian troops in Georgia's break­away province of South Ossetia. 
"Frankly, I didn't expect the Russians to open fin'," he said at a news conference with Polish President Lech Kaczynski. "The reality is you are dealing with unpre­dictable people. They weren't happy to sec our guest and they weren't happy to see me either." 
Kaczynski said the shots were fired from only about 30 meters (1 00 feet) from the motorcade. He said it was not clear if the gunfire was aimed at the motorcade or shots were fired into the air. 
But he said the incident demonstrated the weakness of the French-brokered truce that ended Russia's controlled by Georgia before Soviet foreign minister, from a "provocation." August war with Georgia the war, including the area office and ushered pro­South Ossetian separatist over South Ossetia. The around the town of Western Saakashvili into authorities also denied that truce agreement, Kaczynski Akhalgori, near which the power. shots had been fired in the said, "does not reflect reali­firing was said to have Saakashvili's popularity area. A spokesman for the ty." occurred. has dwindled as critics have Russian Defense Ministry in 
"I know from their shout­Kaczynski criticized the charged him with authori­Moscow said he had no ing that they were Russians; European Union and NATO tarianism and with mishan­immediate comment on the I also know from the presi­which, he said, have failed dling the war with Russia. Georgian claims. dent of Georgia that there to take united action to This year's anniversary was Even Georgian oflicials dif­are Russian outposts on that counter what he described marked with little jubilation. fered among themselves. territory," Kaczynski said. as Russia's attempt to A former ally used the occa­Interior Ministry spokesman 
"Fire was opened on rebuild the Soviet empire. sion to launch a drive to Shota Utiashvili said the Georgian territory, and terri­"Today, it's not too late yet, unseat Saakashvili. shots were fired as the tory that until August this but tomorrow it might be," The circumstances of motorcade approached a year was controlled by the he said. Sunday's incident remained Russian military checkpoint authorities in Tbilisi," he Relations between Russia unclear as night fell. near the Akhalgori in South added. and Georgia have been dete­Russia's deputy foreign min­Ossetia. But lawmaker 
The plan, brokered by riorating for several years. ister, Grigory Karasin, insist­Marika Verulashvili said the French President Nicolas The Hose Hevolution in 2003 ed that no shots has been incident happened as the Sarkozy, called for Russian was a popular uprising fired, and the Russian motorcade approached a troops to withdraw from against elections that were Defense Ministry, in state­Georgian police checkpoint areas outside South Ossetia seen as fraudulent. It drove ments carried by Russian near the breakaway and Abkhazia, but they have President Eduard news agencies, dismissed province after visiting a 
· remained in several areas Shevardnadze, a former the Georgian allegations as camp of Georgian refugees. 

Obama chooses commerce secretary 
ambassador under President Bill Sudanese rebels; and was later
Associated Press Clinton and later as energy secretary. sought out by the North Koreans to NEW YORK -President-elect He was in the House from 1983 to discuss nuclear issues. Barack Obama has chosen New 1997. His success, said David Goldwyn, Mexico Gov_ Bill Richardson to be Clinton sent Richardson on several national security deputy at the United commerce secretary, adding a promi­high-level diplomatic missions while Nations in the late 1990s, stems from nent Hispanic and one-time he was in Congress. including direct the many different facets of his per­Democratic rival to his expanding talks with Iraqi leader Saddam sonality -whether it's the athlete (he Cabinet. Hussein. bonded with Fidel Castro over base­Obama planned to announce the In Richardson. Obama will get a ball), the tireless adversary (he spent nomination after Thanksgiving, secretary of commerce who has been four hours at the table trying to per­according to a Democratic official described as relentless and competi­suade President Laurent Kabila to let familiar with the discussions. The tive, \vith a jocular sense of humor. a U.N. team investigate massacres in official was not authorized to speak Richardson is a seasoned interna­Congo) or the regular guy. publicly about the negotiations and tional negotiator who mediated with "Richardson is all about crashing did so on condition of anonymity. North Korea over the downing of two through boundaries," Goldwyn said in Richardson, 61, had a distinguished U.S. Army helicopter pilots; ham­2007. "lie says hello to the security and visible career in Washington mered out a deal with Saddam guy, and if he's Hispanic he'II say before returning to New Mexico, Hussein for the release of two U.S. oil something in Spanish. If he's African­where he was elected governor in workers; won the release of three American. he might call him 'his 2002. Richardson served as U.N. Hed Cross workers held captive by brother.' 
Monday, November 24, 2008 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Credit card use down, stores find 
As holidays approach, customers are using rnore cash and debit cards 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Ca<ih or credit? For more Americans, who have already maxed out their credit card,;; or are just trying to manage their spending better in the tough economy, the answer is increas­ingly the old-fa"ihioned one. 
Retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Target Corp. and J.C. Penney Co. are noticing a marked shift away from credit card'! in favor of cash and debit eard'i. A big factor is less credit available as major card issuers cut spending limits and raise fees even for customers who pay their bills on time. 
The shift end~ Americans' long love affair with credit cards and is one of the changes in consumer behavior that has emerged since the financial meltdown that could depress consumer spending this holiday season and affect shop­pers' habits long afterward. 
Particularly during holiday sea­sons past, shoppers could count on a pile of plastic to give them the extra financing needed to splurge on presents before they had to face the bills in January or later. 
But even when the economy recovers and credit loosens up, analysts say Americans -shaped by what could be a deep and long­lasting recession -are likely to stick with buying only what they can afford just as their parents or grandparents did after the Great Depression. 
"I think this is a new way of life," said Robert Smith, of Loves Park, Ill., who along with his wife has been using cash and debit cards to finance their spending, including vacations, since they paid ofl' their credit card debl<> in July. "I like to be able to know that we paid for something. I hate monthly paymenl'i when you use a credit card." 

Smith, who has four children ages 7 to 13 and owns a motiva­tional training company called Drive and Grow Hich, says his business is down 20 pPreent thi'i year, and since he is saddled with a mortgage, he doesn't want to get back into debt. 
While the credit crunch is teach­ing consumers to be more "finan­cially prudent," it's creating a lot of bursts right afterward -has become even more pronounced since September. Chief financial Officer Tom Schoewe told The Associated Press that shoppers are now unable to buy even necessities in the few days bnfore payday. 
Such swings became more dra­matic la~t fall. but subsided when shoppers received their govern­ment rebate checks this past spring. 
Eduardo Castro-Wright, presi­dent and chief executive of Wal­
Mart's U.S. divi­
sion, told 
pain for both con­investors last
'"J think this is a new 
sumers and stores, month that 
way of life.··
said Curtis Arnold, credit card pay­founder of ments a~ a per­CreditRatings.com. centage of total 
Robert Smith 
On.e sign of how payments fell

Loves Park, Ill.
strapped con­sumers are for credit -and buy­ing only what they have the cash for -is that for the first time in 17 years, Penney's has seen swings in spending around payday cycles over the pa'it three months. 
That's common for discounters like Wai-Mart, but a rarity for a mall-based department store ­suggesting that Penney's middle­income customers are fueling the pinch as well. Penney's President and Chief Merchandi.;;ing Officer Ken Hicks noted that the chain hasn't seen swings in spending around payday since about 1991, when the U.S. was entering a recession 
At Wal-Mart, the volatility in spending around payday -a drop in spending in the days before, followed by spending 7.4 percent so far in the cur­rent fiscal year, 
which ends in January. That's a big reversal from the robust dou­ble-digit growth rates in credit cards over the pa'it three years, he said. 
Target executives told investors late last month that it's seeing lower credit card usage among its shoppers for the first time since 2001-2003. 
At Penney's, Hicks said that use of the company's store credit card wa<> flat during the third quarter. The use of credit card-; issued by other parties declined by a couple of percentage points as a percent­age of overall payment, he noted, while cash was up by the same amount. Hicks said he ha<>n't seen a decline in credit card use in five or six years. 
Rhodes scholatli annomtced 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA A University of Pennsylvania stu­dent who organized an exhibit about Lenape Indians living quietly in the state is among this year's winners of Hhodes Scholarships. 
Abigail P. Seldin, of Tierra Verde, Fla., curated the exhibit "Fulfilling a Prophecy: The Past and Present of the Lenape in Pennsylvania," which opened at the University of Pennsylvania Museum in September. 
She is one of 32 men and women from across the United States to win the prestigious schol­miss part of Saturday's game against Maryland because he was being interviewed for the scholarship. 

Rolle is a pre-med student and hopes to become a neuro­surgeon. "It was a very excit­ing day, and I'm thrilled to have the opportunity to study at Oxford," Rolle said after arriving in College Park, Md., to play in the second half of the game. 
This year's 32 Hhodes Scholars were picked from 769 applicants endorsed by 207 colleges and universities nationwide. 
The scholarships, the oldest 
of the inter­
national 
arships for study ...'It was a lJery study awards 
at England's available to
exciting day, and I'm
Oxford University. American The winners' thrilled to have the students, names were opportunity to study provide two announced early or three
at Oxford.··
Sunday. years of 
Seldin, a Penn study. The anthropology stu­Myron Rolle students will dent, said she enter Oxford

Rhodes Scholar 
admired the sur­vival of cultural traditions despite the difficulty involved in maintaining them in secret. 
History books say the Lenape tribe left Pennsylvania by 1803, she said, but there were some who stayed behind, intermarrying with whites but quietly continuing their indige­nous ways through the genera­tions. 
Among the other Hhodes winners is a college football star, Florida State University safety Myron Holle, who had to 

University in England next October. 
Anna Yermakova, a Northwestern University bio­chemistry major, plans to use her scholarship to complete a doctorate in mathematical biology. 
She spoke little English when she and her family moved to the Chicago area from Russia in 1997. She recalled that when she first applied for the Rhodes scholarship, "I didn't really understand how big of a df\al it was." 
"I never really had this 'I must prove myself as a Russian immigrant' attitude," she said. "It was just working hard and doing everything that my brain can do and my hands can do, and I still have a lot of work to do -this is just a step." 
David L.V. Bauer, a student at the City College of New York, is looking forward to doing research at Oxford to develop faster, cheaper ways of sequencing genomes so the technology can become avail­able to everyone. 
Such an advance could allow more people to take preventive measures against ailments they are particularly suscepti­ble to. 
"It's when I can see what you can do with it, how it can change people's lives and change how we are able to interact with our world in a better way that it really becomes interesting," the 21­year-old Manhattan native said. 
Rhodes winner Malorie Snider, a senior at Harvard, said she plans to study medical anthropology at Oxford, delv­ing into an interest that has been growing during hPr undergraduate studies. 
Winning the scholarship, she said Sunday while visiting fam­ily in Texas, is "kind of a blur, actually. It's a combination of excitement, feeling over­whelmed, not comprehending what's going on, and thinking about all these possibilities that have suddenly opened up to me." 


Unreviewed meds available to public 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Taxpayers have shelled out at least $200 million since 2004 for medica­tions that have never been reviewed by the government for safety and effectiveness but are still covered under Medicaid, an Associated Press analysis of federal data has found. Millions of private patients are taking such drugs, as well. 
The availability of unap­proved prescription drugs to the public may create a danger­ous false sense of security. Dozens of deaths have been linked to them. 
The medications date back decades, before the Food and Drug Administration tightened its review of drugs in the early 1960s. The FDA says it is trying to squeeze them from the mar­ket, but conflicting federal laws allow the Medicaid health pro­gram for low-income people to pay for them. 
The AP analysis found that Medicaid paid nearly $198 mil­lion from 2004 to 2007 for more than 100 unapproved drugs, mostly for common con­ditions such as colds and pain. Data for 2008 were not avail­able but unapproved drugs still are being sold. The AP checked the medications against FDA databases, using agency guide­lines to determine if they were unapproved. The FDA says there may be thousands of such drugs on the market. 
Medicaid officials acknowl­edge the problem, but say they need help from Congress to fix it. The FDA and Medicaid are part of the Health and Human Services Department, but the FDA has yet to compile a mas­ter list of unapproved drugs, and M•~dicaid -which may be the biggest purchaser -keeps paying. 
"I think this is something we ought to look at very hard, and we ought to fix it," said Medicaid chief Herb Kuhn. "It raises a whole set of questions, not only in terms of safety, but in the efficiency of the program -to make sure we are getting the right set of services for ben­eficiaries." 
At a time when families, busi­nesses and government are struggling with health care costs and 46 million people are uninsured, payments for ques­tionable medications amount to an unplugged leak in the sys­tem. 
Sen. Charles Grassley, H­lowa, has asked the HHS inspector general to investi­gate. 
That unapproved prescription drugs can be sold in the United States surprises even doctors and pharmacists. But the FDA estimates they account for 2 percent of all prescriptions filled by U.S. pharmacies, about 72 million scripts a year. 
Private insurance plans also cover them. 
The roots of the problem go back in time. tangled in layers of legalese. 
It wasn't until 1962 that Congress ordered the FDA to review all new medications for effectiveness. Thousands of drugs already on the market were also supposed to be evalu­ated. But some manufacturers claimed their medications were "grandfathered" under earlier laws. and even under the 1962 bill. 
Then, in the early 1980s, a safety scandal erupted over one of those medications. E-Ferol, a high potency vitamin E injec­tion, was linked to serious reac­tions in some 100 premature babies, 40 of whom died. 
In response, the FDA started a program to weed out drugs it had never reviewed scientifical­ly. Yet some medications con­tinued to escape scrutiny. 
Sometimes, the medications do not help patients. In other cases, the FDA says, they have made people sicker, maybe even killed them. This year, for example, the FDA banned injectable versions of a gout drug called colchicine after receiving reports of 23 deaths. Investigators found the unap­proved drug had a very narrow margin of safety, and patients easily could receive a toxic dose leading to complications such as organ failure. 
Critics say the FDA's case-by­case enforcement approach is not working. 
"The FDA does not appear to have a systematic mechanism to report these drugs out," said Jon Glaudemans, senior vice president of Avalere Health, a health care industry informa­tion company, "and there does­n't seem to be a systematic process by which health insur­ance programs can validate their status. And everyone is pointing the finger at someone else as to why we can't get there." 
In most cases, doctors, phar­macists and patients are not aware the drugs are unap­proved. 
"Over the years, they have become fully entrenched in the system," said Patti Manolakis, a Charlotte, N.C., pharmacist who has studied the issue. Only a few unapproved drugs are truly essential and should remain on the market, she added. 
Tackling the problem is made harder by confusing -and sometimes conflicting -laws, regulations and responsibilities that pertain to different govern­ment agencies. 
Medicaid officials said their program, which serves the poor and disabled, is allowed to pay for unapproved drugs until the FDA orders a specific medica­tion off the market. But that can take years. 




Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow Jones  8,046.42  +494.13  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,049  55  1,161  907,620,010  

t~ftiiEX / "~"r , 
l~.,?o3. 92~!.!H~:;'I·;
·:.::;:::.:­

NASDAQ 1,384.35 +68.23 NYSE 4,9s9.79 .;+ao8i,8 S&P 500 179.99 +10.62 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,910.79 +207.75 FTSE 100 (London) 3,780.96 -94.03 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -19.96 -0.94 3.77 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +5.39 +4.07 79.52 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +3.09 +0.29 9.68 ULTRA FIN~NVCIALS (UYG) +6.42 +0.24 3.68 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE 
-0.73 +0.023 3.167 13-WEEK BILL +100.00 +0.005 0.01 30-YEAR BOND -0.97 -0.036 3.663 5-YEAR NOTE +2.74 0.053 1.99 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.51 49.93 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +43.10 791.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.70 90.30 
Exchange Rates YEN 95.1150 EURO 0.7933 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2757 BRITISH POUND 0.6711 
IN BRIEF Government weighs Citigroup rescue 
WASHINGTON -The government was weighing a plan on Sunday to rescue Citigroup Inc., whose stock has been hammered on wor­ries about its financial health. 
The Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve have been in discussions over the weekend to devise a strategy to stabilize the company, according to people familiar with the talks. They spoke on condition of anonymity because the discussions were ongoing. 
A spokesman for New York-based Citigroup declined comment. 
The company has seen its shares lose 60 per­cent of their value in the past week, reflecting a crisis of confidence among skittish investors who are worried all the risky debt on Citigroup's balance sheet will turn into losses as the economy worsens and the markets stay tur­bulent-losses that could be nearly impossible to reverse. 
Citigroup is such a large, interconnected play­er in the financial system that if it were to col­lapse it would wreak havoc on already fragile financial and economic conditions. 
Analysts consider Citigroup the most vulnera­ble among the major U.S. banks -especially after it failed to nab Wachovia Corp., which was bought instead by Wells Fargo & Co. That was a missed opportunity for Citi to gets its hands on much-needed U.S. deposits that would bolster its cash position. 
IKEA to pay fine for candle recall 
WASHINGTON -Home furnishing company IKEA agn~ed to pay a $500,000 fine for being slow to report defective outdoor candles, the government said Sunday. 
In May 2006, IKEA recalled 133,000 packages of outdoor candles in the United States. The company had received at least :32 reports of problems with these candles worldwide, includ­ing 12 reporb of injuries. 
The Consumer Product Safety Commission said IKEA did not promptly report the problems, as the law requires. 
The candles were available at IKEA stores around the country between February 2001 and July 2005. 
In the settlement agreement with the agency, IKEA North America Services denied that it knowingly broke the law. 
Consumers wonied about auto bankruptcy 
Detroit Three's situation 1night already be keeping away potential customers 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Cash­
strapped General Motors 
insists declaring bankrupt­
cy would be disastrous 
because it would scare 
away customers. It's 
unlikely Chevrolet and 
Cadillac owners would be 
left with worthless war­
ranties and no replacement 
parts, but the headlines 
about the Detroit Three's 
dire situation may already 
be keeping buyers away. 
"If GM is under the immi­
nent threat of bankruptcy 
or actually declares bank­
ruptcy, I would not consid­
er a GM product," said 
Kevin Ketels, who might 
replace his family's 2004 
Toyota HAV4 late next year. 
"I just don't know if the 
company will be around to 
fulfill their warranty obli­
gations. Will they be there 
for me? There are too 
many unknowns and a car 
is my second biggest invest­
ment next to my house." 
The 38-year-old from Grosse Pointe Woods, Mich., would be among the 80 percent of Americans who General Motors Corp. insists wouldn't even con­sider a GM brand such as Buick, Saturn or Saab if the company was in bankrupt­cy. Chief Executive Rick Wagoner brought up the statistic from a CNW Hesearch survey last week want to see the companies' the bankruptcy court would have a responsibility to use
during his congressional plea for $25 billion in fed­plans to become competi­have the final say. If there's a portion of assets to satisfy eral loans. tive and profitable before a Chapter 7 liquidation, a whatever consumer issues doling out aid, say bank­third-party, like another there might be."
The concerns are intensi­fying as the Detroit compa­ruptcy should be on the automaker, could potential­But obtaining certain 
table. A prearranged run ly step in and assume war­parts would be an issue.
ny burns through tens of 
through Chapter 11 would ranty obligations as part of Independent collisionmillions of dollars a day. It 
give GM more latitude to a deal to acquire part of repair shops get 80 to 90
has warned that by year's end, it could reach the min­postpone payments to cred­GM's assets. percent of their parts imum amount of cash it itors, renegotiate contracts, And the company would directly from original needs to stay in business. raise capital and reorgan­still have to address safety equipment sources. Chrysler CEO Bob ize to stay alive. But with recalls, regardless of its "It's the area most Nardelli gave the same credit markets frozen, find­financial or operational impac.ted if there's disrup­ing the financing to do it status. tion in the supply chain of
warning for his company, 
but Ford Motor Co., also without government help "Bankruptcy wouldn't replacement parts in the suffering under the worst may be impossible, and the discharge your obligations repair industry," said Ron sales environment in 25 company may be forced to for recalls," said Rae Pyle, president of the 
years, says it should have liquidate. Tyson, spokesman for the Automotive Service enough cash and untapped Warranty obligations National Highway Traffic Association, a Bedford, 
would likely be fulfilled by Safety Administration. "We Texas-based group repre­
credit lines to get through 2009. what remains of GM after a would go to bankruptcy senting 10,000 independent Some lawmakers, who reorganization, although court and argue that they facilities. 

Obama pushes plan for economy 
Associated Press to pass, by the Jan. 20 inauguration, leadership. It also foreshadowed a 
legislation that meets Obama's two­more hands-on role by Obama to 
WASHINGTON -President-elect year goal of saving or creating 2.5 influence congressional action during Barack Obama signaled Sunday he million jobs. Democratic congression­the final weeks of the transition will move urgently and aggressively to al leaders said they would get to work Obama will introduce his economic rescue the plunging economy, when Congn~ss convenes Jan. 6. team on Monday, including Timothy demanding swift passage by Congress Though Obama aides declined to Geithner as treasury secretary and of a massive two-year spending and discuss a total cost, it probably would Lawrence Summers as head of the tax-cutting n~covery program. "We're far exceed the $175 billion he pro­National Economic Council. Obama out with the dithering, we'n~ in with a posed during the campaign. Some also has settled on New Mexico Gov. bang," a top Obama aide said. economists and lawmakers have Bill Richardson as his commerce sec­
Obama's plans, outlined by his tran­argued for a two-year plan as large as retary. sition team on television talk shows, $700 billion, equal to the Wall Street "We don't have time to waste here," could put aside his campaign pledge bailout Congress approVPd last month. Obama senior adviser David Axelrod to repeal a Bush tax cut for the "I don't know what the exact num­said. "We want to hit the ground run­wealthy. With the downturJl in the ber is, but it's going to be a big num­ning on January 20th." Echoing that, economy, those tax cuts may remain ber. It has to be," sa!d Obama eco­the second-ranking House Demoerat. in place until they are scheduled to nomic adviser Austan Goolsbee. Rep. Steny Hoyer of Maryland, said, die in 2011, said William M. Daley, an With the wounded economy worsen­"We expPet to have during the first economic adviser. "That looks more ing, the Obama team's rww assertive­couple of weeks of January a package likely than not," he said. ness was a reeognition hn 11eeded to for tlw president's consideration when 
Obama aides called on lawmakPrs soothe financial markets with signs of he takes oflice." 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MA."'AGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Jay Fitzpatrick  John Donovan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR:  Katie Kohler  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR:  Deirdre Krasula  

NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGF-R: Maddie Boyer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: ~ary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631--4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

{574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Obsavn-policie; should be dirmed to Editor in Chief Chris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob&rrv<r (USJ>S 599 2-'4000) is published Monday through Friday except durillg cnm and~n perkxl~~;:, A"ull!>C'Tiption 1oThc-Ohs:torvc:-r is $.100 for one ac:.ademi.;: yeat; $55-t;u one sanencr. 
The Obsc:rvcr ;, publi>h<d ar. l'OSTMtiSTER 024 Smnh Dining Hall Said u!drcss conectiolll m: 
Norre lhm<. IN 465%-0779 The Ob6trvcr P.riodi<al postage paid " Noor< Dun< r.o_&xm and additional mailing otlices. 024 South Dining Hall 

N<otrc D;unc. IN 465S6-()779 
The ()b,crvcr ua member ofthe As.ociatcd Prus. All tq>rodu<:tion righu arc rcsc:rvcd. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Time for a bailout 
The current crises in the tinancial, automotive and real estate sectors of our economy have caused our federal government to consider and implement multiple bailout packages designed to pre­vent entire industries from failing. James Hohr, Chief Executive Oflicer of PNC Financial Services, recently spoke at Notre Dame and said the federal government believed that a bailout would pre­vent total systemic failure. In other words, every sector of the glob­al economy would have been severely impaired without a bailout. 
Notre Dame needs a bailout. Charlie Weis was outcoached by Pittsburgh coach Dave Wannstedt and Greg Robinson-recently fired after posting a combined 10-36 record at Syracuse. Recall that Notre Dame went into the 4th quarter with no timeouts. Recall also the 2nd and 47 field position on one possession in the 3rd quarter. Finally, consider the bland and increasingly predictable play calling. These examples represent only a few of the many fail­ures in coaching that we've seen from Weis. The lone exception, the 2005 USC game, is an anomaly and does not speak to Weis' general abilities, given his subsequent coaching. 
The postgame conference was, quite frankly, embarrassing. Weis' arrogance is well documented, but arrogance is a personality trait generally expected of winners, not of losers. Weis was understand­ably concerned for his seniors, but his demeanor otherwise was unbecoming of a man who is not only the head coach of the University of Notre Dame, but an alumnus as well. Contentment isn't quite an apt description, but it comes close. 
The cost of the bailout is expensive, probably around $24 million, but well worth it. Recent history with coaches Bob Davie and Ty Willingham should have caused Notre Dame ofticials at the time­including former Athletic Director Kevin White-to have a contin­gency plan if Weis failed. Notre Dame should be prepared to dis­miss Weis. He brings the immediate possibility of total systemic failure to this University. We can't afford not to fire him. Charlie Weis' continued failure and inability to successfully coach a team that is by all measures supposed to be very talented puts Notre Dame at tremendous risk. The revenue generated from the football program directly finances every other athletic program on campus. The notoriety from national championships and Heisman Trophy winners has, over the years, allowed Notre Dame to become one of the nation's premier universities in every tangible aspect. Our intangibles set us apart from everyone else. We risk losing it all. 
Ryan Hawley sophomore Siegfried Hall Nov. 22 

The time has come 
As much as we desperately want to see this team succeed under Charlie Weis, the lackluster performance in games that no Notre Dame team should ever lose shows that this will simply never happen. We have an opportunity in the next few years to be a premier team with the top line talent that has come to this school. If we were to allow them to waste their talents under an ill-prepared coaching staff, it would do terrible, lasting damage to this school's reputation as a top line program. So there is only one course of action we must take. I have decided that I will donate my $320 in flex points to the athletic department to pay for a new coach. If you all do the same, we will ensure that Notre Dame becomes the team we all want it to be. Go Irish! 
Andrew Baeckstrom sophomore Stanford Hall Nov. 22 

Fire Weis fund 
According to ESPN, it could cost Notre Dame $20 million to fire Charlie Weis. If the university does not want to fire him because of that amount, I am willing to start a fund to pay for it. Please make checks payable to James McCaughan. Thank you for your help. All Notre Dame fans will appreciate your contribution. 
James McCaughan junior Siegfried Hall Nov. 22 

End our losing tradition 
Dear Membors of the Notre Dame Football team, 
I am writing this letter out of a personal sense of duty to shed light on the egregious lack of success that Notre Dame fans have had to endure over the past two years. In case you haven't noticed lately, Notre Dame football has largely disappointed, ago­nized and distressed its supporters around the world. 
Brothers, I will be the first to say that the lack of mental toughness on and ofT the field is, in the fullest sense unacceptable, unwelcome and detestable. The Notre Dame football tradition is one of.excellence, hard work, strong will and killer instinct. Fans have suffered painfully as these tra­ditions have been effectively phased out of the game in recent years. The losses over the past two years-especially to Navy, Syracuse and Pitt (among others) -are surely not in keeping with the university's standards of excellence and truly embarrassing for fans who continue to hype Notre Dame as a football team which is resolute and determined to never quit. 
Gentlemen, I challenge you with the responsibili­ty to represent these traditions well and defeat USC in the Coliseum. Over the next week, you will learn the ins and outs of a team that is nationally renowned as one of the best in the country. Prepare yourselves well -especially in being mentally ruthless -and take advantage of every weakness our enemy has displayed throughout the season. Also, be aware of our own weaknesses and do not give up a millimeter to those unworthy swine. 
Let's regain what makes us great, commit to vic­tory and unite to beat all of our opponents starting 
now! 

Matt Dobbertien junior Stanford Hall Nov. 22 


Bye, Charlie 
Dear Charlie, 
I wanted to take this opportunity to thank you for your coaching services the past four years. I really appreciate you driving this program into the ground, culminating in a loss to one of the worst teams in college football. I know for a fact that we are not as bad as you have made us. Notre Dame has a winning tradition, and you have put that tra­dition in jeopardy. It would be a huge mistake for the university to bring you back for another year. I personally am willing to help pay out the rest of your contract, although I regrettably do not have $20 million plus at my disposal. From a 3-9 season including a loss to Navy, to getting blown out in any meaningful game, to an utterly shocking loss to Syracuse, you have turned this program into a laughing stock. Please find another job. Peace out. 
Eric Owens 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Nov. 22 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Mandi Stirone Dan Murphy Aaron Steiner Sam Werner What are your plans 
Irena Zajickova Mike Gotimer for Thanksgiving? Graphics Insider 
"You never really understand a 
person until you consider things 
Andrea Archer Matt Gamber Stay on campus 
from his point ofview.,,

Viewpoint Scene Stay home and have relatives over Lianna Analise Lipari Visit family 
Harper Lee 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
Brauweiler 
author

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
p

Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Where are all the nice boys? 
Dear Mr. Leonard, 

Yuck. That was definitely the first thought that came to mind reading through your response ("Another perspective," Nov. 21) to Melissa Buddie and her Nov. 19 letter "The hook-up culture." At first I thought you were joking, but continued reading in utter horror to find you clearly weren't. I'm not the "average" college student with week­ends scheduled around partying tiJI dawn, hooking up with guys who are practically strangers, then sleeping all day. Please bear in mind that I am not trying to generalize "us crazy college kids" into one category, but everyone has to admit that partying is a big part of college life, with no exception here at Notre Dame, St. Mary's, etc. Just overhearing conversations amongst peers in the dining hall alone tells me what ranks as the most .Popular activity. 
I am oh-so-sorry you have the horrible burden of being bothered by those "hook­ups" that keep badgering you with simple text messages and phone calls. Life sure seems hard. Did you ever give it a thought that perhaps those young ladies felt more than just a "tricky, licky, sticky, solid time"? Again, I do not want to try and dwindle all personal thoughts and beliefs to one main stereotype. I must declare, however, that a lot of the times a female will feel more than just a physical connection with whomever she engages with sexually than the male partner, especially when it comes to casual hook-ups. You cannot possibly make me believe for one moment that all 23 to 25 or more girls you ravished and conquered with your undying sexual skills contacted you only for more, more, more. 
Perhaps my freshmen knowledge of col­lege boys and the birds and bees may seem · a bit nai"ve, but I know a pig when I see one. I do not live on campus, and I have never ventured over on the Sweep to party the alcohol-induced night away in fears of run­ning into big bad tough guys like you. I would love for Notre Dame. Saint Mary's and Holy Cross to set up some sort of dating service, just to get the utterly awkward process of meeting boys and girls out of the way. One thing is for sure: Though your thumb may be sore from all that silencing of your phone, the Observer-reading commu­nity knows of a certain bodily digit you just can't keep down. 
Sincerely, 

Wondering where all the nice boys are. 
Katie Fisher freshman LeMans Hall Nov. 21 



Hook-up culture revisited 
I could approach this from the standpoint of an offended male: "You don't know what its like to be me! I have needs too!" or something to that effect, but I won't do that. I will refrain, largely because I don't have any feelings and I really don't want you to waste your time guessing what it is like to be me. In any event, upon reading Melissa Buddie's little blurb ("The hook-up culture," Nov. 19), which, by the way, screamed self-righteous wild-woman, I couldn't help but let my jaw drop to the floor. I really mean it. I was sitting at my desk, and the kid next to me was forced to reach to the ground to pick my jaw, tongue hanging out on the DeBartolo ground, oft' of the floor. 
Not only have you generalized an entire gender, but you have sworn to entrust the key to your chastity belt in the hands of the morbidly conservative University Administration until you are relinquished from its grip upon your graduation in the year 2012. Now, I am no strapping young man by any means. Sure, I have a smile that could cure world hunger, charm that could turn the Grinch's heart from coal and the unassailable wit that few comedians possess on this earth, but l am far from Brad Pitt. I'm not really in a position to claim that I have "hooked up" (not really sure what that means, but if it got awk­ward, something a little kinky must have gone down) with six girls this year and that none of them have called back. In fact, I haven't gotten a phone call from a female in years. 
But let's be serious here, you put yourself out on the line with six guys looking for friendship? I don't know if you were slight­ly inebriated or if you just have a weakness for spontaneous love-making duels, but I have to break it to you, honey: No guy that you hook up with, regardless of whether or not he has your number wants to be "just friends" at that point. And unless there is some foundation to fall back on, you actual­ly kind of dig each other in a "Boogie Nights" kind of way or you fall wildly, · madly, Fabio-type in love, it is unlikely that that guy will call you for some friendship. 
That being said, not all men are like that -though you will be hard pressed to find anyone at this point who wants an Observer article written about his sexual exploits. I feel sorry for those poor young souls. Call-backs do happen. One day, you might find someone who wants to call you back, but until you realize that every match is not a match made in Heaven, it ain't gonna happen, baby. Hook ups happen, that's what colleg(:~ is for. I kid of course, but I wouldn't go around making out with people to forge friendships with members of the opposite sex. God forbid you get labeled a "whore"-though you would be a member of quite an elite group at this fine institution. 
There are about 6,000 men here. Ifyou had a problem making eye contact with all of them for the reasons you stated, you would be well on your way to rivaling Wilt Chamberlain in a battle of numbers. With that, I say good luck to you. A'i for your pledge of abstinence and chastity from all men for the remainder of your four years, I offer you this: there are always women. 
Robby Schoder junior off-campus Nov. 19 

Snowballs dangerous, immature 
I write this letter in the hope of it being published, for all those individuals 
who threw snowballs at Saturday's Notre Dame-Syracuse game. This is an 
issue that needs to be addressed for the good of the school and its reputa­
tion. 

Dear Students and Fellow Domers, 
I'm a proud Notre Dame alumnus and former cheerleader who has the fortune to live near our beloved university and attend many games and functions. Like you, my experiences in the stands of Notre Dame Stadium have varied from heartbreak to jubilation, but in 20 years of being a fan, I have never witnessed the type of immaturity and irresponsibility that tran­spired this Saturday. As unhappy as I was with the game's outcome, that feeling pales in comparison to the shame and disappointment I feel in some members of our student body. Snowballs hitting other students, many of whom obviously wanted nothing to do with these childish actions, snowballs aiming for visitors, state troopers, the Syracuse cheerleaders ... our own players?!? 
I'd like to know what type of person finds it the least bit funny to strike one of his or her fellow students, who is down there playing for you-for his classmates and his school-with an object that is not nearly as innocu­ous as it looks. As a physician with specialty training in Sports Medicine ­and I have seen my share of head and eye injuries-they're not pretty, trust me. For the level of maturity and intelligence Notre Dame selects for young men and women to admit to its student body, however, it shouldn't have to take a doctor (or our poor broadcast announcer pleading several times dur­ing the game) to remind you of this. 
Guys and gals, I'm not some cranky old fuddy-duddy who bristles with indignation when students yell a little too loudly or drink a bit more than usual on a weekend when you've earned a well-deserved break from studies and need to cut loose. Trust me-I was where you are right now and I still enjoy having my fun come Saturday. We did dumb things too when I sat (or stood, as the case may be) where you do in the stands right now. What hap­pened on Saturday, however, really crossed the line from silly college antics to something dangerous, immature and embarrassing. I have heard many fans of visiting teams over the years comment in admiration on how well they were treated at Notre Dame and how impressed they were with the student body. Now imagine, if you will, what the Orangemen fans and play­ers are saying to their friends and family about us right now as they head back home. 
For those who threw and continued to throw snowballs during the game, please take a moment to think of the damage you may have done to this school's reputation. If you think I'm exaggerating, take a look at the online sports Web sites, blogs and local newspapers -congratulations, your actions have made you (in)famous. You are Notre Dame, and you're better than that. Please remember that, so that come next November, the headlines don't read "Notre Dame Player and Student Trainer Carted Ofl' Field By Paramedics From Student-Thrown Snowballs -Doctors Say Linebacker May Lose His Right Eye." Thank you for your attention. 
John Stavrakos alum class of 1992 Nov. 23 

Student behavior embarrassing 
The actions of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students at Saturday's game against Syracuse were ugly, boorish and nearly dangerous. You are undeserving of the University so many of us love. Cla'is of2009, you are an embarrassment to yourselves and to Domers everywhere. Poor play on the field is nothing in compar­ison to your immature antics. Even if you yourself did not participate, you have an obligation to tell your seatmates to stop. Our football program may have stmk in prestige, but it pales in comparison to the disgrace you have brought upon your­selves, and by extension the entire Notre Dame community. Grow up. 
Victoria Stephan alum class of 1978 Nov. 23 

Snowball incident disrespectful 
Dear Fellow Domers, 

I feel compelled to share with you a situation I encountered at work this morning. Five minutes after I walked into the building, three of my coworkers approached me with the question, "Hey, how about that game?'' But not one of them was referring to the score. They went on to ask, "What was with the snow­balls?" I am a graduate of the Class of 2005 -an incredibly proud graduate. Like all of you, I stood through every game ... and if you count back, those were not the winningest years in Irish history. But never, not once, did anyone disn~spect the members of our own team -our classmates. In throwing those snowballs at our own on Saturday afternoon, you cre­ated the first situation in which I have ever been embarrassed by the students at Notre Dame. What you did before a visiting team, a stadium full of fans and a national television audience was immature and tact­less, not to mention beneath you. 
For the seniors among you, Saturday marked your last home game. A picture from my last game hangs in my living room. I don't remember the score. I don't remembPr whether we won or lost. In fact, I don't even reeall who we were playing. I just n~member thinking I was so lucky to be standing there with the best friends and some of the best people I would ever know, and that for four years I had been so privileged 
to do so. Gaining and accepting admission to Notre 
Dame, we all became her representatives. Emotions 
are running high right now, as they always have. 
We're all passionate about our school and our team. 
So by all means, discuss and debate, but stand behind 
your own. Doing any less is showing disrespect to Our 
Lady on the Dome. 

Abigail Wuellner alum class of 2005 Nov. 23 
----------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
E

page 10 


Monday, November 24, 2008 

Scene Writer 

The fiction series ..Twilight" has quickly become a literary and pop culture phenomenon. The first book of the franchise was only published in 2005, but Friday the film adaptation opened after much hype and fan fren­zy. 
The basic premise of Stephenie Meyer's ..Twilight" is a love story between a normal but clumsy 17­year-old girl named Bella Swan and an impossibly beautiful vampire, Edward Cullen. But the series and the film contain more than just romance, with some action, adventure and hor­ror. 
Bella (Kristen Stewart, .. Into the Wild") relocates to gloomy and sun­less Forks, Washington to live with her father Charlie (portrayed hilari­ously by Billy Burke). There she encounters her .enigmatic biology 
Twilight Directed by: Catherine Hardwicke Staning: Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson Based on the book by Stephenie Meyer 
partner Edward (Robert Pattinson, Cedric Diggory in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire") whom she finds confusing yet intriguing. Edward warns Bella that it would be better for her to stay away from him because a part of him thirsts for her blood. But after she finally discovers his secret, the two seem to be inextri­cably linked. 
The looming question was whether or not Meyer's compelling tale could translate successfully onscreen in director Catherine Hardwicke's ("Thirteen") film. "Twi1ight" fans are a passionate group, and when rela­tive unknown Hobert Pattinson was cast as Edward. fans were furious. A flurry of angry outbursts littered mes­sage boards and sites across the Internet. But in time Pattinson was accepted, and many fans quickly became obsessed with the up-and­coming actor. Even his messy hair has been the focus of adoration. 
In the end, Pattinson and Stewart 
are the best parts of the movie. Young actors Stewart and Pattinson deserve praise for managing to play the supernatural story with genuine romantic ardor. The circu­lating rumor that the two share incredible chemistry is true. 
The rest of the story rests on con­vincing readers and viewers alike that the pair would do anything for each other. Both of their portrayals are terrific, and even when the movie gets a bit silly, they never do. Stewart brings a fresh blend of ferocity and feeling to the role. And while Pattinson has already attracted a swooning teen fan base, viewers buy the fantasy because he goes beyond good looks to create a charac­ter you believe in. However, it is pos­sible that a viewer who did not read the book would struggle to under­stand the true intensity of their rela­tionship. 
Screenwriter Melissa Rosenberg ("Step Up") attempts to stay faithful to Meyer, but book adaptations can often feel more like the Cliff Notes version. Any "Twilight" fan could pinpoint a myriad of their favorite scenes miss­ing. Even in a two-hour movie, some characters feel as if they are only making cameos, especially Cam Gigandet's James as a ferocious vam­pire who becomes obsessed with tracking and killing Bella. 
The film succeeds when it focuses on Pattinson and Stewart. By portray­ing a love that is convulsive and ennobling they make viewers under­stand why the books sold millions of copies. Bella could be any heroine in love with a good boy who society mis­understands. "Twilight" revives the classic Hollywood principle that there is nothing more cinematic than a close-up of two beautiful people about to kiss. 
The rest of the Cullen family also plays an important supporting role in the series, but they do not really get the opportunity to see much screen time. Carlisle and Esme are the adop­tive parents of Edward and his adop­tive siblings, Emmett, Rosalie. Jasper and Alice. This particular clan of vampires has chosen a "vegetarian" lifestyle in which they only hunt ani­mals, not humans, as a source of sus­tenance. Viewers should look forward to their contributions in the sequels. 
The budget for the fi1m production of "Twilight" was a meager $37 mil­lion. Many wondered if that was enough to launch the film franchise. especially if the studio wanted to attract audiences who have never read Meyer's works. "Twilight" is probably the most beloved book series to jump to the silver screen since "Harry Potter," whose film debut costs totaled $125 million, a whopping number in comparison. While the smaller budget makes the film feel more intimate, it also leads to a few cheesy special effects. Edward's shimmering appearance in the sunlight feels more like the screen simply got fuzzy, and the bit part of Edward flying Bella through the trees seems somewhat tacky. 
Nonetheless, the film was a hit in its first weekend, making $70.6 million and topping the box office. This trig­gered the announcement that the fust sequel, "New Moon," will be made into film, most likely with a consider­ably larger budget. Luckily, all of the main actors signed on for at least two additional films. 
"Twilight" fans should not be disap­pointed, since Pattinson and Stewart help Meyer's gripping romance trans­late brilliantly onscreen. 
Contact Caidin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 

O
THE Monday, November 24, 2008 BSERVER Syracuse 24, Notre Dame 23 








o Ex-'Cuse 
Lame duck coach, 2-8 Orange shock the Irish on senior day 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Wrirer 
Where do we go from here? 
Notre Dame fell to Syracuse Saturday afternoon 24-23, losing to an eight-loss team for the first time ever -on senior day, no less. 
"I feel absolutely miserable for the seniors," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "I feel sick to mv stom­
.h " 

ac . 
The Irish dropped their fourth game in the past six contests to drop their season record to 6-5. The Irish were 19 1/2 point favorites and led 23-10 in the fourth quarter. 
"Every loss hurts," senior line­backer Maurice Crum Jr. said. "But there's something added to it, being the total situation." 
The victory was huge for the Orange (3-8), who were playing for their head coach Greg Robinson, who was told earlier in the week that he had been fired, efl'ective at the end of the season. 
"It's a great day for our football team. Truly a great day for our program to come into South B'enw·and to pull it ofT/' Hobinson said. "It really isn't necessarily a surprise at all to our football team. They knew that some­where along the line this team was going to do something spe­cial. This was an opportunity that they knew they had to make the most of." 
The Irish offense was unable to capitalize on good field position and the defense was unable to stop the Syracuse offense in the 

fourth quarter, during which the DAN JACOBS!The Observer Orange outscored Notre Dame Irish sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen, left, comforts senior safety David Bruton after Syracuse pulled off a 24-23 10-0. upset at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen completed 22 of his 39 passes for Despite the inability to convert receiver Golden Tate, and Irish a substantial 20-10 lead. The concern after the devastat­291 yards and two touchdowns in Syracuse's side of the field, the seemed to have all the momen­The added field goal saw the ing loss is how the Irish will without an interception, but he Irish were able to build a 23-10 tum going into halftime with a Irish have a 13 point lead going respond next week against USC. could not lead his team to the fourth quarter lead and put 13-10 lead. into the third quarter. The Irish are in serious danger of end zone when the opportunity themselves in a position to win. Tate had an impressive game These would be the last point..c;; falling to .500 for the year and arose to put the Orange away. The first quarter started off with 146 receiving yards and two the Irish would score in the looking at the bottom of the bar­
"I don't really know why that with a good special teams play by touchdowns. This was the first game, as Syracuse quarterback, rel for potential bowl games. happened." Clausen said. senior special teamer Mike game in Tate's career with two and son of Notre Basketball great "You can roll around and sit 
The Irish had the ball within Anello who forced Syracuse's touchdown passes. Adrian Dantley, Cameron Dantley there and feel sorry for yourself, Syracuse's 30-yard line three punt returner Ryan Howard to The third quarter saw the would lead his team on two and if you do that you can go to times during the third quarter fumble the ball on his own 23-Orange begging the Irish with touchdown drives in the fourth IA and they will humiliate you," and only came away with three yard lim~. The 1rish went three their errors to put the football quarter for the win. Weis said. "We'll see how the total points in those series. The and out but converted on a 34 game out of reach, but the Irish Dantley went 13-of-25 passing team looks on Monday." first of those drives included a yard Brandon Walker field goal just could not do it. for 126 yards and the gaming The Irish will have to get their panoply of errors, including two to put the Irish ahead. Syracuse began the third quar­winning 11-yard touchdown pass psyche in the right place and holding penalties and a 17 -yard The Orange answered back a ter with two muffed punts and a to Donte Davis with 42 seconds change the attitude of the team if sack of Jimmy Clausen, resulting couple drives later with a field fumble that put the Irish in excel­left to put the Orange on top 24-they want to put up a fight in a second-and-37. goal of their own from 48 yards lent field position, but Notre 23. against Southern California. 
"That's whnre we didn't put it to even up the score. Dame struggled with penalties The Irish got the ball back with "We have to have short-term away," Weis said. "If we put them The situation started to begin and poor offense that put saw 42 seconds left in the game, and memory and come in ready for away right there, then we would­to look dicey when Syracuse them only score three points on a series of incompletions and a USC," Tate said. "We can't mope n't be having this conversation." drove 81 yards down the field to those three drives. 40 yard prayer to Tate put Notre around and go into depression. 
Conspicuously absent was an score on their very next posses­The Irish did score another Dame on the Syracuse 34 yard We have to go in Monday ready effective rushing game, especially sion. touchdown on the only drive of line with five seconds to go. to work, and we have to work against one of football's worst The Irish responded with a the quarter that they started on The Irish lined up for the 53 harder this week." rushing defenses, as the leading field goal and a touchdown to their own side of the field. Tate yard field goal, but Walker's rusher for the Irish was Armando end the half, including a 35 yard again caught a deep 36 yard accurate boot fell just yards short Contact Jared Jedick at Allen with 52 net yards. strike from Clausen to wide strike from Clausen to give the of the goalpost..'!. jjedick@nd.edu 
player of the game 
stat of the game 

play of the game 
quote of the game 
''It really isn 't necessarily a suprise
Cameron Cantley's touchdown pass
Antwon Bailey 
3 

at all to our football team ... I give 
Syracuse running back 

with 42 seconds remaining 
them a lot ofcredit. , 
Total points the Irish scored on three 
The true freshman rushed for I 26 
Dante Davis caught the 1 1-yard 
third-quarter drives that began 
Greg Robinson 
yards and a touchdown on r6 carries 
strike to put the Orange ahead 24-23
inside the Orange 25-yard line 
Orange coach 
-·----~ -~-~_,__-_::o'""')<"~.....--.:: ·--.r> --~,~~•.,... _. ~ '·h":!.',-~•-• _".." '·.. ,• _.,.._,_·~-.-· ...;:;.<(')-.l>-o.; ,.-·.,s;;:~ ......'\.. · ~"!C.:~-· 
• ...,, •• ' • ' .• ~~ v • 
Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
report card 
8­D+ B+ 


D­D 8­8­
8­F 

quarterbacks: Clausen posted good numbers but was unable to lead the offense into the end zone to put the game away in the fourth quarter. 
running backs: Hughes didn't play and nei­ther Allen or Aldridge could find running room or make anything happen on their own. 
receivers: Tate was the lrio;;h offen...e, mak­ing great touchdown catches on a pair of fades and hauling in a fourth-down hail 
mary that set up the final field goal try. 
offensive line: Clausen was sacked twice and the line couldn't open up holes against a poor defense. The line was responsible for a pair of big hold­ing calls as well. 
defensive line: The line struggled again to generate pressure, especially on the final drive· in obvious passing situa­tions. Brinkley and Bailey had room to run all day. 
linebackers: Harrison Smith had a sack 
but was flagged for a questionable but 
crucial pass-interference penalty on 
Syracuse's fmal drive. 

defensive backs: The corner backs were put on an island all day when Notre Dame's blitzes couldn't hurry Dantley. For the most part, though, they didn't get beat deep. 
special teams: The Orange muffed a punt 
and had two more blocked, but a mis­
handled hold on a field goal really hurt 
the Irish. Walker missed two long kicks 
late. 

coaching: senior day loss to a 2-8 Syracuse team is inexcusable, especially after the Irish led 23-10 in the fourth quarter. The Trojans must be licking their chops. 
1.89 
overall: A senior day loss to a 2-8 Syracuse team is inexcusable, especially after the Irish led 23-10 in the fourth quarter. The Trojans must be licking their chops. 
adding up the numbers 
Yards-to-go on a second down play for the Irish in the third quarter after a sack and 
47 
two holding penalties. 

Points the Irish scored on three third-quarter3 drives that began inside the Orange 25-yard >< line. 
>( 
)!
;: 
Average yards per rushing attempt for Notre Dame. 
1.5 
2 Blocked punts by Notre Dame. 

Tackles by Orange defensive tackle Arthur 
15 

Jones. He had 1 1/2 sacks and four tackles for a loss. 
6 
Third-down conversions by Syracuse on 13 
tries. last week, the Irish held Navy to 1-of-13 on third downs. 
Receptions of more than 30 yards for Golden Tate on the season. The Irish had 
13 
six as a team last season. 

.583 
Charlie Weis' career winning percentage at Notre Dame, which matches those of Bob Davie and Ty Willingham when they were fired. 

I live in Annapolis, Md., about 15 minutes from the Naval Academy. My parents hold Navy season tick­ets, and in 2003 we had tickets to the Army-Navy game in Philadelphia. 
Neither team was particularly good, but the tradition and strength of the rivalry made the game interest­ing every year. It would have 

been a great Bill Brink experience, in 
retrospect, to 
Sports Editor 
see what the game was like. 
I didn't go. I stayed home to watch Notre Dame lose to Syracuse, 38-12, in the Carrier Dome. 
The way the Irish played yester­day reminded me of that game in 2003. The team looked flat and unprepared even for a terrible team like the Orange, who had won two games before Saturday. It's a good thing the students were preoccupied with trying to hit the TV timeout guy with snowballs to pay close atten­tion to the game, because it was an ugly one to watch. 
If there was ever an opportunity to bounce back from a terrible sea­son, this year was it. Combine a cushy schedule, a good recruiting class with some studs who can con­tribute right away and a quarter­back with a year of experience and you get a team who can compete with -if not beat -upper-echelon programs. The Irish fulfilled that idea in the first half of the season, but somewhere along the line the idea became hazy. 
Notre Dame's opponents average just under five wins this season. The schedule worked perfectly to allow Notre Dame to regain its feet and bring itself back to the place it would like to be after last year's aberration. Despite the soft sched­ule, the team couldn't produce. 
Last year, the 3-9 team still had enough desire to get a big enough lead over Duke on senior day so that Tom Zbikowski could play quarter­back. This year, the team prayed for a gust of wind that would send Brandon Walker's 53-yard field goal through the uprights to squeak out an undeserved win. 
I know Syracuse doesn't fulfill the formidable-opponent ideal that USC will next week, but the Orange still must be prepared for. The penalties the Irish committed displayed the proactive. Let's try to fix the prob­lem. Part of it comes from expecta­tions. Notre Dame's special place in today's college football atmosphere stems from the school's play in years past, which included Heisman winners, national championships and consistent nine-win seasons. Saturday was the first time in school history the Irish lost to an eight~loss team. The speci'al deal with the BCS, the special bowl selection excep­tions, the TV deal -all of it comes 

lack of preparation. A pass interference penalty in the fourth quarter extended a Syracuse drive that led to Syracuse's win­ning touchdown. A holding penalty negated a long com­pletion to Kyle Rudolph. Syracuse and Notre Dame both had 50 penalty yards, but Notre Dame's penalties cut the Irish deep. 

The special deal with the BCS, the special bowl selection exceptions, the TV deal -all ofit comes from a time in the past. This team is not that team, so let's separate the two. 
from a time in the past. 
This team is not that team, so let's separate the two. Let's also exclude the angry alumni, who whine when the Irish don't beat Navy by more than 35 points, from the discussion. Those are confound­ing variables. Let's look at this as a reg­ular football team without the traditions 
How about the possession when Notre Dame got the ball on the Syracuse 23-yard line? A 17-yard sack and two holding penalties later, and Eric Maust couldn't even punt the ball to the original line of scrim­mage because the Irish had lost so much yardage. Three plays, minus­30 yards. A team can't expect to win a game, no matter who it plays, with possessions like that. 
Against a 2-8 team, winning the game can't come down to two long field goals in sub-zero temperatures in the fourth quarter. A good team has to drive down the field and score. Like it has most of the sea­son, the rush yardage differential helped to decide the game. Notre Dame allowed 170 yards on the ground, 126 of them to Antwon Bailey. The Irish rushed for 41 yards on 28 carries, an average of 
1.5 yards per carry. If a team can't run the ball on Syr3.cuse, who can they run on? 
Rather than go on about the examples of terrible play, let's be 

and expectations, because that's the only way to solve the problem. 
Many things went wrong Saturday, just like many things went wrong this season. Changing one part of the team may solve some of those problems, but the idea is to change the whole program, get it to reverse direction, rather than make a snap decision to eliminate one part of the system. 
It might not be quick, it might not be easy, but the school and the coaching staff need to shift the whole system. 
It's like performing surgery. To heal a person, a surgeon must fol­low a procedure to ensure minimal suffering to the person as a whole. Sawing off somebody's foot may get rid of the broken ankle, but it caus­es more pain to the person than he was originally in. 
Likewise, Notre Dame can't just fire a coach, or change quarter­backs, or play its star recruits. The system needs a broader change to bring the parts together again. 

Monday, November 24, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Lack of running game kills Irish 
By MATT GAMBER 
Associale Sporrs Ediror 
Those looking to pinpoint the source of Notre Dame's inability to close games need look no further than the running game. 
The Irish rushed for 41 yards and gave up 170 on the ground to lowly Syracuse en route to blowing their third double-digit lead of the season Saturday. 
"You have to be able to run the ball more consistently, especially when you get an opportunity to finish a team out," Irish coach Charlie Weis said at his Sunday press conference. "I think that becomes critical. And I think we had too many runs for no gain or losing a couple yards that put us in a little bit of a bind." 
In their six victories, the Irish have averaged 164 rushing yards per game while outgaining their opponents by an average of 48 yards per game. Notre Dame has failed to rush for 100 yards as team just once in those six games and have eclipsed the 200-yard mark three times. 
In their five losses, the Irish average 65 rushing yards per game -85 yards iess than their opponents. Notre Dame rushed for less than 70 yards in three of its losses and totaled at least 100 just once. 
The ground game's inconsistency has been a mystery all year. Just last week, the Irish racked up 230 total rushing yards against a hard-nosed Navy team. 
"Depends week by week," Weis said Sunday of the running game's issues. "Like what were the problems [Saturday]? Because they weren't the loss, added: "I had a blast. It was the game itself, the true running game, the problems last week ... Last week the best game I played I think, I had a lot of line of scrimmage." running game was fairly fun." Notre Dame, and particularly its offen­efficient." Sophomore Armando sive line, can take comfort in the fact 
But not against a ·7cs painful, but we Allen's nine-yard scam­that the running attack has shown flash­Syracuse team that had per early in the third es in the form of 200-plus yard games
keep learning lessons 
~.~, g~ven. up ,20,9 1r.ushing quarter was Notre .against Purdue, Washington and Navy. 
... Sooner or later we
yards per game. The Irish Dame's longest rush of But that doesn't make it much easier to managed just 1 ? yards are going to learn, the day. Neither James swallow another tough loss in which the per carry against the Aldridge (five carries) or ground game was utterly ineffective. 
and whoever we take
nation's 107th ranked run Robert Hughes (none) "It's painful but we keep learning les­
it out on, I feel bad 
defense. gained a single yard. sons," junior right tackle Sam Young 
"We just went out and for them.·· "It seems like every said. "It just keeps reinforcing to this played. We really just time we made a play, team how important it is to finish teams played our game," Orange we'd hurt ourselves," off. Sooner or later we are going to
Sam Young
coach Greg Robinson said Weis said. "I think we learn, and whoever we take it out on, I
Irish right tackle
after the game. "... I did have a little action feel bad for them." thought we knocked 'em there to the weak side, around pretty good." a couple of draws. But I think we could­
Syracuse defensive tackle Arthur n't really get into a consistent flow ... We Contact Matt Gamber at Jones, who had 15 tackles and four for a never could establish in the running rngamber@nd.edu. 
Weis: Team not good, 'but decent' 
By MATT GAMBER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Charlie Weis is not worried about his job status, Notre Dame's head coach announced at his press conference Sunday. 
"I think that the team has a chance of being pretty darn good next year," Weis said. "I can't worry about my job sta­tus. I'm the head football coach. And that's what I intend to be." 
After declining to comment on questions regarding his job security on Saturday, Weis said he had "given some thought" to some of the big­picture questions he is now facing. 
"I've kind of reflected off of last year to this year to next year," Weis said. "So last year I think we were a pretty crum­my football team ... There were multiple games last year where we just didn't lose but I felt we were basically noncom­petitive as the game went on." 
Weis said that while the Irish have lost five games this sea­son, they led three by double-digits -a sign the team is improving, he said. 
"As a matter of fact, in none of the games were you non­competitive. There wasn't one game where you didn't have a chance to w.in the game, unlike last year where there were multiple games where the games were over early and just put away," Weis said. "So what you've really done is you have taken these guys who were a bunch of pups and now have a year under their belt. 
"Going from a crummy team to what I think is a decent team. I wouldn't say we're anywhere near good but I would say we're decent." 
The team's progression should be "at least as good, if not better" heading into next season, Weis said. 
"With a good portion of these guys now with two years under their belt coming back for next year, you'd have to say you have a chance of being pretty darned good," Weis said. 
Still going bowling? 
Expected to beat Syracuse, the Irish were projected by most to receive an invite to the Gator Bowl-the Bowl game's information sheets were even circulating around the press box during Saturday's game. 
After losing to the Orange, however, ESPN analysts have the Irish headed to the Sun Bowl. 
Asked Sunday whether Notre Dame would consider declining a Bowl invitation if it loses at USC Saturday to finish at 6-6, Weis said the opportu­nity to develop young players with extra practice time would be one advantage a Bowl game would provide. 
"No one's jumping up and down to go to a Bowl, if you were to lose the [USC] game and end up 6-6, no one is jumping up and down to do that," Weis said. "But at the same time that's multiple practices and development that could be going on that you end up losing out on. And I think, in your program's sake, I think it ends. up hurting you in the long run." 
Last chance, career days 
Several Notre Dame seniors saved their best for last, post­ing big days in their final chance to play in Notre Dame Stadium. 
With freshman Michael Floyd unavailable, wide receiver David Grimes posted a career-high 83 receiving yards on a season-best seven catches. His 31-yard reception was also his longest of the sea­son. 
Linebacker Scott Smith, who has seen increased playing time with the injury to sopho­more linebacker Brian Smith, forced the first fumble of his career. It set up an Irish field goal. 
Defensive tackle Pat Kuntz's seven tackles were a season high, and he added 1 1/2 for loss. 
Defensive back Ray Herring posted a season-high six tack­les, including the first sack of his career. 
And special teamer Mike Anello continued to justify his cult hero status by forcing a fumble on Notre Dame's first punt and later deflecting a Syracuse punt. 
Contact Matt Gamber at rngarnber@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Syracuse  3  7  0  14  24  
Notre Dame  3  10  10  0  23  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 3, Syracuse 0 
Brandon Walker 34-yd field goal with 11:39 
remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 8 yards, 1:28 
elapsed. Notre Dame 3, Syracuse 3 
Patrick Shadle 48-yd field goal with no time 
remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 32 yards, 2:28 
elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Syracuse 10, Notre Dame 3 
Curtis Brinkley 1-yd run (Shadle kick) with 6:48 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 81 yards, 5:47 elapsed. 
Syracuse 10, Notre Dame 6 
Brandon Walker 45-yd field goal with 2:19 
remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 33 yards, 4:29 
elapsed. Notre Dame 13, Syracuse 10 Jimmy Clausen 35-yd pass to Golden Tate 
(Walker kick) with :02 remaining. Drive: 5 
plays, 76 yards, :38 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Syracuse 10 
Clausen 36-yd pass to Tate (Walker kick) with 
2:49 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 68 yards, 3:01 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 23, Syracuse 10 
Brandon Walker 23-yd field goal with 1:34 
remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 0 yards, :57 
elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 23, Syracuse 17 
Antwon Bailey 26-yd run (Shadle kick) with 12:30 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 68 yards, 4:04 elapsed. 
Syracuse 24, Notre Dame 23 
Cameron Dantley 11-yd pass to Donte Davis {Shadle kick) with :4?. remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 68 yards, 4:16 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 
\ ''' ~ I .
. L :· 
Syr.teuse passing yards 

time of possession 


passing 

Clausen 22·39-291 Dantley 13-25·122 
rushing 

Allen 17-52 Bailey 16·126 Tate 1·5 Brinkley 17-44 
receiving 

Tate 7-146 Davis 2-34 Grimes 7-83 Provo 2-28 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 24, 2008 

The lri">h went 3-9 last sea<>on. but at lea'it that team's seniors got to take one 
last lap around Notre Dame Stadium following a win over hapless Duke. Notre Dame may have doubled il'i win total this season, but this lri'ih squad will be remembered as the team that suffered a shocking senior day loss to a 2-8 Syracuse team with a lame duck eoaeh. A<> tht> Irish trudged toward the dL<>1-,>TUn­tJed student section in utter disbelief, the Orange stormed the field and mobbed their head coach, Greg Robinson, who wa<> informed of hL<> dL<>mL'iSal earlier thL"i week. Gathered in front of television camera<;, the Orange players chanted "G­Hob! G-Hob!" and exclaimed word<; ofsupport like "He's our coach!" Cameron Dantley, the son of a Notre Dmne basketball legend, led a last-minute drive that culminated in an 11-yard touchdown pas,•.; to Donte DavL'i that gave Syraem;e a 24-23 lead with 42 seconds to play. Facing fourth down from his own 26-yard lim\ lri<>h quarterback Jimmy Clausen threw up a prayer to fellow sophomore Golden Tate (seven catches, 146 yards, two touchdown<;), who hauled it in at the Syractl<>e 34-yard line. "The Irish lined up for a la<>t-minute 51-yard field goal, but Brandon Walker's attempt fell just short. 


Clockwise from top, Kyle Rudolph can't haul in a deep pass on Notre Dame's final comeback attempt; Duval Kamara can't come down with the ball on the previous play; Cameron Dantley eludes the Notre Dame pass rush; Golden Tate fights through a herd of Syracuse tacklers; Scott Smith forces a Syracuse fumble. 

Monday, November 24, 2008 page 11 



ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK Scene Writer 
The Killers may fall into the same post-punk revival category as bands like The Bravery and Fall Out Boy. 
But unlike other pop punk bands of our generation, Brandon Flowers and crew pull off their music with poise and style while delivering insightful yet relatable lyrics and giving off energy you could clean your room to. 
The Las Vegas band's 2004 debut stu­dio album "Hot Fuss" was an excellent indie pop album at that brought them 
quick mainstream suc­cess.· 
"Hot Fuss" would go on to receive five Grammy nominations, and even earned a spot as one of the five most recent albums in Robert Dimery's "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die." 
"Hot Fuss" certainly has classic rock influences and a peppy glam musical style reminiscent of David Bowie and Duran Duran, appealing to fans with a layered sound that com­bines loud yet controlled indie garage vocals with simple dance beats and electronic hooks. The the catchy chorus, the dramatic yet all­inclusive lyrics could probably explain the widespread success of the song, which has been covered by the likes of jazz singer Paul Anka. Chris Martin of Coldplay. and even our own Undertones. While the songs often give off an upbeat air, Brandon Flowers also deliv­ers insight in his music that allows introspectiveness in the listener. For example, "Smile Like You Mean It" dis­cusses an empty relationship and recalling better times and memories when life is hard. The theme sounds cliche, but the band pulls it off with 
"'Hot Fuss .. certainly has classic rock influences and a peppy glam musical style reminiscent of David Bowie and Duran Duran, appealing to fans with a layered sound that combines loud yet con trolled in die garage vocals with simple beats and electronic hooks. 
Killers create a music genre here that is still rock, but rock that you can dance to. 
Beginning with the narrative con­frontation of murder in opener "Jenny Was a Friend of Mine" and later "Midnight Show," it's made clear that the album's lyrics address a wide array of issues and not just the stereotypical relationship problems. "Andy. You're a Star" confronts a stalker, while "Believe Me Natalie" addresses the issue of AIDS. 
The lyrics are dramatic, intriguing and narrative while still maintaining a universal meaning that's relatable to everyone. 
The band's first single, "Mr. Brightside," demonstrat~s this univer­sality in the lyrics ("Jealousy, turning saints into the seal Swimming through sick lullabies/ Choking on your alibis/ But it's just the price I pay/ Destiny is calling me/ Open up my eager eyes/ 'Cause I'm Mr. Brightside"). Along with fresh outlook and style ("Looking back at sun­sets on the Eastside/ We lost track of the time/ Dreams aren't what they used to be/ Some things slide by so care­lessly"). 
Much like "Smile Like You Mean It," the song "All These Things That I've Done" is simply about life in general, growing up and moving on from the past ("I wanna stand up, I wanna let go/ You know, you know --no you don't, you don't/ I wanna shine on in the hearts o£ men/ I wanna a meaning from the back of my 
broken hand"). Led by piano, the com­ing-of-age anthem also features an extended gospel choir-like refrain of "I got soul, but I'm not a soldier," instilling the soulfulness of the Killers' music. 
The Killers have changed much in musical style since "Hot Fuss." Brandon Flowers took on more vibrato vocals for their second studio album, 2006's "Sam's Town," also featuring pounding guitar riffs and keyboard sounds which lacked dynamics for good reason. 
In 2007. the Nevada-based group released "Sawdust," a compilation album of B-sides, rarities, remixes and covers, including an impressive version of Joy Division's "Shadowplay." 
The band recently released an upbeat yet emotional single called "Human" ofl' of their new album, "Day & Age," which is se·t for U.S. release tomorrow, November 25. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 

SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
Following in the footsteps of Cristi Puiu's "The Death of Mr. Lazarescu" and Corneliu Porumboiu's "12:08 East of Bucharest," writer/director Christian Mungiu's "4 Months, 3 weeks and 2 days" may very signal that Romania is undergo­ing a Renaissance in film. 
Both brutally honest and immeasurably pure. "4 months, 3 weeks, 2 days," like the other two films, crosses the line between being a film and being an expe­rience so real and penetrating that it grabs you and never lets go until long after the end credits roll. 
Proving that a film does not need spe­cial effects or large budgets to succeed, Mingiu, with a cast of unknown actors and without a score or anything res em­bling a soundtrack, tells the gut-wrench­ing story of illegal abortion in the final days of the Soviet bloc. Otilia (Anamaria Marinca) and Gabita (Laura Vasiliu) are roommates in college living under the Ceausescu dictatorship. They are stressed and anxious, but not because of upcoming final exams. Gabita, an inno­cent, hard-working student, is pregnant and plans to get an abortion, which is illegal. Otilia agrees to help her and pro­ceeds to book the hotel and meet with the abortionist, much to his dismay. 
Mungiu carefully weaves his story, not revealing that the topic of the film is ille­gal abortion until nearly forty minutes have passed. The opening scenes may seem like an introduction to the film, but pay closer attention and you'll find that an ominously inauspicious air hovers over every scene. Enter Mr. Bebe (Vlad Ivanov), a frightening man without morals who is contacted by the girls through a friend to do the procedure. 
It is with Mr. Bebe's arrival that Mingui 

4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days Written and directed by: Christian Mungiu Starring: Anamaria Marinca and Laura Vasiliu 
tightens the film and constricts the audi­
ence with an experience so unbearably 
real and heartbreaking that Gabita and 
Otilia's struggle becomes the audience's 
struggle. The audience watches as the 
abortion is slowly performed, the shivers 
down Gabita's back felt throughout the 
theater, and is left cringing at the sight of 
the four month old fetus lying wrapped in 
a towel on the bathroom floor. At the end 
of the film, Gabita is left affected by the 
experience, but it is Otilia who is left 
scarred by it, very much in the same way 
that the audience is. 
There are no metaphors here, no dia­logue to dissect in film class for the pur­pose of mining a deeper meaning, and no characters who reflect some greater per­spective. Simply put, this is the story of abortion and the scars that the decision of whether or not to have one leaves on not only the mother hut on those close to her. 
Mingui isn't one for pity and as such doesn't shy away from using the medium to its fullest extent, thereby creating a latter half of a film that tears at one's insides, causing them to question at times whether this is still a movie and if not, or whether it is right to make something so real about something so controversial. 
It is the rawness of the film, something that American films rarely capture, that propels "4 months, 3 weeks, 2 days" from being just another rehashed version of "Vera Drake" into being a masterpiece of the highest form. 
The film takes no clear position in the abortion debate; instead it is a horrifying portrait of a numbed humanity. When the credits roll, half of the audience is dis­gusted either because they fundamentally disapprove of abortion or because they don't like how raw and uncensored the film is. The other half walks out the the­ater silent, deep in thought, some crying, and all reliving the essence of the film in their minds. It only takes one viewing, however, to realize that "4 months, 3 weeks, 2 days" is without a doubt this year's best film. 
The DVD, released in October, features an insightful documentary about the making of the film, as well as two inter­views. one with Mungiu, in which he explains why he stripped the film down to such a great extent, and the other with cinematographer Oleg Mutu, who also worked on "The Death of Mr. Lazarescu." 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 


Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Giants roll to 10-1 with win over Cardinals 
Patriots' offense explodes for 48 against Dolphins; Turner runs for 2 TDs in Falcons' win over Panthers 
Miami quarterback Chad Pennington hands the ball off to running back Ricky Williams in the first quarter of the Dolphins' 48-28 loss. 
seconds left, but New York's Steve Smith recovered the onside kick. 
Already without Jacobs, the Giants lost wide receiver Plaxico Burress early in the game when he aggravated a hamstring injury. 
Still, Manning had plenty of tar­gets. Domenik Hixon had kickoff returns of 83 and 68 yards and caught six passes for 57. 
Six plays after the second-half kickoff, Tuck stripped the ball from Warner and Mathias Kiwanuka recovered for New York at the Cardinals at the Arizona 40. On third-and-2, Manning threw 30 yards to Smith at the Cardinals 2. Manning's two­yard touchdown toss to Madison Hedgecock boosted New York's lead to 24-12 with 10:35 left in the third quarter. 
Arizona went 90 yards in nine plays, cutting the lead to 24-19 on Tim Hightower's 1-yard TD run. But New York took the kickoff and went 80 yards in 10 plays for the seore, Manning throwing 10 yards to Kevin Boss to make it 31-19 with 11:15 remaining. 
Patriots 48, Dolphins 28 
The standards are awfully high for the New England Patriots, who were annoyed Sunday by a handful of penalties, a couple of turnovers and the necessity to punt once. 
By the way. they beat the Miami Dolphins. 
"At times we sputtered," receiv­er Randy Moss said with a straight face. "We've got a little work to do." 
There actually were some rocky moments: Three times the Patriots lost the lead, and three times they took it back. Matt Cassel threw for 415 yards, Moss caught three touchdown passes and resilient New England pulled away in the fourth quarter against the feisty but outgunned Dolphins. 
The Patriots (7 -4), who remained a game behind the AFC East-leading New York Jets, avenged an upset loss to Miami in September. New England hasn't been swept in a season series by a division opponent since 2000. 
"Every game is important," coach Bill Belichick said. "It was a division game, and they got us the first time. At least we squared it up with them." 
For the Dolphins (6-5), the loss snapped a four-gam~ winning streak and hurt their chances of an improbable playoff berth after going 1-15 last year. They unrav­eled as the game slipped away, drawing three late personal-foul penalties, and defensive linemen Vonnie Holliday and Jason Ferguson apologized for the emo­tional lapses of teammates. 
"We didn't show much class at 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. Eli Manning insist<> he never flashed back to his previous game in Glendale. Everyone who watched him Sunday must have. 
Manning threw for three touch­downs in his return to the scene of his Super Bowl MVP perform­ance and the New York Giants beat Arizona 37-29 to snap the Cardinals' seven-game home win­ning streak. 
"It's just a totally different feel, it's just a dillerent time," Manning said. "You never really compared it to the last time we were here. We knew we'd have a tough con­test with Arizona." 
Defensive end Justin Tuck, though, admitted to "a little deja vu." 
"Once you got back out here, you sec the field and this stadium looking like a space ship, you start to think about that night and how it felt," he said. 
With starting running back Brandon Jacobs out with a knee injury, the Giants took to the air to win their sixth in a row. Manning completed 26 of 33 for 240 yards with no interceptions as the Giants moved to 10-1, tied for the best record in the NFL. 
"He just continues to do what­ever has to be done to win a game," New York coach Tom Coughlin said. 
Kurt Warner, under fierce pres­sure most of the afternoon, was 32-for-52 for 351 yards and a touchdown for Arizona (7-4). He was intercepted once and fum­bled once, both leading to Giants touchdowns. 
"They're a good defense and we matched up with them very well and went toe to toe with them for 60 minutes," Warner said. "Of course, you never want to go away a loser and that part is dis­appointing. I think you leave from this game and move ahead. If we eliminate some of the mistakes we can play with anybody in the 

,.

league. 
Besides the turnovers, the Cardinals allowed two long kickoff returns to set up scores. 
"Whenever you can put our offense in that type of field posi­tion, it's a great thing," Tuck said, "especially with the weapons that we have." 
On the field where they upset New England in last season's Super Bowl, the Giants (1 0-1) took the lead late in the first half and never relinquished it. 
"That's a well-coached football team with a tremendous amount of depth that doesn't make many mistakes," Arizona coach Ken Whisenhunt said. "To me that was the key today. We just made too many mistakes." 
In the second half, Manning completed 16 of 18 for 156 yards and two scores. 
Warner topped 300 yards for the fifth consecutive game, one shy of the NFL record he shares with Steve Young and Rich Gannon. Warner's 5-yard touch­down pass to Anquan Boldin cut the lead to 34-26 with 4:02 to play. The Cardinals' subsequent onside kick bounced off the hands and chest of Arizona's Ralph Brown and was recovered by Chase Blackburn for New York. 
"It hit the ground and came up on me quick," Brown said. "I felt somebody coming up on me on the right. When it came to my hand, I kind of looked away and it bounced off my hands." 
John Carney's third field goal, from 33 yards, put the Giants ahead 37-26 with 1 :55 remaining. 
Neil Hackers' third field goal, a 44-yarder, cut it to 37-29 with 32 
AP 


AP Giants quarterback Eli Manning throws a pass during the first quarter of New York's 37-29 win over Arizona. 

the end," Holliday said. "What's so disappointing about this loss is not only were we beaten, but the way we handled the loss, espe­cially at the end." 
They couldn't keep up with Cassel, who had his second con­secutive 400-yard day, doubling Tom Brady's career total. Working mostly from the shotgun, Cassel completed 30 of 43 passes. including touchdowns of 25, 8 and 29 to Moss, and ran for a score. 
The Patriots netted 530 yards. Their only higher total was 597 against the Jel" in 1979. They've gained 1,041 yards in the past two games. 
"The production is starting to come around," Cassel said. "When it all works together and works right, it's easy for me." 
Moss was impressed by Brady's backup. 
"Matt is getting in the comfort zone," Moss said. "He's playing some hellified ball." 
Falcons 45, Panthers 28 
Michael Turner handled the power game, lowering his head and ramming into would-be tack­lers time after time. Harry Douglas turned up the speed, fm­ishing off Carolina with an electri­fying dash to the end zone. 
Thunder and Lightning carried the Atlanta Falcons to an impres­sive win Sunday in a game they couldn't afford to lose in the NFC South. 
Turner tied a team record with four rushing touchdowns, Douglas scored the first two TDs of his career -the second on a 61-yard punt return -and the Falcons romped to a win over the Panthers to move within a game of the division lead. 

Turner went over 1,000 yards rushing for the first time in his career and scored his first three TDs on bruising runs of 1, 4 and 1 yards -the last of those on fourth down when the Falcons decided to go for it instead of settle for a field goal that would have given them just a six-point lead with about 7 minutes to go. 
"I think it makes the decision a little easier when you've got a physical running back like Michael," said rookie quarterback Matt Ryan, who had another solid day. "His effort is the biggest thing. He continues to run hard from the frrst quarter through the fourth quarter. He's tough to bring down." 
So was Douglas, but for a very different reason. Showing ofT his blazing speed, the rookie receiver scored his first TD on a 7-yard end around and took ofT with a 69-yard pass that set up another score. But it was his final play everyone will remember. 
Carolina's Jason Barker got ofT a booming punt from the back of his end zone, but that merely gave Douglas some time to decide what he wanted to do. He surveyed the field for a split-second, took ofT suddenly to his left, then cut back right through a huge hole. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 
SCHOOLYEAR.~10BDRMS 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
Furnished 2·bdrm, house. Living room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call 605-397-8135 or 574· 234-3007 or 574-261·4444. 

Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. $1300­$1960/mo. 5-7 bdrms 1st &2nd floors. Contact Bruce Gordon 574­876-3537. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap 
I 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
ADOPTION-

Loving Domer couple looking to adopt a baby (babies), please call Marie and James (301)977-5069 or (866) 202-1424 PIN 5448. 
If I can't practice, 1can't practice. It is as simple as that. It ain't about that at all. It's easy to sum it up if you're just talking about practice. We're sitting here, and I'm sup· posed to be the franchise player, and we're talking about practice. I mean listen, we're sitting here talk­ing about practice, not a game, not a game, not a game. but we're talk­ing about practice. Not the game that I go out there and die for and play every game last it's my last but we're talking about practice man. How silly is that? 
Now I know that I'm supposed to lead by example and all that but I'm not shoving that aside like it don't mean anything. I know it's impor­tant, I honestly do but we're talking about practice. We're talking about practice man. We're talking about practice. We're talking about prac­tice. We're not talking about the game. We're talking about practice. When you come to the arena. and you see me play, you've seen me play right, you've seen me give everything I've got, but we're talking about practice right now. 
I wanna kiss you. I couldn't care less about the team struggling. What we know is we can improve. Chad Pennington, our quarterback, missed the first part of the season, and we struggled. We're looking to next season, we're looking to make a noise now and ... I wanna kiss you! 
Playoffs? Don't talk about playoffs. Are you kidding me? Playoffs? I'm just hop­ing we can win a game, another 
game. 


Monday, November 24, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BsERVEirs vYIRF SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Football BCS Top 25 

team  BCS avg  pret7iOUS  
1  Alabama  0.987  1  
2  Texas  0.920  3  
3  Oklahoma  0.912  5  
4  Florida  0.875  4  
5  usc  0.797  6  
6  Utah  0.785  7  
7  Texas Tech  0.778  2  
8  Penn State  0.752  8  
9  Boise State  0.658  9  
1D  Ohio State  0.620  10  
11  Georgia  0.601  11  
12  Oklahoma State  0.570  12  
13  Missouri  0.558  13  
14  TCU  0.470  16  
15  Ball State  0.437  17  
16  Cincinatti  0.397  19  
17  Oregon State  0.313  21  
18  BYU  0.262  14  
19  Michigan State  0.211  15  
20 .florida State  0.188  NR  
21  Boston College  0.186  NR  
22  Georgia Tech  0.181  NR  
23  Oregon  0.155  24  
24  Northwestern  0.113  NR  
25  Pittsburgh  0.041  20  

NCAA Football AP Top 25 

team points previous 
1 Alabama 1622 1 2 Florida 1512 3 3 Oklahoma 1486 5 4 Texas 1482 4 5 usc 1352 6 6 Penn State 1238 7 7 Texas Tech 1212 2 8 Utah 1206 8 9 Boise State 1064 9 10 Ohio State 1043 10 11 Oklahoma State 997 11 12 Missouri 911 12 13 Georgia 874 13 14 TCU 750 15 15 Ball State 731 14 16 Cincinatti 640 19 17 Oregon State 604 21 18 Georgia Tech 339 NR 19 Oregon 320 24 20 Boston College 309 NR 20 Brigham Young 309 16 22 Michigan State 274 17 23 Florida State 214 NR 24 Northwestern 145 NR 25 Mississippi 127 NR 
NCAA Hockey USA Today Rankings 
Men Record 
1 Minnesota 6·0-4 2 Boston University 7·2-0 3 Connecticut College 7·2-3 4 Boston College 6·3-1 5 Northeastern 7·2-2 6 NOTRE DAME 7-3-1 7 Miami (OH) 6·3·3 8 Princeton 5·1-0 9 Michigan 8·4-0 10 Denver 6·4-1 
around the dial 
NFL 
Packers at Saints 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. ­Brett Favre gave the" Tennessee Titans a painful reminder Sunday. He will pick apart the best NFL defenses when given too much time. 
Favre threw two touch­down passes, Leon Washington ran for two scores and the New York Jets served notice they will be a factor in the AFC this season by routing the Titans 34-13, ending the perfect start by the NFL's last undefeated team. 
The Jets (8-3) came in atop the AFC East after a victory over New England at Foxborough. They have won five straight for the first time since October 2004 and seven of their last eight. The win also pulled them within two of Tennessee (1 0-1) with five to play in the race for home-field advantage through the playoffs. 
Jets linebacker Bryan Thomas called it a state­ment to the rest of the NFL 
"Now people are going to start looking at us and say, 'They are a team you have to reckon with,"' Thomas said. 
New York coach Eric Mangini said he was proud of his team for playing, and winning, in a challenging environment. 
The Titans sold out their 101 st consecutive game. 
"We've been down here the last three years. It's loud, and it's always been a tough place to play," Mangini said. 
The Titans had won 13­straight regular-season games dating to Dec. 16, 2007, in becoming only the 11th team since 1970 to win its first 10 games. 
"It was a great run, and we've got to win our next game," Titans coach Jeff Fisher said of playing Detroit on Thursday. 
This time, the NFL's stingiest scoring defense that had been allowing 
13.1 points per game had no answer for Favre and the Jets, even with the return of defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch. 
The Jets spread out Tennessee, Favre threw fast and often, and they wore the Titans' defense down by keeping it on the field for more than 40 minutes. New York over­came two turnovers and two sacks in the first half by outgaining Tennessee on offense 409-281. 
"We really didn't have an answer for it today," Vanden Bosch said. "Favre had a really good game. Give him credit. We knew what to expect from him. He's a great player, and he beat us today." 

IN BRIEF San DieSlo State fires coach 
Long after I 0-Ioss season 
SAN DIEGO -Chuck Long spent the last 4 weeks presumably think­ing his job as San Diego State's foot­ball coach was safe through next season. 
His bosses, president Stephen Weber and athletic director Jeff Schemmel, spent the last two weeks working behind Long's back to raise just more than $1 million in private money to help buy out the remain­ing two years of his contract. 
Once the money was secured, Long was gone. The school announced Sunday that Long was fired; the coach was informed of the move by athletic director Jeff Schemmel on Saturday morning, several hours before the Aztecs' surprising 42-21 win over UNLV. San Diego State finished 2-10, the school's first 1 0-loss season. 
Hired in December 2005 with no previous hP-ad coaching experience, Long was 9-27 in three seasons. 
Montgomery admits doping 
before Sydney Olympics 
NEW YORK -Disgraced former world record holder Tun Montgomery said he took testosterone and human growth hormone before the Sydney Olympics, and does not deserve the gold medal he won in the 400-meter relay. 
The admission wa..<> made during an interview scheduled to air Tuesday night on IIBO's "Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel." 
Montgomery never tested positive f(Jr drugs, but he was banned from track for two years and his world record in the 100 wa..<> erased after he wa.<; linked to the BALCO investigation. He retired after the ban was imposed in 2005. 
The International Olympic Committee ha.<> taken a tough stance toward dop­ing, stripping entire n~lay teams of their results and medals if even one member is found to have cheated. The U.S. men's team that won the 1,600 relay in Sydney had to give up it<> medals after Antonio Pettigrew admittf~d doping. 

Paterno under2oes suc­
cessful hip replacement 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Penn State coach Joe Paterno had successful hip replacement surgery Sunday, a day after the Nittany Uons clinched the Big Ten title and a trip to the Rose Bowl. 
The 81-year-old coach was expected to get back on his feet Monday follow­ing the procedure at Mount Nittany Medical Center, the team said in a statement. Dr. Wayne Sebastianelli, the school's director of athletic medi­cine, lnd the surgical team. 
Paterno is expected to resume coaching on Dec. 1, when players return to school following Thanksgiving break. 
lie said Saturday after the 49-18 win over Michigan State that he planned to return in 2009. It was the Hall of Farner's 383rd career win, most among major college machcs. 
Paterno suffered his injury while demonstrating an onside kick two days before the season opener on Aug. 30 against Coa..<>tal Carolina. 
Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Owens leads Dallas to victory 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -With Tony Romo scrambling, Terrell Owens kept chugging down the sideline. Once the pass went up, Owens went to work. 
He caught the ball and turned upfield, getting pushed out of bounds after a 52-yard gain. Then he kept going, drawing more attention. With all eyes and TV cameras on him, Owens stretched his arms out to form a T, then curled them over his head to form an 0. 
Yes, T.O. is back. 
And the Dallas Cowboys might be hitting their stride, too. 
Bottled up all season, and his frustration starting to show, Owens broke out with s·even catches for 213 yards and the DalJas defense played great when it had to, helping the Cowboys beat the San Francisco 49ers 35-22 Sunday. 
"They unleashed me today," Owens said, smiling. 
Dallas (7 -4) has won consec­utive games for the first time since starting 3-0. With sput­tering Seattle coming to Texas Stadium on Thursday, the Cowboys could distance them­selves even more from their recent 2-4 rut and could go steaming into December in prime position for a wild-card playoff berth. 
Thanks to this game, they also shouldn't have to worry about an uproar from Owens. 

n T.O. had the second-most 
I, yards of his career, behind only 
) 
/ ' the 283 he had for San 
~ 
Francisco when he caught an NFL-record 20 passes in 2000. It was the fourth-most in Cowboys history, the best in the NFL since Philadelphia's Kevin Curtis had 221 in September 2007 and tops by a Dallas play­er since Tony Hill had 213 against the Eagles in 1979. 
"He's still got it," quarterback Tony Homo said. "He's a fantas­tic player." 
To appreciate the significance of Owens' big day, consider the background: 13 games without cracking 100 yards, nothing more than 89 all season and 38 or fewer the past five games. Earlier this week, he told the NFL Network's Deion Sanders, "It's not that I can't play, it's the system in which I'm in." 
Things were still out of synch at the start, with Romo's first three passes to Owens falling incomplete. One of them even hit Owens because he didn't turn to look for it quick enough. 


Then, early in the second quarter, he caught a deep pass between two defenders and bullied past them for a 7 5-yard touchdown, erasing a 6-0 deficit. His next catch went for 45 yards. Add in the 52-yarder and three of his five longest catches this season came in this game. 
"I've been telling you guys aU along, it's not anything wrong with me," said Owens, a few weeks shy of turning 35. "Performance-wise, I can play. ... It showed." 
Everyone had a different the­ory about what unleashed Owens. 
Owens said there were some new wrinkles in the game plan and credited the offensive line with giving Romo more time. Romo said it was the 49ers giv­ing Owens more room to roam, mainly by having cornerback Nate Clements play several yards off the line of scrimmage instead of jamming him during the first 5 yards. 
"Nate can cover T.O.; he did not today," interim 49ers coach Mike Singletary said. "I'm not going say that T.O. is the great­est wide receiver in the world. I think he does a heck of a job. When you're not playing smart that's going to happen. But I'm not going to say Nate can't cover him." 
San Francisco (3-8) was look­ing to build off its first win under Singletary. The 49ers certainly had their chances early, but the Dallas defense refused to buckle. 
San Francisco missed a 53­yard field goal on its opening drive, then reached first-and­goal from the 4 on its next two drives -yet managed only a pair of field goals. That 6-0 lead shriveled into a 29-6 deficit early in the third quar­ter. The 49ers trailed 32-9, get­ting only a field goal out of two more drives inside the Dallas 20, before finally getting into the end zone. 
Shaun Hill was 21-of-33 for 303 yards, but also was sacked four times, including consecu­tive plays inside the 20 in the first quarter. He threw a pair of late TD passes, to Isaac Bruce and DeShaun Foster. 
The Cowboys also limited Frank Gore to 26 yards on 14 carries and one catch for six yards. 
Romo was 23-of-39 for 341 yards and three touchdowns in his second game playing with a splint protecting a broken pinkie on his passing hand. He probably will need the protec­tion for another game. 
"I don't know if I could aggressively make the throws I made today without the splint on it," Romo said. "It was sti]] painful when I tried this week." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Longhorns jurn p to second in BCS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The initial news from the BCS standings looked good for Texas. The long-range forecast, however, favors Oklahoma. 
The Longhorns stayed ahead of the Sooners on Sunday -but not by much -and moved into the coveted second spot in the standings, thanks to a better computer rating. 
The Sooners surged in the standings on the strength of a 65-21 victory against Texas Tech, which dropped to seventh place. 
"This was a good week for Oklahoma," said Jerry Palm, an independent BCS analyst and blogger, in a telephone inter­view. "It wasn't really to be expected that they'd catch Texas this week." 
Alabama remained on top of the standings, a comfortable No. l in both the USA Today coach­es' poll and Harris poll, and best according to the computers. The Crimson Tide are two wins away from playing for their first national title since 1992. The Tide plays Auburn on Saturday and Florida in the Southeastern Conference title game. 
Texas is close behind Oklahoma in both polls, but has the second-best computer rat­ing. The Longhorns' BCS aver­age is .9209 out of a possible 1.000. 
Oklahoma is at .9125. But the Sooners have a road game against Oklahoma State (9-2) on Saturday that -if they win ­should boost their computer score and likely sway a few more voters their way. 
Texas plays Texas A&M (4-7) on Thanksgiving, a game that will weigh down the Longhorns' strength of schedule -a vital part of the computer ratings ­and won't give voters much rea­son to move them up. 
"I don't think this week was good news for Texas," Palm said of Sunday's standings. "Oklahoma can only get better in all three parts of the formula and Texas can't. 
"I would expect if Oklahoma wins next week they'd finish ahead of Texas." 
That's important because the Big 12 South division title will be decided by the BCS standings if Texas, Texas Tech and Oklahoma finish in a three-way tie. 
"We're happy to see that we're still in the BCS conversation," Texas coach Mack Brown said. "We talked to the team briefly about that after practice today, like we do every Sunday, but after that, we decided with the kids and everyone in the pro­gram that we need to turn all of our attention to Texas A&M. None of it matters if we're not ready for the Aggies so after our discussion today, there will be no more talking about the BCS until after the game." 

Florida (.8755) is in fourth, but the Gators still control their own destiny, too. If Florida wins at Florida State on Saturday and beats 'Barna for the SEC title, Tim Tebow and the Gators will be back in the national champi­onship game for the second time in three seasons. 
Southern California (. 7974} is in fifth place, but with one less team to jump after the Red Raiders were handed their first loss of the season. 
Utah was in sixth, but the Utes are just waiting to find out what BCS game they'll play in. 
Utah finished its perfect regu­lar season with a 48-24 victory against BYU on Saturday that gave the Utes the Mountain West Conference championship. 
Teams from the M\VC and four other conferences without an automatic bid to the BCS earn a guaranteed spot in the four big­money bowl games by finishing in the top 12 of the final BCS standings. Utah is safe. 
That means Boise State, which is in ninth place, is probably out of the BCS mix, even if the Broncos remain undefeated. Boise State would be eligible for an at-large bid, but that isn't likely. 
Eighth-place Penn State locked up the Rig Ten's BCS spot and is likely heading to the Rose Bowl. 
Oregon State, in 17th place, could be next to earn a BCS bid, taking the Pac-10's automatic spot in the Rose Bowl if it beats Oregon on Saturday. 
Sixteenth-place Cincinnati is also a win away from locking up a BCS bid and its first Big East title. The Bearcats face Syracuse at home on Saturday. 
r > 
{ 
I . 

Monday, November 24, 2008 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
CFL 
Stampeders win Grey Cup 
Associated Press 
MONTHEAL Sandro DeAngelis led Calgary to its sixth Grey Cup championship Sunday night, kicking five field goals in the Stampeders' 2 2-14 victory over the Montreal Alouettes in the Canadian Football League title game. 
DeAngelis gave Calgary a 16-14 lead with a 21-yarder on the last play of the third quarter. He connected from 30 yards early in the fourth and completed the scoring with a 50-yarder with 4:12 left. 
"This is one of the greatest days of my life," DeAngelis said. "We are immortal. ... I'm very proud to be a member of this Calgary Stampeders organization. This has been a dream for me since I was a little kid." 
Game ·MvP Henry Burris threw a 20-yard touchdown pass to Brett Ralph late in the first half to cut Montreal's lead to 13-10. Burris complet­ed his first 11 passes and fin­ished 28-of-37 for 328 yards. He also ran for 79 yards. 
"I'm trying to hold back tears right now," Burris said. "Just the thought of being a champion -wow. To win in such a tough circumstance, on the road and in the Grey Cup against a team that was play­ing at home in front of a mil­lion people at Olympic 

Stadium -it's huge. But it shows the character of this team." 
Avon Cobourne had a 16­yard scoring run for Montreal, and Damon Duval made two field goals and a single. 
"We all know this will take a few days for us to get over," Montreal coach Marc Trestman said. "We've spent a lot of time together the last six months. We can't let the last three hours define our team." 
A crowd of 66,308 attended the game at Olympic Stadium. The Stampeders also won their last previous title at 
Olympic Stadium, beating Winnipeg in 2001. Montreal lost for the fifth time in six Grey Cup appearances since 2000. 
"This is a once in a lifetime opportunity and we just let it slip through our hands," Montreal quarterback Anthony Calvillo said. "This is what you thrive for, to com­pete, to get a chance to play in this game and of course to win it and the record is not good on our side, and it's never fun losing your chance. It's going to make it a long offseason and it's not going to be fun.'' 
NFL 

McNabb replaced in Eagles loss to Ravens 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE-Pulled at half­time after a second straight dreadful performance, a perfect­ly healthy Donovan McNabb was asked the last time he left a game under similar circumstances. 
"Never," he replied, shaking his head. "Never." 
While Kevin Kolb ran the Philadelphia offense, McNabb watched stoically from the side­line as the Baltimore Ravens beat the Eagles 36-7 on Sunday, pre­senting first-year coach John Harbaugh with a lopsided victory over the team he served as an assistant for 10 years. 
McNabb was 8-for-18 for 59 yards with two interceptions and a fumble in the first half -a miserable 13.2 quarterback rat­ing. One week earlier, he threw three interceptions and lost a fumble in an overtime tie with Cincinnati. 
Seven turnovers in seven quar­ters was evidently enough for Philadelphia coach Andy Reid, who benched McNabb and turned to Kolb, a second-round pick who had attempted nine throws in two seasons before Sunday. 
"I thought it might be a little bit of a spark, and we might be able to get some things going," said Reid, who had quarterbacks coach Pat Shurmur tell McNabb of the decision. 

"My first (reaction) was, 'Wow.' But you go along with it," McNabb said. "I am upset about us losing the game, and I'm upset that I wasn't able to contribute. But I am going to focus on trying to help this team get better by eliminating mistakes and turnovers." 
Kolb failed to cure the ailing Eagles (5-5-1), going 10-for-23 for 73 yards and two intercep­tions-a 15.3 rating. One of his interceptions was returned an NFL-record 108 yards for a touchdown by Ed Reed. 
"Obviously, it didn't go good and I'm not going to pretend that it did," Kolb said. 
Reid said he would decide Monday whether to start McNabb or Kolb in Thursday's home game against Arizona. 
"That will be a decision he will make. The thing I will do is I will continue to prepare as if I am the starter," McNabb said. ''I've been a part of this thing for 10 years. You have to have short-term memory in this league, be able to focus on who you're playing and be able to move on.'' 
Philadelphia's lone touchdown came on a 100-yard kickoff return by Quintin Demps in the first half. 
Baltimore (7-4} went up 12-7 in the third quarter when Jameel McClain blocked a punt by Sav Rocca and the ball bounced out of the end zone. 
Like to study in Dublin? Interested in summer language programs in Galwa-y'? Need a summer internship in Ireland? Want a unique Minor? Roinn Theanga & Litriocht na Gaeilge Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Spt·ing '09 Course Offerings include Language Courses IRLL 10101 Beginning Irish I MacLeod IRLL 10102 Beginning Irish II O'Callaghan IRLL 20103 Intermediate Irish Corbett IRLL 20203 Advanced Readings in Irish C ..ulture 6 Conchubhair Literature Courses TRLL 20109 Celtic Heroic Literature Fogarty (TR 12:30-1 :45) IRLL 30109 Introduction to Irish Writer.tt () Conchubhair (MWll :45-12:35) IRLL 30112 lri.vh Folk C'u.vtom & Belief 6 Giolhin(TR 12:30-l :45) IRLL 40316 Folklore, Lit & Irish Culture 6 Giolhin (TR 9:30-10:45) IRLL 50318 The Feminine in lri.vh Literature 6 Crualaoich (TR 3:30-4:45) For more inforn1ation visit 412 Flanner Hall or telephone 631-0499 http://studvil·ish.nd.edu/  

Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
=========-=====·-··------­ND MEN'S BASKETBALL ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND hangs on to win in L.A. Irish soar past Eagles 
for blowout victory 
Brittany Mallory with 14 andBy JAY FITZPATRICK 
Lindsay Schrader with 13 
Managing Editor 

points. Center Erica 
Williamson and guard Ashley 
Coming off a 96-61 blowout Barlow each chipped in 10 of Evansville Wednesday points in the win. night, Notre Dame coach "Offensively, things just Muffet McGraw said there flowed so well. We were were a number of things her incredibly unselfish tonight. team needed to work on We made so many great before they played Boston passes, found each other. It College Sunday. was great team chemistry on 
The team fixed those prob­the floor tonight," McGraw lems in a big way in Chestnut said. Hill, Mass. beating the Eagles The Irish also had a solid 102-54 -the performance largest mar­from 3-point gin of victory land, going 7­in the 17-of-8 from game series beyond the 
between the "/ think we can do a arc. two schools. lot ofthings better.,, "That's really But even important to with the 48-continue to
Muffet McGraw
point win, shoot the ball 
Irish coach 
McGraw still well from [3­said she saw point range] some room for because it improvement. really opens 
"I think we things up for can do a lot of things better. the inside game. We were Are we ever going to shoot able to bring the defense out, the ball like that again? I then we were able to go don't know. I'm just so happy inside a little bit more. So it with the defense because worked well for everybody," that is what we can control. she said. We rebounded well, defended Going into the matchup well. I think it just gives us with Boston College, McGraw confidence in our defense," said she wanted to see how she said in a telephone inter­center Erica Williamson view with The Observer. could handle post defense 
The Eagles hung with against 6-foot-6 Eagles cen­Notre Dame early in the ter Carolyn Swords, who game, and kept the Irish lead averaged a double-double to within single digits for the going into the game. most of the first 10 minutes Williamson and Solomon of the game. But the Irish combined to limit Swords to exploded to finish out the 16 points and seven boards. half, sending Boston College As a team, the Irish into the locker room down outscored Boston College 54­
24. 32 in the paint. 
But the Irish did not sit on "I thought Erica Williamson the lead, .increasing their did a nice job on [Swords], so second half did Erica lead by leaps· Solomon. They and bounds. both played 
"We were up "Offensively, things well on her. 
24 at halftime We tried to
just flowed so well.
and we talked really pres­about it was We were incredibly sure the pass­
0-0, let's go unselfish tonight.·· er and not let 
out and start them get over, and we inside, and 
Muffet McGraw
got up 24 when she got again. So we Irish coach it, she was were very con-pretty efficient sistent from with it," half to half." McGraw said. McGraw said. The other point of empha­
Perhaps the biggest reason sis for this game was for the Irish win was the play rebounding, McGraw said, of their defense, which limit­and it was another facet the ed Boston College to 42.4 Irish excelled at. Notre Dame percent shooting from the managed to outrebound the floor and forced 28 Eagles 36-22 Sunday. turnovers. McGraw said she "That was very important was especially proud of her after the performance we team's defensive effort when had the other night. That compared to the Evansville was definitely one thing we game Wednesday night. were keying on in practice 
"They want to improve, and working on quite a bit. we've got a great commit­Worked on the boxed out and ment at the defensive end I was really pleased with the today, which I didn't think we effort," McGraw said. really had against Evansville. But even after two blowout I think they eame out and wins, McGraw is still not sat­played harrier on defense," isfied. she said. "We want to add some 
On the other end of the things. We want to keep court, the Irish had too many adding some things to the scorers to have a standout offense, we want to add some player on the stat sheet, with defensive looks. We certainly six players in double figures. don't want to stay where we Forward Becca Bruszewski are, we want to keep improv­led the team by tying her ing," she said. career-high with 18 points, followed by forward Erica Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at Solomon with 15 and guards jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
-
Harangody scores 27 to lead team to win 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
It's probably a good thing No. 8 Notre Dame had a warm-up test before the Maui Invitational. Playing on stiff legs after their flight to Los Angeles was delayed for seven hours by bad weather, the Irish did just enough to beat Loyola Marymount '65-54 in the Lions home opener Friday. 
Loyola used streaky shooting to keep the game close all night, and when Corey Counts hit his second straight three pointer with seven minutes remaining, Notre Dame's lead was down to three points. 
After that, the Irish combo of Luke Harangody and Tory Jackson made sure it wouldn't get any closer. The two players combined for 12 of Notre Dame's final 15 points helping Notre Dame pull away in the final min­utes. 
Harangody recorded his stan­dard double-double and then some, finishing with 27 points and 17 rebounds on the evening. Jackson chipped in with 16 points, seven rebounds and four steals. 
"Those two guys were men when we needed men," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "We were fortunate to win the game. When you play on the road, you're happy to get it. I never thought it was going to be easy here. You knew you were going to have game pressure." 
Loyola Marymount managed to keep the game close living behind the three-point line all night. Although the Lions only shot 33 percent for the game, 
McGlinn 
continued from page 20 
captain and quarterback Sarah deGroot said. "We completely dominated the second half both offensively and defensively." 
The second half was dictated by McGlinn's passing game, as deGroot threw for three touch­downs. The passes were spread around to several receivers as Lauren Miller, Casey Robertson, and Kathleen Stanley all caught touchdown passes. 
"This was our chance to quell everyone's doubts," line­backer Maddie Boyer said. "Not many people thought we would have a chance in this game, since Welsh Fam was undefeated coming into the game." 
Upsetting Welsh Fam was 

MOLLY MCGOWENffhe Observer 
Irish junior Luke Harangody skies to the hoop during Notre Dame's 94-58 win over USC Upstate on Nov. 16 at the JACC. 
they shot 44 percent from victory over a top-25 team came behind the three-point line. The in 1990 when they defeated Irish, meanwhile, shot unusually No.23 Alabama in the third poorly from behind the arc mak­round of the NCAA Tournament. ing only 2 7 percent of their The Irish now head to Hawaii attempts. Kyle McAlarney for the Maui Invitational where missed all four of his attempts they will take on Indiana in the on the evening. first round. The game will be tel­
With the win, Notre Dame evised on ESPN2 at 5:30 p.m. handed Loyola Marymount their 30th consecutive loss to a Contact Greg Arbogast at ranked opponent. The Lions last garbogas@nd.edu 
said. It's tough when you feel like "We've set the bar for future you've let your team down. McGlinn teams," de Groot said. Overall, though we had a great Welsh Fam, on the other season and played as a team 
hand, is certain­ly disappointed in the loss. 
"We had a 12­
..We made mistakes
0 lead going into 
the second half we don't normally but really just make.,, didn't play well 
on either side of 
Jenni Gargula 
the ball in the second half," Welsh Fam quarterback Welsh Fam cap­tain Jenni Gargula said. 
"We made mistakes we don't women's interhall team over normally make." the past several years, making 
It was a disappointing loss the playoffs every year for the for Welsh Fam as McGlinn past four years. Their success spoiled their undefeated sea­will likely continue in upcom­son, but, although they are dis­ing seasons and they hope to couraged, Welsh Fam is proud have another shot at the cham­
of their season pionship next year. 
and the tremen­This year, however, the 
dous success championship belongs to 
aU year. As for the seniors, while it would have been nice to go out on a high note, we've had four extremely suc­cessful years, so we can't be too upset." 
Welsh Fam has been the most successful 
a big accom­"We put in a lot of that their team McGlinn, and they are enjoying plishment for practice time, and has had in the every moment of it. They the Shamrocks, past few years. believe that their positive atti­
worked for this
but the surpris­"Obviously the tude throughout the season
victory.,,

ing win was no loss is disap­boosted their play. fluke. McGlinn pointing because "At the end of the day the knows that they we had control most important thing for us
Jill Stinchcomb 
earned this win of the game and was to have fun," deGroot said.
McGlinn lineman
through their let it slip away," "We never let the pressure get dedication in Gargula said. "I to us. Enjoying ourselves practice. think the hardest helped us relax and allowed us 
"We put in a part is that we to play better." lot of practice time, and all wanted to win for someone worked for this victory," defen­else on the team more than we Contact Ryan O'Connell at sive linem an Jill Stinchcomb wanted to win it for ourselves. roconne3@nd.edu 
Monday, November 24, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Ramblers 
continued from page 20 
elected to attempt the two-point conversion, which would give them a one-point lead. But the Rambler defense stepped up as it has all season, batting down an intended pass for senior receiver Jim Zenker. 
"It was a risky decision, but we thought we could get it," Keenan captain Barton Dear said. "There's no guarantee we would have executed a good snap, hold, and kick for the PAT. It's disap­pointing, but I'm still proud of these guys." 
The Ramblers established themselves from the first whistle, forcing Keenan to go three-and­out on the first drive of the game. Siegfried proceeded to block the punt, giving the offense excellent field position well within Keenan territory. 
Senior quarterback Max Young and the Rambler offense wasted little time putting points on the scoreboard. 
Resilient running back Dex Cure powered through the holes for an 18-yard run on the second play of the drive. Rolling out of the pocket, Young found receiver Gary Burke in the back of the end zone for a 5-yard touchdown pass. The PAT made the score 7­0 at the end of the first quarter. 
The Knights were poised to score on the subsequent drive when quarterback Terry Mahoney completed mu1tiple passes to his receivers for large gains. But the Siegfried defensive line simply overpowered Keenan in the trenches. Led by senior Jamie Silverson and sophomores Pat Kelly and Chris Skubis, the Ramblers sacked Mahoney twice and forced a fumble that was recovered by Skubis. 
"They're a big bunch of guys, bigger than any other team's line," Siegfried head coach P.J. Zimmer said. "They start off slow, but once they get going they thrive off hitting the quar­terback." 
Nevertheless, Keenan refused to finish the first half with zero points on the board. 
After forcing a Siegfried three­and-out, the Knights scored on the first play of the drive when Mahoney hit Zenker with a 6­yard pass. The elusive receiver proceeded to sprint 65 yards downfield, weaving between defenders and breaking no l~ss than six Siegfried tackles on his Coach Zimmer said his team way to the end zone. was playing signature Siegfried 
"Zenker had a great game for football. us," Dear said. "He's been a play­"All season long we've grinded maker all year, today was no dif­out victories," Zimmer said. ferent." "This is a senior-laden team 
Entering halftime with a 7-7 that's downright gritty at times. tie, Keenan seemed to have all \\'hen we can run the football, the momentum. we have success." 
But in the second half the The Rambler defense contin-
Rambler defense  ued to pressure  
showed the fans  Mahoney,  who  
in  attendance  ..This is a senior­ rushed another  
why Siegfried is undefeated and untied.  laden team that·s downright gritty at  throw that was intercepted by senior Vince  
Cornerback Gary  times.··  Andrews.  
Burke intercept­ Andrews  
ed a Mahoney pass, who was hit by the Siegfried  P.J. Zimmer Siegfried coach  returned the ball to the Keenan 29-yard line.  
defensive line as  The Ramblers  
he was throwing.  were unable to  

Gary returned the ball down to score another touchdown, how­the Keenan 17 -yard line, giving ever, as Dear and the Knight the Ramblers excellent field posi­defense recovered a fumble late tion. in the third quarter. 
The offense took care of the With time running out, rest, as three different players Mahoney led the Knights down carried the ball on the ground. the field as they tried to launch a Senior Marcus Young displayed historic comeback for the great vision and agility as he Interhall title. The balanced skirted past Keenan defenders Knight offense converted consec­and ran the ball into the end utive first downs, as running zone. After the extra point, the back Andres Villalba fought for Ramblers led Keenan 14-7. yards on the ground. On the ninth play of the drive, Mahoney hit Zenker for a 25-yard pass, who eluded multiple tackles en route to the end zone. 
The Knights failed on the ensu­ing two-point attempt, and all but sealed their fate. Zimmer, though, applauded his oppo­nent's decision. 
"Hats off to them," he said. "We would have made the same call in that situation." 
The running back duo of Cure and Young efl'ectively ran down the clock, as Siegfried held on to win the Interhall Championship and take its place as one of the most successful teams in inter­hall history. 
For the Keenan seniors, Sunday's loss is a bitter pill to swallow. This is the third year the senior Knights have lost in the Stadium in their standout careers. 
"It feels terrible losing all three years, but it's an honor playing in the Stadium where so many greats have played," Zenker said. "Playing my last football game in the Stadium is the greatest expe­rience ever. I'll never forget my interhall career." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
"I thought we were just a cou­played in that conference and ple of times a pass away or just that's what they're used to
Hanks 
a step away from getting that doing ... I think our kids can get look that we really needed to physical with anybody if they
continued from page 20 
get the earlier goal," Irish coach want to, I think they can handle 
The snow and ice covered Randy Waldrum said. it well." field kept the Irish from spread­And a large part of that was The second half brought the ing the Gopher's formation and in the Gopher's Big Ten style of Irish a chance to adjust their finding holes. With at least eight play -a far more physical style of play. Just two minutes players obstructing the Irish game than the Irish had seen all into the second half, Hanks and offense, Notre Dame had to season until taking on Michigan Augustin paired up again. send players on runs into the State last week. Augustin drilled a shot at Dare, box. Hanks sent Rose Augustin "I think sometimes it can take forcing the rebound back to into the box half way through you out a little bit, the Big Ten, Hanks. Hanks curled a shot the fi r s t h a If., but the that conference is kind of just over the Gopher's crossbar, Minnesota's defense cleared her known for that. more of a physi­and the score remained tied at shot. The ball rebounded back cal style of play and not so zero. Despite failing to post a to Augustin, who's second shot much a finesse and a skill set," score, the Irish remained narrowly missed the net -one Waldrum said. "So I think you relentless in their offensive of many close calls for the Irish. saw a Minnesota team that's game. 

Nevv Student Study Space in the Interview Center, first floor, Flanner Hall 
December 1 -December 19 
7:00 PM -1:00 AM • Sunday -Thursday 
Walk-ins are available or students may reserve space in advance by calling (574) 631-9915 

~ l.' !-.J I '-: E H S l T Y .:·J I' 

The Career Center
~NOlRE DAME 

l)ivisi.on of Student Atf.tirs ~tand out. 
"I thought we really started to dominate the game in the sec­ond half, I thought we were the better team in both halves, but I think they had some good opportunities in some of the play in the first half, but I thought the second half we really came out with a pur­pose," Waldrum said. 
Waldrum also noted the field, which had been cleared of the snow that had fallen earlier Friday and Thursday, acted as an equalizer for the two teams. The Irish even feared that the field conditions might end their tournament run. 
"We were just worried all along that they'd catch us on a counter, some kind of a counter, that we'd be attacking and turn a ball over in a bad spot or somebody would slip and fall on the field and miss something and so you're hoping that you don't give a mistake," Waldrum said. "I never felt like they were gunna score one in the run of play, but I felt like these are the kind of games that a mistake can happen." 

But even an icy field couldn't break the Irish concentration, and yet again they found a way to win. 
Notre Dame remained calm even as the final seconds of reg­ulation time ticked off the clock. And in the five minutes before the start of overtime, Waldrum said the players did most of the talking, confident they could step off the field \Vith awin. 
When Hanks stepped up to take her penalty kick, Waldrum wasn't even looking -mainly out of superstition. Like she had 12 times previously this season, Hanks had the keeper going in the opposite direction of her shot, but this time, it came with a spot in the quarterfinals. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 24, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
third set. The Irish hit at a .419 clip as they took the set in convincing fashion, 25-15. 
The Irish hoped that the momentum they had built up would carry over into the fourth set, but it was not to be. The Irish played catch-up throughout the set, getting as close as one point at 23-22, but the Cardinals were able to finish the Irish off and claim the Big East's automatic berth in the NCAA tournament. 
The loss ended the Irish's title run and hopes of making the NCAA tournament. The Irish still have one more match against Xavier coming up, but the team has a bright outlook for next season with many returning players. 
The Irish came on at the end of the season both offensively and defensively to build momentum going into the Big East Championships. 
Fifth-seeded Notre Dame swept an impressive Connecticut team to open the tournament before knocking ofT the No. 1 seed St. John's in convincing 3-1 fashion. These victories showed what the team is capable of when they are at their best. 
Stremick and Dealy both earned all-tournament honors for their impressive efforts on the unlikely run. 
Coaches and players were unable to commit following Sunday's game because they were returning to campus. 
ContactJared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBROSEfThe Observer 

Irish junior Christina Kaelin goes up for a spike during Notre Dame's 3-2 win over Connecticut on Nov. 16 at the JACC. 
Falcons 
continued from page 20 
said. "I think our depth has helped us be successful with that because right now I can trust pretty much anybody on the ice in those situations." 
The Irish added another goal at 17:49, when junior Christiaan 
Minella hammered  a  Hanson  
rebound past Spratt.  
"The  puck  was  bouncing  

around and I could see out of the corner of my eye Spratt coming over so I knew I had to either tuck it in the post or bank it off his leg," Minella said. "It kind of hung up there but then it trickled in." 
Hanson notched his second goal with less than a second left in the period. After breaking his stick, Hanson went back to the bench and picked up a stick from teammate Teddy Ruth, who plays with a heavier stick than Hanson. Skating into the offen­sive zone, Hanson was blocked twice at the top of the left circle, Hanson took a third swipe at the puck and this time slammed it past Spratt. 
"I looked up and saw there was about five seconds left, so I tried to just get a shot on goal," Hanson said. "The first one got blocked, but I think the momen­tum from the 10-pound Ted Ruth stick continued and I got a sec­ond and third whack at it." 
Jackson praised Hanson after the game, and said he was proud of the way the senior has worked and improved since his freshman year. 
"I used to tell him, 'Kevin Deeth's 5'8" and he plays with all kinds of jam, imagine what you could do if you were playing with that same level of intensity,' and hot streak to lead the Irish with a he does that now," Jackson said. pair of goals and a pair of assists. "He's a much more effective Ridderwall has now picked up a player." point in five straight games, he 
Jackson also said he was has a total off 11 points during pleased with his team's physicali­the stretch. Last week the ty and aggressive play against Swedish sophomore scored a 
the Falcons.  goal in a sudden  
"We have to always remem­ber that you  ..We hal1e to always remember that you  death shootout to give Notre Dame a win over Lake  
always have to get a little gritty around the net if you're going to score goals," he  always have to get a little gritty around the net ifyou ·re going to score goals. ,,  Superior State. Ridderwall wasn't alone on Saturday. Six dif­ferent skaters  
said. Most goals  found the back of  
aren't pretty." Saturday night the Irish contin­ Jeff Jackson Irish coach  the net against Bowling Green and 14 of the 18  

ued their offen­sive explosion by putting up nine goals -six in the final period -to finish the week­end sweep of the Falcons with a 9-1 win. 
Notre Dame scored six of its goals on the powerplay and added another one short-handed in what quickly became a very physical game. Bowling Green collected a total of 46 penalty minutes on the night, leaving them shorthanded for more than two periods of the game. 
Sophomore forward Ca1le Ridderwall continued his recent 

players  who  
made  the  trip  
picked up at least a point.  

Hanson also had two goals to push his season total to a team­leading eight. Coming in just behind Hanson with seven is Maday. He started the scoring Saturday night with a power-play goal ten minutes into the game. 
Ben Ryan, Ryan Guentzel, Erik Condra and White all added goals as well. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu and Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
1"o1t-eA.UjM Dewkp-m1At iJl, ~ Wo!tU o6 _AcuhA~ cJuJ'Vj~: 'Jiwu'Jh~ b!t~m aJ1, £vo De-vo 7ukid 
John Smart. President, /\cceieration .Studies Foun~jation 
SuJ/AJ.Jw.b~; Po.d, P~e-nt, ~ '];~A.Jt(, 6't,otvt, ~ cY~tfo~tde, Vi.ttv Jean Sweeney, V!CB Pre,.c:.ident, ~3\11-En\~ronrrental, Hea!th & Safety Or:.BrationE; 
/(e~ Nvt~-(j.'tui 

David M. \Naif<er. President & C."FO, Peter G. Petersen Foundation 
Su,~J,~ ruul Co"ff·'tA!t, R.~MJriUJ: 'Jhe/ _AtkDonJ.J:i-S~!t"J 
Jack Dary, Se-1ior Vice President Corporate Heiations, fv1cDonald's C:Orpcration 
1"uiuM7b¥: J/vtAJ ~ Put ~e-iJ'L, P~e-~See-_,{M~t,e, Ci£~ WM ~· CoiVWtlJ 
t:die VVeine.r, F'resident, \Neiner, E:dricr,, Brown, Inc. 
7BD Seventh speaker to be deterrnined 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame and StMary's students and employees. There are no prerequisites 
to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Registration is available online. 
-



Monday, November 24, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE DOME PIECE DAVID CAVADINI 
Historic Awkward Phone Calls ... 

Hey Je~us. it's Judas. Garden of Gethsemane, you don't say ... I'll be there in 10 minutes! 
" 
• 
• 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
WARBL ± 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
He's hard 
to tackle 
YAHNE 
j 
' 
(] ( (] 
.!L 
.2..+
tDROPENj

IJ [ II 
www.jumble.com 
LOBIED ± 

A: "r I I I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: FANCY DIRTY POETIC CANOPY Answer: Passing his driver's test was ­NO "ACCIDENT" 
WHAT TH£: FARM­'BO/ 010 ON THE FOOTBAL-L. FI£:1.-D. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 29 Dill herb Classic sports 30 "Follow the lineup Fleet" co-star, 

11 All in favor 1936 15 Antipathy 32 Precursor to a historical "party" 
16 Not be fair? 34 Winner of four 
17 "I hear ya!" 
Oscars for 18 Regard musical scores 

impolitely 38 "Seems that 

19 Low square 
way" 20 Work period 
42 One-named 21 Intelligence singer with the problem 1960s Velvet Underground
22 Winter fall, in Falkirk 43 Decision maker 
23 Fortune 500 46 Calls in a field 
company 47 Proof word founded in 1995 

48 Home of 24 It's often Gannon administered University orally 
49 "I'll Be Doggone" 25 Needle holders singer, 1965 27 Power system 50 Lovelace who 
28 Birthplace of was called "The Eve! Knievel and Enchantress of Martha Raye Numbers" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
51 Cossacks' leader 
52Takethetopoff 54 Wild 55 Break 56 Enterprise 58 Natural healer 59 Decision maker 60 Revolutionary 
War general Thomas 61 Big name in foot care 
Down Dietary danger 2 Like some 
charms 3 Range, e.g. 4 Old character 5 Company 
keepers: Abbr. 6 Calendario units 7 Ribbons 8 Check 9 Preceder of 
many hockey games 10 Like a snood, 
commonly 11 Some dance honorees 
12 Cousin of goulash 13 Like some old­fashioned lamps 14 Cold respon's~? 26 1959 #1 hit tor Lloyd Price 27 Track take 28 Cold response? 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Barry C. Silk  
31 Corp. capital  39 Like many  44 Legendary  
raisers  supermarket  Christian martyr  
33 Breaking need  lines?  45 It's open for discussion  
35 It's found in eggs  40 Greet 41 Producer of  49 "Life Is Beautiful" hero  
36 Like some  some beads  53 Spare change?  
streams in winter  54 Buckling down  
43 It can give  57 Org. with its own  
37 "Isn't anyone  people flight  insurance  
interested?"  reservations  agency  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ______________ State ___, Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Miley C:}nls, 16; Salli Richardson, 41; Maxwell Canlfielrl, 49; Bruce Hornsby, 54 
Happy Birthday: You are ready to take advantage of all t11e lessons you've learned. Con­centrate on where you see yourself heading financially, professionally and where peace of mind resides. Liking what you do and being able to support your needs are the bottomliue. Ouce you get these to factors to line up. the rest will be easy to accomplish. Finish whatever is kft tmdone so you can begin again. Your numbers are 12, 14, 23, 27, 34, .~6. 42 
ARIES {March 21-Aprill9): Don'tletlove get you down. Focus ou money matters and 
negotiations but don't let someone else's critical, negative attitude cause you to 1niss out ou 
thmgs you should be enjoying. Invest in your futme. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201: Spend some time with somoone you love. Au opportunity 
will arise through a chance meeting wtth someone you haven't seen in some time. Discuss 
your position. your thoughts and your future plans and you'll get positive result~. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let anyone ruin your plans. Discussing freely with non­judgmental people will help you the most. This is not the time r.o stew over what isn't work mg well bnt rattler to tlush out ideas that can make a difference to your future.***** 
CANCER (Jwie 21-July 22): Take care of responsibilities and then)l:et into the game. In­teract with others. letting yotlf Cancer charm take over while you regain your position in the heart of someone who matters to you. Opeu.minded conversations will lead to some changes at home. * * 
LEO (Jut~· 2J-Aug. 22): Don't sit around complaining or wasting lime when yon should be out enjoying the festive season. It's time to enjoy yom friends,lovers and family. Don't ue­glect to follow the mles and regulations. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Enjoy the people who appreciate you. Problems at home will lead to arguments if you slick around. A change in YOIII" personal life may be overdue. Yon don't have to put up with nonsense from someone taking advanla)l:e of you. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.\-0ct. 22): Overreacting wJ!Ilead to problems you can do without. Yon are better off getting involved in something worthwhile. A trip that mcludes shopping, friends and sharing new thon@:hts will result in great ideas and a change in your futtlre. 
*** 

SCORPIO {Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk to someone you tmst about your financial concems and you will come up with a workable solution. It may be time for a change that will free up ymu cash and allow you to invest more in yourself aud your future.*** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Refuse to let love cost you. Protect your assets from someone looking for a handout. Added responsibilities may appear to be a burden in the be­gmmng but, in the end, it will be to ymu benefit. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Keep an eye on what everyone around you is doing. to see who can and who cannot help yon. A serious look at ymu financial game plan will lead to some much-needed alterations before the year comes to a close. If ym1 are uncertain, ask questions.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A money deal or settlement needs a tweak before yon can move forward. Don't count on getting something for uot11ing. Times are changing and you must keep on top of what's going down so yon aren't left high and dry. ***** 
PISCES (Feb.19-Marcb .20): Stick to what you know and don't push anyone who may push back. You have to offer help \''iithout expecting anything in return. Be patient, not pushy.An interesting connection can be made through an organization you join *** 
Birthday Baby: You are quick and responsive and love a challenge. Yon are energetic, willful. solid and steadfast You are a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugen;a/ast.comfor confidential consultations, myspace.comleugenia/astfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor fim 
INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Knights fall short on two-point conversion 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer 

't Keenan gave Siegfried its toughest test of the season, but the Ramblers held on for a 14­13 win to claim the Interhall Championship. 
Siegfried's victory in the Stadium capped off a perfect season, who finish undefeated and untied through seven games. 
"It's a great feeling," Siegfried senior captain Kevin Kelly said. "Just to be able to play in the Stadium is awesome, but to win a championship in it -that's specia.. I " 
Trailing 14-7, Keenan scored a 

;': " touchdown with just over two 

>'> minutes remaining in the game. 
In a gutsy decision, the Knights 
see RAMBLERS/page 17 

THE OBSERVER 
p
Monday, November 24, 2008 

page 20 
Champs! 

'Rocks hand Welsh Fam first loss ofyear 
By RYAN O'CONNELL Sports Writer 
For the second year in a row, Welsh Family went into the interhall championship game undefeated, and for the second year in a row, the Whirlwinds came away empty-handed. 
McGlinn upended the previ­ously unbeaten Welsh Fam 18­12 to claim the championship. 
The match began with Welsh Fam controlling nearly every facet of the game, building a 12-0 lead by halftime. Despite the initial deficit, however, the Shamrocks never panicked. 
"We started off shaky but weren't worried at halftime because our defense was hold­ing strong and our offense was finding its rhythm," McGlinn 
see MCGLINN/page 16 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish run comes up just short in Big East Championship 
Big East tournament for the Stremick paced the Irish with lead. Louisville stormed back, built an 11-3 lead. ThingsBy JARED ]EDICK 13th time since joining the Big 18 kills and four blocks, while however, tying the set 14-14. turned around quickly, however, 
Sports Writer 

East in 1995, and Louisville (18-junior outside hitter Christina The two teams traded points all as the Irish went on a 6-0 run 
10) won the finals for the sec­Kaelin and sophomore outside the way to the wire until to get back in the game. The 
The Irish brought some ond time in the past three hitter Kellie Sciacca added 12 Louisville squeaked out the 25-Irish took the lead at 14-13. inspired play to the Big East years. kills apiece. Freshman outside 23 victory. The Irish had set point at 24­Championships, beating two Notre Dame kept pace with hitter Kristen Dealy had 11 kills The Irish outplayed Louisville 23, but could not convert and consecutive higher-seeded Louisville throughout most of and 11 digs, and sophomore for most of the first set with six Louisville took the second set opponents in No. 4 Connecticut the match, at times even domi­Megan Dunne pitched in with more kills in the set, but they 2 8 2 6 and No. 1 St. John's before nating the Cardinals, and yet 15 digs and freshman Frenchy suffered from several faults and Coming out of the break, the finally falling to No. 3 Louisville they could not sustain the Silva had 10 digs. Junior setter receiving errors that were very Irish were on fire, seeming to in the finals match 1-3 (25-23, strong play long enough to Jamel Nicholas had 49 assists. costly. take control of the match in the 28-26, 25-15, 25-22). defeat the Cardinals. The first set started off well The poor play continued into 
The Irish (16-14) reached the Senior middle blocker Justine for the Irish with a quick 9-4 the second set as the Cardinals see BIG EAST/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Golden goal clinches win 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Asistant Managing Editor 

One mistake was all anybody needed -fortunately for the Irish, Minnesota tripped up. 
In the sixth minute of over­time senior Kerri Hanks was dragged down from behind in the box. Given the chance to win the game, Hanks buried the penalty kick to knock off Minnesota 1-0 Friday night and secure a spot in the elite eight of the NCAA tournament. 
That goal wasn't the only chance Notre Dame had at a win, out shooting the Gophers 26-11 {11-2 on net). But even with that spread, the Irish just couldn't get the early lead. Set in a 3-5-2 formation, Minnesota managed to keep the Irish away from its goal, allowing shots that were mainly directed at goalkeeper Lindsey Dare. 
see HANKS/page 17 


ND HOCKEY 

Team puts up 14 goals to sweep the Falcons 
By SAM WERNER and DAN MURPHY Sports Writers 
The Irish extended their win­ning streak to eight games, and did so in convincing fashion, beating Bowling Green 5-1 and 9-1 this weekend. 
Friday night in the Joyce Center, Notre Dame (8-3-1, 4-2­1-1 CCHA) took advantage of two goals and an assist from senior Christian llanson and cruised to victory over the Falcons (5-6-2, 4-4-1-0). 
Hanson got the Irish on the board first at 16:04 of the first period. With the Irish on the powerplay, Hanson found him­self all alone in the low slot and pounded Kevin Deeth's centering pass past Bowling Green goalie Jimmy Spratt to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 

A Justin White goal gave the Irish a 2-0 lead, but the Falcons responded with a short-handed goal of their own to cut the lead to 2-1 and swing the momentum in their favor. The Bowling Green rally was short-lived, though, as freshman Billy Maday gave the Irish a two-goal lead 1 :03 later. 
"That goal was huge for us," Hanson said. "Especially after giving up a short-handed goal. It's a momentum goal after we gave up the goal and came back to score on the same power play. Coach always talks about getting a momentum goal and that was one that changed things for us." 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson also emphasized the importance of responding to Bowling Green's goal. 
"Those next few shifts [after a goal] are always crucial," he 
see FALCONS/page 18 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 24, 2008 
Irish schedule is high risk, high reward 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey joked during his media day press conference that he didn't know what he was thinking when he booked such a tough non-conference schedule for the Irish this season. 
If you haven't heard by now, Notre Dame will be playing every ranked team in the country and will have to shoot on theme park-style, oval-shaped rims that don't allow you to make any shots. 
OK, so that last part may not be true, but that first part is actually not as far away from the truth as you might think. When potential matchups in this week's Maui Invitational are fac­tored in, No. 8/9 Notre Dame might play as many as nine teams currently ranked in the Associated Press top 2 5 poll, including six top-1 0 teams and two of those teams twice (No. 2 Connecticut and No. 3 Louisville). 
So while the Irish come in with high expectations this season, fans hoping for a duplicate or an improvement over last year's 25­8 record and 14-4 record in the Big East shouldn't get overly excited. It might not happen, even though the Irish are built to compete this year. Brey's right, 

Chris Hine 
Editor-in-Chief 

the schedule is brutal. 
"I said 11-7 and 12-6 in this league I hope means a hell of an NCAA Tournament seed because of what you played against. I think the league champion can have 12 wins," Brey said. "I swear to God, it's just too hard a league." 
But that's not necessarily a bad thing. It can actually set Notre Dame up for a deep run in the NCAA Tournament, regard­less of their seed. 
Let me explain. 
My father coached high school basketball at the same school, the now defunct Bishop Hoban High School, in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., for over 30 years. For a few years in the mid-to late-1990s, his teams were classified AA, but the conference schedule was set up so that his teams played AAA, or even AAAA teams ­bigger schools that usually had more talent-on a nightly basis. 
Needless to say, their schedule was brutal, and for a few years, his teams fmished at .500 or barely above in the regular sea­son. But then the playoffs would roll around, when Hoban was playing AA competition again, schools more on their level, his teams would be ready. 
Routinely, they would enter as a low seed in the district play­offs, but run through the top teams in the district to get into the state playoffs. 
One year, they entered as the No. 8 seed, the last team to make the playoffs, and ended the season of No. 1 Scranton Prep in the first round of the dis­trict playoffs -Scranton Prep 

Tuesday 
November25 
1:30pm 
u 
Tuesday November25 4pm li':iM'Ill 

8th Ploce  



was ranked No. 1 in the state that year in AA. 
Hoban wouldn't just stop at districts. They made runs deep into the state playoffs, and while they never won the state title, they were able to regularly get to the quarterfmals and even made a state semifinals appear­ance before the league was finally realigned. Looking back, my dad said the schedule, while tough at the time, benefited his teams when it really mattered. 
So all bragging for my father's coaching abilities aside, the Irish are in a similar situation this season. Their schedule is tough and they will have their share of bumps and bruises along the way, maybe even some this week in Maui. But come Tournament time, even if Notre Dame is doesn't get a top four seed, as some are predicting, they should still be in good shape to make it into the second weekend of the Tournament. 
After that, the Irish will be playing those top-tier teams again and all bets are off, just like all bets were off for dad's teams when they made it into the state playoffs. Only the Tournament will be the time when Notre Dame shows whether or not it can win a national title. Any conclusion that is reached before then would be premature. Notre Dame might learn and improve more from a couple oftough regular season losses than from wins. 

So hang on for a bumpy ride this season, but don't get off before reaching the final desti­nation. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu 
Tory Jackson, a kid in a candy store trymg to control himself 
Falls, Russell Carter, Kyle between his many options has­mism that his point guard has In Nash, Jackson sees a point
By GREG ARBOGAST 
McAlarney and Luke n't been the easiest task. turned the corner? After all, guard whose decision-making
Sports Writer 
Harangody. The Irish haven't "I think when he was young Jackson's key .offensive stats has managed to involve multi­
finished lOth and 20th nation­and had weapons, he said to from his freshman and sopho­ple key players in a dynamicLike a kid in a candy store. ally in scoring offense the past me 'There's so many options I more year are nearly identical. offense. Over the past four That's how Irish coach Mike two seasons by accident. get confused,' As a fresh­years, Nash has seamlessly
Brey described point guard Leading an offense blessed and that was man, Jackson integrated players like Joe 
Tory Jackson's play during his with so many weapons has its youth speak­"J think when he was started 20 Johnson, Amare Stoudemire, first two years at Notre Dame. challenges though. In his first ing," Brey said. young and had games and Shawn Marion and ShaquilleAnd why not? What point two years, like any kid sur­If preseason averaged 3.3 O'Neal into the Suns' seven
weapons, he said to
guard wouldn't be excited to rounded by sugary goodness, expectations assists-per­seconds or less offense. The 
me, 'There·s so many
play with the likes of Colin Jackson found that decidi~g are any indica­game with 1.83 result has been an offense that tion, Brey's options I get confused· assist-to­has finished the past four sea­point guard is and that was youth turnover ratio. sons in the NBA's top-three now all grown Last year, scoring offenses.
talking.,,

up. Entering his J a c k s o n Paul, while averaging 11.4 third season assumed a assists in 2007-2008, managed running the Mike Brey more promi­to score 21.4 points per game, Irish offense, nent role as the and Jackson would like to see
Irish coach 

Jackson has offense's facili-himself become a similar type learned what tator averaging of dual threat. each of his weapons' firepower 5.8 assists-per-game, but his "Controlling the game, push­is, and how to maximize each assist-to-turnover-ratio ing it, even taking some shots contributor's potential within remained a near identical for myself when the shots are such a dynamic offense. 1.85. open," Jackson said about his 
In other words, the candy Perhaps Brey's optimism role this year. "Working myself store is still just as stocked and stems from the studying inside and out to make myself Jackson still likes to go, but he Jackson put in this off-season. a threat and take some of the 
doesn't lose control upon Over the summer, Jackson pressure off 'Gody and K-Mac." entering the way he did in the spent his time studying video The scary thought for oppos­past. of two point guards -Steve ing defenses is the ramifica­
"I think the Nash and Chris tions if Jackson becomes a biggest thing Paul -who run more efficient, dynamic offen­is he's really their offenses sive facilitator. 
'"J think the biggest
learned how like the way In the past two seasons,
thing is he·s really
to use these that Jackson Notre Dame's offense has fin­weapons learned how to use hopes to run ished eighth and 20th nation­around him," this year's Irish ally in offensive scoring effi­
these weapons around
Brey said. "I offense. ciency. That has occurred
him.,,

think he really ''I'm trying to despite the fact that the Irish's knows, this is make myself point guard hasn't finished W· h e r e Mike Brey better," Jackson inside the top 50 players McAlarney said. "I take nationally in assist-to-turnover
Irish coach 

likes it, I can some of the ratio. get it to him in good things But if Jackson has the kind of these three they're doing season he and his coach envi­spots. He's really learned and use them in my game. sion, Notre Dame fans will be 
where to distribute and at With some of the weaknesses I the ones in the candy store. what time to get the ball to have, I try and figure out what people." they're doing to make myself Contact Greg Arbogast at 
What gives Brey such opti-better." garbogas@nd.edu 

Monday, November 24, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Back for an encore 
Luke Harangody returns after a dominating sophomore seasotz, still with a lot to prove 
By CHRIS HINE Ediror-in-Chief 
Last season, every so often, Notre Dame coach Mike Brcy would slip press clippings into forward Luke llarangody's lock­er, clippings that criticized Harangody's ability on the floor. 
Those clippings would provide a little extra motivation for Harangody to go out and put up big numbers. 
This year, Brey didn't want to do that anymore, in an attempt to keep the Big East player of the year on an even keel throughout the season -but then Hasheem Thabeet opened his mouth. 
There it was, on the cover of ESPN the Magazine, a quote from 7-foot-3 Connecticut that game and be all crazy thinking about, 'Hey, I'm going to put 40 up on UConn because he said that,"' Harangody said. ''I'm just going to go out and do the same thing I always do." 
With or without the extra motivation, if Harangody does the same thing he usually does on the floor, he may very well put up close to 40 points on Connecticut, and a lot of other teams for that matter. 
A season to remember 
For Harangody, last season was a transformation. He improved his game offensively and became one of the best big men in the country and whether he knew it or not, Thabeet had a hand in that transformation. It was Notre Dame's first match up against the 
center: "I played Luke Harangody  ..That game motivated me a lot because I  Huskies season provided  last that the  
and he was not tough." "I try to downplay it  realized in that game that I couldn't power through people and bully  inspiration for Harangody to expand his game.  
now because I don't think there needs to be any extra  people and that my game has to be more finesse at times.,  On Jan. 5, the Irish downed Connecticut  
juice,"  Brey  73-67  in  the  
said. "I almost try to say they kind of baited  Luke Harangody Irish forward  Joyce Center even though Harangody  
Thabeet into  shot just 5-for­ 
it. I try to dif­ 23  from  the  

fuse it because I don't think any field. He struggled against extra juice is needed for him. I Thabeet, who finished with 10 don't want him distracted." blocked shots. 
Thabeet may or may not have "That motivated me a lot been joking, but Harangody is because I realized in that game taking it seriously. that I couldn't power through 
"That will go up in my lock­people and bully people and er," Harangody said. "The fact that my game has to be a little of the matter is, it's on the cover more finesse at times," of ESPN the Magazine, so I'm Harangody said. "I do have to not taking that as a joke." go outside on the perimeter, 
The quote will act as a fuel to handle the ball a little bit and Harangody's fire throughout the be able to hit that 15-foot season, but the junior won't let jumper to be successful." it get under his skin too much. As the season progn~ssed 
"I think if this would've hap­Harangody became more com­pened freshman or sophomore fortable with taking that jumper year, my emotions would take and going to the basket more, over but if you talk to coach and he put up impressive num­Brey now, he'll tell you I'm bers over the next few games, more mature enough to realize on his was to averaging 20.4 that I'm not going to go out in points and 10.5 rebounds for the season. 

"When coach talked to me, he put that confidence in me [to hit that shot]," Harangody said. "That's when I play at my best, when I know coach has confi­
dence in me to bo that type of player. I always had that shot, but once my teammates and coaches told me I could do it, that's when I felt like I had the opportunity to go out and take that shot." 
But questions still lingered about Harangody's ability to go up against the taller, dominant players of the Big East -like Thabeet, Hoy Hibbert of Georgetown or David Padgett of Louisville. 
B{~fore playing Louisville and Connecticut for a second time last season, Harangody told The Observer: "I've watched tape and saw where I could use my body to get around [the big guys] and bring them away from the basket. I'm learning. This is the first year I've really played against players like that. That's one of the things this year that I've had to deal with 
the most and learn tne most from." 
And he learned pretty fast. 
Thabeet may not have remembered -or just forgot to mention to ESPN -that Harangody scored 32 points on 13-of-24 shooting and grabbed 16 rebounds in that second meeting in Storrs, Conn. Harangody put on an ofl'ensive display in that game, hitting that jumper from the outside multiple times, driving to the basket, and scoring with his usual hustle and intensity in the paint. 
Harangody wasn't done. He put up 40 points on Louisville just days later. Then he picked up some hardware for all that hard work. the Big East player of the year trophy. 
"It was surreal, coming into college as a nobody and kept making my mark as the season Wfmt on and getting to that point, that was definitely the high point of' my career, getting that award," llarangody said. "When you think about all the great players that are around the Big East and then to be hon­ored by it." 
Getting even better 
So how can Harangody improve even more this season? 
"Poise, poise, poise and tempo" Brey said. "Picking spots, changing speeds. Not get­ting distracted as much with a mistake or a call that he feels isn't a good call. Just being more focused and getting on to the next play and I think it's just maturity, getting older as a col­lege player." 
Harangody also said he needs to improve defensively, espe­cially in the absence of the graduated Rob Kurz. 
"My lateral quickness needs to be better and that's one big thing I'm trying to work on right now and I think it's getting bettPr," flarangody said. "Going 

up against guys like Zach Hillesland and Tyrone Nash help me get better." 
Then there are those pesky double and triple teams Harangody is sure to face this 
year. Harangouy anu Ills team­mates have said he's become a much better passer out of those traps. But Harangody said Notre Dame's other threats offensively could make teams reluctant to double-or triple­team him in the first place. 
"I don't think people realize that with this group, when they're the most confident in me, that's when I play my best," Harangody said. "You know, throwing it in, telling me to go to work. \Ve have so many weapons on this team that it's great for me not to get doub!P or triple-teamed all the time." 
If' the increased attention causes llarangody's numbers to dip '>lightly from the standard he set last season, that doesn't mean his impact on the team is any less, guard Kyle MeAlarnny said. 
"The numbers he put up last year were pretty impressive and a lot of people will be quick to say if he doesn't put up the same numbers he's not as suc­cessful, which I would disagree with." McAlarney said. "There are a lot of other things that he can bring to the table that real­ly stamp him down as a better player. 
"He has a leadership role on this team. He's the base of our program, so he's going to get a lot of attention, a lot of double teams, something he's definitely improved on the last few weeks." 
Harangody hopes he can par­lay all of his hard work and suc­cess into a career in the NBA. He said he'll evaluate where he is as a player after this season before making any decision regarding the NBA Draft. 
Odds are, there's a eertain big man in Connecticut who would be glad to see him go, even if lw says otherwise. 
ContactChris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Monday, November 24, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 
~-,..•.~ 
. \,.; .· 
)~ 


ALLISON AMBROSE and IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Kyle McAiarney, top, has a serious leadership style, much in the legacy of last year's captain Rob Kurz. Luke Zeller, bottom, says he Is more of a quiet leader. 
being professional about it," he said. " ...
By GREG ARBOGAST and FRAN TOLAN Hopefully it filters down to these young
Sports Writers 
guys. We have a great culture of work in 
this program, we have a lot of guys who 
Notre Dame's leadership is speeial. work really hard." 
Just ask Ben Hansbrough. Who better Perhaps none works harder than than the sophomore transfer from McAlarnPy. though. He said he spent much Mississippi State to explain what makes the of the off-season trying to improve his Irish team dynamic unique? defense. 
"Mississippi State did not have the leader­"My defense right now, I feel has made ship that Notre Dame has at all," the most improvement as far as just guard­Hansbrough said. "The ing the ball and being in whole core is all about the good position," McAlarncy team. Nobody's individual­"The whole core is all said. ''I'm a senior here now ized in any way. Just being about the team. so I understand how we kind • around this group makes of play defense and I've real­
Nobody 's individu.al­
you feel like you're wel­ly become accustomed to come." ized in any way. Just that. That's one thing that's 
A family-like atmosphere. being around this definitely improved in my That's what's described game this year." 
group makes you feel
above by Hansbrough, and Still, McAlarney's serious
welcome.,

it's the word senior co-cap­leadership on and off the tain Luke Zeller used to court might be just as describe the culture that important as his perform­
Ben Hansbrough
pervades the entire Notre ance during games.
Irish guard 

Dame team. "I'm a senior, veteran 
This family-like atmos-guard and I've watched phere has multiple meanings for the Irish. when we've been successful is when it It means that a culture of inclusion exists starts at the top -those guys just really where each player feels eomfortable and leading the young guys," he said. "I think equally part of the team. It means that the that's my role bigger than anything else leaders of the family know what the team is with this team, so I take that very serious-capable of, and they won't allow each other !y. " to sottln for anything lnss. As such, the Irish ~ . ' players constantly push each other to work Zach Hillesland: harder and improve their flaws. The relaxed leader 
The Irish have leaders of this family-like Serious would not be the first word used atmosphere. Notre Dame's senior quartet of to describe Zach Hillesland. captains -Kyle McAlarney, Zach If McAiarney says the things needed to Hillesland, Ryan Ayers and Zeller -each get the guys to focus, Hillesland says the work to create this singular culture, but things needed to get guys to relax. each goes about it in his own way. Part of Notre Dame's family-like atmos­
And for Notre Dame, their strength lies in phere is a light-hearted culture in which that diversity. every member on the team feels comfort­
able joking around with each other, and Kyle McAiarney: nobody is more important to that particular The serious leader culture than Hillesland. 
This role was filled by Hob Kurz last year. "I think so," lllllesland said when asked if So, it's no wonder that coach Mike Brey has he's lead jokester on the team. "(My team­said the workaholic McAlarney sometimes mates] would describe me as unique. There gets the "Kurz face." aren't too many topics that 
MeAlarney said he has made a conscious are ofT-limits for me." effort to play the part of the serious leader llillesland's joking nature for Notre Dame. with his teammates is ..Chris Qui 
"I think more than anything else on this ret1ective of more than his 
.Palls, Rob 
team that is my role," he said. " ... I think personality on the team. It 
those guys 
the most important thing for me this year is stems from his approach to to be a leader, to be a solid rock for these life on and off the court. a great exa guys." ··1 don't believe in getting me about ho 
Brey agrees. The Irish coach noted that too worked up about 
a team an
his senior guard has developed into the true things," Ilillesland said. leader of the team and the one most "Whether we're playing an what I'm tr responsible for getting his teammates to exhibition game or getting this ye focus on the task at hand. ready for a Big East 
"lie has been our best voice," Brey said of Tournament game, I think 
Kyle MeA 
McAlarney. "Just hearing Kyle talk this year my tone will be the same as it's been his team, a lot of responsibility." far as keeping it light and Irish g 
McAlarney said his willingness to take just trying to go out there that responsibility has developed steadily have fun and play our best." over the course of his Notre Dame career. It's an approach that Hillesland tries to 
"Coming in as a freshman here was a instill in the rest of the team, believing it really humbling experience ... You really will help each member of the team play at learn from the older guys," he said. "My his highest level. freshman year I kind of said 1u myself. 'I'm "It all works towards having people feel 
going to learn, take a backseat and learn comfortable out there and play their game," from the older guys and just wait my turn." Hillesland said. "You don't want guys to get 
Former Irish captains have had a pro­too worked up, too tense out there. You found effect on McAlarney in the past four want guys to go out and play loosely and years. have a lot of fun, not be afraid to make mis­
"Chris Quinn, Colin Falls, Rob Kurz -takes. That helps everyone to go out and 
those guys really set a great example for play their game." me about how to lead a team and that's That's not to say that Hillesland is all what I'm trying to do this year," McAlarney jokes all the time. While Hillesland doesn't said. believe in being too serious, he certainly 
When Notre Dame praetke is about to believes in honesty and saying what needs start, McAlarney almost always has a ball to be said, and llillesland still manages to in his hand. He said he hopes the eagerness combine that honesty with his lighthearted to work on his game rubs off on the personality. younger Irish players. A simple story about Hillesland and team­
"Part of it is leading by example, being mate Luke Harangody illustrates the point. here early, doing your work every day, "N'ter a game, 'Gody will be like 'Yeah I 
page 5 Monday, November 24, 2008
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

didn't have too good of a game_ I didn't pass label of captain seriously. too well', and I'll be like 'Yeah, you didn't,'" "Getting respect of the teammates over Hillesland said. ''I'm just being honest with the years, I have the huge responsibility to him, and we move on from there. take that and use it for the team, bring 
"We always have a good laugh about it. everybody together," he said. "The other He'll be like 'Come on man give me a guys know that we've been through a lot, boost.' But you just got to keep it real. keep they know we've played a lot, understand it honest." the game, [have] done well. With our expe­
rience, I think they rely on us." Ryan Ayers: And Zeller said that, even though he is The teaching leader quiet, he communicates well with the other 
Ayers brings a necessary complement to three captains. McAlarney's down-to-business mentality "We're all very close, we've gone through and Hillcsland's joking nature -teaching. a lot of stufT. Sometimes we can sav one or 
If McAlarney gets the Irish to focus while two words and we'll be able to say more Hillesland prevents Notre Dame from get­than people say in a five-minute conversa­ting too wound up, Ayers ensures that the tion, so that makes a huge diiTerence," he entire team learns in the process. said. 
Having been in South Bend for three-plus Zeller's eagerness to lead by example was years, Ayers has been through a wide range evident in his career-high 18 points against of experiences, from his freshman year USC Upstate last Sunday. lle was taken out when the Irish made the NIT of the starting lineup due to the bitter NCAA to the return of Hillesland Tournament exits of the past "/ thlnk ifyou ask -who had been injured two seasons. anyone on our team during the exhibition sea­
He now feels his role is to son -but Brey said Zeller
what their favorite 
pass that information on to did not complain. 
the underclassmen. part about being at ND "I give Luke Zeller a lot "I think it just comes with is, they'd say their of credit. I mean, he was experience," Ayers said. like, 'No problem, coach,"'
teammates. and I
"The more you have, the Brey said. more you can tell, the more think that's a rarity in And the coach said the you can share with every­college basketball.'' performance was no sur­body. I'm the oldest guy on prise. given the way ZPller the team, so I feel I have a has been playing in prae­
Zach Hillesland
lot of knowledge to spread to tice. 
Irish forward
the younger guys. "What he did [Sunday] 
"It's just from being here -that's how he's been and learning from all the practicing,'' Brey said. "... older guys. I'm trying to use what they I think every shot he gets off is going in taught me and tell the younger guys the right now, that's how well he's played in same system and how we work here." practice. I'm shocked when he misses." 
But a teacher is only as effective as his But despite Zeller's 6-for-9 shooting students allow him to be. The students have against USC Upstate, Brey said one of the to be open to what the teacher has to say, biggest plays of the game was a charge and that's where Ayers believes he's able to Zeller took before Notre Dame took the lead excel. for good. 
"I feel like I can reach out to anybody," 'The charge he took, that came at a time Ayers said. "I think guys feel comfortable we were trying to find ourselves a little bit coming and talking to me. I have a real defensively,'' Brey said. "They were getting 
good rapport with everybody to us and he gets all the way back and takes 
on the team, and I take pride that charge.'' 
in that." Zeller said little things like that epitomize m, Colin Why is Ayers able to con­his leadership style. Kurz­nect so. effectively with his "Just working hard, always showing up teammates? It comes back on time, coming early, staying late," he
·eally set 
to his personality, which said. "I just put in extra work whenever I mplefor helps each teammate feel can, getting 4'1 the gym late at night, shoot­w to lead comfortable around him and ing, working out, just trying [to getJ guys 
open themselves up to Ayers' earing about what's going on."
d that's 
advice.ring to do ''I'm very personable," Advantages for the Irish 
ar. ,, 
Ayers said. ''I'm very friendly The Irish don't have many flashy players with everyone on the team. who will be guaranteed exorbitant con­My style is being there to tracts and endorsement deals once they
larney 
comfort them and also lead. leave college. They don't have anybody who 
1ard 
I'm the guy that goes come generated mass hysteria when they 
to, talk to about the game, announced where they would be playing 
just someone they can easily college ball. lean on." But what the Irish do have can be just as 
Ayers has the ability to be a teacher for important. They have a team that genuinely many of his teammates, but just as impor­likes ea<~h other and enjoys playing with tantly for Notre Dame, it's a role he's ready one another. They have players who are to assume. committed to the idea of staying for four 
"I do feel much more comfortable years and developing within the Notre because I am a senior this year," Ayers said. Dame family. And they have four leaders "It's just something that's developed over who foster this family, and work tirelessly time. It's something you kind of work for in their own way to bring the best out of and earn here." each member. 
"It really helps to be around guys that you Luke Zeller: like, guys that you fit in with, and that's The quiet leader something you really can't put a price on," 
While the other three senior captains llillesland said. "I think if you ask anyone have no qualms about opening their on our team what their favorite thing about mouths, ZellPr prefers to lead by example. being at ND is, they'd say their teammates, 
"[I'm) quiet, lead by example, I don't and I think that's a rarity in college basket­always say everything, but joke around ball." every once in a while,'' Zeller said. 
Zeller said that, through his play, he has Contact Greg Arbogast at inherited a leadership role rather than garbogas@nd.edu and Fran Tolan at seized it over the years. Still, he takes the ftJoan@nd.edu 

Notre Dame's resident goofball Zach Hlllesland, top, likes to keep his teammates loose while Ryan Ayers, bottom, passes on what he's leamed from his past three seasons. 
Monday, November 24, 2008 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 6 
Big East at a glance 
By CHRIS HINE, GREG ARBOGAST and FRAN TOLAN Sports Writers 
Likely Tournament teams: 
(Teams in no particular order underneath their grouping.) 
Connecticut: The preseason No. 2 team in the country and the coaches' pick to take the Big East regular season crown this season. Connecticut pos­sesses a lot of weapons. 1-lasheem Thabeet developed into a threat on both ends of the floor late last season. Jeff Adrien complements Thabeet nicely inside. Freshman Kemba Walker can handle things in the backcouit while 
A.J. Price gets back into the swing of things following an anterior cruciate (ACL) tear in Connecticut's final game last season. Connecticut will be tough to beat, but the same can be said about a lot of teams in this league. 
Louisville: The Cardinals made it to the Elite Eight before falling to North Carolina last season and look poised for another deep Tourney run. Louisville adds the high school USA Today National Player of the Year, Samardo Samuels, to a front­court that was already one of the best in the country. Forwards Terrence Williams and Earl Clark, both of whom could have been NBA draft picks after last season, give the Cardinals a good shot at taking the conference title. 
Marquette: The Golden Eagles have had basically the same team for the past three years. Coach Tom Crean left for Indiana, replaced by Buzz Williams -who has a lot of tal­ent on his squad. The back­court trio of Dominic James, Wesley Matthews and Jerel McNeal are among some of the best guards in the country and McNeal is a great lockdown defender. If Marquette wants to go far this year, they'll need some help in the front court from Lazar llaywood 

Notre Dame: The Irish have a well-rounded, experienced team that has proven it can compete with the elite in the Big East. They have reigning Big East player of the year Luke Harangody inside, sharp­shooter Kyle McAiarney out­side, the always-improving Tory Jackson running the show at the point, and a confi­dent group of seniors in Ryan Ayers, Luke Zeller and Zach Hillesland. And don't forget that Mike Brey has won the conference coach of the year award two years in a row. If ever there was a year for Notre Dame to make a run at a national title. this is it. 
Georgetown: After losing Boy Hibbert, Jonathan Wallace and Patrick Ewing, Jr., from back-to-hack regular-season conference champions, the Hoyas will look to some lesser­known players if they are to again compete for the title. But Georgetown has good coaching in John Thompson III and a star-in-the-making in junior forward DaJuan Summers. The loss of several mainstays will not take the team out of contention. 
Pittsburgh: Last year's young Pittsburgh team found their stride late winning the Big East Tournament -a sign 
of things to come for 2008­2009. Their two-headed front court monster of Sam Young and DeJuan Blair should be even better in the post this year, and senior Levance Fields returns to bring a steady hand at point guard. Mike Cook, Benjamin Keith and their 20 points per game from a year ago are gone, but they're replaceable. Look for the Panthers' big three to have this team near the top of the Big East. 
Possible Tournament teams: 
West Virginia: Never count out a Bob Huggins-coached team. Returning to Morgantown to coach his alma mata. Huggins took West Virginia to the Sweet 16 upset­ting Duke along the way. Junior Joe Mazzula had a breakout game against the Blue Devils, and he takes over the point guard duties from Darius Nichols. The Mountaineers also lost first­round draft pick Joe Alexander and starting center Jamie Smalligan. Senior guard Alex Huoff. talented underclassmen and a nationally-ranked recruiting class should ease the transition. 
Villanova: Villanova has almost everybody back. Scottie Reynolds, who averaged 15.9 points per game last season will lead the offense once again, as is Dante Cunningham, who averaged 
10.4. Last year. the Wildcats were one of the last teams in the Tournament and made a nice run to the Sweet 16, but Villanova will need another offensive threat to emerge if they want to get in the Tournament this year. 
Syracuse: Freshman sensa­tion Donte Green was drafted in the first round by the Houston Rockets, but the Orange have plenty of other scorers to pick up the slack. Guards J onny Flynn, Eric Devendorf and Andy Rautins 
are all back, as is forward Arinze Onuaku. All four aver­aged double figures in scoring in 2007-2 008. If Syracuse hopes to improve this year upon their NIT berths the last two seasons, it needs to improve a defense that yielded over 7 4 points per game last season. 
Providence: The team Irish coach Mike Brey said will sur­prise a lot of people this sea­son. The Friars finished 6-12 last year but lost a lot of close games, including an overtime thriller in the Joyce Center last season. Coach Tim Welsh lost his job. Drake's Keno Davis came in, after being named Associated Press coach of the year last season, and the Friars return most of their players from a roster that had five players average over dou­ble figures last season. Providence is balanced and experienced, and that will be needed in the tough Big East. 
Cincinnati: If Another team that can make a move in the standings this year is Cincinnati, who finished 8-10 last year, good enough for 10th. Texas transfer Mike Williams brings a little bit of everything to the frontcourt, and Deonta Vaughn will pro­vide the bulk of the scoring. Throw in freshman Yancy Gates who led Cincinnati in points and rebounds in the team's first game, and the Bearcats should improve over last season. 
Little chance of making the Tournament: 
South Florida: Coach Stan Heath is in the middle of rebuilding a program that just lost its best player, forward Kentrell Gransberry, who put up Harangody-like numbers the past two seasons. They do return Dominique Jones, who was arguably the best freshman in the Big East last season (17.1 points, 4.6 rebounds, 2.8 assists 
per game). The Bulls had a large amount of transfers and brought in a lot of recruits, but a young, inexperienced team won't get it done in the Big East this year. 
Seton Hall: In point guard Jordan Theodore and big man Melvyn Oliver, the Friars added a pair of recruits that figure to contribute right away. The team also welcomes Robert Mitchell, who scored 16.5 points for Duquesne in 2006-07 before transferring to Seton llall. Bobby Gonzalez's squad looks to improve on a 17-15 campaign in which it nosedived alter starting 15-6. 

Rutgers: The Scarlet Knights have won just three conference games in each of the past two seasons but they finally appear to have rebuilt. They added highly-regarded recruits Greg Echenique and Mike Hosario, who is the program's first McDonald's All-American. Echenique, who spent the sum­mer with the Venezuelan Junior National Team, joins shot-block­ing center Hmady Ndiaye in the Rutgers frontcourt. J.R. Inman, who dropped 12.2 points per game last year, looks to lead the offense again. 
St. John's: With seven fresh­men seeing the court last year, the Red Storm struggled to a 5­13 conference mark. But coach Norm Roberts hopes the experi­ence paid off for those players. Senior Anthony Mason, Jr. will lead this. still-inexperienced team as it seeks to make the conference tournament. He will have his hands full as a pair of freshmen will start in the back­court for the once-proud pro­gram. 
DePaul: After just missing the NCAA Tournament two years ago, DePaul took a step back­ward in 2007-2008. The Blue Demons won only six conference games, finishing 13th in the Big East and failing to qualify for a postseason tournament. Things don't look much better this year as the Blue Demons lose leading scorer Draelon Burns and his 
17.6 points per game. If DePaul wants to improve this season, they'll need guard Dar Tucker and center Mac Koshwal to improve after strong freshman campaigns. 
Contact Chris Hine at 
chine@nd.edu, Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edu and Fran 
Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Monday, November 24, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 

-'"I I I I I I I. I" I I. • I I I • ll I • I ......... ''-"" lr-,,... II I t ~ _ •, • I , I · ; 1" 1 
Nash and Scott, competitors for minutes, remain 'family' 
The sophomores realize the 
By FRAN TOLAN 
only way to crack the Irish rota­Associate Sports Editor 
tion is to focus on doing what­
ever they can do to help the 
Notre Dame has seven upper­team win. 
classmen that will see the bulk "We concentrate on all the 
of the team's playing time this small things -getting boards, 
season. So screening, just 
between the every small 
pair of sopho­"We're tight offthe detail," Scott said. 
mores that will "They help ­
court. We never
fight for the anything little ­
really get into too
limited remain­because [Irish ing minutes -many arguments coach Mike Brey] Tyrone Nash loves the small
unless it's about the 
and Carleton things."
NBA or something
Scott -there Brey, for his must be some like that. But like I part, said his sec­animosity. o~d-year players
said, we're like 
Right? will see signifi­
family offthe court.··
Wrong, cantly more min­
according to utes than they did 
Scott. Carleton Scott a year ago. Last 
"We're tight season, Scott sat
Irish forward 

off the court," out the season to he said after preserve a fifth­practice two weeks ago. "We year of eligibility while Nash never really get into too many saw the court only during arguments unless it's about the garbage time of blowouts. This NBA or something like that. But season, another sophomore, 
VANESSA GEMPIS and ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
like I said, we're like family off Tim .Abromaitis will sit out and 
Irish sophomores Tyrone Nash, left, and Carleton Scott compete for minutes on the court, but off
the court." preserve a year of eJigibility. 
the court, the two said they are close friends. 
But don't get confused -the Nash said spending time at 
two sophomores the end of the are certainly bench helped squad, the sophomores will be cause matchup problems on the and actually show it to pBople," competitive on him and Scott asked to chip in to make up for floor and you got the advan­he said. the court. After learn Notre that loss. tage," the New York native said. Nash said he and Scott are
"We want to get out 
....

all, they are Dame's system. "We're going to need those "It makes you hard to guard." both mature but they know how 
there and show
both forwards "This year is bodies. Somebody asked me Scott, meanwhile, has shown to have fun with each other off and fall behind everybody our stuff." really based off who is the eighth guy, and I off his dunking ability for over a the court. a group of expe­our experience would say (both] of them," Brey year during warm-ups and said "I mean, we're young but rienced players last year," he said in his media day press con­he could not wait to display his when it's time to get to busi­
Tyrone Nash 

on the Irish said. "We really ference. "We're going to need athleticism in game action. He ness, it's time to get to business. 
Irish forward 

depth chart. got a lot of them ... because this is a long got his first shot Sunday against And when it's time to have fun, 
"We want to chances to watch haul and a brutal schedule." USC Upstate and didn't disap­it's time to have fun," he said. get out there and learn. [so we Nash said one of his biggest point the crowd. Scott threw "You've got to know how to bal­and show every-will] take the assets is the versatility he devel­down several thunderous dunks ance that and I think we know body our stuff," Nash said. "So things we learned last year and oped during a year of prepara­in the second half of a 94-58 how to do that." we're (both] competitive and I try to [apply them] this year." tory school after high school. win. think it's a healthy competitive And with the departure of for­"They can't defend you (at] "I finally get to put [my dunk­Contact Fran Tolan at nature." ward Rob Kurz from last year's every position so you can try to ing ability] to use, get out there ftolan@nd.edu 
Check out The Observer's sports blog, 
observersportsb log.21cr.info 
•

as wrtters Chris Hine and Fran Tolan and photographer Allison Ambrose travel to Maui to cover the Irish. 
Observer: What was your best basket­ball moment as a player? 
Jonathan Peoples: Senior night in high school. I got two nice dunks and it was my last game in high school, so it was really special. We won by a lot. 
Obs: Favorite moment watching basket­ball? 
JP: Watching Michael Jordan. I'm from Chicago so I loved watching him. 
Obs: What was your hardest class at Notre Dame? 
JP: Foundations of Social Theories. It was just really confusing. I had a hard time understanding what the professor was talking about. It was the lowest grade that I ever got here. 
Obs: What's your biggest pet peeve? 
JP: I already have too many. I'll say someone that talks a lot, that's always bragging. It gets on my nerves. 
Obs: Which teammate is all talk and no walk? 
JP: Oh, you're putting me on the spot. 
Hm ... All talk and no walk ... I'll probably say Ty Nash, because that's my boy. He's always saying what he's going to do but he never does it. 
He always says he's going to shoot in practice, but he never does it, he never shoots. 
Obs: Favorite video game? 
JP: NBA Live. 

Obs: Best piece ofadvice someone's ever given you? 
JP: My grandmother, she told me to make sure I finish college and to take care of my family. 
Obs: You, Tory Jackson and Luke Harangody have never lost at home in your careers. How do you view the home­winning streak? 
JP: We've got such great chemistry in the [Joyce Center]. We just go out and play hard. All three of us came from win­ning programs in high school. Tory won state championships. 'Gody always wants to win and I came from a great high school program. 
Monday, November 24, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 8 
Home streak a source of pride, motivation 
By CHRIS HINE Ediror-in-Chief 
When Tory Jackson was reminded that he, Luke llarangody and Jonathan Peoples have yet to lose a game in the Joyce Center entering their junior years at Notre Dame, he looked around for a piece of wood. 
"Luke Harangody, Jonathan Peoples and I talk about that a lot," the junior guard said after he knocked on a wooden table. "Our class, the junior class. We talk about it a lot ... We kept it going our freshman year and now it's junior year and it's a nice accomplishment, but hope­fully we can get out of here with it and at least I'll have some­thing to say over some .of the other players." 
For Jackson and the rest of the Irish, the team's 38-game winning streak at home, the second longest such streak in the country, is a source of pride and serves to motivate the Irish at home, especially in close con­tests. 
"It's been going on for so long that it's kind of meshed in with everything else," senior forward Zach Hillesland said. "It's not something that we put extra emphasis on, but at the same time, we really sit back and think about it and it's some­thing we're proud of and would like to see continue as long as possible." 
Senior guard Kyle McAlarney added: "It's definitely not a bur­den. I think it's something that motivates us. Every time we step on this court. we know we're protecting it. I think it gives our fans a little extra boost, too. They come in, it gets them a lot of energy and we feed off each other in this place." 

Hut the Irish nearly lost it a few times last season. Providence held a two-point lead with 22 seconds left and had just grabbed a defensive rebound, but Harangody stole the ball, was fouled and hit two clutch free throws to send the game into overtime, where the Irish won 81-74. 
The Irish were staring anoth­er loss in the face against Pittsburgh on Feb. 21. The Panthers held an 11-point lead with just under 14 minutes to play, but rallied thanks in part to a 16-point, 13-rebound per­formance from Jackson, to cap­ture the win and keep the streak alive. 
"That was definitely I think a tone-setter for the rest of the games that we 'II play in this Notre Dame's players said the support of their fans and students have propelled them to a 38-game building," Hillesland said of the home winning streak, the second longest home winning streak in the country. 
game. 

According to McAlarney, the outcome was never in doubt. 
"There was a feeling that I had that I think some of the other guys can_ attest to in the huddles that we just knew we weren't going to lose that game," McAlarney said. "No matter how many points we were down, we were going to make a come back, put our­selves in position to win. I think that has a lot to do with just playing on this home court. 
"We feel so comfortable here. We have the fans behind us. After the game, when we thought about it, it was a little like 'Phew. That was close. We almost blew it right there."' 
As much as the players enjoy the streak, they don't think about it as much as their coach does. 
"I think it's a challenge," coach Mike Brey said. "I think I get distracted by it much more than my team and that's a good thing. They see it as a confi­dence-giver. We play so well here. they love playing here. Our sixth man, our students, have been awesome here. At times, I've been a little distract­ing by it but it's all about what the guys like." 
If Notre Dame wants to keep the streak going this season, it certainly can't have an off night. Opponents on this year's home slate include No. 22 Georgetown, No. 15 Marquette, No. 3 Louisville and No. 2 Connecticut. 

"I have not put that as a goal for this group, but they have," Brey said of staying undefeated at home. "They'd like to keep the thing alive. Our schedule's so tough that for us to do it a third straight year with what's coming into this building would be a through the roof accom-
Contact Chris Hine at 
chine@nd.edu 
Rttj~.Now! 
BA.UG-30?1 0 

This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
Pe£A~ iJt£o ~ gJuilt, 'JutuJu,: 'Jht, 'I~ aJui 1NWvaiwM-1"o1ttjilvj afoAb(-<~ SocteftJ iJt, 13~, tvdh }\)~. 
.Josh Oorfrnan, Founder & CEO, Vlvavi 
'1o~i.t'jeJ, De>.tekpm.nti lJt, C<, Wo!t.U o~ .AeufeAahiVj ~~: 'Jiun«j~ bltAJm afo £vo DeNo <JrduJt~t 
John Smart. President. f,cceleration Srudies Foundation 
S~~: Pad, P~t£&eJ1t, cuvf '1~ 61t-OfVt, tt, Co"{MJtt:<ie. Vt.eA! Jean Sweer1ey, ·~ce President. 3iv1· Environmental. Health & Safetv Ooerations 
~~~g,.,.~ 

David M. Vv'aikH, President 8. CEO, F'(,'ltE-)r G. Pt::1ter.sor1 Foundation 
S~~ a.Jul Ccyw'tAlt. ~l'tMb~: 'Jiu. _MdJotuJJ:&-. Sfo1t"J 
.Jack Daly, Senior Vice Prosicient Caporato Relations. Mcf)onald's Corporation 
~,(fuM,<JW: No tv ~ Put duuu;~ i.Jl. PeltApfcf.we, a.J Su..~Ju, Cfe~ Wha.t ~ ComiluJ 
E~cJie Weiner, F\esident, \!Vener, E=drich, f3rovvn Inc. 
.~;eventh .snooker to be cJeterrninsd 
uTen Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 O,and is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and employees. There are no prerequisites 
to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Registration is available online. 


