
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND students mentor community 
Take Ten teaches conflict resolution through the Robinson Learning Center 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
As violence in schools contin­ues to trouble the American education system, Notre Dame students are visiting South Bend area schools to teach healthy conflict resolution through the Robinson Learning Center. 
The center runs the Take Ten program, a program geared toward preventing violence in South Bend and Mishawaka schools. Its mantra is "Talk it out, walk it out, wait it out," and the curriculum encourages stu­dents from kindergarten to high school to "take ten deep breaths 
see TAKE TEN/page 6 



New CSC construction underway 
After $14 million, revamped Center will be four stories high and provide needed space 
By KATE MCCLELLAND News Writer 
A quick walk across the north end of campus will show that the new year has brought more new construc­tion to Notre Dame. 
Ground recently broke on the new Center for Social Concerns building, which is projected to be finished in the summer of 2009. 
At four stories high and 64,000 square feet, the new Center will provide the much needed space and resources that the old Center -at only 11,400 square feet -lacked. 
The Institute for Church Life will be moving from its 

SMC choirs recognized in holiday com_petition 
Women's Choir, Madrigal Singers place in top 12 nationally in 'Clash of the Choirs' 
current location in Hesburgh Library to the new building as well. Additionally, 25 per­cent of the new space has been designated for future growth. 
During construction, the esc will operate from Building No. 1042, which is located behind Rockne Memorial on the west side of campus. 
In an e-mail, Jim Lyphout, vice president for business operations for the University, said the new esc will cost the University $14 million to build. Most of the funding was donated by Michael and Sheila Geddes and Thomas 
see CSC/page 6 



College alumna survives bombing 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's alumna Suzanne Seidl Griffin sur­vived a suicide bombing attack in Kabul, Afghanistan while working as senior proj­ect manager of education for the Save the Children USA program in Kabul. 
The attack took place at the Serena Hotel in Kabul on Jan. 14 and was the deadliest direct attack on a hotel in Kabul since the fall of the Taliban in 2001. 
Griffin was in the gym dur­ing the attack. 
"There was blood on the 
floor all the way to the 
kitchen. There was a lot of 
blood in the lobby," Griffin 
told the Associated Press. 
"There were shell castings outside." Last year, S a i n t Mary's awarded Griffin, a 1967 grad­uate of the College, the Humanitas Award, an award the College 
bestows on an alumna who 

see ATTACK/page 4 

courtesy Choir The Madrigal Singers perform at the annual Christmas dinner in 2006. The group was one of the 12 choirs featured recently on NBC. 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
For a few moments, mem­bers of the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and Madrigal Singers had their primetime television debut as winners of the NBC competition "Clash of the Choirs." 
Both choirs were featured on Dec. 17 as part of the four-night competition. Choir director and Music Department chair Nancy Menk heard about the com­petition through a choral Listserv and asked her choirs if they wanted to participate. 
The competition was open to any choir, from five to 500 singers, Menk said. 
"We had to choose from four or five pieces to sing, and we already had a couple of them prepared once I heard about it, so we were all ready to go," she said. 
The Women's Choir per­formed "Amazing Grace" and the Madrigal singers sang "We Wish You a Merry Christmas." 
Each of the choirs was fea­tured in the national Holiday Challenge competition and both were recognized as two 
see CHOIRS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
McAdam_s injured in accident 
Notre Dame employee hurt in car wreck 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
Longtime Notre Dame employ­ee Patricia McAdams was badly injured in a car accident Sunday while returning from the women's basketball game in West Virginia. 
McAdams, a computer support technician in the Main Building, is in critical but stable condition in Parkview Hospital in Fort Wayne, a hospital spokesman said Tuesday afternoon. She was flown to Parkview from the scene of the accident on Interstate 69 in Fort Wayne. 
Office of Information Technologies phones have been deluged with calls from people inquiring about McAdams' con­dition, A'lsociate Provost Gordon Wishon said. 
"We're just devastated to learn of the accident," said Wishon, who is OJT's chief information officer. "Patricia is such a valued member of our family and the whole Notre Dame family." 
The accident occurred just after 10 p.m. Sunday night. McAdams was standing outside her parked car, between the pas­senger's side door and the guardrail, when a passing car lost control and struck her car, The Journal Gazette of Fort Wayne reported Monday. McAdams was then struck by 
see ACCIDENT/page 4 


.--------------------------------------~~--­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rock Band 
"We're going to Best Buy sometime today," my roommate Bobby told me. 
"Why?" 
''I'm getting Hock Band." 
[jttJe did I know my life would change forever. 
I'm the guy with Bill Brink no voice who still sings Nirvana in 
Sports Production
the shower, so 
Editor
Hoek Band oll'ernd the per-feet solution to my subconscious yearn­ings to lm a superstar. 
The iclna of my voice amplified to 120 decibels -whether in Madison Square Garden or my tiny room in Fisher Hall -excited me beyond belief'. 
Once American Gladiators was over Monday night, we went to work. It took three of us 20 minutes to decipher the destinations of the myriad wires and plugs befim1 we got going, but once we did, it was glorious. 
Crnating our characters otlemd me anothnr escape from reality. My pale, skinny, 5-foot-11 frame has never exactly intimidated anyone. But my muscular 6-fiJOt-8 alter-ego, with his purplish-yellow mohawk, ripped jeans and tight black T-shirt. scams the beje­sus out of people. 
When our band. Alliteration, got its first gig, palpable tension rippled through the room. On our first song, Weezer's "Say It Ain't So," that tension crackml; we failed miserably. The crowd throw things on stage in protest. But the loss of a few fans eould not d11ter us. 
We soon masternd our respective trades, and began to rock. We now play "Say It Ain't So" bPtter than Weezer Pver eould. And don't even think about Hadiolwad's "Creep;" thanks to a cameo by our RA, who busted out 98 percent of the notes correctly, you would swear Thorn Yorke was in the room. 
Whether I pound out a beat on the drums or anchor the tune with a steady ba<>s groove or unleash a powerful ren­dition of Metallica's "Enter Sandman," I feel like I'm a part of something. I'm a cog in a gear, a piece of a puzzle, a quarter of a string quartet. If that quar­tet could replicate Nine Inch Nails flaw­lessly. 
What's more, I'm surrounded by superior talent. My friends are all more fake-musically inclined than I am, so Alliteration ha'> nowhere to go but up. We'll be taking home Electromusic Grammys in no time. 
We tore up the States-Chicago, Seattle, IA, NYC-so we took our act overseas. We hit Stockholm, Amsterdam and London and shredded them too. We won a van, played charity gigs (fi~r the kids). stole groupies and earned a manager and bodyguards. We're living the dream, playing Mark Wahlbnrg in our real-life version of Hock Star. 
Hock Band brings out the best in peo­ple. You're never so connected to some­one as when you'rn crammed elbow to elbow eranking out great tunes. 
Want proof it can elevate people to another level? I just watched my inebri­ated bandmate stumble across his room and f~tll helplessly beneath his futon. But as I write this, he's playing the drums like Charlie Watts in London. 
All in a day's work for a roek star. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Hill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comacr us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE MOST EXCITING THING YOU DID OVER WINTER BREAK? 







Saad Saffo  Grant Schmidt  Kayla Condeni  Chris Vanderhurst  Theresa Olivier  
junior offcampus  sophomore Knott  sophomore Farley  junior Knott  sophomore PE  
"! watched two whole Denzel movies.  "!got to eat Mom's cooking. There's nothing  '7 watched Ohio ,State lose.  "!got my teeth whitenedfor my upcoming  "!represented my undying love for J. T. T. at  

, ,
better. campaign. a 90s party. 
Talk about things going really wrong 
KOKOMO, Ind. -Police say a man accidentally shot himself in the groin as he was robbing a convenience store. A clerk told police a man carrying a semiauto­matic handgun entered the Village Pantry Tuesday morning demanding cash and a pack of cigarettes. 
The clerk put the cash in a bag and as she turned to get the cigarettes, she heard the gun discharge. 
Police say surveillance video shows the man shooting himself as he placed the gun in the waistband of his pants. The 
TODAY 
a: 
LLI 
::c !;;: 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c:t 
(.) 



of duties, the Marion County Sheriff's Department said Monday. 
Deputy Tucker M. Parker forgot to take James Logan back to the county jail Friday following a sentenc­ing hearing on cocaine dealing and possession charges in Marion Superior Court, said Julio Fernandez, a spokesman for the sheriff's depart­ment. 
"He completely forgot," Fernandez said. "He just forgot that the guy was in there." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



28 
13 
0 

HIGH 38 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 23 LOW LOW LOW 
28 8 
clerk wasn't injured. 

A short time later, police found Derrick Kosch, 25, at a home with a gunshot wound to his right testicle and lower left leg. He was expected to have surgery at a hospital. 
Police plan to charge him with armed robbery. 
I knew I forgot something 
INDIANAPOLIS -A court security deputy was fired and two others sus­pended after an inmate was left in a holding cell for more than two days without food. 
The three deputies were disciplined for dereliction 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

IN BRIEF 
Women's basketball will play Villanova tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. 
Hegistration will begin Thursday for instructional classes from 8 a.m. to mid­night at Rolfs SportsRec Center at the HSRC registration desk. 
Jeffrey Herbst, Provost and Executive Vice-President for Academic Affairs at Miami University (Ohio) will deliver the lecture "Why We Were Wrong About Zimbabwe" in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center Thursday at 4:15p.m. 
The lilm "Golden Door" will be shown Thursday at 7 p.m. in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center as part of "Immigration: A Notre Dame Perspective" two-part film series. Tickets are $3 for students. 
There will be a Family Guy Trivia Contest Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 in the LaFortune Ballroom. Sign-ups will begin at the door at 6:30 p.m. Test out your Family Guy knowledge for a chance to win a life-sized Stewie and a Family Guy DVD set. 
Men's and women's indoor track will host the ND Indoor Opener Friday at 5 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. Admission is free. 
Men's swimmimg will host Louisville Friday at 5 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 




HIGH HIGH 18 LOW LOW 10 
14 
-3 

Atlanta 48 I 30 Boston 35 I 19 Chicago 35 I 23 Denver 16 I 10 Houston 51 I 45 Los Angeles 69 I 48 Minneapolis 19 I 15 New York 41 I 30 Philadelphia 43 I 29 Phoenix 62 I 41 Seattle 41 I 29 St. Louis 40 I 26 Tampa 68 I 42 Washington 46 I 28 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group w-ill a111end docu111ent 
Goal is to 'refresh' student government at SMC, Hodges says 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Wri[er 
The Board of Governance Constitution may see some changes this semester in order to improve student govern­ment, chief of staff Sarita Fritzler said at Tuesday's meeting. 
In the group's first meeting of the semester, revising the document was the primary focus. 
In order to refresh the board, student body pres­ident Kim Hodges said this semester members would "take [the constitu­tion] apart piece by piece." The constitution includes the jobs and job descriptions of the board. The board will do evalua­tions and review, correct and update the docu­ment. 
Once members have made the necessary cor­rections, the document will be presented to the Constitutional Review Committee for approval. BOG must then consent to the changes made by the review committee. 
These changes are the board's attempt to improve the student gov­ernment by trying to ensure that the execu­tives and commissioners are getting their jobs done, Fritzler said. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
The First-Year Formal will be held on Jan. 26 from 9 p.m. to midnight. The dance is called Moonlight Masquerade and will be held in Haggar Parlor. Tickets are $10 per per­son and $15 per couple, and will be on sale in the Student Center during lunch and dinner hours. 

+ 
Hodges also announced that Heritage Week will be from Jan. 21-25. On Jan. 22, "History of Times," which is a lecture about how major historical events have impacted the col­lege. On Jan. 23, there will be a surprise by the Student Activity Board. Breakfast will be served in Reignbeaux Lounge on Jan. 24. On Jan. 25, there will be tours of Reidinger House and Heritage 



House. A sock hop will also be held that night from 9-11 with an ice cream bar in Student Lounge.
+ 
Student Activities Board will have breakfast in Le Mans at 7 a.m. on Thursday, SAB president Cassie Calion said. 

+ 
Cassie Quaglia, pres­ident of the Residence Hall Association, said Saint Mary's all-school formal will be held Feb. 2 at the Palais Royale in downtown South Bend. Tickets are on sale in Reignbeaux Lounge from 4 p.m. to 6 and 8 p.m. to 10 starting today. It is $10 per person and $20 for a couple.

+ 
A community Mass will be held at 4:15 p.m. Sunday in honor of Blessed Father Anthony Moreau at The Church of Loretto, said Mary Frantz, missions commis­sioner. College President Carol Ann Mooney will attend, and it will be the only Mass held on Saint Mary's campus Sunday. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at 
acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss allocation of funds 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
News Wri[er 
In a short, sparsely attended meeting, the Council of Representatives started the new semester with a discussion on the review and allocation of 
funds made by the Financial Management Board (FMB). 
The FMB, which is com­posed of all the treasurers of the organizations represented by COR, was pleased with the fiscal responsibility of all groups involved and made only sever­al small changes to its original 
plans for the spring allocation. 
"It was our job to evaluate the spending of each organization and to make sure everyone is being fiscally responsible," said junior Kadeja Gaines, the Student Union treasurer and FMB member. The group was pleased with its findings, Gaines said. 
Gaines pointed to the Off­Campus Council as an example, which returned $500 that it felt it no longer needed. In addition, the Club Coordination Council received an extra $826 and the Student Union Board received an additional $7,000. 
The money for 
the spring alloca­

"It was our job to tion comes from 
the student activi­

evaluate the 
ty fees students spending of each pay at the begin­
organization and to ning of the fall 
semester.

make sure everyone is 
being fiscally In other COR news:
responsible.,, 
+ COR mem­bers briefly dis­

Kadeja Gaines cussed attending Student Union treasurer a three-day fair in 
St. Louis run by the National Association of 

Campus Activities. About four Notre Dame students will receive a free trip to the confer­ence, which will feature presen­tations by a wide variety of com­panies. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho1@nd.edu 

Wednesday, January 16, 2008 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
also g'~.t a lot of e-mails from alums.

Choir 
Of those promos on the Web continued from page 1 site, three were featured each 
night for a few seconds on the of' the 12 winning choirs live show. across the nation. In an e-mail to Menk and the The "Clash of' the Choirs" live College, Lewis de Dios, associ­show featured five celebrity ate producer of comedy/on-air choir directors -Nick Lar.hey, promotion at NBC said, "Your Patti LaBelle, Blake Shelton, performance of Amazing Kelly Howland and Michael Grace was incredibly inspired Bolton. and beautiful." The directors then traveled The contest was fairly sim-
to  their  home­ ple,  even  
towns to create a choir to r.ornpete  "We knew the music  though they didn't know  
live on the pro­gram for the title of "Ameriea's Best Choir." The view­ already, so we made a tape using one of the students'  what to expect, Menk said. "We knew  
ers at home judged  hand-held video  the  music  
the choirs. Team Lar.hey, from Cincinnati, won the competi­ cameras in the Church ofLoretto, wore casual clothes  already, so we made a tape using one of the  
tion and $250,000 to go toward The Children's llospital of Cincinnati.  and memorized the piece. We just wore casual clothes and  students' hand-held video cam­eras in the  
The Saint Mary's choirs were not part of the live  tried to make it appealing. "  Church of Loretto, wore casual  
com petition, Menk  clothes and  
said. The Holiday Challenge was a taped contest. The winning Saint  Nancy Menk Saint Mary's choir director  memorized the piece," she said. "We just  
Mary's choirs were  wore  casual  

featured in promos that ran clothes and tried to make it during the broadcast. appealing." Menk was notified 
"If you blinked, you would shortly thereafter that their have missed it, but it was tape would be posted on the exciting to be on T.V.," Menk Web site. The Women's Choir said. consists of 37 students and 
The recordings could be tours nationally every other viewed on the NBC Web site, year. They appeared at which is where most of the Carnegie Hall in 1999, 2001 alumnae and friends of' the and 2005. They have also College saw the pf~rformanees. recorded four CDs since 1997. 
"Last time I ehechd, there were almost 3.000 hits for the 
Contact Katie Kohler 

Women's Choir," Menk said. "I 
at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

through OIT, McAdams has years.
Accident 

become known on campus as a University President Father devoted supporter of the John Jenkins presided over a 
continued from page 1 

women's basket-fully attended 
ball team. Mass for the her own car and thrown over Head coach healing of the guardrail onto the embank­Muffet McGraw "After speaking to her McAdams at ment, according to the pub­said McAdams has 12:30 p.m.
family, they would 
lished report. volunteered organ­Monday in
like everyone to pray
"She had catastrophie injuries izing trips to away the Basilica to her legs Land) multiple other games, selling pro­for her." of' the Sacred injuries," Wishon said. "After grams and helping Heart, speaking to her family, they at games for at University
Gordon Wishon 
would like everyone to pray for least a decade. spokesman
Associate Provost 
her." "She's kind of Dennis 
Wishon spent Monday with indispensable," Brown said. McAdams in the hospital. McGraw said. "There are Representatives from Notre "There's a big hole with what many people at the University Dame were with McAdams until we're doing now." who hold her dear and certainly her family arriwd from out of McGraw, who visited have her in our prayers," town that afternoon, Wishon McAdams in Fort Wayne on Brown said. said. She is not yet able to Monday, said McAdams has receive visitors. he said. been "a godsend" in helping the Contact Karen Langley 
In addition to her work team build its fan base over the at klangle1@nd.edu 
fired AK-4 7 assault ril'les work on the English as a and one man blew himself Second Language movement.
Attack 
up. The bomber killed six She worked in several aca­continued from page 1 people, one of demic posi­
whom was tions on the has made signifir.ant contri­American. west coast. butions to the College. During the "We all just sat on most recently Her.ipients are outstanding in attacks. the Seattle. After
the floor and got as
their personal and volunteer remaining peo­the death of
far as we could
accomplishments and recog­ple in the hotel her husband nized for their concern for took shelter in from any glass. We in 1999, she the interests and welfare of a gym. returned to
turned our phones on
fellow human beings, Gwen "We all just Afghanistan.
silent."
O'Brien, director of media sat on the floor Her focus relations at the College, said and got as far remains on lit-in a press release Monday. as we could Suzanne Seidl Griffin eracy and The award also exemplifies from any women and
Saint Mary's alumna 
the qualities of personal ded­glass. We children's ication, compassion, selfless­turned our health. ness and sacrifice through phones on O'Brien told social action, education and silent," Griffin told the The Observer that Griff'in reform within the communi­Associated Press. declined to do any more ty, church or world, she said. Griffin joined the Peace interviews at this time. 
According to the Corps in Afghanistan shortly Associated Press, the gun­after graduating from Saint Contact Katie Kohler men threw grenades and Mary's. She focused her at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS ~UNIVERSITY OF 31 (J ~JAI"i 11\!ILDIN<; NOTRE DA,\!1·., !NDL\N:\ 46556WNOTREDAME PJJO:>;E 574/631-5550 FM\ 574/631-5656 
REMINDER! 
2008-2009 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
MUST BE SUBMITTED BY: 
FRIDAY,JANUARY1~ 2008 
to the 

Office ofStudentAffairs 
316 Main Building 
Applications are available for downloading at: osa.nd.ed.edu or osa.nd.edu/hall-staff-opportunities/ra.shtml 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 CoMPilED FROM THE ()ssFRVER's wrRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bush: Oil prices threaten US economy 
RIYADH. Saudi Arabia -President Bush warned Tuesday that surging oil prices threaten the U.S. economy and urged OPEC nations to boost their output. His plea drew little sympathy from oil-rich Sauru Arabia, which said production levels appear normal. 
Bush and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also pressed Arab countries to do more to reach out to Israel and help achieve a Mideast peace agreement before the president's term runs out next January. Avoiding specific orders to Arab allies, Rice said the delicate question of ruplomatic relations with Israel, the Arab world's historical enemy, was "another matter and undoubtedly down the road." 
Taliban targets restaurants in Kabul 
KABUL-The Taliban said Tuesday that its sui­cide bombers would attack restaurants where Westerners eat in Kabul, an ominous new threat that forced American and European workers to restrict outings in the Afghan capital. 
The country's intelligence chief linked Monday's deadly attack on the Serena Hotel -a well­guarded, high-proftle property in Kabul frequent­ed by Westerners -to a Pakistani militant. Afghan officials arrested four people, and said they included one of the three attackers, who was disguised in a police uniform for the assault. 
The death toll in the bombing and shooting attack on the hotel rose to eight. An American, a Norwegian journalist and a Filipina who rued of her wounds Tuesday were among those killed. 
"We will target all these restaurants in Kabul where foreigners are eating," Taliban spokesman Zabiullah Mujahid told The Associated Press by telephone. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Marine not threatened by colleague 
JACKSONVILLE. N.C.-A 20-year-old preg­nant Marine who disappeared in December told victims' advocates at Camp Lejeune that she didn't feel unsafe in the presence of the colleague now wanted in her death, Marine Corps officials said Tuesday. 
Marine Cpl. Cesar Armando Laurean never violated the military protective order directing him to stay away from Lance Cpl. Maria Lauterbach, and he continued to report for work on time in the weeks after her disap­pearance, denied having any kind of sexual contact with her colleague, said Col. Gary Sokoloski, the judge advocate general officer for the II Marine Expeditionary Force. 
Tiger-attack victim left waiting for aid 
SAN FRANCISCO -One of the men mauled in a tiger attack at the San Francisco Zoo pleaded for help from a 911 ruspatcher and asked why it was taking so long to get it, accorillng to a record­ing of the call released Tuesday. 
The ruspatcher told the young man that para­medics could not come to his aid until they could be sure they weren't in danger of being attacked themselves, accorrung to the recorillng. 
One of brothers Paul and Kulbir Dhaliwal made the 911 call, though it was not immediately clear which one. 
"It's a matter of life and death!" the young man shouts minutes into the call. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Myanmar refugees flee to Fort Wayne 
FORT WAYNE -Northeastern Indiana chari­ties bracing for another wave of refugees fleeing Myanmar's repressive regime say $133,000 in grants from Catholic Charities will help provide health care to the often sickly new arrivals. 
Catholic Charities, the local State Department­approved refugee-sponsoring agency, expects about 30 refugees to arrive in Fort Wayne in early February from Myanmar, also known as Burma. 
Those arrivals will be the first of an estimated 800 to 1,000 new refugees from Myanmar who will settle in the city this year, said Debbie Schmidt, executive director of Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Fort Wayne/South Bend. 
"We have a massive amount of refugees com­ing in," said Schmidt, who was in Washington, D.C., last week to lobby for additional aid for Catholic Charities and other local agencies serv­ing the refugees. 
Romney wins Michigan primary 
Candidate's victory reinvigorates presidential campaign, fuels Republican race 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -Mitt Romney scored his first major pri­mary victory Tuesday, a des­perately needed win in his native Michigan that gave his weakened presidential candidacy new life. It set the stage for a wide-open Republican showdown in South Carolina in just four days. 
Three GOP candidates now have won in the first four states to vote in the 2008 primary season, roil­ing a nomination fight that lacks a clear favorite as the race moves south for the first time. 
The former Massachusetts governor defeated John McCain, the Arizona senator who was hoping that inde­pendents and Democrats would join Republicans to help him repeat his 2000 triumph here. Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, trailed in third, and former Tennessee Sen. Fred Thompson is making a last stand in South Carolina. 
"It's a victory of optimism over Washington-style pes­simism," Romney said in an Associated Press telephone interview from Southfield, Mich., echoing his campaign speeches and taking a poke at McCain, the four-term senator he beat. "Now on to South Carolina, Nevada, jabbed at Romney, who has on the Democratic ballot. Republicans, conservatives, Florida." poured at least $20 million With 43 percent of precincts and voters looking for a 
Minimizing the signifi­of his personal fortune into counted, she had 58.7 per­candidate with experience. cance of Tuesday's vote, his bid: "We need to prove cent of the vote to 35.9 per­McCain had an edge with McCain said he had called that electing a president is cent for uncommitted dele­those who wanted an Romney to congratulate him not just about how much gates to the Democratic authentic president, and he "that Michigan welcomed money a candidate has." National Convention. won among moderates, their native son with their Though he now has come Romney's ties to Michigan independents and support." in third in New Hampshire proved beneficial. Democrats. But fewer non­
"Starting tomorrow, we're and Michigan after winning Four in 10 voters said his Republican voters partici­going to win South Carolina, in Iowa, Huckabee said, roots factored into their pated in the GOP primary and we're going to go on "Whatever it takes, we're in votes, and more than half of this year than in 2000 when and win the nomination," it for the long haul." that group backed Romney, those voters helped him McCain declared, also in an In Michigan, with 37 per­according to preliminary beat George W. Bush. AP interview from cent of precincts reporting, results from surveys of vot­Independents and Charleston, S.C. Romney had 39.4 percent of ers as they left their polling Democrats accounted for 
Huckabee, too, already the vote, McCain had 30 places, taken for The AP roughly one-third of the campaigning in the next pri­percent and Huckabee 15.4 and the networks. He also vote, compared with about mary state, said in percent. No other led among voters who said one half eight years ago. Lexington, S.C.: "We're Republican fared better the economy and illegal Romney had a slight edge going to win South Carolina. than single digits. immigration were their over McCain as the candi­We put a flag in the ground Hillary Rodham Clinton most important issues, and date likeliest to bring need­here Saturday." He also was the only top contender won a majority of ed change. 

KENYA 

Gang m.utilates opposition supporters 
Associated Press members of a rival tribe that does not Mungiki, which means "multitude" 
traditionally circumcise. in Kikuyu, originally promoted tradi­
NAIROBI -For two terrifying The attacks do not appear to be tional Kikuyu practices, including hours, the woman crouched inside widespread, but they drive home how female genital mutilation. But in her shop, watching as a gang a fight touched off by opposition alle­recent years it has become involved attacked five men in the street, pulled gations that Kenya's president stole in extortion and murder and it also down their trousers and sliced their the election has exploded into a provides hired muscle for politicians. genitals with rusty machetes. broader conflict fueled by ethnic The recruiter called forced "cir­
"The men were screaming and say­resentments in what had been one of cumcisions" simple revenge on Luos 
ing, 'Please don't kill me, don't cut Africa's most stable nations. for attacks on Kikuyus since the Dec. me,"' the 35-year-old vendor told The Many of the mutilation victims 27 election. More than 600 people Associated Press, asking to be identi­belong to the Luo tribe of opposition have been reported killed in the fied only by one initial, K., because presidential candidate Raila Odinga, upheaval. 
she feared reprisals by the gang. say witnesses and even a recruiter "They must pay for the destruction 
In the violence that has followed for the gang itself. and the deaths," the female recruiter Kenya's disputed presidential elec­The gang, called the Mungiki, said, speaking on condition of tion, a notorious gang has been muti­draws mostly from President Mwai anonymity because the gang has lating the genitals of both men and Kibaki's Kikuyu tribe, which has long been outlawed since 2002, after its women in the name of circumcision dominated politics and business in members beheaded 21 people in a -inflicting a brutal punishment on this East African country. turf war with a rival gang. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
esc 
continued from page 1 
and Mary Cabot. and the new building will be named Cnddes II all. 
Michael Geddes earrwd his baehnlor's degree from Notre Dame and also servns as a trustnn on Notre Damn's Institute for Church Life Advisory Coundl. lie was the 2006 reeipient of the Hev. 
Edward Sorin. C.S.C., Award. 
Thomas Cabot is a grad uatn of II a r v a r d University; his youngest son graduated from Notre l>arnn. Cabot and his wife are tlw pri­mary sponsors of tho CSC's international summer snrviee initiative. in whieh Notre Damn students participate. 
Paul Horn. communieations director for the esc. said it will have an audito­rium, an improved stu­dent lounge, a chapel, a larger 
coffeehouse, increased office space for community-based research and community­based learning initiatives and also a small library space, which will hopefully become horne to a collection works on Catholic Soeial Teaching, jus­tice education and civic par­ticipation. 
Take Ten 
continued from page 1 
before you say something that hurts; take ten steps back before getting involved in a fight; and take ten seconds before using something as a weapon." 
The program -which was first a subset of the Center for Social Concerns, and later part of Hobinson Learning Center ­receives significant support from the Notre Dame community. 
"We have had a lot of really enthusiastic responses from the University, especially from the professors that let me meruit in thnir class!$," said Ellen Kycs, a Take Ten project eoordinator. 
She builds her stall' largely with Notre Dame volunteers. and is supported by professors of' all dif­limmt fields. 
"I have professors from even the business school that let me rnl:ruit," Kyes said. 
Although Take Ten uses volun­teers from other local schools, induding IUSB, Holy Cross and Betlwl, most of the volunteers are Notre Dame students partly be1:ausn of' the program's origins, but also bneause "there is a high hwel of' commitment to communi­ty service on campus," Kycs said. 
"We tend to get a lot of eollegc students from here who are interested in serving the commu­nity, and working for pnaCf\" she said. 
The program n~quires the stu­dnnt volunteers to visit various an~a schools weekly. At the high school level, the curriculum is mostly in the form of discussion, role-play and games, while at the elementary levlll, tlw students ; engage the children by reading ~ together. The curriculum, howev­' cr, changes according to the 
"The C.f.,'C staffis looking forward to settling into its new home, which will provide not only space, but a formal place ofprayer that is environmentally friendly and will allow a venue for larger events that could not have taken place previously." 
Paul Horn esc communications director 
"The CSC staff is looking forward to settling into its new home, which will provide not only space, but a formal place of prayer that is envi­ronmentally friendly and will allow a venue for larger events that could not have taken place previously," he said. 
While the temporary loca­tion of the esc might not take much getting used to, resi­dents in dorms like BP, Farley and Siegfried will have to 
made aware of the need to respect campus residents, and their top priority is the safety of the students who will travel past the site on a daily basis, Lyphout said. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 
needs of the students, Kyes said. 
"One of the things about Take Ten that we stress to the volun­teers is that it is flexible," she said. "The students have creativi­ty, and they can put some of their own input into the curriculum." 
At the end of the program, the volunteers evaluate the students' growth and receive input from the teachers. 
"The way the curriculum works, we have an evaluation process in place. We give a pre­and post-test to see if the kids are actually learning what we teach them," Kyes said. "Our research shows that we are making some changes in their minds, and the teachers think that the climate is better because of the program." 
Kyes also believes that the Notre Dame volunteers get as much out of the program as the students do. 
"One of the side effects that comes out of Take Ten is that a lot of the college student<> end up forming mentorships with the kids. They build a relationship with a child," Kyes said. 
She referrnd to a story about a group of Saint Mary's students who formed a pen pal relation­ship and wrote baek and forth throughout the year. At the end of the school year, the former vol­unteers invited the students to campus for a picnic. 
"These kids thought they would be on a two-hour bus ride. They live less than live miles away, and they had no idea," Kyes said. "A lot of these kids don't see college as a possible thing in their life. When they get to know a real live eollege student, it really broadens their horizon. That's when I thought, what a difference we can make to these kids." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
adjust to some of the prob­lems associat­ed with living next to a con­struction site. 
Lyphout wrote that resid1~nts in neigh boring buildings "will exp!Hience varying degrees of inconven­i e n c e . Construetion crews are scheduled to start early in the morning, which could make noise a problem for students. 
However, all contractors have been 

Notre Dame Football 
Annual Walk-On Tryouts 
The Notre Dame Football Program will be holding walk-on tryouts at the beginning of the spring semester. 
If you are interested: 
Pick-up/Fill-out & Return: Information Form & Medica! Forms 
Forms to be filled out are at the Reception Desk at the Football Office in the Guglielmino Complex. 
You must have the forms filled out and returned by January 18, 
2007. 

Following our receipt of all information & medical forms, we will have an informational meeting and a series of tryouts/workouts. 

) 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 12,501.11 -277.04
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 838 96 2,496 307,841,830 
AMEX 2.:ngj~l ~55.16 NASDAQ 2,417.59 -60.71 NYSE 9,172~1'7 ~267.17 S&P 500 1,380.95 -35.30 NIKKEI (Tok}'o);K. 13,p~~~~§:;:.,,.;.~g6.88 FTSE 100 (London) 6,025.60 -190.10 
COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.76  -1.32  46.55  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -2.20  -3.11  138.17  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -7.30  -2.12  26.94  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.69  -0.39  22.69  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -2.43  -0.092  3.701  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  3.085  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.85  -0.081  4.292  
5-YEAR NOTE  -2.22  -0.068  2.996  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -2.30  91.90  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -0.90  902.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.03  84.65  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  106.6350  
EURO  0.6754  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0203  
BRITISH POUND  0.5095  

IN BRIEF Supreme Court rules against investors 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court ruled Tuesday against investors who sue businesses that help manipulate stock prices of publicly traded companies. 
In a 5-3 decision that split along conserva­tive-liberal lines, the court gave a measure of protection from securities lawsuits to suppli­ers, banks. accountants and law firms that do business with corporations engaging in securi­ties fraud. 
The ruling comes at a pivotal point for a sim­ilar class-action lawsuit covering more than a million shareholders who invested in scandal­ridden Enron Corp. Stockholders in Enron, once the nation's seventh-largest company, are seeking more than $30 billion from Wall Street investment banks, alleging they schemed with Enron to hide its financial problems. "This is a very anti-investor opinion and it could severely impact the ongoing Enron case," said Patrick Coughlin, lead attorney for Enron investors. 
Retailers experience decline in sales 
WASHINGTON -Consumer spending, the critical bulwark that has kept the country out of recession, is showing signs of cracking. Retail sales plunged by 0.4 percent last month as consumers handed retailers their worst Christmas in five years. Consumers have been battered by a sinking housing market, rising unemployment and the credit crunch. 
The Commerce Department's sales report Tuesday was just the latest in a string of weak­er-than-expected numbers that have econo­mists worried that the current economic expansion, now in its seventh year, could be in danger of faltering. 
Analysts said the worry is that all the prob­lems weighing on the economy could prompt consumers -who account for two-thirds of economic activity -to sharply limit or even stop shopping. Already, consumer confidence has slipped significantly amid the oil price spi­ral and the continuing housing slump. At the same time, some of the nation's biggest finan­cial institutions have reported billions of dol­lars in losses stemming from a meltdown in the mortgage market. 
Citigroup reports $10 billion loss 
Company suffers worst deficit in history; economic data suggests impending recession 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Bad bets on mortgages drove a $10 billion loss for Citigroup Inc. in the last three months of 2007. the worst in its 196­year history, adding to a wave of weak economic data pointing toward a recession. 
The nation's largest bank also announced Tuesday it had cut 4,200 jobs and slashed its dividend, and the poor performance forced Citi to turn to foreign investors for an infusion of cash. 
The news helped drag the Dow .Iones industrial aver­age down more than 277 points and wiped out almost $10 billion in market value in Citigroup stock alone. Shares in the bank skidded 7 percent to a new five-year low. 
The biggest hit came from a $1 9.1 billion writedown in the value of the bank's investment portfolio. But it also set aside $4 billion Tuesday to cover anticipated losses on loans to U.S. con­sumers -a sign that deflat­ed home prices, high energy and food costs and rising unemployment are making it difficult for many cus­tomers to keep up with their payments. further this year and by a mortgage and housing quarter results were "unac­
The grim report came on similar amount in 2009. industries. ceptable." He said he had a day when the government That led some analysts to Citigroup added to the not finished his review of reported that retail sales fell predict more writedowns total Tuesday by saying it whether Citigroup's Smith in December and invento­this year. New CEO Vikram had cut 4.200 jobs in the Barney brokerage unit or ries of unsold goods piled up Pandit acknowledged as fourth quarter, on top of other parts of the global at manufacturers and much, saying "the environ­17,000 layoffs announced in bank's operations should be wholesalers, signs that con­ment continues to be uncer­the spring. And Crittenden sold, or other once-unthink­sumers are pulling back tain" and that the company's said more job cuts are com­able changes ordered. their spending. future results "will definitely ing. Pandit also said Citigroup 
Citigroup's chief financial be influenced by the econo­Most of the cuts have would continue to sell "non­officer, Gary Crittenden, my." been, and likely will contin­core" assets. The bank has startled analysts on a con­Besides the housing ue to be, traders and already sold shares in ference call by saying the slump, economists are investors in markets and Redecard, a card business in bank doesn't expect the growing more worried banking ·-the main source Latin America, and an own­housing industry to stabilize about the snowball effects of of the bank's losses. ership interest in a unit of anytime soon. He predicted a shaky job market, exacer­Pandit, who replaced the Japanese brokerage already slumping U.S. home bated by the loss of tens of Charles Prince as CEO in Nikko Cordial it bought last prices could fall 7 percent thousands of jobs in the December, said the fourth-year. 

Indy Mac to lay off 2,403 employees 
faces a lack of demand for home loans The lender posted a loss of $202.7 
Associated Press 

on the secondary market and tighter million during the third quarter ended 
LOS ANGELES -Mortgage lender access to capital due to the credit Sept. 30. IndyMac Bancorp Inc. said Tuesday it crunch that followed the collapse of the IndyMac -which primarily originat­will slash its work force by 24 percent, subprime mortgage market in August. ed alt-A loans for customers who can­laying off 2,403 employees in a bid to Perry noted the company has "a sig­not provide documentation like tradi­cut costs as it tries to weather the wors­nificant capital cushion and strong liq­tional, prime borrowers -has come ening housing slump and sagging uidity" but needs to keep costs down under increasing pressure like other demand for home loans. because it bas been unable to sell its lenders as delinquencies and defaults 
The job cuts include a significant prime jumbo home loans on the sec­among mortgages rose in recent reduction in temporary vendor staffs, ondary market and must keep them on months. mainly in India, the Pasadena-based its balance sheet. Because of the rising delinquencies, company said. IndyMac said it would take a pre-tax investors shied away from purchasing 
'This action is clearly painful, but it is charge to earnings for severance and mortgages in the secondary market. necessary in our drive to return other expenses related to the work Lenders like lndyMac rely on secondary Indymac to profitability soon," Mike force cuts of about $25 million in the markets to replenish capital to origi­Perry, IndyMac's chief executive, said in Iirst quarter, among other charges still nate new loans. a memo outlining the layoffs to employ­to be determined. As of Sept. 30. IndyMac had about ees. The company expects to save $136 $366 million in nonperforming loans in 
The latest round of layoffs follows a million annually in labor costs, in addi­its held-for-sale portfolio and another reduction of about 1,600 workers last tion to other savings from vacated office $463 million in other portfolios. year through voluntary resignation. space. Last month, Perry said in a statement The company ended 2007 with a work "The bottom line is that these savings that he expected the company to report force of9,938. are essential in our drive to return a loss in the fourth quarter and was 
The lender said the job cuts were lndyMac to profitability soon," Perry hoping it can be profitable again by the necessary because the company still said. second half of next year. 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 

page 8 The Observer + NATI0 NAL NEWS 
New Trump tower's construction stopped 
New York buildings commissioner halts building's progress after a worker plummets 40 stories to his death 
Associated l'ress 
NEW YOHK Donald Trump introduced the gleam­ing Trump Sollo on his TV show "The Apprentice" and hosted a red-carpet press event in the half-built sky­scraper four months ago, announeing that it was already a big suceess. 
Behind the glitz and fan­fare. though, there were problems. Neighbors strongly opposed the 46-story tower from almost the beginning, calling it an eyesore and complaining that the con­struetion crews were care­less and slop­py. 
Then on Monday, a 
The victim was identified as Yurly Vanschytskyy, whose age was not available. Two other workers were hospital­ized with serious injuries. The accident happened when forms used to pour concrete somehow gave way while a crane was helping with the job. 
The workers were doing what amounts to some of the most dangerous work any­where -toiling with heavy equipment hundreds of feet above the city. A man wash­ing windows late last year miraculously survived after plunging almost 500 feet 
after a scaf­
folding eol­
lapse. 
The site was 

work or cordoned off
"We've been hearing 

plungnd 40 with yellow
complaints ofshoddy

stories to his police tape death whilP construction Tuesday, and pouring eon­the building
practices. This was a 

eretn; tlw city was being
rush job." 

illllll(~diat.ely secured before halted work residents were 
on tlw tower. Sean Sweeney allowed into "They will nearby struc­
SoHo Alliance director 

not bn allowPd tures. to go baek to For the ones work until who opposed they've the building all d«~monstrated to us what along, the cause of the acci­they're going to do to keep dent seems obvious. this site safe," Buildings "We've been hearing com­Commissioner Patricia plaints of shoddy construc­Lancasu~r said Tuesday out­tion practices," said Sean sidn the building. "Because Sweeney, director of the even one tragedy is too Sollo Alliance, which unsuc­many. cessfully sued to stop eon­
struetion from starting. "This was a rush job." 
Harry Pincus, an artist and illustrator who lives down the street from the Trump building, said work was pro­ceeding •at breakneck speed" in order to put 40­plus stories up before neigh­borhood opposition could stop them. 
The Trump SoHo project received several violations in the last year, although Lancaster acknowledged it's common for big building projects to receive numerous citations. 
In one case, neighbors reported that a crane hoist­ing steel rods swung and hit a nearby building. In anoth­er, a neighbor said a crane hit her building and broke a window. Last month, the builders were cited after a neighbor said a erane acci­dentally dumped cement on a neighboring property. 
The new Trump tower on the western edge of the artsy Sollo enclave has been con­troversial from the start, in part because it is several times the height of surround­ing industrial structures. 
Sehed uled to open in spring 2009, it is being mar­keted as a condo hotel. Buyers of the units will be permitted to stay in them for no more than 120 days in a year; the rooms will be rent­ed to hotel guests the rest of the time. 
The arrangement was negotiated with city officials because new apartment buildings are prohibited by the area's zoning, but hotels are allowed. 
Foes have sued to chal­lenge the building's hybrid ownership structure, fearing that it could set a precedent for similar projects and ruin the feel of 
crete subcontractor while working with authorities to determine the cause of the accident. 
Hovis was the main con­tractor handling the disman­tling of a former bank build­ing across from ground zero that caught fire in August, killing two firefighters. 
Trump him­
self is accus­
tomed to 

the neighbor­problems with
"They will not be 
hood. the brash,
allowed to go back to
The project boundary­is a joint ven­work until they've pushing con­ture between struction
demonstrated to us 
the Trump projects he
what they're going to
Organization has built and New York­do to keep this site among his based develop­Nflw York
safe. Because even one 
ers the neighbors,
tragedy is too many."
Bayrock Group and even LLC and the seems to revel S a p i r Patricia Lancaster in the opposi­Organization. tion.
buildings commissioner 
Trump's A t company sells September's the right to caten~d news use his name on luxury con­conference, the developer dos around the world, but boasted that there were Bayrock's executive vice already 3,200 applications president, Julius Schwarz, for the Sollo building's 400 has said that the Trump units, which will range from Soi-Io is a partnership and 422-square-foot studios to a not a licensing deal. "presidential suite" taking 
Bayrock and the Trump up the three top noors. organization referred calls Across the street from the Tuesday to general contrac­media fete, 50 protesters tor Bovis Lend Lease. hoisted anti-Trump signs. 
Bovis released a statement Instead of ignoring them, Monday saying the company Trump thanked them, "for was conducting its own helping. to ..make this job so investigation with the con-successful. 

-----------------------. 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

~.&VAJO 
1\POWMENTARY BY BlllHIJT~Eg 
h·:; :'i.MlSSNAVA}~P-~0~;-:f ((tM 
==·: =~~:-,<;-~ ,... : -.. 5<··=-~t.m:r: .~:x!!;=;,,~,,~=-·-=··' ::::;,;-.:u. ~unn< , :~:'~ :::~; :_:~::,:~ :·:!::1.: ~-_;.·:· ::;.::= ::::_~,: :.; ~~~~-~---··-•·• ::: ~=,:_:=.=-:.:. ::;:,':t=N:.:,_:.·.::~.-:.:~·:,::_:~~=~; =::. ........=..r= ·. -~:.. ,·=-:\(:~. >:;~< ,:~-=,: : : : :! ,::.: ,· ;.~~;: ;~:r !!1~~ ~~·::~fll·t.:: ·:(·: ,....-: ·· :, ·:·~: ~-u~:;~~-:<": r=r.:;¥:j;~J lr~ ... 'r=~ff!?.~:~~=~: > .. ,-::·:=.:= r;..,hX~->m~::, :-{~·~:= }, :_,_,_,:, =~-= _., '-==-= ''i~==d_,-, · ,.. '\ :.::_:(Hf:;··~ 
TICKETS: $3 FOR STUDENTS AND $5 FOR FACULTY/STAFF • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Upcoming World View Events  10 f}uestions for the Dalai lama February 1 Director Rick Ray will discuss his film Cosponsored with Kroc Institute for Peace, Center for Ett;ica! Education, and DeBartolo Performing Arts Center  Desert Bayou February 22 Director Alex LeMay will discuss 11is film  The Kite Runner March ·· 4  Blood Diamond April3 Cosponsored with Center tor Soc;a/ Concerns  
~UNIVERSITY OF WNOTREDAME Office of the Pre.•ident  p;'c;.~~ D E B A R T 0 l 0 ·~f'\;)11' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER  

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
Freedom in decline, survey says 
World study shows 2.4 billion people in 56 countries are not free 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Freedom declined in 2007 for a second consecutive year as 36 per­cent of the people in the world -about half of them in China -were not living in freedom, according to a sur­vey by a private democracy watchdog organization. 
Nearly four times as many countries showed significant declines during the year as registered improvements, the New York-based Freedom House reported. While the number of countries judged not free declined by two to 43 last year "there were many and overwhelmingly negative changes within countries already designated not free," the survey found. 
The number of' countries judged free stood at 90, rep­resenting 4 7 percent of the world's 193 countries, and those considered partly free stood at 60, or 31 percent. 
Those found not free accounted for nearly 2.4 bil­lion people, about half of them living in China. 
Expectations of government concessions on human rights or modest democratic reforms in advance of the 2008 Summer Olympics did not pan out in China, where the regime continued to crack down on political activists, Internet journalists and human rights lawyers, the report said. 
Reversals in freedom were seen in one-fifth of the world's countries, including Pakistan, Kenya, Egypt, Nigeria and Venezuela. One country, Mauritania, joined the list of democracies, while three, the Philippines, Bangladesh and Kenya, dropped off it. 
Two countries, Thailand and Togo, were upgraded from not free to partly free. 
South Asia, the former Soviet Union and the Middle East did particularly poorly, giving "an alarming signal about the development of freedom worldwide, some­thing formerly viewed as inevitable," said Jennifer Windsor, executive director of Freedom House. 
Four stark reminders of the perilous condition of freedom were singled out: 
-Parliamentary elections in Hussia were held under patently unfair conditions. 
-Democracy in Georgia was sullied by imposition of a state of emergency and a vio­lent police crackdown on demonstrators. 
-In Pakistan, Benazir Bhutto was assassinated, and terrorism by Islamic extrem­ists rose. 
-In Kenya, hundreds were killed in rioting in the wake of "highly credible reports of vote-rigging by the govern­ment" in the country's presi­dential election. 
in Hussia, political parties 

and candidates who chal­lenged President Vladimir Putin were sidelined, and the news media, largely con­trolled by the state and Putin's supporters, gave over­whelming coverage to the president and his allies while the opposition was kept frag­mented and tame. 
Using its enormous oil and gas resources, Hussia exerts influence in former Soviet republics, providing political, moral and material support to authoritarian regimes that dominate Central Asia, the report said. 
Three of the countries in the region, Belarus, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, have consis­tently ranked among the world's most repressive soci­eties, Freedom House said. 
Modest gains in the Middle East, where President Bush focused his hopes for demo­cratic change, carne to an end last year, the report said, with major declines in both the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli-occupied territo­ries. 
The Authority was down­rated from partly free to not free, due to the collapse of a unified government after Barnas took over Gaza. Israel's military incursions, restrictions on delivery of food and violent dispersal of protests led to a decline in civil liberties, Freedom House said. 
Bridge collapse caused by error 
-Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Steel 
plates connecting beams in the 
Interstate 35W bridge in 
Minneapolis were too thin by 
half and fractured, "the criti­
cal factor" in the collapse that 
killed 13 people and injured 
145, the National 
Transportation Safety Board 
said Tuesday. 

The connectors, called gus­set plates, were roughly half the l-inch thickness they should have been because of a design error, NTSB Chairman Mark Hosenker said. Investigators found 16 frac­tured gusset plates from the bridge's center span. 
"It is the undersizing of the design which we believe is the critical factor here. It is the critical factor that began the process of this collapse. That's what failed," Hosenker said at a news conference. 
What caused the bridge to collapse during rush-hour traf­fic in the early evening of Aug. 1 -"the straw that broke the camel's back," as Rosenker put it-was not yet known, he said. A final report by the NTSB was expected this fall. 
The Minneapolis span was a steel-deek truss bridge that opened in 1967. Rosenker said it wasn't clear how the design flaw made it into the bridge because investigators couldn't fmd the design calculations. 
The bridge was called "frac­ture critical," or lacking redundancies, meaning that a failure of any number of struc­tural elements would cause the entire bridge to collapse. 
Rosenker said the safety board had no evidence that the deficiencies in the Minneapolis bridge design "are widespread or go beyond this bridge." 
However, the NTSB couldn't discount the possibility of simi­lar errors in other like bridges, he said, and cautioned that states and contractors should look at the original design cal­culations for such bridges before they undertake "future operational changes." The NTSB issued a safety recom­mendation to the Transportation Department's Federal Highway Administration suggesting that the agency require bridge owners to do so. 
Transportation Secretary Mary Peters called on states to calculate how changes in bridge weight, capacity or evolving bridge conditions will affect gusset plates."With a few calculations, we can help reassure travelers that our bridges remain safe," Peters said in a statement. 
Rosenker noted that struc­tural weight had been added to the Minneapolis bridge in two major renovations, in the 1970s and 1990s. 


Inventory Reduction Sale 25%* Off Notre Dame Apparel 
*Discount applies to Fleece, Hoods, &Crewneck Sweatshirts, Outerwear, and Headwear. See Store for additional details. Sale ends on Januarv 31.2008. 


NoTRltDAME~1 

•follett 
H l G H E l E 0 U C A l 1 0 N G R 0 U P~
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK C:ENTER 


Wednesday, January 16, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

~ 

we. 
v/©[ft)lJ
Newbies now playing on www.pwc.tv/ch1 
*con nectedth inking 
© 2008 PrlcewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers'' refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limned liabilrty partnership) or, as the context requires. the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network. each of which is a separate and independent legal entHy. •connectedthinking is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Republican candidates misguided 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle Wesr 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kare Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy 
Chris !line 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DR~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7171 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ubservad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6J1-4'542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.H-4541 obsme@nd.t·du 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (>31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 6;31-5323 obsnews.l (.Vnd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 'Ports.! @'nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. 1 @nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Tht· Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid~ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vit-ws of rhc authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lcrters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contacr information. 
Quesriow rrgarding Obmwr policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hrmna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l11r ( lh'>C'rvcr {llSI'S 'i99 l ....OIMI) i• 1mhllJhcd Mu~~tl.ty duuu~h rrid~y cx..cp1 tlurinf; n::un ~ml ~~11thUI pcul4b. A suh~npuou w ·nit· Observer i~ $100 lm <lilt" .u.:adrrnk 
yc;~r;SS51munc'ICm~ci 
llu:~ Oh~rvtr •~ puhli.JlcJ Jf: POS'I MA.IiTLR llli\St~tUhDininftfl.tll St11\i .u\.Jrt'\..'l(llrfCCIII>IIS Ill: 
Nurre: (),unc, IN 16"i%·0779 Th~:t)h!t(tVt"r 
l'cnmlkal ptlollr.~c p;ud on Nunc DJmc 1~0. Bux 779 
.uul.ulditinwl nu.iling otliro. Ol"i Smuh Diumg IJJII 
Nutrc D:m1c, IN 46";'i6-!l779 

n.(' <1hwrvt:r J\ .. mcmhcr ul' rhc A\.\UCI.nal Pre.~.... All rcprudlll:liun IIKim. :uc 
l't'Jot'IVtd. 
After returning home from another wildly unsuecessl'ul Las Vegas trip two weeks ago, I had the misfortune of watehing most of the ABUFaeebook debate between the leading Hepubliean contenders. The live "mainstream" can­didates sparred f(w an hour and a half' in what looked like a eompetition for the crown of village idiot. Fortunately, ABC News decided to also indude Hon Paul, the ten-term Congressman from Texas, in order to introdueP. some rationality into the debate. 
One ineident in partieular stands out in my mind. The moderator, Charlie Gibson, said that our foreign poliey used to be based upon defensn, rathP.r than oll'ense. America would form allianees and would only 1mgage another eountry militarily with international consensus. America would not initiate hostilities; America would only attack if' attacked. I lowever, America abandoned this poliey in favor of preemptive war with the invasion of Iraq by thP Bush Administration. To use the words of the moderator, the "Bush Doctrinp," meant that the U.S. has "a right to a pn~-ernptive attack, that we ean attack if this country feels threat­ened." It was on this basis that the U.S. invaded Iraq. Gibson then asked each candidate whether his agreed with the Bush Doctrine. 
In response, Ron Paul said that he fully supported the foreign policy that helped elect Bush in 2000, namely a humble for­eign policy, no nation building, and minding our own business. In fact, he reminded the Republieans that they were very critical of Bill Clinton's involvement in Kosovo and bombing oflraq. Aecepting the Bush Doctrine would be the first time in our nation's history that 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

we accepted as our policy that we start 
the wars. 

Paul then said the real issue of the 
campaign is the nature of terrorism, 
specilieally why the terrorists hate 
America so much that they would sacri­
liee their own lives to kill innocent 
American civilians. It is not because we 
are free or prosperous. It is because the 
United States invades Middle Eastern 
countries, occupies their eountries, has 
bases in their countries and holy land, 
props up di<tatorial regimes and has 
been doing so for over fifty years. It is 
because they object to our continued 
presence and influence in their internal 
afTairs. Osama bin Laden told the world 
after Septembnr 11th that "I swear to 
God that America will not live in peace 
beforn all thn army of infidels depart the 
land of' the prophet Muhammad." Our 
bases in Saudi Arabia were the excuse 
for that day. 

But surely, no one with even half' a 
brain could object to the argument that 
U.S. foreign policy is the motivating fac­tor in terrorism against the United States'? Wrong. Every single one of' the 
other eandidates rejected this self-evi­
dent line of reasoning. Paul's comments 
snt on· a ten minute long heated but sadly 
amusing exchange in which every other 
candidate argued against the obvious. 
Mitt Homney blamed terrorist attacks not on U.S. foreign poliey, but on "radical jihad" that is trying to take down every government and replace them with radi­cal Islamic theoeraeies. Pretend that Homney is correct and the real reason that the terrorists attack Ameriea is their desire to institute Islamic theocracies around the world. If this is their goal, why then aren't they trying to bring down China, Luxenbourg or Sweeden? Indeed, how does attacking America in any way help them to institute an Islamic theocracy in America? If U.S. foreign pol­icy has nothing to do with why they attack us, then isn't atheist China a more guilty target that the U.S.? Isn't it obvious that the main targets of terrorism -the U.S., Israel, England, and Spain-were 
supporters of U.S. foreign policy in the 
Middle East? Appanmtly not. As Paul 
said later in the debate, the question 
they are unwilling to ask is why is it that 
they attack Ameriea but not others. 
Thompson dedared his support for the Bush Doctrine. Giuliani then said that Paul's analysis of the situation was "seri­ously flawed" and then stated that the terrorism threat that America faces "has nothing to do with our foreign policy" and is "completely irrelevant." Seriously. 
Paul asked them to visualizn how we would feel if China came from halfway around the world and said "We want you to live like us. We want you to have our economic system. We want bases on your land." Clearly, America would be furious, and rightfully so. Hather than respond, Homney maturely accused Paul of' "read­ing their propaganda." Hw:kabee then agreed with Romney's position. 
It is a sad testament to the Hepubliean Party that someone who says that tho threat of' terrorism has absolutely noth­ing to do with the United Statns' foreign policy could possibly be taken seriously. Not only are Giuliani and his lilllow goons taken seriously. they represent the mainstream of the party. Meanwhiln, tlw only man who actually represents the things Hepublicans routinely pay lip service to-fnderalism, free trade, low taxes, cutting spending, sound money, balanced budgets, deregulation. the Constitution, freedom and poaco -is about as popular as a wet !'art in a sauna within Hepublican Party establishmnnt. Ron Paul is too honest for his own good, and the liars around him know it. America deserves better than them. 
Mark Poyar is a senior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. lie can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF QUOTES OF THE DAY 
QUOTES OF THE DAY
News Sports Katie Kohler Jay Fitzpatrick Mundi Stirone Michael Bryan Becky Hogan Meaghan Veselik 
Graphics Scene 

"We turn not older with years, but "Not a shred ofevidence exists in 
Madeline Nies Tae Andrews 
newer every day." favor ofthe idea that life is serious. 
Viewpoint Kara King Emily Dickinson Brendan Gill American poet American journalist 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Finding happiness 
I fear for the future of our generation. For some reason it seems that it has become cool to become "chill"-to just not care. I fear that we have created a new mantra for our generation: "Shun the soul who cares too much. Relax. Put out the fire." And we wonder why, five years down the road, we feel our lives are empty as we dread Monday through Friday just to get to the glorious weekend. 
Happiness was a philosophical college dream. How often do you go on vacation from school or work, hoping that that is where you can fmd happiness? And when you come back to "real life," does it hurt when you realize that true, lasting happi­ness has evaded you once again? As you awake in your bed, it is again Monday. And you think two things: "I cannot wait to get back here. I cannot wait until the week­end." The weekend arrives and you are only saddened that it has not come sooner. Happiness? Please, I am just trying to sur­vive the week. As if we were meant to squander away our lives merely surviving. 
Where do we find this happiness that often seems so fleeting and elusive? It is not to be found in some far off vacation time on the calendar of tomorrows. Rather, it is to be found today and it is to be found within you! It is to be found in the grateful discovery and humble exploitation of the gifts that God has hardwired into your own heart. Never surrender your spirit to those unspoken, yet potent societal rules that hold you to the standard of being lifelessly "chill"-a vicious euphemism that domes­ticates our true and unbridled desires. 
The late theologian Howard Thurman once quipped. "Don't ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive ... what the world needs is people who have come alive." Let that holy fire that burns within you be visible through the song of your life. Fire spreads. So light your candle now and find that incredible life that awaits you. 
David Grabosky graduate student Fischer Apartments Jan. 13 

U-WIRE 
I want 1 Heroes' back, but I'm on their side 

I think it would be super cool to be a television writer. They get to create all the amazing shows we watch and become addicted to. You know that deep do\\-n you cannot focus on day-to-day life without having your weekly dose of "Grey's Anatomy," "Heroes," "John Stewart" or "Family Guy." Yes, there is that underlying motivation to promote the writers' cause because we so 
Jessica Dunlow

desperately need some sort of entertain­ment other than booze and homework. However, what is causing the writers' 
East Carolina 

strike? It is important to understand why 
University's

they are picketing the studios, because it 
East

inherently affects us all. According to the 
Carolinian

Writers' Guild of America, the studios are depriving the writers of these hit television shows, along with those of talk shows and late night programs, of their proper compensation considering the rise in television DVD sales, Internet promotions on iTunes and other web sources, and the networks' allowing shows to be posted on studio websites. 
According to recent news releases, Tina Fey ("30 Rock"), Tim King ("Heroes"), Seth McFarlane ("Family Guy"), Matthew Perry ("Friends") and dozens of other actors who support writers stormed the picket lines, and unfortunately, the networks are not understand­ing. Seriously? How can they not? 
The writers are the most imperative part of a television show. Without them, there would be no witty jokes, no sappy love stories and no quirky nerds stealing the hearts of the nation. Writers work their creative minds off to provide the general public with some ounce of culture, and the networks repay them by undercutting their genius with lacking compensation. 
The networks say they will not consider negotiations until the strik­ers return to work, whereas the picketers refuse to return without talking first. It is a game of chicken, and we would all like to see the writers win. The movie industry will not suffer because the studios have screenplays stacked up from years past, and they can choose from the scripts they already paid for. Even then, screenplay writers join the ranks and walk the lines. The Director's Guild of America contains numerous writers and directors walking the picket line, so it is hard to understand why they are being stubborn and refusing to talk (*cough* greed *cough*). 
Despite my desire to enter the television writing field, it is the ethi­cal obligation to side with the writers because they are underappreci­ated for their hard work, and if the actors are acknowledging them, so should the rest of us. 
In addition, regardless of the fact that it would pave a smoother way for aspiring television writers of the future, it means our shows could enjoy full-length seasons. I don't know about you, but if I have to be left hanging as to whether or not HRG and Claire find each other again on "Heroes," I am not going to be a happy camper. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 15 edition of The East Carolinian, the daily newspaper at East Carolina University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
CA~T & ~CRIPT MAKE 

ONE OF THE BEfiT OF 2007 
By T. EDWARD ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Whether talking on her hamburger phone, slurping down massive blue slurpees or puking them back up in her stepmom's favorite pottery, free-wheeling Juno MacGuff {Ellen Page) finds herself faced with the same problems as any other high-school junior stuck in suburban America: homework, gossiping girls and battling boredom. 
However, after an in-chair sexual encounter with then-boyfriend Paulie Bleeker (Michael Cera), Juno fmds herself immersed in a very adult situation, cour­tesy of a copious amount of Sunny Delite and the unanticipated results of a pregrmn­cy test: She's expecting. 
"Juno" follows its titular character as she navigates the nine months and several sea­sons of her pregnaney, dealing with boy troubles, the mean stares of high school mean girls and fmding a way to secure a future for her unborn child. 
Rookie of the year and stripper-turned­screenwriter Diablo Cody excels in her debut effort, providing "Juno's" talented and deep east with a lively, snappy script that gives every actor in it memorable lines and good material. 
Like Ms. Cody herself, in Juno she has created a larger-than-life dynamo \Nith a name to match. As Juno says while her mounting pregnancy eauses her waistline to balloon, ''I'm a planet." Everything in the film revolves around her, and Ellen Page delivers the goods as a sarcastic small­town girl with a big mouth. Although her quips and quirks project Juno's carefree attitude, Page manages to convey an inno­cence and sensitivity even as Juno compen­sates for the difficulty of her pregnancy with her over-the-top antics. She remains every bit a teenager stuck in a tough situa­tion. At times cynical, crass but always pre­cocious, Juno MacGuff doesn't take guff from anyone, but she does need the sup­port of her friends and family. 
Michael Cera continues to amuse audi­ences and make them laugh with his awk­ward on-screen antics as Juno's boyfriend Paulie Bleeker, a dedicated cross-country runner with a penehant for orange Tic Tacs and a knack for impregnating his girl­friend. Cera also manages to show some skin onscreen in sporting a pair of rather revealing short shorts to better display his pasty runner's thighs. 
Rounding out the cast are comedy sta­ples Jason Bateman and Jennifer Garner as Mark and Vanessa Loring, the yuppie couple that wants to adopt Juno's child. Garner surprises as Vanessa, delivering a convincing and earnest performance as a wannabe mommy. For his part, Bateman does well in a more serious role than his typic,al comedic fare. 
Actor J.K. Sinunons also performs well in a supporting role as Mac MacGuff, Juno's gruff. blue-collar dad who dotes on his 
da_ughter and also may have 
given her that mouth of hers. During a meet-and-greet with Mark and Vanessa Loring, the would-be adop­tive parents of Juno's unborn child, Juno replies that she would like a Maker's Mark bourbon whiskey. Seeing the shocked expression on Vanessa's face, Mac MacGutr quickly explains, "Junebug has a wonderful sense of humor. Just one of her many genetic gifts." 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Juno shakes hands with boyfriend Paulie Bleeker (Michael Cera). 
Much like last summer's blockbuster hit "Knocked Up," "Juno" takes the serious su~ject of pregnancy and manages to have fun with it while acknowledging the gravity of the situation. 
Diablo Cody's humorous but heartfelt screenplay can't help but succeed in the hands of a talented cast. With its mix of laughs, romantic comedy and touching moments, "Juno" stands out as one of the best movies of 2007. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
page 15 

10 things I love about 
Juno 
"Juno" is one of my new favorite movies and it could quite possibly crack my sacred top 10 list if it keeps stealing my heart each time I see it 
(that's three  
times so far).  Cassie Belek  
The last  
recent movie  Scene &  
to accomplish  Heard  
such a feat  
was love of my  

life Judd Apatow's "The 40­Year-Old Virgin." I knew I would enjoy "Juno"; I just was­n't expecting to fall in love with the film and all its characters. So while "Juno" fights for a spot on my top 1 0 list of favorite movies, I'll offer another list of the top 10 rea­sons why I love "Juno." 
10. Rollo, the convenience store clerk, portrayed by Rainn Wilson. Wilson is a scene steal­er even in the tiniest of roles. 
9. Juno's hamburger phone. It has to be the coolest on­screen phone since Nickelodeon's "Clarissa Explains it All." 
8. Mark and Vanessa's photos hanging in the stairwell. They are the epitome of yuppy love, and I can't quite get the image of Jason·Bateman's goofy, glee­ful smile out of myhead. · 
7. Michael Cera's legs: Talk about sex appeal. 
6. Jennifer Garner's perform­ance. Garner's portrayal of a yuppy woman wanting a baby isn't to be overlooked. She makes us love and understand her initially icy character, and she has a special knack for making me cry. 
5. When Juno is asked how far along she is, she responds, ''I'm a junior," missing the ref­erence to her pregnancy. Despite Juno's maturity, the film does well in subtly remind­ing us that she is still very much a teenager. 
4. Bren telling off the ultra­sound technician for insulting Juno. The next time someone insults me. I want Allison Janney in my corner. Maybe she could whip out some of that snappy Aaron Sorkin "West Wing" dialogue and hurl it their way. 
3. The soundtrack. With tracks from Kimya Dawson, the Moldy Peaches and Buddy Holly, the music seamlessly floats in and out of the film, setting the tone and adding a bit of whimsy. 
2. The characters' little quirks that make them all so unique: Bren 's obsession with dogs, Bleeker's addiction to orange Tic Tacs and Leah's love for old men expressed by the collage in her bedroom. 
1. Juno's profession of love to Bleeker. She lets herself feel and speaks from the heart without putting up guards or relying on her wit. Honest to blog, it's one of the sweetest "I love you's" in film. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
Juno Director: Jason Reitman Starring: Ellen Page, Michael Cera, Jennifer Gamer, Jason Bateman and J.K. Simmons 



page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
NBA 
LeBron lights up Grizzlies for 51 in OT win 
Sixers come back from 16-point second-half deficit to top Rockets behind Miller's 26 points, Dalembert's key block 
Carlos Navarro went 6-for-10 the ball. We had some bad
Associated Press 
from 3-point range on his way turnovers." 
MEMI'IIIS, Tenn. -Now this to 26 points. Mike Conley had a James had 13 points. and is thn way LPBron Janws likes to career-high 20 points, and Gibson added 10 to help go l'or hall' a hundrPd. added snVPn assists. Cleveland take a 56-53 lead at 
.lam~~s scored a spason-high The teams were tied at I 13 at hatrtirne . 51 points. including 25 in thn the end of regulation after Navarro provided a spark for fourth quarter and owrtime, to Navarro's 3-pointer with 10.3 the c;rizzlies with 11 first-hall' lead the Clnvnland Cavaliers to a seconds lnfl. James missed the points, and Gay had 10. 132-124 victory ovPr tho potential game-winner from 19 .James leads the league in Memphis Crizzlies on Tuesday feet as time expired. scoring average in the fourth night. Pau Gasol finished with 19 quarter with 9.4 points, and 
It was the fourth time the points and 12 rebounds for the down the stretch in both regula­Jpagun 's lnading-scon~r has Grizzlies, who shot 54 percent tion and overtime Cleveland had reached 50 points in his career. from the field. him running the show. In addi­
"When we win. it nHmns a lot. Cleveland shot 53 percent in tion to the 25 points in the final Every point counted tonight." winning its ninth game in the two frames, James had four said James, who is averaging last 12, and edging two games assists. 
29.8 points. ''I've lost a couple of above .500 120-18) tor the tirst "We have a fourth-quarter games scoring 50 points. and I time since the Cavaliers were 9-team right now that's playing didn't like it too much. To have 7 on Nov. 25. really good basketball," James that accomplishment, and win Daniel Gibson scored 18 for said. "We didn't get stops like the ballgamn, means a lot." the Cavaliers, and Zydrunas we usually get, but for some odd 
Cleveland improved to 2-2 in Ilgauskas added 14. Drew reason, we know how to execute games James scores 50. Gooden finished with 12 points on the offensive end. We make 
Jamns made 18 of 28 shots and 11 rebounds. plays, and we make big plays." and had nine assists and eight Memphis trailed by as many For the Grizzlies, it was anoth­rebounds as the Cavaliers hand­as 10 early in the fourth, and at er missed opportunity. Memphis ed the Grizzlies their fifth one point, James scored 10 already is 1-9 in games decided straight loss. James' career high straight Cleveland points. by three points or less. After is 56 points against Toronto in But back-to-back 3-pointers Tuesday's loss, the Grizzlies are March 2005. The 51 points by Gay followed by a James 0-3 in overtime. matched the best scoring per­turnover that led to a fastbreak "Once again, it's a tough game formance in the NBA this sea­basket by Navarro helped to get over, losing these game by son. Denver's Allen Iverson had Memphis take a 106-104 lead a couple of possessions," Conley minutes without a field goal in which dropped to 7-4 since 51 against the Lakers on Dec. 5. with 2:55 remaining. said. "I thought we fought hard. the fourth quarter to fuel Tracy McGrady went out with a 
"LeBron is fantastic," Neither team could gain much We got the game back into over­Philadelphia's comeback. left knee injury. McGrady is Memphis coach Marc Javaroni of an advantage the rest of the time. We started off overtime "It didn't look good," said expected to play against San said. "I think he's got more way, including three more ties in pretty well, but they just kept Dalembert. "But then we came Antonio on Saturday. passing ability than Magic the final 1:28 in regulation. fighting back at us and got the back with a roar." The Sixers beat Houston for (Johnson) because he can put it "We don't like having to have ball to bounce their way a cou­Rafer Alston's running one­only the third time in the last 12 on a dime and with zip. It's a a shootout," Cleveland coach ple of times." bander put Houston up 101-98 meetings. They also beat the function of his ability to score. Mike Brown said. "We've got to with 3:43 left, but Miller sank Rockets 100-88 OQnP.ec,. 10, lie allows people to get free. do a better job of finishing when Sixers 111, Rockets 107 two free throws and Dalembert securing their first series sweep lie's 6-foot-9, and he ean see." we get up big, and a better job Down by 16 points in the sec­hit one to tie the game. Alston since the 1988-89 season. 
Hudy Gay scored 30 for the of focusing in on doing the cor­ond half, the Philadelphia 76ers made a bad pass -his sixth Both teams shot well in a fast­Grizzlies, and reserve Juan rect things in terms of moving somehow forgot that they'd lost turnover -and Dalembert paced first quarter that ended seven consecutive games. dunked at the other end to put with Houston up 31-30. Alston 
Andre Miller scored 26 points, the Sixers ahead 103-101 with and Luther Head combined for Samuel Dalembert added 19 2:24 remaining. 14 points in the quarter, but points and blocked a shot in the "We stopped doing the things Dalembert hit 6 of 7 shots and final seconds, and the Sixers that got us the lead," said scored 12. one above his per­rallied in the fourth quarter to Alston. "It was a total let-up." game average. beat the Rockets on Tuesday The Sixers led 107-104 after Shane Battier and Head sank night. Dalembert scored with 35.1 sec­3-pointers early in the second 
"We found a way to finish ofT onds left. quarter as Houston stayed hot the game," said Miller, who also Luis Scola rebounded Yao and stretched its lead to nine. has six assists and five Ming's miss at the other end, but The Rockets were shooting 6 7 rebounds. "After losing that Dalembert blocked Scola's put­percent (20-for-30) with five many games, a lot of teams back try. Jguodala hit two free minutes left in the half'. would fold on this road trip. We throws with 16.6 seconds left to Head scored 16 in the first came out and played good bas­put the game out of reach. half, but Jguodala swished a 3­ketball." Philadelphia outscored pointer with 2.3 seconds left to 
Louis Williams scored 18 and Houston 37-22 in the fourth. cut the Hockets' lead to 60-55. Andre Jguodala had 17 for the "We hung together and played Houston opened the second Sixers, who also snapped a five­hard and we got something half with an 8-0 run, with game road skid. good out of it," said Philadelphia Battier's layup giving the 
"The main thing is to focus on coach Maurice Cheeks. Rockets a 68-55 lead. The the season and n1wer try to have While the Sixers were looking Sixers missPd seven of their first a really down point," said at the win as a possible turning 10 shots after the break and Iguodala. "But we had it. and point of the season, the Rockets Houston stretched the lead to it's good for us to bounce baek were chastising themselves for 83-67. and get a win like we had letting one slip away. Yao, who took only four shots tonight." "We acted like the game was in the first half. scored 13 points 
The Rockets led 83-67 in the over starting the fourth quar­in the third quarter as Houston third quarter and still seemed in ter," said Coach Hick Adelman. took an 85-7 4 lead into the final control when they led by 89-77 "We're not good enough to aet period. Miller scored 13 of the 
AP with 10 minutes left in the like the game is over." Sixers' 19 points in the third ­game. But Houston committed Yao scored 25 points and the rest of the team missed 13 of nine turnovers and went five Alston added 20 for Houston, 15 shots. 


The Observer accepts classificds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classit!eds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Nissan 98 Sentra, 164,000 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to 4 bedroom, 2 bath, Executive House available for out-miles.Great car,new clutch & campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, 1900 sq. ft. tri-level house, of-town guests of wedding, special FoR SALE brakes.Biue Book $3, 100;asking fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, 2 car garage, kitchen appliances, events,and graduation. Walking dis-PERSONAL $2,900.574-299-0351. deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. smoke and security system. lance to campus. 4 bedrooms 4 
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 baths. Sleeps 10-14 easily. Irish PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Nissan 98 Sentra, or 574-340-1844. Three miles to NO, pub/basement with pool ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 164,000 miles.Great car, move in clean condition. table.bar,pub table, and game be alone. We want to help. Call our new clutch & brakes. Large house available for 2009-tables. High·end home. Gourmet 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­Blue Book $3, 1 00; 1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet historic 2010. Full renovations completed $1600/mo during the school kitchen with granite counters. Very 800-No Abort or visit our web site at asking $2,900. neighborhood. 1 mi. to NO. Recent 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ year + utilities. tasteful house. All brick exterior. www.lifecall.org 
renovations & laundry. $500/mo. square feet,5 bathrooms. Built 1935. See website: 57 4-299-0351. 574·532-8718. MacSwain@ gmail.com 57 4-272-5453. www.irishhearthmanor.com Happy Birthday Chris Savino 
FoR RENT 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 CoMPrnn FROM THE ()ssERVERS WiRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Poll 
team record previous 
1 North Carolina 17-0 1 2 Memphis 15-0 2 3 Kansas 16·0 3 4 UCLA 16·1 s s Georgetown 13·1 7 6 Tennessee 14·1 8 7 Duke 13-1 9 8 Washington Stale 14·1 4 9 Indiana 14·1 10 10 Texas A&M 15·1 11 11 Michigan State 14·2 6 12 Butler 16·1 14 13 Marquette 13·2 15 14 Dayton 14·1 17 15 Pillsburgh 14·2 20 16 Vanderbilt 16·1 13 17 Wisconsin 13-2 21 18 Mississippi 14-1 16 19 Texas 13·3 12 20 Xavier 14·3 24 21 Miami(Fia.) 14-1 25 22 Arizona State 13·2 28 23 Rhode Island 15-2 22 24 Clemson 13·3 18 25 Villanova 11·3 19 
NCAA Women's Basketball AP Poll 
team record previous 

1 Connecticut 15·0 1 2 Tennessee 14·1 2 3 North Carolina 16·1 3 4 Maryland 20·1 4 5 Rutgers 13-2 5 6 Baylor 14·1 8 7 Stanford 14-3 7 8 California 15·2 9 9 LSU 13·3 11 10 Duke 13-4 12 
Oklahoma,, 10·3 6
11 12 Georgia 14·2 10 13 George Washington 13·3 17 14 West Virginia 12·3 16 15 Old Dominion 12·3 18 16 Ohio Stale 13·3 19 17 NOTRE DAME 13·3 14 18 Oklahoma Stale 14·1 25 19 Texas A&M 12·4 13 20 Wyoming 14·1 21 21 Auburn 13-4 22 22 Pittsburgh 13·3 26 23 DePaul 12·3 24 24 Texas 12·4 15 25 Colorado 12·3 23 
MIAA Women's Basketball Standings 

team  league  
Hope  5·0  
Albion  5-1  
Adrian  3·2  
Olivet  3-2  
Calvin  3·3  
SAINT MARY'S  2·3  
Alma  1·4  
Kalamazoo  1-4  
Tri-State  1-5  

CCHA Standings 
team league 

Michigan 13·1·0 Miami 13·3·0 NOTRE DAME 11-4·0 Michigan State 10·2·1 Nebraska-Omaha 6-9·3 Bowling Green 7·7·0 Ferris State 6·7·1 Alaska 5-8·3 Northern Michigan 6-10·0 Ohio State 3-10·1 Western Michigan 1·10·3 Lake Superior 2·12·0 
overall 
13·0 
12-2 5-8 4·8 7-6 6-7 3-8 4·9 
4·10 
ooerall 
20·2·0 21·3·0 18·7·0 14·5·3 9·12·3 10-10·0 
9-9·2 5·11-4 9·14-1 7·15·2 3·13-4 6·15·1 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duke at Florida State 
7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Barry Bonds' team should have reported concerns about the home run king's per­sonal trainer to Major League Baseball, com­missioner Bud Selig told Congress on Tuesday during a hearing on the sport's steroids era. 
Even though no players were present, unlike the theatrical March 2005 session, the names of Bonds, seven-time Cy Young Award winner Hoger Clemens and 2002 AL MVP Miguel Tejada all were raised during the 4-hour, 15-minute proceedings prompted by last month's Mitchell 

IN BRIEF 

'Pacman' Jones accused of 
hitting woman in strip club 
NASHVILLE, Tenn.-A woman is seeking an arrest warrant against sus­pended Titans cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones, claiming he punched her at an Atlanta strip club. 
Fulton County Magistrate Court offi­cials told The Associated Press on Tuesday that Wanda S. Jackson askRd lor the warrant after a Jan. 3 alterca­tion at the Body Tap Strip Club. 
Jackson, an attorney, says she was in the club's office when an angry Jones accused managers of stealing his money and bracelet. Jackson said Jones lunged at her numerous times and then "sucker punched" her in the left eye. 
Jackson did not immediately return a phone message requesting comment. Jones' attorney Manny Arora said no warrant has been issued against Jones. 
Last month Jones pleaded no contest to a disorderly conduct charge related to a strip club shooting in Las Vegas that left one man paralyzed. 
Report. 

Selig and union leader Donald Fehr sat side-by­side before a House com­mittee friendlier in tone than three years ago yet still concerned about how serious baseball is in dealing with its doping problem. 
Before any of Tuesday's testimony, which began with former Senate majority leader George Mitchell appearing for 
two  hours,  House  
Oversight  and  
Government  Reform  

Committee chairman Henry Waxman announced he and rank­ing Republican Tom Davis asked the Justice 
Department to look into whether Tejada lied to committee staffers when questioned in connection to Rafael Palmeiro's per­jury case in 2005. 
Tejada's older brother, Freddy, was killed Tuesday in a motorcycle accident in the Dominican Republic, said the Aguilas Cibaenas, the shortstop's winter league team. Tejada, who had been scheduled to play Tuesday night, wasn't at the ballpark and could 
not  immediately  be  
reached for comment.  
Since  the  release  of  

Mitchell's findings, the focus largely has been on Clemens, the star pitcher 

Trinidad and Jones to fight
in New York 
NEW YORK -Felix Trinidad and Roy Jones Jr. will be fighting more than just each other on Saturday night at Madison Square Garden. 
They'll also be fighting percep­tions that both are far past their primes. 
Jones, considered the pound-for­pound king for the better part of a decade, turned 39 this week. He showed up to a news conference at the Garden on Tuesday with a beard that made him appear much older, though he promised to shave it off when he makes weight of 170 pounds. 
He's fought just twice sincn losing an unanimous decision to Antonio Tarver in 2005, both lackluster decisions against lesser opponents. For Jones (51-4, 38 knockouts), this 12-round fight represents one last step before a potential super-mid­dleweight title bout -a road block to a ninth world title. 
scheduled to testify at a separate hearing Feb. 13, along with his former trainer, Brian McNamee, who said he injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hor­mone. 
Clemens has vehement­ly denied the allegations. 
But Bonds was brought up by Waxman, who asked Selig whether the San Francisco Giants should have reported their concerns about Bonds' trainer, Greg Anderson, and the slug­ger's alleged steroid use to the commissioner's office. 
"Of course, Selig responded. 

Duke lacrosse prosecutor
files for bankruplcy 
HALEIGII, N.C.-The disgraced former prosecutor who led the debunked Duke lacrosse rape case filed for bankruptcy Tuesday, citing more than $180 million in liabili­ties -the majority from the threat of two pending lawsuits.Mike Nifong reported $243,898 in assets of real and personal property to 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court. The filing came the same day he and other defendants were required to respond to a sweeping federal law­suit filed in October by the three exonerated players whom Nifong had falsely accused of rape. 
In the lawsuit, attorneys for Heade Seligmann, Collin Finnerty and Dave Evans accuse Nifong, the city of Durham, police investigators and others of conducting "one of the most chilling episodes of pre­meditated police, prosecutorial and scientific misconduct in modern American history." 

Learn about summer internship opportunities. 
Firmwide Information Session 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
6:00 pm -7:30 pm The Morris Inn 

Application deadline: Wednesday, January 30, 2008 Apply online at gs.com/careers. Contact your career center for further details. 
© Goldrnan, Sa~'hs & Co. 2008. All Pghts reserved. Goldman Sactts IS an equal oppor tt,nity employee. 
Wednesday, January 16, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
Fed~erer rolls in 1st rounddespiteillness 
2016 OLYMPICS 
Chicago reveals Olyinpic plans 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Organizers of the American bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics unveiled details of their plan Tuesday, promising a "spectacular" lake­front experience in the heart of the nation's third-largest city. 
Chicago's plan clusters the majority of venues in four sites near downtown and along the shores of Lake Michigan, the world's fifth-largest lake. Ninety­one percent of athletes would be within 15 minutes or less of their venues, and the Olympic stadium would be a six-minute drive from the village. 
"The plan envisions the games woven into the landscape of Chicago's century-old lakefront and in walking distance," of many cultural and entertain­ment attractions and sports facilities, said Patrick Hyan, chief organizer of Chicago 2016. 
"We believe Chicago promises a spectacular Olympic experi­ence in the center of our city, in the heartland of this great coun­try," Ryan said. 
Details of the plan -which includes 16 new permanent and temporary venues and money to make existing venues Olympic caliber at an estimated cost of $900 million -were included in a questionnaire submitted to the International Olympic Committee and released by Chicago bid organizers. 
It does not include a $1 billion athlete's village, a public-private venture officials said will be built regardless of whether Chicago gets the games. 
Chicago would hold the games July 22-Aug. 7, 2016. The para­lympics would follow Aug. 18­28. 
Chicago 2016 organizers esti­mated the games would gener­ate $2.5 billion in revenue just from domestic marketing, including sponsorships, licensed merchandise and ticket sales. Organizers would give 500,000 free tickets to Chicago school­children. 
"The people of Chicago will experience these games like no people of any Olympic city before them," said Doug Arnot, operations chief for Chicago 2016. 
As Chicago released its bid documents, details also emerged Tuesday about plans for the other six bid cities. 
Tokyo said 95 percent of its competition venues would be within five miles of downtown. Organizers in Madrid, Spain, said the eastern edge of its city would be the focus for the Olympics. There would be 15 competition venues there, and all but five of the 30 venues would be about seven miles from the city center. 
Chicago organizers said their plan for clustering the Games downtown and near Lake Michigan is unique. 
"Compact is one thing, it's where it's compact," Arnot said. "We've taken the very heart of the city and put so much of the games right there. That is unparalleled in any games." 
For example, the trip from the athletes' village to the stadium -that Ryan says during the games would be a six-minute drive because of dedicated Olympic lanes -is at most 14 minutes in normal traffic, according to the bid document. 
Besides Chicago, Tokyo, and Madrid, the other bid cities are Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Baku, Azerbaijan; Doha, Qatar; and Prague, Czech Republic. 

The IOC will whittle the seven applicant cities to an unspecified number of candidate cities in June. The IOC will select the host city in October 2009. 
Chicago's price tag is likely to grow if history is any guide. Costs for the 2012 London Olympics are now more than triple original estimates, topping $19 billion. 
The Chicago bid documents don't give a total price tag for the games, but Ryan said com­parisons to London's ballooning costs aren't fair. London is undertaking a major urban redevelopment as part of its games, including decontaminat­ing land from years of industrial use. 
"Have you been to the East End of London recently? That's been a desolate area for cen­turies. This is a rebuilding of something that is critical to London," Hyan said. 
Of Chicago's 27 venues, 22 already are built or would be temporary structures. The Olympic stadium will carry the biggest expense, costing nearly $386 million in 2007 dollars. But an unidentified developer was part of the design process, and already has committed to build­ing it for that amount. 
The questionnaire submitted to the IOC by Chicago and other bid cities covers everything from competition venues and financ­ing to security and transporta­tion. It's part of the process for the IOC to pick a host city next year. 
Chicago 2016 estimates it will spend $49.3 million in its bid process, and that assumes it will be one of the finalists chosen in June. Ryan pledged all of that money will come from private sources. 

Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE, Australia ­Sick and tired of talk about his stomach bug, Roger Federer wanted to show he was in Grand Slam form. 
He left nobody in doubt. 
The man who has had the No. 1 ranking just about glued to him for almost four years began his bid for a third straight 
Australian Open title Tuesday by doing something he had never done at Melbourne Park. 
He opened the season's first major without dropping a game in the first set at Rod Laver Arena, beating Argentina's Diego Hartfield 6-0, 6-3, 6-0. In eight previous trips to Melbourne, he had never swept the opening set. 
Federer has not played a competitive match in two months. He withdrew from the Kooyong exhibition last week after being told by doctors he had food poisoning, causing speculation about his fitness. 
"I could have maybe played on Saturday, but I didn't want all the fuss -the media, ana­lyzing my game, thinking they know best and all that," Federer said. "I took an extra day. It's tough, but I played a couple of sets out here the last few days and it's paid off." 
Unable to get his usual fine­tuning done at Kooyong, Federer had to settle for doing it in real time. He tested his entire arsenal, mixing his pow­erful backhands and forehands with some rushes to the net, and alternating serves wide and down the line on the new blue surface. 
"Everything was working per­fectly," said Federer, who is 26­1 in the last four Australian Opens and has figured in the last 10 Grand Slam finals. "I never expect a result this extreme obviously, but I was playing well in practice, moving well, serving well, and condi­tions were perfect." 
Just before Federer went on court, things turned violent among spectators during a match between Greece's Konstantinos Economidis and seventh-seeded Fernando Gonzalez of Chile, last year's losing finalist. 
Tournament officials said play was interrupted for five min­utes while police subdued three people with pepper spray. Five were evicted and banned from the venue for at least 24 hours. 
Wimbledon champion Venus Williams played her first match in three years at the Australian Open. She downed China's Yan Zi 6-2, 7-5 but hit 29 unforced errors and only 19 winners. 
"Errors happen," Williams said. "That's tennis." 
She was a first-round loser in 2006 and missed last year because of injuries, watching from a distance when sister Serena made a stunning run to the title. 
Serena Williams, unseeded and ranked No. 81 when she beat top-seeded Maria Sharapova in last year's final, plays Wednesday in the second round against China's Yuan Meng. 
No. 5 Sharapova has the toughest second-round match of the highly ranked players, facing 2000 Australian champi­on Lindsay Davenport in the night match on center court Wednesday. 
Davenport is in her first Grand Slam and only fifth tour­nament since returning to the tour following the birth last June of her son. She needed three sets to beat Italy's Sara Errani in the first round and extend her record to 19-1 since her comeback. 
No. 1 Justine Henin will open on center court against Olga Poutchkova. No. 10 Marion Bartoli, the only player to beat Henin in the last six months ­in the Wimbledon semifmals ­was the highest of four seeded women players ousted in the first round Tuesday, losing to Sweden's Sofia Arvidsson. 
Advancing were No. 2-seeded Svetlana Kuznetsova, No. 4 Ana lvanovic, No. 6 Anna Chakvetadze, No. 9 Daniela Hantuchova and No. 14 Nadia Petrova. 

A Great Cloud ofWitnesses: Saints in the Catholic Tradition J~nuary 18-19, McKenna Hall 
On the occasion of the first feast day celebration of Blessed Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, this conference \Vill explore the development of the canonization process and the significance of the saints in Catholic life and devotion. 
Friday, January 18 

4:00p.m. Thinl._'ing Seriously about the Saints , Lawrence Cunningham, University of Notre Dame 
7:30p.m. A-laking Saints Kenneth Woodward, Fonner Religion Editor, 1Vewsweek 
Saturdav, Januarv 19 

9:00a.m. All Saints: The Universal Call to Holiness Ann Astell, University of Notre Dame 
I0:30 a.m. A Great Cloud ofTVitnesses Msgr. Kevin Kostelnik, Rector, Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels, Los Angeles 
2:00p.m. Blessed Basil A.foreau Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, Archbishop Emeritus of Washington, D.C. 
3:30p.m. Saints in Everyday Life Robert Ellsberg, Editor, Orbis Books 
On Sunday, January 20, Cardinal McCarrick will preside at the Eucharistic liturgy at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 10:00 a.m. 
"By canonizing smne ofthe faithful, i.e., by solemnly proclaiming that they practiced heroic virtue and lived in fidelity to God's grace, the Church recognizes the power ofthe Spirit of holiness within her and sustains the hope ofbelievers by proposing the saints to them as models and intercessors." (Catechism ofthe Catholic Church, #828) 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

Balanced attack helps Hawks hold off Nuggets 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -After Denver's big three was reduced to one, the Nuggets' big comeback against Atlanta ended. 
Carmelo Anthony, Allen Iverson and J.H. Smith com­bined f'or 84 points, but Iverson and Smith wPre ejected with 
38.9 seconds left and the Hawks held of'f a late rally by the Denver Nuggets for a 104-93 victory on Tuesday night. 
lvnrson was railed for turnovers on consecutive pos­snssions in the last 90 seconds, the second with 38.9 seconds left and Atlanta's ltmd down to 8 at 101-93. 
Iverson. who argued that he was routed on each play, protested to ofl1cials and was ejected by official John Goble. Smith joined the argument after the second call and was ejected. 
"I thought it was two no­calls," Iverson said. "I was upset about it. At that juncture or the game, those calls mat­tered. Once you take those two possessions away from us and at the time I didn't think we had the opportunity and I just react­ed the way I reacted." 
Smith caused a stir in the stands when he threw his head­band and jersey into the crowd af'ter leaving the court. 
Anthony scored 36 points, Iverson had 27 and Smith 21. Only two other Denver players scored. Denver had been 12-2 when Anthony scored 27 or more. 
The Hawks won with superior balance. 
Joe Johnson led Atlanta with 22, including 17 in the first half. Marvin Williams scored 19 and Josh Childress 17 as six Atlanta 
players scored in double fig­
ures. 
"We're playing well," Williams said. "We're playing together." 
Iverson appeared to be pushed by Atlanta's Anthony Johnson when he was called for the lirst turnover with 1:27 left. Iverson protested the call but didn't draw a technical. He earned two technicals when arguing his second turnover, again whlm guarded closely by Johnson. 
"It's an obvious push in the back," Iverson said. "Two pos­sessions. I watched it on film. Obviously, two shoves in the back. H's a good thing for their team, they got away with it. I'm pretty sure they're pretty happy about the way those two plays ended." 
Denver coach George Karl said at least one of Goble's turnover calls against Iverson was bad. 
"He got bumped out of bounds on the first one," Karl said. "I don't know about the second one. 
"It was just a young referee made a judgment call that we didn't gain an advantage on. I think the first one made him not call the second one. It's kind of human nature." 
Denver trailed by 25 early in the third quarter but cut the lead to 101-93 on Anthony's fallaway with 1:50 left. 
"A.I. and Carmelo are great players," Childress said. "You know they're going to get theirs, so you have to limit everybody else." 
The Hawks (17 -17) have two straight wins since commission­er David Stern ruled Friday 


NFL 
Carter, Green among Hall of Fa111e finalists 


Associated Press 
CANTON, Ohio -Cris Carter and Darrell Green are finalists in balloting for the Pro Football llall of Fame in their first year of eligibility. 
Carter, a star wide receiver for the Eagles and Vikings, and Hndskins cornerback Green are among 17 finalists who will be considered for nlnetion on Feb. 2, 2008, the day before thP Super Bowl. 
Carter spent 1987-89 with Philadnlphia, then 1990-2001 with Minnesota before ending his career with a season as a Dolphin. In 2000, he became the second player in NFL his­tory to catch 1.000 career passes, behind only Jerry Rice. He finished his career with 1,101 receptions, second on the all-time list; had 130 TD catches, also second; and gained 1,000 yards receiving in eight straight seasons. Carter was a member of the NFL's 1990s all-decade team. 
Green spent all 20 of his seasons in Washington, tying a league record with one team, and played 295 games after being a first-round draft pick in 1983. lie holds the NFL mark with at least one interception in 19 consecutive seasons and made 54 inter­ceptions overall for 621 yards and six TDs. Considered one of the best shutdown corner­backs in football, he also was one of the league's fastest players and a first-rate punt returner. Green also was on the NFL's 1990s team. 
The other finalists, of which a minimum of four candidates and a maximum of seven can be chosen, are 12 modern-era players. They are defensive ends Fred Dean and Richard Dent; linebackers Randy Gradishar, Derrick Thomas and Andre Tippett; guards Russ Grimm, Bob Kuechenberg and Randall McDaniel; punter Ray Guy; wide receivers Art Monk and Andre Reed; and tackle Gary Zimmerman. 
The contributor finalist is former commissioner Paul Tagliabue. The Senior Committee nominees, announced last August, are Chicago Cardinals back Marshall Goldberg and Kansas City Chiefs cornerback Emmitt Thomas. 
To be elected, a finalist must receive a minimum of 80 percent of the 44 votes. 

they must replay the final 51.9 seconds of a Dec. 19 game against the Miami Heat on March 8. 
"As far as I'm concerned, we're over .500," said Hawks coach Mike Woodson. "We'll deal with that in March." 
Woodson's only complaint was his team's sluggish finish against the Nuggets. 
"We have to learn how to fin­ish games strong," he said. "I thought we had some slippage down near the end." 
There were two ties in the opening minutes but Atlanta never trailed. 
Marcus Camby's jam cut the lead to 12 at 97-85 with 4 min­utes left. Anthony Johnson, who had 13 points, and Josh Smith answered with baskets for Atlanta. 
The Nuggets were short­handed and potentially distract­ed. Teammate Nene underwent surgery Monday in Denver to remove a testicular tumor. A biopsy will determine if it was cancerous. 
The Nuggets also were with­out starting forward Kenyon Martin, who returned to the team hotel after having a staph infection on his buttock treated before the game. 
"We gotta deal with what we got," Iverson said. "Nobody's gonna feel sorry for us and we can't feel sorry for ourselves. We understand that we're in a tough situation right now but if we stay together then we can get out of it." 

Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residences 
Thursday, January 17, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Law School Courtroom 
OR 

Wednesday, January 23, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Fischer Community Center 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit http://osa.nd.edu/ 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Garrett tneets again for Ravens job 
Associated Press 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. ­Dallas Cowboys offensive coor­dinator Jason Garrett spent more than six hours Tuesday interviewing for the head coaching job of the Baltimore Ravens, but left the team's training facility without filling the vacancy. 
The 41-year-old Garrett was the first person to receive a sec­ond interview for the job, which became open when owner Steve Bisciotti fired Brian Billick on Dec. 31. 
"I had a really productive day today," Garrett said. ''I'm going to continue through this process I'm in right now and at some point we'll make some decisions on both sides." 
Garrett met with Bisciotti, team president Dick Cass and general manager Ozzie Newsome. 
Ravens spokesman Kevin Byrne said, "We had a good day of interviews. It's the start of the second round. We have more interviews for the second round later on in the week." 
Neither Garrett nor the Ravens said a contract had been placed on the table, or that the Cowboys had offered a counterproposal. 
"It was a great day. I had a chance to start this process last week, and was excited to come back and visit again," Garrett said. "It's been an exciting time for me to be here." 
Newsome declined comment, and Bisciotti was not made available. Newsome will be out of town Wednesday, and inter­view sessions could resume as soon as Thursday. 


Cowboys offensive coordinator Jason Garrett met with Ravens team officials for the second time on Tuesday. 
For the first time, NASDAQ wi!i hold a remote closing bell ceremony on a college campus. 
See it live on March 27 dunng HISE Vi II, the world's largest student investment forum. Join the biggest names on Wall Street and the brightest young minds in finance at an extraord:nary moment telecast around the world. 
Co~ sponsored by the University cd Dayton and the United Nation~ Global Compact. 
UNIVERSITY of 
DAYTON 

Garrett has attracted interest from the Ravens because of his success in Dallas. In his first season as the architect of the Cowboys' offense, Garrett directed an attack that ranked second in the NFL with 455 points. Quarterback Tony Romo set franchise records with 36 touchdown passes and 4,211 yards passing. 
The Ravens, meanwhile, are looking to cure a stagnant offense that this season ranked 22nd in total yardage and was 24th with 17.2 points per game. In nine years under Billick, the Ravens never ranked higher than 14th in total offense. 
Dallas was third in total offense this season, averaging 
365.7 yards per game. But the Cowboys averaged only 10.5 points in their final four games, including a 21-17 playoff loss to the New York Giants on Sunday that took the luster ofT Dallas' 13-3 record during the regular season. 
Garrett began his second interview with Baltimore on Monday night. He arrived at the team's training complex Tuesday morning with his wife, Brill, and spent much of the day negotiating a deal. 
Garrett has connections to members of the search commit­tee. He and Cass are Princeton graduates. And Garrett's father, Jim Garrett, coached vice presi­dent of football administration Pat Moriarty, when Moriarty was with the Cleveland Browns. 
The Ravens are also interest­ed in Philadelphia Eagles sec­ondary coach John Harbaugh, who was a finalist for the UCLA job that went to former Ravens offensive coordinator Rick Neuheisel. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
WVU to investigate missing documents RODRIGUEZ 
.3 Thi~qs ~ou dont have 
AHC t:.ANT J3UY/
~--· ···'~ -······· 
1-INTEGRIT 
~-RESPECT~~ 3-CLA ~J 
AP A Mountaineer fan protests Rich Rodriguez's departure from West Virginia at the Fiesta Bowl. After the former coach left for Michigan, 
several football files disappeared. 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. ­West Virginia is investigating the disappearance of records associated with the school's football program, a topic the agent for former coach Hich Rodriguez says will be addressed in court documents when the time is right. 
Citing anonymous sources, The Charleston Gazette report­ed Tuesday that files kept in Hodriguez's private office disap­peared between Dec. 16 and Jan. :3, along with strength and conditioning records from the weight room. 
Assistant athletic director Mike Fragalfl told The Associated Press some Iiles are missing but that he does not know what was in them. The athletic department won't have any further comment until its investigation is finished, he said. 
The newspaper report claimed the missing documents included players' personal con­tact information, scholarship payments and class attendance records, as well as strength and conditioning records and photo­graphs that tracked players' physical progress. 
WVU is suing Rodriguez, who accepted the head coaching job at Michigan last month, to col­lect on a $4 million buyout clause in his contract. A response is due in about a week, and agent Mike Brown told The Associated Press late Tuesday that's when his client will respond to most of the accusations in the newspaper report. 
The report has "a lot of misin­formation and untruthful state­ments," Brown said. 
Brown denied Rodriguez kept a personal file on each player and that a strength coordinator took photos of them. Every time players were tested. he added, "those records were given to the head coach and every assis­tant coach." 
That means current head 
coach Bill Stewart should have copies. 
"Regarding the class atten­dance records, I sure hope that West Virginia's compliance and academic office keeps those records because if they don't, they have serious institutional control problems," he said. 
Brown said the university also should have any records involv­ing the finances of the summer camps it ran. 
lie declined to answer ques­tions about whether Rodriguez removed or destroyed docu­ments. 
"There's a process that's now in place that has to be followed" because of the litigation. Brown said. "There is an appropriate time we can make comments and statements in regard to the allegations in the lawsuit and the allegations and statements that have been made by individ­uals in West Virginia." 
Those individuals, he noted, include both Gov. Joe Mancl1in and WVU president Mike Garrison. 
After Rodriguez resigned, Manchin blamed "high-priced agents" for the departure of a West Virginia native who had said his lifelong goal was to coach at his alma mater. 
Since his departure, relatives of Rodriguez say they've been harassed and threatened. His mother, Arleen, said the coach's home was also vandalized. and dozens of groups devoted to her son's downfall have appeared on the Facebook social net­working site. 
Feeding fan fury is that after seven seasons in Morgantown. Rodriguez raided the Mountaineers' program, taking assistant coaches and perhaps reeruits with him, as well as the six-member strength and condi­tioning staff. 
Several wealthy football boosters claim there was behind-the-scenes tension between Rodriguez and the WVU administration, but the coach has yet to publicly dis­cuss the matter. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
NASCAR 
Dale Jr. ready for new season with Hendrick 
Associated Press 
DAYI'ONA BEACI I, Fla. -Dale Earnhardt .Jr. is aln~ady fnnling thn prnssure, and the season has­n't flVeJl started. 
As his winless stn~ak nnars two years, NASCAH's most popular drivnr knows lw must produeo in his nnw llendriek Motorsports ridn. 
Anxious about the new job and the pressuro of driving for the ditn team, l·:arnhardt showed up a wonk early at prnseason testing just to talk to his rww teammates. 
Back this week to actually drive his No. 88 ChovroiPt, Earnhardt went right to work. I lis singln lap speed of 185.820 mph on Tunsday morning easily bnttnn~d tlw mark of 184.782 mph set by teammate .limmiP Johnson in last wnek's session, and Earnhardt was 1Oth fastest when dral'ting bngan in the allnrnoon. 
"I just like running up front evnry week," he said. "I like going to tho racetrack and boing ... toward the top of tho chart, at least on tlw len side of the page in praetiees." 
It's a good start to a fresh sea­son. one without the drama that engulfed him last year when he publidy sparn~d with stepmother Teresa. llis unhappi1wss was painfully evident this time last year, when he used his media availability sossion at testing to reveal their relationship "ain't no bod of roses" and said contract negotiations with Dale Earnhardt Inc. worn tlli1S11. 
Four months later, he decided to leave his late father's company and embarked on the most fren­zind frnn agency in NASCAR his­tory. Courted by just about every car owner in the industry, he set­tled on Hendrick in June and anxiously awaited switching teams. 
Now that he's officially a Ilcndriek driver, he knows the expectations are immense. Ilnndriek drivnrs won 18 of 36 racns last season. and Johnson is the two-time defending Cup champion. 
Earnhardt, mnanwhile, hasn't won sinen May 6, 2006, in Riehmond, a span of 62 races. 

'"I'here's a little bit less pres­sure in eertain areas and more prnssurn in other anms," he said. "I didn't have to worry about job security when I was over at my other job, but I've got to worry about that now. I think if I do what I've been doing, I should bo fine. But with being the son of the guy who built the place, you can get away with a few more things back off the number when thing. But I'm going to be disap­good driver with a good team, than most guys could. pressed Tunsday, either. pointed if we don't win at least and if we don't make mistakos on 
"But l'vo got a really good "You try to find a realistic num­four. I know what kind of equip­a Sunday we should have great owner that makes me feel com­ber because too many people try ment we've got around here, linishns and win some races." fortablo, and so that eases a lot of to get you to make predictions know what kind of people we've All of that has allowed other pressures, talking to him and want you to say 'We're gonna got around us. I don't see any Earnhardt and Eury to relax a bit and hearing from him and listen­win 11, or we can for sure get reason why that shouldn't be our after a strnssful 2007 that saw ing to his thought<> on what we'rn 1 0,' " Eury said. "But four should goal and it should be a reachable them fighting to stay focused doing. It lakes away some pres­be simple. I mean, I look at how goal." amid all the drama that sur­sure from that side of it." competitive we ran last year -Earnhardt refused to play the rounded their oxit from DEl. The 
The expectations clearly exist, and things happened -and if we prediction game. team failed to make tho Chasn, though, and crew chief Tony Eury close out them deals this year, we "I don't want to sit here and whieh ultimately freed Eury to go Jr. did his part to pile on by pre­should be able to win four races guess how many races we'll win," to Hendrick before the season dicting Monday the team will win easily. he said. "We'll win some races, ended but still led to a disap­four races this season. Ile didn't ''I'm not guaranteeing any-and I expect to win soon. I'm a pointing departure. 

This one credit-hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
SeNOt, ReNoeuiloM 

F::k F-'• !i!fS(Xl c;cr1ior \,l,:::u Pres1ck>r11 and Dire:;: ror (;lctJ<:'ll S!rntCJUY lnE>titutc 
geob~dwtv cuvl 7iN:t~ta: <J~ <Jufwu, o6 g~ 7iN:t~ta ~ a)'v ~:Jtt¥~ f" arc:n 1-iunt ;\hmod. Dopartrnont of Finance, UoPaui Univorsity 
Cc>tt¥eJtilotv OI'V ~ fJf_oba_i Cc>MJvuJM 
Jaff!()S ().Jill!gan, fv1e:JrE'lQ!nQ l:Jinx:tor, Centro for C31otv:ll f'-k;!gotiaticns 
fJJtwv £;1, ~ "I1RM! bM", but wJ£ it~ ii'V ~f_e] 
:\rY!C '~·or;pscr, Cr:!•·:·l t::rNiruii!TiE;nt31 \~crro~~pDrKk·:;nt. NBC r~evi 
<JeJtJw>tiMn: Loo~UuJ .A1tuut <JhMWJ~ P~ Db ~PM! 
R~::,\: F.dvv'ild (iVJc,r·:k) !\A:tio-.. ..;~:;.c,, Fru~c:,rJt)r 1l Fry·!eritus, UriM:rst; t"Jf ~~olrc Drvne 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-30210 and MBGR-60210, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration is not available online. 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Seahawks coach Holmgren considers future 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND, Wash. -It only felt like a retirement. 
Mike Holmgren looked nerv­ous. He leaned forward and pushed his hands into the arm­rest of his chair. A half-dozen photographers jostled for posi­tion around him. They flashed at each of the Seattle Seahawks coach's expressions. 
There were smiles. Deadpan stares. And. when reminded how much Seattle wants him to stay, there was obvious emo­tion in reddened eyes and pressed lips. 
'Tm kind of getting the feel­ing you guys are moving me toward the door here," Holmgren, 59. said Tuesday, chuckling during his annual season-ending news confer­ence, which offered more hints that the most successful coach in Seahawks history may retire after 16 seasons. 
Seattle will find out soon. Holmgren said he could decide "perhaps" by next week, after he spends a few days talking with his wife, Kathy, at their home in Arizona. 
"We're going to bang around some stuff and talk about the future. We have our lists [of pros and cons] made up," he said, adding he is or soon will be seeking the advice of Joe Gibbs, Bill Cowher, Bill Parcells and Tony Dungy. 
All have recently retired from coaching or, in Dungy's case with Indianapolis, is consider­ing it. 
Holmgren was speaking three days after Seattle's fifth consec­utive postseason appearance ended with a 42-20 loss to Green Bay in the NFC divisional playoffs. He sees three options for next season: retirement, which he's contemplating for the third consecutive offseason; completion of the final year of the two-year contract he signed soon after the Seahawks' loss in the Super Bowl 23 months ago; or something he prefers over option two, something he called "longer, larger" -a new extension to stay in Seattle. 
When asked if the Seahawks have already offered him a new deal, Holmgren said, "Let's not get too specific." 
"There are very few Joe Paternos around," he said of college football's 81-year-old coach at Penn State. 
"It just takes a lot out of you, so at the end of the season you're tired." 
Holmgren told his players Sunday in a final team meeting that he needed time to clear his head before deciding whether he would return. 
''I've heard talk like that for so long, for so many years with him. I think the best thing we do as football players is we worry about the stuff that we can control," said Pro Bowl quarterback Matt Hasselbeck, for whom Holmgren traded with .Green Bay to make him Seattle's starter in 2001. 
"Obviously, Coach knows how we feel about him. He's meant a lot to the turnaround of this franchise." 
His record with Green Bay and Seattle, where he arrived in 1999, is 170-110, one win behind Gibbs for lOth in NFL history. Holmgren is 86-68 in nine seasons with Seattle. He passed Chuck Knox this season for most victories by a Seahawks coach. 

Seattle won its fourth consec­utive NFC West title in 2007 and will return the core of its team next season. Five of the Seahawks' six division titles have come with Holmgren. 
Yet Holmgren said maybe, after seven years and two Super Bowls in Green Bay and another Super Bowl appear­ance in Seaitle, it's time for someone else. 
The nearest and most quali­fied someone else is former Falcons coach Jim Mora, now a Seahawks assistant. Mora was due to leave Wednesday for Washington to interview for the head job with the Hedskins. 
Holmgren acknowledged all his assistant coaches are "in a little limbo," too. 
"In fairness to everybody, there's also a time where maybe it's time for someone else to get you over the hump," Holmgren said of the Seahawks, who are without a league title since their incep­tion in 1976. 
"You start thinking, 'Are they still listening to me? Am I still as effective as I once was?"' 
It's the most open he's been in discussing retirement, which he has hinted for months he may do this offseason. 
But, he emphasized, he has­n't decided anything. Yet. 
"It's not going to be a long thing. Just bear with me a little bit," he said. 
Holmgren also announced leading receiver Deion Branch will have knee surgery that's likely to keep him out past next season's opener. 
Branch sought the second opinion this week of noted spe­cialist Dr. James Andrews, who confirmed the team's diagnosis of a torn anterior cruciate liga­ment in Branch's left knee. Andrews will perform the sur­gery in Alabama "soon," Holmgren said. The coach esti­mated that the former Super Bowl MVP, injured early in the loss to the Packers, will miss at least nine months. 

Shaun Alexander, the league MVP two seasons ago who just finished his least productive season as a starter, will have surgery to repair the left wrist he broke in the season opener. It never healed under the cast with which he played the rest of the season, as doctors hoped. 
Holmgren also said All-Pro left tackle Walter Jones, who turns 34 Saturday, is likely to have surgery on his chronically sore left shoulder for the sec­ond consecutive offseason. 
As for his own health, Holmgren scoffed at Sunday's revelation from linebacker Julian Peterson that the coach had a gall bladder problem this season. 
The coach said health is not a factor in the decision on his future. 
"No, I'm good.... I feel fine," Holmgren said. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Boston College upsets Hurricanes in 21st straight series win 

Associated Press 
BOSTON -Tyrelle Blair blocked five shots against Miami, and that was enough to make the Hurricanes worry about him every time they put the ball up. 
"I think he changed more shots than he blocked," Boston College coach AI Skinner said after the Eagles beat No. 21 Miami 76-66 on Tuesday night. "That's probably as impor­tant." 
Blair had 11 points and 12 rebounds to go with his blocks, and Rakim Sanders scored 20 points to lead BC to its 13th consecutive victory over the Hurricanes. Tyrese Rice had 14 points, eight rebounds and six assists as BC (12-4, 3-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) beat a ranked opponent for the first time since last February. 
Jack McClinton scored 20 points on 6-for-26 shooting for Miami, which had won consec­utive games since it lost to Winthrop on Dec. 29 to snap a season-opening 12-game win­ning streak. James Dews scored 15 points for the Hurricanes (14-2, 1-1), who would have tied the best start in school history with a win. 
The Eagles had lost two of three -a 25-point defeat to No. 3 Kansas and another that was even more embarrassing: 57-51 at home to Robert Morris last Monday. 
"Coach called us out after the Kansas game," Rice said. "We took it to heart. We tried to prove that we could be better than people think we can." 
Boston College scored 14 of the first 16 points and led 50­27 with 11:26 to play before McClinton hit a 3-pointer to start a 23-10 run that pulled Miami back into the game. He had 13 points in all over the five-minute span, including three 3-pointers. 
The Hurricanes were still down 68-58 with 3:13 left, but despite their full-court pres­sure and fouling they couldn't get any closer than nine points. BC hit 14 of 18 free throws down the stretch. 
"We obviously got off to a slow start. They just took it to us," Miami coach Prank Haith said. "Rakim Sanders was amazing. Blair just intimidated our guys. The first two plays of the game, we tried to get the ball inside. We need to get the ball inside, but Blair affected us." 
It was BC's first victory over a ranked opponent since it beat then-No. 16 Virginia Tech last Feb. 3. 
Miami, which leads the ACC in 3-point percentage, was just 8-of-26 from beyond the arc, making 3-of-13 in the first half. Miami missed its first 13 3­point attempts in Saturday's victory over Georgia Tech, and missed 14 of its first 15 shots overall against BC. 
"We came out with a noncha­lant attitude and didn't execute as well as we should have. That attitude put us in a hole," McClinton said. "It's on us. There's really nothing the coaches can do. We have to prepare for the challenge." 
In November, BC snapped a 15-game losing streak against Miami in football -its first vic­tory over tho Hurricanes since the "Hail Plutie" pass ended one of the greatest games in college history. But Miami's chances of ending its losing streak against BC in basketball disappeared quickly. 
The Hurricanes missed their first five shots before McClinton hit a jumper, while Boston College scored the first eight points of the game and opened a 14-2 lead with 13:21 left in the first half. 
The Eagles made it 20-4 before the Hurricanes strung some offense together, cutting the deficit to 20-1 0 on two 3­pointers by Dews. BC took a 17 -point lead on John Oates' 3­pointer with just under 2 min­utes left and led 36-22 at half­time. 
Miami shot 26.5 percent (9­for-34) in the first half, making 3-of-13 from 3-point range, and totaling just three assists as a team. 

page 24 Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NHL 

Hossa nets hat trick in Atlanta's rout of Detroit 
Ovechkin's power play goal in third helps Caps beat Senators; Theodore shuts out Tampa Bay in Avs wzn 
to bring him off the bench cold league. We don't want to play Ottawa 18-10 in its previous 12of15.
Associated Press 

because of his history of groin them every night." three victories, took a 1-0 lead Jeff Finger and Paul Stastny 
DETHOIT -Marian llossa injuries. On the day the Capitals on Green's 13th goal 4 7 seeonds had power-play goals for the 
gave himself and the Atlanta "Mike told me after the third learned they had lost center into the second period on a Avalanche, who have won three 
Thrashnrs a big boost. goal to get n~ady, so I stretched Michael Nylander for the rest of power play. Green, dashing games in a row. Milan Hejduk 
I fossa seorml the tmun 's !irst a little bit," Hasek said. "I the season, they shrugged off through the right circle, con­added an empty-net goal with 
throe goals and Kari Lehtonen stretched for about five min­his absence to complete the verted Viktor Kozlov's tricky 1:34 left. 
made 46 saves in a 5-1 win over utes. I felt comfortable going club's first sweep of Ottawa pass out of the left corner and "It was one of those games 
the Detroit Bed Wings on in." since 1995-96. through the crease. where special teams got us thP 
Tuesday night. The Thrashers didn't have a Ovechkin collected Brooks McAmmond and Hedden win in the end," Stastny said. 
"It's grnat to get three goals shot for the remainder of the Laich's long rebound between struck 1:22 apart in the second Tampa Bay's Vincent 
and help the team," llossa said. period while Detroit tooR 19 at the cireles and pushed in a to put Ottawa up 2-1. From Lecavalier was held without a 
"But also hnlp with the self-con­Lehtonen from that point until knuckling shot that glanced off between the circles, point for the third straight 
fidence." the end of the period. The Hed the right leg pad of Ottawa's McAmmond ricocheted a shot game, his longest drought this 
It was llossa's seventh career Wings had 16 shots in the third Ray Emery at 9:11. Ovechkin's off the stick of defenseman John season. 
hat trick and first in nearly a period. team-leading 34th goal sealed Erskine at 13:41. Colorado's struggling power 
year-since Jan. 16, 2007. "They just showed they never Washington's fourth win this Redden whacked Patrick play converted its first opportu­
Erie Perrin and Slava Kozlov give up," Lehtonen said. ''I'm season against the .Senators, Eaves' rebound past Brent nity when Finger snapped a 
also scored. while Tobias sure some teams would be done whose 62 points are second­Johnson at 15:03. personal 18-game goal-scoring 
Enstrom and Mark Beeehi each after a 4-0 lead, but they kept most in the NHL. Semin tied it again 23 seconds drought at 5:30 of the second. 
added two assists for Atlanta. coming and eoming and I was "They're leading our division, later, intercepting a pass, driv­The Avalanche entered with the 
"It's a lot of fun. Obviously, I very lueky to be able to keep so this is very important to ing down the right wing and second-worst power-play unit in 
have a lot of family and friends the score the way it was." win," Ovechkin said. "But for lifting a shot over Emery. the NIIL and had just one man­
here -about 40 tickets or so. It And though he was busy stop­us, it doesn't matter who we After Ovechkin put advantage goal in 29 chances 
was well worth it." said Don ping pucks, he also found time play. We have to win. Two Washington ahead, Semin gave over the previous nine games. 
Waddell. Atlanta's executive to be a spectator. points is two points, whether it's the Capitals a two-goal advan­Stastny made it 2-0 with a 
vice presi(lfmt, general manager "I never played against against Ottawa or anyone. We tage, poking home a loose puck rebound goal on Colorado's 
and coach. Detroit before and just to see want to go up [in the stand­at 11:56. third power-play with 3:33 left 
Waddt~ll is from Detroit and a !Pavel] Datsyuk and IHenrikl ings!." in the second. It was the fifth former Hod Wings assistant Zetterberg, it's just amazing Alexander Semin had two Avalanche 3, Lightning 0 time this season, and first since general manager. skill level," Lehtonen said. "It goals and an assist and Mike Colorado goalie Jose Dec. 9, that the Avalanche 
"I havo to say, I was looking was niee to be there. I think I Green also tallied for the Theodore was the big star on scored more than one power­forward to this day, and now had the best seat in the house Capitals. Tomas Fleischmann the ice. Tampa Bay coach John play goal. that it's hme and gone I'm pret­to wateh those guys do their added two assists. Tortorella stole the postgame Colorado outshot Tampa Hay ty happy about it," he said. tricks and I was lucky enough "There are teams in the spotlight. 20-10 through two periods, 
Niklas Kronwall scored for to make the saves tonight." league you play good against," Theodore made 22 of his 32 including 11-3 in the second. NIIL-Ieading I>Ptroit, which has Kronwall foiled Lehtonen's Green said. "Ottawa, we just saves in tho third period, lead­Theodore was rarely tested lost throe straight. Chris Osgood shutout bid with 6:18 left, but seem to get excited to play ing the Avalanche past the during the stretch but did stop a stopped 1:{ shots bpfore being Kozlov got his 13th goal with a them." Lightning on Tuesday night. It high-slot shot by Brad Richards pulled in favor of Dominik minute left. Dean MeAmmond and Wade was his 24th career shutout and late in the second. Hasek less than halfway Redden scored for Ottawa. first since Feb. 28, 2004, The Lightning's Karri Ramo through the game. Capitals 4, Senators 2 "Every game we lost [to against Carolina. He had gone kept his team within two by 
"They were better than us Bruce Boudreau can't explain Washington] this year, it's our 109 games without recording a making a glove save on Tyler early," H.ed Wings coach Mike the Washington Capitals' domi­own doing," Senators defense­shutout. Amason's shot from the low slot Babcock said. "They scored on nance of the Ottawa Senators. man Chris Phillips said. "It feels like it's been a while, early in the third. He finished their opportunities and we did-The rookie coach is certainly "Beating ourselves, making obviously," Theodore said. with 22 saves. n't." happy to be done playing the mistakes and they're capitaliz­"Every time you enter a game, "Our second period, it was 
llossa, who has 19 goals, offense-laden Eastern ing on them." you always think about the awful," Ramo said. "We didn't opened the scoring with a Conference leaders. Both teams played without shutout. You want to win, but have any energy." power-play goal 7:33 in when Alexander Ovechkin scored key offensive personnel out with when you look back, it's always Tampa Bay had 10 of the first he skated out of the corner to the tiebreaking goal on a third­shoulder injuries. a bonus. A shutout is really a 12 shot during the opening six the front of the net and beat period power play as the Ottawa forward Dany Heatley, team effort." minutes of the third, but Osgood. Capitals completed a season the team's second-leading scor­Tampa Bay's poor play Theodore turned aside an in­
llis seeond goal came with sweep of Ottawa with a victory er with 25 goals and 31 assists, through the first two periods close shot by Martin St. Louis. 5:3R lel't in the opening period Tuesday night. sat out his second game and resulted in a heated postgame "I thought he was rock-solid," when llossa stripped the puck "Somehow, we've got their will miss up to six weeks with a media session by Tortorella. Colorado coach Joel from Detroit defenseman Brett number," Boudreau said. "I separated right shoulder. "It's probably the most Quenneville said. "He looks real Lebda in the Hed Wings zone don't know why it happens." Nylander, whose 37 points are embarrassed and disappointed sharp in this last stretch of and put a shot between Asked if he was sorry to have second-most on the Capitals, I've been since I've been here," games, and tonight was as good Osgood's torso and arm. met Ottawa for the final time will undergo season-ending sur­Tortorella said. ''I've never been as we've seen him." 
lie made it 3-0 just 1:14 into this season, Boudreau respond­gery Wednesday to repair a more embarrassed." The Lightning failed to con­the seeond pnriod on a wrister ed quickly: "Absolutely not. torn left rotator cuff. The Lightning, last in the vert on two power plays, both from the high slot. They're the best team in the Washington, which outscored Eastern Conference, have lost coming in the third. 
"They were some of the great­est goals, too," Waddell said. "llis first goal, coming out of the corner; his second goal; and the third goal, a one-timer off 

Live, learn, and work in Washington, DC, during
the quick pass there. Those are great goals." Perrin's power-play goal 

Fall2008 or Spring 2009 with Notre Dame's 
made it 4-0 at 7:2R and sent Osgood to the bench. 
It was the first time since he rejoined Detroit in 2006 that llasnk has come in during a game. Detroit is usually hesitant 




~ 

» ' -• • ' .•.· . ' . '
GRAM 
Deadline for applications: January 23, 2008. 
CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VAUARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES 

www.nd.edu/ ~wp 
~------;~, 
Sell Trips, Earn Cash (.,.~1111,;f &Travel free ~=:flu 

Sophomore and First Year Students of all majors may apply. 
1-800-648-4849 
www.dstravel.t:am 


Wednesday, January 16, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
fENCING 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Tealll illlproves despite 6-7 record 
Foilist dominates 
• By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
In season opener 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Adi Nott began 2008 even better than she ended 2007. 
The junior foilist went 15-0 at the Air Force Western Invite last weekend and led the Notre Dame women to a victo­ry in the season-opening team event. 
Nott, who captured third at the 2007 NCAA Championships, finished the weekend competition with a touch count of 75-5, including 12 shutout wins. 
But she wasn't the only Irish fencer to dominate her weapon. Sophomore epeeist Kelley Hurley and freshman petitors.
"They showed great 

foilist Hayley " M o s t Reese each went form. They showed 
in the game, but freshman Liz 
important, 15-0 in to Notre the great level. It was this competi­
Dame's victories tion -we got 
MEN'S SWIMMING
a pleasure to observe 

over Air Force, a lot of fresh­
Stanford, Cal their bouting. " men ... and State Fullerton, they were UC San Diego able to see
Janusz Bednarski 

Irish make a splash in opener
and Florida. what NCAA
Irish coach 

"They showed great form. They showed the great level. It was a pleasure to observe their bouting," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said of the perform­ances of Nott, Hurley and Reese. 
The Irish men went 4-1, beating Air Force, Cal State Fullerton, Florida and UCSD. Notre Dame's only team loss was a 14-13 defeat to Stanford Foilists Mark Kubik, a junior, and Teddy Hodges, a fresh­man, led the squad in winning percentage with identical 10-1 records. Junior sabre Bill Thanhouser finished 13-2, and junior epeeist Karol Kostka went 10-2. 
The Irish defeated the Cardinal 7-2 in foil and 5-4 in epee, but lost 8-1 in sabre. Notre Dame's top two sabreists -freshmen Avery Zuck and Barron Nydam ­did not compete because they were fencing at the Junior World Cup in Goppogen, Germany. 
"We didn't have a full team," Bednarski said. "The best kids were sent to Europe." 
Still, with Stanford's loss to Air Force after the Cardinal Beijing Games, holds the dis­
meets.
tinction of being the only male 

"We had an
fencer to compete with the 

excellent
U.S. senior, junior (under-201 

training trip,"
and cadet (under-17) national 

head coach
teams in the same season. 

Tim Welsh
Meinhardt, who has a repu­

said. "We got a
tation as an excellent student 

lot of work
in addition to his fencing acu­

done while we 
men, will work with second­

were down 
year Irish foil coach Gia 

there, and
Kvaratskhelia. Bednarski said 

morale was
the ability to work with 

high."
Kvaratskhelia was a major 

Leading the 
reason Meinhardt chose the 

way for Notre
Irish. 

Dame were
"We were happy," 

Wade tied the game at 18 with seven minutes to go in the first half. A layup by Mary Lynn Carlson and four free throws by Erin Newsom in the last two minutes of the first half gave the Belles a boost as they headed into the second half. leading 33-27. 
The Scots' defense wasn't able to stop the Belles from scoring 26 points in the second half. Alma started a comeback in the last six minutes of the game, scoring 20 points in that time. Alison Kessler's four free throws in the last 30 seconds and a missed 3-pointer by Alma at the buzzer gave Saint Mary's its 59-56 win. 
On Jan. 9, conference play continued for the Belles when they traveled to Albion, the second-place team in the MIAA. Saint Mary's had trou­ble scoring in the opening period and trailed 36-22 at the half. The struggle continued in beat Notre Dame, the Irish nabbed a team victory. Notre Dame finished with a higher bout winning percentage than Stanford, and thus won the event -though Bednarski said the team had left Cadet Gymnasium before the final tally eonfirmed the victory. 
"Frankly speaking, we took first, not a tie for first," Bednarski said. 
Besides the absence of Zuck and Nydam, Notre Dame also feneed without senior foilist Jakub Jedrkowiak, who had not yet returned from winter break from his native Poland. Bednarski was pleased with the performance of the fencers who took the places of the 
missing com­

Going 3-3 over break wasn't what Saint Mary's hoped for, but it continued to improve as conference play began. 
The Belles started their break with a loss to undefeat­ed Hope, the top-ranked team in the MIAA. Saint Mary's con­tinued with two wins against North Park and Kenyon and a loss to Otterbein to close out 2007. 
"Our team has seen some very good competition over the holiday break, both in and out of conference play," Belles head coach Jennifer Henley said. 
The start of the new year gave the Belles a fresh start against their conference oppo­nents when they took on Alma. 
The Scots took the lead early 
competition was like," 

time of 46.27 was good
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Bednarski said. "They got 

enough for his second victory
Sports Writer 
experience." 

of the day. Moore's wins eame in the 
Note: 

Notre Dame made waves in 200-yard fly (1 :51.59) and 
Notre Dame signed the 

its last dual meet over winter 100-yard fly (50.44). Bulfin nation's No. 1 foilist, 17 -year­break with a 174-126 victory secured first-place finishes in 
old Gerek Meinhardt, to a 

over Oakland on Saturday. both the 3-meter dive scholarship beginning with the 
The Irish should benefit (380.62) and 1-meter dive 
2008-09 academic year. 

from the victory that followed (327.82).
Meinhardt, who is a virtual 

a successful winter training Irish divers also filled the 
loek to be part of the U.S. 

session in Florida and leads next three spots in each 
Olympic team for the 2008 

into an important streteh of event. In the 3-meter dive, 
senior Sam Stoner finished second, fol­lowed by freshmen Eric Lex and Geary
"We got a lot ofwork 
Nathan. In the done while we were 1-meter event, Lex
down there, and morale 
and Stoner 

was high." 
swapped posi­tions, while Tim Welsh senior Steven Crowe fin­
Irish coach 
ished fourth. Sophomore 
Andrew 
very 

sophomores John Lytle and Hoffman also had a produc­
Bednarski said of Meinhardt's 

Ross Moore and junior tive day. He was part of a 
signing. "He had the door 

Michael Bulfin, each of whom 200-meter medley relay team open for all the Ivy League." 
placed first in two events and that finished second, took combined for six of the 10 first in the 50-yard freestyle
Contact Ken Fowler at 

Irish victories that eame in 16 (21.31), and finished third in 
kfowlerl@nd.edu 

events. the 100-yard freestyle 
the second half for the Belles, with Albion consistently rais­ing its lead. The Belles' missed shots and Albion's tough defense handed Saint Mary's an 85-56 loss. 
Saint Mary's has held its own against conference opponents this season, and is presently No. 6 in the MIAA. The team will play at Kalamazoo tonight at 7:30. The Hornets are in eighth plaee, two behind the Belles. 
"Kalamazoo is a good team. They are strong on the inside as well as on the boards," Henley said. "It will be a good challenge for us as we contin­ue to play on the road. At this point in the season we know what we are eapable of doing -it's just a matter of finding some consistency from this point on." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1@saintmarys.edu 
Lytle's first victory came in (47.58). the 200-yard freestyle as he A sweep of the top three 
KING OF THE BLUES WORLDWIDE 

clocked in at 1:41.08. The spots in the 1 .000-meter result in the 100-yard freestyle, all claimed by freestyle was similar: Lytle's freshmen, also helped put the
B.B. KING
AND THE B.B. KING BLUES BAND 
SMC SWIMMINGTHURSDAY JANUARY 31 at 7:30PM 
MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER SOUTH BEND, IN 

Belles lose only winter break meet 
Irish on top. Michael Sullivan took first with a time of 9:40.20, Christopher Douville was second (9:42 .67), and Steven Brus (9:58.54) com­pleted the sweep. 
In the 100-yard backstroke, Christopher Wills, another freshman, finished first in 52.18, while junior Bill Bauman (53.28) finished third. Rounding out the victo­ries for the Irish was sopho­more Andrew Deters, who won the 500-yard freestyle in 
4:38.22. He was followed by freshman Joshua Nosal, whose time of 4:43.37 was good enough for second place. 
Welsh was pleased that the Irish pulled out a victory while still showing some fatigue from the rigorous win­ter training regimen. 
"When you do so much hard training, you never know how it's going to go," Welsh said. "We had a solid meet on Saturday and got a good look at what we need to do to swim faster." 
The Irish will be busy next weekend. They will host con­ference foe Louisville on Friday at the Rolfs Aquatic 
Center,  and  then  head  to  
Evansville, Ill., to take  on  
Northwestern on Saturday.  

Contact Chris Doyen to cdoyen@nd.edu 


TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE MORRIS BOX OFFICE & SUPER SOUNDS in GOSHEN BY PHONE (574) 235·9190 www.MORRISCENTER.org. 

By PETE REISENAUER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's had one meet over winter break -a dual meet against unbeaten Hope -and fell to the Flying Dutch 
In the Jan. 11 meet. Hope was able to win 10 of the 16 events and moved its record to a perfect 5-0 overall and 4-0 in dual meets. 
Meanwhile, the Belles dropped to 5-2 overall and 2­1 in dual meets on the year. 
The meet started out elose, but Hope was able to win seven consecutive events to seal the victory. Although it is the first season of diving for Saint Mary's after a two-year hiatus, Leah Bocinsky was able to win the three-meter diving competition, finishing as one of the strongest com­petitors in the meet. 
Senior captain Kelly Tighe won the individual 200-yard race with a time of 2:29 to win that event for the Belles. Another strong finisher was fellow captain Melissa Gerbeth, who won the 500­yard freestyle with a time of 5:26. 
Saint Mary's travels to Olivet on Friday. 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisna@nd.edu 
I
I page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Prince 
continued from page 28 
back who earriPd 15 times for 21 yards in 2006, played sparingly in 2007 and made three tackles. lie was also involved in an infamous play during the 38-0 loss to USC on Oet. 20 when an Irish punt hit him and the Trojans recov­nn~d thn resulting loose ball. 
0 n the reer u i ti ng front, Notre Damn lost the verbal commitment of one highly­n~gardml player. but added another to its ranks. 
Defensive tackle Omar Hunter from 

Irish coaching staff in the [Martini feels the most com­dark about his wavering fortable." intentions. On Jan. 5, Notre Dame 
"I del'initely received a ver­believe that he bal commit­
"It's really important 
was not being ment from upfront about to continue to land wide receiver his interest in Deion Walker.
elite guys one right
other sehools," Walker is rated
after another 
Frank said. "It the 11th best came as a big because that wideout in the surprisll to breeds competition. " country by Notre Damn Scout.com. that he was T h e 
Mike Frank
wavering at Christchurch, all." lrishEyes.com Va., native 
To replace recruiting analyst joined 
Buford, Ga., abruptly dropped his  "/ definitely believe that [Omar Hunter/  has targeted defensive line­man Mike  
commitment to the Irish. deeiding instead to  was not being upfront about his interest in other schools. ,,  Martin. The Redford, Mich., native is cur­rently verbally  
choosn between  committed  to  
(;eorgia and Florida, two schools closer to home.  Mike Frank lrishEyes.com recruiting analyst  Michigan, but has felt uncom­fortable with n e w  
"lie's  a  loss  Wolverines  
definitely," said  head  coaeh  

Mike Frank, who covers Notre Hich Hodriguez's staff, Frank Damn recruiting for said. lrishEyes.com. "It's rare that "(Rodriguez's staff hasn't! you w~t a guy with that kind done a lot of recruiting of of sizn that moves as well as him," Franks said. "They just he does." hired a defensive coordinator. 
Hunter's de-commitment [Notre Dame defensive coor­had a controversial element. dinator I Corwin Brown has Frank said he believes the taken advantage of that. high school senior kept the "It will come down to where 
Hunter on the 

incoming freshman list, Notre Dame 
Rebound 
continued from page 28 
for just the second time of the season. But Luke llarangody scomd 22 second-half' points and 25 total as the Irish cruised to their program­record 31st straight win at the .Joyct~ CPnter. 
"We ncedlld to relax in there and just play our game,"' llarangody said. "That's what we did in the second half." 
McAiarney made four 3­pointers after halftime and fin­ished with 22 points. 
"I think onP of Ithe :~-point­ers!. I actually called it in front of' the bPnch before it even Wllnl in," MeAlarney said. "It f'enls great: as soon as it leaves your hand, you know it's going in." 
After Irish junior forward Zaeh llillesland made two free throws to tie the game at 25, Cindnnati seornd live straight points on a basket by fresh­man forward Kenny Belton and a 3-pointer by senior guard Marvin Gentry. Notre Damn Hum called a timeout to regroup, but tho Irish were still unable to cut into Cincinnati's lead and the Bmtrcats went into the break loading :~4-27. 
But llarangody said the Irish rwver questioned their ability to grind out the win. 
"We're a confident group and snven points isn't anything to us," llarangody said. "Everyone on the team knows what we're capable of." 
TIHl Irish displayed their propensity for scoring in bunches in the second half. 
With 14:30 left, llarangody made a short jumper to cap an 11-0 Notre Dame run and give the Irish a 4X-42 lead. The Irish never allowed Cincinnati to dose the gap to fewer than three points the rest of the game and led by as many as 19. 
To the delight of the Joyce Center crowd. Irish sophomore guard Jonathan Peoples threw down a breakaway dunk with four seconds left in the game. 

"lie pumped his shoes up, I guess," Jackson said of his tnamrnate's aerial mmwuver. "He had the air-pumps on." 
The Irish shot 6-of-25 from the field in the opening frame, and no player for either team scored more than seven points in the first half. 
But Brey said the team closNI the game wnll enough to leave him confident for Saturday's showdown with No. 5 Gnorgntown in Washington, D.C. 
"I look at it always as the glass half-full," Brey said. "We just played a great half before we go play Georgetown." 
Marquette 92, 
Notre Dame 66 
MILWAUKEE -The Notre Dame team that won its first two Big East games forgot to board the bus destined for the Bradley Center on Saturday, and the Marquette club that lost to West Virginia and strug­gled against bottom-dwelling Seton Hall didn't show up either. 

The result'? A Marquette blowout of Notre Dame that allowed many in the packed arena to leave early and get home in time for the start of the Green Bay Packers playoff game against the Seattle Sllahawks. 
"I did a double take to make sure that counted as one loss," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "They were fabulous. The last eight, nine minutes, man, I'm saying, 'I want to get guys out and get them ready for Tuesday because we're not closing the gap today.' Everybody in the building knew that. They were putting on their Brett Favre jerseys with 10 minutes to play." 
Thanks to a lethal combina­tion of lightning-quick guard play on both ends of the 11oor and dead-eye outside shooting, No. 13 Marquette dealt the Irish a blow to their confi-

Scout. com's 
fifth-and 21st­best receivers, Michael Floyd and John Goodman, respec­tively, on Notre Dame's com­mitment list. 
"It's really important to con­tinue to land elite guys one right after another because that breeds competition," Frank said. 
Notre Dame's recruiting elass is ranked No. 1 in the nation by Scout.com, just ahead of Alabama and Georgia. As of Tuesday, it fea­tured 22 players. 
Two of those players ­offensive lineman Trevor Robinson and defensive line­man Sean Cwynar -attended their first classes at Notre Dame on Tuesday as early­entry freshmen. They will participate in spring practice. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

donee and their worst loss in the 109 meetings between the two schools. 
Marquette shot 12-for-24 from three-point range and had live players score double ligures. 
Guard Jerel McNeil led the way with 18, forward Lazar Ilayward netted 17 to go along with 11 rebounds, and guard Dominic James had 16 points and seven assists. 
The Golden Eagles were as balanced ofTensively as a skilled tight-rope walker. Notre Dame, if on that same high wire. would have crashed to the ground. 
Marquette had trouble stop­ping Irish forward Luke llarangody, who had 29 points to lead Notre Dame, but after Harangody, Notre Dame's pro­duetion on offense fell consid­erably. Forward Rob Kurz was the only other Irish player in double figures with 11 points. Guard Kyle McAlarney, who had a career-high 32 points against Connecticut. had a hard time getting open against Marquette's pressure defense and finished with only eight points. 
"Nothing really went well for us," Brey said. "But it was a lot of Marquette playing very, very well. A lot of guys for them made big shots and big plays." 
A Kurz 3-pointer cut Marquette's lead to live with 
17:12 to play, but after that, the rout was on. Marquette went on a 10-1 run over the next two minutes. James, who finished the first half with just three points had five points and two assists during that key run which put the lead baek up to 14. (56-42). 
forward Wesley Matthews, who finished with 15, extend­ed Marquette's lead to 20 with 
10:58 to play. Notre Dame never got closer than 15 the rest of the way. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
Break 
continued from page 28 

teamed her when she didn't have 
the ball. We wally didn't do what 
we wantnd to do." 

Notre Dame opened confcnmcn play with an 82-74 win over Louisville on .Jan. 8. Irish guard Charel Allen scored 2fi points on 1 0-of-16 shooting and grabbed nine rebounds, her best porform­anee of the year. The teams were tied at the half, but a 10-2 Irish run in the second half helped Notre Dame pull away. Freshman forward Devereaux Peters earned her first start in the game. 
Notre Dame ranks third in the Big East in scoring, but against West Virginia it forgot why and how. The Irish shot 17.9 percent from the field in the first half and scored only 11 points at the break. 
"I kept looking out there going, 'What can I do'?'," McGraw said. 
The Irish found their way in thll second half and worked their way back into the game. Notre Dame trailed by three with 1:22 remaining,· but the Mountaineers made a field goal and eight tim! shots that put the game out or reach. Notre Dame's 11 first-half points was a school-record low. 
"I felt we played individually instead of as a team," McGraw said. "They needed to work together a little bit more, and that's why I felt there was a big change in the second half because we did work togllther a lot more." 
Freshman guard Brittany Mallory hit a season-high three 3­point shots in the game. The Irish recruited Mallory for her long­range abilities. and McGraw said she likes Mallory on the perime­ter. 
"We need a 3-point thrnat, and I think she has to bn that threat 
Struggles 
continued from page 28 

(and current No. 7) Michigan State to a 1-1 tie. 
"We haven't played our best hockey, that's for sure," said senior center Mark Van Guilder, whose 18 points (8 goals, 10 assists) are second on the team to Erik Condra's 27 points (1 0 goals, 17 assists). "I think if we keep playing well defensively, the puck will start going in for 
us." 

The return of freshman defensemen Ian Cole from U.S. Junior competition and Teddy Ruth from injury, described by Jackson as "two of our best shots from the point, and two of our grittiest defensemen," should help cure some of the team's recent struggles, espe­cially when it comes to the fatigue of their fellow defense­men. 
As Cole and Huth return, how­ever, the Irish lost another emerging freshman in forward Robin Bergman. Bergman, a native of Stockholm, Sweden, has decided not to return to the University this semester, return­ing to his US! IL team in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
"It was a culmination of things for [Robin] -nothing negative," Jackson said of the freshman who netted one goal and six assists in 20 games played. "It was all a little overwhelming for him: the academics, the sched­ule with hockey and training ... it's a pretty tough and demand­ing thing, and for freshmen, sometimes it's a bit of a culture shock." 
Bergman could still potentially return to Notre Dame and the for us," McGraw said. 
The Irish also defeated IUPUI, St. Francis and Hichmond during the break. 
Notre Dame continues confer­ence play against Villanova tonight at 7 in the .Joyce Center. The Wildcats ( 11-5, 1-2 Big East) defeated Georgetown on Saturday 57-51 at home, after dropping two of thrnn. 
Villanova, McGraw said. plays a five-guard system, similar to Notre Dame's four-guard style. The system is especially taxing on the larger Irish team, MeGraw said. 
"They have a lot of motion in their ofl'ense, so it's very difficult and they're very, very, very smart," McGraw said. 'They read the defense well, and they look at every opportunity to get an open shot. It makes it really hard defensively for our big guys, espe­cially, to guard them." 
Notre Dame may play five guards to counter the ofl'ense, an option McGraw said the team did last year and something she referred to as Plan B. 
The Wildcats have three play­ers -forwards Stacie Witman and Laura Kurz and forward/cen­ter Lisa Karcic -who average in double figures. The trio has scored 98 of the Wildcats' 106 poinLo.; in the past two games and scored Villanova's only points in its 51-49 loss to Seton I !all on Jan. 8. 
McGraw said Peters will come off the bench against Villanova despite earning a starting nod against Louisville. 
"She does great things when she's in there," McGraw said. "Maybe with this game in partic­ular she can watch a little bit more, and see what she can see from the bench." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
team, as defenseman Luke Lucyk did after leaving the school early last year for ;moth­er season in juniors, but, as Jackson said, "it's in [Bergman's! hands." 
With No. 1 Michigan looming ahead this weekend, the Irish will neml to rid themselves of their winter doldrums in a hurry if they hope to compete. The Wolverines will have home-ice advantage Friday before the two teams take center-stage at The Palace of Auburn Ilills. Jackson says the Palace showcase will allow the Irish to "sell our game" to Michigan-based alum­ni and potential recruits alike, as well as a[I'ording current players tho opportunity to play in a large, storied venue. It will also bring in additional revnnue for the hockey program. 
So while the Irish, who were 20-5-1 through 26 games a year ago, may not have the ideal record or the nation's top-rank­ing (as they did last season) to show for their efl'orts thus far, a difTieult schedule has already begun to prepare the tP.am for its broader goals: tournament play. 
"(Playing such a tough sched­ule) kind of gets to you a little bit. but I think it's only going to make us better for the end of the season," Van Guilder said. "When it comes down to it, you're going to have to beat top­ranked teams in the CCII/\ play­oils. 
"Last year, we may have peaked a little bit earlier, but I'd prefer playing our best hockey come tournament time, and there's plenty of time to build toward the playoffs." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Wednesday, January 16, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ISTOC 

(IJ I I 
©2008 Tribune Media SeiVices, Inc. 

All Rights Reserved.  
TINGY j  
I I r THARGE jI rI www.jumble.comtSVENIT  [j I I  
J I  I  [j  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
Don't move. I'll
Where are 
call a cab 
my keys? 
WHAT THE: BARTE:NDE:R TOL-D THE: TIPSY DRIVE:R TO DO. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

rI I J"[I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  GAILY LUCID ACTING JAGUAR The accountant married her rich client because she  
was-CALCULATING  

CROSSWORD 
Across Gad about 5 Donahue of "Father Knows Best" 11 One learning the 
ropes 14_ Disney 15 Reason out 16 Soccer fan's cry 17 Source of rump 
roast 19 Messenger_ 20 1977 double-
platinum Steely Dan album 21 Bygone Mideast grp. 
22 P.M. between Pearson and Clark 
24 Charity event, maybe 
26 Shared taxi 27 Blockbuster offering 
29 Panama and others 
32 Hard-hearted 35 MeAn shoes 37 Came out with 38 Sweetums 39 Speed-read 42 "Cimarron" 
studio, 1931 43 Children's tune starter 45 "The Seduction of Joe Tynan" 
star, 1979 46 Can't deal with 48 Like some oaths 
or vows 50 Ready to pour 52 "I am six. I am a 
city child. I live at the Plaza" speaker 
54 Sports spots 58 Biopsy, e.g. 60 Purpose 61 Assayer's stuff 62 ''The Simpsons" 
storekeeper 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

63 Worrisome economic condition 
66 Input-jack label 67 Regarding this point, in legalese 68 "Happy Motoring" 
sloganeer 69 Golf's Se Ri .. 70 Unpaid debt 71 This puzzle's 
theme 
Down 
Dry out, in a way 2 Mystical board 3 Ricardo player 4 Chic, '60s-style 5 Shevardnadze of 
Georgia 6 King of tragedy 7 Bargain bin abbr. 8 Capone 
colleague 9 Paycheck 
fattener 10 Summer TV fare 11 "Sunglasses at 
Night" singer, 1984 12 Limb bone 13 Steady 18 Shows cowardice 
23 Police dept. figs. 25 N.Y.C.'s -'··of the Americas 
26 Court anonym 28 Footnote abbr. 30 Love of the Beach Boys 31 Wedding exchange 32 Cartoonist Addams 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Allan E, Parrish  
33_-call (automated solicitation) 34 John Candy title role 36 Son of Judah 40 Coffee holder 41 Teachings of Buddha 44 Shoulder muscle, briefly  47Take off on 49 One of the Mitchells in an old UPN sitcom 51 Custom-create 53 Fab Four name 55 Click or clack 56 Cropped up 57 Toledo title  58 Desktop accessory 59 Capital of Samoa 60 Aqua Velva alternative 64"Hmm, no fooling!" 65 Fonmer televangelist Haggard  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.corn/puzzleforurn. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chad Lowe, 40; Matio Van Peebles, 51; Andrea Martin. 61: Margaret O'Brien, 71 
Happy Birthday: You will accomplish far more this yeat· if you just quietly move for­ward with your plans. Tmst your own judgment and put your knowledge and expertise to use. Your numbers are 11. 19. 21, 25, 33,39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be a little anxious and idle time will be what leads to mistakes. I ,ook at the big picture and, if you aren't happy with what you see, change it. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Slick to what has to be finished and don't let at1yone take your mind off your task at hand. If you fall short of your expectations. someone will be sure to point out your shortcoming. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There will be no time to mull over things. Action will be the key to your success. Your intuition will be on the mat·k, so ~ust in your own judg­ment; not someone else1S. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you feel you are too close to a situation to make a good decision, don't move forward. Look atuund you and see what everyone else is doing. It should give you an indication where you fit in and how you can proceed. Hon­esty will win favors: 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is a perfect meet-and-greet day, especially where inspira­tional people are concemed. A love connection can be made or you can get closer to your current partner by discussing your future plans. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you complain or criticize others, you aren't likely to get anywhere. However, if you focus on implementing a couple of changes that will ease your stress, much can be accomplished. Start doing for yourself. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep busy doing things that will eventually help you get ahead. Courses, hobbies, picking up information or spending time with someone experi­enced in a field you want to pursue will all work to your advantage. 3 stat·s 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to take an alternate route to get to where you belong. Keep on top of what evetyone else is doing so you can outsmart any com­petition yon face. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIDS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You should be spending time looking for love or doing something special with your cunent prutner. Travel may entice you but you can accomplish just as much sticking close to home. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Listen and assess your situation. Someone will give you a bird's eye view of what you need to do to accomplish your goals. Be sman and play your cards close to your chest. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Consider your options and you will be able to fit fru· more into your schedule. Planning your next vacation will encourage you to be more productive.4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): You'll find it difficult to slick to one thing. Your mind will be wandering and you may need to question yow· motives. 3 slru·s 
Birthday Baby: You investigate, determine what to do anti react quickly and precisely. You are charming, sensitive, emotional and able to find solutions when any problems 
occur. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroad,·ice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor conjidential cml.sultaJions 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, January 16, 2008 
page 28 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pressing the Bearcats 
Squadfollows blowout with 31st home win 
By FRAN TOLAN and 
CHRIS HINE 
Sports Writers 

.lust when it looked like Notre Dame's :W-game home win streak might be in jeopardy, the Irish simply applied pres­sun~ to stop the blneding. After trailing for most of the first hall', the team employed a full­court press to propel it past Cincinnati <J1-74 Tuesday night. 
Less than l'ive minutes into the second half, Irish junior guard Ryan Ayers stole the Bnarcats' inbounds pass and dropped in an easy layup to give Notre Dame its lirst lead of the half and just its third ol' the contest. On thn following play,
-. sophomore guard Tory Jackson forced a turnover then passed tho ball to junior Kyle McAlarney for a 3-pointer, giv­ing the Irish a 46-42 lead. "That ldnl"ensive pressure[ got us going and the building going and kind of jumpstarted the whole thing," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "That's kind of what you nePded in a game like that." Coming ofT tlwir worst defeat of the season -a 26-point loss Saturday to Marquette ­tlw Irish were !1at in the first half and trailed at thB break 
see REBOUND/page 26 


fOOTBALL 
3 seniors apply for fifth year 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Even without a bowl game to play in, it was a busy holiday season for Notre Dame. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis saw one player transfer, than wel­comed back three who announced they will apply for a fifth year. 
On Jan. 8, Weis released a statement announcing that linebacker Maurice Crum. defensive lineman Justin Brown and cornerback Terrail Lambert will apply for a fifth year of eligibility. 
Crum started all 12 games last season and ranked fourth on the team in tackles with 84. lie also intercepted two pass­es, recovered two fumbles and scored a touchdown in the team's 20-6 win over UCLA on Oct. 6. 
Lambert also started every game last season, recording 34 tackles and one intercep­tion. Brown played in 10 games, started live and made 30 tackles and one sack. 
In the same statement, Weis announced that sophomore cornerback Munir Prince has elected to leave the University and will enroll elsewhere. 
Prince, a converted running 
see PRINCE/page 26 

HocKEY 
Offense struggles in six break games 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
After posting a 2-3-1 mark during an up-and-down holiday break during which the No. 8 Irish failed to win consecutive games, Notre Dame saw its reeord fall to 18-7-1 and its ranking drop two spots. 
Much of the blame for the sud­den cold stretch can be attrib­uted to its inability to score four or more goals in any of its games over break. Conversely, during a nine-game winning streak directly preceding the winter break, the Irish scored four or more goals eight times. 
"I am eoncerned about [the lack of scoring[, but I'm hoping we'll get out of it sooner rather than later," Irish coach Jeff Jaekson said. "It's better that it happens now rather than in March." 
Speeial teams play has emerged as a concern for the Irish, between a sputtering power-play unit mired in a 0-for­30 streak and a penalty-killing unit that has taken a dip as of late. Changes have been made, but consistency has become Jaekson's main priority. 
"Changing things isn't the answer anymore," Jackson said. "You get to the point where you keep changing things, and it only magnilles the problem. It's just a matter of putting the right chemistry set together." 
The Irish rode a nine-game winning streak heading into the Lightning College Hockey Classic in St. Petersburg, Fla., but fell 4­:~ to Massachusetts, now ranked No. 10, in the tourney opener on Dec. 29. They defeated Rensselaer 3-1 the next day. 
The Irish then traveled to Marquette, Mich., and took a split in a two-game set with Northern Michigan. After losing the first game 2-1 on Jan. 4., Notre Dame took game two the next day by the same margin before traveling to East Lansing, Mieh., and falling to Michigan State 3-1 on Jan. 11. 
In their first home game since a 5-0 thrashing of Nebraska­Omaha on Dec. 1, the Irish final­ly returned to the Joyce Center of Jan. 13, playing then-No. 9 
see STRUGGLES/page 26 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish lose tw-ice to ranked tea111s 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

The Irish won four of their six games over the break, but their perimeter defense haunted them once again. 
No. 17 Notre Dame lost both games played against ranked teams -at home against No. 2 Tennessee 87-63 on Jan. 5 and at No. 14 West Virginia 56-50 Sunday. The Irish {13-3, 1-1 Big East) allowed 11 three-pointers against Tennessee, their highest 
since  they  allowed  12  to  
Maryland on Nov. 16.  
Tennessee  guard  Angie  

Bjorklund destroyed the Irish defense, hitting 7 -of-9 on 3-point attempts. Irish coaeh Muffet McGraw called her team's per­formance a "total breakdown of the defense." 
Volunteers forward Candace Parker added 20 points and eight rebounds. McGraw said the team may have focused its defense too much on Parker, something it did not intend to do. 
"We really weren't planning on trying to shut Parker down," McGraw said. "We were going to double team her if she got the ball. We kind of triple-teamed her sometimes, and double-
see BREAK/page 26 




