
THE 


ELECTION 2008 
Students cast election ballots early 
At least 34 states offer voting opportunities before November 4 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Students have been taking advantage of the new opportunity to cast their ballots for the Nov. 4 gener­al election early and in-per­son in at least 34 states throughout the country. 
The state of Indiana offers early voting to registered voters and students regis­tered to vote in other states used fall break as an oppor­tunity to vote in their hometowns. 
Senior Colleen Desmond voted at a retirement home 
in Cook County, Ill. 
"My mom informed me that when I came home for break, I needed to go with her to early vote," Desmond said. 
Senior Pat Young, who voted for the first time at a community center in a pub­lic park in his hometown of Houston, Texas, also said that his mother influenced his decision to vote early. 
"My mom encouraged me to do it, and I was thinking 
about  looking  into  it,"  
Young said.  
Freshman  Nathalie  

Rosado voted in her coun­ty's courthouse in Russell 
County, Ky. 
"I was going to vote in Indiana because I thought it would be more helpful, since it was more of a bat­tleground state," Rosado said. However, Rosado did not make the deadline to register to vote in Indiana. 
Early voting offers an alternative for individuals who miss deadlines for absentee voting and people who will be away from their homes on election day. 
Young, who was too young to vote in the last general election, said early voting 
see EARLYIpage 6 

ELECTION 2008 



SMC profs. examine 
abortion in the election 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Professor of Justice Education, Jan Pilarski and Regina Wilson from Campus Ministry led a discussion called "What's the candidates view on ... abortion?" as part of Saint Mary's Super Tuesday events in the weeks leading up to the Nov. 4 election. 
Pilarski presented the Catholic perspective on abor­tion by using "Consciences for Faithful Citizenship" a docu­ment compiled by United States bishops. It is meant to serve as a voting guide. 
"Bishops are not supposed to tell you what to do," Pilarski said. "Being Catholic is about doing good and avoiding evil. If a Catholic supports intrinsically evil acts, the bishops suggest you do not vote for them." 
Intrinsically evil acts according the bishops include abortion, euthanasia, geno­cide and unjust war among others. 
"The Catholic Church wants us to respect life from begin­ning to end, conception to life's finish," Pilarski said. "To 
see ABORTION/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Club rents DVDsfree of charge 

Student government offers over 450 movies 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Got an inkling to watch "Juno," "Transformers" or episodes of "The Office," but they're not in your movie collec­tion? 
Notre Dame students can "rent" their favorite DVDs free of charge starting this week as part of a new DVD service Notre Dame Student Government is offering. 
The NO DVD Club is operated out of Student Government offices on the second floor of LaFortune and for a year-long refundable five dollar security deposit, students currently have access to over 450 DVDs, organizer Joy Hwang, Student Government Residence Life Committee Chair, said. "Bring your student ID, and a five dollar security deposit and you can join the club," Hwang said. The one time deposit is refundable at the end of the academic year, as long as you follow the rules of the DVD club. 
"They can rent movies for the rest of the year," Hwang said. 
"Unless you turn [a DVD] in late, or you don't turn [a DVD] in, or [the DVD] is damaged, you get [the deposit] back at the end of the year," she said. Students can also opt out of the program if they would like. 
see DVD/page 6 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
If the six days remammg until Election Day are as unpredictable as last night's "Campaign Forum" hosted by NDVote'08, the outcome will not be easy to forecast. 

Ike Brannon, Senior Policy Advisor for the McCain cam­paign, and Howard Lerner, Executive Director at the Law and Policy Center and advisor to the Obama cam­paign, were scheduled to sit side-by-side, arguing for their candidates on the issues of energy, the econo-
ByJENN METZ News Editor 
Cheri Daniels, the First Lady of Indiana, was on campus Tuesday as part of her Heart to Heart Initiative to spread information about how the some of the risks for heart disease, the lead­ing cause of death for women, can be reduced by lifestyle changes. 
Heart to Heart visits col­lege campuses throughout the state, offers free screenings and offers stu­dents tips on how to lead a healthy lifestyle. 
Cindy Adams, nurse prac­titioner and director of the 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 40 WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER29, 2008 
ELECTION 2008 




NDvotes '08 hosts campaign advisors 
Howard Lerner, Obama supporter, and Ike Brannon, McCain supporter, arguedfor their candidates 
my, health care, and nation­al security. 
Ten minutes past the scheduled start time, one of the seats was still empty, so moderator Rev. William M. Lies improvised. 
"We have a little change in plans. Howard Lerner thinks we're on central time. Even though you'd like to, don't let this reflect poorly on the Obama campaign," he joked. 
The format was changed to two separate question and answer sessions prefaced by opening statements, with 
see NDVOTES/page 4 


Daniels raises aw-areness about heart disease 
Healthy Hearts Center of Indiana Heart Hospital, also presented. 
The event, which took place in the Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium, included free cho­lesterol and glu­e o s e screenings provided by the Indiana H e a r t Hospital, health edu­cation booths provided by the St. Joseph County Health Department, Minority Health Coalition 


and United Health Services. Notre Dame's Health Services and RecSports also had tables in the lobby with additional health informa­tion. 
Daniels told The Observer 
she began her initiative 
because she "felt that peo­
ple were not aware that 
heart disease was the num­
ber one killer of women." 
She said she became 
aware after her mother 
was diagnosed with cardio­
vascular disease; since 
then, she has been spread­
ing the message of the 
importance of taking con­trol of heart health. She told The Observer she has received positive feed­
back about her presenta­tions and that screening results have surprised some participants. 
"Kids in college, they think they're bullet-proof," she said, and cited a healthy-weight, semi-active female student, who, during a previous program, was very surprised to find she had high cholesterol. 
"It's very good for people to learn about their own health and the changes they have to make to their lifestyles to improve it," Daniels said. 
Anne Kleve, the director of Notre Dame Health 
see DANIELS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Golfing in 

South Bend 
My IIL-;t round of gnlf of the season was nothing short of 1~pic:. 
My partnnr Hob m1d I made it to the lntnrhall duunpionship along with three other twosom1~s. It wa-; a scr<Unble lbrmat, mmming we play thP best ball of tho two hit, so should I slumk my drive to the left on thn lin.t hoiP (which I did) Hob could pick rnn up. Only problnm? South Bend weathnr. 
Wn tried to play  
belbrn Iilli brnak. but  Bill Brink  
rnidtenn-; <Uld tomm­ 
ti<ll downpours knpt  
us oil"tho course. So  Sports Editor  
we played Monday.  
Anyone who wa-; on  

campus Monday ~JeS thn inhnrnnt problem. 
It. wa<; about 39 d!Jgrl*lS out, ooautiful golfwnath1w. Laden with Under Annour, glovns Md some pre-match 1>1>irits to keep tL<; warm, we were, in our minds, at lea'il., dl<Unpionship-bound. But the weather would not moperatn. 
Thn hail started a-; wn apprmu:hnd the ~~cond grnen. 'Ibat ~mtenr.n right there demorL<>tratns the Mti-golfnat.ure of this poor-weatJmr town. Trying to putt with hail driving inl.l1 your far~~ at a 45-degrno <mgln rnalws a nonnal 20-lilol.l~r fnellike a tap-in at the local putt-putt course. Any <UnhitiorL'i of ch<mnding our inner 'tigers <Uld Phil-; Pvaporal.l~d up inl.l1 the dark st11rm doud-;. Tlw links in SmtJMd had nothing on tJlis. 
I eouldn't feel my Iumd-; ruler the li1urth holn, oxeept when I hit the ball thin; then it li~lt like hitting a b~~b<lll on·tho hlUldle of a bat. The hail cnmked up again on the sixth hole, thi-; time biggnr <Uld harder. The h'fl~nn tumnd whil.l\ <Uld thn ball pi1:knd up tJ1e hail m1d sleet a-; it rolled-nay, hounmd ~~tWI'Im pinms of ha.il-cu:ross thn h'fl~n. ao; if we wernma.king a snow­man. 
I lnre's tJm kicker: Hob and I botJ1 missed a 1:~-ineh putt lhr par on the sixth. We're not bad pul.l.l~rs. WP ma.lw those putt-;. We have ice in our veifLo; (lUld not ~lcausn it W<L<; freezing out). Tho balls kicked oil' lromn rain <Ulll edgt\d ldt oftJ1n holn. We sta.nrl, spnechlnss. 'lb1~re wao; nothing to say. I >arknnss filii prnmaturnly, so we resorted 
1.11 h'UPssing where our balb may have lmld­ed. On tJ1e nintJ1 holn, in near piteh-blaek, we hadn't a dun. 
Thwack. "Anybody got Mything'?" one would a-;k, hoping that. ~~t.wnnn three set<; ofnyns ~1meo1111 could lbllow tJm inch-wide ball 250 yard-; away. "Nope, I got nothing," wa'i the choru<;~rl msp!lfL<;(1. 
We fbrrnnd a ~1areh p1uty. !bur-wide <u:ross tim fairway, literally taking shot<; in thn dark at whem our ball., 1>i.opp11d b<L<>nd on how tJmy fi~It otfthe dubfiu:e. When Jim li1und hi'> b<lll, the s<Une process took place. Any time you have I.IJ w;e the spotlight on thn side of the Htx:k a-; lU1 aiming point, you know the round ha-; ~lim shot. 
We lost by two strokes. Ch<Unpionship hopes d<L-;hnd until next year. But thanks to some heads-up thinking from Hob. who ca.ll!m our liiend Ja'>On from the eighth fitir­way, we had hot ehoeolate waiting lor us, a warm tonic that wa<>hPd away our pain and put the round in perspective. 
The Plem£mt'i lrowm\d upon us; Ifelt like the golfiw from 'Caddyshack' trying to squee7.e in nine holes during a monsoon. But the heavy stuff came down, fbr quit.P ~>me time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reponing error, the arricle "SMC students travel to Mexico for ministry" in the Ocr. 28 issue of The Observer incorrectly said that Kathering Putz is a sophomore. She is a senior. Also, the name of Sister Michelle "Hermana Mica" Toepp was spelled incorrectly. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD JESUS DRESS UP AS FOR HALLOWEEN? 



Mike Mogavero 
sophomore O'Neill 
"People dress up as Jesus for Halloween. Jesus dresses up like Chuck 
Norris.,, 

Atlanta 59 I 33 Boston 49 I 37 Chicago 54 I 28 Denver 75 I 40 Houston 74 I 43 Los Angeles 85 I 60 Minneapolis 59 128 New York 48 I 37 Philadelphia 50 I 38 Phoenix 93 I 65 Seattle 59 I 46 St. Louis 61 I 35 Tampa 67 I 42 Washington 53 I 37 
John Doheny  Kate Mattoon  Michael Augsberger  Alisha Wilkinson  
sophomore Alumni  senior Lewis  junior Duncan  senior Lewis  
"Chris Gautsch. ,,  'The Good Shepherd.,,  "Ranbow man holding up the  'The Lamb. ,,  


OFFBEAT 

Accused man allegedly drives stolen SUV to court 
SAN ANSELMO, Calif. ­Police have charged a man with stealing a Lexus SUV he drove to court the day a jury was to decide whether to convict him in a separate auto theft case. The man was arraigned Monday on charges of receiving a stolen vehicle and receiv­ing stolen property after police saw him approach the stolen Lexus in front of the courthouse with its keys in hand. 
Police were attracted to the SUV after bystanders noticed several Yorkshire 
TODAY 
a: 
IJ.I :l: 
~ 
IJ.I 
==
..... 
c( 
CJ 

0 



HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 45 LOW 30 LOW LOW LOW 
terriers mulling around it. 
The man was also charged with animal cru­elty and leaving animals in an unattended vehicle. 
Meanwhile, the 37-year­old San Francisco hair­stylist was convicted in the other case. He was charged with possession of a $125,000 Porsche Carrera that had been stolen from a San Anselmo home. 
Grandma performs in rap video; grandson goes to jail 
WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. -A Florida teenager has been sentenced to 18 months in juvenile deten-
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

John 3:16 signs at sporting 
,,
events. 
ANNIE HARTON!The 


Notre Dame group Four:7 had a costume contest Tuesday evening. Four:7 meets every Tuesday in Cavanaugh Chapel for Catholic Fellowship. 
tion for coaxing his senile 
grandmother into holding 
a gun and threatening to 
shoot "all the pigs" in a 
homemade "gangster rap" 
video. 
Eighteen-year-old Michael Alfinez pleaded guilty Tuesday to elder abuse charges. His family has said the case was a misunderstanding. 
The 85-year-old grand­mother can be seen in the video holding a handgun, wearing a black mask and threatening to shoot "all the pigs." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Marty Wolfson, the director of the Higgins Labor Studies program is hosting "The Crisis on Wall Street and What it Means for Main Street" today at 4:30 p.m. in Room 118 DeBartolo. 
Yael Prizant, assistant pro­fessor in the department of' Film, Television and Theater will give a seminar entitled "Fidel Castro Performs: A Look at History and Heiteration" at 4 p.m. today in 208 McKenna Hall. 
Saint Mary's College will bless Spes Unica Hall, the new academic building, tomorrow with open houses and tours for the Board of Trustees start­ing at 1 :30 p.m. and academic department presentations from 3:30 to 5 p.m. throughout the building. The blessing will take place in the atrium at 5 
p.m. with a reception to follow and a Mass of' Thanksgiving in Holy Spirit Chapel, LeMans Hall at 6:30 p,m. 
Joan Payden, Chief Executive Officer of Payden & Rygel Investment Management will speak as part of the Mendoza College to Business' Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series Friday at 
10:40 a.m. in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Gregory P. Crawford, Dean o.f' the College of Science will give a lecture entitled "Notre Dame Science: Making a Difference" Saturday at 11 
a.m. in Room 105 of the Jordan Hall of' Science 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews. nd@gmail. com. 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 

e
11,1111I I
I 
HIGH HIGH 60 LOW LOW 42 

Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
The Shirt 2009 project is undenvay 
Planning committee will gather for the first time in November 
unveil [it] because we feel lyrics from some sort of Notre By MADELINE BUCKLEY that the mysteriousness ulti­Dame song and an image that 
News Writer 
mately benefits the project," is clearly related to football," he said. he said. "It's not a basketball Even though there are still The Shirt committee has a shirt, it's not a baseball shirt." two more home football lot of freedom in choosing the Barloh said he hopes to games this year, the project to design of The Shirt because have The Shirt design com­design next season's football the University issues very few pleted and approved in Shirt is underway, said Matt rules about the January so Barloh, president of The Shirt images and the committee 2009. lyrics on it, can then mar­
"If you want a
Barloh, appointed president Barloh said. ket it to the
successful shirt, it,s 
of the project at the Oct. 14 "The only wider public. Council of Representatives guideline that smart to incorporate Along with meeting, said he will choose I'm acutely advertising for
lyrics from some sort
committee members to design aware of is the The Shirt on
ofNotre Dame song 
The Shirt next week, and the University's campus and in group will hold its first meet­preference that and an image that is the South ing by Nov. 10. we not incorpo­Bend area,
clearly related 
"The first month of the proj­rate religious the committee
to football. ,,
ect will be devoted to deter­imagery with is also in mining the color of The Shirt, football charge of throwing out ideas both for imagery," Matt Barloh marketing the graphics and the lyrics of Barloh said. The Shirt to
President

The Shirt and establishing a "For example, I the Alumni
The Shirt 2009
strategy for our marketing couldn't have clubs, he said. campaign in the spring," someone doing "Alumni Barloh said. the Heisman pose in a football clubs all over the world pur­
Barloh said there is an uniform superimposed on a chase The Shirt," Barloh said. online application from which detailed image of the Dome "After The Shirt has been he will choose seven or eight because Mary is on the unveiled, we work to make students who stand out. He Dome." sure that the Alumni club said he is looking for students Despite this rule, the com-orders are actually filled out, who show a . mittee can be and that they get their shirts passion for the creative, he on time." project, have said. The color In the spring, the committee
"Personally, I like to 

past experi­of The Shirt will focus on the ceremony to 
see someone who is 

ence with doesn't even unveil The Shirt, Barloh said. design or mar­truly passionate necessarily The past two ceremonies have keting and have to be drawn crowds of about 5,000
about The Shirt 

show a great blue, gold or he said.
project and truly 

attention to green, he said. After The Shirt is unveiled, detail. cares about what "In previous the committee works with "Personally, I goes on The Shirt and years, we have concession stands, student like to see discussed, groups and the Bookstore to
how the project is 

someone who everything sell the shirts, Barloh said. is truly pas­seen by the greater from white and The proceeds then go to SAO sionate about Notre Dame grey to lime to be allotted for student The Shirt proj­green," he clubs and organizations and
community.,,

ect and truly said. to The Shirt Charity Fund, he cares about But success­said. what goes on Matt Barloh ful Shirts are "[The fund] is used to help The Shirt and President usually more students pay for extraordinar­how the project traditional, ily high medical expenses,"
The Shirt 2009

is seen by the Barloh said. Barloh said. greater Notre "We prefer The long process of design­Dame community," he said. the blues, greens and golds ing, marketing and selling 
The committee will be because they are colors The Shirt is ultimately for the among the select few at the indicative of Notre Dame," he students, Barloh said. University that will see The said. "It's not my Shirt, it's not Shirt before the big unveiling The committee also tries to even the committee's Shirt. ceremony in April, Barloh unite Notre Dame imagery It's the whole University's said. with football imagery, Barloh Shirt," he said. 
"We try to keep the design, said. theme and color secret until "If you want a successful Contact Madeline Buckley at the day in April when we shirt, it's smart to incorporate mbuckley@nd.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Leaders allowed to voice concerns 
in the Huddle Mart convenience ByJOHN TIERNEY 

store "because things move

News Writer 
around due to demand," 
according to Schmidt. 

In the absence of new busi­"To actually label every single ness at Tuesday' Council of item would be a lot of work," Representatives (COR) meeting, Schmidt said. student body president Bob Schmidt proposed having a Reish allowed student leaders scanner in the Huddle so cus­to address their concerns about tomers would be able to scan student govern-their items ment initiatives. before 
"This is a time approaching the to refocus our­register, but he
'This is a time to
selves and to said such a 
refocus our ini­refocus ourselves and solution might tiatives," Reish to refocus our not be possible said. and would
initiatives.,,
One area that require cooper­Reish would like ation from the to improve stu­Bob Reish Office of 
dent government Student body president Information is its approacha­Technology. bility. He said Despite these that the results of complications, the student survey have showed however, all but one COR mem­
a "somewhat lower response ber said it is necessary to have than we had hoped" on prices accessible for items sold approachability. in the Huddle. 
But Reish was pleased by the Sophomore class president high number of respondents to Cynthia Weber asked Reish the survey. He said that over about progress on the 2,300 people have responded so Collegiate Council, a proposed far. organization that would bring 
One area of concern for Hall together student leaders from Presidents' Council co-chair various universities. Phil Krichner was pricing at Reish said that he has spoken LaFortune estab-with the stu­lishments. He dent body pres­was specifically ident at
'To actually label 
concerned by the Princeton
every single item 
absence of $5 University and foot-longs at the would be a lot of that they are Subway fran­work.,, working to cre­chise. ate a Google 
Student body group that vice president Grant Schmidt would serve the Grant Schmidt Student body vice same function recently met with as the
president

Huddle manage­Collegiate ment and said Council, but that the Subway without the does not serve $5 foot-longs costs of bringing so many lead­because it was not in the fran­ers to the same place. chise's budget. However, Reish Weber, however, said that she and Schmidt are hopeful that still thinks that meeting face-to­the franchise will budget for the face with leaders from other promotion in the future. universities would be beneficial. 
Huddle management told Schmidt that it would be too dif­Contact John Tierney at ficult to put prices on the rack jtiemel@nd.edu 
Interrace Forum: You Voted ... Now What? 

Dinner and discussion on the Election Results! 
Coalition Lounge, 207 La Fortune November 5, 2008 7 PM-9 PM RSVP by 10/31 with MSPS at 631-6841 or msps@nd.edu 
Sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services 



-------------------------------------------------------~~­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Speaker shares business successes 
Quality Dining, Inc. runs 118 Burger Kings, 45 Chili's, 9 Papa Vino's 
Hestaurants, and recently

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
opened Blue20, a seafood 

News Writer 
restaurant in New Jersey. 
lie opened his speech dis­

Dan Fitzpatrick. Chairman, cussing "what makes him Presi£1fmt, and Chief Executive tick." !lis view of himself, his Ofl'icer of ()uality Dining, Inc. theology, his family, his com­discussed his journey from a munity and his career are small town in Toledo, Ohio to essential parts of who he is. franchisn success during his These "points of character" lecture Tuesday night in are what drive him. He Vander Vennet Theater. emphasized the importance of 
"I have a message I would being in control of your own 
like to give a voice to. Something that isn't a rnflec­tion.. of m~ per say, he s<ud. 
Fitzpatrick began working when he was fourteen in an Italian restau­rant. lie worked hard because "that was the thing to do." lie con­tinued working in the food 
life. "Me is impor­
tant. I have been made in 
"You guys have to be 
the greatest 
the image and generation. My the likeness of generation, we God. God does­
n't make junk. I
screwed it up, and it 
have to love
is up to you to make me," Fitzpatrick 
it better." said. The actions of former genera­
Dan Fitzpatrick 
tions are also 
CEO 
important for 
Quality Dining, Inc. young people to consider, Fitzpatrick dis-

business until finally becom­cussed. ing Hegional Director of' 13 "We have had all these great Burger King restaurants by opportunities handed to us, age 23. Now, his company, and we flunked," he said. Civil ()uality Dining, Inc, operates rights, the environment, ener­118 Burger Kings, 45 Chili's, gy, education and terrorism nine Papa Vino's Italian were point he believed his 
generation was not succeed­ing on. 
"You guys have to be the greatest generation. My gen­eration, we screwed it up, and it is up to you to make it bet­ter," Fitzpatrick said. 
He separated life into two things -events and experi­ences. 
"Events you generally have no control over. Things hap­pen, big things happen. The point is this; you get to deter­
mine  how  you  experience  
these  things,"  Fitzpatrick  
said.  

He had a rough childhood, but he said he worked through it. Fitzpatrick went from not knowing where his next meal was coming from to owning a multimillion dollar company. 
"There is a very fine line between mediocrity and excellence," Fitzpatrick said. As long as you can fire your­self up to do something, you can do it, he said. Success is something that has to be worked for, it is not given. 
Fitzpatrick closed his lec­ture with his words of wis­dom, "above all else, pray." 
Contact Ashley Charnley at 
acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NDvotes 
continued from page 1 
Brannon starting off, and 
Lerner taking over when he 
arrived. 
Brannon said he supports 
John McCain because of the 
character and independence 
he has shown throughout his 
life and political career. 
"I think it says a lot about the man, that despite taking on s1weral very scared cows in government, despite the fact that he's fought the president head-on on many issues, that he's the standard bearer for the Hepublican Party," Brannon said. 
Brannon then answered audienc11 questions about McCain's policies. 
When asked how McCain would appoint Supreme Court Justic11s with regard to his beliefs about abortion, Brannon said although McCain disagrees with Hoe v. Wade, he would impose no "absolute litmus test" and he does not believe abortions should be federally banned but left to the states' discre­tion. 
Responding to another question, Brannon explained the goals of McCain's tax plan. 
"One of the biggest prob­lems we have with our tax code is that it taxes capital and business way too much," he said. 
According to Brannon, tax­ing businesses at a high rate 
reduces job creation and ty." makes workers less produc­When prompted by a ques­tive. lie said that companies tion expressing doubt about have less incentive to invest the compatibility of econom­in the United States when ic growth with environmen­they can be taxed at a lower tal concerns, Lerner elabo­rate overseas. Less invest­rated his argument. ment, according to Brannon, "We don't have a choice," 
lowers worker productivity, which often determines 

"One of the biggest 
wages. 

problems we have
L e r n e r arrived shortly with our tax code is thereafter and 
that it taxes capital
stated his case 

and business way 
for Obama. 

To solve the too much. " world's envi­ronmental 
Ike Brannon 
problems, the 

Senior policy advisor 
next president, Lerner said, 

McCain campaign 
will have to "walk into a room with a number of lead­ers of developing nations" in order to persuade them to the proper course of action. Lerner believes that Obama has the right "personal and political skills" to achieve this. 
He also stressed Obama's commitment to meeting both economic and environmental goals, noting that they are not contradictory but rein­forcing aims. 
"Energy, the environment, and national security have come together," Lerner said. "We can solve them in ways that work for the environ­ment, work for clean energy, work for our economy, and work for our national securi­he said. "Like I said we can't hit pause on a Tivo and wait for our climate problems to get better." 
He stressed that develop­ing renewable energy will create jobs in new industries and laid out some of Obama's spe­cific proposals, including poli­

cies that will make the U.S. 50 percent more energy effi­cient by 2030 and a cap and trade program that should reduce pollution 90 percent by 2050. 
Lerner also defended Senator Obama's tax plans, arguing that it will help to balance the budget. 
"The fact of the matter is that when President Bush came into office, this country had more than a $200 billion surplus," he said. "We've frittered that away partly because of tax cuts that have benefited the wealthiest Americans." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 


800.424.8580 Iwww.peacecorps.gov 
Everything that you need to know can be found by searching on Google...NOT!!! 
Getting the Straight Scoop on Research 
TONIGHT! Wednesday, October 29 at 5 pm 161 Mendoza College of Business 
Understanding & collecting information is critical. 
There 's a lot ofdata "out there. " The challenge is to find the best information effoctively and efficiently. 
We'll help you understand which tools and resources work best for the types a_(information you are seeking. 
Regardless a_(what you are researching, this session promises to be extremely informative. 
NOTRE DAME BUSINESS PLAN COMPETITIONS DEADLINE EXTENDED! Submission Deadline: November to1 :2.0o8 
VISIT THE GIGOT CENTER WEBSITE AT Notre Dame 
business plan
competitions

gigot.nd.edu 
2008·2009 

Questions? Contact us by phone at 6JI·J04" or by email at entrep@nd.edu. 
Please re Check 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 CoMrtuo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Torture-induced confession tossed 
GUANTANAMO BAY, Cuba-A U.S. mili­tary judge barred the Pentagon Tuesday from using a Guantanamo prisoner's confes­sion to Afghan authorities as trial evidence, saying it was obtained through torture. 
Army Col. Stephen Henley said Mohammed Jawad's statements "were obtained by phys­ical intimidation and threats of death which. under the circumstances, constitute torture." 
.Jawad's defense attorney, Air Force Maj. David Frakt, told The Associated Press that the ruling removes "the lynchpin of the gov­ernment's case." 
Guantanamo's ehief prosecutor, Army Col. Lawrence Morris, said he recognized how the judge made his decision and needed to study the ruling before making more com­ments. 
.Jawad, who was still a teenager at the time. is accused of injuring two U.S. soldiers with a grenade in 2002. He allegedly said during his interrogation in Kabul that he hoped the Americans died, and would do it again. 
Chavez foe probed for corruption 
CAHACAS. Venezuela-Venezuela opened a corruption probe of a leading opponent of President Hugo Chavez on Tuesday with less than a month to go before nationwide elec­tions. · 
Attorrwy General Luisa Ortega said prosecu­tors should decide whether to file criminal charges against Gov. Manuel Rosales by year's end, throwing up a cloud that will remain through election day on Nov. 23. Rosales, a two-time governor, is running for mayor of Maracaibo. Venezuela's second-largest city. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Skinhead plot poorly planned 
BELLS, Tenn. -Two white supremacists charged with plotting to behead blacks across the country and assassinate Barack Obama while wearing white top hats and tuxes were likely too disorganimd to carry out the plot, authorities said, and their planning was riddled with blunders. 
Paul Schlessclman, 18, of Helena-West Helena, Ark., and Daniel Cowart, 20, of Bells are accused of dreaming up the plan. While authorities say they had guns capable of creating carnage, documents show they never got close to getting offthe ground. 
Among the blunders: They drew attention to themselves by etehing ~wastikas on a car with side­walk ehalk, only knew each other for a month, couldn't even pull off a house robbery, and a friend ratted them out to authorities. 
Warden's wife accused in escape 
MANGUM, Okla. -A decade after a convicted killer CS<'-<lped from an Oklahoma prison and van­ished along with the assL'>Iant warden's pretty young wile, the two were found living together on a Texas ehicken raneh. 
Now the woman, Bobbi Parker, is back with her hm;band and fighting in court to prove she was a kidnap victim, not a love~truek ar,compliee to escape. 
On Tuesday, a judge ruled Parker, now 46, must stand trial on eharges she helped Randolph Dial break out of the Oklahoma State Reformatory in Granite in 1994. The ruling came after evidence was prnsented at a pmliminary hearing that Parker and Dial shared a bed for a decade and acted like hus­band and wife. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Crash closes Indiana toll road 
BHISTOL, Ind. -A semitrailer slammed into a stopped tanker on the Indiana Toll Road, causing a fire that severely burned a trucker from Delaware. 
That erash happened as traffic was stopped for a medical helicopter to take away a victim from another collision before dawn Tuesday on the highway about 20 miles east of South Bend. The crashes caused authorities to close the highway for several hours as slick roads eauscd numerous traffic problems in the area. 
SYRIA 

Al-Qaida finds new route to Iraq 
Senior officer's death shows how insurgents enter Iraq through Syrian border 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -For years, he operated along Syria's remote border where don­keys are the only means of travel. He provided young Arabs from as far away as Morocco and the Persian Gulf with passports, guides and weapons as they slipped into Iraq to wage war. 
But recently, the Iraqi man known as Abu Ghadiyah began doing even more -launching his own armed forays into his home­land, U.S. and Iraqi officials say. 
Finally the United States lashed out, frustrated, it says, after years of vainly pressuring Syria to shut down his network supplying the Sunni insurgency. 
The Americans carried out a bold daylight raid Sunday in a dusty farming community of mud and con­crete houses known as Abu Kamal, just across the bor­der in Syria. The U.S. says Abu Ghadiyah and several bodyguards were killed. Syria says eight civilians died. At least one villager says U.S. forces seized two men and hauled them away. 
Whatever Abu Ghadiyah's fate, the attack targeting him has become a seminal that enables suicide attacks, Mazidih, was mostly native of the northern Iraqi moment -casting rare bombings and ambushes to unknown outside a tight cir­city of Mosul believed to be light on the hidden, complex continue inside Iraq. cle of Western and Iraqi in his early 30s. networks that recruit for­Even as the insurgency intelligence officers. They Last May, Abu Ghadiyah eign fighters and then deliv­has fallen on rough times -tracked his movements, and led a dozen gunmen across er them across Syria to the battered and bleeding but the al-Qaida commanders the border and attacked an battlefields of Iraq. not yet defeated -the net­who relied on his services, Iraqi police station in Qaim, 
Syria has long insisted it works themselves have believing him a senior fig­killing 12 policemen, Iraqi monitors the border and become more organized, the ure in al-Qaida in Iraq. police Lt. Col. Falah ai­does all it can to stop documents indicate. That Abu Ghadiyah housed his Dulaimi told The Associated weapons and fighters. raises fears the insurgency recruits both in Damascus Press on Tuesday. Syrian 
"They know full well that could someday arise anew. and the Syrian port of border guards prevented an we stand against al-Qaida," The documents also shed Latakiya before moving Iraqi patrol from pursuing Syrian Foreign Minister light on the murky web of them across the Iraqi bor­the gunmen back into Syria, Walid al-Moallem said religious extremists, profes­der, one senior Iraqi securi­the police officer said. Monday in London. "They sional smugglers and cor­ty officer said Tuesday. He Sunday's raid was know full well we are trying rupt Syrian intelligence offi­spoke on condition of launched because of intelli­to tighten our border with cials who run the smuggling anonymity because he was gence that Abu Ghadiyah Iraq." networks -some of whom not authorized to talk to was planning another 
But the raid and U.S. doc­view Syrias government in media. attack inside Iraq, a senior uments -recently made faraway Damascus with Scores of people are U.S. official told The public -indicate that contempt. involved in the smuggling Associated Press, also insurgents operating in the Until the raid, Abu networks, officials say. But speaking anonymously Syrian border region are Ghadiyah, whose real name Iraqi police held special dis­because the information is still providing the material was Badran Turki al-dain for Abu Ghadiyah, a classified. 

Detroit mayor jailed for sex scandal 
Associated Press good behavior, potentially up to 20 demoting or firing them. 
days in this case. He and chief of staff Christine 
DETROIT-A judge sentenced for­"When someone gets 120 days in Beatty, both 38, were accused of mer Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick to four jail, they should get 120 days in jail," having an affair and denied it, but months in jail Tuesday for a sex-and­Groner said. text messages obtained by a lawyer text scandal, calling him "arrogant Kilpatrick was taken across the in the case -and later the Detroit and defiant" and questioning the sin­street to the county jail, where he Free Press -clearly contradicted cerity of a guilty plea that ended his will spend 23 hours a day in a pri­them. career at City Hall. vate cell. They used their city pagers to 
Kilpatrick declined to speak in As he was being led away, he arrange trysts and share sexually court, but his lawyers urged the yelled out to supporters: "You all explicit desires. A fresh batch of judge to look at his entire career, not take it easy." messages was released last week, just the crimes that threw local gov­They responded: "Be strong, revealing that Kilpatrick, married ernment into disarray for months. Mayor. We love you, Mayor. We got with three children, likely had other 
The punishment was part of a plea your back, Mayor." lovers. agreement worked out last month. Kilpatrick, a Democrat, admitted The sentencing was Kilpatrick's Wayne County Circuit Judge David lying while testifying last year in a first public forum since a speech to Groner followed that deal but said civil lawsuit filed by former police supporters after he pleaded guilty to Kilpatrick would not get time off for officers who accused him of illegally obstruction of justice Sept. 4. 
page 6 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
Daniels 
continued from page 1 

Services, introduced the 
speakers by welcoming 
them to campus and thank­
ing them for visiting and 
sharing their information. 
Daninls spokn l'irst. and addrnssnd why it has been hnr initiative to spnak to people of college agn about !wart disnasn. 

"llnart disease is starting to presnnt itself in women younger and younger," shn said. "You can make lifnstyle changns in your latn tnens and early 20's ­this is a gn~at tinw to start l~lac,l.ing a healthy heart life. 
Shn listed three rnodil'i­abln factors, or things that people can do. to reduce their risk for heart disease: blood prnssure, weight and smoking habits. 
"We re recently lnarning more and more about how important it is for women in particular to start pay­ing attention to heart hnalth," she said, ·and told the audience that almost 500,000 women die from heart disease each year. 
"Heart disease dons not discriminate," Daniels said. "It's pretty frightnning." 
Shn cited the importance of knowing blood pressure and both IIDL and LDL cho­lesterol figures, staying within the weight guide­lines for your height, and quitting smoking, which she said is "the most important thing you can do for yourself." A yearly physical, Daniels said, is important to help keep track of th!'se numbers. to see trends and to spot problems. 
Daniels stressed the importance of making time for regular exercise, even though it might be hard to fit physical activity into busy college schedulns. 
All lifestyle changes should not be made at once to ensure success. Daniels said. "You need to go slow­ly" because if you go over­board, and start an extreme new diet and exer­cise regime you'll "be 
staving, you'll be sore and then you'll quit." 
She said exercise can also help college students cope with the stress they experi­nnce at school, and that they will see both a differ­ence in their physical appearance and the way the feel by performing 30­60 minutes of physical activity on most days. 
Daniels encouraged the audience to share the information they learned during the program with loved ones and to make a pledge to themselves that they arc "going to take steps to lead a healthier life and lead by example." 
"Give yourself the best gift you can -the gift of exercise, the gift of a heart healthy life," she said. 
Adams gave a PowerPoint presentation about miscon­ceptions about cardiovas­cular disease in women, risk factors and symptoms. 
According to a recent survey that asked women what they perceived to be their biggest health eon­cern, almost half said breast cancer, Adams said. Heart disease was the fourth most popular 
answer,  following  an  
unspecified  cancer  and  
AIDS.  

"In actuality, over 35 per­eent of women are likely to die of cardiovascular dis­ease," Adams said. 
She said it is very impor-


plans to purchase new films on a monthly basis. 

DVD 
Currently, a list of available continued from page 1 movies can be viewed on the 
Student Government Web site. "At any point, if you want to be Students can check out one taken out of the dub, you can DVD at a time, and regular get your five DVDs must be dollars back," returned within she said. four days. New llwang said the "We got a little over releases, typi­movies came cally films
400 from them and 

from The released in the
/Student Government] 

Huddle, which past year, must offered a DVD purchased about so be returned rental service in within two
more. 

previous years. days, Hwang lluddle said. There is a 
Joy Hwang

Manager Jim late fee if stu-LaBella told ND DVD club organizer dents don't 
The Observer last February that the rental service was no longer profitable to the store. 
The DVDs were given to Student Government, who orig­inally purchased them for the DVD rental serviee. 
"We got a little over 400 from them, and (Student Governmnntl purchased about 50 morn," Hwang said. Most of the over 450 I>VI>s are not duplicates, Hwang said. She also said Student Government 
return the 
movies on time. 
Student Body Vice President Grant Schmidt said that the computer program used to track rentals can notify stu­dents via e-mail of rentals that need to be returned. 
Schmidt said the new pro­gram is part of student govern­ment's goal to increase the lines of' communication between students and Student Government. 
"We want to get people kind 

tant to be aware of' both modifiable and nonmodifi­able factors that contribute to heart disease, to be aggressive in getting your blood pressure and choles­terol numbers down, to treat diabetes and to main­tain a healthy weight. 
Adams encouraged the audienee to begin their lifestyle changes as soon as possible. 
"It's up to you, protect your heart health, start today," she said. 
Along with fliers and booklets containing health information, those in atten­dance received Heart to Heart bracelets and a card with more information about the program and its Web site address, heartto­heart.in.gov 
The audience at Tuesday's presentation contained more male stu­dents than when Daniels has brought Heart to Heart to other state universities, like Purdue, Ball State and Indiana University. 
"Usually there are just a handful of' men," Daniels told the Observer after the presentation. "Though its just as important for them to be aware about cardio­vascular disease, which we've known for a long time to be the number one killer of men too," she said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
of aware of what we're doing here, in an informal way," Schmidt said. The program is an especially good way for stu­dents who aren't familiar with the Student Government office to become more aware of what Student Government does. 
Schmidt said of the students who had signed up throughout the day Mond-ay, "a lot of peo­ple didn't even know where the second floor of LaFortune was." 
Hwang agreed. 
"It was people who really wouldn't usually come up to student government," she said. ''I'm hoping this will be an avenue for people to [get to know] Student Government." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Abortion 
continued from page 1 
them euthanasia and abortion deserve our preeminent attention." 
In the bishop's document, they said there is no way to completely abolish abortion however. the American people need to work in small steps to stop it. 
In the end, it all comes down to personal choice, she said. 
"You can vote for a candi­date if another intrinsic evil is more of a preeminent issue to you," Pilarski said. 
Pilarski went on to intro­duce Barack Obama's point of view on abortion. As in recent years Obama strongly sup­ports Hoe v. Wade but Pilarski quoted the Democratic Party Platform as saying "the Democratic Party also strong­ly supports access to afford­able family planning services and comprehensive age­appropriate sex education which empowers people to made informed choices and live healthy lives." 
While remaining pro-choke, the Democratic Party will work to provide resources and healthcare for women who choose to have their child. 
"By introducing these health care options for women who choose life or adoption, Obama is trying to find a common ground with the Republicans on the issue of abortion," Pilarski said. 
In closing, Pilarski said it is hard to be a Catholic voter becausn no candidate envelopes all issues we hold true as belinvers." 
Hegina Wilson then spoke on the side of the Hepublieans. 
Wilson referred to a ques­tion asked to both Obama and McCain about abortion. While Obama's answer was a bit long, McCain simply said, "I am pro-life and I have been my whole 25 year career." 
"Hepublicans are concerned with maintaining the sanctity and dignity of life," Wilson said."Life is right given to us in the Deelaration of Jndependnncn along with lib­erty and tho pursuit of happi­ness." 
Wilson explained that if John McCain is elected all of his appointees will hold the traditional, family values he holds. 
After resnarching McCain Wilson said she learned he allows abortion in cases of incest or rape but in the case of rape "parental acknowl­edgement would be neces­sary." 
"If McCain overturns Hoe v. Wade it will be one step in the long path to end abortion," she said. 
"According to McCain we need to empower women who decide against abortion by letting them know it took courage for them to bring a child into the world and we need to be compassionate to mother and child through there struggles." Wilson said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayer@saintmarys.edu 
voting process "was speedier and more voter friendly" and

Early 
said that she would definite­continued from page 1 ly be inclined to vote early 
again. was his only opportunity to Hosado also voted in the vote because he did not Democratic primary election request an absentee ballot in in Kentucky. She first time. became aware of the option 
"It was fine. I only had to to vote early for the general wait a half hour," he said. election through the Obama "The ballot campaign. was pretty Based on her self-explanato-experience ry [and] the with early vot­
"/ wanted to vote

people check­ing, Rosado did ing me in were early because I not expect pretty nice." wanted the early voters to With early face long lines
experience ofgoing
voting, voters at polling get to have the into a polling place places. full experience instead of Hosado opted of going to a to vote early
sending in an

polling site because she and can cast absentee ballot. " thought it ballots elec-would be easier tronically. than going
Colleen Desmond 

"I wanted to through the
senior

vote early absentee ballot because I process, which wanted the for her, it was. experience of "It was really going into a polling place easy. You pretty much just instead of sending in an went there and got it done," absentee ballot," Desmond she said. "It was really con­said. venient." 
Desmond voted in the pri­Desmond agreed that early mary election earlier this voting was straightforward year and in the congression­process. al race, but last week was "I got in and out of the her first time voting in a polling place in under ten general election. minutes," Desmond said. 
Compared to her experi­ences voting in other elec­Contact Emma Driscoll at tions, Desmond felt the early edriscol@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 9,065.12 +889.35
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,741 58 727 2,936,374,419 
AMEX 1,425,66 •+~~U;66 NASDAQ 1,649.47 +143.57 NYSE 5,733:45 .it0:"p~:JZ. S&P 500 940.51 +91.59 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,62:L9z·•••·················••o:oo FTSE 100 (London) 3,926.38 +73.79 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +11.69 +9.81 93.76 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +11.05 +3.17 31.86 !SHARES MSCI (EEM) +25.60 +4.94 24.24 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) +15.71 +2.07 15.25 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.44 +0.091 3.820 13-WEEK BILL +2.74 +0.020 0.750 30-YEAR BOND +1.63 +0.067 4.172 5-YEAR NOTE +2.94 +0.078 2.729 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.49 62.73 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.40 740.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.40 86.80 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.1950 FIIR(\ 0.7RR4 
IN BRIEF 
US automakers seek extra federal aid 
WASIIINGTON Beleaguered U.S. automakers are seeking federal help beyond the money available for them as part of a financial industry bailout and a loan package to fund more fuel-efficient cars, the White House said Tuesday. 
White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said the auto industry has talked to the Bush administration about funding on a much broader scale than the two programs approved by Congress earlier this fall. 
"No doubt that the automakers are big important companies, important to a lot of families and important to a lot of regions in this country," Perino said. "We are capable of competing at a level where these companies can succeed. they might just need a little help. And that's what Congress asked us to help provide them." 
General Motors Corp., which is in talks about acquiring Chrysler LLC, is pursuing $5 billion to $10 billion in government aid, said an industry official, who declined to be identi­fied because the discussions were private. GM officials declined comment. 
Soybean prices fall, corn prices rise 
NEW YORK -Soybean prices fell in erratic trading Tuesday even after the government lowered its estimate for the size of this year's harvest. Corn prices traded higher. 
The U.S. Agriculture Department's forecast for planted and harvested corn and soybeans fell after the agency discovered discrepancies in a database used to compile the report. Forecasts for corn and soybean production also fell. 
Soybeans for January delivery lost 9.5 cents to settle at $8.88 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after earlier rising as high as $9.59. 
Vie Lespinasse of Grainanalyst.com said traders were disappointed that the revisions to the crop report "were not more bullish." 
"This caused a lot of would-be buyers to wait ... preventing prices from advancing after their higher start," Lespinasse said. 
High market leap brings little relief 
Wall Street sees one of its best days ever, yet has no cause for celebration 
Associated Press 

Wall Street's best day in 
two weeks -and one of 
its best ever -brought lit­
tle real reason to cele­
brate. 

Even the manic, final­
hour of buying that sent 
the Dow Jones industrials 
soaring almost 900 points 
Tuesday was overshad­
owed by the reality that it 
could turn on investors in 
an instant. 

The extraordinary, 
lurching volatility that has 
gripped Wall Street since 
the financial meltdown 
began in mid-September 
meant there wer.e no guar­
antees the rally would 
hold, not even for a few 
days. 

Investors are expecting a 
cut in interest rates when 
the Federal Reserve 
announces its decision 
Wednesday. But they're 
also staring into an eco­
nomic abyss, bracing for a 
recession of a depth no 
one knows for sure. 
Any other day like this ­
the Dow and the Standard 
and Poor's 500 both rose 
almost 11 percent -might 
have ended with boister­
ous cheers and paper 
tossed into the air. On 
Tuesday, 4 p.m. came with 
meager applause. 

"I don't think it will be a 
sustained move," said Matt 
King, chief investment offi­
cer at Bell Investment 
Advisors. mental that came out in its 41-year history in the and they're not far from 
The Dow finished 889 today or yesterday that wake of this month's finan­being right," he added. 
points higher to close at would take it up or down. cial meltdown, the sharp Financial market turmoil 
9,065. On Oct. 13, the Dow We're all groping for drop in home prices and and falling housing prices 
rose 936 points, its best something meaningful to increasing job losses. have wiped out trillions of 
ever; no other single-day talk about," said Bob The index fell to 38, dollars of household 
rally has come close in Andres, chief investment down from a September wealth in recent months. 
terms of points to what strategist at Portfolio reading of about 61 -the The S&P 500 had fallen 27 
happened Tuesday. Management Consultants. third-steepest monthly percent in October, and 40 
Analysts ventured a "The market is exhausted decline since the board percent for the year, 
number of explanations for from going down." started the measure in before Tuesday's jump. 
the sudden rally -includ­The mood on Main Street 1967. Analysts, way off the In addition, companies 
ing coming interest rate is decidedly more pes­mark, had expected 52. cut 760,000 jobs in the 
cuts, bargain hunting, a simistic, and new data "It's the worst consumer first nine months this year, 
market desperate to find a Tuesday showed environment since the sending the unemployment 
bottom and the expecta­Americans are more 1981-1982 recession," said rate to 6.1 percent last 
tion that banks, at the urg­depressed than market Adam York, an economist month. Many economists 
ing of the White House, analysts had expected. at Wachovia Corp. expect layoffs to continue 
will quit hoarding money The Conference Board's Americans believe "there's and the unemployment 
and start making loans. consumer confidence index a very dire situation in the rate to rise to 8 percent or 
"There is nothing funda-plunged to the lowest level U.S. economy right now, higher in 2009. 

White House tells banks: start lending 
Associated Press Board, a private research group, said very closely, and they're working with 
consumer confidence fell to its lowest the banks," Perino said. 
WASHINGTON -An impatient poirit since it began tracking con­Meanwhile, Treasury Department White House prodded banks and sumer sentiment in 1967. officials met with banking industry other financial companies Tuesday to Hoping to thaw the credit freeze representatives to resolve a glitch in quit hoarding billions of dollars flow­that has chilled the economy, the the rescue program that has tem­ing into their vaults from Washington Bush administration sent banks an porarily prevented some 6,000 of the and start making more loans. Wall unmistakable message to put aside nation's 8,500 banks from applying Street soared nearly 900 points on fears and open up loan windows for for government support. bargain-hunting and hopes of a hefty cash-starved businesses and con­Treasury is buying preferred shares interest rate cut by the Federal sumers who have pulled back on in banks as a way of injecting cash Reserve. spending. into the institutions. But about 6,000 
The stock market's amazing climb, "What we're trying to do is get of the nation's banks don't have pub­with its second-largest point gain banks to do what they are supposed licly traded shares of stock and there­ever, was a welcome burst of good to do, which is support the system fore are not set up in a way to meet news for a nation suffering big job that we have in America. And banks Treasury's current qualifications. losses and seemingly tumbling into a exist to lend money," White House Treasury officials at the meeting painful recession. press secretary Dana Perino said. assured banking industry representa­
Consumer pessimism reached While there are limits to tives that they are working to rework record levels in October amid rising Washington's power to affect banks' the application forms so that both unemployment, plunging home prices behavior, the White House decided it banks with publicly traded stock and and shrinking retirement and invest­was time to use its bully pulpit. privately held institutions can qualify ment accounts. The Conference 'They (regulators) will be watching for the program. 

page 8 The Observer +INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
CONGO 
Rebels advance on province capital 
Associated Press 
KILIMANYOKA -Hebnls vow­
ing to take Congo's eastern 
provincial eapital advanced 
toward Goma Tuesday. sending 
tens of thousands fleeing. Chaos 
gripped a separate area as gov­
ernment soldiers fimd on eivilians 
and aid workers trying to escape, 
the top U.N. envoy said. 
Alan Doss said peacekeepers 
were forced to "respond," appar­
ently meaning they shot at troops 
who are supposed to be their 
allies, after the soldiers opened 
fire on those trying to leave 
HuL<>huru. a strategic town north 
of Goma. lie vowed to keep 
HuL<>huru and other towns out of 
rebel hands. 
"We arn going to remain there, 
and we are going to act against 
any efl'ort to take over a eity or 
major population center by Ioree," 
he told rnporters in New York in a 
videoeonft1rence. 
U.N. helicopter gunships were being used on fronts near HuL<>huru and Kilimanyoka. which is about 7 miles north of Goma. They were hampered by rebels' use of eivilians as shields. U.N. spokeswoman Sylvia van den Wildenberg told The Associated Pmss. 
The rebels also are fighting 
around Hugari, a town between 
Goma and Hutshuru, as well as 
northwest of Goma around Sake 
-using several fronts to scatter 
government forces and U.N. 
peacekeepers. 
By late afternoon Tuesday, it appearnd tlw usn of the gunships was paying oil'. About 200 govern­nwnt soldiers were nearly two miles doser to the mbeL<> than the line of the troops that retreated. They were being resupplied from a truck loaded with roeket-pro­pdled grnnadns. 
Aid agencies in Hutshuru said tlwir worknrs eould hear bombs exploding as the rnbnls dosed in and angry and frightened dvilians and soldiers blocked their evacua­tion by U.N. pn<u:ekeep11rs. 
Tim mob looted humanitarian eenters and the belongings of about 50 trapped aid workers in Hutshuru. said lvo Brandau, a spokesman fi1r the U.N. humani­tarian agnncy OCIIA. 
Brandau said tens of thousands of dvilians were fleeing that town, !wading north and east toward the Ugandan border. Hutshuru had a population of about 30,000 rnsidenL<> and the same number of refugees. 
Doctors Without Borders said iL<> doctors and nurses trapped at BuL<>huru llospital had treated 70 war wounded sinee Sunday but most patinnL<> had fled the hospi­tal. 
Meanwhile. a sudden influx of an estimated 30,000 people tripled in a matter of hours the sizn of a camp in Kibati, a few miles from the front line, said Ron Hedmond, spokesman for the U.N. refugee agnncy. 
"It's chaos up then1," Hedmond told The Assodated Press from Geneva. citing U.N. staff in Congo. "These crowds of peopln coming down from the north have already startnd turning up thnre." 
Ple 
In Kibati. young men lobbed 
rocks Tuesday at three U.N. tanks 
also heading away from the bat­
tlefield. The U.N.'s peacekeeping 
mission is the agency's biggest in 
the world, with 17,000 troops. 
"What are they doing? They are 
supposed to protect us," said 
Jean-Paul Maombi, a 31-year-old 
nurse from Kibumba. 
The unrest in eastern Congo has 
been fueled by festering hatreds 
lett over from the Rwandan geno­
cide and the country's unrelenting 
civil wars. Henngade Gen. Laurent 
Nkunda has threatened to take 
Goma despite calls from the U.N. 
Security Couneil for him to respect 
a cease-lim brokered by the U.N. 
in January. 
Nkunda charges that the 
Congolese government has not 
proteeted his minority Tutsi tribe 
from a Rwandan Hutu militia that 
escaped to Congo after helping 
perpetrate the 1994 Rwandan 
genocide. Half a million Tutsis 
were slaughtered. 
Nkunda's ambitions have 
expanded since he launched a 
fresh onslaught on Aug. 28. He 
now declares he will "liberate" all 
of Congo, a country the size of 
Western Europe with vast 
reserves of diamonds, gold and 
other resources. Congo's vast min­
eral wealth helped fuel back-to­
hack wars from 1997 to 2003. 
The U.N. says more than 200,000 people have been forced from their homes in the last two months. joining 1.2 million dis­placed in previous conflict<> in the east. Outbreaks of cholera and diarrhea have killed dozens in eamps, compounding the misery. 
On Monday. peacekeepers in attack helicopters fired at the rebels trying to stop them taking Kibumba, a village on the main road 30 miles north of Goma. But fleeing civilians say the fighters overran Kibumba anyway. 
The rnbPls retaliated by firing a missile at one U.N. combat heli­copter Monday, but missed, U.N. spokeswoman Sylvie van den Wildenberg said. 
U.N. efforts to halt Nkunda's rebellion are eomplieated by the country's rugged terrain, dense tropical forest<> that roll over hills and mountains with few roads. 
The chief U.N. mandate is to protect the population. But since the peaee deal it also is supposed to help the Congolese army dis­arm and repatriate Hutu militia­men-by force if necessary. 
But Bisimwa, the rebel spokesman. claimed Tuesday the Congolese army has abandoned dozens of its positions to Hutu militiamen. 
"It's the llutus who are on the front line and whom we are fight­ing, not the army," he said. U.N. peacekeepers "leave us no ehoiee but to fight on." 
Nkunda long has charged that Congolese soldiers light alongside the militia of 1-lutus, an ethnic majority of about 40 percent in the ref.,rion. 
Some HOO llutu militiamen have voluntarily returned to Rwanda, the U.N. says, but the fighters recruit and coerce Congolese 1-lutu childnm and young men into their ranks daily -far outnumbering those who have returned home. 


Campus Ministry 
Thursday, October 30,5-6 PM 316 CoMo Pizza will be provided. 


On Michigan St. bJ the Col~e Football Hall ol Fame Lift Musical Perlorm.ers: 
Peach Tree Otis 
DOWNTOWN 
7 -IOpm

~[][i;
=[J[];
0 • 0 


~ 
.. 
SOllTII BBND 

Admission t2 kids Under 12 Free Free Admission with Cortumel 
Actif~ies Hosted 1ft1 MDA · Partidpate and Support a Great Causel More inlo: dtsbFootballParty.com or call DTSB a1i 57'1.282.1110 
Internship Information Session 
ELECTION 2008 
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 CoMrrtro FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRr SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Biden to campaign in Indiana 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Democratic vice pres­idential candidate Joe Biden will make a campaign visit to southern Indiana just three days before the election. 
Barack Obama's presidential campaign says Biden will talk about the economy at an appearance in the Evansville area on Saturday. No additional details are being released yet. 
The Biden visit will come three days after his Hepublican counterpart, Sarah Palin, campaigns in Jeffersonville on Wednesday night. It will be Palin's third visit to Indiana in 12 days. 
Biden drew a crowd of several hundred people to a Jeffersonville park when he last campaigned in Indiana on Sept. 24. He also stopped with Obama at a restaurant in the northeastern Indiana town of Hamilton on Aug. 31. 
Joe the Plumber backs McCain 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Joe the Plumber endorsed Republican John McCain for presi­dent on Tuesday. 
Samuel J. Wurzelbacher gained national attention when Obama told him during a campaign stop that he wanted to "spread the wealth around." Their exch~nge about Obama's tax plan aired countless times on cable news programs, and McCain repeated­ly cited Joe the Plumber in their third and final debate and again at campaign events. 
McCain points to Wurzelbacher as an example of the middle-class worker who would be hurt economically by an Obama presidency, However, Wurzelbacher likely would fare better under Obama's tax plan because it calls for no tax increase for work­ing couples earning less than $250,000 a year -Wurzelbacher himself earns far less -and provides for a middle-class tax cut. 
In a McCain rally at a flag store, Wurzelbacher said he feared that Obama would turn the U.S. into a socialist nation. 
Obama rallies supporters in PA, VA 
HAHHISONBURG, Va. -From a Pennsylvania rainstorm to two thunder­ous Virginia rallies, Barack Obama told revved-up followers Tuesday they were "so close" to winning. 
Targeting two key states, defending one and surging in the other, Obama stayed on the safe ground of linking Republican rival John McCain to President Bush. 
"This election. more than any other in my lifetime, represents a clear choice between the past and the future," the 47-year-old Democrat said, ribbing his 72-year-old opponent. 
Dropping into the Shenandoah Valley, Obama spoke first to about 8,000 people who spilled onto a soccer field at James Madison University because the indoor site was too packed. 
Inside, Obama found 12,000 more peo­ple, mostly students who were too excit­ed to sit. 
Republicans hopeful against odds 
A determined McCain fights on, refuses to surrender as election draws near 
Associated Press 

HERSHEY, Pa. -John McCain repeatedly implores backers to "stand up and fight" these days, showing gritty determination even as many indicators point to a Barack Obama victory and Republicans engage in fin­gerpointing typical of losing campaigns. 
"Nothing is inevitable here. We never give up. And we never quit," McCain declares. 
A week before Election Day, the Republican is an enthusiastic underdog with what advisers say is a deep personal belief that he still has a chance to stage an upset next week. He has come back from the brink politically and personally before, and they say, he's resolved to do so again despite steep challenges. 
In the homestretch, he tells people to ignore the pundits who project an Obama triumph and the polls that favor the Democrat. He scorns Obama's confident air in the waning days as a prema­ture "victory lap." He says the country deserves "someone who will fight 'til the end." And, he says a GOP victory is within reach. 
Some GOP pessimists 
have suggested he follow 
the example of Bob Dole, 
who, once he fell well 
behind Democrat Bill 
Clinton in 1996, shifted his 
campaign from states with 
the tightest presidential 
races to those where his 
appearance could most help 
Republican candidates for 
lesser offices. But McCain 
has steadfastly focused on 
the closest presidential bat­
tleground states. 

Even so, the very real possibility of a loss -and life after the campaign ­has crept into McCain's lat­est pitch. "I have fought for you most of my life, and in places where defeat meant more than returning to the Senate," McCain says. Then, he adds: ''I've never been the kind to back down when the stakes are high." 
Public surveys show Obama leads nationally and McCain faces a difficult path to the 270 electoral votes needed. He's struggling to hold onto traditionally Republican states. In a trou­blesome sign, the Republican National Committee was forced to shore up support with TV ads in the often reliably GOP state of Montana and boosted its presence in West Virginia, which President Bush won. 
Pennsylvania, which offers 21 electoral votes and hasn't backed a Republican presidential nominee since 1988, is the only traditional­ly Democratic state McCain now is going after in earnest. Some GOP aides say it alone may hold the key to a McCain victory. Democrats are doubtful. 
McCain also is hearing an increasing number of prominent Republicans indicate they expect he will lose. Former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney was the latest. "We face the very real possibility of an Obama presidency," Romney said fundraising e-mail on behalf of Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. 
At the same time, the blame game has emerged in GOP circles. Some Republicans have pointed the finger at McCain's chief strategist Steve Schmidt; others are rushing to his defense. 
And, frustrations by Palin's allies over her rocky introduction to the public and by McCain's backers over the Alaska governor's unscripted moments spilled into the open through anonymous quotes in news stories. Senior campaign advisers deny a rift and attribute the griping of a few junior aides. 
The Arizona senator's top advisers acknowledge the difficulties in pulling off a comeback, yet they insist McCain still has a shot and adamantly deny McCain is going through the motions. 


INDIANA GOVERNOR'S RACE 
High stakes for Indiana in tight race for governor seat 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -One of the most critical contests for Republicans and Democrats alike this year is being fought well outside the presidential spotlight, but the stakes for Indiana voters are just as high. 
Republicans are expected to keep their grip on the state Senate, but the closely divided Indiana House is up for grabs again, as it has been for two decades. Democrats have a slim 51-49 advantage now, and any change could affect Hoosiers where they live and work. 
"Without a doubt, there is real power with issues related to schools and welfare services and will you get the road you want," said James McCann, a Purdue University political sci­ence professor. "State lawmak­ers deal with very bread-and­butter issues." 
Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels, who faces Democrat Jill Long Thompson, acknowl­edges that in his first two years -2005 and 2006 -he never would have won some of his top priorities if Republicans had not controlled both cham­bers. 
Chief among them were leas­ing the Indiana Toll Road to a foreign, private group for $3.8 billion and pushing Indiana to observe daylight saving time statewide. Republicans con­trolled the House 52-48 then, and each of those measures became law by a single vote. 

Had Democrat Patrick Bauer of South Bend been in power, as he is now as speaker, the Toll Road almost certainly would still be in Indiana's hands; likewise, the state would still be among three that do not change their clocks. 
If Daniels wins, a GOP-con­trolled Legislature would make it easier to for him to get what he wants -or at least can live with. That could include fur­ther expansion of full-day kindergarten and automatic tax credits to taxpayers if the state's budget surplus reaches a certain level. 
But this is expected to be a big year for Democrats, and Barack Obama has put his party in presidential play in Indiana for the first time in decades. 
Bauer hopes that will trickle down to the legislative level and give his party a boost. 
If so, look for another two years of Daniels vs. Bauer. They've proven they can work together, and proven they can clash. 
"Indiana has right now both a governor and a House leader, both of whom are in the busi­ness of government, but also connoisseurs of power," said Robert Schmuhl, a political sci­ence professor at the University of Notre Dame. 
In other words, big-time egos backed up by years of political smarts. 
While the House races could create some suspense, Republicans almost certainly will keep control of the Senate -a situation that hasn't changed since early 1979. 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Bright college years 
OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Who would you rather spend a night Liz Harter Fran Tolan on the town with? Madeline Buckley Sam Werner Tess Civantos Michael Blasco John McCain 
"An honest politician is one who,

Viewpoint Scene Barack Obama 
when he lS bought, will stay
Patricia Michelle Fordice 
Joe Biden 
bought."

Fernandez Graphics 
Simon Cameron. 

Mr. Sarah Palin 

Madeline Nies Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1~0. Box 779. Not~ Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EI>ITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
ASS"L MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EI>ITOR: Jcnn Mcrz 
VJI·WI'OINT EmTOR: Kara Kint~ 
SroRTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EI>ITOR: Liz llartcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddit• Boyer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jes.'e 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(174) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4142 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
sntc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemems, is nor governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
"l"he news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chid; Manat~ing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and dt•partmem editors. Commemarit•s, letters and columns prcsenr the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fi-ec expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lt·ttcrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom rtgardilzg Obs~rv" policies should b~ direcud to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l11c O!l6Crvet (l/SI,S ')')') 2-41XXI) r. puhliahctl Munday tl!wugh Mi1lay clu.. cpt Juring ('1!.1111 .md v-.u;aunn pcriul.h. A tuhk npwm 10 '111(: Oll'>l"fYC'I 111 $1 no (or om: ac.~ckmic yor; $'.i'j finntwlcnJcslcr. 
The (. lhservct l• [1Uh1Wlcd at; I'OHMASTER 024 ~outh OininK H.Ul &nd addrc:..., com:ctinn.s ro: Notn: D.1me, IN 16556-0n9 11•e0h~trvcr lhindu:a.l P"""~" p;•id at Notre Do~mc 1~0. iJilX 77') o111d .•dditimulm.lilmK olftco. 024 Snuth Dining Halt 
Notre lJilm~. lN 46';'i6·0n9 

TI1c O~nrcr ~ o1 memhcr uf th~: A.ut~<.~ated Pl'eSio. All ttptaldw.:uun righ11 III'C 
roervcd. 
Life as the senior class knows it ends at graduation this upcoming May. 
Just as the words of the unofficial Yale alma mater state, we're living in the "shortest, gladdest years of life" right now. Well, if these four years of col­lege are the best we'll ever have in our lives than can we possibly look forward to anything-after graduation? I don't think we can. 
Let's look at the various aspects of the eras that face us in the future and how each of these diflerent ages will fail to satisfy us. 
Early Adulthood 

The biggest shock after college: you have to get a job. I'm trying to resist this necessity as much as possible but I realize I need to be able to afford the lifestyle to which I've grown accustomed. I can't ever see myself being able to put in an 80-hour work­week, and hopefully I'll never have to. But it could be that way. Unfortunately. 
Middle Age 

Ostensibly children, marriage, and the work-a-day life continue to domi­nate the environments of the people our parents' age. Paying bills? Paying taxes? It's not a money issue -it s a writing issue. I've seen that episode of Seinfeld where Jerry cripples his hand signing those Japanese checks. That health risk, along with increased potential for heart and prostate issues, make Middle Age the least appealing age. 
Senior Citizenship 

I have nothing but respect for sen­ior citizens. But in the past month, I have had two exceedingly awkward encounters with elderly women. I have to relate these occurrences to you, reader, because otherwise my 

EDITORIAL CARTOON MODERN RESOURCES R:::>R ""f::7l1..e, WALL STREET TT?AD£R 
I 



lNIERNAL 'SOURCES C>UTSIDE Coi\ISULTANT 
point will be dulled by lack of speci­
ficity. 

The first happened at the Krispy Kreme in Mishawaka. I was trying to order a dozen hot donuts on a Saturday morning and this woman approaches me outside the range of my peripheral vision. She sidled up to me without me ever noticing her. Without introducing herself, she grabs my arm {scares me to death) and says, "I was going to go to Arby's but then I saw that red sign on so I decided to come get a free doughnut." Two things. One: why did. I not know about this free doughnut policy? Two: what gave this woman the right to sneak up behind me, grab my arm, and talk to me? 
The second instance occurred at my local polling place this past week. I was voting absentee-in-person on Monday afternoon and waited quietly for my name to be called up to the voting booth. An older woman sat down next to me and I said hello with a polite head nod, figuring that our conversation would end there. A few silent minutes later, the woman turned to me and said, "You never know who you're going to sit next to!" I couldn't tell if this meant I was sup­posed to recognize her, if she was try­ing to figure out if I were famous or not, or if she was indicating that she was seconds away from doing some­thing shocking. I didn't respond, deathly afraid of my seatmate. Then she said, "Too bad I've been eating onions all morning," and proceeded to cackle for several more minutes. Thank goodness I was called to vote shortly thereafter. 
These women were not unjustified in talking to me but I cannot figure out why senior citizens feel the need to talk to strangers in such fashions. I do not look forward to a day when I will want to talk to as many random people as possible. I can barely muster up the strength to talk to my closest friends. I won't be able to sur­vive in a world where it's expected you'll speak with unknown people in lines at fast food restaurants, waiting 
rooms, and offices. 
Decrepitude 
Most people would stop their age divisions at the senior citizen level. But in my experience this does not speak to the actualities of our dynam­ic population. I mean, you can join the AARP at 50 and hold that mem­bership seemingly indefinitely (as long as you pay those darn dues). We need to come to a higher understand­ing of old age in this country: an understanding that will include less generalization of older peoples. With increasing life expectancies in many sectors of the US population, there should be a la'it phase of life that runs from the age of 85 until death. 
And actually, I look forward to this point in my life. I'll be too old to be a senior citizen, too young to b1~ dead. I'll be just senile enough to be as inappropriate and ofl"ensive as I desire. If anyone is hurt by my com­ments I can blame senility in the purest and most beautiful form of deniability in existence. Nobody gets mad at the quirky old guy. But on top of this freedom comes the actual hardship of actually being senile. We can romanticize the loss of one's intel­lectual capacities with envious eyes. but we have to take a step back to understand that the inherent condi­tion of using your senility for humor is wholly and truly being senile. And I don't actually ever want to be senile. Do you? I think not. 
So now I've deconstrueted each of the periods of life after we leave this hallowed ground. And every last one of them has the appeal of getting hit by a freight train. I don't have any solutions or optimistic advice. I agree with Yale. These bright college years will never be matched. Ever. Sorry. 
Andrew Miller is a senior r:nglish major. He can be contacted at amille15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 page 11 
Faith and politics 
Faith and politics should never be dis­cussed in polite company, we are told. Yet in reality, the two are constantly in dia­logue, for better or worse. Politics has become increasingly moralistic and the religious have Ally Brantley become much more and Joe Stranix 
political. And with a rapidly approaching 
Guest

election, every 
Columnists

responsible citizen has a duty to look at how they might com­bine the two. 
Whether we care to admit it or not, most of us grapple with this issue on a daily basis. The College Democrat who struggles with a candidate's pro-choice stance is in the same predicament as the Right to Life member whose concerns about the dignity of the immigrant clash with a pro-life can­didate's anti-immigration stance. It isn't easy to balance the issues. Many times, our church says one thing, while our politi­cal party says another. Faith and politics are personal issues. neither of which can be divorced from our worldview. We can­not just eliminate either, or allow one to dictate our actions on issues. Who do we follow, and how do we decide which are the most important issues? 
One place to look is the Catholic Church, which recognizes that voting is truly a per-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
sonal decision. It is not merely following the directions of another. The US Conference of Catholic Bishops published the latest in a series of voter guides, "Forming Consciences for Faithful Citizenship," aiming to educate our indi­vidual consciences on a wide variety of issues. The document does not tell Catholics what to do, but rather, serves as a guide for us to discern our own political path from a faith-based perspective. 
This is not just a theoretical approach; we have seen it in action. The two of us led a fall break Center for Social Concerns seminar in Washington, DC, in which we focused on the intersection of human rights, faithful citizenship and policy. During our immersion, we constantly saw individuals attempting to reconcile their politics and faith. People in government, think tanks and the religious laity acknowledged that their faith does, indeed, play a role in their politics. However, it is a delicate balance, unique to each individ­ual. 
We encountered an immigration official who stated that faith shapes his worldview and he cannot separate it from politics. We discussed immigration with a libertarian who used economics to espouse a view that his faith supported. We spoke with a Franciscan sister working for an organiza­tion to promote the common good and a pro-life Catholic united behind Obama. All recognized a faith-politics connection, though it played out to different degrees in their professional lives. 
These various individuals demonstrated that we cannot wholly disregard the fusion offaith and politics. Neither is pernicious to the other, but rather, enriches its coun­terpart. For example, the Catholic under­standing of a consistent ethic oflife brings morality and social justice to the immigra­tion debate. Political and economic consid­erations provide a pragmatic framework for the issue as well. 
So what can we learn from the USCCB and other individuals in Washington? 
Faith and politics do not need to be dis­tinct or separate, but in healthy dialogue. For us, as young voters, this means that our faith can, and should, inform our polit­ical decisions. As the "Forming Consciences" document suggests, this means not voting on just a single issue, but instead, considering all issues. This isn't easy, nor is it meant to be. Not all issues hold the same weight and not every candi­date will be sincere in their views. Neither our religious institutions nor our political parties can tell us what to do. In the end, it is up to us and our convictions. Many Catholics are "politically homeless" for this exact reason. And yet every year, we must return to the ballot box, having reweighed the candidates and the issues. It is a diffi­cult call to answer. We are debating and weighing some of the most important issues of our day, and reaching an informed decision is a challenging process which takes time and effort. 
Civic engagement begins with voting, but does not end there. Our internal debate between our faith and politics can guide our involvement in our community, where a variety of outlets are available. Contact your congressperson, write an editorial, enroll in a community based learning course. Study the issues about which you are passionate and listen to the continual discussion and dialogue between faith and politics in our culture. 
Engage with yourself and others on these issues and, of course, don't forget to VOTE. 
Ally Brantley and Joe Stranix are senior history majors. Over fall break, they led the CSC "Human Rights, Policy, and Faithful Citizenship" seminar in Washington, DC. They can be reached at abrantle@nd. edu andjstranix@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

The right to life, liberty, happiness and access to Abortion 
I am a single issue voter. I admit it. A candidate's stance on abortion is my litmus test. I believe that any candidate who sup­ports abortion cannot be a leader. How can we trust someone who is not willing to protect the most vulnerable in our society? Fr. Frank Pavone has a striking compari­son: If a candidate told us that they were pro-terrorism, we would never consider voting for them regardless of how they were going to fix the economy or reform health care. Yet, when a candidate says they are pro-abortion we weigh that with their foreign policy experience and plans for tax cuts . I have heard numerous peo­ple on this campus claim that they feel that Obama's policies are the most holistically "pro-life" and for that reason they will be casting their vote in his favor. While I will avoid other "life" issues, I want to address Obama's stance on abortion and what he plans to do about it-something I feel that no amount of health care reform can ever justifY. 
Barack Obama has said, "The first thing I'll do as President is sign the Freedom of Choice Act . " The Freedom of Choice Act (FOCA) will effectively codify Roe vs. Wade. So, even if the Supreme Court does over­turn Roe, abortion rights will be untouched. This law not only guarantees the right to abortion for future genera­tions, it also strikes down all existing laws that in any way limit access to abortion. 
The FOCA would end the need for parental consent or notification which is required in 35 states . While a school nurse cannot give a middle school girl a Tylenol without her parent's consent, she can take her to have an abortion without ever telling the girl's parents. The FOCA would end all waiting periods before abor­tions and eliminate the need for informed consent. The FOCA would strike down the ban on partial birth abortion, a horren­dous practice where all but the head of a viable baby is delivered, the back of the neck is punctured, the brain is suctioned out, and a dead baby is delivered . The FOCA would strike down the Born Alive Infant Protection Act which requires a doc­tor to provide medical treatment to a baby born alive during an abortion. 
Not only would this act affect state's abortion restrictions, this act effectively redefines abortion as a fundamental right (as most argue was intended by Roe vs. Wade and the companion case Doe vs. Bolton). This means that not only can the state not restrict a woman's access to abortion; the state must provide a woman with the means to exercise this right. The FOCA will invalidate all laws restricting funding of abortion (namely the Hyde amendment) and all laws that prohibit abortions in public hospitals. The FOCA would cut federal funding to pregnancy centers that do not provide abortions or refer to abortion clinics. The FOCA will invalidate all laws allowing hospitals or health-care providers, to decline to provide or pay for abortions (conscience laws). So, any of you pre-meds reading this may be required in the future to perform abortions whether you like it or not. The FOCA will also strike down any "physician-only" laws that say that abortions much be preformed by a licensed physician. Interestingly enough, most of these laws do not require that the physician be in any way trained in obstetrics and gynecology. The physician could be an allergist or podiatrist and still be a legal abortion provider. If the FOCA is passed, anyone can be an "abortion provider" because to do otherwise might interfere with a woman's access to abor­tion. Currently, regulation of abortion clin­ics is left to the state. Sadly, in many states, veterinary clinics are more regulated than abortion facilities. By letter of the FOCA, regulations could not legally exist. 
Obama is not pro-life. He may have ideas about how health care, the economy, and poverty should be managed, but he is an outright supporter of death of almost 3300 children daily. Obama believes we should end the Iraq War because roughly 4,000 of our soldiers have died. So all things con­sidered, am I a one issue voter? Heck yes! 
Emily Toates 
seniOr 
Farley Hall Oct. 27 

We could use a little socialistn right 
Now Jesus Christ was a socialist. In "Barack the Socialist" (Observer Viewpoint, 10/28108), Christie Pesavento urges, "If you like socialism, then by all means vote for Barack the Socialist." Colin Powell, endorsing Barack Obama on "Meet the Press," said the important ques­tion is not whether Obama is a Muslim, but whether it would matter if he were. 
A similar analysis is necessary here. The important question is not whether Obama is a socilaist, but whether it would matter if he were. 
The fact is, the United States could use a little socialism these days. Pesavento's "example to illustrate the injustice of redistributive practices" is entirely mis­leading. 
First and foremost, Obama is not advo­cating, and has never advocated, anything approaching a system in which "everyone receives the same grade." People currently making $250,000 a year ("next to nothing" in some locales, according to Pesavento) will still make $250,000 a year under Obama's plan, but they will pay the mar­ginal tax rate they paid under Clinton. Wow, that was a rough time for America's wealthy. Nothing like today, when federal bail-outs are required. Under Obama's tax plan, everyone else will get a tax cut, keeping more of their hard-earned money. What's so bad about that? By the way, our entire progressive income tax structure has always been "redistributive." 
Second, Pesavento's "example" belies the classist bias of the author. She paints a scenario in which "you have worked hard and managed to earn an A," while "other students have slacked off and are receiv­ing lower grades." This classroom analogy is cute, but it is entirely inapposite. Unlike grades, one's financial situation in today's America has little or nothing to do with hard work. I am about to begin a lucrative career as a trial lawyer. Sure I've worked hard to get here, but I was also blessed with a comfortable middle-class upbring­ing, good health, United States citizenship, English as a first language, private school­ing and white skin. Others with better work ethics than I possess but without the other benefits I've enjoyed will not have the same opportunities I've had. Before Reagan, prosperity in this country was more closely tied to effort than it is today. There was a time when Americans made money through hard work and creativity. But today, Americans make money with money, and often with money they don't actually have (see the Wall Street bail-out). 
The bottom line is that millions of Americans have a zero percent chance of financial success under our current struc­ture. Barack Obama offers these Americans much more than "vague yet seemingly reassuring promises of 'change."' Obama offers a real plan under which more Americans will pay less taxes, have more job opportunities, have better education, have a cleaner environment, and have reliable, anxiety-free healthcare coverage. 
Perhaps Pesavento is unaware that the leading cause of personal bankruptcy in this country is not "slack[ing] off'' but cata­strophic medical bills. Perhaps according to Webster's dictionary, it is proper to label Barack Obama a "socialist." But to do so misses the point. The proper question to ask is, why is that such a bad thing? 
America will never be a country where "everyone receives the same grade," nor should it be. But what America should be, at the very least, is a country where every­one is at least sitting in the same class­room at the beginning of the semester, with access to the same professor and textbook. That's the America Obama wants to create, and he has a plan to get us there. That's why he gets my vote. 
Sean Lyttle 
law student 
off-campus 
Oct..8 

THE ()BSERVER 
CENE

page 12 Wednesday, October 29, 2008 


The Wildcats are back! Again. llallelujah! 
Disney addicts arfl f1ocking to theatres Jess Shaffer to enjoy their------­
favorite guilty Assistant 
pl11asure. As I'm 
sure many a girls' Scene Editor dorm room can prove, High School Musical is far more than just a preteen phenome­non -the innumerable HSM posters 
and Troy and Gabriella bed sheets are undeniable proof of an obsession that has overrun girls of all ages. The series is the most PG fun you can have. Luckily for fans everywhere, this made for TV classic has been taken to the next level and we can see our favorite too-old-to-actually­be-high-school-students on the silver scrmm. 
There are so many things to love about High School Musical. Watehing toens break into song and dance dur­ing normal day-to-day activity is packed with entortainment value. 

First, there is some serious mock­ability. Any dance number that s1tarts with cheese fries being dumped on a girl can't go wrong. Second, there are the legitimate dance moves of cast members like Corbin Bleu. If talent doesn't float your boat, there's always the hilarity that ensues when Zac Efron attempts to bust a move. Note the "Bet On It" routine from "High School Musical 2" where Zac Efron frolics through a golf course singing about perseverance, complete with fist jabs, jazz fingers, split jumps and skipping. Not only fun and wholesome to watch, but amusing when one considers that Efron is sup­posed to be the high school "it boy." 
As far as the musical routines are concerned, catchiness is the name of the game. Those who snobbishly turn up their noses at the High School Musical pop soundtrack dwell in an elite delusion that ignores the memo­rable nature the tunes. The songs are at worst harmless and at best really fun (and/or hilarious). No wonder Disney frequently has sing-along air­ings of the films. Of course, with the move of "High School Musical 3" to theatres, self-consciousness may pre­vent fans from belting out their favorite songs in public. 
And then there's the cast who por­tray the dean cut, good looking, well­behaved teenagers that are typical of a Disney approach to high school. Zac Efron and Vanessa Hudgens play the "it couple," embodying a combi­nation of intelligence, athleticism, and stage talent. (Cute and whole­some on screen, it's always delightful to throw in tidbits from this real life couple's tabloid life. The contrast is stark and difficult not to enjoy.) Then there are the other high school cari­catures: the wallflower, the joke, the theatre nerd, the maniacal popular girl, and the smart girl. Somehow these wildcats exist in a utopia where all these characters are friends. And 
· what's not to enjoy about this delu­sion? We labor away with classes and real life drama. We've seen high school, up close and personal. It's nice and funny to see how Disney approaches the quintessential period of teenage angst. 
Basically when considering High School Musical, there are clearly two main types of fans: those who youth­fully bask in the fun, simplified, light version of high school presented and those who enjoy the endless amounts of jokes that can be made at the film's expense. But there's no doubt that both groups appreciate the latest -and perhaps last -installment of High School Musical. However bitter­sweet the experience may be, there's always your Zac Efron pillow to ding onto when you're curled up in the fetal position, pining for the East High Wild Cats. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 


ByJENN METZ Scene Writer 
If you're in the market for a film that riles your emotions and leaves you eontemplating the meaning of life when the credits roll, High School Musical 3: Senior Year may not be for you. 
But, if you're looking for some­thing packed with en11rgy, egotistic stage performers, Disney cliches, dancing basketball players, high school romance (and bromance), something that's just, well. two hours of fun. the third installment of the 'tween musical about a star ath­lete and a shy "freaky-genius girl" finding love and taking over the drama department at an Albuquerque high school delivers. 
A new and improved Zac Efron, with arms that made the 12 year­olds in the theater scream, as home­town hero Troy Bolton, faces a choice at the end of his high school career: does he follow in his father's footsteps and attend U of A for bas­ketball with his best friend and fel­low hoops star Chad Danforth 
usical 3 
Director: Kenny Ortega Starring: Zac Efron, Vanessa Hudgens, Ashley Tisdale 



(Corbin Bleu)? Or does he follow his other, once-secret passion, singing, and win a scholarship to Julliard?' And what about his love for devoted, 'T" pendant-wearing Gabriella Montez (Vanessa Hudgens). who's heading off to Stanford? 
If you were a fan of the originall HSM (2006) or the second install-· ment, HSM2 (2007), you will be very satisfied with entire cast, who have matured over the years. The sound.. track is expertly done, especially the opening "Now or Never" basketball! montage and, surprisingly., "Scream," Zac Efron's teen-angst solo through the halls of an aban-· doned East High. Ashley Tisdale (Sharpay Evans) and Lucas Grabeell (Ryan Evans) continue to offer high­energy, wonderfully vain, over-the-· top musical numbers, like "I Want It All," which takes place in the cafete-· ria that has become a hotbed for improvisational dance. 
The somewhat cliche drama that fuels the plot is to be expected, along with the occasional references to the previous Disney Channel orig­inal movies ("We're all in this together", "Breaking with the status quo", etc.). 
Gabriella Montez is just as annoy­ing as ever in this installment, call­in~ her boyfriend "Wildcat" and wearing almost scandalously short skirts. Though Troy continually emphasizes her important role in the East High universe, her on­screen time has definitely decreased from the other two films, and Senior Year focuses on all of the characters more equally than before, in their collective journey from average stu­dents to on-stage sensations. 
It is Efron and Danforth who steal the show in "The Boys are Back," a scene where an ordinary trip to the junkyard suddenly transforms into a high-impact dance number. The two best buds reminisce about their childhood selves (who amazingly appear from under a wrecked car) and some how make pirouettes and somersaults seem masculine and natural. 
Efron displays some legitimate acting talent, and takes on the part of a hard to find, truly sincere teen heartthrob; though his character has conquered virtually every aspect of East High, he is still unsure of his next step and his on-screen relation­ship with real-life girlfriend Hudgens. 
Director Kenny Ortega (Newsies) brings the teen saga to the big screen in a big way, with elaborately choreographed numbers that are much more grown up than their made for TV predecessors. 
The HSM films are entertaining, and they bring real aspects of being a confused adolescent to life in a happy, fun, the-guy-gets-the-girl fashion. I don't want to give them too much praise; I resisted watching the first when it premiered on T.V., but once you're introduced to the Wildcat crew, they're kind of hard to resist. 
Efron might be ready to graduate from High School, but I'd be eager for a fourth installment. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Kelsi Nielsen (Oieysa Rulin) The ploy­maker is oil grown up and <Omposing the spring mu­sical. She too is working hard to impress Julliord and has oblossoming friendship with Ryan. 
Zeke Baylor (Chris Warren Jr.) Zeke is still balancing basketball and the culinary arts while harboring his gargantuan crush on Shorpay. 
Martha Cox (KayCee Stroh) Martha has shed her brainy persona for once as on excellent dancer and cheerleader in this chapter. 
Jason Cross (Ryne Sanborn) As the lazy basketball player Joson just aims to survive the terror of the drama teacher Miss Dorbus and make it to graduation. 
The New Kids at East High 
Jimmie "Rocketman" Zara (MaH Prokop) As ogoofy basketball player Jimmie worships the ground Troy walks on. But os Troy's un­derstudy con he fill Bolton's shoes or will he choke1 
Donny Fox (Justin Martin) He is Jimmie's right hand man and ostagehand for the musical. He mostly ploys the best friend character, but watch out for his performance in the graduation scene. 
nara Gold (Jemma McKenzie-Brown) 
The British transfer student is Shorpoy'sassistant and helps her in her evil scheme to outshine Gabri­ella. But whot ore her true motives? 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
page 13 

One night during high school I sat down to watch TV with my younger brother. We both grew up on Disney, avidly waiting for the latest Disney Channel Original Movie since the days of Jett Jackson. So, when I decided to venture back into the world of my youth for a night, I was hoping to regain some happy childhood mojo. 
What I encoun-Stephanie 
tered w~s a travesty DePrez of the highest order. ______ Being a musical the­
atre  geek in  high  Assistant  
school,  I  had  Scene Editor  
approached  this  

new "lligh School Musical" movie with measurable excitement. But Disney, my beloved Disney, had sold out. I was not watching a relatable hero battle life and insurmountable foes in order to "find" him/herself, as is the general formula for the D-COM, but instead I &aw a mockery of absolutely every­thing from high school theatre pro­grams to Disney itself. 
The music was a joke, nothing like the "Even Stevens" musical episode I loved so much. Instead it was overpro­duced, simplistic drivel built on com­puter chords and electric drums on par with a Britney Spears comeback. 
It wasn't even witty! 

The lyrics were unbelievable to the point where I had to ask, "Did she just say 'hip-hop hooray?'" After half an hour I turned to my brother and said, "This script is so bad, it's making my toenails cringe." Disney's attempt at "cute-hip-upbeat-frivolous-fun" had fallen flat on its face. 
Much to my chagrin, the tweeny­boppers came out in droves to the point that no-fool Disney decided to make a second. And a third. But before you gag me with a spoon, here are some reasons I passionately despise this "HSM" thing with the white-hot intensity of a thousand suns. 
The music 

It could have been cute, but it's just awful. I love the simple, catchy atti­tude of musical theatre today, but this went beyond. I would rail on against the composers, but they're sitting on piles of money so the argument would be moot. It's a principle thing, though. Yea I say unto you, composers: The music you wrote is miserable and I hope your money is worth what you lost as a musician. Key change! 
The story 

The first movie was ridiculous, and coming from an intense high school musical program I can tell you with certainty that it was nothing like reali­ty. I know "that's not the point," but really guys, give high school thespians some respect. We got none from the sports programs. The second movie's plot was unremarkable. I offer it up to the chopping block. 
Though I haven't seen the third, I've heard of there are a number of bla­tant flaws that make Disney look just plain stupid. I'm here to tell you none of those kids are going to Juilliard. Juilliard programs are classical, and they aren't exactly looking for any of the skills these characters display. And a Stanford honors program? 
Honey, Stanford is an honors program. And there is no way anyone from Stanford is getting away with a rela­tionship with someone attending Cal Berkeley. The schools are mortal ene­mies. 
The acting. 
Vanessa Hudgens. 'Nuff said. 
Though I could continue, it would be for naught, because I know everyone who loves High School Musical isn't going to stop loving it anytime soon. And I can't really blame a franchise that is off making billions of dollars through clean entertainment, even if it is an artistic disaster. All I can say is, when we look back on our lives, is this really what we will want to see as our cultural contribution to the universe? 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
Chad Danforth (Corbin Bleu) Chad has always been the most resistant to his East High classmates stepping outside of the status quo. Basketball is the only thing on his mind. So can he open his eyes in time and gather the courage to ask his lady to prom? And will he be able to con­vince his best friend Troy to drop the drama and work on his jump shot? Bleu finally gets his chance in the spotlight as the best dancer in the cost during the junkyord set, bromance-inspired duet with Efron in "The Boys Are Bock." 
Gabriella Montez (Vanessa Hudgens) She got the whole gang together by shaking things up with her arrival of East High in "High School Musi­cal". But this time around she will struggle with leaving the only place she ever developed roots and friends for her dream school Stanford. It's her idea that they all do the spring musical, but with early orientation will she make the ploy? And will she still be wearing her "T" for Troy necklace as acollege freshman? Note Hud­gens' dancing prowess in "Can I Hove This Dance" and powerful voice in "Walk Away." 
Troy Bolton (Zac Efron) 

He captured the heart of beautiful broinioc Gabriella while wording off the obvious advances of arrogant Sharpoy and paved the way for others at East High to break the mold as the jock-turned-singer. In the latest in­stallment, the captain and leader of the Wildcats must decide his future: play basketball at his Dod's alma mater? Or pursue drama? All while worrying about the state championship, spring musical, prom, 
graduation, and the distance between him 
and his beloved Gabriella in college. Go to ¥ 
see Efron's muscles and blue eyes in "Scream." ' 
Stay to see where Troy wil~end up. 

Sharpay Evans (Ashley nsclale) As drama dub president and the self-centered diva of East lUgh Sharpoy has one goal in mind: to become a superstar. Unfortunately, Gabrielle seems to be the one in her way again. Sharpoy is on a mission to catch the eye of the Julliard scouts and will stop of nothing to hog that spotlight. She also provides comic relief and a plethora of hot pink, crazy fashions. Her grandiose flair for the dramatic translates beautifully in her over the top duet with brother Ryan, "I Wont It All." 
Taylor McKessie (Monique Coleman) Taylor is Gabriella's best 
friend and biggest cheerleader. As the two ore yearbook editors together, 
she encourages Gabriella to jump at the opportunities Stanford is offering. 
Meanwhile she waits for oproper invitation from acertain curly-headed jock 
to prom. And what fine college institution will she be headed to in the fall? 
Ryan Evans (Lucas Grabeel) Although still adiva in his own right, over the movies Ryan has transitioned from villain to ally, and stepped out of the shadow of sister Sharpay. He won the grand prize for his choreography in "High School Musical 2" and will be back to choreograph the senior year musical. He too is vying for aspot at Julliard while dreaming of osuccessful career after gradua­tion. He shines alongside new friend Kelsi. But will his sister entice him to return to the dark side to steal the show? Grobeel is afantastic odor, singer, dancer and his solo performance in the reprise of "I Want It All" is absolutely charming. 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
MLB 

MLB puts Series on hold until at least tonight 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPlliA -Sooner or later, someone will win this World Series. 
Just not Tuesday night. Too wet. Besides, the baseball eommissioner went home to Milwaukee. 
Maybe the Phillies and Hays can play ball Wednesday night. But snow showers are in the forecast. 
So just sit light, folks, we'll get back to you when we can. Hight now, bad weather is turning the Fall Classic into a Hainfail Classic. 
Players and fans remained in limbo Tuesday, with Game 5 still suspended from the previ­ous night. It was tied at 2 in the sixth inning when a steady downpour turned Citizens Bank Park into a quagmire, washing away the foul lines and turning home plate into a puddle. 
The Phillies lead 3-1 in the best-of-seven matehup, mean­ing Philadelphia could be elose to winning a championship the city despPrately craves. 
Or perhaps not. 
"It's kind of like ovP.rtime in a sense, I guess," Tampa Bay manager Joe Maddon said. "Or sudden vietory." 
"It's just the way it is," he said. "There's no crying about it." 
OK, no crying here. The manager who listens to Springsteen while filling out his lineup card was real calm -he'd already lost one game at 1:47 a.m., then saw this unexpneted break forcn his Hays to relocate to a hotel 25 miles south in Wilmington, Del. 

Too late for complaining, anyway. A Series studded with big hoppers such as Hyan Howard and B.J. Upton was no longer whacky -it was down­right wacky. 
The teams are tentatively set to resume at 8:37 p.m. Wednesday. 
Since the Phillies will come to bat in th-e bottom of the sixth, fans won't have to wait long for the seventh-inning stretch. They might not even have time to get a hot dog. 
liard to tell how many peo­ple will tune in even if -for once -a World Series wraps up before kids have to go to bed. The TV ratings for the first four games dipped by 25 percent from last year. 
Tickets from Game 5 are good for the resumption, pro­vided everyone can scramble back with their soggy stubs. The Phillies' ballpark holds nearly 46,000 people and sure­ly logistics will prevent some of them from returning. 
Then again, a $160 seat in the upper deck is suddenly more valuable for someone eager to see the Phillies try to win their first championship since 1980, and the city's first major sports title since the NBA's 76ers in 1983. 
By Tuesday evening, over 50 tickets were available for resale on StubHub.com, spokeswoman Joellen Ferrer said. The prices ranged from $599 to $3,500. 
Commissioner Bud Selig, who new home for a day, was ready to return to Philly for as long as necessary. 
"We'll stay here if we have to celebrate Thanksgiving here," he said in announcing the sus­pension. 
If the Phillies win a battle of the bullpens when Game 5 resumes, llhey'll soon parade up Broad Street. If they lose, time to fly to Tampa Bay. 
Delays i.n the World Series are rare. There has never been a rain-shortened game and this was the first suspen­sion. 
There were three straight washouts in 1962 with the Yankees and Giants, and a series of rainouts set up the classic 1975 game between Boston and Cincinnati that Carlton Fisk won with a home run off the foul pole. In 1989, an earthquake interrupted Oakland and San Francisco for a week. 
While baseball purists deride Tampa Bay's Tropicana Field as an antiseptic dome that's ringed with crazy catwalks, at least wet weather isn't a fac­tor. 
Hain intruded in Game 3 Saturday night, with the first pitch pushed back to 10:06 
p.m. -the latest start time in Series history -and the last pitch came shortly before 2 a.m. 
Despite a shaky forecast, baseball tried to play Monday night. It was raining lightly at the start. Within a few innings, it was clear the showers weren't going to quit. 
"You're not going to win against Mother Nature," Phillies pitcher Cole Hamels said. 
Soon, every pitch and popup 

AP 

Philadelphia groundskeepers roll out the tarp during the sixth inning of Game 5 of the World Series Monday night. 
became an adventure as All­been more appropriate. Stars were reduced to looking "I was upset with some of like Little Leaguers. The the things that went on," grounds crew kept putting Phillies manager Charlie down Diamond Dust to absorb Manuel said. "But I definitely the moisture, and it kept cak­was agreed with everything ing the infield. that happened, and I also 
With the wind chill dropping agreed that the game definitely into the 30s, several players had to be stopped. The condi­wore caps with ear flaps tions were definitely attached. Mud flaps would've unplayable." 
NBA 

Police release nevv details regarding Thomas overdose 
gency in which officers were difference between a 4 7 -year­first, saw a 4 7 -year-old man on know about it. They then
Associated Press 

handed a bottle of prescription old man and a teenager." the floor and went into "stan­searehed the house for other 
WHITE PLAINS, N.Y. -pills at Thomas' Westchester Thomas' spokesman, Jesse dard operating procedure," Hall medications that might have Ollicers who responded to lsiah County home. Derris, said, "This continues to said. They administered oxygen been involved but found none, Thomas' home after a 911 eall Hall said the bottle had a be a private family matter and until an ambulance crew he said. reporting an overdose on sleep­name on it, but he would not the family respectfully asks for arrived and took over, eventual­As a player, Thomas won NBA ing pills found a man passed disclose the precise medieation. privacy." A call to Knicks ly lifting the man onto a gurney titles with the Detroit Pistons in out on the noor and gave him lie said police called the over­spokesman Jonathan and taking him to White Plains 1989 and 1990 and an NCAA oxygen until an ambulance dose accidental because there Supranowitz was not immedi­Hospital. championship with Indiana in arrived. was no suicide note and no indi­ately returned. Thomas, fired as He said it was his depart­1981. He joined the Knicks as 
Authorities have not publicly cation the victim suffered from coach last April, still works for ment's first call to Thomas' the team president in 2003 and identified Thomas as the victim, depression. the team. house. An emergency services became coach in June 2006 but a person familiar with the Thomas has denied being the Some of the latest details log, with the names of the caller after Larry Brown was fired. case, speaking on condition of victim, and Hall again criticized about the Thomas case were and the patient blacked out, He was fired as the Knicks' anonymity because the official the ex-coach for saying it was first reported by Newsday. indicates the ambulance arrived coach April 18 after a season of poliee report has not been his 17-year-old daughter, Hall said the 911 call made at the house minutes before dreadful basketball, a tawdry released, has confirmed it was Lauren, who required treat­late Thursday from Thomas' midnight. sexual harassment lawsuit and the former NBA star and Knicks ment. multimillion-dollar home in the Hall said someone at the unending chants from fans eoaeh. "As parents, you try to protect Purchase section of Harrison house gave his officers a pre­demanding his dismissal. Still, 
On Tuesday, Harrison Police your kids; you don't say they did went first to state police, then to scription bottle, and the officers he was retained by the organi­Chief David Hall provided new something when it was you who Harrison. Harrison police on gave it to the ambulance crew zation as an adviser and con­details about last week's emer-did it," Hall said. "We know the patrol nearby got to the scene so the hospital doctors would sultant. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. CRESSY EVERETI PAM DECOLA 574-532·0204 
947 RIVERSIDE DR., 4 BDRMS, 
2.5 BATHS. HISTORICAL HOME CLOSE TO NO. 
CRESSY EVERETI, PAM DECO­LA. 574-532-0204. 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 
2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. 
CONTACT KRAMER PROPER­TIES 
574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS­ES.COM 

TICKETS 
Wanted: 

NO football tix for family. 574-251­1570. VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO football tickets. 
www. victorytickets.com. 574-232-0964. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Casli and Go Free. Call for Group 
Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1­800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631·2685. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
FREE HAIRCUTS! Color 1/2 price at SALON ROUGE, 620 W. Edison. Mish. CALL 258-5080. Licensed apprentice stylists only. Expires 11/15/08. 
Two teachers ready to adopt new­bom and provide a wonderful life for him/her. 
Confidential. Expenses paid. 
Stephenandliz@ aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY 
Say you will, Say you won't Say you'll do what I don't Say you're true, say to me C'est Ia vie. 
----------------------------, 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 CoMPfLED FROM THE ()BsERvnrs WJRE SERVICES page 15 

NFL 
NSCAA/adidas Men's Soccer Rankings 

team  points  record  
1  Wake Forest (23)  575  15·0·1  
2  Akron  535  13·1·2  
3  Creighton  510  10·1-1  
4  St. Johns  497  12·1·3  
5  Maryland  495  13·3·0  
6  Northwestern  455  11-1·2  
7  Loyola (Md.)  451  14·0·1  
8  California  399  7-2·4  
9  Tulsa  383  11-3·1  
10  UC Davis  359  12·2·3  
11  South Florida  341  10·3·2  
12  North Carolina  317  11-3-1  
13  Illinois-Chicago  274  10·2·4  
14  UC Santa Barbara  265  9·4·2  
15  Connecticut  247  8·3·5  
16  Saint Louis  223  7-2-5  
17  Indiana  184  9·4-2  
18  Michigan  183  10·4·2  
19  NOTRE DAME  152  9·5·2  
20  UC Irvine  133  8+6  
21  Louisville  95  9·5·2  
22  Dayton  76  11·2·2  
23  Pennsylvania  65  9·2·3  
24  Drake  50  11·3·0  
25  Michigan State  44  9·5·1  
NSCAA/ adidas  

Women's Soccer Rankings 
team points record 

1 NOTRE DAME {34) 850 18-0-0 2 North Carolina 799 15-1-1 3 Portland 764 15-1-0 4 UCLA 763 14-0-2 5 Stanford 733 16-0-1 6 Florida State 677 13-2·1 1 Florida 639 15-2-1 a · Virginia 607 12·3·1 9 Oklahoma State 525 15-1·2 10 usc 505 12·3-1 11 Duke 464 12·3-2 12 Texas 461 12·2·3 13 Boston College 457 11-4·2 14 Texas A&M 449 14·3·1 15 Colorado 367 13-3-3 16 San Diego 364 13·3·2 17 West Virginia 301 12·2-5 18 Wisconsin-MiL 244 15·2-2 19 Wake Forest 243 10·6-0 20 Missouri 162 12-5·0 21 Penn Stale 153 13-6·0 22 Washington State 130 8·5·4 23 Georgetown 101 13·3·2 24 Rutgers 66 12-5·1 25 Minnesota 59.5 17-2-0 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
Team Record 
league ouerall 

1 Hope 13-1 22·5 2 Calvin 11-2 20-4 3 Alma 11-3 19-7 4 SAINT MARY'S 9-6 18·9 5 Adrian 1-8 11-13 6 Albion 4-10 11-14 7 Kalamazoo 4-10 7-18 8 Trine 3-11 8·18 9 Olivet 2-13 6-20 
around the dial 
MLB 
Rays at Phillies 
8:00 p.m., Fox 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO, Calif. -Norv Tw:nei; ofall JHJPie, crune up with the San Diego Olargers' harOO;t hit in ~\\hen he fired defen­sive coordinator Ted Cottrell on Tl..lffilay. 
O:Jttroll was sacked by the hffid coach in large part because his defell'le couldn't get to opJniing quarterbacks, the most glaring shortcoming for a unit that has had little spark sinre lailllg star outside linebacker Shawne l\1erriman to ~-eiXling knee surgery afterthe first game. 
Cottrell was replaced by inside linebackers coach Ron Rivera, a Super Bowl winner with the OJicag> Bears in 1985. Riwra will have the bye week to figure out why the Chargers (3-5) have 
urx:lelp.rlcxmOO. 
"Probably the things that we haw needOO to improve in are the same things that affected us in Week Two and so on," Turner said. '1he same thing; haw been an ffiue throughout the first eight gmilffi, at differenttirm;." 
Any kind of week-to-week irnpro\mlent "hasnt been there," Turner said. ''\1\e've beenirlooiNr tent and we've had the same thing; hawn tolE owr and owr in teim; ofteams throwing for a lot of yardage early in games, making big pla}S in the passing game and koopingthe football." 
O:Jttroll didn't retrnn a call9-lek­ing rorillllPni 1misthe thirdtime hes been fired as a deferNve <mr­dinator. He was let~ by the New York Jets after the 2003 season and bythe l"v1innesJta.\1king:; after 

Brad OJik:lnH; tid owr as hffid oxtdlfcfuwingthe 2005 ~ 
The~ haw no sad<s oc intermptim; in the last nine quar­ters. They are at or near the lxlt­tml ofthe league in~statisti­cal categoriffi, including 32nd in passing yards per game (265.1) and 23rd in points allowed per game (24.9). 
Cottrell had beoome a popular target of fun ire as the Olargers ks. 1hrre of their last four gmilffi, inducting a 37-32 Ian to former teannnat.e Drew Brees and the New Orlearn Saints in London on Sunday. 
That game was indicative ofthe Cbargers' defensive shorto:ming;. with no pres>Lire on the quarter­back and a lot of passing yards. Brees threw for 341 yards and 1hrretoudrlowrn. 
O:Jttroll was a pBffiJilal fu.vocite of general manager AJ. Smith ~ back to their da}S with the Buffalo Bills. Smith didn't retrnn 
ooveral calB~mmment. 
With the ~ vwek. runing up, Turner said he decided after Sundays game 1hat O:Jttroll had to 
~­
"Ultimately Wl had a lot of d& cm;ion after the game. Ultimately fw got to make a decision mro on whafsreton our football team and \\here Wl need to~ and fuat was the decision I made," said Tw:nei; \\h:J is 72-92-1 as an NFL hl:',ad mach 
''\1\e knowwhatWl haw to do," the OXIdl said. ''\1\e haw to create more pressure on the quarter­OOd<, and olJviot.Sy \\ben Wl cre­ate pressure, not give up big ~}5." 

IN BRIEF Angels exercise team 
options on Guerrero, Lackey 
ANAHEIM, Cali[-The lc6 Angelffi~ will exercise their 2009 options on outfielder Vladimir Guerrero and pitcher John 11lckey, but will dOOine their option on outfielder Garret Arx:lenm. 
The 32-~-old Guerrero, an eight-time All­Star \\ho batted .303 with Z7 homers and 91 RBis this season, will PAIID $15 million next }ffif. He had a $3 million bt.i)oot. Guerrero has hit at k>liSt .300 with 25 or more home l1.lffi in 11 straight ffiaSOllS, joining I.oo Gelnig as the only two players in major league history to aaurilJllffithatfeat 
In~~ with the Montreal F.xpE and five with the Ange5. Guerrero is hitting .323 with 2,136 hits, 3921Kmers and 1,268 RBis in 1,750 gamffi. He had surgery on the medial memrn in his left knee Od. 10 butis~ to oo readyfor spring training. 
Ladrey was 12-5 with a 3.75 ERA this !m· ffii1. Originally selected in the fffOOd round of the 1m&oo agent drafi, the 30-~-old has a 91-63 rnroor mxrd with a 3.81 ERA He will earn $9 million in 200J. The~ could haw OOughtouthis mllract fur $500,00). 
Holmes to return to 
Steelers' lineup after arrest 
PfiTSBURGH, Penn. -The Pittsburgh Steelers won't further punish wide receiver Santonio Hohnffi for being cl1argOO la'it. 'M*.lk with a marjjuana-relaied offense and plan to starthim Monday night in Washington. 
Holmffi, \\holed the NFL in yard:;-per·<"&ch last seaoon, was oonched for the Steelers' 21­14 lffiS Sunday to the New York Giants and was not in uniform. He was allmved to retrnn to the team after speaking to his te.annnaiffi and issuing apublic apologyon Monday. 
The NFL could pl.Hlish Holmffi onre his <:<lffi is nrolved, but mach Mike Tomlin said 1here will oo no additional action taken by the team Tomlin did not say if Hohnes was fined, ahhoughhelilmlywas. 
Hohnffi, a third-year player out of Ohio State, was cl1argOO with a mS:lemeanor count of~ ofa small amount ofmarjjuana following a police stop Thtmrlay. Holrooi has a preliminary hearing oofore a Pittsburgh dis­trictjudge on Nov. 24. 
"As a football team and an organization, in terms ofour view ofthe situation, Wl've laid it to red," Tomlin saidToomy. 
North Texas reports fifteen 
players failed drug tests 
DENTON, Texas-Fifteen North Texas football players failed drug tests conducted this fall at the request of coach Todd Dodge. 
Eighty-six players were tested from Sept. 24-0ct. 15. They were chosen by the coaching staff and were considered regular contributors to the team. The results of the testing were first reported by the Denton Record-Clrronicle. 
The school normally test.:; athletes at random, and the NCAA tested 20 players separately late last month. North Texas hasn't received results of the NCAA tests. 
Dodge said at his weekly news confer­ence that he couldn't specifY the types of drugs, but later referred to them gener­ally as "street drugs." 
"All I did was what any Division I coach has the right to do," Dodge said. "When you've been around the business long enough, you look at consistency, you put two and two together and you come up with some ideas. It was time to send a message to say, 'No."' 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles end regular season vs. Trine 
On the season, junior eap­
By ERIC PRISTER 

tain Lorna Slupezynski paees Sports Writer 
the Belles with 328 kills on the season. Freshman setter 
Saint Mary's College looks Danielle Brink has recorded to cap off its season with a a team-high 693 assists for victory over conference oppo­the year. nent Trine tonight. The The Thunder are led by Belles have already clinched senior outside hitter Sallie a fourth-place finish in the Hichardson, who has notched MIAA conference, but will 443 kills on the season and is look to improve on their 18-9 averaging 4.82 per game. overall record and their 9-6 This is the Belles' last game conference mark. Trine is before the MIAA conference currently in 8th place in the tournament, whieh begins MIAA, but can possibly finish November 4. The tourna­as high as 6th. ment, along with the regular 
This is the second meeting season results, will deeide between the Belles and the which team receives the Thunder this season, with MIAA's automatic bid for the the Belles taking the first NCAA Tournament. match in four games. Senior The game will be played captain Kacla llellmann led tonight at 7 p.m. at Trine in Saint Mary's in the first Angola, Ind. match, accumulating a team­best twenty kills and a Contact Eric Prister at match-high fourte!1n digs. eprister@nd.edu 
Recycle 



·.. your wireless device settings NO-secure network. for more information. 
A
secureQ~ 


secure.nd.edu 
i\re you interested in... 
Master's degree in Theology? Catholic Identity? Spiritual Formation? Professional Development? Community Living? Working with kids, teens, and adults? Teaching Theology? 
Apps and more at 

1,hen come learn more Oct. 29
echo.nd.edu 


Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NCAA 
Glass takes over AD reins at IU after scandal 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Fred Glass has been called The Closer. Now he gets to be The Cleaner. 
Glass, who orchestrated bring­ing the Super Bowl to Indianapolis, took on a greater challenge Tuesday by accepting the athletic director's job at Indiana amid an NCAA phone­call scandal and allegations the school failed to properly monitor the men's basketball team. 
School officials are awaiting a ruling from the infractions com­mittee. 
"We're almost over the long, national nightmare, I hope, because our place is one that has always followed the rules," said Glass. "I think we can have that again." 
It's been a tough time for Indiana athletics. 
The football team just ended a four-game losing streak. The men's basketball program has the pending NCAA decision and is bracing for its worst season in decades under new coach Tom Crean. 
To Glass, however, it's a dream job. 
The lifelong Hoosiers fan spent Tuesday's news conference proudly recounting stories about pretending in grade school to be Jade Butcher, a member of Indiana's 1967 Rose Bowl team, and the vivid memory of skip­ping school to meet the Hoosiers' 1976 national champi­onship basketball team. 
With the Hoosiers in desperate nend of a fresh start, they turned to a man with long ties and a strong investment in the university. The 49-year-old earned both of his college degrees from Indiana and has served on an arts and sciences advisory board. His wife, Barbara, and daughter, Katie, are both Indiana grads, too. 
Perhaps the most significant advantage Glass had over two other finalists was his statewide credibility for doing things the right way. 
"What they really needed was somebody who could sort of restore trust and confidence and reconnect the program to its roots," said Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick, a for­mer colleague of Glass at Baker and Daniels, an Indianapolis law firm. 
The Hoosiers took a different tack in making Glass the fifth athletic director this decade. 
He has no experience in ath­letic department administration, but does have a long track record of bringing major sport­ing events to Indianapolis, devel­oping budgets and fundraising. 
He brings significant sports and political experience to Bloomington. Glass led Indy's unsuccessful bid for the 2011 Super Bowl and served as chief of staff to then-Gov. Evan Bayh in the early 1990s. From 2000 to 2007 he was president of the Capital Improvement Board, which owns and operates Lucas Oil Stadium and Conseco Fieldhouse in Indianapolis, and he helped negotiate long-term deals to keep the Colts and the NCAA's Final Four in Indy. 

Former Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson, who attended the news conference and credited Glass with creating the formula that persuaded NFL owners to give Indianapolis the 2012 Super Bowl, believes Glass' personality and judgment will mitigate any perceived shortcomings. 
"His judgment is remarkable. He has the ability to look at complex situations and figure out the right thing to do," said Peterson, a longtime friend. 
Glass replaces Rick Greenspan, who announced in late June that he would resign at the end of the year. 
The open-ended deal with Indiana calls for a salary of $410,000 a year, IU spokesman Larry Macintyre said. Greenspan was paid $275,000. 
"In our discussions, I was greatly impressed that Fred not only understood the challenges before our intercollegiate athlet­ics program but also the impor­tance of IU athletics being an integral part of the life of the entire university," McRobbie said. 
Glass' first task will be wiping away the stain of scandal. The Hoosiers' reputation took 

a major hit when former coach Kelvin Sampson and his staff were accused of making more than 100 impermissible phone calls while Sampson was still under NCAA sanctions for a sim­ilar scandal at Oklahoma. 
In February, the NCAA accused the school of five major violations before later reducing one to a secondary charge. 
On the day Greenspan announced his resignation, the school was hit with another major allegation: Failure to monitor. 
"I think it's almost immeasura­ble, not only for basketball but it's almost worse for the univer­sity," Glass said. "Basketball may be the easiest fix because we've got a dynamic coach. But people around the country don't like wearing IU stuff and having people coming up and making comments because of what's happened." 
Greenspan orchestrated a major housecleaning. He imposed penalties that included the loss of a scholarship for this season and a one-year extension of the NCAA's recruiting sanc­tions, got rid of Sampson and all of his assistants and restruc­tured the compliance depart­ment. Only two players are back from last season's team. 


-~------­

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Doctor reveals stroke forced Olson to retire 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Lute Olson's doctor said Tunsdav that tlw l'ornwr Arizona bas·­kntball l'oal"h had a stroke within thP last year and lw advisnd him to rl'tire. 
Tlw !"ornrnPnts by Dr. Stnvnn Knopn at. a nPws !"onl'ert'ncn !"ailed by Olson's family oiTt>r t.lw first nxplanation for Olson's suddPn rt>tirnnwnt last WPPk, two days al'tnr lw appParl•d at thP Wildcats' nwdia day. Olson said at tlw t i 111 n lw was P n P r g i z P d and looking forward to his 25th spason with Arizona. 
KnopP said an MBI con­I'i r 111 P d llH' s t r o kn i n l h n frontal part of Olson's brain. whirh )pft tlw llall of Famnr With SPVPrP dPprPSSion and impairPd judgnwnl. 
"This is a rallwr lTUPI twist 

. ol' fatt>," Knopn said at a M1~KaiP CPntPr 1wws confnr­n n (' () at t (1 IHI (' d by lw 0 0 f Olson's daughtPrs, Jodi Brase and Christi Snydnr. "lin is quitP literally dnvas­tatnd." KnopP said. "liP was doing gn~at ovPr tlw sumnwr and VPry mul"h wantPd to ful­fill his obligation to tlw com­munity and tlw university." Knope said Olson is rnsling at hom!' and is on a blood thinnPr. and lw's optimistic Olson will rl'covl'r. Thn announcement ended almost a yPar of spPculation about Olson's lwalth. Humors began to l'irniiatn whnn hP took a IPavP of absPIH'P last season for what hn later termed a "mndical eondilion that was not life-threatening." Over llw last few wonks, Knopn said he had talked to Olson about retiring beeause Olson was struggling to han­din his workload as preseason praclien opnnnd. "lin just couldn't put the pinens tognthPr," Knopo said. ''lin !"ouldn't do what he neodnd to do for the team." Knopo said he ordernd the MIU on Monday al'tor Olson did not respond to recent treatnwnt for depression. "Unlikn a typical stroh that you may imagine where someone is unable to walk or talk or move a limb, this stroke oeeurred in a part of the brain where much of his intellectual function and his motor funetion was perfectly normal," Knope said. "So it wasn · t q u it~~ apparent. The tipoff and the due eame in thn last sevnral weeks. when we bngan to treat what appearnd to be a bout of depression that simply didn't rnspond." Knope said he had trnated Olson for depression in the last year. during which Olson went through a eontnntious divorce from his second wife, Christinn. In April, Olson appeared ready to return to the grind of major 1:ollegn coaching. Olson told his doctor, "I love the game, I can't wait to get back." Knopn said. But something had changed. Knopn said the coaeh had responded earlier to antide­prnssan ts but in tho more recent bout he did not and also oxhibited out-of-eharae­tt~r behavior. 0 n e p u b I ie n x am p I e 1: a m e whnn a combative Olson sparred with reporters during the April news conference to 
announce his return. lie typi­said. "lie had a mental status cally had eool but cordial exam two days ago. and he rnlations with the media. seornd almost perfectly." 
"I think we ean attribute Knope said Olson is still 
that behavior to the stroke," accepting Knope said. foreed him 
At nwdia day last week. Olson expressnd eon­tri tion about his 

''There is no dementia
ht>havior t.hat day. "l'vp going on in coach wished I had 
Olson." 
that hour back many times," lw 

Dr. Steven Knope
said. 

Olson's hands Lute Olson's doctor havP tremblPd in rerPnt years, prompting 
that his health 
to retire. Knope said the coach is "beating himsdl' up" for leaving the team shortly 
bdore the  sea­ 
son.  
"I  c~an't  toll  

you how much Lutn wishes hn werP here today," Knope said. 
Olson's inter­
rumors that he has Parkinson's disease. Knope said Olson suffers from a l.H'nign !"ondition called famil­ial trPmor but does not have l'arki nson 's. 
"Tiwn~ is no dementia going on in coach Olson," Knope 

im n~placement, Buss l'onnell, expressed his support. 
"Today's news. as odd as this may sound, is eoml'orting only in that he now knows 
what he's up against  as  he  
works  to  return  to  good  
health." Pennell said.  




Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Pierce leads Celtics over Cavs in season opener 

D()N'T lVHSS OlJT!!! 
LIMITED NUMBER OF TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 
2009-2010 ACADEMIC YEAR 
$595 PER BED 
• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, Fitness Center, Sand Volleyball 

• 
24-HOUR Fitness Center, Tanning Bed 

• 
Unlimted Parking 

• 
24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE 

• 
Onsite Managment 

• 
Washer/Dryer IN ALL UNITS 

• 
Free Cable & Internet 


Clover Ridge Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) 272-1441 www.cloverridgeapartments.com 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The championship banner rose to the rafters. The tears trickled down Paul Pierce's cheeks. 
The MVP of last year's NBA Finals finally was part of a cere­mony that often seemed unreachable throughout his 10 seasons, all with the Boston Celtics. 
But on Tuesday night, before their season opener against the Cleveland Cavaliers, the Celtics' 17th title banner and first since 1986 was hoisted high above the same court where Boston routed the Los Angeles Lakers 131-92 barely four months ago in the clinching game. 
John Havlicek, an eight-time champion with Boston, carried the golden Larry O'Brien trophy onto the court accompanied by other former Celtics and handed it to Pierce. They hugged and Pierce cried. 
"As a kid, I always dreamed of moments like this," Pierce told the crowd before the first quar­ter. "You never know if this day is ever going to come. I've had a dream come true to add another banner to the rafters." 
The team's owners handed out championship rings to players before the green-and-white ban­ner was raised with several players pulling on two ropes that lifted it to the ceiling. Some for­mer Celtics were presented with rings between the first two quar­ters. 
"One team, once a year gets to have a ring celebration," coach Doc Rivers said before the cere­mony, "and we're that team because we earned it." 
The Celtics beat Atlanta and Cleveland in tough seven-game series, then eliminated Detroit in six before facing the Lakers, the team they beat for their 15th ti tie in 1984 but lost to in the 1985 and '87 finals. 
In Game 7 against the Cavaliers, in Boston, James outscored Pierce 45-41 but the Celtics won 97-92. 
"I let it go quickly," James said in the Cleveland locker room an hour before the ceremony. "I had to refocus myself to get ready for the Olympics. It was a great game between me and Paul and it was a great game between the Cavs and the Celtics." 
James and his teammates were on the court for the nation­al anthem but left before the ceremony. 
"They were invited," Rivers said with a laugh. "I wouldn't want to be out there either.... First of all, it's long. And, sec­ondly, they're giving us some­thing they want." 
It was a bright night for Boston -fans' cameras flashing for nearly the entire 15-minute cer­emony and gleaming rings made of 14-karat white gold with a total of 92 diamonds and emer­alds. The top of the ring features an emerald shamrock surround­ed by 64 pave set diamonds 
NBA commissioner David Stern had looked forward to par­ticipating in the ceremony. 
"In this game, you have the players say that you're playing for the ring," he said before it began, "and, there you are, being a part of fulfilling the goal of every player." 
Then. he added, "it's one of the few times you don't get booed 
Proprietors \>Varrcn & Lindia
~occo's 
Restau.-ant 
!Jrr.s/Orrg.ind??izza in 7omn! 
Sinc.:e 1951 
Spt."Cializirlg in Jt.;J/i;;m Entrees 

Tues.-Thurs.: S:OO PM-11:00 ?M Fri. -Sat.: 5:00 PM -1:00AM 537 North St. louis • South Ber.d, IN 574-2:B-24b4 
MASS 
IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN TRADITION 
<A.K.A. REJOICE! MASS) 

SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 2ND 8:45PM 
COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER CHAPEL OF OuR LADY 
(CHOIR PRACTICE BEGINS Ar 8:15PM IN HIE CHAPEL. All ARE WElCOMEfJ 
Celtics owner and CEO Wyc Grousbeck handed Pierce his ring after all the other players had gotten theirs. Pierce, seem­ing to fight back tears, held it up in his right hand as the fans roared and chanted, "MVP, MVP." Then he and his team­mates raised the banner. 
On one side of the new one was the 1986 championship banner. On the other side was a banner bearing the retired num­bers of eight Celtics. 

when you're the commissioner." 
Turns out, he was the only person booed at the ceremony. Then he opened it by saying, "Here we are, No. 17." 
And when he was done, the crowd chanted, "Let's Go Celtics." 
A brief video of Celtics patri­arch Red Auerbach, who died at the age of 89 in October 2006, got loud cheers when it was played on the scoreboard at the beginning. He guided the Celtics to their first 16 titles as coach or general manager. 
When Rivers came out to get his ring -with Auerbach's sig­nature engraved on the inside ­he put his left palm atop the tro­phy. 
The biggest cheers went to Pierce, who had won just three postseason series in his first nine years and was part of the team that managed only 24 wins the season before their champi­onship. 
PIZZA AND FELLOWSHIP TO FOLLOW! 
C-M 
Compus Mlnlnry 

fOR INFORMATION. CONTACT jtJDY MADDEN AT631-8SOBOR JMADDEN2@ND.fOlJ 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 


Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 

Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 

• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 

• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room wlth washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 



SMC SOCCER 
Belles prepare for last regular season gan1e 
By ALEX BARKER Spons Writer 
Opposing 1-mvironments have proven unfriendly to the Belles so far as they have not recorded a road vktory in seven tries this season. Today, Saint Mary's travels to take on Albion. where tlw team hopes it ean shake its road woes and conclude a tough regular season sdwdule on a winning note. 
The Belles lind themsnlvns in a slump. having lost eight of tlwir last nine matches. 
Last week. Saint Mary's dropped two very closely-eon­tested matches against Alma and Kalamazoo by one-goal margins. 
Despite their disappointing rneord this season, tlw BPlles havn not been completely over­matched. Eight of' thnir II loss­es havn come by om~-goal mar­gins, including all but mw eon­ferencn loss. 
Saint Mary's has shown its ability to put thn ball in tho goal as it has found tlw net in all but 
Write Sports for The Obse E-mail Dan at dmurphy6@nd. 
three games this season, induding a four-goal effort in its conference victory over Trine. 
The Belles' leading scorer on the season is senior forward Lauren Hinton, who has found thn back of the net five times and has also served up two assists. 
Saint Mary's has also received a huge offensive contribution this season from the freshman elass, whieh is led by forward Katelyn Tondo-Steele. Tondo­Stnele has two goals and an assist. In all, freshmen have accounted for six goals and five assists. nearly half of the Belles' oll'nnsive production. 
Saint Mary's junior Patty DuiTy has stepped up in goal, having recorded 72 saves and giving up less than two goals per match. 
Saint Mary's will begin post­season play when the MIAA eonfnrnnce tournament kicks ofr Nov. 1. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 

Start Your Career in Accounting. 

Northeastern's MS in Accounting/MBA for non-accounting maiors: 
• 
Earn two degrees in just 1 '> n1ont.hs. 

• 
Cornplete a 3-rnonth paid residency at a leading accounting firrn. 

• 
Proven track record of100% job placernent. 


Take the first step. 
Visit us ouline or at an information session rwar you.. Learn 111ore about the progran1 a11d UJK0111ing events at. www.rnsantba.net!.IC'du. 
617-373-U44 gspa@ ne11.edu www.n1sarnba.neu.edu 
Northeastern 
UNIVERSITY 
luxury apartments

IIIrish 
ROW 


Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Nicholas 
continued from page 24 
"It's really just repetition and repetition," Nicholas said. "And getting in scrim­mage situations and things like that to help us under­stand positions." 
That relationship was on full display Oct. 12 in a match against Pittsburgh. Despite Notre Dame's loss to the Panthers, Nicholas notched a career-high 54 assists, and Kaelin capital­ized with 21 kills. 
In her role as setter, it is Nicholas' job to run the offense on the court during the course of a match. She said her biggest responsibili­ties are calling the plays and deciding what type of set is best for a given situation. 
Nicholas credited part of her success to the fact that she had the opportunity to play with former Irish setter Ashley Tarutis for two years before taking over the start­ing role this season. 
"[Tarutis) helped me learn the offense and taught me how things were run on the court," Nicholas said. "I just went off and mimicked what I could from her." 
Nicholas and the Irish (11­11, 6-3 Big East) currently sit in third place in the Big East, tied with Pittsburgh and trailing Cincinnati and St. John's. Nicholas said that, while she had hoped for a better start, she's con­fident Notre Dame will make a run in its remaining matches. 
"I think we have done OK up to this point," she said. "We've won some big games, but we've also let down matches that we should won. If we just keep working everyday at the gym, we'll be happy with the result." 
The Irish have already lost their matches against Pittsburgh and Cincinnati, but have a matchup with conference-leading St. John's on Nov. 14 at the JACC. Nicholas, though, said she isn't worried about the teams on Notre Dame's schedule. 
"The only things we can control are on our side of the net," she said. "So we just need to come out the second half of the Big East [sche.~ule] and get the job done. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
rec The Observe 
Scodro 
continued from page 24 
five bogeys in eight holes. He responded with a birdie and nine pars to salvage the round and finish strong. 
Kubinski said Allan-Lee's round was a good indication of the benefit experience pro­vides to his young team. 
"We have a number of guys really coming a long way in terms of learning to make 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
him for 10 years-from 1996­2000 at Stanford and from 2001­05 at Notre Dame. That explains the major similarities between the two teams in terms of scheme and formations, Clark said. 
"If you ask anyone, they'll always say they're very similar to us," he said. "At the end of the day, personnel dictate how things go, but I think you'll find that there will be a lot of similarities." 
With home-field advantage and a chance to guarantee them­selves a share of the Blue Division crown, the Irish are poised to erase concerns about last week's stumble. 
"Everybody knows what the stakes are," Clark said. "If you're in the last week of the season and you're playing for something very meaningful, you know it's been a good season. 
"We're in that situation, play­ing for the trophy, and you can't ask for more than that. Well, you can -you can ask to play very well -and that's our goal start­ing against Georgetown." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

shots," Kubinski said. "Alan­Lee's round was a perfect example learning to right the ship and starting to make some better finishes after get­ting a lot of experience." 
Junior Doug Fortner shot an ugly 10-over par 82 in his opening round before firing a 7 2 and a 7 3 in his final two rounds to finish in 46th place. Senior co-captain Olavo Batista's final-round 81 dropped him into 54th overall after shooting a 7 6 and a 7 4 to start the tournament. 
Backs 
continued from page 24 
Last week against Washington, Aldridge was Notre Dame's leading rusher -the first time this season he was tops for the Irish -with 84 yards on only 13 carries, two of which went for touch­downs. 
"When somebody all of a sudden gets something going, you're not looking to take them out just to take them out. So that's where he is right now," he said. 
The fourth quarter of Saturday's game against Washington also showcased Notre Dame freshman running back Jonas Gray, who 
Freshman Chris Walker rounded out the Irish effort with a 20-over 236 in his sec­ond collegiate tournament. 
The tournament -which was played at the par 72, 7,197-yard Forest Oaks Country Club in Greensboro, 
N.C. -marked the last com­petition Notre Dame will see until March. Despite inconsis­tent results and a last-place finish at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Invitational, the Irish have a young crop of talented and increasingly experienced 
golfers heading into the spring season. 
"Coming into the fall, we didn't know what to expect with [senior] Josh [Sandman] being out," Kubinski said. "We hoped to play a little better than we did, but we're very encouraged. A lot of guys are really learning, and we're expecting to bounce back in the spring and make a run at the Big East Championship." 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

had yet to "When somebody all Weis said. backer Harrison Smith as see playing David Bruton's heir apparent
ofa sudden gets 
time earlier Notes: at starting free safety, and told
going, you're not 
this season +Senior wide the sophomore what he needs 
because of looking to take them the team's 
out just to take them 
depth. Gray 
out."

carried nine times for 61 Charlie Weis 
yards (6.8 
Irish coach 

yards per carry) in mop-up duty against the "He Huskies. week, 
Gray is especially impor­those spasms are acting tant this week for Notre when he's out there in prac-
D  a  m  e  tice, because I  
because of his speed and quickness, both of which mirror Pittsburgh  "When they know you're going to run it and you still run it effectively, that sends  really don't know the answer until after I see him running around out  
tailback L e S e a n  a very good message."  there," said of  Weis his  
McCoy. Weis said Gray will  Charlie Weis  offensive cap­tain.  
represent  Irish coach  
McCoy  this  +Linebacker  
week for the  Brian  Smith  

Notre Dame scout team. had a cognitive test after 
"[Gray will] be wearing a suffering a mild concussion big old 25. So just you might against the Huskies. He will as well look at him this not be held out of any prac­week and call him McCoy tices this week, but will have instead of calling him Gray limited contact early in the because that's who he will week. 
be this week in this practice," +Weis said he foresees line­
receiver David to do to win the job next sea­Grimes told Weis son. earlier this week "I told him, 'You're going that he feels fully to have to lose a little weight healed after back and get a haircut.' I told him spasms kept him those are the two things that out of the will probably have to go Washington together for him," Weis said. game. 
intends to go this Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at and we'll see how jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
r-­
•
' 
t 
.' 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
. 
. 
' 
. 
' 
' -­
: 

'
I ' ­
~ 
! 
' 
• 
~ 
~ ·-· 
. ' 
•
• 








Prieta  
earthquake  
28 Flushing stadium  
29 Having a hard  
time deciding  
30 Like "Paradise  
Lost"  
31 Ferris wheel or  
bumper cars  
32 Swarm member  
33 "To Sir With  
Love" singer,  
~-==+"'-R+E"-i  1967  
E R 0  S  34 Mideast harbor  
E  S  LADY  city  

Wednesday, October 29, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

THE DOME PIECE 

JEFF KNUREK 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ&MJ]]1JR
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, I'm making a 
to form four ordinary words. cover for my /cast
RONED 
I I I 



©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. · 
ENMOY j 
1 

rx I I 
BRAMKE 
CAN BE: KNIITE:D 
1 
rJ 
WHil-E: ME:NDING.

www.jumble.com
t
TECJOB j 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I J r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: A rI I I I I J [ I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: DERBY LIVEN UPROAR BEMOAN Answer: What the pro wrestler got when he won the match -"PIN" MONEY 
CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Philosophy of Down 
bare existence? Small jobs for a body shop. 

Inane 
scan 39 Log-in info 2 Kriegsmarine 

5 
(biometric 41 Writer Waugh authentication 
vessel 
42 See 32-Across 

method) 3 _ Park (noted 46 Like good pianos 
lab site) 9 Districted 

and engines 
4 Substitute14 Cynic's comment 

48 levitated players15 Payload delivery 
49 Versatile fabric 5 Annual racing 

org. 
classic 

16 Beam 6 Squealer56 Spade 
51 lives on 

17 Helpful person's 7 Prefix with tonic line ensembles 
8 "Hello, Dolly!" 20 Spiral in space 60Coterie jazzman 21 Most comfy 61 Helpful person's 9 One of the line Gabors
22 Jazz dance 64 Popular place for 1 0 Bygone Dodge 
23 Vice squad 18-Down 11 Giant in footwear
arrestees, perhaps 65 Tied up 12 Graceful shaders
66 Reel in 13 It's repellent 25 Perturbation 

27 Autumn bloomer 67 With cunning 18 Sojourners 
32 With 42-Across, 68 St. Andrew's 
abroad, for short helpful person's Day observer 
19 Darlin' line 69 Virtual mart 
23 Elbow 37 Mesa tribe 
24 Prospecting find 
26 1989's 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Chuck Deodene 

35 Cubes at 50 Dough producer, 57 And others, for Harrah's briefly short 52 Airplane seating 58 Cockeyed 
36 Bother 

request 40 Artois beer 59 Clipper's sheet 
53 Fowl entree 60¢
43 Agrees 54 deaf ear to 55 Not yet 62 Piping 
44 Sellout letters 

gentrified compound, 45 Lithium-.... briefly
56 Much of abattery 
waitress's 63 Fierce type, 47 Stylish income astrologically 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytirnes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforurn. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joaquin Phoenix, 34: Julia Roberts, -ll; BiU Gates, 53; Bruce Jenner, 59 
Happy Birthday: You can turn nothing into something this year with hard work and dis­cipline. Change is upon you--embrace it and make it work for you. You will prosper if you are adaptable and alter your life without a fuss or a costly price tag. Make fast deci­sions as each alteration in your life takes place. Your numbers are 5, 11, 18, 20, 28, 32. 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't give in when you know you are right. A commit­ment to someone or somethh1g will ensure that you have covered your back and can move fonvard with confidence. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): So much will depend on how you treat others. Be com­passionate but refrain from spoiling. Use common sense. good judgment and honesty. Open up talks about a new business venture. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone will not give you the lowdown on something you are working on. Don't get lured into doing something unnecessary. Do your own re­search and double-check everything. Nmiure a love relationship. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are in the driver's seat and can manipulate whatever situation you face. Network, socialize and make contact and you won't be disappointed in the people you meet or what they can contribute to your life. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You won't be too popular at home. especially if you refuse to give in to someone's demands. Get out and spend time \\~th people who inspire and mo­tivate you rather than bringing you duwn. Consider changing the conditions under which you have been living. ** 
VmGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Nothing will happen if you don't take action. Lm·e may be questioned if you haven't been happy lately. If there is a problem. do not hesitate to rise up and take on whoever and whatever is standing in your way. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take time to reflect on the past and to realize what you might have done differently. It's never too late to go back and fix something you did wrong or to address someone you never got over. It's hard to move on when you are hanging on to the past. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do not wait for someone else to take over or push you aside. Stand tall and go for gold. Set the standard and be proud of who vou are and what you've accomplished. *** -
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Less talk and more observation and reevaluation will help you realize what everyone else wants and the strategy necessary. Once you see all the players positioned, you can make a wise and winning choice. Bide your time and strike purposefully. *** 
CAPRJCORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't run and hide or give up or move on because you can't see a way out. Fight back with persuasion. a unique approach or a secret weapon. Watch your back. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't give in to someone because of sentimental rea­sons. If you don't stand your ground now. you will eventually regret your actions and have to deal with a much worse situation. Stay calm. ** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Set up deals and invest in your future. Check out any problems that you've had physically. emotionally or financially. You can get others to help you. Good fortune is heading your way. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are persistent and emotion-driven. You have finesse and talent and can capture an audience, enabling you to get what you want. 
Eugenia's 11-eb sites: eugeTiialast.comfor coufideutial consultatioTis, myspace.cornleugenialastfor E11get1ia's blog. astmad\'ice.comfor ftm 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 29, 2008 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish set for rematch against Big East foe Georgetown 
Hoyas come to town for midweek game today at Alumni Field 
By MATT GAMBER A~sociate Spons Ediwr 
No. 19 Notre Dame can clinch at least a share of the Big East Blue Division crown with a win in today's 2:30p.m. home tussle with No. 24 Georgetown. 
The lloyas (9-3-3, 4-2-3 Big 
FOOTBALL 

Trio of talen ted backs have combined for 792 yards on ground 
By DAN MURPHY Spans Ediwr 
So far this season, the Irish running game's only real prob­lem is one that most coaches wouldn't mind having. Notre Dame has too many talented running baeks. 

This season, junior James Aldridge and sophomores Armando Allen and Hobert II ughes have split time at tail­back for Notre Dame, rushing for a combined 792 yards on 
4.28 yards per carry. 
They have shan~d the scoring, as well. Aldridge has found the end zone three times on the ground and Allen and Hughes each have a pair or touch­downs. 
Notrn Dame coach Charlie Weis said he rotates the trio becaus1~ of the constant position battle that has gone on this sea­son. As of right now, Allen is the East, 15 points) have lost just onee in their last eight games and have moved into third in the divi­sion, two points behind the Irish (9-5-2, 5-2-2 Big East, 17 poinlo.;) and Connecticut (8-3-6, 5-3-2 Big East, 17 points), which tied Pitto.;burgh 2-2 last night. 
Georgetown could grab first plaee with a victory today, as wins earn three points and draws one point in the conference standings. A win would give the Irish 20 points and a three-point advan­tage over the Huskies, who play just one more conference game. 
Notre Dame and Georgetown each have one more Big East con­test after today's match. 
Today's match-up is a rare mid­week day game because a norovirus outbreak on the Georgetown campus caused the originally-scheduled Oct. 5 match to be postponed. 
'This game is such a big game, and it's a pity it won't be played in a better atmosphere," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "There might not be that atmosphere, but I know our players will be very excited." 
After scoring just one goal in a pair of Big East road games last week, the Irish offense will be tested once again by a stingy Hoyas defense that allows only .58 goals per game. 
Georgetown bottled up the Notre Dame attack in a scoreless draw in last year's meeting, and the Hoyas goalkeeping duo of Matthew Brutto and Mike Wilber have combined for 10 shutouts this season. Brutto has recorded a shutout in all eight games he has played this season. 
But with the exception of last 
Running ntates 
No. 1 back for the spread-style offense and Aldridge is the go­to guy for the "pound it" pack­age. 
Hughes is the back-up for both packages. 
Weis said the one thing he is most proud of in his team's run­ning game is its ability to run the ball in the smashmouth package in recent games. He said that some teams try to stack the box against the run when Aldridge and fullback Asaph Schwapp enter the game, but that has not always been successful for Irish opponents. 
"When they know you're going to run it and you still run it effectively, that sends a very good message, because they know you're going to run it, and you're still running it and gain­ing yards," Weis said. 
Even though Aldridge did not see much playing time earlier in the season, Weis said he has played his way into a much big­ger role based on his perform­ance in practices and recent games. 
"I think for about the last month in practice he's been get­ting better and better every 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Nicholas' assists lead ND into home stretch
l 
I Setter looks to help t team rise in standings
•
' 
' 
t By SAM WERNER t Spons Writer 
It isn't Jamel Nicholas' job to rack up dozens or kills like outside hitters Christina Kaelin and Kelly Sciacca, but that doesn't mean the junior setter hasn't put up some gaudy numbers of her own. 
Over the weekend, Nicholas posted 31 and 49 assists against Villanova and Seton llall, respectively, and leads the Irish with 690 assists on the season. But the Gibsonia, 
Pa., native prefers to remain modest about her contribu­tions to the team. 
"I think I've done okay," Nicholas said. "Being the set­ter out there, I need to direct traffic and keep putting up a great set so that our hitters can get a kill." 
The 5-1 formation the Irish play is designed for Nicholas to get most of the assists, but the sociology/FTT double major still has to work to develop a strong rapport with her hitters. Nicholas said she and Kaelin arrive to practices early to work on their timing. 
see NICHOLAS/page 22 week, Notre Dame's offense has been potent. The Irish average 
2.19 goals per game, which ranks 1Oth nationally, and have consis­tently generated scoring opportu­nities. Now they just need to con­vert, Clark said. 
"We've just got to play well and put a complete game together," he said. "We'd like to score goalo.; but we also can't coneede goals." 
The Hoyas are led by Brian Wiese, who played for Clark at Dartmouth before coaching with 
see HOYAS/page 22 


day," Weis said. "He's been bet­practice, and he's been running ter when we go against the first with power in practice and defense when he's gotten reps [offensive coordinator Michael] doing that. He's been better in Haywood has rewarded him by giving him more opportunities on the field." 
see BACKS/page 22 

MEN'S GOLF 
Scodro ties for first place 
Golfers finish fall season with seventh-place showing in N.C. 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 
After an uneven showing in his first collegiate tournament earlier this month, Notre Dame freshman Max Scodro's finished with a 3-under par 213 that catapulted him to a tie for first-place at the UNCG Bridgestone Intercollegiate on Tuesday. An excruciating bogey on the 72nd hole pre­vented Scodro from taking home solo medalist honors. 
Battling through 25-knot winds and a 30-degree wind­chill, the Irish squad finished in seventh place, a solid showing after a string of rough performances this fall. No. 37 Duke finished atop the stacked field of 15 with a 5­over par 869 -21 strokes ahead of Notre Dame's 890. 
Notre Dame head coach Jim Kubinski praised the mature play of Scodro and his ability to bounce back after his 78th­place finish at the Fighting Irish Intercollegiate earlier this month. 
"Max has an all-around sound game," Kubinski said. "He's fairly long, definitely one of the longer guys on the team and long for a college golfer, but he also putts well and has a great touch. He played some very good golf out there." 
Scodro scattered six birdies and four bogeys in his open­ing round to shoot a 2-under par 70 before carding an even-par 72 in Monday's late round. An eagle on the par-S fifteenth Tuesday put Scodro in the sole possession of first place, but a bogey on the 72nd hole of the tournament dropped him into a tie for the individual title. 
Sophomore Connor Alan­Lee finished tied for 24th with a 6-over par 222. After fol­lowing up his opening-round par with a 2-over second round, Alan-Lee opened his final round with a string of 
see SCODRO/page 22 




