
Reish, Braun tickets advance to run-off election 
Top two pairs prepare 

Defeated candidates reflect 

for final contest Thursday 

on campaign, look ahead
Student Body Primary Election 
By JOSEPH McMAHON By BECKY HOGAN 

Assistant News Editor News Writer 

Bob Reish and GrantSchnlidt 48.43% 
Candidates Bob Reish and Grant 

Four of the six tickets vying for Notre
Maris Braun 3.!id. George Chamberla.in 22.43%
Schmidt came 61 votes short of captur­Dame student body president and vice 

=:=:::.:;;::·::·:·. .,....,..,.,
.......-.....-...-.. ...
ing the student body presidency and president left the campaign trail after 

vice presidency during the primary 

being defeated in the primary Monday. 

Bill Ehrlich and Mike Ros~iff 
13.75%
elections Monday. 

The top two tickets -Bob Reish and 
Reish and Schmidt received 1,870 Grant Schmidt and Maris Braun and 

votes, 48.43 percent of the total 3,861 George Chamberlain -will compete in a


Peter Kelly and Jon<Poelhuls 6.27% 
votes cast. Since they did not receive 50 run-off Thursday. 

perc~nt of the total votes, they will 

Juniors Bill Ehrlich and Michael Roscitt 

Cooper Howes and Daniel Rit.nkus 2.51%
compete in a run-off against Maris 

placed third overall with 531 votes, or 
Braun and running mate George 

13.75 percent of the total votes. 
Chamberlain, who came in second. 

Ehrlich and Roscitt's campaign reflect­

Rick Hollowdb<i 
and Alex,,:forn 1.53%
Braun. the current student body vice ed their laid back approach to student 

president, and Chamberlain, the sena­government 

tor from Sorin Hall, received 866 votes, "I think we achieved the goals of our


Abstain 5.08% 
or 22.43 percent of the total. 

campaign," Roscitt said. "We wanted to see RUN-OFF/page 4 MATT HUDSON/The Observer see DEFEAT/page 6 
New policy ignores abstentions in final vote count; Judicial Council pleased with voter turnout, condemns 'abstain' posters 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Judicial Council officials said they were pleased with voter turnout in the student body elections Monday -but they took issue with posters dis­played around campus encouraging voters to abstain from the election. 
This is the first election in which abstentions were elimi­nated from the vote count so that candidates need receive only 50 percent of votes cast for a specific candidate to win the election. 
Judicial Council president Ashley Weiss said the change in tallying abstentions ensures the abstaining votes could not block a ticket from receiving the necessary 50 percent, as happened in the 2007 student body elections. That election was decided by a Senate vote, resulting in the election of stu­dent body president Liz Brown and student body vice presi­dent Maris Braun. 
"We introduced this as a safety net to make sure it doesn't happen again," Weiss said. Weiss and vice president of elections Danny Smith expressed disappointment with posters placed in dorms and South Dining Hall encour­aging students to vote "abstain." One such poster read: "Domers wants you to vote abstain. God save the Irish." 
Though the Judicial Council does not have jurisdiction over the matter unless the person 
responsible is a member of student government, both Weiss and Smith condemned the posters. 
"I think it's a little disheart­ening and almost disappoint­ing that individuals that have really invested themselves in the student body and are striving to achieve more have individuals that are proclaim­ing against that," Weiss said. "In the fashion that they've been putting up the posters, it's disrespectful to the candi­dates and to student govern­ment at large." 
Since none of the posters were approved by the Student Activities Office, Smith said posting around campus is a punishable offense. 
see ABSTAIN/page 6 

Top editors selected for 2008-2009 term 
Observer Staff Report 
Jay Fitzpatrick, Katie Kohler and Deirdre Krasula have boen hirod to help oversee Tho Observer editorial opera­tions in 2008-09. incoming editor-in­


a minor in journalism, ethics, and democracy, will assist Hine in managing all depart­ments at The Observer. He said he will focus on improv­ing the quality of writing and efficiency of day-to-day pro­duction at The Observer. 
"When I first joined The Observer I never thought that I would have this chance to carry on the legacy of the paper." 
Fitzpatrick, a resident of Dillon Hall from Catonsville, Md., began writing lnterhall football in the fall of his fresh­
Students assist tax filing 
Accounting majors earn credit to provide free help in community 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
As the April 15 deadline for filing income taxes looms, students in the Tax Assistance Program are helping mem­bers of the local community prepare tax returns as part of a two-credit course. 
The program provides free tax-preparing services of fed­eral and state income taxes for any individual or family with a combined income of less than $3R.OOO. 
The Tax Assistance pro­gram "gets students involved in the real world, applying what they are learning in the classroom to real help for real people," course professor Ken Milani said. 
Beginning Feb. 9 and con­tinuing through the tax sea­son, 90 students will spend three hours a week at one of nine designated centers in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. These centers include the Mishawaka Public Library and the South Bend Public Library as well as on-campus locations such as LaFortune Student Center and the Center for Social Concerns. The program extends beyond the area at another site in Plymouth. Ind. 
Assistance is also available for students and staff who have tax returns that meet the income requirement. 
Accountancy majors who have taken a federal tax class are eligible to participate in the Tax Assistance Program, and some students like senior Kevin Manning and Masters of Accountancy student Tricia DeGroot will be participating in the program for a second semester. 

"It just makes you feel good because you know that these people can't afford to have their tax returns done by any­one else," Manning said. 
The Tax Assistance Program was started in 1972 by a law student and an MBA student, and Milani has been instructing the course ever since. 
"The program started with one center and half a dozen students," Milani said. "Now, there are 10 locations and 90 students ... It has changed 
see TAXES/page 4 
chief Chris II i n e announced Monday. 
F i t z ­patrir.k will be the managing editor. the 
No. 2 posi-Fitzpatrick tion at The Observer, while Kohler and Krasula will serve as assistant managing editors. 
Fitzpatrick, a junior major­ing in history and Arabic with man year and has covered various sports beats including football and women's basket­ball. For the past year he served as an associate sports 

see STAFF/page 6 

----------------------, 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Just love 
It's that time of year again. 

No, not when you're recovering from Friday's celebration of the 98th anniver­sary of the Boy Scouts ofAmerica. 
By Cupid, it's Valentine's Day season! 
Thursday, I will celebrate my 20th Valentine's in the same way I celebrated 18 of the previous 19 -by chilling at home and doing home­
John Tierney 
work. 
Valentine's 

News Wzre Editor
Day is like 
Thank.shriving 
-they're 

both giving holidays. On Thanksgiving, 
we're supposed to give thanks. 
Meanwhile, on Valentine's Day, we 
should give love. 

Not necessarily love in a romantic way. 
And not necessarily lovn in a fmn way. 
I'm not sum in which "way" we should 
hrive love on Valentine's Day, but we 
should givn it. 

To our friends. To our family. To our 
dorm brothnrs. To acquaintances from 
da.ss. To the people we don't like from 
dass. 

Yes, even to the people we don't like 
from da.-.s. 
(Column Intermission #1: My friend 

Kyle the (;mat just stoppt~d by my room. 
She a.-.ked firr a shout-out.) 
.lust as we give universal thanks on 

Tha.nkshriving, we should try to give uni­
versallove on Valentine's Day. 

I know I may sound like a hippie, but I 
honestly have never smoked anything in 
my !if(~. (Some people say that's where I 
went wrong.) 
But hippies aside, Valentine's Day is 

more than a celebration !ilr lovers, a.-. the 
Kay .Jewelers commercial that just 
popped up on my TV suggest.-.. 

To me, the essence ofVahmtine's Day 
was best eaptured this weekend by 

Sunday's showing ofSaving Private Hyan 
on TNT. What love could be greater than 
that Captain John Miller (Tom I Ianks) 

shows li>r Privatn James Francis Hyan, 
some guy he never even met? 

As romantic a.-. those "every kiss begins 
with Kay" commercials may be, love isn't 
just about romance. It's about going 

above and beyond the call ofduty filr a 
friend, a stranger or an acquaintance. 

It's important to remember that non­
romantic love is just as deep as any other 
sort oflove, despite the lack ofattention it 
receives on Valentine's Day. 
According to the "Love is in the 

Moment" Facebook event, suicide rates 
are at their highest at thi..-. time of year. If 
we let our love for our fellow people 

show, we may be able to do something to 
change that. 

In 2005, 32,439 Americans committed 
suidde. But depression isn'tjust limited 
to those who commit or contemplate sui­
cide. The National Institute ofMental 
I Iealth estimates that 18 million 
American suffer from depression, and 

that 20 pen~ent of teenagers will experi­
ence it by the time they reach adulthood. 
Twenty percent of teenagers. As college 
students, approximately half of us are out 
of the teenage years. Look about you. 
One out of live people in your hallway, 

your room, your dorm, your class, your 
table in the dining hall ha.'i suffered from 
depression. 
Thi..'i Valentine's Day, remember to 

share the love. If you're in a relationship, 
don't limit your love to your significant 
other. If you're single, don't bitterly wish 
you had a girlfriend. 
Just love. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the news article "NMCP hosts ralk on relationship issues" published Feb. II, the acronym NMCP was defined incorrecdy. NMCP stands for National Association fur the Advancement ofColored People. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD IT TAKE FOR NOTRE DAME TO HAVE CLASSES CANCELED? 





Cristina Anaya  Chris Savino  Emily Doll  Angelica Nguyen  
sophomore Howard  sophomore Morrissey  junior Howard  freshman Pasquerilla West  
"It would take five feet of  "That's ajoke!"  "It would take... the  "The death of Charlie Weis. "  
snow, because people like Cinthya would get lost and confused. "  second coming ofJesus. "  


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Jeremy Eltz and Derek Stump of Ziolkowsky Contruction work on renovations to a computer cluster in Fitzpatrick Hall of Engineering. The cluster will be converted into office space. 
OFFBEAT 

golden retriever, Bella helped get Sue Feuling and her 9-year-old daughter, Mckenzie, out of the house last week. The dogs didn't make it. 
"Those dogs were with­out a doubt the heroes," said Winona Assistant Fire Chief Jim Multhaup. 
Bella had jumped on Feuling's bed early Friday morning and started bark­ing, and Feuling then smelled smoke, grabbed her daughter and rushed out of the house. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

Cleaners find decomposing body in bathtub 
PHOENIX -A dried and decomposing body was found in a bathtub filled with dirt in a Phoenix apartment that was stacked to the ceiling with garbage and human waste. 
Owners of the small, standalone unit thought it had been abandoned in August, when they stopped receiving rent payments, Phoenix police Sgt. Joel Tranter said Monday. 
Tranter said the owners didn't decide to do any­thing about the filthy apartment until last week, 
TODAY a: 

when they paid other ten­ants in the complex to clean it out. 
He said the cleaners began by removing garbage and boxes and buckets filled with human waste. 
Dogs sacrafice their lives saving family 
WINONA, Minn. -Bella, a 3-year-old golden retriever/collie mix who was once rescued as an abused puppy, returned the favor to her owners by alerting them to a house fire. With help from Maddie, a 6-month-old 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 

8 :z:: 3: 
~1)
.... 
c( (,) 


_,0 HIGH 23 HIGH 20 HIGH 28 HIGH 36 LOW 20 LOW 18 LOW 20 LOW 30 

Joel Sharbrough Maggie Merkel 
junior senior Keough Welsh Family 
"Maybe if "Enough snow there was an so that the avalanche off doors to 
ofall the giant DeBartolo mountains we wouldn't have around open. here ... but maybe not. " 
IN BRIEF 

As part of Ethics Week, Richard "Digger" Phelps will present a lecture entitled "Community Service: An Ethical Imperative" Wednesday at 12::Jo p.m. at the Mendoza College of Business. 
Children's Storytime: Valentine's Day Party will take place tody at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. in Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Stories and activities led by Kay Londergan. 
Women's basketball will play Marquette Wednesday in the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. 
Women's tennis will play Ohio State Thursday at 3:30 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Admission is free. 
The film "9 Star hotel" will be playng at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday at 7 p.m. as part of the "Immigration: A Notre Dame Perspective" film series. 
There will be Stations of the Cross Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies is host­ing a lecture entitled "Unsettling Accounts: Neither Truth nor Reconciliation in Confessions of State Violence" Thursday at 4:15 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 42 HIGH 40 LOW 28 LOW 24 
Atlanta 61 I 40 Boston 33 I 16 Chicago 26 I 12 Denver 46 I 22 Houston 63 I 59 Los Angeles 82 I 51 Minneapolis 16 I 0 New York 35 I 18 Philadelphia 35 I 17 Phoenix 77 I 51 Seattle 47 I 41 St. Louis 31 I 23 Tampa 74 I 57 Washington 44 I 21 
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Denim sale raises funds for hospital 
By KATIE KOHLER 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Dance Marathon pilot charity project "Charity Denim," which took place today, attracted nearly 400 students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's and raised more than $1,200 for Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, fundraising chair Maura Clougherty said. 
Charity Denim sold discounted designer jeans from 40 to 70 per­cent off their original price. The California-based company is a non-profit corporation that part­ners with philanthropic organiza­tions, colleges and other charita­ble organizations. 
Dance Marathon charged $1 admission to see the jeans and raised $350 from admission alone. Sales from jeans and T­shirts raised $977, Clougherty said. 
"The entire total from today is going directly toward the total amount we are donating to Riley from Dance Marathon," she said. 

Clougherty, ·a junior at Saint Mary's, said she didn't know what to expect from the fundraiser. 
"We wanted to raise as much as we could and it went much better than I thought it could go," Clougherty said. "Notre Dame and Saint Mary's was the perfect place to have it because everyone loves designer clothes, but we can't always afford them with books and other college expens­

es." 

In Indianapolis, an average of $9 per pair went toward the prof­it, which equals about 10 percent of the total jean cost. One hun­dred and four pairs of jeans were sold, along with 42 T-shirts and designer jackets, Clougherty said. 
Due to its success, Clougherty is looking forward to welcoming Charity Denim back next year. 
"There are a few things we'd like to see happen differently, like having more guys come, but over­all, it was amazing," Clougherty said. "We are thinking about doing it once in the fall and once in the spring next year." 
While the event started at 2 p.m., students were lined up by 1, Clougherty said. 
Clougherty heard about the event through a friend from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio who participated through her sorority. 
"My friend and I pass ideas back and forth and when she told me about this, I thought Saint Mary's would be a great place to do it," she said. 
Charity Denim offered jeans from a number of brands includ­ing 7 For All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity, True Religion, Antik, Blue Cult, Joe's Jeans, Miss Sixty and Yanuk. 
The Dance Marathon will be held on April4. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleOI@nd.edu 

Halls co111pete in RecycleMania 
Event raises waste reduction awareness on 400 college campuses 
By KARA COYLE 
News Writer 

With more than 400 col­leges participating in the 2008 RecycleMania chal­lenge, the 10-week compe­tition has propelled the stu­dents of Notre Dame to actively and even stealthily -collect as many recyclables as possible. 
RecycleMania, established in 2001, is a national com­petition to increase recy­cling efforts and raise waste reduction awareness on college campuses. 
Junior Lourdes Long, a member of the co-sponsor­ing Energy and Environmental Issues Committee, said the event is designed to increase con­sciousness of recycling and environmental issues. 
"Awareness is our No. 1 goal," she said. 
The competition is also sponsored by the Student Senate's University Affairs Committee. 
Long said it is the hope of these two committees that over the course of the com­petition, recycling "will become habit" for students at Notre Dame. 
While this is Notre Dame's first year partici­pating in RecycleMania, the University has already increased the competitive­
ness of the challenge by encouraging competition between residence halls. 
"Our goals are to have some fun," said Long. 

As RecycleMania contin­ues in to its third week, the results from the first week have been revealed. In the Per Capita Classic, which measures the amount of recyclables per student in a dorm, Notre Dame 
amassed 1.7 "Awareness is our way. pounds of No. 1 one goal. '' T h e recyclable Recycle Mania goods per competition
Lourdes Long
person in occurs during a dorms, junior year of aged residents to steal a competing halls recy­clables. 
For example, Long, along with Ann Kelley, Students for Environmental Action member and Notre Dame's RecycleMania leader, sin­gle-handedly raided every dorm on North Quad last week for recyclables. 
"I'm encour­
aging it," 
Lourdes said. 
''I'm leading the 
ranking the University No. 21 among par­ticipants, according to the RecycleMania Web site. 
On the Notre Dame cam­pus, Farley, McGlinn .and Cavanaugh amassed the most recyclables during week one, while McGlinn, Cavanaugh and Howard were the three leaders dur­ing week two, Long said. 
Some students have gone to extremes to win the com­petition. Residents of some dorms have engaged in recycling raids, often involving costumes, while some editions of weekly dorm notes have encour­
increased 
University recy­
cling efforts. 
This fall, the 
University col­laborated with student vol­unteers to initiate coordi­nated recycling on the days of some home football games. By handing out recycling bags at Notre Dame tailgates, Long said the group "collected thou­sands of pounds of recy­clables." 
The 2008 Notre Dame forum will address the topic of "Charting a Sustainable Energy Future." 
Contact Kara Coyle at kcoyle@nd.edu 



Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly ·budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu ifinter~sted. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
Taxes 
continued from page I 
quite a bit, but we still have 
competent. committed and 
concerned students helping 
taxpayers." 
During the first four weeks 
of the snmester, the elass 
meets twice a week for 
instruction with Milani. The 
students learn about scenarios 
they 1:ould meet when they 
prnparn tax returns at local 
centers. 
"We go through difTernnt sit­
uations wn might face with 
peopln in tho arna and do 
some praetiee returns," 
Manning said. 
According to Milani, the pro­
gram's students b11gan work 
last Saturday in teams of two 
at various locations. 
"It's great to be able to offer serviens to tho South Bend community, nspecially the fact that it's done through a class that is organized ... you're well-trained and that makes you feel more prepared," DeGroot said. 
Thnre is also a group of snvnn students who will make house calls to individuals who are unable to get to the cen­ters. 
The program staff's a phone center Monday through Friday to answer questions about the service. 
"There aren't a whole lot of phone calls, but we think it's a really nice service for people to be able to speak with a live person," DeGroot said. 
DeGroot said one of the great features of the program is that students have some flexibility when they work at the centers during the week. 
"We have center operations nvery day of the week except Sunday and Friday, and some in evenings and afternoons," DeGroot said. 
Students end up working at the sitos about six times dur­ing the semester. 
The program advertises through Notre Dame and in local nowspapers and radio and television stations. 
"A lot of the people that como to tho sites come bocause tlwy have been bol'ore." DoGroot said. 
Manning has found that the learning nxpnrience extends bnyond just preparing tax returns. 
"It's a roally rewarding nxrwrimu:n to givn somnthing back to community," Manning said. "You get to moot a lot of intPrPsting people who have lived in South Bend thnir wholn lives and talk to you whiln you're preparing their tax return." 
t\ cnrtifiPd CPA is usually prnsnnt at the major sites to handle more complicated tax returns and to assist tlw stu­dents. 
Manning said there are usu­ally vnry fnw errors on thn studnnt-prnparnd tax returns, but when an nrror does oeeur. the IHS eontacts Milani. lie thnn corrects any mistake that may have been made. 
Manning said participating in the Tax Assistance Program has influeneed his earenr plans. 
"I think !the program( helped me decide that I want­od to go into the tax linld," he said. "I didn't know for sure, but I really enjoyed doing this, so it strengthened my idea that I wanted to do something in taxes." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


Run-off 
continued from page 1 
Schmidt said he and Reish were "pleased" with the results. The pair is looking for­ward to Thursday's election. 
"We're excited for Thursday," Heish said. "I think our supporters came out and we'll see what happens Thursday." 
Braun and Chamberlain said they were surprised by the results. 
"I think it's really hard to tell how things arc going to pan out, especially in this election with six tickets," Braun said. "I was surprised, but I really did-n't know what was going to happen." 
Though the Braun-Chamberlain ticket received 1,004 fewer votes than the Reish-Schmidt ticket, Chamberlain said he and Braun are not ready to con­cede and are looking forward to the run-off. 
"We're going to keep cam­paigning," Chamberlain said. ''I'm just excited about Thursday, really. We'll just do our best and hope the cam­paign goes well." 
Both tickets said they would evaluate the results and target the dorms where they think they can improve. 
Braun especially stressed the importance of a "grassroots" campaign. 
"I think we're going to take a look at the dorms where we feel we can make an impact and go from there," she said. "We'll focus on grassroots campaigning for the next few days and go from there." 
Reish and Schmidt also plan to visit dorms during the next few days. 
"We're going to reevaluate the dorms we contacted -see where our weak dorms are, see where our strong dorms are and go from there," Reish said. "I think the biggest thing is making sure people realize what we stand for." 
Schmidt said their major con­cern is maintaining the back­ing they already have. 
"Getting those 1,870 kids [that voted for us] to vote again is the biggest thing that we want to push," Schmidt said. 

Both sets of candidates said · it is imperative that students vote on Thursday. 
"It's pretty painless to vote, so hopefully students will remember," Braun said. "I think it's important to speak your mind, whatever that may be." 
The run-off election will take place from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday. 
While Braun and Chamberlain attempt to gain Contact Joseph McMahon at more support, Reish and jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

U.S. 
Cellularill introduces the MOTOROKR"'-a phone and MP3 player in one simple, stylish plug·and·play form. It comes with everything you need to get started right out of the box, along with a 30-0ay FREE Napster To Go trial. Which makes it, literally, music to your ears. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wireless where you matter most!"" 




~US. Cellular 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY·USCC 
MOTOROKR~ ZBm 
tl2008 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 
we want you to know: 30·day trial available only to new Napster subscribers. Credit card or PayPal information required. If you cancel your membership anytime before the end of your free 30 days, you will not be charged. After cont•nue using Napster To Go for JUst $14.95 per month: Active membership songs downloaded from Napster To Go. System : PC Only, Windows Vista or XP and Windows Media Player 1 0 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Two CBS journalists missing in Barsa 
BAGHDAD -Two CBS News journalists were missing in the predominantly Shiite southern city of Basra, the network said Monday. 
CBS said all efforts were under way to find the journalists, who were not identified by the network. It requested "that others do not spec­ulate on the identities of those involved" until more information was available. 
Iraqi police said the journalists were taken away Sunday after masked gunmen entered the Sultan Palace Hotel in central Basra. The police spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to media. 
"CBS News has been in touch with the fami­lies and asks that their privacy be respected," the network added in a brief statement from CBS Corp. headquarters in New York. 
Leader stable after failed coup attempt 
DILl, East Timor -East Timor's president was in "extremely serious" but stable condi­tion at an Australian hospital Tuesday after surgeons worked through the night to remove bullet fragments he suffered in a failed coup attempt, the hospital's adminis­trator said. 
Dr. Len Notaros, the general manager of the Royal Darwin Hospital, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. Tuesday morning that surgeons operated on President Jose Ramos-Horta for three hours overnight to remove the fragments and repair his wounds. 
"His condition remains extremely serious but by the same token, stable," Notaros said. "The next few days will be the telling point." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
School fight leads to shootin!! 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A feud between two higli school students that began off campus culminated at a gym class Monday when one student shot the other twice, then handed the gun to a coach, say­ing, "It's over now," authorities said. 
The victim, a 19-year-old senior, was in critical condition at a hospital, authorities said. The sus­pected shooter, 17 -year-old sophomore Corneilous Cheers, was charged with attempted first-degree murder, reckless endangerment and carrying a gun on school property, said police spokeswoman Monique Martin. 
The teenagers got into a confrontation off cam­pus over the weekend or last week, police said. Investigators were trying to determine whether it was related to gang activity, Martin said. 


Former officer confesses to murder 
CANTON, Ohio-A former police officer accused of killing his pregnant lover sobbed on the witness stand Monday that he accidentally struck her when she wouldn't let him out of her house. 
"I didn't mean to hurt her," Bobby Cutts Jr. testi­fied, clutching a handful of white tissues. 
Cutts, 30, said he was at Jessie Davis' horne to pick up his 2-year-old son, Blake, and was telling her to hurry. 
He said that when she didn't move more quickly to get her son ready, he started to go, but that Davis grabbed him and told him he couldn't leave. He said he pulled hi<> arm away and threw his elbow back, striking her in the throat and causing her to fall. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bayh: Indiana primary still a factor 
INDIANAPOUS -Indiana's presidential primary is still nearly three months away, but Democratic Sen. Evan Bayh expects it could still help decide the race between I lillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obarna. 
Bayh, who endorsed Clinton last fall after he dropped his own presidential bid, said Monday he was not disappointed in her campaign and continued to support her because of her political experience. 
After primaries on Tuesday in Maryland, Vrrginia and the District of Columbia, the next major contests will be in Texas and Ohio on March 4 and Pennsylvania on April 22. An undecided Clinton­Obama race at that point would turn national atten­tion to the Indiana and North Carolina primaries on May6. 
"Given the nature of our rules, it's going to be very diflicult for either one of these candidates to get a very big lead, which makes it very likely that Indiana will be important," Bayh said. 

Writers Guild to vote on contract 
Meetings today will let members decide on ending strike, accepting 3-year deal 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The 
Writers Guild of America 
moved swiftly Sunday toward 
a resolution of its three­
month-old strike, with guild 
leaders deciding to recom­
mend a tentative contract to 
members and ask them to 
vote on a quick end to the 
walkout. 
By calling for separate votes 
on ending the strike and 
accepting the new three-year 
deal, the union cleared the 
way for the entertainment 
industry to return to work 
almost immediately. 
Membership meetings will 
be held Tuesday in New York 
and Los Angeles to allow writ­
ers to decide whether the 
strike should be brought to a 
speedy end, said Patrie 
Verrone, president of the 
guild's West Coast branch. 
"This is the best deal this 
guild has bargained for in 30 
years," Verrone said. 
The tentative contract 
secures writers a share of the 
burgeoning digital-media 
market, he said, including 
compensation for Internet­
delivered TV shows and 
movies. 
"If they (producers) get 
paid, we get paid. This con­
tract makes that a reality," 
Verrone said. But, he added, 
"it is not all we hoped for and 
it is not all we deserved." 
Still, the union's negotiating 

months of reruns and reality talks and intends to be Although show runners are
committee recommended 

TV" "focused, deliberate, and pru­also guild members, they are
Saturday that the contract be 

The guild's major bargain­dent as we engage with the allowed to work while the
accepted, and the West guild's 

ing concession to studios was employers to negotiate the strike remains in effect as
board of directors and the 

agreeing to take unionization best possible agreements for long as they focus only on
East Coast guild's council 

of animation and reality TV performers," its president, producer-related tasks. 
agreed. They called for a 

membership ratification vote, shows off the table, Verrone Roberta Reardon, said in a The strike's end would 
said. The guild has said it still statement. allow many hit series towhich will be conducted by 
intends to pursue those goals. Despite friction between the return this spring for what's
mail over about two weeks. 

The Alliance of Motion federation and the Screen left of the current season, air­
Member approval of the 

Picture and Television Actors Guild, the two groups ing anywhere from four to
contract and the strike's end 

Producers, which represents traditionally negotiate togeth­seven new episodes. Shows
appeared likely. At heavily 

the studios, said it had no er on a contract covering fea­with marginal audience num­
attended membership meet­

comment Sunday on the ture films and primetirne TV bers may not return until fall
ings Saturday in New York 

guild's actions. That contract expires in June. or could be canceled. 
and Los Angeles, there was 

The American Federation of Show runners -industry A minimum of four weeks
resounding support for the 

Television and Radio Artists, lingo for the executive pro­would be needed for produc­
proposed deal that could put 

which represents more than ducers in charge of a TV ers to start from scratch with 
TV and movie production 

70,000 performers, broad­series -are expected to be their first post-strike episodes 
back on track, salvage the 

casters and others, lauded the back at work Monday, of comedies and get them on
rest of the TV season and 

writers guild for winning preparing for the return of the air, industry members
remove a boycott threat from 

gains in digital media. writers as soon as said. A drama would require
this month's Oscars. 

The federation is preparing Wednesday, industry mem­six to eight weeks from con­
Verrone thanked television 

to begin its own TV contract bers said. cept to broadcast.
viewers who "tolerated three 


SWITZERLAND 


3 gunm_en steal $163.2 m_illion in artwork 
one of the biggest ever in Europe. Vincent van Gogh's "Blooming Chestnut 
Associated Press The three robbers entered the muse­Branches" and Paul Cezanne's "Boy in urn a half-hour before its scheduled the Red Waistcoat." ZURICH -Three gunmen in ski close Sunday. While one trained a pistol The FBI estimates the stolen art mar­masks and dark clothes burst into a on museum personnel ordered to lie on ket at $6 billion annually, and Interpol museum just before closing time. After the floor, the two others collected four has about 30,000 stolen works listed in a quick run through the building, they paintings from the exhibition hall, its database. But while only a<.!kaction hustled out the door and sped off with police said. of stolen art is ever found, such thefts paintings by Cezanne, Degas, van Gogh The men, one of whom spoke are rare because of intense police and Monet valued at $163.2 million. German with a Slavic accent, loaded investigations and the difficulty of sell­Authorities appealed Monday for any the paintings into a white vehicle ing the works. witnesses to help reconstruct the rob­parked out front. Police said the paint­"It's extremely hard, if not impossible, bers' getaway from the E.G. Buehrle ings may have been sticking out of the to sell these works," said Michaela Collection, a private museum of trunk as the robbers made their get­Derra of Ketterer Kunst GmbH, a Impressionist works whose founder had away. Munich, Germany-based purveyor of his own troubled history with stolen art. A reward of $90,000 was offered for modern and contemporary art. "Maybe 'This is an entirely new dimension in information leading to the recovery of they think they can blackmail the insur­criminal culture," police spokesman the paintings -Claude Monet's "Poppy ance (companies) and get money for the Marco Cortesi said, calling it the largest field at Vetheuil," Edgar Degas' paintings in return. But this is all specu­art robbery in Switzerland's history and "Ludovic Lepic and his Daughter," lation." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
Abstain 
continued from page 1 
Weiss and Smith said they were plnasnd with voter turnout in the student body prosidnntial primary oleclion, but thoy nxprnssed dismay at tho prosencn of poslors around campus encouraging votnrs to abstain from tho votn. 
Wniss and Smith said they hope morn students vote in the run-ofT nlnetion Thursday. 
The run-off will ineludo tho tic.knts of junior elass prnsi­dont Bob Heish and sopho­morn class pn~sidnnt Grant Schmidt and student body vien 

Staff 
continued from page 1 
editor. 
Kohler, a junior at Saint Mary's majoring in political seinnce, began writing for thn nows dnpartmnnt in the fall of lwr freshman year and was Saint Mary's nditor for tho past year. Kohler is a native of president Maris Braun and are positive. Sorin senator George "It's better than last year, Chamberlain. and it's a higher percentage 
Student turnout was higher than most other [student gov-
than last year with 
"It's better than last
3,H61 total 
votes cast. year, and it's a higher 
"Three percentage than most hundred 
other programs at other 
more people 
schools."
came out this year," Weiss said. 
Danny Smith 
"We would 
vice president for elections 
have been happy if one 
ernment] pro­grams at other schools," he said. 
The link to the voting on the Notre Dame home page increased par­ticipation, Smith said. 
Weiss said no violations were 
or two more people came out." reported during the cam­
Though the 3,H61 total votes paigns. accounts for less than half the Notre Dame student body, Contact Joseph McMahon at Smith said the turnout results jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Philadelphia, Pa., and will help oversee the news depart­ment. 
''I'm glad to have been given this opportunity and look for­
ward  to  taking  on  more  
responsibility  at  The  
Observer." Kohler said.  •  

Krasula is a l'inance and English major from Rockville Centre, N.Y., and began work­ing at The Observer in the fall of her freshman year. She cov­
ered women's basketball, baseball, softball, and men's tennis over the past two years. 
''I'm excited and honored to taking on a new role at The Observer and look forward to this coming year," Krasula said. 
IIine will take over as editor­in-chief Feb. 22 and Fitzpatrick, Kohler and Krasula will assume their new positions on March 10. 




Faculty, freshmen socialize 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame is embracing a program that creates a social bond between freshmen and some of the University's top faculty. 
No lectures. No reports due. The Hesidcntial Scholars Program provides food and conversation that ultimately help break down misconcep­tions and stereotypes between those members of the Notre Dame community on opposite ends of the academic spec­trum. 
"The program made me feel a part of the Notre Dame fam­ily right away," said Sara .Jaszkowski, a freshman from Boiso, Idaho. "The opportu­nity to befriend professors is unique, and it's a good feeling to know I could turn to any of them with a question or aca­demic struggle." 
The concept is simple. Faculty and freshmen meet rngularly to have dinner on campus and get to know one anotlwr as people. Some of tlwm stay in touch via e-mail. Others have taken it a step further by attending soeial events around campus. 
"The idea is to make the students comfortable in this environment and to help them build relationships and foster friendships with faculty," said Ann Firth, associate vice president for student affairs. "There are no programs at thn dinners. We pray together and then we eat." 

Found<\d in 2005 by Thomas Noble, professor of history and director of Notre Dame's Medieval Institute, the pro­gram is funded by the Offices of theJ:rovost and Student Affairs. It has e·xpanded from two r<~sidence halls in the first year to four '! Singfried, Cavanaugh, Welsh Family and O'Neill. Some 100 students and 35 faculty members currently partici­pate, and there are waiting lists in each of the halls in case any students drop out. Not many do. 
Noble began developing the program after hearing com­
plaints from his colleagues in 
the College of Arts and 
Letters about the lack of 
interaction between faculty 
and students outside the 
classroom. He modeled it 
after a program at the 
University of Virginia, where 
he taught for 20 years. 
"I have had a few serious 
intellectual discussions," 
Noble said. "Mostly, I've had 
lively conversations about the 
kids' families, my family, 
what it's like to be here and 
what it's like to be away from 
home, and I always make a 
point to say 'Go talk to your 
teachers. Get to know 
them."' 
Along with Firth, Noble sought input from Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs, stu­dent leaders, dorm rectors and representatives from the First Year of Studies, which universally is regarded as one of the flagship programs for first-year students in higher education and is a key reason for Notre Dame's 98 percent student retention rate from the freshman to sophomore years. 
All participants, at the very least, are stepping out of their comfort zones. For some, the program's benefits have been obvious and invaluable. 
"Last spring I ate dinner with Chris Maziar (vice presi­dent and senior associate provost)," said sophomore Matthew Cossack from Shoreview, Minn. "I learned she used to be in charge of research at the University of Minnesota, which is near my hometown, so I told her I would love to do some type of research there over the sum­mer. She sent me names of her former colleagues who work well with students, and I wound up getting a full-time job in the biochemistry lab of a prominent resl\archer. I spent most days purifying protein samples to look for biomarkers of various dis­eases, which was very appli­cable to my biochemistry major at Notre Dame." 
Now a junior, Dennis Hankin 
of Valrico, Fla., was in the 
pilot program. 
"Before college, I imagined professors to be interested mostly in their own areas of expertise," he admitted. "I never imagined they would find our lives and thoughts intriguing. Professors Christian Moevs (Romance languages and literatures) and Susan Ohmer (film, tele­vision and theatre) still stand out in my memory for their enthusiastic interest." 
Also delighted by faculty fervor, Firth guesses most of the students won't fully real­ize for years the extent of this opportunity. 
"The faculty who are part of the program are world-class scholars," she said. "Although they have incredi­bly busy schedules, they have been extraordinarily gener­ous with their time and care deeply about students." 
For example, Dennis Snow, professor of mathematics, has immersed himself in students' lives by playing guitar during Mass at Welsh Family Hall. Stuart Greene, associate dean for undergraduate studies in Arts and Letters and associ­ale professor of English, and Hope I-lollocher, associate professor of biological sci­ences, took a group of stu­dents to a performance at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
"If we've made it easier and more comfortable and more attractive for students to talk to faculty members, and we did that for 100 kids in each class, we'd have done some­thing pretty good," Noble said. "I write lots of letters of recommendation, and when it's for a student that I've known for two or three years, had once or twice in class, and spoken to in and out of the classroom, I can write a much more meaning­ful letter." 
Noble hopes to continue to recruit faculty mentors so the program can be expanded to accommodate all interested freshmen. 
ber of people who didn't vote," he said. "Most people didn't

Defeat 

even know [the election] was continued from page 1 today." 
Freshmen Cooper Jlowes and shake it up." Daniel Himkus received 2.51 
Though Ehrlich said he was percent of the student body's surprised with the results of votes, but they were more sur­the election, he admitted he prised with the 5.08 pnn:nnt of was going to be surprised students who abstained. whether they won or lost. I lowes, like most of the losing 
"It's just like when you take a candidates, does not plan to test and you think you either take his student government got 100 or failed," he said. ambitions further, though "You're just happy to get it Himkus said he might continue back." to "dabble." 
Ehrlich and Howes and Hoscitt agreed Himkus said thBy would not they have no have changed "You've got to go big regrets about anything about their campaign. 
or go home. And
their cam­"You've got to
we're going home." 
paign. go big or go 
"[The elec­home." Himkus tion] was up to Daniel Rimkus said. "And we're tho people, and going home." 
vice presidential
that's the way Sophomores
candidate
it should be, although !the results] do say something about the student body," Ehrlich said. 
Juniors Peter Kelly and Jon Ponlhuis received 242 votes to capture 6.27 percent of the total. 
Their platform included insti­tuting a free shuttle bus to take students off-campus and screening Student Union Board movies on weekdays. 
"We definitely didn't want to be overly serious," Kelly said. "We had serious ideas, but we maintained our sense of humor." 
Poelhuis said he was sur­prised by the level of voter­turnout. 
''I'm surprised by the num-Rick Ilollowood 
and Alex 
Tomala, who received 1.53 percent of the votes, said they thought they did well for not having run a campaign. 
llollowood said he was not surprised by the election results, but he plans to join the race again next year. 
Although llollowood is out of the race for the executive office, he said he hopes the winning eandidates will aecom­plish the top priority of his campaign. 
"We hope winning candidates will take up the better toilet paper issue," Hollowood said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

*STUDENT DISCOUNT 
Atria. Salon 2 
Specializing in color 574.271.8804 
HAIRCUT, HIGHLIGHT& STYLE $79.00 
EXPIRES MARCH lOTH, 2008 Must present ad to receptionist before services are performed. 2039 south bend ave south bend in 46637 t.271.8804 Certain restrictions apply. www.ArriaSalon2.com 

February 14-16, 7:30 P.M. February 16, 2:30 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: Adult-$12 Senior Citizen-$1 0 SMC/ND/HCC Staff-$8 Student-$5 

MoreauCenter.com 

Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 


Dow 12,240.01 +57.88
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,271 104 1,875 3,745,210,903 

AMEX 2,.246.6i,;:t,::r~p.g$ NASDAQ 2,320.06 +15.21 NYSE fl;,868.28l:i;; .+45.•.16. S&P 500 1,331.29 +7.84 NIKKEI (Tokyo) _, 13~02.9:54 :f11(3ott FTSE 100 (London) 5:707.70 +76.30 
COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  +1.51  +0.68  133.75  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.23  -0.35  28.21  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  +1.08  +0.47  44.07  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -2.21  -0.60  26.52  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.99  -0.036  3.618  
13-WEEK BILL  +1.39  +0.030  2.190  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.77  -0.034  4.405  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.45  -0.039  2.657  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.82  93.59  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +4.40  926.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.48  95.18  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  106.8800  
EURO  0.6892  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0026  
BRITISH POUND  0.5126  

IN BRIEF Homebuilders stocks rise amid unease 
NEW YORK -Wall Street finished higher in an uneasy session Monday as retail and home­builders stocks rose on expectations for more interest rate cuts, but banks and insurers fell on worries about further mortgage debt troubles. 
The Federal Reserve has been in rate-cutting mode this year and it is expected to lower the federal funds rate once more either this month or at its next regularly scheduled meeting March 
18. And the cheaper cost of money is beginning to register in the stock market. 
"A number of sectors like retail and housing stoeks have done better since the Fed acted, and they are leading the market again today," said Steve Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Co. "These stocks are called early bellwethers and they tend to lead a recovery." 
But investors continue to grapple with bad news in the credit markets. The stock market fell in early trading and remained volatile even after recovering, with Wall Street clearly concerned by news that American International Group Inc. might have more mortgage debt to write off. 

Starbucks joins AT&T to offer wireless 
SEATTLE -Starbucks Corp. and AT&T Inc. will start offering a mix of free and paid wireless Internet service in most of the international coffee retailer's U.S. shops, beginning this spring. 
The move announced Monday ends a six-year partnership with T-Mobile, which did not include tree Wi-Fi and charged higher fees than AT&T will. 
Starbucks said it will give customers who use a Starbucks card two hours of free wireless access per day. More time than that will cost $3.99 for a two-hour session. Monthly memberships will cost $19.99 and include access to any of AT&T's 70,000 hot spol<> worldwide. 
Nearly all of AT&T's broadband Internet cus­tomers, about 12 million, will automatically have unlimited free Wi-Fi access at Starbucks, the com­panies said. 
The deal boosts the number of AT&T hotspots in the U.S. to 17,000 -the most in the nation.An A<>sociated Prnss-Ipsos poll found that only 19 per­cent of those surveyed said they planned to spend their rebate checks. Forty-five percent said they would pay ofl' bills, while 32 percent said they planned to invest the money. 




TI....IE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Bush to sign stimulus package 
Pn5ident urgtS Congn:ss toJXlSS more legislation tohelp recm:erfrom housing slump, credit crundz 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush. acknowl­edging that the country is suffering through a period of economic uncertainty, called on Congress Monday to do more to help people and businesses hurt by the ­housing slump and credit crunch. 
In a brief introduction to his annual economic report, Bush said the $168 billion economic rescue package passed by Congress last week will keep "our economy grow­ing and our people work­ing." 
Bush is expected later this week to sign the stimu­lus package, which includes rebates of $600 to $1,200 to most taxpayers and $300 checks to dis­abled veterans, the elderly and other low-income peo­ple. 
"Money will be going directly to America ­workers and families and individuals," he told reporters. "It's going to help deal with the uncer­tainties in this economy." 

In addition, the package includes tax breaks for businesses and would take some steps to boost the ail­ing housing market. Bush said that other steps need to be taken to strengthen approve legislation allow­Mac can buy. Raising that record highs, forced finan­the economy, and he ing state housing agencies cap on Fannie Mae and cial companies to rack up exhorted Congress to make to issue tax-free bonds to Freddie Mac should pro­multibillion-dollar losses in his tax cut permanent and help squeezed homeowners vide relief in the market for bad mortgage investments, do more to help struggling refinance their mortgages. "jumb" mortgages -those rocked Wall Street and homeowners. These and other steps exceeding $417,000. The dealt a powerful blow to 
Bush urged lawmakers to could help struggling credit crunch hit that mar­the national economy. pass additional legislation homeowners "weather tur­ket hard, making it very The economy nearly that would revamp mort­bulent times in the mar­difficult, if not impossible, stalled in the final three gage giants Fannie Mae ket," Bush said. for people to get those months of 2007, growing at and Freddie Mac and mod­The stimulus package loans. And, that has a pace of just 0.6 percent. ernize the Depression-era includes provisions that plunged the housing mar­The odds of a recession Federal Housing would temporarily raise to ket even deeper into tur­have grown considerably Administration, which $729,750 the limit on moil. over the last year, and an insures mortgages for low­Federal Housing Fallout from the housing increasing number of ana­and middle-income bor­Administration loans and bust and harder-to-gBt lysts believe the economy rowers. The president also the cap on loans that credit have catapulted may actually be shrinking said Congress should Fannie Mae and Freddie home foreclosures to now. 

Yahoo's rejection leaves investors guessing 
a higher offer from Microsoft, the Yahoo shareholders with a so-called
Associated Press 

world's largest software maker. "exchange offer" or escalate the acri­
SAN FRANCISCO -Yahoo Inc.'s "The board of directors is continually mony even further by trying to oust rejection of Microsoft Corp.'s unsolicited evaluating all of its strategic options in Yahoo's 10-member board later this takeover bid left investors guessing the the context of the rapidly evolving year. . next move in a tense mating dance that industry environment and we remain While assessing its response to may hatch a more imposing challenger committed to pursuing initiatives that Microsoft, Yahoo's board also examined. to Google Inc. or disintegrate into a maximize value for all stockholders," a wide range of alternatives that bruising brawl. Yahoo said in a statement. included forging an ad partnership with 
The rebuff, formally announced early Microsoft, though, didn't seem Google, which paid nearly $5 billion in Monday, wasn't a surprise because inclined to raise the bid Monday, releas­marketing commissions to thousands of Yahoo had leaked its intention over the ing a statement describing its current Web sites last year. weekend. · bid as "full and fair." Without identifying its sources, the 
As expected, Yahoo's board unani­Calling Yahoo's decision "unfortu­Times of London also reported Yahoo is mously decided to spurn Microsoft after nate," Microsoft didn't back off from its exploring a merger with Time Warner concluding the offer -originally worth quest either. "Based on conversations Inc.'s AOL, another popular Internet $44.6 billion or $31 per share-"sub­with stakeholders of both companies, property that has been struggling in stantially undervalues" one of the we are confident that moving forward recent years. A Yahoo spokesman Internet's prized franchises. The cash­promptly to oonsummate a transaction declined to comment on the report. and stock deal is now valued at about is in the best interests of all parties," Investors appear convinced $40 billion, or $28.91 per share, the Redmond, Wash.-based company Microsoft's bid remains Yahoo's best because of a drop in Microsoft's market said. bet, given the Sunnyvale-based compa­value. Microsoft also emphasized it's pre­ny's profits have been steadily declining 
But Yahoo didn't raise antitrust con­pared to "pursue all necessary steps" to despite a management shake up eight cerns about the proposed deal and get the deal done, raising the prospect months ago and repeated promises of a included language that seemed to invite that it could take the bid directly to turnaround extending back to 2006. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
----~~-================================================================================= 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Norr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.I' M,1ddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A.~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
N1~ EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris !line SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Maacline Nies 
ADVEIUISING MANAGER: Jessica Conez 
An 0F$1GN MANAGER: Kelly l;ronli CONTROILI;R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(S74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
fHE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governt•d by policit-s ofthe administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves rht· right to refi1se advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, A«Sisranr Managing Editors and dcparnnenr editors. Commentaries. letters and columns prt·senr rhe views of the aurhors and not nt-ct-ssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free t·xprcssion of<Ill opinions through lcrrers is encouraged. Lt·ners ro rhc Ediror must be signed and must include comacr information. 
Questinw rrgarding Obsn-ver policies should be dimud to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·n,c t >h.....T'Itr (l/SI''\ "\1)9 .!·4111.10) •• puhh•IK:II Mundoty tluuu~th frid2y ~c.:l:'pt during c,.un .uuJ ~..,,mun ~~1i111.k A ~ul~1'1p11ullltJ The Oll'oCrvt"t •~ $100 llnunc 11.udcmH. yc.u; 'S'i'i fntUIICM:fll('lller 
Tht' ( ll~ncr i1 puhlisl•cd .n I'OSTMA!'iTEit tl.l-1 \•••uh Dllllllji; ll.1ll Send Jddrc~.' eturcctions to: Nom ll.tmc.IN"4f>'S$(Jo0771J ·nlcOIHcrvcr I'~IIIKhc.tl po'IU~r p.~ul .u ~nu-c-D.unc 1~0. Bu11n'J ~ntl J1\Jiumul m.a1l111~ n!liu:\o. ()14 Sumh l )imn~ i t:d\ 
Nuttc D.1mr::, IN 46~%-0779 
·n1r ( lltKrwr 1' .1 member ol the -~w.l.atc:d PI"Cij,. All rc:pwdu..tmn riWm .uc 1cKrvrJ. 

Are you a fascist? 
I have applied to write for The Observer every year since I graduat­ed. This year, I was finally fortunate to find a staff with enough pity to accept me. One of the sample pieces I used to trot out. was about the similarities between fascism and the modern Left. As a short essay must, it stayed on the sur­face in analyzing those similarities, whieh is about as much as I knew anyway. Those surface likenesses are pretty impres-Domer sive, though. In fact, what first lit that particular bulb for me was a speech by Hitler advocating strict gun-control. It was pure liberal boil­erplate. It got me thinking, and with­out much effort, I'd identified plenty more parallels. 
But anything I've written could only look ridiculous compared to Jonah Goldberg's new book. "Liberal Fascism." Jonah writes for the con­servative standard-bearer, National Heview, and is a syndicated colum­nist. lie's been known mainly for his sharp-but-light-hearted wit and pro­found knowledge of pop-culture triv­ia. So it comes as some surprise to many that he uncorked a master­piece, and not about "Star Trek" or "The Simpsons," but about politics and history. 
According to Jonah, what motivated him for this enormous effort was just what provoked my little sample tirade: he was sick of hearing "fas­cist" used reflexively by many liber­als for persons or policies that they do not like. If you have never come across this slander, you probably haven't been paying attention. It can be found at every level, from moron street demonstrators with their "Bush is Hitler" banners, to media professionals like Keith Olbermann and Bill Maher, to college professors. I remember even seeing it in my high school government textbook. There, 


on an illustration of the political 
spectrum, was "fascist" -two steps 
over from "conservative." Some of 
you, while praying publicly for the 
unborn, may have even been taunted 
with "Go home, Christian fascists!" Is 
a richer irony even possible? 
But Jonah argues that this is not a case of the pot calling the kettle black. No, it's more like the pot call­ing the snowflake black. 
To dismiss the notion that conser­vatism is somehow akin to fascism isn't hard. Fascism, like its cousin communism, is a form of totalitarian­ism. Anyone at all familiar with con­servative thought can tell you that two bedrock conservative prineiples are limited government and decen­tralization. Go far enough to the right, and you will end up with a near-libertarian order in which most of what little power the government has is concentrated at the local level. This is totally the opposite of a cen­tralized, all-powerful state. And there are many other enormous differences which space forbids discussing. 
Then why the smear? Liberals think that since conservatives are mean, and Nazis were mean, conser­vatives must be Nazis. They do not look in the mirror and see the nasti­ness and sheer vituperation regularly coming from Howard Dean, Hillary Clinton, Nancy Pelosi, The New York Times, Air America, left-wing blogs, Hollywood, racist racial demagogues, etc. I could use the rest of my column this year documenting what George Will has labeled the "ferocity gap" between the Right and Left, and yes, I encountered it at Notre Dame, too. 
Besides, people will think you are a totalitarian if you try to restrict what they most cherish, even if otherwise you're completely anarchist. When she was little, I was far more indul­gent with my niece than her parents were -except when it came to candy. My niece really loved candy, so much so that she'd sometimes sit and meditate about it, and I tried to keep her away from it. Naturally, she considered me much meaner and stricter than her parents, no matter how much I allowed or encouraged her to do things her parents would not tolerate. Replace my niece with liberals and candy with abortion, and me with conservatives, and you understand why liberals see cons(~r­vatives as totalitarians. I do not wish to imply that liberals actually like abortion the way my niece liked candy; I would have to say, sadly, that based on my observation of · American politics over the past decade, abortion on demand is what's most important to most of the far Left. 
We have all seen those funny sur­veys showing how dangerously igno­rant Americans are, even (especial­ly?) college students-you know, 93 percent can't find Canada on a map, or something like that. But ignorance about facts and figures, like how many branches of government we have, is one thing. You can always just look that stuff up. Gross misun­derstanding of important phenomena like totalitarianism is something else. For instance, isn't it a common idea that the enemy of communism was capitalism'? As if the main right denied those tens of millions of poor souls crushed under the hammer and sickle -whether by Stalin, Mao, Pol Pot, Castro, Kim, or other monsters -was the right to own a business. 
It is my hope that liberal fascism will begin the long process of educat­ing Americans about the true nature of one of history's most awful move­ments, and the deep connections between it and more modern ideolo­gies. I do not mind if the angry Left continues invoking their conserva­tive-means-Nazi mantra, since it shows their own viciousness and their own ignorance. But I do hope conservatives will get better at answering it. Reading Jonah's book would be a start. 
Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus who loves his niece very, very much. But he still hates candy. His address is gregpy@hotmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kanm Langley Jay Fitzpatrick 
How long will the 

Bneky I logan Matt Gamber Ashley Charnley Laura Myers Notre Dame men's basketbaU home 
Graphics Scene win streak last? 

@ ..·. . .·········· . :;;
Matt Hudson Chris McGrady Feb. 21, Pitt..<;burgh 

:;:ii~to the Editor at
Viewpoint Feb. 24, Syracuse Maria Stohler March 5, St. John's 

www.ndsmcobserver.com
Intact through season Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE.DAY 
"Be glad of life because it gives you the chance to love and to U'ork and to play and to look up at the stars. " 
Henry van Dyke author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 page 9 


Dissecting the Democratic primary 
In the Democratic presidential race, after analyzing voter trends in South Carolina, the 22 states during Super Duper Tuesday, and last weekend's contests, one thing is perfectly clear-winning depends on slicing bits of support away from the opponent. 
Analysts commonly agree that both Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are likely to remain neck-and-neck in the race well beyond March. The competition is between the sterling Clinton brand and the stimulating Obama movement. Both attract new voters to the process. Both draw equally impressive support across the nation as evidenced by the mere dif­ference of only 50,000 votes from among nearly 15 million cast a week ago. 
Yet each week brings new uncer­tainty. The demographics are so unique from state to state that the Clinton and Obama campaigns have learned how to peel off enough voters in select categories to win, but have yet to change their steady state-by-state trends. So long as Latinos support Clinton by 65 percent and African-Americans support Obama by 80 percent, both candidates will need to whittle at the edges of other support groups like women, men, union households, the well-educated or income categories in the various state primaries. 
Overall, the campaigns can best be shaded to indicate their pockets of support-Obama has his African-· American constituency with younger voters, the wealthy, highly educated liberals (the upscale elite Starbucks or McGovern/Kennedy wing of the party) who push environ­mental initiatives. Clinton, on the other hand, draws from a different spectrum with her Hispanic constituency and 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

older, less educated, union members and working class voters. Note that whenever either candidate can deny the other of the average of support in any of these constituen­cies, the primary election will tilt. 
It is also important to note that a primary election and a caucus are completely different creatures. Caucuses are community political theater held within full view of the public during a quite limited time frame. They restrict attendance to those who can venture out after routine work hours on a particular evening, sometimes during snow and ice storms. Participants enthusiastically display their support openly with their neighbors. That structure favors Obama. 
Primaries, however, are better indicators of general elec­tion support since voters privately indicate their choices during an ali-day time period-just like in th~oJ general elec­tion. They too can favor Obama ifthe electorate is signifi­cantly comprised with one of his core constituencies, such as African-Americans in Georgia and South Carolina. Possibly, the most telling primary results to study thus far are ones in which ethnic minorities more resembled the national average -or where one minority group equals the other -such as the Northeast primary splits in Massachusetts and Connecticut, or further west with the trio of Missouri, Oklahoma and Tennessee. 
How did Clinton win by 15 percentage points in the open Massachusetts primary where the governor and both U.S. senators opposed her? Obama was devoid of his core con­stituency with only 6 percent of African-Americans in the voter pool. Clinton won the women's vote by more than a two-to-one margin while nearly splitting the men's vote, losing by only one point. She also carried Obama's signa­ture strongholds, like the 18-to-24 year-old vote by nearly 20 points and upper-income voters by 10 points. 
Next door in the closed Connecticut contest, however, Obama edged Clinton by four points overall from among only Democrats. He chipped away at the Clinton core by 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bishops take 
action 

The local shepherd of the Roman Catholic Church, Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy, recently informed University President Father John Jenkins that a theologi­cal seminar for Catholic bishops scheduled for Notre Dame has now been moved to the convent of the Sisters of St. Francis in Mishawaka. The reason for this change in venue is an embarrassment and a collective shame for the students and graduates of the University. 
There is a crucial moral point that our local bishop and his colleagues want "the culture" to understand about this decision by Jenkins. And moving the venue away from Notre Dame is certainly a timely and an effective way to create such a teaching moment. 
Sponsoring a public debate on the efficacy of abortion is a fine idea, and Notre Dame should encourage such expression on campus, even when certain pro-abortion viewpoints contradict Catholic teaching. But allowing its facilities to be used for performing abortions would be "acting" in a way that the Catholic Church condemns as unacceptable. To be sure, Jenkins, the University staff, and its board and trustees would never allow this to happen. 
Similarly, sponsoring a debate on the merits of the alco­hol-fueled seduction of a 16-year-old girl by a 24-year-old woman (described in the play as resulting in "salvation" and "a kind of heaven") seems compatible with academic freedom even at a Catholic university like Notre Dame. But allowing the facilities of Notre Dame to be used for the production of simulating sex acts and orgasms on stage and presenting for an audience "graphic descriptions of homosexual, extramarital heterosexual, and auto-erotic experiences" (Jenkins spoke these words during his Jan. 23, 2006 address to the faculty) is not just speaking against Catholic teaching, it is acting against Catholic teaching. 
And herein lies the big difference! John D'Arcy and his fellow bishops get it. Thank God they decided to do some­thing about it. Jenkins needs to seriously reconsider his mistake and cancel the March 26-28 production of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame. Perhaps this might give the University, its students and alumni reason to be proud again that our university is indeed a partner with the local and universal Catholic Church who welcomes the debate but abhors the conduct. 
Marc Brammer alumnus Class of 197 4 Feb. 11 

winning 57 percent of white men and 53 percent of Latinos. In this contest African-Americans and Latinos both equaled less than 10 percent. What makes Connecticut unique is the elite status of the voters, with nearly 80 percent college educated and three-quarters of the voters with above average incomes--strongholds of Obama. 
In Missouri, where Obama edged Clinton by one percent­age point, Clinton won 100 of 115 counties, yet lost the state. She carried white men (55 percent) and white women (59 percent), but Obama reached his threshold for winning a state by garnering 41 percent of white men. While the Obama campaign touts that their average for white men across the board is 41 percent, the statistic is skewed by his Illinois landslide and large upscale liberal support in coastal states like New York and California. His win in Missouri, with a near average pool of 20 percent African-American votes concentrated in the large cities, depended upon successfully slicing away Clinton's white male support. 
Missouri, Massachusetts and Connecticut netted Clinton 13 delegates even though Obama won two of those three contests. As Obama currently enjoys a streak of wins in smaller and middle-sized states, the coming months loom with Ohio, Texas and Pennsylvania. Clinton can quickly counter his streak in those large states unless Obama slices into her core constituencies. The nomination may depend upon who has the sharper slicing technique. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, campaigned in Iowa for Hillary Clinton. He is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column usually appears every other Friday, except for election analysis. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
'Monologues' promote 
non-violence 
Before I begin, I would like to acknowledge that this response to Christina Holmstrom's letter regard­ing "The Vagina Monologues" ('"Monologues' encourage mistreatment of women," Feb. 10) is not necessarily a refutation of her ideas, but an expres­sion of an alternate perspective regarding Eve Ensler's play. 
Holmstrom references the V-Day slogan and agrees that "violence again;>t women should be stopped." "The Vagina Monologues" initiate conversation every year about methods in achieving this exact goal. In contributing her valuable opinion about how best to stop violence against women, Holmstrom has begun this process at Notre Dame this year, and the tenta­tive upcoming production of the play will initiate even more conversation. 
In its portrayal of real women's experiences, "The Vagina Monologues" document the significance of sexuality as a part of womanhood. The women who speak of their positive sexual experiences in the play are examples of women as sexual beings, not sexual objects, as Holmstrom suggests. "The Vagina Monologues" do not condone the perception of women as sexual objects. Monologues such as "My Vagina Was My Village," in which a number of Bosnian women recount their stories regarding rape as a war tactic, and "Crooked Braid," an account of the prominence of domestic abuse in Native American communities, clearly discourage the per­spective of women as simply "walking vaginas." I am unable to see how these monologues encourage women to "treat themselves as sex objects." 
As a two-time audience member, I know that Notre Dame's productions of "The Vagina Monologues" conclude each year with the monologue entitled "I Was There In The Room," an account of Eve Ensler's emotional experience in watching her daughter-in­law give birth. The beauty of this marital moment is a facet of sexuality that every Catholic can embrace. 
"The Vagina Monologues" value all women's sexu­ality and allow each audience member to decide what is best for herself. The play does not encourage sex, but discourages violence against women, no matter how sexually active they are. These accounts are relevant to every woman and man, regardless of her or his religious beliefs. As a worldwide communi­ty, we should be concerned with every woman's experience with sexual violence, not just those who practice Catholicism. I hope all those who participate in this discussion have had the fortune of seeing "The Vagina Monologues," and that those who have not will attend a production on Notre Dame's campus, if it is approved to take place, at the end of March. 
Rob O'Brien senior Sarin College Feb. 11 

Cheer with class 
I strongly support Mike Coffey's remarks ("Reconsider 'suck it' cheer," Feb. 10) regarding recent off-color cheers at athletic contests. I would urge the student body to take a larger view of this question and eliminate cheers, such as "Suck it." 
First, it reflects badly on Our Lady's University. Maybe other schools exhibit such behavior, but we have always aspired to be different. 
Secondly, please consider the entire Notre Dame family, which encompasses a universe much larger than just the student body. Members of that family cherish and support their school and enjoy attending athletic contests and bringing their friends and fami­lies. Notre Dame sports events should be for all the Notre Dame family and not flaunt anything that we cannot feel comfortable exposing to our children and grandchildren. 
Often, visiting fans comment on how well they are treated with hospitality on the Notre Dame campus. Let this high-class spirit continue. Let's give our teams a great home field advantage in a classy way. 
Wyn Norris alumnus Class of 1965 Feb. 11 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 

Before Hommel and Let us never forget that he and Montgomery, or Lennon and Robin have set gay men 50 years McCartney. Before Tom and Jerry, back on their quest to gain social or Hillary and Obama. Before acceptance and shed the awful Britney and Christina. Oh wait, stereotype that portrays them as that last one immoral. If the Dynamic already has a clear Marcela Berrios Duo just came out already loser. they could help educate 
Before any high­Scene Writer the more conservative profile rivalry that Americans on the contri­may come to mind, butions of gay men to soci­there was Superman and ety. Batman. It's Superman and But Batman -unlike Ellen -is Batman, not Batman and a chicken so he won't do that. Superman. What he will do, though, is use 
My esteemed colleague Jay his money to buy expensive ears Fitzpatrick will have you believe and gadgets and trick Gotham Bruce Wayne's alter ego is better City into thinking he's a super­than tho one and only Man of hero. Anybody with those Steel. Jay is young and he means resources could put up a decent well but his I-love-explosions­fight too. and-cool-cars reasoning is exactly And that's exactly when Jay what drove the Batman fans at tells me that Bruce's willingness Warner to give us "Batman and to use his millions to fight crime is Hobin" in 1997. what actually makes him a hero. 
I low can one forget those open­He seems to forget that Superman ing lines? also has powers and abilities that "I want a ear. Chicks dig the he altruistically chooses to use to 
car," Hobin says. · protect Metropolis. "This is why Superman works He could easily be an NFL quar­alone," Batman replies. terback, or single-handedly bank­
Ba dum ehh. Not even George rupt FedEx by charging cus­Clooney himself' could keep the tomers less and guaranteeing a movie from putting the final nail 30-minute delivery to anywhere in thn collin of' the entirn Batman in the world. franchise. But he doesn't do that. 
And while "Batman Begins" Instead, he hides behind a pair undeniably returned some much of glasses and becomes a journal­needed erodibility to the so-called ist. A journalist. That my friends, Dark Knight, one cannot forget so is what awesonm people -or in easily how many times Batman his case, aliens -do. He writes has provNI to bn a joke in tlw compelling, conscientious articles past. with well-phrased leads and 
"Batman Begins" is a well­whenover possible, puns. I bet made film that features a shirtless that if he had studied at Notre Christian Bale in a training mon­Dame, Clark Kent would've tagP and very likeable sidekicks worked at The Observer. in Michael Caine and Morgan And a man like that is a far bet­Freeman. But the glorious return ter catch than any millionaire of' Batman didn't come without playboy. flaws. The movie also put Katie llolmes in a role as annoyingly The views expressed in this self-righteous as only her role in column are those ofthe author "Dawson's Creek" could have and not necessarily those of been. The Observer. 
So don't be fooled by "Batman Contact Marcela Berrios at Begins." Batman still sucks. aberrios@nd. edu 

COUNTERPOINT: BATMAN'S HUMANITY IS KEY 
Batman is an everyman. super-villain than the Man of 
My esteemed colleab'Ue Marcela Steel. The Dark Knight has Berrios would have you believe brought to justice a plethora of that his immense wealth (estimat­maniacal fiends, including the ed at $6.5 billion by Forbes maga­Joker, the Hiddler and the zine in 2005) would Penh'Uin. This trio, and all 
Jay Fitzpatrick

make him above the of' Batman's other villains, common man. But arn elinically insane and
Scene Writer 

Batman uses this willing to destroy any-wealth only for good. thing in their way. llis business, Wayne Who does Superman Enterprises, fights to improve the bring to justice in his career'! lives of even the lowliest Lex Luthor. An old, bald mad­Gothamites in conjunction with scientist-turned-businessman. the charitable Wayne Foundation. This is the greatest challenge of' 
Superman's alter ego Clark Kent Superman's career'! With the takes on the role of journalist -a powers granted him by the Earth's noble profession, to be sure, but yellow sun, Suplwman should be one that does not come close to able to solve the world's energy matching the level of humanity crisis, lind peace in the Middle and decency that Batman shows East and cure cancer -all before both in and out of the mask. dinner. 
i\lso, Batman should not be dis­In another attempt to discredit counted for his use of gadgetry in the Caped Crusader, Berrios refer­fighting crime. Because Batman ences the 1997 film "Batman and was born with the unfortunate cir­Hobin." Admittedly, this is not cumstance of being human, Batman's best showcase, but Batman needs something to give Superman is not frne from this him an edge against the fi>rces of fault either. evil. With his wide array of Berrios seems to forget that Batarangs, Bat-Computers and, of Superman has made his own for­course, the Batmobile. he is able gettable f'lop: "Superman Ill." to defeat all those who threaten Whereas Batman fights legitimate the safety and sanctity of' Gotham super-villains in every movie ren­City. dition, Superman's nemeses fall 
Ms. Berrios also provides thn short. In "Superman III," the Man argument that Batman's relation­of Steel is confronted with a dis­ship with Robin was something gruntled computPr programmer morn than just a "Dynamie Duo." I played by comedian Hichard bolieve her statements -which I Pryor. Not the most filflnidable of' will not repeat becausn I feel they fi>es by any standard. are offensive -propagate the Batman is flawed. lie suffers false sterootypes she mentions. from the same neuroses that True fans ol' the Dark Knight make us all human. Well, all of' us understand that Dick Grayson, the except Superman. original Boy Wonder, was Bruce These human flaws are what Wayne's ward. In efl'ect, Grayson make Batman so great. IIe fuses was his adopted son who Wayne them with his ideals of' justice to took in after the boy was make his city a greater place to orphaned at eight years old when live. a gangster murdered his parents. 
Batman's humanity makes him The views expressed in this gnmt. lie understands that he has column are those ofthe author a certain responsibility to his fel­and not necessarily those of The lowman. Observer. 
Batman is also forced to combat Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at a much more difficult class of' jfitzpa5@nd. edu 
MATT HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
page 11 

By JAMES COSTA Scene Writer 
In this ever-burgeoning age of tech­nological innovation and advancement, several popular musicians have turned to the Web, namely super popular video-sharing service YouTube.com, to share a few of the more obscure ele­ments of their personal lives and artistry. One singer-songwriter with a particularly impressive YouTube account is the famously prolific Cardinals front man, Ryan Adams. 
Adams' account, titled "Horion74," provides a fascinating insight into just how weirdly talented and excited the guy is. With more than 30 videos avail­able, the Jacksonville, N.C., native offers everything from acoustic songs lilmed in his New York City bedroom to tours of the Ilollywood Hills with none other than Mandy Moore, who seems adorably confused by Adams' assertion that Los Angeles was originally founded by pirates and spaceships. 
One of the more brilliant moments found within the account Horion 7 4 is Adams' acoustic version of the song "Everybody Knows" off of the Cardinals' most recent record "Easy Tiger." Clearly engaged in a subtle but playful mockery of the thousands of YouTube users who film themselves covering (usually quite badly) famous songs in the privacy of their bedrooms and basements, Adams works through a rather butchered version of his own song as if he were just an average guy with a guitar, a video camera and a YouTube account trying to emulate himself. It's restrained comic brilliance. 
A lot of the movies are weird and eccentric, to say the least. Most have a decidedly low-budget feel. It's likely that all were made only with the help of invaluable tools available to Adams on his Apple iBook -Garage Band and iMovie. Yet he uses the tools he's got to achieve a kitschy but endearing effect, showing how his rock star life is filled with the same bizarre and peculiar thoughts and impulses that the every­day artsy weirdo experiences. 

Of course, Adams could not avoid the subjects of heartbreak and emotional misery that dominate most of his offi­cial CD releases. A number of the videos are focused on his recent breakup with the redheaded Banana Republic model and writer Jessica Joffe. 
Apparently, the whole breakup didn't go well, and Joffe blocked Adams' cell phone and e-mail. In an effort to show her how sad he was, he started the YouTube account and loaded the video "Sad Days." Mainly just a slideshow of pictures of Jessica backed by sad music, the video was quickly taken down because "it was just too painful," as Adams wrote in the site's artist information area. 
However, Adams quickly came up with a few new sad ideas and posted them. These videos, titled "Like Yesterday," ''I'm a Sad Person," and "Broken Arrow" hit at the same emo­tional core as did "Sad Days." This is especially true in "Like Yesterday," where he sings, "With a belly full of sleeping pills I with a little less pain I oh it doesn't feel like yesterday." The songs are reminiscent of the darkest moments Adams has shown us before on albums like "Heartbreaker," "Love is Hell," and "29." So for those who enjoy getting their heart all ripped up by Ryan's sadness, these songs are for you. 
Much of the material is quirky and odd. Yet it's refreshing to get a glimpse into the life of an artist that hasn't been already filtered by record companies and the media. So check it out, it's a great mix of some pretty stark sadness mixed with bizarre home video fun. 
Contact James Costa at jcosta@nd.edu 

MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

Organ" is a portrayal of life without of the organ into the fabric of the owy texture of the cello, slowing the 
By JAMES COSTA the person that was once the center of record, recurring organ figures often music down to an almost lullaby-like 
Scene Writer his world. It's an interesting follow-up erupt mid-song into the arrangement whisper, and then picking it back up 
to the band's previous album, as a means of distressing the singer. into a deafening rush of exhausted 
"The Ugly Organ" is a remarkably "Domestica." Also a concept record of To open the album, Kasher offers a exhilaration and pain. multi-layered and beautiful effort at a sorts, that album dealt with the unfix­couplet, "And now we proudly presenV One of the few tracks that deviate concept album. Tim Kasher and his able entropy of Kasher's failing mar­Songs perverse and songs of lament." from this theme is "A Gentleman band Cursive construct a powerful look riage and the frenzied heartbreak that It's a rather brilliant ploy to put the Caller." The song ends with a soft and at the clashing influences of consumer often accompanies such a painful band ahead of whatever the critics classically emo last two minutes of culture, lust and art through the expe­experience. might be thinking from the get-go, voice over pulsing cello as Kasher riencns and adventures of Kasher. "The Ugly Organ" uses two basic proving that the group anticipates the sings, "Whatever you need to make 
Written and recorded after Kasher premises for the term of the ugly critics and is already beyond their you feel I Like you've been the one divorcnd his first wife, "The Ugly organ. First, it addresses the male dif­sharp judgments. behind the wheel I The sunrise is just 
The Ugly Organ 

Cursive Released by: Saddle Creek Recommended Tracks: "Art is Hard" and "A Gentieman Caller" 

ficulty in living without physi­Kasher ups the ante for the record in over that hill I The worst is over I cal gratification and the shame the track "Art is Hard," which seems Whatever I said to make you think I in being controlled by the intended for him and the band: "Cut it That loves the religion of the weak I whims of an organ that symbol­out I Your self inflicted pain I Is getting This morning we love like weaklings I izes not the power of love and too routine I The crowds are catching The worst is over." It's a rare moment affection, but fevered lust and on I To the self-inflicted song." of acceptance of loss and renewal on possible sin. The band grasps the way in which its an album that relies heavily on the dis­
The second meaning refers to songs come off and knows it must aster and dysfunction of love within the ugly organ that embodies forge new ground or run the risk of life. the music machine. Since being considered trite and unimpor­The record grows unexpectedly on Kasher makes music for a liv­tant. the listener. It's a lot like reading ing, he must recreate his mis­Most of the songs begin with harsh Kerouac's "The Subterranean," except ery on an album in order to and foreboding music, making the first that all you have to do is 'sit back and make the money he needs to few seconds often the most alien and listen. survive. difficult to listen to. Yet almost all the 
In order to tie the presence songs incorporate the rich and shad-Contact James Costa at jcosta@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Controversial call helps Georgetown edge 'Nova 
Hoyas maintain Big East lead with win; No. 11 Texas squeaks by No. 3 Kansas for crucial Big 12 victory 
night, their first home win over Rivers deflected for a turnover.
Associated Press 
the Wildcats in more than a "I felt like I really had to foul 
WASIIIN<;n>N -The score decade. him for the refs to call it at the was tied. There was less than "Wallace was dribbling, and end," Rivers said. "The refs one second to play, and the ref called· a foul," said always let you play when the Gnorgetown's Jonathan Wallace Stokes, who became the game's time's running down. I wasn't was dribbling 70 feet from the fourth player to foul out on the going to foul him anyway." basket when he hnard the whis­play. "What are you going to That theory didn't hold for tle. do?" long. Wallace came up with the 
lie wondnred what was up. Wallace scored 15 points for loose ball and got the favorable After all. there's no way a refer­the Hoyas (20-3, 10-2 Big East), call against Stokes. nn would call a foul in that situ­who have won seven of eight "I can't complain about it," ation, right'? and bounced back from a loss Villanova coach Jay Wright 
(;uess again. at Louisville on Saturday. said, "because I dido 't see it." 
"At first I thought I stepped Georgetown won despite blow­''I'm glad it went our way," out of bounds," Wallace said, ing a 12-point second-half lead was the simple observation "because I was trying to make a and scoring only two field goals from Georgetown coach John play with the lime running over the final eight minutes. Thompson Ill. down. But I did kind of (feel a) Scottie Heynolds scored 24 Villanova outrebounded nudgn when I was trying to turn points to lead the Wildcats (14-Georgetown 41-35 and commit­thfl corner." 9, 4-7), who have lost six of ted 11 turnovers to the Hoyas' 
"So," Wallace shrugged, "a seven, and he tied the game 18, and the Wildcats wouldn't call's a call." with a running layup in traffic have needed a last shot had it 
And he's not about to raise a with 1:05 to play. After not been for a 1-for-21 stretch fuss over it. That "nudge" was a Georgetown's Austin Freeman from the field over first 12 min­bump from Villanova's Corey missed a 3-pointer, the Wildcats utes of the second half. Stokes, the 48th foul called in a set up a final shot. Villanova shot 13 percent in frustrating, stop-and-start There was no doubt the ball the second half -including 0­game. Wallace hit both free would be in Reynolds' hands. for-13 from 3-point range ­throws with one-tenth of a sec­lie drove baseline against and 25 percent for the game. ond on the clock to give the No. Jeremiah Rivers, ran out of Corey Fisher went 1-for-16 for 8 I loy as a 55-53 vie tory Monday room and attempted a pass that the game, and Reynolds was 1­

for-6 after halftime. Kansas 72-69 in yet another football mojo to fire up the 
The 1-for-21 drought allowed thrilling matchup in a rivalry sellout crowd: Vince Young, the Georgetown to turn a 29-28 that has quickly escalated into quarterback of the 2005 halftime deficit into a 46-34 one of the best in the Big 12. national championship team lead. but it didn't last long. The James missed most of the sat a few seats down from Hoyas went into a funk of their first half with foul trouble, iconic coach Darrell Royal and own, scoring only one field goal then provided the muscle Aaron Ross, a rookie safety over the next 6-plus minutes Texas (20-4, 7-2 Big 12) need­with the Super Bowl champion while the Wildcats kept making ed to counter the Jayhawks' New York Giants, was intro­free throws. size and strength under the duced to the crowd before the 
"Phew! Phew!" Thompson basket. game. said. "Wins are hard to come by James finished with 14 On the court, the Longhorns in this league, so to walk away points. Connor Atchley led and Jayhawks hulled their way with a win feels good." Texas with 16 points and A.J. through a game dominated by 
Roy Hibbert added 13 points Abrams added 14 points. the Jayhawks' physical front for Georgetown, and DaJuan Darrell Arthur scored 22 to line and Texas' 3-point shoot­Summers had 12. Wallace went lead the Jayhawks (23-2, 8-2), ers. 3-for-8 from 3-point range -who lost for just the second Texas led most of the first including a big 3 with 2:11 to time in 33 regular-season half, its best weapon coming in play -a modest improvement games dating back to last sea­lanky 6-foot-1 0 forward over his 9-for-38 3-point shoot­son. Atchley, who caught the ing slump over his previous Texas and Kansas have Jayhawks offguard by stepping nine games. played some of the most excit­out for four 3-pointers and had 
Georgetown's last home win ing league games in recent three big blocks on defense. over Villanova was a 78-67 vic­years -their two meetings Kansas kept throwing bodies tory on Jan. 27, 1997, when the last year decided the Big 12 at the basket, wearing down Hoyas played at US Air Arena. regular-season and tourna­Texas with dunks and outre­Villanova had been 6-0 at the ment titles -and Monday bounded the Longhorns 23-13 Verizon Center. night was no different. in the first half. The Jayhawks 
This one wasn't as high scor­trailed until Brandon Rush tied Longhorns 72, Jayhawks 69 ing as when these teams usual­it with a long 3-pointer and fol­Damion James scored 12 ly get together, but it lived up lowed it with a layup. 
AP points and grabbed 13 to its expectations in terms of Consecutive baskets by Arthur Kansas forward Darrell Arthur, left, goes up against Texas center Comor rebounds in the second half, big plays and big shots. helped put Kansas up 42-38 at Atchley durtng the Longhorns' 72-69 win Monday. and No. 11 Texas held off No. 3 Texas even rolled out some halftime. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

For rent:  3-4-5 bdrm,  ADOPTION- 
FoR SALE  WANTED  Two story house ready for immedi­ate occupancy or next school year.  3 bath homes close to campus,  PERSONAL  Catholic family will provide your  
Off street parking includes motion  sale, cathedral ceilings,  baby with a life of unconditional  
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students  $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT  sensor light for security.  fireplace, 2-car garage,  love, opportunity & security.  
will love living here and parents will  WORK flexible, no experience  Four individually locked bedrooms,  1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl.  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- 
love knowing their child is looked  needed, customer sales/service,  central station monitored security  Avail. for Aug. 2008-09;  ONE WHO IS?  Exp paid,  
after and sale! Secure, upstairs,  conditions apply,  system, six blocks from Notre  also Aug. 2009-10.  
two-level furnished two-bedroom,  ages 18+,  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  Call 574-232-4527  You do not have to be alone.  Ally involved.  
two-bath condo unit with loft area.  574-273-3835,  Laundromat next door, basement  or 269-683-5038  
One thousand twenty-two square  www.workforstudents.com  available for storage, new furnace  or 574-340-1844.  We want to help.  1-888-833-8230.  
feet of beautifully redecorated living  and central air, new kitchen includ­ 
space -includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of  FoR RENT  ing appliances, large living room, free trash removal.  Excellent Condition Single Family Dwellings  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
condo. Garages are available at an  Garage available for car-extra.  close to Campus.  at  Do not go it alone.  
additional cost. Parking lot surveil- Blue & Gold Homes  
lance cameras, pool, clubhouse,  Showing for 08109,09/10  Call 289-4071.  905 E. Washington,  1-800-No Abort  If you or someone you love needs  
water and rubbish removal included  Now offering  3 bedrooms -$725.  confidential support or assistance,  
as part of the ownership package.  "flex• leases  5 bedroom house just off Angela &  or visit our web site  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP,  
Only $180 per month exterior main­ bluegoldrentals.com  31. Available now & for next year. 2  911 E. Washington,  at www.lifecall.org  at 1-7819. For more information,  
tenance fees. Five minute walk or  baths & laundry.  3 bedrooms -$700.  
less to the Notre Dame campus,  522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 students.  232-6964.  If you or someone you care about  visit our website at:  
shopping and restaurants. Less  Newer ktchn,bath.Bsmnt storage.  112 N. Notre Dame,  has been sexually assaulted,  
than ten minutes to other hot spots  Washer/dryer. 5 blks W off NO  Houses for rent for 08-09 close to  4 bedrooms 2 bath -$850.  visit  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ 
and mall by car. $200,000. Only  Avenue.  campus. Ranging from 2 BR to 6  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
serious offers considered. 562-733­ $570/mo+utl  BR. Call 574-234-2436 or  Available Now.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  in  
5166.  (219)629-5483 Denise  Kramerhouses.com  574-250-9320.  shtml  The Observer.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
OUND THE NATION 


CotvtPtLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCEs 
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
page 13 
NHL
APTop25 Men's Basketball Poll 

rank team record points 
1 Memphis (72) 23-0 1,800 2 Duke 21-1 1,714 3 Kansas 23-1 1,662 4 Tennessee 21-2 1,553 5 North Carolina 22-2 1,511 6 UCLA 21-3 1,383 7 Stanford 20-3 1,354 8 Georgetown 19-3 1,207 9 Butler 21-2 1,132 10 Michigan State 20-3 1,071 11 Texas 19-4 1,014 12 Xavier 20-4 962 13 Indiana 20-3 933 14 Drake 22-1 863 15 Wisconsin 19-4 816 16 TexasA&M 20-4 713 17 Connecticut 18-5 658 18 Kansas State 17~5 486 19 Purdue 19-5 467 20 NOTRE DAME 18-4 465 21 Washington State 18-5 419 22 Pittsburgh 18-5 301 23 louisville 18-6 246 24 Vanderbilt 20-4 222 25 St. Mary's 20-3 204 
USA Today/ESPN Top 25 Men's Basketball Poll 

rank team record points 
1 Memphis (31) 23-0 775 2 Duke 21-1 742 3 Kansas 23-1 712 4 Tennessee 21-2 663 5 North Carolina 22·2 654 6 UCLA 21-3 607 7 Stanford 20·3 575 8 Georgetown 19-3 534 9 Michigan State 20·3 506 10 Butler 21-2 482 11 Texas 19-4 429 
Noor said there were no plies blood to the brain, emergency medicine, said:
Associated Press

12 Indiana 20·3 423. 
initial signs of brain dam­while the jugular vein takes "We became concerned. He 
13 Xavier 20-4 380 
BUFFALO, N.Y. age, which is a fear when­blood from the brain. Blood was clearly in shock from 
14 Wisconsin 19·4 376 
Florida Panthers forward ever the coratid artery is pressure is much higher in blood loss. His heart rate 
15 Drake 22-1 361 
Richard Zednik lost five clamped. She said clamps the carotid artery. was high his blood pres­
16 Texas A&M 20-4 278 

units of blood, but doctors were in place for about 15 According to Noor, the sure was a bit low." 
17 Connec!icut 18·5 274 
never considered his life in to 20 minutes during sur­slashed artery was "hang­Vascular surgeon Richard 
18 NOTRE DAME 18-4 221 
jeopardy after the player gery, which she considers a i·ng by a thread." She Curl, who assisted Noor,
19 Vanderbilt 19-5 183 
had his carotid artery short time. stressed if the artery had said the cut was about an
20 Washington State 18-4 175 
nearly severed by a team­"So far, he looks very been completely severed it inch-and-a-half deep and
21 St. Mary's 20-3 144 
mate's skate in a freak and good. He's awake, orient­would have recessed into also as wide. Doctors were
22 Kansas Slate 17-5 124 
frightening accident. ed," said Noor. "He remem­the neck, requiring even astonished the skate blade
23 Purdue 19·5 118 
Zednik underwent an bers what happened last more extensive surgery. did not hit any other arter­
24 Pittsburgh 18-5 68 
hour of surgery to recon­night." Prior to surgery, doctors ies or veins or cause any
25 Marquette 16-6 64 
nect the artery Sunday Zednik was sliced across noted that Zednik's blood further damage. night and was listed in sta­the right side of the throat pressure was dropping, "Luck," was a factor, ble condition in the in ten­by teammate Olli Jokinen's and there was also swelling according to Noor. 
NCAA Women's Basketball sive care unit at Buffalo skate midway through the around the cut making it "He might have some General Hospital on third period of Buffalo's 5-3 difficult to breath. Doctors hoarseness and that'sBig East Standings Monday. He was awake victory. Doctors said the put a tube in his neck to about it at this point," said and cooperative with the skate blade just missed cut­open an airway. Noor, who said Zednik had 
rank team conference overall 
medical staff, doctors said. ting the jugular vein. Robert McCormack, the a "normal, beautiful 
1 Connecticut 9-1 22-1 Attending surgeon Sonya The carotid artery sup-hospital's clinical chief of artery." 2 Rutgers 9-1 19-3 3 West Virginia 8-1 19-3 4 Pittsburgh 8-2 18•5 5 Syracuse 6-3 18-4 IN BRIEF 6 NOTRE DAME 6-3 18-5 
Dolphins release Green, Simpson's arrival at Las Association says it won't
7 DePaul 5-5 16-7 
Booker in first Parcells purge Vegas jail to be televised 'gag' Olympians
8 louisville 5-5 16-7 
MIAMI --Quarterback Trent Green LAS VEGAS -O.J. Simpson told jail-LONDON --The British Olympic
9 Marquette 5-5 13-.10 
was acquired by the Miami Dolphins last ers he had been planning to host a poker Association has "no intention of gag­
10 Georgetown 3-6 13-9 
year as part of a plan to turn the fran-game at his home in Miami before he ging" its athletes at the Beijing
11 Seton Hall 3-7 13-9 
12 Villanova 3-7 1340 chise's fortunes around. was brought to Las Vegas to spend sever-Games. 13 St. John's 3-7 12-11 Not surprisingly, Bill Parcells' ideas will al nighl'i behind bars, according to a tele-A day after the BOA said it would 14 South Florida 2-8 12-11 differ from the previous model. vision program transcript released require its athletes to sign a new 15 Cincinnati 2-9 11-12 In the Dolphins' frrst major player purge Monday. clause in their contracts prohibiting 16 Providence 1-8 11-11 since Parcells took charge of Miami's foot-"I didn't expect to be back here so them from making politically sensi­
ball operations, the team parted ways soon," Simpson laughed as he was greet­tive remarks or gestures during the with Green, wide receiver Marty Booker -ed by a Las Vegas police jail officer, Olympics, the association elarified its and seven other players Monday --ush-according to the transcript from produc­stanee. ering in the start of what's expected to be ers of the MyNetworkTV show "Jail." "Clearly (the instructions) had been a massive offSeason roster shakeup by the A crew was already filming at the misinterpreted and we now accept rebuilding franchi<;e. Clark County Detention Center when the they may have been open to misin­
around the dial 
"lbis is never easy, especially since all of former football star was brought in by terpretation," BOA spokesman these players worked hard during their his former bail bondsman on Jan. 11, Graham Newsom said Monday. "But tenure here," new Dolphins' general man-said Morgan Langley, an executive pro-there is no intention of gagging any­
NCAA BASKETBALL ager Jeff Ireland said. ducer. one. We are trying to mirror what it There is a chance that Green --who "It was not something we were expect-says in the Olympic Charter." was due a $500,000 roster bonus if he ing," Langley said of Simpson's appear­Simon Clegg, the BOA's chief exec­
Michigan State at Purdue 

wasn't cut and who would have cost the ance, which Langley said drew cheers utive, acknowledged that the BOA's
7 p.m., ESPN 

Dolphins more than $3.6 million against from other people in an intake waiting Team Members Agreement appeared their 2008 salary cap --could see his room at the jail. "It was a little bit to go beyond the provision of the Miami tenure continue. strange." Olympic Charter. · 

Tuesday, February 12, 2008
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

Spurs' Ginobili drops 34 points, grabs 15 boards 
Hughes scores a season-high 40 as Cavaliers top Magic; Lakers beat Bobcats, improve to 4-1 since acquiring Gasol 
Hughes scored 23 in the third 
Associated l'ress 
quarter on 6-for-7 shooting, 
TOHONTO -Manu c;inobili induding two 3-pointers and an 
scored a season-high :{4 points assortment of drives and 
and added a career-high 15 jumpers. lie hit 9 of 10 free 
rebounds, leading thn San throws in the period. 
Antonio Spurs to a 93-SS victory lledo Turkoglu had 25 points 
over thn Toronto Haptors on for Orlando, leading all five 
Monday night. startors in double figures, while 
Tim Duncan addnd 22 points Dwight Howard had 16 points 
and 1:{ rebounds for the Spurs, and nine rnbounds. Howard 
who led from win~-to-wirn and scored 10 in the first quarter, 
won for tho fifth timn in six but struggled the rest of the way 
games. San Antonio's only defeat as Cleveland collapsed inside 
in that time was a 9S-90 loss at with double-and triple-teams. 
Boston on Sunday. The teams were closely 
Ginobili had 21 points in 19 matched through three quar­
lirst-half minutes, scored three ters, and entered the fourth tied 
more in the third. then hnl pnd at 8(J. But Cleveland opened a 
put the game away with 10 in 98-S8 lead, by far its biggest of 
the fourth. the game, as the Magic scored 
C;inobili's biggest rebound only two points in the first 4:48 came in the final 20 seeonds of the period. when he rebounded his own Orlando lost its ser.ond miss and was fouled with the straight. and third of a five­Spurs elinging to a three-point game home streteh before the lead. All-Star game. 
Toronto's Jose Calderon Jameer Nelson had 22 points scored a earner-high 27, and for Orlando, Rashard Lewis Andrea Bargnani had 12. Chris seornd 15 and Maurice Evans Bosh and Carlos Delfino ear.h added 10 points and eight had 1 I points and eight rebounds. rebounds as the Haptors Cleveland won despite a lot of dropped their third straight at bad luek. The Cavs were without home. three of their top players, and 

San Antonio has won 10 of its nearly lost two others in a 30-had 11 oil' the beneh. have something that has to be coughing in the loeker room 
past 12 against Toronto. point drubbing Sunday night to dealt with," said Bryant after the aftor the game. 
The Spurs led hS-56 at 2:41 of the Denver Nuggets -Zydrunas Lakers 106, Bobcats 97 Lakers improved to 4-1 since the "Yesterday, he didn't have a the third. but didn't seorn again llgauskas with baek spasms, Kobe Bryant drove into the trade for their new big man. good game," coar.h Phil Jackson in the quarter. allowing Toronto Damon Jones with a sprained lane, met heavy traffie and It wasn't an entirely pretty said of Gasol's 12-point perform­to r.ut the gap to 6S-60 at the ankle. Both played Monday, but flipped the ball behind his baek performance for the Lakers, ance in a win at Miami. "Today start of the fourth. San Antonio were game-time decisions. toward the corner for Pau Gasol, who improved to 6-2 on their was the mark of a good player to called a timeout after a jumper Cleveland's plane was ground­who was cutting the opposite nine-game trip. They allowed come back and double your by Jason Kapono made it 70-66 ed Sunday night with a mechan­way. the Bobcats to cut a 13-point effort and have a good game. with 10:3S remaining. ical failure. The Cavaliers tried After the ball bounced harm­deficit to 89-86 midway through He's not feeling the greatest now 
Duncan and Jacque Vaughn into early Monday to fly here lessly out of bounds, Bryant the fourth quarter. either, so that's a good game for returned for the Spurs, who before giving up for the night. smiled at Gasol, who smiled Then Bryant went to work. His him." scored nine of the next 11 points They didn't arrive in Orlando back. It was one of their few jumper with 4:30 left made it Haymond Felton scored 29 to lead 79-6S at 7:44. But until about 1:30 p.m. Monday mistakes in a dominating first 96-90. His no-look pass to points and Nazr Mohammed Toronto dosed again, with 3-for the 7 p.m. tipoff. half Monday night that provided Lamar Odom for a dunk made it added 22 points and 11 pointers from Calderon and Drew Gooden was back in the a glimpse of what the Los 100-93, and Bryant put the rebounds for the Bobeats, whose Dnlfino and a layup by Hasho lineup after missing three games Angeles Lakers were hoping for Lakers ahead by 11 with two seven-game losing streak Nnsterovie making it X7-X4 with with a strained right groin. He when they acquired Gasol from free throws with 1:07 left. matches the longest of their dis­3:32lnft. scored six of Cleveland's first Memphis. Bryant had his third straight appointing season. 
Bosh made it 91-SS on a eight points, but finished with With Bryant hitting from the game of 30 or more points, but The Bobcats played without jurnpnr from the top of the key 10. The Cavs were still missing outside and scoring 31 points Bryant is clearly warming up to leading scorer Gerald Wallace with 1:20 left. but missnd an Daniel Gibson (strained ham­and Gasol dogging the middle to his new option down low. for the fourth time in live games. almost identical shot 45 seconds string), Anderson Varejao score 26, the Lakers continued Gasol had his second-highest Wallace, hobbled by a strained later that would have made it a (sprained ankle) and Sasha their impressive road trip with a scoring game since joining Los right foot, was replaeed a night one-point game. Pavlovic (sprained f(JOt). win over the reeling Charlotte Angeles, hitting nine of 11 shots earlier in Detroit by rookie 
Toronto. who previous three Ira Newble also scorod 10 for Bobcats. and eight of 12 free throws Jared Dudley in the starting games were against last-place Cleveland, while Devin Brown "Adding Pau to the mix, we despite a cold that had Gasol lineup. opponents (Miami, the Los Angeles Clippers and Minnesota), struggled early against the defending NBA champions. 
The Haptors missed their first six shots and didn't scorn until a jumper from Jamario Moon at 
X:33. San Antonio led by as many as 12 in the first and pushed their lead to 18, at 53­35, on a sneond-quartnr basket by Ginobili. 
Toronto's hopes took a hit whnn Bosh limpnd oft' midway through the first after injuring his right knee in a knee-on-knee collision with Vaughn. Bosh rnturned three minutes later wearing a black wrap on his knne. 
Haptors guard T..J. Ford played eight minutes in the first half but was kept on the beneh in the sncond bneause of a sore right wrist. Ford rnturned Feb. 4 aftnr missing 24 games because of' neck and arm pain, tho result of a Dee. II fall at Atlanta. 
Cavaliers 11.8, Magic 111 
Larry Hughes seored a season­high 40 points and LeBron .James addod 29 and 10 assists as the Cleveland Cavalinrs beat the Orlando Magie on Monday night. 

DuringJunior Parent Weekend Experience elegant dining on the Notre Daine Cainpus Tbe perfect settiL:Ig forJunior PareiJt Weekend is Sorin~s. Our thoughfullypreparedmeals, served bya professionally trained staff, ensure tbe ultimate Notre Dan1e experience. Reservations recoinmended 574 631-2020 JVlVlv.sorinsndcom  


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Injured Shaq practices for first time with Suns 
Associated Press 
PIIOENIX -Shaquille O'Neal practiced with the Phoenix Suns for the first time Monday, showing no sign of the hip injury that has sidelined him since Jan. 21. 
"It was different. It was very intense," he said after the one­hour workout. "I learned a lot. Now I can see why they can go at the pace they play at. When you just do short bursts like this, then you can save it all for the game." 
Just when he will play in a game remained undecided. 
"I haven't done anything in a month, but I'm in pretty good shape," O'Neal said. "It will probably take me a few more days to get in tune. The good thing about these guys here is they told me when I'm comfort­able, when I'm one-thousand percent, then I can join them." 
Phoenix has two games before the All-Star break -at Golden State on Wednesday night and at home against Dallas on Thursday. The first game after the break is at home against Shaq's old team, the Los Angeles Lakers, his for­mer coach Phil Jackson and his old teammate Kobe Bryant. 
"I think it's going to take a lit­tle bit," coach Mike D'Antoni said. "It's going to be an adjust­ment for our guys and for him. It's hard to think and play bas­ketball at the same time. Right now, he's got to think where he's going to go and all that. But it's going to be good chem­istry and it's going to change things up, hopefully for the bet­ter." 
D'Antoni said the Suns will "not rush him back for any rea­son." The coach said he will meet with O'Neal and trainer Aaron Nelson after Tuesday's practice to map out plans. 
Phoenix is 2-1 since the trade last Wednesday that brought O'Neal from the Miami Heat for Shawn Marion and Marcus Banks. The Suns have the con­ference's best record at 36-15 but only 5? games separate the top nine teams in the West. 
O'Neal injured his hip diving for a loose ball against Utah on Dec. 22. He returned Jan. 16 but was sidelined again five days later. An MRI showed inflammation in the left hip, shutting him down from all basketball activity. 
In going ahead with the trade, the Suns were confident their staff would be able to get O'Neal in playing condition. 
"The hip's feeling pretty good, better than it's felt in a while," O'Neal said. "''m used to just getting injections and going back out there. They told me they have their style, and they want me to stick with it." 
O'Neal said he needs to get back in basketball shape and has to be comfortable with playmaker Steve Nash in a sys­tem far different from the one used by Pat Riley in Miami. 
''I'm not going to rush any­thing because this is already a fine-tuned machine, and any kink could throw it off," O'Neal said. "I don't want to be the negative kink. I want to step in like I've been with this team the last three years. I have to make sure that everything's right." 
He's been impressed by much of what he's seen, particularly the ability of Amare Stoudemire, named Western Conference player of the week on Monday. 


"I didn't know he was that good," O'Neal said. "I really didn't." 
O'Neal's arrival will allow Stoudemire to move to his more natural power forward posi­tion. 
"I think it makes my job a lit­tle easier," Stoudemire said. "If you look at me standing beside him I look more like a point guard than a center." 
The entire Phoenix team seemed energized by O'Neal's presence. 
"Most practices you don't want to be out there," Grant 
INFORMATION MEETING for JUNIORS and SENIORS interested in spending one year abroad after graduation on a 
FULBRIGHT GRANT OR TEACHING ASSISTANTSHIP 
•research 
.....:.:;: 
•study 
•teach English 
Tuesday, February 12 5:00pm in 116 DeBartolo 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 1OS O'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 

Hill said, "but today everybody wanted to be out there and look forward to making it work. That's going to be the chal­lenge. That's going to be the fun part." 
O'Neal does not expect to be the star. 
''I'm a historian of the game, so I understand that on this team I'm probably a big role player, and I have no problem with that," O'Neal said. "I did my thing in my prime, and it's Amare's prime right now. I think it's my job to get him to the next level. Toward the end of my career, I have no problem coming here and just fitting in and just helping these guys get to the next level." 
He compares his job to the role of an aging Kareem Abdul­Jabbar on the "Showtime" Lakers teams of Magic Johnson and James Worthy. 
"Kareem was fortunate enough to have those style of players around him toward the end of his career, and I sort of feel like him now," O'Neal said. ''I'm no idiot. I'm not going to come in here trying to take over and take 30 shots. I'm going to fit in very nicely ­rebound, outlet to Steve, get some easy buckets, play some defense. That's all we need." 

NBA ALL-STAR GAME 
Wallace chosen to take Garnett's place 
was the leading vote-getter for 

Associated Press 
the All-Star Game, but Rivers 

BOSTON -Boston Celtics for­said that Garnett would proba­ward Kevin Garnett withdrew bly not play Tuesday or from the NBA All-Star Game on Wednesday, in Boston's last two Sunday and was replaced on the games before the break. Eastern Conference roster by Rivers, who will coach the Detroit Pistons forward Rasheed East in the game, said he hoped Wallace. Ray Allen would be considered 
The announcement was made as Garnett's replacement. by the commissioner's office "He should be [an All-Star] 
after Garnett missed his sev­
"This time, I'll go for
enth consecutive game with an the kids. I guess once abdominal 
I get older or out of 
strain. Celtics 
the game, they can
coach Doc 
Rivers, who will look back on it and coach the East in check it out.,the Feb. 17 game in New Orleans, 
Rasheed Wallace
said Garnett will not play until the Pistons forward team returns from the break. 
anyway. I would­n't be surprised if it wasn't Ray they use," Rivers said. "It would be nice to have Ray on. I would take Ray." 
Wallace will join teammates Chauncey Billups and Richard I lamilton for the All-Star Game New Orleans. It 

"He's out until after the All­Star break," Rivers said after the Celtics beat the San Antonio Spurs 98-90 to improve to 5-2 since Garnett was injured. 
Garnett was averaging 19.2 points and 9.9 rebounds per game before being sidelined two weeks ago after straining a stomach muscle on Jan. 25 against the Timberwolves. He will be his fourth All-Star appearance. 
The Pistons forward will have to alter his vacation plans after being selected to replace Garnett in the game. 
"This time I'll go for the kids," Wallace said to the Detroit Free Press. "I guess once I get older or out of the game, they can look back on it and check it out." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's hockey team rolls 
Women's water polo sweeps wee/rend set; volleyball opens conference play 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Lady Vols survive Rutgers' late rally 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Damn bfnw thn Chicago 
Snappers out of the water from 
start to finish this weekend. win­
ning S-0 in iL<> final mgufar season 
game. 
Sophomore Emily Chappell 
started the scoring on· less than a 
minute into tlw game from a set 
play from junior Margaret 
Knoedler. This was followed 
moments later by a pass from 
frnshman (;illian Allsup to class­
mate Tess Hyan for thn second 
Irish goal. Hyan would scorn twim 
morn, rngistl'ring her first colln­
giatn hat trir.k. 
The first rwriod nndmf with a 
rPhound goal by Kruwdlnr. 
Thn Snappers struggled and 
wen~ unable to stop Chappell 
from taking the pw~k on tim sec­
ond pnriod's opt•ning faceofl' and 
scoring an unassistml goal. Latnr 
that pnriod senior Kara Brennan 
put it in tlw net thanks to firw 
passes from Knoedlt~r and junior 
Amy Willwlmy. Knomller man­
agnd to scorn again with an assist 
by Chappnll. 
The team enjoyi'CI sueeess this ynar in largo part dun to the dedi­cation and t~ommitment of seniors Brennan. Laura Steinbrnnner. Alida Burtner. Casey Bouskill and coach Ollie Short. 
"They each brought sonwthing so difTerent to the team," Wilhelmy said. "And nnxt season will be so difl'nrent without them. We'rn rnally going to miss them." 
Women's water polo 
Notrn Dame provmf it is among the best nationally, sweeping four matches this weekend. including thrnt~ nationally mgardnd rivals. 
The Irish faced two confernnen foes on Saturday -Eastern Michigan and Miami of Ohio. Thn Irish shut down EMU 13-3, led by BeL<>y O'Neill and Mag).,rie llydn in goal. Ali Durkin led the scoring with f(JUr goals, Cristina Homano had three and Mnghan Pnarl added another two. 
Against Miami. thn Irish fin­ished strong to post a 10-5 victory, af'ter loading thn Hedhawks 2-l at half'. Durkin again led the scoring with thrne goals. 
On Sunday, the Irish faced Michigan Stall' in their first game, winning a dose match 5-3. Kat Kennifer's two goals were the dif­
l(~nmee. 
Thn final ganw of tho weekend pitted thn Irish against tourna­nwnt-host Michigan. The Irish came out on top. winning 5-4. as the diseiplirwd tPam drew 11 Wolverines ejPctions and three ptnullty shots, all of which were converted. O'Neill made several key stops, keeping the Wolverines playing eatdt-up the entire game. 
Ski 
With regionals looming next woekend in Marqtwtte, Mich., Notre Danw was all business upon its arrival at Crystal Mountain Saturday. 
Lod by a sPcond-plaee finish from fn~shman l~rin McNeill. the ft•male snowhoardPrs made quick work of tlwir romrwtition, win­ning tlwir only ran• of the wnnk­Pnd. 
The nwn's snowboard squad finished seroml in team stand­ings, with .IPIT Kroon, Andy Martin and A!Px CorTPI finishing lif't.h. sixth and sewnth respedive­ly. 
The nwn's ski team was not about to take things so e1L<>ily. 
.Juniors 1\ric Shaw and Joel 
Sharbrough each were poised to 
finish on the podium after the first 
run, but the icy conditions were a 
rude awakening in the second 
run. sending both skiers cart­
wheeling ofT course. Freshman 
Chris Knoedler and senior Steve 
Feutz picked up the slaek finish­
ing sixth and lOth to pace the 
squad to a third-place finish. 
Due to tlw weather conditions, 
only Saturday's ski races were 
held. 
Men's volleyball 
The No. 21 men traveled to 
Northern Illinois and DeKalb, Ill., 
last weekend fiJr their first of two 
eonfimmce play days. In a eonfer­
ence fi~aturing the national cham­
pions from each of the past thme 
years, the Irish had their work cut 
out fiJr them. 
The opening match was against last year's national runner-up No. 4 Lakeland. While the Irish knpt pace with the powerhouse for the majority of the match. they were unable to brnak ahead and grab a victory. Despite the strong outside hitting of Dan Zibton. the Irish began the day with a loss in straight sets, 21-25 and 1 S-25. 
Immediately after the loss to Lakeland. Notrn Dame was pitted Illinois State. In the first set, start­ing Irish middle Tim Goldsmith sufl'ered a groin injury that sent him to the lmnch fiJr the rest of the day, but junior Jason Gott was able to fill in and carry the load. Notm Dame dominated the young Illinois State team in straight sets. 25-1 <J and 25-20. 
The Irish then faced Wisconsin­Milwaukee and current No. 1 and two-time defending national champions Wisconsin-Oshkosh in consecutive matches. The Irish came out strong against UW­Milwaukee, but its quiek offense kept Notre Dame on iL'i heels. The Irish lost the first game, but ral­lied back in the second, winning 25-22. A small lapse caused the Irish to fall behind in the third, but they rebounded with a 15-11 win 
The Irish were greatly tested against the Titans. Notre Dame started with two straight aces, but struggled the rest of the match. 
UW-Oshkosh controlled the 
match, handing Notre Dame its 
second loss of the day, 25-22, 25­
19. 
In order to finish above .500, 
the Irish needed to dose out the 
day with consecutive victories 
against Ball State and Iowa State. 
With a strong serving attack, the 
Irish succeeded and beat Ball 
State in consecutive sets, 25-18 
and 25-21. 
In its sixth and final mateh against Iowa State, Notre Dame was eyeing a respectable finish. Behind sophomore Arthur Kinsey's defense and Ted Grossestreuer's outside hitting, the Irish gained an early lead. The Cyclones eaught firo and pro­ceednd to take the lead and dose out a first game win. With their baeks against the wall, the Irish found the intensity they needed and pushed baek against ISU. Notrn Dame closed out the final two games and the match, 20-25, 25-23, 15-12, finishing the day 4­2. 
Equestrian 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's competed in a pair of competi­tions over the weekend at the Taylor University !l-ISA Shows. 
On Saturday, Jennifer Gilardi qualified for regionals with a sec­ond place showing in novice fences, while teammate Kelley Daniels took fourth in the event. 
Katie Pietrucha finished third in the novice flat. Heather Ladue was fourth in intermediate flat and Brittany Gragg sixth in inter­mediate fences. The final Irish results saw Katrina Stewart and Laura Tiehe tie for fifth in walk­trot. 
In Sunday's show, Krista Jones was named reserve high point rider, with a pair of first places in noviee fences and intermediate flat. Ladue and Gilardi tied for third in intermediate flat, while Daniels tied Jones for first in noviee fences. 
Pietrucha and Laura Hale tied for 4th in novice flat. Catherine Germer's third place in walk-trot­garner qualified her for regionals as she tied Klosterman, one plaee behind Laura Divel's 2nd plaee. 

this semester, tune in to: 
Four:7 
Catholic Fellowship 


Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. -Nicky Anosike sank two free throws with two-tenths of a second left and No. 1 Tennessee ral­lied to beat No. 5 Rutgers 59­58 on Monday night in a rematch of last season's national championship game. 
Trailing 5S-57, Anosike grabbed an offensive rebound and was grabbed by Kia Vaughn from behind. Unclear whether the foul had come before time expired, the Hutgers beneh began to cele­brate, but officials reviewed the play and determined that the foul had been committed just before the buzzer. 
Television replays showed the game clock seemed to pause as Anosike came down with the ball and two-tenths remained on the elock, lead­ing to the controversial fin­ish. 
Anosike eamly stepped up and hit the two free throws to seal the victory. 
"It's unfortunate that those kinds of things happen," Rutgers coach C. Vivian Stringer said. ''I'm getting used to it now." 
Candace Parker had 27 
points and 10 rebounds, and Angie Bjorklund addnd 13. 
Epiphanny Prince had 21 points for Hutgers, and Essenen Carson added IS. 
The Lady Vols (22-1) enternd the second half with a 34-23 lead af'ter the Scarlet Knights (19-4) made only two field goals and two free throws in the 11 minutes before the half. 
The deficit was Hutgers' largnst of the snason. They had trailed by 10 to both Connecticut and Maryland before coming back to win both games. 
Tennessee eoaeh Pat Summitt warned her team at halftime that it <:ould happen again. 
"Hutgers is a second half team, all you have to do is look at all their comebacks this ynar," she said. 
But Tennessee went cold after the break, making only one shot from the field -a 3­pointer from Angie Bjorklund -in the first 14 minutes. 
Hutgers took a 39-3S lead on a Hashidat .Junaid layup with 10:08 to go. Vaughn's putback basket put the Scarlet Knights up 56-51 with 1:35. 

Tuesday, February 12, 2008 ihe Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
'It's showtime' for Clemens 
But Pettitte, two others won't testify in Wednesday's Mitchell Report session 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Roger Clemens and his accuser, Brian McNamee, will be the main witnesses at a House hearing on the Mitchell Report after New York Yankees pitcher Andy Pettitte and two others were dropped Monday night. 
Former Clemens teammate Chuck Knoblauch and con­victed steroids dealer Kirk Radomski also were dropped from the witness list for Wednesday's public session. One new witness was added Monday night: a lawyer who worked with former Senate majority leader George Mitchell to produce December's report on drugs in baseball. 
But all attention will be focused on Clemens, a seven­time Cy Young Award win­ner, and McNamee, his for­mer personal trainer, who alleged he injected the pitch­er with performance­enhancing drugs. 
"I guess it's showtime, isn't it?" Clemens' lead lawyer, Rusty Hardin, said in a tele­phone interview. 
Earl Ward, McNamee's lead lawyer, declined to com­ment on the changes. 
McNamee said in the Mitchell Report that he injected Clemens with steroids and human growth hormone at least 16 times in 1998, 2000 and 2001. Clemens' denials of those allegations drew the atten­tion of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
McNamee also accused Pettitte of using HGH ­something Pettitte acknowl­edged he did do for two days in 2002 to deal with an elbow injury. Before Pettitte spoke to committee lawyers under oath last week, Ward said he thought Pettitte would tell Congress he dis­cussed HGH with Clemens between the 2001 and 2002 seasons. 
With Monday's decision, 
Pettitte was spared the potentially difficult situation of having to deliver public testimony that could hurt the position of Clemens, a friend, past teammate and former workout partner. Radomski has said he had no direct contact with Clemens, and Knoblauch's knowledge in the matter appeared to be peripheral. 
Pettitte gave a sworn depo­sition last Monday, followed the next day by Clemens, and McNamee later in the week. Knoblauch, a former major leaguer who was a Yankees teammate of Clemens and Pettitte, was interviewed by committee staff last month, while Radomski had been sched­uled for a pre-hearing meet­
ing  with  the  committee  
Tuesday.  
All five  originally  were  

invited to testify Wednesday. 
"Mr. Knoblauch and Mr. Pettitte answered all the Committee's questions and their testimony at the hear­ing is not needed," commit­tee chairman Henry Waxman and ranking Republican Tom Davis said in a statement. "Mr. Clemens and Mr. McNamee have also cooper­ated with the Committee in its investigation." 
Following Pettitte's deposi­tion, his lawyers asked the committee to excuse him from the hearing, a person familiar with the talks said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the nego­tiations weren't made public. 
Pettitte's request to be excused was first reported by The New York Times on its Web site. 
Pettitte's attorney, Jay Reisinger, declined to com­ment ·after the announce­ment, while a lawyer for Radomski did not immedi­ately return a phone mes­.sage left at his office Monday night. 
''I'm not disappointed," said Knoblauch's attorney, Diana Marshall. "I know Chuck is not disappointed." 
The new witness is Charles Scheeler, a partner with Mitchell's law firm, DLA Piper. According to the firm's Web site, Scheeler mainly works in commercial litiga­tion and white collar crimi­nal defense. 
Asked about Scheeler's addition, Hardin said: "It's interesting. I look forward to hearing what he has to say." 
Clemens' camp disputes several elements of the Mitchell Report's sections about him. Clemens said he repeated under oath during his closed-door deposition what he previously had said in various settings publicly: "I've never used steroids or growth hormone." 
McNamee, for his part, arrived for his deposition with color photos of what his side says is evidence -and what Clemens' lawyers have called "manufactured" ­that was turned over to the Justice Department last month. McNamee's lawyers say the items include used needles saved for several years and that, when tested, they will prove Clemens used performance-enhancing drugs. 
While McNamee has been quiet, not speaking a word to reporters after his deposi­tion, Clemens has been criss­crossing Capitol Hill, speak­ing with nearly half of the members of the committee on a two-day tour last week. The 45-year-old pitcher planned to meet with more lawmakers Tuesday, a day before he testifies under oath at the hearing. 
Pettitte was supposed to be there, too. Now the left-ban­der is free to get ready to head to spring training. Yankees pitchers and catch­ers are to report Thursday. 
"Every witness should make the decision that's best for them," Hardin said . "Roger plans to be there and to answer every question fully and truthfully. Whatever anybody else did, that's their deal." 

NFL 
Walsh stays mum on Spygate probe 
Former Patriots assistant declines to comment 
NFL fined coach Bill Belichick

Associated Press 
$500,000, slapped the Patriots 

LAHAINA, Hawaii -The life of with a $250,000 fine and stripped a golf pro on Maui seems to fit them of this year's first-round Matt Walsh well. draft pick. 
Even with all the telephone calls Belichick handed over six tapes he's been avoiding in the last and accompanying notes, which week, since his name came up in the team said was all the material the NFL's Spygate affair, Walsh it had gathered. Then came a isn't complain-report that the ing. On a gor­Patriots videotaped geous Saturday "From Day I, I said if the Rams' walk­morning, he sat through before the
we feel there is new 
in a chair over­2002 Super Bowl,
information that's
looking the and that Walsh was Kaanapali inconsistent with involved in that Resort with an taping.
what we've been told 
easy smile on his "We were aware
[by the Patriots], I
face. of this before," And no reserve the right to Goodell said. "We answers to offer. reopen it." pursued it and Walsh is a for­weren't able to get mer assistant any information 
Roger Goodell 
coach for the that was credible. New England NFL Commissioner We were aware of 
Patriots who performed some videotaping duties for the team. A few days before the Super Bowl, Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.) asked why Walsh was not interviewed during the NFLS investigation into Spygate. 
Asked Saturday whether he'd been contacted by Specter's office ur by the NFL, Walsh smiled and said, "I really can't answer that." 
Nor would Walsh say if he was under a gag order from his attor­neys, even though that seems obvious. On Wedi,lesday, NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell men­tioned that his staff was talking with Walsh's representatives, try­ing to gauge whether Walsh had any new information to offer and if Walsh was free to talk to the league. 
Does he have info? Is he free to talk? 
"I can't comment on anything," Walsh replied. "''m really sorry, but I can't." 
Goodell reiterated at a Pro Bowl practice this week that the case against the Patriots is not closed if any more information is uncov­ered about the team videotaping opposing coaches' signals. The 

Best Value 1n To~vn CoDJ:e See Why.' 
:II" 

Indoor/ Ou:ttloor Tennis ana Has.ke:thall 
:II" 
Free Tanning 
:II" 
Hea:teJ Pool 
:II" 
Rela..zing Jacuzzi 
:II" 
Ga:teJ Co:m.m uni:ty 
:II" 

Co:m.m uni:ty Business Cen:ter 
:II" 

N~ Ap_p]ica:tio:n Fees for S:tu Jen:ts :II" Cl~e :to every:thing_ __ fa:r fro:m tu"dina:ry! 
Aptll'"flll e11 t..r.; 
1.801.1. C.l.eve.l..a:nd Rd _ South. Bend,. D1 466 3 'l 

Phone: (5'14) 2'12-81.1.0 Fax: (574) 2'12-81.1.4 """"_ rcppj _com­
some of the rumors 
and we pursued some of them and we continue that. From Day 1, I said ifwe feel there is new information that's inconsistent with what we've been told [by the Patriots], I reserve the right to reopen it." 
Does Walsh expect that to hap­pen? 
A smile, and silence. 
Is he amused by all the ques­tions being raised, or all the phone calls by the media trying to track him down? 
"Don't think I can comment on that," he said. 
Walsh did ask a reporter how long he would be in Maui, whether he was in Hawaii for the Pro Bowl, and where the reporter · was staying. He nodded approval when told which hotel was media headquarters. 
"''ve been there," he said. "Very nice place." 
As is the Kaanapali course, which will host the Wendy's Champions Skins Game Three­Tour challenge later this month featuring Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Tom Watson, Gary Player, Jay Haas, Loren Roberts, Fuzzy Zoeller and Peter Jacobsen. It's also the home course for the Golf Channel show "Big Break." 
Several times, Walsh answered the pro shop phone, but only to confirm tee times or give informa­tion about the resort. Asked how many phone messages he'd received in the last week, he once again smiled -silently. 
According to his bio on the Kaanapali Golf Web site, Walsh worked in Arena Football, for seven years with the Patriots, who won two Super Bowls in that span, and one year in NFL Europa. . 
He also trained with the U.S. Bobsled team. None of that was fodder for con­versation Saturday, either. 
Walsh was rumored to have attended last Sunday's Super Bowl, but offered no information on that. 
A<> for his future -other than giving golf lessons and playing when he gets the chance -Walsh wasn't about to speculate. 
"Do you expect to hear from Congress or the NFL or your lawyers anytime soon?" he was asked. 
"Can't say," he replied before asking tor the reporter's business card. "I have to get back to work. Thanks for coming out. I hope you enjoy Maui and the Pro Bowl." 
Tuesday, February 12, 2008
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Peters 
continued from page 20 
season, and we're looking for­ward to having her back and ready to go rwxt season," she said. 
"I just cringed," junior guard Lindsay Schrader, who missed all of last s1mson aft1~r tearing her ACL, said Sunday of Peters' injury. 
Freshman forward Becca Bruszewski said she thought the play was a freak occur­rence. not the result of any con­taet with another player. 
"It just kind of looked like she went to cut back and just went down," said Bruszewski, who was standing near Peters when she fell. 
MeGraw said losing Peters will change the team's strategy at times. 
"It changes a little bit of what we do. I think we'll probably go smaller at times," McGraw said Sunday. "And the way Becca's playing, I'm very confident in her eoming in and doing a lot of good things. It ehangos the press a little bit." 
Poters was the driving foree behind Notre Dame's full-court, man-to-man press, using her !wight and long arm·s to disrupt opposing oiTenses. McGraw said thn prnss is bneoming loss o!Tec­tive for Notrn Dame, however. 
"At this point in the season, to am~. have f~gu.red out.. 1~ur press, she S<lld Sunday. 1 he half-court defense was really a lot better than our press tonight. We'll be able to get a good ganw plan without her." McCraw looked at the injury as an opportunity for bench 
players to increase their roles. 
"Part of the growing proeess in this game, and in life, is deal­ing with obstaeles that arc put in your path," McGraw said in the release. "This presents an opportunity for some of our other players to step in and contribute down the streteh in the Big East conference season and I believe they will passion­ately embrace that ehallenge and take advantage of it." 
The likely candidates, McGraw said Sunday, are Bruszewski and senior center Melissa D'Amico. 
"It's a great opportunity for [Bruszewski I to move to the perimeter a little bit more," McGraw said. "And it's a great opportunity for [D'Amico], and [she I has been waiting for her opportunity patiently since the beginning of the year." 
D'Amico, who averaged 20.4 minutes per game and eight points per game last season, averages 9.4 minutes per game and 3.3 points per game this season. The 6-foot-5 center has only started 10 games this sea­son after starting 29 of Notre Dame's 32 games last season. 
Bruszewski was optimistic about the prospect of inereased playing time, and McGraw was confident in Bruszewski's abili­ties to eontribute. 
"She gets a body on somebody and she does a good job of box­ing out," McGraw said Sunday. "[Panthers center Marcedes] Walker was hurting us early, we weren't rebounding and I felt like she was the one that could come in and make a differ­ence." 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd.edu 

to joke around with Peoples, ''I've seen it before," Ayers especially his 36.7 three­said. "lie's done it in prac­
Tea01 

point percentage. tice. I was glad he got to do continued from page 20 "We tease him all tho it in a ganie. He has that time," Jackson said. "He's long stretch with the left and Peoples. Zeller finished with Big Bear, that's his name. lie it's a powerful dunk. I was 11 points while Peoples fin­jokes with us all the time but glad he brought it out." ished with seven, including we joke with him, too." Zeller also stepped outside two free throws with 18 sec­On Saturday, Peoples did and drained two 3-pointers onds left to put Notre Dame hit a three, but at crucial up three and keep Marquette the shot prob-times to pre­from taking the lead. ably would've v e n t
"Everybody said I
"They were huge," fallen short if Marquette McAlarney said. "Luke Z., in not for a looked really calm, from cutting the first half was great, Marquette into Notre
but I was nervous 
grabbing rebounds, hitting goaltending Dame's lead
inside. I knew I had
threes. He was amazing. violation. Even late in the Jonathan, those two free though he got to make them though, first half and throws were huge. That's a credit for a so I took my time and early in the lot of pressure for somebody made shot, the second half.
made both ofthem. " 
coming off the bench and he fact that Irish coach knocked them down." Peoples need­Mike Brey said 
Peoples said his heart was ed a Jonathan Peoples he liked how racing when he stepped up Marquette Irish guard Zeller has to the line and the Joyce defender to been playing Center erowd became quiet illegally con-defensively as he took his shots. test the shot won't spare him this season. 
"I was really nervous," grief from his teammates. "We've sketched a good Peoples said. "Everybody "He's a little bit of a whip­role for him to have suc­said I looked really ealm, but . ping boy, but he's a great cess," Brey said. "He's a I was nervous inside. I knew player," McAlarney said. "I confident guy coming and I had to make them though, think people are shocked by shooting the ball, but I love so I took my how good of a how he's playing defense time and made player he is and rebounding right now both of them." because he and he's handling the bas­
"{Peoples is] a little
Peoples may comes in kind ketball pretty good. lie's have been bit ofa whipping boy, of hunched moving differently, he's con­nervous, but over, and he's fident, he's going for it."
but he's a 
Ayers knew he so tight. Zeller said everybody feels
great player. " 
would knock almost like comfortable with his role, down the free he's an old and that has only helped the throws. Kyle McAiarney man, but we team improve over the last 
"He lives for don't win the month.
Irish guard 
the crunch game without "We all have our roles, we time," Ayers him." just get out and play, and we said. "He's Z e I I e r just go for it and we all played a lot big games in scored most of his points in know what we can do," high school and played a lot the first half and got the Zeller said. of good minutes for us here." Joyce Center in a frenzy 
Sophomore guard Tory when he threw down a mon­Contact Chris Hine at Jackson said the team likes strous left-handed jam. chine@nd.edu 
Mustangs 
continued from page 20 
in the nation, lost to SMU sophomon~ Hobin Fahg1H1 in straight sots. Fahgen took the first sPt 6-2 in eonvindng fash­ion. After lmtding for mud1 of the second set, llelgoson could not withstand a late rally from Fahgon. who took tlw snt h-4. 
SMU senior Adolfo Solares followed up his tnammato's win by defeating Notre Dame fresh­man David Anderson in a dose match. 7-5, 7-5. 
Stahl look llw rwxt point for tlw Irish in a gritty match against SMU sophomorn Chris llooshyar. ArtPr winning tlw first set 6-4. Stahl lost the see­ond set 2-(l. llowfwer. hn rnbounded to takl' llw third set h-4 to earn tlw win. 
SMU took the rwxt singlos point as senior All~x Skrypko ddeatnd Irish sonior Andrew Hoth. Hoth took the first sot (>­
4. but Skrypko won tho noxt two sots 7-5, 7-5. 
With tho team scores tied at :{-:l. the match came down to l'arbhu for the second straight day. Parbhu fpll bnhind 6-5 in deciding third set. However, Feb 15-17 to compete in the the first set against SMU senior Parbhu dominated the set, as ITA National Indoor David Kuczer. but he won the he jumped out to a 5-0 lead en Championships. next set to force a tinbroak, routn to a 6-1 win that clinched which l'arbhu won 7-5. Kuczor the match for tho Irish. Contact Mike Gotimer at won the noxt set 6-4 to foree a Notre Dame travels to Seattle mgotimer@nd.edu 

doubles match," Louderbaek said.
ITA 

The team will look to. bounee continued from page 20 
back as it prepares for a streteh 
of three games in four days 

for the Irish eame Friday over starting Thursday. No. 13 William & Mary, 4-3. "We worked a lot !Monday]. With the mateh tied 3-3, Keley and we will ]Tuesday] on our Tefft came through with a doubles since we didn't win a tough win in sin-doubles point gles to clinch this weekend." Notre Dame's Louderback only match win "/Buck] always plays said. 
of the weekend. fair and hard. She's The high l1wel "Kelcy was of competition
always on an even
playing a girl taxed and tested with a big serve, keel and doesn't lose the Irish. but she made a her temper. " "We got a lot returns, stretch right broke her [oppo­now whero we
Jay Louderback
nent's] serve, play a lot of' and played a Irish coach rnatcht\s so great tiebrcak," today we had a Loudnrback . short practice," said. Louderback 
The glaring weakness was said. "Whon there are so many doubles play in Notrn Dame's good teams and everyone is so losses Friday to No. 6 Georgia, dose in ability, there's a lot of 4-2, and Sunday to No. 11 3-sotters. They all compete so Baylor, 5-1. well." 
The Irish dropped the doubles In the end, the Irish did not point in all three matehes. Buek win the championship or the and Tefft. the No. 3 doubles consolation bracket, but the pair in the n&tion, lost for the experienee will prove helpful first time this year against come tournament time. William & Mary on Friday. The For now, the team prepares pair lost again to Baylor on for its home match Thursday Saturday. against No. 48 Ohio State. 
"They're playing top ten teams, and the match with Contact Dan Masterton at Baylor was just a really good dmastert@nd.edu 


Proprietors 
Warren & Linda 

Jirsl Ortjinal':Pizza in .7oamI Since 1951 
Specializing in Italian Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00PM-11:00 PM Fri.· Sat: 5:00PM· 1:00AM 537 North St. Louis • South Bend, lN 'i74-233-14M $2 coupon; dine-in only; limit 1 per table; expires 2/29 


Tuesday, February 12, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
!!J) DORM PARTY HASN'T H6ATet:> UP YeT. :I:T'S MOSTC...Y SALJSAS.6. •t>I2.1NK A S661l AND WAIT-->-' ~ OFF CAMPUS---~->$ 
'?) PUNC!-1\St:> XN FAC.liHH 
•cllY C...IKI!! A C...ITT!..e S.IJi!!..->.1. t~.~~;±'f-...>;.t 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

JJ1@JJJIDr1rE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
It's all mine as far
one letter to each square, 

as the eye c.an see 
to form four ordinary words. 
NOGGI 
j

() ( I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~~;~l 

t ttJ BASURD 
) (J ] 
wvvw.jumble.com

tBOPHIS -I Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

J I I t J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

A [II]"[ I I IIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: MOTIF TANGY IMBUED SATIRE Answer: When she refused to pay for her portrait, he turned into a -"MAD" ARTIST 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
Across  37 Vintage autos  63 "The World of  
"Mamma Mia"  38 Kind of club  Suzie  
group  that's a hint to  64Sierra_,  
5 Play chauffeur 1 0 Money to help one through a tight spot 14 Either of two  this puzzle's theme 39 Prefix with lock or knock 40_-cone  Africa 65 Certain vanity plate for husband-and· wife cars  
directing brothers 15 All gone, as dinner 16 Mayberry boy 17 Daydreamer's state 20 Directional suffix 21 A choir may stand on it 22 Good thing 23 Sailor, colloquially 24 Digit in binary code 25 Joseph Conrad novella 34 Edward who wrote the play "The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia" 35 Pastor's flock 36 Rebellious  41 Colonial settlement 42 Bobby Orr, notably 43 Vocational school instruction 46 Superannuated 47 Ring outcome, briefly 48_pants (multipocketed wear) 51 Room plus. in a hotel 54 "Don't 57 Common employment benefit 60 Cleveland's lake 61 Enlarge a house  Down Suffer from a charley horse 2 Transvaal trekker 3 Vanilla 4 'What else?" 5 ...Meet the Fockers" co-star, 2004 6 Hamelin's problem 7 "··--····· Jury"(Spillane novel) 8 Zig or zag 9 S.A.S.E., e.g. 10 Relax, as rules 11 Berkeley Breathed comic strip 12 Lieutenant  Puzzle by Adam G. Peri 33 Police con  48 Stick of gum,  54 A couple of  
Turner  62 Men-only  13 Fit snugly  38 Victuals  e.g.  chips, maybe  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  18 Really hot under the collar 19 Like Lincoln, in physique 23 Uno+ dos 24 Straight: Prefix 25 Hard on the ears  39 Florence's river 41 Letter -shaped opening for a bolt 42 Harley rider 44 Links bend  49 Prefix with -postale 50 Common Seattle forecast 51 Slaw or fries, e.g. 52 Reverse, on a PC  55 Injury reminder 56 Purchases for a shindig 58 _ 9000, sci-fi computer  
26"Maria (Dorsey tune)  45 Bring into harmony  53 ''The shoe _ the other foot"  59 Bit of air pollution  
27  to mankind  

28 Taken wing For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 29 Intimidate 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
30 Station with a 
show Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
31 The blahs past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
32 Participated temporarily, as Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young with a band solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TinS DAY: Kelly Rowland, 27; Mike Shinoda, 31; Jenni­fer Aniston. 39; Sheryl Crow, 46 
Happy Birthday: This will be a great year if you put your imagination to work and follow your dreams. You will have the stamina, staying power and determination to see whatever you pursue through to the end. As long as you are careful in love and don't overreact to situations, the year ahead looks bright. Your numbers are 6, 11, 17, 27, 43,44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Emotional as you might be today, you are better off not making rash statements or taking a risk where your work or income are concerned. Concentrate on formulating what you want to do. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't let your emotions push you into something that may be beyond you today. Do what feels right, not what you think will impress others. Small scale doesn't mean that you can't grow into something big. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Whether you change jobs, pick up part time work or send out resumes, it will help you challenge yourself to strive for more. You will be able to convince others to support you or give you a chance. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Size down, slow down and focus on what's important. Emotions will skyrocket if you take on too much. Stay in control and an arm's length away from anyone trying to push you the wrong way. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You're the boss, so take charge, set your standards and goals and put your ideas into play. Use your creative imagination and don't be afraid to del­egate what you want done. Generosity will play a role. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love, social activity and a little networking will serve you well. You can entice the people you play with to take a closer look at you and, if you are single, attract someone who will want to get to know you personally as well as professionally. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A sophisticated look combined with an intelligent approach to the things you want to do and yon will have enough support to actually accomplish your goals. Share your ideas and socialize with other creative people. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let your emotions get involved in what you need to accomplish today or you will fall short of your expectations. Someone you are close to may throw a wrench into the mix, leading you in directions you should probably avoid. 3 stars 
SAGI1TARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You've got everyone exactly where you want them to be so make your move and don't look back. You can expect things to get better at home if you are honest with yourself and the people you live with. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may take you by surprise, causing you to waffle and make a costly mistake today. Keep your guard up and don't allow anyone to burden you with responsibilities that aren't yours to bear. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talks will lead to solutions today. Making money may be an issue for you but, ifyou think about what you like to do and what you are good at, you will come up with a way to fatten your wallet. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love, generosity and doing for others will bring you sat­isfaction and make you look good in the eyes of others. By being responsible in your actions and caring for those in need, you will find peace in your own heart. Romance is available so set the stage. 3 stars · 
Birthday Baby: You have great ideas, a good work ethic and an insatiable curiosity. 
You love trying new things and helping others. You are a determined competitor who can always find a solution. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consul­tations 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 12, 2008 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Peters out for season 
Torn ACL ends year for freshman forward 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Freshman forward 
Devereaux Peters will miss the 
rmnainder of the season after 
tearing lwr ant11rior cruciate 
ligamnnt IACU in her left knee 
during No. 16 Notre Dame's Sl­
66 win Sunday over then-No. 
15 Pittsburgh, the women's 
basketball program said in a 
press release Monday after­
noon. 
While under her own basket with the ball early in the sec­ond half, Peters collapsed, apparently untouched, and grabbed her kn1w, writhing in pain. 
Team oflicials helped Peters ofT the floor and into the locker room. She didn't put any weight on her left leg, and later returned with crutches and a full-length leg brace. Peters had an MHl Monday morning and team orthopedist Dr. Frnd Ferlic confirmed the injury, the release said. 
Irish coach MuiTet McGraw said in the release she is confi­dent that Peters will be healthy enough to play next season. 
"We expect she will bounce baek from this injury with the same determination and desire that she has already shown this 
see PETERS/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish use tea111 effort inMU\Vin 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame played Marquette on Jan. 12, sopho­more Luke llarangody scored 29 points while the rest of the Irish combined for only 37 points, and the Golden Eagles pummeled the Irish 92-66. 
When the two tl~ams met on Saturday, and Marquette clamped down on Harangody, the rest of the Irish rose to the occasion and lifted No. 20 Notre Dame to its eighth Big East victory 86-S3. 
"Coach just has a lot of con­fidence in the eight guys that are playing," forward Hyan Ayers said after the game. "Today, we saw how danger­ous each guy was. We have balanced scoring, each guy is picking it up. I know Kyle and Luke have been doing a lot of the scoring, with myself. [forward] Luke Zeller, and [guard Jonathan) Peoples coming off the bench giving us a spark." 
Five players finished with double figures and Ayers fin­ished with nine points, but guard Kyle McAlarney said the Irish couldn't have won 
see TEAM/page 18 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Da111e tops SMU, extends -win streak to 5 
By MIKE GOTIMER SponsWriwr 
In a tightly eontestPd match, No. <J Notm l>anw defeated No. 46 Soutlwrn MPthodist 4-:{ at tlw J<:ck TPnnis Pavilion on Sunday. Tlw tPam extemled its winning streak to five matdws and improwd to 7-1 overall in dualmatdws this sPason. 
Coming into tlw match, Irish lwad coach Bobby Bayliss nxpndnd it to bP dos1~. 
"They lost to Tnxas 5-2 narlinr in thP snason, and TPxas is No. :i or No. (, in thP nation," eoach Bayliss said. "Wp havnn't s1wn t.lwm in two yPars." 
Notrn Danw started out fast by winning tlw doublos point for tho sncond consPcutivP day. Irish senior AndrPw Hoth and frnshman StPVPn llavnns won Not r11 D a nu~ 's first do ubI 11 s matrh S-5. Shortly tlwn~aftPr. thn snrond Irish pair of' sPnior Slwnva l'arbhu and junior BrPtt IIPigPson withstood an SMU rally to win tlwir match S-4. 
After Parbhu and llldgeson took a commanding 5-0 lnad, SMU s1mior Alex Skrypko and 

< 
sophomore Hobin Fahgen fought hack to make it a 6-4 match. but Parbhu and Jlolgnson won the last two gamos to seal the win. 
Notrn Damn's final doubles pair of f'rPshman Tyler LJavis and junior Santiago Montoya found thcmselv11s in a tight 5-4 contest. but pull11d away late for an S-5 win. 
The Irish start11d out slowly in singles play, but they rallied with help from gutsy perform­ances by Parbhu and freshmen Dan Stahl and Ilavens. 
"It is early and we certainly are still young," Coach Bayliss said. "The freshmen have shown grnat poise undor pres­surn." 
Tlw Irish picked up their first singlns win when llavens d11f'eated Mustangs senior Olvind Alvnr in straight sets. After taking a elose first sot, llav11ns dominated Alver in the sneond set and shut him out 6­0. 
Notrn Damn lost the n11xt two points to SMU. Singles playnr Brott 1\elgeson, ranked No. 11 
see MUSTANGS/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Senior recognized by ITA 
Coaches give Buck sportsmanship award 
By DAN MASTERTON 
Sports Writer 
Though the No. 19 Irish (3-4) dropped two of' three matches this weekend at the ITA National Team Indoor Championships, they did not come home empty-handed. 
Notre Dame senior Brook Buck beeame the third player in school history to win the ITA Sportsmanship Award. The 16 coaches at the tournament voted on the award, which is given to one player who demonstrates outstanding sportsmanship and exemplilies the spirit of collegiate tennis. 
Irish head coach Jay Louderback was proud of his team's captain. 
"She always plays fair and hard. She's always on an even kePI and doesn't lose her tem­per," Louderback said. "Even having won the national indoors in doubles !last yoarl. sh11's still very humble." 
The lone vietory on the court 

see ITA/page 18 








