
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 109 MONDAY, MARCH 31,2008 
ND female reports sexual assault 
NDSP says case not connected to recent alleged rape on campus, has not found suspect 

By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
A female Notre Dame stu­dent reported being sexually assaulted between Pasquerilla West and Siegfried Halls at 2 a.m. Sunday, director of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) Phil Johnson said. 
Johnson said this case is not related to another sexual assault reported to NDSP on March 23 in which a female student claimed she was raped in her residence hall by an acquaintance. 
"We are still investigating that case, but there is no rea­son to assume that these 
events are in any way con­nected," Johnson said. 
Johnson said NDSP did not know the name of the suspect in Sunday's assault. 
According to an e-mail NDSP sent to students Sunday, the female told NDSP the suspect followed her and walked with her from West quad to North quad and asked her questions. When she declined to give the sus­pect her telephone number, he allegedly grabbed her by the hair, held her against the wall and fondled her near the northwest corner of Siegfried hall. 
The suspect fled the scene 
see ASSAULTIpage 4 
A student said she was assaulted outside of Siegfried and Pasquerilla West at 2 a.m. Sunday. 



Administration takes part in Earth Hour 
Lights on Golden Dome, Hesburgh Library turned off to raise environmental awareness 
effort to decrease the city's 
carbon emissions, according 
to AustraliaEnergy.com. 
Businesses as well as indi­
viduals committed to the 
hour-long effort to raise 
awareness about energy 
conservation, and to help find a way to reduce their . impact on the environment, · according to EarthHour.org. Sophomore Mark McGuire 
learned about Earth Hour 
when in Chicago at a 
restaurant that advertised 
the effort, he said. He 
returned to campus and 
researched it, hoping to 
enact something similar at 
see LIGHTS/page 4 

By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame experienced a sight unfamiliar to campus Saturday night -a majestic, stately, but unlit Golden Dome. 
In accordance with a proj­ect known as Earth Hour, the University turned off the lights of the Golden Dome and the library mural Saturday night from 8 to 9 p.m. 
Earth Hour, a global event organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature, began last March 31 in Sydney, Australia in an 


University media win ICPA awards 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer won five awards in four categories at the Indiana Collegiate Press Association (!CPA) awards ceremony Saturday held at Indiana State University. 
Other Notre Dame publica­tions represented at !CPA included The Dome, named second-best yearbook, Scholastic, which tied for second place for Best News Magazine and The Juggler, which won best literary mag­azine. 
Two Observer sports writ­ers captured first place hon­ors. 
Current Editor-in-Chief 
Chris Hine won first place in the Best Sports Column cate­gory for "Heslife's actions not consistent," which com­pared and questioned the University's suspensions of former football player Derrell Hand for charges of soliciting a prostitute and current basketball player Kyle McAlarney for charges of marijuana possession. 
Current Managing Editor Jay Fitzpatrick won first place in the Best Sports Feature category for "Football for his family," a profile of Irish safety David Bruton and his son, Jaden. 
see ICPA/page4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Phones collected for soldiers 
By MARGARET MIRSHAK 
News Writer 
Administrative assistant for the political science depart­ment Elizabeth Tucker began collecting used cell phones in conjunction with the organi­zation Cell Phones for Soldiers as a way to show her gratitude for U.S. troops overseas. So far, she has col­lected 20 phones. 
Cell Phones for Soldiers, which collects old cell phones and sends them to a Michigan-based recycling center, distributes pre-paid calling cards to soldiers oversees in order to defray the massive costs of overseas calls. 
"It is a good way to give something back to those who sacrifice for us. It helps sol­diers stay in touch with fami­ly back home," Tucker said. 
Tucker, who is married to a military veteran, came across the Cell Phones for Soldiers Web site and wanted to start a local collection point for the Michiana area. She packages the collected cell phones and sends them to HeCellular, Inc. in Michigan. 
Tucker said recycling cell phones is also beneficial to the environment. Americans replace nearly 130 million cell phones each year, filling landfills with discarded phones and producing tons of solid waste. 
see PHONES/page 4 

SMC alum discusses NWP tactics 
Taylor claims suffragette protesters innovated new political practices 
By SARAH MAYER News Writer 
Saint Mary's alumnus and curator of the Sewali-Belmont House & Museum Daniello Taylor discussed the protest tactics used by the National Women's Party (NWP) during the suffrage movement in the early 20th century, including peacefully picketing the White House, in her lecture Saturday at the Science Hall. 
Sewall-Belmont House & Museum displays permanent exhibits of women's suffrage and equal rights memorabilia in Washington D.C. 
According to Taylor. the strategies used by the NWP now serve as models protes­
tors today. 
"Their tactics have evolved to be very relevant in today's society," she said. 
The NWP was "the first group to peacefully picket the White House," Taylor said. 
Over 2,000 picketers were arrested during nationwide demonstrations. They were also the first group to demand status as political prisoners in 
U.S. history, Taylor said. 
In addition, women attempt­ed to dispel the image of "dainty, Victorian figures," Taylor said. Figures such as Joan of Arc became symbols of suffragist parades. 
The party also utilized the media, establishing a weekly newspaper called "The Suffragist," to guarantee cov­erage of women's issues. 
Political cartoons in the newspaper portrayed women as bound and gagged by Uncle Sam, Taylor said. 
After 1920, when women earned the right to vote, party leaders focused attention on the Equal Bights Amendment. 
The party also developed the "Congressional Card Index," which listed the names of the congressmen's favorite restau­rants, their wives' names and their positions on women's rights. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Women's Studies and History Departments. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Me arld 111y 
SCO~Jter 

l>ncmnber 2H. 2007: I pulled up to the 
I >upagn Omter fi)r Surgery to undergo a 
bunionectomy on my right lbot, surgical 
procedure to remove a bunion. A bunion, 
contrary to popular belief, is not excess 
skin on my loot or a variation or a wart. 
My lrinnds at Wikipedia define it as "a 
structural delilfmity of the bones and the 
joint bntwonn the lilot and big toe, and 
may be painful." 
Basieally, I've had bunions on both of my 
foet sinee I was 15, but it wasn't until col­
logo that the excess walking finally causPd 
the pain to be too much. 
.January 14, 200H: I remember the day 
ba<:k to sehool perti:~etly. My parents pulled 
into tl1e NDSP parking lot to pick up my 
eandy apple red #4 
scooter. little did I Eugenia Alfonzo 
know how mueh 
tlmt seooter would 
chango my outlook Sports Writer on everything. My scooter and I have bmm through a lot, I mean we've last­od 3 months together, that's longer than most Frosh-0 relationships. However, it hasn't been totally easy, our relationship hw; hit a couple of ruugh pat<:hes. For exampin, one lime I woke up in the middle of' the night with erupting fracture blisters that caused me to go home in the middle of'day and u~.n one of'my preeious gym skips. My seooter wasn't really involved, but it was still sad leaving it plugged in the Pangborn lobby. ThPn there was that time that I W<L'> just scooting my way to I>PAC lilf my F'IT d<L'>S, wlum all of' a sudden I hoard a pop and my scooter immediately swm""V<1d olrtlw road. It turnnd out that one of tho tires popp11d and eausnd me to be late to my Tuesday night scmening. The only upside to that eVfmt happnrmd when NDSI' came to pick my debilitated scooter up at Pangborn. I am told that the one NDSI' car acddpntally bumpnr kissed the othnr while trying to back up into the Pangborn staircasn. It was apparnntly hilarious, I W<L'> sad I missed it. There's also the many times that my seooter has skiddod on icy sidewalks which have caused sevnral near-crash experi­ences. Luckily it hasn't been anything too bad. I rnally can't complain though, I would have been lost without my scooter during these pa<>t throe months. One thing I have noticed is that the handicapped doors wmetimes don't open when you press thn button (going into Hm:kors, right side ol'the entrance under the Main Building, sometimes DeBartolo on northwest door.) li tlmn have the choice bntwoen waiting for someone to open it or trying to maneuver it myself, which is quite dillkult.. llow<wer, the first 1:hoice has lod me to realize how nice the people arc here. The point of' this rather long column is to say thanks f{lf these pa'>t threo months. Thanks to overyone who ever opened the door for rno, held the DeBartolo elevator li1r mn and not getting mad when I just had to go to the floor, whoever filled up the hugn potholes on that Hoad between South and Wost Quad, NDSP and Health Services li1r letting injured students be mobile dur­ing recovery, and the nico ladies at South I>ining !Jail who had to put up with my indecision to get a pizza or make a salad. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those (lthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Hugenia !llfonzo at ea(f'onzo({l.lnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives br the highest standards of journalism at all times. 'We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can 
corn.~cr our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU FEEL ABOUT NOTRE DAME MAKING IT TO THE FROZEN FOUR? 




Nicole Allen  Rebecca Bauman  Morgan Schulz  Danny Nolan  
freshman PW  junior Cavanaugh  junior Howard  senior Sarin  
"It's good that  "Quack! Quack!  '7 think it's great  "Well, ifwe  
at least one of  Quack! Quack!"  because I'm from  can't have a  
our teams is  Colorado and  good football  
doing well this  that's where  team ... "  
year.  they're playing."  


JESSICA LEE/The Observer 

Hawaiian Club member Kehau Meyer places a leis on a woman as she enters the 2008 Hawaiian club luau Sunday night at Stepan Center. Several students' parents traveled to campus from Hawaii for the celebration. 
OFFBEAT 
Missing pastor found in strip club 
HIVEHSIDE, Ohio ­Police say a pastor who was reported missing from his home in western New York has been found at an Ohio strip club. 
A police officer patrolling the K.C. Lounge parking lot Friday morning in the Dayton suburb of Riverside spotted out-of-state license plates on 46-year-old Craig Rhodenizer's car. 
The FBI and New York authorities had been searching for Rhodenizer, who disappeared Wednesday after telling his wife he was getting his computer fixed at Best Buy. He is the pastor of a church in Lyndonville, N.Y. 

Detective Matt Sturgeon said Rhodenizer was dis­oriented when confronted by police and said he felt "emotionally guilty." 
Man wakes up after night of drinking in garbage truck MUNCIE, Ind. -William 
M. Bowen woke up after a night of drinking with friends and realized he was inside a commercial trash­collection truck full of waste. 
The driver had just emp­tied a commercial trash bin into his truck and was about to activate its com­pactor when he heard Bowen screaming. 
"He looked up and this gentleman was standing out the top of our truck," said Larry Green, market safety supervisor for the Humpke waste disposal company. Green said the only thing Bowen said to the driver was that he was cold. 
"This gentleman was extremely intoxicated," he said. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LIJ 
::c 
!ci: 
LIJ 
•• $ 6
== 
..... 
4$ ••
< 

CJ ...I 0 HIGH 61 HIGH 55 HIGH 49 HIGH 47 LOW 55 LOW 50 LOW 28 LOW 32 





Andy Bulso  Jeremy Thornton  
junior Alumni  law student off-campus  
"It's pretty cool."  "I would have preferred it if they'd made it to the Final Four. "  

IN BRIEF 
Stanley Wells will deliver his lecture entitled "Sex and Literature in Shakespeare's Time" today at 5:00p.m. in Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Joan Neal ,Rev. Cyprian Consiglio and Cardinal Francis George of Chicago will deliver lectures as part of a series entitled "Christ is Risen! So Now What?" today. The three will speak at 4:00p.m., 7:30p.m. and 9:30p.m. respec­tively in the LaFortune Student Center ballroom. 
The Notre Dame softball team will play Ball State at 5:00p.m. Tuesday at Ivy Field. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Western Michigan at 5:05 p.m. Tuesday at Eck Baseball Stadium. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform in its Spring Concert featuring pianist Piiivi Ekroth in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. Wednesday. 
The film "Blood Diamond," which tells the story of a the diamond trade in Sierra Leone, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team will play Ball State at 
4:00 p.m. Friday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURDAY FRIDAY 
~·•••
... 


HIGH 50 HIGH 48 LOW 35 LOW 34 
Atlanta 61 I 56 Boston 47 I 43 Chicago 59 I 43 Denver 47 I 27 Houston 82 I 69 Los Angeles 65 I 48 Minneapolis 33 I 29 New York 52 I 48 Philadelphia 55 I 51 Phoenix 79 I 56 Seattle 48 I 32 St. Louis 69 I 50 Tampa 83 I 65 Washington 48 I 32 
Monday, March 31, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Missing soldier's remains found 
DNA test confirms identity of 20-year-old private captured in 2004 
Associated Press 
BATAVIA, Ohio -The father of a soldier listed as missing-cap­tured in Iraq since 2004 said Sunday that the military had informed him that his son's remains had been found. 
Keith Maupin said an Army general told him DNA testing had identified the remains of his son. Sgt. Keith Matthew Maupin, or "Matt" as he was commonly known. He said the Army didn't say how or where in Iraq his son's remains were discovered, only that officials found a shirt similar to the one his son was wearing at the time of his disap­pearance. 
"My heart sinks, but I know they can't hurt him anymore," Maupin said, speaking in the sol-. dier's hometown near suburban Cincinnati. 
The Army was continuing its investigation, he said. 
Lt. Lee Packnett. an Army public affairs officer in Washington, confirmed that the Maupins were notified Sunday that their son's remains had been identified. Packnett said an official statement about the iden­tification would be released Monday. 
Matt Maupin was a 20-year­old private first class when he was captured April 9. 2004, after his fuel convoy, part of the 724th Transportation Company, was ambushed west of Baghdad. 
A week later. the Arab televi­
sion network Al-Jazeera aired a videotape showing Maupin sit­ting on the lloor surrounded by five masked men holding auto­matic rifles. 
That June, Al-Jazeera aired another tape purporting to show a U.S. soldier being shot. But the dark and grainy tape showed only the back of the victim's head and not the actual shoot­ing. 
The Maupins refused to believe it was their son, and the Army had listed him as missing­captured. The Maupins lobbied hard for the Army to continue listing their son as missing-cap­tured. fearing that another des­ignation would undermine efforts to find him. 
Keith Maupin said the Army told him early on that there was only a 50 Ribbon Support Center in Batavia. an office they used to package thousands of boxes of donated snacks and toiletries for shipment to soldiers in Iraq. 

"It hurts," Carolyn Maupin said of her son's death. "After you go through almost four years of hope, and this is what happens, it's like a let down. so I'm trying to get through that right now." 
Two U.S. soldiers remain miss­ing in action in Iraq. Ahmed Qusai al-Taayie, a 41-year-old Iraqi-born reserve soldier from Ann Arbor, Mich., was abducted while visiting his Iraqi wife on Oct. 23, 2007, in Baghdad. Capt. Michael Speicher, a Navy pilot, has been missing since the 1991 
Persian Gulf War. 
Matt Maupin 
graduated from 
percent. chance his son would be found alive.  "My heart sinks, but I know they can't hurt  Glen Este High School. just east of Cincinnati, in  
He said he doesn't hold  him anymore."  2001 and attend­ed the University  
the Army responsible for his son's death.  Keith Maupin soldier's father  of Cincinnati for a year before join­ing the Army  
but that he did  Reserves.  ·  
hold the Army  Dan Simmons,  
responsible for  the athletic direc­ 

bringing his son home. tor at Glen Este, remembered 
"I told them when we'd go up Maupin as a quiet but hard­to the Pentagon, whether he working backup player on the walks off a plane or is carried school's football team. off, you're not going to leave him "Matt was a sellless kid on the in Iraq like you did those guys in football field," Simmons said. Vietnam," Maupin said. "He did whatever the coaches 
Keith Maupin and his ex-wife. told him. He wasn't a starter, but Carolyn. held a candlelight vigil he made the other kids play Sunday night outside the Yellow harder." 
French architeet 
wins Pritzker prize 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Jean Nouvel, the French...architect whose hyper-modern buildings have been acclaimed for their eclectic nature and departure from tradition, has won the 2008 Pritzker Architecture Prize, it was announced Sunday. 
Nouvel joins Frank Gehry, Tadao Ando and I.M. Pei in receiving the top honor in the field in recognition of his high­rises, museums and perform­ance halls around the world. 
"I think they understood very well that I fight for specific architecture against generic architecture," Nouvel said by phone from his office in Paris. "Every project is an adventure." 
Nouvel, 62, became the sec­ond Pritzker laureate to be cho­sen from France after Christian de Portzamparc, the 1994 recipient. 
A formal ceremony will be held in June at the Library of Congress in Washington. Nouvel will receive a $100,000 grant and a bronze medallion. 
The PrHzker jury of archi­tects. critics, academics and others praised Nouvel for his "persistence, imagination, exu­berance, and, above all, an insatiable urge for creative experimentation." 
Nouvel said his structures reflect time, place and occu­
pants rather than simply adher­ing to stylistic dogma or histori­cal precedent. 
"I think every site, every pro­gram, has a right to a specific work. to a complete involve­ment of the architect," he said. "I am always researching the missing piece of the puzzle, and I like to analyze the site and conditions and give my answer after." 
Among the 200 projects sin­gled out by the Pritzker jury were Arab World Institute in Paris, which is festooned with motor-controlled apertures to control natural light, and Guthrie Theater, a boxy struc­ture in Minneapolis with exteri­or screens that show scenes from past performances at the storied playhouse. 
Currently planned by Nouvel are a tower alongside New York's Museum of Modern Art that cuts a jagged profile to a height comparable to the Chrysler Building. and a nar­row condo building dubbed the "Green Blade" in the Century City area of Los Angeles with verdant gardens visible behind its glass walls. 
"He is an architect who is really always pushing the enve­lope, whose work is uneven ­all of us agree on that -but his successes are so spectacular," said architectural historian and author Victoria Newhouse, a Pritzker juror. 
EARLY ADMISSION 

DON'T BE LEFT BEHIND AS OTHERS STUDY IN LONDON IN 2009 APPLY NOW AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF 
EARLYADMISSION 
AND ASSURE YOUR PLACE FOR 2009! 
SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION BY APRIL 5, 2008 FOR THE 2009 PROGRAMME AND YOUR COMPLETED FILE WILL BE REVIEWED AND A DECISION WILL BE MADE IN JUNE 2008 
APPLY ON-LINE VIA THE INTERNATIONAL STUDIES WEBSITE OR FILL OUT A HARDCOPY APPLICATION AND RETURN IT TO THE LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME OFFICE 
CONTACT: Liz Reagan 305 Brownson Hall 631-0622 Reagan.9@nd.edu 
AssatJtlt 
continued from page 1 
on foot once the female informed him she was calling NDSP. The victim then returned to her residence hall. 
There is no evidence sug­gesting the two were acquaintances, Johnson said, or whether alcohol was involved. The case was not classified as a '"rape, but as a sexual assault," Johnson said. 
All the available informa-

ICPA 
continued from page 1 
Former AssisLant Managing Editor and 2006 Notre Dame graduate Hobby Griffin won second place in the Best Sports News Story category for "University suspends McAlarney," which detailed the University's suspension of McAlarney and included reaction to the suspension from McAlarney's mother, Janice. 
Former Editor-in-Chief 


continued from page 1 
"Hat.her than throw Ia cell phonn) away in a landfill, donating it can help soldiers and the environment," Tucker said. 
Cell Phones for Soldiers also eollnets nlectronic cell phone accessories such as power supplies and batteries. 
Since the beginning of Cell 


continued from page 1 
the University. 
"Whnn I heard that Earth Hour was an international event and inducted great landmarks such as the Sears Tower and Wrigley Field, I thought that we should do something here at Notre 
Dame," McGuire said.  
McGuire,  who  lives  in  
Keough  Hall,  said  he  
dnscribed the  project to  his  

rector. Fr. P e t e McCormick, and con­vinced him to turn off the dorm's lights. 
lie then told junior Luke McCormick about Earth llour and the pair deeided to convince the University to take aetion. 
The two contacted Director of 
Utilities Paul Kempf Friday afternoon asking the University to turn off the lights of some of its buildings. 
"The speed with which the University moved clearly attests to the fact that energy conservation and responsibil­ity to the environment are held as high priorities within the Administration," McGuire said. 
Junior Lourdes Long eehoed 
tion about the case was released in the e-mail, Johnson said. 
NDSP said the suspect is a white male, college age, 6­foot-2 with a medium build and wore a gray-hooded sweatshirt with "Notre Dame" across the front. NDSP said it did not know if the suspect was a student. 
Students with information about Sunday morning's assault ~re asked to contact the NDSP investigations sec­tion at 574-631-8340. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Maddie Hanna captured sec­ond for Best In-Depth Story for "Suspension recalls past cases, raises questions," a comparison of McAlarney's suspension to other high pro­file suspensions. 
Former Managing Editor Ken Fowler won third place in the B.est Sports Column category for "Cause and effect affects smaller schools," an examination of how football coach Charle Weis' proposal for an early signing day would help big­time football programs, but hurt mid-major schools. 
Phones for Soldiers, the non­profit organization has dis­tributed more than 400,000 prepaid calling cards to sol­diers. In 2008, the program hopes to collect 15,000 cell phones each month and pur­chase 12 million minutes of prepaid calling cards for sol­diers, according to the pro­gram's Web site www.ccll­pho nesforsoldiers.corn. 
Contact Margaret Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 
McGuire's sentiments. 
"[Turning of'f' the lights of the two buildings! was really a visual commitment to this effort," said Long, a commis­sioner to the Energy and 
Environmental  Issues  
Committee.  
McGuire  said  he  didn't  

know if the University would agree to turn off its lights because of the short notifica­tion. 
"We figured that such late notice would make the task of getting through all the insti­tutional red tape nearly 
"When I heard that Earth Hour was an international event and included great landmarks such as the Sears Tower and Wrigley Field, I thought that we should do something here at Notre Dame." 
Mark McGuire sophomore 
impossible, but we felt it was at least worth a try," McGuire said. 
Long said stu­dents played a significant role in spreading the role about the movement. 
"Environmental commissioners at each dorm arn highly involved. The halls are a great way to spread the word," said Long. 
McGuire said 
Keough Hall president Eddie Kremier helped him to eon­tact the President's Hall Council so it could encourage other dorms to participate. 
McGuire said also South Dining Hall manager Dawn Dieter aided in turning off the lights of South Saturday evening. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

Bush begins fare-well world tour 
Despite unpopularity, president will visit NATO, Putin on trip 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Winding down his presidency, George W. Bush is beginning his farewell tour on the world stage trailed by questions about how much clout he still wields. 
Unpopular abroad, as he is at home, Bush nevertheless has been a commanding presence among world leaders for the past seven years. Now, with land in the Black Sea resort city of Sochi for his probable final meeting with Vladimir Putin as Russian president; his succes­sor takes over in May. 
Relations between Washington and Moscow have plummeted in recent years amid a welter of bitter disputes, and the talks in Sochi have raised hopes that Bush and Putin can lay the foundation for repairing ties. 
This is busiest travel year in 
fewer than 300 days left in his term, other presi­dents and prime minis­ters are look­ing beyond Bush to see who will occu­py his chair a year from now. 
It's an open question whether Bush's foreign policy priori­
"There seems to be a great deal of enthusiasm, particularly for [Barack] Obama but also for Hillary [Rodham Clinton]." 
Julianna Smith Europe program director Center for Strategic and International Studies 
Bush's presidency in terms of the sheer number of trips. 
He went to the Middle East in January and to Africa in February. After he returns from NATO and Russia, he has five more major excursions on the books ­from Europe to Asia, the Middle East to South America. 
ties will be embraced by his successor in the Oval Office. Other world leaders have to calculate how far they should step out on the ledge with a president whose days are num­bered and whose legacy had been darkened by the long and costly war in Iraq. 
Air Force One will roar out of Andrews Air Force Base on Monday to whisk Bush to the first in a long-planned series of global goodbye events. After a brief stop in Ukraine, Bush stops in Romania to attend his last summit with NATO leaders. 
A few days later, Bush will 
In June, he will travel to Slovenia for his final summit with the European Union. He will attend his last summit of Group of Eight leaders of major industrial economies in Japan in July. He will go to Peru in November for his final meeting with Pacific Rim leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. 
More trips may be added as Bush moves closer to the exit and his successor emerges. 
Around the world, there are hopes the next president will adopt a different style from what critics have eallnd Bush's 

For complete information visit 
www..saintmarys..edu/summer 
or call (574) 284-4560. 
Registration will be accepted through May 16. 
*unless otherwise noted. 
cowboy diplomacy and go-it­alone foreign policy. 
"There seems to be a great deal of enthusiasm, particularly for (Barack) Obama but also Hillary (Hodham Clinton) on the other side of the Atlantic, that there's going to be some revital­ization of the trans-Atlantic partnership and we start with a clean slate and a new chapter and all the rest," said Julianne Smith, Europe program direc­tor for the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
"I think a lot of these European countries have found a way to get past the dark shadows of 2003 and '04 when we had divides over Iraq and all the rest," she said. "And many of them are looking for­ward now to the next president in Washington and are already thinking about what the 2009 (NATO) summit will bring." 
A change of leaders in Germany and France -which led the opposition to the war in Iraq -helped improve sour relations between Europe and the United States. But there still is some lingering ill will. There has been much trans-Atlantic bickering and finger-pointing, most notably about the purpose of NATO and its commitment to Afghanistan. 
The U.S has criticized Germany and other European allies that have refused to allow their troops in Afghanistan to be deployed to the southern heartland of Taliban insurgeney alongside U.S., British, Canadian. Duteh and other con­tingents. Defense Secretary Hobert Gates has proclaimed himself "a nag on the issue." 
-t!f­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME. IN 
www.saintmarys.edu 


Monday, March 31, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE sr:Rvrcr:s page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite cleric orders militia off streets 
BAGHDAD -In a possible turning point in the recent upsurge in violence, Muqtada al­Sadr ordered his Shiite militiamen off the streets Sunday but called on the government to stop its raids against his followers. 
The government welcomed the move, which followed intense negotiations by Shiite offi­cials, including two lawmakers who reportedly traveled to Iran to ask religious authorities there to intervene. 
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, whose offen­sive that began Tuesday in the oil-rich south­ern city in Basra sparked the crisis, called al­Sadr's statement "a step in the right direc­tion." 
But fighting continued in the Basra area after the announcement. Seven people also were killed when a mortar struck a residential district in Baghdad's Karradah district, and witnesses reported clashes in the Shula area in a northern section of the capital. 
Islam now world's largest religion 
VATICAN CITY -Islam has surpassed Roman Catholicism as the world's largest reli­gion, the Vatican newspaper said Sunday. 
"For the first time in history, we are no longer at the top: Muslims have overtaken us," Monsignor Vittorio Formenti said in an inter­view with the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore Romano. Formenti compiles the Vatican's year­book. 
He said that Catholics accounted for 17.4 
percent of the world population -a stable 
percentage -while Muslims were at 19.2 per­
cent. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New York Times photof.ll'apher dies 
NEW YORK -Dith Pran, The Cambodian­born journalist whose harrowing tale of enslavement and eventual escape from that country's murderous Khmer Rouge revolution­aries in 1979 became the subject of the award­winning film 'The Killing Fields," died Sunday. He was 65. 
Dith died at a New Jersey hospital Sunday morning of pancreatic cancer, according to Sydney Schanberg, his former colleague at The New York Times. Dith had been diagnosed almost three months ago. 
Dith was working as an interpreter and assis­tant for Schanberg in Phnom Penh, the Cambodian capital, when the Vietnam War reached its chaotic end in April 1975 and both countries were taken over by Communist forces. 
Man kills his own three children 
BALTIMORE -A man killed his three young children at a downtown hotel Sunday, then called the front desk to report the killings, police said. 
Mark Castillo, 41, of Silver Spring, called the desk at the Baltimore Marriott Inner Harbor at Camden Yards at about 1:15 p.m. Sunday and said he had just killed his two sons and daughter, said police spokesman Sterling Clifford. Police identified the chil­dren as Anthony, 6, Austin, 4, and Athena, 2. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Clinton speaks at Mishawaka school 
MISHAWAKA -Aaron Honchell was unhappy when he learned Hillary Rodham Clinton would­n't be speaking at his South Bend school because officials thought a town hall meeting there would disrupt students. 
But that didn't stop the Washington High School junior from seeing the presidential candi­date in person Friday. 
Honchell was among dozens of Washington High students who made the short trip to Mishawaka to hear the former first lady speak as part of a two-day, six-city swing through Indiana in her quest for the Democratic nomination. 
"We wanted to show Hillary that we approve of her and we wanted her there," Honchell said. 
About 4,000 people turned out at Mishawaka High School for Clinton's appearance, her second swing through Indiana in just over a week in a state that finds itself a political battleground for the first time since 1968. 
Women voters support Clinton 
Top democrats want former first lady to exit race, clear path for Obama 
Associated Press 
NEW ALBANY -Debra Starks has heard the calls for Hillary Rodham Clinton to quit the presi­dential race, and she's not happy about it. 
The 53-year old Wal­Mart clerk, so bedecked with Clinton campaign buttons most days that friends call her "Button Lady," thinks sexism is playing a role in efforts to push the New York sena­tor from the race. Starks wants Clinton to push back. 
"The way I look at it, she's a strong woman and she needs to stay in there. She needs to fight," Starks said at a Clinton campaign rally. "If you want to be president, you have to fight for what you want. If she stays in there and does what she's supposed to do, I think she'll be on her way." 
Amid mounting calls from top Democrats for Clinton to step aside and clear the path for rival Barack Obama, strategists are warning of damage to the party's chances in November if women ­who make up the majority of Democratic voters nationwide, but especially the older, white working­class women who've long formed the former first lady's base -sense a mostly male party estab­lishment is unfairly muscling Clinton out of the race. 
"Women will indeed be upset if it appears people are trying to push Hillary Clinton out of the way," said Carol Fowler, the South Carolina Democratic Party chair who is backing Obama. "If you are going to ask her to withdraw. you'd better be making a strong case for it -both to the candidate and the public." 
Vermont Sen. Patrick 
Leahy last week became 
the first leading Democrat 
to openly call on Clinton to 
abandon her bid and back 
Obama, a sentiment 
shared by many activists 


worried that a drawn-out nominating contest only bolsters Republican nomi­nee-in-waiting John McCain. 
Other Obama supporters have echoed that view while stopping short of asking Clinton to with­draw. 
New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson on Sunday called Obama's lead all but insurmountable, while Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry said the contest would be reaching "a point of judgment" very soon. 
"I don't think it's up to our campaign or any indi­vidual to tell Hillary Clinton or their campaign when that is," Kerry, the 2004 Democratic nominee, said on ABC's "This Week" on Sunday. "But there will 
be, I think, a consensus about it, and I think it's going to occur over these next weeks." 
To be sure, Clinton cam­paign officials concede her path to winning the nomi­nation is not at all clear. 
She almost certainly will end the primary season narrowly trailing Obama in the popular vote and among pledged delegates unless the nullified pri­maries in Florida and Michigan are counted ­an unlikely scenario at best. But Obama is unlike­ly to end the race with the 2,024 pledged delegates needed to win outright either, meaning the nomi­nee will be determined by roughly 800 "superdele­gates" -elected officials and party insiders who can back whichever candi­date they want. 
Most observers believe the superdelegates are unlikely to risk an intra­party uproar -not to mention the ire of black voters thrilled to support a black candidate -by sid­ing with Clinton if Obama maintains his lead among pledged delegates. 
But Clinton advisers believe many superdele­gates remain at least per­suadable, due in no small part to the influence of women voters on the party and in the general elec­tion. 
"My e-mail is bursting with women who are furi­ous, and it's grown in the last week," said Ann Lewis, Clinton's director of women's outreach and a longtime Democratic activist. 
SOUTH KOREA 

Threat of nuclear attack increases tension 
Associated Press 
SEOUL -North Korea threat­ened South Korea with destruction Sunday after Seoul's top military officer said his country would con­sider attacking the communist nation if it tried to carry out a nuclear attack. 

The statement from North Korea's official news agency marked the third straight day of bellicose rhetoric from the North, which is angry over the harsher line the South's conservative new president has taken against the country since assuming office last month. 
"Our military will not sit idle until warmongers launch a pre­emptive strike," said an unidenti­fied KCNA military commentator. "Everything will be in ashes, not just a sea of fire, if our advanced pre-emptive strike once begins." 
On Friday, North Korea test-fired a barrage of missiles into the sea and warned it would "mercilessly wipe out" any South Korean war­ships that violate its waters near their disputed sea border. 
Such rhetoric by North Korea at times of increased tensions is not rare, and it comes just two days before a scheduled visit to South Korea by the chief U.S. negotiator 
in North Korean nuclear disarma­ment talks. South Korea's Defense Ministry reacted calmly. 
A senior military officer at the ministry said officials were work­ing "to ensure the public would not worry about" the North's recent actions and statements. He declined to elaborate and asked not to be named because he was not authorized to speak to media. 
Sunday's KCNA statement also warned that the North would sus­pend all scheduled inter-Korean dialogue unless Seoul retracts and apologizes for the remark by its new top military leader. 
SWEDEN 
Strict~er asylu111la"Ws affect Iraqis 
Nation tightens immigration regulations to preserve welfare system 
Associated Press 
SOLLENTUNA -The fear of 

being sent back to Baghdad has 
taknn its toll on Mustafa Aziz 
Alwi. 
He says hn cannot slnep and has lost about 20 pounds since his claim for asylum in Sweden was rejected in .January. 
"They told me it's beeause it's ealnwr in Iraq now, that I can go b<t«:k and b11 happy. But they don't know that it's death there," said Aziz Alwi, 25, wip­ing away tears in an interview at his cousin's apartment in the Stockholm suburb of Sollnntuna. 
Had his ease been deeided a year earlier, he would probably already hold a residence per­mit. Sweden has given shelter to about 100,000 Iraqis, 40,000 of tlwm since the U.S.-Ied inva­sion in 2003. That's far more than any other Western country ineluding the U.S., which admitted just o\-er 1,600 Iraqi refugees in the 2007 fiscal year, nearly 400 short of the annual goal or 2,000, and a big reduc­tion from an initial target of 7,000. 
But Sweden has gradually tightened its asylum rules, wor­ried that its generous welfare system can't cope. 
The effects became evident this year, when immigration statisties obtained by The Associated Press showed only 

AP Iraqi asylum seeker Mustafa Aziz Alwi, left, may be sent back home to Iraq due to changes in Sweden's immigration policies. 
28 percent of the claims were approved in .January and 23 percent in February -down from 85 percent in January 2007. 
While Sweden has won praise for the welcome it extends to Iraqis, the government sees the surge of newcomers as out of control and has appealed in vain to fellow European Union states to share the burden. 
"We find it totally unaccept­able that some countries do a lot while others do very little," Migration Minister Tobias Hillstrom told the AP. 
"When very many people arrive within a very short peri­od of time. it puts an enormous strain on the system, like schools and health care," he 

said. 

In 2007, more than 18,000 Iraqis applied for asylum in Sweden -four times more than in Germany and 10 times more than in Britain, according to figures compiled by the· European Council of Hefugees and Exiles, an advocacy group. 
But the numbers dropped sharply this year, with only 835 asylum-seekers coming to Sweden in February -down nearly 40 percent from the pre­vious month to the lowest level since .July 2006. In the first three weeks of March, only 376 Iraqis sought asylum in Sweden, suggesting the down­ward trend continues. 
·-..; ... 
Obama stops by Penn State campus 
Associated Press 

UNIVEHSITY PARK, Pa. ­Shivering in blankets of Penn State's eolors, some 20,000 people lilloo a campus lawn Sunday to hear Ba.raek Obmna say he c,an win the Democratic nomination even if rival Hillary Rodhmn (Jinton ~1.ays in the race. 
Supporters stood in long lines for hours to hear Obmna ahnad of the April 22 Pennsylv<Ulia primary. 
On a sunny day with tempera­tures in the low 40's, mtll>i bundled up for the type of large-scale rally that has beeome the candidate's trademark. 
"It's been a while, and it's a little eold, but we really like Barru:k. He's inspiring,'' said 19-year-old Caitlin McDonnell, wrapped in a blue Nittany lions blanket 
Pennsylvania's primary is the next eontest in the Obmna-Ointon fight for the Democratic pmsidential nomination. The Keystone State, which will allocate 158 delegates, i'i the biggest single delegate prize remaining in thn Democratic pri­maries. 
Some Democral'i, particularly Obmna's supporters, have voiced concern that the hard-fought, drawn-out rru:e is already hurting the party's chancns to win in Novnmber. lhe Illinoi-. senator told the crowd not to worry. 
";\s this primary has gone on a liUJn bit long, there have been peo­ple who've been voidng some frus­tration," Obama said. 
"I want everybody to understm1d that this ha-. been a great eontest, great f(Jr Ameriea. It's engaged and involved peopln like never before. I think it's terrific that Senator Ointon"s supporters have been a'> pa..sionate a'i my supporters have been because that makes the peo­ple invested and engaged in thi<> pnx.ess, and I mn absolutely confi­dent that when thi-. primary sca<;(>n i<> over Democral'i will be united." 


Proprietors Warren & Linda 
?rrsf Origrruzf.:Azza in 7omn / 
Since 1951 

Specializing in Italian Entrees 
Tues.-Thurs.: 5:00PM· 11:00 PM Fri.-Sat.: 5:00PM· 1:00AM 537 North St. louis • South Bend, IN 574·233-1464 




;. 
i 
·~ ..r·
.-· 
.,,, 

.. 

I 
Brand new, furnished townhomes for this FaII Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields. offWillis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically 9eared for today's college student are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath 
'n each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet &Cable ·• Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included ·• Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry ·• Large deck ·• Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 
Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
now leasing. 





Monday, March 31, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,216.40 -86.06
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,111 102 2,204 3,691,156,260 
AMEX .. 2!222~93 idj!ii~!~.~;ii~J NASDAQ 2 261.18 -19.65 NYSE s:762.1z!·:,,illi!~,Qi['' S&P 500 297.17 -2.44 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,682·<~il:iil1lffi~~~;p~; FTSE 100 (London) 5,692.90 -24.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.96  -1.27  131.51  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.50  -0.22  43.49  
FINANCIAL SEL (XLF)  -2.26  -0.57  24.65  
CITIGROUP INC (C)  -4.41  -0.96  20.83  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.92 -0.068 1.350 13-WEEK BILL +8.00 +0.10 4.345 30-YEAR BOND -0.71 -0.031 2.535 5-YEAR NOTE -1.59 -0.041 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.96 105.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -17.50 936.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.00 70.50 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.7300 EURO 0.6343 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0231 BRITISH POUND 0.50 
IN BRIEF 
Him, 1V actors to negotiate separately 
LOS ANGELES -Unions representing film and television actors will negotiate separately with producers in upcoming contract talks after board members of the TV actors union voted Saturday to sever a long-standing agreement between the two guilds. 
The vote by the board of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists came hours before a meeting with the Screen Actors Guild and just three months before the expiration of the contract covering movies and prime-time shows. 
Despite a sometimes rocky 27 -year relation­ship the unions had shown recent signs of peace as they prepared for the upcoming talks. 
The two groups had hoped at Saturday's meet­ing to set a start date for negotiations. Instead of discussing strategies the sides swapped accusa­tions. 
"For the past year SAG leadership in Hollywood has engaged in a relentless campaign of disinformation and disparagement," AFTRA president Roberta Reardon said in a written statement. 
Vytorin fails to improve heart disease 
CHICAGO -Leading doctors urged a return to older, tried-and-true treatments for high cholesterol after hearing full results Sunday of a failed trial of Vytorin. 
Millions of Americans already take the drug or one of its components, Zetia. But doctors were stunned to learn that Vytorin failed to improve heart disease even though it worked as intended to reduce three key risk factors. 
"People need to turn back to statins," said Yale University cardiologist Dr. Harlan Krumholz, referring to Lipitor, Crestor and other widely used brands. "We know that statins are good drugs. We know that they reduce risks." 
The study was closely watched because Zetia and Vytorin have racked up $5 billion in sales despite limited proof of benefit. Two Congressional panels launched probes into why it took drugmakers nearly two years after the study's completion to release results. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Candidates devise economic plans 
Democrats support stimulus packages; McCain proposes to protect markets 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Hillary Rodham Clinton, Barack Obama and John McCain have diagnosed the swooning U.S. econo­my and have come up with rival plans to revive it. If the downturn lasts as long as some econo­mists predict, one of the three will get a chance to try to sell his or her pro­posal to Congress as president. 
Or if the economy hits bottom before Inauguration Day and then turns up, the victor may be handed a rare gift: the chance to begin a presidency presiding over the early stages of a rebound. 
Take your pick. Who knows where the econo­my will be in nine and a half months? 
As economic clouds darkened last week, all three candidates deliv­ered major speeches on the economy while the Bush administration pre­pared a plan to give the Federal Reserve new regulatory powers over the financial system. 

Democrats Clinton and Obama outlined compet­ing $30 billion stimulus packages to help home­convening of a national bailouts. -probably lies in the owners facing foreclo­conference of account­All three praised recent future, not the present. sure and other victims of ants and mortgage intervention by the Fed And there already is a the financial crisis. This lenders to review how and the Treasury welter of antirecession­would be on top of the real estate is valued. He Department to calm the ary proposals pending in $168 billion stimulus opposed large, taxpayer­financial storm, includ­Congress -including package of rebates and financed bailouts but ing sharp Fed interest major bills by Sen. temporary tax cuts backed cuts in corporate rate cuts and a $29 bil­Christopher Dodd, D­passed by Congress last tax rates and making lion rescue plan for Conn., and Rep. Barney month and signed by permanent expiring Bush investment giant Bear Frank, D-Mass., to let the President Bush. Both tax cuts. Stearns. government step in and Clinton and Obama also The two Democrats are Since all three are back up to $400 billion in called for broader finan­calling for a more members of the U.S. troubled loans. Both cial regulation. activist role for the U.S. Senate, they can influ­Clinton and Obama have 
Republican John government to protect ence congressional endorsed this legislation. McCain advocated volun­individuals. McCain is action now. But political Economic statistics last tary action by lenders, echoing standard GOP reality being what it is, week painted a bleak more transparency in the dogma of protecting mar­their time for impact -picture, reflecting contin­lending process and the kets and opposing at least for one of them uing housing, credit and 

Review responds to financial problems 
case for strong federal rules to crack year," said David Nason, Treasury's
Associated Press 

down on abuses that they believe assistant secretary for domestic 
WASHINGTON -In proposing the were at the heart of the current cri­finance. "These are very complex broadest overhaul of financial over­sis. issues that require a serious amount sight since the Great Depression, the But Treasury Secretary Paulson, of debate." Bush administration has kicked off a who has led the effort to rewrite reg­Treasury began work on the fierce debate. It pits those eager to ulations, rejects that criticism. review in early 2007. It came in revamp an antiquated system "I do not believe it is fair or accu­response to complaints from the against an industry opposed to rate to blame our regulatory struc­financial services industry that U.S. excessive regulation. ture for the current turmoil," businesses were losing their edge in 
The administration is aware of the according to a draft of a speech he global competition because of over­hardening lines. The 200-page plan planned to give Monday when he regulation by Washington. set for release Monday comes with outlines the administration's propos­The yearlong review produced a the financial system in the midst of als. plan calling for the greatest changes the most severe credit crisis in two In interviews over the weekend, in financial regulation since many of generations. administration officials sought to the current oversight institutions 
That crunch has meant billions of frame the proposals as an effort to were created in the 1930s. dollars of losses for big banks and devise a system that would help The Federal Reserve would be a investment houses. It has caused the keep U.S. companies competitive in big winner, gaining new powers to near-collapse of the country's fifth an increasingly connected global serve as the protector of stability for largest investment bank, made it economy. the entire financial system. The plan harder for consumers and business­"Despite the fact that there will be would abolish some institutions such es to get loans and pushed the coun­a temptation to view this through a as the Office of Thrift Supervision try to the brink of a recession. lens of what is happening now in and the Commodity Futures Trading 
The market turmoil has presented credit markets, this has been a Commission; their responsibilities an opening for critics to make the process that has been going on for a would shift to other agencies. 
NIU police chief reflects on shootingi 
Associated Press 
DEKALB, Ill. -The police chief at Northern Illinois University mplays th1~ chaos over and over in his mind: sprinting, pistol in hand and reading glassns still on, through waves of scrnaming stu­dnnl<> at a tectum hall. 
Donald Grady remembers kneeling over thn wounded and dying as the gunman's body lay on stage, dead of a gunshot wound. 
And he still wonders weeks later: Could he have done more to prnvent th1~ deaths of live stu­dents when a former student openml lire in tho crowded hall on Valen tine's Day? 
"I know intuitivoly there's noth­ing I could have done to protect them," he told The Associated J>rnss in a recent interview. "But it doesn't changr the fact that, inside, I feel like I wanted to be able to do something." 
Grady has SWAT team training and has advised governments and militaries in war-torn coun­tries, but the shooting, he said, was the "ugliest" test of his 1:arenr. And it was one that rein­forced and, in some ways, soft­ennd the grun· persona that had sometimes eausnd him trouble. 
Crises aren't nnw to the Beloit, Wis., native. 
Grady scrambled to res1:ue trapped pmu:ekePpers during a riot in the Balkans in the late '<JOs, when he led a 300-person United Nations peaeekeeping force. 
In Bosnia-Herzegovina, he played a central role in creating a police force composed of eivil war foes -Muslims, Croats and Serbs. He helped set up police schools in Kosovo and the former Yugoslavia. 
He spent most of 2007 in Iraq advising that country on building a new police force. 
When it came to domestic police work, though, charaeteris­tics that helped him excel in a military environment sometimes caused problems. 
After he became Wisconsin's first black police chief in the mostly white town of Bloomer in 1989, he created a stir by issuing nearly 300 tickets, including to himself, for violations of a snow­shoveling ordinance. 
When he became Santa Fe, N.M., chief in 1994, he ordered officers to stop accepting free cups of coffee on the job and bannnd bolo ties, popular among police in the West. He further infuriated officers by imposing longer shifl<>. 
"He was like watching the movie 'Patton,"' said Greg Solano, who headed Santa Fe's police union when Grady was there. "lie was always like, 'Things are done my way or the highway."' 
Police officers responded by adopting a 103-5 no-confidence vote in their boss. Grady later resigned, saying his reforms had encountered too much resistance. 

PAKISTAN 
Militant leader open to peace talks 
Maulvi Faqir Mohammed says 'Our war is with America' 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD -A militant leader with alleged ties to ai­Qaida welcomed an offer by Pakistan's new prime minister to negotiate with Islamic fight­ers accused of launching ter­rorist attacks from tribal regions bordering Afghanistan. 
Maulvi Faqir Mohammed also said Sunday his fighters were not "enemies" of Pakistan. "Our war is with America," he said. 
Speaking in the Bajur tribal region, Mohammed told more than 4,000 supporters -hun­dreds of armed militants among them -"We welcome the government"s announce­ment of talks with the Taliban." 
Pakistani authorities claim Mohammed has ties with al­Qaida No. 2 leader Ayman al­Zawahri. His comments came a day after Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani said in his inaugu­ral speech that fighting terror­ism was his government"s top priority. 
But in a rebuke to the strong­arm anti-terrorism policy of the U.S.-allied President Pervez Musharraf, GHani also said his government was willing to talk to militants who are ready to lay down their arms and "join the path of peace." 
Expanding education and development in the impover­ished region would be a "key pillar" of the government"s strategy against militants in the tribal zone, he said. 
The United States has criti­cized past efforts to reach out to militants, saying it has allowed hard-liners to tighten their grip along the border. 
Many Pakistanis believe Musharraf"'s reliance on large­scale army operations, as well as his tacit approval of U.S. airstrikes inside Pakistan, have endangered civilians and pro­duced a spike in domestic ter­
rorism. 
Also Sunday, Gilani's admin­istration called for Musharraf to step down. 
"The sooner he resigns the better it is for himself and for the democratic process," said Ahsan Iqbal, a lawmaker from the Pakistan Muslim League­N party who is 

a leader in 
"The sooner 
United States. {Musharrafj resigns "Whenever 
the better it is for 
Pakistan will work for

himselfandfor the 
American inter­

democratic process. " ests as its ally, we will have our opposition to
Ashan Iqbal 
that matter,"

Pakistan Muslim 
Mohammed said League-N Party lawmaker amid chants of 
tipped to become education minister in the new Cabinet. 
"On Feb. 18 people have voted against his policies and have voted for change," Iqbal said. 
Opposition parties ~wept last month's parliamentary elec­tions amid resentment over Musharraf's increasingly authoritarian rule, Pakistan's mounting economic problems and a surge in militant attacks. 
The defeat has triggered calls for Musharraf -a former army chief who seized power in a military coup eight years ago -to resign. 
Parliament elected Gilani, a loyalist of slain opposition leader Benazir Bhutto, as prime minister last week. On Monday, Musharraf was expected to swear in more than 20 members of the new Cabinet. 
Mohammed, the militant leader, said the government 
should not coop­
erate with the 
"death to 
America." 
Maulana Fazlur Hehman, a pro-Taliban cleric and member of Gilani's coalition govern­ment, said the new administra­tion will try to prevent the U.S. military from launching further airstrikes inside Pakistan. 
"We will try our best to stop America from making any fur­ther attacks in our border arnas," Hehman told reportors in the eastern city of Mullan. 

~~ILES FR0.\1 THE SIDELINE n All of the author's ;~.YJ royalties will benefit HAHHAH&fR~HOS ...!~&~·~·  ,Join to celebrate the publication of her new book This book will touch your heart and your soul. -Lou Holtz Monday, March 31 •7:00 P.M.-9:00P.M. McKenna Hall• University ofNotre Dame (across from the Morris Inn) • Introduction by Charlie Weis • On-stage conversation between Maura Weis and WNDU's Maureen McFadden • Book-signing and reception Miles from the Sideline AMother's Journey with Her Special Needs Daughter With Jessica Trobaugh Temple Foreword by Charlie Weis In this powerful and honest book, Maura Weis, wife of Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis, shares the challenges and blessings ofraising their special needs daughter, Hannah. ISBN: 9781933495033 I $18.95 rfJ:SORIN BOOKS• Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or at bookstores everywhere l2lNotreDame, IN www.sorinboolcs.com  


Monday, March 3 1, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
FRANCE 
Young French Musfuns fight in Iraq 
Seven men accused ofcriminal association with terrorist enterprises 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Boubakeur el Hakim traded his Paris neighborhood of boulangeries and halal butcher shops for the insurgent camps of Iraq. When he came home, he told his war stories to other young men on the forgotten edges of French society, allegedly persuading some to follow in his footsteps. 
His younger brother did, and died fighting U.S. forces. 
After years of investigation by French authorities, el Hakim, 24, went on trial this month in a case exposing how the Iraq war has sucked radical youths from Europe to a battlefield where they have learned skills that offi­cials fear may one day be used in domestic terror attacks. 
Along with four other young Frenchmen, a Moroccan and an Algerian, el Hakim is accused of funneling French Muslim fighters 
Mayor responds to city's struggles 
dents and local politicians recruited him to run for mayor. 
No one denied he faced a bumpy road. Oakland"s mix of guns, poverty, pollution and crime had undermined the administrations of previ­ous mayors, including Dellums' immediate prede­cessor, former California Gov. Jerry Brown. 
"Anyone attempting to take this challenge on would run into extreme difficulties," said Terry Jones, a professor of sociology and social work at California State University, East Bay. "As sto­ried as his career has been, I think Jesus would catch hell in Oakland." 
Dellums is realistic about what lies ahead. 
"We work diligently here, constantly, trying to deal with these issues. You get on a plane, you go to Washington, you beg for money. You 
suspected ringleader Farid Benyettou, 26, have acknowl­edged going to Iraq or planning to go. All deny inciting others to go. 
All seven men are accused of Muslims and betraying western ideals of tolerance. 

The suspected nucleus of the network, janitor-turned-street preacher Benyettou, told the court the case against him was 
criminal associa­tion with a terrorist enterprise, a vague charge that carries a maximum 10­year sentence, though the prose­cutor only asked for between three and eight years. 
The case is a del­icate one in France, which strongly opposed the U.S.-led cam­
"I taught that suicide attacks are legitimate under Islam." 
Farid Benyettou suspected ringleader of terrorist enterprise 

"fantasy" and an affront to his freedom of speech. He told the judge he had served only as a friendly ear to young people in his neighbor­hood, answer­ing questions about Islam that went ignored by France"s secu­
paign in Iraq but has long strug­gled against homegrown terror­ism. It also highlights a dilemma in many European nations with growing Muslim populations: Cracking down hard risks alien­ating or radicalizing moderate lar schools and institutions. 


In one interrogation session with anti-terrorist agents, howev­er, Benyettou said: "I taught that suicide attacks are legitimate under Islam." 
"Jihad is justified," he said in another session in the days fol­lowing his January 2005 arrest, according to the depositions viewed by The Associated Press. 
El Hakim described placing and detonating roadside bombs with equipment that resembled a cordless phone, the transcript of one deposition says. He claimed 10 American troops were killed in the last three operations he took part in, it says. 
In a French radio interview broadcast from Baghdad in 2003, he urged Parisian friends to join him on the battlefields. ''I'm ready to set off dynamite and boom! Boom! We kill all the Americans!" he said on RTL radio. 
In court, while he didn't deny his radio appeal, el Hakim said some of his statements to police were made under duress and that his role in Iraq was primarily "humanitarian." 
Investigators say the alleged network funneled about a dozen French fighters to camps linked to al-Qaida in Iraq head Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, and sought to send more before he was killed in a U.S. airstrike in 2006. At least seven French insurgents have died, some in suicide bombings, police say. 


Associated Press 
OAKLAND -At a high school in a struggling neigh­borhood in this violence­scarred city, Mayor Ron Dellums stood on tiptoe and congratulated a basketball player who led his team to a state championship. 
"In a community where we find ourselves more often than not mourning, we are rejoicing," the former con­gressman told the grinning teenager and hundreds of other screaming students. 
Such celebrations have been rare during Dellums" 15 months in office. 
In recent months, a 10­year-old boy was paralyzed by a bullet that struck him during a piano lesson, a powerful state politician was carjacked by a masked man, a popular community jour­nalist was gunned down in broad daylight, and a 13-year­old was shot in the foot outside go to founda­
'7 think we"re putting 
a rosary service tions and you 
for another in place the pieces beg for teen who was that I think will money. You killed by police say 'Give us
ultimately create a
after allegedly the resources 
drawing a gun. better community for to help us do In the past everybody. " the job every three months day."' alone, the city "I think
Ron Dellums
of 400,000 peo­people in our ple across the Oakland mayor community 
Bay from San Francisco has logged 34 homicides, more than double than during the same period last year. 
"It's very frustrating," the mayor said in a rare sit­down interview. "I get up every morning praying that I don't open the newspaper and there's somebody dead." 
The Democrat, 72, was swept into office after a stint on the Berkeley City Council in the 1960s and nearly three decades on Capitol Hill, including chairmanship of the House Armed Services Committee. He had been ready to retire when resi­
need to 
understand 

what we"re up against, and that's not simplistic," the mayor said. 
Dellums and his staff have made progress toward get­ting Oakland"s police force up to full strength, a step that previous mayors had failed to achieve. The department is currently more than 70 officers short and losing five more each month to retirement. 
He oversaw an agreement between the officers union and the city that will return authority for deploying offi­cers to Police Chief Wayne Tucker. Before the agree­ment, that power resided with the union. 
Brown, who is now California's attorney general, cautions that the police department has many more hurdles to overcome: "The crime rate is extremely high and it's dangerous work, and in Oakland you have a num­ber of individuals who are not sympathetic to police." 
Dellums, a staunch liberal who successfully ushered anti-apartheid legislation through Congress that helped free political prison­ers, isn't so naive to think progress will be made overnight. 
"I think we're putting in place the pieces that I think will ultimately create a bet­ter community for every­body," he said. 
While the mayor has been portrayed as aloof and criti­cized for leaving the city to campaign for Hillary Rodham Clinton in her bid to become the Democratic nom­inee for president, he gets support from people like Richard Rodriguez, whose son is the one paralyzed by a stray bullet that struck him during a piano lesson. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
ZIMBABWE 
Opposition party 
lead:s in elections 
Associated Press 
HAHAHE -Zimbabwe's main opposition party claimed an early lead Sunday in elections, seeking to thwart any possible vote rigging by President Hobert Mugabe amid silence from the Electoral Commission and the deployment of seeurity forces. 
Earlier people celebrated in the strnets, dancing, singing and giving each other the openhand­ed wave that is the opposition party's symbol. 
But by sundown, as frustra­tions grew more than 24 hours after polls closed, riot police and other security forces were patrolling the capital's densely populated suburbs, according to independent election monitors. 
In previous elections, partial results have been announced within hours of voting ending. 
"Why are we not getting the results? It's very clear to me Mugabe wants to steal this elec­tion," said Jlapisson Mate, a 23­year-old first-time voter. 
The head of the Pan-African Parliament observer mission warned the delay was creating "anxiety" and warned of a sce­nario similar to Kenya, where a delayed announcement of results from a disputed December elec­tion led to an explosion of vio­lence. More than 1,000 people were killed. 
"These are the delays that start causing problems," Marwick Khumalo, head of the Pan-African Parliament observers, told South African Broadcasting Corp. TV. 
Discontent with Mugabe has grown nationwidt'' and the elec­tion was seen as the toughest challenge to his 2R-year rule. Unemployment stands at 80 per­cent -the same percentage that survives on less 
taken some of Mugabe's rural 
strongholds. The claims were 
based on results posted 
overnight on the doors of polling 
stations. 
But the outcome of the race 
was impossible to predict with­
out results from other rural 
areas, where three-quarters of 
Zimbabwe's population live and 
Mugabe garners most of his sup­
port. 
Security and government offi­
cials loyal to Mugabe have 
warned Tsvangirai against 
declaring a victory. "It is called a 
coup d'etat and we all know how 
coups are handled," chief presi­
dential spokesman George 
Charamba was quoted as saying 
in the state-controlled Sunday 
Mail newspaper. 
Two officials of the ruling party said Mugabe was consulting with his security chiefs Sunday night amid fears of how they might react to any news of his defeat. The chiefs all have said they would serve only Mugabe. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity beeause of the sensi­tivity of the issue. 
Western diplomats, who also spoke on condition of anonymity for that same reason, reported that many younger army officers showed open defiance of orders that they had to vote for Mugabe. 
On Sunday, commission chair­man Judge George Chiweshe was forced to flee from a Harare hotel after he was mobbed by journalists and ordinary people. "We want results," they yelled. 
"This has been a more compli­cated election," Chiweshe said. "We will be releasing the results as soon as we can." He said it was taking time because Zimbabweans -for the first time -voted for president, the two houses of Parliament and local councilors, so four ballots have to be count-

than $1 a day. Inflation is the highest in the  "The Mugabe regime is a disgrace to the  ed for eaeh voter instead of one. Observers from  
world  at  more  people ofZimbabwe  the South African  
than 100,000 percent and peo­ple suffer crip­ and a disgrace to southern Africa and  Democratic Alliance opposi­tion party said  
pling shortages  to the continent of  accounts  from  
of food, water. electricity, fuel  Africa as a whole."  observers and others indieated  
and medicine.  the  opposition  
"The Mugabe  Condoleezza Rice  "has  won  a  
regime is a dis­ Secretary of State  majority in most  

grace to the peo­ple of Zimbabwe and a disgrace to southern Africa and to the continent of Africa as whole," Secretary of State Condoleezza Hico said Sunday while in the Middle East for peace talks. 
Mugabe calls his opponents stooges of former colonial ruler Britain and says the nation must make sacrifices to overcome its eoloniallegacy. 
Hunning against Mugabe are chief opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, 55, who narrowly lost disputed 2002 elections, and former ruling party loyalist and finance minister Simba Makoni, 
58. If no presidential candidate wins 50 percent plus one vote, there will b!l a runoll'. 
Tsvangirai's Movement for Dmnocratie Change said he was leading the prnsidential race with 67 pereent ot' votes, basing its unof'licial count on returns l'rom 35 percent ol' polling sta­tions nationwide. 
The party also claimed to have areas." 
"If this is not 
ref1ected in the 
results, this will be yet another indication that the election was rigged," they added. 
Mugabe has dismissed allega­tions of vote rigging. "We do not rig," he said Saturday after vot­ing and promising to respect results. "If you lose an election and are rejeeted by the people, it is time to leave politics." 
Observers from the Pan­African Parliament, though, have questioned thousands of names on the offieial voter roll, and the government has barred several international media organiza­tions and some observers from the U.S. and Europe. 
The Southern African Development Community's observer mission said it was con­cerned by the threats made by the eountry's security chiefs, delays in produeing the voters' roll, the presence of police offi­cers in polling stations and lack of impartiality in the state media. 
GREECE 

Beijing accepts Olylllpic torch 
Pro-Tibetan protesters chant, hold banners before police intervention 
Associated Press 
ATHENS -Chinese spectators cheered Sunday as Greece handed off the Olympic flame for its journey to Beijing and relay through 20 countries. But pro­testers brandishing Tibetan flags stole the limelight. 
Some two dozen activists chanted "Save Tibet!" and unfurled a banner reading "Stop Genocide in Tibet" before police intervened, detaining 21 protest­ers outside the Panathenian Stadium. Most were later freed. 
A police cordon prevented the demonstrators from disrupting the final leg of Greece's relay from the Acropolis to the marble stadium, the venue of the first modern Olympics in 1896. 
About 7,000 Greek and Chinese spectators cheered as Greek triple jumper Hrysopigi Devetzi carried the torch into the stadium, lined with the flags of both countries. Greek presi­dential guards and actresses dressed as ancient priestesses looked on. 
"It was an emotional experi­ence for me," Devetzi said. "I hope the flame will bring light to all athletes, especially those from Greece and that everything with the Games goes well." 
The president of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, Minos Kyriakou, delivered the flame to chief Beijing organizer Liu Qi. The torch later left Athens on a specially equipped Air China flight expected to arrive in Beijing on Monday. 
Qi promised a "grand welcom­ing ceremony" in Tiananmen Square, where the government 
*+ 
.~ 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Non1inations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 

has increased security. The "A lot of people are now talk­torch will then travel through 20 ing about the problem, through­countries before returning to out the world," she added. mainland China, covering The flame goes Tuesday to 85,100 miles. Almaty, Kazakhstan, and then 
Kyriakou appealed for respect on to Istanbul, Turkey, and St. for a "timeless symbol which Petersburg, Hussia. Those stops stirs admiration, pride and faith" are not expeeted to bring prob­in the Olympics. "I hope the lems, but the following three world community welcomes the could: London, Paris and San flame and honors it," he said. Francisco. 
The relay has become a mag­London's route on April 6 is net for Tibetan protesters and sure to be lined by thousands of human rights activists, who dis­demonstrators, who are expect­rupted the March 26 flame­ed to have a wreath-laying cere­lighting ceremony in Athens and mony to commemorate those dogged the weeklong Greek leg killed in Tibet's recent unrest. of the relay. Tibetan exiles say almost 140 
"We just wanted to show our people have died, while the support for Tibet, peacefully, Beijing government puts the and when we displayed the flags number at 22. we were taken away by police," Pro-Tibet demonstrators are said Klara Vrhova, a Czech expected to be just as numerous member of the Students for a in Paris on April 7. French Free Tibet group. President Nicolas Sarkozy is the 
Marina Staroyianni, a Greek first European leader to suggest member of the group, said pro­a boycott of the opening ceremo­testers wanted "to let the whole ny as a possibility to protest world know that China is violat­China's handling of the unrest in ing human rights" in Tibet. Tibet. 
Monday, March 31, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Katrina victin1s to repay grants 
Company may collect up to $150,000 from hurricane survivors 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS-Imagine that your home was reduced to mold and wood framing by Hurricane Katrina. 
Desperate for money to rebuild, you engage in a frustrat­ing bureaucratic process, and after months of living in a gov­ernment-provided trailer tainted with formaldehyde you finally win a federal grant. 
Then a collector calls with the staggering news that you have to pay back thousands of dollars. 
Thousands of Katrina victims may be in that situation. 
A private contractor under investigation for the compensa­tion it received to run the Road Home grant program for Katrina victims says that in the rush to deliver aid to homeowners in need some people got too much. Now it wants to hire a separate company to collect millions in grant overpayments. 
The contractor, ICF International of Fairfax, Va., revealed the extent of the over­payment<; when it issued a March 11 request for bids from compa­nies willing to handle "approxi­mately 1 ,000 to 5,000 cases that will necessitate collection effort." 
The bid invitation said: "The average amount to be collected is estimated to be approximately $35,000, but in some cases may be as high as $100,000 to $150,000." 
The biggest grant amount allowed by the Road Home pro­gram is $150,000, so ICF believes it paid some recipients the maxi­mum when they should not have received a penny. If ICF"s highest estimate of 5,000 collection cases -overpaid by an average of $35.000 -proves to be true, that means applicants will have to pay back a total of $175 mil­lion. 
One-third of qualified appli­cants for Road Home help had yet to receive any rebuilding check as of this past week. The program, which has come to symbolize the lurching Katrina recovery effort, is financed by $11 billion in federal funds. 
ICF spokeswoman Gentry Brann said in an e-mail Friday that the overpayments are the inevitable result of the Road Home grant being recalculated to account for insurance money and government aid given to Katrina victims. 
Brann said there was a sense of urgency in paying Road Home applicants, and ICF and the state knew applicants would have to return some money. 
"The choice was either to process grants immediately or wait until the March 2008 dead­line (for submitting Road Home applications) before disbursing any funds," Brann said in her e­mail. 
Brann pointed out that 5,000 collections cases would represent a 4-percent error rate for the Road Home that is "quite good for large federal programs." 
Frank Silvestri, co-chair of the Citizen"s Road Home Action Team, a group that formed out of frustrations with ICF, sees it far differently. 
"They want people to pay for their incompetence and their mistakes. What they need to be is aggressive about finding the underpayments," he said. "People relied, to their detriment, on their (ICFs) expertise and rebuilt their houses and now they want to squeeze this money back out of them." 
The prospect of Road Home grant collections comes less than t.wo weeks after the Louisiana inspector general and the legisla­tive auditor said they were inves­tigating why former Gov. Kathleen Blanco paid ICF an extra $156 million in her waning days in office to administer the program. With the increase, ICF stands to earn $912 million to run Road Home, a contract that also sweetened its initial public stock offering, and helped it buy out four other companies. It now reaches into government con­tracting sectors that include national defense and the environ­ment. 

Paul Rainwater, executive director of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, the state body that asked for the Blanco­ICF investigations, acknowledged the collections could be painful for applicants, many of whom have used up their nest eggs to rebuild. 
"The state must walk a fine line of treating homeowners who have been overpaid with fairness and compassion and ensuring that all federal funds are used for their intended purpose," said Rainwater, an appointee of new Gov. Bobby Jindal. 
Upon receiving money from Road Hom11, grantees sign a batch of forms, including one that says they must refund any overpayments. 
Melanie Ehrlich, co-chair of Citizen"s Road Home Action Team, which has documented Road Home cases that appear lit­tered with mistakes, said she had no confidence that ICF had cor­rectly calculated overpayments. She charged that the company was more likely using collections as retribution against people who had appealed their award amounts in effort to get the aid they deserved. 

Officials cope with ballot shortage 
Associated Press 
It"s a simple question with no simple answer: Why do polling places across America keep running out of ballots when it''s no secret that this contentious primary season keeps breaking voter turnout records? 
For one, even the best-made plans have gone awry; officials in state after state have ordered more ballots, only to see turnouts exceed their most ambitious estimates. 
Some states -California, for example -extended registra­tion deadlines, in part to give would-be voters more time to sign up for the first Democratic presidential nomination race between a black man and a woman. 
But some election officials say those exten­sions have ages. 
"If you run out of ballots," said the Election Center"s Lewis, "God help you." 
Lawrence Haake, general registrar of Virginia"s Chesterfield County, outside Richmond, well knows that sen­timent. His was the state"s only county to run out of ballots on Feb. 12. Since then, he has been vilified by critics who say he mismanaged the primary and failed to heed warning signs from other states where polling places were deluged by turnout that reached as high as 80 percent. 
"I"ve been called everything but a Christian, which I am," said Haake. "This county has a pitiful, pitiful history of voter turnout. I thought I"d ordered enough to cover." 
He hadn"t. More 
than 38,000 

necessitated Democratic voters
"We had enough 
a form of for­showed up, nearly
{ballots}, we just
tune telling four times the when it didn't have them in number that cast comes to the right places." ballots in the last deciding how presidential pri­many ballots mary. Obama won 
Lawrence Haake 
to order. by a large margin. Not helping general registrar of Republican is the fact Virginia"s Chesterfield turnout -with that ballot John McCain way
County

printing is a highly spe­cialized field with a limited number of companies willing to take on the heavily monitored and time-consuming burden of producing and delivering voting cards. Price per ballot can range from .?0 cents to more than $1, depending on com­plexity. Lead times for printing can range from months to weeks to days, depending on circumstances, including the proximity of Election Day. 
So with Pennsylvania"s important April 22 primary looming, and nine other state nominating contests scheduled for May, election activists won­der if even more voters could be subject to huge lines and disen­franchisement caused by an insufficient supply of ballots. 
"We"re going to keep having this problem," said Doug Lewis, director of the Election Center, which represents voting oflicials across the country. "Running an election sounds pretty simple until you try to do it. Folks just don"t understand how much advance planning goes into set­ting this up. 
"If you run out of ballots, it''s because your crystal ball isn"t good enough," Lewis said. "Every time you cut the time between the voter registration deadline and the election, you seve~ely impact the voting sys­tem. 
California discovered that on 
Super Tuesday, Feb. 5, when massive numbers swarmed the polls and record-setting votes were cast by mail. In the Bay Area, ballots ran out. State offi­cials, who had closed registra­tion rolls only two weeks before, were admittedly not ·prepared for such a surge and were still counting ballots weeks later. California"s vote 
was certified March 15. 
On March 4, precincts in Texas and trouble-prone Ohio ran out of ballots, too. In Cuyahoga County, home to Cleveland, Barack Obama"s campaign obtained a federal court order to keep polling places open an extra 90 min­utes because of ballot short-ahead in opinion 
polls, was very low in comparison-about 23,000 votes. 
Despite his disbelief, Haake said he did increase his Democratic ballot orders ­from 30,000 in January to 42,000 in February after nerv­ously eyeing Super Tuesday contests in 24 states. VIrginia is an open primary state, meaning registered Democrats can vote a GOP ballot, and vice versa. 
"I had no way of knowing which way they"d vote," Haake said. He thinks he understands what happened: After distant­ser.ond GOP candidate Mitt Romney withdrew right before the primary, "the Republicans came in and voted Democratic," just to have some influence in the overall nominating process, he said. 
Nine precincts ran out of bal­lots. "We had enough, we just didn"t have them in the right places," he said. 
Haake printed more ballots in his office and sent them out. But some people couldn"t wait for delivery. Those voters were allowed to leave paper slips indicating their preference, but the state disqualified those slips. 
Haake said he"s learned his lesson. For November"s general election, he"s ordering 110 per­cent of the voter registration total. "We"re going to have enough ballots even if every­body on the rolls shows up," he said. 
Candice Hoke, an elections monitor and Cleveland State University professor, said some states, including North Carolina -where the primary is May 6 -require that ballot numbers reflect 101 percent of the regis­tered voter total. But many states have no such require­ments. 
Also, she said, most county government<; across the country have experienced some form of cutbacks. "Printing up hun­dreds of thousands of ballots, just to junk them afterward, is not something a county wants to r,arry. Budgets are being cut. Costs are being cut." 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, March 31, 2008 
THE 10BSERVER 

How about a bo-okstore of ... books? 
1~0. Box 77'1, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining f !all. Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF 
Chris I line 
MANAGING EnrroR BIJSINR'i.S MANAGI:R 
J.ty fitzpatrick Kyle West 
Ass·l~ MANAGING Em lllR: Katie Kohler 
Ass'l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Ikirdrc Krasula 
News EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDiTOit: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: 'lite Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz ] (;mer 
PHOTO EniTOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AI>VEIUISING MANAGI'R: Jessica Cortez 
AD 0F.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROlLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MA~IAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
lmVERTISING 
(574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MAIIAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-~541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTAN r MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
Bu:liNEss OFFICE 
(574) 631-53I3 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5~·23 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-531)3 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
S;cENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. 1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu 

I sometimes wonder if' the proposal for Eddy Street Commons really is going to create the "college town" atmosphere it's supposed to. After all, the centerpieec1s of thn dcwelopment an~ supposedly the two hotels and the eondominiums in the hundreds of thousands of dollars, which most peo­ple here don't r11ally nPnd and proba­bly can't afford -unless the goal of' the developing company is to try and recreate the Granger experience dos­er to campus. 
But questionable residential choices aside, it seems that the real potential for creating that collegc1 town feel is in its retail sector. And the corner­stone of any college town is its book­store. Of course, Notre Dame already has the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, and by all accounts it's doing quite well for itself. After all, it just put up that billboard right up the road from Barnes & Noble on Grape and it's expanding its southern wing so that it will soon have over 2,500 more square feet, which will be used to create dedicated space for, among other things, Steiner Sports Marketing & Memorabilia Inc., Adidas apparel, a gelato machine and pretzel bar for the cafe. · Now, this might be an outdated con­cept, but I was under the impression that bookstores were supposed to mostly sell books rather than mer­chandise. Hight now, it seems like the area of Hammes dedicated to books is roughly equal to that dedicated to apparel, merchandise, and other non­bookish things. Granted, the expan­
sion will free up another 1,000 square feet in the textbook area (which is only fully stockPd for a fc1w weeks every term), but once it's com­plete, it will be hard to make the ease that Hammes isn't a giant gift store with a book section attached. Aft0r all, the bookstore has demonstrated that their primary goal is making a killing off of merchandise and over­priced coursepacks Uust to take an example from personal experience, charging $35 for a 100-page packet of bibliographical information that was not under copyright). And now Hammes (whose parent company is Follett, an international corporation with annual revenues of $2.3 billion) has also expressed interested in opening up a bookstore in the Eddy Street development. 
I'm not trying to engage in shrill anti-corporate hysteria or demanding that we transplant Powell's from Portland or The Strand from New York (although Powell's does have branches in Chicago-maybe they'd be open to one in South Bend, too). Instead, I'm just trying to make sense of the fact that in the University's bookstore, there are shelves of Notre Dame rugs and beer steins alongside cases of signed football helmets and babydoll Ts with "Notre Dame" in that faded baseball-jersey font in such school colors as pink and sky blue, but no sections for used, remainder, rare or out-of-print books, a rather stingy buyback policy, no membership or rewards program that I know of, no posted best-selling or prize-winning lists or evnn staff' ree­omnHmdations. The books seetion is well-stoeked and well-organiznd, but still feels steriln and just a little bit negleetnd, and really if someorw wants a no-frills book browsing nxpe­rinnce, they might as well go to Amazon.com. where the solec:tion is larger and you might. evnn get a bit of a price break to make up for the live­day free shipping. As far as book­stores go, Hammes is doing the Tehotehke's-from-OfTien-Spaee bare minimum in terms of, wnll, pieces of flair. 
There's nothing wrong with selling sehool merchandise and memorabilia. What would be nice, however, is that we get a bookstore where you actual­ly want to spend time browsing and reading, one that makes you want to come back to it and not just to go once a term for your required text­books. If Hammes or its parent com­pany can shift gears from trying to make our collective wallets a little lighter to actually setting up a good bookstore, then it wouldn't be so bad to have them in Eddy Street Commons. But if not, the space should go to an independent retailer, or at least someone who dedieates more floor space to books than to footballs. 
Darryl Campbell is a first-year graduate student in history. He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8;'67 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 6J 1-K839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is 1hc independent, daily ncwspapt•r publislml in print and online by tht· students of the Uniwrsity of Notre l lamt• du l.ac and Saint Mary's ( :olkge. Editorial COJltt'nt, including adwrtisemenrs, is not gowrned by policit,; of the administration ofeithn institul'ion. The Observ,?r reserves the ri~lu to refuse advertisements based or content. 
·ntt' news is reported as aLCurately and objectively as possibk·. Unsigm·d editorials rq>rt-senr the opinion of the majoriry of the Edit•lr in Chid; Mana~ing Editor, As.~istant Managing Edi[ors and department editors. Commcnrarit-s, lencrs and columns prt-scnr rhe views of tht· authors and nor r eccssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit'Wpoinr space is availabk· to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions throu~h letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstiom rrgarding Obsm1rr polici(s should be directed to &iitor in ChiefChris Hine 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l11c Olw.·rvc1 (US I'~'')() 2-40U(J) 15j•Uhh~hcd Mumhty thruugh .Frid;~;y cx~.:cpr durmg ~·!tAm :~ml VJ~.Itlnll •ltfkl\is. A ,ul·••niJlfi•m 10 Tl1c t)bM:rva 1• $11!0 fur unc .:u.:J~kmic 
)'t".U; $1~ f{lfllllt'IIC'nlc:':'l('f. 
'lltc Oh&crvcr 11 publillhetl .u PUSTMAHER 
014 Soud1 Dimng Hall Scn•I.Jddl't).~ curRcnom ro: 
N01rt D.~mc.IN -165'56·0779 11lc1Jh.~otrvcr 
Pcriudiul pt»l.l~t p.tid .1.1 Notrt D.mtt' P.O. Boxn9 .utd addiuonJl mJihng otliCCL 1124 South Dining Hall 
Nom: D;~.me, IN 46'SS£H>n'J 

The: Obtc:rvc:f I' o1 mrmhcr ,,, rhc: ~,,...,ed r·fb\, All rrrrndw.non nWus iUC: rc:M:rvcJ. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Joseph McMahon Matt Gamber What are you most excited about Emma Driscoll Sam Werner 
for football season? 
Claire Heising Andy Ziccarelli 

"The only thing that makes one 
Graphics Scene Jon Tenuta's arrival 

place more attractive to me then
Jarod Wafer Tae Andrews Mike Haywood taking over play-calling 

another is the quantity ofheart I 
Viewpoint duties 
find in it." 
l.ianna' .Jimmy Clausen's new haireut 
Jane Welsh Carlyle
Brauweiler 
author

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, March 31, 2008 page 13 
Tomatoes give a new perspective to Easter 
Every Lent, I am struck by the fact that at places like Notre Dame we have to remind ourselves of the suf­fering of Christ on llis way to the cross when there are people who identify most with 
Christ's suffering Laura Bradley every single day of the year. Guest Column 
This spring break, I went on the Migrant Seminar, spon­sored by the Center for Social Concerns, to Immokalee, Florida. The main industry is agriculture and the main crop is the tomato. The farm workers, who are the backbone of our society, do not have to set aside a spe­cific time in their liturgical calendar to reflect on suffering -they suffer every day. living under the poverty line. 
In Immokalee, I encountered the worst poverty I have ever seen in the US. The normal living condition is 15 men living in a tiny, rat and roach­infested trailer, for which they pay $1600 a month. I stayed in one of these trailers for a night with a family of three and I cannot even imagine how 15 people sleep in one. 
The conditions in the fields are even worse. Farm workers wake up at 4 a.m. so they have time to walk to a parking lot where they will be picked up to be bussed to the fields. There is no guarantee anyone will get work, so they must get to the parking lot as early as possible. When the workers get to the fields, they may have to wait up to three hours because they cannot start picking any tomatoes until they are completely dry. They are not paid for this period of waiting. The workers must pick the tomatoes as quickly as possible, as they are paid by the buck­et. For each 32-pound bucket, they are paid 40-45 cents. In order to make Florida's minimum wage, they must pick 2 tons of tomatoes each day. This kind of pace is impossible for an entire workday. After more than 12 hours from when they were picked up, the workers return home to sleep so they can wake up and do it all over again. This is their life. 
Through this seminar, we got the chance to work in the fields alongside some of the farm workers. We only worked for three hours and we were exhausted by the end of it. This was the most intense, backbreaking work I have ever done in my life and it was even worse with the sun beating down on us in the humid 80-degree Florida 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rethink SAO 

Cancer Efforts Impeded Relay for Life is a national event sponsored by the American Cancer Society that was established as an event to bring people together to celebrate those who have survived cancer and remember those who have lost the battle. It is a community event that serves not only to raise money for cancer research but also fosters hope in those affected by the dis­ease, both for victims and their loved ones. 
In the past, this event here at Notre Dame has been primarily run by facul­ty. This year we have formed a student committee in the attempt to gain more student involvement and excitement about the event, as so many students are affected by this disease. However, in our attempts to make this a more stu­dent-oriented event, we have hit several road blocks. Many Notre Dame stu­dents are familiar with the difficulties of dealing with the Student Activities Office (SAO) and Student Affairs. We understand that these particular offices exist for the regulation of student clubs on campus, but an office so unwilling to give any leeway to this, a national event as opposed a student club event, seems to us to be more of a hindrance to students than a help. A few weeks ago, SAO halted our efforts of selling T-shirts to fundraise and advertise Relay on the grounds that they did not have a club name on them. 
Another problem we have encountered is that, since Relay is an event that lasts throughout the entire night, every Relay around the country has tents for people to rest in. However, the vice president of student affairs banned the use of camping tents at Relay because of parietals. We would like to know why Habitat for Humanity's Shack City is allowed to take place, with students ofboth genders sleeping in enclosed cardboard shacks for the entire night. Shack City is also a national event which has been allowed to take place in its intended form here at Notre Dame. Why not Relay for Life? We do not under­stand the inconsistent policy or SAO's lack of leniency toward this national event. 
We feel that Student Affairs and SAO should reevaluate their policies. We understand that it is important to regulate student events; however, perhaps the various University offices should reflect on the true purpose of each of their policies. Why is it so important, for example, that a club name be on aT­shirt? 
Sarah Lane 
JUniOr 
Farley Hall 
Mar. IS 

heat. Everyone had to wear long sleeves, pants and heavy work boots to protect us from the pesticides. We talked to some of the workers after­wards and most told us that they had dropped out of school and had begun working in the fields when they were 13 or 14 years old. Can you imagine starting this work at age 13, knowing that the only way to survive would be to do this every day of your life for the next 50 years or more? 
This problem may seem far removed from our daily lives, but really, we are intimately connected to the farm workers of America. Have you ever thought about why your food at fast food restaurants or grocery stores is so cheap? Our agricultural system is able to keep the prices down because in giving us the cheap food we desire, businesses cut down on the wages of the farm workers -their wages have not increased in 30 years. We as con­sumers have the power (and the responsibility) to make sure the farm workers are given the wages that they deserve. We all ignore this systematic problem because we want our food cheap and we don't care how we get it. 
As consumers, Christians and (most 
importantly) people, we have a choice to make. We must decide if the food we eat or the people who pick the food are more important. 
After seeing the effects of my deci­sions as a consumer (unjust wages, inhumane working and living condi­tions, extreme poverty), I cannot sim­ply be a passive consumer and give into the system anymore and I chal­lenge you to do the same. We need to look beyond the brand names and the slogans and open our eyes to the injustices of the agricultural business. We must recognize the role we play in this unjust business every day. 
Let us remember the farm workers who carry Christ's cross every day as they work in the fields in the hot sun to provide us all with the cheap food we so covet, getting nothing but ridicule and degradation in return. 
Laura Bradley is a senior Psychology and Theology double major. If you are interested in active­ly working to give the farm workers what is theirs, please contact her at lbradley@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
A statement of protest 
Many of you have heard about the walk-out protest that occurred at the opening performance of this year's production of Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues." Being that our statement has not been accurately represented in The Observer thus far, I, independent of my fellow protesters and objectors to the play's presence on campus, would like to take this opportunity to clarify our inten­tions to you. The following is a reprint of the statement we left in our seats following our Mar. 26 departure from the Monologues. I hope that this might help you to understand our reason for our actions and, ifnot, I wish you my very best in your academic and personal quest for truth. 
A Statement of Protest 
We have chosen to attend, and immediately depart from, this performance of "The Vagina Monologues" in order to protest its performance on campus for seven out of the past eight years. We sincerely hope that this will be the last time. 
The argument back and forth is interminable and we feel no need to give one more explanation of why we hold this play's annual performance at Notre Dame to be unacceptable; as a Catholic University, the instruction of the local bishop on issues of faith and morals ought to be sufficient, all the more so when it has been so thoroughly explained (see http://www.diocesefwsb.orgtCOMMUNI­CATIONS/statements.htm). 
Rather, we are leaving this statement in our empty seats in order to clarify the intent of our protest. We mean no disrespect to our fellow students who have chosen to perform this play, nor to those others who have come to attend it. For this reason, we have sought to minimize the disrup­tiveness of our protest. Yet we feel compelled to visibly demonstrate our opposition to the play­because it in turn shows such disrespect for the true nature and dignity of woman. 
Our Lady's University can do better than this. It is particularly upsetting that the play's perform­ance has been scheduled during Easter Week, the central focus ofthe liturgical year. We have been told that this timing occurred not at the request of the student organizers, but at the particu­lar instruction of the administration. It encourages us to learn that our fellow students were not seeking to deliberately antagonize the rest of the community in this way-but all the more causes us to question the prudence of those of our University's leaders who have been responsible for making a string of decisions in open defiance of Bishop D'Arcy. 
Upon leaving the play, we are headed as a group to the Grotto, where we will pray for the stu­dents, faculty and administration of the University of Notre Dame, and particularly that our institu­tional participation in such a demeaning cultural fad will come to an end. As loyal sons and daugh­ters of Our Lady, we are confident that she will hear our prayer. 
MaryKDaly sophomore Welsh Family Hall Mar.30 

Support for troops requires support for war effort 
Countless people seem to believe that it is possible to effort? Clearly, war protesters call for immediate pullout are hoping to see our troops fall short of their goals. support our troops in Iraq without supporting the war of Iraq, but an immediate pullout would not give troops Support for a person requires desire for their success. effort. Undoubtedly, most who are against the war sufficient time to achieve their goal, namely establishing On the other hand, hope for their failure is called would claim that they support the troops; an excellent stability in the country. Imagine a pre-med student had "opposition," not "support." If war protesters "support" example of this is Chris Hhodenbaugh, author of the the goal of getting into a great medical school; the war our troops, they must not know the defmition of the Mar. 26 editorial "Support the troops, not the war." protesters would be like a friend of this student who word "support." However, such a claim is complete nonsense. One can­claimed to support him or her, but openly wished he or not possibly support the troops without supporting the she would not accomplish this aspiration. Obviously, this Daniel Gonzalez war effort, because to do so is self-contradictory. How is not true support. Certainly, the war protesters are not sophomore can someone claim to support the troops if he or she hoping for success in Iraq, but failure. Knott Hall does not support their goals, effort, and continuing This premature pullout they call for shows that they Mar. 26 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Monday, March 31, 2008 

:~-:.· ---·· 
' '., ~1 . 



On Saturday, SUB brought the comedic stylings of Mindy Kaling and Craig Hobinson, better known as Kelly Kapoor and Darryl Philbin from the hit comedy series "The Office" to Washington Hall. 
Kaling. who has appeared in the films 
Caitlin Ferraro 
"License to Wed," 
"Unaccompanied 
Scene & Heard
Minors" and the "40 Year Old Virgin," began the show with 
.. a bang by joking about a recent Observer head­line involving "The Vagina Monologues." Kaling is also a writer and producer for the show and this lnd to severaljokes about boredom during the writers' strike. She poked fun at perezhilton.com and the Megan's Law Web site. Kaling's character Kelly is known for her high­pitched and annoying voice, but this made her pretty atrocious impression of deep-voiced actresses Scarlett Johansson and Julia Stiles even better. Just to mix things up, Kaling made an 'impromptu' phone call to B.J. Novak, a fellow writer, and portrayer of her on-screen ex­boyfriend, Hyan Howard. While I may have been wishing it was going to be Steve Carrell or Jim Krasinski on the other end. Novak amped up the <Towel by reminding them that he will be coming April 12 to perform at Notre Dame. Novak kept asking to speak to Craig Hobinson, who joined Kaling on stage. After missing out on Novak's joke beeause of bad Blackberry reception. (Novak was attempting to say, "Battl~red women. Sounds delicious") Kaling finished up her bit and it was time for Hobinson. Hobinson. whose character Darryl works in the warehouse of Dunder Mil'l1in, came out sporting an Notre Dame T-shirt and immediately began working the crowd. For a while, Hobinson was silent. only adoptly working his keyboard when he began playing "If You're Happy and You Know it ... " lie finally broke his silence when tlw audience failed at the song. breaking into a wild grimace and exclaiming, "It's stomp your feet [mother ... ]." lie made a lengthy joke about how every song should include the phrase "take ofT your panties," and got the entire crowd to sing along to some favorites. lie also shared his distaste for Barry White, because he makes everything sound so sexy. Women. he said, get the best of 

everything including walking down the aisle all 
by themselves with a special song, "The 
Wedding March." However, he said during that 
part of the ceremony. all the groom hears is 
funeral music. Instead. he said when he gets 
married he will walk down the aisle to "Eye of 
the Tiger." And he 'revealed' to the crowd that 
every man hears the intro music for Michael 
Jordan before making love. Hobinson's use of 
audience interaction was excellent and he even 
astutely pointed out that the guards at Notre 
Dame take their jobs "way too seriously." 
Following Hobinson's bit, Kaling rejoined him onstage for a Q&A. While I thought many of the questions were a bit pointless, some interesting information was learned about the show, and two girls even got up on stage and asked the stars to sign their T-shirts, which sported "Office" slogans. Kaling called the remaining six episodes of this season "the best yet" because the action from what should have been 10 to 12 episodes had to be packed into half that amount. She also noted that Angela Kinsey (who plays Angela) was hiding her real-life pregnancy by always holding her purse in front of her, making her look like "a leprechaun hoarding her gold." 
Kaling and Hobinson seemed down to earth as they discussed the joy they got from watching "The Ofiice" episodes on airplane flights. They seemed genuinely pleased and proud of their work. Robinson said his favorite episode was "The Coup," in which Michael gets in trouble once again as Jan busts him for declaring it's "Movie Monday," allowing everyone to watch a movie and neglect work. Subsequently, Angela pushes Dwight to make a move on Michael's j Hobinson laughed about the confrontational scene in which Michael and Dwight come face face. Kaling said it was difficult for her to pick just one episode but loves "Booze Cruise" and basically "every episode [she is] in." 
Overall, the duo was a riot. I look forward to seeing Hobinson in the film "Pineapple Express" out in August starring James Franco and Seth Hogen. And be sure to catch the next part of "The Office Comedy Series" with B.J. Novak April 12 to join in on the Dunder Milnin fun. 
The views and opinions expressed in Scene & 1/eard are those of the author and do not neces­sarily reflect those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrarl@nd.edu 
CHRISTINA LEWIS I Observer Graphic 

,------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, March 31, 2008 
page 15 

By CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA Scene Writer 
Matthew Bellamy's interest in global conspira­cies has been a long-standing theme in Muse's songs, and it continues to show in the title of their latest album, H.A.A.R.P. 
The name comes from the 

The album picks back up where it left off with "Time Is Running Out" and continues strong into the last track, "Take A Bow," the intro track from "Black Holes and Revelations." The first disc is a solid mix of well-known tracks in a live setting, and is sure to be well received by Muse fans everywhere. 
The second disc is where H.A.A.R.P. shines 
and makes the album worth 
High Frequency Active Auroral buying. It is a DVD of the
They have found a good 
Research Program. The band's band's second concert in
mix ofthe old stuffand the 
own version of this project is a Wembley Stadium on June 17 two-disc album of its live per­new stufffor all their fans. -a day after the audio-only 
formance at Wembley Stadium on June 16 and 17, 2007. The third compilation and seventh album from Muse is one that doesn't cease to deliver. 
The first disc is a mix of live tracks recorded from the first of two concerts at Wembley by Muse, ranging from its first album, "Showbiz," to its most current, "Blaek Holes and Revelations." The band's members have found a good mix of the old stuff and the new stuff for all their fans. The set kicks off with a classical intro track and leads straight into the energy-infused Knights of Cydonia, complete with trumpets courtesy Df Dan "the trumpet 

first CD was recorded. For 
those who have not seen Muse live in concert, the DVD comes very close to recnmting brilliant madness that is Muse. 
Matthew Bellamy's vocals resonate through the entire' stadium as he hypnotizes the masses with his crooning. The impromptu guitar solos and extended intros throughout are delightful additions, especially in the song "New Born," going from a quiet piano introduction to a riff­loaded, distortion-filled guitar solo courtesy of Bellamy. His artistic talents really shine in this one as we see him go from guitar to piano back 
to guitar deftly and smoothly, 
man" Newell. The second disc is where never providing for a break in 
H.A.A.R.P. shines and
The energy continues into the energy or momentum. "Hysteria," "Supermassive "Soldier's Poem,"
makes the album 
Black Hole" and "Map of the "Unintended," and "Blackout" Problematique" (a favorite worth buying. provide for a slow moment in 
track of this reviewer), and slows down for "Invincible," providing a break in the action for the listeners to catch their breath. 
H.A.A.R.P. 
Muse 
Label: Wamer Bros. Recommended Tracks: "Unintended," ''Map of the Problematique'' and "Hysteria'' 

the show, with Bellamy taking center stage on the acoustic guitar during "Unintended," a rarely-played single from the 
band's first album, "Showbiz." 
The camerawork is excellently done, fea­turing shots of the band and crowd, along with aerial clips of the stadium and stage at night, which is quite a sight to see. Fast zooms and angles of Bellamy, Christopher Wolstenholme {bass), and Dominic Howard (drums) add to the energy of the more intense songs. In the end, it's the wild rifTs and beautiful lyrics that leave the audience stunned in awe. This is Muse at its best, putting on an amazing performapce while producing such a wide range of emotions in its listeners. 
Contact Christian Sagardia at christian.sagardia@gmail.com 
CHRISTINA LEWIS I Observer Graphic 


Davidson's cinderella run ends against KU 
Rose, Memphis run past Texas; each No. 1 seed advances to Final Four for first time in NCAA history 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Child Care: Occasional evenings 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to Newly remodeled 3 bed If you or someone you care about and weekends for our twin daugh-campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, has been sexually assaulted, visit 
WANTED tars, age 7. Looking for someone fireplace, 2-car garage, 1 Ox20 deck, 1 bth home for rent walking dis-PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. who is responsible. energetic and deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. lance to college. shtml $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT enjoys kids. Good pay. Contact Call574-232-4527 or 269·683-5038 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­WORK Paul at weithman.1 @nd.edu or or 574-340-1844. Call847-507-7444. ONE WHO IS? Summer In Maine:Males and 
Maura at ryan.61 @nd.edu females. 
Dependable person to do yard work For rent: Large house available for 2009-You do not have to be alone. We flexible. no experience nlleded, and minor fixups. Call Sue at 233-2010. want to help. Call our 24 hour confi-Meet new friends! customer sales/service, n19. Two story house ready for immedi-dential hotline at 1·800-No Abort or 
ate occupancy or next school year. Full renovations completed 2007. visit our web site at www.lifecall.org Travel I conditions apply, ages HI+, Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security: Four indi-Close to campus. 4,000+ square UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Teach your favorite activity. 574-273-3835, FoR RENT vidually locked bedrooms, central feet, 5 bathrooms. "Tennis"Canoe"Water station monitored security system, Ski'Swim'Saii"Kayak"Theatre'Vide Blue & Gold Homes Showing for six blocks from Notre Dame, bus MacSwain@ gmail.com Do not go it alone. If you or some-o"Ropes"Office'Pottery"English www. workforstudents.com 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" stop in front of house, Laundromat one you love needs confidential Riding"Landsports and more. June 
leases bluegoldrentals.com next door. basement available for Housemate sought. support or assistance, please call to August. Residential. Enjoy our Notre Dame Staff membllr seeks storage, new furnace and central Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For website. house sitting/furnished retnlal HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 air. new kitchen including appli-Private room. more information, visit our website Apply on-line. TRIPP LAKE CAMP through July 31 while home is being CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING ances, large living room, free trash at: for Girls: built. FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574-removal. Garage available for car-Call631-7897. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­
234-2436 OR extra. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad 1·800-997-4347, www.tripplake· Call574-360-6919. KRAMERHOUSES.COM Call 289-4071 . $400 monthly. in The Observer. camp.com 
"That means a lot to us," 
Chalmers said. "It makes us part 
of history. We wanted to come in 
hnm and be part of history and 
be part of our first Final Four, 
and we was able to do that 
tonight." 

The win also rids Self of that 
dreaded "best coach never to 
make a Final Four" label. Self 
had fallen short with three dif­
ferent schools, including last 
year's edition of the Jayhawks. 
But this year's bunch had too 
much talent, depth and experi­
ence to be denied. 
"It feels good just for him," said Brandon Rush, who scored eight of his 12 points in the sec­ond half. "He's been stuek in the Elite 8 for the last few years. This feels good just to make that push into the Final Four for him." 
Curry, who became only the fourth player to hit the 30-point mark in his first four NCAA tournament games, finished with 25 on 9-of-25 shooting and was picked Most Outstanding Player of the Midwest Hegional. His roommate, Bryant Barr, was the only other Davidson player in double figures, seoring all 11 of his points in the second half. 
The loss snapped Davidson's 25-game winning streak, longest in the nation. 
"The agony of this is that we came so far," Davidson coach Bob McKillop said. "We've seen and touched our dream, and we missed. We came two points away from the Final Four with a 1,700-student school in the Southern Conference." 
Memphis 85, Texas 67 
The freshman from Chicago who wears No. 23 and soars all over the court just finished get­ting Memphis into the Final Four when fans began chanting "One more year!" 
Then Derrick Rose picked up his South Hegional MVP award, clipped a piece of the net and called his mom to share the moment. He kept it brief, though, because he didn't want his teammates to see him ery. 
It might be the only thing they've never seen him do. 
Driving, dishing and dunking, going above the rim for rebounds and flying around to block shots, Hose led Memphis past Texas Sunday for its first trip to the Final Four since 1985. 
''I'm just living the dream right now," said Hose, who finished with 21 points, nine assists and six rebounds. "Everybody back home happy for me and our fans back in Memphis are happy, so we're just living it up." 
They should. 


The Tigers tied the NCAA Division I record for wins in a season, with their only loss com­ing to a team ranked No. 2 at the time. They've been first, sec­ond or third in the poll all sea­son. And to all the people who keep saying they'd be the first No. 1 seed to lose, leading scor­er Chris Douglas-Roberts can say, "See you in San Antonio." 
''I'm not sure if we'll get the respect we deserve, but if we don't, it doesn't matter," Douglas-Robert said. "It's four teams left now." 
Memphis will play UCLA and its freshman phenom, Kevin Love. The Tigers and Bruins have a nice little history, having met in a regional final two years ago and in the 1973 title game. 
Memphis has only been back to the Final Four once, with Keith Lee leading the way in 1985. But that trip was vaeated according to the NCAA record book because of rules violations. Ditto for the only other time John Calipari coached a team to the Final Four, UMass in 1996. 
This March, Memphis has treated the NCAA field like it a continuation of Conference USA play. This 18-point finish was the second-dosest final margin. 
"We just try to go out there and prove everyone wrong," said bruising big man Joey Dorsey, who had 11 points and 12 rebounds. 
The Tigers were a win away from the final weekend of the NCAA tournament each of the last two years, but couldn't get over the hump. Then again, Dean Smith never won a title at North Carolina until that other No. 23 came along, Miehael Jordan. 
Calipari even compared Hose to another icon of greatness, Tiger Woods. Actually, Calipari brought it up last weekend, when he passed along an artiele about Woods to Hose, telling him, "This is who I believe you can be, physieally, skill-wisn." 
"He's got to improve, got to get on the range a little bit and get that stroke right, but he also has the mental capacity and the mental toughness and the intelli­gence to be unique and special. And it sets him apart," Calipari said. 
"lie's been that way since we got him, so it's nothing I've done with him. lie just has a will to win. It may be with a defensive stop. It may bn with a rebound that he nieked his head on the rim as he went to get it. It may be outrunning the entire field when he started behind every­body. It may be a steal, a dive, a tip out of nowhere, and then again it may be a drive, baseline and dunk on their team." 

Associated Press 
I>ETHOIT-Stephen Curry darted this way, faked that way. Nothing opnn, and the bright red nurnbnrs on thn elock getting dose to znro. 
lin was the right guy -thn only guy -to takn thn biggnst shot of th11 NCAA tournament. 
But thern wasn't one. All he could do was the pass the ball and watch as Jason Richards' dnsp11ration try thudded oil' the backboard. 
Davidson was done. Kansas was in. 
"It hurts a lot to get this far, be so dose to get to the Final Four," Curry said after top-seeded Kansas held off little Davidson 59-57 Sunday. 
The .layhawks' win in the Midwest Hegional final sent all four No. 1 seeds to the Final Four for the first time. 
''I'm definitely proud of what wn've accomplished and what wn're about and \\hat we've just proven all year," Curry said. " ... But it's going to hurt. This game's going to hurt a lot for the nnxt however long." 
Curry, the. son of former NBA sharpshooter Dell Curry, had made the tournament his own little party, scoring at will with his silky-smooth shot and carry­ing Davidson to one improbable victory after another. He looked as if he might do it again, drilling a 3-pointer from NBA range to cut Kansas' lead to 59­57 with 54 seeonds left. 
Aftnr Kansas' Sherron Collins missed with 21 SIN~onds left. the 1Oth-seeded Wildeats got one last chancn. 
And of course t.he 
ball to Curry. 
"Kansas had four guards out there and they just switched. It kind of defeated tiHl purpose of the play," he said. "I gave them a pump fake to try to get a look, but I was off-balance when he fell down. So I saw Jay open at the top of the key, so I swung it to him." 
But Hichards was off-balance 
a bit -just enough to send 
make it dang rather than swish. 
"I kind of had a feeling in my heart that it wasn't going in because the way he shot it. It looked like he was leaning to the left a little bit," Kansas guard Mario Chalmers said. "When I turned back, I saw it hit the baekboard. I was just relieved." 
Hiehards dropped to his back at midcourt while the Jayhawks celebrated with a measure of relief. 
"Trust me, I was on both knees," Kansas coach Bill Self said. "You picture the way you win a big game like that, it would be you make a shot, you celebrate or something happens and you're able to go congratu­late all your coaches and play­ers. This was not one of those deals. I just wanted to make sun1 that I hurried up and shook hands and the offieials left the eourt so they couldn't put any time back on the cloek." 
Kansas (35-3) moved on to play overall No. 1 seed North Carolina -and former coach Hoy Williams -on Saturday, and UCLA and Memphis will round out the party at the Alamodome in San Antonio. 
Three No. 1s have advanced three times, most recently in 1999. 

AP Kansas guard Sherron Collins goes up for a shot against two Davidson defenders In the first half Sunday. The Jayhawks won 59-57. 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 31, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVHts WlRE SERVlCES page 17 
MLB
NCAA Men's Tennis Top25 

rank team record prev 
1 Virginia 19-0 1 2 Ohio State 18·1 2 2 Georgia 16-1 3 4 usc 13-3 9 5 Texas 13-3 4 6 UCLA 12·1 6 7 Mississippi 13-4 5 8 Florida 10·4 18 9 North Carolina 10·3 13 10 Florida State 13·3 7 11 Tulsa 14·3 8 12 Tennessee 15·2 10 13 Michigan 13-2 13 14 Pepperdine 9·6 15 15 Arizona Slate 12-0 11 16 Texas Tech 16·2 21 17 Illinois 9-5 12 18 Baylor 10·7 16 19 LSU 9-6 NR 20 Washington 11·4 25 21 Texas A&M 9·6 19 22 Rice 12·5 17 23 Oklahoma State 9·5 24 24 Alabama 14·6 23 25 Auburn 9-7 22 
NCAA Women's Tennis Top25 

rank team record prev 
1 Northwestern 13·1 1 2 Georgia Tech 11-4 2 3 Baylor 17-1 3 4 Florida 12·1 4 5 Stanford 10·3 5 6 California 11·3 8 7 Duke 11-2 9 8 Georgia 12-4 6 g UCLA 12·4 8 
10 usc 12-4 10 Selig following a media as a reserve outfielder and rebuild the team with youth. 
Associated Press 11 Vanderbilt 13·3 11 report that he received a left-handed designated hit­"We just need to move for­12 North Carolina 12-5 13 BALTIMORE Jay shipment of the human ter, and keeping the more ward ... along the path 13 Arkansas 12·5 22 Gibbons was released growth hormone after versatile Scott Moore as a we've decided we need to 14 Miami 10·4 12 Sunday by the Baltimore January 2005, when it was utility player made far more take," MacPhail said. "''m 15 Ariza na State 11·3 14 Orioles, who lost patience banned by baseball. Kansas sense. convinced that it's the right 16 Fresno State 9·5 16 waiting for the oft-injured City outfielder Jose Guillen 'The decision was essen­thing for us to do." 
17 Texas 8·3 17 
outfielder to rngain the form also was suspended for 15 tially down to two players, MacPhail, however, did 
18 Pepperdine 13·3 18 
that enabled him to hit 26 days. and we made a baseball not make the decision with­
19 NOTRE DAME 24
12·7 home runs in 2005. On Friday, the commis­decision," said club presi­out first discussing it with 
20 Florida Stale 12·3 15 
Gibbons batted .189 with sioner's office and players dent Andy MacPhail, who owner Peter Angelos. 
21 TCU 10·4 19 
no homers and four RBis in association put the penalties delivered the news to "I gave him the ramifica­
22 Tennessee 11-5 20 
16 games this spring train­on hold for 10 days to allow Gibbons. tions and what my thinking
23 Kentucky 12-5 23 
ing after playing in only 84 for further negotiations over "We laid it out pretty was. I hadn't really reached
William & Mary 11·8 25

24 g~mes last season. their drug agreement. If a clearly," MacPhail said. "For any conclusions myself; I
25 Indiana 14-3 NR 
Baltimore owes him $11.9 deal is struck, the suspen­you to be a productive play­was really wrestling with million for the next two sea­sions likely would be er you need to play, and that this one," MacPhail said. sons as part of a $21.1 mil­dropped. opportunity just doesn't "His advice was, 'You gotta lion, four-year contract he That, however, appeared exist here absent some hor­do what you gotta do.' Women's Lacrosse Big East agreed to in January 2006. to have nothing to do with rific injury. His words were, Those were the last words Gibbons, 31, was sus­the Orioles' decision to cut 'I agree completely."' he left me with, and I took Conference Standings pended for 15 days on Dec. Gibbons. The team didn't Gibbons also did not fit the position that this is what 
6 by commissioner Bud see him getting much time into MacPhail's decision to we had to do." 
team league overall 
Georgetown 2-0 8·2 Syracuse 2·0 8-2 ­NOTRE DAME 
2-1 8-3 

Rutgers IN BRIEF
1-1 4-6 Loyola (Md.) 1-3 
3-7 Knicks' Thomas not in the Pettitte throws six scoreless Hanging hair among rules
Connecticut 
0-3 1-9 

running for Indiana job innings, will open on DL discussed at NFL meetings 
ATLANTA -Embattled New York TAMPA, Fla.-New York Yankees PALM BEACH, Fla. -Mike Nolan Knicks coach Isiah Thomas side­left-hander Andy Pettitte allowed one thinks there are reasons beyond stepped whether he's interested in hit over six scoreless innings in a safety for the proposal that could talking with Indiana University about minor league game Sunday. lead to an NFL ban on hair hanging its head coaching position. Pettitte struck out six and walked from the back of helmets. 
Thomas, whose Knicks have lost five one. "The nameplate is on his back; the of six and 13 of 15, has a 53-101 "I threw 77 pitches, and that's what I number is on his back," the San
around the dial 
record in two seasons with the Knicks. needed," Pettitte said. "It's exactly Francisco 49ers coach said Sunday, Though he helped Indiana win the what I wanted to do." the day before the NFL's meetings 1981 NCAA championship, Thomas Originally slated to start the officially begin. "That's what we
MLB OPENING DAY has never coached in college. Yankees' second game of the regular want the fans to see. Not his hair." He indicated the Hoosiers haven't season, Pettitte has been slowed by This might be a year when fans consulted him. back spasms and is scheduled to make actually take interest in what owners
Toronto vs. New York Yankees 

"No, I have a job," Thomas said his first start Saturday against Tampa do at these gatherings. Many meet­
1:00 p.m., ESPN 

before the Knicks played the Atlanta Bay. He was placed on the 15-day dis­ings are filled with arcane proposals, Hawks on Sunday. abled list Sunday, retroactive to March like changing the positioning of Milwaukee vs. Chicago Cubs Thomas, also the Knicks' team pres­21. offensive linemen's arms during 
2:20 p.m., ESPN2 ident, said he hopes interim coach Dan "I feel great," Pettitte said. blocks. This season, at least, there is 
Dakich is named full-time at Indiana. "Everything felt good today. Got a lot of some meat among the suggestions. In February, Dakich replaced Kelvin work in. Did I have to get to 77 pitches Or at least some hair.
San Francisco vs. Los Angeles Dodgers 
Sampson, who resigned following the today because I'm a little short and The idea of banning long hair ­
4:00 p.m., ESPN 

release of an NCAA report that said he behind everybody? Yeah. I'm ready for players would be allowed to tuck it committed five "major" violations my start and just looking forward to under their helmets -was proposed involving recruiting. continuing to build my strength up." by the Kansas City Chiefs. 


assists and "Parker, she,s gonna with 10 points three steals. score no matter what and 10 And without rebounds.
defense you're in 
a doubt, Irish coach
when she's on the
Parker's stat Muffet McGraw line reigned block.,, said she supreme in switched from determining the 2-3 zone to
Muffet McGraw
the outcome. the 1-3-1 zone At times, to limit
Irish coach
Lady \lois 
continued from page 28 
Lady Vols' 74-64 win over Notre Dame in the NCAA Sweet Sixteon Sunday. 
But thn Irish never planned to try and eomplo~tely shut down Parker. They knew they couldn't and instead they focused on defending the thrne. 
"We were trying to guard the 3-point line and we didn't rnal­ly think that [Parker! would got that many because we didn't want to guard her inside," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "But we did a nice job in the first half of guarding the :3­point line. I was really pleased with that at half time." 
Defending the three worked for the Irish in the first half­they kept the Lady Vols to 1­for-5 from the are to enter the locker room with the 33-31 lead. 
"We felt great [going into the seeond half!. we felt that we could play with them. We believed in each other we believed in ourselves," Irish senior guard Chand Allen from beyond the are weren't enough for the Irish defense could contain. Tennessee found another force in senior center Nicky Anosike. It seemed as though every time Notre Dame's defense denied Parker the layup, Anosike answered with a jumper from the paint. Anosike had for 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Irish squad refused to back down, nearly matching the Lady Vols in rebounds. (Tennessee grabbed 45 to Notre Dame's 421. Notre Dame pulled down 11 offensive boards and 31 defensive boards in comparison with Tennessee's 14 and 31. 
Evon with Notre Dame thrf1atening at the end of the first half, Tennessee never lost its composure -that speaks to the team's experience. 
"This team is full of seniors. We've been in the same posi­tions that we've been in before," Parker said. "Against North Carolina we were down by 12 with eight minutes to go. There's no panic, we just come together, figure out what's bro­ken. and fix it." 
Without 
Parker on the 


said. "We just "[Parker's! the best eourt in the first lost thn game." half, Tennessee
offensive player. She 

Lindsay would have
has the size, skills, 

Schrader put in done little dam­a lay-up in the mindset to take over age to the Irish 
first minute of a game. She wants -Parker had 
the s!'eond half 19 of the teams
it.,

and the Irish 31 points in the (((~fense eontin­half. twd to guard the Pat Summitt "I think thren as Lady Vols coach [Parker] just 
Tennesse1~ 
missed its first two shots from b1~yond the are. But a lay-up by Parker at I H:09 put the Lady Vols right 
-
back in it and they trailed by two at 37-35. Under a minute later. the Irish defense man­aged to drive Parker out of lane only to havP hnr answer with two as she drew a foul from Schrader for the tie at 37­37. 
Parker grabb11d the go-ahead point from the line and Notre DamP never regained the lead. 
Parker's layup at 18:09 was thn beginning of a 14-0 Tnnnnssee run that diminished Notre Dame's ehanens of get­ting back in the game 
Tennessee senior Shannon Bobbitt-who couldn't be more unlike Parker, measuring 5-foot-2 -managed to break through the Irish defense beyond the are and shoot 2­for-4 from the :~-point line in tlw second half. 
"Bobbitt's threes really were kind of like daggers for us," McGraw said. 
If Parker's prnsence at the low post and Bobbitt's shot 
knows that's 
her role on our team. She's the best offensive player," Lady Vols eoach Pat Summitt said. "She has the size, skills, mindset to take over a game. She wants it. 
"She's willing to step up and make the plays for us. She's obviously talented enough and has the size inside to make the type or plays that obviously you have to have at certain moments." 
It was Tennessee's ability to remain composed that allowed it to stay in the game. Once Bobbitt started hitting the three in the second half and the rest or the Lady Vols offense responded, there was no looking back. 
The Irish just eouldn't stop Parker from reaching over the top and continuing to put it away. 
Notes 
+ Attendance at the game was 10,032 -the highest in the 2008 Tournament so far. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Guard Parker, Anosike sinks the jumpnr. Double Anosike, Parknr owns a smaller defender. 
What to do? Double them 
both? Shut down the two 
main scorers? In the first 
half, that was a sound option 
(Parker and Anosike com­
bined for 24 of Tennessee's 
31 first-half points.) But in 
the second half, when 
Bobbitt and Bjorklund start­
ed hitting threes'? That's a 
bold strategy, Cotton. 
Tennessee's ball movement was too quick for the Irish guards, who had either stepped inside to lend a hand in taming Parker or col­lapsed on Anosike at the top of the key, to get outside and get a hand in the shooter's face. 
The irony is, Notre Dame's offense played well against a bigger, more athletic Tennessee team. Four play­ers scored double ligures. Bruszewski tied a career high with 16 points. Guard Lindsay Schrader had 13 points and nine rebounds. The stats are similar between the two teams. Tennessee had 45 boards to Notre Dame's 42. The Irish shot 39.7-percent on the game; Tennessee hit an even 40-percent. 
But the reason the Lady Vols advance to faee Texas A&M and Notre Dame heads home lies in the versatility of Tennessee's offense. The Lady Vols played like a llydra -cut off one source of points, and two more quiekly appear in its place. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserller. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 

Parker 
continued from page 28 
it couldn't stem the Lady Vols' offensive flow. 
The simpleton could attrib­ute Tennessee's performance to Lady Vols forward Candace Parker, who ripped through Notre Dame's defense like the tornadoes that•swirled around Oklahoma City during the game. She tied a career high with 34 points and had 13 boards, four blocks, three shots." 
Notre Dame had no one to match up with Parker 1-on-1 in the post. Parker, at 6-foot­4, has three inches on Irish forward Becca Bruszewski, who played the majority of the game in the post after center Erica Williamson ran into foul trouble. So rather than let her drop 60, the Irish would collapse on Parker and leave Anosike open at the free throw line. Instead of forcing the shot, Parker would dish to Anosike, who would sink the 
15-foot jumper. 
She finished 

however, it was what Parker didn't do that boosted Tennessee above the Irish, and that's how Notre Dame found itself in a three-way Catch-22. 
The Lady Vols have scorers all over the floor. Against Notre Dame's zone defense, they put Parker on the post, center Nicky Anosike at the top of the key and guards Alexis Hornbuckle and Shannon Bobbitt out on the perimeter. Cover the wings and Anosike near the foul line, and Parker gets the feed down low for the easy bucket -of which she got many. 
"I did not feel like she could be stopped in there unless they wanted to dou­ble-team her," Tennessee coach Pat Summitt said. "She did a great job of establish­ing position and finishing Anosike's effec­
tiveness from the key, but Anosike kept making the shots. 

"We were giving them to her at the beginning of the game, and then she started making them and I thought, we're gonna have to change defenses to be able to guard her at the high post, and so I went to the 1-3-1 for that," McGraw said. 
The 1-3-1 zone, McGraw said, had the drawback of leaving a smaller defender at the low post to deal with Parker. McGraw recognized the relative futility of plan­ning to stop Parker in the post. 
"Parker, she's gonna score no matter what defense you're in when she's on the block," McGraw said. "She's a tough match-up inside with her size." 
Monday, March 31, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC GOLF 
Belles falter in Kentucky 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's ran into a speed bump this weekend in its pursuit of a qualifying for a spot in the Div. III National Championship Tournament. 
The Belles finished 16th out of 21 teams at the Northern Kentucky Spring Invitational tournament this weekend in Perry Park, Ky. 
"We made a lot of progress on the second day of play," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. "But we still need to improve." 
Captain Katie O'Brien was the leading performer for the Belles, shooting an 86­84, placing her in the top 20 of the individual standings. Freshman Rosie O'Connor also finished with the second best score on the team 
The Belles have more than a week off before they com­pete in the NCAA qualifying 
tournament. 

"The way I see it, we have a week and a half to shave off about 10 strokes from our total before the qualifier tournament," said Hamilton. 
Saint Mary's will play in the Tri-State Invitational next weekend in Angola, Ind., before playing in the qualifying tournament on April 9. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
SMC falls to Olivet, Wheaton 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's (4-8, 0-2 MIAA) went 0-2 this weekend at the Jack Swartz Invitational at Wheaton College, ill. The Belles lost Friday 6-3 to No. 16 Olivet Nazarene and 8-1 on Saturday to No. 28 Wheaton College. 
Against Olivet Nazarene, Saint Mary's won three of the six singles matches. No. 1 singles sophomore Camille Gebert defeated Olivet's Jill Haas 5-7, 6-4, 6-0. At No. 2, freshman Jillian Hurley beat Erica Engelbrecht in two sets, 6-3, and 6-1. No. 4 freshman Jessica Kosinski overcame Alicia Cullen in two sets as well, winning 6-3, 6-4. 
At No. 3, Betsy Reed, a fresh­man, lost to Lily Gonzalez from Olivet Nazarene 6-1, 2-6, 6-1. At No. 5, sophomore Lisa Rubino went down 7-5, 6-1 to Jen Ramsey, and at No. 6, freshman Jessica Camp lost 6-1, 6-1 to Jade Stanlick. 
The Belles were unable to come through on the doubles side on Friday. The No. 1 team of Gebert and Hurley lost 8-5 to Erica Engelbrecht and Alicia Cullen. The No. 2 duo of Betsy Reed and Lisa Rubino lost 8-2 to Lily Gonzalez and Jen Ramsey, and were fol­lowed by the No. 3 team ofJessica Camp and Franca Peluso losing 8­2 to the Tigers' Jill Haas and Jade Stanlick. 
Saturday's match wasn't any more successful for the Belles as they took on Wheaton College. 
Reed won the only singles match for Saint Mary's on Saturday, 6-3, and 6-0 over Wheaton's Brooke Parrish. 
No. 1 Gebert lost 6-0, 6-0 to Jordan Hook. No. 2 singles Hurley lost for only the second time this season to Shannon Hale, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4. 

No. 4 Kosinski lost 6-4, 6-1 to Brittney Dunn. No. 5 Rubino was defeated 6-2, 6-2 by Sara Federschmidt. To finish off the Belles singles lineup for the week­end, No. 6 Laura Arnold lost 6-0, 6-0 to Kayli Edwards. 
The Thunder won all three dou­bles matches. The team of Gebert and Hurley were defeated 8-0 by Hook and Federschmidt, bringing their record to 5-7 as a duo. Reed and Rubino lost 8-2 to Parrish and Lindsey Hallet, and Mary Therese Lee and Peluso were defeated 8-1 by Dunn and Edwards. 
"It was a tough weekend, but our team played well," Rubino said. 'We stepped up our competi­tiveness, and I think it will pay off for conference matches later in the season." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOI@saintmarys.edu 

It's possible at St. John's University-the only American university that offers this unique opportunity for graduate study in Rome. Whether you are interested in pursuing an M.B.A. in Finance, International Business or Marketing Management, or an M.A. in Government and Politics with a specialization in International Relations, our expert professors and the Eternal City itself will help you prepare for the global arena. 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish earn split, snap Blue De111ons' streak 

TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer Junior pitcher Brittany Bargar pitches in last season's matchup against Ball State. Bargar pitched in both games Sunday. 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Behind strong pitching per­formances from freshman Jody Valdivia and junior Brittany Bargar, the Irish split a doubleheader with 17th-ranked DePaul and ended the Blue Demons' 25­game conference winning streak. 
"I think taking one from DePaul is always a good win" Notre Dame coach Deanna Gumpf said. "They're a tough team and we have quite a history with them." 
The Irish nearly managed a sweep of the twinbill, losing the first game on a walkoff single by Jackie Tarulli­Fisher. Two errors in the final inning spelled doom for the Irish. The fielding woes were especially frustrating for Gumpf, who has been try­ing to stress the importance of defense to her team this season. 
"Our defense hurt us in the first game," Gumpf said. Bargar earned the loss 
Student workers provide administrative 
248 nannel' Hall for an 

support to The Career Center Staff 
application! 
PLEAsE .&TT;l(:Q RESUME 

For a complete description go to the rtf 
Student Employment website: COMPLETED J!.PP~CllTlON http://financialaid.nd.edu/jobboard/ 
/-.·-.C:..~· Application Deadline: ll1e Career Cen~er '/~ A.prll 7' 2008 
.,.,,. '· ··· .. ,.,. ···· Questions?Call The Career Center careercenter.nd.edu 574~631-5200 
despite allowing only four hits over 6 and 2/3 innings and allowing no earned runs while striking out 12. 
In the second game, Notre Dame was determined to give its pitching more sup­port. Linda Kohan crushed a solo home run to center field in the top of the second to put the Irish up 1-0. Notre Dame added an unearned run in the fourth, and a 2-0 lead was all Valdivia needed. The freshman struck out three in 5 and 2/3 innings to get the win, and Bargar pitched the final 1 and 1/3 for her first save of the sea­son. The biggest stat from the second game for Gumpf, though, was that the Irish defense made no errors in the field. 
"We really picked it up," Gumpf said. ''I'm really proud of the way the girls bounced back." 
The Irish (17-10 overall, 1­1 Big East) will play at home against Ball State Tuesday. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
for a 
.···.··.j·•····· ()il:IJ·~··~··rr~·.·....··.····.·•·········
..· 
Please stop by 

....... 
page 20 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Notre Da:tne rovvs to victor,y.. in California 
Varsity boats defeat Stanford, UCLA 
By LULU ZHANG Sports Writer 
Notre Dame claimed victory in two of three races against both Stanford and L CLA on the first day of the Pac-10 Challenge in California. The women's second varsity eight and varsity four crews beat Stanford, while the varsity eight and second varsity eight boats beat UClA. 
Notre Dame's varsity eight boat crew of Lauren Buck, Allison Marsh, Laura Pearson, Amanda Polka, Mary Quinn, Kendra Short. Julie Sobolewski, Christine Trezza and coxswain Kelsey Otero competed against Stanford in its 11rst race of the day. The Irish went into the race ranked No. 14 by the Collegiate Bowing Coaches A'isodationi{JS Bowing poll, and the Cardinal were ranked No. 10. However, the Irish finished with a time of 
7:02.45. falling short by seven snconds to the Cardinal's time of 6:55.0. The Irish regrouped and wnre able to claim vietory in the af'tnrnoon against 13th ranked UClA. The Bruins lin­ishnd in 7:31.6, while the Irish dainwd victory with a time of 7:25.1. 
Notrn Dame's second varsity night crew of Erica Copeland, Emily Crosby, Elli Grcybar, Brittncy Kelly, Kristan Madison, Carol Ann Michel, Anni Nowhitney, Casey Hobinson and coxswain Stephanie Szeged defeated Stanford in the opening race, and UClA in the second race. Notre Dame beat Stanford by just less than 13 snconds in the first raee, post­ing a time of 7:13.8, and beat UClA in the second race by just over two seconds, posting a time of7:28.9. 
The varsity four boat of Mallory Glass, Ankica Jedry, Bridget Leone, Mary Kate McNamara and coxswain Sarah Keithley beat Stanford by more than 30 seconds in its opening race. The Irish fin­ished with a time of 8:38.0, while the Cardinal finished in 
9:11.6. In its second race, the crew fell short to UCLA with a time of 8:54.1, while the Bruins finished in 8:41.1. 
Notre Dame also competed in the Lubbers Cup in Michigan this past weekend. The Irish claimed victory in the varsity eight, 2/3 varsity eight, varsity four B, and novice four races. 
The Irish took first and fourth in the varsity eight race. The A crew won the five boat race with a time of' 6:55.40, while the B boat finished fourth with a time of 7:11.31. 
The Irish crew also won the sncond/third varsity eight race. Notre Dame posted a time of 7:09.28, which was well ahead of the second and third place teams of Hochester and Grand Valley State. 
Notre Dame won the varsity four B race with a time of 7:49.98, more than 20 seconds ahead of Hochester and Grand Valley State A and B. 
The novice four boat beat Grand Valley A, Grand Valley B, Grand Valley C, and Hochester with a time of 7:50.10. 
The novice eight boat fin­ished second to Grand Valley in the three-boat race with a time of7:38.27. 
The Irish varsity four A crew of finished third in its race with a time of7:59.36. 
Contact Lulu Zhang at lzhang5@nd.edu 

WTA TENNIS 
Davenport upsets lvanovic at Sony 
Associated Press 
KI\Y BISCAYNE, l,.la. -When an infant in the stadium stands began to ery during a rally Sunday, Lindsay Davenport won the point anyway. Mothnrhood hasn't diminished her foeus at work. 
Still gaining momentum in her earner comeback aftm bncoming a parent, Davenport upset sec­ond-ranked Ana lvanovie 6-4. 6-2 in the third round at the Sony Ericsson Open. 
Davnnport lntl the wonwn's tour in latn 2006 to have her l'irst child, then came back last sum­nwr. The thn~e-tinw Grand Slam eham pion is 17-3 this year with two titles. and she mted th(~ win ovnr lvanovic as her best since returning. 
"It's quite rewarding," said Davenport, :n. "In this eornebaek. for laek of bntter words. I've not madn a (iHll of mys(•lf. I'vn donn pretty well for my age and for what I've been through. Obviously days like today just give me more incnntive to keep going." 
I lampe red by injuries in recent years, Davenport is playing at Key Biscayne for the lirst time since 2003. She next faces No. 13 Dinara Safina. who rallied past No. 18 Sybille Bammer 4-6, 6-1, 6-0. 
Serena and Venus Williams also rnachnd the fourth round, as did top-seeded Justine Ilenin. Four­time champion Serena Williams had the toughest time, overcom­ing 60 unf(m:ed errors and a 3-0 deficit in the second set to beat No. 27 Flavia Pennetta 6-7 (6), 6­3,6-2. 
Williams said a rain dfllay when shn trailed 3-2 in the second set hnlpnd. 
"My mom ealled me," Williams said. "She knows my gamn really well. She was like, 'Stay up. Don't get behind the baseline.' I'm like, 'Arn you here? Arn you watching on TV?' 
Monday, March 31, 2008

The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's sweeps Calvin 

By LAURA MYERS 
Sporrs Writer 

The Belles had a busy week­end, sweeping a doubleheader against league opponent Calvin Saturday and splitting another at Hose-1-1 ulman Sunday. 
Saint Mary's raised its over­all record to 13-3 and 2-0 in MIAA competition. 
Saint Mary's started MIAA play Saturday by defeating Calvin 6-5. Senior McKenna Corrigan hit a three-run home run in the third inning to put the Belles up 5-2. 
The Knights, however, chipped away at the lead and tied it in the top of the seventh inning. In the bottom of the frame, sophomore Ashley Peterson scored the winning run on a single by junior Katie Hashid. 
Peterson, a rising offensive star, had two hits in the game. Junior Calli Davison pitched a complete game for the win. 
The Belles won their second game against Calvin 5-0. Corrigan pitched a complete game. 
The Belles amassed 13 hits, including a 4-for-4 effort by Peterson and a 3-for-3 per­formance by junior Ashley Fusaro. 
On Sunday, the Hose-IIulman Engineers defeated Saint Mary's 10-4 in the first game of the doubleheader. 
Saint Mary's held the lead 3­2 until the bottom of the fourth inning, when the Engineers scored seven runs. 
Davison again pitched a complete game and took the loss, bringing her record to 7­3. 
The Belles won the second game 4-2 as Corrigan pitched another complete game. Corrigan now holds a 6-0 record. 
The teams took a 2-2 tie into the fifth inning, when Peterson scored what proved to be the winning run off a single by sophomore Sarah Montelongo. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 3 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


Tile Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co· Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentiality IS assured 
CORE COU~GH 
FUR BAY &LESBID 
:n±Hrl~ 

Monday, March 31, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Wo111en look strong at ASU Invitational 
MEN'S TRACK 

Runners impress in Arizona 
Schipper earns NCAA Regional qualification in pole vault 

By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame jumpstarted the outdoor season in a big way this weekend by grab­bing seven top-three finish­es at the Arizona State Invitational meet this week­end in Tempe, Ariz. 
Senior Brienne Davis turned in the best perform­ance for the Irish by handi­ly winning the 100-meter dash and taking third in the 200-meter dash. 
Junior Alyissa Hasan also had a great meet for the Irish taking third in the 100-meter hurdles to go along with her 14th place finishes in the 200-meter dash and the javelin throw. Hasan's time of 13.91 sec­onds in the 100-meter hur­dles was enough to qualify her for the NCAA regional meet at the end of the year. 
The Irish 4-by-400-meter relay team took first place at the meet and also quali­fied for the NCAA regional meet. Members of the relay team also found success in other events. Sophomore Joanna Schultz, freshman c·ora Dayon, and senior Crysta Swayzer finished second, sixth and eighth­place respectively in the 400-meter dash event. 
Freshmen Kelly Langhans and Natalie Johnson fin­ished second and third­place respectfully in the 800-meter run rounding out an outstanding perform­ance by the Irish. 
Next weekend, Notre Dame will send athletes to both the Stanford and Purdue Invitationals. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 


By EUGENIA ALFONZO 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame produced an impressive finish as they traveled to Tempe, Ariz., this past week­end for the Arizona State Invitational. 
Although some members were not present for the meet, compos­ing of mostly distance runners, the team had a good showing against the 12 other teams pres­ent, including top-ranked Arizona State. 
The Irish had 10 athletes earn 11 Big East qualifications and one NCAA Regional qualification, along with many performances that missed the mark by a small margin. 
On Friday, only the throwers participated in the meet since the hammer throw was the first and only event of the day. Freshman Greg Davis came in 13th place in the preliminaries with a throw of 
54.70 meters, well over the Big East qualifying distance of 48 
· meters. He now ranks first for the Big East conference in the ham­mer throw, past indoor champion Andrew Hackney. Junior Jeff Mensch also partici­pated in the hammer throw, end­ing up with a 48.68 meter dis­tance and a Big East qualification. 
On Saturday morning, the first event for the Irish was the 400­meter dash, with freshman Miklos Szebeny and junior Billy Buzaid finishing seventh and tenth, respectively. Senior Austin Wechter followed with an impres­sive finish in the 400-intermediate hurdles. With a time of 53.72 sec­onds, Wechter's time ranks in the top four in all of the Big East. The 4-by-400-meter relay consisting of Szebeny, Wechter, Buzaid and sophomore Balazs Molnar ran to fourth place with a time of 
3:13.57. Their time is ranked third, following close behind Rutgers and Seton Hall University. 
For field events, sophomore Brandon Denon threw 50.74 in 
-.

the Discus throw, landing him with a Big East qualification and an 11th place finish. As for shot put, The Irish throwers picked up three Big East qualifications. Senior Mike Schubert, freshman Denes Verez and John Belcher placed sixth, ninth, and tenth in the event respectively, and are in the top seven of Big East stand­ings. Sophomore Eric Quick fin­ished well for jumps, finishing second in both the long jump and the triple jump, earning another two Big East qualifications for the Irish. In the high jump, junior Blair Majcina performed well and finished fourth with a Big East qualifYing jump of 2.05 meters. 
The Notre Dame NCAA Regional qualification belongs to sophomore pole vaulter Matt Schipper, who earned a sixth place finish with a jump of 5.05­meters. Schipper finished fifth last year at the Big East outdoor championships with a jump of 4.85-meters. His previous best this season had been at the Meyo Invitational, with a jump of 5­meters. 
The Irish compete again at the Mike Poehlein Invitational next weekend at West Lafayette, lnd. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
Aim 


At Ernst & Young, we encourage you to shoot for the sky. You'll gain invaluable experience helping us deliver quality services to world-class clients, and with each new challenge, you'll take another step towards agreat future. Next stop: the top. 
Move on up to growth and success. 
Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers and our Facebook.com group. 
know no boundaries 

WORL.D VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

Send suggestions for future World View events to president@nd.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF F:.iilUNIVERSITY OF
O
DE BARTOLO
WNOTREDAME PERFORMING ARTS CENTER W NOTRE DAME aawtJ 
Office ofthe President C('nter f(.,r Social Conc<"rns 
Monday, March 31, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Team loses fourth in a row 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
No. 27 Notre Dame found itself overmatched against No. 2 Ohio State Friday, and the Buckeyes defeated the Irish 6-1 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The loss was Notre Damn's fourth straight and only the second at home this season. 
Ohio State got on the board first with a win in the dou­bles point. The Buckeyes then went on to win the first set in all six singles matches, and the Irish could not recover. 
The Notre Dame pair of senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson regis­tered a 9-7 win over the No. 25-ranked Buckeyes pair of sophomore Mike O'Connell and freshman Matt Allare. 
The Buckeyes earned their first singles point with a win at the No.1 spot from junior Bryan Koniecko, who defeat­ed Helgeson in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2. Helgeson looked good early and jumped out to a 4-2 lead in the first set, but then lost 10 of the next 12 games to drop the match. 
Ohio State increased its lead to 3-0 as 27th ranked Buckeye junior Steven Moneke defeated 83th ranked Parbhu 6-3, 6-4. With the loss, Parbhu fell to 21-10 on the season and 5-6 against ranked opponents. 
The Buckeyes clinched the match at the No.3 spot as 19th ranked sophomore Justin Kronauge defeated Irish senior Andrew Roth in straight sets, 6-2, 7-6 (4). Roth was competitive in the second set and had an early 2-1 lead, but he dropped four of the next five games en route to the loss. Roth fell to 8-14 on the season with the loss. 
At the No. 5 position, Irish freshman David Anderson fell into an early hole against Ohio State freshman Balazs Novak and could not recover, as he dropped the first set 6­1 fell 6-4 in the second set. Anderson was in a 4-1 hole early in the second set, but he closed the gap to one at 4­3 before losing two of the next three games. Anderson's record stands at 15-11 on the season. 
The lone Irish point was 

registered by freshman Daniel Stahl, who pulled off a come from behind win at the No. 6 singles spot. Stahl dropped the first set against O'Connell 7-5 after blowing a 4-1 lead. Stahl took the sec­ond set, 6-3, to even the match, and avoided dropping two match points to win the final set 1-0 (11-9). With the win, Stahl improved to 20-8 on the season. 
Fellow Irish freshman Stephen Havens had a chance to replicate his teammate's feat, but fell in the third set to Buckeye freshman Shuhei Uzawa. After dropping the first set 6-2, Havens rebounded to win the second set 6-3, but dropped the third set 6-4 to fall to 17-15 on the season. 
The loss dropped to Irish to 10-8 on the season while the Buckeyes improved to 19-1. Notre Dame will try to stop the bleeding on Friday against in-state rival Ball State, whom the Irish have defeated in 17 straight con­tests. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish extend w-inning streak to six 111atches 

By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
For No. 19 Notre Dame, March was an excellent month. 
The third month of the dual match season saw the Irish extend their season­long win streak extended to six at the Eck Tennis Pavilion against in-state rival No. 25 Indiana 6-1. 
Things looked bleak for the Irish early on, with all the Hoosiers doubles pairs get­ting off to an early lead. The Irish made some mid-match adjustments, however, and eventually won the doubles point. 
"Indiana played well early on in the doubles portion," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "They came out more aggressive than we though they'd be, and they got off to an early lead. They usually hang back and volley a bit more than they did [Sunday]. Our kids hung in there, though and we made some changes and played more aggressive." 
Part of the credit in the doubles come back goes to the No. 1 duo in the nation of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft, who bounced back after some early struggles against Hoosier senior Brianna Williams and freshman Katya Zapadalova to win 8­4. 
The tandem dropped three of the first four games of the match, but rallied to grab six straight, helping them claim the win and improve their record to 27-5. Louderback could tell that his top dou­bles team needed to rebound after losing its first match as the nation's top pair to SMU last week. 
"They started a little slow," Louderback said. "The Indiana pair played well against them early on, but Brook and Kelcy got more aggressive as the match developed. They needed a 'W' after last week, so they took care of business." 
In another tight battle, the sophomore tag team of Colleen Rielley and Cosmina Ciobanu secured the doubles point with a hard-fought vic­tory over Indiana junior Alba Berdala and sophomore Lindsey Stuckey, 8-6. The Irish team seemed to be con­trolling the match at 5-2, but dropped the next three games, allowing the Hoosiers to tie. 
With a 7-6 lead, Rielley and Ciobanu only allowed one point in the game to pro­pel Notre Dame to a 1-0 lead. The pair now is 13-1 on the dual match season, claiming the squad's best winning percentage. 
Stepping in for injured freshman Kristen Rafael, junior Katie Potts and sopho­more Kali Krisik couldn't combine for a win. The duo fell 8-7 to junior Sigrid Fischer and freshman Myriam Sopel, giving the Irish pair their second loss in three matches as a dou­bles team. 
With Notre Dame up 1-0 in the match, the momentum from the doubles point car­ried over to singles play, with the Irish taking five of the six matches, including four in straight sets. 
Ciobanu looked focused in her match against Fischer, ousting her 6-1, 6-1 in con­vincing fashion. The sopho­more improved to 19-15 overall and 8-11 in dual match play. 
Indiana scored its only point of the day, cutting the Irish lead to 2-1 with Stuckey's defeat of Rielley 6­4, 6-2. 
Buck extended her winning streak to six matches with her dominant 6-1. 6-1 win over freshman Charlotte Martin. Her doubles partner, Tefft, looked just as solid, and clinched the Irish victory at 4-1 with her win over Berdala 6-3, 6-0. 
With the win already in hand. Notre Dame still didn't let up. Krisik improved on her team-best singles record, winning 6-3, 6-4 over Williams. The sophomore's mark is now an impressive 25-6, and has taken eight of her past 10 matches. 
Potts finished off the Hoosiers with a 6-4, 0-6, 1-0 (1 0-4) win over Sopel. Potts dropped six games in a row before regaining her compo­sure and claiming the victory in the tiebreak. Notre Dame is clicking on all cylinders and Louderback said the increased quality of perform­ance is due to the right chemistry and pairings in the lineup. 
"We are playing better," Louderback said. "We just have our lineup where it sets the kids who are playing in the right position to win, and it's making all the differ­ence." 
Notre Dame will put its six­game win streak on the line in West Lafayette when it faces Purdue Wednesday, fol­lowed by a contest at Iowa Friday. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

BASEBALL 
Notre Dame drops two of three to Bearcats 
By FRAN TOLAN and 
LORENZO REYES 
SportS Writers 
After Notre Dame's Friday 
game with Cincinnati was post­
poned because of rain, the Irish 
and Bearcats played a double­
hnader Saturday and finished up 
their series on Sunday. 
The teams split the double­
hnader before the Beareats won 
the set with a 4-3 win in the rub­
ber match. 
Bearcats 5, Irish~~ 
Irish ace David Phelps threw 
132 pitches but all his efl'ort was 
canceled out by one swing of 
Cameron Satt1~rwhite's bat. The 
Cincinnati right fielder hit a tow­
Pring home run in the eighth 
inning to give the Bearcats the 
lnad for good as Notre Dame fell 
in the first game of Saturday's 
doubleheader. 
Lefthander Dan Osterbroek got 
the complete game win for 
Cincinnati, allowing just two 
earned runs on six hits. Phelps 
took the loss for the Irish despite 
going eight innings and striking 
out three battnrs. 
"lin gave us a ehance to win," 
Schrage said of Phelps. "We 
talked in [the dugout[ and he 
wanted to go back out there in 
t_he ~ighth. I thought he pitehed 
Ime. 
With the game tied 3-3 in the 
eighth, Satterwhite capitalized 
on sloppy defnnsn by the Irish 
and put Cincinnati on top. With 
one out and no runners on base, 
Irish shortstop Brntt Lilley com­
mitted an error on a slow 
grounder off the bat of Tyler 
Goodro. 
"Wn didn't play good defense. We misplayed a ball in [center l'ieldl and misplayed a ball at [shortstop[," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "When you're fac­ing a guy like Osterbroek, you have to make all the plays." 
After Goodro reached on the 
error, Michael Oby1~ was inserted 
as a pinch runner but simply 
needed to trot around the bases 
after Satterwhite's blast. 
Satterwhite, the next batter, 
pulled an offering from Phelps 
over the trees belhind the left­
field fence to give the Beareats a 
two-run ndgn. 
Notre Dame manufactured a 
first-inning run and jumped out 
to an early lead. After Lilley was 
hit by Osterbrock's first pitch, he 
moved to second on a sacrifice 
bunt by designated hitter David 
Mills and advanced to third on a 
groundout. Junior second base­
man Jen~my Barnes roped a two­
out single up the middle to score 
Lilley and give Notre Dame the 
early edge. 
But in the second inning, Satterwhite knocked in a run on a groundout to tie the contest at 1-1. The game continued in back-and-forth fashion as the Irish scored in the third and Cincinnati pushed a run aeross in the fourth. 
Lilley led ofT the third with a single and Mills reached on an error. The next batter. Irish cen­ter fielder A.J. Pollc1ck, walked to load the bases for Jeremy Barnes. The junior ripped a ground ball right at Bnarcats third baseman Mike Spina, who knoc~ked it down and firm! hvme to cut down Lilley. But the Irish did not come away from the inning nmpty-handed as they scored on a doubl.e play. Ross Brnzovsky followed Barnes with a deep flyout to right-center field that was tracked down by 
Bearcats centerfielder Tony 
Campana. Mills tagged up and 
scored easily from third base but 
Pollock was thrown out as he 
tried to score from second on the 
play. 
"The play that Campana made 
on Brezovsky was huge and then 
the relay to get the guy at the 
plate was big, too, because I 
would send Pollock 10 out of 10 
times," Schrage said. 
In Cincinnati's half of the 
fourth inning, the team again put 
together a rally to tie the score as 
Satterwhite picked up the second 
of his four RBI. Bearcats ·second 
baseman Josh Harrison was hit 
by a pitch and moved to second 
on a wild piteh by Phelps. Later 
in the frame, Satterwhite sent a 
ball over Pollock's head for a 
run-scoring double that tied the 
contest 2-2. 
Thanks to the speed of 
Harrison and some timely hit­
ting, Cincinnati took its first lead 
of the game in the sixth inning. 
Harrison legged out an infield hit 
and stole second and third after 
drawing countless pickoff 
attempts by Phelps. With two 
outs in the frame, Bearcats 
catcher Ryan Baker scorched a 
single into left field to knock in 
!Iarrison and give Cincinnati a 3­
2 advantage. 
It took just one inning for the 
Irish to counter. With one out, 
Lilley was plunked for the third 
time in the game to move just 
two beanings from tying the 
NCAA record. He has been hit 90 
times. 
"It's just like a walk if I can get hit I by a pitehl and get on base to just get things going," Lilley said. "I don't mean to [get hitl but it happens a lot when I'm up there." 
Mills followed Lilley with a see­ing-eye single that bounced off Harrison's glove into shallow right field. Lilley moved to third on the play to bring up Pollock, who lined out to left field but got the ball deep enough to score Lilley and tie the game. 
But Notre Dame could not 
muster another offensive surge 
as Osterbrock retired the Irish in 
order for the last two innings. 
"He's pretty good ... he spotted up pretty well and he changed speeds a lot, and put his fastballs where he wanted them," Lilley said of Osterbrock. "He's tough to hit. I didn't hit him too much, I just got hit a lot." 
Irish 4, Bearcats 3 
Many people have speculated that the ejeetion of a coach can provide motivation for a team. Schrage provided some evidence in support of that claim in Saturday's second game as his early exit preeeded Notre Dame's completion of a 4-3 win over the Bearcats. 
After Irish starter Wade Korpi loaded the bases in the fifth inning, Bearcats left fielder Jamel Scott ripped a single into eenter field to knoek in a run and eut the Notre Dame lead to 3-1. 
Korpi then walked Cincinnati first baseman Kevin Johnson to push across another run. The normally good-natured Schrage, who was visibly irate with the home plate umpire's call, was ejected from the game. 
"I was arguing balls and strikes and should have been thrown out," Schrage said. "You can't argue balls and strikes." 
Korpi responded to the inci­dent by notching a strikeout and flyout to end the inning and leave the Irish with a 3-2 edge. Schrage laughed as he said that "maybe" his ejection "lit a fire under" Korpi. 

Korpi notched his fourth con­secutive win while striking out four and surrendering two unearned runs in 6 and 1/3 innings of work. 
"He picked us up. That's the best way I can put it," Schrage said of Korpi. "He's a senior and he's put together some nice games back-to-hack." 
The Notre Dame offense gave Korpi an early cushion as it put together a two-out rally in the second inning. After Evan Sharpley and Jeremy Barnes were retired, Brezovsky smacked a single to left field and Irish catcher Sean Gaston reached base on an error. Right fielder Billy Boockford knocked in the first run of the game with a slow single to right. Greg Sherry then got a single that produced two runs -albeit thanks to some sloppy defensive play by Cincinnati. Satterwhite mis­played the hit, allowing both Gaston and Boockford to score and put the Irish ahead 3-0. 
The Irish added a run in the sixth inning after Barnes led off by smashing a line drive to the wall for a double, Notre Dame's first extra base hit of the double­header. Barnes moved to third on a wild pitch then scored on a sacrifice fly to center field by Brezovsky. 
The Irish bullpen duo of Steven Mazur and Kyle Weiland finished off the Bearcats and earned Notre Dame a split in the double­header. 
"In the second game, we only had six hits. I'll give our bullpen a Iotta credit and Korpi," Schrage said. "I think that was the key to the second game, shutting them down with good pitching." 
Mazur replaced Korpi in the seventh frame and tossed 1 and 2/3 innings. The righty gave up one run but struck out four and did not surrender a walk. 
When the fire-balling Weiland entered the game in the ninth, the slew of scouts in attendance got their radar guns ready. The junior was unable to record a strikeout but did close out the victory. 
Weiland got his 20th career save, tying the Notre Dame record. He gave up a two-out hit and a walk but eventually quelled Cincinnati's last-gasp rally. Weiland got Dustin Alvey to ground out weakly to end the game. The Irish improved to 13­8-1 overall and 4-1 in Big East play. 
But Schrage said the Irish were lucky to salvage the second game ofthe double-header. 
"I think we were very fortunate to split today," Schrage said. "We didn't do a Iotta things very well [even though] we had been play­ing well [recently[." 
Bearcats 4, Irish 3 

Below a cold and misty sky, Notre Dame's chances to win the series came down to the last play of the game. With the Irish chances of winning looking bleak, the squad mounted a two­out rally that fell just short. 
Bearcat junior Jake Geglein retired the first two batters of the ninth frame, looking to seal the victory and series for Cincinnati. Notre Dame, however, was on a mission to spoil the weekend for its Big East rival. 
Mills delivered a two-out single to get on base. After a Geglein wild pitch allowed the sopho­more to advance to second base, Pollock connected on a check­swing dribbler in the infield. 
IQD489-Cilis UE 1·8_nd_v2:Layout 1 3/21/0~ ~:~4AM Page 1 
If itk Mot1day,you've got to do Chili's! 
Every Monday get a double order of Chicken, Steak or Combo Fajitas (enough for two) for just $12!" 
.Eb... I 
With the game now seemingly over, Bearcat third baseman Spina failed to bare-hand the grounder, allowing the play to stay alive. As Mills approached third base, however, there was a miscommunication between Schrage, who was stationed at third, and the sophomore base runner. Cincinnati shortstop, freshman Chris Peters, adeptly got to the loose ball and fired home to senior catcher Ryan Baker. 
With the game on the line, Baker hauled in the throw and successfully tagged out Mills, ending Irish hopes of a come­from-behind victory to take the series. 
Schrage tried to make sense of the play at the plate, but couldn't eome up with any explanation as to why Mills ran past his sign. 
"I don't know if there was real­ly any confusion," Schrage said. ''I'm not sure why he ran, but he did. I was just yelling 'Right here, right here,' but he just ran right past it. It's a shame the game ended that way, but it did." 
With the close loss, and the pair of defeats to start the con­ference season at home, a cer­tain amount of frustration is building within the team. 
"It's just frustrating that we lost two of three to open confer­ence play at home," Schrage said. "We're in the top-1 0 in the nation in fielding, top in our con­ference in ERA, and seven of our nine batters are hitting over .300, and when you have all that, but don't win games, it gets frus­trating. It tells me that we're not getting our playmakers to step up and get the big hit." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu and Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


Mishawaka • 4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 • www.chilis.com 
• Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. 

Monday, March 31; 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
ND clobbers Bellarmine 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
No. 7 Notre Dame (7-1) opened league play this weekend with a dominant win over Bellarmine University. 
The Irish scored 15 goals in the first half en route to a 
19-7  victory  over  the  
Knights.  
"We  shot  the  ball  very  

well. I thought we played very well offensively," coach Kevin Corrigan said. "We created lots of opportunities for ourselves and defensive­ly we were good enough to get the win." 
Three Irish midfielders posted career-highs in goals. Senior Michael Podgajny led the offense with four goals while sophomore Grant Krebs scored three times and junior Peter Christmas twice. 
Senior goalkeeper Joey Kemp recorded 10 saves for his 33rd career victory. He now holds the Irish record for wins. Junior attack Ryan Hoff scored his team-best 19th goal of the season. 
Bellarmine sophomore attack Andrew Wolford scored the first goal of the game, putting the Knights on the board first with 12:46 remaining in the first quar­ter. attack Matt Ciambella, 
"We played a little bit freshman defenseman erratically at the beginning, Andrew Irving and Hoff but we settled down about completed the final four 10 minutes goals of the into the game first-half run.
"We created lots of

and played During the very well for opportunities for third quarter, the rest of the Bellarmine
ourselves and

first half," scored twice
defensively we were

Corrigan said. before junior 
The Irish good enough to get attack Ducan quickly retali­the win.,, Swezey scored ated with giving the back-to-hack Irish a 16-5 goals from Kevin Corrigan I e a d sophomore Irish coach Podgajny 
attack Neil Hicks and Krebs. Podgajny and Krebs each scored again by the end of the first, giving the Irish a 4-2 lead entering the second quarter. 
The Irish dominated the second stanza. Podgajny first scored two goals fol­lowed by a goal from senior attack Alex Wharton. The Knights then scored to make it 7-3, but the Irish when on an 8-0 run to take a com­manding 15-3 lead. 
Senior midfielder and face-off specialist Taylor Clagett started the run, scoring his second goal of the season. Christman scored next, followed with a goal by freshman midfielder Zach Brenneman. 
Christman, sophomore scored again 

early in the fourth quarter to give the Irish a 17-5 lead. Bellarmine scored twice more before two Irish freshmen, Tom Connor and Patrick Maloney, earned the last goals, mak­ing the final scored 19-7 in favor of the Irish. 
The Irish will continue league play against Denver next Saturday at 3 p.m. at Toyota Park in Bridgeville, Ill. 
"Denver is very good team and they are playing well," Corrigan said. "They have recently gotten a couple of big wins after struggling very early on. They are very good team offensively." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish get Big East road vvin at vvinless U Conn 

By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (8-3, 2-1 Big East) stormed out to an early 6-0 lead and maintained its momentum throughout, beat­ing the winless Connecticut 18­11 Saturday in 

Storrs, Conn. "Out ofthe gates, we other moves, to 
Coming out to needed to come out give sophomore a fast start was goalie Amy
with more intensity.,,
something the Winik a chance Irish had to see action for focused on Tracy Coyne the second time throughout the Irish coach in her career. 
Robin Pastuch led the Huskies with three goals, while Whitney Michele and Laura Eichert each scored twice. 
The game was decided in that first half, which saw Notre Dame take a 14-4 lead into the break, which allowed Coyne, among 
week. coach Tracy Coyne said. 
"Out of the gates, we needed to come out with more intensi­ty," she said. 
Freshman Shaylyn Blaney opened the scoring for the Irish, and she was followed by Jillian Byers just 15 seconds later, taking an immediate 2-0 lead. Throughout the run, Byers would pick up two more goals, but she was not done. She added three more in the first half to bring her total to six and would finish the game with seven goals, bringing her season total to 49, which leads the team by 21 goals. 
All season 
long, Coyne has 

stressed the importance of conference games, noting that the team's main goal is to win the Big East. The Irish are a half­game behind first-place Georgetown and Syracuse, who each sport 2-0 confer­ence records. 
Notre Dame will play at Duke on Thursday, followed by a trip to top-ranked Northwestern and then a Big East showdown with Georgetown on April 12. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu ­

FrozeJn 
continued from page 28 
I 0. The Irish faced the Wolvnrirws twiw in CCIIA play this s<mson, litlling 3-2 on a last­minute goal in Ann Arbor and 5-1 at Thn l'alan~ in Auburn Ilills, Mic.h. .Jackson called the Wolverines "probably thn most explosive tl~am in the country ofl'nnsiwly." 
None of this could have bnen expnctnd when .Jackson arrived at Notn~ Damn thnw seasons ago. Thn Irish wen~ coming oil' a 5-27­(J season and struggled to a 13­19-4 rnr.ord in his first s<mson. .Jackson said while making the Frozen Four was "huge" for the program, hn wants a champi­onship. 
"For this team to make thnir first appearance in the Frozen Four is great," .Jaekson said. "But we can't just bP happy with that. W11'rp 120 rninutns away from a championship, but all we can do is focus on th11 first rninut!~ of the lirst game." 
Irish 7, Wildcats 3 
So much li1r Notr!' Damn's seor­ing draught. 
Aller hnaring about their scor­ing woes li1r wm~ks and not post­ing morn than tlm~e goals in a game sinr.n .Jan. £!6, the Irish oll'nnsn exploded for snven goals in their rngional snmilinal win. 
"It was thnir willingness to get it donn," .Jackson said. "Conlidence is everything. I think that our ability to seorn on tlw power play al'tnr INnw llarnpshirnl seornd the lirst two goals on breakdowns on racn-olls. to bn able lo c:ome back nach timn gave tlwm eonlidence to know that thny t:an competn with teams ol'lhat caliber." 
Senior eaptain Mark Van Cuildnr recorded thrne assists and junior Christian Hanson net­ted the lirst multi-goal game of his <:arenr. giving the Irish a 3-2 lead narly in the second it would rwvnr relinquish. Hanson also addnd an nmpty-nntter with thrne minutns to play. 
The Wildeats scored just a minutn into the game, but fresh­man defnnseman Ian Cole tied the ganw baek up SX sm:onds latnr with a power-play goal that snuck through UNII goalie Kevin Hngan's pads. 
Th<~ teams traded goals to end the lirst p1~riod, with Kyle Lawson scoring on the power play again 
-
li1r the Irish. With Notrn Damn up 3-2 mid­way through the serond, sopho­more 1!11't wing Dan Kissel used sonw skilled pur.k handling to give the Irish a two-goal advan­tagn. With 5-on-3 New llampshire advantage eoming to a dose, Kissel took the puck to thn lnl't wing boards, where lw spun away from one defender and then split tlw rest of the Wildcats defense to lire a shot inside the left post. Nnw llampshire's Phil I>nSimonn scored three minutes later. though, making it 4-3 head­ed to the third -whnrn the Irish would dominate . .lust 2:{ sneonds int(l the period, Van Guildnr and sophomore right wing Hyan Thang forced a turnover behind the New llampshire net. Van (;uilder cor­ralled the puck and slid it to Thang, who fin1d horne a wristPr li1r a 5-3 Irish lead. from there, the defense took over. and sophomore center Kevin Deeth and llanson each added empty-netters to bury the Wildcal'>. 
Irish 3, Spartans 1 
Two third-pPriod goals from Van Guilder and Teddy Huth pro­pelled Notre Dame to a victory over Miehigan State and the first Frozen Four appParance in the program's history. 
II anson put the Irish on the board lirst against the Spartans, scoring 2:43 into the seeond peri­od. llanson skated around the Michigan State net and tried to stuff the puck past Spartans goalie Jell' Lnrg but was unsuc­cessful on his first attempt. On the rebound, though, Hanson man­agnd to sneak the puck bntwPen Lerg's legs and give Notre Dame 1-0 lead. It was Hanson's third goal, and fourth point, of the weekend. 
"Now that he's showing that sign of consisteney, he's a domi­nant player at times," Jackson said of !Janson. 
The Irish lead lasted barely seven minutes, though, as Justin Abelkader evened the score at one at 9:05 of the second period. Abdelkader reeeived a perfect pass from teammate Tim Kennedy at the left eirele and firnd a one-timer past Irish goalie .Jordan Pearce. 
Notre Dame appeared to take the lead 15:54 into the period, when Evan Hankin corralled a rebound in the low slot and, with Lerg out of position, !ired a puck into thn vacant net. But the goal was disallowed after video review showed that Irish forward Knvin Deeth obstructed Lerg. 
"We were real calm on the 


bench just sitting there waiting for the call," Van Guilder said. "Whatever the decision, we had to keep coming. You can't let something like that kill your momentum." 
Even though the second period ended in a 1-1 tie, the Irish seemed to control the momentum heading into the final stanza. 
Finally, at 14:06 of the third period and with overtime loom­ing, Van Guilder scored the goal that would ultimately prove to be the game winner. After defieeting a pass from Ben Hyan off his skate and onto his stick, Van Guilder fired a low wrister past Lerg's stick to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. 
Huth sealed the win for Notre Dame 1:14 later when he beat Lerg with a slapshot from the right point. 
The win was a sort of vengeance li1r the Irish, who were eliminated in the regional linals by the Spartans last year. Jackson minimized the f(Jeling of revenge, though. 
"There wasn't a whole lot of talk about llastyearl," he said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at 
mgamber@nd.edu and Sam 
Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


--------------.. 
Monday, March 31, 2008 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLD MICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE

BLAcK DoG MIKE ARGIRION 
~Tvt>Y SAYS THe~ ARE FovR. l"t> S AtJYt>NE WHO Ulr-1 FIL-1­
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GA\1E 
IT.S WOMEN l-OOK F"tt IN MEN: ntE EMOTIONAL-VOlt> I'VE. SEEN STvFFtN(,. 
by Mikii! At{lifkn and Self Kourell
WITH ~OC.Ol-ATE..

SOMEONE w~ I~ ATT~TIVE, A (,D~I> 
~ 

PRoVII)ER, FAI'rHFUl-ANt> HE.H, YEA.f·L I WOJJb~ 
U11t(tamble lhm;;e Jour .>Jrnl:!les.
AVAil-A&L-E.. 
MEN WAroJT ~M 
one lel1er to each square. 10 form lout Otdinary wotds. 

DIDIER LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 

A recurring affarr 
LINAPAEK
THE SINGLE LIFE 

Now arrat~l{a lha circled letters to fMm ~~ wrpHse answer, as suggested b>i th* ilib~ cartoon 

Answerhere: u ( IIIII I I J' 
(Ans.vers tomorrow) Jumbl*s: MOUNT ANISE HANSOM SMUDGE M&~tf:t· Wnal tne male mode! rocer'lt'ld when he 
posed in the sui! -A "HANDSOME'' SUM 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Scott Moffatt, 25; Norah Jones, 29; Celine Dion, 40; Paul Reiser, 51 
Happy Birthday: Be strong, agile and adaptable to get ahead this year. Emotional matters will lead to trouble in all aspects of your life. Tend to whatever comes up financially, legally. medically, professionally and personally with wisdom and strength. Your numbers are !0, 12, 24, 39, 42,47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): If you can avoid something that will get you down, cause you grief or set you back financially, do so, instead of trying to prove your point. Sometimes it's not worth it just to be able to say, 11 1 told you so. n Sometimes it's best to move on. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take whatever comes your way graciously. Everything can tum in your favor. Make calls, take trips and ask for debts to be repaid. You will learn easily and use it to benefit your own life. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may be out to take advantage of you. Take the first step and don't look back. Put time, a little hard work and whatever cash you have into your surroundings to build a strong home base. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't get all worked up over nothing. A chance to partner with someone who can complement you is in the picture. Good times are ahead if you are willing to make a couple of changes now. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put in a little work time. Research will pay off in the weeks to come. A trip to visit someone you once knew will be worthwhile. Consider a change in lifestyle, occupation or friendships. An opportunity is present --take it. 3 stars 
WILLSHORTZ
CROSSWORD 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 22): Get out and do something you enjoy. Doing something nice for you, your family or your lover will pay off in the attention you receive for your efforts. A social event will open up a door to something you've wanted to pursue for some time. 5 stars 
Across 34 Enll'~ in a bowl 63 The Big Board: 
LIBRA (Sept. 23·0ct. 22): Before you spend money, think about the consequences and 
with beef or Abbr. 

if you can really afford to follow through. Your eyes will be bigger than your wallet. You have to be creative if you want to fit everything in. 2 stars 
Bounce to the 
lamb, say 64 Doe's mate 36 Pelvic bones 65 Winona of •Gnl, 

surface 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk is cheap so do as much of it as possible. You can
6 Botch 
present, promote and pursue your dreams and get a good response, great suggestions 
37 Boat propeller Interrupted" 

and even offers of an unusua] but prosperous nature. Have fun and enjoy the moment. 4
10 Sports 
stars
38 Clark's crush on

equipi"OOOI 
"Sma!!vil!e" Down 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are better off trying to stabilize what you 
already have rather than trying to build something new. A plan you have may not be 
14 Belittle 39 "Hey, come back Pilcher's taux 
feasible and can lead to loss, especially if someone decides to oppose you. Protect what 15Laaslt.>it abif PitCh 
you already have. 3 stars 

-
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Look for a deal and you will fmd one. You can secure your position with a little fast talk and legal documentation. A responsibility you 
16 PtoSGnt opener? 42 Enter en masse 2 New York 
theater award44 Where pjgs 

have dealt with for years will pay a huge dividend. Don't be shy ·-you deserve what's 
17 Free heallh and 
being given to you. 3 stars 
wal1ow 3 One often

dental care. and llel;lding a 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20·Feb. 18): A secret can be revealed. An idea you have can turn
than somo 45 In limbo 
into a lucrative pastime. Take care of any pending problems that you have with someone 20 List of test 
changn
47 Wooo-shapmg 

in a position of authority. A little give-and-take will work wonders. 3 stars 
4 Take adVantage
!Ool

answers 
PISCES (Feb. 19·March 20): Plan a social event that will bring you into contact with 
of 

people who are high-powered and to your advantage. The more you do to network and 
48 Nays' opposites21 Aviates 

schmooze, the further you will get. An offer is heading your way so position yourself 
5 ''Couldn't ~ 49 Flair 
with the right company. 4 stars 
-

22 limerick or batter!" 
52 Peppermint 

Birthday Baby: You are headstrong. emotional and passionate about your beliefs. You 
sonnet 
6 Pertaining 10 a 

are progressive, possessive and think big. You have a magical charm that helps you win 
of MPeanuts" 

23 Luke's twin son or daughter 
favors and popularity.
M Sombrew. e.g. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations 
S!St€1 In "Star 7 Ear or leaf part Wars" 
57 Eyeglass option 8 Four Corners·lor different

24 Price _ pound area Indians
distances 9 Prohibition25 Math symool for 60 Early state in the 

extraction of a 10 Errand runner
preSidoolia!root campaign 11 Dubai dignitary 
Ptllli<! b'/ lynn t~! 
30 Pilors stat. 61 Reclined 12 Six4eggoo 32 Banjo sound 46 Loathing 54 Group of buffaloscufl'iers33Warnings 62 Mil/Or artery 35 Hits narc 47 Pond organisms
13 Move skyward 55 Pretlx with 37Lummox 49 Piwuette chamrror
18 Fake identity

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 Occurrence 40 Like 16 vis-a-vis 50 "Iliad" selling 

58 Rulsr before 31­
15, agewise

23 Bygone !Iallan. 51 Cri€!S after l>eiog Down coins 41 Turk's topper burned 58 Emre of the 24­
24 Tour grp.? 42 Ho!'lW viewing 52 H.S. junior's 

Down
for a price oxam 
25 Monsoon 

For answers, ca!l1-900·285-5656. $1 A9 a minute: or. wilh a 29SuftiXWilh credit card, 1·80G-814-5554. tnmbard Annual subscriplions are available for the best of Sunday 
30 Trailblating crosswords from the fast 50 yeatS:. 1-888·7·ACROSS. videt) game Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 maker pas! puzzles. oytimes_~::om.icrosswortJs ($39.95 a year). 
3'1 H!S tomb is in Share tips: nytimas.comtpuzzleforum. Crosswords for young Red Square solvers: nytmes.com!leamirv;;txwords. 


---~-------1 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, March 31, 2008 
page 28 
=----=---~-~==========-========= 
HOCKEY 

Rocky Mountain high 
ND beats UNH, MSU to advance to first Frozen Four 
By MATT GAMBER and SAM WERNER 
Sports Writers 

Notre Dame entered the weekend as the West regional's No. 4 seed, expected to step aside for the heavily-favored New Hampshire, the top seed. 
But the Irish, who struggled in the sec­ond half of the season, to say the least, beat New Hampshire 7-3 Priday and Michigan State 3-1 Saturday to advance to the first Prozen Four in the program's history. 
"After the way the second half has gone, I'm just happy for our kids," Jackson said. "You know, they persevered through a real difficult time. They still held together, they still worked hard." 
The Irish looked more at home on the larger, Olympic-sized ice surface. Jackson said the added space allowed Notre Dame more otli:msive creativity, especially on the power play. 
"You can really stretch out a team's penalty killing," Jackson said. "And we did­n't get stretched out defensively, which was huge." 
Notre Dame moves on to face Michigan in the national semifinal in Denver on April 
see FROZEN/page 26 

Team finally regains early-season form with balanced effort in two upset victories in NCAA Tournament 
llow did this happen'! 
Until this weekend, it had been a frustrating couple of months for anyone who followed Notm I>arne hockey. After earn­ing a No.6 national ranking with a 16-4 start, thn Irish quick­ly fell apart, going S-1 1­4 after -blanking Princeton 7-0 on Dee. S. Even so, Notrn Dame still got more ehanees to sun~eed than it knew what to do with. 
-
The Irish won cunsccutivc games just once in January and 

Matt Gamber 
Associate Sports Editor 
February, yet they still finished fourth in the CCHA and got a first-round bye in the confer­ence tournament. 
They gave away the first of a three-game playoff set against Ferris State before coming baek with wins the next two nights to earn a spot in Detroit for the conference smnifinals last week­end, where they thought they needed at least one win to solid­ify a NCAA berth. 
Instead, Notre Dame gave up a game-tying goal to No. 3 Miami (Ohio) with 3.4 seconds to play and lost a heartbreaker in overtime. The next night, the Irish played an admittedly unin­spired third-place game, giving up two third-period goals to lose 2-1 to an unheralded Northern Michigan team. 
And yet, when the pairings were announeed on Easter Sunday, there the Irish were, 

placed in the West regional as the No. 4 seed -and widely eonsidered an afterthought, expected to eontinue its steady decline by losing to heavily­favored New Hampshire. 
So again, how did this hap­pen? 
The truth is, despite the l"aet that the Irish snuck into the tournament as the last at-large team, they didn't exactly come out of nowhere. 
After last year's landmark season, capped ofl" with the first CCHA championship and NCAA appearance in school history but eut short with a loss to Michigan State in the regional final, the Irish entered the year a top-1 0 team, living up to that ranking early on before stumbling around Christmas. 
But with their backs to the wall and with just this one last chance (for real this time), the Irish lived up to their early expectations and threw the newer, lower ones right back in their erities' faces. 
Jordan Pearce outplayed a pair of Hobey Baker finalists in net and continued to make a name !"or himself-how he hadn't done that already, even afttw being named the CCHA goalie of the year, is somewhat mind-boggling, b~leause the kid can play and he's shown it all year. 

Captain Mark Van Guilder stepped up, dishing out three assists on Friday before scoring Saturday's game-winner to gar­ner the region's most outstand­ing player award. 
Christian Hanson, who had 10 goals all year entering the weekend, scored three times. 
The defense was stellar, with hard-hitting Brock Sheahen earning a spot on the all-region­al team and freshmen defense­men Ian Cole and Teddy Hulh coming through with clutch goals. 
And eoach Jell" Jackson showed why he's widely consid­ered one of tho best big-game coaches in collegt~ hockny, run­ning his NCAA tournament record to 15-6. 
So that's how it happmwd, and while top-ranked Michigan surely will provide a tough test, who knows-it just might hap­pen again next weekend. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 

NO WOMEN''s BASKETBALL 
Park~er scores 34 to knock out Irish in Sweet 16 
No. 1 seed Lady Vols dominate second half 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
OKLAHOMA CITY -llow do you slop a 6-foot-4, All­Amnriean forward from taking over a game and ending your season'! 
That was Notre Dame's prob­lnm-it couldn't. 
Tennessee's Candace Parker poured in 34 points and grabbed 13 rebounds in the 
see LADY VOLS/page 18 


Tennessee's supporting cast overwhelms ND 
OKLAHOMA CITY-Ever played tic-tac-loe and found yourself trapped? No matter where you make your mark, your opponent always has a 
chance at  
three in a  Bill Brink  
row?  
I imagine  Sports Writer  
that's how  

the Irish felt during their 74­64 loss to Tennessee Sunday night. No matter where it applied pressure on defense, 
see PARKER/page 18 





