
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 44 MONDAY. NOVEMBER3. 2008 

Expectations lead to frustrating defeat 
High confidence contributes to disappointment in four-overtime loss to Pittsburgh 
win because we haven't lost 
By NORA KENNEY 
a game in our stadium yet 
News Writer 
[this year]." freshman Michelle Consiglio said. 
This week, many Irish fans "I thought we'd win, but entered the Notre Dame sta­we were insanely evenly dium feeling overconfident matched which you could tell in anticipation of a game because of the four over­which ended in a loss that times." was grueling for both play­However, as the players ers and fans to endure. Part left the field for halftime, the of this overconfidence was a teams did not seem evenly result of Pittsburgh's loss to matched at all, as seen in unrated Rutgers on Oct. 25, the Irish's 14-point lead. in which the Panthers lost "I felt pretty comfortable 54-34 and were knocked off about it. It was pretty good I the polls from their previous think. You know everyone is position at seventeen. optimistic and had a lot of 
The overconfident attitude momentum going into the wasn't just with the players, second half," senior Dan but the students also. "You Fanuele said. are walking into the Stadium and you think we're going to see GAME/page 3 
Modified pep rally format debuts 
President's Athletic Co-Chair
By MOLLY MADDEN Laura Burdick said. "The dissat­
News Writer 

isfaction of the students just kept getting greater and greater and 
Students that attended the pep we didn't want to see that. The rally Friday at the Joyce Athletic football team started to notice Convocation Center (JACC) and we got on it and got the ball might have sensed some rolling." changes in the rally. These While many in the No~re Dame changes are part of a new for­community expressed disbelief mat for the pep rallies that will at men of Sarin's actions, allow for greater unity between Burdick said that she was not the team and the students. The surprised by the actions of the changes are partly in response Otters. to Sorin College boycotting the "The Sorin boycott wasn't a Oct. 3 rally and the subsequent shock," Burdick said. "People student reactions. have been feeling that way for a 
"Ideas for change have been while but have continued coming on the table for a few years now, to the rallies. That was just the we've just never had a group first time the dissatisfaction was that was proactive enough to make it happen," Hall see RALLY/page 3 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Producer, filmmaker speak on storytelling 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
During the "The Storytellers: Documenting Reality" presenta­tion Friday night, Tom Bettag, Executive Producer of "Nightline," summed up what he believed to be the task fac­ing journalists working in a society saturated by informa­tion. 
"It's about people trying to help people dig out of an ava­lanche of information to find the path to understanding and even to caring," he said. 
In an age when the global economy is becoming ever more complex and news is easi­ly available, Bettag argues that "we're less and less inclined to care" about the issues affecting our world. 
Globalization, international politics and environmental change are not easy subjects to understand, he said. 
News has become "stacked in so high, so indiscriminately that we have diminishing returns," he said. 
The more information we take in, the less we understand its significance, and the less we are motivated to become caring citizens, he said. 
Contributing to the lack of understanding and the apathy that results, said Bettag, is a belief in "truthiness." Rather than attempting to grasp an 
see BETTAG/page 4 


Right to Life Weekbegins at College 
Abortion issues in election increase relevance of annual event 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
With abortion as a hot but­ton issue in the upcoming election, Saint Mary's Right to Life Week eomes at an opportune time. 
President of Saint Mary's College Right to Life club, senior Meg Ryan, has many events planned for the week. The RTL meets every Sunday in Reignbeaux Lounge in Le Mans at 7:30 as an active group of women who believe in supporting life in all of its stages from conception to death, she said. 
"RTL has about 35-40 
active women this year," said Ryan, "The most we've had in 4 years. It's been an incredible year. Everyone is so passionate about what we stand for." 
The overall theme of this year's RTL week is celebrat­ing life as a reminder of beauty in all dorms, she said. 
"Tuesday night we will have a candle lit prayer vigil on the library green at 8 
p.m. in memory of the many lives lost to abortion; all are welcome. On Wednesday night we will have a Celebration of Life party in Reignbeaux Lounge at 7 with cake and balloons, and then 9 mass in Le Mans chapel following our celebration. Mass will be in honor of life," Ryan said. 
One of the highlights of Right to Life week is the panel discussion that will be held on Thursday. The panel, entitled "Issues of Abortion," is a first time event on Saint Mary's campus, accpording to a College press release. 
Speakers will include, Dr. Thomas Akre, an orthopedic surgeon from Mishawaka; Professor Kevin McDonnell, philosophy of law professor at Saint Mary's' Fr. Bob Roggenbuck, a priest from Michigan; and key note 
see LIFE/page 4 
Web site markets to ND students 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
News Writer 
University of Pennsylvania sophomore, Jay Rodrigues selected Notre Dame as one of several schools nationwide to market his new college exclu­sive social networking Web site, Dormnoise.com. 
Rodrigues, the Web site's creator, selected schools of different size and ·location across the nation to promote his new college exclusive Web site. Notre Dame Dormnoise.com representa­tive and high school friend of Rodrigues, junior Tim Durigan, will be handing out T-shirts to advertise the new Web site Wednesday after­noon outside of South Dining Hall. 
"Dormnoise.com will allow Notre Dame students to know· what's going on any day of the week without the hassle of future employers being able to see aspects of their private college life posted on the Internet," Durigan said. "It will let students connect with each other on campus in a college exclusive environ-
see NOISE/page 3 

Monday, November 3, 2008 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
==============================~ 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Negative ads 

With thn nlnction only one day away, my l'athnr. who is running fi>r the Ilousn ol' Heprnsnntatives in Statnn Island and Brooklyn, is holding a solid lead in the polls. Although lw would never say that lw is a sho-in. tlw early numbers do suggest that he will win. 
Over fall break, whiln sitting at my kitd1en table, my dad came home with some of' the literature his consulting 
group h~d pre-. Joseph 
pared. While all of M M h 
his previous cam-C a on 
paign pieces had 
l'ocused on his 
Assistant accomplishment in News Editor the New York City Council, which he's been a member of since 2001, these new pieces were negative attack ads. t\s soon as I picked up the print outs, my dad just shook his head, displaying his obvious disappointment with the pieces. Ilis opponent Bob Straniere, a former Nnw York assemblyman who was oust­~~d in a primary by his own Republican party in 2004, is a man that has been describnd as a "sehlub" by Esquire mag­azine. According to the attack literature, he had sponsored only one bill which renamed a highway in his numerous years in the assembly, in addition to mentioning his shady business dealings and comwctions to high-powered lobby­ist<>. "You're not actually going to use these am you'?" I asked him. "Is that even a question'?" he immedi­ately responded. In the four elections that he has run since 2001, my father has never gone negative. dnspitn the actions of his oppo­nent<>. This race -the biggest race of his life -wasn't going to be any difl'er­ent. The problem with negative ads is they don't encourage voters to support you because of your ideas, because of your experience and because of your leader­ship skills. Negative ads encourage the people to vote against your opponent out of fear. Since I started writing this article about 10 minutes ago, I have seen about five politieal ads, all of whieh have been negative. John McCain warns against voting for Baraek Obama because he will "rndistribute your wealth," while Obama's campaign paints McCain as four more years of George W. Bush. Both of these ads do not make any mention of the laurels of the candidates which they are trying to support, and instead only attack the other candidate. The ads are vicious, but they tap into people's greatest motivator -fear. It's easy to say I won't vote for Obama because he'll redistribute your wealth, and it's even easier to say that you won't vote for McCain because he'll be anoth­er four years of Bush. People should not bn voting out of fimr of one candidate, they should be voting because they actually like what their candidate brings to the table. That's why I'm proud of my father -he has never gone negative, because he wanl<> people to vote for him, not against Bob Straniero. After all, that would be just too easy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd. edu 
CoRRECTIONs 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism ar all times.We do, however. recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcl our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT FOUR OVERTIMES? 









Richie Blomstron Isaac Godfrey Chris Wynkoop Robin Vim Joe McBrayer Courtney Piehl 
junior senior sophomore senior senior freshman Fisher Morrissey Fisher Duncan Morrissey Pangborn 
"Historic ... , "Not as cool as "Make's the "That was four "/ wouldn't care "It was 
, 

seven. game exciting ... overtimes?" ifwe had won. overkill." 
maybe too exciting." 

Referees whistle and signal for the sprinklers to be turned off after they unexpectedly turned on during Saturday's game against Pittsburgh. 
OFFBEAT 
Police pick up streakers 
wearing pumpkin heads 
BOULDER, Colo. Boulder police have ticketed about a dozen people run­ning naked on the street while sporting freshly gutted pumpkins on their heads as part of an annual Halloween event. 
The citations for indecent exposure Friday night came as dozens of other costumed revelers, including a man with a red cape and a sword, chanted to police officers to let go of the streakers and "find real criminals." 
The event known in 
Boulder  as  the  Naked  
TODAY  
0::  


Pumpkin Run ha~; been held for 10 years. This year it drew a huge crowd, prompting concern from police. 
Boulder police Chief Mark Beckner says officers "want­ed to do something before (the event) got out of hand." 
NYC couple travels around the world to vote 
NEW YORK -A New York City couple has trav­eled halfway around the world in the name of civic duty. 
Susan Scott-Ker and her husband arrived in New York on Wednesday after flying 9,300 miles to vote in Tuesday's presidential elec­tion. 
They have been working India but decided to return to New York when their absentee ballots failed to arrive. Their trip began in Bangalore with stopovers in New Delhi and Chicago. 
It will be their first time voting in a presidential election. The New Zealand­born Scott-Ker and her Morroco-born husband became American citizens a year ago. 
They estimate the trip will cost $5,000. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI 
:::a: 
!(t 
LLI 

0,,,,,,,
3: 
,,,,,,,
...I 
,,,,,,,
e
< 
CJ 

0 HIGH 72 HIGH 50 HIGH 69 HIGH 68
..... 

LOW 50 LOW 48 LOW 46 LOW 47 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture entitled "Colored Men & Hombres Aqui: Hernandez v. Texas and the Emergence of Mexican American Lawyering" will be held Today at 4 p.m. in 208 McKenna Hall. Michael A. Olivas, William B. Bates Distinguished Chair in Law and Director, Institute for Higher Education Law and Governance, University of Houston Law Center will dis­cuss the litigation history of Hernandez v. Texas. 
Saint Mary's College Right to Life will sponsor Right to Life Week. It includes a candle lit prayer vigil on the Library Green at 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, a Celebration of Life party in Reignbeaux Lounge in LeMans Hall at 7:00p.m. on Wednesday, and a panel dis­cussion from 6 to 7 p.m. in Haggar College on Thursday. 
A colloquium entitled "What the most metal-poor stars tell us about the early Universe" will be held Wednesday from 4 -5:30 p.m. Dr. Anna Frebel, of the McDonald Observatory, University of Texas at Austin will present in 118 Nieuwland Science. The event is spon­sored by the Department of Physics 
Downtown Lunch & Learn/Eco Film Series: "Six Degrees Could Change the World" will he held at the Crossroads Gallery (Notre Dame Downtown, 217 S. Michigan Street, South Bend) on Thursday at 12:05 p.m .. The event is for a free environ­mental film series 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY  FRIDAY  
0,,,,,,,,,,,,,,  Q * * '* **** *  

HIGH 69 HIGH 50 LOW 46 LOW 35 
Atlanta 70 I 48 Boston 57 I 43 Chicago 73 I 52 Denver 65 I 45 Houston 80 I 56 Los Angeles 67 I 54 Minneapolis 71 I 53 New York 62 I 48 Philadelphia 65 I 47 Phoenix 85 I 62 Seattle 49 I 43 St. Louis 76 I 48 Tampa 83 I 62 Washington 63 I 51 
Monday, November 4, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Rally 
continued from page I 
put into a student publication." 
After the Sorin boycott on Oct. 3, many students voiced their concerns over the lack of con­nection between the football team and the students. Several students said that they were frustrated at having to be at the .JACC for over an hour before the team arrived. In response, the arrival time of the students was modified. 
"The biggest change is the amount of time the students are asked to be in the JACC," Burdick said. "Students aren't asked to get there as early as 
5:15. Instead they are filtering in between 6:00 and 6:15 and will be followed very shortly by the football players." 
At friday's rally, students did not start entering the JACC until around 6:00 and the team had arrived by 6:30. By the time they had all taken their places, the building was almost booked to capacity. 
The seating arrangements were also adjusted so that stu­dents could physically be closer to the football team. At Friday's rally. there were specially roped off sections on the floor for Notre Dame students, only a few feet away from where the foot­ball team sat. 
"The students are going to be up much closer to the team so they feel like they are almost on the noor with them," Burdick stated. 
Burdick said that much thought and consideration was put into getting the students fired up and keeping the energy going. 
"We won't ask students to be wild and crazy, now quiet down, ok now be wild and crazy again," Burdick said. "Energy just doesn't work that way." 
Before the students entered the JACC at the Oct. 31 rally, Chuck Lennon emphasized the importance of energy and the significance of the crowd's enthusiasm for not only the team but the students as well. 
"This is a Notre Dame pep rally," Lennon said. "Not a 
library, but a Notre Dame pep rally. I want you all on your feet and cheering for this team and for the students." 
When Notre Dame Coach Charlie Weis got up to the podi­um he thanked the students and addressed them personally. 
"We appreciate the great turnout and we want to see if we can make a lot of crowd noise in here," Weis said. 
A lot of crowd noise was not a problem after Coach Weis intro­duced a surprise guest for the evening. 
"We needed to add a little more pep to this pep rally so we incorporated a rock star from New Jersey," Weis said before introducing rock legend Jon Bon Jovi. • 
The screams of the students and the fans as Bon Jovi walked into the JACC with his two sons were deafening. 
The band played "Living on a Prayer" over the screams of the students and the others gath­ered in the JACC. However, Coach Weis was not satisfied with just one rendition. 
"I've seen Bon Jovi in con-

Noise 
continued from page 1 
ment." 
Rodrigues came up with the idea for DormNoise.com at the end of his high school career after one of his former teachers sent him a friend request on Facebook. 
"Basically what happened was the year was wrapping up and 1 was getting excited to go to college. Two things started happening: I started getting friend requests from both teachers and freshmen that I used to mentor in my pe1:1r groups," Hodrigues said. "Now I was getting to start this new phase of my life, and these were people that I had a connection with, but I wasn't sure how much of my college life I wanted them to have access to." 
Hodrigues immediately began brainstorming ideas for a college exclusive Web site. The summer before his fresh­man year of college, Hodrigues contacted several individual investors to help fund his Web site. With the money he raised. Rodrigues contacted Mediabarn, a soft­ware development firm, and began to develop the site. 
DormNoise.com launched on Aug. 18 and is a new free, social Web site, exclusive to undergraduate college stu­dents between the ages of 17­
24. lie chose the name 'DormNoise' that stayed true to the college theme of the Web site. 
"The name comes from the 
idea that whenever you walk into your dorm, either 8 
a.m. or late at night, there's always noise. I really wanted to pick a name that stayed true to our col­lege feel. Even in my dorm at any time of day or any time of night you always 
hear the drone of people talk­ing, studying. doing their homework," Rodrigues said. 
The Web site shares many aspects with Facebook, but allows college students to keep certain aspects of their 
university lives exclusive. The core foundation that DormNoise is built on is the idea of event planning and bringing together student groups on a college campus. With calendars embedded in every group, students are able to see events in an 
organized and 
consolidated 
manner and 
personalize 
their own event 
calendars. They 
even receive e­
mails when 
groups they are 
involved in add 
events to their 
group calen­
dars. Since its 
launch, the 
Web site has 
acquired 2, 700 
active mem­
bers. 
"The point of DormNoise is in ·no way trying to take over or 
"Now I was getting to start this new phase ofmy life, and these were people that I had a connection with, but I wasn't sure how much ofmy college life I wanted them to have access to. " 
Jay Rodrigues DormNoise founder 

replace Facebook," Rodrigues said. "I am on the front line of Facebook, I love Facebook, and the whole point is for DormNoise.com to be used with Facebook. Facebook has 100 million users and conse­quently is not able to cater directly to the needs of col­lege students. Basically the whole goal of DormNoise is to combine basic social tools with features customized to meet t.~e needs of college stu­dents. 
DormNoise offers several features that are similar to Facebook. The Web site allows users to share photos, 
"The site is about communicating in a secure environment but at the core DormNoise is really about student groups and event planning." 
Jay Rodrigues DormNoise founder 
write on other members' 'whiteboards,' join groups, and chat via AOL Instant Messenger. As mentioned ear­lier, an innova­tive feature of the website is the calendar system, which includes a cam­pus events cal­endar for each college/univer­

sity across the country. 
"The calendar system allows you to easily manage your personal and student group events, as well as all campus events. The system allows users to select events 
15. 

"That's my favorite thing we're doing because that was something I was really adamant about and it is something I negotiated for," Rodrigues said. "When you work with investors they want to know where the money is going. I put money aside and I said 'when we launch this thing I want do something special for the people who are signing up.' I wanted to do it because I think it's a really cool way to give back to users and Web sites don't do really do that. Hopefully it can dif­ferentiate us." 
Rodrigues said he hopes that the spring break trip will inspire more college students to use his new Web site. 
"It is a great tool and it is something that belongs out there. Once people go on and give it a chance they'll love it. If they're skeptical, it only takes a few minutes to sign up and they get an entry into winning a free spring break trip," he said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
cert," Weis said, "and he doesn't quit after one song." This prompted the band to play two more Bon Jovi hits. 
After the din died down slight­ly, fullback Asaph Schwapp, offensive tackle Sam Young, and linebacker Scott Smith spoke and then the team judged a cos­tume contest put on by the stu­dents. 
only 21 active 
scored a touchdown early 
in the second half, and con­

members. The 
Web site's goal 
tinued to diminish, despite 

is to acquire as 
Clausen's 6-yard touch­

many possible 
down pass to sophomore 
Golden Tate in the fourth

members on 
each campus in 
quarter and senior David 

order to make 
Bruton's interception. 

the calendar 
Senior Jeston Greenwood 

function's 
described "A growing sense 

impact worth­
of collective despair" 

while. 
amongst the students as 
"The site is 
the regulation game ended 

about commu­
in a tie. 

nicating in a 
Throughout the four 
overtimes, the Notre Dame

secure environ­
defense was able to pre­

ment but at the 
vent the Panthers from

c o r e 
DormNoise is 
scoring any touchdowns. 

really about 
The players did not leave 
the field without putting

student groups 
and event plan-
their arms around each 

In his closing remarks, Coach Weis stressed the importance of the relationship between the students and th1:1 football team. 
"There is no 'us' and 'them'," Weis said. "We, as a team, feel like we're part of the student body." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
the entire crowd stayed and that we rallied," Consiglio said. 
In fact, students said they maintained a sense of opti­mism for next year's sea­son as well, despite the loss. 
Students are still opti­mistic. about future seasons despite the loss. "Next year and the year after will be ridiculous, so this loss ...l mean it's all right because we can still make a bowl game. We have a lot to look forward to," sophomore Justin Siler said. 
Much of the post-game discussion focused on Brandon Walker, who was put under immense pres­sure when the Notre Dame offense was unable to score touchdowns during any of the four overtimes. Although his last field goal attempt was unsuccessful, many students felt proud of his efforts, and confident in his future on the team. 
Freshman Javier Galan said, "He did a great job considering he made four field goals." 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
they are interested in and then consolidates all of the information onto one simple calendar. With one click, it's all there, organized, concise, and uncluttered," Rodrigues said. 
The Notre Dame network on Dormnoise.com currently has 
Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
Unfortunately, the opti­mism and momentum in the student section was tainted when Pittsburgh 

ning," he added. 
Currently, the Web site offers a chance to win an all expense paid spring break trip to Cancun, Mexico as an incentive for users who signed up before Nov. 1. The winner will be chosen on Dec. 
other and singing the alma mater with the fans. For some freshman, however, this attitude was not com­pletely expected. and came as a pleasant surprise. 
"It was really neat that 


Monday, November 3, 2005

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 

Bettag 
continued from page 1 
issue's full complexity, people essenlialize it, conveying what they feel to be true instead of an objective consideration of hard data, he said. 
According to Bettag, Oliver Stone's latest movie "W" is an example of this kind of approaeh. Stone documented his pereeption of the Bush pres­ideney, rather than analyzing it thoroughly for substantive meaning, he said. 
However, this trend toward "truthiness" can be reversed, according to Bettag, if stories are told properly. 
"Tonight is about the power of stories to make us care, to give life a deeper meaning," he said. 
While not compromising the complexity of topics like inter­national economies, a focus on the experiences of people can make journalism interesting as well as informative, he said. 
To illustrate his point, Bettag played several dips from "The People's Hepublic of Capitalism," a program that airs on Discovery Channel, which he helps produce with Ted Koppel. 
The clips gave a portrayal of how the lives of ordinary people affect one another across inter­national boundaries -Mexican migrant workers, Chinese chil­dren, and unemployed Americans cause changes in each other's lives, even if they are unaware of it. 
The film showed interviews with Americans and Chinese struggling to adapt to changing eeonomies as well as with their more fortunate counterparts, the variety of circumstances that people face under a global system that allows business' demand for labor to find its chPapest supply. Being able to relate to these experiences gives people the motivation to care about the effects of eco­nomic policy, said Bettag. 
"Why didn't people care about the subprime mortgage mess?" Bettag asked. "It's bor­ing. But with storytelling it's possible to make it interesting and significant." 
Film producer Gita Pullapilly also presented some work from her new documentary, "The Way We Get By." She described the film as "a story that's defined by making you feel like you care about a subject." 
The rilm follows a group of senior citizens in Maine who use hugs and handshakes to show their support to American troops lighting in the Iraq War. Aecording to the film's Web site, it "is a raw and intimate look at three of these troop greeters as they confront their own health problems, depression, financial debt, and the loss of meaning in their lives." 
Bettag emphasized that jour­nalists and filmmakers should not compromise depth but embrace it while engaging their audiences through real human experiences. 
"Gita and I believe that it's possible to be better than essentialists," he said. "Facts are important and we should strive to be documentarians." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 
ELECTION 2008 
Biden: Divisive politics tnust cotne to an end 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. Democratic vice presidential candidate Joe Biden made fun of a small group of pro­testers Sunday, then told supporters that the raucous Hepublicans arc the same people they need to embrace once the election is over. 
About two dozen support­ers of Hepublican John McCain wailed loudly outside an event next to Florida State University's football stadium, causing Bidcn to stop and say, "I thought it was a siren, it's just a whine." 
Acknowledging the group, Biden said he would speak louder so they can hear. 
"The eeonomic policies of the last eight years arc the cause of the economic: crisis we find oursnlves in now," Biden said, his voice rising. ".John -as my mother would say, God love him -contin­uos to cling, cling to those samn eeonomic policies." 
The evnnt began a three­city swing through Florida, a must-win state for McCain. l>nmocrat Baraek Obama has erased the lead MeCain had in thn polls for much of tho ynar. with most polls now showing a statistical tie. Obama has pumped a lot of money and staff into Florida, which has only supported one Democratic presidential candidate since Jimmy Carter in 1976, that being Bill Clinton in 1996. 
More than 4.2 million votes have already been cast in Florida, with Democrats cast­ing about 330,000 more early and absentee votes than Hepublicans through Saturday, according to fig­ures compiled by the state Democratic Party. 
While Biden made several referenees to the protesters as he criticized McCain, President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney, he told the crowd of about 1,000 that they need to unite with Hepublicans. 
"We can't moan about the politics of division unless after this election's over, God willing we win, we reach out to the very people out in the outer parking. I mean literal­ly, not a joke," Biden said. "I know you find some of that obnoxious, but ... we've got to end this. Somebody's got to be big enough to stand up and end it." 
At the University of Florida in Gainesville later Sunday, Biden pointed out quieter protesters, particularly one waving a large flag with the Hepublican emblem. 
"I also salute our Hnpublican eolleagues carry­ing that !~lephant out there," Bidon said after thanking Florida Democratic Party leaders. As the crowd booed, Biden quieted them. "No, no! That's good, folks. lley! Hey! lley no! No, no. It's a good thing, man, it's a good thing." 


Life 
continued from page 1 
speaker, Hebecca Kiessling, an international pro-life and adoption speaker and pro­life family attorney. It will be held in Welsh Parlour of Haggar College Center according to a College press release. 
Ryan said she is especially excited for Kiessling to talk. 
"She was conceived in rape and comes to SMC to tell her story and testify to the evils of abortion. This panel will be a chance for students and members of the South Bend Community to discuss and ask questions about the issues of abortion in America today." 
Kiessling's story, as described on her Web site, starts when she discovered that she was conceived in a rape at knife-point. When she found her birth-mother she learned that she was almost aborted twice but her birth-mother backed out of both, mainly due to the fact that abortion was illegal at the time. 
Her Web site also features some of her poetry and sev­eral essays on pro-life topics and "other conceived in rape stores." 
The other panelists will be covering different aspects of the abortion issue, according to the College press release. Akre will discuss the "med­ical/psychological issues of abortion," McDonnell's talk will center on "the political/judicial issues of abortion," and Hoggenbuck "will talk about Christian/Catholic views." 
From Sunday to Sunday, there will be white crosses on the library green repre­senting lives lost due, not only to abortion, but aos to other issues of life as well such as genocide, euthana­sia, and the death penalty, Hyan said. 
"Life is sacred and it is our duty to protect all life at all stages", said Hyan, "These crosses serve as a visual reminder for those on cam­pus so as not to forget the innocent lives lost and how precious life truly is." 

Many other clubs are join­ing in the Celebration of Life party on WPdnesday night, she said. The Daughters of Isabella, African Faith and Justice, the College Republicans and College Democrats will be joining the festive event, Hyan said. 
"We hope to reaeh out to those women who are con­sidering abortion as well as those women how have had an abortion and are now suf­fering from the post-abortion issues," Hyan said in a College press release. "As an all women's eampus, the Hight to Life organization opens its arms in support of women dealing with unplanned pregnancies or abortion. We want to create a system of support. The issues of abortion are extremely relevant and cru­cial to discuss on our cam­pus." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


For Gay, lE!sbian, Bisexual SDuestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 4 7:00p.m.-8:00p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, bisexual &questioning members of the Notre Dame family, along with their friends and allys, to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
EvBryone is Welcome and ConfidBntiality is AssurBd 
Coffee andRefreshments Will Be Served 
·­




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 3, 2008 CoMPILED FR01\1 T1rE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gumnen kill Mexican police in attacks 
TOLUCA, Mexico -Eleven policemen have been shot to death near Mexico City in a three­day string of drug-gang attacks, prosecutors said Sunday. 
Mexico State prosecutor Alberto Bazbaz said 10 suspects believed linked to drug gangs have been arrested in the killings, which mainly occurred on highways and at police check­points in the state that loops around Mexico's capital. Some of the suspects were carrying rifles and grenades at the time of their arrest. 
Bazbaz said that many of the suspects were from the neighboring state of Michoacan, a hotbed of drug violence dominated by a drug gang known as "The Family." 
But he said evidence indicates that low-level traffickers and criminals, rather than organ­ized cartel hit squads, were responsible for the attacks. 
It was not clear if the killings were part of a coordinated plan. 
Israeli official fears assassination plot 
JERUSALEM -The head of Israel's internal security service said Sunday he is "very con­cerned" that Jewish extremists could assassinate an Israeli leader in an attempt to foil peace moves with the Palestinians. 
There has been a recent increase in violence by hardline Jewish settlers in the West Bank, and this week, Israel marks the 13th anniversary of the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Habin by an Israeli opponent of his negotiations. 
"Just ahead of the anniversary of Rabin's mur­der. the Shin Bet sees in the group we're talking about on the extreme right a willingness to use firearms in order to halt diplomatic processes and harm political leaders," Shin Bet chief Yuval Diskin said. "The Shin Bet is very concerned about this." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Marathoners honor ND alum Shay 
NEW YORK -If Sean McManus could make it to the rock in Central Park where his friend Ryan Shay died last year, he knew he could finish the New York City Marathon. 
"It was a little bit emotional," said McManus, one of 15 of Shay's Notre Dame teammates who ran Sunday's marathon in his memory. "I thought, if I can get to that spot it'll give me a boost in the last two miles." 
A year ago, Shay collapsed 5 1/2 miles into the U.S. men's marathon Olympic trials, which were held in conjunction with the marathon. The 28-year-old was found to have had an irregular heartbeat because of an enlarged heart. 
On Sunday, about 35 people ran the 26.2 miles in honor of Shay. 
Mother abandons teenager at hospital 
CHICAGO -Mourners in Jennifer Hudson's childhood church Sunday lis­tened as the second-grade teacher of the entertainer's slain nephew read aloud from journals written by his classmates ­including one who lamented that Julian King didn't live long enough to become president. 
With three of Julian's classmates stand­ing by her side, Carmen Williams of Gunsaulus Scholastic Academy remem­bered the 7-year-old as a smart boy who liked to tell knock-knock jokes. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indianapolis to layoff 400 teachers 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's largest school district is poised to close six more schools and lay off as many as 400 teachers in a shake-up that would send thousands of students to dif­ferent schools. 
Indianapolis Public Schools Superintendent Eugene White said he also expects deep cuts in the district's central office. 
"It's never easy to close schools, but our finaneial situation demands we make tough decisions," he said Friday. "We are deter­mined to be good stewards of the public tax dollars." 
IRAQ 

Iraq wants security deal after U.S. vote 
Prime Minister's aide indicates that security pact requires response after election 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Iraq expects an American response to requested changes in a draft security pact soon after this week's U.S. presidential elec­tion, an aide to the prime minister said Sunday. 
Another Iraqi official said the U.S. indicated it would accept all the proposed changes except one -greater Iraqi legal control over American soldiers and con­tractors. 
Yassin Majeed said the U.S. response would come after Tuesday's vote so the presi­dent-elect -either Barack Obama or John McCain ­could be briefed on the Iraqi proposals, which were sub­mitted by Iraq's Cabinet last week. 
Iraqi lawmakers say the changes are essential in order to win parliamentary approval for the deal, which would keep American troops in this country until 2012 and give the Iraqis a greater role in the conduct of U.S. military oper­ations. 
Parliament must approve the agreement before the year-end expiration of the 
U.N. mandate that allows coalition forces to operate here legally. 

Without an agreement or a new U.N. mandate, the U.S. military would have to sus­pend its mission, and the U.S. military's future in Iraq would be up to the man who takes might allow the U.S. to stay The official said he urged said in an interview aired office in January. here past 2011 and changes the Americans to compromise Sunday night by government 
McCain supported the 2003 in a clause providing limited on the jurisdiction request. television. invasion of Iraq and the troop Iraqi jurisdiction over U.S. U.S. Embassy spokeswoman Privately, many Iraqi offi­surge which helped turn the troops. Susan Ziadeh said the U.S. cials say they need U.S. troops tide. The current draft provides was "still in the process of to guarantee the security 
Obama opposed the inva­for limited Iraqi jurisdiction considering carefully the gains of the past two years sion and said negotiations on for major crimes committed Cabinet revisions" and would until Iraq's army and police a security agreement should off post and off duty: respond soon. U.S. officials in are ready to do the job. be conducted as part of a The Iraqis want a joint U.S.­Washington have described Publicly, however, many law­"broader commitment" to Iraqi committee to decide the jurisdiction demand as a makers have been reluctant to begin withdrawing the troops. whether accused soldiers non-negotiable "red line." declare a position on the Obama's campaign Web site were off duty or on authorized Iraqi President Jalal agreement, fearing a backlash says the Democratic candidate missions. Talabani said there was "no from Iraqis who want foreign believes the agreement also Another aide to Prime Iraqi consensus" in support of forces to leave. should be approved by Minister Nouri al-Maliki said the agreement, but he expect­Iraqi authorities are feeling Congress. he met with U.S. officials ed one to emerge in the com­more confident since a sharp 
Among other things, the Saturday and was told that ingweeks. drop in violence in the country Iraqis are now asking for a Washington was prepared to "If the American side agrees after the Sunni revolt against ban on using their territory to accept all those changes to our amendments to the al-Qaida and the routing of attack neighboring countries, except the one involving juris­pact, it will be a good pact Shiite militias in Baghdad and removal of language that diction. and we can be proud of it," he southern Iraq last spring. 

FEMA official: Ike response slow 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -A top official of the Federal Emergency Management Agency admits that the agency was sluggish in its response to Texans affected by Hurricane Ike's devasta­tion, according to a published report. 
Deputy FEMA Administrator Harvey 
E. Johnson Jr. said he intends to improve the help that the agency pro­vides to Texans whose home were damaged or destroyed by the September hurricane. He said FEMA will deploy mobile homes to the hard­est-hit areas more rapidly, review rules that might be causing premature denials of assistance and provide more resources to Texas. 
He said Friday he has put more per­sonnel into Texas housing assistance programs. He invited energy company officials into FEMA's Texas field offices to help provide electric power to mobile homes housing storm victims, and he has started a review of proce­dures that result in relatively few fam­ilies being approved for assistance when they first apply. 
Ike came ashore near Galveston on Sept. 13, causing at least $11 billion in damage to Texas. 
Johnson met this past week with 
local  officials  in  Galveston,  the  
Beaumont-Port  Arthur  area  and  
Houston.  

"I think that I agree with the elected officials I met with," Johnson told the Houston Chronicle. "They all have called and expressed the concern that FEMA is moving too slowly. Within FEMA, there is a renewed sense of energy to redouble or triple our efforts, that we need to box some ears." 
Officials in Beaumont, Port Arthur and Orange say they need thousands of temporary homes, particularly for refinery and chemical plant workers who toil in industries crucial to the local economy. 
Johnson said FEMA's assessment shows that 2,800 to 5,100 mobile homes are needed in Texas. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 3, 2008 
ELECTION 2008 

Third party candidates unlikely to affect vote 
Associated l'ress 
IIAHLOTTE. N.C. -It's 
lunehtirnn. and Mary Goode 
is leaning toward voting for 
Hepubliean John McCain. By 
dinrwr. she admits she might 
be for Domoerat Barack 
Obama. 
But then~·s no ehaneo that 
on Election Day she will be 
for any candidate from a 
third party. 
"This eloction is too impor­tant," said Goode. a 43-year­old accountant . from Charlotte. "That would just be like throwing my vote away. I'm not going to do that." 
Without billionaire II. Hoss Perot and his flip charts, Bill Clinton might not have won tho White llouse in 1992. If Halph Nader hadn't won 32,000 votes in Florida, AI Gore might have moved into the Oval Office in 2000. 
But this year, neither Nader. former GOP Hcp. Bob Barr running as a Libertarian -or any of the other small-party candidates who have qualified for the ballot in some states appears likely to play the role of spoiler. 

"In some sense, there arc some purists who say you have to vote for what's right. You just can't vote for the lessor of two evils," said Dennis Goldford. a politieal science professor at Drake University in Iowa. 
"But with the economy in the situation it's in, I don't think people fnol like they have tlw luxury of just shop­ping around. They'ro saying: 'Somebody has to fix this in a hurry and you know it's not going to be one of these third-party guys."' 
Thoro is a long history of third-party candidates in presidential polities, but few that could be called a sue­cess. Among those that eon­Iwcted with voters arn two relies of racial polities: Strom Thurmond won 39 oiPetoral votes in 1948 on the States' Hights I>omocrats ticket and Alabama Cov. George Wall1u:e's 1968 bid on the Amorican Independent ticket captured 46 nleetoral votes. 
"Sincn 1832 -the birth of the modern Democratic Party -only 13 times has a third­party candidate actually pulled better than 5 percent of the vote," Goldford said. "So as much as people com­plain about the two major parties, people tend to vote overwhelmingly for them." 

Third-party candidates can affect the outcome. 
While he did not win any nlectoral votes in 1992, Perot won 19 percent of the popu­lar vote and helped push Clinton into office. Nader did not come close to Perot's level of support in 2000, but because it came dispropor­tionately from voters who were otherwise likely to vote for Gore, it was enough to swing the outcome of a tight race to George W. Bush. 
"It would have made a dif­ference in Florida and New Hampshire," said Charles Prysby, a political science professor at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro. "If Nader had not been on the ballot any­where, his 2. 7 percent -a lion's share would have gone to Gore. And that would have put him over the top in those two states." 
So is there any chance of that this year? Probably not. 
Barr is on the ballot in the six states that are viewed as tossups heading into Election Day: North Carolina, Florida, Indiana, Missouri, Nevada and Ohio, worth a total of 89 electoral votes. Nader is on the ballot in four of them, and is eligible as a write-in candidate in North Carolina and Indiana. 
But nnither registers any significant support in recent polls conducted in those states. And unlike past third­party candidates who did well at the ballot box, neither Barr nor Nader are charis­matic campaigners focused on a single issue. 
"Do they represent a par­ticular section of the country at this point? No. llave they managed to capture great popular discontent on a par­ticular issue. No," Goldford said. "There's nothing partic­ular that Barr or Nader is saying that resonates with these folks." 
ELECTION 2008 
AP 


ELECTION 2008 
Palin tnakes final push in Ohio 

Associated Press 
CANTON, Ohio Republican vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin focused on tax and leadership issues Sunday as she opened two days of campaigning in this must-win swing star,e. 
Palin told a crowd of more than 3,000 at a fleld house that she and Hepublican presi­dential candidate John McCain are committed to cutting taxes and limiting the size of gov­ernment. She said Democratic candidate Barack Obama favors bigger government and that he has lowered the income threshold for those considered middle class and deserving of a tax cut from $250,000 to $120,000. 
His votes for higher taxes, she said, show "he chose the side of bigger government and taking more from you." 
At the same time, Obama 
has proposed $1 trillion in additional federal spending without specifying where the money would come from, Palin said. 
"You could either do the math or just go with your gut," said Palin, standing in front of a huge U.S. flag and a blue and white "Country First" banner. "Either way, you can draw the same conclusion: Barack Obama, based on his record, is for bigger govern­ment and raising taxes." 
Obama's tax plan calls for no tax increases on working fam­ilies making less than $250,000 a year or individuals making less than $200,000 annually. He also has prom­ised to cut taxes for the middle class. 
Palin hammered home the same point during a later stop in the small southeast Ohio town of Marietta. 
"The choice could not be 

lf 'fOU want to ,\\ 1 
ma\(e 1morning 
Mass a part of 
~our \taa\(e-up/ 
c.a\\, aU we. c.a~ 
sa~ to that is.../), 
clearer. Our country faces tough times," Palin told the audience at Marietta College. "Now is the worst possible time to consider raising taxes on our residents and our busi­nesses." 
Palin said McCain, a former Navy pilot and prisoner of war, has the experience to handle tough situations. 
"lie knows how tough chal­lenges are overcome," she said. 
Similar remarks at a later stop drew raucous chants of "USA, USA, USA" inside an airplane hangar at Hickenbacker International Airport in Columbus. Palin said the country needs a leader who won't retreat from Iraq. 
"We need someone who isn't afraid to use the word 'victo­ry,"' she said. Democrats "can fill a stadium, but they cannot keep our country safe." 
Notre D~'me C.e\ebrates Masses A\\ Over C.ampus, £ver'l Morning, At Man'l Timesl 
v:4? am ~asi\ic.a C.r'{pt S:OO am Fisc.her O'Hara-G!rac.e Mon-Fri 'l:OO am A\umni t\a\\ C.hape\ '5at IO:OO am ~asi\ic.a C.r'{pt(eY.c.ept home game&)'5at 11:"30 am ~asi\ic.a Mon-fri 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, November 3, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow +144.32
9,325.01

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,334 57 866 2,101,781,508 
AMEX 1,466:9~J~llllll!lliilltf9>tJ:~ NASDAQ 1,720.95 +22.43 NYSE 6,061.09 +86.06 S&P 500 968.75 +14.66 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,5"16~~8 ,;i4$~~rbS FTSE 100 (London) 4377.34 +85.69 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.55 +0.53 96.83 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.15 +0.05 32.89 NATL CITY CP (NCC) +1250 +0.30 2.70 !SHARES MSCI (EEM) -0.86 -0.22 25.43 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.79 +0.03 3.970 13-WEEK BILL +16.00 +0.0600 0.4350 30-YEAR BOND +1.98 +0.0850 4.3690 5-YEAR NOTE +1.04 +0.0290 2.8210 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.85 67.81 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -20.30 718.20 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.98 84.78 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.7000 
EURO o.7a53 
IN BRIEF 
Machinists ratify contract with Boeing 
SEATTLE -Machinists union members ratified a new eontraet. with The Boeing Co. on Saturday, ending an eight-week strike that cut the airplane maker's profits and stalled jetliner deliveries. 
The vote by members of the union, which rep­resents about 27,000 workers at plants in Washington state, Oregon and Kansas, was about 7 4 percent. in favor of the proposal five days after the two sides tentatively agreed to the deal and union leaders recommended its approval. 
The workers are expected to return to Boeing's commercial airplane factories, which have been closed since the Sept. 6 walkout, starting Sunday night. 
The union has said the contract protects more than 5,000 factory jobs, prevents the outsourcing of certain positions and preserves health care benefit.<>. It also promises pay increases over four years rather than three, as outlined in earlier otTers. 
The union members, including electricians, painters, mechanics and other production work­ers. have lost. an average of about $7,000 in base pay since the strike began. They had rejected earlier proposals by the company, headquartered in Chieago. 
Passenger trains gain favor with public 
WASIIINGTON -After hall' a century as more of a curiosity than a convenience, passenger trains are getting back on track in some parts of the country. 
The high cost. of energy, coupled with conges­tion on highways and at airport.'>, is drawing trav­elers back to trains not only for commuting but also for travel between cities as much as 500 miles apart.. 
Californians are considering selling billions of dollars worth of bonds to get going on an 800­mile system of bullet trains that could zip along at 200 miles per hour, linking San Francisco and San Diego and the cities in between. 
In the Midwest, transportation officials are pushing a plan to connect cities in nine states in a hub-and-spoke system centered in Chicago. 
The public is way ahead of polieymakers in rec­ognizing trains as an attractive alternative to ears and planes, said Rep . .James Oberstar, chairman of the I louse Transportation and Infrastructure Committ.eP. 
SAUDI ARABIA 

Brown asks Saudis to help fund IMF 
British Prime Minister says that Gulfnations could aid struggling economies 
Associated Press 
RIYADH -British Prime 
Minister Gordon Brown 
made a direct plea on 
Sunday for Gulf states to 
contribute to the 
International Monetary 
Fund's reserves to bailout 
out struggling countries ­
promising that they would 
have a say in any future 
new world economic order. 
Brown, who has drawn 
ire from some oil producing 
states for criticizing a 
recent decision by OPEC to 
cut production to lilt prices, 
also told business leaders 
here that it was in every­
one's interest to have a sta­
ble price for crude oil. 
"I believe that your coun­
try has a crucial role to 
play and your voice must 
be heard," Brown told busi­
ness leaders in a breakfast 
addrnss on the first stop of 
a tour of the Gull' that 
includes Qatar and the 
United Arab Emirates. 
"I very much hope that as 
part of that you and other 
Gulf states will be willing to 
join with other countries to 
help stop the financial cri­
sis spreading by helping to 
boost the international fund 
for distressed economies," 
be added. "I believe it is in 
all our interests to stop this 
contagion and to rebuild 
confidence in the financial 
system for the future." 
Analysts have warned 
that Gulf states could be 

reluctant to bolster the G-20 nations to hammer Industries .Corp and other investment. in key produc­
funds of the IMF, a body out potential reform of the top business leaders. tion was under threat 
currently dominated by the global financial system to Brown said that the because of the plummet in 
United States and other G-7 prevent a repeat of the cur­meeting of oil producers the price from a high of 
industrialized nations. rent crisis, scheduled for and consumers led by King $147 at the time of the 
Kuwait's finance minister, Nov. 15 in Washington D.C., Abdullah in Jeddah in .July Jeddah summit in .July to 
Mostafa al-Shimali, told Al­which will also be attended "broke new ground in rec­under $70 currently. 
Anbaa daily in comments by Saudi Arabia's King ognizing ... that we have Britain is planning a sum­
published Sunday, Kuwait Abdullah. common interests as pro­mit in London in December 
was prepared to listen to "I am delighted that ducers and consumers in to follow up that meeting. 
what Brown had to offer. Saudi Arabia will take its more stable energy prices The London gathering was 
"The matter of support­rightful place at the table in and the need for a sustain­initially to be held at heads 
ing world markets depends these discussions," Brown able transition to a more of state level, but amid con­
on investment opportuni­told an audience of the low carbon emissions econ­troversy over whom had ­
ties on offer arid their pos­Saudi British Joint Business omy for the longer-term." or had not -been invited 
sible returns," he said. Council, including OPEC last month cut oil from the oil producing 
Any funds from Gulf Mohammed Al-Mady, chief production by 1.5 billion states, Downing St. said it 
states are unlikely to be executive of petrochemicals barrels per day to lift the would be held at ministeri­
pledged before a meeting of manufacturer Saudi Basic oil price, warning that al level. 

CEOs, famous investors hit by crisis 
Associated Press "It's always hard to beat the market no portfolios of private and public pension 
matter who you are," said Robert Hansen, plans, which have lost $1.9 trillion, the 
NEW YORK-Here's something that senior associate dean at Dartmouth's researchers found. might provide a bit of solace amid the Tuck School of Business. "But when the As stocks have plunged, so have the plunging values in your retirement ocean waters get that rough, it L<> hard for value of chief executives' equity stakes in accounts: Warren Buffett is losing lots of any boat to avoid getting swamped." their own companies. The average year­money, too. So are Kirk Kerkorian, Carl It has been a painful year for anyone to-date decline is 49 percent for the cor­lcahn and Sumner Hed<>tone. exposed to the stock market. The porate stock holdings of CEOs at 17 5 large 
They are still plenty rich, but their loss­Standard & Poor's 500 stOck index, con­U.S. companies, according to new es -some on paper and others actually sidered a barometer for the broad mar­research by compensation consulting firm realized -illustrate how few have been ket, has lost about 36 percent since Steven Hall & Partners. spared in today's punishing market when January, with every single sector -Topping that list is Buffett, who has even big-name investors, corporate exec­including once thriving energy and utili­seen the value of equity in his company, utives and hedge-fund titans are all ties -seeing declines of about 20 percent Berk..<;hire Hathaway, fall by about $13.6 watching their wealth evaporate. or more. billion, or 22 percent, so tar this year, to 
The portfolio damage for some of these Such losses in the last year have wiped leave hL<> holdings valued at $48.1 billion. high-flyers has soared to billions of dollars out an estimated $2 trillion in equity value Oracle founder and CEO Larry Ellison has in recerit. months. And they can't just from 401(k) and individual retirement seen his equity stake fall by $6.2 billion, or blame the market's downdraft. -some accounts, nearly half the holdings in those about 24 percent, to $20.1 billion, accord­did themselves in with badly timed stock plans, according to new findings by the ing to the research that ran from the start purchases or margin calls on shares Center for Hetirement Hesearch at Boston of the year through the close of trading bought with loans. College. Similar losses are seen in the Oct. 29. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 3, 2008 
~~==~~~~~~======~~~~ 
New center opened for Vets 
Associated Press 
FOHT CAMPBELL-In a rush to eorn~et reports of sub­standard eare for wounded soldiers, tlw Army flung open the doors of nnw specialized treatment enntnrs so widn that up to half tim soldiers eurrent­ly enrollnd do not have injuries serious nnough to justify being thnre, Thn Associated Prnss has lnarnnd. 
Army lnadnrs are putting in place stricter screening proce­dures to stem the flood of patients overwhnlming the units -a move that eventually will targnt some for dosure. 
According to interviews and data providnd to the AP, the number of patients admitted to thn 36 Warrior Transition Units and nine otlwr communi­ty-based units jumped from about 5,000 in June 2007, when they began, to a peak of nearly 12,500 in June 2008. 
Thn units provide coordinat­ed medieal and mental health care, traek soldiers' recovery and provide broader legal, financial and other family counseling. They serve Army active duty and reserve sol­diers. 
Just 12 percent of thn sol­dinrs in thn units had battle­field injuries while thousands of others had minor problems that did not rnquire the com­plex new network of ease man­agnrs, nurses and doctors, according to Brig. Gen. Gary II. Cheek, thn dirnetor of thn Army's warrior care oflicn. 
The overcrowding was a "self-inflicted wound," said Cheek, who also is an assistant surgnon gnnnral. "We're dedi­cating this kind of ovnrsight and management whern, truth­fully, only half of those soldinrs really tweded this.." 
Cheek said it is difficult to tell how many patients nventu­ally will hn in the units. But he said soldiers currently admit­ted will not lw tossnd out if thny do not nwet tlw new stan­dards. lnstt~ad, thn tighter screening will weed out the population over timn. , 
"We ' r n try i n g 1: hangn it bark." to st~rve patients who havn morn serious or multipln injuries that requirt~ about six months or morn of coordinated trnatnwnt, lw said. 
By restrieling use of the coordinated earn units to sol­diers with mom complex, long­term ailments, the Army hopt~s in the long run to dose or con­solidate as many as 10 of the transition units, Chnnk said 
during  an  interview in  his  
Virginia  off"icn  near  the  
l'm1tagon.  

In the past, a soldinr with a torn ktwe ligament would have surgery and then go on light duty, such as answering phones, while gntting physieal therapy. But last October, the Army began allowing soldiers with less snrious injurins such as that had knen to go to the warrior units. 
Tlw nxpansion came in the wakn of reports about poor conditions at Walter Heed Army Mndiral Centt~r in Washington. D.C .. int:luding shoddy housing and hurnau­rratir dnlays for outpatiPnts thPrn. 
BrigadP commatHiers bngan shipping to thP transition r:nn­tnrs anyor11• in thPir unit who rould not. dnploy bnrausn of an injury or illnPss. That hur­dt>twd tllf' systnm with soldiers who really did not need casn 
managers to set up their 
appointments, nurses to check 
their medications and other 
spedalists to provide eounsel­
ing for issues such as stress 
disorders. 
The Army's goal now, as 
spelled out in a recent briefing 
given to Defense Secretary 
Hobert Gates, is to screen out 
those who do not need the 
expanded care program, shift­
ing them to regular medical 
facilities at their military base 
or near their homes. 
Jon Soltz, an Iraq war veter­
an and chairman of 
VoteVets.org, said the 
Pentagon is making a fair 
argument. lie acknowledged 
that some soldiers with. less 
serious injuries might not need 
the units' services. 
But he said commanders 
need to be able to move their 
soldiers who cannot deploy 
due to an injury to the units 
because that is the only way 
they ean get a replacement 
before going to war. Otherwise, 
the brigade goes to battle with­
out the forces needed. 
"The larger concern here is that the problem that is driving this is the manpower prob­lem," said Soltz. "The Army is overextended. We don't have enough guys." 
It is vital, he said, that the 
medical system care for all the 
solders who need help and that 
any changes should not threat­
en that care. 
Haymond F. DuBois, a former acting undersecretary of the Army and manpower adviser under then-Defense Secretary Donald II. Humsfeld, said the units address "a problem that was not made aware at the highest levels" and do it well. But he has worried for months that the units were over­stretched. 
"Guess what? They did it so well everybody wants in," said DuBois, now an adviser at the Cnnter for Strategic and International Studies. 
Cheek stressed that the new more stringent screening process will not deny care to soldiers in need or limit the trnatmnnt units to those with battle wounds. 
"We don't really care about thn source of the wound, ill­ness or injury. We really care about the severity of the wound, illness or injury," said Cheek. "So if it's a severn, very acute condition that needs rehabilitation and a lot of man­agement and oversight, regardless of where it comes form, that soldier needs to be in this program." 
The latest data s))ows that it is working: The patient load is starting to inch down, from the peak of 12,478 in June to less than 11 ,400 in October. 
Cheek estimates that the sereening process will reduce the number to between 8,000 and 10,000. 
As those numbers come down, the Army is also review­ing which units get more use. The list of potential closings inelude warrior transition units at Fort Hucker and Hndstone Arsenal, in Alabama; Fort Leavenworth in Kansas; Fort l>ix in Nnw .Jersey; and Fort Irwin in California. At:cording to Army data. many 
o f tlw m ni t h n r h ave o n I y a doznn or so patients now, or t:an lw eombinnd with anothnr nearby facility. 
At Fort CampbPII in Knntueky, however, more than 600 soldinrs are in the treat­ment program. Staff' there are bracing for a surge of patients 
when the three 101st Airborne 
Division brigades start return­
ing home in the coming 
months. 

Gen. Peter Chiarelli, Army 
vice chief of staff', toured the 
unit in late October. lie gath­
ered more than two dolen staff 
around a long table to hear 
their concerns about how the 
program is operating. 
Afterward he marveled that 
they talked not about their 
own administrative com­
plaints, but about specific 
problems they were trying to 
solve for their patients. 
In a small office down the 
hall, Lisa Gaines was blunt 
about what the unit meant to 
her. 

"It's done wonders for our 
family," said the mother of 
five. 

Seated next to her, Spc. Sean 
Gaines nodded quietly as his. 
wife talked about the strains 
his injury had on the family 
and how the staff worked to 
heal all wounds -physical 
and emotional. 
Deployed to Iraq in 2004 
with the 2nd Brigade, 101st 
Airborne Division, cavalry 
scout Gaines was shaken but 
not bloodied by the blasts of 
several car bombs and a house 
explosion. Yet when he 
returned home, he began hav­
ing pain and his body went 
numb. The medical diagnosis 
was a crushed cervical disc ­
an injury he got either in Iraq 
or in training, only to surface 
later. 

After surgery in October 2007, he came to Fort Campbell's warrior transition unit -but he needed more than physical therapy. He had been told he could no longer serve as a scout. 
"He loves the Army, he loves the military. For them to tell him he could no longer be a scout, it was diffieult. It was a strain," recounted Lisa Gaines. He was agitated, angry and withdrawn, she said. 
In response, the warrior unit gave him underwater training as therapy for his injury, cou­pled with family counseling, budget management and career help. 
"I realized I had options, I could continue to snrve," said Sean Gaines, who soon will leave the transition unit and take on a new Army job doing transportation management. 
The counseling gave him time to figure out his options, come to terms with the change, and understand that he could either "drive on or prepare to exit," he said. 
He decided to go on, saying, "I am not going to be a scout, but I will still be part of a team." 
According to Army data, the key struggle is keeping the transition units fully staffed. In many of the more remote loca­tions, Army leaders have trou­ble finding enough nurse case managers. As of the end of September, 12 of the units based at military posts were short those case managers. 
Other locations, such as Fort Drum, N.Y., do not have mwugh behavioral health spe­cialists. 
Closing somo of' the locations may help oasn those shortages, Cheek said. 
"It shouldn't be too surpris­ing," he said. "We're 18 months old here. so now it's time for us to rnlook at how we're doing this, and where we can gain some eflicirncies." 
Supren1e Court to hear RI tribe land dispute 
Associated Press 
PROVIDENCE The· 
Narragansett Indian Tribe 
bought a 31-acre lot in 1991, 
saying it would be used for 
"economie development" and 
housing for the elderly and 
poor. 
However, the state of Hhode 
Island,-fearing the tribe really 
wants to create a tax-free 
zone or build a casino, sued to 
block the Narragansetts from 
putting the land into federal 
trust, which would essentially 
free it from state and local 
law. 
On Monday, their fight 
reaches the U.S. Supreme 
Court in a case being closely 
watched across the country 
because it could determine 
how tribes recognized after 
the 1934 Indian 
Heorganization Act are 
allowed to buy, govern and 
use land. 
States' rights factor heavily 
into the case. The Bush 
administration sides with the 
tribe, arguing that the 1934 
act allows it to take land into 
trust to benefit American 
Indians regardless of when 
their tribes were recognized. 
Rhode Island and 21 other 
states want the Supreme 
Court to limit that authority 
because states lose control 
over tribal trust land within 
their own borders. They say 
trust lands can alter the char­
acter of surrounding commu­
nities, espedally wb.en casino 
income allows tribes to 
embark on major projects. 
Hhode Island Attorney General Patrick Lynch said allowing the federal govern­ment to place the Narragansetts' land into trust would free it from state crimi­nal laws and from safety and zoning rules, as well as allow operation of tax-free shops that undercut a financially struggling state's revenue eol­leetion. 
"Criminals theoretically could go eommit crimes in the rest of Hhode Island and hide on that land, and we'd be unable to go get them," Lynch said. 
Narragansett Chief Sachem Matthew Thomas, leader of the 2,400-member tribe, scon·s at the notion that tribal land would become lawless and notes that many states have learned to coexist with tribal reservations. His tribe hopes to use its sovereignty as a bargaining chip to stimulate development. 
"If you can give someone incentives to come to you and do business with you, that's how you draw them," Thomas said. "Where if you have noth­ing to offer, no one's going to come around." 
The Supreme Court must 
deeide whether the U.S. seen~­
tary of the interior can hold 
land in trust for tribes like the 
Narragansett, which was fed­
erally recognized after the 
1934 law was enacted. The 

court also will have to darify 
whether a 1978 land settle­
ment between the tribe and 
Hhode Island puts limits on 
new trust lands in the state. 

After buying the land in Charlestown, the tribe started construction on a housing complex for the elderly, but work stopped because of mis­management and legal dis­putes, leaving a dozen empty houses. Thomas said he wants to complete the project and pursue some form of "eco­nomie development" on the site. lie will not rule out gam­bling, and the tribe has unsuc­cessfully sought approval to build a casino in Hhode Island in the past. 
Voters rejected a state con­stitutional amendment in 2006 that would have allowed the Narragansetts to open a casino in West Warwick. 
Lawyers for the state and town leaders in Charlestown argue the Narragansetts can­not place their land in trust under the Indian Heorganization Act beeause the tribe was not recognized when it was passed. In their view, Congress wanted the act to help tribes that lost millions of acres during a forced assimilation campaign that began in 1887 -and the Narragansetts aren't one of them. 
Disbanded by Hhodc Island lawmakers in 1880, the Narragansetts sold ofT nearly all their remaining land in a murky deal and were not rec­ognized by the federal govern­ment until 1983. 
Indian rights advocates say CongrHss never meant to eut off tribes recognized after 
19:H and say the act was sup­posed to set a template for future relations with tribns. 
It is unclear how many tribes could be a!Tnctnd by a ruling in the Narragansett case. State and town attorneys estimate that several hundred tribes reeognized after 1934 could find themselves unable to place new land into trust under the aet if Hhode Island prevails. 
Hichard Guest, an attorney for the Native Ameriean Hights Fund, believes the number is more likely in the dozens. The legal fund wants to make sure any ruling does not go too far. 
"We are concerned that they could reach broader decisions and reopen these ehallenges that go across the board," Guest said. 

ELECTION 2008 
Monday, November 3, 2008 CoMPILED FROA,1 THE ()BSERVER'S WJRf: SERVlcrs page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Obama manager sees paths to victory 
WASHINGTON -Barack Obama's cam­paign manager says the Democrat has many routes to victory in Tuesday's presi­dential election. Republicans predicted pre­dieted a historic comeback for John McCain. 
Campaign manager David Plouffe said Sunday that Obama has expanded the elec­toral map by aggressively campaigning in traditional Republican states like Virginia, Colorado and Nevada. Plouffe said he did not want to wake up on Election Day with only one way to win. 
lie told "Fox News Sunday" that they "wanted a lot of different ways to win this election." 
With McCain down in the polls, his cam­paign manager, Rick Davis, says Pennsylvania is the most important state to watch Tuesday. The state is leaning toward Obama in pre-election polls. 
McCain jokes about campaign on SNL 
NEW YORK -Hepublican John McCain poked fun at his presidential campaign's financial shortcomings and his reputation as a political maverick in an appearance on NBC's "Saturday Night Live." 
The presidential hopeful made a cameo appearance at the beginning of the show, with Tina Fey reprising her memorable impersonation of McCain's running mate, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin. 
McCain. who is trailing Democrat Barack Obama in most battleground state polls, also appeared during the show's "Weekend Update" newscast to announce he would pursue a new campaign strategy in the closing days of the campaign. 
"I thought I might try a strategy called the reverse maverick. That's where I'd do whatever anybody tells me," McCain said. 
And if that didn't work. "''d go to the double maverick. I'd just go totally berserk and freak everybody out," the Arizona sen­ator quipped. 
Feds investigating Obama aunt leak 
WASHINGTON -The government is investigating whether any laws were bro­ken in the disclosure that Barack Obama's aunt was living in the country illegally. 
Obama's half aunt, who is from Kenya, was ordered to leave the United States years ago after an immigration judge dnnied her request !'or asylum, a person familiar with the matter told The Associated Press late Friday. This person spoke on condition of anonymity because no onn was authorized to discuss the case. 
The woman, Zeituni Onyango (zay-TUI-IN on-YANG-oh), is living in public housing in Boston and is the half-sister of Obama's latn father. 
The Immigration and Customs Enforcement asked its inspector general and the Office of Professional Hesponsibility on Saturday to investigate whether any policies were violated when information about Onyango's case was publiely disclosed, ICE spokeswoman Kelly Nantel said. 
The Homeland Security Department, which oversees ICE, cannot disclose details about an individual's immigration status. 
Grassroot projects encourage voting 
Candidates unleash get-out-the-vote campaign programs as Obama holds lead 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio Barack Obama and John McCain uncorked massive get-out-the-vote operations in more than a dozen battle­ground states Sunday, mil­lions of telephone calls, mailings and door-knock­ings in a frenzied, fitting cli­max to a record-shattering $1 billion campaign. Together, they'll spend about $8 per presidential vote. 
With just two days to go, most national polls show Obama ahead of McCain. State surveys suggest the Democrat's path to the req­uisite 270 electoral votes ­and perhaps far beyond ­is much easier to navigate than McCain's. 
Obama exuded confi­dence. "The last couple of days, I've been just feeling good," he told 80,000 gath­ered to hear him -and singer Bruce Springsteen ­in Cleveland. "The crowds seem to grow and every­body's got a smile on their face. You start thinking that maybe we might be able to win an election on November 4th." 
In Peterborough, N.H., McCain held his final town hall-style event in the state that put him on the national map in 2000 and launched his GOP primary comeback eight years later. "I come to the people of New Hampshire to ask them to let me go on one more mis­sion," said McCain, who is looking for an upset victory against Obama. 
Polls show the six closest 
states are Florida, Indiana, 
Missouri, North Carolina, 
Nevada and Ohio. All were 
won by Bush and made 
competitive by Obama's 
record-shattering fundrais­
ing. The campaigns also are 
running aggressive ground 
games elsewhere, including 
Iowa, New Mexico, 
Pennsylvania, New 
Hampshire, Colorado and 
Virginia. 
All that's left now for the 
candidates is make sure 
people vote Tuesday -if 
they haven't already. 
Indeed, Election Day is becoming a misnomer. About 27 million absentee and early votes were cast in 30 states as of Saturday night, more than ever. Democrats outnumbered Hepublicans in pre-Election Day voting in key states. 


That has Democrats ­and even some Republicans -privately questioning whether McCain can over­take Obama, even if GOP loyalists turn out in droves on Tuesday. Obama may already have too big of a head start in critical states like Nevada and Iowa, which Bush won four years ago. 
As the campaign closes, voters were being inundat­ed with a crush of television ads and automated phone calls. 
In a new TV ad, Obama highlighted Vice President Dick Cheney's support for McCain. The ad features Cheney, an extremely unpopular figure among the general public, at an event Saturday in Wyoming, say­ing: ''I'm delighted to sup­port John McCain." 
Not to be outdone, the Hepublican National Committee rolled out battle­ground phone calls that include Hillary Hodham Clinton's criticism of Obama during the Democratic pri­mary. She is heard saying: "In the White House, there is no time for speeches and on-the-job training. Sen. McCain will bring a lifetime of experience to the cam­paign, and Sen. Obama will bring a speech that he gave in 2002." A Clinton spokes­woman said she disap­proves of the ad. 
Another phone call to Pennsylvania and Ohio vot­ers takes Obama's words about coal-burnillg technol­ogy out of context and claims he will "bankrupt the coal industry." 
The Pennsylvania GOP also unveiled a TV ad fea­turing Obama's former pas­tor, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, declaring "God damn America!" in a ser­mon. 
Obama and McCain cam­paigned on each other's turf Sunday. Obama was in Ohio, a bellwether state Bush won four years ago and where polls show Obama tied or winning. McCain visited Pennsylvania and New Hampshire, states won by Democrat John Kerry in 2004. He trails in both. 

McCain and the HNC dra­matically ramped up their spending in the campaign's final days and now are matching Obama ad for ad, if not exceeding him, in key battleground markets in states such as Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, Virginia and Pennsylvania. 
After months of planning, the Republican Party launched the last stage of its vaunted "72-hour pro­gram," when volunteers descend on competitive states for the final stretch. Democrats unleashed their "persuasion army" of back­ers scouring their own backyards to encourage people to back Obama in the campaign's waning hours. 
Obama's campaign reported that Saturday was its largest volunteer day, with more volunteers show­ing up to work the phones and walk neighborhood precincts than ever before in the campaign. Said Obama spokesman Bill Burton, "Our volunteers are completely engaged." 
SOUND BYTE: WAR ON TERROR 
What will you do about the nation's fight against terror? 

"I will end this war in Iraq responsibly and finish the fight against AI Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. I will rebuild our military to meet future conflicts, but I will also renew the tough, direct diplomacy that can prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and curb Russian aggression." "With the right strategy and the right forces, we can succeed in both Iraq and Afghanistan. I know how to win wars. And if I'm elected President, I will turn around the war in Afghanistan, just as we have turned around the war in Iraq, with a comprehensive strategy for victory." 

McCain 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 3, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Politics vs. thinking 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIF.WPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVI·:RTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROll.ER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63 I -6900 observad((l>nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63I-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sccne.1@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@)nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's (:ollcgt·. Editorial content, indudin11. advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe adniinisrration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the ri11-ht ro rdi.1sc advercist•mems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of dte majority of the Ediwr in Chit{ Managing Ediwr, Ao;sistant Managing Ediwrs and department edirors. Commemarit'S, len:ers and columns present the views of th~ authors and nor necessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Vit"Wpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinion' through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions "?:arding Obsen,~r policies should be dirt:cted to Editor in C.'lliefChris Hine. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l'h~· (lllllt'tvcr {lJSf1S ~·J<J l-4000) lll puhhllhL-d Mund~y thum!(h frido~y a~:rpr <lurin~ ~·x;un Jll~l VJc.;tuuu llCrin~,h. A ml~·ripuun ro '11tc Oh'ot"rwt i3l $\00 tOr niW .tt:ll(!.:mlc yt";tr> $'ji') rur UIJC ~llle<Jitr. 
the Obscrvrr i' publlllhed .u I'OSfMASTEil 024 ~luth Dinm~ l b.ll Send adrlrc'-$ corrections tu: Nntf't' LJ.unc, IN ...M'ii6-0779 ·nu:()l'ltt(rvcr Pcriodiul ptl)lol~ p.tid ,1( Nurre O.unc 1~0 Uox n9 .unl ....idiriuuJI m.~oilir'K ntlica. Ul4 South Dining Hall 
Nouc: L>.unc.IN 4(,'j'j(,.l)n'J 
nu: Olwnrt t• II member o( the J\.,M,.;:wcd [•I"QI.. AU rcprudm.uun ntthu .uc 
rc~rved. 

As a liberal arts university, Notre Dame's goal is, in the words of the Venerable John Ilenry Cardinal Newman. "training good members of society" through "the high protecting power of all knowledge and science, of fact and principle, of inquiry and dis­covery of experi­ment and specu­lation." Yet many educators believe that education and political engagement are anathema to one another, since political engage­ment today is all too often simply the regurgitation of partisan sound­bites, half-truths and innuendoes. Universities encourage thoughtful, critical. principled reflection on every­thing from medieval monasticism to quantum computing, Shakespearian sonnets to poverty in inner city urban areas; they should be equally unafraid to do the same for politics. 
Everything about politics is, after all, designed to discourage open­mindedness. George Orwell observed in 1946 that "political language is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind," and it seems that the problem in 2008 is just as bad if not worse; it is certainly louder and more ubiquitous. People no longer need to analyze every issue and every candidate care­fully; instead, they can just vote according to their party or however their particular ideological group dic­tates that they should. Political ads take full advantage of our subcon­scious, since, with enough repetition, people will remember implication and misinformation rather than the fact that they are untrue, no matter how many times they are told otherwise. Political "analysts" on TV are typically just partisans who talk past each other in order to state the party line over and over, while giving both sides equal airtime has somehow become the antidote to bias. We ourselves have come to the point of trusting par­tisans and ideologues with a world­view comparable to our own ­whether media commentators, politi­cal spokespeople or the candidates themselves -to give us the unprocessed truth. After all, just as it is easier to spend hours watching TV or playing Halo than to spend one sin­gle hour at the gym, it is easier to let ourselves trust the vast political maehine than try to fight it, even though we know instinctively that one is better than the other. 

In the face of this cycle of anti­rationalism and slavish obedience to parties and ideologies, why do aca­demics (and more importantly, admin­istrators) recoil at the thought of using the classroom to understand exactly how destructive it is and to begin to think our way out of it? Education is, essentially. the process by which peo­ple learn to find and evaluate infor­mation for themselves. Yet the insis­tent:e of academics in general, and scholars of the humanities in particu­lar, to limit the subjects available for scrutiny is to reinforce the idea that academia is irrelevant. Obviously, no professor should reduce him-or her­self to becoming a partisan hack; there arc enough of those already. But students should be pushed to learn to deconstruct a stump speech alongside T.S. Eliot, to pick apart a political ad just like a French New Wave film, to understand party polities in the same way they understand the politics of gender. In short, they should learn first that the "intellectual curiosity and critical thinking skills" that they learn to develop in anthropology, biol­ogy or English classes should not­must not-be restricted to "academ­ic" topics, and second, that no one who identifies himself with any politi­cal party or issue should be trusted. Even if you agree with them, you would be doing a disservice to your­self if you didn't at least try to under­stand their motives, biases and omis­sions. 
There is, in short, no reason to trust anyone to make your political deci­sions but yourself. And, when you are deciding who deserves your vote, you might consider making a truly revolu­tionary step: Think long and hard not about their party af'filiation, the rec­ommendation of a newspaper colum­nist or even the promises and policy statements that have come out of their mouths, but about what they have truly revealed about the process by which they make decisions in the course of their campaign. To base your vote on anything else is to trust that someone else has done your thinking for you -the sort of belief that, in Cardinal Newman's estima­tion, would be unbecoming of a good member of society. 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. student in history, and wishes his students good luck on their midterm today. lie can he reached at dcampbe6@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE CANPIPATES SUM UP THEIR I=Ds'ITIONS ON THE I$UES OF PRESSIN8' CONCERN 'TO AMERICANS.,,. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mandi Stirone Dan Murphy Aaron Stnincr Laura Myers 
Graphics Doug Farmer Andrea Archer Scene Viewpoint Analise Lipari Lianna Brauweiler 
OBSERVER POLL 

How far is the ND men's basketball team going to go this season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
r 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Things turn out best for people wlzo make the best ofthe,way things turn out. 
John Wooden basketball coach 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, November 3, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dam_e deserves m_ore 
After years of supporting and making excuses for a coach who wrote a book titled "No Excuses," I wonder whether Coach Weis is the man who ever gets us a National Championship. When he first appeared on a list of possible candidates for the job, I advocated him ahead of Urban Meyer. I gushed with pride when he visited the USC locker room after the 2005 game to congratulate them and when he told the team to go over to the Navy sideline for Navy's alma mater. Even when we were getting blown out by 38 points against Michigan and USC in my senior year, I blamed previous years' poor recruiting and inexperience rather than point the finger at our head coach. 
Now, after this weekend's loss to Pittsburgh, I cannot say that I can do any more defending. This weekend's game against Pittsburgh is indicative of the prob­lems that our team has continuously had during the Weis regime: a lack of killer instinct and motivation to put teams away. Two of the major declarations of the Weis Doctrine were once again debunked this weekend: that we would be a "nasty foot­ball team" and we would never be "out­coached." We fell flat in the second half and four overtimes. We gave up a 14-point lead to a team that had three times as many turnovers as we did. 
Who does this team think it is to let up after being up 17 -3? We went 3-9 last year. Every quarter, half, game, play, second should serve as motivation to erase the dark abyss that was last season. Our team thinks that the debacle of last season is clearly in the rearview window-in fact, Weis said never to bring it up again. For those fans that suffered through that sea­son, especially my fellow 2008 classmates, I am sorry but it's not. If our team thinks it's fine to not put opponents away for good and simply coast until ensuring a loss, that's not fine either. 
We cannot take the foot off the pedal ever purely for the fact that we should seek to get rid of that nasty taste of ridicule from last season on every single play and that inability to do so solely falls on the shoul­ders of the head coach. I thought I would never say this but look at the national championship-winning programs at USC and Florida. Their coaches never let go of the throttle and their players seek to not just win but dominate on every single play of every single game. Their coaches chal­lenge their players to constantly compete and never let up -look at what Florida did to Georgia this weekend and what USC does to nearly every team except for Oregon State. Weis has recruited players of similar or of the same caliber yet they fail to simply put away or dominate opponents as they have. 
Look, I know Coach Weis is a good man. I will never forget "Pass Right" or how he came around every dorm to answer ques­tions. However, he has not shown that he is the coach that will get us past mediocrity to greatness. To quote The Dark Knight, "Sometimes people deserve more. Sometimes people deserve to have their faith rewarded." We as Notre Dame fans deserve more than what we saw this past Saturday. 
Tae Kang grad student off-campus Nov. 2 
The Carroll Road Not Taken 
Two roads diverged at Notre Dame 
And sorry I could not travel both 
I one traveler, and long I came 
And looked down one, having perhaps the better claim, 
To where it bent in the undergrowth Then I looked at the other basked in sun Much farther from the Golden Dome. Because it was grassy where the Vermin run This forested path, so often shunned, Which a hundred men call their home. And both that morning equally lay To my right, campus, to my left, Carroll Hall. Oh, I kept the first for another day! Yet, knowing how way leads onto way This path is all I need after all. I shall be telling this with a sigh Somewhere ages and ages hence Two roads diverged at Notre Dame, and I­And I took the one less traveled by And that has made all the difference. 
Mike Sobolewski sophomore CarroUHaU Ocr. 30 
Stop talking and do som_ething 
To all the T-shirt idealists, ifyou want to get the entire student body to wear something uni­fying, get to work on it. People come up with ideas they want to implement all the time, but the problem between that idea and reality is their ability to work on it. If you want the stu­dent body to form the flag of the Republic of Ireland or make the stadium a (dare I say those three words) "Sea of Green," then start organizing something. Find a sponsor that would be willing to give out free shirt<; on game day and then you organize who gets what color etc. 
I really don't care, I'm just starting to get sick of reading the Viewpoints about people who say this is what the student body should do and see nothing getting done about it. 
Tim Staub sophomore Dillon Hall 
Ocr.l3 
Som_ething m_ust be done 
Over four years, we are 8-16 against teams with winning records; over the past two, we are 1-11, both including this year's victory against currently 5-4 Stanford. In OT games, we are 0-3 under Weis. Enough is enough. IfWeis was not an alum­nus, there is no doubt in my mind that he would have been fired, probably follow­ing last year's loss to Navy. 
This is not to say that our most recent embarrassment should be laid entirely at his feet. Our offense, with about 10 yards in the third quarter and a pathetic showing in all four overtimes, should also receive a large proportion of the blame. But game-planning and halftime adjustments are the job of the coach, especially one who supposedly does not call plays. At the least, someone needs to pay the price for Saturday's poor second-half performance. Coach Weis may seem to be the most obvious and least deserving choice, but his history of poor halftime adjustments and worse record against good opponents show that he is not a good gametime coach. His recruiting has been a godsend to our University, but his coaching has been a disappointment. I vote that our football program needs a drastic change, and most change begins at the top. 
Stephen Mann junior Stanford HaU Nov.2 

Life m_ost im_portant issue in election 
The current race for the presi­dent, which concludes this Tuesday Nov. 4, has gone on for more than a year, with much ink spilled on the views of the candidates. The posi­tions of the candidates on the econ­omy, on taxes, on foreign policy and on a host of other topics has captivated the attention of the American public. As a great and Catholic University, Notre Dame should be most interested in the most important and overarching consideration: the topic of life. It seems self-evident that without life, nothing else matters. Our country was founded on the principle that all men and women are created equal and that they are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pur­suit of happiness. Without life, there is no liberty, and there is no pursuit of happiness. 
Many politicians speak of life issues in the context of a "seamless garment" and involving many important issues, including abor­tion, euthanasia, our approach as a nation to war, the death penalty and several other important issues. A number of thoughtful recent let­ter-writers to this newspaper have also appropriately focused atten­tion on issues which affect the quality of life, including health care, education and immigration. Again, these are important issues. But as a University committed to a "life of the mind," let us be clear about which of these issues domi­nates the others. More unborn chil­dren are destroyed in the wombs of their mothers each year in the United States than the total of all men and women killed each year in wars, than all men and women euthanized each year and than all men and women executed each year in the United States combined ... by a very substantial amount. 
A number of prominent politi­cians who profess to be devout, practicing Catholics have spoken out in defense of our nation's abor­tion laws, claiming that the Church has "struggled" with this issue over the years. This is misinformation of the worst kind, because it deals with such a critically important issue and about such innocent and vulnerable persons. The Catholic Church has always and everywhere spoken with a clear and unambigu­ous voice about how grave an evil abortion is. For those of you who wish to properly inform and form your conscience about this issue, I urge you -indeed I exhort you ­to do so. 
One particularly powerful recent statement is that of Edward Cardinal Egan, the Cardinal Archbishop of New York. In a beau­tiful witness to his teaching office as both a Bishop and a prince of the Church, Cardinal Egan posts a weekly column to the archdiocesan website in New York entitled "In the Holiness of Truth." In his most recent posting, Cardinal Egan describes in very clear terms that all can understand both the impor­tance and clarity of the Church's teaching on when life begins enti­tled "Just Look." See http://www. cny.org/archive/eg/eg1 0 2308.htm 
Another very recent teaching of an American Bishop is that of Bishop William Francis Malooly, the Bishop of Wilmington, Delaware, who six days ago pub­lished a Letter to the Editor in the "Delaware Online" which he enti­tled "Catholic Church has made no exception regarding abortion since ancient times." See http://www. del a wareonline .com/arti cle/20081026/0PIN­ION10/81025022/1004/0PINION 
Indeed, more than 50 of the nation's Catholic bishops have issued formal statements and pro­nouncements or given interviews in which they have declared that the most important issue for voters in their choice of a new president is the candidate's stance on abortion. See http://www.lifesitenews.com/ldn/20 08/oct/081 02412.html 
You cannot find a statement by any bishop in which they claim that abortion is an issue of conscience or open for debate or that there is a more important issue in the upcoming election. This of course does not mean that other issues are not important. They are. But none is more important than the begin­ning of life. Please form your con­science well in preparation for the election this Tuesday. 
Peter Kilpatrick Professor, Dean's Office College of Engineering Nov. 2 

THE 0BSER.VER 
CENE
page 12 Monday, November 3, 2008 

By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Ediror 

Listening to the Legacy Records release "The Clash: Live at Shea Stadium" is like opening a time capsule from 1979. With the band's legendary body of work amplified by a livn performance, the album feels sponta­neous, electric and alive in ways that current alternative and post-punk bands dream of being. 
"Live from Shea Stadium" is a recording of a 1982 concert that The Clash gave with The Who and David JQhansen at 
today's music scene is obvious is "Tommy Gun," whose live performance feels electric, pulsating and alive in ways that alternative rock today only dreams of being. 
It's clear from this track in particular that bands like Green Day should thank the Clash in the liner notes of every album they've released. The chorus is piercing and memo­rable, and the lyrics' left-wing politics com­plement each gruff guitar strum. 
"Rock the Casbah" feels aggressive, with heavier guitar and vocals than the original released recording. Strummer plays off of the audience with each spit-coated word he 
flings their way, right down to 
Shea in New York City. Wh~at really pushes screaming "He hates that!" It opens with a recorded after "The Sharif don't like it"
["London Calling"} 
introduction from a radio exec­in the song's chorus. utive, saying that Kosmo Vinyl and the rest ofthe "Guns of Brixton" highlights was bringing Shea Stadium "a the band's signature st)'le. The
album over the top is 
little bit of London" right in guitar is dark and playful, and
the live element, 
New York. The live factor elec­jarring electric riffs juxtapose trifi•~s the album, bringing new especially here. against Strummer's half-mum­
life to each elassic Clash track. 
It's fitting that the first traek is "London Calling," which still sounds painfully good decades later. The perform­ance feels raw and fresh, down to the occa­sional squeal of a microphone. In "London Calling" and the rest of' "Live !'rom Shea Stadium," the influence of The Clash on nighties, nineties and millennia! rock is obvious. 
At onn point on "London Calling," Strumnwr howls at the audience, animalistic and raw. What really pushes ble, half-exclamation in each 
lyric. 

There is no low point on "Live from Shea Stadium." Other excellent tracks include "The Magnificent Seven," "Train in Vain," which features lead vocals by Mick Jones, and "Should I Stay or Should I Go," which, here, is downright fantastic. 
The Clash, borne out of 1970s London, consisted of Joe Strummer, born John Graham Mellor (lead vocals, rhythm guitar), Paul Simonon (bass, backing vocals), Mick 
Jones (lead guitar, vocals) and 
tho track and the rest of the Nicky "Topper" Headon !_drums, 
There is no low point 
recording OVflr the top is the percussion) for most of their 
on "Live from Shea
live element, especially here. history. Dubbed "The Only The buzz of the crowd, Stadium." British Band that Matters" by 
Strummer's musings and the spontaneity of' the music itself only com­pound how extraordinary the Clash really were. 
If' you're unfamiliar with the band's history, buy this album -you'll be surprised how much of the Clash library is integrated into pop culture. "Police on My Back," the third track, is a familiar youth anthem, with Strummer shouting "Help me/Police on my back." With the hum of Shea Stadium in the background, "Poliee on My Back" feels like a sprint through the streets of London on an angry summer night. 
One of the tracks whose influnnce on 
Live at Shea Stadium The Clash 
their record label (and later "The Only Band that Matters" by their fans), they were inducted into the Rock and Roll hall of' Fame in 200:3 and were named num­ber 30 in Holling Stone's list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time in 2004. 
In 2007 a documentary about Strummer's life, "Joe Strummer: The Future is Unwritten," debuted at the Sundanee Film Festival, and a film documenting Strummer's politics, the Tim Hobbins-produced "Let Fury Have the Hour," is due this year. 
Bob Gruen. a rock photographer, writes in the album's liner notes that the Clash always needed to be "in touch with their fans." At the 1982 Shea Stadium concert, though, Gruen writes that a security zone separated the band and their fans. 
"I was surprised when The Clash broke up a few weeks later," he writes, "but I under­stood why. They didn't want to be so big that they couldn;t reach the people." 
While the event might have signaled the end of' The Clash as punk lovers knew them, "Live at Shea Stadium" is only one way the band's legacy can still reach the people. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

NSIDER 
OTHE 
Monday, November 3, 2008 BSERVER Pittsburgh 36, Notre Dame 33 (4 OT) 
Here's the kicker 
Pittsburgh's Conor Lee drills field goal in fourth overtime to hand Notre Dame its first home loss of the season 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
The longest overtime game in Notre Dame Stadium history ended too early for the Irish. 
When Pittsburgh kicker Conor Lee's 22-yard field goal sailed through the north end zone's uprights in the fourth overtime, it ended Irish aspira­tions for a fifth overtime as the Panthers stormed the field to celebrate their 36-33 victory. 
Pittsburgh entered its fourth overtime possession knowing a field goal would secure the vic­tory. After two short running plays and an incompletion, Notre Dame sent kicker Brandon Walker out for the fourth consecutive overtime possession, but the sopho­more's 38-yard attempt went wide left. 
Although Walker's miss opened the door for Pittsburgh, it was also Walker's leg that kept the Irish in the game. The sophomore kicker made three straight field goals to start ov.crtiJne including a 48-yarder to for'ce the' fourth overtime. He made four of his field goals on the day. 
"I know Brandon felt bad at the end," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "But he's a guy who's keeping us in the game all through the game right there. That's exactly what I told him walking off the field when he felt bad. I said, 'Feel bad, justifiable so, feel bad you missed a kick, but you do not take the onus, the responsibili­offense. We should've scored coach Dave Wannstedt elected one drive third-stringer Kevan and went down and scored, ty of this loss on your shoul­early. Then the defense would to go for it on fourth down, and Smith was in the game. and that shows a lot about our ders."' have held them, and we'd have the third time was a charm for The second half was a differ­character. We still had faith in 
The Notre Dame offense did won the game." Bostick and Baldwin. This ent story. our quarterbacks, you know, have multiple opportunities in Late in the fourth quarter, time, the freshman receiver Coming out of the locker Pat [Bostick] was confident." overtime to put the game the Notre Dame offense did out-leaped Irish corner room trailing 17-3, Bostick The Irish offense was as away. Needing a touchdown to give the defense a chance to Raeshon McNeil securing the brought Pittsburgh back in the inept as Pittsburgh's offense end the game after just one win the game, but the defen­ball and the tie for the third quarter. The sophomore was successful in the third overtime, the Irish ran the ball sive unit was unable to protect Panthers. completed seven of nine passes quarter. After scoring two three straight plays down to the lead. "I knew exactly what the for 70 yards in the third quar­touchdowns late in the first the Panthers' three-yard line, Tate was the offensive pro­play was going to be," McNeil ter, including a 37-yard com­half to take a 14-point lead, but the drive stalled with a tagonist as his six-yard touch­said. "I got a little too high on pletion to Oderick Turner on the Notre Dame offense was one-yard run and incomplete down reception on a fade gave the route and the receiver fourth-and-one that set up the unable to build on that pass on the following two the Irish a 24-17 lead with came back and made a good Panthers' first touchdown. momentum. plays. 5:38 remaining. Tate finished play on the ball. That's Bostick was also helped by In the third quarter, the Irish 
On the first play of the sec­with 6 catches for 111 yards Pittsburgh's motto. They have McCoy, one of the nation's offense ran 10 plays for seven ond overtime, Irish quarter­and the one touchdown. a big receiver [Baldwin] and finest running backs. Late in net yards and failed to gain a back Jimmy Clausen had The Panthers immediately when they get into the red the third quarter, McCoy fin­first down. The tone was set by Michael Floyd open down the responded. A combination of zone they like to throw it up to ished off a long Pittsburgh an ineffective running game as 
h.

middle of the field but over­Pat Bostick throws and LeSean liD. " drive with a one-yard plunge, two of the three Notre Dame threw the freshman receiver. McCoy runs set Pittsburgh up That play was redemption tying the game 17-17. McCoy, possessions started with a five­Clausen finished with 271 with a second and six from the for Bostick, who had struggled who entered the game leading yard loss on a run play. After yards and three touchdowns Irish 10-yard line with under earlier in the game. Starting in the nation in scoring average, pounding Washington last on the day, but he was unable three minutes to play. place of an injured Bill Stull, was a workhorse for the week for 252 yards on the to lead the Irish to the end Bostick proceeded to try the Bostick completed only three Panthers rushing 32 times for ground, the Irish managed zone in any of the team's four same play on second and third of six passes in the first half 169 yards. only 115 yards on 39 carries overtime possessions. down -a fade for six-foot-five for 24 yards and a McNeil "We just have to come out against Pittsburgh for an aver­
"With four overtimes, at receiver Jonathan Baldwin -interception that led to an Irish and make some plays," McCoy age of 2.9 yards per carry. some point you've got to but each attempt resulted in touchdown. His drives pro­said of the offense's second­score," Irish receiver Golden an incompletion. With only one duced zero points as the only half success. "We came out the Contact Greg Arbogast at Tate said. "We've got a good timeout remaining, Pittsburgh Panthers points came on the first drive of the second half garbogas@nd.edu 

play of the gameplayer of the game stat of the game quote of the game 
"It's a dagger in a way because we
Jonathan Baldwin's game-tying Conor Lee 
0 

were so confident and we basically just gave them the game. " 
touchdown catch with 2:22 leftPanthers kicker 
The number oftouchdowns Lee was a perfect s-for-s on .field 
The Panthers ran the same play ­scored by either team in the four 
David Bruton
a fade to Baldwin -three straight goals. nailing all four ofhis overtime overtimes. Pittsburgh kicked four 
Irish safety 

tries including the game-winner. 
times and connected on 4th-and-6.
field goals, Notre Dame three. 
01nqs1i:J 16V1eadU I HJC: liM AIJIJ:OJJ THM; 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 3, 2008 
report card 
C+ 
quarterbacks: It's hard to blame Jimmy Clau'ien too mw:h eonsidering the state,; he put up, but hn missed Michael Floyd fi>r a would-be TD in the second overtime. 
8-
running backs: Armando Allen was the 
li>eal point on the ~-,rround and ran well, 
nspt~dally in the first half when he broke 
off a f(~w nke runs. 

receivers: Floyd 1md Golden Tate mu:h topptldA-I!XJ yards and made a couple highlight-reel catches, but tl1ey wern non-faetors in over­tinw-tl1rough no f~tult of their own. 
offensive line: Pitt got ptmotration and C-stufli~ several running plays for big los..c,;es, and Uau'*m ofum didn't have much time to tlm>w in tim second half or overtime. 
C-
defensive line: There wasn't much back­side contain or pursuit, and LeSean McCoy made the Irish pay by reversing 
field fi>r big gainers on multiple occa­
sions. 

linebackers: The unit had two saeks, but !Iarrison Smith's third-quarter person­al foul was tim biggnst play that people amn't rnally talking about. 
8+ 
defensive backs: Iuu~hon MeNeil had two picks but was outplay1~ on the game-tying touchdown near the end of regulation. 
David Bruton al'-*J had an inten:eption. 
8+ 
special teams: Ik1mdon Walker kPpt thP Irish alive with hi'i dutch overtime kick­ing despite the final mic,;s, but Eric Maust 
had a punt bhK:ked Parly on. 
D 
coaching: Another second-half collapse where the opponent made the adjust­ment<> and the statffailed to eounter. 
The overtime play-calling was too vanil­la and didn't utilize Floyd and Tate. 
overall: Just a tremendously dL<>­appt>inting linLc,;h to a game the lrbh l1K1ked to have won at half~
2.41 
time. They dearly haven't tum1~d the comer. 
adding up the nuinbers 
The number of receiving yards combined 
211 
between Golden Tate (111) and Michael Floyd (100). 
5 
The number of times the Irish have scored on their 
opening drive this season, Including Saturday's Brandon Walker field goal. 
The number of total plays in the game. Notre Dame ran 83, Pittsburgh 
160
77. 
22 
The number of touchdowns scored by Notre Dame freshmen and sophomores this year, out of a total of 27. 
The number of passes of at least 20 yards 
31 
Jimmy Clausen has completed this season. He had 17 all last year. 
7 
The number of consecutive field goals Brandon Walker had made before missing in the fourth 
overtime. 

The time it took Pittsburgh to earn its 
18.•1o 
first first down of the game. 
The number of punts between Saturday's 
blocked punt and the last one Notre Dame had blocked by Michigan State in 2005. 
184 
Halloween weekend earries a ton of traditions -pumpkins, lots of candy, an excuse for females to dress inappropriately -but most of all television's need to play every horror movie ever made. 
You know the type. The kind of eheesy, pre­dictable films that feature some masked nut job running around a small town, killing dumb co-eds until the hottest girl in the movie somehow narrowly avoids her death and the killer's shoeking identity is revealed. 
Maybe I'm just on FearNet over­load, but after Notre Dame's quadruple-overtime loss to Pitt Saturday, I felt like I had just watched another thriller movie. 
The worst part in any of those movies is the inevitable scene where our gorgeous protagonist looks like she will finally meet her fate. The killer slowly creeps up behind her, poses with his knife in mid-air and just as the music reaehes its peak, she turns and runs to safety. 
Pittsburgh was the hot ehick. 
This is the first time Mark May ­a Pitt graduate -has ever been associated with a hot chiek, but it's true. The Irish were poised with their weapon of ehoice gleaming in a dark alley, but somehow the Panthers slipped away. 
After an absurd eireus catch by Golden Tate and an almost equally impressive double move by Miehael "Franchise" Floyd to get open in the end zone, Notre Dame had a 10-3 lead and a heap of momentum with a few minutes remaining in the half. 
Then our proverbial hot chick made it even easier. She ran up the steps instead of out the front door. 
Haeshon McNeil picked off a pass with under a minute to go in the half and ran it all the way down to tlw Pitt 13-yard line. Five plays 

Dan Murphy 
Sports Editor 

later Franehise scored again. With 
a 17-3 lead and a dominant defen­sive performance in the first half it looked like Notre Dame was ready to run away with a huge program. win. 
They just eouldn't finish. 
In a post-game interview senior safety David Bruton said there was­n't any one play that you eould blame for the loss. That's beeause, as Irish eoach Charlie Weis said, there were 50 you eould blame for the loss. 
The scene after a horror movie star escapes is equally as ridiculous and frustrating as the escape. She usually scrambles hysterically to squeeze through a window or start a ear that always seems to be having 
engine problems. This is the first time bly escape this time? While that is going Mark May -a Pitt Of eourse, they on, the killer is slow­found a way and
graduate -has ever
ly walking towards Notre Dame's identi­her. I don't know if been associated with ty was revealed -a all mass murderers a hot chick, but it,s team mueh­are lazy or maybe improved from last
true. The Irish were
they have asthma, year, but not experi­but I've never even poised with their eneed enough to win seen one break into weaponofchoice the big game yet. as mueh as a jog. All All three of Notre
gleaming in a dark
that adrenaline and Dame's losses this emotion are appar­alley, but somehow year have come ently not enough to the Panthers slipped against teams with pick up the pace and winning records, all
away.

finish her off. 
Same goes for the Irish. There were countless oppor­tunities to at least seal the win, let alone blow them out. Harrison Smith's personal foul whieh led to a touehdown, Pitt's fourth down fade pass to tie the game and four over­times without erossing the goal line were only a few of the plays that Notre Dame let slip through their hands. 
Three times Notre Dame forced Pitt to go for it on fourth down in key situations. The Panther picked up a fresh set of downs on all three. On the other side of the ball, the offense got too comfortable with the lead and stopped making plays in the second half. 
Tate said after the game that he thought the offense had the tenden­ey to get a little complaeent with the lead in the second half. It sure looked like it. The team could dearly move the ball if they wanted to. Pitt tied the score at 17 in the fourth quarter and Clausen marehed them 75 yards down the field for a touchdown on the very next drive. 
But for some reason they eouldn't get it going again for the rest of the game. They instead relied on Brandon Walker's left foot. Walker nailed four straight including a career long 48-yarder to push the game to a fourth overtime period. That was kind of like the crazy, unexpected twist of fate that makes audiences think that the main char­aeter doesn't stand a chance. Notre Dame could lose yards in overtime 
and still keep pace. 
How eould Pitt possi­
five wins have come 

against teams with losing records. They have the talent and the chances to beat those bet­ter teams right now, but it may be another year before they have the killer instinct to close a game. 
Weis and the Irish seem to be making a scary habit of giving away big wins that should have been theirs. This loss looked like it could've been a sequel to the heart­breaker against North Carolina three weeks earlier. 
And everyone knows the only thing worse than a horror movie is the sequel. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu. 
----------------------------------------------, 
Monday, November 3, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weis concerned with team's psyche 
By MATT GAMBER 
Associated Sports Editor 
Irish coach Charlie Weis' first com­ments during Saturday's post-game press conference expressed his top concern following the gut-wrenching loss -and it had nothing to do with his team's inability to score an overtime touchdown or the fact that Notre Dame squandered a 17-3 halftime lead. 
"Right now you're not worrying about closing out the game, you're worrying about the psyche of the team," Weis said. "I think the next 24-to-48 hours, you know, it's a trying time when you come off a disheartening loss." 
So much so that Weis spoke with a visi­bly-upset Brandon Walker -Notre Dame's sophomore kicker who made three overtime field goals before sending a fourth wide left -on the field before heading to the locker room to address the entire team. 
"You know, with kickers now, when it comes to that situation, you end up miss­ing a kick, everyone blames you," Weis said. "I wanted to make sure before we got in that locker room he understood that not for one second I wanted him to hang his head. If he wasn't making all those other kicks, the game would already be over." 
But Walker wasn't the only one who took the loss hard. 
"It's a dagger in a way," senior safety David Bruton said of a game he thought the Irish gave away. "We're doing things different for the next more on-field practice time Tuesday 
"I wish I could have that one back," couple days because I think that if I just before the Irish resume a typical sched­sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen let them go into their ule Wednesday, Weis said. said of overthrowing freshman Michael normal routine, I could "What I'm really trying Floyd on a would-be touchdown in the set it up for them taking "Looking at every­to do more than anything second overtime. a little bit one,s faces, you can else is shock their system, 
"We can taste it ... we longer to you know, get them out of
see the pain and the
let it slip through the "We,re doing things get out of a rut," he said. "I had to
hurt, and that,s some­
cracks and it hurts," jun­t h e come up with a plan to
different for the next 
ior right tackle Sam Young tank." thing that lets me make sure that it wasn't
couple days because I 
said of a missed opportu­Wei s just business as usual." ·
know as a leader that 
nity :lie compared to the think that ifI just let said· the But even with the 
guys are starting to
Oct. 11 29-24 loss at North them go into their I r i s h wound of the loss still Carolina. w o u I d get it.,, fresh, Bruton said he ­
normal routine, I 
And Weis was still wor­run and and the rest of his team­ried about his team could set it up for lift at 6 mates -were determined
David Bruton
Saturday night, "rolling them taking a little a . m . not to let heartbreakers
Irish safety 
around" in bed looking for today "to like this one become "just
bit longer to get out of
the answer to one ques­g e t business as usual."
the tank.,, 
tion. things out of their system "We've got a group of guys where "After you've already and get them moving for­everyone's in it, everyone cares," Bruton revisited every play in the ward." The afternoon said. "Looking at everyone's faces, you
Charlie Weis 
game for a while, now you session will be more can see the pain and the hurt, and that's
Irish coach 
have to think, 'Okay, what mental than physical, he something that lets me know as a leader can I do to shock their sys-said, and will focus on that guys are starting to get it." 

tem, not be in that rut of just doing the  Boston College's first and second down  
same thing you do every day...'" Weis  game plan.  Contact Matt Gamber at  
said at his Sunday press conference.  That will allow for fewer meetings and  mgamber@nd.edu  

•

scoring SUllllllary 
1st  2nd 3rd  4th  OT  Total  
PITT  3  0  7  14  12  36  
ND  3  14  0  7  9  33  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Pittburgh 0 
Brandon Walker 39-yd field goal with 9:38 
remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 62 yards, 5:22 
elapsed. Notre Dame 3, Pittsburgh 3 
Con or lee 35-yd field goal with 5:58 remain­
ing. Drive: 4 plays, 2 yards, 1:27 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 10, Pittsburgh 3 
Jimmy Clausen 18-yd pass to Michael Floyd (Walker kick) with 1:27 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 91 yards, 4:39 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Pittsburgh 3 
Clausen 4-yd pass to Floyd (Walker kick) with :04 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 13 yards, :26 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Pittsburgh 10 
laRod Stephens 4-yd run (lee kick) with 10:55 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 71 yards, 4:05 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Pittsburgh 17 
leSean McCoy 1-yd run (lee kick) with 11:03 remaining. Drive: 15 plays, 70 yards, 8:28 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Pittsburgh 17 
Clausen 6-yd pass to Golden Tate (Walker kick) with 5:38 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 75 yards, 
5:25 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 24, Pittsburgh 24 
Pat Bostick 10-yd pass to Jonathan Baldwin 
(lee kick) with 2:22 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 
70 yards, 3:16 elapsed. 
Overtime 

1st OT: Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 24 
lee 22-yd field goal. Drive: 6 plays, 20 yards. 
1st OT: Pittsburgh 27, Notre Dame 27 
Walker 22-yd field goal. Drive: 6 plays, 21 yards. 
2nd OT: Notre Dame 30, Pittsburgh 27 
Walker 26-yd field goal. Drive: 7 plays, 17 yards. 
2nd OT: Notre Dame 30, Pittsburgh 30 
lee 32-yd field goal. Drive: 4 plays, 9yards. 
3rd OT: Pittsburgh 33, Notre Dame 30 
Lee 26-yd field goal. Drive: 6 plays, 16 yards. 
3rd OT: Pittsburgh 33, Notre Dame 33 
Walker 48-yd field goal. Drive: 4 plays, 4yards. 
4th OT: Pittsburgh 36, Notre Dame 33 
Lee 22-yd field goal. Drive: 4 plays, 20 yards. 
statistics 
total yards 
'\,lf ' 
--.~ ·',. 1\i~:,ii'\'i!~Ifi~!'''~~ .-­
rushing yards 
Stewart reinjures knee running onto field 
Kicking things off Kamara's freshman touch­Honoring legends 

By DAN MURPHY 
Ryan Burkhart's second down record last week against Former Irish coach Frank 
Sports Editor passing yards 
quarter kickoff following the Washington. Leahy was honored at team's first touchdown was "He just keeps making Saturday's game. Leahy won 
Junior lineman Chris Notre Dame's first touchback plays," Irish sophomore quar­two national championships Stewart reinjured his knee of the season. Prior to terback Jimmy in 1943 and running on to the field dur­Saturday's game the Irish led Clausen said. 1946. For ing the first overtime period. the nation in kickoff coverage "That's what the two sea­time of possession 
"He just keeps mak­
"Chris doesn't look very allowing an average of only he's here to do, sons in
ing plays. That,s what 
good. His knee locked out 16.3 yard per return. make plays. He's between on the way Pittsburgh done a great job he,s here to do, make champi­out to the averaged 18.5 throughout the plays. He,s done a onships field," Irish yards per season making Leahy was
"Chris [Stewart] great job throughout 
coach Charlie return. plays." not with the Weis said doesn ,t look very the season making t e a m 

171

Sunday. Add it to the because he
good. His knee locked plays.
According to list Long day's work was serving Weis, the knee out on the way out to Freshman Saturday's in the U.S. 
passing

Jimmy Clausen 
locked up the field.,, receiver game, ·which Navy. badly which Michael Floyd went to four Irish quarterback Leahy's son 
Clausen 23-44-0 Bostick 14-27-3 
means that it broke Notre overtimes, was and grand-
Charlie Weis 

will need to be Dame's fresh­the longest son, both of rushing
Irish coach 

scoped and man recep-game in Notre Dame's history. whom played for the Irish, Stewart might tions record The previous long of three took part in the coin flip. In Allen 19-73 McCoy 32-169 be out for the with 10 catch­overtimes was set last year in a Notre Dame's final home Aldridge 8-25 Stephens 8-23 remainder of the regular es for 100 yards against the 46-43 loss to Navy. game against Syracuse on receiving season. Panthers. Floyd now has.41 The Irish have had three Nov. 22 the Irish will honor 
Fellow linemen Eric Olson catches on the season. · overtime games with Charlie the last of five championship 
Floyd 10-100 Turner 2-42
and Trevor Robinson were The record was previously Weis as coach and have lost all coaches, Knute Rockne. 
Tate 6-111 Baldwin 2-31 also injured during the game held by sophomore Duval three. The first loss came Allen 3-13 McCoy 2-23 but Weis said they would be Kamara who had 31 catches against Michigan State in Weis' Contact Dan Murphy at Rudolph 2-26 Kinder 2-10 practicing Monday morning. last year. Floyd also broke first season. dmurphy6@nd.edu Kamara 2-21 Pelusi 2-7 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 3, 2008 
.,.
... 
QUENTIN STENGER/The Cbserver 
Saturday w-as the Pitts 
HmbattJnd sophomore kicker Brandon Walker made thrfle field goals in over­
time but thn Irish eame up one short, a'> Pittsburgh's Conor Lee drilled a 22-yard lidd goal in the fburth overtime to beat thn Irish 36-33. Notre Dame dominated the first half 17-:1, seoring on a pair of Jimmy <Jausen-to-Michael Floyd touch­d1 >Wn passes near the end of the second quarter and quieting the Panthers and their star running back LeSnan McCoy. But a costly personal foul penalty extend­ed Pill'>hurgh's drivn of' the second half, which would result in a touchdown. The Irish '>flimsn couldn't gnt anything going in the third quarter, taking a 17-10 advcmlagn to the filllrth. McCoy got rolling ;md tied the game with a touchdown nm, but the lrL'>h rnarehed baek down thn linld <l'> <Jausnn found Golden Tate for a scorn m1d a 24-17 lnad. The P;mthers scornd on a 4th-and-6 fi·om the Notre I>ame I 0-yardliiw on a fadn pm;s to Jonatlum Baldwin with 2:22 left, tying the gmne 24-24 to fi>ree overtime. Neither tnam could manage a touchdown in over­timn. fllSting t11c fate of the game on Walker's left foot and Lee's right. 

Clockwise from top, Armando Allen tries to spring free from a pair of defenders; David Bruton hauls in an interception near the end of regulation; lan Williams reacts on the field after the loss; Michael Aoyd makes one of his two touchdown catches; Raeshon McNeil returns one of his two interceptions. 
.JIII4bh.J itlVlttGdU, H..JGIIM ~~~IJ::J..J r:-,AM 
---------------~ 
------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, November 3, 2008 
page 13 

If I had to describe myself, I'd say I'm a pretty typical college kid. I'm mildly obsessed with sleep­napping, snoozing, even that nap­jerk thing you do when you're feel­
ing a mid-after­noon brain-fuzz. I wear sweat pants, sneakers and T-shirts on a fairly regular basis. And I usu­ally wait to do laundry until I have four loads 

lel't and I'm run-Analise Lipari ning out of socks. I cook Scene Editor 
with my mom, watch football with my dad and text my sisters about "Project Runway." 
Oh, and I think I've seen every episode of "The Golden Girls." 
Maybe those things don't jive at first glance. It'd be hard to picture Sophia Petrillo listening to MGMT on her iPod or swiping into the dining hall (unless she was doing the swiping). Or, for that matter, a 21 year-old Domer getting excited about time-shares in Boca Raton. Most college kids' televisions prob­ably run on a steady diet of MTV, the news networks and "The Office," and most senior citizens' dials might be switched to "60 minutes," the news networks and "The Antiques Roadshow." 
Right? 

Wrong. Because, well, I love "The Golden Girls." I hang out with Hose, Dorothy, Sophia and Blanche all the time -albeit, courtesy of the Lifetime network and the power of reruns. I've watched their highs, their lows, and their obsession with cheese­cake in episode after episode, and I love it. 
The best way to get to know "The Golden Girls" is to do just that -get to know the four main characters: Dorothy Zbornak (Bea Arthur), Sophia Petrillo (Estelle Getty), Blanche Devereaux (Rue McClanahan) and Rose Nylund (Betty White). 
The anchor of "The Golden Girls" is arguably Dorothy, a strong headed, independent divorcee with a sardonic sense of humor. Dorothy was hardly the popular girl in high school, marry­ing her clownish boyfriend Stanley Zbornak when she found out she was pregnant with his child. The specter of Stan (and his actual, annoying presence) haunts Dorothy through the show's earlier seasons, but she handily tosses him aside with her signature wit. 
Arthur, an alum of the ground­breaking series "Maude," is always at the top of her game in this role. 
Blanche could probably shock a teenage viewer: once called "sexy Grandma" by her granddaughter, Blanche is the resident social but­terfly of the group. While Sophia and Dorothy tease her about the virtual rotating door to her bed­room, Blanche, a Southerner by birth, thinks she's a lady. Here's a typical exchange between the three of them: 
Blanche: "What do you think of my new dress? Is it me?" 
Sophia: "It's too tight, it's too short and it shows too much cleav­age for a woman your age." 
Dorothy: "Yes, Blanche. It's you." You don't get writing like that today, folks. You just don't. 
Rose is, to be totally honest, kind of a loon -but in a sweet, caring sort of way that almost makes you forget how ridiculous she can be. A native of St. Olaf, Minn., she's quick with a story, slow on the uptake and always a good friend. 
But really, Estelle Getty's Sophia is the star of the show. Ready with a zinger at any moment, Sophia is a tough, Sicilian woman with smarts and spunk. She'll often start a story with the phrase, "Picture it: Sicily," and her biting humor belies a heart of endearing gold. She's by far the funniest cast member. Here's an example, from after one of Sophia's memorable life stories. 
Rose: "Wow, Sophia, that was some story!" 
Sophia: "Yeah -funny, touching and with a surprise ending. I won­der if it was true. Damn that stroke." 
So why regale you with details about a show that made its debut before any of us were born? (Wow, by the way.) Because it's fun, and funny, and it's still refreshing to watch a show in which any char­acter over fifty isn't immediately deemed useless. 
Who knows? Someday I may be as cantankerous and as funny as Sophia Petrillo or her three house­mates. (Hey, I'm also Sicilian. Anything's possible.) In the mean­time, I'll catch the reruns on Lifetime again tonight. And tomor­row night. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at 
alipari@nd. edu 

SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 

The Soup -Womanizer 
Energizer, Energizer... 
Agile ond cute • stiff competition.. 


News Blooper: Anthor v. Reporter
I -· 
I'll teach you how to be a reporter. 
Stor Wors Atcording to o 3 Yeor Old 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 3, 2008 
NFL 

Titans re111ain unbeaten in overti111e defeat of Packers 
Bengals come from behind to record first victory; Grossman's touchdown gives Bears sole lead in NFC North 
Associated J>...,ss 
NASIIVILLE, Tenn. -Hob 
Bironas wanted a chance at 
redemption. 
The Tennessen Titans gave 
it to their All-Pro kicker, who 
made sure their run as the 
NFL's lone unbeaten team 
continues for another wonk. 
Bironas kicked a 41-yard field goal with 9:36 to go in overtimtl that kept the Titans perfect with a 19-16 victory over the Green Bay Packers on Sunday. The kicker had a chanc!l to win in regulation, but banged a 47-yarder off the upright, prompting him to yank his faeemask down in anger at himself. 
"I was hoping for nxaetly what happened." Bironas said. "We'd win the toss and get another shot at it. I don't miss many, so I definitely want!ld another shot at it to put us in the lead and go home with the victory, 8-0." 

The Titans (8-0) won the toss and drove 55 yards in 10 plays to give Bironas another chance. Going out on third­and-2, he swung through his fourth field goal that started the celebration as the Titans matched a franchise record by winning their 11th straight regular-season game. 
"When you win eight games, you're going to on occasion need to win some like this, and that is just what we did," Titans coach Jef1' Fisher said of his team's second game a week. "We hung in there." 
The Packers (4-4), who showed some early rust com­ing oiT their bye, lied it at 16 on Mason Crosby's third field goal, a :~8-yarder, with 5:30 left. Aaron Rodgers, fresh with his new contract extfm­sion, had plenty of time to end the Titans' winning strnak as Tennessee went three-and-out for the fourth time. 
c;rcen Bay got to the Tennessne 45, but the Titans forced Green Bay to punt the ball away with I :49 left. The Paekers never got it back even as they downed the ball at thP. Tennessee 8. 
Kerry Collins drovn the Titans downl'ield by going 4­of-5 for 48 yards, and Fisher ran the dock down to 4 sec­onds in setting up Bironas for the chance to win in regula­tion. lie said he scraped a eleat on the ground and missed it by a yard. Green Bay's Jarrett Bush said he scraped the ball with the tip of his glove. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

"We felt good about it," 
Green Bay coach Mike 
McCarthy said. "We liked the 
position we were in and even 
kicking it off' to them when we 
lost the coin toss we expected 
the defense to stop them. It 
didn't work out that way." 
In overtime, rookie Chris 
Johnson took over. He caught 
a 16-yarder on third-and-6, 
then ran 14 yards for another 
first down. lie finished with 
89 yards on 24 carries and six 
receptions for 72 yards more. 
He also scored the Titans' 
only TD. 
"To go right back out, I don't think it could have set up better for us," Collins said. 
Green Bay outgained Tennessee 390-347 in total offense. The Packers also brought in a defense leading the NFL with 13 intercep~ tions, but it was the Titans who made the big defensive plays in sacking Hodgers four times and forcing two turnovers, including Chris Hope's interception in the end zone. 
"There are no moral victo­ries," Hodgers said. "We wanted to get to 5-3. We felt like we had a good game plan and we were very aggressive. I just didn't throw the ball as well as I wanted to. I'm very disappointed about the way I played, but our resolve is strong and I'll come back next week and be ready to play in a big game against the Vikings." 
Cincinnati 21, Jacksonville 19 
Inspired by what passes for motivation around these parts, the Cincinnati Bengals found their resolve and got a win. 
Finally. And barely. 
Hyan Fitzpatrick threw a pair of touchdown passes to Chad Ocho Cinco, who cele­brated by giving the head eoach a kiss, and Cincinnati stopped a late 2-point conver­sion try Sunday, preserving a victory over the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
With the losses mounting and history beckoning, sever­al Bengals tried to fire up their teammates. Offensive tackle Andrew Whitworth talked to the offense after practice on Saturday, and receiver T.J. lloushmandzadeh spoke up in the locker room before the game. 
The message: Don't be a doormat. 
"We're 0-8, but I think 

we're a good 0-8 team, if back losses in franchise histo­ahead drive. His 19-yard dash that's pos.sible," ry. One more would have left put the ball on the 1 and Houshmandzadeh said. "I was them 0-9 for only the second Jason McKie got it back there just telling them: Are we time in team history. with a 5-yarder after an ille­going to the playoffs? gal procedure penalty, setting Probably not. But we're all Chicago 27, Detroit 23 up Grossman's 1-yard plunge men and play with pride. Rex Grossman dived into that put Chicago ahead 27-23. Basically, play with pride and the end zone, then ran to the "That was a fun play, I let's try to make this thing side and spiked the ball. He guess," Grossman said. look somewhat respectable." had something to celebrate Did he feel any personal 
For one day, they were. and the Chicago Bears had satisfaction? 
At 1-8, the Bengals are no reason to exhale. "No. It was team satisfac­longer on pace to be histori­Grossman came off the tion all the way," Grossman cally bad. Now merely dread­bench to replace injured said. ful, they were too much for quarterback Kyle Orton and It was also a big relief for the stunned Jaguars (3-5), scored the go-ahead touch­the Bears, who moved ahead who fell behind 21-3 before down with 5:36 left, helping of Green Bay to take sole pos­making it close. the Bears rally from a 10-session of the NFC North lead. 
Montell Owens returned a point deficit for a 27-23 victo­Lance Briggs forced and fumble 18 yards for a fourth­ry over the winless Detroit recovered a fumble by quarter touchdown, and Lions on Sunday. Detroit's Michael Gaines at David Garrard led a late drive "I always thought odds are I the Chicago 44 with 2:17 left, that culminated in Maurice was going to play a little bit, but the Lions got the ball Jones-Drew's 1-yard run with so we'll see what happens," back and drove to the Chicago 
1:17 to go. Garrard failed to said Grossman, the former 32. The Bears (5-3) then squeeze a pass into double­starter who lost his job in the broke up a pass intended for covered Jerry Porter on the preseason. Calvin Johnson in the end conversion try. Matt Forte had 126 yards zone on the final play, and 
The game ended on one of rushing for the Bears, who Detroit's search for a win those multiple-lateral plays lost Orton to a right ankle continued. that ended with the ball drib­injury and safety Mike Brown After building a 23-13 half­bling out of bounds. The to a calf problem late in the time lead, the Lions (0-8) 64,238 fans raised their arms first half. They didn't lose the were in good position for in celebration of an unexpect­game, though. their first victory since they ed win. They can thank Grossman beat Kansas City on Dec. 23. 
The Bengals were coming and Forte, who ran for 40 of Instead, they're now the lone off the most lopsided back-to-Chicago's 55 yards on the go-winless team. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2-bdrm house near ND. Very clean, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do A BABY TO CHERISH Debby is a garage. $675/mo. Call 269-426-not go it alone. If you or someone Physical Therapist in a children s NOTICES FOR SALE FoR RENT 1570. you love needs confidential support hospital who dreams of becoming a 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue mom for the first time. Barry is a ND,SMC & HCC students: ND Club HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 1-bdrm apt. 100 yrds to ND. All Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann loving husband and TV producer of DC bus transportation to and FROM ND.3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS inclusive plus new appliances in Firth at 574-631-2685. For more who fills our home with laughter and from MD-VA for Thanksgiving & BATHS. AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER your kitchen. $500/mo. Call574-information, visit our website at: has a natural love for children. We Christmas. Fun & easy! Book by PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR 243-7777. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-admire your strength in choosing 11/1 and save $$1 Contact Ann CRESSY EVERETI PAM DECOLA KRAMERHOUSES.COM nant.shtml adoption. We are happy to help! Rimkus, arimkus@nd.edu 574-532-020494 7 Call Debby directly at 1-800-418­
3/4 bedroom. 3 full bath deluxe PERSONAL BABYADOPTION-0212;debbyandbarry@gmail.com RIVERSIDE DR., 4 BDRMS, 2.5 homes, close to ND, fireplace, WANTED BATHS, HISTORICAL HOME cathedral ceilings. skylights, 2-car If you or someone you care about Loving Domer couple looking to Two teachers ready to adopt new-
CLOSE TO ND. garage, 1Ox20 deck. has been sexually assaulted, adopt a baby (babies), bom and provide a wonderful life for Nicolas Restaurant needs pizza please call Marie and James him/her. Confidential. Expenses maker for Friday and Saturday CRESSY EVERETT, PAM DECO-Much more. Call574-232-4527 or visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart-(301 )977 -5069 or (866) 202-1424 paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or evenings. 4-10. Call277-5666. LA, 574-532-0204. 269-683-5038. From $1 ,700/mo. ments/c:;ap/ PIN 5448. call us toll free 1-888-760­

OUND THE NATION 
CoMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \MlRE srRvtcrs
Monday, November 3, 2008 page 15 
NFL Football 
AP Top 25 

team point previous 
1 Alabama 1,600 2 2 Texas Tech 1,528 6 3 Penn Sta.te 1,525 3 4 Florida 1,398 5 5 Texas 1,353 1 6 Oklahoma 1,324 4 7 usc 1,250 7 8 Oklahoma State 1,198 9 9 Boise State 1,030 11 10 Utah 1,028 10 11 TCU 958 12 12 Ohio State 898 13 13 Missouri 830 14 14 Georgia 808 8 15 LSU 746 15 16 Ball Stale 594 18 17 Brigham Young 536 17 18 Michigan Slate 456 22 19 North Carolina 418 21 20 West Virginia 303 NR 21 California 288 NR 22 Georgia Tech 286 NR 23 Maryland 242 25 24 Florida State 128 16 25 Pittsburgh 96 NR 
Football BCS Top 25 

team average previous 
1 Alabama .975 2 2 Texas Tech .937 7 3 Penn Stale .929 3 4 Texas .853 
1 
5 Florida .826 8 
6 Oklahoma .822 4 
7 usc .755 5 
points on the board for our for 114 yards. New England next week. 
.697 Associated Press team." Jenkins registered two The Bills can only blame 
8 Utah 10 
9 Oklahoma State .666 9 
RCHARD PARK, N.Y. -It started with Elam, of the Jets' five sacks, themselves. They have
10 Boise Slate .653 11 
Abram Elam was growing who returned an intercep­while Darrelle Revis also dropped three of four and
11 Ohio State .555 12 
tired while the New York tion 92 yards for a touch­had an interception. squandered any of the
12 TCU .544 

13 
Jets' defense was on the down. Barely having time "It was a tough situa­momentum they had gen­
13 Georgia .536 6 
14 Missouri .493 field for what seemed like to catch his breath, Elam tion," Jenkins said. ''I'm erated after getting ofT to a
14 
15 BYU .374 20 forever: After all, 15 min­was back on the field help­going to be honest with 4-0 start. 16 LSU .371 utes ofT the game clock is a ing the Jets stop the Bills' you, I'm a pretty big guy. "Losing the last two
19 
17 Ball State .356 16 long time for any defender. on their next drive when And you get kind of tired games is hard. There's 18 Michigan Slate .336 21 The impressive thing Kris Jenkins stuffed Fred out there when you're out nowh·ere to hide," said 19 North Carolina .264 22 was, not only did the safe­Jackson, who was there for a long time. But Bills cornerback Jabari 20 Georgia Tech .189 NR ty and has teammates pre­attempting to convert a we kept bouncing back Greer, who briefly made 21 California .113 NR vent the Buffalo Bills from fourth-and-1 at the Jets 8. and kept fighting." the game close early in the 22 Florida Slate .087 15 scoring during that pro­It was a pivotal defen­And suddenly, the AFC fourth quarter, when he 23 Maryland .082 NR longed stretch in the first sive stand that sparked a East race is a whole lot returned an interception24 Northwestern .081 NR half, they actually scored sudden turn of events in tighter with the Jets (5-3) 42 yards for a touchdown. 
25 West Virginia .081 NR 
the go-ahead points in which the Bills went from catching the division rival "No matter what we've helping secure a 26-17 threatening to build on a Bills (5-3). Things don't get done before, having that win Sunday. 7-6 lead, to fmding them­easier for Buffalo, which two-game losing streak, "It was big," Elam said. selves down 13-7 despite was coming off a 25-16 the taste in your mouth NCAA Swimming "It was a big momentum controlling the ball during loss at Miami, and com­can easily become some­swing to keep them from a 15:08 span, in which pletes its three-game thing if that's not correct­CSCAA Rankings getting points and put they rattled off 27 plays intra-division stretch at ed. It can change the 

Men Women 
IN BRIEF 

1 Texas Arizona 
2 Stanford Georgia Amaro Jr. to replace Brodeur to miss game, end Rcy's career mark of 551. Gillick as Phillies' manager consecutive start streak 81-year old finishes marathon 
3 Arizona Stanford 4 Florida Florida 
PHILADELPIIIA Ruben NEWARK, N.J. -Devils goalie in just over six hours 5 Michigan California Amaro Jr. will replace Pat Martin Brodeur will miss at least one NEW YORK -Joy Johnson, the 6 Auburn Auburn Gillick as general manager of game with a bruised elbow, ending a defending 80-and-over champion in 7 California Texas the World Series champion career-high streak of 51 regular-season the New York City Marathon, finished 8 Tennessee Indiana Philadelphia Phillies on Monday. starts. in 6 hours, 5 minutes and 58 seconds. 9 Georgia Texas A&M Amaro just completed his 1Oth The team said Brodeur will not start Johnson, 81, of San Jose, Calif., 10 Minnesota Tennessee season as assistant GM and was Monday against the Buffalo Sabres competed in her 21st consecutive 
considered the front-runner for after being injured Saturday in a 6-1 New York City Marathon, and just 
the job after Gillick said last win over Atlanta. He was set to under­missed her goal of running in less 
year this would be his last sea­go an X-ray and MRI examination than six hours. 
son. Sunday. The oflicial results for 80-and-over The Phillies will introduce Brodeur's streak began Jan. 8 of last still weren't in by Sunday evening, but Amaro at a news conference season. Goaltender Jeff Frazee. the Johnson held ofT 80-year-old Bertha
around the 
Monday, just five days after the Devils' second choice in 2005, has been McGruder, who moved into the 80-90 
team beat the Tampa Bay Rays called up from Trenton (ECHL) under division this year after completing the to capture the second champi­emergency conditions to serve as back­race in 6:15 in 2007. McGruder was onship in franchise history. up to Kevin Weekes. still on the course after Johnson
NFL 

Amaro got the nod over Mike Brodeur made five saves before leav­crossed the finish line. 
Arbuckle, who spent the last 15 ing Saturday's game 6:38 into the sec­Johnson took up running at age 58 Steelers at Redskins years with the Phillies. Arbuckle ond period. He was relieved by during her days as a gym teacher. was the director of scouting for Weekes, who posted 14 stops as Three years later, she fmished in her
8:00 p.m., ESPN 

his first seven seasons in Brodeur picked up career win No. 544. frrst New York City Marathon in 4:22. Philadelphia, and became an The four-time Vezina Trophy winner After another three years of training, assistant GM in October 2001. needs seven victories to tie Patrick she finished 3:55 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Manning throvvs three TO's in vvin 
Cowboys drop to last place in NFC East with third loss in four gantes 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. ­With injured quarterback Tony Homo watching from the side­lines, the New York Giants had no problem burying the Dallas Cowboys in more ways than Oile. 
Eli Manning threw three touchdown passes, Brandon .I acobs rushed for 117 yards and a score and the Giants defense took advantage of Homo's absence to intercept throe passes in a 35-14 victory on Sunday. 
The win was the fifth straight at home for the Giants (7-I) and it allowed the Super Bowl champions to open a three-game lead over the defimding NFC East champion Cowboys (5-4) in the division. 
The loss was the third in four games for Dallas, which f"nll into last place in the divi­sion behind Washington (6-2) and Philadelphia (5-:~). not something anyone expected from the team many consid­nred the favorite to win the NFC. 
Manning threw touchdown passes of 13 yards to Kevin Boss, 5 to Steve Smith and 11 to Amani Toomer, with the scores by Smith and Toomer being snt up by Corey Webster's interceptions of Brad Johnson, Homo's rnplaec­mnnt. 
Jaeobs seored on a 12-yard run two plays after James Butler picked off Brooks Bollinger's first pass in the opening minutes of the third quarter. Derrick Ward added a 17 -yard touehdown run to ice the game in the fourth quarter. 
Dallas showed little on offense without Romo, who missed his third straight game with a broken right pinkie. The Cowboys turned the ball over four times, with Terrell Owens adding a rare fumble in the second quarter at the Giants 10-yard line. 
Cornerback Mike Jenkins scored Dallas' first touchdown with a 23-yard, second-quar­ter interception on a play that Manning and Plaxico Burress were not on the same page. 
Bollinger, whose entrance into the game in the second half only helped the Giants add to their lead, added an 8-yard touchdown pass to Owens in the fourth quarter, a drive set up by a questionable roughing the passer call against Giants defensive end Justin Tuck, who had 2 112 of the Giants four sacks. 
Steve Spagnuolo's pressure defense limited the Cowboys to 183 total yards, with 75 of those coming on the drive in which Tuck was penalized. 
The game between the two long-time rivals was not much of a contest. 
The Giants took the opening kickoff and went 75 yards in 11 plays with Manning (16-of­27 for 147 yards) hitting Boss in the corner of the end zone for a 7-0 lead. 
Dallas had a chance to get right back in the game in the quarter when Johnson hit Roy Williams with a 28-yard pass for a first down at the Giants 25. 
On the next play, Owens ran a look-in pattern and Johnson lead him too much with the pass. Webster caught the ball and returned it 57 yards to the Dallas 27. Manning found Smith in the middle of the field on a third-and-3 from the Dallas 5 for the touchdown. 
Jenkins put Dallas on the board, catching a pass alone in the right flat and walking into the end zone. It came on the series following the Owens' fumble, his first since 2004. 
Webster helped restore the 14-point lead late in the quar­ter picking off a poorly thrown ball by Johnson at the Giants 47 and returning it a yard. 
Jacobs ran for 25 yards on first down and Manning even­tually capped the drive with his TD pass to Toomer. 
Cowboys coach Wade Phillips lifted .Johnson after intermis­sion and Bollinger made the move backfire throwing an interception right to Butler on his first pass. 
Monday, November 3, 2008 
NHL 

Oilers end Flyers' streak with victory 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Ales Hemsky is rounding into form and the Edmonton Oilers are winning again. 
Hemsky had two goals and an assist, and the Oilers held on to end the Philadelphia Flyers' four-game winning 
streak  with  a  5-4  win  
Sunday.  
"He  played  unreal,"  

Edmonton coach Craig MacTavish said after the Oilers won their second straight after dropping five in a row. "Those are all-world goals that he scored." 
Hemsky put the Oilers ahead 2-1 at 12:27 of the first period on a nifty fore­hand-to-backhand move after skating in from center ice. Then at 4:26 of the second, Hemsky skated in from the blue line and went backhand­to-forehand to score again. 
They were the first goals in 19 games dating back to last season for the sixth-year right-wing. 
"I wouldn't have minded a couple of garbage goals, but I didn't get mentally down and the goals came," Hemsky said. 
Sheldon Souray added a goal and assist, Erik Cole and Dustin Penner also scored, 

and Tom Gilbert had three assists for the Oilers. 
Mike Knuble and Simon Gagne each had a goal and assist, and Braydon Coburn and Jeff' Carter also scored goals for Philadelphia, which outscored its opponents 19-7 during the streak. 
"We just let them skate," Philadelphia coach .John Stevens said. "There were some severe breakdowns. We also have to do a better job of checking." 
Dwayne Holoson stopped 22 shots as the Oilers built a 5-2 lead. lie denied Scott llartnell on a breakaway with 
9:07 left in the third period and Edmonton leading 5-4. 
"The Flyers are a great offensive team," Holoson said. "Their power play was !iring pretty good today. They took advantage of some mis­takes." 
Martin Biron, who had 23 saves, said that the Flyers made it too easy for the Oilers' offense. 
"We gave them a lot of room to execute their give­and-goes, their passes, and their three-on-twos," the goaltender said. · Edmonton went ahead on Cole's wrist shot from the right cirelc at 9:10 of the nrst period. 
Notre Dame Seniors DON'T FORGET Tllis weekVIIU mustreturn v11ur SENIOR PORTR/111PROOFS! 2008 Nolre Dame Graduate 2008 Notre Dame Grad.uale C]ui;llopber 1(obbin;l ElizabeLb Tilvcrman Lauren Studios will be collecting proofs in the Dooley Room ofthe La Fortune from Monday, November 3-Friday, November 7 from 9am-I pm and from 2 pm-5 pm. Please please plan on returning your proofs, making your yearbook pose selection and placing your portrait order at this time. Portraits make wonderful Christmas gifts and are the best possible way to show off your achievement of graduating from Notre Dame. In order to avoid long lines, we have scheduled proof retwn days by the first letter of your last name. Ifyour last name begins with A-E, your proof return date is ll/3, F-J, your proofreturn day is 11/4, K-N, your proof return day is 11/5, 0-S, your proof return day is 11/6, T-Z, your proofreturn day is 1117. Remember, you must return your proofs this week in order to guarantee Chris.tmas delivery for your portrait package and that you receive the pose of your choice in your yearbook. Lauren Studios 9607 Business Center Dr. #13 8 Raneho Cucamonga, CA 91730 (800) 888-5155 www.LaurenStudios.com  

Monday, November 3, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Saban denies talk of return to LSU 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -New No. 1 Alabama is heading to LSU for a big game between two of the top teams in the Southeastern Conference. And Nick Saban is returning to the stadium he once ruled. 
Guess which topic makes the Crimson Tide coach more than a little touchy? 
With his team off to a 9-0 start and now at the fore­front of the national title hunt after dispatching Arkansas State 35-0 on Saturday, Saban does not want to be the story line in his return to face No. 15 LSU. In fact, he bristles at the very subject. 
"It's going to be about our players and about our team," he said after Saturday's game. "I don't care how hard anybody tries to make it about something else, it's not going to be. I'm kind of giving you a little forewarning. 
"If somebody wants to get a you-know-·what chewing this week, that'll be a good way to get it." 
It's fairly certain Saban 
*STUDENT DISCOUNT 
will not be able to dodge questions about his return to Baton Rouge no matter how hard he tries. Another sure­to-be hot topic: The Tide's first regular-season No. 1 ranking since losing the top spot with a 6-3 Joss to Mississippi State 28 years and a day earlier when Bear Bryant still reigned. 
Saban coached the Tigers from 2000-05, going 13-1 in 2003. His homecoming to the school he spurned for a two­year stop with the NFL's Miami Dolphins just happens to coincide with what cer­tainly appears to be his best team since then. Saban's return to an SEC West rival makes a warm welcome by LSU fans highly \llllikely. 
You know Saban wants to avoid such talk when he even brings up his team's record, the type of subject he normally avoids with his ultra-focused approach. 
"It's not going to be about that," he said of facing his former team. "This team is 9-0 and has played extreme­ly well all year long. LSU has a very, very good football team. They were national champs last year, they've lost to two top-1 0 opponents this year, and we've got to play them on the road. 
"And it's going to be about our players and their players and the players on the field. That's what it should be about. If anybody makes it about something else, then you're not really being fair to the players." 
It could be about an Alabama defense that pitched its first shutout in nearly three years against 
Arkansas  State  and  pro­ 
duced its fourth  defensive  
touchdown  on  Rashad  

Johnson's interception return. The Red Wolves managed just 158 yards. 
The Tide had not won its first nine games since 2005, a season that ended with losses to LSU and Auburn. The program's last top rank­ing came with the 1992 national championship after a Sugar Bowl win over previ­ously No. 1 Miami. 
Alabama has won its past two games, including a visit to Tennessee, by 55 points after a series of close calls or second-half letdowns. 
Atria Salon 2 Specializing in color 574.271.8804 
Haircut, Highlights & Style: $79 (reg $125) Haircut, Color & Style: $72 (reg $95) Women Haircut & Style: $25 (reg $40) 
Atria Salon 2: 2039 South Bend ave (inside the Martins shopping plaza) Must present ad before services are performed. Expires 11/15/08. No other discounts apply. 

NY MARATHON 
Third straight win easy for Radcliffe 
Gomes dos Santos wins dramatic men's race 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Paula Radcliffe glanced over her shoulder to see the competi­tion lined up in single file behind her. 
The world record holder was so dominant in gusty conditions at the New York City Marathon that she served in the dual roles of leader and windbreaker and still breezed to a, comfort­able victory Sunday, her second straight and third overall. 
Radcliffe did not need a dramatic finish as in her previous two wins-that was saved for the men's race, in which Marilson Gomes dos Santos of Brazil blew past Abderrahim Goumri with about a mile to go. 
Radcliffe led nearly the entire way, as none of her rivals seemed to want to brave the elements. 
"It was like, 'Come on, we've got the whole road,"' she said with a laugh. 
On a cool, sunny day, 38,377 runners started the race. Radcliffe became the second woman to win the event three times, pulling away from Ludmila Petrova in the 22nd mile. The Brit finished in two hours, 23 minutes, 56 seconds. 
Crossing the line behind Radcliffe were a veteran proving she can still keep up with younger runners and a marathon rookie showing she can race with the best in the world. 
The 40-year-old Petrova was second in 2:25:43, eight years after she won the NYC Marathon. She became the oldest woman to finish in the top two since Priscilla Welch of Great Britain won in 1987 at the age of 42. The Russian also set a Masters world record for runners 40 and over, break­ing Welch's mark set in London in 1987. 
Kara Goucher took third in 2:25:53, making her the first American to reach the podi­um since Anne Marie Letko was third in 1994. She post­ed the fastest time in a marathon debut by an American woman, breaking Deena Kastor's mark set in this race in 2001. 
Goucher's coach has long believed that she's a natural for the marathon. He should know-Alberto Salazar won three straight NYC Marathons from 1980-82. 
It was an emotional day for Goucher, running in the city where she was born and 
where her father was killed by a drunk driver just before she turned 4. 
"I was so excited to run here and sad that it's over," she said. "It was awesome." 
Gomes has a special affec­tion for New York, where he has won his only two major marathon titles. He was a • surprise winner in 2006 before finishing eighth last year. 
Goumri puUed away from Gomes in the 22nd mile and appeared headed to his elu­sive first major marathon title. Instead, the Moroccan was the runner-up for the second straight year, his fourth near-miss in 19 months. 
Gomes won in 2:08:43. Goumri finished in 2:09:07, and Daniel Rono of Kenya was third in 2:11:22 in his NYC Marathon debut. 
"I have seen many marathons that are decided at the last minute, so you never lose hupe," Gomes said. "You have to keep try­ing, and I kept pushing even though it was six, seven sec­onds behind." 
Goumri was left again to lament miscues along the 26.2-mile course. He said he missed the chance to hydrate several times. 
Goumri had emerged as a pre-race favorite with defending champ Martin Lei of Kenya sidelined by a foot injury. When Goumri took the lead, he thought, "It's my day." 
"But when it's finishing a marathon, I just turned back and I saw Marilson come back," he said. "I said, 'I 
think  he's  going  to  win  
today."'  
The  NYC  Marathon  was  

again the site of a stirring comeback for Radcliffe, who is only a third of the way to Grete Waitz's remarkable record of nine titles. As in 2004, she rebounded from a disappointing Olympic per­formance with a victory. Last year, she won her first marathon since the birth of her daughter less than 10 months earlier. 
Radcliffe has won eight of the 10 marathons she has started-all but her two Olympics, when she was thwarted by health problems both times. 
"It does make it frustrat­ing because you think, 'Why can I get it right all the time in New York and I can't get it right there?"' Radcliffe said. "But sometimes you have to take what life deals you." 

page 18 The Observer + 51[>0RTS Monday, November 3, 2008 
==================================~ 
PGA 

Palmer secures win with ~birdie on 18 
Associated Press 
PALM COAST, Fla. -Hyan l'almnr madn a 10-foot birdie on the 1Xth hole Sunday to break out of a six-way tin for the lnad and win thn Cinn sur Mnr Classic, earning a two­year exfHnption on thn PGA Tour. 
l'alnwr, who was at No. 143 on the monny list with two tournaments remaining, had to call a pnnalty on himself and madn bogey on the 1Oth holn. tlwn took double bogey on thn nnxt holn with a ten 

• shot in to the wato r. 
But lw nd)()unded with a birdie he dnsperately needed on the final hole at Ginn Oceitn Hammock Hnsort for his second earnPr victory. 
FREEBIES (SUBS ' 

Michael Lotzig, the 54-hole leadnr, needed a birdie on the par-5 1Xth to force a playoff. But his wedge spun 35 feet down the slope and he had to settle for par and a 73 to fin­ish one shot behind. 
Also tying for second were George McNeill. Nicholas Thompson, Ken Duke and Vaughn Taylor, who was at No. 129 on the money list and earned enough to secure his card for next year. 
The final tournament next wnnk is at Disnoy, and the top 125 keep full privileges for 2009. 
The fourth round twiee was suspended because of bad weather. which didn't help anyone break out of the pack. Snvon players had at least a 
CLUBS ONLY) 
share of the lead at one point, and there was a six-way tie during the first stoppage in play. 
Palmer appeared to have control with a two-shot lead until he reached the 1Oth green. He noticed his ball move slightly after he addressed his 30-foot birdie attempt, and after calling a rules official, assessed him­self a one-shot penalty and made bogey. 
lie pulled his next tee shot into the water for double bogey to fall out of the lead, but rejoined the back with an up-and-down · from the bunker on the par-5 13th. Palmer made pars the rest of the way, including a nervy two-putt from 40 feet. on the 17th, then laid up on the dos­ing hole and stuffed his wedge into 10 feet for the winning putt. 
Palmer finished at 7-under 281 and earned $828,000. It was the fifth time in six events during the Fall Series that a player outside the top 125 on the money list won a tournament. The exception was Zach Johnson, who was at No. 125 when he won in Texas. 
As crowded as it was at the top, it could have been worse. 
John Huston, at No. 16R on the money list, hit his tee shot into the water on the 16th and made bogey. Mark Wilson took two shots to get out of a greenside bunker on the 16th and made double bogey. 

Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil &vinegar. and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAY!5 A WEEK 
1290 L IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  54570 N.IRONWOOD Ill.  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.277.8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOJIN'S!"® © 

NBA 

Marbury's future still uncertain 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Stcphon Marbury was inactive again Sunday, and Knicks president Donnie Walsh plans to speak with coach Mike D'Antoni and his point guard this week in hopes of clearing up an uncomfortable roster situation. 
Marbury is so far out of tho plans that D'Antoni tabbed Jerome James instead of Marbury to replace the injun~d Eddy Curry on the activo list against Milwaukee, even though tlw 7-foot-1. 2X5­pound James played in just two gamns last season and would senm a horrible fit for an uptompo system. 
Marbury, on the other hand, might be New York's most tal­ented player. Yet I>'Antoni does not want to play him spo­radieally. preforring to givP limited baekcourt minutns to players who are part of tlw Knkks' futuro. 
Marbury is not. Ito is in the final yoar of a contract that will pay him more than $21 million this snason, and the Knieks surely will not re-sign him. 
That salary, plus his history of clashing with coach ~~s. makns Marbury diff'icult to trade. lie has already made it clear he will not take a buyout for less than his full salary, so Walsh acknowledged there "aren't a lot of options out thern," for gotting rid of Marbury. 
So with two days ofT coming up, Walsh will talk to Marbury and L>'Antoni and see how to handle the situation, which has overshadowed everything else this season for the Knicks. 
"I haven't talked it out with anybody. I want to talk to Mike, see where this is going to go because I'm unclear, I think likn everybody is," Walsh said. 
Marbury was active but "did not play Wednesday in the sea­son opnner, with some fans chanting "We want Steph!" in 
the second half of a  victory  
over Miami.  
D'Antoni  then  placed  

Marbury on the inactive list Friday before a loss at Philadelphia, feeling that he would not have enough min­utes for a player of Marbury's stature. 
"I just don't think he's one of those guys that you can play with," D'Antoni said. "'Oh get in for a sec, oh get out, oh get in.' I think that's ... I don't want to use the word disre­spectful because it's a priviloge to play in the league, but at the same time I feel for him." 
Marbury hasn't caused any trouble yet. saying he under­stands [)'Antoni's decisions. That could changn at any minute, since Marbury fnudnd with both Larry Brown and lsiah Thomas, his past two coaches. 
Walsh said he eould not envi­sion a scnnario wherP Marbury would be with thP Knieks and inaetivfl tlw rest of the season. lie does not lik1~ buyouts, and said he is nowhere near asking the point guard to accept less morwy so he eould be cut. 
Monday, November 3, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO SWIMMING 
NO SWIMMING 
Irish take care of Pitt
Lewis leads Ravens to win 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -His fiery, fearsome eyes scanned Baltimore's sideline looking for any teammate who didn't believe a comeback was possi­ble. 
Hay Lewis wasn't giving up, and he wasn't about to let the Havens quit either. 
"fie told the whole team, 'We're going to win this game'," linebacker Terrell Suggs said. "You could see the truth in his eyes." 
Inspired by their emotional middle linebacker's words, the Havens scored 24 unanswered points in the final 16 minutes and rallied for a 37-27 win over the up-and­
"Ray Lewis is the 
down Cleveland Braylon Browns on greatest general, the Edwards' drop Sunday. of a certain
greatest leader ­
Matt Stover long touch­
hands down -ofour
kicked three down early in field goals, time." the fourth rookie quarter­quarter with back Joe Fiacco the score tied.
Terrell Suggs 
threw two By the time the
Ravens linebacker 
touchdown ball slipped 
his comments awakened the Ravens. 
"I told every one of them, 'Look me in the eye'," Lewis said. "I told them we are going to win this game. We have to believe that. Adversity builds character." 
The Browns (3-5) had built their 14-point advantage thanks to return specialist Joshua Cribbs' 92-yard kickoff return for a TD, two scoring passes by quarterback Derek Anderson and two field goals by Phil Dawson, who closed the first half by banging a career-long 54-yarder through the uprights. 
But Cleveland collapsed and 
no play hurt 
more than 
wide receiver 

passes and first-year running back Hay Hice ran for 154 yards to lead the Havens (5-3), who seemed to be in big trou­ble when they fell behind 27­13 in the third quarter. But with Lewis leading the way, Baltimore bounced back and won its third straight. 
"Hay Lewis is the greatest general, the greatest leader­hands down-of our time," said Suggs, whose 42-yard interception return for a TD with 2:43 remaining put it away. 
Lewis refused to take credit for the comeback, but knew 
through his 

hands and fell to the ground, the Browns' promising season had fallen into serious jeopardy. 
"We didn't finish," said run­ning back Jamal Lewis, who was held to 49 yards on 19 attempts. "That's the lesson of the day-finish."' 
Stover, who ranks fifth in league scoring history, made field goals of 41, 32 and 22 yards. 
Fiacco, who threw touch­down passes to Mark Clayton and Derrick Mason, completed 17 of 29 passes for 248 yards. Mason, the sure-handed 13­year veteran, had nine catches for 136 yards and Rice, filling 
with sweep at hollle 
in for the injured Willis McGahee, had a breakout game that included a critical 60-yard run in the fourth to set up Stover's last field goal. 
Fiacco and Hice are getting better with each game, just as the Havens had hoped. 
"When they get drafted by the Baltimore Havens, we expect them to play like that," rookie coach John Harbaugh said. "Are we surprised? No." 
After Stover's third field goal made it 30-27 with 5:36 left, the Havens' defense pressured Anderson, who threw the ball directly to Suggs. The line­backer snared the gift and raced untouched to the end zone where he taunted Cleveland's famed Dawg Pound bleacher section with a spike and dance. 
Anderson finished 17 -of-33 for 219 yards but the Pro Bowler left the field with Browns fans screaming "Bra­dy! Bra-dy!" for popular back­up Brady Quinn. 
"I didn't want to hold onto it and take a sack," Anderson said of his ill-fated pass to Suggs. "I wish I would have handled that a little better, but I'm trying to win games." 
Anderson may not have to worry about that pass if Edwards had come through. 
After Fiacco's 28-yard TD pass to Mason tied it at 27, Edwards got behind Baltimore's secondary on third down but the talented wide receiver failed to squeeze a perfectly thrown ball from Anderson while he was in full stride. It was the latest drop by the Pro Bowler, who has been plagued by them all season. 
By MICHAEL GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Pittsburgh may have gotten the best of the Irish on Saturday in the Stadium, but Friday in the HAC was a different story. 
Notre Dame men and women both defeated the Panthers in dual meets this weekend. 
The men's team pulled out a 152-148 victory against Pitt thanks to a late charge in a meet that came down to the final event. 
"This was a very, very intense meet," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. 
The meet was in doubt head­ing into the final two events, but the Irish finished in first place in the final two events to come away with the win. In the 200-yard IM, Irish sophomore Michael Sullivan and junior MacKenzie LeBlanc earned a close 1-2 finish while sopho­more Christopher Wills finished in fourth. Their performance gave Notre Dame 15 crucial points heading into the final event. 
With the meet in the balance, Notre Dame sent its team of juniors John Lyttle and Andrew Hoffman and sophomores Joshua Nosal and Thomas Van Volkenburg to the blocks for the 400-yard freestyle relay. After Lyttle got the Irish an early lead in the first leg, his teammates held on to defeat the Panthers by just over two seconds. 
''I'm so proud of our guys," Welsh said, "When it absolutely, positively came down to the clutch, they knew the only way to win was to fight through those last events. I love that type of mental toughness and we can use that to build upon throughout the rest of this sea­son." 
The Notre Dame Women's team didn't disappoint either as the No. 24 Irish cruised to a 223-77 victory over the Panthers. 
The Irish dominated through­out, winning all 16 of the evening's events. After sweep­ing every event at the Dennis Stark Hdl.ays, the Irish have yet to drop an event all year at their home pool. 
"We're not backing down from the competition," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "We came into this meet very tired and the team responded very well. At this point in the season, we're more excited about our potential than anything, but there are plenty of promising things going on the pool right now." 
Five Notre Dame sophomores picked up two or more individ­ual wins in the meet. Lauren Sylvester earned two wins in the distance freestyle events, winning by five seconds in the 500-yard freestyle and edged out Pitt's Katie Curtell by just over a second in the 1,000-yard freestyle. Her classmate Katie Casey also claimed two wins in both the 200 and 1 00-yard but­terfly while Lauren Parisi won the 200 and 100-yard back­stroke events. Amywren Miller accomplished a noteworthy feat when she won the 50 and 100­yard freestyle sprint events by more than a second. 
Not to be outdone by her classmates, Samantha Maxwell earned wins in the 100 and 200-yard breaststroke and the 200 IM. 
The Notre Dame men and women resume action on Saturday when they take on Purdue. 
Contact Michael Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -The owner of Kentucky Derby and Preakness winner Big Brown added the nation's top juvenile filly to his stable Sunday with a $5.7 million purchase of Stardom Bound. 
Michael Iavarone, co-owner of lEAH Stables, said it was a little more than he wanted to pay, but trainer Hick Dutrow, who was sitting beside him during the Fasig-Tipton sale, wouldn't let him stop bidding. 
"Hick wouldn't let me say no," Iavarone said. "l guess if you were going to spend $5 million, you can spend $5.7 million." 
The sale of Stardom Bound, coming off a victory at the $2 million Juvenile Fillies at Santa Anita, marks the first time a horse was sold at auction in the same year as a Breeders' Cup victory. 
Dutrow, who teamed up with Iavarone with Big Brown, said he sees similar potential with Stardom Bound. 
"I love her," he said. "We 

HORSE RACING 
Owners of Big Brown add top filly to stable 
were at the Breeders' Cup and when she won, I said, 'Mike, we've got to have her.' She seemed to sweet and laid back. She's our kind of horse." 
Iavarone did not disclose all the members of the ownership group that put in the winning bid for the filly, but he said some of them were celebrities. 
The gray filly stood poised in the sales ring while the bidding skyrocketed. 
"It truly is an awesome expe­rience," Fasig-Tipton market­ing director Terence Collier said. "What a classy, classy lilly this is. She is a lovely lady. She is probably one of the highest class racehorses we've ever had to sell here." 
Yet despite the filly's high sale price, she was not expect­ed to be the sale topper. That distinction was expected to belong to the final horse through the ring Sunday night, broodmare of the year Better Than Honour, the dam of two Belmont Stakes winners. 
Despite a sluggish economy, the high-dollar horses were strong throughout the evening. 

page 20 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish split pair of Big East thrillers 
Marquette upsets ND two consecutive years 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
It was a weekend of extreme linishes for Notre Dame. 
The Irish beat Syracuse in live sets only to see their prom­ising weekend go up in smoke with a live set loss to Big East cellar dweller Marquette. It was the sneond year in a row and the seeond time in the pro­gram's history 
"There does not
that the team the power of has lost to the seem to be a logical eight kills and Eaglns. four blocks
explanation for the
"Thorn does from Phillips. 
not seem to bn level ofperformance. Marquette 
a logieal expla­We did not have the answered right nation for the back with an
right attitude
level of per­eight point run 
or focus.,
formanen," that put them head coach on top. The Dobbin Brown Debbie Brown Golden Eagles said. "We did would hold on
Irish coach 
not have the 
right attitude or 
focus." 
Barring a historic breakdown at the top of the Big East, the loss to Marquette all but elimi­nates the Irish (12-12; 7-4 Big East) from contention for the rr~gular season Big East crown. The Irish now stand in sixth in the Big East. trailing St. John's (1 H-7; 9-1 Big East), Cincinnati (22-5; 9-2 Big East), Louisville (12-1 0; H-3 Big East). Connecticut (lH-7; 7-:~ Big East), and Pittsburgh (15-1 0; 7­3 Big East). 
The weekend started oiT great for the Irish when they earned a win against Syracuse (15-12; 6-4 Big East). Notre Dame notehed a .377 hitting percent­age to set the school record for a live-set match. The previous Notre Dame record was .346 set against San Francisco in 1991. 
Five Irish players finished with morn than 10 kills in the match. Junior outsidn hittnr Christina Kaelin had 17 kills for a .:H3 hitting pereentago, jun­ior outside hitter Serinity Phillips had 13 digs and 1C1 kills for a .375 hitting percentagn, sophomore outside hitter Kellie Seiaeca had four blocks and 19 kills for a .577 hitting percent­age, and senior middle blocker Justine Stremick and freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy both had II kills. 
The Irish more than doubled the Orange's point total in the lirst and final sets (25-12; 15-7) but found Syracuse a much tougher challenge in the middle sets. The Irish hit for an astounding .800 hitting per­centage in the lirst set. 
"That first set was the best set we have played all year," hoad eoaeh Debbie Brown said. 
The Irish dropped the seeond and fourth sets in closll con­tosts, but the team's balanced play allowed Notre Damn to hang in thenl for tho f'ivn set vietory. 
The Irish again saw a match go to livn snts only to fall to for­nwrly downtrodden Marquette on a day that saw Phillips put in a performance that notehnd a plaen in tho Notre Damn history books. 
Phillips pitched in with 25 kills on a .375 average, 10 digs and a career-high nine blocks, narrowly missing the first triple-double for the Irish since 2004. 
"There were some good matchups, but the whole team helped a lot. The team did great in the passing, the setting, and everything," Phillips said. "I was doing a lot of visualization. It really is mental. I was taking coaches' advice and talking to the team." 
The first set started with the 
Irish jumping 
out to a 17-12 
advantage on 
to win the set 
28-26. 

The Irish then seemed to take control of the match by winning the next two sets 25-22 and 25-20, but Marquette grabbed the momen­tum by building on a new-found intensity in the fourth set. The Golden Eagles won the fourth set and did not relinquish con­trol. 
Many of the starters did not start well for the Irish, accord­ing to Brown, who decided to try some new players out from the bench. 
"Kaelin was playing bad, so were most of the starters," Brown said. "It was not fair to have our backups sitting when they were playing that poorly." 
The loss was devastating for the Irish, who had hoped to win out in order to challenge for the Big East title, according to head coach Debbie Brown. They will now most likely have to rely on having a great performance in the Big East tournament. 
"Honestly we did not take them for granted. We know how well they can play coming in from last year" Phillips said. "We know we can't take them lightly. Obviously they are always playing their hardest against us, and we have to keep strong and practice to do our best." 
The bright spot in the loss is that the Irish may have some motivation to always bring their best play no matter who their opponent is. 
"We'll forget about it for now, but we are going to keep it in the back of our mind for next year when we play them," Phillips said. "We_ are going to get over the hump and keep playing strong." 
Brown knows that the team has a long road even to make the Big East tournament. 
"We cannot think about the tournament right now," Brown said. "We need to focus on win­ning the rest of our matches." 
The Irish will continue the Big East schedule next Sunday against Hutgers in Piscataway, N.J. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Monday, November 3, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC CRoss t::ouNTRY 
Belles finish fourth in conference 
Junior Megan McClowry leads the way with 13th place finish 
were only 12 points behind 

By REBECCA SLINGER 
the third place team. Sports Writer 
"After finishing 12 points out of third place at the The Belles standout junior Jamboree, the team has really Megan McClowry led Saint seen its potential," head Mary's to their second straight coach Jackie Bauters said. fourth place finish at the "Since the Jamboree we've 
MIAA Championships on been able to Saturday. beat out the 
As McClowry has done all third and season, she led the IBelles with fourth place a time of 23:55 -good teams from enough for 13th place. conference 
"The difference for me this and that's season is due to summer what we're training," McClowry said fol­hoping to do: lowing a 12th place finish at Get competi­the Manchester Invitational tive and make last month. "I wa.s able to the small come in with a good base and adjustments to then my teammates have come out on helped push the pace at work­top." outs this season." Freshman 
Sophomore Clare McVey J o a n n e was the next runner across Almond and 
compete and 

training on that country's dirt roads outside a rural village. 
Freshman Arianne Rodriguez finished in 53th place with a time of 25:12. Fellow freshman IIanna Vicary finished in 61 st place with a time of 25:23. 
Bauters has been pleasantly 
"/ think ifthis is their first year, then we're in for great things over the next four years. 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
surprised by the freshman's per­formance this season. 
"I think if this is their first year, then we're in for great things over the next four years," Bauters said. "They arc still adjusting to the longer race and getting used to a different arena -diiTer­
ent teams, etc. I am excited for all of them, and just want them to be confident and go get what they've worked so hard for-no need to be intim­idated about leading because they are first years -go get
it. .. No one from the Saint Mary's team qualified to run 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaOl@saintmarys.edu 

the finish line for the Belles finishing in 34th place with a time of 24:34. 
The Belles ended the season in fourth place overall in the conference as wEdl as the race. Those standings are a combination of the M IAA Jamboree finishes and the Conference Championships. The Jamboree was held at home on Sept. 26. The Belles finished in fifth place, but sophomore Catie Salyer fin­ished within one second of each other in 36th and 37th places with times of 24:44 and 24:45, respectively. 
Senior Caitlin Brodmerkel rounded out the scoring run­ners for the Belles finishing in 40th place with a time of 24:46. 
The Fort Wayne native spent her summer in Uganda and did much of her offsp,ason 

A NEW LOOK FOR OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS! 
' 


Buy 4 Oxford \1\forld's Classics titles and get an Oxford tote bag free!* 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 

BOOKSIDRE 
•May not be combined With any other offer. Valid lnMstore and 
IN THE EC:K CENTER on selected Items only. While supplies last. phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndtalalog.tom 0700KB091908A 

Monday, November 3, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SMC SWIMMING 
Team picks up first victory 
Belles win .one, lose one at Chicago meet 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's picked up their 
first win on  the  season this  
weekend  with  a  split  in  
Chicago.  

The Belles defeated Illinois Tech but lost to the host Maroons from the University of Chicago. The teams all met for a double dual meet rather than a tournament style scor­ing system. 
Saint Mary's racked up 174 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
we got outworked a little bit, but in the second half we took care of that side." 
In just his second car~er start in net, junior goalkeeper Philip Tuttle earned his first collegiate win and shutout by making four saves. Tuttle replaced senior Andrew Quinn, the regular keeper, in the sec­ond half of Wednesday's 2-1 win over Georgetown when Quinn injured his shoulder. 
Quinn underwent an MRI over the weekend and results were still pending, but Clark said the team planned to be without him for next Saturday's Big East quarterfi­nal against the winner of Wednesday's Louisville-West Virginia tournament match. 
points against Illinois Tech who finished the meet with 61 points. Chicago edged the Belles 127.5 -104.5. 
This was the third meet of the year for the Belles, who finished fourth out of six at the Dennis Stark relays at Notre Dame and then lost to conference opponent Calvin College in their second. 
Senior diver Leah Brocinsky led the way for the Belles, fin­ishing first in both the 1m and 3m diving events, scoring a 
190.15 in the 1m and a 184.29 in the 3m. 
Freshman swimmer Audrey Dalrymple also picked up first place in the 100-yard breast­stroke. She finished the race with a time of 1:10.44. 
From that point the Belles stayed off of the top of the podium until the final race of the night. The 200-yard freestyle relay team made up of sophomores Laura Hartman and Maggie Williams, senior Kate Orban and freshman Eva Cavadini took first place. Hartman led the foursome with the fastest split. 
Saint Mary's will head to Alma College next Saturday for a MIAA conference show­down with the Scots. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
"[Tuttle] was very com­through." posed," Clark said. "It looked Before Quinn's injury, Tuttle as though he'd been there all had played in just two games, 
season.  allowing three  
Anything that  goals in Notre  
came his way,  Dame's Oct. 1  
he dealt with it in a calm, cool and col­lected man­ner." Tuttle's abili­ "[Tuttle] was very composed. It looked as though he'd been there all season ,  loss to Michigan in his only start. "Goalkeeping is a tough posi­tion for a  
ty to succeed in a big game  Bobby Clark  b a c k because  u p it's  
was a result of  Irish coach  not a position  
his  positive  where you sub  
attitude after  a lot  -only if  
losing the pre­ you're getting  

season position battle to Quinn, beaten by a lot of winning by a Clark said. lot," Clark said. "It's the tough­
"He handled the situation est spot to be in as a backup, very well," Clark said. "It was and when the opportunity a tough decision [between comes, you have to be ready Quinn and Tuttle], but I for it like he was." explained that the program needs more than one quality Contact Matt Gamber at goalkeeper. Obviously he came mgamher@nd.edu 
YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 
Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants tO serve our country's mission abroad. Our r.aree~ offer rewarding. fa$t-paced.and high impact challenges in ir,telligence collection on i.ssues of critical importance to US national security. Applicants should possess a high degree of personal integrity. strong interpersonal skills, and good wrir:ten and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and professional backgrounds. Do you want to malre a difference for your country? Are you ready for a challenge? 
All applicants for National Clandestine Service positions must successfully undergo several personal Interviews, medical and psychological exams, aptitude terting, a polygraph interview. and a background investigation. Following entry on duty, candidates will undergo e-.xtensive training. US citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer and c drug-free worl< force. 
For more information and to apply~ visit: www.cia~gov 
THE WORK OF A NATION. CENTER 
NFL 
Indy's Vina tieri hits winner against Pats 

Associated Press  
INDIANAPOLIS -Vinatieri still has it. The 36-year-old  Adam kicker  

showed his old team Sunday night that age hasn't sapped his distance, accuracy or proclivity for making big field goals. He hit a 52­yarder late in the game to give Indianapolis a desper­ately needed 18-15 victory over New England -and Vinatieri a measure of revenge. 
''I've got all the respect and admiration for that team," said Vinatieri, who left New England as a free agent after the 2005 season. "I've still got a lot of good friends over there. I guess that's why it's that much sweeter when you have an opportunity to play well and help your current team beat your former team. I'm pretty happy about that." 
The kick was Vinatieri's longest since a 57-yarder at Chicago on Nov. 10, 2002, and it should have come as no surprise to the Patriots, who used Vinatieri's right foot to win two Super Bowl titles. 
But New England (5-3) couldn't simply blame Vinatieri for this loss. 
Of their four time-consum­ing scoring drives, three resulted in field goals, and Jabar Gaffney dropped a sure touchdown pass late in the third quarter. Then there was tight end David Thomas, who drew a 15-yard dead ball penalty that pushed New England out of field-goal range with 4:45 to go in the game. It sealed the Patriots fate. 
"It was a mistake by me," Thomas said. "Obviously, they called it, and I'll own up to it. I felt like that was defi­nitely a critical mistake for me, and it really cost the team." 
The result allowed Vinatieri, the Patriots career scoring .leader, to show he's still the NFL's best clutch kicker. 
Not that the Colts ever doubted him. "When he kicked in pregame, he said he thought 
he'd be good from 55 and he made it pretty high in the net," coach Tony Dungy said. 
This year's rivalry game had none of the trimmings from recent years. There was no championship at stake, no hype about unbeat­en teams or defending Super Bowl titles. Heck, Tom Brady wasn't even playing. 
Yet players and fans responded as if this was still the league's best matchup on a day full of headline attrac­tions. 
Indy (4-4) used Marvin Harrison as a punt returner. Bob Sanders played the entire game after returning from knee and ankle injuries. Bill Belichick even had a direct snap to Kevin Faulk. 
But with both teams facing unusual circumstances ­New England is tied with the Jets and Bills atop the AFC East and Indy is just trying to stay in the playoff chase ­this game carried big stakes. 
"We felt we had to win because we had lost two games already, were coming off a difficult game, a short week and I thought our guys showed some resolve," Dungy said. "But we have to get on some sort of streak, so I'm not ready to call it defin­ing just yet." 
The new realities forced Belichick and Dungy into a classic chess match, with both reverting to old game plans. 
Two-time league MVP Peyton Manning exposed the Patriots' soft middle early, and Indy's second possession produced the best drive of the season: a 15-play, 91­yard, 9-minute, 2-second march that ended with Manning hooking up with a wide-open Anthony Gonzalez down the sideline for a 12­yard TO pass and a 7-0 lead. 
Manning was 21-of-29 for 254 yards with two touch­downs and no interceptions, his best performance of the season. 
New England countered with its old style dink-and­dunk attack. which never gave Indy a chance to pull away. 
---· 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 3, 2008 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
play and wn an~ so rnliant on his llllPrgy and his voir.e and his jukn. I watched him in tlw introductions and he was just so 1~xcitml to play." Brny said of .Jackson. "lin missnd guys in transition in tlw first hall'. lin made some plays offensively. sornn turnovPrs, decision with tlw ball. I had not snen that in a year. It was 
a Irn o s t Ii k ~~ a l'n~shman. I got on him in the 

onn timeout and "/ started off six rebounds. it was back to 
sluggish. I was just
how hn's been Notes:
happy to be back out 
praetieing. Easy +Senior for­plays.: simple and didn't have my ward Zaeh plays. head in the game." llillesland did 
.Jackson said not play. lie is Broy's words out with plantar
Tory Jackson 
helped him faseiitis. refocus. Irish guard +llillesland, 
.Jackson struggling, junior guard Jonathan Peoples came ofT the bench and added four points, grabbed two rebounds and had a steal. 
"There's no question, if [Jackson's[ not really in a good f'Jow, we struggle a little bit. That's where IPeoples] came. to the rescue," Brey said. "lin's a veteran guard that can play nither spot. He's a real calm­ing factor." 
To round out the scoring. McAlarney netted 11 on 4-for­
12 shooting and 
senior forward 
Luke Zeller had 
12 points and 
"I startPd ofT sluggish." .Jackson said. "I was just happy to hn hack out thern and didn't havn my hPad in thn game. Coach got on me, did what he had to do and I bounced back ... lie got on me really bad. basically got me back log~~thnr and I nm~ded that." 
Briar ClifT knpt things dose early, shooting X-for-1 CJ from :J-point land in the first hall' to lwad into halftime down 12. With 9:28 left in the first half. Briar Cliff was only trailing 20-19, but a 12-:J Notrn I>anw run put some distance bntween thn Irish and the Chargers. 
During that run and with 
Ayers, McAiarney and Zeller were named captains 

for this year's team. 
+ Brey said he tried to incor­porate all the different defens­es Notre Dame would normally play, but Briar Cliff's shooting ability limited how much zone the Irish could play. 
"I would've liked to play a little more zone, but they were shooting the thing so well from so deep, I just said, 'You know what, we're going to be in man tonight,' and we played more man than maybe we would in a Big East game." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Power 
continued from page 24 
scored two or thre1~ goals that were right in the paint, right in front of the crease area." 
Notre Dame scored three power-play goals in Friday's 3­2 win, getting scores from Hyan Thang, Dan Kissel, and Christian Hanson, and two more in Saturday's 4-2 victory, from Kyle Lawson and Billy Maday. 
"We moved a lot better, with and without the puck," Jackson said. "We weren't get­ling shots blocked as much, and we got a couple through that ended up being goals right off the shot or deflec­tions." 
Jackson also said that while he was happy about the high volume of speeial tnams goals, he was more pleasfd that they came when the Irish needed them most. 
"The timing from the power­play goal is just as important, if not more important, than how many you score on a given night," he said. "Like if you score a big goaJ to tie the game late in the game, or if you score a big power-play goal to go ahead late in the game." 
The Wildcats opened the scoring Friday night at 5:47 of the first period when Irish net­minder Jordan Pearce allowed Tim Hartung's shot to trickle through his legs and give Northern a 1-0 lead. The lead didn't last long, though, as less than seven minutes later Thang blasted a one-timer past Northern goalie Bill 
Stewart to tie the game. Kissel pushed in a rebound off a Brett Blatchford shot at 
4:34 of the second period to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. Blatchford contributed on Notre Dame's third goal too, as his shot was deflected in by Hanson. 
Blatchford tallied four assists on the W!~ekend, thn~e on the power-play. Jackson praised the junior defense­man's improvement running the offense with the extra man. 
"We wanted him to develop into a better point man on tho power-play and he's worked at it," Jackson said. "He was determined to prove that he could handle that kind of' a role and I think he's done a good job in doing that." 
Northern added an extra­attacker goal late, but could not complete the comeback. 
Notre Dame started the scor­ing Saturday night at 5:14 of the first period when Lawson powered a shot from the right point past Stewart. 
Three straight second-period goals from Maday, Ian Cole, and Calle Ridderwall all but put the game out of reach. Maday, a freshman, notched his third goal of the season, and is tied-for the team load. Jackson said Maday's second year in junior hockey helped him adjust to playing at the collegiate level. 
"Billy could have come after his first year of juniors, but we thought it would be better for him and for us that he play another year, just to get that additional year of experience and get some confidence," Jackson said. "We always knew he was going to be a tal­ented player. but I think thn experience of playing at a tougher, higher level has done a lot to make the transition a little bit easier." 
Northern added a goal in the closing seconds of the second stanza. and another at 14:58 of the third, ·but, once again, couldn't lin ish thn rally. 
Jackson said he was pleas­antly surprised his team carno away with two wins against the Wildcats. 
"I was extremely plnasnd," he said. "I thought we playnd 60 minutes oach night. thought we played with a lot of determination and grit." 
The Irish improved to 4-::J-0 overall and 2-2-0 in the CCI lA. Jackson said that it was still too early to start worrying about conference standings. 
"It's awful early in the sea­son to gel too excited, just like after the Miami series it's too early to get too down," he said. 
The Irish get back on the ice next Friday in a much-antici­pated rematch of last year's national championship game against Boston College. Jackson said he thought the two wins this weekend put his team in a good position going into that rnalehup. 
"It gives us a little confi­dence. let's put it that way, " he said. "You find out a lot more whm1 you're playing top teams from other conferences. So I'm just glad that we had a good weekend so we go into this weekend with some level of confidence before we play such a high-caliber team." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Junior forward Michelle Weissenhofer performs one of her flip throw-Ins during the 5-0 Irish win on Sunday. 
Shutout: 
continued from page ~!4 
game on Friday so I think it was a great way to start oil' postsea­son play." 
In a scary moment for the Irish during the second half, senior forward Kerri Hanks laid on the field for several minutes after injuring her knee on a Cincinnati foul. But prdiminary assessments by Irish coaches 
and  trainers indicated  that  
Hanks  had  probably  just  
strained her MCL.  

"When you get somebody injured that's vitally important to your team, you always worry," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "And any time somebody's in pain with a knee [injury], you always worry that it could be the worst ... But that doesn't look like it's the case with her." 
Hanks finished with two assists as the Irish offense shared the wealth against the Bearcats. 
Weber, Courtney Hosen and Taylor Knaack each scored a goal and Cincinnati was charged with a pair of own goals. 
"It was very exciting. The whole team played really well and it was definitely a team 
efl'ort, so it was a great win for us," junior forward Michele Weissenhofer said. 
Waldrum said he was particu­larly proud of how the Irish defense played. 
"It was a really good win. The thing I'm pleased with -every­body loved to sec the five goals and see all the offense we had today -fbutl the thing I'm real­ly pleased about the most is... the way we handled things defen­sively today," he said. 
The Irish allowed four shots, just one of which was on goal. 
"We're gonna create ehanees offensively. I feel comfortable that we have enough talent to score goals, but we want to make sure everything's handl!~d defensively," Waldrum said. 
Waldrum said the blowout vic­tory was beneficial to the team because it allowed him to give several key reserves playing time. 
Freshmen Knaack, Molly Campbell and Ellen Jantsch each played at least 16 minutes. 
"You see those kids come in and just keep getting better and better," Waldrum said. "It's nice to be able to get them on the lield." 
When she scored with 10:53 left in the first half, Knaack rewarded Waldrum's willingness to usc players with minimal experience. 

After taking a pass from Hanks on the lnf't side of the field. Knaack dribbled the ball to just outside the penalty area before unleashing a right-f'ootod rocket into tho top left corner of the net. The tally was Knaack's third of the season. 
Weissenhofer chipped in a pair of assists in what Waldrum said was one of her best performanc­es of the season. The junior's flip throw-ins gave the Bearcats tits all day and led to both Cincinnati own goals. 
"Every time sho threw it in, it was dangerous," Waldrum said. "It's just another added weapon she's got. I thought she played very well today ... one of hor better games of' the year." 
The high-f'lying Irish will return to action in the Big East semifinals against Marquette Friday at Alumni Field. 
"I think we're all in the right mindset right now for the post­season and we're just ready to get going," Weber said. "The season gets long after a while but now that we're in the post­season, I think everyone's excit­ed to play." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Be sure to pick up The Observer on Nov. 4 for your own eleCtoral map. 

Monday, November 3, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
1 

rJ 
www.jumble.com 
I CUTLED j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I rI cJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: A " ( 

I X X X I I I X J" 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: DEITY FEIGN VISION ALBINO Answer: A good mystery is bound to have this ­A "NOVEL:' ENDING 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
Across  29 Ones needing  53 When Hamlet  
Mad magazine feature  fulfillment? 30 Locale for most  first sees a ghost  
9 Spherical bacteria  of the New York Marathon  54 Band active from 1995 to 2002  
14 Weekly since 1865  32 Kind of state 33 Rest stops?  55 Providers of peer review?  
16 Financial V.I.P. 17 Martin of Hollywood 18 Quaint contraction 19 Puts in 20Admits  36 Dobby or Winky. in Harry Potter 39 Solo 40 Hum follower? 41 "Pinocchio" character voiced by Mel Blanc 42 'That hurts!"  Down Figure in many jokes 2 Troop group 3 Arabs who are not in OPEC 4 Some sweaters  
22 Falls apart 23 Not quite up yet 24 Pick apart  43 Played out 45 Rialto Bridge sight  5 Smelling things 6 London's Covent Garden and others: Abbr.  
251990s N.F.L. running back Curtis  46 One use for anise 48 Risque  7 Dicks 8 Daredevil's creed  
26 Paradise of 49 Not broadside Kerouac's "On 50 Mountain the Road" climber's need 27 Keep in order 52 Jaguar maker ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  9 Home of 'The NFL Today" 1 0 Bishop Museum setting 11 Small sunfish 12 Help for a secret agent  Puzzle by Mark Diehl 28 The General _, 'The Dukes of Hazzard" auto 30 Beyond oblivious 31 Turned  34 Chooses· 35 Part of the Tribune Company 36 Current events around  41 Wine order 44 Rounds: Abbr. 45 Addition sign 47 It's hard to walk on  
13 Cantillates  32 Half of a 1960s  Christmas  48 Rise by the  
15 1995 political  R &B duo  37 Round steak,  shore  
book subtitled  33 Source of  e.g.  51 "The Partridge  
"Leader of the  lecithin  38 Kind of crystals  Family" actress  
Second  

American For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a Revolution" 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
21 When the kids crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
are out 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 1-:-t:=:-i..:::.~+:=+::=+::+=+=~+:+:+:+:+~ 23 Old drive-in fare past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
1--':=-1-':'-JH-=:-+.::+~-o++-=+-.:..r=+rFR 26 "Happy Days" Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young catchphrase solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TffiS DAY: Nelly, 34; Reginald "Fieldy" Arvizu. 39; k.d. lang, 47; Stefanie Powers, 66 Happy Birthday: This is a year to get serious about your future and to act rather than ponder over the possibilities. There is too much to Jose by waiting around for others to make a move. Stick to whar you know and you will make the greatest gains. End what isn't working for you so that you can put full effort into what is. Your numbers are 4, 10, 17. 20, 26, 32.46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't push your luck with friends or lovers. Try your hand at a new activity or hobby that you can do alone. Overindulgence. overspending and overreacting will all lead to double trouble. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Getting together with old friends and relatives will lift your spirits and remind you what life is all about. A talk with someone you respect will revive an idea. altering your financial situation. A partnership will help you be more. productive. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Let your actions be your words and you will get what you want. Make your plans and follow through. The person who couuts will be the one you have decided to move forward with. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotions will be high and encouuters passionate if you put jealousy and insecurities in the closet. A change is in the works and, if you can be accepting and fun to be with, you'll benefit from the alterations heading your way. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't stick arouud someone who is complaining. It may be time to reflect on the past and who you really like to be "'ith the most. A few changes will buy you the freedom you need to pursue your goals. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If something isn't right with the relationships you are cur­rently in, make a clean break and start over. A social event that allows you to mingle with people in your chosen field will lead to a great new connection. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Sum up whatever you need to put to rest so you can move ahead. An inspiring story will motivate you to follow your own dreams instead of Jiving everyone else's. Don't let lethargy stand in the way of your talent and true calling. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone you can couut on "ill help you finish impor­tant last-minute details. A change of heart will lead to an interesting tum of events. Get out and experience what's being offered; it will enhance your confidence. 4 stars 
SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): ive yourself a chance to live in a bit of a dream 
world. Enjoy the time spend with creative people who know no boundaries and are as free-spirited and adventurous as you. Good things will evolve from the experience you 
have. 3 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You've got something good going on and you mustn't leave it alone until you are satisfied \\'ith the outcome. A change will be abrupt and will help to clarify what you should do next. Play hard and rise above the competition. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): As soon as you play with the unfamiliar, you will be taken advantage of. Talks, open and honest, will get the same in retutn. A deal can be made with someone you want to spend more time with. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Trust in yourself, not in what everyone else says and does. You be the one to motivate others to help you engage in a new venture. There is 
money to be made through a creative venue. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are Joyal, steadfa•t and adaptable but charming. entertaining and ruthless, if need be. You are a gifted leader. You are enthusiastic, motivating and an in­spiration. 
Eugerzia's !Veb sites: e11geaialast.com for confidemia/ corzsu/tatioas, mvspace.comfeuger~ialasf for Eugenia's blog, astrondvice .com forftm 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 
THE DOME PIECE 
The search for the culprit of Saturday's football game sprinkler incident continues ... 
Groundskeeper
CoachWeis Pittsburg Panther Bon Jovi Lil Jon Willie "What? Alii did "A marching band
"I was thirsty. "Come on, cheerleaders "Aww skeet skeet:' was spray a little hat? Look at this hair.
Okay?" plus sprinklers..:' sex panther:' They deserved it:' 
JUMBLE 
JJWJMIDibrn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CEZAR 
j
I I r [j 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i~~~fMl J 
KOJECY 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 3, 2008 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Cincinatti shut out in Big East Tourney 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After earning a bye in the first round of the Big East tourna­ment, the Irish picked up right where they left ofT in a quarter­finals match against Cincinnati. 
No. 1 Notre Dame looked like the team that went 18-0-0 in the regular s1mson as it seornd four first-half goals en route to a 5-0 win Sunday at Alumni Field. 

The Irish had a week off before the conference tourna­ment and appeared to have ben­efited from the extra rest, scor­ing less than a minute into the game. 
"I think we just had our mind set right. We eame in here ready to play and ready to win," Irish senior defender Elise Weber said. "We had a good week of rest beeause we didn't have a 
see SHUTOUT/page 22 

Flying High 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish grad Kurz signs NBA deal 
Special to The Observer 

Forward Rob Kurz, who played for Notre Dame last sea­son, signed on to play with the Golden State Warriors Sunday. 
Kurz was undrafted out of eollege but played his way on to the team by averaging 4.5 points and 3.8 rebounds per game in the preseason. 
He was the last man cut from the team on Oct. 27 but after guard Monta Ellis was placed on the suspension list Kurz got another chance. 
Ellis injured himself in a motorized scooter accident and is suspended until December. 
Kurz started 30 games last season for the Irish and aver­aged 12.6 points per game and hit exactly 50 percent of his field goals. He will join the Warriors tonight when they take on the Grizzlies in Memphis. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No.9 Notre Da111e starts seas<)n vvith blovvout at ho111e 
night in front of a half-packed himself-with the game tied selfish about getting his shot. something he said he worked
Five players score in 
Joyce Center. at 2-2, Ayers drove to the hoop lie's been a guy in the past to improve in the ofT-season. 
double digits Friday Five Notre Dame players for a layup to give Notre Dame that will turn stuff down, he'll Most of Jackson's production seored in double figures, with a 4-2 lead. turn shots down. We need him came during a 23-4 Notre senior forward Hyan Ayers "I just want to be more to be a little bit greedier." Dame run beginning with 
By CHRIS HINE leading the way with 21. aggressive out there," Ayers Junior forward Luke 11:53 in the second half that 

Editor-in-Chief 

Ayers shot 8-for-15 for the said. "I think that'll give me a Harangody put up his usual gave Notre Dame an 86-54 night, but unlike last year, good jump start if I can take it double-double -16 points and lead. Jackson said he began to 
Let the ehest-bumping, fist­when 64 percent of' Ayers' field to the hole hit a pull-up or 11 rebounds -while junior play better after receiving a pumping and point-scoring goals eame from behind the 3-take it all the way. My three­point guard Tory Jaekson had talking-to from Brey during a begin. point line, a majority of his ball didn't fall for me at times 18 points, seven assists, seven timeout in the second half. 
No. 9 Notre Dame opened its buckets, six, eame from inside tonight." rebounds and five steals. "I think he was so wired to snason with a 10:{-64 nxhibi­the :~-point line. And Ayers Coach Mike Brey added: "I Jackson also knocked down a tion win over Briar Cliff Friday wasted little time asserting thought he was a little more couple of mid-range jumpers, see HOOPS/page 22 
MEN'S SOCCER

HocKEY 
Squad notches second 
Irish get first CCHA wins 
Coach says players prepared for media 
By SAM WERNER Spons Writer 

At onn point last season Notre Damo wont on a 0-for-39 power-play drought. Al'tnr last wnnkend 's 0-for-16 showing against Miami (011), the Irish had many fans getting worried. Those fans can rest nasy now. 
Notre Damn netted five goals with the man advantage in 3-2 and 4-2 wins over Northern Michigan in Marquette, Mieh., over thn weekend. Irish coach Jell" Jackson said he thought the power-play outburst was due to good, old-fashionpd hard work. 
"I thought our guys played with morn determination in and around the net," he said. "We 
see POWER/page 22 

straight championship 

By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
Don't call the Irish greedy for wanting the Big East Blue title all to themselves. 
No. 19 Notre Dame (11-5-2, 7 -2-2) edged West Virginia 1-0 Saturday in the regular season finale to avoid tying Connecticut for the division crown for the second straight year. The Irish were named back-to-hack regular-season champions for the first time in program history. 
"We came through," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It's nice that we could win it out­right. Last year we had to win one of our last games Ito 
clinch) and we weren't able to,

WU YUE!The Ql)server 
Sophomore Ian Cole corrals a loose puck in Notre Dame's 2­but we took care of the prob­
0 loss to Miami (OH) on Oct. 24. lem by winning it outright." 
The Irish were out shot 14-4, but freshman midfielder Brendan King put home the game's only goal in the 61st minute off a rebound of a Steven Perry header. Perry, a sophomore forward, knocked it toward Mountaineers goal­keeper Zach Johnson on a free kick from junior midfielder Dave Donohue. 
"[West Virginia[ eame out with a 3-4-3 formation, put a lot of pressure on us and pushed it hard," Clark said. "They definitely caused us con­cern in the first half and knocked us out of our rhythm a bit, but in the second half we found that rhythm and upped our business. 
"We almost expected [to take the lead) in the first half and 
see BIG EAST/page 21 








