
-
THE 
Director of GRC says 
ca111pus at extre111es 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
The University's Catholic character plays a major role in promoting many students to search exclusively for life partners and others to respond by rejecting commit­ted relationships altogether, the director of the Gender Helations Center said Wednesday. 
Citing Catholic character as the "framework of our values and morals," at Notre Dame, Heather Rakoczy spoke about relationships and interactions on campus as part of the· second install­ment of "Notre Dating" 
Wednesday. 
"People take relationships much more seriously here, searching for a life partner rather than simply dating in order to meet people and have a good time," Rakoczy said. At the other extreme, students are fearful of this culture of dating and abstain from the process entirely or "feel pressure to be in com­mitted, long-lasting relation­ships." 
The problem lies in the extremes. Students' respons­es are "radical on either end. There is no middle ground," Rakoczy said. 
The GRC's focus, therefore, 
see DATING/page 4 


SMC jokes barred from Revue 
Keenan's annual function opens tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
The Keenan Revue opens tonight, but it will be missing an element present in past performances. 
Despite the seemingly req­uisitB crotch thrusting and du Lac-mocking, this year's. Revue will not feature jokes aimed at Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
In accordance with the dorm's agreement with the College to perform at the O'Laughlin Auditorium, which Revue organizers consider an ideal size, representatives of the College's student govern-
see REVUE/page 6 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 77 THURSDAY, JANUARY 31,2008 


NCAA settles class-action lawsuit 
Student-athletes can receive $2,500 in additional reimbursements under conditional terms 
basketball. and I don't know that we tinue to analyze [how it]
By KATIE KOHLER 
The settlement, which know the full extent of impacts us and impacts any
Saint Mary's Editor 
includes a provision to what the implications will of our athletes," he said. "I allow NCAA member be." think it's just too early to 
The NCAA is prepared to schools to offer year-round Former football players know." ease restrictions on educa­health insurance for stu­Jason White of Stanford The suit claimed that ath­tional expenses for current dent-athletes, will. not and Brian Polak of UCLA, letes need a significantly student-athletes and set become official until a and former basketball play­higher amount of funding aside $10 million to reim­judge sanctions it and both ers Jovan Harris of San in addition to tuition, burse former athletes. sides give final approval. Francisco and Chris Craig books, housing and meals 
The decision is part of the How the settlement would of Texas-El Paso first filed than they currently receive settlement of a class-action affect the approximately the class action suit in through their athletic 
lawsuit filed by former ath­700 Division I athletes at February 2006. scholarships. letes who argued that Notre Dame is unclear, sen­Heisler warned that the Under terms of the deal, NCAA limits on scholar­ior associate. athletic direc­settlement reached students-athletes will be ships -which can cover tor John Heisler said. Wednesday might not able to apply for as much only tuition, books, housing "It would be premature to reflect the final version. as $2,500 a year for up to and meals -are an unlaw­know [how it affects] Notre "The judge has to agree three years for reimburse­
ful restraint of trade Dame for sure," he said. "I to the settlement and it's ment of certain "out-of­because of the billions of· think it is the next step in a going to take some time for pocket expenses," inluding dollars generated through legal conversation that's this to shake out. And major college football and been ongoing for some time we're going to have to con-see NCAA/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 
Hate speech denounced in resolution 
One senator opposes, two abstain from vote in reaction to racist letters, anti-gay T-shirts 
addressing all forms of hate
By CLAIRE REISING 
speech and any future occur­
News Writer 
rences," Social Concerns Committee Chair Karen KoskiThe Student Senate passed said. 
a resolution Wednesday 
The resolution passed, withdenouncing hate speech and 
only one senator opposing
stating that it "stands in soli­and two abstaining from thedarity" with the Notre Dame 
vote. Although Fisher 
gay, lesbian, bisexual, trans­Senator Stephen Bant agreed
gender and questioning 
with the Senate's intentions,(GLBTQ) community. Shirts 
he did not believe that a
condemning homosexuality, 
Senate resolution wouldwhich some students wore accomplish much for the
last semester, prompted the issue. Instead, he argued thatresolution. 
giving the shirts too much"While the solidarity with attention would be counter­the community is a focus of productive.
the resolution, the resolution,
I STENGE:R!The Observer "I think it's pretty obvious 
we hope, is proactive as well
Parker Ladwig from University Libraries spoke about the state 
as reactive in that we're

of electronic reserves at Notre Dame Wednesday. see HATE/ page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Nuliquor, no patrons, no Casa 
Unpaid taxes lead to restaurant closing 
By MARCELA BERRIOS and 
KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writers 
Adios, Taco Tuesdays and half-off pitchers. 
Casa del Rio, a popular off­campus eatery located at 1705 South Bend Ave., will serve its last meal tonight after a failure to keep up with tax payments prevented its owner from renewing the establishment's liquor license. 
''I've been pondering it for a while," owner Jesse Arredondo, said. "It's just been harder and harder to make ends meet." 
Arredondo, who opened Casa in September 2004, said he is out of the capital needed to run the restaurant. Casa will not reopen unless he finds business partners in the next few days. 
The restaurant's liquor license expired Dec. 21, and Arredondo couldn't renew it because the property's taxes were not up to date, a require­ment under Indiana law. 
"You have to be current when you go to the renewal hearing," he said. 
And without its famous drink deals -such as $1 domestic draughts on Tuesdays and half­price margarita pitchers Sundays and Wednesdays -Casa saw an immediate drop in revenue. 
"It has hurt me extremely to be without the liquor license," Arredondo said. 
see CASAlpage 6 


INSIDE COLUMN 

John Locke 
No. I am not talking about the 
English philosopher who founded the 
social eontraet theory. I am not talk­
ing about the British empiricist either. 
I am talking about the knife-slinging, 
boar-hunting, former 
paraplegic hero of Katie Kohler 
Oceanic flight 815 
John Locke. Saint Mary's 
It's been 260 days Editor 
since the "Lost" 
Season Three finale. 
And yes, of course I've been counting. 
And tonight at 8 p.m., "Lost" is finally 
back. 
The sole purpose of this column is to explain why John Locke is the deepest, most mysterious, craziest and phenomenal character on "Lost" -which is why, even after being shot and thrown into a ditch to die at the end of Season Three, he emerged just in time to try to convince Jack not to use the radio (which he does anyway, but still). 
John Locke was brought up in fos­ter care, only to be conned by his bio­logical father, Anthony Cooper, for his kidney. After confronting him several times in order to prevent him from conning a woman to steal her for­tune, his father threw him out an eight-story window, leading to his four-year wheelehair stint as a para­plegie. 
But Locke didn't give up. lie went to Australia to participate in a "walka­bout." which is a spiritual journey, even though he was in a wheelchair. And now, he is going to be the reason "The Others" don't kill all 38 of the remaining survivors. 
If anyone watches "Lost," they'll know Locke's often-used phrase, "Don't tdl me what I ean't do." IIis character is tragi<\ but strong. lie makes everyone else on the island look weak and selfish. lie has become one with the island and as a result. hn is the only person who doesn't really want to leave. 
Everyone looks to Locke for guid­ance bncause they can sense that he knows what's up. And he dons. 
John Locke spent a majority of Season One with Boone unearthing the I latch, which sustained life with food, medical supplies and shelter while everyone else was sitting under tarps next to campfires. 
lie realized there was something special about Walt before he got kid­napped when everyone else thought he was a creepy child molester. 
lie was learning the secrets of "The Others" while everyone else thought he was a traitor. 
lie has single-handedly helped every single person on the island and now with season four so very close, I cannot wait to see what Locke will do next. 
While Loeke has never been the central character in the show, it wouldn't be a show without him. There's so much more we need to lind out and hopefully, it'll happen in. Season Four. 
Even though there are 48 more episodes over the next three seasons, Locke will not die. He will not be a traitor. And he will get off the island. I am totally sure of it. And if I'm wrong, he's going to have a pretty sweet exit. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at aU times. We do, however, recognize that we wiJJ make mistakes. Ifwe have made a· mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT FOOD WOULD YOU LIKE TO TRY DEEP-FRIED? 



Alex Gorrell  Andrew Gathof  Andrew Luttrell  
sophomore Alumni  senior Zahm  freshman Dillon  
"Buffalo, because their wings are delicious. "  "Twinkies. "  "Fish."  

LOW 12 


Hannah Ha 
freshman Welsh Family 
"Fried buffalo chicken pizza with afried twinkiefor dessert." 


QUENTIN STENGER/The Observer 

Students gather at the Winter Career and Internship Fair in the Joyce Center Wednesday. More than 170 employers and 480 recruiters participated in the fair. The event was open to Notre Dame, Samt Mary's, Holy Cross and other area colleges. 
OFFBEAT 
89 frozen ferrets found in Va. home 
VIRGINIA BEACH, Va. -Authorities removed nearly 200 animals from a Virginia Beach home, including 89 frozen ferret carcasses. Police spokes­woman Margie Long said animal control agents found more than 100 live ferrets, a dog, a bird and three cats, most of them suffering from dehydra­tion and malnutrition. 
Long said the frozen bodies of 89 ferrets, a cat, a rat and an otter were discovered in freez­ers in the house and garage. 
Sixty-one of the live fer­rets had to be euthanized because of poor health. 
Ore. boy picks wrong place to park bike 
SALEM, Ore. -If it's on the floor at the Goodwill store in Salem, it's for sale. So when Cody Young parked his bicycle in the wrong place, it got sold. Not only that, the bike that cost $232 four years ago went for $6.99. "That was just insulting," the seventh-grader said. 
Young said he and friends went to the store on Sunday to look at speakers. He didn't have 
a Jock, but his friends told him they'd previous­ly parked inside the store. He left it near other bikes that were for sale. While they were shopping, his black BMX bike was sold. 
Goodwill officials said they were looking into the sale. They said they were unable to identify the bike's purchaser. 
"We will make every effort to do the right thing," spokesman Bob Barsocchini said, "and we will throw in a bike lock." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
John Strong  Kerry McGuire  
senior Alumni  junior Welsh Family  
"Dragons."  "Deep-fried Taco Bell."  

IN BRIEF 
There will be a Blood Drive today from 11 a.m. to 5:30 
p.m. at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Registration is needed. To register, call 631-6100. 
The Fry Street Quartet will perform tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free and open to the publie. 
The film "In July" will be shown at 7 p.m. and again at 10 p.m. tonight in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets will cost $3 for students, $5 for faculty and staff, and $6 for general admission. 
Men's basketball will play Providence tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. 
Men's hockey will play the 
U.S. Under-18 Team Friday at 7:35 p.m. in the Joyce Center ice rink in an exhibi­tion. 
There will be a Saturday Vigil Mass at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Music will be provided by the Women's Liturgical Choir. 
Men's basketball will play DePaul Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center. TV cover­age will be on ESPN Classic. 
On Tuesday, there will be an Alumni Panel for Teach for America at 7 p.m. in 100­104 McKenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed inform(!tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
-~Ati­
. \;<, --, ';/ 
'""-" 'Y
';;;,;,;..( \...,;... 
~\ ~~ 
~~l~ 


HIGH 29 HIGH 35 LOW 20 LOW 23 
a:: 
L&.l 
:I: 
~ 
L&.l 
== 
...1 
<C 
(.) 0 
...I 
~~­
~ 
HIGH 22 
HIGH 17 LOW 8 

HIGH 30 LOW 23 
~~ 
~ "" 
~~ 
HIGH 30 LOW 12 

Atlanta 47 I 36 Boston 45 I 35 Chicago 20 I 1 Denver 34 I 9 Houston 60 I 41 Los Angeles 61 I 45 Minneapolis 5 I -9 New York 47 I 40 Philadelphia 47 I 39 Phoenix 58 I 43 Seattle 40 I 34 St. Louis 35 I 14 Tampa 72 I 58 Washington 47 I 39 
Thursday, January 31,2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Agencies ineffective, professor says 
ND Alert will be 
Camacho says U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service fails to self-analyze



tested again Friday 
Special to The Observer 

In November test ofemergency warning system, 
In an article published in UCLA Law Review, Alex

students did not receive text messagesfor 2hours 
Camacho, assoeiate profes­

Special to The Observer 
ND Alert, Notre Dame's com­prehensive emergency notifi­cation system, will be retested Friday afternoon. During the process, many students, facul­ty and staff will receive text­message alerts to their cell phones for the first time. 
An ND Alert test in November revealed that some e-mail messages took more than two hours to arrive. Modifications have been made to local e-mail delivery sys­tems, and the upeoming test will verify the effectiveness of these ehanges. 
"Safety is of paramount importance, and we believe that time is of the essence in the face tern vendor, Conneet-ED, now includes all cell phone numbers except those that have been opted out. Some employees, par­ticularly those who must pay a per-message fee for texts, may want to opt out of this feature. This may be done by following the instructions at the emer­gency page of OIT's web site. 
As with the first test, the mass notification system will distrib­ute messages to student, faculty and employee home and office telephones, registered cell phones, University e-mail accounts and any additional personal e-mail accounts previ­ously provided. The University's cable system also will broadcast a test message to any live television in residence sor of law at the Notre Dame Law School, criticizes Congress and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for mismanagement of the Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) program under the Endangered Species Aet (ESA). The article is the first eom prehensive assess­ment of what Camacho calls a "pioneering but ultimate­ly defective program." 
Camacho contends that regulatory agencies like the 
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service fail to systematical­ly review the effectiveness of their programs and therefore do not have the information necessary to know what works and what doesn't. 

of the kinds of emergencies this system will ad dress," said Gordon Wishon, assoeiate provost, chief information offieer and associ­ate vice president of information teehnologies. 
New in this round of testing, every registered cell phone user that has not opted out of the text messaging service will n~ceive a text alert. In the past, the opposite was true: texts were sent only to those 
who had opted in during the fall Registration is available through semester. A change recently the "My Resources" tab of instituted by the emergency sys-InsideND. 
More alumni in Peace Corps 
University moves upfour spots on list ofmost represented mid-size schools 
"Safety is of paramount importance, and we believe that time is of the essence in the face ofthe kinds of emergencies this system will address., 
Gordon Wishon chief information officer 
hall rooms, 
He says these agencies 
would benefit greatly by

common areas 
incorporating an experi­

such as the 
mental approach to regula­

LaFortune 
tion: try a course of

Student Center 
action, gather data and

and offices. All 
assess the program's effec­

messages will 
tiveness, adjust the

clearly indicate 
approach based on the

that a test is 
information gathered, and

under way. 
Faculty and 
continue to monitor and 
adapt throughout the life of

staff who have 
_the program. Such an
not registered 
approach is particularly

emergency con­
crucial when there is sub­

tact informa­
stantial uncertainty regard­

tion such as 
ing the best regulatory

personal cell 
approach for an agency to

phone numbers 
or non­
take -a fairly common 

University e-
condition in environmental 

mail addresses 
are encouraged to do so. 
since its origi­nal adoption in 1973, neither 

"The ESA should be 
Congress nor the Fish and periodically and Wildlife Service 
methodically
has really 'both­

evaluated to 
ered with rig­orous analysis determine ifit is of its efficacy." 
advancing the public 
Camacho 

goals it was proposed
points to the 

Habitat to cultivate.,, Conservation Plan of the ESA 
Alex Camacho 
as a promising 


associate professor
regulatory innovation for 


Law School 
its stated goal of saving 
By DENNIS SLATER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is climbing up the list of medium-sized schools sending students into the Peace Corps. 
After spending last year as No. 21, Notre Dame jumped 
to No. 17 in 2007 with 23 alumni cur­rently in the Peace Corps. 
Medium-sized schools on the list are defined as those with undergraduate enrollments between 5,000 and 15,000. Notre Dame, with an enroll­ment of about 8,000, is tied for its spot on the list with Appalachian S t a t e University and The University of Montana. 
Notre Dame has been 
regulation. 
"The ESA should be peri­odically and methodically evaluated to determine if it is advancing the public goals it was proposed to cultivate," Camacho said. "Though the ESA has been modified several times 
endangered species via negotiated agreements between private landown­ers and the federal govern­ment rather than by gov­ernment mandate alone. 
"Though these agree­ments may have promise for addressing conflicts over species conservation and economic develop­ment," he said, "with few exceptions they are adopted with little participation from the public or inde­pendent scientists. This too often produces risky regu­latory approvals that lack basic yet vital information." 


Corps. There are currently more than 8,000 Peace Corps volunteers serving in 7 4 countries around the world. 
"We really focus on Notre Dame because the students are extremely professional yet compassionate," said Peace Corps Public Affairs 

"We really focus on Notre Dame because the students are extremely professional yet compassionate. They seem to have that unique balance of meeting high academic standards and committing part of their lives to service. , 
Christine Torres Peace Corps public affairs specialist 
Specialist Christine Torres. "They seem to have that unique bal­ance of meet­ing high aca­demic stan­dards and committing part of their lives to serv­ice." 
"Of course, this is no sur­prise given 
h e University's deep focus on humanitarian efforts, both in the U.S. and abroad. I think the founding 
tingency unforeseen during agreement approval," he said. "With moni­toring and adaptation, this could be prevented." 
Camacho added: "The ESA has failed to har­ness the potential for regulatory learning that exists for 
among the nation's top 25 for the past five years. The University of Virginia topped the list of medium-sized col­leges and universities with 72 alumni in the Peace 
ideals of Notre Dame and the Peace Corps are very much in sync. Peace Corps enjoys enormous support on cam­pus from faculty and staff, which we truly appreciate." 

Camacho cites the often­touted Plum Creek agree­ment in Washington. 
"The agreement remains in effect despite a 50 per­cent decline in endangered spotted owls attributable to an alarming influx of inva­sive barred owls -a con-
every regulatory program. Such adaptive regulation would allow enacted laws, Congress, and administra­tive agencies to actually be judged on their perform­ance and be held account­able for outcomes, not just intentions." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2005, Camacho earned law degrees from Harvard Law School and Georgetown University. He specializes in the study of regulatory innovation in environmen­tal, land use, and local gov­ernment law. 
Many Notre Dame gradu­ates are searching for a way to give back to the communi­ty through service to others and do so through the Peace Corps. 
Erik Janowsky, a 1987 alumnus, had an affinity for Latin Ameriea and studied Spanish throughout his years at Notre Dame, he said. He went to Ecuador as a Peaee Corps member and service soon became a vocation for him. 
He embarked on a career in community development and eventually co-founded a non-profit organization with another Notre Dame alum­nus establishing a primary health care projeet in Ecuador, he said. 
The Center of Social Concerns is responsible for informing and providing Notre Dame graduates with the opportunity to join the Peace Corps. 
Students, faculty and com­munity members interested in the Peace Corps can attend the upcoming campus information presentation, or contact the Notre Dame regional recruiter Liz Ategou. The presentation is on Thursday, at 6 p.m. in Hoom 116 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Contact Dennis Slater at dslater@nd.edu 

NCAA 
continued from page 1 
n\sum1\ preparation and earner counsnling. Formnr student-athletes must filn thnir claims within three ynars. 
Some of the costs ath­letes could soon have reimbursed inelude trav­eling home for family emergencies and pur­chasing computers. 
The finaneial impaet on Notre Damn and how many athletes will take advantage of the pro­gramis still unelear, Heisler said. 
"I don't think any institution knows that lhow mueh it will costl. It's hard to projnet that. They talked about the NCAA providing this additional funding for the student athlete opportunity fund for five years," he said. "What happens after that, I don't think that question was answered. I think we have a ways to go before any of us have an appreciation on how it impacts any of us here." 
Much of the money to be made available after the settlement would be funneled through the NCAA's existing $218 million opportunity fund. 
"The biggest dollar amount talked about is the student athlete opportunity fund whieh is an NCAA sponsored program which basically provides funding through the conferences to the membership and that money can be used for a variety of things," Heisler said. "It can be medical in nature, it could be academic in nature, it can involve emergency sorts of things in terms of get­ting somebody home for a funeral if there's a death in the family." 
Chris /line contributed reporting. 
Information from Associated Press was used in this report. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Dating 

continued from page 24 
was to discuss ways in which students can find "balance in order to integrate all aspects of ItheirI lives," including the considerable influence of Catholic teaching here at Notre Dame, Rakoczy said. 
Through increased discus­sion of topics often labeled "taboo" within some Catholic circles, Hakoczy said, stu­dents can facilitate a greater understanding of how Catholicism can improve rather than worsen gender relations on campus. 
Just as pari­etals and single-sex dorms are a 
lion in order to accomplish sonal experieneflS and initiat­
improvement in gender relations on campus, Hakoczy said. 
Hakoczy moderat­ed the second event organized by the Gender Relations Center (GRC) to study the effects of a Catholic educa­tion on dating. 
Wednesday's dis­cussion included large and small group activities to begin the discus­sion. FIRE starters are student peer educators on cam­
pus' 
w h 0 
facili­

"People take relationships much more seriously here, searching for a life partner rather than simply dating in order to meet people and have a good time., 
Heather Rakoczy director of Gender Relations 
ed greater dialogue between stu­dents in attendance. 
Beginning with an inte­grative look at the defin­ing features of Catholic character, Notre Dame graduate and 'Current sem­inarian Mark DeMott stressed that t h e University must be a "community shaped by 

part of student "[Students' tate greater Catholic Christianity," where life at Notre responses are] awareness, dis-students can "engage, learn Dame, so too is cussion and from, struggle with, and allow
radical on either end. 
Catholicism a solutions to faith to become a part of who
There is no middle
significant and many of the you are." permanent ground., gender issues on The "Notre Dating" series aspect of the campus. events will be hnld on the last nature of the Standing for Wednesday of every month 
University. she Heather Rakoczy "Finding through April in the Coleman­said . stud en t s director Gender Relations Identity Morse Center lounge. must find an Relationships appropriate out-Equality," the Contact Ann-Marie Woods at let for discussion and educa-FIRE starters presented per-awoods4@nd.edu 
Proodly Pnrs•nb in ~ Bernd 9S.l WAOIR W..ltOtnft 
London. Englond • Lft94mckny Guitarist 
Tlckftt on tal• loturday Ftt>ruary l. 10 om at Honb Bmt otlkt!, Sl4/ll'-9190 and www.morrlunrt.er.arv. <1nd all Tlcketmcsttcr locMIDm, www.tk:Wtmasfft.<ttm 
The King of thll Blolls! 
BB 
KlttG 
-
0" SALE "OW! 
PULSE FM Wvl<omon 
STEVEH 
CURTIS 
HfiPMA 
Liver In This Momcrnt Tour Sunday March 9 • 7:00PM Morris Performing Arts Conter 
OH SALE HOWl 
CHU"CH Q"OUPS WELCOME 
!J71tfZ35-9190 


New Year's Resolutions for 2008 
1. 
I will download and run ND's free antivirus and antispyware software. 

2. 
I won't share my password with anyone. 

3. 
I will dispose of bank statements and credit card bills/offers using a crosscut shredder. 


Visit secure.nd.edu for more information. 
Are you secure? 










ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 31, 2008 CoMPILED FROlv1 THE 0BSERVER.'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fmal report spares Israeli prime minister 
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Ehud Olmert emerged relatively unscathed from the final report Wednesday on his handling of Israel's 2006 war in Lebanon, even though the inquiry criticized both the government and the army for "serious failings and 11aws." 
The report stopped short of blaming Olmert personally for what many Israelis saw as a stunning debacle that emboldened the Jewish state's enemies. A harsher indictment could have threatened Olmert's rule and his stated goal of signing a peace treaty with the Palestinians within a year. 
U.S. warns China to relax restraints 
GENEVA -The United States has told China to get serious about relaxing the restraints on financial information providers in a letter that could represent a linal warning before the U.S. asks the WTO to intervene in the matter, the A<>sodated Press learned Wednesday. 
In the letter to Chinese trade officials. the office of the U.S. Trade Representative signaled it has run out of patience with China's refusal to changr. rules introduced two years ago that appeared to boost the official Xinhua News Agency at the expense of financial information companirs such as Reuters Group PLC and Bloomberg LP. 
The World Trade Organization said it has yet to rnenive a formal complaint from the United States. which is pursuing China in separate trade r:ases ovPr rampant Chinese product piracy and measures hindering sales of U.S.-madc auto parts, CDs, DVDs and books, in separate cases. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge throws out Katrina levee suit 
NliW ORLEANS -A federal judge threw out a key elass-action lawsuit Wednesday against the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers over 11ood­ing from a levee breach after Hurricane Katrina. 
U.S. District Judge Stanwood Duval ruled that the Corps should be held immune over the failure of a wall on the 17th Street Canal that caused much of the flooding of New Orleans in August 2005. 
The suit led to 350,000 separate claims by businesses, government entities and residents, totaling billions o(dollars in damages against the agency. 
Astronauts face power problems 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Two astronauts pulled off a riskier and trickier-than-usual spacewalk Wednesday, replacing a failed elec­tric motor and giving the international space station a much-needed power boost. 
The station's power system still has problems; a joint for rotating one set of solar wings is mys­teriously clogged with metal shavings and can't be fixed until later this year. Wednesday's suc­cessful operation. however, added to the power margin at the orbiting outpost and cleared the way for the deliveries of two science labs. 
Atlantis is supposed to lift off with the European Space Agency's Columbus lab next week arter a two-month delay, but a new prob­lem could force yet another postponement. 
An inspection Tuesday uncovered a bent radi­ator hose in the shuttle's payload bay. The hose works as is and doesn't leak Freon, but some engineers fear it could break from the vibra­tions during liftoff. 
LOCAL NEWS 

13-month-old shot to death in car 
GAHY. Ind. -A 13-month-old boy was shot to death in what his mother described as a ear­jacking, and police said Tuesday they have arrested a person of interest. 
Kwana Shaw was driving with her son, .Josiah. in the city of Gary Monday evening when a man forced his way into the ear, police said. 
A SWAT team arrested a man on a failure to apw1ar in court warrant Monday in Portage, about 12 miles east of Gary. 
"Our investigators talked to that individual and will probably be talking to him again as the investigation continues," Gary Police Cmdr. Samuel Hoberts said. 
Hoberts would not say whether police believe he was the gunman. 


KENYA 

Washington reconsiders aid to Kenya 
Post-election "ethnic cleansing" zn Nairobi has claimed 800 lives 
Associated Press 

NAIROBI, Kenya-The top 
U.S. envoy to Africa called the month of post-election vio­lence in Kenya "ethnic cleansing" and said Wednesday Washington was reconsidering hundreds of millions of dollars in aid to the country. 
Jendayi Frazer said neither President Mwai Kibaki nor his chief rival, opposition leader Raila Odinga, is doing enough to stop the bloodshed that has claimed more than 800 lives since the disputed Dec. 27 presidential vote. 
Much of the violence has pitted other tribes, including Odinga's Luo, against Kibaki's Kikuyu who are the largest ethnic group. Kikuyus have long been resented for their dominance of Kenya's econo­my and politics, but poor Kikuyu are among the slum dwellers who have been left out of the country's economic boom. 
Frazer said the violence she saw during a visit earlier tllis month to the western Rift Valley pitted the Kalenjin, who support Odinga, against Kikuyus. 
"The first wave of this vio­lence, it was primarily in the Rift Valley, and it was Kalenjin pushing out Kikuyu. But that may now be spread­ing to Kikuyus pushing out Luos and Kalenjins," Frazer being displaced in Kenya," was rigged. where 65 percent of the capi­told reporters in Addis spokesman Sean McCormack Hundreds of Kikuyus have tal's residents teeter are Ababa, Ethiopia on the side­told reporters. He said been killed, and members of struggling just to survive. lines of an African Union experts from the State the group account for more Human rights groups and summit. Department's Office of War than half of the 255,000 others accuse politicians of 
"What I was talking about Crimes Issues were compiling chased from their homes, orchestrating the violence. in terms of the ethnic cleans­information about the vio­most in the Rift Valley. Frazer said neither Kibaki ing that I saw was the imme­lence but had not yet made In the Rift Valley, decades­nor Odinga, who says he won diate aftermath of the elec­any fmdings. old grudges over land are at the election, have done tion, in which there was an But he noted "ethnic the heart of the conflict. The enough to halt the violence. organized effort to push peo­cleansing," unlike "genocide," valley is the traditional home She said speeches made by ple out of the Hift Valley." In is not a legal term with a set of the Kalenjin and Masai both had proved counterpro­that area, she said people definition. people. British colonizers ductive. were told to leave their "If they do document any seized large tract<> of land to "I think both sides have homes on the threat of death instances of atrocities, we'll cultivate fertile farms there. spent quite a lot of time, and if they did not flee. have to look at what next When much of that land was unhelpful time, in the public," 
Frazer said she did not con­steps to take, but at thi~oint redistributed after independ­Frazer said. sider the killings a genocide. we're not there yet," ence in 1963, President Jomo "We're calling for an inves­
In Washington, the State McCormack said. Kenyatta flooded it with his tigation into the inciting or Department appeared to Kikuyus were the major Kikuyu people, instead of violence as well as an investi­back away from Frazer's victims of the first explosion returning it to the Kalenjin gation into who is actually characterization of the vio­of violence after the and Masai. killing people," Frazer said. lence as ethnic cleansing. announcement that Kibaki Some or the violence is an "We know there have been 
"Very clearly, there is a had won the election, which expression or long pent-up politicians on radio inciting very serious situation, if not the international community anger by the marginalized violence before the election crisis, with respect to people and election monitors agree majority in Nairobi slums, ended." 

Giuliani bo-ws out of race, endorses McCain 
Giuliani recalled he had said in an ear­Giuliani as a stalwart New York mayor
Associated Press lier debate that McCain would be his during the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. choice for president if he were not run­Giuliani announePd his exit from the SIMI VALLEY, Calif. -Rudy Giuliani, ning himself. race and backing of McCain at the who sought to make the leap from New "IfI'd endorsed anyone else, you would Ronald Heagan Library, site or York mayor to the White House, bowed say I was flip-flopping," he said, mention­Wednesday night's debate involving the out of the Republican presidential eon­ing an oft-repeated criticism of McCain's remaining GOP candidates. test Wednesday and endorsed front-run­chief rival, Mitt Homney. Tuesday's result was a remarkable col­ner and longtime friend John McCain. McCain, standing at Giuliani's side, lapse for Giuliani. Last year, he occupied "John McCain is the most qualified acknowledged his former rival as "my the top of national polls and seemed des­candidate to be the next commander in strong right arm and my partner." tined to turn conventional wisdom on chief of the United States," Giuliani said. "This man is a national hero and l'm end by running as a moderate "He's an American hero." honored by his friendship," he said. Republican who supported abortion Once the front-runner himself, Giuliani The endorsement joined two rights, gay rights and gun control. decided to abandon the race after a dis­Republicans who had campaigned on The results seriously decimated mal performance in Tuesday's Florida similar themes that highlighted their Giuliani's unconventional strategy, whieh primary, a contest on which he had bet national security credentials-McCain's relied heavily on Florida to launch him his political fortune. Instead, McCain won status as a Vietnam POW, war hero and into the coa.'lt-to-coa.<>t Feb. 5 nominating and Giuliani came in a distant third. a Senate voice on defense matters, and contests. 
Revue 
continued from page 1 

ment were present at the Hevue dress rehearsal Wednesday night. On behalf of the Board of Covernance, student body vice president Kelly Payne asked Revue organizers to eliminate two references to Saint Mary's students from skits. 
Payne said she would objeet "if they're going to talk about Saint Mary's in 

a degrading "We use humor to make people way that's not address issues laugh and funny." what's going to
around campus and
"They're per­make people 
forming on greater issues for upset," he said. Saint Mary's young people in a "Sometimes 
campus, and they seem triv­
dijferent way." 
the student ial to me. body in the past Sometimes has had prob­John Siegel can understand lems," Payne Revue director their concerns 
said... 
The writers had alternate lines prepared for the few scenes they guessed might be found objectionable, Hevue director John Siegel said ear­lier Wednesday. 
This year's production, "Night of the Living Hevue," has four musieal numbers and 22 skits, which were selected from 90 contenders, Siegel said. The Hevue is nntirnly student-run, acted and written. 
Siegel said all acts under­went an "extensive screening process" before they made it into the Hevue -which has in the past spurred com-


Casa 
continued from page 1 
Though no alcohol has been sold at Casa for more than a month. its billboard still adver­tises the specials. 
"We encourage people to come in, and then explain [our] plight," he said. 
Even before the license expired, Casa was going though a plaints by audience members offended by its edgy material. 

"It's never our wish to offend or make anyone uncomfortable," Siegel said. "We use humor to address issues around campus and greater issues for young peo­ple in a different way." 
Keenan rector Father Mark Thesing views all components of the Hevue throughout the rehearsal process. lie has in the past cut skits, though the Hevue is mostly the students' 
show, he said. 
"I never know 
what's going to 
or objections." 
This year's 

Revue differs from those of past years in the variety and quality of its skits, Siegel said. 
"This year, they're all very distinctive," he said. "Across the board it's a very strong Hevue." 
All free tickets for the Hevue were distributed last week within 20 minutes of being made available to the student body, and Keenan residents snapped up reserved tickets for their guests. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle@nd.edu 
rough patch 

'Til miss Casa del 
Arredondo attrib­"It wasn't uted to the losing Rio. It was conve­exactly high season of the Notre niently cheap and dining but the Dame football food and,
close to campus. And
team. most impor­
With accumulat­the food was good. " tantly, the ing defeats at drinks wer~ home and on the cheap," he
Federico Valiente 
road, some fans said. "Perhaps
sophomore
were Jess willing to the cheapness 
close to campus. And the food was good." "I guess from now on we'll have to settle for Chipotle." 
Valiente said he and his friends went to eat at Casa last Saturday, and as they ordered their food, Arredondo told them about the restaurant's financial difficulties. 
Senior Brad Bitterly said that ever since he moved off cam­pus, Casa's dollar tacos were a 
quick and 
affordable 
meal. 
pay the high rates for local lodging, Arredondo said. And local resi­dents were unlikely to celebrate most of the season's games with a dinner out, he said. 
"A lot of factors, in the end, were responsible," he said. "But having a poor season cer­tainly didn't help our economy." 
At its peak in 2006, Casa did a bustling business, Arredondo said. On some Tuesdays, when tacos and domestic drafts were each $1, a customer could find a wait as long as 100 tables. 
For students, afTordability and proximity were key selling points. 
''I'll miss Cas a del Hio," said sophomore Federico Valiente. "It was mnveniently dwap and of the food 

made you feel like you were truly eating from a Mexican street vendor in [Mexico City]." 
After Arredondo says goodbye to Casa's last customer tonight, he plans to share a final cele­bration at his restaurant with those who helped make it hap­pen for more than three years. 
"We 'II close the doors and have a couple of cocktails with our friends and family here," he said, before adding an explanation. "After closing the business. I can't serve any alco­hol during business." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu and Karen Langley at klangle@nd.edu 


Hate 
continued from page I 
that the student b"ody sup­ports the G and L communi­ty," Bant said. "I think it does a larger disservice to the gay and lesbian community to keep bringing up this hate and keep mentioning this hate, as obviously it was a very immature act that was done for attention, and we're giving them attenlion." 
However, other senators said that the Senate should pass the resolution to show that this act should not be condoned. 
"It might have been just two shirts, but just the fact that no one has really said any­thing is extremely disturb­ing," Howard Senator Erdina Francillon said. "I believe that it is important to pass this to finally get on the right path." 
A few senators compared the T-shirt incident to the racist letters sent to three residence halls last week. O'Neill Senator Matt Molloy said the T-shirt incident is worth specifically addressing in light of the recent mailings. While the University notified the entire campus about the racist letters through an e­mail, the offensive T-shirts received much less attention. 
"The University sent an e­mail to every student denouncing the racist letters, and nothing happened with the [anti-gay] shirts," Molloy said. "We need to stand up and address it because no one else has." 
Koski said that in addition to passing the resolution, the Senate should take action to support the GLBTQ communi­ty and to combat hate speech. Possible events could be a dialogue series and greater involvement with "Stand Against Hate Week" in April, she said. 
Academic Affairs Committee Chair Carol Hendrickson also gave a presentation about the hiring and tenure of Catholic faculty. Hendrickson said that future Senate meetings will feature speakers about this topic, including a Faculty Senate member and a mem­ber of the administration ­though the speakers have not been confirmed. 
Hendrickson presented a graph showing a projection of Catholic faculty compared to non-Catholic factory, from 2006-2042, 
"Most people are just con­cerned about going to class and their everyday routine and not thinking about when [they'll[ send [their[ kids here or the history and the legacy of Notre Dame," Franeillon said. 
In other Senate news: 

+ The Senate unanimously passed a resolution that pro­posed an amendmnnt to the Student Body Constitution, adding the student business board general manager to the financial management board. Ian Secviar, the oversight committee chair, initiated this 
resolution. 

+ Parker Ladwig from 
at the pro­'The University sent University 
posed 51 Libraries spoke
an e-mail to every
percent hir­about the state of 
ing rate. student denouncing electronic 
"It's pretty the racist letters, and reserves. During obvious that the past few
nothing happened 
we will be years, about 175­
losing our with the /anti-gay] 180 courses Catholic shirts." placed materials majority fac­on e-reserves. ulty pretty During fall
Matt Molloy
soon, she semester, howev­
O'Neil Senator 
er, 280 courses
said. 
Although faculty, alumni and the administra­tion have been involved in the debate over the hiring of Catholic faculty, Hendrickson said that students should become aware of the issue. 
"What's been missing all along is student involvement," she said. "There hasn't been a lot of organized student dis­cussion." 
After student body presi­dent Liz Brown suggested a town hall meeting or dorm meetings to inform students and get their opinions, sena­tors debated the effectiveness of both venues and whether or not students will become engaged in the issue. 
used e-reserves, Ladwig said. 
+ Hesidential Life Committee Chair Marianna Montes said that 
although  the  University  
Committee  on  Academic  
Technology  positively  

received the iTunes U propos­al that she and senior Patrick Finnigan gave January last Friday, legal issues delay the use of iTunes U at Notre Dame. 
"The administration wants to make sure that all intellec­tual property of our profes­sors is properly stored and protected," she said. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 


NAMETHETEAM ...NAME THE PlAYER•.. NAME THE RECORD...NAME THE YEAR 
SPORTS TRIVIA 

CHALLENCE 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1ST AT 9:00PM MONTGOMERY AUDITORIUM. LAFORTUNE 
NO STUDENTS ONlY ... WltiNER RECEIVES BULLSVS.MAGIC TICKETS CHECK-IN AT 8:30PM ...FREE REFRESHMENTS TO All PARTICIPANTS SIGN-UP TO PlAY AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK 

SUPER BOWL 



GAMEWATCH 
SUNDAY,FEBRUARY3RD AT 6:00PM LAFORTUNE MAIN LOUNGE 
FREE FOOD AND DRINKS 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, January 31, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,442.83 -37.47
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,243 108 1,071 4,235,698,887 
AMEX NASDAQ 2 349.00 -9.06 

-W,~»" ·--¥tf:ff!'~;;:>;~:,_.•J"'<::'"•>;;<::::···::-::::.:.::::-";/;·;·::· 
•""•"•"••••"•".•.•.w.v.•.••••. w.•.w....... 
NYSE ·-"''' 8,994i45 ''~;..~~~~~~. S&P 500 1,355.81 -6.49 NIKKEI (Tokyo). i.lilliJiill;$,2~~~~i!l:!il!#ll~!;~~~i FTSE 100 (London) 5,837.30 -47.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) ·0.74 -1.00 134.91 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.09 -0.04 44.37 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -2.03 -0.58 28.00 CITIGROUP INC (C) -0.11 -0.03 27.88 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.05 +0.075 3.733 13-WEEK BILL -2.95 -0.065 2.140 30-YEAR BOND +2.24 +0.97 4.433 5-YEAR NOTE +2.84 +0.081 2.938 

Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.11 91.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.50 926.30 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +2.18 93.03 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.3050 EURO 0.6728 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9951 BRffiSH POUND 0.5032 
IN BRIEF Deal near in investigation of Eli Ully 
NEW YORK -Eli Lilly and Co. and federal prosecutors are exploring a settlement of an investigation into the drugmaker's marketing of' its top seller, the anti-psychotic Zyprexa, The New York Times reported Wednesday. 
The Times reported on its Web site that the company could wind up paying more than $1 billion to state and federal governments. The report said several unidentified people involved in the investigation confirmed the settlement discussions. 
Indianapolis-based Lilly said in a statement that it received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania seeking Zyprexa-related docu­ments. Lilly spokeswoman Tarra Ryker declined to elaborate on the possibility of a settlement when reached by phone. 
"We are cooperating with the government in these investigations, and the discussions around those are confidential," she told The Associated Press. "We've said pretty much all we're going to be able to say on this." 

Economy has worst year since 2002 
WASHINGTON -The economy nearly stalled in the fourth quarter with a growth rate of just 
0.6 percent, capping its worst year since 2002. 
Wednesday's Commerce Department report showed that the economy deteriorated consid­erably during the October-to-December quar­ter as worsening problems in the housing mar­ket and harder-to-get credit made individuals and businesses more cautious in their spend­ing. Fears of a recession have grown, even as inllation remained elevated. 
For all of 2007, the economy grew by just 2.2 percent, the weakest performance in five years, when the country was struggling to recover from the 2001 recession. The housing collapse was the biggest culprit; builders slashed spending on housing projects by 16.9 percent on an annualized basis, the most in 25 years. 
The gross domestic product report for the last quarter of 2007 came as the Democratic­run Congress and the Bush administration con­tinued to work on a program of tax rebates and business incentives. 




Tax rebates inch closer to reality 
Senate finance committee approves bill, hopes for full floor vote by week's end 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A plan to send $500-$1,000 rebates to all but the rich­est taxpayers advanced in the Senate Wednesday after Republicans and Democrats teamed to add aid for dis­abled veterans, the elderly and the unemployed to a !louse-passed economic recovery bill. 
The package would make individuals with annual incomes of up to $150,000 and couples with incomes up to $300,000 eligible for the rebates. Qualifying fam­ilies would also get $300 for each child. 
The Senate Finance Committee approved the measure on a bipartisan vote Wednesday, and senior aides said the Senate could begin voting on it as early as Thursday in hopes of completing it by week's end. 
The income limits com­pare with caps of $75,000 for individuals and $150,000 for couples in an economic stimulus bill the House passed on Tuesday. 
They were part of a bill written by Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., the Finance Committee chair­man, and backed by Charles Grassley of Iowa, the panel's senior with Republican, which would pump $193 billion into the Mitch economy over the next two years. The House measure would inject $161 billion. It also goes further than should simply pass the 
The Senate plan also Baucus originally pro­the House package in House-passed stimulus would expand rebate eligi­posed to let even the richest efforts to bar illegal immi­measure. bility to 20 million older taxpayers share in the grants from receiving Grassley told Iowa Americans on Social rebates, saying that would rebates. Under the Senate reporters that he believed Security and to disabled attract Republican support measure, recipients and the Senate would act quick­veterans and tack on an for his measure. Grassley their spouses and children ly on the measure and that unemployment extension said that lifting what some would have to have valid he and Baucus would team for those whose benefits Republicans deemed "suffo­Social Security numbers to up to try to block further have run out. cating income limits" in the qualify. The House bill amendments to the bill. 
"It helps seniors and it House plan was a key rea­omits that requirement, "If Baucus and I can work helps those hit hardest by son he was backing the bill. although it expressly dis­together, we can keep the economic But Senate Democrats qualifies nonresident amendments down, keep it downturn,"Baucus said of balked at the idea of aliens. from becoming a Christmas his plan. wealthy people -including In backing the bill, tree," Grassley said. 

Market pulls back despite big rate cut 
was enough to spur people to cash in Fed's accompanying statement,
Associated Press 

profits from the market's initial which if anything asserted that the gains. central bank is willing to lower rates 
NEW YORK -A still-anxious Wall Key reports on the job market and further if needed. Street closed lower Wednesday, sac­manufacturing set to arrive Friday The Dow, which had been up more rificing the advance it made after the could also add to investors' concerns than 200 points after the Fed's deci­Federal Reserve cut interest rates about the state of the economy, sion, finished down 37.47, or 0.30 half a percentage point. Investors which has been dragged down by a percent, at 12,442.83. collected profits after nearly three crumbling housing market and loss­"We're seeing profit taking ahead sessions of big gains, unwilling to es at major financial institutions. of the employment report on leave money on the table amid ongo­"Volatility is here to stay," Conroy Friday," Fullman said, referring to ing economic uncertainty. said. "People who think these issues the Labor Department's data on job 
It wasn't surprising that the mar­will go away overnight in one Fed creation and unemployment. "The ket pulled back, having suffered rate cut are mistaken." market has had a really nice run-up months of losses and having driven The Federal Reserve lowered the this week, and investors are taking the Dow Jones industrials up more fed funds rate, or the interest banks advantage of that." than 470 points so far this week pay one another for overnight loans, Broader stock indicators also ahead of the late-day downturn. to 3 percent, the lowest level since turned lower. The Standard & Poor's 
Anthony Conroy, managing direc­spring 2005. It also lowered the dis­500 index fell 6.49, or 0.48 percent, tor and head trader for BNY count rate, or the interest the Fed to 1,355.81, and the Nasdaq com­ConvergEx Group, said expectations charges on loans to banks, by a half­posite index fell 9.06. or 0.38 per­of more downgrades of bond insur­point to 3.50 percent. cent, to 2,349.00. ers like Ambac Financial Group Inc. Scott Fullman, director of invest­Government bond prices rose as and MBIA Inc. -as well as uneasi­ment strategy for I.A. Englander & the stock market pulled back. The ness ahead of Thursday's Commerce Co., said it was unlikely the market's yield on the 10-year benchmark note Department report on personal downturn was because of disap­· fell to 3.63 percent from 3.68 per­income and spending inflation -pointment over the rate cut or the cent late Tuesday. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~---­
Schvvarzenegger vvill support John McCain 
California governor to back Arizona senator for impending Republican primary elections 
Associated (>rcss 

SIMI VALLEY--Gov. Arnold Schwarzcnegger will endorse John McCain on Thursday, giving a certain boost to the Hcpubliean presidential front-runner six days heforn California's high­prize primary. 
The two will appear at a IH~ws confnrenee after touring a Los Angeles-based solar eneq.,ry com­pany and the governor will make his endorsement ollicial, his sen­ior aides eonlirmml Wednesday. 
Schwarzenegger's endorse­ment is yet another setback for Mitt Homney, the former Massachusetts governor who saw Florida slip from his grasp Tuosday after McCain rolled up the support of that state's two top electnd Hepublicans, (iov. Charlie Crist and Son. Mel Martinez. 
I lis stratn).,ry in tatters. Homney plans to olror himself as the eon­servativn altl~rnativn to McCain as he pushes ahead in hopes of winning enough dPlegates to top­ple thn Arizona snnator when 21 statns vote in the Hepublican contest on Tuesday. 
Sehwarzenegger's move mmes as McCain plows ahead toward the nomination. the only Hepuhlican candidate to have won three hotly contested pri­marins sine•~ voting began earlier this month. 
"Governor Schwarzenegger is an exeeptional governor and we am honored that he has decided to endorse Senator McCain, and look forward to the event tomor­row," said Steve Schmidt, a sen­ior McCain adviser who managed Sehwarzenegger's 2006 cam­paign. 

The four-term senator is run­ning strongly ahead of his com­petitors in California, which oilers a whopping 170 delegates to the Hepublican nominating convention. Candidates secure three delegates for each of the state's 53 congressional districts tlwy win in the primary, in which only Republicans can vote. 
The ultimate effect of Schwarzenegger's endorsement is undnar. The celebrity governor and former actor is universally known in the state, and his politi­cal nntwork certainly will be helpful to McCain, who has virtu­ally no organized effort in California after his candidacy nearly collapsed. The actor­turnnd-governor also is a prolific fund raiser. 
But Sehwarzenegger has a strainnd relationship with some conservatives in his own party and McCain, himself, is fighting to convince GOP rank-and-file that he's committed to conserva­tive values. Schwarzenegger's nod could exacerbate concerns about McCain among the party establishment. 
Breathalizer tests not per111itted in hearings 
Poor performance in toxicology labs results in judge's refusal to allow device in courtrooms 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Tho State Patrol's toxicology lab has had so many nthical lapsns and made so many scientific mistakes in recent years that alcohol breath test results should not bn admittnd at trial, a court ruled Wednesday. 
The ruling by a three-member panel of King County District Court will likely make it easier for defendants in pending county cases to beat drunken driving charges and for those previously convicted on breath test evi­dence to appeal. 

"Simply stated, without the reliable evidence that a correctly · functioning breath test instru­ment can provide, the discovery of tho truth in DUI eases suf­fers," the judges wrote. "The innocent may be wrongly con­~ict~;,d. and the guilty may go 
free. 
Prosncutors <~an still try to win convictions based on other evi­d!~ncn, such as nrratic driving and field sobriety tnsts. 
Thn ruling by .Judges David Steiiwr. I>arrPII Phillipson and Mark Chow is not binding on the county's otlwr I X district judgf\s but is .-xpertl'd to be highly inlluPntial, said l'wsiding .Judge Barbara LindP. 
Tlw wurt handl•~s about 5,000 drunken driving cases a ynar, and tlw vast majority plnad guilty or arrPpt dei'PITPd prose­cution. 

The ruling cited problems with the patrol's toxicology lab, including the false certification of solutions used to verify breath tnsts, the improper rejection of data, mistakenly switched data and reliance on software that miscalculated data. Prosecutors ean try to get breath tests admit­ted in eases after they have proven the lab's practices have been cleaned up, the judges said. 
"The judges are saying, 'If you wanna play 'CSI,' you've got to make sure you can do it the way 'CSI' does it,"' defense attorney Ted Vosk said. "The science they did at the lab was so sloppy you can have no confidence in any of the results that were obtained." 
Vosk said he was one of many defense attorneys around the state who helpnd cover the more than $25,000 it cost for exports, transcripts and other legal expenses in challenging the lab's work before the King County judges. 
King County is the third in the state to reconsider the validity of the tnsts since reports of prob­lllms surfacPd, and its ruling is the most sweeping. Skagit County judgns ruled that although misconduct at the lab was troubling, there was no immediate evidence that thn hrnath test results wnrn invalid. In Snohomish County, judgns threw out the tests in about 40 casns. 


lanned 
g"nancy? 
sotneo.ne YOL1 love neeo:ls help tion.. 1~e anll. 
C.,.uj;Jf!intrdP'"7-wp•ni: 47DlJ ...~,;u.we; ~;!..J..k .mt N.,.-n~ D.(3JJJ:f!!l 
• ~ }&01. Le~ o~. ~~.t .A.il:m.41-~4<~~ 
• SJ.:, ~ D1IQI..lll., OP, ~l-.t A~. 1-~19 
Dllo:~~~., C«~11.pv .MJdt:b.y,.1-~6.3 ~~P~,Co-uh,t Cto:~~~.iM·,1-4.:J65 lll.lii.:B. RL·,~He.dtl~1·.>1a~..:,1~~6 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN





STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Laffetiy.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, January 31, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Town targets Bush, Cheney 
Petition accuses president, vice president ofcrimes against Constitution 
Associated Press 
BRATTLEBORO, Vt. ~ A town petition making President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney subject to arrest for crimes against the Constitution has triggered a barrage of crit­icism from people who say res­idents are "wackjobs" and "nuts." 
In e-mail messages, voice­mail messages and telephone calls, outraged people are call­ing the measure the equivalent of treason and vowing never to visit Vermont. 
"Has everyone up there been out in the cold too long?" said one. 
"I would like to know how I could get some water from your town," said another. "It's obvious that there is something special in it." 
The petition ~ with more than 436 signatures, or at least the 5 percent of voters neces­sary to be considered ~ was submitted Thursday and the town Select Board voted 3-2 Friday to put it on the ballot. It goes to a town-wide vote March 4. 
It reads: "Shall the Selectboard instruct the Town Attorney to draft indictments against President Bush and Vice President Cheney for crimes against our Constitution, and publish said indictments for consideration by other authorities and shall it be the law of the Town of Brattleboro that the Brattleboro Police, pursuant to the above-mentioned indict­ments, arrest and detain George Bush and Richard Cheney in Brattleboro if they are not duly impeached, and prosecute or extradite them to other authorities that may rea­sonably contend to prosecute them?" 
· News of the measure made the rounds on the Internet, and soon people started calling and writing. The Brattleboro Area Chamber of Commerce got about 60 e-mails Monday, all of them negative, said Executive Director Jerry Goldberg. 
A day later, he said, "we had three or four calls in a row that were very positive. One even volunteered to help." 
The petition has no legal standing, since the town attor­ney has no authority to write an indictment and the police have no authority to arrest Bush or Cheney if either visits Brattleboro. 
Bush has not visited Vermont during his presidency; Cheney visited Burlington in 2002, but has not been to Brattleboro. 
Anger at the Bush adminis­tration is hardly new in Vermont. The state Senate voted last year to support impeaching the president. Anti-war rallies are regular occurrences, and "Impeach Bush" bumper stickers are common. 
4:15pm 

5:15pm 

Cle111son University fraternity onprobation 
Three members charged with misdemeanors after freshman dies of alcohol poisoning 
Associated Press 
WALHALLA, S.C. ~ Three fraternity members at Clemson University were charged with alcohol-related misdemeanors after a fresh­man died of alcohol poisoning during an off-campus-party, a prosecutor said Wednesday. 
The students' activities did not directly lead to the death of 18-year-old Benjamin Garrison Sprague, prosecutor Chrissy Adams said. But the three students, all members of the fraternity Sigma Nu, face charges that include transferring beer and liquor to a minor and using fake identification to buy alcohol. 
Sprague was not forced to drink at the party, Adams said. 


SCHEDULE OF THE MINI CONFERENCE 

12:30 pm Introduction 
12:45 pm Robe:rt Jensen, Ph.D. 
•Ph.D. 
in Media Ethics and Law at the University of Minnesota 

•
Associate Professor in the School ofJournalism at University of Texas at Austin 


•
Author of Getting Off. Pornograpl!J and the End of Masmlinity 

•Co-author 
of Pornograpl!J: The Production and Const~mption of Ineqllality 

•Co-editor 
of Freeing the FirstAmendment: Critical Perspectives on Freedom of Expression 


2:30pm Gail Dines, Ph.D. 
•Ph.D. 
from the University of Salford in England 

•Professor 
of Sociology and Women's Studies at Wheelock College in Boston 


•Co-editor 
of Gender, Race and Class in Media 

•Co-author 
of Pornograpl!J: The Prod11ction and Co11S11mption of Ineqllality 

•
Featured in ABC News, National Public Radio, Time, Newsweek, Vogue 


Notte Dame Panel 
Sister Susan Bruno, OSF -Rector, Pasquerilla West Hall Reverend PeterJarret, CSC -Religious Superior, Corby Hall 
Stephanie Brauer -French major &  Anthropology minor  
Patrick Tighe -Philosophy major &  PPE minor  
Closing Remarks  

Friday, February 1, 2008 
Center for Continuitl.g Education McKenna Hall Refreshments Provided 
Office of the President, Gender Relations Center, Gender Studies, Feminist Voice, Identity Project of Notte Dame, Men Against Violence, Progressive Student Alliance 
"Ben made choices that night to consume alcohol, and he consumed alcohol in excess, and that led to his death," Adams said. "These boys made a mistake by pro­viding the alcohol and having it available at a fraternity party to underage drinkers." 
Sprague died of alcohol poi­soning Dec. 9 at a Sigma Nu fraternity house. He had a blood-alcohol level of nearly 
0.38 percent ~ about five times above the legal thresh­old for driving, Oconee County Coroner Karl Addis has said. 
After Sprague's death, the school's Sigma Nu chapter was placed on interim sus­pension by the university and the national fraternity pend­ing investigations. The sus­pension means the group can­not hold any meetings or par­ties. 
"We fully expect our mem­bers to abide by, uphold and support the laws of the land, including laws pertaining to alcohol purchase, consump­tion and use," said Brad Beacham, executive director of the Virginia-based national Sigma Nu Fraternity. 
Adams said Sprague, who had recently been initiated into the fraternity, had been drinking for four hours before he arrived at the party. Adams read a statement from Sprague's parents that said, "While we acknowledge Ben's errors in judgment, we do not believe his errors overshadow his goodness." 
Clemson spokeswoman Robin Denny said the school will determine whether the students who were charged would also be suspended. 
"Our first thoughts are with the Sprague family and con­tinue to be with them, since this is just another sad day for their family and for the Clemson family," Denny said. 
The prosecutor said Jetin Patel, 19, of Spartanburg, was charged with using a fake ID to purchase beer at a grocery store. He also faces charges of underage posses­sion of beer and transfer of beer to a person under 21. 
Matthew Rinckel, 20, of Lynchburg, Va., was charged with transfer of beer and transfer of liquor to a person under 21. 
Addison Kerr, 21, of Atlanta, was charged with transfer of liquor to a minor. 
Kerr's attorney, Mills Ariail, said his client was hoping to be allowed to enter a pretrial intervention program, which could remove the charges from his record. 
"The family, from what I understand, did not want criminal charges brought," Ariail said. "They don't want these boys to face this the rest of their life." 
An attorney for Rinckel declined to comment through another lawyer in his firm, and it was unclear whether Patel had an attorney. All three were booked Tuesday and released from jail on their own recognizance. A court appearance for them has been scheduled for late February, Ariail said. 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 31, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Jesus is my co-conspirator 
P.O. Rox 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !!all. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EOITOR IN CtiiEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowit'r Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~s'l: MANAt:ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: 'lite Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AI>VF.IlTISING MANAta'.R: Jessica Cortez 
AD Dr,~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 

CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(';74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad«:L>nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63l-53U 
NEWS DESK 
('i74) 631-'i323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print :md online by rhc students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du be and Saint Mary's College. Fdirorial contem, including advcrrisemenrs, is not goV('rnrd by policies ofrhc administration ofeither institution. The Obst·rver reserves rht• right to refi.tse adwrrist•ntrnrs based on conrrnt. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigm·d editorials represent rhc opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, As'istant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. !.etters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rrgarding Observer policieJ should be dirmed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanllil. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Ut ~rver (US!'S ~992-4000) IJ publlsiKd Mond•y thruu~l Frid.Jy cn:ept Jum~g Uolnl .md Vol\.'illilllllJC'fK•..h. A .ul~W.-npti!lll IU nu· O~rr llii $10fl (or nnr ac.Wemi~ Yt:.~r; $~5 f1•r unc ~mater 
The Otmrver il JmbliJhtt.l .n POSfMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send o~ddress wrreaioru to: None Dame, IN 4N\56-0n9 ThcOhliCrvtr /'ctwdioll pomttc p;ud a1 Nom D.une P.O Boxn9 and itddillunJI mJiling otl'iCQ.. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notn-Dame, IN 46556-0779 
Tht' Observer i£ 01 mcmhcr of rh~: A..\Mle~tc,l Pra.,. AU rcptndue~ion righu arc raerved. 
Why are you here? 

At least a few times in my career here at Notre Dame, I've bmm asked this question in manners incredulous and inquisitive, hostile and hospitable. 
Now, I cannot rnad minds and so I can­
John Everett 
not speak for the 
Kids These 
beliel's of other peo­
Days

ple with any degree of certainty, but I think it is a fairly safe bet that if reli­gious belief were somehow quantifiable I'd probably be considered below aver­age, to be cautious. Living in close proximity to other people means that this gets noticed, and occasionally ques­tioned. 
I try to brush oil' the question with something flippant or funny, such as "The weather was too nice to say no" or "I heard the food at North Dining Hall was great" but these are diversions, not just to the questioner but to myself, the questioned. You see, I've been trying to explain it to myself darn near every day I've been on campus the last four years. I likn it here a lot, I really do. I'd stay another year or two if they'd tnt me (well, if they let me for free), but why? Yes, there are friends and fun times and all that, and I don't mean to dismiss these crucial considerations, but recent­ly, I think I may have come upon an answer. 
Ironically enough, I was attending mass at the time. Our dorm's priest was delivering the homily and talking about the greatest needs human beings had. I found myself nodding along when the three he listed were to love, to be loved, and to be a part of something greater than themselves. The last of these three was referred to as the main reason most people believe in a religion. I believe it is also the main criteria by which I select my favorite movies. 
Sitting there listening to the priest I realized that nearly all of the movies I love involve a group of people coming together and utilizing their individual talents toward the pursuit of a common goal. The preference stretches across genre lines. My favorite war movie is "The Great Escape," in which the inmates of a POW camp undertake an intricate escape plan, hoping to free 200 people. The effort encompasses tailors, strategists. li:>rgers, diggers and Steve McQueen. Though the plan is ultimately less than successful, the story is inspir­ing. 
My favorite western is "The Magnificent Seven," in which seven dis­parate gunslingers take very little pay to defend a Mexican village from an evil thief. Though mentioning the compari­son in an article ostensibly about reli­gion might strike some as curious, I think the same philosophy might apply to caper films sueh as "Ocean's Eleven" and, of course, "The Great Muppet Caper." 
The point of all this is to say, in an embarrassingly inflated fashion, that although I might not agree with very much of the dogma, I still empathize with the need for that feeling of being a part of something greater. I want to feel that there is a reason for us to be here. 
The more strident atheists, like Hichard Dawkins, author of the provocatively titled "The God Delusion," and his kindred spirit Christopher Hitchens fail to see religious belief in the proper light. They think of it as the complete acceptance of an utterly ridiculous story and thus view it unfa­vorably. I tend to think of religious belief as an attempt to come up with answers to the questions our own existence forces upon us, including the one which leads off this column: Why are you (or any of us) here? 
I don't doubt that Dawkins and Hitchens have considered these ques­tions. My problem is that they have answered them so eonlidently that they seem .to have moved on from them. We are here beeausB of a random distur­bance in the universe, leading eventual­ly to the creation of all life. We fall in love because our genes want us to reproduce. People are happier or sad­der than other people bl~cause of dill'er­ing levels of certain ehemkals in the brain. In short, Dawkins and llitchens have dismissed the notion of a soul. 
The problem with these answers, however true, is that they are too eer­tain. Heligion may niTer similarly pat answnrs, i.e. we are bern because of the will of God, and we are here to do God's will, etc., but it does not, or should not, lend itself to thn saml~ degree of certain­ty, as the believer is forced to ask fur­ther, "What is <;od's will, and how do we best enaet it?" 
If belief is a continuum, I myself may fall closer to Dawkins' and llitchens' end of it than to St. Frands', but I don't conceive of myself as an easily under­stood product of natural selection and chemical imbalances. I like to think more of myself', and the rest of us, than that. And that's tl111 reason I like it here. As Norman Mailer, a man with uncer­tain religious beliefs himself, onee said, "You can say the word soul at Notre Dame and nobody snickers." 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. l!e is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. Ifyou have any information regarding his whereabouts. please contact jeverett@ndedu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
New.s Sports Katie Kohler Chris Khorey Are you more excited about the Mandi Stirone Ellyn Michalak 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
Ashley Charnley Pat Stynes 
camouflage night or blackout 
Graphics Seen(~ 
night?

Matt Hudson Cassie Belek Viewpoint Melanie LeMay 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

;J§[ijbnlit at='etter "A fellow who is always declaring he sno fool f1:S~WllY,, has his susptcwns.
to the Editor at 
Wilson Mizner playwright 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 31, 2008 page 11 
Celebrate Catholic education, community 
This week marks the 36th annual national celebration of Catholic Schools Week. All over the country, Catholic ele­mentary and high schools are celebrat­ing the unique contributions a Catholic education makes to the students who attend, as well as to the world. At my Kate Barrett children's grade 
school, "St. Joe FaithpointSouth Bend," as the students call it, kids 
are participating in a special prayer service, an environmen­tal awareness day, a pep rally, "share a book with a buddy," an all-school rosary, "no homework night," and that most beloved of all days for uniform­wearing grade-schoolers everywhere, Dress Down Day. They also have, rather inexplicably, a Catholic Schools Week Breadstick Day fundraiser for two local charities, through which, for $1, you get two scrumptious Little Caesar's bread­sticks. With sauce. Though the connec­tion between breadsticks and Catholic Schools Week remains unclear, they can't wait to dig in on Friday (which is also Dress Down Day -no sauce on the uniforms!). And in one of the very human twists of fate that only happens in Catholic schools, my oldest son will take a break from Dress Down Day tomorrow morning, pull his good shoes out of his backpack, and help serve at the funeral of an elderly parishioner 
who died earlier this week. 
The National Catholic Education Association has chosen "Light the Way" as the theme for this year's Catholic Schools Week, to challenge Catholic school students and graduates to let their lights shine and brighten the future for all humankind. It also reminds us that we are on "the Way," just as the Bible described the followers of Jesus in the early Church. 
Now, I know this isn't "Catholic Universities Week." You don't need to be told to read with a buddy; declaring a no-homework night could be fun, but probably inadvisable; and you don't have uniforms to dress down from. But that which makes all Catholic schools unique also makes Notre Dame unlike any secular school anywhere: communi­ties connected by a commitment to a common faith in Jesus Christ simply live 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Affirmative action fair 
In his Viewpoint column ("True diversi­ty," Jan 29), Greg Yatarola argued against affirmative action, claiming that "not all blacks and Hispanics are disadvantaged. In fact, when they marry and form stable families, they move into the middle class about as well as everyone else." I'm hav­ing some trouble understanding this claim. 
There's the suggestion that "stable fami­lies" are the key to achieving middle-class status -a claim that was roundly debunked almost immediately after Senator Moynihan made it in the '70s. More fundamentally, Yatarola seems to be assuming that being disadvantaged or advantaged is a matter of wealth or eco­nomic class. That is, racism-the disad­vantages faced by African-Americans and others -is nothing more than classism ­the disadvantages faced by the poor. Racism, strictly speaking, does not exist. If this is the assumption Yatarola is starting with, then the conclusion that affirmative action should go probably follows fairly quickly: affirmative action was created to fight racism, but racism doesn't exist, therefore there's no reason for affirmative action. But this assertion that racism is nothing more than classism is, sadly, false. 
Barack Obama, for example, is a wealthy, politically powerful African-American. If Yatarola is right, racism would play no role in Obama's bid for the Democratic nomination. He would not, in particular, be attacked using stereotypes of African-Americans. And yet, last week, Rick Murphy, a columnist for a Long Island newspaper called The Independent, published just such an attack. (The pub­lisher has since taken his column ofiline, but -should you wish to see the ugly face of American racism firsthand -you can view Google's cached version of the page at httpJ/tinyurl.cornl2p2bs7.) 
Yatarola suggests that "The simple, obvious solution would be to favor those applicants who can actually show some degree of hardship in their backgrounds, instead of trying to infer it from their races." But ifa wealthy, powerful African­American like Barack Obama has faced the hardship of racism, it's a safe bet that most African-Americans face the hardship of racism. Affirmative action, in the vari­ous forms which it currently takes, infers hardship from race because race is a reli­able indicator that one has suffered hard­ships. 
Dan Hicks grad student offcampus Jan. 29 

life differently. And when all the newly matriculated students cascade out of here each May after Commencement weekend, so very many of them begin, in small ways and large, to "light the way." The experience of sharing faith and life here in a Catholic community that prays, mourns and rejoices togeth­er will lead you to seek out parishes to pray in; propel you to serve in ACE schools; motivate you to choose Holy Cross Associates or Farm of the Child or Covenant House; and compel you to bring, through your faith, a much heightened level of ethical behavior to whatever your chosen career path. 
Maybe you remember Catholic Schools Week from your own educational past, or maybe not. But think about all the kids around South Bend and all over the nation who are celebrating, praying, participating in fundraisers, dressing down, and learning what it means to "light the way." Maybe all of us here, at this place which has an unparalleled opportunity to be a light of hope and wisdom and courage, could take a deep breath, pray Father Hesburgh 's prayer, "Come, Holy Spirit," and live as a light. 
The right to skip 
With all due respect University Provost Thomas Burish ("University clarifies absence policy," Jan. 30), I am 21 years old and feel that I am capable of making my own decision on whether or not to attend class. I'm sure most freshmen have that decision-making quality as well. 
If I skip and get a poor grade, oh well, my fault. From now on, will I need my mommy to call my professor when my tummy hurts like in high school? Is this com­munist Russia? I don't think so. 
Please don't take our last col­lege freedom of sleeping in or napping past the one easy class on our schedule. You've taken so much away from the students. Don't stoop this low. It's on­American. 
Ryan Sarb senior off campus Jan. 30 

Do your part to make your section, resi­dence hall, team or class a stronger, more welcoming community. Don't let slurs which perpetuate racism or cheapen sexuality or glorify superficial values pass unchallenged. Make sure you're spending part of each day focused on other people and not just yourself. Dare to ask for help if you're trapped by an addiction to alcohol or pornography or other self-destructive behavior. 
Through the grace of God, each of us has gifts in abundance to offer those around us. Though you could easily, maybe cynically, say, "Yeah, yeah, yeah," and never give this one more thought, I hope you won't. Take some time to pray about what you have to offer to the world, and do not fear to help light the way. 
Kate Barrett is the director of Resources and Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are not those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

No need for attacks 
In response to Will Guappone's sug­gestion that we must accept bad behav­ior from politicians ("Truth, lies and politicians," Jan. 29), I say stop hiding behind your cynicism and recognize that voters have a real choice in this election. 
It's true that no candidate is perfect, but when one campaign is engaging in bitter, divisive and patently false attacks while the other calls for inclusion, posi­tivity, and a new way forward, plati­tudes like Guappone's insistence that politics is dirty straight up hurt our democracy. 
Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama are running fundamentally different kinds of campaigns, and this year there's no need to accept lies and meanness as part of the game. Just stop making excuses and choose what is possible ­leadership that may not be perfect, but that all Americans can be proud of. 
Claire McGathey JuniOr abroad Jan. 29 


The true silverware thief 
As a senior, I have endured four years of being lumped in with our so-called "thieving" student body. I'm no thief...except for that time I stole a traffic cone and put it in the middle of the road. And that time that I took a "No Trespassing" sign while trespass­ing (just for the irony). Oh, and I totally saw a girl last year snag a nutcracker from North Dining Hall during the Christmas season. During Christmas! For shame. If you are reading this, you know who you are. Jesus is watching. 
Exceptions aside, every time that yearly summary of dining hall "theft" is published in the paper, I cringe. No more. It is time the truth came to light. My freshman year, I worked in SDH on the dishline. During my time spent plugging my nose and sift­ing through other people's refuse, I noticed something interesting. First of all, what's with people throwing away whole pieces of fruit? While they do make good projectiles for dishline food fights, I think that's a little waste­ful. Oh, and when baked potatoes hit your face they do some seri­ous damage. 
But I digress. What I noticed was that while frantically trying to keep up with the flow of trays, lots-and I mean lots-of sil­verware got thrown away. I think I know where all 12,960 spoons went, as well as any forks and knives. I'm sure that this accounts for almost all of the lost utensils, and maybe even some of the bowls, plates, and cups. Now as for the chairs and tables, I'm not so sure. But hey, I guess theo­retically those could get lost down the dishline as well. 
I guess my point, Food Services, is that when you point a finger, there are three pointing back at you. 
Scott Deeney 
senior 
Keough Hall Jan. 29 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Thursday, January 31, 2008 
n 'LOST' this year 
5· There will be no romantic tensionbetween Jack/Sawyer andKateio 
4· The survivors will set up ~confessional., so they reeo~ and vent their fee aboutthe others to a -.q,.o.•...... 
willie 
soJt¥e1d. ~·daddy issues, 
struggles, ,..,.,r.,...... schemes. 
1. The Harlem Globetrotters will 
paracb,ute onto the island to Ptc*u:p game with 
LOST: SEASON 4 PREVIEW 
ByTAEKANG 
Sc~ne Writer 
Tonight the best show on television rnturns after an eight-month hiatus. Having contacted a freighter SO miles offshore from their island, it seems that the , survivors of' Oeeanic Flight 815 will finally be rPscued · and be allowed to return honw. whether that be Sydney or Los Angeles. llut this is "Lost" and only a frPsh s«~t of mysteries and ehal­longes await our characters. 
From the intense first minutes of "Lost" Seas seAing the aftermath of the plane A erash onward, "Lost" has always 
Tonight
been a show that has pushed the boundaries of' our imagination and expanded its mythology. It taught us that "even heroes have secrets." It has inspired conversations about the signifkance of' numbnrs (4, 8, 15, 16, 23, 42), polar bears, and ultimately, "Where arc these people?" The show has changed the landscape of tel­evision. If you're watching a show about a multi-flth­nic cast with superpowers who are seemingly all con­nected, thank "Lost." If you're downloading your favoritH episode of "Grey's Anatomy" on iTunfls, thank "Lost." If you're watching "The Otlice'' online, thank "Lost." The show about the incredibly flawed survivors on an island who eome into contact with giant smoke monsters and mysterious fihrures named Jacob most likely did whatever your favorite show is 
doing first. 

Despite winning 
Not-so-fun fact: an Emmy for its 
first season,
There are 16 planned 
"Lost" came
episodes for Season 4, but under fire espe­
due to the writers' strike, cially in the third season by critics
only eight episodes have 
and fans alike.
been completed. The SHason 3 f'oeuscd 
future o.fthe remaining greatly on· The Others. especially
episodes will be unknown 
thH manipulative
until the strike is over. 
Ben and love-torn Juliet and this 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, January 31, 2008 
page 13 
took screen time away from fan favorites like Hurley and Locke. Also, the decision to air the first six­episodes long before the last 16 episodes was a con­troversial one. Some felt the creators had no plan for the storyline and only answered questions with more questions. 
With this, the producers announced the show would end after three more seasons and they began to satisfy many a quenching mystery. In the latter half of Season 3, "Lost" regained its original form and began to show quality episodes, one after another. This culminated 4 Premiere with the season finale that shocked and surprised the haters (who took back their harsh words about their
8p.m. 
show) and completely changed the 
story-telling narrative of the series. 
While "Lost" excites viewers with clifihangers and intrigues them with mysteries and philosophical dilemmas. it is ultimately the characters and flash­backs that are the heart of the show. Their dilemmas on and off the island and inner-demons drive the show forward. From the heroin-addled former rock star to the Korean eouple to the former torturer for the Iraqi Republican Guard, it is the depth of the characters that navigates "Lost." The viewers see that heroes are not always so perfect and villains are not always so clear-cut. 
With Season 3's thrilling conclusion, there lies the whole new mystery of who the people are on the freighter and the promises that these new characters are even more frightening and dangerous than The Others. 
The producers have compared each season to a chapter of a novel, which they unwrap and tell. I compan~ it to a live-course meal at a fine restaurant. The procedural shows like "Law and Order" or "real­ity" TV shows are like a Happy Meal at McDonald's compared to "Lost." They fill a basic need. but go no further and are not truly satisfying. No other show is as complex, deep, and intense as "Lost." It is ulti­mately a tale of survival and suffering, pain and redemption of tho human experience. Live together, die alone. 
Contact Tae Kang at tkang@nd.edu 
5· Jack Sheplh.aJtfclJdc Despite months, his clean as ever.  a haircut. for four short and  
save them. Boone isb non~stop and Jack pQ  

blood into him while·,..,."'...,........, him. Jack thinks his father sex with Jack's wife. Well, him. 
NCAA BASKETBALL -BIG EAST 
Pitt men topple Nova; Hoyas dominate Red Storm 
Lady Panthers extend winning streak to 11 games; top-ranked Huskies trouce South Florida, remain unbeaten 
points but was held to 11 by Georgetown's Jessie Sapp said. 
Associated Press 

Rutgers, felt it was a play wor­"I was surprised at the score but MEN'S thy of some showing off. at the same time I was happy." "The block and the three-point Sophomore reserve Vernon 
PITTSBUHGII -At the same play summed it up," Young said. Macklin scored a career-high 18 point of the game in which Pitt "I felt I was real energetic after points for the Hoyas (17 -2, 7-1) uncharacteristically fell apart in that. With that block, I felt like I who entered the game leading a rare home-court defeat four was coming out of my slump." the nation in field-goal percent­days before, the Panthers Scottie Reynolds scored 26 age defense (35.8) and they showed why they've stayed points, but Villanova (13-6, 3-5 were fifth in points allowed nationally ranked despite being Big East) -ranked 19th when it (57 .5). without two key starters. beat Pitt 64-63 at home on Jan. Their defensive effort wasn't 
Sam Young and Tyrell Biggs 6 -lost its third in a row. The the reason for this blowout. led a game-changing, second­streak is the Wildcats' longest St. John's (7-12, 1-7) had its half rally in which Pittsburgh since they dropped five straight worst shooting game in a season turned a one-point deficit into late in the 2003-04 season. They where it ranks next-to-last in an 18-point lead and the No. 18 have lost four of six overall. the 16-team Big East at 42.2 Panthers bounced back to beat percent. The Red Storm finished Villanova 69-57 on Wednesday Georgetown 74, St. John's 42 10-for-47 from the field (21.3 night. Georgetown and St. John's are percent) in losing their sixth 
Young scored 15 points and two of the foundation programs straight overall and eighth in finished oll" the pivotal 22-3 run of the Big East Conference. They their past nine games. that began with 13 minutes are about as far apart as two remaining by blocking Corey teams can get right now WOMEN'S Stokes' outside jumper, grab­whether it's on the scoreboard bing the ball and scoring on a or in the standings. UConn 71, South Florida 48 breakaway dunk while being The sixth-ranked Hoyas hand­Maya Moore called it perhaps fouled. Young completed the ed St. John's its worst Big East the worst game Connecticut has three-point play to make it 59-loss ever Wednesday night. played all season, and the top­41, then celebrated by puffing Their victory looked like a first­ranked Huskies still won by 23 out his chest and pointing at place team giving a lesson to a points. himself as if to say, "Hey, did team that is tied for last place. Moore scored 23, and UConn you see that?" "They're a Big East team and (20-0, 7-0 Big East) beat South 
Young, who is averaging 18 this conference is tough," Florida on Wednesday night, giving the Huskies 20 wins for the 15th consecutive season, and putting Moore in double Walker dominated the inside by Gloucester City, N.J. "She digits for the 20th consecutive and finished with a game-best was so happy to come home. game. 23 points and nine rebounds in "She is a totally different per­
That's the longest such streak her return to Philadelphia, lead­son from when she left, and I for a UConn player since Diana ing the No. 14 Panthers to a 72-think she is proud of who she Taurasi scored in double digits 63 victory over Villanova on is." in 31 consecutive games Wednesday night. Laura Kurz led Villanova (12­between Feb. 19, 2003 and Jan. "It feels good to get this win in 9, 2-6) with 19 points. Tia Grant 27, 2004. my hometown," said Walker, a scored 15 and Stacie Witman 
"That's great, but it doesn't standout at University City High. finished with 10. make this feeling inside feel any Mallorie Winn chipped in with The Wildcats relied on their better, as far as the way we 18 points as Pitt withstood a long-range shooting to stay know we could have played and tough second-half challenge and within striking distance of the didn't," Moore said. extended its winning streak to Panthers, but faded in the sec­
Renee Montgomery added 21 11 games, the team's longest ond half. Villanova shot 9-for-27 points for the Huskies, but was run since opening the 2006-07 from 3-point range. the only other UConn player in season 12-0. "We're much better than last double figures. She called it a Xenia Stewart added 14 year, but if you look at the wins bad win. points, and Shavonte Zellous and losses you wouldn't know 
"We were turning it over, not had 13 for the Panthers (17-3, it," Villanova coach Harry getting a shot at all," she said. 7-0 Big East) who prepped for Perretta said. "On defense, we weren't getting Saturday's key conference Villanova, which has taken all the way out on shooters or matchup against No. 4 Rutgers half its shots from beyond the they were getting offensive with a win. arc and entered the game shoot­rebounds. Those are just all the But Wednesday night the ing 38 percent (201-for-528) things that we can control. Panthers' focus was squarely on from 3-point range, has lost four That's when it's bad, when the Villanova, which was coming off of its last five and six of eight. things you can control, you do a tough loss to Rutgers. And it is "It's a tough way to live, but it bad at, then that's when you no surprise that Walker was the is the only way for us to com­have trouble." catalyst. pete with these teams because, 
"I talked to Marcedes for the athletically, we have a tough Pittsburgh 72, Villanova 63 last three days about coming time matching up," Perretta Marcedes Walker put on a home," said Pitt coach Agnus said of his team's dependence 
show for her hometown crowd. Berenato, who hails from near-on the 3. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR SALE FoR RENT 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to 
will love living here and parents will campus, sate, love knowing their child is looked 
after and safe! Secure, upstairs, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car 
two-level furnished two-bedroom, garage, 
two-bath condo unit with loft area. 

One thousand twenty-two square 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. 
feet of beautifully redecorated living 

space -includes 42" HD flat screen Avail. for Aug. 2008. 
TV and parking spaces in front of 

condo. Garages are available at an Call574-232-4527 or 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 NDAve., walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, WID, off street parking. Call 620-704-4663. 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09, 09/10 Now offer­ing "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 

PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­site at:http://osa.nd.edu/departments/pr egnant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ADOPTION­ DJ Climb  
Catholic family  is  
will provide your baby  in full effect.  

with a life of unconditional love, opportunity & security. The average Exp paid, Ally involved. human eyelash lives 1-888-833-8230. about 150 days 
THE 422  A coward was  
Always  originally a boy who  
hopping on  took care of cows.  
Fridays and  
Saturdays with  Emus cannot walk backwards  
Kim and Malia  
Our eyes are always the same size  

additional cost. Parking lot surveil-269-683-5038 or Dearest Lauren, from birth, 
lance cameras, pool, clubhouse, 57 4-340-1844. PREGNANT If you Sorry that the snow but our nose 
water and rubbish removal included OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? or ruined 27 Dresses. and ears never stop growing. 
as part of the ownership package. Large house available tor 2009-You do not have to be alone. 
Only $180 per month exterior main-2010. We want to help. someone you care about RESPEK Most American's 
tenance fees. Five minute walk or Call our 24 hour confidential hotline car homs beep 
less to the Notre Dame campus, Full renovations completed 2007. at has been sexually assaulted, Conan O'Brien in the key of "F". 
shopping and restaurants. Less 1-800-No Abort is 
than ten minutes to other hot spots Close to campus. 4,000+ square or visit growing a The full name of 
and mall by car. $200,000. Only feet,5 bathrooms. visit our web site at beard the Barbie Doll 
serious offers considered. 562-733-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. to support is 
5166. MacSwain@gmail.com www.lifecall.org shtml the writer's strike. Barabra Millicent Roberts. 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, January 30, 2008 page 15 
NFL
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Philadelphia 28·16·5 61 163 140 Pittsburgh 28-19-4 60 148 139 New Jersey 28·19·3 59 127 119 NY Islanders 24·21·6 54 126 146 NY Rangers 24-22·6 54 125 132 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Ottawa 32·15·4 68 179 147 Montreal 27·15-8 62 158 136 Boston 26-19-5 57 132 134 Buffalo 23-21-6 52 147 141 Toronto 20-24-8 48 144 167 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Carolina 25-24-4 54 161 171 Atlanta 24-25-4 52 145 176 Washington 23·23·5 51 147 160 Florida 22·25·5 49 130 148 Tampa Bay 20·26·5 45 147 172 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Detroit 38·10·4 80 177 112 Columbua 25·21-6 56 130 130 Nashville 25-21·5 55 147 141 St. Louis 23·19·7 53 126 138 Chicago 23-23-4 50 139 143 
Western Conference, Northwest ·DiVision 
team record pts. GF GA 
Minnesota 29-19·3 61 143 139 Calgary 25·17·8 58 146 143 Vancouver 26·20·5 57 133 125 
589 points, Brady's 50 touch­dence. They should have con­unaware so many people
Associated Press down passes were the most fidence," Brady said. "They wanted to interrogate him
Colorado 26-20·4 56 138 138 
Edmonton 23·25·5 51 140 161 
PHOENIX-23-17. ever for one season, and are the NFC champions." about his prediction. Just 17 points for the Randy Moss broke Jerry "I learned a lesson early in Nor was he aware, he said, Western Conference, Pacific Division potent Patriots. Rice's mark with 23 TD my career: No matter what that a hefty fine comes with A certain MVP quarterback catches, Burress might have you say during the week -missing a Super Bowl week
team record pts. GF GA 
thinks that's a Super-sized been a bit chintzy. and God knows we say a lot media session. 
San Jose 28-15·5 63 132 119 
di'iS. The last time the Patriots this week-we're going to "I don't understand what 
Dallas 29·20-7 63 158 141 
Tom Brady scoffed when played the Giants, in the sea­be focused on going out and the fuss is about," Burress
Anaheim 27-21-6 60 136 142 
told Wednesday that New son finale, New England ral­winning this game. We're said, surrounded by at least
Phoenix 27-22-2 56 141 139 
York Giants receiver Plaxico lied from 12 points down in confident, but I don't think as many TV cameras, micro­
Los Angeles 20-29-3 43 145 172 
Burress guaranteed New the third quarter to win 38-we share our thoughts with phones and notepads as York will beat Brady's unde­35. The Patriots have not everybody." Brady was two hours earlier. li:mted New England team in scored fewer than 20 points Burress did. And when he Nobody wants to lose." Sunday's Super Bowl. in their 18 victories, and the showed up 33 minutes late "All this is entertainment," 
"We're only going to score last time they put up only 17 for the Giants' media session added Burress, who was held 17 points?" Brady said before was Dec. 10, 2006-a 21-0 Wednesday morning, there out of practice WednesdayNCAA Men's Basketball chuckling about it. "OK. Is loss at Miami in their last was speculation the wide because of an ankle injury Plax playing defense? I wish regular-season defeat. receiver was trying to avoid that has plagued him all sea­
ESPN/USA Today Poll 
he had said 45-42 and gave Even if the Giants' defense the spotlight. son. "It's sports, and sports team record pts. us a little credit for scoring performs at its peak, it's still Turns out Burress was are entertainment. So 23-17 more point'>." doubtful New England will spending time with his 1-is the prediction I made, but
1 Memphis(20) 19·0 764 
Considering the Patriots set score only 17 points. year-old son and family at the game still has to be
2 Kansas(11) 18·0 755 
an NFL record by scoring "I know they have confi-breakfast, claiming he was played."
3 Duke 17-1 700 4 North Carolina 19·1 663 5 UCLA 18-2 650 6 Georgetown 16·2 605 IN BRIEF 7 Michigan State 18·2 584 8 Tennessee 17-2 567 
17·2 Pettitte to corroborate Rockne crash site caretaker PGA Tour's most pov.ular event 
9 Washington State 51$ 
McNamee's story dead at 90 competes with Stipemowl
10 Texas 16·3 473 
WASHINGTON -A lawyer for Andy EMPORIA, Kan. -Easter Heathman, SCOTISDALE, Ariz. -For a change,
11 Indiana 17·2 450 
Pettitte's former personal trainer said who was 13 when he raced to a field the FBR Open isn't the biggest show in
12 Butler 19·2 405 
13 Wisconsin 16·3 395 Tuesday he believes the pitcher will tell near his family's central Kansas farm to town, not with the Super Bowl just 14 Stanford 16·3 348 Congress he discussed human growth find the plane crash that killed legendary down the freeway. 15 Xavier 17-4 252 hormone with Roger Clemens between Notre Dame football coach Knute Still, it's "party on" when the PGA 
the 2001 and 2002 seasons. Rockne, has died. He was 90. Tour's most raucous event begins a four­
The lawyer, Earl Ward, said Pettitte Heathman died Tuesday at an day run Thursday at TPC Scott<>dale. talked about HGH with trainer Brian Emporia, Kan., hospital, where he had The FBR draws the largest crowds on McNamee following a conversation been for about a week after contracting the PGA Tour. The biggest day is with Clemens, who has denied that he pneumonia, said his son, Tom Heathman. Saturday, when more than 150,000 rev­
around the dial used HGH or steroids. McNamee Tom Heathman said Wednesday that elers are expected to attend. Some even worked with both Clemens and Pettitte. his father had been taking people to the watch the golf. Total attendance has 
"We're hopeful based on Andy's rep­crash site, located on private land near topped a half-million each of the past utation that he will corroborate Brian's the Heathman farm, for about 20 years. four years. statements with regard to Roger," He said his father gave the free tours When the Super Bowl was held in Ward said in a telephone interview. because he wanted to honor Rockne, nearby Tempe in 1996, the tournament
NBA 

Pettitte's meeting with a congression­who at 43 was at the height of his career moved up its schedule with the final al committee investigating drug use in at the time of the March 1931 crash. round on Saturday. Not this year. The Cleveland at Portland baseball was postponed until Monday. Rockne led the Fighting Irish to con­competition will end Sunday, about an 
9 p.m., ESPN He originally was slated to appear for a secutive undefeated seasons his final two hour before the Patriots and Giants kick deposition or transcribed interview seasons. His death, which President off in Glendale. Wednesday but the date was changed Herbert Hoover called "a national loss," As usual, Tiger Woods is not entered, Tuesday by the House Oversight and made front-page news across the coun-opting instead for a more lucrative trip Government Reform Committee. try. to Dubai. 

--------------------~---------­
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freshmen help Rebels snap slump vs. Vanderbilt 
No.1 Memphis wins 15th consecutive road game; Spartans beat Illini, reach best 21-game record in school history 
Associated Press 
OXFOBD, Miss. -The rest of 
the Southeastern Conference 
might want to take notice of 
Mississippi's Eniel Polynice. 
The small forward relent­lessly drove to the basket for 1 H points Wednesday night in the Bebels' 74-58 much-need­ed victory over Vanderbilt and rendered Shan Foster, one of th1~ SEC's top scorers, inefTec­tive. 
"J>olyniee was better off the dribble than we were about getting in front of him and he was a great l'inisher," Vanderbilt coach Kevin Stallings said. "lie had six layups in the first half and live eame against one guy." 
That one guy was likely Foster, though Stallings didn't want to identify the player after he made the comment. But Ole Miss players were well aware of the score after Polyniee's tough all-around game. 
lie finished with live assists. four rebounds and two blocks and sealed the game with a steal and dunk with about three minutes left. As impor­tant, he held foster, the SEC's No. 2 scorer, live points below his average of 19 pM game. 
"E.P.'s always on the other team's best man," Ole Miss' Dwayne Curtis said. 
Polyniee provided most of the highlights -including three eye-popping reverse layups off baseline drives -but it was Ole Miss' freshmen who pulled the game out when Vanderbilt rallied in the second half. 
Led by Chris Warren, fresh­men scored 18 of Ole Miss' first 26 points in the pivotal opening minutes of the second half as the Bebels (16-3, 3-3 Southeastern Conference) stopped a two-game losing streak and sent the Commodores (17-4, 2-4) to their fourth loss in five games. 

Memphis 89, Houston 77 
Coach John Calipari shrugged when he learned Kansas lost on Wednesday night, leaving his top-ranked Memphis Tigers as the last undefeated team in the coun­try. 
Chris Douglas-Hoberts scored 30 points and Joey Dorsey grabbed 22 rebounds, match­ing a career high, as Memphis equaled the best start in school history with an 89-77 win over Houston. 
About the same time the Tigers closed out the Cougars, the Jayhawks lost 84-75 to Kansas State. Calipari only cares that his team seems to be improving with each game. 
"It's nice, I guess," he said. "Are we getting better? We got better today." 
Robert Dozier scored 17 of his 21 points in the second half and the Tigers (20-0, 6-0 Conference USA) overcame a season-high 22 turnovers to extend their regular-season winning streak to 39 games. Memphis matched its best start since 1985-86 and won its 15th consecutive road game. 
The Tigers countered their turnover total by shooting 58.5 percent, out-rebounding the smaller Cougars 49-29 and scoring 44 points in the paint. 
"We turned it over a few too 
many times, but we played 
well," Calipari said. "What you 
saw was one of our best 
efforts." 

Dion Dowell scored 23 points and Robert McKiver scored 20 for the Cougars (15-4, 4-1), who dropped to 2-10 all-time against the No. 1 team. Houston coach Tom Penders was also denied his 600th career victory. 
Penders was more resigned than disappointed afterward, conceding that the Cougars were simply overmatched. 
"They're just a great teain," Penders said. "You're going to have to play an extremely strong, efficient game, and hope they're not playing at their highest level, to knock them off." 
Michigan State 51, Illinois 
41 

Drew Neitzel scored nine of his 15 points during a key stretch in the second half, helping No. 8 Michigan State beat Illinois 51-41 and set a school record on Wednesday night. 
"The milestone will probably mean more to me tomorrow than it does right now," coach Tom Izzo said. 
The Spartans (19-2, 7-1 Big Ten) have their best 21-game record in program's 109-year history. 
The Illini (10-12, 2-7) didn't make it easy. 
Illinois went on a 17-2 run after a rough start, led at half­time and responded to Neitzel's scoring flurry by tak­ing a 32-31 lead. 

The Spartans took control make two. Then we come with a 9-2 run, then took down, drive to the basket, get advantage of shooting free fouled and don't make free throws while the Illini strug­throws we need. gled at the line to hurt their "I wish it wasn't the same comeback hopes. story, but it's been like that all 
"We kept it within a couple year for us." of possessions, but still the free Illinois reserves Mike Tisdale throws are so tough for us," and Calvin Brock each scored Illinois coach Bruce Weber seven points and a couple said. "We foul them, and they other players had six points. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME' 
(;OLLEGE Of ARTS ANO L11Tl'ERS 
Design, Copy & Logistic (DCL) Services Serving our Notre Dame Community 
Quality Color Quality Blackl\Vhite Copies & fransparencies Copies & Transparencies 
Faxes Scanning Personal & Departmental Black/White & Color 
Postet·s/Flyers/Bnlchures Comb-Binding Printing & Designing Various Sizes & Colors 
Quality Paper Choices Colors/Weight/Non-Acid 
Laminating Various sizes 
Cutting Services 
up to IT' 


Heat-Binding Course Packets PRINTING available on binding Produced & sold by I>CL Services 
Pick-up and Delivery Service Available on Campus 

FAST+ FRIENDLY+ REASONABLE PRICES Full-Service On-Campus Locations: 301 O'Shaughnessy (copv30}(iind.edu) 
631-5632 235 Decio Hall (decioctr. J(ti)nd.edu) 631-6672 ~Now offering charges to Student Accounts 
OPEN MONHAY through FRIDAY + 8-5 l)M 
Methods of Payment Cash +Check+ VISA + MasterCard + FOAPAL +Student Account 
Thursday, January 31, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Iguodala scores 18, 76ers destroy Bucks by 43 
Magic's fourth quarter run secures win over heat; Raptors Bargnani scores 19 points to defeat Wizards 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Watching on Philadelphia's bench with a rare fourth quarter off, Samuel Dalembert felt like an investor following his hot stock tip sky­rocket on the scrolling ticker. 
Philly piled up the points ­+30,+39,+41,+47. 
Milwaukee totally crashed. 
"You want to see how far you can hold them down," Dalembert said. "We gave them no life at all." 
Andre Iguodala scored 18 points and Andre Miller had 14 to lead Philadelphia to a 112-69 victory over the Bucks on Wednesday night, the 76ers' largest win in more than 25 years. 
"This is one we need to forget about," said Bucks coach Larry Krystkowiak. 
The Sixers, who won for only the fourth time in the last 15 games, hit a pair of milestones in the rout: This was their largest blowout victory since defeating Atlanta 132-85 on Dec. 8, 1982, and the Sixers recorded their widest margin of victory in 12 seasons at the Wachovia Center. 
The Sixers had 32-point wins over Charlotte in 2005 and Seattle in 2001. 
"Oh really?" said Iguodala, his eyes widened. "It shows we just kept playing." 
Thaddeus Young scored 14 points for the Sixers, who ended the month with a 4-4 mark. Not great, but enough for rebuilding Philadelphia to find itself on the brink of a playoff spot. Coach Maurice Cheeks has tried to squash blossoming talk of a postseason push and instead worry only about winning a nice slate of home games leading into the All-Star break. 
Counting the win against the Bucks, the Sixers play seven of eight at home before the break. 
Cheeks said before the game his goal for the semi-homestand was to win all seven. Well, they're off to a nice start after punishing the Bucks for all 48 minutes. 
"That was a great game for us from start to finish," Cheeks said. 
Royal Ivey scored 17 for the Bucks, who were without lead­ing scorer Michael Redd for the third straight game because of a left knee strain. Mo Williams had 14. 
The Bucks haven't won on the road since winning at Philadelphia on Jan. 8. They are only 5-22 on the road, including an 87-80 loss at New Jersey on Tuesday. They also matched their lowest point total of the season. 
"There wasn't much fuel in the tank," Krystkowiak said. "There wasn't much they could call upon. I know they're tired, but we need to get our energy up, rest up and get our feet back under us." 
Magic 107, Heat 91 
The score suggests that it was just another Orlando Magic blowout victory over the woebe­gone Miami Heat. 
A victory, yes. 
A blowout, well, not exactly. 
Hedo Turkoglu had 27 points and 12 rebounds, Rashard Lewis scored 19 points and the Magic needed 12 consecutive points in the final quarter to pull away and beat the under­manned Heat Wednesday night. 
"Glad to have that win," Magic coach Stan Van Gundy said. "Scary game." 
Dwight Howard scored 16 points with 13 rebounds and Maurice Evans added 13 points for the Southeast Division-lead­ing Magic (29-18), who have won the last eight meetings between the Sunshine State rivals. 
Ricky Davis scored 21 points, while Luke Jackson and Chris Quinn added 14 apiece for the Heat, who played without Dwyane Wade (flu), Shaquille O'Neal (hip) and Udonis Haslem (ankle). Not surprisingly, given the lineup depletion, Miami trailed most of the way in what became its 17th loss in the past 18 games. 
But that didn't mean the Heat couldn't make things interest­ing. 
"We all knew that it was going to be tough because those guys ... they've got nothing to lose," Turkoglu said. 
Daequan Cook's jumper with 11 minutes remaining drew Miami within 83-80, and the Heat were clearly thinking upset. 
From there, though, it was all Orlando. 
An 18-1 run gave a close game the appearance of a run­away. 
"We thought we had a battle there," Quinn said. "And then they stepped up." 
In the teams' last four meet­ings at Orlando, the Magic have prevailed by an average of 23 points. 
It was the first time since O'Neal was traded to Miami that he, Wade and 1-Iaslem all missed 

For all of your skin care, cosmetic, and hair removal needs visit our South Bend office located just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble specializes in custom facials using LaRoche Posay skin care products, Jane lredale mineral-based cosmetics and waxing services. 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth, soft & beautiful! 

a game. And the diminished bench seemed to take a toll on the Heat down the stretch. Miami shot 28 percent (5-for­
18) in the final quarter, getting outscored 24-15. 
Raptors 122, Wizards 83 
The Toronto Raptors didn't have to wait long for another shot at Washington, and they certainly took advantage of it. 
Andrea Bargnani scored 19 points, Chris Bosh had 16 and Toronto used a big second quar­ter and a flurry of 3-pointers to beat the Wizards on Wednesday night. 
The 39-point margin of victo­ry matched the biggest in team history, a 112-73 win over Atlanta on April12, 2002. 
"They blew us out of the water," Washington guard DeShawn Stevenson said. 
Anthony Parker had 15 points and Jose Calderon added 11 points and 11 assists for the 
Raptors, who avenged a  108­ 
104  overtime  loss  at  
Washington on Tuesday.  

"We were mad about [Tuesday] night's game so we just came out and played our basketball game by being more aggressive," Calderon said. "We did this tonight and didn't let the other team get back." 
The top pick in the 2006 draft, Bargnani reached double figures for the third time in four games. 
"If he continues to do that, this team is going to be a lot better," Bosh said. 
Juan Dixon had 12 points and Carlos Delfino added 11 for Toronto, which finished 13-of­18 from 3-point range. The Raptors are the NBA's best 3­point shooting team, making 
42.3 percent from beyond the arc. 
Washington's Roger Mason called Toronto's shooting "phe­nomenal," but Antawn Jamison said the Haptors benefited from easy looks. 
"You can ill afford to have them shooting open jump shots like they did tonight," Jamison said. "They got a numerous amount of open jump shots and they converted them." 
Toronto has won a season­high six straight at home and eight of 11 overall. 
"More than just the 3s, it's the way we moved the basketball," Toronto coach Sam Mitchell said. "We rebounded a whole lot better, we kept our defense like we did [Tuesday] night. The difference is we shot the ball much better and we rebounded better." 
Stevenson led Washington with 16 points, Mason had 14, Andray Blatche 12 and Jamison 
11. The Wizards were without forward Caron Butler (hip flex­or) for the second straight game. 
The Wizards, who had won seven of 10, were out of this one early. Toronto scored the game's first 12 points before Stevenson made a 3-pointer. The Raptors led 28-23 after the opening quarter. 
"We just couldn't get it going," Jamison said. "We didn't com­municate. I'm disappointed with our performance defensively." 
A 3-pointer by Mason cut it to 36-32 with 7:56 remaining in the second, but that was the last time the Wizards were close. The Raptors pulled away with a 17-2 run over the next four minutes, capping the spurt with 3-pointers from Bargnani, Dixon, a hook shot by Rasho NestProvic and a :~-pointer from Delfino, forcing Washington to call timeout trailing 53-34. 
"They executed very well." Wizards eoaeh Eddie Jordan said. "We triPd different adjust­ments and we just didn't get it done. We didn't do enough to dose out people on the perime­ter and when we did, they still made shots." 

NHL 



Minnesota hands Anaheim fourth straight loss 
Kovalchuk injured, Thrashers end five-game losing streak; Red Wings score in third period to come back against Coyotes 
Associated Press 
ST. I'AUI., Minn. -Jean­SPbastien CiguPro and the An a lw i m llu r k s bogan tho longost continuous road trip in toam history with a thud. 
Brian holston, Marian (;abnrik and Mikko Koivu scorod lnss than two minutes apart in tlw serond period as tlw Minrwsota Wild beat tho IhH"ks !i-1 on WPdrwsday night in tlw first ganw for both te;uns following tlw All-Star broak. 
l'it>rre-Marr Bouchard and .James Slwppard also scorPd for MinnPsota. whid1 won its third in four ganws and sixth in nirw. 
Analwim. which got anotlwr shaky pt>rformanc.e from Cigupre, lost its l'ourth straight after a six-gam!• winning strPak. Th!• l>ul"ks. whose lorw goal camP l'rom CorPy l'nrry, havP scornd l"ivt> goals during tlw skid. 
, "Wn'vn got to start getting 
' dirty, start gt•tting in high-traf­fic an•as, playing our physical styiP of galllt' and playing our skating gamP," d!~l"enseman Chris l'rongPr said. "We'n~ a skating team that has to sup­port orw anotlwr, and when we don't we'vo got a lot of holes." This marked tlw start of an eight-ganw, 15-day road trip l'or the Dw~ks, who added last soason's leading seorP.r, Teemu S!danrw, to the team on Monday. The Finnish Flash, who scored 4S goals last sea­son, has skated with the team for thrno days but didn't dress for the game. "It nevor hurts to get good players," Ducks coach Randy Carlyle said. (;igunre, who dominated the Wild in playoff series in 2003 and 2007, had a rare Minnesota nwltdown early in the seeond period whiln tlw Ducks defense collapsod. ( ;igunro was going down on a slap shot by Holston, but tho puck was dPilP!".tt>d by Francois Beauclwmin and went into tho top ~~orrwr of tlw rwt S2 soconds in to tlw period. It was Holston's fourth goal in four games. 

Thrashers 4, Penguins 1 
Tlw Atlanta Thrashers had to wait to find out how costly their slump-ending victory over Pittsburgh would prove to be. 
Tlw ThrashPrs lost star llya Kovalchuk to a knoe injury 

while ending a five-game losing 
streak in Wednesday night's 4-1 
victory over the Penguins. !low 
badly hurt Atlanta's leading 
seornr was couldn't immediate­
ly be determinml. 
In his f'irst game sinee 
Sunday's All-Star Game, also at 
Philips Arena, Kovalchuk 
scon~d his :{Sth goal but was 
injurnd in a knee-on-krwe hit 
l'rom Pittsburgh's Jarkko Huutu 
in tlw sPcond period. 
Kovalchuk made a brief 
rnturn latPr in thn frame for 
!HlP shift. liP missnd the third 
pnriod and will be examinPd by 
tPam doctors on Thursday. 
"You card k1•np him off the icn," Thraslwrs gnrwral manag­Pr and roach Don Waddnll said. "II!) was dPI.Prminnd to eome out and at lnast tPst it. 
"Thnsn kind ol' injuries, you always wait until tlw next day and snP how tlw swPlling is and just snn how hn n~acts from it," lw said. 
Kovalchuk was lnvnled by Huutu :{:21 into the seeond peri­od. The eollision lnf't Kovalehuk laying on thP ir.e in obvious pain in front of Atlanta's bench before lw limpnd to the locker room. 
Atlanta's Steve MeCarthy immediately followed the colli­sion by crashing into Huutu and then punehing the lef't winger while having him pinned against the boards in front of the Thrashers bench. 

Red Wings 3, Coyotes 2 
The Detroit Red Wings waited until the third period to strike, and that was good enough. 
Nicklas Lidstrom's goal with 7:2S left completfld a eomeback and lifted the NIIL-leading Red Wings to their firth straight win, win over the Phoenix Coyotes on Wedrwsday night. 
It was the sixth goal for Lidstrom, who also had two assists. II!Jnrik Zntterberg and Tomas llolmstrom also scored, Pawl l>atsyuk had three assists, and Chris Osgood made 32 saves. The biggest stop came on Shane Doan's breakaway with 30 sneonds left. 
Martin llanzal and Ed .Jovanovski seored for Phoenix and llya Bryzgalov stopped 36 shots. 
Lidstrom beat Bryzgalov, who was scre!H1nd by llolmstrom, with a slap shot with 7:28 lef't. 
"I was aiming on the blocker 



Information Meeting 
Thursday, January 31, 6:00 PM 
DeBartolo Hall, Room 116 
For more info visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 

side. There were two or three bodies in front of the net and I knew Holmer was one of them," Lidstrom said. "I just tried to pick the blocker side corner. If Holmer's not there, he's proba­bly going to see the puck and make the save." 
But Osgood still had to foil Doan, who got behind the Red Wings defense and was in alone from the blue line. 
"I just tried to stay up as long as I could," Osgood said. "I tried to get everything low so he couldn't slide underneath me." 
The Coyotes led 2-1 after two periods. 
"We were a little bit rusty at the start. They had some jump on us," Lidstrom said. "I think it helpP.d their cause by playing !Tuesday]. They got their legs going. It took us a while to get ours. Then we took the game over and created a lot of chanees. 

Thursday, January 31, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 


Belles drop game to Olivet 
Comets catch fire i~ second half, defeat struggling Saint Mary's 
SMC BASKETBALL BOXING 
Politician refuses to appear vvith Iron Mike 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sporrs Wrirer 
Despite all five starters scoring in double figures, Saint Mary's skid continued Wednesday when the Belles lost 80-70 at Olivet. 
Coming off back-to-hack confer­ence losses to Calvin and Hope, Saint Mary's (8-10, 4-6 MIAA) entered the game needing a win to get back on track in the MIAA. 
The first half looked promising, especially when two free-throws by junior guard Katie Rashid pushed the Saint Mary's lead to 21-13 with 10:13 left in the first half. But Olivet chipped away at the lead, and the Belles clung to a 33-31 lead at halftime. 
The Comets tied the score at 42 on a 3-pointer by sophomore guard Nykole Pfall" and followed that up with another trey, this time by junior guard Sarah Mangold with 13:57 to go in the game. Olivet got up by as many as six, at 55-49, with 10:15 to play. 
Twice the Belles cut the margin to just a single point -first on a Kammrath layup with 7:28 left to make the score 57-56, and later on a Newsom three to bring the score to 62-61 with 6:05left. 
But the Comets scored 15 of the game's next 17 points to open up an insurmountable lead. Olivet hit its free throws down the stretch to keep the Belles at bay until the final buzzer. 
As a group, the Belles' starters had their best offensive output of the season. Junior guard Meghan Conaty led all scorers with 17 points, including 14 in the first half. 

Oose behind Conaty were guard Alison Kessler with 15, sophomore forward Anna Kammrath with 14, junior forward Erin Newsom with 13, and Rashid with 11. 
Kammrath and Newsom also came up big on the boards, pulling down 10 and nine rebounds, respectively. 
But no bench players from Saint Mary's scored, and Olivet's reserves totaled 32 points. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu. 
The Development Phone Center would like to recognize the following "Businesses of the Month" for their support in our semi-annual incentive auction: 

Cragan's Irish Import Shop Ciao's Italian Bakery Chick-Fil-A Casa Del Rio Hacienda Mexican Restaurant CJ's Pub The N 0 Hammes Bookstore Parisi's Restaurant Atria Hair Salon 2 Anthony Travel Ten Thousand Villages Fiddler's Hearth DPAC Carrabba' s Restaurant Rocco's Pizza Francesco's Italian Restaurant Bruno's Pizza Chili's Bar & Grill Texas Land & Cattle Breadsmith Cinnabon 
We would like to thank them for making the Phone Center the best job on campus and our auction a continued success. 
South African leader under pressure from women's rights groups 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG, South 
Africa -ANC leader Jacob 
Zuma withdrew from a chari­
ty fundraising banquet hon­
oring former boxer Mike 
Tyson on Wednesday after 
being criticized by women's 
groups in South Africa. 
In a country with one of the 
highest rates of rape, Zuma 
was found not guilty of rap­
ing a family friend two years 
ago. Tyson served a three­
year sentence for the 1991 
rape of an 18-year-old beauty 
queen in Indiana. 
Reporters arriving at the 
event were handed a state­
ment from organizers saying 
Zuma "had been called away 
on urgent ANC business." 
Women's groups had called 
on Zuma to withdraw from 
the event. Earlier 
Wednesday, the One in Nine 
Campaign, a group of 
women s 
rights 
organiza­
woman

"... It seems to us that
tions, had been wear­called "the pressure placed on him in ing a skirt, pairing of which he
the media may have 
Zuma and interpreted
swayed him. " 
Tyson as inviting particularly his sexual distasteful Carrie Shelver advances. and abhor­
People Opposing Women Abuse Z u m a has 
rent." 
Carrie Shelver, of People Opposing Women Abuse. called Zuma's with­drawal a good step. 
"It may be, and it seems to us, that pressure placed on him in the media may have swayed him," Shelver said. 
About 50,000 rape cases are reported each year in South Africa, almost 150 per day. Women's rights groups estimate that only one in nine rapes is reported to police. 
Zuma had planned to be the keynote speaker at the banquet, where an auction of Tyson items was to benefit children's organizations. 
African National Congress officials did not immediately return calls. 
Tyson, once called the "baddest man on the planet," will tour Soweto on Thursday and be a celebrity commenta­tor at a boxing event on Saturday. 
Organizers promised Tyson would make a statement at the banquet denouncing vio­lence against women. 
However, Tyson did not address the issue. He took to the stage and made a brief statement about how pleased he was to be in South Africa and thanked the organizers for their hospitality. 
He then returned to his seat next to Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, the anti-apartheid icon and ex­wife of former president Nelson Mandela, who he befriended some years ago in New York. 
The master of ceremonies, Carol Manana, did make comments supporting women's rights and the erad­ication of violence against women. Manana is a televi­sion sports presenter and survivor of domestic abuse. 
Both Zuma and Tyson are seen as fighters who have survived harsh upbringings to become powerful popular figures. Both have had run­ins with the law, and have poor records when it comes to women's rights. 
The 41-year-old boxer, who famously took a bite out of rival Evander Holyfield's ear, also was accused of abusing his former wife. 
Zuma, who is facing cor­ruption charges, said during 
his rape 
trial that the 
had 


Warren & Linda
ceo's 
Rest&tmmt 
Jirsf On~qinal ,'l¥ua in Joma/ 
Since 1951 
Spee;_Ji!lfizing in ftalian Entrem$ 
Tv€<%. ~Thurs.: 5:00PM-11:00 PM frL • Sat: 5:00 PM -1:00 AM 537 North St Louis .. South Bend, IN 
'>74-233-2464 


$2 coupon; dine-in only; limit 1 per table; expires 2/29 
apologized 
for his state­

ments dur­ing his trial, but recently earned more criticism from women's groups when he took a second wife. Polygamy is in line with some South African traditions. 
Zuma's "statements prior, during and post rape trial reveal his patriarchal beliefs on men and women's roles and rights in South Africa," the statement from the One in Nine Campaign said. 
The women's groups said they couldn't protest at the banquet venue, a casino and hotel on airport land, which is considered a key national security point. Emperors Palace is hosting Tyson. 
Mark Jakins, owner of the casino and hotel, acknowl­edged many sporting heroes have been "tinged by contro­versy," but that organizers were "focusing on Mike Tyson's credentials as a boxer." 
Shelver said Tyson was a poor role model. 
"There is some skepticism about his rehabilitation and you need to be careful," she said. "The youth are an easy target. They love sporting heroes." 
Proprietors 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 



Irish look for fifth straight win over Michigan 
No. 23 Wolverines have dropped first two dua I nza tches 
By DAN MASTERTON Sports Writer 
Notn~ Damn has won four s t r a i g h t m a t ~~ h e s a g <Li n s t Michigan. 
Tonight, they'll look for a f'il'th. 
The No. 9 Irish travel to the Varsity Tennis Center in Ann Arbor. Mich. to facP end. 

Despite winning the piv­otal doubles point 3-0 and 2-1 in their first two match­es, Louderback is not satis­fied with the play from his pairs. 
"Yesterday we switched around a little bit and tried some different things, and we're going to do more of that [in practice Wednesday)," Louderback said. 
The coach is continuing to mix and match his players to l'ind the best combina­tions to complement 
the No. 2 :{ his top team
"We always know
Wolverines. of Brook
they're going to be
Irish coach Buck and .lay LoudPrbark good. They're a Lough Keley Tefft, i s I 6 -;{ i n t h i s ranked No.
team." 
rivalry-whirh :~ in the !11• says always nation. charges up his Jay Louderback Although team. Irish coach none of 
" B e i n g Michigan's Mirhigan. our players or kids arP alwavs doubles up for it." l.otldr•rback said. teams arn ranked, 
ThP WolvPrinPs arr· com­I. o u d P r b a e k ing off bark-to-bark 7-0 WolveriiH'S. 
lossns at thP VandPrbilt 
a n d K P n t. u r· k y and arP look·­ing for tlll'ir first win of tlw season. 
l.ouderbark is not taking them lightly, howevrn·. 
" T h " i r 
opponl'nts havn bnnn vnry good. 

hands of "We always 
"Their opponents have been oery good. They've had lwo or three three-set matches and they're 
young. 
Jay Louderback 
Irish coach 
sr~ason on 
r e s p n c t s t lu~ 
know thny'ro going to bn 
g 0 0 d 
Thny'rH a tough team," Louderback said. 
.I u n i o r Chisako Sugiyama is the Wolverines' top player. s h c entered the 
second 

Michigan's all-time winning percentage list, at just under 75 percent of her matches. She won 18 of 21 dual matches last year and went undefeated in Big Ten play. 
Overa)l, Louderback is 
pleased with his team's preparation, but he knows 
that playing  on  the  road  
against  a  good indoor  team  
will be challenging.  

"We had a great week of practice, but they've got good indoor players who hit 

MARCO'S 
the ball really big," the coach said. 
Notre Dame leads the all­time series with Michigan 18-8. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 
Choose From 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ha rn & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 




SOUTH BEND 
.527.50 IN 933 (f\J. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Set11ing Notre D8rre & St. ~.'l8ry'.s) 
574-243-1122 
T lw y ' v e h a d t w o o r t h r e e three-set matchos, and they're young," ho said. "ThPy'rp playing two or three l'rPshmPrl. I look for 
t.hnm  to  bn  toughnr  
Thursday  than in tlw  f'irst  
two matrlws."  

For Notre Damn's part, llw Irish want to shake orr an upsPt loss to No. 16 Vanderbilt from last week-
1/NIVER.IITYOFNOTRE DAME du I.AC NOTRE DAME, INDIANA GENERAL NPDES PERMIT AI'PLICATION PUBLIC NOTICE STATEMENT 
1/UIIIfnlt~ of Notrt (l<smt du IJJC, /OD f•ollllft 1Ju1/d111£ .Yotrt /)amr, /udilll!t!l 
J6H6.~MJ,wlth 
rtt•rd to ~1. furph Wr, /1 u.~bmlt11111 11 ."iol/rt tt/llltrN/ lttkr to 1/tttlfJ tht flllllulllll-,..,utmtnl ofllr~ttUIIIIIffJIIIII w....,..,......,rJ/"11' llll#lf/111 rompf7 !1111.11 
thrrf4111rt-llllldtr1271A.CIJIJitt Itt dh1l11trp wa~tn<1114'T -1Wd 10/tlr IIM·c•lltllfl cHI/"' 11'11/rr Any f""IHI 
IIQT/rl'fll 
/t)//!/llllf/IJII/Ifllltlljlpt"ffflllll'rlfllllfOIJtt/llr/frH!Iotn!II//LIIII'/JitlJtD(/h~l'ffitl 
"/f./1\'lrUIIIIfl'llllf/ 
Adjlh~tonllttll/" "" lldjud/(ollD"J' il•rlllf M fk qwnf/1111 ofwhl'thrr tltU froc/IWJ ollmdd~l'f~ 
,.,Jtr tlttJ .VP/IB I"IHJ'rll ,_,.,.., r•lr .-t1 ~~ llfWl H l'fl'r-tllt4tll "" l1trr llflll/lfltn~(I$J.UTOfrDmllH,_,tfd!u,_btl,..,l,ft !lllch••fll/l'lltl'lfll"l/or 
llll<ldjud"lltr1h''"'"l 
I~ I 1t.tlk thr "..,... '"'d addmJ ef1M 1f"Nlflfi.AIIJI V.r rtqurll, 
tBI lll•ttfT /Itt llllt,..l-/ tAr ,n--M<~At•t l.ltr '""f"''"­
1<) !Mnllf,al"tHNU/IU ttp"'"'lrtl, liN f""DII fiNLlllfllht lt/lllfd, 
{f)) Wlfr wuh JH!rtlrrd.rfllw /Itt r-f-• U.rl"f'fWtl, i/ / liltIt tvtlh ptiTI/ru/lltlty 1/111 lwt" praJNWd /ttl' COIU/dtmlloll Ill thr 
l~tolrlllf,IIHs/; 
til ''"'' wtth J'f'Ttl, 11t.ntt ti• ,.._, wl!r dlr .VP()Ulf'lttllfl ptrnut rult illa11/J JIG/ btllwtl/Q/t If &kfiUCMI'pT tfhll/1/ftJ /11 tim 1111/ht. 
A•~ ~Nt It rf1/lltll 1/ul/l br matlt4 or df:ltw:rrJ 
,, 
fiJI!"*of/IIV/TI>IIHit/IIA/.-\Ii}luli(.Uollll 
/otdUUto~<i•l'trllmtll/ltll~, N•rtll 
/OO."'.rthSt••trArrllli't.•-·""UH9 
/lfiii•IMJ'fi/U,/IIA!Aif<l 
l(IJ(I.I 

dual 



@nd.edu 
Thursday, January 31, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Spartans 
continued from page 24 
enough good looks at second serves and that really hurt us. It also limited our oppor­tunities to capitalize on easy points." 
The Irish will look to con­tinue their winning ways as they travel to Evanston, Ill., this afternoon to take on Northwestern, with the match set to start at 4. Notre Dame is 3-1 on the young season. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Ho01e 
continued from page 24 
Hillesland had four assists, six rebounds and a momen­tum-changing dunk, while Ayers scored 10 points in 19 minutes off the bench, including hitting two of his three 3-point attempts. 
Brey said he will keep the new lineup for the foresee­able future, including tonight's game against the Friars, because Hillesland's quickne'ss makes the Irish 
harder to defend. 
"There's a little differ­ent feel with me and [point guard] Tory [Jackson] both driving and trying to kick it to shooters," Hillesland said. 
Ayers said 

"We,re not looking past Providence. They beat Connecticut, who,s the hottest team in our league. ,, 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
coming off the bench forced him to make better use of his time on the floor. 
"It made me a little more aggressive," he said. "It gave me a little more edge." 
But the junior hasn't ruled out starting again later this season. 
"I want to keep working hard and maybe get back into the starting lineup if 1 can," he said. 
Most of Notre Dame's scoring against the Wildcats came from two familiar faces. Junior guard Kyle McAlarney, who poured in 30 last Saturday, is averaging 18.2 points per game in Big East play and was awarded the con­ference's player-of-the­week award for his per­formance. 
"He's a big part of things," Brey said of McAlarney. "His confidence and his aggressiveness can jumpstart us sometimes." 
Lost in McAlarney's suc­cess last Saturday was the play of sophomore forward Luke Harangody, who 
scored 2 5 points. The 6-foot-8 Harangody, who is aver­aging 22.5 points per game, has been espe­cially effec­tive against smaller cen­ters. 
Providence will proba­bly guard 
Harangody with forward Randall Hanke. At 6-foot­11, Hanke will have a height advantage on the Irish big man, but he will not have quite the advan­tage that 7 -footers Hasheem Thabeet of Connecticut and Roy Hibbert of Georgetown had when they slowed Harangody earlier this month. 
The Friars get most of their scoring from their guards, four of whom aver­age double-figure points per game. Their leading scorer is junior Jeff Xavier, who averages 13.1 points per game. 
At 12-7 and 3-4 in the conference, Providence is in a tie for 11th in the Big East. 
But they beat third-place Connecticut on the road on Jan. 17, so Brey is taking nothing for granted. 
"We're not looking past Providence," Brey said. "They beat Connecticut, who's the hottest team in our league." 
Notes: 
+ 
Harangody was named one of the top-30 candi­dates for the 2008 Naismith Award, college basketball's most presti­gious player-of-the-year honor. 

+ 
Tonight's game is "Camo Night." Free camou­flage T-shirts will be hand­ed out to the entire lower bowl of the Joyce Center. 


At halftime, Notre Dame will honor Sgt. First Class John Adams, who has recently been named one of the United States Army's "Real Heroes." A video about Brey's trip to Kuwait over the summer for Operation Hardwood will be shown. 
+ As part of ESPN's "Student Spirit Week," ESPN2 will feature the Leprechaun Legion during coverage of the game. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 



Friars 
continued from page 24 
shut them down on defense, Pspecially in the full-court press. 
"Their zone and man-to-man was pretty sprmul out, so they gavn you a little more opnn in the midd ln." Lech litner said. "And thnn in transition is whnn I just kind of try to do a little more !"or myself. either finding other pnople or finding my pull up jumper." 
Although it managed 85 points. Notre Damn shot only 4:~ percent from 

tho field -and "Once they started In the second only 36 pnrennt half. however,
pressing, it changed
in tho first half. the defense dis­
the game." 
Tlw Irish forgot integrated. wlwre they Notre Dame wnrn at the Phil Seymore gave up 35 start of the points in the
Friars coach 
just got that emotion going, which maybe motivated every­
body else." 
The Irish went on an 11-2 run to make the score 25-13 with 6:48 remaining. 
Notre Dame led 36-19 at half­time, holding the Friars to the lowest first-half total for an opponent since Michigan scon~d 18 on Dec. 2. Peters spearhead­ed the potent Irish full-court press, which thwarted the Friars' ofl"ensive opportunities. 
"Once they started pressing, it changed the game," Friars coach Phil Seymore said. "It changed our approach as to 
how we 
attacked offen­
sively." 
gamn; they looknd innpt and sluggish and thrnw passes away. But Caines grabbnd two quick stPals, Lndtlitner hit a three in the eorn(~r and PPtPrs stole thn inhounds pass and made the nasy layup to givP Notre Damn an 11-10 lmtd with 11 :48 lnfl in thn half. 
Irish coach Mu!Tet McGraw said thnre was a distinct inernase in tPam nnergy whnn Petms eanw ofl' tht~ htmeh. 
"Shn brings instant nnnrgy. Slw t~onws in ganws and tlwrn is a hugn difTerniH~e in how wn'rn playing." Md;raw said. 
Cainns' stnals also helped to bring tlw team out of its funk. 
"IGainnsl rnally was a spark dPfnnsivnly, nsp1~cially early on." McCraw said. "I think she final 20 minutes 
and allowed 

Providence to shoot 12-of-26 from the field. 
"The defense in the second half was as bad as we've played all year," McGraw said. "When they weren't turning the ball over, thllY wern scoring." 
Allhough the Irish widened their lead in the second half. their defense lacked intensity and lost focus near the end of th<l game. 
"Our post defense was partic­ularly bad." McGraw said. "And we just quit playing at the end. They were just trying to get the ball ba(:k to trv to score." 
Providenc~ (11-9, 1-6 Big Eastl has 14 players on its ros­hlr, but only eight traveled to the game. Because Friars fresh­man guard Trinity llull, who had eight points on 2-for-5 shooting, has a stress fracture, Seymore had to practice with his team so there would be enough players. 
"You should have seen me, I was sweating, man, it was pret­ty bad." he said, laughing. 
While McGraw had her gripes about the game, she was happy with the conference win. 
"Every win is really critical for us right now," she said. "We're thinking, 'This is the game we have to win to get a bye in the first round of the big east tournament.' We've got a brutal schedule, and we've got to be ready for it. And tonight we weren't ready." 
Notes: 
+ 
Notre Dame will participate in the inaugural Women's Basketball Coaches' Association's "Think Pink" ini­tiative during their Feb. 10 game against No. 14 Pittsburgh in the Joyce Center. The players will wear pink warm-up shirts and shoelaces for the game, which will be broadcast on ESPN2 at 2 p.m. The first 750 fans will receive a "Think Pink" T-shirt. 

In addition, McGraw has pledged to donate $10 for each rebound her team grabs to the Kay Yow/WBCA Cancer Fund and the Susan G. Komen for the Cure foundation. 

+ 
Allen was named a mid­season candidate for the John 

H. 
Wooden Award, given annu­ally to the national player of the year. The Big East led all con­ferences with six players on the 20-player list. 


Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw admitted in her post-game news conference that she thought the team "quit playing" at the defensive end of the court during the second half. 
Providence also was able to pound the ball inside against the hi<>h, taking advantage ofi1s height. The Friars played Wednesday night with only eight players, but three of them were 6-foot-4 or taller-giv­ing them a significant edge during times when the Irish had 6-fbot-1 forward Becca Bruszewski in the post with four guards around her. 
McGraw also said that the team seemed to be complacent with let­ting Providence get ea<>y shot<> ifit wa'> unable to force a turnover in the press. 
"We did a nice job in the lin.i half of getting them to tum the ball over. But ifthey wernn 't turning it over, they were scoring," McGraw said. 
And even the turnovers weren't that special. Forcing turnovers in large numbers has almost become standard operating procedum for the Irish this sea<;on. Not many teams could force 29 takeaways and still boast that it wasn't a sea­son-high. (It wa<; 33 against Boston College on Nov. 24.) 
In fact, the pmss wasn't even eflective until lrnshman Devereaux Peters entered the game afu~r the first !bur minutes. The Irish were down 5-2 at that point and would fall as far baek a'> 9-3 befiwe turn­ing thn game around. A few Irish steals and bad Friar shots later, the Irish wnre back on top. 
But the Iri'ih haven't had trouble scoring against inferior teams all sea<;on, with a dozen 80-point scor­ing night<; and thrnn wins by 30 points or more. But what thny 
haven't done (<md what they 
showed they might not do if thny 
play like thPy did in the first live 

minutes Wednesday night against a 
more talentnd team) is provo their 
coiL<;istency. 
Notm Dame h1L'i strugglnd 
against every ranknd team it h<L'> 
played this season-and even a 
few unranked ones like Bowling 
Green. A slow stmi against a tnam 

like Rutgers or Pitt'iburgh -both of 
whom the lri'>h play in the next few 
weeks-would spell disa<;ter. 
Connecticut shownd the Iri'>h on 
Sunday that a small funk, like the 
one to start the Providencn gmne, 
could turn ugly fa'it with its 22-6 
run in the first half of a lopsided 
Husky victory. 
So what's next? 
Most import1u1tly, the lri'ih have 
to get better defensively or thny 
might not survive February. 
Well, they will still male the Big 

East and NCAA tournament'>. Their 
record and stren).,rth of schedule 
until now will get them that. 

But seeding count<;. Last year's team fell victim to this bea<;t, enter­ing the Big Ea<>t tourney a'> the seven-seed and March Madness as an eight. Notre Dame lost in thn confenmee tourmtmnnt to an even­ly-matehed DePaul squad fill" a one­and-done. And in the NCAA's they beat Caliii>rnia only to faen No. 1 North Carolina for a relativnly narly exit from the big dance. 
IfNotrn Dame can't piek up it'> dnfeiL'iive output fi>r what McGraw railed a "brutal schedule" in February, it could be in for another world of" hurt come March. 
The views expresssed in thi.o; col­umn are those (ifthe author and not neressarily those (ifThe Obsert1er. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@ndedu. 


Thursday, January 31, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 
MI~~ATU~ TUI 
Ot-\IJIPOTE.t-1$ bells; ET 
t>\~MISS"rS f'ELCATIS TtJI$ ... 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
Jack, ...., ..... · :r · Will you go to the Lewis Haii-Forr..:\al wltb rne? 
CIWhich Ulfy are you? oture:•Uv? Curly "ed hair, br<:~wl" eYe~ and lower 
-Lilly  Alright .Jock, respond  
OYe:s  
t:INO  
Ol'm creeped out: you got: this into t:he Observer  
01 hav<t this thins•.. for your bot.t friO:na,••  
CJFor the eighth time, l\lo. ''' CProbai:Jty, bu~ I'U have t:o check wit:h my bo\l'fr-le~:ct.  .  
Cllt turns out.we•re cout.in~.....  .  .  .  .  .  '\  .·.·  ·. t•  ..  .  .  , :  

back t:attoo of' a butteJ"f!v? Yeah vou'lt have t:o. be more specific.•.• 



WILLSHORTZ

CROSSWORD 
Across .3-3 NiQ11Jit)g cribcffim Dlfsy 34 Aapp.ar MC __ 5 Oas! 35 Enooh's great­
grea1~

9 Lynyrd Skynyrds granctlather
"Am 1. • 

14 Ovioo{} stevv 36 Slicks tumed over a fim 
15 Nautilus r,apiain 38 Mom than half16 A!lergk: 
39 Anecdotalexplosion 
ooliechon

17 EXplanation o! 
40 Ooo !'riay he
this puzzli:l's roll!iid
theme 4t Macintm>:t'!

20 SillgkHued 
accessory
lnstrumem 42 ... stHI mom

21 ls&lated French p!aoes 47 "Sovereign" 22 Arnetican or 48 Vassel for a. Delta route florist 
49 BU$}W.taSS

2:3 Scharnhorst admira.l of W W. 52 Aitmnative to a. t Trac i1 
24 Adolescent 53 Appendage outbreak 56 atW, linally, 25 ... including this the end pf too explanation 32 Dimctor .of the 59 Rent againbudget wttq~ 
e.oCorleooo ~ pres1ctent portrayer 
became llS. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~=-~ 
.::;+-~~~ 


61 Alt! in oritrm 52 Otrens/V& emanations 63 Ornamental stone B4 Transmitter of cold war news 
Down 
Omcharges 2 An inventor's m'lddle t'li.'\l'f'$ 3 flatmt., sa)( as muscles 4 Tobacco smoke oomponent 5 On which an arabesqoo ls performed 6 \Almishmd surJace, 
sometimes 7 Exports at CPR 8 Neither's partner 9 Lady from wu!h 
or the bonier to Omll!;li®h tones 11 "Saint .Joan'' 
playwright t 2 lnslgniiant am:.wnt 13 Not just casuatly 
interestoo tS "Yowzer1" 19 You can see 
loom at marfMS 23 Sinatra tune "........... Funny That Way" 24 Aoooss for a collior .251nspkations 
27 Time to close a bar, maybe 

"'~bit i%tm A. comoo 

2B 'I' and "M' in 1. 41 Monui'li®n! 51 Site of July 1944 M.. Pei:Abbr \!alley sights fighting 43 Espouood of 52 Atrive
29 They cha.se !Iiles 
Ahasuows, in agreemaiil
30 H~rma.nn who 
the Bible 

53 Actress ,~leawrote 44 Fish orders
45 Tuoo watcher's 
31 Exirs opposila food tm!der o55 'Miracle" team of 46 Language organ 1869
36 Shindig a! sorts 49 Beginning for 57 r·.Jo !ieutenan1

31 Peel 

metric yet: Abbr 50 !Jtiiili#d 58 Cool ........ 
For answers. ca.11 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute, or. wtth a credit cant HJ00-814-&554 
Annual sUbscriptions are a•taHable lor the best off Sunday 
crosswords from !he last 50 yearn 1··'~38:8· 7·ACA:OSS. Onhne subscriptions: Tooay's puzzfu:J anti moore than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.oom/orossW~xds ($f.HHl& a year), 
Share lifl'S: nytim(W.L"'rnlpuuletorurn. Crosswords lor young solvers: nyhmes.c-om!leaminglxwon.1s. 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

TKAT SCRAMBlED WOOD GAME  
~  \ly H11mi Arr.;Nt;J $1\i Mtl;zy Argfri1ill  
IJnscrawlb!a !h®$1!! lbur Jumbles,  
one lsttar to each sr~uare,  

·to form lour ordine.ry W(>Q. 






I fits(li
<®.•Jt<e 1lilwm M~!fu> S..r.-~~m. In~. AHl tmr f!~·tHI 
KLACEY 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Khleo Thomas, 19; Wilmer Valderrama, 28; Christian Bale, 34; Phil Collins, 57 
Uappy Birthday: Don't take anything for granted this year, You have the drive, stamina and work ethic to pull off whatever you want to pursue. Your desire and energy to complete what you start will take you the distance. Be proud and fear nothing and you will win the respect and admiration of others. Your numbers are 7, 13,23,27,33,36 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You are probably overreacting to something some­one said or did. Put yourself in another environment that will take you out of your current situation and give you time to think. Helping others will stabilize you. 3 stars TAlJRlJS (April 20-May 20): Sitting idle, waiting on someone who won't budge is a waste of time. Go it alone and you will accomplish more in the end. Don't let personal issues stand in the way of your pursuits. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put everything you've got into a plan you've wanted to develop. You will have what it takes to make things happen and the imagination to help you deliver your idea with great enthusiasm and confidence. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Look at the existing possibilities and you will see that a few minor changes can be to your advantage. Take note of what dose friends, children and family tell you, Sometimes it's the encouragement you re­ceive that makes the difference, 5 stars LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Calm down and keep your thoughts to yourself. Ob­serve rather than letting your emotions or jealousy cause you to make a costly mistake. Don't let someone you love get away with someth.ing you don't agree with --talk matters through rationally. 2 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will make headway today. You can make per­sonal plans, spice up your look or change your lifestyle or your job with success today. Don't bold back or wait for another time to make your move. 4 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Talk is cheap and not always beneficial and today that is exactly how you should regard what's being said to you. Put your lime into developing something that interests you. Children, travel and learning will all play a role in your life today. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep things low key or you may find yourseli' in a predicament that will slow you down or leave you vulnerable. Stand up for your rights but don't waste your time arguing. Do what's best for you, not some-one else., 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Not too much will go unnoticed, so be care­ful what you say and do, especially around friends, neighbors and relatives. You will be limited if you exaggerate. Backtracking may be required but it isn't likely to help you smooth things over entirely. 3 stars CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22--Jan. Hl): Give and take will work out splendidly for you today. You will have the mastermind of a genius when it comes to finance, legal matters or settlements. You've got what it takes to make subtle changes that will enhance your position and make you a star. 4 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Choose your words wisely. Talk may be cheap but it will backfire ifyou address emotional situations negatively. Listen to op­posing information. Your willingness to compromise will make your life easier. 2 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You know what you want, so don't waste time pussyfooting around the issues that concern you. Money is in the picture but will come to you through a most unusual source. Be grateful for what you receive and sorrowful for what you deny yourself. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are giving and adaptable. You are emotional, thirsty for knowledge and dedicated to making the world a better place, You are a doer, a Good Samaritan and a lover, 
Eugenia's Web-sites: astroadvice.comforfut~, eugenialast.comfor cot~fidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Thursday, January 31, 2008 
page 24 
". NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish struggle early, relax late in 31-point blowout over Friars 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
It wasn't pretty. and it came against a team with only thren bench players. but it was a win norwthnlnss. 
.Junior guard Lindsay Sdmtder had 15 points and nine n~bounds. and No. 20 Notre Dame overcame a stagnant first 1~ight minutes to beat l'rovidm11:e S!i-54 Wednesday. Tlw Irish fim:ed 29 turnovers in tlw win. 
lh~spite a sluggish start, five Irish players seornd in double ligures. tho sixth time the team has readwd that milestone this season. 
Senior guard Charnl Allen had 12 points, six rebounds and six steals, and backeourt classmate Tulyah Cainns added 10 points and four takeaways. Freshman forward Devereaux Peters and sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner added 12 and 10 points, rospeetively. 
Lec:hlitner dominated Providence's injury-depleted guards. Slw ran around and shot over thmn on offense and 
see FRIARS/Page 22 

Unsatisfied 

NO needs to play full 40 minutes to compete nationally 
On paper, Notm Dame played a great dnfensive game in il'i 85-54 win against Providence Wednnsday. 
Tim Irish !breed 29 turnovers. induding 23 on steal'i, held Providence to one 3­point attompt and dominat­nd the deiP.n­sive gla..'is. 
Butstal'i like that don't matter. 
Notre Dame played a lax. almost sloppy sec­ond half on the dnlbn<>ive end of the court. 
It surrendered nearly twice a<> many points in the second half(35) a<> it did in the first (1 9). 
When Friars guard Trinity I lull nailfJd a 3-pointor witl1 4:49 remaining-Providence's only triple of U1e night-it wa'i in part because t11e Irish def(mse wasn't guarding the pnrimeter a.<> tcna­eiously a'i it had done earlier in the game. 


see DEFENSE/Page 2I 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Coming back to the JACC 
NO seeks 32nd straight home win tonight against Providence 
-
By CHRIS KHOREY Spnns Editor 
It seems like Notre Dame's home winning streak has been stuck on 3 I games for a long limn. 
The Irish ( I4-4, 4-2 Big I•:ast) haven't played a home game since their 91-74 win over Cindnnati Jan. 15, but they have a chance to win their :~2nd straight at the .Ioyce Center tonight against Provide nee at 7. 

"It feels like we haven't lwn n honw in a wh i In," Irish -coach Mike Brey said. "I think that will energize us." Notre Dame, currently in second place in the Big 1\ast, is I 1/2 games behind eonfereneP leader c;eorgntown. The team is roming orr a 90-SO win at then-No. 1 S Villanova last Saturday. Tlw victory, which was the first confPrencn road win for the Irish, featured a lineup shirt. Brey inserted junior forward Zaeh llillnsland into the starting lineup in place of' junior Hyan Aynrs. The switch paid off. 
see HOME/Page 2 I 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Tealll rebounds fron1 first defeat of season 
After losing to No. 1 Virginia, Irish take down Michigan State 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 

After suffering its first loss of the season to No. 1 Virginia Sunday, No. 11 Notre Dame defeated Michigan State 4-3 Wednesday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Irish won despite drop­ping the doubles point; Michigan State won two of the three doubles matches. 
Spartan seniors Nick Hink and Adam Monich defeated senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson 8-4 in the first doubles match. 
:'Michigan State is very good at one and two dou­bles," Bayliss said. "We usu­ally rely on our one and two singles players and had to today as well." 
Spartan junior Alex forger teamed with freshman Billy Gardner to defeat senior Andrew Roth and freshman Stephen Havens 8-5 at No. 2 doubles. 
"Havens is a grPat ball striker," Bayliss said. "lie still has a few things to learn strategically, but he is mak­ing significant strides over­all." 
The Irish doubles teams salvaged one match with freshman Tyler Davis and junior Santiago Montoya defeating junior John Allare and freshman John Stratton S-6. 
In singles action, the Irish took charge and clinched the match. 
Parbhu lost a tough match to Hinks 6-4, 0-6, 6-2, while Helgeson easily defeated Forger 6-1, 6-4. 
Both pulled out another tight match over Allare, win­ning in three sets, 0-6, 6-3, 6-3. 
Stephen Havens fell in tough match to Monich 3-6, 6-3, 6-3. Fellow freshman David Anderson defeated jun­ior Scott Hasmussen 6-3, 6-2 in the second match finished, and Davis also pulled out his singles match 6-1, 7-5. 
Bayliss said Michigan State's serving put the Irish on tlwir heels. 
"They were able to get a lot more first serves in," Bayliss said of' the recent doubles struggles. "We didn't get 
see SPARTANS/Page 21 







