
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Laetare Medal brings controversy 
Some upset by recipient Sheen's previous statements which clash with Catholic teaching 
rights.

By JOHN TIERNEY 
Father James McDonald the News Writer University Associate Vice President, Counselor to the 
On March 2, Laetare President and Chairman of Sunday, the Laetare Medal the Laetare Medal committee committee announced that said the goal of awarding the human rights activist and medal is not to find someone actor Martin Sheen will who will not generate contro­receive the prestigious award versy even though this year's during this year's choice is unpopular with Commencement weekend for some. embracing the Catholic faith "[Sheen] is an incredible throughout his life. man of deep faith," McDonald 
This announcement has said. "What most struck me brought controversy over was his genuine humility whether Sheen, best known about himself as a believer in for his work in film and the God. He's a man who's inte­NBC drama "West Wing," grated faith in his public life deserves the award for his in a very deep way." positions on the war in Iraq, abortion and homosexual see SHEENIpage3 

Faculty, students debate global warn1ing 
Necessity of government intervention in environmental policy, student activism questioned 
ature," said McCready, adding By KATIE PERALTA that carbon dioxide levels News Writer have risen significantly over 
the past 50 years. 
·As the final part of the stu­Presenting graphs that dent-faculty debate series, depicted temperatures over a two Notre Dame professors few thousand years, and two undergraduate stu­McCready said the tempera­dents met Tuesday to discuss ture has steadily increased in global warming and environ­recent years. mental policy. "If the temperature has 
Professor Dr. Mark J. been steady for thousands of McCready, chair of the chemi­years and then just over 150 cal and biomolecular engi­years takes a jump, you have neering department, present­to ask why," McCready said. ed a background explanation On the skeptical side of the of the issue of global warm­global warming debate, sen­ing, how solar radiation ior Bret Shapot questioned affects the climate and how statistics suggesting global the temperature changes as a warming as a result of result of this radiation. increased carbon dioxide lev­
"Until the late 1950s, no els. one knew [that] people had influence over earth's temper-see DEBATE/page 3 


BOG 

Majors seek funds for trip 
Members discuss awarding support for Undergraduate Honors Conf 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Senior communications studies major Sam Peterson visited Tuesday evening's Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting, seeking funds for a trip to the Undergraduate Honors Conference of the Southern States Communications Association in Savannah, Ga. 
Peterson and three other communications majors submitted their senior compositions to the confer­
ence to be judged and have won national recognition. They will travel to Georgia to present their composi­tions and attend other pre­sentations from seniors across the country. 
Awards will also be hand­ed out to exceptional proj­ects, including one major award for the best project. 
"You can be recognized in the entire field, which is huge because it is such a broad field," Peterson said. 
The group approached BOG to get funds for trans­portation, food, and room and board to represent Saint Mary's at the confer­
ence. 
"This is a great opportu­nity for Saint Mary's to get recognized," Peterson said. 
The group will make pre­sentations after returning for the junior communica­tions studies majors, the Communications Studies Honor Club, and women's studies classes. They are also each writing articles about their projects for the Saint Mary's Alumni Newsletter. 
The conference will be held· from April 2-4. Brittany Taylor, Victoria 
see BOG/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Scholar speaks on fen1inism 
Dow highlights link with mass media 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Rhetorical scholar Bonnie J. Dow focused her lecture about mass media on the interaction between the second wave of the feminist movement and mass media Thursday at Saint Mary's. 
As opposed to the civil rights movements and the first wave of the feminist movement, which produced such leaders as Martin Luther King Jr. and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, the 1970s feminist movement involved no great rhetorical leaders, Dow said. 
As a result, the movement struggled to bring feminist issues to public attention because public persuasion was not a primary goal, Dow said. 
During this time, groups operating within the move­ment aimed to raise con­sciousness of existing mem­bers and challenge accepted ways of thinking. Many viewed themselves as radical revolu­tionaries who did not work within the mass media norms. 
"[They] weren't motivated by external media recogni­tion," Dow said. 
Dow provided two contrast­ing feminist case studies to emphasize the dynamic rela­tionship between rhetoric and movement in mass media environment. 
The National Women's 
see MEDlA/ page 4 

COR 

Group sets agenda for upcoming year 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Council of Hepresentatives discussed dif­ferent ways of integrating transfer students into the stu­dent body Tuesday. 
It also discussed what issues should be on its agenda once student body president-elect Bob Reish takes over for cur­rent student body president Liz Brown on April 1. 
Representatives, who offi­cially serve as members of the advisory body to the executive branch of student government, listed a number of issues they would like to see addressed, but focused on the integration of transfer students into University life. 
"We need a conscious eff{)rt to welcome transfers to the class," senior class president Bridget Keating said. 
Student Union Board (SUB) manager Phillip Ross said transfer students "cluster together," and said more should be done to integrate them into campus life. 
Judicial Council president Ashley Weiss, who is herself a 
see COR/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 

The povver of video gatnes 
Hemnmber what the word pong 
meant before college? I never actu­
ally played it on the Atari as a little 
kid, but it started a revolution. 
My f'irst video game was Super 
Mario Bros 3; 
my parents Dustin Mennella 
wouldn't let us 
have a Nintendo .")enior 
at our house. photographer
but they bought 
one and kept it 
at my grandpan~nts' house. 
Whether it was to keep us from 
playing all the time or to get us 
excited about visiting our grandpar­
ents all tho time, I don't know but it 
resulted in both. 
Since the glory days of Super 
Mario. when the cartridge only 
worked half' tiHl time and only two 
people could play at a time, video 
games havo come a long way. Now I 
ean play Call nf' Duty 4 with my 
cousins in Orngon and Washington, 
nnjoying a fun game while keeping 
in eontaet with family nwmbers I 
typieally wouldn't hear from except 
at holidays. 
Some people look down on vidoo 
games and say that thoy dostroy 
childhoods and eyesight, creating 
introvertnd pnrsonalitins and frying 
minds, and I agn1e that there arn 
some who heconw addietnd to this 
virtual reality. For the most part, 
howevnr. if you keep things in per­
spective and remember that a great 
world Pxists outsidn of' tlw TV 
screen. then tlwse gamos ean lw a 
great. way to relax and <:onnnct with 
friends. 
With irHTtlasingly advanced tech­
nology bning applied to more fields 
and in new ways, sonwtimes knep­
ing up to date can be diiTieull­
having skills in video games ean 
help with this transition. 
For example, surgeons who grew 
up playing video gamPs make 37 
percPnt l'ewnr mistakes according to 
Mare Prensky, a CliO of' 
(;amns2train. a eompany which 
makes informational tutorials fun 
by encoding the information in thn 
form of' a video game. On their Web 
site are all types of' games with top­
ies ranging from windows NT to 
snxual harassnwnt. and eompanios 
ean nvnn request a game to be 
made for their own training purpos­
es. 
llt1re are some other fun facts about Nintendo's Mario, one of' the most famous video game characters ever: he was originally called jump­man. appearing in Donkny Kong in 1<JR 1. Sincn then he has appHared in ovtlr 200 video games so far. In addition to games, Mario has starrnd in two TV series, at least one movie. and its theme song has bnen tlw source of a number of gui­tar and symphony renditions, and thern has evnn be1111 onn rock opera composed about him!! 
ChtH:k it out on youtube, by Jonathan Mann. I kid you not. 
Anyway, regardlnss of games, shows or rock operas, Mario is cer­tainly a hero of minn. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nl'cessarily thosl' ofTiw Observer. 
Contact /Justin Mennella at dmennell@nd. l'du 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irsdf as a professional publication and srrives lor rhe highesr srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do. however, recogni1.e rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a misrake, please comact us ar 631-4 541 so we can correcc our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE WAY TO EMIT CARBON? 







Tracy Jennings Colleen Kelly Brittney Dudley MleGotsch 
junior junior sophomore sophomore Breen Phillips McGlinn Farley Keough 
"Breathing. " "/ like to open "Trying to .find "Eating beans my windows the on-campus and meat in while the heat is engineering the dining on. wind-tunnel ... hall." in my car. 

An NDSP officer stops students celebrating Saint Patrick's Day on South 
Quad Monday. 
OFFBEAT 

Girl sells Illinois-shaped Corn Flake on e-bay 
CIIICAGO -Sounds a little l'laky. but someone has offered more than $50 on eBay li>r a piece of breakfast cereal that is touted as a lookalike to the state of Illinois. 
Two sisters listed "The Great Illinois Corn Flake" on thP online auction site, prom­ising it has undergone no alterations. 
Emily Melntirn, a 15-year­old sophomore in high school from Chnsapeake, Va., said she was grabbing fistfuls of cereal on her way to class when she limnd the llake. 
TODAY 
c:: 
L&.l 
::z::: 
~ 
L&.l 
3: 
...J 
<t 
t,) 


0 
"It was almost to my mouth. it didn't look like Illinois at first becausP it was held the wrong way," said Mcintire, but then she notieed the resemblance and said, "Oh my goodness, it's Illinois." 
Black swan leaves swan­shaped boat for other swan 
BEHLIN -A long love story is over at a German zoo: Petra the swan and her swan-shaped paddleboat are parting ways. Petra, a black swan, became a minor celebrity in 2006 when she became so attached to the boat -which is shaped like an oversized white swan ­that she refused to leave its side. 

Officials in the western eity of' Muenster decided to let her stay with it over the win­ter, bringing both bird and boat into a city zoo. 
However, Petra met a live swan this winter. Zoo direc­tor Joerg Adler says she and her new mate -a white swan -are building a nest together. 
The boat is to be returnt~d to its local owner on Thursday. 
Information compiled by the AssodatedPress. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 43 HIGH 33 HIGH 38 HIGH 35
....I 

LOW 23 LOW 13 LOW 25 LOW 29 
IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary's College President Carol Ann Mooney will speak about "HERstory" today at noon in the Coleman Morse Study lounge as part of the nnw initiative spon­sored by First Year of Studies featuring women in the Notre Dame community. Drinks and snacks will bn providnd. 
Marilyn Krysl, the 200R Sullivan Prizn Winner, will read from lwr prizn winning eollection of short stories called "Dinnet· with Osama" tonight at 7::W in the Gold Hoom of thn North Dining H..all. 
The Notre Dame Peace Fellowship will hold a discus­sion eallnd "What Can We Do to Call For Peace'?" tonight at 7 in the Dooley Room of' the LaFortune Student Center. 
The film "Persepolis," which tells the story of a young girl living in Iran dur­ing the Islamic Hnvolution, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on tonight at 7 
Ambassador Richard S. Williamson. US Special Envoy to Sudan will speak on "Human Rights: Principles, Politics, Performance and Dad'ur" on Thursday at 
12:15 p.m. in Room 110, Notre Dame Law School. 
Evening Mass of' the Lord's Supper will be celebrated Thursday at 5 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail deta'ited information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY EASTER 

HIGH 40 HIGH 35 LOW 23 LOW 25 
Atlanta 68 I 55 Boston 39 I 34 Chicago 43 I 31 Denver 56 I 27 Houston 72 I 51 Los Angeles 69 I 52 Minneapolis 40 I 27 New York 54 I 36 Philadelphia 59 I 39 Phoenix 80 I 51 Seattle 49 I 38 St. Louis 48 I 38 Tampa 82 I 64 Washington 69 I 43 
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
lie questioned whether tem­he favors strong governmental participating are too high." gy such as hybrid cars. perature rise would necessari­intervention. He also said everyone will Both Ayala and Mori said
Debate 
continued from page 1 
"The burden of proof should rest on those people [who believe that global warming is a real and dangerous threat]." Shapot said. 
Shapot said additional levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere might not have a further negating effect, but might increase its concentra­tion. 
Shapot argued against cloud data from thousands of years ago which point to global warming, noting that the lev­els of error were far too high to be considered significant. 
ly lead to drastic meteorologi­cal changes, such as increas­ing the wind speed of hurri­canes. 
"It's just a fact that people do live where storms are. They have to since the popula­tion is growing," Shapot said. 
Shapot criticized the notion of sequestering carbon dioxide coming out of power plants, saying it is an expensive process blue-collar taxpayers will pay for. 
"They will have to shoulder the burden of the changes we make," Shapot said. 
Supporting an opinion con­trary to Shapot's, political sci­ence professor Lou Ayala said 
"Government action is nec­essary because global warm­ing is caused by people," he said. 
Ayala described the environ­ment as a public good ­something from which all members of a group benefit ­even if some members do not help contribute. 
"This public good suffers from a problem," said Ayala, adding that it is true that not everyone helps to protect the environment. 
The government has a responsibility to take action towards this problem, Ayala said, because "the negative [effects] associated with not 
reap the benefits of more gov­ernment intervention, as they would enjoy cleaner air and cleaner water. 
"It is in the public interest for the government to step in," Ayala said, adding that the United States accounts for 30 percent of the world's car­bon dioxide emissions. 
Hanna Mori, a Notre Dame sophomore, echoed Ayala's sentiments for government intervention. 
Mori said the government does not have the sufficient technology to move away from oil, but rather that individuals ought to abandon aerosols and look into green technolo­the government ought to pro­vide the funds to subsidize alternative fuels to offset the cost of hybrid vehicles. 
Ayala said the solution to global warming is not one the government can solve overnight, but rather one which requires the attention of everyone. 
''I'm all for student activism," said Ayala, refer­ring to the need for student interest in issues like global warming. "People just need to invest their resources and fuel political interests." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

all of what he's done integrat­ment that could be interpret­He said one such letter dis­year on Laetare Sunday, the ing his life of faith with his ed as being pro-choice, that cussed Sheen's charitable fourth Sunday of Lent.

Sheen 
professional life." does not mean Sheen is pro­work on behalf of fighting Past winners of the medal The Laetare Medal is given choice. mental illnesses and addic­include President John F.
continued from page 1 
each year to an American "If you look at the whole tion. Kenney, diplomat Sargent 
Catholic thing, I don't He said he is not surprised Shriver, founder of the He said specific stances on "whose genius think you can people are di~puting Sheen's Catholic Worker Movement controversial issues were not has ennobled "But when you take his conclude selection for the Laetare Dorothy Day and former the focus of the Laetare selec­the arts and t h a t , " Medal, but he stands by the University President Father
lifetime ofservice, what 
tion committee, rather, the sciences, illus­McDonald University's decision. Theodore Hesburgh. The
most stands out is his 
committee focused on Sheen's trated the said. "When "Men and women of good 2007 Laetare Medal was body of work as a whole. ideals of the commitment to his faith people do faith can differ in good faith awarded to Patrick F. 
"We review all that can be Church, and as a Catholic.,, research, on different choices," McCartan, chairman emeritus reasonably attained by enriched the they have to McDonald said. of the University's Board of searching public records," herifage of be very care­Sheen is the 130th recipient Trustees. 
James McDonald 
McDonald said. "But when humanity," ful about of the Laetare Medal, which Sheen will be on campus all you take his lifetime of serv­according to Chairman of the Laetare when a state-has been awarded for 125 Commencement weekend, ice, what most stands out is the Laetare Medal committee ment was years since 1883. The medal and is eager-to spend time his commitment to his faith as Medal citation said. The was designed to serve as a with the Notre Dame family, a Catholic. No one phrase on presented to judgment of counterpart to the Golden McDonald said. a given day disqualifies him." General William Starke importance has to depend on Rose, which has awarded by "He's one of us. He will fit 
McDonald said Sheen did Rosecrans in 1896. the context." the pope for service to the in very well here that week­not earn the Laetare Medal McDonald also said Sheen's McDonald said his office Church since before the 11th end," McDonald said. for any particular action or views on abortion are not received many letters Century. position, but was instead "pro-choice." He said while expressing gratitude for The recipient of the Laetare Contact John Tierney at awarded with it "in view of Sheen may have made a com-selecting Sheen for the medal. Medal is announced each tierney.l6@nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
transfer student, helped run the orientation for transfer students last fall. Although she said more needs to be done to help ease the transi­tion for transfer students, she rejeeted Heish's idea of inducting transfer students in freshman orientation. 
"Transfer students already have a year under their belts and bring a different per­spective," she said. 
Chris Tillet, who served as a proxy for SUB treasurer Kadeja Gaines, said limited spaee in dorms often causes transfer students, espeeially those that enroll at Notre Dame, for the fall semester, to seek off-campus housing. lie said many transfer stu­dents he had spoken with were upset at the laek of on­eampus housing available to them. 
"It's a big eornplaint with a lot of kids that I've talked to," Tillet said. 
In addition, Heish said he would like to inerease fresh­man participation in student government when he 


Media 
continued from page 1 
Organization (NOW) under­stood the mass media norms, Dow said. The group sent out press releases, established sympathetic relationships with reporters and framed itself as a dvil rights organi­zation, an idea familiar to the public. Copsequently, the group increased membership and received favorable media coverage. 
After 1970, multiple radical feminist groups established an adverse relationship with the media. 
As opposed to NOW, these groups did not provide observable events or speech­es, she said. 
In addition, the radieal groups also eontributed to some of the current feminist stereotypes, Dow said. 
Dow said a significant sit-in illustrated the difficult rela­tionship between radical fem­inists and mass media. 
In the spring of 1970, 100 to 200 women marched into the office of John Mack 
and then helping to make repairs on a house for two elderly women in the com­munity.
+ 
Women Honoring Women, a dinner eelebrat­ing outstanding female administrators and profes­sors in the Saint Mary's community, will be held April 2, Payne said. 

+ 
BOG is preparing for its yearly turnover on April 1, announced Chief of Staff Sarita Fritzler. 


+ Communications Prof. 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
Frank and Sierra Campoli are the others accepted into the conference, however they were not in attendance at the BOG meeting. 
In other BOG news: 
+ The Maria Pieta Award for Outstanding Teaching is looking for nom­inees, student body vice 
president Kelly Payne said. Students are encouraged to email their pick for the best lower division course pro­fessor to mariapi­etaaward@saintrnarys.edu. 
"This is one of the biggest awards we give to our teaehers here," Payne said. 
+ Board of Governance will be holding this year's service project on April 4-5, student body president Kim Hodges said. The program is called Hebuilding Together, and the group will gather Carter, the editor of "Ladies Horne Journal." For 11 hours, protestors demanded an all­female editorial staff. child­care for employees and an end to advertisements on makeup and appliances. 
"They targeted every char­acteristic that defined women's magazines at the time," Dow said. 
According to Dow, military metaphors were consistent in the media's coverage of the sit-in. 
"The protestors were cast as soldiers with a battle plan," Dow said. 
Teri Buss's female beauty class will be holding a mini­conference ealled "Busting the Barbie Standard" on April 20, women's issues commissioner Henee 
Woodward said. Each  mem­ 
ber  of  the  Glass  was  
assigned  a  Barbie to  make  

over for the presentation, and these modified Barbies will be on display at the conference. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
In addition to unrealistieally portraying the protestors as organized, reporters also struggled with framing the 
event as  a  debate. No  one  
feminist  articulated  the  
demands, Dow said.  

Despite the negative cover­age, the event accelerated women's interests, Dow said. 
Backed by supportive read­ers, the "Ladies Horne Journal" began running arti­eles on abortion, education and childcare. 
Contact Kadyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
becomes president, and asked the Council how it thought he eould get more freshmen involved. 
Freshman class eouneil president Kate Clitheroe said students who had participat­ed in student government in high school would be the people most likely to partici­pate at Notre Dame. 
"We should target fresh­men that have already been involved," she said. 
Executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil said one of the major goals should be to sim­plify the "Student Government 101" informa­tion sessions held at the beginning of each year for freshmen interested in stu­dent government. 
"I found it hard to describe how our policies work," she said. 
Heish said perhaps student government could do a mass mailing to all incoming freshmen asking them to visit the student government Web site. 
Student body vice president Maris Braun said one focal point of COH and student government in general next year will be energy and envi­ronmental issues. 
Braun said she was disap­pointed with the ·lack of events focused on immigra­tion after this year's Notre Dame Forum, and said that con should do all it "to keep up energy" with next year's Energy and Environment Forum. 


In other COR news: 
+ COH unanimously approved junior Pat Gartland as the new SUB manager. 
Hoss cited Gartland's "extensive experienee" in ehoosing the junior for the position. 

"lin has the organizational skills and had worked with SUB nnough to be an effec­tive board manager," Boss said. 
Gartland, who also writes his own stand-up comedy, said hn will eontinue to plan events students will be excit­ed about. 
"My top priority is pro­gramming events that stu­dnnts want to see on earn­pus," he said. 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitn1ent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations \Vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cotnmunication \Vithin the geographic area, assesstnent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities \Vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrolln1ent. 
Among our candidates, we \Vill specifically seek an African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \vith all aspects of student life at Notre Datne. 
Essential qualities include strong con11nunication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplotnacy and the \villingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 



Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Aprill. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 

Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 Cotv1P!lED FROA,1 T!!E Ons£RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
German leader earns Israeli ovation 
JEHUSALEM -German Chancellor Angela Merkel earned a standing ovation from Israel's parliament Tuesday after pledging to stand by Israel's side against any threat, particularly from Iran, and paying tribute to the victims of the llolocaust. 
In an emotional speech, Merkel said Germans are still "filled with shame" about the Nazi genocide of 6 million Jews. Yet her extraordi­narily warm reeeption by the Jewish state also signaled that the two nations are inereasingly willing to look to the future. 
Germany has proven a staunch ally of Israel, particularly sinee Merkel became chancellor in 2005. Israel's leaders said they are counting on Germany to take a lead in diplomatic efforts to prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. 
Iraqi extremists smuggle art for funds 
ATI lENS, Greece -Iraqi extremist groups are now tapping into the nation's vast antiquity smuggling networks to help finance their attacks, a U.S. military expert on stolen artifacts said Tuesday at a U.N. conference. 
Marine Heserve Col. Matthew Bogdanos, who led the military probe into the looting at Baghdad's National Museum after the fall of Saddam Hussein, claimed both Sunni insurgents such as al-Qaida in Iraq and Shiite militias are taking funding from the trafficking in antiquities. 
Bogdanos, a New York assistant district attor­ney, noted that kidnappings and extortion remain the insurgents' main source of funds. But he called the link between extremist groups and antiquities smuggling in Iraq as "undeniable." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

N.Y.'s new governor admits to affair 
ALBANY -The state's new governor revealed Tuesday that he had affairs with several women, including a state employee. The confession came a day after he took over from former Gov. Eliot Spitzer, who was driven from office amid a prosti­tution scandal. 
Gov. David Paterson said the affairs happened during a rough patch in his marriage, and that the employee did not work for him. He insisted he did not advance her career, and that no cam­paign or state money was spent on the affairs. 
"I do not feel I have broken my commitment to the citizens of New York state," Paterson said at a news conference with his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson. 
Paterson, a Harlem Democrat, admitted an affair in an interview with the New York Daily News on Monday after he was sworn in, but his comments Tuesday indicate the couple's fidelity problems went deeper than he first acknowl­edged. He is not having an affair now, he said. 

Feds may start euthanizing sea lions 
POHTLAND, Ore. -Traps, pyrotechnics and beanbags shot at sea lions have failed to deter the annual springtime feast of threatened salmon at a Columbia River dam, so federal authorities gave some of them a death sentence on Tuesday. 
The National Marine Fisheries Service author­ized Oregon and Washington officials to first attempt to eatch the sea lions that arrive at the base of the Bonneville Dam and hold them 48 hours to see whether an aquarium, zoo or simi­lar facility will take them. Otherwise, they could be euthanized, along with those that avoid trap­ping. 
LOCAL NEWS 
CVS settles claims for $37 million 
CHICAGO -CVS Caremark Corp. agreed to pay almost $37 million to nearly two dozen states and the federal government to settle claims that the nation's largest pharmacy chain billed Medicaid programs for a more expensive formulation of an antacid, authorities said Tuesday. 
The settlement in the case -the first of its kind for a retail pharmacy company -came aftnr a lengthy investigation that began in 2001, when a suburban Chicago pharmacist alerted authoritins, The company has agreed to pay $1.4 million to the Indiana Medicaid program to settle the allegations, state Attor111~y General Steve Carter said. 


Obama deplores pastor's remarks 
Wright's sermons offered a "profoundly distorted view of this country," senator says 
Associated Press 
As shocking as they may be, the provocative sermons of Barack Obama's pastor come out of a tradition of using the blaek ehurch to challenge its members and eonfront what preachers view as a racist society. 
Yet while the Hev. Jeremiah Wright's racially tinged messages still res­onate in some black churches, evidence also suggests his style is reced­ing into the past as civil rights-era pastors retire. Sermons in other congrega­tions now focus less on soci­etal divisions and more on the connection between spirituality and a materially prosperous life. 
Wright's words have come under intense scrutiny because of his long associa­tion with Obama, a member of his Chicago congregation. Video clips widely circulat­ed in the past week show Wright, in a booming voice, suggesting that America's actions were partly to blame for the Sept. 11 attacks and accusing the country of eontinuing to mistreat blaeks. 
Obama delivered a speech on raee Tuesday that criti­cized Wright for expressing a "profoundly distorted view of this country." 

Wright, he said, failed to unapologetically Christian" Hopkins, a professor at the servative black churches recognize the nation's great has meant preaching about University of Chicago talk about racism in a way progress in race relations, divestment during South Divinity School. "The that many whites would embodied by Obama's own Africa's apartheid era. It prophetic anger is toward find wounding or offensive," candidacy for president. has also meant fighting expanding the democracy, said Gary Dorrien, a reli­But Obama also pointed out poverty, homelessness and expanding it so all citizens gion professor at Columbia Wright's good works and AIDS at home. The religious can walk through the door University in New York. attempted to put his com­message has been anything of opportunity." "Most white Americans ments in context, noting but watered down, with Often lost in the attention have a very limited capacity that Wright and his contem­Wright dissecting Bible pas­paid to Wright's fiery ser­for dealing with black anger poraries grew up during an sages line-by-line. mons is the typical conclu­or acknowledging their own era of segregation and The pastor's experience is sion, Hopkins said -that racial privileges," Dorrien restricted opportunity. grounded not only in the despite all obstacles, you said. "Wherever white peo­
More than three decades civil rights movement, but are a child of God and "can ple are dominant, white­ago, Wright took over a also in 1960s black libera­make a way out of no way." ness is transparent to them. small, demoralized congre­tion theology, which applies That phrase, common in In black church communi­gation on Chicago's impov­the Christian Gospel to con­the language of the black ties, dealing with that prob­erished South Side and built temporary struggles against church, was used by Obama lem is an every-week it into the largest church in race-based oppression. in his 4,700-word speech issue." the liberal, mostly white "The whole generation Tuesday. Wright does not focus his United Church of Christ. that Rev. Wright represents While Trinity United ire on white America alone, 
At the 8,000-member is expressing what they call Church of Christ is more said Martin Marty, a retired Trinity United Church of a righteous anger, the anger Afrocentric and slightly professor of religious histo­Christ, the slogan from the failed promises of more political than most ry who taught Wright at the "Unashamedly black and America," said Dwight black churches, "even con-University of Chicago. 

CHINA 


Pretnier accuses 'Dalai clique' of violence 
In striking an uncomprom1smg normal and "will be reopened to the 
Associated Press 

line, Wen underscored the commu­rest of the world," but did not speci­
nist leadership's determination to fy when. 
BEIJING -Chinese Premier Wen restore order in Tibet and Tibetan Independent reporting from the Jiabao accused supporters of the areas of neighboring provinces. region was impossible because of Dalai Lama on Tuesday of organiz­"There is ample fact -and we China's tight control over informa­ing violent clashes in Tibet in hopes also have plenty of evidence -prov­tion and a ban on trips to the area of sabotaging the Beijing Olympics ing that this incident was organized, by foreign reporters. and bolstering their campaign for premeditated, masterminded and John Kenwood, a 19-year-old independence in the Himalayan ter­incited by the Dalai clique," he told Canadian tourist who left Lhasa on ritory. reporters at his annual news confer­Tuesday, said he saw street clean­
The Dalai Lama urged his follow­ence at the end of China's national ers wearing orange vests embla­ers to remain peaeeful, saying he legislative session. zoned with the Beijing Olympics would resign as head of the Tibetan "By staging that incident, they symbol. government-in-exile if violence got want to undermine the Beijing "When the fighting began, you saw out of control. But he also suggested Olympic Games, and they also try to no Chinese," said Kenwood as he China may have fomented unrest in serve their hidden agenda by incit­arrived in Nepal. "Now you see no the Tibetan capital of Lhasa and ing such incidents," said Wen. Tibetans on the streets. The young nearby provinces to discredit him. lie said Lhasa was returning to Tibetans are probably hiding." 
RUSSIA 



Putin rejects U.S. military proposal 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Hussia had a short answer Tuesday for President Bush's top national security advisers who came t~ ask for detente in the simmering argument over a planned U.S. missile shield at Russia's doorstep. "Nyet." Or maybe, "Not yet." 
The United States and Russia got no closer to settling their public differences over U.S. plans that Russia sees as a potential threat and a turf battle over influence in nations once under the Soviet thumb. 
Hussian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said he will take a closer look at U.S. proposals meant to allay Hussian fears, but addnd that the best way to end the disagreement would be to scrap the plan for placing mis­sile interceptors in Poland and a tracking radar in the Czech Hnpublic. 
"We've leaned very far for­ward in this in an effort to pro­vide reassurance," but the United States plans to go ahead, Defense Secretary Hobert Gates said following two days of talks with President Vladimir Putin and other Hussian oflicials. 
The Hussians promised to look over written U.S. offers for coop­eration, a sign perhaps that they are resigned to eventually accepting the U.S. plan. 

"Since the U.S. is going to carry this out, those proposals that we are expecting to receive on paper today seemed to us, as I said, important and useful for the minimization of our con­cerns," Lavrov said. 
During a brief greeting wit­nessed by reporters Monday, Putin did not mention U.S. plans for the missile shield, a marked contrast from his vehement opposition when he met in October with Gates and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who returned to explore whether U.S. concessions have softened Putin's stance. 
"I would say they listened very carefully," Gates told reporters Tuesday. "President Putin took extensive notes last night and there was a lot done during the day today. That said, the full range of what we are now pre­pared to ofler to discuss with the Russians is really just now after the day's talks being put down on paper." 
There is no deadline, but Gates said he expected an answer "reasonably quickly." 
Gates said the U.S. side spelled out more dearly some details of the proposals it made in the fall, which the Russians initially agreed to study and later reject­ed as not addressing their main concerns. 

Severe floods hit midwest 
At least 2 killed, homes evacuated after heavy rains cause damage 
Associated Press 
PIEDMONT, Mo. -Torrential rain chased hundreds of people from their flooded homes and deluged roads in the nation's midsection Tuesday, killing at least two people. 
The storm system also grounded hundreds of flights in Texas. One control tower at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport was briefly evacuated when a fun­nel cloud was spotted. 
The National Weather Service posted flood and flash flood warnings from Texas to Ohio, with tornado watches in Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas. 
Heavy rain began falling Monday and just kept coming. Forecasters said some parts of Missouri could get 10 inches of rain or more before the storms finally stop Wednesday. 
Gov. Matt Blunt activated the Missouri National Guard as high water closed hundreds of roads. 
An estimated 200 houses and businesses were flooded in Piedmont, a town of 2,000 resi­dents. McKenzie Creek rose well above its banks before receding, said Eric Fuchs, Wayne County Emergency Management director. 
Up to 30 homes were evacu­ated in Winona, and some resi­dents of Cape Girardeau were trapped in their homes, the State Emergency Management Agency said. In the town of Ellington, as many as 50 homes and half the businesses were evacuated, officials said. 
The body of an 81-year-old man was found in the water at Ellington, about 120 miles southwest of St. Louis, said Missouri State Water Patrol Lt. Nicholas Humphrey. A 21-year­old state Department of Transportation worker was killed near Springfield when his dump truck was hit by a tractor-trailer rig as he helped out in a flooded area, state ofli­cials said. 
Firefighters and police were sent to pull motorists out of flooded roads in and around Springfield, said Greene County 

·Emergency Management Director Ryan Nicholls. 
"It's absolutely abnormal to have this much rain and more on the way today and tonight," Nicholls said. 
Scott and Marilyne Peterson and their 25-year-old son, Scott Jr., scurried out of their mobile home in rural Piedmont after watching the water rise 3 feet in five minutes. The family had just enough time to grab some essentials, a few clothes and the family dog. 
"You didn't have time to worry," Scott Peterson Sr. said. "You just grab what you can and go and you're glad the people are OK." 
In Arkansas, authorities searched for a West Fork man whose truck was believed to have been swept from a low­water bridge. Authorities found only the vehicle. 

In northeast Arkansas, the Spring Itiver was rising at 6 inches per hour, carrying debris that included full-grown trees. 
In Oklahoma, Muskogee fire­fighters rescued a mother and her four children from their 
minivan  stranded in flood  
waters.  
At  Dallas-Fort  Worth  

International Airport in Texas, American Airlines canceled about 700 departures and arrivals because of wind near 70 mph and heavy rain, and more than 100 of the carrier's flights headed to that airport were diverted, said airline spokesman Tim Wagner. 
Federal Aviation Administration oflicials evacu­ated the airport's west tower for about 15 minutes afler see­ing a funnel cloud. Another was spotted over Lake Lewisville, just north of the air­port. 
"This is one of the most vicious thunderstorms DFW has seen in quite some time, especially its ongoing intensi­ty," said airport spokesman Ken Capps. "Add in two snow storms in the past two weeks and this has been one of the most unusual early spring weather patterns in years." 
At Dallas Love Field, some 20 Southwest flights were can­celed, 20 others were diverted and many other flights were delayed, said airline spokes­woman Ashley Rogers. 
( 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for this Fall Semester, 2008 

2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
Alimited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment. these townhomes also indude a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42 • flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, doset and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
largedeck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


All this for S6501month per bedroom. Strict covenants enforced. 
Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishaossings.com.. 
N.D.'s W¥ren GoH Course 


\ 
\
Bulla Rd. 

-.j.--·
..~... ~t"''""'",... -·.:·-~··-"·· 
NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 


Dl;flln R~, 
fool!J&I 
St&lium . lorlease 



H.O Athfel'' fwlili 
EdisonRd 

now leasing. 
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,392.66 +420.41

:Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
3,032 52 361 1,264,149,823 

AMEX 2;29~.tO,i!r1mii4rJ~9~li* NASDAQ 2,268.26 91.25 NYSE .}""' 8,826744 '~33l];Qr' 
S&P 500 1,330.74 12.20 NIKKEI (Tokyo},Jitll'i!li,:fi1t9~4l~6:!!0tti:JiiillB!i FTSE 100 (London) 5.605.80 191.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +4.15 +5.33 133.63 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +8.40 +1.97 25.42 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +4.46 +1.85 43.33 BEAR STEARS (BSC) +22.87 +1.10 5.91 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +4.13 +0.137 3.451 13-WEEK BILL -9.09 -0.090 0.900 30-YEAR BOND +1.10 +0.047 4.329 5-YEAR NOTE +0.204 +0.204 2.406 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +3.74 109.42 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.70 1,00t30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 76.53 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 100.0600 EURO 0.6400 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9900 BRITISH POUND 0.4986 

IN BRIEF lnvesbnent banks soar on solid profits 
NEW YORK -Investment bank stocks soared Tuesday after Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers reported better-than-expected profits that soothed the frayed nerves of investors who were bracing for a domino effect after the near­failure of Bear Stearns. 
But the good news from two of the industry's top names hardly put investment banks in the clear, and their executives are learning to accept more openness in Wall Street's secretive culture. 
"It is no longer OK to be in a black box," Lehman Chief Financial Officer Erin Callan told The A'isociated Press. "There will be a lot more honesty from us as an industry, and it is painfully obvious this will be the biggest change." 
Investors were bolstered not just by the invest­ment bank earnings but by the Federal Reserve's move to cut interest rates. They responded by sending brokerages and investment banks to their best finish since 2001, lifting the Dow Jones industrials more than 420 points. 
Investment banks are notorious for being tightlipped about trading positions, tactics, and the contents of their multibillion dollar portfolios. That information could give rivals an edge and cost billions of dollars in a split-second trade. 

Delta Air Unes offers 30,000 payouts 
ATLANTA -Delta Air Lines, faced with a weak economy, dimmer hopes of a combination with Northwest Airlines and record fuel prices that are eating up profits, said Tuesday it will offer voluntary severance payouts to roughly 30,000 employees -more than half its work force -and cut U.S. capacity by an extra 5 per­cent. 
Executives at Atlanta-based Delta said in a memo to employees that the airline's goal is to cut 2,000 frontline, administrative and manage­ment jobs through the severance program, attri­tion and other initiatives. 
Delta spokeswoman Betsy Talton said the com­pany would accept more job cuts, if more employees than its goal take the voluntary sever­ance. The severance program primarily affects mainline Delta employees. It will not affect Delta pilots, who have a union contract with the com­pany, and employees at Delta regional carrier Comair, which is based in Erlanger, Ky. 



THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Fed slas-hes federal funds rate 
Aggressive Federal Reserve action prompts Wall Street's biggest gain in five years 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve slashed a key interest rate by three­quarters of a point Tuesday, capping its most aggressive two months of action in a quarter-century in a battle to halt a spreading credit crisis. Wall Street loved it, bursting to its biggest· gain in five years. 
The strong Fed action seemed to convince investors, at least for now, that the central bank will do whatever it can to keep the country out of a steep reces­sion. The Dow Jones indus­trial average finished the day up 420.41 points at 1,2,392.66. 
The latest Fed move brought the federal funds rate -the interest that banks charge each other ­down to 2.25 percent, the lowest since late 2004. 
That's important far beyond bank boardrooms. The reduction triggered announcements from com­mercial banks that they were eutting their prime lending rate to 5.25 percent from 6 percent. This rate is the benchmark for millions of business and consumer loans. 

The Fed action was designed to lower borrowing costs and boost spending by 30. The three rate cuts over its discount rate for banks by seen, but I think the Fed has consumers and businesses the course of two months a similar three-quarters of a now turned the psychology and thus increase economic represent the most aggres­point, pushing it down to 2.5 around," said David Jones, activity. Economic growth sive Fed credit easing since percent. That cut, which fol­chief economist at DMJ slowed to a near standstill in mid-1982 when the Paul lowed a quarter-point reduc­Advisors. "The Fed is saying the final three months of last Volcker-led Fed was working tion on Sunday, was seen as it is ready to supply all the year as the nation was hit by to get the country out of a a clear signal that the Fed is emergency credit banks need a series of blows including deep recession. ready to supply significant to get us out ofthls crisis." the credit crunch, a pro­Fed Chairman Ben amounts of credit in direct Many analysts said they longed housing slump, rising Bernanke and his colleagues loans to banks and other believed the Fed may cut unemployment and surging have now cut the funds rate institutions through its dis­rates only once more, per­energy prices. six times since last count window in an effort to haps by a more ordinary 
The Federal Reserve has September, with the reduc­stabilize financial markets quarter-point at the next now cut its rate by three­tions becoming more aggres­roiled by the collapse over meeting, and then sit back fourths of a percentage point sive since January as the the weekend of Bear Stearns, and see if economic stin1ulus twice this year. The first central bank has faced grow­the nation's fifth largest checks that will begin arriv­occurred at an emergency ing turmoil in global financial investment bank. ing at 130 million households meeting on Jan. 22 and was markets. "We had been on the brink in May will do the trick along followed by a half-point cut The Fed also announced of the biggest financial melt­with the rate cuts to jump­at a regular meeting on Jan. Tuesday that it was reducing down this country had ever start the economy. 


Bush hints at more aid for consumers 
And he has embraced action by the cultural sector, fresh advances in tech­
Associated Press 
Federal Reserve, which keeps slashing nology. interest rates and has helped finance "I understand there's short-term dif­

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -President the buyout of a collapsing financial ficulty," Bush said. "But I want people Bush, eager to reassure a rattled coun­giant. to understand that in the long term, try, said Tuesday that his administra­The president has rejected other we're going to be just fme." tion is ready to intervene again to sta­ideas from the Democratic Congress. In the meantime, the economy has bilize the economy. Those include extending unemploy­taken a punch in the gut. 
"If there needs to be further action, ment and food stamp benefits, and A collapse of the subprime housing we'll take it, in a way that does not sparing homeowners from foreclosure market led to a credit crisis that has damage the long-term financial health by allowing bankruptcy judges to shaken the financial system to its core. of our economy," Bush said along the adjust loan rates. Consumer confidence has tanked. gas docks of this port city. Juxtaposed against the economic prices are high, foreclosures are up, 
It was the second signal in two days concern, Bush had a good day for the home values are down. The same from Bush about the possibility of Republican Party. economy that produced jobs for most more government action to help hurt­In wealthy neighborhoods in of Bush's presidency is now shedding ing consumers and a shaken financial Jacksonville and Palm Beach, Bush them. market. Much of his agenda these days raised more than $1.4 million for the Bush linked the economic story to his is meant to show he is engaged in fiX­Republican National Committee. Both theme of the day, opening markets ing the economy but still confident in fundraisers were closed to the media. through trade. it. In between, during a speech largely First he walked the docks of a cargo 
Bush was not specific about other focused on trade, Bush said the company that oversees shipping to and steps he might take. American people should have confi­from Colombia and other nations. 
For .now, he has championed the dence in the economy. He chose his· After watching a giant forklift snatch upcoming tax rebates for millions of examples carefully -low unemploy­and move a cargo trailer, Bush climbed people and tax breaks for businesses. ment, rising productivity, a strong agri-the rig and got behind the wheel. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, March 19, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

The biggest "corporate power" 
P.O. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !·fall, Nmre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
AssT. MANAGING EI>ITOR: Katie Kohler 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hinc 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
Svsn:MS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardi:t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(57 4) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EOITO~ IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhc independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studentS of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirurion. The Obst-rver reserves the right to refi.tsc adwrriscmcnts based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assiswnr Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of till' authors <llld nor nect-ssarily those ofThc (Jbsrm·r. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrters is mcouraged. L.errers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "f,tlrding Obsl!rver policies should be dirmed to Editor ir1 ChiefChris Hine 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·11·~ Ol~nocr (USPS 'i'>') 2-4l.IUU) "puhhshcd Monday thrnu.:h frulo~y excep1 during n;ilm .uul vJ~o.'lUIUII pcriuo.h. A '4UIII6.·rir•ion mThl· Ob...crvc=r 1~ $100 fur nne academic yei!.r; $5') f"r uneM"OlClllcr. 
The: O~rver i• publi.lohcJ .u. 
024 Snuth Dinin~ Hall Send .1ddre.s.~ rorrec::tions m: 
Nout' D~mt. IN 46'S'>C...On9 ThcOhscrver 
['erindk;d posugc potid al Noll't D.un<" I~O.Buxm o~nd addinun.~ol rn.1ifing om~. O.Z4 South Dining Hall 
Norte Dam!.'. IN 46<;<;6-0779 
Th~ O~rvc:r ~~ il mc:mbcr of dn: A'\MK:I.ltcd Prtil>. AU rcpt1hlm:tion ng.lus ilrc rcservcil. 
Elections inevitably bring out the worst in those running for office. Hather than engage in reasoned debate, they make baseless claims cloaked in lofty rhetoric in an effort to appeal to their potential·voters. 
One such popu­lar delusion fre­quently cited by politicians is that businesses are somehow inher­ently evil. This view sees the interests of the worker and of the business as dia­metrically opposed and irreconcilable. Businesses wield an unacceptable amount of power: they can refuse to provide health care, they can lay off employees at their discretion, and they can exploit their employees by underpaying them. They can do vir­tually anything. In short, "corporate power" is eating America's suste­nance. 

Such an argument misses the vol­untary nature of the free market. Businesses have no "power" to force anyone to do anything. I may not like Big Macs, but Honald McDonald can­not speed up my bowel movements unless I choose to buy his product. 
I might hate Windows Vista in the same way everyone hates herpes, but Bill Gates can't force me to buy his product. The only way that any busi­ness can succeed is by satisfying the tastes of its customers better than its peers. It must interact with con­sumers on a voluntary basis to per­suade them to part with their hard­earned cash (unless it steals from the 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

tax-payers through subsidies and 
other government handouts). 
Similarly, a business deals with its employees in the same voluntary manner. When a company extends an offer to a potential employee, the firm agrees to give some sort of fixed compensation to the potential employee in return for his or her services. The employee can choose to either accept or reject the offer. The company cannot force the potential employee to work against his will under terms he did not accept. It can only hope the potential employee will choose to accept the offer. Either party can choose to end the business relationship if the relationship ceases to be mutually beneficial. 
The relationship between consumer and f'irm or employee and firm is not inherently conflicted, but mutually beneficial. No consumer is forced to buy a Dell laptop; rather, the con­sumer chooses to do so. The act of choosing to exchange his cash for the laptop means that he personally val­ued the laptop more than he valued his cash or the trade would not have occurred. On the other side, the f'irm must have valued his cash more than the laptop or the trade for the same reason. 
The same is true for employees and employers. The employee would not agree to work at a firm in exchange for compensation unless he valued the compensation more than the disutility he gets from working. The employer would not agree to employ the worker unless he gains more from employing him than he loses through the wages he pays. Obviously, both parties to the trans­action benefit, not just one at the expense of the other. Business is not a zero sum game. 
It is amusing that those who rally against the evils of "corporate power" somehow see the federal gov­ernment as the cure rather than a disease. Whereas businesses get their "power" through voluntary interaction with consumers and employees, the federal government behaves in the opposit1~ fashion. The government is naked force. It can spy on its citizens without their knowl­edge. It can prohibit its citizens from eating certain types of food. It can prevent its citizens from engaging in mutually beneficial exchanges. 
Many adult Americans are forced to work for nearly free 5 months of the year so that the government can take their money and give it to someone else to whom it does not belong (old people, poor people, mndieal care for others, etc.). Citizens beeome de facto slave labor to the government. 
Which is more dangerous: an entity that can arbitrarily snizn 40 percent of' a person's income, restrict a per­son's freedom. and spy without any restrictions or an entity cannot force you to work for it, buy its products or have any relationship with it? Any person that believes in the benevo­lence of the former and the wicked­ness of the latter should probably seek counseling. Unfortunately, the entire political establishment needs counseling. 
Mark Poyar is a senior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
S'J'.l.Ol'IS I'UST-PI~I'."\l'Cil ~ l.Lr,.-....., I 
c.a:-:1ccartnt.m.~.<~u•n (l)I\N\l::t.A\J


WHO'S NEXT? 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Viewpoint 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Liz Harter John Dailey Madeline Buckley Sports 
Who will go further in this year's 

Ashley Charnley Matt Gamber 
NCAA tournament?

Brian McKenzie Meaghan Veselik "The world is more malleable than 
Graphics Scene you think and its waiting for you to
Men's Basketball 

Mary Cecilia Stephanie DePrez hammer it into shape ... 
Women's Basketball 
Mitsch 

BonoVote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at rock star 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

University scandalized by "Monologues" 
Two years ago, I was stunned and dis­turbed by Fr. Jenkins' decision to continue to allow the "Vagina Monologues" to be performed on campus, especially since it seemed to be a complete turnaround from his earlier statements of concern. I believed then (as now) that its continued performance on campus was scandalous to the University, and by extension the Catholic Church. 
I see no point in listing the reasons for my concerns, as the points for both sides of the debate have been discussed at length. Suffice it to say, I find the arguments for supporting this play's presence on campus grossly unconvincing. This year, we have another statement by Fr. Jenkins and another set of performances. Although still disturbed. I cannot say I am stunned since my expectations of the University are much lower. (The University appears much more ordinary to me now than I once naively envisioned it). 
I imagine that this (once again) was not an easy decision for Fr. Jenkins. As a priest, I would expect that he sees the play as potentially harmful to the spiritual well­being of those who perform it, as well as to those who attend the performance. Of course, he also undoubtedly knows that people are watching what Notre Dame decides more than other Catholic institu­tions, and so knows the decision can be scandalous. 
At the same time, as president it seems he is charged to do what he believes is best for the University, which can be in conflict with his role as a priest. I strongly believe that this decision is not in the long-term interest of the University, but understand the reasons why others may feel different­ly. Perhaps he thought that after having made their point and won the day two years ago, the "academic freedom" propo­nents would graciously avoid once again antagonizing a significant segment of the Notre Dame community by sponsoring per­formances in the future. Alas, this was not to be the case -perhaps because the idea of "academic freedom" was simply used as a red herring by folks who really just want­ed to generate controversy and conflict. If that is the case, then the efforts by the organizers (as well as the faculty and departments that support them) to feed such a cancer would be particularly con­temptible. Regardless, it seems to me his decision would have been less complicated if he had not been a priest. 
Surely, chief executives of other organi­zations, including other universities, do not spend much time thinking about the spiri­tual well-being of individuals within their organizations. Perhaps then, it really is time to consider that the office of the presi­dent of the University no longer be occu­pied by a Holy Cross priest, and that Notre Dame move to be independent altogether. Unbounded by concerns about the spiritual well-being of students as a priest is, a lay president could simply focus on what's "best" for the University. No more concern about Catholic faculty ratio, no more con­cern about bothersome bishops and their 
·conferences. No more conflict between Catholic character and academic freedom. He or she could simply concentrate on 
• what's "best" for the University (which pre­sumably means higher US News and World Report Rankings, and the esteem of so­called peer institutions). Personally, I think it would be a great loss to see Notre Dame become an inde­pendent institution. However, it wouldn't be the first Catholic institution to do. It does have advantages for both sides. Academic freedom would presumably be unlimited to the delight of one side of the debate, while those of us on the other would at least not have to see the universi­ty we loved used as a weapon in the. cul­ture war against the Catholic Church, with the approval of a priest. We would also likely see the play end its run on campus more quickly (with the controversy gone, support for what is essentially a bad play would probably dry up). 
If a distorted view of academic freedom trumps Catholic character at Notre Dame (as this decision suggests is the case), and we are on the road to independence, let's be done with it sooner rather than later. If that is the direction of the University, per­haps it is "best" to do so in an expeditious manner. Otherwise, disappearing bishops and a visit to this country by a pope with more than an interest in "Ex Corde Ecclesiae" may be signs that if Notre Dame does not make the explicit decision to be independent itself, the decision for Notre Dame to be independent may be made by somebody else. 
Michael R. Waters · 
alumnus 
MBA2000 Mar. 17 
Chastity for the right reasons 
Chris Spellman acknowledged in his letter to the editor ("Save sex for marriage," Mar. 17) that many readers would disagree with his assertion, reflecting on its controversial nature. I am not here to attack Mr. Spellman's assertion (l·am a member of such Facebook groups as "I Am Going To Have Crazy Sex Once I Am Married" and "''m Saving Myse-lf For Wild, Passionate, Awkward Honeymoon Sex"). Rather I would like to play Devil's Advocate with some analo­gies and arguments that are prevalent on the abstinence side of the debate. · 
Without any concrete privately collected empirical evidence, I concede that sex is likely far more meaningful and enjoyable between husband and wife. While sex is likely improved by mar­riage (and marriage by sex, otherwise count me out), I doubt that abstaining from sex before marriage improves it the same way that dessert is "improved" by having dinner first, as Mr. Spellman believes. Often the dinner itself is too much, and I find that starting with dessert gets me the most from my dining hall brownie sundae. The dessert analogy fails not out of a misunderstanding of sex. but a misunderstanding of dessert. 
Making sex and food analogous sometimes works to inspire oth­ers to chastity, and sometimes it doesn't. One other such failed example is "Why have burgers when you can have steak?" While this worked great for me in my pubescent years, as time passed and neither burgers nor steak were on the horizon, I started get­ting antsy for anything that smelt like a dead cow. People who are getting married later and later into their 30s or even 40s must be starving waiting for that steak, and I'm afraid they'll too anxiously attend to the first burgers that come their way. Comparing food and sex gets you in trouble pretty fast. If I'm flirting with a girl, does that hint that at some unspecified time in a hypothetical future, I would enjoy playing cannibal with her? Of course not. But thinking of it that way is a good guard against coming off as too forward. 
I could go on all day, but let's look at one last point brought up in Spellman's article: "Do we fight the heroic struggle of saving our sexuality for our future spouse, knowing the rewards will be great, or do we cheat[?].... [This] is in no way easy, but neither is accom­plishing other lofty goals like getting into Notre Dame or winning a national championship." I take particular issue with the phrase "knowing the rewards will be great." If you're in the process of saving yourself for marriage, you might believe the rewards will be great, but do you really know? And what, specifically, are the rewards in a positive sense (beyond negative descriptions like you won't get AIDS or you won't get pregnant)? As someone who isn't married and is saving himself, I take it more as a matter of faith that the rewards are worth it, since really there's no second life to compare this strategy against. And while staying steadfastly chaste before marriage is no simple task, the belief in its "loftiness" is completely a matter of faith. 
For my part, I do not demand that I marry a virgin, as I am uncertain of reasons why this should be such a requirement for two people to commit to each other and raise good Christians and citi­zens together. It seems like it's lofty because it's difficult instead of being difficult because it's so lofty. 
John Gorski 
senior 
Stanford Hall Mar. 17 

Obama most likely not the Antichrist 
Mr. Yatarola: 
You repeatedly stated in your Viewpoint article ("Obama and the end of time," Mar. 18), that you have always wanted to write an article about Sen. Barack Obama, but that every issue you've ever wanted to write about has been popularized before you could pub­lish your views. Perhaps this happened for a reason. Maybe you don't have any­thing original to say about Sen. Obama that is relevant and appropriate to pub­lish. 
But, you apparently couldn't bear the thought of not throwing your two cents in, and therefore took it upon yourself to compose a scathing, irrelevant editorial that borders on being ridiculous. Your condescending language that at one point becomes downright racist when you make a definite distinction between black voters and highly educated ones (as if there could never be a highly edu­cated black voter) disgusts me, and I am sure I am not alone when I say this. 

You essentially equate support of Obama to the following of a pagan cult, rejecting all of the senator's ideas as "hot air." A "shallow fad"? That's far too bold, Mr. Yatarola. One of the only points of yours that I agreed with was when you described yourself as being "conceited." Merely mentioning the names "Obama" and "Antichrist" in the same sentence is absolutely preposter­ous. Just because you may dread biotechnology (which has undeniably led to tremendous advances in health­care that are saving lives) doesn't mean that it is a sign of the apocalypse; nor does this mean that it is relevant to this issue. 
In fact, why are we discussing faith at all in relation to this campaign? Sen. Obama is clearly the most fai,th-oriented candidate left, as difficult as this may be for a conservative to swallow. There is a time to talk about faith, yes, but surely this is not it. Debating religion is not going to end the recession or fix the Middle East crisis. The fact that you honestly believe that Sen. Obama is knowingly and purposely garnering "religious fanaticism toward himself' is almost entertaining. 
I have heard many conservative com­mentators complain about Obama's use of rhetoric as a means to make himself a more popular candidate, but never has anyone absurdly complained that he is trying to make himself a god (until you did yesterday, that is). 
I'm sorry there is not a candidate in this election that is as conservative and orthodox as you desire. But again, maybe there is a reason for this. 
Ed Keenan freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 18 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 



0 ,, 
..ray 


orton/ 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
After disappointing adaptations of "The Cat in the Hat" and "How the Grinch Stole Christmas," Dr. Seuss properly comes to life in "Horton llears a Who!" from Blue Sky Studios ("Jcp, Age"). With breathtaking animation and a heartwarming, well­crafted story. "Horton" suggests that Dr. SP.uss has found his home away from live-action and in the world of feature animation. 
The story of "Horton" begins Although "/lorton" is ences of all ages. It doesn't hurt with a simple action _:__ a speck of clearly a children's that comedians like Carrey, dust is dislodged from a daisy. But Carell, Burnett, Arnett, Amy
movie, its humor and

what makes this event nxtraordi­Poehler, Seth Hogen and Jonah nary is that the speck of dust animation can appeal to Hill lend their voices to the ani­houses the tiny world of the Whos, adults as well. mated characters. Fans of these 
and now that they are precarious­ly floating through the air, their world is in danger. I lorton the elo­phant (voiced by .Jim Carrey) hears the Whos' S<Teams and makes it his mission to find a safe plaen for the tiny world as he carries it on a dover. 
Meanwhiln, in Who-ville, Mayor Ned O'Malley (Stove Carel!) is struggling to keep the peace while figuring out what is causing the strange weather eonditions and earthquakes in his fair city. After making contact with llorton, Ned discovers that Who-ville is a speck of dust in danger of extinction. Ned must rely on !lorton to carry the Whos to safe­ty as the trusty elephant goes up against Kangaroo (Carol Burnett), who believes that Horton is danger­ously nneouraging children to use their imagina-
Horton Hear's a Who! 
Blue Sky Studios 

Director. Jimmy Hayward, Steve Martino Written by: Ken Dauria, Cinco Paul S1arring: Jim Carrey, Steve Cai-eii,Carol Bumette, Amy Poehler, Seth Rogen, Jonah Hill 
tions, and a vulture named Vlad (Will Arnett), who Kangaroo hires to dispose of the speck of dust. Few animals in the Jungle of Nool believe Horton's tale, but he never gives up protecting the Whos because he firmly believes that "a person's a person, no matter how small." 
Although "llorton" is clearly a children's movie, its humor and animation can appeal to adults as well. The comedy is smart and goes beyond visual gags and potty humor. "llorton" takes after the Disnny-Pixar films in its ability to captivate audi­
actors' live action work will appreeiate their animated work as well. Hogen may have to check 
the foul language at the door, but his sarcasm is just as present in Horton's buddy Morton as it is in any one of his comedies. 
The movie becomes dif"ficult to watch as the ani­mals of the Jungle of Nool try to imprison I lorton and destroy the speck of dust, but it is only difficult because we fear for the futures of llorton and the 
Whos and because the political undertones of Dr. ' 
Sfmss' work become eerily apparent when his short J book is drawn out to 88 minutes. After all, "Horton . Hears a Who!" was written during the peak of tho McCarthy hearings in the 1950s and many critics have drawn parallels between Dr. Seuss' work and the McCarthy saga. But even children's movies can 
be a little bit scary. ,. 
Not everything is perfect in the world of Dr. 
Seuss all the time, but that's what happy endings 
are for. We're even treated to a musical number 
that seems to come straight out of "The 40-YP.ar­
Oid Virgin." 

"Horton" really has it all -comedy, adventurn, 
suspense. good guys and bad guys that turn good 
so that everyone can bP. happy. While watching 
I lorton 11oat down a river or Ned run around Who­
ville, you have to wonder if thl~ fantastical images 
on screen are what Dr. Seuss imagined as he 
dreamed up the Jungle of Nool and the world 
inside the tiny speck of dust. 
They must be pretty darn close. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
\ 
t f
' 

L __________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________. 

Assistant Scene Editor 
You probably won't enjoy Doomsday. The movie lacks any real rhythm or flow; in fact it's really just a 104 minute long action sequence, filled with non­stop, blood-splattering action. But if you're familiar with Snake Pliskin, Mad Max or any of the old George Homero zombie flicks, you might appreciate this film. 
"A virus doesn't hate or care, it just happens," Or so the opening narration claims at the beginning of director Neil Marshall's latest film. The full-blown apocalyptic thriller begins with the killer "Heaper" virus 
-
Leading a team of soldiers and a pair of scientists, Sinclair sets out for Glasgow in search of Dr. Kane (Malcom McDowell), the leading researcher on the Reaper Virus 30 years ago, who was trapped inside the city. They don't find Kane, but what th do looks straight out of John Carpenter's "Escape New York." The streets are empty, the buildin overrun by vegetation and everything appears of human life. But an empty city is no fun. 
Before they know it the place is crawling club-swinging, Mohawk wearing, tattooed, p rocking cannibals. Sinclair and her men mow down 
about a hundred of the freaks before the savage punk rockers manage overrun her crew. They take her. pris­
breaking out in the city of Glasgow. It oner and she meets their leader,
The film is homage to
spreads so rapidly the government (Craig Conway). The man is about decides to just wall off the northern the gritty, apocalyptic psycho as you would expect half of the island of Great Britain, thrillers ofthe 8o's. human being surviving under su 
leaving everyone living within the regions-sick or not-to die. 
Three decades later, skyrocketing levels of overpopulation, unemployment and sheer filth lead to another outbreak of the virus in London. Rather than evacuate or quarantine all of England: two corrupt, high ranking government officials John Hatcher (Alexander Siddig) and Michael Canaris (David O'Hara) send an elite team, led by the one­eyed Major Eden Sinclair (Hhona Mitra). over the wall into what's left of Scotland. 
Hatcher instructs Sinclair to find the cure and return within 48 hours -before the virus overruns London. Sinclair coolly asks what she should do if she doesn't find the cure. Hatcher responds: "Then you shouldn't bother coming back." His comment is sort of ironic, if you stay until the end. 
Doomsday 
Crystal Sky Pictures 
Director: Neil Marshall Written by: Neil Marshall Staning: Rhona Mitra, Bob Hoskins, Malcolm McDowell, Ad~ Lester 
circumstances to be. A tQStament  
his insanity, Sol puts on a dance  
to the music of Fine Young Canni  
before the cannibals feast on one of Sinclair's  
members.  
From there things only get more ridiculous.  
Sinclair manages to escape and finds Kane,  ...  
happens to be at war with Sol, who, it turns out,  
Kane's son. Unlike Sol's sweatband and Mohawk tot­ 
ing followers, Kane's men ride horses wearing s  
of armor. The whole scenario is absurd, but it  
redeemed by the interchange Sinclair shares with  
Kane right before he throws her into a gladi  
arena to do battle with his executioner. Kane  
Sinclair what London has become in the decad  
since the wall went up. Sinclair casually responds,  
"Same [expletive], different era."  
Marshall, who won a string of awards for  
low-budget independent films "Dog Soldiers" and  
"The Descent," jumped on to a much larger  
with "Doomsday." The film is his homage to  
gritty, apocalyptic thrillers of the 80s.  
"LTlhe whole idea was that I was making a film  
for an audience that wasn't there when "Mad Max"  
came out. I wanted to give them a sense of  
we experienced," he said in an interview on th  
Web site chud.com.  
When you feel the jolt of the stunt-filled c  
chase at the end of the film, a scene that to  
three-and-a-half weeks to film, you might get  
sense of what he is trying to accomplish, and over­ 
all it's almost enough to call "Doomsday" a good  
film.  
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu  - 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 


Mount St. Mary's opens Tournatnent -with 69-60 victory 
Goode's ganze-high 21 points help Mountaineers beat Coppin State, earn first Tourney win in school history 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio-Thn Mount 
finally got Tlw Win. 
Mount St. Mary's, a 
Maryland school known for 
gPtting drublwd in its prnvi­
ous two appnarances in tlw 
NCAA tournanu•nt. got this 
orw startNI with a nice-look­
ing win Tuesday night in tlw 
O()('lling ganw. 
A 69-60 victory over Coppin 
St.atn snt up a daunting SPC­
ond gamP for thn 
Mountaincnrs (19-141, who 
imnwdiately started prepar­
ing for tlwir next opporwnt. 
Anybody up for playing 
North Carolina? In its own 
backyard, no lt~ss? 
"I nnvisionnd playing against them when I was lit­tin," said guard .Jeremy (;oodn, a Carolina native who led the way with 21 points. "To play against thmn Iileans a lot." 
It means a season that 
s IH~ 111 ~~ d to tw a I o s t ea u s e 
only a fnw weeks ago ean go 
on for at IPast a few more 
days. 
The Mountaineers won thtlir last l'ivn ganws to shed thei1: losing rneord and make the t.ournanwnt, then got the one victory that's always been well out of reaeh. In its two other NCAA games, Mount St. Mary's lost to Kentucky by 46 points in 1995 and to Michigan State by 2:~ in 1999. 
"It's a reliPf," said Kelly Beidler, who had 15 rebounds. "It just fBlt good to say we've actually won an NCAA game." 

No time to savor it. they went fivn minutes with­the spark for Mount St. champ that had a losing who scored 14 points. "What Tournament reality hits on out scoring, allowing Mount Mary's up-tempo offense. He record before it got on that we came through to get to the Friday, when the Mount plays St. Mary's to break it open. did it all, driving to the bas­late run. The only complaint NCAA tournament, you can't the top-seeded Tar Heels in Sensing the enormity of the ket and hitting fadeaway was from some folks who did­take that away. So we appreci­Haleigh. Fans in the erowd of moment, they jumpers over n't even think the ate ~.he opportunity to be H,464 at University of Dayton missed eight much taller Mountaineers deserved to be here. Arena lwld up signs ealling straight shots players. in the tournament at all. given No one could grouse about
"{An ESPN analyst] 
on the play-in winner to and a pair of He also sup­their RPI of 159. the game, either. For the most
said neither team
"Bury N. Carolina." free throws. plied the final "Me and Chris (Vann~ were part, they didn't play like Tough chanee for that. A Several times, deserved to be in the touches, hit­in the hotel watching ESPN teams with a combined 35 16th send has never taken the ball started ting four free and a guy says this game losses. Coppin State used its
tournament. That
down a No. 1. to roll in. then throws in the shouldn't even be played," quickness, going inside for 
But, that's something for agonizingly spun kind ofgot us ready last 27 sec­Goode said. "lie said neither dunks and layups. Mount St. later. ror a few sweet minutes out. to play." onds. team deserved to be in the Mary's trio of dangerous on Ttwsday night, Mount St. "We had a lot Perhaps no tournament. That kind of got guards did most of the dam­Mary's got to savor its break­of opportuni­other opening­us ready to play." age.
Jeremy Goode
through over another ties," said game winner Coppin State complain? No Coppin State was ahead the

Mountaineers guard 
Maryland school, located Tywain McKee, enjoyed it so way. entire first half, leading by as about 60 milns away. who had a team-much and Marooned at 4-19 in early many as nine. ThP 
Coppin State (16-21) high 15 points. complained so February, the Eagles sneaked Mountaineers' guards '~hanged became thP first team to "Wn just couldn't put them little. Unlike previous years, into the tournament for the the tone after halftime, when reach the tournament with 20 in." there was no grousing about first time since 1997 by win­Vann's three-point play put losses, and the Eagles played Goode, a 5-foot-9 sopho­having to start the tourna­ning the Mid-Eastern Athletic Mount St. Mary's up 39-34. as if they were in over their more who knows a little ment in Dayton. title. It went back-and-forth until heads during the dosing min­about Carolina blue because Not from Mount St. Mary's, "This was a great opportuni­Coppin State went cold at thP utes. With the pressure on, he grew up in Charlotte, was the Northeast Conference ty," said Antwan Harrison, end. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

For rent: HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 If you or someone you care about has Two story house ready for immedi-been sexually assaulted, visit WANTED FoR RENT ate occupancy or next school year. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape.sh RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR lml 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing Off street parking includes motion PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT for 08/09,09/1 o sensor light for security. CALL 574-234-2436 OR WHO IS? You do not have to be Summer In Maine: Males and females. WORK flexible, no experience Now offering "flex" leases Four individually locked bedrooms, alone. We want to help. Call our 24 Meet new friends! Travel! Teach your needed, bluegoldrentals.com central station monitored security KRAMERHOUSES.COM hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No favor~e activity. "Tennis'Canoe"Water customer sales/service, system, Abort or Ski'Swim'Saii'Kayak'Theatre'Video' conditions apply, ages 18+, Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth six blocks from Notre Dame, 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home visit our web site at Ropes'Office'Pottery'English 
home for rent bus stop in front of house, close to campus, safe, cathedral www.lifecall.org Riding'Landsports and more. June to 574-273-3835. walking distance to college. Laundromat next door, ceilings, August. Residential. Enjoy our web-Call 847-507-7444. basement available for storage, fireplace, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not site. Apply on-line. TRIPP LAKE www. workforstudents.com new furnace and central air, 2-car garage, 1 Ox20 deck, go it alone. If you or someone you CAMP for Girls: 1-800-997-4347, 
5 bedroom house just off Angela new kitchen including appliances, deluxe appl. love needs confidential support or www.tripplakecamp.com Need babysilter for 2 kids. & 31. large living room, assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn. Flex hrs. free trash removal. Avail. for Aug. 2008. OP, at 1-7819. For more information, Bus trip to Munster, IN for the per-Good pay. Available now & for next year. visit our website at: formance of the story of Rockne of Solid Catholic family. 2 baths & Garage available for car-extra. Call 574-232-4527 or http://osa.nd.edu/departmehts/preg-Notre Dame on Sunday, April 9. Email: laundry. 269-683-5038 or nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in Package includes bus. fabulous mbrammer@ sbcglobal.net 232-6964. Call 289-4071. 574-340-1844. The Observer. brunch, &ticket for show. $77/person. 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICEs page 13 
NCAA Baseball USA Today /ESPN Top 25 Coaches Poll 
rank  team  record  last week  
1  Arizona Slate  ·n-o .  1  
2  Arizona  12~2·  2  
3  Florida Slate  16-1  4  
4  North Carolina  14c3  3  
5  Miami  13-2  5  
6  Long Beach Stale  12-3  7  
7  UC Irvine  14-1  10  
8  Vanderbill  12-4  12  
9  Missouri  13-2  11  
10  Mississippi  13-5  8  
11  Kentucky  18-9  15  
12  South Carolina  11-5  6  
13  Baylor  13-4  g  
14  Texas  12-5  13  
15  Rice  12-6  16  
16  Wichita State  11-3  21  
17  Texas A&M  15-4  22  
18  Stanford  8-4  20  
19  Virginia  14-4  14  
20  UCLA  10-5  18  
21  Coastal Carolina  15-2  NR  
22  California  13-2-1  25  
23  Georgia Tech  13-4  17  
24  Nebraska  14-2  NR  
25  Cal State Fullerton  9-7  23  

NCAA Softball USA TodayjNFCA Top25 
rank team record last week 
1 Arizona State .21-1 3 2 Alabama 11•1 1 3 Texas A&M 2H· 2 4 Tennessee 1H 4 5 Florida 24-1 5 6 UCLA 19-2 7 
7 Arizona 1f-4 8 8 Northwestern 10·3 6 9 Stanford 20-2 10 10 Michigan 16·2 12 11 Oklahoma 17-4 10 
12 LSU 15-4 9 13 Baylor 12-3 13 14 Houston 14-2 14 15 Hawaii 13-4 15 
16 DePaul 11-6 19 17 Georgia 17-5 17 18 Louisiana-Lafayette 10-3 16 19 Mississippi State 16-4 18 20 Ohio Stale 11-4 20 21 San Diego State 16-5 21 22 Washington 10-6-1 25 23 Fresno State 15-3 NR 24 Virginia Tech 12·6 24 25 Maryland 13-1 NR 
MIAA Women's Tennis 
Conference Standings 

rank team league overall 
1 Albion 3-0 7-0 2 Kalamazoo 1•0 3•4 3 Alma 0-0 8.:3 4 Calvin 0-0 6·1 5 Hope 0-0 2~3 6 SAINT MARY'S 0~1 4·5 7 Tri-State D-0 3·2 8 Adrian D-1 2"5 9 Olivet D-1 1·5 
around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL Pistons at Cavaliers 8 p.m., ESPN 

NIT CONFERNECE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Alabama at Virginia Commonwealth 7 p.m., ESPN2 
San Diego State at Florida 9 p.m., ESPN2 
OLYMPICS 


Associated Press 

PARIS-Moves to pun­ish China over its han­dling of violence in Tibet gained momentum Tuesday, with a novel suggestion for a mini-boy­cott of the Beijing Olympics by YIPs at the opening ceremony. 
Such a protest by world leaders would be a huge slap in the face for China's Communist lead­ership. 
France's outspoken for­eign minister, former humanitarian campaigner Bernard Kouchner, said the idea "is interesting." 
Kouchner said he wants to discuss it with other foreign ministers from the 27 -nation European Union next week. His comments opened a crack in what until now had been solid opposition to a full boycott, a stance that Kouchner said remains the official government position. 
The idea of skipping the Aug. 8 opening ceremony "is less negative than a general boycott," Kouchner said. "We are considering it." 
Asked about Kouchner's statement, China's U.N. Ambassador Wang Guangya said: "Certainly I think what he said is not shared by most of the people in the world." 
International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge said last month that he expects many heads of state ­including President Bush, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy -to attend the opening ceremony. 
Such an opening cere­mony boycott presumably would not include the athletes, who under Olympic rules are forbid­den from making any kind of protest at events or venues-including the opening ceremony. 
U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman Darryl Seibel said there are no rules 
IN BRIEF Central Florida walk-on 
dies after conditioning 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A Central Florida wide receiver died Tuesday after voluntary strength and conditioning drills, the day before spring practice was set to begin. 
Police said there was no foul play or obvious cause for red­shirt freshman Ereck Plancher's late morning collapse. UCF ath­letic director Keith Tribble said the players had been lifting weights, then ran for about 10 minutes. 
After the workout, the team huddled for a quick chat. As everyone was leaving, Plancher, of Naples, took a knee in obvious distress, Tribble said. UCF train­ers on site immediately provided CPR and the redshirt freshman was taken by ambulance to the hospital. He was pronounced dead just before noon. 
76ers talkin!! about AI coming bacl{ to town PHILADELPHIA -The 76ers are talkin' about Allen Iverson once more. 
Here he comes, 15 months after he was kicked out of Philadelphia over irreconcilable differences, A.l., The Answer, the MVP, the hip-hop hoops icon -call him what you want -is back in the city he once owned like few others ever have in its deep, rich sports history. 
The ones who know the fans best believe Iverson will get an ovation that will rattle the roof of the Wachovia Center when the 6-foot guard out of Georgetown is intro­duced Wednesday. Iverson's first game in Philly since he was traded in December 2006 might be one of the more prominent and passionate moments in his old home, even though he'll be wearing a Denver Nuggets uniform and trying like mad to stick it to the Sixers instead of vow­ing to \Vin them a title. 
forcing athletes to attend opening ceremonies. 
"We strongly encourage our athletes to participate in opening ceremonies," Seibel said. "It is a tremendous honor to walk into the Olympic Stadium behind the flag of your nation, and to do so in a ceremony honor­ing and celebrating ath­letes from around the world." 
The violent protests in Tibet, the most serious challenge in almost two decades to China's rule in the region, are forcing governments and human rights campaigners to re­examine their approach to the Aug. 8-24 games. 
Obama t-shirt Web site 
shut down by MLB lawyers 
NEW YORK -A Web site selling "Obama" T-shirts using the type­faces of Major League Baseball teams closed after drawing atten­tion from the sport's lawyers. 
"We sent a cease-and-desist let­ter for violating our trademark," baseball spokesman Rich Levin said Tuesday. 
Morris Levin, a supporter of Barack Obama's presidential cam­paign, operated www.obamaof­dreams.com and said he shut down the site March 4. He said he stopped sales on that date. 
"I started the site as a fun way to show support for Sen. Obama. ..... and I'm a big Phillies fan," he said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. "I did not make any profit on this, and I think that Major League Baseball has a fantastic product of which I am a big con­sumer.'' 
NBA 

Garnett's old boss says star forvvard 'tanked it' 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Kevin Garnett hw; hoard plnnty of critid'im in hL<> 13 yoars in thn NBA. 
lie donsn't hit thn big shot in the fourth quarter. lie only got the Minnnsota '11mberwolvns out of the first round of the playolls ono time. 

-
Ilis eontrad IimitNI thn team's abili­ty to surround him with talent. Through it all, no one ever ques­tioned his inwn.,ity, eJJiu1. or deter­mination. Until now, <md from an unlikely source. Timbt~rwolvns ownnr Glen Taylor, a staunch supportnr and friend of Garnett's during their 12 seasons togethnr in Minnnsota. levnled somn rare critidsm at hL'i li>mwr star on Tuesday, suggesting Garnett "tanked it" whnn he missed the last fivn gmnes last yn<U'. Arter the Celtics endnd the Hoekets' 22-game winning streak on Tunsday night with a <Jt:l.-74 win, Garnett didn't havP much to say about thn mntrovnrsy. ''I'm in Boston right now," hn said courtsidn. "I eould earn lnss what (;hm Taylor thinks of K(win Gamntt. Hight now. hugo win li.>r us. That's nonsensn. I don't nvnn know why he would bring that up, but, you know, it shows tho tastn of some pnople." Taylor's remarks came al'ter praeticn Tuesday alumwon, as tim Wolves' strong play down the stretch was bt~ing discussed. They have won four of their last six gamns and say they want to win as many as possible to create some momentum going into the ollsea­son. Taylor took exception to a local newspaper colwnnist who suggest­ed it was time li.>r the Wolves, who are 16-50, to start losing to improve their chances in the draft lottery. Garnett missed the last five games of' last season with a leg injury m1d wau~hed hL'i temn lose its final seven games, improving its draft status along the way, befi.>re b1~ing tradnd to Bosum in July. ·ntylor said tho columnist "said a little bit last year that we sort of like t<mknd it. I don't think that. I don't Iikn that so much. I don't likn that. "It was morn like KG t<mked it. I think the othnr guys still wantod U> 

play. But it sure changed the temn 
and didn't makn us las good]." 
Before the Celtics took on the 
Hockets, Garnett's agent, Andy 
Millnr, said Taylor's remarks were 
"ridiculous." 
"KG has never been questioned, 
nor would he ever be questioned by 
anyone, about hL<> effort or desire to 
win and accomplish temn success," 
Miller said in a phone interview. 
"During his tenure in Minnesota, 
nothing was more important to him 
than bringing a championship to 
Minnesota." 
Last year wa..<;n't the first time the 
Wolves have been accused of 
dumping gmnes. 
Two years ago, the team shut 
down Garnett for the final six 
games, which ended with center 
Mark Madsen missing seven 3­
pointers in a 
doubln-overtime loss to Memphis. 
They traded a first-rounder to the Clippers in a deal for Marko Jaric that year, cu1d needed to finish with a lottnry pick in the U>p 1 0 to keep it. Minnesota lost four of il'i last five to nnsurn tlmt happem~d. 
The Wolves aren't tl1e only team to come under scrutiny for tanking games in recent years. Memphis, which comes to the Target Center on Wednesday night, has heard it this year al'tnr trading star Pau Gasol to the Laknrs lilr a package of nondescript players, and Miami recently made the decision to bench Dwyane Wade lor the rest of the season. 
So far this season, the Timberwolves cannot be consid­ered in that company. 
They have shown marked improvement in the last week Taylor said "the right thing to do is to pres..<; these guys to win, win, win, win, win." 
"Why arc we winning? We're winning for [the players], but the other thing is I think we're winning lor the fans," he said. "I think we have to show the fans that, what I call it, there is a plan. That we're going to improve next year. And you can see where we were and this is where we're going and next year we're going to be a better temn." 
With a young core including AI Jemlrson, Ryan Gomes and Randy Foye, there is some optinlism that better days lie ahead. 
Pleasejoin us for cocktails & Hors d'oeuvres to introduce the Notre Dame and Saint Marys Faculty and Staffto 

AT ED1SON LAKES 

an Epom Community
the fastest selling community 
STONEBRIDGE VILLAS
in Michiana 
at Edison lakes 

Ranch Villas starting in the S190s
March 20th and 21h 2008 5:00pm to 8:00pm Beer & Wine will be served Hors d'oeuvres provided by ~~;~:,~~~E .rtiP..~:.~. ~.~. 
RSVP appreciated 

RSVP by March 12 to be entered in the drawing for a $50 Gift Card jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 stonebridgecondos.net 

LETS PLAY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 

Teach In Florida! 
You are Invited to Attend a Teacher Recruitment Seminar 
Coming to a Citv NearYou 
March 26-28 
If you would like to meet representatives from the Florida Department of Education and a team of..._~ 
school district recruiters from around the state,we encourage you to accept this unique invitation. 
Each seminar will last approximately 90 minutes and will cover topics of
... 
importance to anyone considering 
moving to Florida to live and teach. 
Florida accepts out-of-state 
qualifications and has numerous 
paths to certification. 
~· 

Spaces are limited and pre-registration is required at: 
www.TeachlnFiorlda.com 
LEARN ITALIAN AT NOTRE DAME THIS SUMMER 
ROIT 10115-INTENSIVE BEGINNING ITALIAN 
is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 17th until July 31st MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
It is like a double shot of espresso in the morning .Ill 

Wednesday, March 19, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Nittymaki, Flyers clinging to last playoff spot 
Goalie nearly flawless in Philadelphia victory; Blues win in shootout; Blue Jackets' Norrena shuts out Flames 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Antero Niittymaki made a perfect save in the final seconds to remain unbeaten against Atlanta. 
Niittymaki smothered Ilya Kovalchuk's last-second attempt at a game-tying goal, dropping the Thrashers for­ward to his knees in disbelief and preserving Philadelphia's sorely-needed victory. 
Mike Richards, Jeff Carter and Vaclav Prospal scored goals and the Flyers kept their hold on the eighth spot in the Eastern Conference in a 3-2 win over the Thrashers on Tuesday night. 
"Anything at this point of the year, a big goal, a big save, we definitely can feed off it," Carter said. 
No stop came bigger than the one Niittymaki made in the final ticks of the clock. Kovalchuk scored his 50th goal of the season with 30 seconds left, leaving the Flyers with a sense of dread about blowing yet another game in the waning moments. 
Kovalchuk nearly made it happen with a wrist shot from the high slot, but Niittymaki made the tough save. Kovalchuk fell to his knees, then sprawled his body on the ice as the Flyers mobbed each other around him in celebration. 
"Most of the time I score those kind of goals," Kovalchuk said. 
Carter and Richards were among the Flyers who called 
it the save of the year. Niittymaki, who made 17 saves, said it was simply another stop and that he "just reacted." 
"As soon as he wound up and the puck made it through to him I had already jumped and celebrated," Thrashers forward Chris Thorburn said. "Maybe I jinxed him, but he's done it so many times for us. 
Niittymaki allowed Thorburn's goal 58 seconds into the game, but was near flawless in helping the Flyers to their lOth straight series win against the Thrashers. The Flyers haven't lost to Atlanta since November 2005 and Niittymaki improved to 9-0 against the Thrashers. 
"We had a simple game· plan, get pucks in deep, allow the pucks to the net and I really thought it paid off," coach John Stevens said. 
The slumping Flyers des­perately needed this win to stay in the playoff chase with only eight games left in the season. They took a season­high 47 shots. 
They had lost four straight, including a 7-1 defeat at Pittsburgh on Sunday, that caused general manager Paul Holmgren to blast their effort and team chairman Ed Snider expressed concern over their collapse. 
Stevens even ordered the equipment manager to change all the player's stalls in the locker room of their practice facility to shake everything up. 
For one game at least, the 
criticisms must have inspired the Flyers. 
They got off to yet another slow start, though, when Thorburn slid the puck past for Niittymaki for an easy goal and a 1-0 lead. One of the knocks Holmgren leveled against Stevens was the Flyers sometimes are not pre­pared at the start of games and this was the latest exam­ple. 
Unlike their thrashing at Pittsburgh, the Flyers rallied in this one. 
The Flyers attacked Kari Lehtonen with a flurry of shots and Richards finally got the puck through for his 25th goal and tied the game 7 min­utes into the first period. 
The Flyers caught a break with 3 seconds left in the period when Kimmo Timonen's slapper just inside the blue line fired off Carter's skate and shot. through Lehtonen's legs to make it 2­
1. Carter's power-play goal was his 28th of the season. 
Prospal scored his 31st goal off a give-and-go from Danny Briere in the third, which turned out to be a huge goal. 
The Flyers, who blew a 3-0 lead to Toronto last week in the third period, had another scare when Kovalchuk made it 3-2 with 30 seconds remaining. The rowdy crowd was instantly hushed, but Philly hung on for the dra­matic win thanks to one more fantastic save. 
"We had some trouble win­ning games a couple of times this year, but we got the job 
done tonight," Niittymaki said. 
Blues 4, Canadians 3 (shootout) 
Brad Boyes scored his 38th goal of the season and was the only player to score in the shootout and the St. Louis Blues ended a 10-game road losing streak with a win over the Montreal Canadiens on Tuesday night. 
Manny Legace stopped Saku Koivu, Andrei Kostitsyn and Alex Kovalev in the shootout as St. Louis got its first road win in more than a month. 
Boyes, who scored his team-high 38th goal in the second period, put a back­hand past Jaroslav Halak on St. Louis' second attempt. 
Keith Tkachuk scored on a two-man advantage in the first period for St. Louis, which got its first win seven games into a season-high nine-game road trip (1-5-1 ). 
Andy McDonald also scored for the Blues, who had gone 0-7-3 on the road since a 4-1 win in Colorado on Feb. 14 to match the longest road losing streak in franchise history. 
Blue Jackets 3, Flames 0 
Backup goalie Fredrik Norrena helped preserve Columbus' slim playoff hopes. 
Norrena made 18 saves for his first shutout of the season and fourth of his career and the Blue Jackets beat the Calgary Flames 3-0 Tuesday night for their second straight win. 
"He was really sound," Columbus coach Ken Hitchcock said. "The thing that was impressive for me was the no rebounds." 
Norrena --who had a career-high 43 saves in a 4-3 win against Detroit on Sunday --started his second straight game for Pascal Leclaire, out with a concus­sion suffered in warmups before the Red Wings game. 
"Today, the posts helped me and the team helped me," Norrena said. "This was a different game then the last game against Detroit. Tonight we controlled the game and deserved to win." 
Manny Malhotra scored two goals for the second straight game and Rick Nash had a goal and two assists for Columbus, seven points out of the eighth playoff spot in the Western Conference. 
Dan Fritsche added two assists for the Blue Jackets, who have won three of four. 
"We got back to the team game we need to play to win," Hitchcock said. "We did a lot of things we were doing earlier this season when we were dominant in this build­ing." 
The Flames could have pulled even with idle Minnesota for first place in the Northwest Division. Calgary, Colorado and Vancouver are tied in the division with 84 points, only four points ahead of eighth­place Nashville. 
The Flames finished 1-3 on their four-game road trip and have three wins in seven games. 
-... 
... 


Information Meeting Thursday, March 25, 6:00p.m. DeBartolo Hall, Room 116 
For more info visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 
Anlan Properties, LLC Off-Campus Student Rentals NOW LEASING FOR THE 08/09 and 09110 ACADEMIC YEARS Only two houses left for next year Help us lease one and receive a $300 cash referral bonus! \VWW. anlanproperties. com 574.514.1585 

. ,. 
.-~ 

NBA 

Celtics end Rockets' unlikely 22-game win streak 
Odom grabs 17 boards as Lakers hang on to beat Mavs; Deng scores 20 in Bulls' much-needed victory over Nets 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -It took the NBA's bnst tnam to Pnd tho llouston Hocknts' 22-ganw winning strnak. 
Knvin (;anwtt and the Boston Cnlties stoppPd thn Hockets' remarkabln run in emphatic fash­ion Ttwsday night. pulling away in thn second half for a IJ4-74 victo­ry. 
Carnett s1~orPd 22 points and Paul Pinn:n addnd 20 as Boston handed llouston il<> first loss sinen a IJ7-XIJ dn(i\at to Utah on Jan. 27. Tho Hocknl<> tlwn put togntlwr the NBA's second-longest winning streak. whieh Pndnd II vietories shy of thn JIJ71-72 Los Angelns Lakers. who won :n in a row. 
"Our namns will bn mnntionnd thnrn with flail of Fanw peoplf1," said llouston point guard Hafer Alston. "Wn have somnthing to tell our kids." 
It was only Houston's second loss in 2S games and its fourth since a 97-93 loss in Boston on .Jan. 2. a gamn Tracy McGrady sat out with a knee injury. The Ho1~knlc; also lost ((Jr thn first time in 11 gamns since Yao Ming went out with a snason-ending foot injury on Feb. 26. 
The Hockets were f'inally doomnd by poor shooting and mistakes that thny overcame dur­ing their streak with hustle and solid def~msn. 
''I'm too dosn to the situation right now to really appreciate," Hoekets forward Shane Battier said. "Whnn I'm old and gray and can't dribbh1 this basketball any­morn, I think I'll appreciate it. Hight now, we'rn still in a playofl' run and have got some dogs bark­ing at our henls." 
Boston blanketed McGrady all night. holding Houston's rnmain­ing All-Star to night points on 4­for-11 shooting. Other Hockets had routinnly pieked up the slack during the seven-week run when­ever McGrady strugglnd, but the Cnlties never lnt that happen. 
The Bocknts scored a snason­low 34 points in the second half on 11-fiJr-:n shooting. 
"It's not disappointing," McGrady said. "It's a hell of a team over thoro. They outplayed us. I've nevnr seen a defimse like that. I mean. if they play defimse like that. night in and night out, thn NBA is in trouble because that was defens<\ at il<> finest." 
Luis S1:ola scored 15 for llouston, which had a 15-game home streak snapped. Only the 1985-86 Hockets, who won 20 straight at The Summit, had a longer home-court streak in fran­chise history. 
Heserve Loon Powe added 21 poinl<; for the Celtics, who've won 13 of their last 14 games. the last three without All-Star guard Ray Allen. who's out with a sore left ankle. 
Boston beat San Antonio 93-91 on Monday night and Garnett said the Celties were all business in their approach to Tuesday's game. 
"There wasn't really a lot of talking on the bus icL<;t night aflnr the win." Garnett said. "We got on the plarw. it was rnal subtle. Then~ wasn't a lot of talking and I know whnn wp're likn that. we're focused." 
Thn Hockel<> still havn one morn streak to protect -thny'll go for thnir 13th straight road win in Nnw Orleans on W•\dnnsday night. Tho •md of' the big streak hadn't quitn sunk in monwnts after this loss. 
"I li\nl worsP fi1r the f'ans than I do f(Jr us," Battier said. "Wn'll bn 

... 
all right. We've got a game in 20 hours. We'll be out there trying to win another game. For the fans. they really w<m1 captivated by the strnak and wn hopo they still got bnhind us and cheer us on." 
Houston boat the Lakers on Sunday to take over soln posses­sion of' first place in the Wnstern Conferonco and set up Tuesday's showdown between conference· lnadnrs. 
L.akers 102, Mavericks 100 
Kobe Bryant took a pass in the lano and spun toward a def(mder, f'licking the ball over his head once his back was toward the basket. Thn ball hit th11 glass, car­omed off the rim and fell into the not. 
Just like that, the Los Angeles Lakers were up by 25 points mid­way through the third quarter. And the momentum the Dallas Mavericks thought they'd built with five lopsided wins over lousy toams seemod silly. 

Dirk Nowitzki and the Mavs ended up making things interest­ing all the way to the final buzzer. but it wasn't enough to change the outcome. The Lakers won Tuesday night, ending a skid of three lossns in four games and putting them back into a tie with llouston fiw tho best record in the Western Conference. 
· "It's a big win for us," Bryant said. "We had to stop the bleed­ing. We got a big lead. but it was­n't the way we wanted to dose out the game. But we got the win." 
Bryant scored only nine of his 29 points in the second half. lie also jammed his hip. An injury to an MVP front-runner could be devastating considering this was Los Angelos' second straight game without Pau Gasol and before the game coach Phil Jaekson said emerging center Andrew Bynum probably won't return until the playoffs. 

Bulls 11.2, Nets 96 This time there was no fourth­quarter fade lor the Chieago Bulls. 
Their 24-point cushion sliced to nine by the New Jersey Jel'i early in the final period Tunsday night, the Bulls responded. even if thoy were a little worried it was about to happen again. 
"Somewhat," Chicago guard Larry Ilughes said after a 112-96 vietory. 
'"But instnad of letting that stretch go on for three or four minutes, we eut it down. lnst11ad of letting it go on like in previous games, we were able to refocus and get things going back in thn right direction." 
In their two previous losses, the Bulls blew an 18-point fourth­quarter lead against the 76ers and then let a nine-point lead get away in the final poriod Monday night in New Orleans. 
With the lead slipping this time, B1m Gordon hit a jumper and Kirk 
Is it secure? 
llinrich sank a 3-pointnr from the corner to start an 15-2 run that gave Chicago a 94-72 lead. 
Gordon scored 10 of his 17 points in the f'ourth quartor and Ilughes addnd 1 h in Chicago's bal­anced attack. Luol Dong seon~d 20 points, and Drnw Goocllm had IIJ points and 11 rnbounds for Chicago. 
"We didn't want that to become a habit," Dnng said of losing latn leads. "We wen1 talking to each other that wo got to put a stop to it and we can't become known lilf that." 
New Jnrsey played the second half without starting point guard Devin Harris, who sprained his right ankle and limped off the court with 1 :56 to go in the sec­ond quartor. 
I Iarris' ankln was swollen aftnr the game, but X-rays were nega­tive and he will be evafuat11d daily. 
Vincn Cartnr led the Nets with 22 points. 
Shred to be sure! 
Look for the shredding bin in your ND Residence Hall 
'£///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ Documents you should shred include: ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ V" Documents with Social Security numbers ~ ~ ~ 
~ V" Credit card statements and offers ~ 
~ v Bank statements and offers ~ 
~ 

~ V" Checks or copies of checks ~ 
V" Credit and debit card numbers 
~ ~ V" Driver's license numbers 
~ 


~ ~ 
~ V" NetiD and other passwords ~ ~ ~ 
~ V" Passport and/or visa information ~ 
~ V" Medical information J ~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
~ V" Grades, old tests, class notes and papers ~ 
~ V" Other personal and confidential information ~ 
~ ~ 
~///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////A..~ 
tJhen in doubt, shred it! s cure 

secure.nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NO BASEBALL AND SOFTBALL 
Schedules interrupted 
by inclement weather 
Observer Staff Report 
Both the baseball team's home game with Xavier and the softball team's double­header at Western Michigan in Kalamazoo, Mich., were cancelled yesterday due to inclement weather. 
Notre Dame and Xavier will not reschedule the non-con­ference tilt. The Irish (7 -7) resume action this weekend when they begin Big East 
play at Georgetown. The three-game set will feature games Thursday and Friday at 3 p.m. and Saturday at noon. 
The softball team will instead play one game at Western Michigan at 4 p.m. on Thursday. The Irish (14-9) won four of five over the 
weekend  at  Charleston  
Southern's  Lowcountry  
Collegiate  Softball  
Invitational.  

Youth 
continued from page 20 
17, Helgeson especially stood out. 
"Brett didn't lose a match," Bayliss said. "He had a match point against UCLA and had three wins in that tourna­ment." 
Parbhu, a returning all­American, has stepped into a leadership role this year, the Irish coach said. 
"It is a great tool to have a senior who has been in tough situations when the match is on the line," said Bayliss, emphasizing a few close bat­tles Parbhu had against Wisconsin earlier in the year. "When he was a freshman he beat Florida State in a similar three-set match." 
The Irish are trying to main­tain the momentum they built early in the season, hoping to start quickly and earn the doubles point more often ­which depends heavily, again, on the Parbhu-Helgeson combo. 
"Montoya has been more stable on his returns," Bayliss said. "He has always been good at net, but he has improved his serve, and that is still a work in progress. He is teamed with freshman Tyler Davis who competes like a lion on court." 
Notre Dame has shown its potential in spurts this year, especially with. a big win at then-No. 15 Duke on Feb. 3. 
"It is tremendously empow­ering to know you can beat a team like Duke," Bayliss said. "Tobacco Road has not been kind to us. We have only won half the time there, and we haven't faired nearly as well at home." 
But the way in which the Irish have won, he said, might be more indicative of good things to come -both this year and beyond. 
"We have come up with the really close wins," said Bayliss, pointing out his team's 5-0 record in matches decided by a 4-3 score. "Your season is decided by the real close matches. They make a differ­ence, especially with a young team." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

drills that get us ready for the matches." 
When trying to construct the ideal dou­bles pair, Louderback cited the mix­ing of compli­menting styles as one of the optimal fac­tors. 
" W e I I , you're better off not play-
would go out thinking, "Brook [Buck] and 'We'll probably 
get a win from
Kelcy [Tefft] are very, 
the No. 1 spot
very close. They are with [the great friends and Thompson's]' 
and now we
they're just very 
have the same
comfortable with each thing with other." Brook and Kelcy. They just help take
Jay Louderback 

the pressure
Irish coach 

off of the rest of the girls and help them 
"They both finish their points, lob well, serve well and have a lot of power. What impresses me most is how they can consistently finish off their points." 
It comes as no surprise to 
Doubles 
continued from page 20 
During that stretch, the Irish are 7-3 overall. 
"We're pretty much always ready for our dou­bles matches," Louderback said. "We were working a lot on our singles prepara­tion, but once we began to struggle in doubles, we went back and started drilling a lot more in terms of our doubles strategy. We just have to make sure to keep doing our doubles 
The No. 1 nationally­ranked duo of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft are 14-2 in doubles play during the dual match sea­son and 25-4 overall. The pair is currently riding a nine-game winning streak that has helped fuel the recent doubles dominance. 
"It's kind of like in the past when we had the Thompson's," Louderback said of Buck and Tefft in comparison to Christian and Catrina Thompson, who were the last Irish duo to be the top-ranked doubles pair in the nation. "We 
Louderback to "Our No.2 pair [of Kristen Rafael know that have only
Kali Krisik and 
both Buck and played togeth­
Kristen Rafael] is 
Tefft have er for 10 developed more explosive ... matches and their relation­[W]hen they're on, display a 5-5 ship off the record, but
they're really 

court as well. have won "Brook and dangerous." their past two. Kelcy are very, There is only very close," one thing
Jay Louderback

Louderback Louderback
Irish CO'lCh

said. "They are great friends and they're just very comfort­able with each other." 
With Buck and Tefft's suc­cess, the No. 3 pair has been somewhat overshad­owed, despite their recent tear in the dual match sea­son. The sophomore duo of Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley is 11-1 this season, winning four straight and nine of their last 10. 
"They simply both feel very comfortable playing with each other," Louderback said. "They vol­ley and lob extremely well. They don't serve as well as our No. 1 team, but they still are very solid and have gotten the job done recent­
ly." 

The combined 25-3 dou­bles record of the No. 1 and 3 teams took the No. 2 group's recent progress out of the limelight. Sophomore Kali Krisik and freshman 
would like to 
see more out 

of this duo ­consistency. 
"Our No. 2 pair is more explosive," he said. "Kristen hits the ball really well, but sometimes makes a few errors. Kali is kind of the same. The one thing they kind of need to find is consistency, because when they are good, they're real­ly good, but when they're not, they struggle. But when they're on, they're really dangerous." 
If the tandem can find what their coach wants of them, one thing is certain -Irish opponents better be prepared. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
ing a group that has the same style of play," he said. "What you really want out there is one player who can serve well and hit the ball with a lot of pace. Her part­ner should not miss much, volley and lob well and just not miss many balls." 
focus on their own match­es." 
Despite Louderback's for­mula for an ideal doubles pair, Buck and Tefft are similar players in that they are well-rounded. 
"They both do everything well," Louderback said. 

Best Value 1n .ToK'"n Coine See Why/ 
,._ Intloor/ Outtloor Tennis anti Basketball ,_Free Tanning ,_ Heated Ptml ,_ Rela:zing Jacuzzi ,._ Gater:/ Co.m.m unity ,_ Co.m.m unity Business Center ,_ No Application Fees lor Stutlents ,_ Close to everything__. far from ortlinary! 
# 1.801.1. C.leve.l.a:nd Rd. South Bend_.. IN 4663'1 ,.r4JJllt..flllei'JtS Phone: l5'14' 2'12-81.1.0 Fax: l5'14' 2'12-81.1.4 mnT. cppj _COli't 
Albion 
continued from page 20 

At No. 2 singles, freshman Jillian Hurley managed to get one of the Belles' two victories on the singles side by defeating Briton sophomore Michelle Mulder 4-6, 6-4, 7-5, moving her singles record to 8-1. Fellow freshman Jessica Camp also beat Albion's Anna Gunderson 6-0, 6-3 at No. 6 singles. 
At No.1 singles, Albion fresh­man Shelley Zamler defeated Gebert 6-3, 6-2. At No. 3 sin­gles, freshman Betsy Reed fell 6-3, 6-2 to Briton's Vic Seiter. Albion's Mara Rendina and Emily Gunderson continued the Briton's singles domination by defeating freshman Jessica Kosinski 3-6, 6-1, 6-4, and sophomore lisa Rubino 6-3, 6­1, respectively. 
The Belles finally came through on their goal to improve on the doubles side. Saint Mary's No. 1 doubles pair of Gebert and Hurley took down Albion's top doubles pair of Mulder and Zamler, 8-4. Gebert and Hurley move their record to 4-4 as a pair while Mulder and Zamler move to 5­
2. Rubino and Reed kept up their momentum as a duo, defeating Albion's Seiter and Rendina 8-4. Saint Mary's No. 3 doubles pair of freshmen Camp and Kosinski fell 8-1 to Albion's Anna and Emily Gundersen. 
"Jillian and I are finally meshing well together," Gebert said. "She is a great player and partner. We have great chem­istry, and I have confidence that we will do well in our confer­ence together. We need to feel more comfortable at the net, but we have enough to back it up in the meantime." 
Saint Mary's continues con­ference play when it hosts Calvin on March 26 in its home opener. The Knights are cur­rently 7-1 and have not started MIAA competition. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


·­
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Former BC quarterback Ryan throvvs for scouts 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The NrL got its dmnce to see Matt Hyan throw on Tuesday, and the Boston College quarterback didn't do anything that would keep him from being picked na.rly in the draft. . 
Perhaps even first OVImill. 
Hyan worknd out at BC's biggest Pro Day ever, throwing to former teammates fbr a mini-combine of 42 seoul<; and other pt~rsonnel eval­uators from 22 NFL teams. He com­pleted 48 of 52 passes -three drops, one overthrown -from three-, live-and seven step drops, from the pocket and on the run, U1rowing to both sides of the field. 
"I made every ilirow you need to make in the NFL," said Ryan, who skipped the Senior Bowl and ran but didn't throw at lm.i month's NFL eombine in Indianapoli'l. "I thought it went well. It wa<> the first opportu­nity l'vP; h<~ to ilirow in !ront of the scoul<>hve. 
Pro Day is a traditional part of the calendar at· football factories like Michigan and Southern California, but BC's had never attraeted much media eoverage before it joined the Atlantic Coast Conl(lrence in 2005. After welcoming the press for the first time last year -about 20 reporters showed up in all -the school issued 72 credentials for Tuesday's workout. along wiili an unprewdented number of NFL 
SCOUI.'i. 
Kansas City coach llerm Edwards and gnnllr<tl m<magnr Carl Peterson wnre among thosn who watched more than three dozen players work out, including <moilier poten­tial first-rounder, Eagles ommsive linmmm CosdPr Chnrilus. 
"Tiwy've got a few hore, obvious­ly, that are good ((JOtball players," Edwards told reporters. "They're more comfbrtable in this environ­ment than iliey are in the combine. You're gathering information, <md this is another check of Um informa­tion. But, at U1e end, you've got to go to the tape." 

Former BC running baek William Green, a former first-round pick who played four years with the Cleveland Browns but was out of ilie league last year, hoped the try­out would jumpstart his eomebaek. BC linebaeker Jo-Lonn Dunbar and safety Jamie Silva also joined play­ers from area schools including UMass, Harvard, Bentley, Northeastern, Holy Cross and St. Francis. 
But the primary attraction was Ryan. 
The BC quarterback wa<> the ACC player of the year and ilie Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award winner in 2007, finishing seventh in the lleisman Trophy voting after throw­ing for 4,507 yards and 56 touch­downs. He also led the Eagles to eomeback victories against Oemson and Virginia Teeh -11 victories in all, inducting the school's eighth consecutive bowl win. 
'lie's going to play in our league, there's no doubt about that. IIe ha'i all the trail<; you need to play in our league," Edward<; said. "The thing 
this guy has is his ability to win. And that's what you like in quarter­back. Some guys can do a lot of iliings. But, in the end, can he win? 
"lie's very levelheaded. The play­ers believe that if he has tim ball in his hands at the end of the game, that you have a ehaneo to win the game. He ha'i iliat demeanor about himself. He's liery, but he keeps himself under eontrol." 
CKP 
tha campus kitchons projoct 
welcome to the newest classroom on campus: 
the kitchen. 
Fight hunger in your community 
Email: info@ campuskitchens.org 
1111 

www.campuskitchons.org 
,.. 

-
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY 
================================ 
BLAcK DoG 
ALL-RIG-HT, E-VERYoNE CLEAR ouT. wE'RE WEAKING­
Uf' BRE.YTOPIA. 
LOLLERSKATES 

THE SINGLE LIFE 
LINAPAEK 

page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJWJWJIDrbJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Time for dinner
to form four ordinary words. 


\ JAHAR 
I (J [] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
~~~ff~j 


...
tCAFFEE j [] 
A BUSY Bl-ACKSMITH

IJ [ I I 
www.iumble.com WIL.L. 00 THIS. Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

" [II I I]" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: DRAWL GRAIN POORLY WORTHY Answer: A tickets mix-up can result in a ­ROW ROW 
HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Billy Corgan, 41; Rob Lowe, 44; Arye Gross, 48; Kurt Russell, 57 
Happy Birthday: The more secretive you are this year, the better your influence when you disclose your plans or present what you've been working on. Pay attention to detail. Make alterations in your personal life and to your home. It's a year of control for you, so don't be afraid to take it. Your numbers are 6, II. 24, 32, 41. 48 
ARIES (March 2l-Aprill9): Talk to loved ones .. don't yell or lose patience and you will understand their emotional needs and the situation. Take time out for yourself late in the day. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): This is the perfect day to do a little research. Investi­gate opportunities and take part in a program that will enable you to make a transition you want to make. It's time to take action. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Fix up your place and you will add value as well as comfort. Someone you are attracted to or would like to work closely with may not be all that he or she has led you to believe. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't play emotional games and you will get much fur. ther ahead in your professional and personal dealings. A past partner. friend or lover will be interested in connecting with you again. If you feel the same way, put in a call. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't mislead anyone regarding your current or past situa­tion. You may want to talk to someone about your financial outlook and how you can improve it in the future, but don't let anyone take control of your investments. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There is plenty going on that you can benefit from. A change in a relationship will be to your advantage. Don't be fooled by what someone eludes to. Find out the facts and go from there. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A serious prospect or partnership is in the stars if you par­ticipate in a fundraising event or other humanitarian cause. Networking will help you spark enthusiasm regarding your goals. An emotional issue can be resolved with a little ingenuity. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Follow your heart. Someone may try to fool you by playing an emotional game but, as long as you stand up for yourself, you will come out on top. Plans to take a business trip should be in the works. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be undecided about what you should do 
·­
and what you want to do. You may· convince yourself to favor your own needs but, in doing so, you may upset someone who counts on you. Taking a short trip will lead to delays and expo;nses. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to impress the people around you but you are better off playing it safe. If someone wants you to invest in something you know little about, do your own research or you may suffer loss. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): ou may have trouble pinning someone down with regard to how he or she feels. Don't tolerate emotional games. For now, just listen and observe. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do what's on your list and avoid a discussion with someone who wants to confuse you or point you in the wrong direction. You are clever and creative enough to go it alone. You've got everything to gain by pressing ahead. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are channing and someone who goes the distance to help others. You stand by your convictions and are serious about life. You are imaginative, emotional and quick to find solutions. · 
Eugenia 1S Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.com]or confidential consultations 
'' 
.. 
l 
-l 
I 
I 
NJ:>.SP PDI..-IC.'!". 
NO i'li&LIC. G-ATHERII'J6-S WITHOUT A PEJi:MIT. . IT'S A MA.TTEP:. oF l\JJ3.L-IC.. SAFETY. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
rJAH, WE WST DON'T HAVE AN'r'TH1/'JG­13.ETTE1t TO 1)0. 
DIDIER LEWIS 


CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Cry of surprise Tub toy 38 Sweetie 5 Olympics 
39 Flies off the sportscaster Jim 
handle 10 Toaster waffle 
42 Flapper wrapper 14 Facetious "I see" 
43 Flexible, 15 Detective Vance 
electrically 16 Show approval, 
45 Hi-

in a way 46 Workers with 
17 Salon sound white hats 
18 Exec with no ideas? 48 First rule of lion 
20 Sentimental sort 
taming? 22 Like 51 Starbucks size Beethoven's 
53 Tram loads Symphony No. 8 
54 Mrs. Huxtable of 23 Stiff collars 
1980s-'90s TV 24 Next in line 
55 Lacking color 26 Vast amounts 57 Five Pillars faith 
28 Headhunter . posses? 
61 "Rapunzel" and others?

32 Blue blood, for short 64 Needing 33 It begins with 
shampoo. say "http'' 65 Gaelic tongue 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

66 Cloud-nine state 67 Driver's 
headache 68 Marsh growth 69 In-line item 70 Angle (and a 
three-word hint to this puzzle's theme) 
Down Part of a jazz 
combo 2 Shout of dismay 3 "You wish!" 4 Hotdogger's 
dare 5 Speedometer 
meas. 6 Groups on risers 7 Ceramist's need 8 One's hands and 
knees 9 "_-hoo!" 1 0 Cloud-nine state 11 Quark-binding particle 12 Market upticks 13 Withdraws, with 
19 Dandelion, e.g. 21 Streisand title 
role 25 "Whoops!" 27.45 or .22 28 "Very funny!" 29 Camaro -Z 30 Brie coat 31 Adventurous 
expedition 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Larry Shearer  
35 "Oh, sure!"  49 Professor 'iggins  58 1953 Leslie  
36 Cruise stopover  50 "No fooling!"  Caron film  
37 "Child's play!"  51 Angry look  59 Word of woe  
40 Hopscotch site  52 Bluffer's ploy,  60 "Toads cause  
41 Sulu player on  maybe  warts," e.g.  
"Star Trek" 44 Headed up  54 "Mask" star, 1985  62 Atlanta Braves' longtime network  
47 Dismissal,  56 Suffix with  
slangily  Saturn  63 Compass dir.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, March 19, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Dealing with the limelight 
Big East player of the year learning to play with added attention 
By CHRIS KHOREY Senior Sports Writer 

Part of the reason Notre Dame forward Luke llarangody has had sueh a suc­cessful season is his reekless abandon on the eourt. 
On Monday. Irish coaeh Mike Brey took stPps to ensure the aggressiveness continues. 
Brey talked with the sopho­more, who was featured in Sports Illustrated last week, about not letting the pressure of stardom afl'ect his game. 
In Notre Dame's 89-79 loss to Marquette Thursday in the Big East quarterfinals, Harangody got in early foul trouble and was held to 13 points and live ... rebounds, both well below his conferenee-leading averages of 
23.3 points and 11.3 boards per Big East game. 
Brey said he thought llarangody was tentative in that game, feeling the pressure of being the Big East player of the year, the national spotlight and the New York crowd. He wanted to sit down with his star and make sure the for­ward was relaxed and ready to "have fun again," Brey said. 
Al'tnr Monday's eonversation, however, llarangody said he is ready to bn his old self again in the NCM Tournament. lie said hn knows opponents will pre­pare defenses specifically for him and will try to get him in 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Duo of Buck, Tefft lead 

recent improvement in 
doubles perfonnances
•· 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Through Notre l>ame's most re1:nnt three game win­ning streak. there has been ono 1:onstant -solid dou­bles play. 
Ask Irish eoaeh Jay Loudorback. and it's easy to tell it's no mistake his squad has won tho ever-so-impor­tant doubles point in eaeh of tlwsn thnH~ eontosts. 
"It's bnnn something wn'vo always foeused on in prac­tice." Louderback said of dou bins preparation. "It's always nice to start the mateh out with a one-point lead because then you only ne1HI three singlns wins to take the match. It's really important beeausn it helps Silt the tone for the rest of the match, and can create some momentum that the players feed of'f of." 
Earlier in the dual mateh 

foul trouble early like the Golden Eagles did. 
"There's going to be a target on me because of the [Big East] player of the year award," Ilarangody said. "Coach talked to me about it. I just have to go out there and play the game I've been playing." 
Sophomore point guard Tory Jackson said Harangody isn't the only player that needs to relax to be at his best on the court. 
"We need to continue to have fun like we've been doing," he said. 
Notre Dame will faee George Mason Thursday in Denver at 
9:40 p.m. Eastern time in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. If the Irish win, they will play Saturday, taking on the winner of Washington State and Winthrop -the team that handed the Irish a 74-64 loss and knocked them out of the field in the first round. 
Contact Chris Khorey·at ckhorey@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Right tnix of freshmen, veterans lead solid start 
By KATE GRABAREK Spores Writer 

Notre Dame struggled at the Blue-Gray Tennis Classic in Montgomery, Ala., but with six freshmen intertwined through­out the starting lineup, the No. 30 Irish (10-5) still feel confident through 15 dual matches, espe­cially considering their youth. 
"They are a little ahead of our expectations," eoach Bobby Bayliss said of his young squad. "They have shown great poise under pressure, but they are still very inexperieneed at this level. Each has taken turns and enjoyed the spotlight." 
Highlighting the rookie crop has been David Anderson, Daniel Stahl, Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis. Takashi Yoshii and Sean Tan have both made significant contributions, as well. 
Notre Dame is still led, howev­er, by twQ veteran forces at the top of the singles and doubles lineups. Senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson have been staples at the top of both lineups. 
At the National Team Indoors in Seattle, Wash., from Feb. 15­
see YOUTH/page 17 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles lose conference opener 6-3 at Albion 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Spores Writer 

Saint Mary's opened eonfer­ence play Tuesday afternoon with a 6-3 loss at Albion (7 -0, 3-0 MIAA), dropping its record to 4-5 overall and 0-1 in the MIAA but showing off its strength in doubles, taking two of three doubles matehes from their surging hosts. 
The Britons are three-time 
defending league champions and are eoming off of four wins last week, and they took eare of the Belles as well on Tuesday. 
"I thought that overall, we played well as a team," Belles No. 1 singles player sophomore Camille Gebert. "Personally, I didn't have my beset day out there, and my loss really hurt our ability to eome out with a victory." 
see BELLES/page 17 
It takes two, baby 
season. Notrn Damn strug­gled, losing the doubles point in three straight matches in Fnb. against (;porgia, William & Mary and Baylor. Although all three opponents were ranked in the top-15 at the time, Louderback realizfld the importance of establish­ing a winning standard in the doubles matches. 
A great deal of the diffi­eulties, Louderback said, were due to the process of f'inding the right combina­tions to put together the squad's three best doubles tandems. 
"Early in the year we kind of struggled," he said. "We wnre just switching players around. trying to find the best eombinations that we were most comfortable with." 
Fortunately for the Irish. it worked. 
Since the Baylor match on Feb. 11, Louderback's changes have resulted in Notre Dame securing the doubles point in nine of the past 10 dual matches. 
see DOUBLES/page 17 






