
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
PSA to submit petition to Office of the President 
Approximately 3,000 signatures gathered in support of adding sexual orientation to non-discrhnination clause 

"JJtl {JN!\I.:.U.ITY(.JJ .._,'\;'-"1.( O'..lb ···•·:~ ··I' Or-.. rJti !\A:'! I!! Of ~-ACr ..rt Tlt;\IJ(.::T'co', C'OI.Ult 'ATH.l"-A<. (.<RiGlN ~f.>.. o:s.At>~Ll tY. '·r.T:;.RA."' )TAT\,:). f.)Jl A<.il p .. l'lU. -"O;<..tJN;)TR!\T;O~ Ot ·"-'"~''" ()j lTi CM••;...:..WI\\[I':T. tL"!oV<..:A.T!i.'!'l..oU. P~tXi~-'\M:i ..'\!.~~\!~~~)~) f;JJ.I<.:.:i.~. )<.lll...l:,...\.N,)! !J~ A~D U..:~:'\N PPt."tVR.\...V.). ,\.fJ:L::.TI(..) l'l.tCAL\T,os.-u Ar-:D c.>TIIt!\.!lC.'ti<X'o..-'\l"MI""'l~ru~rL~ Fft.,..'k..,/.V\..,!!o ·.v,tvtru.~n· 0> }\;{)"I"JU: 0,'\_.t,.\l: NOS-lJI~CR!M:N,\'!":0,_, 
(.L""~·~t 

THEN HHI' US CHANGE NOTRE DAME fOR THE BETTER 
Photo courtesy of Rob Plasschaert PSA wl delver the petiHun Wemesday tothe Office clthe President 
By EMMA DRISCOLL. News Writer 

Students from the Progressive Student Alliance (PSA) will deliver a petition to the Office of the President Wednesday to add sexual ori­entation to Notre Dame's Non-Discri mip.ation, PSA member Mike McCann said. 
PSA member Rob Plasschaert said 2, 500 to 3,000 members of the Notre Dame community signed the petition. 
"A lot of [signatures were gathered] basically through standing outside the dining 
hall and LaFortune, and through individual petitioning by people," Plasschaert said. "PSA was lucky enough to have a lot of outside support from the Notre Dame commu­nity." 
Friday was the last day sig­natures were officially col­lected, Plasschaert said. 
Plasschaert, McCann and PSA member Mallory Laurel. will personally deliver the petition to the Office of the President, Plasschaert said. They will also deliver a letter that explains why PSA thinks the petition is important and what the group feels an appropriate response from the University would be. 
He said the petition is not a response to any action the University has taken against a GLBTQ member on campus, but rather expands on Pangborn senator Denise Baron and O'Neill senator Matthew Malloy's proposal to add sexual orientation to the current non-descrimination clause at a March Student Senate meeting. 
"The student government backing of such an issue sug­gested the ability to garner support from the student body as a whole," Plasschaert said. 
Currently, Notre Dame's 
Non-Discrimination clause reads: "The University of Notre Dame does not discrim­inate on the basis of race/eth­nicity, color, national origin, sex, disability, veteran status, or age in the administration of any of its employment, educational programs, admissions policies, scholar­ship and loan programs, ath­letics, recreational, and other school-administered pro­grams." 
University spokesman and assistant vice president for news and information Dennis Brown said this issue was 
see PSNpage 10 

SMC Beauty Conference displays projects on self-image 
Communications class displays Barbie doll projects that represent female stereotypes, portray unrealistic alterations 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 

Saint Mary's associate professor of communications Teri Russ' Female Beauty class showed off their semester long projects on self-image at a Mini-Beauty con­ference held in the student center atrium Tuesday. 
The class displayed Barbie dolls they altered into different female stereotypes and pictures they took of themselves which they changed to portray unrealistic alterations at the event. 
"Everyone grew up with Barbie so you don't really think about her form or figure," senior Megan Gray said. 

The class created a group of Barbie's they knew Mattei, the 
corporation who produces Barbie 
Dolls, would never produce, Gray 
said. 
They displayed a Pole Dancing 
Barbie, Zen Barbie and Goth 
Barbie. Students also displayed 
Plastic Surgery Barbie covered in 
dotted lines, and Realistic Barbie 
with a padded body to make her 
look like the average woman. 
Other dolls included Homeless 
Barbie complete with dingy 
clothes, Mental Patient Barbie 
who came with her own padded 
room and Tanning Barbie with 
her skin colored in a dark brown 
color. 
"I like it because it pushes the limits," senior Victoria Frank said. ·"I wonder what everyone's reac­
tion [to the Barbie's! will be." 
Junior Caitlin Morrison, who 
attended the conference, said she 
thought the dolls were an inter­esting way to portray women. 
"[ thought it was a great idea because it allowed the· class to explore the concept in a different way as opposed to just discussing it," she said. · 
Student body vice president, Sarah Falvey also attended the conference. 
"I didn't know much about it [but] it looked really interesting. I kind of passed by and they did some crazy things with those dolls," she said. 
Senior Jenny Anderson also presented a project on the popu­lar children's game Pretty, Pretty Princess she completed for the course at the conference. 
"When you think of a princess 
see BEAUTYpage 8 


Burglaries reported in Cavanaugh 
Suspect description similar to those reported in Howard, Lyons cases 
By BILL BRINK News Editor 

Three students reported three laptops and a digital camera stolen from an unlocked room in Cavanaugh Hall Friday, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) reported in an e-mail to stu­dents. 
At around 10 a m. Friday, a student saw a man inside Cavanaugh, according to the e-mail. He was later seen carrying a bag with laptops in them, the e-mail said, and was last seen entering the south stairs. 
The man was described as "black, about 5-foot-8, skin­ny build, unshaven or scrag­gly beard, and wearing a 
black shirt and baggy jeans," the e-mail reported. Witnesses. described him as being older than college age. 
The description is similar to that given after previous burglaries in Lyons and Howard Halls. NDSP director Phil Johnson said previously that the suspect in those cases was identified by "sev­eral people" as a black male, between 5-foot-8 and 5-foot­11, with a thin build, "frizzy long black hair" in a pony tail or braid, possibly bad or missing teeth and possibly facial stubble. 
Howard Hall residents reported three laptops and two wallets stolen from three different rooms on April 1, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Assistant Director 
Dave Chapman previously said. 
A laptop was taken out of each room, he said, and two wallets were taken. The bur­glaries happened between 11 
a.m. and 3 p.m., he said. 
Three laptops and two wal­lets were stolen from two unlocked rooms on March 26, Chapman said previously. 
NDSP believes the first two burglaries to be related, Chapman previously said, and the same suspect from them is believed to be behind this robbery, as well. 
The suspect in the first two burglaries carried a duffle bag, Johnson said then, and entered unlocked rooms when students were present. 
see THEFTIpage 6 



Students support 
•

CIW campatgn 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
A group of seven Notre Dame students collected 464 signa­tures to help the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW) in its campaing against Burer King. 
The CIW is leading a nation­wine protsts decrying the low wages of migrant workers who work on farms that produce Buger King's tomatoes. 
According to an Associated Press article, over 85,000 sig­natures were presented to Burger King's headquarters Monday in Miami. The signa­tures-representing CIW advo­cates worldwide who are protesting Burger King's work­er wages -included people from all 50 states and 43 other countries. 
According to its Web site, the CIW is a "community-based worker organization [made up on Latino, Haitian and Mayan Indian immigrants working in low-wage jobs throughout the state of Florida." 
The CIW works to increase wages for its workers and workers' rights for migrant workers. 
Senior Laura Bradley, who has been active collecting sig­natures on campus, said recent Notre Dame graduate Lupe Gomez interned with the CIW this year and was among those 
see CIW/page 6 
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU ASK FOR THE uQUESTION OF THE DAY?" 
Welcome to summer 
Ifyou didn't already know from the nos­talgic Inside Columns, Viewpoints and goodbyes from illustrious scene editors thi'> is the la'it edition ofThe Observer that will make it'> way across campus for the 2007­2008 school year (except for our May 16 senior edition). 
This fact is exciting for those of us that work long nights in the basement ofSouth Dining Hall. 
For one and a halfglorious weeks we'll be able to rejoin the ranks ofour fellow students Liz Harter who don't stay up abominably late, Saint Mary's don't stumble in to Editor 8 a.m. classes dead tired because we worked until 3:30 and aren't attending lectures because we have to write at least 500 wordS on them. 
Oh wait, you all do those things too, just not because ofa newspaper. 
And finals start next week, meaning we really only have three days to relax before we have to hole up in our dorm rooms or the library to study for our the three tests, two oral exams and the research paper we have to write ... or i<; thatjust my finals schedule. 
If you've stuck with me thi<; far, I applaud you. Ifnot, then I don't exactly care becau<;e you aren't even reading thi'> sen­tence. The rest ofthis column won't be an emotional remini<>cence of why I decided to attend Saint Mary's or my pa<;t three years working for The Observer. In.o;;tead, I want to look forward to the future -more specifically, what can you do during your summer vacation? 
There are really four main optiono;; avail­able to you and most ofwhat you do will fall into one ofthe f()llowing categories: work, service, travel and play. 
+Work: Whether you're job is an intern'ihip which will hopefully further your career goals after you graduatn or flipping burgers at your local McDonald's, working will probably (and uqfortunately) take up most ofyour summer. Hopefully you've all found something that either pays well or you enjoy to make up for the long hours you'll spend indoors working for "the man." 
+ 
Servke: Although those of you partici­pating in activities in a volunteer capacity won't be gaining a monetary reward, most ofyou will have valuable experiences and learn les.'iOns you can draw upon through­out your life. 

+ 
Travel: Thi'> is what Iwi'>h Iwas doing this summer. Unfortunately, my summer plans fall into the first category. Ifyou are lucky enough to be going on a cross coun­try adventure or European voyage I advise you to take a lot ofpictures and keep a journal ofyour experiences ... believe me, those of us stuck in behind a desk all sum­mer will want to hear all about your exploits even ifthey will make us jealous. 

+ 
Play: This is something we should all be participating in this summer. No matter what we do, there are always nights and weekends to de-stress, be young and have fun. Uve it up. All too soon we'll be back on campus writing papers and pulling all­nighters. 


To get a little sappy, whatever you end up doing this summer I hope you find time to relax and recover from your final exams. 
To all the seniors, good luck in your future endeavors. To all you underclass­men be safe, and I'll see you next fall. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Liz 1/arter at eharteO 1 @sain tmarys. edu 







Charlie Landis Courtney Haven Dan Behrens Mark Durst Tom Banasiak Matt Walters 
freshman junior JUnwr junior freshman junior Knott Farley Dillon Dillon Knott Keenan 
"Right or left? "What is your "'Who's your "'What is the "Ifyou could "Who is the ... and I would favorite library favorite ..Office·· Question ofthe make up an hottest go right.·· 'activity'?" character?, Day.?'' answer to the professor on Question ofthe campus?'' Day what would it be?" 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we wiU make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us ar 631-454 I so we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 75150 Boston 57 135 Chicago 61 I 50 Denver 74 I 40 Houston 82 I 69 Los Angeles 68 I 53 Minneapolis 61 1 47 New York 60 I 43 Philadelphia 62 I 44 Phoenix 91 I 64 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 76 I 59 Tampa 84 I 62 Washington 65 1 51 

IN BRIEF 
The Student Senate and Community Relations Committee .is hosting the Taste of South Bend today at 
4:30 in the Fieldhouse Mall. It is a free food event. advertising local restaurants around the South Bend area. 
Collegium Musicorium spring concert will take place tonight at 7 and 8:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The performance will feature sacred and secular a capella music from the Medieval, Renaissance and Baroque eras. Tickets are $3 at the DPAC ticket office. 
All students are invited to a Mass to celebrate the life of former Saint Mary's professor of mathematics Donald Miller Thursday at 4 p.m. in Regina Chapel in Regina Hall. 
Students from 14 local area schools and the Boys and Girls Clubs of South Bend will visit Stepan Center Thursday from 3 to 5 p.m. for the Violence Prevention Initiative: Take Ten Festival. 
Screenings from the Angelus Student Film Festival will be shown c,t.t the Angelus Film Series Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema. 
Assistant Professor Paul Gao will speak in the Finance Seminar Series Friday from 
11:30 to 1:05 in room 339 of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY . SATURDAY 

HIGH 
57 
LOW 
44 
OFFBEAT 

Saudi men who hit on women have to cut hair 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia­A governor in northern Saudi Arabia has ordered authorities to punish men who flirt with women in public places by cutting their hair, local media said Tuesday. 
Prince Fahd bin Badr, governor of the northern al­Jof region, ordered police to carry out the punishment after seeing a group of men with long hair pestering female students as they left school in the northern al­Qurayat province, Al-Hayat newspaper said. 
It said the prince told a 
TODAY 
gathering at his palace in the northern town of Skaka on Sunday he has instruct­ed police to apply the pun­ishment to all youths guilty of flirting, including "the sons of senior military and civil officials." 
Roadkill devoted Web site a big hit 

PRESCOTT, Wis. Richard Sanders hadn't given much thought to roadkill until a buddy came across a very large bear on the roadside near Hudson. The animal was bigger than any trophy bear the friends · had bagged over the years, and they thought it 
deserved a better fate than rotting by the road. 
"Sanders created an alternative online: The Road Kill Record Book Club. 
The roadkill bear, which is now at the taxidermist, will have its place on the Web site and in his friend's den. 
The Road Kill Record Book Club Web site includes a gallery and reg­istry for bears, cougars, elk and other animals killed by vehicles. It also offers mem­berships and merchandise. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY THURSDAY 

HIGH 61 LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 


70 
57 

70 52 



Wednesday, April30, 2008 page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses ticket~ erules 
ByJOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Ediror 
The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the new rules for the student football ticket exchange in their final meeting of the year Tuesday. 
The ticket exchange was sus­pended after the Notre Dame ticket office realized students were scalping the tickets, but will be reimplemented next year with new rules, student body president Bob Reish said. 
Student Government, the Student Union Board (SUB). the Junior Class Council, the Sophomore Class Council and the Gradliate Student Union will all be responsible for run­ning one ticket exchange. 
Only 100 exchanges will be made for each game, and the students will be chosen by a random lottery, Reish said. Students who wish to gain an extra ticket for a friend must swipe their ID at a ticket exchange session, which will held 10 days before each home game. If the students win the lottery, they must find a person willing to give up his or her ticket, take the friend's ID and ticket booklet and to the Ticket Office. The Ticket Office will then print a new ticket for the lottery winner. 

Graduate Student Union vice president Caitlyn Shea said past exchange programs have been quite popular with stu­dents with about 1,000 IDs swiped. 
COR discussed possibly including professional student groups, such as the Student Bar Association, in the ticket exchange. 
"Maybe we should extend this offer to the Student Bar Association because they seemed really excited about it," Student Union treasurer Kadeja Gaines said. 
However, Reish said because the heads of each of the six groups were present at the meeting, it would be easier to simply ask them if they each wanted to host an exchange. Each tentatively agreed to host one of them so long as they do not have any other conflicting events. 
Many COR members feared that if students were notified that they had won a ticket too much in advance they would find a way to scalp the ticket. 
"We need to have a timeline to no one can abuse the sys­tem," executive assistant Karen Koski said. 
Other COR members said stu­
see CORpage 8 


Oubhosts Sweatshop Fashion Show 
Event hopes to raise awareness of harsh working conditions 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's Around the World Club will host a Sweatshop Fashion Show fea­turing clothes made in sweat­shops and items that are fair trade, designed to promote awareness of the harsh work­ing conditions found in sweat­shops. 
The show, which will be 
Thursday at Student Center Lounge, will follow the for­mat of a typi­cal fashion show, but graphic descriptions of the working conditions under which the clothes were made will be mixed 

noon in the 
''We tried to pick 
going to class. popular brands that Freshman Christine Dits
people wear around 
.. will be model­
campus. 
ing one of the going out out­Jeanne Choquehuanca fits. "It's dark
student coordinator 
in with the usual description of the clothing, Jeanne Choquehuanca, student coor­dinator of the event said, 
"We tried to pick popular brands that people wear around campus," she said. "We wanted a program to educate the Saint Mary's com­munity to the all too common use of sweatshops." 
Brands included in the fash­ion show that allegedly use sweatshops will be Gap, Wal­Mart, Old Navy, Abercrombie and Fitch, and Disney. There will also be sweatshop-free alternatives including local stores Just Goods of Mishawaka and Ten Thousand Villages in South Bend. 
An outfit from the Saint Mary's Bookstore, which belongs to the workers' rights consortium and doesn't use sweatshop clothing, will also be featured in the show, Choquehuanca said. 
The event will feature out­
fits designed for 
going out, 
working out, or 
jeans, and a 
tank top, and 
probably some heels," she said. "They are from JC Penny and Old Navy, both stores sell clothes fairly cheaply that are made in sweatshops in Europe." 
Freshman Molly Schall will be modeling an outfit of goods available at local fair trade stores. 
"The dress I'm wearing is from Just Goods, and I'm actually thinking of buying it after the show," Schall said. "A lot of the clothes ther~ look like things girls would wear today and they are pret­ty reasonably priced. All of my jewelry and the bag I'm carrying are fair trade too." 
Along with the fashion show, fair trade stores Just Goods and Ten Thousand Villages will have booths set up so students can shop for trade items. Ten Thousand Villages will have its booth set up today during lunch and dinner outside the dining hall as well. 
The proceeds from some of the items sold will go directly to helping the people who make the objects. 
"My dress was made in Ghana by an organization called Global Mamas," Scahll said. "The proceeds from its sale go to the organization. It even has a tag inside with the 
names  of the  women  who  
made it."  
Choquehuanca  said  she  

hopes people will attend the fashion show to become bet­ter informed about the wide­spread use of sweatshops to make the clothes they buy. 
"It's a good reminder to know the wage of the CEOs versus the workers," Choquehuanca said. "[The fashion show] gives a more holistic picture of the garment industry, that there are alter­natives, and how we can be a part of the solution hopefully." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents 

Thursday, May 1, 2008 DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 7:00 PM 
A FREE screentng of four short, award-winning films produced, written, and directed by students. A Q+A with the filn1makers will follow the screentng. This 1s a FREE, but ticketed event. 
Contact the DPAC's box office at 1-2800 to reserve 

FarnilyTheater Productions created the Angelus Awards in 1996 to showcase and award emerging filmmakers and encourage them to continue creating visionary projects that honor the fundamental dignity of the human person. 
For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 

page 4 Wednesday, April 30, 2008
The Obserz,er + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

~lillY IME tXIlPDN I'ER I'UfiCtWI. YOIJ !'!llriALB 'lJII MIW!IIl9'DirT CIWIII[ CIIUI'IIIIMI'IIOT IE~. '1MIImlllfJl. llll.D, fiiJ!I:IMJJ 11ft II!IIIDIIIID. "" lmtii!IR ClliSITTLITB AIMIO. CAlli V1W1E 1/tllllf 1 lilT. -WEW1U.IIEI8JIIIIE YIJU Rill Til Oil fiNCE llF ltl£ SI'BllflllllliUIDUCT, !'LUI Ill IWIIIU.AWWiiCE, IF V11J Mlllll ~IWII: CQMI'\.tm MTll CIJ!I CUCIIIIIBD1I'f1Cil!'OU:¥ MMMU: .rTil IIIJIJifl110II AIIDIIEK. 11W1. CUII'IJIIG TD CIE DII'T., -·CINE AIWilTT DIIVE. lB. MI. 1l7M.-llltCDoCI* c.nw... "WWLt" Wl.T 1111 
II.ITZ." "\WW.T-•"''tlULT iiiD, till VNIT lllllllld 'IITlDlr•trlllnlllllIflilt llllloOIII ~. 
't7J]. 

II 1111 ~ IIIII II
I , ~.··• t 49000 , 2901 t Cl10'! >O 47336 0601 
~· I 
'~~~~~~~---~~~---~------------­

Wednesday, April 30, 2008 COMPI LED FROM THE. OBSERVER'S \VI RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite militia drives back U.S. patrol BAGHDAD -Dozens of fighters ambushed a 
U.S. 
patrol in Baghdad's main Shiite militia stronghold Tuesday, firing rocket-propelled grenades and machine gun bursts as the American push into Sadr City increasingly faces pockets of close urban combat. 

U.S. 
forces struck back with 200-pound guid­ed rockelc; that devastated at least three build­ings in the densely packed district that serves as the Baghdad base for the powerful Mahdi Army militia. 


The U.S. military said 28 militiamen were killed as the U.S. patrol pulled back. Local hos­pital officials said dozens of civilians were killed or wounded. 
Zimbabwe opposition supporters freed 
HARARE, Zimbabwe -Police on Tuesday released nearly 200 people who were arrested last week in a raid at opposition headquarters, while President Bush called on Zimbabwe's neighbors to step up the pressure on longtime leader Robert Mugabe. 
Many of the 215 people arrested on Friday had fled to Harare to escape mounting violence and intimidation in rural areas that used to be ruling party strongholds but turned against Mugabe in the March 29 elections. 
Twenty-nine people, mainly women and chil­dren, were released almost immediately. The rest were freed from various police stations in the capital Tuesday in accordance with a High Court order issued Monday, opposition defense lawyer Alec Muchadehama said. 
One month after the vote, results from the presidential election still have not been released. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
California wildfire enters 4th day 
SIERHA MADRE, Calif.-Lower temperatures and increased manpower on Tuesday allowed fire­fighters to tame much of a three-day-old wildfire that had gotten perilously close to dozens ofhomes and lt~d hundreds of people to evacuate. 
The fire in the rugged San Gabriel Mountains northeast of Los Angeles was 57 percent contained early Tuesday after covering 538 acres, or less than a square mile. 
Most of the more than 1,000 people evacuated from their homes had been allowed to return and public schools in the community of about 11,000 residents were reopening Tuesday. No homes have been lost in Sierra Madre, 15 miles northeast of Los Angeles. 
6 Virginia tornadoes cause no deaths 
SUFFOLK, Va. -It was a scene of haphazard destruction that stretched for 25 miles: Row upon row of homes reduced to sprays of splintered lum­ber, shopping centers stripped to bare metal, park­ing lots turned into junk yards. 
And yet no one died. "The only thing I can say is we were watched over and blessed," Fire fltief Mark Outlaw said. 
As resident..c; and rescuers returned Tuesday to survey the wreckage from six tornadoes, they were amazed by both the scope of the damage and their · good fortune. Even among the 200 people who were injured, most suffered only cute; and scrapes. 
LocAL News 
Primary sees record absentee votes 
INDIANAPOLIS -Some 90,000 people have already cast ballots for next week's Indiana primary, far outpacing the total number of absentee votes during the last presidential primary in 2004. 
That figure will continue to grow in the days leading up to the May 6 primary as the Barack Obama and Hillary Hodham Clinton cam­paigns push supporters to get their votes in as soon as possible. 
The Indiana secretary of state's office reported that 89,408 people had voted early with their county clerk's office or by mail-in ballots through Monday. Fewer than 57,000 such votes were cast four years ago. 
The state is not tracking how many early votes are being cast in the Democratic or Hepublican primaries, but applications to county election oflices for absentee ballots are running about 3-to-1 Democratic. 
CHINA 




China sentences 30 after Tibet riots 
Six Buddhist monks among those sentenced to jail terms rangingfrom 3 years to life 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -Six Buddhist 
monks were among 30 peo­
ple sentenced by a Chinese 
court Tuesday to jail terms 
ranging from three years to 
life for taking part in deadly 
riots in Tibet. 

The punishments were the first to be meted out by a Chinese court against Tibetans accused of taking part in a frenzy of assaults, burning, looting and van­dalism mainly targeting Han Chinese and their busi­nesses in the Tibetan capi­tal of Lhasa and nearby areas between March 14­16. 
The violence and subse­quent government crack­down drew worldwide attention to China's human rights record and its rule in Tibet ahead of the Beijing Olympics. Celebrations marking 100 days to the start of the games take place Wednesday. 
The sentences were announced during two ses­sions of a one-day trial at the Intermediate People's Court of Lhasa, the official Xinhua News Agency reported. China Central Television's evening news­cast showed the convicts being led out by police with bowed heads in front of a packed courtroom. 
Xinhua said three men a life sentence was a 30-prominent coverage by Foreign Ministry spokes­received life sentences, year-old businessman who state media signaled woman Jiang Yu defended including a Buddhist monk was identified only by his China's resolve in putting a the judicial process, saying identified as Basang who last name, Cering, Xinhua firm lid on domestic during a regular press allegedly led 10 people, said. The agency reported Tibetan dissent ahead of briefing Tuesday that the including five other monks, that he was convicted of the Summer Games. relevant authorities would to destroy local government inciting others to commit "The party has a long tra­handle the Tibetan law­offices, burn down shops arson and looting shops dition of carrying out breakers "according to the and attack policemen. and vehicles during riots in speeded up trials with mini­law in a fair and just way." 
Two of Basang's alleged his home county of mum forms of process for Following weeks of inter­monk accomplices were Lingzhou, about 40 miles defendants whenever it national pressure by the sentenced to 20 years, and east of Lhasa, on March 15 wants to send a strong U.S. and the European the other three to 15 years and 16. message to local people," Union, Beijing has also in jail. CCTV said seven people said Robbie Barnett, an moved to tamp down ten­
Soi'nam Cering, a driver were sentenced to about 15 expert in modern Tibet at sions diplomatically. The for a Lhasa real estate com­years in prison, and the Columbia University. government announced last pany, was sentenced to life other 20 received sentences Such trials originated in week that it would be will­in jail for joining in the of between three to 14 China in the early 1980s in ing to begin talks with rep­mobs that burned vehicles, years. The charges includ­so-called "Strike Hard" resentatives to the Dalai smashed police stations and ed arson, robbery, interrup­campaigns, intended to Lama, the exiled spiritual assaulted firefighters dur­tion of law enforcement, speed up prosecutions for leader of Tibet whom ing the riot, Xinhua said. and theft, it said. crimes considered at threat Beijing has blamed for 
The third man to receive The quick trials and their to social stability, he said. fomenting the unrest. 

Detroit mayor sex scandal case unfolds 
attorney who represented three police the frequent use of the N-word by the 
Associated Press officers in whistle-blowers' lawsuits mayor and Beatty as a term of DETROIT -A series of often explicit against the city that were settled last endearment, and discussions of mar­text messages from Mayor Kwame year for $8.4 million. The text mes­riage. Kilpatrick's former chief of staff sages were taken from Beatty's city­On Sept. 15, 2002, Beatty described appear to show she had a long-term issued pagers. a sex act she wanted to perform on romantic relationship with the mayor The messages could prove damag­the mayor but said she didn't know and that he played a role in the firing ing to Kilpatrick and Beatty, who are how to approach him about it. He of a police officer who sued the city. accused of lyiJ~g under oath in one of replied: "Next time, just tcl1 me to sit The embarrassing messages the lawsuits by denying they had an do\\'n, shut up and do your thing!" between Kilpatrick and Christine in tim ate relationship. They are Later that month, the pair appeared Beatty from 2002 and 2003 appear in charged with perjury, misconduct and to arrange a sexual encounter in an 18-page document released obstruction of justice. Beatty's office. On Sept. 19, 2002, Tuesday on the orders of Wayne The Free Press published some of Beatty wrote to Kilpatrick: "I have County Circuit Court Judge Hobert J. the text messages in January. Wayne wanted to hold you so badly all day, Colombo Jr. in response to a lawsuit County prosecutors began the perjury but I was trying to stay focused on by the Detroit Free Press and The investigation after those excerpts were work. So, I promise, not to kc('P you Detroit News. released. longer than 15 minutes." The document was obtained from The document released Tuesday Kilpatrick replied: "Don't promise the computer of Michael Stefani, an indudes descriptions of sexual trysts, (N-word.)" 
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Theft 
continued from page 1 
When he saw the students, he asked for someone by name who did not live in the room, he said previously. 
NDSP learned that 

CIW 
continued from page 1 
who presented the signatures with the CIW to Burger King Monday. 
"Our hope is that Burger King will feel the pressure from consumers across the country because of this petition and they will agree to the three terms of the petition," Bradley said. 
The CIW petition demands: increasing a migrant worker's wage one penny more per pound of tomatoes that they pick; starting dialogue with the farm workers, growers and cor­porations; and creating a human-rights based code of conduct for the farm workers. 
"As a Catholic-as someone who claims to desire to follow Christ -this situation in Immokalee is not okay," Bradley said. "For how hard they work and what kind of 
GALA-ND/SMC THE GAY AND LESBIAN ALUMNI OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE The Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (6/\LA-ND/SMC) Congratulate all 2008 graduates induding the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender graduates, and their families and friends. 6ALA-ND/SMC is a nonprofit organization with nearly 1000 members representing the alumnijae, faculty and staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, their friends and families. GALA-ND/SMC has no official affiliation with and receives no financial support from the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College. Our strength and support come from our membership. For more information about our organization, visit us at http://www~galandsmc.ollf/ To join, please sign up at hUp://join.l!alandsmc.org  
DeBartolo Hall STUDY DATES AND Tll'VIES: l\:1ay 1st, 2"", 3rd, and 4th : . 7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! f'in~ls \Veek: 1\f~ty 5111 -8th: Rooms a\'ailable except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. l\fay 9111 : ne8artolo Hall closes 30 minutes after last exam scheduled by the Registrar's Office. See Building SUJ1ptJrt Personnel ifyou have specific needs: Room UJ3 tJr 104. ~· .....-~ ~~J.· Colemau-I\'lorse: !\lay l st-4t11 : Finllls Week: Rooms Ql'tliltlhll' except l*'hen schedult!d by tile Registrar's office. ~1ay 9th :'Coleman -l\forse closes at 5:30pm l 5 ' Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"d floor: 7:00am-3:00am 3"d Floor: 7:00am-12am See Buildi11g Support Person RotJm 101 ifyou have a specific need. 211O'Shaughnessey: *May tst, d, 3n~, and 41 " : 7am to 3:00am *Finals \Veek: l\fay 5111 -8th: 7am to 3:00am 204, 206, 207,208, 209, 242,338, and 345: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. -~ Good tuck with Finals ;~ Specvl thtlflks to An.tiiiaty tl/111 Ft~ci#ty f}pt-rllriows, Citmpu~· il1it~i~ry anJ the Stutfenll!ltit>n IJ()(lr/.  

work they are "Jt·s really an migrant work­doing, there is ers face to
awakening expereince 
no reason that commemorate
to realize that there·s 
any of these the Caesar workers should slavery in the United Chavez Day of be living in Action.
States.·· 
poverty in the They have United States." also been giv­
Bradley Jessica Wlnschel ing classroom expressed con­junior presentations 
cern for the plight of the workers in Immakolee, Fla. where she witnessed first-hand by participating in the Center for Social Concern's (CSC) Migrant Seminar last spring break. 
"As humans, there is no rea­son why [the workers] should be treated like they are. I can­not just sit around, knowing that human rights are being violated every day in the fields," she said. 
Bradley explained that con­sumers have a responsibility to ensure that the farm workers receive just wages and treat­ment for their work. 
"We all ignore this systematic problem because we want our food cheap, and we don't care how we get it," she said. "We never see the faces who provide our food in the dining hall. However, as consumers, Christians and ... people, we have a choice to make." 
Juniors Michael Healy and Jessica Winschel also partici­pated in the migrant seminar this spring and were surprised by the realities they witnessed in lmmakolee. 
"A lot of farmers go through subcontractors who either get them documentation or who are illegally bringing them across the border," Healy said. 
Healy said by the time the workers reach the United States, they have no money and have been tricked into thou­sands of dollars worth of debt and are forced to work the fields. 
"It was really an awakening

I • experience to realize that there's slavery in the U.S." Winschel said. Based on her experiences in the seminar, Winschel said a typical day for a migrant work­er involves waking up at 4 a.m., waiting for buses to come to 
Valparaiso University has experienced similar burgla­ries with a suspect whose description matched that of the suspect in Notre Dame's recent campus robberies, Johnson said previously. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

transport them to work sites, hoping that they will be picked to work in the fields, and only getting paid for the amount of tomatoes they pick. 
Healy said one of the largest issues for workers in Immokalee is that there are no regulations to protect workers. 
"There are cases of abuse in the fields. Workers are stuck in difficult situations and have no one to complain to," he said. 

According to Healy, each worker has to pick two tons of tomatoes a day just to make minimum wage. 
"For one 32-pound bucket [of tomatoes] a worker receives 40 cents. If they work a complete day, they'll make roughly $50 a day," he said. 
The group of students who gathered petitions has been helping to support the CIW's cause since they returned from the Migrant seminar in March. 
In early April, the group put cardboard silhouettes on South 
Quad listing the 
abuses that 
on the chal­
lenges that migrant workers face in Florida. 
Bradley said the group plans to continue its. efforts to help the CIW next year, unless Burger King decides to adopt the demands of the petition. 
Winschel said college students played a large role in the CIW's campaign against Taco Bell in 2004 and the CIW hopes to see the same type of success its campaign against Burger King. 
Bradley said that the University should be involved in this issue in accordance with its Catholic identity. 
"[Our Catholic identity] is rea­son enough to want to advocate for the rights of these workers," she said. 
Bradley declined to release names of administrators the group has met with to discuss the University's role in the CIW's campaign against Burger King though she said the stu­dent group she is working with is awaiting responses from more than one administrator on the issue. 
"We will be working through the end of the semester to try to keep up communication to make sure that awareness is raised about this issue,'' she said. 
According to Bradley, howev­er, Chipotle, Subway and Whole Foods corporations are next on the CIW's list to fight for work­ers' wages and rights since these corporations rely on the tomatoes picked by Immokalee's farm workers. 

"No matter who the CIW is focusing on, the students I am working with here on campus realize how pressing this issue is, and they are in it for the long run," Bradley said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, April 30, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,831.94 -39.81
Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

S&P 500 ·.··. . . . . 1,390.94 .....· -5.43 
l'1'NIKI{EIE··•frt)goJ!riJIIIf814•J:31i]ll!lil:r!!P!;IJ;i 
FTSE 100 (London) 6,089.40 -l.OO 

COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.39  -0.55  139.08  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  +0.76  +0.36  47.60  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.21  -0.35  28.64  
MERCK CO INC (MRK)  -10.38  -4.30  37.14  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.26  -0.010  3.825  
13-WEEK BILL  +8.27  +0.110  1.44  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.13  -0.006  4.559  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.86  -0.027  3.108  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -3.12  115.63  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -18.70  876.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.85  75.10  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  103.9050  
EURO  0.6421  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0120  
BRITISH POUND  0.5077  

IN BRIEF 

Stocks wary before Fed's decision 
NEW YORK -Wall Street turned in a mixed performance Tuesday as investors traded cau­tiously ahead of the Federal Reserve's Wednesday decision on interest rates. 
The Fed, facing a faltering economy but also rising inflation, is expected to cut interest rates by another quarter point after its two­day meeting concludes Wednesday. Many investor believe policy makers will then signal that they are planning to hold rates steady for a while. 
Consumers have been worried about infla­tion because it means energy and grocery bills are harder to pay. Wall Street is also con­cerned, because inflation tends to curtail con­sumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the U.S. economy. 
The Conference Board said Tuesday its April index of consumer confidence fell for the fourth straight month because of heightened, disappointment about soaring prices and the weakening job market. 
Federal Reserve poised to cut rates 
WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve is poised to deliver another interest rate cut to millions of people and businesses this week, although that could be the last break they get for a while. 
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his col­leagues opened a two-day meeting Tuesday afternoon to take a fresh pulse on the economy and decide their next move on interest rates. 
The Fed is widely expected to lower its key interest rate by one-quarter percentage point to 2 percent at the end of its session Wednesday. 
That would mark a modest rate reduction after a recent string of hefty cuts. The Fed is facing a difficult juggling act of trying to shore up the faltering economy while also trying to keep inflation from taking off. 
In response to the Fed's expected action, the prime lending rate for millions of consumers and businesses would fall by a corresponding amount, to 5 percent. The prime rate applies to certain credit cards, home equity lines of credit and other loans. Both rates would be the lowest since late 2004. 






Bush criticizes Congress for inaction 
Presid~nt claims Democratic legislators have let 'the American people down' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush, hoping to inoculate his party and his presidential legacy from election-year anger over the economy, heaped criti­cism on the Democratic-led Congress on Tuesday for "letting the American peo­ple down." 
He said he'd consider a summer suspension of fed­eral gasoline taxes. But he ofl'ered no new ideas for a range of economic worries now facing the country, from record gas prices and soaring food costs to rising inflation, layoffs and home foreclosures, and a credit crunch that even has sparked fears of a college student loan squeeze. 
He rejected a new eco­nomic stimulus package, saying the tax rebate checks that began going out this week from a $168 billion economic aid plan adopted in February must first be given time to work. He also rejected bipartisan suggestions that the gov­ernment stop filling the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve while oil costs so much, saying it involves such a tiny amount of supply that doing so wouldn't push prices down. on many of these issues, all first place." wasn't just about winning 
Instead, the president they're getting is delay." Bush's news conference, policy debates with law­tried to shift the focus to Capitol Hill's Democratic only his second expanded makers. Congress, saying he long leaders said Bush was to question-and-answer ses­The economy is shaping ago sent lawmakers pro­blame for proposing poli­sion with reporters this up to be the defining issue posals to deal with many of cies that would worsen the year, appeared to be a pre­when voters go to the polls the nation's economic problem, not help, and that emptive measure of sorts, in November. Bush doesn;t problems, only to see them it was their duty to reject as it came a day before the want his GOP to be the sit or be replaced with them. release of statistics on the punching bag that winds approaches that he deems "His call this morning for nation's gross domestic up on the losing end. In an unacceptable. Congress to act is disingen­product for January Associated Press-Ipsos poll 
"Many Americans are uous at best," Senate through March. The com­this month, just 27 percent understandably anxious Majority Leader Harry mon definition of a reces­of the people questioned about issues affecting their Reid, D-Nev., said of Bush. sion is two consecutive about Bush's handling of pocketbook," Bush said in "Whether on energy policy, quarters of declining GOP the economy said they a White House news con­the housing crisis or our and many expect approved -his worst ference, held outdoors in many other economic Wednesday's report to pro­showing ever in the survey. an unseasonably cold and woes, this administration vide the first official confir­The president on windy Rose Garden. and its Republican allies in mation of a slide. Tuesday bent over back­"They're looking to their Congress offer nothing but With bad news piling on ward to demonstrate he elected leaders in Congress the same failed ideas that bad news, the president's understands how rough for action. Unfortunately, got us into this mess in the march to the bully pulpit things are. 


Food scientists push to halt biofuel use 
Associat~d Press a global network that uses science to ties. "We have 1 billion people who are 
fight hunger. It is funded by dozens of food insecure. We can't afford the luxu­
WA'iHINGTON -Some top interna­col.mtries and private foundations. ry of not taking care of them and tak­tional food scientists Tuesday recom­If leading nations stopped biofuel use ing care of gasoline." mended halting the use of food-based this year, it would lead to a price In an interview after the CGIAR tele­biofuels, such as ethanol, saying it decline in corn by about 20 percent conference, von Braun said the United would cut corn prices by 20 percent and wheat by about 10 percent from States and other countries have to during a world food crisis. 2009-10, said Joachim von Braun. He make a hard choice between fighting 
But even as the scientists were call­heads the International Food Policy high fuel prices and fighting world ing for a moratorium, President Bush Research Institute in Washington, the hunger. urged the opposite. He declared the policy arm of CGIAR. The United States "If you place a high value of food United States should increase ethanol is the biggest biofuel producer. security for poor people, then the con­use because of national energy security He and th<' other scientists said work clusion is clear that we step on the and high gas prices. should be stepped up on the use of brake awhile," said von Braun. "If you 
The conflicting messages Tuesday non-grain crops, such as switchgrass, place a high value on national energy highlighted the ongoing debate over for biofuel. security, other considerations come food and fuel needs. Another scientist, not associated with into play." 
The three senior scientists with an the group, agreed with their call for a Energy security is what Bush empha­international research consortium halt on the use of grain for fuel. sized in his press conference. When pushing a biofucl moratorium said "We need to feed the stomach before asked about the conflict with world nations need to rethink programs that we need to feed our cars," said Rattan hunger and the rising cost of food at divert food such a..;; corn and soybeans Lal, an Ohio State University soil sci­home, he said the high price of ga..;;o­into fuel, given the burgeoning world­ences professor who in the past has line would "spur more investment in wide food crisis. The group, CGIAR, is been a critic of some of CGIAR's priori-ethanol as an alternative to gasoline." 
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Beauty 
continued from page 1 
you think of someone who sits there and is pretty," she said, but the game she created explores what it really means to be a princess. 
"(The game is] a critique on the stereotypes of royal families, more specifically princesses," she said. "There's a lot that goes into 'princess training."' 
The board game has squares dealing with manners and eti­quette. For example, if you land on the "Silence" square you must put lace over your mouth, and if you land on the "Posture" square, you are forced to place a book on your head and leave it there for the remainder of the game. 
"My modified game is actually pretty difficult and it makes you look ridiculous," she said. "At the end of the game, I want the play-
COR 
continued from page 3 
dents needed advance notice in order to allow friends and fam­ily members to make travel arrangements. 
"There's no possible way we can prevent everything from happening," SUB co-director for external affairs Jeff Lakusta said. "We need to ask what's most convenient for students." 
COR decided that 10 days was enough time to notify friends and family to make travel arrangements but not 
ers to realize that real beauty isn't all that easy and practically impossible and that you look more ridiculous chasing it than you do without it." 
Russ tried to stress the idea that being comfortable with who you are doesn't mean not wearing make-up or getting dressed up throughout the class and the con­ference, she said. The class teach­es women to defme themselves by what they know and who they are and the conference tires to show that to the rest of campus, she said. 
Russ is currently working to expand the conference into a half-day event next year. The Female Beauty class will be offered in the spring of 2009 as a special topics class. 
Mandi Stirone contributed reporting to this article. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at achamO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
enough time to scalp the ticket. 
In other COR news: 
+ COR discussed the possibil­ity of hosting a Student Government leadership camp next year. Reish said he would invite a corporation such as General Electric to host a workshop on leadership styles if the event is planned. 
Brown said he had heard about a similar program at Penn State University. 
"They come, bring six offi­cials here and just run the whole thing," he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
BoARD OF GovERNANCE 

DanceMarathon reps seek trip funds 
Convention will allow members to gain professional training 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Representatives from Saint Mary's Dance Marathon attended Board of Governance's (BOG) meeting Tuesday in search of funds for a trip to the National Dance Marathon Convention 
in Orlando, Fla., in July. 
"It is a g r e a t opportunity because col­leges and universities throughout the nation all come together [and] share ideas," said Franc esc a Johnson, co-founder of Dance 

whom the marathon donates their earnings each year, for the trip, said Pauline Kistka, co-founder of Dance Marathon and Health and Wellness Commissioner for BOG. 
The Dance Marathon exec-· utive board is hoping this conference will give rising underclassmen the opportu­
'"It is a great opportunity because colleges and universities throughout the nation all come together [and] share ideas ... 
Francesca Johnson elections commissioner 
Marathon and Elections Commissioner for BOG. 
The conference will allow members of the organization to talk to people who partic­ipate in similar jobs such as marketing and catering, Johnson said. This will be their only professional train­ing for the year. 
Dance Marathon was given a grant by Riley's Children's Hospital, the organization to nity to learn more before· they have to take over the event as the founders graduate in 2009, Kistka said. This y e a r s marathon raised $85,296.33. 

St. Joseph Hospital is opening a Riley wing and doctors 
who will be visiting the local hospital from Indianapolis will be meeting with College president Carol Ann Mooney to congratulate her and the school on the work that has been done to raise money for the hospital, Johnson said. 
BOG also decided to con­tinue with a Saint Mary's version of "The Shirt," said public relations commission­er Katie Danko. 
Student body president Sarah Falvey said a Saint Mary's "The Shirt" allows students to support Notre Dame while still showing pride for their own school. 

"[We want to make one] so students could represent themselves and their Saint Mary's pride and still fit into the sea of green," Falvey said. 
Design ideas are still in planning but it will probably incorporate icons from both schools, Falvey said. 
In other BOG news: 

+ 
Student body president Mickey Gruscinski said the Student Center is once again extending their hours for finals week until midnight. The Cyber Cafe will serve a special late-night menu and the Noble Family Dining Hall will keep coffee and other drinks available to students during the extra hours. 

+ 
The second annual Late Night Desserts will take place Monday at 10 p.m. in the Dining Hall, Gruscinski said. All students are invited to attend this free event. 


Mandi Stirone contributed reporting to this article. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 


ays t0 SAVE'• Special Financing 2.9% APR 


-Best price and payment posted -Tires & Batteries for Life clearly on every vehicle -Discounts on gas -No negotiations necessary -Chair Massage and -Easy trade in experience Manicure Service -Clear finance options -Car Washes for Life -Rates, term and payment -A great experience 
given within 20 minutes you'll appreciate! 
Easy , Stress Free and One Low Price Learn more at
Price 

www.WhyTheJordanWay.com
a month*up to 60 months* 
With Approved Credit
$17,399* 

Visit us to see how we're different. Jordan Toyota 920 E Jefferson Blvd Mishawaka, In 4654 
Offer Expires 4130108 

Plus an additional $400 Rebate 
574-254-1111or 800-837-1981 x 705
from Toyota 

www.JordanAuto.com 
for 2006, 2007 and 2008 
® (')·:6~-VOLVO PftE.OWNtD
TOYOTA .. ·.~ 5UI'EitSTOII£ 

*2009 Corolla Le, automatic, stock #012339, 11 available at this price. *2 9% apr for 60 months with approved credit through TFS *$244 per month with 36 month lease 12K miles per year, $0 down, waived security deposit, plus 1st months pay­ment and $1.25 tire tax= $245.21 total due at s1gning. *Rebate from TFS, Tier 1 financing with TFS. All offers end 4130!08 •• To qualify must have grad from accredted 4 yr College, University, or Registered Nursing Degree program wrth1n the next 6 months. Customer has 2yrs from receipt of degree to t~e advantage of program. Provide proof of present or future employment within 120 days ofpurchase with a salary sufficient to cover Jiving expenses and vehicle payments Proof of insurance r~ired 
page 9 

Wednesday, April30, 2008 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

from The Live farth Global Warming Survival Handbook 
sus-·r~~II\J~~BLE 

A NOTRE DAME FORUM ENLIGHTEN ENGAGE EMPOWER 






BEENLIGHTENED 
September 24, 3:00 p.m.
JACC

Notre Dame Forum 
enlighten.nd.edu 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS 
in Oct. 1998 to add the term and obtained more than 1,100
PSA Citizens sellpossessions to pay bills 
signatures, he said. They also 
continued from page 1 
discussed in the 1990s, but the University has not had a reason to reconsider the addi­tion of a sexual orientation to the clause since that time. 
In Feb. 1996, then-University president Father Edward Malloy appointed a group of officers to examine the needs of gay and lesbian students after an ad hoc com­held a rally before a meeting of the Academic Council and brought speakers in favor of changing the clause to cam­pus in November, McCann said. 
The Academic Council passed the motion to change the clause by one vote in November, McCann said. 
On Dec. 1, 1998, "the Board of Fellows met and unani­mously voted against includ­
mittee created by current dean of the Law School and then-vice presi­dent for stu­d e n t affairs Patricia O'Hara suggested doing so. 
"In 1997, the committee reported to the Officer's Group which, after a thorough dis­eussion, decid­ed against any modification." 
policy derived from the teach­ings of the Catholic Church and consistent 
with·  Notre  
Dame's  mis­ 
sion."  

PSA was cre­ated in 1998 in response to this i s s u e , Plasschaert said. 
In 1998, PSA "organized the 300 person demonstration 
"In 1997. the committee reported to the Officer's Group which, after a thorough discussion, decided against any modification. ·· 
Dennis Brown assistant vice president for news and information 
ing sexual ori­entation in the non-discrimi­nation clause," McCann said. 
This decision was not announced until a press reI e ase a ft e r the Board of Trustees voted against making the change on Feb. 5, 1999, McCann said. 
"Nothing has happened from either stand­

Brown said. Instead, the offi­cers decided to issue the "Spirit of Inclusion" policy. 
"The Spirit of Inclusion" was designed "to express [the offi­cers'] commitment to policies and practices that would pro­mote an environment of inclu­siveness and free of harass­ment for all members of the University community," Brown said. "fltl is a statement of 
in support of Fr. David Garrick, the Holy Cross priest who was dismissed from his duties at the Basilica after coming out as a celibate homosexual priest," PSA member McCann said in an e­mail. Garrick came out in an April 4, 1996 letter in The Observer. 
Garrick resigned from the University in March 1998. 
Later in the year, both the Faculty and the Student Senates passed resolutions in favor of adding sexual orien­tation to the non-discrimina­tion clause, McCann said. 
PSA then formed a petition point since that time that would lead the University to reconsider that decision," Brown said. 
Brown said from the time the decision regarding the clause was made in 1998 improvements have been made for gay and lesbian stu­dents. 
"In combination with the work of the Core Council for 
7ft] is a statement of policy derived from the teachings ofthe Catholic Church and consistent with Notre Dame·s mission statement.,, 
Dennis Brown assisstant vice president for news and information 
Gay and Lesbian Students, we believe these goals are being met and that the environ­ment for gay and lesbian stu­dents is far bet­ter now than it was a decade ago, Brown said. 
While the goal of the petition is to have sexual orientation 

added to the University's non­discrimination clause, Plasschaert said PSA is aware it is "a lofty goal" which may not be accomplished. 
"What we want from the administration most is a thoughtful response to the issues at hand," he said. "The petition has shown an out­pouring of public opinion from Notre Dame students, faculty and staff that says GLBTQ relations are not handled appropriately by the adminis­tration of Notre Dame." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The for-sale listings on the online hub Craigslist come with plaintive notices, like the one from the teenager in Georgia who said her mother lost her job and pleaded, "Please buy anything you can to help out." 
Or the seller in Milwaukee who wrote in one post of need­ing to pay bills -and put a dia­mond engagement ring up for bids to do it. 
Struggling with mounting debt and rising prices, faced with the toughest economic times since the early 1990s, Americans are selling prized possessions online and at flea markets at alarming rates. 
To meet higher gas, food and prescription drug bills, they are selling off grandmother's dishes and their own belongings. Some of the household purging has been extremely painful -fami­lies forced to part with heir­looms. 
"This is not about downsizing. It's about needing gas money," said Nancy Baughman, founder of eBizAuctions, an online auc­tion service she runs out of her garage in Raleigh, N.C. One for­mer affluent customer is now unemployed and had to unload Hermes leather jackets and Versace jeans and silk shirts. 
At Craigslist, which has become a kind of online flea market for the world, the num­ber of for-sale listings has soared 70 percent since last July. In March, the number of listings more than doubled to almost 15 million from the year­ago period. 
Craigslist CEO Jeff 

Buckmaster acknowledged the increasing popularity of selling all sort of items on the Web, but said the rate of growth is "mov­ing above the usual trend line." He said he was amazed at the desperate tone in some ads. 
In Daleville, Ala., Ellona Bateman-Lee has turned to eBay and flea markets to empty her three-bedroom mobile home of DVDs, VCRs, stereos and televisions. 
She said she needs the cash to help pay for soaring food and utility bills and mounting health care expenses since her hus­band, Bob, suffered an electric shock on the job as a dump truck driver in 2006 and is now disabled. 
Among her most painful sales: her grandmother's teakettle. She sold it for $6 on eBay. 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out" '08 NOTRE DAME 
MONDAY -THURSDAY AND SATURDAY 

10am-5pm 
FRIDAY 


8am-5pm 
FLANNER CIRCLE: WELSH FAMILY HALL Monday, May 5 -Saturday, May 1 0 Thursday, May 15 -Saturday, May 17 Monday, May 19 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 7 -Saturday, May 1 0 
Notre Dome Federal Credit Union's Visa® Platinum gives you: 
.• a fulll %CASH BACK* 

Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
U.S. Jews call for Olympics boycott 
Associated Press 
A wide-ranging group of U.S. Jewish leaders plans to release a statement Wednesday urging Jews worldwide to boycott the Summer Olympics in Beijing, cit­ing China's troubling record on human rights and Tibet. 
The statement also notes China's close relationships with Iran, Syria and the militant group Hamas. 
So far, 175 rabbis, seminary officials and other prominent Jews have signed the declara­tion, which comes shortly before Holocaust Remembrance Day on Friday, organizers said. 
"We are deeply troubled by China's support for the genocidal government of Sudan; its mis­treatment of the people of Tibet; its denial of basic rights to its own citizens; and its provision of missiles to Iran and Syria, and friendship for Ham as," the state­ment reads. 
"Having endured the bitter experience of abandonment by our presumed allies during the Holocaust, we feel a particular obligation to speak out against injustice and persecution today." 
Rabbi Yitz Greenberg, past chairman of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, said signers are not alleging that the Chinese government is the equiv­alent of the Nazi regime, but that China, like Germany in 1936, is trying to use the Olympics as a public relations tool to deflect attention from its record. 
The declaration was organized by Greenberg and Rabbi Haskel Lookstein of New York -both Orthodox Jews -and the Washington-based David S. Wyman Institute for Holocaust Studies. 
Several representatives of Judaism's major U.S. branches and large Jewish institutions signed on. They include Rabbi Eric Yoffie, president of the Union for Reform Judaism; Neil Goldstein and Richard Gordon of the American Jewish Congress; and Rabbi Joel Meyers, executive vice president of the Rabbinical 
Assembly,  an  association  of  
Conservative rabbis.  
The  statement  seizes  on  

Olympic organizers' plans for a kosher kitchen at the Olympic Village, where athletes stay. Greenberg characterized the move as an attempt to lure Jewish tourists by presenting an image of sensitivity. 
"I would say in principle, ath­letes and tourists and govern­ments should all draw the same conclusion to this," Greenberg said. "Unless the Chinese make some significant corrections, they should not participate." 
Meyers said he hopes the dec­laration is interpreted as a call for Israel and Jewish athletes worldwide to boycott the games, although he doubts such a boy­cott will come to pass. 



Courtletsmenu regulation proceed 
Restaurants required to post calorie counts, city postpones fines 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A federal 
appeals court let the city 
proceed Tuesday with 
ordering some chain 
restaurants to post calorie 
counts on menu boards, but 
only after the city agreed to 
postpone issuing fines until 
mid-July. 

The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals left room to rule against the city in the future by seeking the Food and Drug Administration's opinion on whether FDA rules let cities dictate what restaurants must tell cus­tomers. 
In a one-page order, the appeals court said it lifted the stay only after the city agreed to postpone enforce­ment of the law from June 6 to July 18, long enough for the court to rule on the merits of a lawsuit brought on behalf of the restaurants by the New York State Restaurant Association, an industry group. 
The rule applies to restaurants that are part of chains with at least 15 out­lets across the country. That includes· fast-food places like McDonald's and Wendy's as well as sit-down establishments like Olive Garden and T.G.I. Friday's. 
Restaurant Association lawyer Kent Yalowitz said in a letter to the court 
Tuesday that the city has made it clear it will use coercive powers to force restaurants to comply. 
"A stay of fines is no stay at all in these circum­stances," he wrote. 
Reached after the ruling, Yalowitz said restaurants will have to make their own decisions on 
City Health Commissioner Thomas R. Frieden praised the decision as a major vic­tory, and said chains that haven't yet listed calories 
have  run  out of "stalling  
tactics."  
"Some  chains  have  

worked hard to deny cus­tomers information they need to make 

whether to healthy food
··Ifthey start putting 
comply with choices, but the rule big yellow stickers on this decision right now, starts to clear
people·s windows 
and hoped the way for
citing violations, to
the city people to have would show me that would be ready access restraint. outrageous. Nobody is to calorie "If they information
saying they·re not
start putting when they big yellow going to comply if we order their stickers on don •t win.,, food," he said. people's In arguments windows cit­earlier 
Kent Yalowitz 
ing viola­Tuesday, tions, to me lawyer Yalowitz said 
that would be outra­geous. Nobody is saying they're not going to comply if we don't win," he said. 
According to the health department, more than half of New Yorkers are over­weight or obese. Health officials believe the regula­tion will prevent 150,000 New Yorkers from becom­ing obese and will stop another 30,000 from devel­oping diabetes and other health concerns over the next five years. 
restaurants 
believe federal laws pre-empted local efforts to try to regulate how restaurants describe the contents of their food. He said the First Amendment rights of restaurants protected them as well. 
Judge Rosemary Pooler noted that cigarette pack­ages contain health warn­ings. "If we were to adopt your view, no warnings would ever appear on any­thing," she said. 


Student Appreciation Event 


April 30th and May 1st 
All Notre Dame & St. Mary's students will receive 20°/o* off all regular and sale priced merchandise at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Varsity Shops in the JAC, & at the Notre Dame Clearance Center on Ironwood. 
Receive a tall Starbucks coffee from the Irish Ink Cafe with your student ID at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 4/30 or 5/1. Limit one per person. 
*Student 10 Required. May not be combined with any other offer. Valid in-store only. Excludes "the shirt", textbooks, gift cards, diploma frames. class rings, previous & online purchases, computer hardware & software, calculators, Steiner Memorabilia, Uadro, Waterford, & professional references. See store for further details. 

Tha.nk you for yottr continued support tl1rougl1out tl1e year and for making us your bookstore ofchOice. 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574}631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.<om 
p

page 12 Wednesday, April 30, 2008 


THE OBSERVER 
A state of abuse 
P.O. Bm 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohle! AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPOIITS EDITORS: Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
I 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Conez 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: 1im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Chrisrian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574)'631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A~istant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QJ«rtions regarding Obsm!n" policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh.crv<r (USPS 599 2-'\IKlO) is publi•h•d Monday through Friday exc-ept during cx.~m and ·ucuiun periods. A subseriptinn to l1lc Observtr is $.100 fOr one academic ~r> SSS ft-.r one semester. 
Tho Obscrvc:r io puhli>h<d a<: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Norro Dam<. IN 46556-1>779 The Oh.crver 
Peri!>dical p<>s<ag< pa;d ar None Dame P.O Box 779 and additional mailing offirn;. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame. IN 46556-0n9 
~ Observd' is a mtrnhcr of tht Auoci . .ned Press. AJI rrptoductkm rightli. arc: r<setv<!d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Those of you who pay close atten­tion to the news have probably heard a lot about a secretive group in Texas that rapes and abuses children. In 2004 alone, 100 children from this organization received treat­Zach Einterz ment for poison­ing, 63 received Bulletproofmedical treatment 
Ideas 
for rape, and 142 gave birth. A child in this organiza­tion is four limes more likely to die than the average Texas child. Despite these abuses, the group has remained shrouded in mystery, protected by a veil of secrecy from those within the system. The leader of this group has shown "callous indifference in hiding the truth" says a lead state investiga­tor, who encountered "repeated and continuing roadblocks and stonewalling" while trying to uncover the abuses of this organization. 
Given the abysmal record of child abuse within this organization, an appropriate course of action would be to liberate the children and place them in a healthier environment. Unfortunately, the fox is guarding the henhouse. The record of abuse described above comes from a 2006 investigation into the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services. Texas Comptroller Carole Strayhorn, calling herself the "voice for these forgotten, neglected, abused and dead children," uncovered sys­tematic abuse in the Texas foster care system. This system, which presided over the deaths of 116 chil­dren between 2003 and 2005, now has custody of 463 children abducted from the Fundamentalist Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) Church. 
On April 3, a fully-armed SWAT team raided the FLDS-occupied Yearning for Zion (YFZ) ranch in Eldorado, Texas. The raid on the ranch was prompted by a phone call from a 16-year old girl who claimed she was an abuse victim from inside the compound. Authorities still haven't given a satisfactory reason as to why they needed armored vehicles and assault weapons to raid a peace­ful people for an instance of sexual abuse. Officials also have yet to iden­tify the alleged abuse victim and are now suspecting that the phone call was a hoax from a schizophrenic Colorado woman who has a history of false reporting. Regardless, the judge in the case has ordered all 463 chil­dren abducted from the ranch to remain in state custody. In doing so, the presiding judge ignored the advice of the state's own witness, child psychologist Bruce Perry, who testified that "the traditional foster care system would be destructive to these kids." 

The FLDS Church practices polygamy, and many of the teen girls taken from the ranch are pregnant or have children. However, the possible sexual abuse of several teen girls should not result in the abduction of all of the children. Only half the mar­riages at YFZ ranch are polygamous, and many loving parents have lost custody of their children as a result of this raid. Over 150 of the children now in state custody are under the age of five even though officials acknowledge that there is no evi­dence of abuse among these younger children. 
The forced separation of FLDS fam­ilies has little to do with the chil­dren's welfare. Of more concern to government officials was the noncon­formity of the FLDS. Members of the FLDS church wear colonial-style clothes, work on a farm, grow their own food, and never watch TV. 
Clearly, the children need to be freed from this oppressive indoctrination and exposed to a world of short skirts, processed foods and "Project Runway". Some of the men in the FLDS church practice plural mar­riage and provide for their children; an abhorrent alternative to the more commonplace practice in the rest of the U.S. of engaging in serial mar­riage and not providing for one's chil­dren. Simply put, in small-town, evangelical Texas, the alternative lifestyle and religion of the FLDS church was not welcome. 
This article is not a defense of the FLDS church, as I personally disagree with many of their beliefs and prac­tices. Of concern to me is the lack of restraint exercised by the state. The United States was founded on ideals of individual liberty, religious free­dom and tolerance for all groups of peoples. Our Constitution grants us the freedom to live in a manner of our choosing as long as our actions don't infringe upon the rights of oth­ers. This freedom applies to everyone regardless of the absurdity of their beliefs, the offensiveness of their actions, or the unconformity of their lifestyle. Yet, Texas officials, in an enormous display of self-righteous­ness, have essentially outlawed the practices and lifestyle of the FLDS church and they have unnecessarily and unconstitutionally placed hun­dreds of kids into a system that is no less abusive than the environment from which they came from. 
Zach Einterz will be graduating in three short weeks. He thinks Texas should secede from the Union. Contact him at zeinterz@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
liz Harter Lorenzo Reyes Becky Hogan Michael Bryan What are you doing this summer'? Gene Noone Griffin Dassatti 
"We are here just for a spell and
Graphics Scene Being a beach bum 
then pass on. So get a few laughs
Mary Cecilia Stephanie DePrez Traveling and do the best you can. Live your Mitsch Viewpoint Stuck in the office life so that whenever y_ou lose it. Summer school you are aheaa. ··
J-Dizzle No idea 
Will Rogers humorist
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
p

Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
page 13 

U-WIRE 



Fight the feminazi 
I'm a feminist. I don't burn under­wear, I don't grow my underarm hair out and I've never considered castrat­ing the entire male population. And yet, when I casually mention that I think feminism is a wor-Hannah thy cause, both men Kokjohn 
and women look at me like I suddenly 
The Oklahoma 
grew a horn on my 
Daily

forehead. Freak. 
So I wasn't surprised to find Oklahoma has a Facebook group enti­tled "Feminist is just another word for ugly liberal woman." I was also not surprised, but definitely disappointed, when I compared the number of its members, 83, to the two pro-feminist groups Oklahomans support 22 and a pathetic 4. 
I suppose it is understandable why only ugly, liberal women would be fem­inists. Only ugly, liberal women are still upset because women are paid just three-fourths of what men make. Only ugly, liberal women wish the United States wasn't the only industrialized nation to not offer paid maternity leave. Only ugly, liberal women are frustrated because, even though most couples work, women are still expected to spend more time doing housework and raising children. I bet if these women were attractive enough to have men in their lives, such dirty thoughts would never occur to them. 
But here's the deal. Feminism isn't about burning your bra anymore. There might be a few crazies out there, but today, feminism isn't about male domination. It's about creating a truly equal society, not just between men and women, but for everyone. Feminists lobby on behalf of minorities, homosex­uals and anyone who is experiencing inequality. They lobby for human rights, ecological rights and any rights men have historically not concerned 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Farewell Professor Langan 
This is a sad week for many Notre Dame students because philosophy professor Jeff Langan will be deliver­ing his final lecture at Notre Dame. Professor Langan will be pursuing a position at Holy Cross College because he was not able to attain a stable posi­tion here. We regret that future stu­dents will not have the opportunity to take a course with him. 
As his former students, we have had the great fortune of having him as a professor and many of us can truly say that he is the best professor we have had at Notre Dame and that he has changed our lives. In his classes, Professor Langan taught his students that philosophy is more than argu­ments, premises and conclusions. Philosophy is. the love of wisdom and truth-it concerns how one lives. It actually deals with everyday life. 
Professor Langan inspired so many students that a significant number of them have become philosophy majors. He has been the most inspiring, helpful and caring professor we know at Notre Dame. From his seven-point quizzes 
that kept us honest in our reading to his end-of-the-year barbeque at his home to his hilarious anecdotes about all sorts of things, Professor Langan has been all that a professor should be. 
We deeply regret his leaving Notre Dame because the University is losing a wonderful professor who inspired many students to love philosophy. Professor Langan, we will miss you, though we hope that Holy Cross stu­dents will not miss this great opportu­nity to learn from you. 
Jon Buttaci Adam Hoock Kristen lnfusino Julian Lagoy Andrew John Linn Victor Saenz Britton Snyder Chris Spellman Anne Witt Richard Ybarra students April28 

Respect Colbert 
How dare you, Mr. Yatarola ("Colbert? Really?," April 29), for belittling name of Stephen Colbert, a great American hero. You think Colbert is unqualified to speak at our University? When is the last time Ben and Jerry's n&med an ice cream flavor after you, sir? Oh wait. They haven't. And even if they did, it would probably taste bad and nobody would buy it. 
You say that Colbert and his mentor, Jon Stewart (another great American hero) are "dishonest cheap-shot artists," but then go on to call the pair "small, weasely" men and refer to Jon Stewart and his "man-crush on the Obamessiah." If that isn't a low-blow cheap shot then I don't know what is. 
Furthermore, you call Colbert an "obnoxious pretend journalist," but I suppose I might have to defer to your judgment there. If there's anybody who writes for The Observer that knows about obnoxious, pretend journalism it has to be you. 
Finally, I would like to disagree with your claim that if we allowed dueling in the United States Colbert and Stewart would stop "their routine casual smear­ing" (you <:all it smearing, I call it a free press that heightens the level of dis­course of our already highly informed electorate). I'm sure that if you chal­lenged Stephen Colbert to a duel he would undoubtedly kick your ass. 
Will Clark freshman . Alumni Hall April29 

themselves with. 
Look at the National Organization for Women's charter: Our purpose is to take action to bring women into full participation in society sharing equal rights, responsibilities and opportuni­ties with men, while living free from discrimination. 
I'll let you in on a little secret. Sharing equal rights, responsibilities and opportunities with men is actually code for cutting off men's balls in femi­nist lingo. All the equality issues they're lobbying for are just a front. 
Or, at least, that is what some people really believe. 
I guess what really burned me about this Facebook group. was the fact a woman created it. I know some people truly believe men and women have dif­ferent roles to fulfill and are inherently and biologically different, but that doesn't mean you can't support a group that advocates upping your paycheck. 
The word feminist seems to imply a bit­ter, homely woman in our society. A woman whose ideology is heavily shaped by the fact that she needs to get laid. 
And this is just not the case. I m not saying you have to grab a sign and join the picket line. You don't even have to support every feminist cause. If you want to be a housewife, feminism is fine with that. If you are pro-life, no big deal. But don't bash the people who gave women the right to vote, who have pushed women into higher paying jobs and who have made spousal abuse ille­gal and shameful. It's just ignorant. 
This column first appeared in the April 28 issue ofthe Oklahoma Daily, the cam­pus publication ofthe University of Oklahoma. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


A vacancy in The Huddle 
Thank you for your touching article on George Porter-Young ("The long journey home," April 29). He is a great man and a great friend, and I had the pleasure of working with him side by side at Sbarro for four years in South Bend. Like many of the employees at the Huddle, he was one of my best friends on campus, always up for a good story or a good political debate, and did so much more for the University than the University often did for him. I would tell you that I read your article with tears in my eyes, learning of his condition, but I will not. · 
First of all, George wouldn't have anything of it. Second of all, l could count on two hands the amount of times I walked into work, only to hear "George isn't going to make it." He's stared death in the face more times than anyone I've ever met, and he will surely conquer this next challenge and outlive us all. His is a message of faith and courage and unwavering optimism that us pessimistic twenty-somethings could learn a great deal from. 
God bless you, Georgie, and good luck. 
Jonathan Retartha alumnus Class of2007 April29 


get heard by writing a column.· 
Shoot Kara an e-mail at kking5@nd.edu 


page 14 Wednesday, April 30, 2008 




Indiana Jones and the Crystal Skull 
May 22 
After almost 20 years in develop­ment hell, the fourth Indiana Jones movie, "Indiana Jones and Crystal Skull," is finally bein released. 
Fans of the original trilogy o archeologist-action-hero adventures might question the film's star him­self, given the fact that Harrison Ford is no spring chicken. But with a 
cast that rounds out with Shia LaBeouf, Photo courtesy of indianajones.com Karen Allen returning as Marion Ravenwood and Oscar-winner Cate Blanchett, this latest Spielberg concoc­tion definitely seems promising. Time will tell if "Crystal Skull" will redeem the long-latent characters, or if this fourth Jones film will fall short of success. But with Ford as its epony­mous anchor, the possibilities look good. 
The Dark Knight · July 18 
Christian Bale reprises his role as the Caped Crusader in this sequel to 2005' "Batman Begins." 
Bale plays the title role of Batman an billionaire playboy Bruce Wayne, Batman's alter ego. This time around, Batman faces ofT against his traditional arch nemesis, the sadistic Joker (Heath Ledger, in his final role). 
Batman works with familiar allies in this film. including his butler Alfred -..............____. (Michael Caine), Wayne Enterprises CEO Photo courtesy of snarkerati.com 
Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman) and Gotham City Police Lt. James Gordon (Gary Oldman). Maggie Gyllenhaal replaces Katie Holmes as Wayne's love interest Rachel Dawes, a lawyer who works in the DA's oflice. 
Aaron Eckert joins the cast as Gotham district attorney Harvey Dent -a name most Batman fans will recognize as the supervillain Two-Face. 
Director Christopher Nolan, who directed the first film, takes the helm of this one, as well, meaning fans of "Batman Begins" should be pleased with its sequel. 

The Pineapple Express August 8 
This movie is producer Judd Apatow's realization of a long-time goal in Hollywood: a "weed action movie." 
Written by "Superbad" scribes Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg, the film fol-.·. lows stoner Dale Denton (Rogen) and his dealer Saul Silver (James Franco). After Dale witnesses a murder, he leaves behind a strain of marijuana so rare· (called Pineapple Express) that it can be traced back to him and Saul. The two go on the run to escape the wrath of a dan-Photo courtesy of cinemablend.com gerous drug lord who took part in the mur­der. 
"Pineapple Express" officially welcomes James Franco back into the Apatow fold. The "Freaks and Geeks" star finished college at UCLA after making some poor movie choices, but now he returns to comedy with his "Freaks and Geeks" co··star Hogen. The film looks to be another summer hit for Apatow, and it even features a theme song written and performed by Huey Lewis. 
·..·~ 

Sex and the City 
May 30 

Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker), 
Samantha (Kim Cattrall), Charlotte 
(Kristin Davis) and Miranda (Cynthia 
Nixon) are back together again four years 
after the hit HBO series ended. 
The foursome is still trying to find love 
and get their lives straight with the beau­
tiful backdrop of New York City behin 
them. Changes are ahead for the girls 
with an engagement, a new baby, a mar­
riage in trouble and a move to another 
coast. 


Have no fear, because the men of the 
series -Mr. Big (Chris Noth), Steve (David Eigenberg), Smith Jerrod (Jason Lewis), 
and Harry (Evan Handler) -are all back as well. New to the stellar cast is Oscar­
winning Jennifer Hudson as Carrie's assistant Louise. 
The promos promise big plot twists, outrageous fashion statements and salacious 
girl talk. And be sure to look out for what should be an excellent soundtrack that 
includes artists such as Fergie, India.Arie, Al Green, Run-D.M.C. and Hudson. 
Mamma Mia! July 18 
Meryl Streep has mastered her craft. She's conquered the fashion world in "The Devil Wears Prada," agonized with audiences in "Sophie's Choice," and even taken to literature with the allusive "The Hours." But even after all of this success, one question might remain: Can the woman of a thousand accents actual-.···· ly carry a tune? 
Viewers will find out, for better or for worse, in the movie adaptation Photo courtesy of wildaboutmovies.com of the hit musical "Mamma Mia!" Drawing on the music of disco-era pop icons ABBA, "Mamma Mia!" is light on plot but heavy on frothy fun. 
The recently released trailer for "Mamma Mia!" was underwhelming at best. Hopefully Streep and crew have what it takes to impress both fans and new viewers alike. 
Sisterhood of the 

Traveling -Pants 2 August 8 
Put those pants back on. 
Ann Brashares' highly successful book series "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants" was first made into a film three years ago. Alexis Bledel, • America Ferrera ("Ugly Betty") and·. company clicked well with teenage audiences in the first film, making the possibility of a sequel pretty like­ly. 
Now the girls are three years Photo courtesy of reelmovienews.com older, college freshmen still adjust­ing to adulthood, the real world and life without the constant-presence of your best friends. What unites them on the surface, still, is that magical pair of pants. Whether or not audiences buy into any pants-related metaphors, the film seems likely to do well, given its good source material and solid predecessor. 
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 page 15 


WALL-E June 27 
Since the late 1990s, they've brought you talking toys, talking cars, talking fish and even talking rats. This summer, the wacky minds at Pixar are taking a turn for the robotic. 
"WALL-E" tells the story of a youn robot. of the Waste Allocation Lo Lifter Earth Class, who spends days on a post-industrial earth. When he meets EVE, a sleek ne robot who sees a bright future for Photo courtesy of ultimatedisney.com WALL-E, the film takes off. 
Pixar's track record is highly respectable on the whole. None of their films have been real missteps, though some have fared better than others. The success of films like "Finding Nemo" and "Monster's, Inc.," two of their strongest releases, bodes well for a solid reception of "WALL-E." 
Whether or not audiences can click with a robotic protagonist remains to be seen. 
The X-Files:

Beifeve July 25 


Mulder and Scully are back in that takes place six years after the 
sea­son finale of the show anad ten years after the first film. 
Instead of aliens and extra-terrestrials, the team will be asked to discover the cause of the disappearence of a group women from rural Virginia. Though the X-Files have been closed for years,--­Mulder and Scully are called on to their sci-fi friendly skills to discover why Photo courtesy of movies.gearlive.com body parts are appearing on the side of the road. 
The film is being pitched to avid X-Files fans and average movie-goers alike. The lack of any great alien appeal leaves room for those who have never seen the show or followed the plotline to pick up the story fairly easily. 
The relationship tension between Mulder and Scully remains, and hopes are high for this sci-fi sequal. 
Hamlet 2 August 22 
Shakespeare probably never envi­sioned a sequel for his great trage "Hamlet" (especially since-everyone dies in the end), but that doesn't mean that failed actor-turned-drama teacher can make a musical sequel to the Bard's tale. 
With songs like "Hock Me, Sexy Jesus" and some help from the Tucson G Men's Chorus, drama teacher Dana (Steve Coogan) decides to go out with a bang before the high school he teaches at shuts down its theatre department. Photo courtesy of movies.yahoo.com Look out for actress Elizabeth Shue playing herself-kind of. She's now a nurse (but not really) after becoming sick of Hollywood and leaving it behind. 
Focus Features bought "Hamlet 2" at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival for $10 million, almost tying the $10.5 million record that "Little Miss Sunshine" set in 2006. The irreverent twist on Shakespeare also stars Catherine Keener, Amy Poehler and David Arquette. 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 



Hancock 
July 2 

The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air was 

force to be reckoned with 
"Independence Day," "Men 
Black," "Bad Boys," and 
recently "I am Legend." Will Sm 
aims to bring this star power to his 
new film "Hancock." 
Smith plays the titular character: an edgy, sarcastic, and misunder­stood superhero. His heroics get the job done but always seem to leave serious damage behind. When the Photo courtesy of collider.com public has finally had enough, public rela­tions executive Ray Embrey (Jason Bateman), whose life Hancock saves, aims to help the scornful superhero and find his softer side. But Ray's wife, Mary (Charlize Theron) insists Hancock is a lost cause. 
This power-house movie of a quasi-super hero packs plenty of action. Smith has yet to fail his audience, and this should be no exception. 

American Teen July 25 

The princess, the jock, the rebel, the geek and the heartthrob. These sound like stereotypes straight from "The Breakfast Club," but really the are the labels attached to five hi school seniors from Warsaw, Ind., they deal with the pressures cliques, relationships, family and their impending graduations. 
Megan, the princess, works to get jock, faces enlisting in the army if he Photo courtesy of collider.com 
doesn't get a basketball scholarship. Hannah, the rebel, wants to get out of Indiana and find somewhere that she can fit in. Jake, the geek, wants to finally find a girlfriend. And Mitch, the heartthrob, has his eyes set on the artsy Hannah. 
Directed by Nanette Burstein, "American Teen" won the Directing Award for a documentary at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival and has garnered a great deal of critical buzz since then. 

The House Bunny August 22 
If the preview for "The House Bunny" 
is remarkably reminiscent of "Legall Blonde," that could be because th screenplay is by "Legally Blonde" wri Karen McCullah Lutz and Kristen Smith (the duo also co-wrote "10 Things I Hat About You"). But while Elle Wood escaped to Harvard, Shelley (Anna F is escaping to a sorority house -altho not one that Elle would have ever joine 
When Shelley is kicked out of theL-----------------~.... Playboy Mansion by a rival, she becomes Photo courtesy of canmag.com 
a housemother for a nerdy sorority and helps the girls sign a new pledge class so that they can keep their charter. In the end (after a few makeovers), everyone learns that it's what's on the inside that counts. Judging from the preview, the real laughs come from the performances of Faris and the sorority girls she helps, played by such actresses as Emma Stone ("Superbad"), Katharine McPhee ("American Idol") and Rumer Willis (the offspring of Bruce Willis and Demi Moore). 
Written by Cassie Belek, Stephanie DePrez, Caitlin Ferraro and Analise Lipari 

Wednesday, April 30, 2008

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
RECSPORTS 
Recspy winners announced 
~I 
Special to the Observer 
In 1997, the idea of an All Interhall Champion arose. After some very beneficial dialogue with Rectors and administrators of the Athletic Department, a pilot program was developed to determine the All Interhall RecSports Champions. The first awards were presented in the 1997-98 academic year to Keough Hall and Welsh Family. 
The point system that was created at that time is still the one in place today. Every Interhall event has points avail­able for simply entering a team from the hall. 
Additional points are awarded for the top four finishers. Points are deducted for forfeits, ejec­tions and other undesirable actions. Halls that do the best are halls that make sure they have teams entered in all Interhall events. The traveling trophies are awarded to the winners to display for the year. A plaque for men and another plaque for women is displayed in the main entrance area of Rolfs Sports Recreation Center listing the year to year winners. 
In 2001 the idea of the RecSpys was born. The RecSpys specifically recognize some of the best in Intramural Sports. All of the Notre Dame communi­ty was invited to participate in the selection of the winners through the voting website. 
Here are the winners for 2008-09: 
Undergraduate Female of the 
Year: Cynthia Curley, 
Pasquerilla West 
If RecSports kept statistics for most sports played in a year Cynthia Curley may be the 


RECSPY WINNERS THE PAST 3 YEARS 
' ' 
Past lnterhall Points Champions 
WOMEN MEN 

04-05 Farley Keenan 05-06 Pasquerilla West Stanford 06-07 Pasquerilla East Morrissey 
Undergraduate Male of the Year 
04-05  Mike Iselin {Keenan hall)  
05-06  Michael Ortiz {O'Neill Hall)  
06-07  Brian Fallon (Dillon Hall)  

Undergraduate Female of the Year 
04-05 Sara Gillon (Cavanaugh Hall) 05-06 Heather Van Hoegarden (PW) 06-07 Anne Parrett (Farley Hall} 
GFS Male of the Year 

04-05 Doug Bartels 05-06 Thomas Clarke 06-07 Thomas Clarke 
GFS Female of the Year 
04-05 Caitlin Johnson 05-06 Erin Galloway 06-07 ·Megan Tierney 
record holder. Cynthia showed her leadership by leading the Weasels to the No. 5 seed in football, while upsetting No. 4 seed Howard. In maybe one of the more stunning upsets this year, Curley took charge and powered her team past the mighty Whirlwind of Welsh Family to capture the champi­onship for Interhall basketball. 
Undergraduate Male of the Year: Max Young, Siegfried 
Max was not only the back­bone of the Siegfried baseball team, he was the backstop. He commanded respect from the opposing pitchers and base runners thought twice about stealing on him. Also, as a defensive back for the Rambler's football team, he made wide receivers second guess going over the middle. 
Grad/Fac/Staff (GFS) Female of the Year: Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon 
Jacqueline has participated in GFS tennis and is also the captain of her softball team, Above the Curve. Jacqueline is a great teammate and a hard wocker. She is a positive per­son and we are pleased she is a part of RecSports program. 
GradjFacjStaff Male of the Year: Sean Walsh 
With only seconds left in the GFS Flag Football Championship, Walsh, the sig­nal caller for Law Dawgs, threw up a prayer of a pass, ala Doug Flutie, and won the championship, beating $81,000 Cash. His poise and composure carried his team through the season and in the champi­onship. 
Intramural Team of the Year 
04-05  KeouQh Hall  
fnterhaff Ice Hockey  
05-06  Zahm Hall  
Mens lnterhall Football  
06-07  Farley Hall  
Women's /nterha/1 Basketball  

Intramural Game of the Year 04-05 Cavanaugh v. Walsh 
Women's /nterha/1 Football 
05-06 Pangborn v. PW . 
Women's /nterha/1 Football 
06-07 Farley v. Welsh Fam 
Women's lnterhall Basketball 
Fans of the Year 
04-05 Cavanaugh 
Women :S FootbaJ/ 
05-06 Alumni Hall 
Hockey Fans 
06-07 Alumni Hall 
Hockey Fans 
Team of the Year: Cavanaugh Football 
It was an up and down sea­son for the Chaos. The regular season ended with a less than stellar 3-3 record, which earned them No. 6 seed in the playoffs. No one believed they could go all the way, but the Chaos was out to shock the RecSports world. They worked their way through the first two rounds of the playoffs before facing Welsh Family. Going into the games as underdogs fueled the fire. With tough defense and timely scoring, they upset Welsh Fam, to capture the title. It was a truly a story of David beating Goliath. 
Game of the Year: lnterhall Men's Soccer Championship 
In a game billed as a mis­match, No. 8 Siegfried Premier against No. 3 Keenan, Siegfried did not fold under the pressure of being an underdog. Both teams came out firing on all cylinders. No one wanted to back down. It came down to one of the most exciting events in sports, the shootout. Both teams wanted victory, but in the end it was Siegfried that took the prize. Seigfried took down the Knights. This match would have made the average soccer spectator sit on the edge of their seat the whole game. 
Fans of the Year: Alumni Hockey 
In early morning hours, when all the students are fast asleep, the Alumni hockey fans are in the Joyce Center running amuck. Opposing teams know them all too well. The construc­tion barrel taunts players and fans alike at every turn. 



' ., 
-. 
. .
C
~--·· 
CoRee Sand Volleyball CoRee Softball Campus Horseshoe Singles Campus Horseshoe Doubles IH Men's Baseball GFS Baseball IH Men's Football IH Women's Aag Football GFS Flag FootbaU IH Women's Tennis JH Men's Tennis GFS Men's Tennis 

Campus Tennis -Mixed Doubles IH Women's Goif Scramble IH Men's Golf Scramble IH Men's Soccer IH Women's Dodgeball ~H Men's DodgebaU GFS Soccer 1H Men"s Cross Country IH Women~ Cross Country CoRee Rag Footbali lH Men's Racquetbaft Singles jH Men's VoUeybaR tH Women"s VofJeyball CoRee Basketball CoRee Water Polo Campus Badminton Singtes IH Men's BasketbaU IH Women's Basketball GFS Basketbatl CoRee Broombatl 
Campus Table Tennis Campus Men's Indoor Soccer Campus Women's !ndoor Soccer Campus Ultimate Frisbee IH Men's tee Hockey Campus Racquetball Doubles 1H Men,s Team Racquetball JH Women's Team Racquetbal1 CoRee Volleyball Campus Badminton Doubles 
Campus FJoor Hockey IH Men's Lacrosse IH Women's Lacrosse IH Softbatl GFS Softbatl IH Women's occer Campus Sand Volleyball 
lH Men's Team Tennis IH VI/omen's Team Tennis 
Tall Girls 
MSAProgram 
Eric Bolyard Ted Lawless/John Coyle Standford CEIGEOS Stanford Cavanaugh LawDawgs Maureen Champa Mark Witte Shashank Maiya 
Martin KlubeckiDeanna PonsJer 
c. Curly!L Koerbet Dan Humboldt/Jorr:Jan Koerner Seigfried PasqueriHa East Fisher-Reigning Champs 
Tainted Fruit Siegfried 
Pangborn Uttte Giants 
Ryan Petersan 
Morrissey Cl!tvsnatJgh 
Bailers 
911 
PingShi Morrissey A and Siegfried B Pasquerilta West Jn Your Prima Facie MBA~ With Brooms 
su Su 
Tainted Fruit Taint.ed Fruit Dragons Zahm4 Su Su &Kai uu Off-Csmpus Pasquerilla East Tall Girls Su Su/Kai Liu 
Stanford 
Dillon 
Pasqueril/a East 
Alumni!Pasqueril/a West 
Shelbyville Power Plant Cavanaugh 
BadAssesls 
Morrissey 
Pasquerilla !Nest 



Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
RECSPORTS 
Another year of intramurals comes to a close 
Special to the Observer 
With more than 50 programs available to undergraduates, graduates, faculty and staff alike, the intramural program at Notre Dame boasts a range of athletic opportunities compara­ble to that of larger state schools. 
The fall sports offering pro­vides a variety of sports from soccer to fast-pitch softball, and includes one of the nation's only intramural full-contact, full-pads football leagues. Winter brings a bevy of basketball leagues from men's and women's Interhall to Co-Ree and Grad/Faculty/Staff. Ice hockey and broomball utilize the Joyce Center's ice rink, one of the 15 campus-wide facilities used by the intramural program. As the weather warms, sports move back outdoors for Interhall lacrosse, sand volleyball and many others. 
With over 90 percent of Notre Dame's student body having let­tered in at least one varsity sport in high school, the competitive nature at Notre Dame is like none other. Dorms compete for the men's and women's Interhall cups, gaining points towards the trophy through their play in Interhall competitions. Men's lnterhall 
The 2007-2008 men's Interhall 
The Siegfried interhall soccer team poses after its Cinderella ended with a win over Keenan in penalty kicks. 
season yielded rivalries and attempts at repeat champi­onships. Early in the year, Stanford and Keenan squared off in a series of battles for the chapel. In baseball, the Griffins used a drama tic ending -a grand slam to knock off Siegfried in the semifinals -and then survived a potential Knights rally to take the crown in Eck Stadium. 
Stanford then earned the top seed in football with a 12-8 vic­tory in the regular season finale against Keenan, but almost fell in the first round to Dillon, scor­ing on a fourth and goal in over­time to keep its season alive. Notre Dame Stadium served as the venue for a rematch of the cinderblock brethren, with Stanford again prevailing in a 7­0 defensive battle. 
Men's soccer also provided its share of theater, with the eighth­seeded Siegfried Premier team making a Cinderella run to the championship game. There they faced another Keenan team vying for a title, and after a high scoring regulation, the underdog Ramblers prevailed in penalty kicks. 
North Quad's monopoly on the championship games changed along with the seasons, as Morrissey used its size and ath­leticism to capture both the bas-

run to the championship game 
in Eck Stadium and sometimes had to play doubleheaders to advance in the playoffs. The Blue Sox were one of these teams, and only came up short by a few runs in the quarterfi­nals. 
The CE/GEOS won the semifi­nals with a walk off grand slam and then faced the No. 1 seed Big Marbles in the championship game and defeated them as well. 
While the baseball playoffs featured a walk off grand slam, the GFS flag football champi­onship featured a hail-mary pass that decided the game. The Law Dawgs won on a last second heave to the end zone a la Kordell Stewart and Michael Westbrook playing for the University of Colorado against Michigan. The ball was tipped by the opposing team, $81,000 Cash, but a Law Dawgs receiver miraculously came down with the ball and the championship. 
More unbelievable playoff games could be found in the GFS soccer league. Tainted Fruit con­tinued their campus-wide soc­cer dynasty with a championship win in the GFS Soccer league. Continuing the theme of dramat­ic GFS finishes, the game ended in a shootout, in which Tainted .. Fruit outscored the MSA pro­gram 5-4. 
In other sports, In Your Prima Facie beat Second Year-itis in the basketball championship, Shashank Maiya won men's ten­nis singles, and Michael Stanisic won men's racquetball singles. 


CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer Stanford freshman Colin McNamara, right, returns an intercep­tion during the Griffins' 7-0 championship victory over Keenan. 
ketball and volleyball champi­onships. The Manor denizens ran up absurd regular season records in both sports, going undefeated by wide margins to clinch the top seeds in both post­season tournaments. Despite great efforts from the hoopsters of Sorin and the St. Ed's volley­ball team, the Manorites took home two titles. 
As the weather outside got colder and colder, the action on the ice inside heated up, culmi­nating in defending champion Dillon trying to defend its hockey championship against a team composed of Zahm and Carroll players. The Big Red's efforts fell short against the union of Vermin and Rabid Bats, with the hockey title moving to the House until next season. 
Women's lnterhall 
The lnterhall women's sports this year proved to be one of upsets and excitement. The fall brought an intense flag football season and a thrilling upset in the championship -much like this year's Super Bowl between the New England Patriots and the New York Giants. 
Welsh Family's domination in an undefeated regular season paralleled that of the Patriots, and Cavanaugh's playoff run was reminiscent of that of the Giants. Cavanaugh shut out Welsh Family in the champi­onship game 14-0, and proved they were better than expected. 
Cavanaugh was one of the 


select dorms to win more than 
one championship this year by 
taking first place in Interhall vol­
leyball after a bumpy regular 
season, but finishing up strong 
in the playoffs, similar to the 
performance of their flag foot­
ball team. 
In Interhall basketball, Welsh Family's season concluded in much the same way as their flag football season. It seems that this year Welsh Family has been under the curse of the undefeat­ed regular season. Welsh Family's basketball team fol­lowed its undefeated regular season with a run to the champi­onship game only to be defeated by another basketball power­house, Pasquerilla West. 
Pasquerilla West also found itself competing in the lnterhall dodgeball championship but lost to Mod Quad rival Pasquerilla East, who also won the racquet­ball championship. In other sports, Pangborn won the women's cross country champi­onship, Maureen Champa took home the single's tennis champi­onship, and Cynthia Curley and Libby Koerbel won the women's golf scramble. 
Grad/Faculty/Staff Sports 
The Grad/Faculty/Staff sports seemed to have more than their share of remarkable playoff games this year, particularly in baseball, flag football and soc­cer. 
In GFS baseball, teams faced tough roads to the championship 

1. Siegfried 3.320 1. Cavanaugh 3,075 2. Morrissey 3,225 2. PW 2,755 3. Stanford 2,880 3. PE 2,325 
_t Za~m

'+. "-' 2.150 4. Welsh-Fam 1,300 5. St Eds 2!075 5.Lyons 1,190 
6. O'Nei< 1.875 6.Farley 1,085 7 o,rton 1.853 7. Pangborn 725 8.Kee1an 1.710 8. Lewis 625 9. Alumni 1,625 9. BP 500 10.KeoGgh 1f625 10. Walsh 475 11.FLsher 1.535 11. McGiirn 395 12.Knott 1,460 12. Badin 325 13. Sarin 1,310 13. Howard 305 14.Carroll 800 
MEN WOMEN 
If* 
~ 
\ 
\ 
' 
~ 
~ 
\ 
\ 
.-~­
'-..... 
,_ 
l 
' 
.... 
l 
( 
( 
~ 
( 
<
( 
( 
i ~ ~ 
( ( ( ( 
( 
( 
.,,
~ 
I 
~ 
{ 
) 
? 
{ 
~ 
( I 
~ 
( 
f 
~ 
--~----~-----------~ 
page 20 Wednesday, April 30, 2008
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Best wishes to all presenters in the Undergraduate Scholars Conference Friday, May 2 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE JOINT ANNUAL MEETING -JORDAN HALL OF SCIENCE 
Bryan Ahern Laura Campochiaro Jenny Enright Brian Holland Christopher Mariani Catherina Pinnaro Ruth Sommese Greg Antell Laura Cass Ben jam in Fehrman Patrick Holvey Andrew Martin Kirk\\'. Post Jonathan Stefely Margaret Baker Catherine Cassou Adam Gadzinski William Hudelson Steven Mattis Matthew Reagor Krystyna Traudt Anarnaria Baluyut Daniel A. Cerrone Andy Gloss MeghanJebb Michael McCann Alexander J. Reisinger Nicholas J. Ward Anthony Bendvenga Sung Min Choo Thomas Gruffi BethAnne Jensen Andrew J. McGauley Jason Rodulfa Erin Wash Marianne Beyer Rosa belle Conover Katherine Hackney Keaton Jones Reid Merryman LaToya Rush Edward White John Biddle Sean Cullen Rachel Haney Andrew Karl Vanessa Milano Kristina Thuy Sault Luritta Whiting Adam Boocher Stephen D'Auria Molly Harding Liz Keating David Nemer Elizabeth Seilie Adam Woodruff Matthew Boutilier Stephanie Doerries Andrew Hartnett Brianna Klco . Dakota O'Dell David Sena Loretta Brol<vn Ryan Emptage E1i7..abeth High Zachary Lemmon Thomas Osberger Christo Sevov 
4 

Patrick Brown James England Alec Hirschauer Matthew Lucia Lina Paek Daniel Smith 

BFA EXHIBITS/GALLERY TALKS SNITE MUSEUM OF ART --O'SHAUGHNESSY GALLERIES 
Evan Brogan Kelly Gronli Reese Moore Matthew Casanova Amelia Hirschauer Amy Reinthaler Ashley Ceniceros Amanda Martin 
GENERAL SESSION-ENGINEERING -DEBARTOLO HALL 
Phillip Alday Colin Heye Sarah Ring Neal Andrews Caitlin Lambert K1isty Schlueter Alex Augugliar David LeDonne Tim Shinnick Mike Batanian Bridget Leone Patricia Strei Carl Berasi Christine Loza Tamuto Takakura Shmvn Coleman Nichola Lubold Alyssa Teves Yamil Colon Nathaniel Menendez Andres Valenzuela James Buffi Robert Mineo II Matthew Walters John Cooney Gary Nijak, Jr. Patricia Wilbur Sara DeVore :Mike O'Brien Nathaniel Yanchak Thomas Economon Rachel Paietta Kyoko Yoshida Johnelle Halteman Marissa Pitterle 

GENERAL SESSION -ARCHITECTURE, ARTS & LETTERS, BUSINESS, PREPROFESSIONAL STUDIES-DEBARTOLO HALL 
Alkeyna Aldridge 
Jack Galagan Audrey Marier ' Caity Schneeman Gerald Andriole 
Barbara Galle Anne Martell Brett Shannon Joanna Batt 
Matthew Gibson Brad Mattan MaryCatherine Sontag Mark Bennett Jamie Grebowski Megan McCullough Laura Souchik Kaitlyn Benoit Kelly Gronli Lauren MeDtmough Paul Spadafora Amanda Bode Laura Hansen Gavin McDowell Georgia Leigh Steenberge Maggie Bolotin 
Andrea Hanson Meagan McGinley RikSan Stephens Marie Brenner 
Katie Harris Casey McGushin Samuel Stoner Elizabeth Brown Andrew Hayes Keri Mikuska Kyle Strickland Tamara Buretz John Hennessey Shannon Mimnaugh Miquela Suazo Katherine Buza Sean Hoskins Ryan Mingo Molly Sullivan Michelle Byrne 
Nicholas Houpt Hugh Monahan Reza Sultan Monique Caron 
Jennifer Huber Stuart Mora Angela Theis Allison Clements 
Sarah Htmger Courtenay Moran Patrick Tighe Emily Cooperstein 
Laura Meier Hunt Jessica Morton Peter Van 
Bob Costa Maria Iuppa Grace Myers Elizabeth Venditto Matthew Couture Paul Jindra Jessica Nelson Amy Vereecke Scott Deeney Juliet Joly Madeline Nies Caroline Wenzke Andrea Dreyfuss Kathryn Keegan Erica Pedroza Ashley Williams Greg Engle Conor Kelly Mike Popejoy Melissa Yuen David Fairburn 
Andrea Kochert Taylor Poulin Mary Feighery 
Julian Lagoy Frank Ragukonis 
Brigid Fenlon 
Jad<i Larson Kaitlin Ramsey 
Ellen Fitzsimmons 
Chad Lavimonier Tim Reidy Stephanie Florey 
Claire Law less Jacob Richardville JenniFong 
Lourdes Long Erin Rogozinski 
Bonnie Fullard . 
Rachael Maricich Katherine Schilling 
Close the Undergraduate Scholars Conference with Team Piratechnics: Wireless Fireworks Ignition Senior Design Project, Dept. of Electrical Engineering 9 p.m., White Fields (east of Juniper Rd., north of D2 North Parking Lot) 
Mike Clarke, Brendan Hennessy, Evan Lintz, and Kevin Payne 
l
I 

Wednesday, April 20, 2008 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 

MEN'S TENNIS 
ND starts tournament with East Tennessee St. 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
No. 26 Notre Dame will travel 
to Columbus, Ohio this weekend 
to face East Tennessee State in 
the opening rounds of the NCAA 
Tournament. 
"They are 23-3 with their only 
losses coming to No. 4 Georgia, 
No. 7 Tennessee, and No. 28 
Wake Forest," coach Bobby 
Bayliss said. "Their roster is pri­
marily composed of international 
players." 
If the Irish win in the first round they have a tough bracket ahead of them. Their second round opponent could be No. 2 seed Ohio State. 
"We hope we can advance as far as our talent will take us," Bayliss said. "We have the feeling that we have seen the some of the best teams in the country and that will help us in the tourna­ment." 
Bayliss noted that the Irish have faced six of the top eight teams in the nation throughout this season and have taken a lot of body blows for the tough schedule despite their No. 26 ranking. 
This past weekend the Irish travelled to No. 13 Florida State and won a tight 4-3 match. The Irish took an early 3-1 lead before the Seminoles came back to knot the match at 3-3. 
For the second time in a week the match was to be decided at the No. 6 singles position, fresh­man Dan Stahl. 
"Dan did a fantastic job of stay­ing aggressive off of the ground once he broke serve early in the third set," Bayliss said. "There is a natural tendency to become more conservative in that posi­tion. Dan continued to play up in the court and go for his shots. He has demonstrated this ability on a consistent basis this season." 
Also coming up with another big win for the Irish in doubles were senior Andrew Roth and junior Santiago Montoya. The team is currently 8-4 since being put together as the No. 2 doubles pair behind senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson. 
Do you want to boost your resume with some marketable skills? 
The Computer Applications Program (CAPP) 
\Vww.nd.edu/~capp 


"They have learned to antici­pate each other's movements," Bayliss said. "Their chemistry has continued to develop as the year has progressed to the point where each feels the other has his back." 
The Irish have not played a match since last Saturday against the Seminoles. The Irish had to start their season a week later than normal again this year in order to accommodate the the NCAAs regulations for length of season in order to fit in the last match between the Big East Tournament and the NCAAs. 
For the second straight year the Irish captured the Big East cham­pionship, coming up with big wins in each of the three rounds including a 4-3 win over South Florida in the championship match. 
"We are trying to schedule practices at times allowing us to be outdoors and in the heat whenever possible," Bayliss said. "Additionally we will try to con­tinue the improvement of our doubles and on other individual areas of concern." 
The Irish will look to continue their already great season with a deep run into the NCAA Tournament this weekend in Columbus. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

Irish send 22 to Big East 
Athletes head to Philadelphia trying to repeat as conference champs 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
This weekend, Notre Dame will begin possibly its biggest meet of the season when it heads to the Big East outdoor championships May 2-5 in Philadelphia, Penn. 
The Irish will send 22 ath­letes to the competition and will need each of them to have strong performances in order for Notre Dame to have a chance at claiming a top finish. 
"I am not sure that we have the experience or the depth to win the meet this year -as we did last year -but we have the potential to finish in the top three if we perform exception­ally well," said Irish coach Tim Connelly. "For us to have a chance for a strong team finish, all of our 22 athletes will need to score points, as we have very little margin for error." 
Following the Big East meet, those athletes who have quali­fied for the NCAA regional meet will travel to Fayetteville, Ark., to compete for a chance to par­ticipate in the NCAA national championship meet in Des Moines, lA. Up to this point, the Irish have nine athletes and a relay team qualified for the regional meet. .. . 
One of those athletes, multi-
P .. ope..ty fo.. Reat 


2008-2009 School Yea.. 

ll'lsh c..osslag 
Townhome 
4Bedrooms 3 and 1/2 Bathrooms 1 Block from Campus 
Call: Jack Pryor Cell: 214·957·3278 Home: 972-624-5007 

Department of Irish Language & Literature 
Fall2008 Course Offerings 

IRLL 30107 
IRLL30l08 
IRLL 30307 
IRLL 40304 
IRLL 60203 
IRLL60305 
IRLL 10101:01 IRLL 10101:02 fRLL 10101:03 lRLL 10101:04 IRLL 10102:01 IRLL 10102:02 TRLL 20103:01 IRLL 20103:02 IRLL 20203:01 IRLL6010l:01 IRLL 60101:02 IRLL 60!02:01 lRLL 60102:02 IRLL 60103·01 IRLL 60103:02 IRLL 60203:01 
Literature Courses 
Tlte Hitltlen Irelllnd 
2d11 Century lri.~h Uteu1ture 
The lri.~h Tradition I 
Poetry ami Politic:; in Ireland 
Scottish f.Paelit• 
Cla.'iaici nil (;lleilge 
Language Courses 
Beginning lri,~h 1 
Beginning Irish I 
Beginning Jnsh I 
Bexinninx./rish I 
Beginning Irish 11 
Beginning lmh li 
lntfrmediate Irish 
lmermediute Irish 
A<f,•anced R(·ading.s in Irish CuJture &~in11ing lmh I B1·ginning Jmh I lleginning Irish Languag<' II Beginning Irish Language 11 
lnterme.Jiau· fri.sh 
Imamt·dtate /r~sh 
Adwmeed Readings in /ri.sh Culture 
Prof Peter McQuillan (TR 12 30-145) Prof Sarah McKibben (MW II :45·1 00) Prof Hugh Fogany (TR 3:30-4:45) Prof Breandan 6 Buachalla (TR 2 00-3:1 S) Prof. Peter McQuillan (TR 2:00-3:15) Prof Breandan 0 Buachalla (W 6:00-9:00) 
Stuff!rBA Prof. Tara Ma.:Lox>d S1allHBA Pro!. Mum:ann Ni Bhca~laotch Pn>f. Ciara Conned) Prof. Tara Ma.:Le<.>d Prof Brian () Conchuhhmr Prof. Sarah MacKibb<.-n Pmf Brian!) Colichubhi1ir Stal'ffi."BA Prof furu MacL(.'O<i Prof Ciara Cmmt.-.:1~· Pn>f T ara·MncLcnJ Prof Briilll 0 Con.;hubhan­PrQf. Sarah Ma.;Kibkn Prof Hnan () ConchuNmr 

event star junior Alyissa Hasan, will not have to participate in the regional meet because she has automatically qualified for the national meet in the hep­tathlon. 
Hasan has had a record­breaking year for the Irish set­ting both school and personal records in the heptathlon event with 5,509 points. 
"She is someone whom we have really relied upon this year because she can help us in so many events," Connelly said. "It is great to see her putting things together and having so much success." 
Hasan garnered All-American honors during the NCAA indoor championships earlier this year with her performance in the decathlon. 
Irish runners who have quali­fied for the NCAA regional meet and will be counted on to lead the team at the Big East meet include senior Brienne Davis, sophomores Lindsey Ferguson and Joanna Schultz, and fresh­men Natalie Johnson and Kelly Langhans. Each of these ath­letes has earned top spots at nearly every meet this season in their respective events. 
The Irish have also dominat­ed the throws events in most of the meets this season. Junior Anna Weber and Sophomore Jaclyn Espinoza have led the Irish this year with their per­formances the shot put (Weber), hammer throw (Weber) and discus {Espinoza). 
The athletes who finish in the top five in the regional meet will advance to the national meet and fight for All-American honors. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 



The Dome 
yearbook 
is seeking 


Writers & Photographers 
dome@nd.edu 

r 
l1 
----.-----==­

~~ 
\ 

\ 
\ 
I 
.,} 
~? 

(~
<( 
~~ 
I 
i: II ( 
f 
? 
( 
('' 
{~ 
~( 
( I 
i 
{ 
( 
l 
f' 
I 
) 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~== 
MEN'S TRACK 



Notre Dame ready for conference championships 
With close competitions from formances next year. Along with the distance run­By EUGENIA ALFONSO Louisville, University of "I think it's because we have a ners, sophomore Balasz Molnar,
Sports Writer 

Connecticut and great group of senior Austin Wechter have qual­Georgetown, Notre athletes," ified and earned the No. 7 seed The time for the Notre Dame Dame still remains Benniger said. for the 400-meter and 400-meter 
"lt·s going to be

men's track team has come. in close contention "With guys like intermediate hurdles, respective­
The Big East Conference for the champi­tough to be beat . ., that running, not ly. Championship approaches this onship. many teams out For field events, the consistent weekend with much promise for The success of there can put Irish throwers have qualified five
Kurt Benninger

great performances from all Notre Dame's dis­together a team for the hammer throw, discus
Irish senior 
NBA 

Upstart Hawks grow up in series with Celtics 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA-After pulling up at Philips Arena in his white Hummer H2, Mike Bibby strolled past an admiring secu­rity guard, who wished him luck through the rest of the playoffs. 
"We're not supposed to talk to the players," she said as the Hawks point guard turned the corner, "but I can't help myself." 
The lovefest is occurring all over Atlanta. Talk radio sta­tions were flooded with calls about the city's long-ignored NBA team. Cars cruised along downtown streets with Hawks flags flapping from their win­dows. 
Who knew they even made those? 
"It's long overdue, having playoff basketball here in Atlanta," coach Mike Woodson said Tuesday before boarding a flight to Boston for the next game in a series that was sup­posed to be over. "Now, they're seeing it at its best. We're the underdogs, but we're compet­ing with a great team." 
The Hawks aren't just com­peting. They're all tied up in the best-of-seven series with a team that had the NBA's best record, a team that finished 29 games ahead of Atlanta during the regular season. 
It's as if the Hawks grew up right before everyone's eyes, though this has been a moment nine years in the making. 
"We knew this day was going to come eventually," forward Josh Smith said. "It's just good for the city of Atlanta to have a winning team. They've been crying out for a winning team for years. I think we can be that team on a year-to-year basis, making some noise in the playoffs." 
The Hawks are certainly making noise this year after slipping into the playoffs with a 37-45 record. The 66-win Celtics were supposed to make short work of this series, espe­cially when they won the first two games at home by an aver­age of 21 points. But Atlanta rebounded with a pair of victo­ries before packed houses at Philips Arena. 
Sellout crowds. Playoff wins. The top sports story all over the country. 
Can this possibly be the Hawks? "It's great for us to finally get a chance to play on national 
television, get a chance to real­ly do something special," said Joe Johnson, who took the team on his back in Game 4, scoring 20 of his 35 points in the fourth quarter. "We've just got to validate these wins by staying humble, staying confi­dent and working hard." 
The Hawks were a perennial playoff team through most of the 1990s with a lineup that featured Steve Smith, Mookie Blaylock· and Dikembe Mutombo. But they feJJ off the map after an ill-advised attempt to reshape the roster with younger, quicker players. 
Eventually, the Hawks had little choice except to go back to square one. Players with any value were traded away. The team put most of its focus on the draft, a tedious process that resulted in the worst season in franchise history, a 13-69 debacle four years ago. 
With a few missteps along the way (drafting Shelden Williams at No. 5 overall, passing on Chris Paul), the Hawks assem­bled four of their top six play­ers: starters Josh Smith, Marvin Williams and AI Hurford, along with super sub Josh Childress. 
Childress is the oldest of the bunch, all of 24. 

like that. When throw and shot put. Sophomore you can put a Eric Quick has qualified for both distance group the triple and long jump while together like that, it's going to be junior Blair Macjina and fresh­tough to beat." man Justin Schneider are seeded 
sixth in the high jump. Sophomore Matt Schipper and junior Brian Mahon are also seeded second and eighth respectively for pole vault. 
The 2008 BIG EAST Outdoor Track & Field Championships at Jumbo Elliott Track in Villanova, Pa. will start Friday with Notre Dame's No. 1 seed Justin Schneider in the men's decathlon 100m at 11:00 a.m. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonso at ealfonso@nd.edu 
~ 

events. With 50 Big East quali­fiers and 17 NCAA Provisional qualifications, the Irish team is looking strong as they make their way to finish in 2007-08 season. 
tance relay of sen­iors Kurt Benninger, Jake Watson, juniors Patrick Smyth and Dan Clark has set the bar high for great per­


~ ,\ ' l 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Friday, May 2 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo.
' . 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured 
lunch will be served 

Conte honte to 

Wclcotnc t.o River Bend -a place \vhere healthy, active lifestylesthe.NEW. and harmony with nature cotnbine to create the horne you've 


always dreamed of. In this exclusive, gated conununity, you'll enjoy your own secluded spot in rhe woods, yet have easy access to cultural events, educational opportunities~ and son1c of the finest shopping and dining in l\Iichiana -all iust rninutes from your doorstep. 
RIVER BEND OFFERS: 
---·  Secure living within a natural environtnent.  
- A sustainable, green approach to development~-including  
low --density housing to protect the mature forestation, and  
restrictions against the use of toxic chem.icals and pesticides.  

tm!y uniqHe proper()'· L.1xated i11 

on the St. Jost~ph Rivt~L 
]'\j/le.!, within 15 !Jlimtte.r r?li\/otre 

Idyllic private estates, 22lots ranging in size from 2.5 to 8.5
Dame and Unirent(Y Park: Aia/1. 

acres with 8 River frontaQ"e lots available. 
' (_:1 :
.....,.............................................." ........."•······· .............................,./ 

Call today to learn n1.ore: 574-2S5-2914 or 269-687-7343 For lot plans and other details, visit '"'""~v.NaturalLivingatRiverBend.cotn 
River Bend. Dcl;igncd nrith Nature. 
Natur~d hiking trails f(:)t your active life. I\Ica.ndet through the woods and over rol1ing terrain to find yourself on the banks of the beautiful St. Joseph River. Cornmunity boat dock, so you and your fan1ily can enjoy ritne 
-
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

wsts. \vc also btitcvc t.hal Clnuon ts the best. d101ce for attending to tmJCS ofspoci.(!!JmtXJr1ancc to \VOUlCil 
\\'e \\Titc to you now because it':s time for feminists to say tb.11 St~nator Ohluna has no monopoly on inspimtlott We arc among the millions of\\ottk."tl m«J men who have: lx.'-..,1 UlO\·cd to action by her~ Si:x months ago, some ofus were cOt:nntitted 10 her euldidaC)~ sonte ofus \\ert."tt't. but by n<m' \vC aU find ourselves passiOtl:ttely supporting lk."r, Brains.. grtJ(:C under pn.~rc, ideas. •md the skiU to nttke them real: we call that inspiring. TIK" restoration ofgood go\cmil'M.'1It after eight yeal$ ofdcvasJation. a dett~lt foreign policy Y<ith tit'S to \\orld leaders n.-puircd. withdrawal from Jn1q and unino.'f'Sal health care: we can that exciting, And 1hc fC(:.ord to prove thai she am and win stmd up to the swift*b<xning 1ha1 \vill come any r:x~nocratk nomitK.-c's way: we c.aU that absolutdv rk.'(es&1rv.
.-, N .;, 

Clill10ll•s enormous contributions as &~t.1tor. public servant. S4mk.cspcrson fUr better fiunily JXJlicics. and the needs ofhard-pn."S.-;od wonren and chi!d.n.'lt are widely ktiD\\11 and rct~J.nited ·* even by h\., opponent Her po\vcrfut in!if>iring advoca(;:)' ofthe hutnnn rights ofwomen m the Fourth World CmtfetentX: on Women in lk~iil1g in I'Jt:J5 was hcrakk"'d around the \vorld as a stunning departure lft::mt the norntal<utcd}·llt role ofFirst Lady. Corporate S.JX"CiaJ imen.~ts tmuttf;"Cd to defeat the health care program she advocated in I994, and lK."r owti leadership QJX'1ted the pku110 attack. Btu she kt"Pl on .Hgbting.. ack:tw\.vkxtging tlt...,-ntrstak'-'5. and in ensuing years she succ~.;.'\.--dcd in \viuuiug cxp;;mdcd co'vcntgc fQr d1iklrcu. No'" she has cr.t.tlcd the only ~"ftsit>~ and truly ttniVCI'$:'kl health (';lfC pr~ll before the vo«CJS, 
On the Iraq ''mr~ tnany ofus believe she made a Ut.I:Jot mistake in voting for Joint Resolution 114 in 2002 -along with the 28 other Dcmocratk S<l"fttlors, including John Em'ards and Jclm Kc.n:y. But \VC alStllK'»C th;n t~Cr current Oppoi'}I..''Ut. when asked aoou1 lhm n..."SSlution in 2004. fi.."SflOlldi..'tl rhal. he did not know how he would ha·vc voted had he tx."Cn in Congrcs... tl:tett \Vc do not krrow Citll!..''C But we do klw:)w thz•t :it the time. his ~JSition to 1he war earned no risks and irl<k"Cd. promiS(.'rl to pay big divi«.'1lds in his hbc~d O.,~tlOCrutic district Nmv, the t\\'O cmdidatcs h:I\'C virtu:dly !he same plan fbr withdrawal from lr..tt.l, And on the crith..-..aL bn.1adcr issues of fon.~gn policy, we believe that Senator Clinton is fhr more consistent. knowledgeable., mcd."S1. and realistic -stressing inh.•'>i·asc diplonta~y on aU qucs.tions and n..1>airing our tics with world k."aders. 
We arc ket."flly aware that much is at stake-tll.'lt just on tt\Uional and intcm1tict~tl S«tuil.y. but on the C\::QilOJlly, tntin.~ll hcaJd• care.. the cnvironntetn. mld UlCrc. Our OOttntry· needs a president who knows the members and workings ofCongress. und has a proven ra'tlfd on Capitot HiU ofpct"S.U.:1ding S)''lnpathizers. brin~ along fcnce-.sinm. and diS4111ning opporu."tll~ TilCrc is an ifOily in ll!Zf opponent's claim to be able 10 dnm' in I«"Publkans. while dismissing her proven record ofwoddng \vith them as a legislator. We 11CC'd a prcsklcnt who understands how wmake ch~mb"CS ~ll. from small thint;s like the pr¢dt1tory sruckJulomt industry to laq;c things like the Middle East. Hilbuy Clinton JJaS dte cxpcrletw:c, koowkdge ;utd wisdom lC deal wldt this w1dc r.t11ge ofissut.--s. 
OurcOtmuy also txx'ds a pn."'Sidcnt who bas a thorough mttStcry or~~details" -}'\.'$, details-aJtcreight years ofBush aud Otcoey. Thejob ofn.."Storing good govemrnent is ovc.f\vhcbning. ;uld wtu fl.."Qti.ln: more tb~;,• •tinspinttion~ Jo ac(t)lnplish it We lxlicvc that the fcdend Ett~cncy Managar~."'nt Ag~:y~ the Justice lA."ParttnCnt. the food and Drug Adrninistrnlm the Ccmcrs forD~ ControL the Environmental Protection AgcB..-y. and many more can be restored to fidl and ctfectivc functioning only by a president wbo unck'"I'Stands thcir SC(JPC, A.--gulatiotlS, JXf'SOntlCI. problems and hislory. Knowing these '*details,. and acting ou them are essential to tx..,Pn the llc'Jliug and rccupcr.:nion oftbe rountry:. 
How nlmay ofus have beard brilliant ruld rc.sourttfitl wocucn in the w1.'J!'kpl<tc~ dismissed or <K.~valuoo for ~dctlil~uation~ in contraSt to a nlim~s supposed "big pieture!'t st'·op,f? How Jnany ofus lkt\\! seen wtuu, in a cnan. woukt be caUcd "p<:!l"ficss nmstct)~.. get called. in a \\Otnants c.tse...ttll'm\\'tlCSS"li<? How many \\urncn huve we kno\\11-tmly gifted \VMCfS. professionals, and administrntoo -who have been critkited ibf thcir TCSCfVC ;u.d dt)WtHo-c:lrth way ofsp."aking'! \\'bose commandin~ style. seriousness., and £,Jt;."l-t<)o'WOrk style are ":riticvcd as ..cold~ ;md insutlkicndy ''lli;abic'../ TIJeSC ~udk.~ have btct1 sc•uld;dously present in this eatnpaigtt 
\Vnh all this in mind. we believe that Hillary C1imon is the lx."St candidnc for presldcm, because she is the:surest to n.,llOvc the \\TCCb.-,gc and SCQtre the finurc., Politics is IK.lt rnagic. Hil~ laryClimon ~ti president promis..."S \\imt t.'O'emmcnt ai its best can truly olft'f: wise dl.."tision-making and lasting chmtgc. 
~{~l)q&:r,'*l'!~ ~~yv~cr/~/&~~-. . .. . . 
(1ln5ltnc Sfaf)SC:ll, Dtstittgmslu.'d SCrncc ProfCSsor of 1-hstory. Utuvcrsuy ol. (~e,o fi,Jarh,t Slone. ~fcs.sor oJ l hstory. Occidental C.Ql~c£: . ,. . . 
Carol Bt-rkitt Presidential Professor of History~ S.uucb College & 11le Grnduatc Center~ CUNY C~u:'e tvlcuket~M?tdow. A B. O~tk ?r. Prufcs..wr ot Ut\\'. Dispute Rcsotuuon and 
Jean Baker. Professor ofHistory, Goucher College . . . Ovd Proo...--durc. ~etown Um~vCJSitylaw Cent~ • , . . ..•.. 
Sonya Mic~i. Professor ofHistory~ University ofMaryland CoUq,-c .P'.uk J~Kiy lA.'11X.'1'. lmcm:nroual Cm,nn:nuoe of Pea'-~ A't~1~ at tl'e.. tmn~ Nau~~ .
t .. 

Gforia Stcincm. \\Titer. New York City <:m1~1 Delgado \btaw~ President P'&n Amcncan Luuson (<Mtmutto: of \\umcn s ~-
Hck.~ Tilley. A:ssistutt Professor~ HistoryDcpurtmcnt and African Studit"'S, Princctoo nvauoatS...Bethesda. MD . .. .... .. . , . . ... . • . . . . . , " . , 
~Jarjoric J. Spntitl, ProfC$01' ofHistmy,.lhc Univmity ofSouth Carolina Bamlm,Gershcn, Progrctm tn ~t~ Study of \\omen and. (Jet~. ~ne\..'100 !->mvemty 
Karen Offen. historian. Stanford Univcrsit}~ CA Jean Shmoda Bolen. M.D.•,Chmca.l pr?f~ ofpsy~lru1lr): UC;San Fra~~:saJ 
&.•th Hohtlg«.'1l, Prof'-'""SSOr, Duke University ~nne .~'}'11 ~ones. \\1ud~rd Drsongmshcd Professor tn the HuntmtUC$. East 
Carol)-1ll Brown. Univmily nfNorth Carolbtt...C1&apel HiH School ofMedicine (arolma ~nwcrstty . . , , . . .. . . , 
Margaret McKean, Associate Profcsw ofl:totitical Science. Duke Unh'crsity Dr. Ma~m:Syt;n~JU. Professor.ofH;lst~' ~nk~ta. Univ:rs~t}~ ~~ ~th Carohna 
Rabbi Lcila(i'.tllk"nlCt Dt."Pt ofRdigion. Goorgc Washington University Dr. Ju~uh S; \\'Cl~ IA':{)t ?fB~og~ Sci~c~. ~ulg~ Ufl!\CtSilY , 
Paola Duss.ias. Ocpart•ncut ofSp;Utish.llalian. Pcnnsylv:.mia-Slate University C)~tdua Boitt~. ~;..-cturer tn Womens Studlc."S,Llli\UStty~fS?uth O~!•Jttt . 
~.fichdc Wallace • Profcs.r.;m· ofEn~lish~ \\brncn's Studies and Film Studies. C1.J~"Y Alida Black Editor~ Eleanor Roosevelt Pa~ C'Jt'Ofgc \\~tshttJ!,l!on \Ann:rslly 
Stephanie A Shields. Professor or''r•sychorogy & \\btllCOtS Studies, Smxim ~ VanBurkk'?, Assoc. Prof.oflfi~tory~ Adj~1ct~f. ~fLaw. \Va)~ State 
111e Pcnnsvlvnnia Stale lJniv~f\' lauren Sklamtr. As.ssstam Professor ofHtstory. Un1vmttyofSotuJt Carobtlil 
Janct Holnt,g.n..~t. Prcsidcm~ Mills C'ollcgc Greta Krippucr. Assistant Professor ofSociology at 1h~ Un~'CfSity of Micbi~m 
IA."bor£1 Nclsot1. Director~ Center for Gender Studies. University ofChicago ~n Del~ R~..Prof~ ofLaw: Gmrgero'~l? Um~'CrStty. .. .. . 
1\.'g Yoakin, Cbatt'~ Feminist Majority Founditdon. Bcvdly Hills. CA lois ~tKhuck, Chatr* A~t\Cflam"Snailics ~,. Unn·m!ty ofMnss~~;husetts<. ~"'!l 
Heidi Hartna.11nt President Institute for \\Uincn's Potk:v RCSC".:~rdl Wasbinmon. [)(~ Cynthm Burnck. A.GSOCtalc Protessor of\Vomen's StudK.."S. Tite Oh.10 State Umvcrs.tty 
Cadx:rinc Stimpson. Profcs..w~ Nc\v York Univmity • ... Gl~1 l\fathcws. Visiting SdM)Iar, SWr Ki~ School f« the Ministt}'. Beik~cy. CA 
Judith B. \\~~ formc..'fProvost and Professor ofLitemture.llw: New School, New Yock City Marim~ne C. FallS, ~f~ofUrtxutPubiK: Hc-.~ldt. J~umcr Col"",;c. Clff\~' 
l\~1 Ouladt\'. Socidv ofFellows, PrincdOtl Uuivcrsitv Anne K. >.·fcllor. t>isttugmshcd Professor ofEnglish. UCLA 
Eliot Olcslcr. Director~ Elcanc.." Roosevelt Initiative. Hurtttt Collq.tC, CUNY . . faith Ringgold. anist and flr?f~ Emeritus ofArt U~ San_Diego ., . , 
BkuKhc \Viesctt Cook. ProfCSS4Y ofHistory. John Jay Collcb:te and Graduate Ccmcr"CUNY Kadlr).·n Yandell:Professor En~.,~~ Texas L_utt..--ran Un!'~n~. Scgmn. TX 
Alice Echols. As.~iate .Professor. Unh'crsily of Southern Califomia.fkpartmcnt ofEnglish J~tc Gurko, ~tcssor of~ngbsh.. San fr&lcasco State t:n•,~•ty 
Kristen Titn(l(by Lankcstcr. former Unht."d Nations CX1)Uty Om'tor for Women's RightS \~·e~1dy \V. \Villuuns, ~lessor o~u1w~ C~~\~1l Un~\'erst!Y Ut'!' ~cnt~-r 
Cynthia Harrison. Associate Prof\.-s...<;or of History. \\bllK.'11's Studk.-s. and Public Esther ~othbhmt. Profcss.or ~f \\un~t s.Sntdies. ~~;'11 £?itl..tO Sttte l:mversny 
Policy. Titc George Washington lJnhtnity ln.':llC Ttnkcr. Pro~"SS<lf Eltk.~tt. Umvm.:tty ofCahlonua Berkeley 
For complete list ofsignatorcs please visit hnp.://ww·w.huftint,'lonpostcom/cbri~1in<....stansc1Vt(."'ninists·f<,.v-cl.intl\11_h_R6929.html l'aid tor b..vUnilt..YSity Friends toc llilllJI'y 
.> 
., 

-------. 
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 30, 2008 



.l ~ 
~· ~ ~· 
< 
(", \ 
~ \ l ~ ; 
'• 
HF
~I '~ ~ 
! 


i'
{; 
l ~~ 
((. 
w 
' ( t·~
' < 


: F ( 
< 
' ( ' 
, r(: 
·(?<'
({I 
1(' 
'(I 
'l ' r, ' (' 
~! 
( 
: > ' i
I? :' ~(' 
' 
( 
I
i
' . 
H: 
: l 'i I 
I I I· I 
Learn about summer internship opportunities. 
Firmwide Information Session 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
6:00 pm -7:30 pm The Morris Inn 
Application deadline: Wednesday, January 30, 2008 Apply online at gs.com/careers. Contact your career center for further details. 
©Goleman. Sachs & Co. 2008. Ail r>ghts reserved. Goldrr:a"l Sachs is arc equa: opportunity employer 


Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 

LPGA TouR 
now taking reservations for 2009-201.0 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish Crossings Townhornes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east of the NO athletic fields, off Willis Street, these four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, including a 42" flat panel HDTV. 
G2ared for today's college student, and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 


Strict covenants enforced. 

lease today and move into your brand new townhome for Fall Semester 1008. Call Diane at 574.161..B38 or email us at diaoe@irishcrossings_com. 

Lorena Ochoa looks to Alarcon for guidance 
Associated Press 
GUADALAJARA, Mexico ­
The house where Lorena Ochoa 
grew up overlooks the swimming 
pool at Guadalajara Country 
Club, a playground paradise for 
a tiny, wiry girl with big dreams. 
She would scamper to the tops of magnolia and ceiba trees that crowd the golf course. She would swim and play tennis and hold putting contests for a peso until it was too dark to see the hole. 
"Lorena liked to play fantasy games -hit it over the tree. between the branches, over the rocks," said Shanti Granada, who began playing golf with Ochoa at age 7. "She always stayed to hit practice shots, always with an extra imagina­tion to make practice fun." 
From these beginnings rose the best female golfer in the world. 
Ochoa, 26, already has met the performance criteria for the Hall of Fame. She has won five times in six LPGA Tour events this year, crushing the competition by a combined 37 shots, and this week in Oklahoma she will try to win her fifth straight tournament and tie a record held by Annika Sorenstam and Nancy Lopez. 
A month later, she will be a heavy favorite to capture her third straight major. 
Heady stuff for a kid from a soccer-loving country where there are fewer than 300 golf courses. Rafael Alarcon, though, might have seen this coming. 
Ochoa was drawn to Alarcon, a loeal PGA golfer, when she was about 8. She would stand behind him as he hit balls, peppering him with questions and following 
him around the course, until he 
one day invited her to play. 
As the trophies piled up ­
Ochoa won her age division at 
the Junior World Championships 
five years in a row -Alarcon 
asked her once on the practice 
green why she wanted to know 
so much about the game. 
"I want to learn to beat you," 
he recalls her telling him. "I 
know if I beat you, I can be the 
best player in the world." 
The day before she left Mexico for the University of Arizona. she did just that, by two strokes on the back nine. 
Now in her sixth full season on ­the LPGA Tour, there appears to be no stopping her. 
"Lorena is an amazing golfer and an even more impressive person," said Lopez, whom Ochoa considers a role model. "She has become a true super­star ... so well liked on the tour and so successful at the same time." 
This is the essence of Ochoa. She has risen to the top of a sport still dominated by the wealthy in her native Mexico, where green fees often cost five times the average daily wage. Yet she is loyal to the working class who care for the golf course and to impoverished chil­dren who have never seen the game played. 
"She has always been sincere and friendly," said Francisco Javier Lopez, who has worked on the Guadalajara golf course for 18 years. "Now that she's winning and winning, she's just the same as before, very hum­ble." 
... 
-· 


~--------------~-------­

r 
rt
,, 
·,\ 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
\\ \\ \) 
:\ 
~i, 
'\ Rutgers 
"Oh, well" reaction to the recent events and Mulcahy has been noticeably muted in his response. 
UConn series nearly set 
For the past month, Connecticut has been wrestling with a similar question in regard to Notre Dame. 
Several lawmakers there complained that the Huskies were set to agree to a 10-year series with Notre Dame in which no games would be played within the home state of the publicly-funded university. Taxpayers footed the bilJ for Connecticut's five-year-old, $91 million Rentschler Field, and politicians agreed to a compro­mise of a six-year series after Huskies coach Randy Edsall argued it would help generate interest in his team, even if the Connecticut "home" games were away from campus. 
The result was an agreement, yet to be signed in a finalized contract, that the two teams would play a total of six games between 2011 and 2017, three at Notre Dame and the other three being "home" games for the Huskies either at the Meadowlands or at Gillette Stadium. 
Still committed to conference 
Even if other teams were to decline Notre Dame's request for games in the Meadowlands, Notre Dame is unlikely to rescind its commitment to play three Big East teams annually, Heisler said. 
Notre Dame's teams are members of the Big East in most sports except for football, in which is an independent. 
When asked if Notre Dame is focusing its scheduling efforts on more common past oppo­nents in the league (like Pittsburgh) or Big East teams with fewer past games against the Irish (like West Virginia}. Heisler reiterated that Notre Dame has had discussions with all eight Big East football teams. 
"We've had some sort of con­versation with everybody in the Big East," he said. 
A logical, possible choice for an opponent would be Syracuse, which has a large fol­lowing in the New York City area. Notre Dame has played Syracuse five times, including once in 1963 at Yankee Stadium. The Irish and the Orange played in 2003 and 2005. They will meet again in the upcoming season. 
Other possibilities 
Heisler said that, among a wide array of requests for games, teams from outside the Big East and the Northeast have tried to open discussions about playing a neutral-site game in New York. 
Heisler said there were no major factors barring that the Meadowlands from hosting a game between Notre Dame and an elite opponent -similar to the way Madison Square Garden hosts major college bas­ketball match ups of teams from around the country -though he did not indicate that such a possibility was particularly close to fruition. 
New York tradition 
The New York market has a large contingent of Notre Dame fans and has long been a target "barnstorming" site for Notre Dame. It's also been a kind location for Notre Dame: The Irish are 30-6-3 all-time in the New York City metropolitan area. ­
Notre Dame has won all11 of its games at Giants Stadium since 1977, and the Irish went 15-6-3 at games in Yankee Stadium from 192 5-1969, according to George Macor's Notre Dame football database. The Irish also won games at New York's Polo Grounds in 1921 and 1924, beat Army at Ebbets Field in 1923 and topped the Black Knights at Shea Stadium in 1965. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
GWLL 
continued from page 28 

because of tiebreakers. Bellarmine and Air Force were the only two GWLL teams to fall short of making the tourna­ment. 
"Offensively I thought we were pretty balanced [against Ohio State] and we did a nice job of continuing to attack. Early in the game offensively we were a little anxious and too aggressive," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "When we set­tled down we shared the ball and shot well and kept the pressure on their goalie. He had a pretty good day, but we still were able to score the goals." 
Wednesday, April 30, 2008 

The win also extended Notre Dame's program-record home win streak to 18 games and improved the team's overall record to 11-2. Senior midfield­er Michael Podgajny and sopho­more midfielder Grant Krebs each earned hat-tricks to lead the Irish offense, while senior goaltender Joey Kemp recorded 12 saves on the day's play. 
"We didn't play particularly good defense early on, but sec­ond half we did pretty well by giving them the shots we want­
ed  to  give  them.  Ross  
Zimmerman  and  Sean  
Dougherty  did  a  great job  

defending their two best offen­sive players," Corrigan said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

(•:
·' 
ll 
i t 
·~ 
\1, 
·~ 
\ 
.) 
.., 
1 
) 
·~ 
;~ 
·'' 
:~ 
\~ '~ 
·~) 
·~ 
l~ 
·~
·',I 
,., ,·\ 
.~
.\\ 
:~ 
.':-..., 
·~ 
,, 
: I 
I) 
:~ :~ 

continued from page 28 
All these conversations are open ended with the Big East," he said. "We propose things they can propose things back. ... We're not asking people to make a lifetime commitment." 
The loudest criticisms, which have been voiced by people out­side the Rutgers athletic depart­ment, bemoan Notre Dame's supposed bully tactics. Araton argued that, "as soon as Mulcahy asked for a competi­tive campus edge every other season, a true partnership, Notre Dame went looking to leverage someone else." 
The view that Notre Dame feels it is "too sainted to play in your conference, too special to step into your house if it does not meet our dimensional speci­fications," as Araton said, ignores at least part of the his­tory of this series possibly beginning. 
About three years ago, White agreed to the Big East's request to play three conference schools a year because three of the league's strongest football schools -Boston College, Miami and Virginia Tech -. left for the Atlantic Coast Conference. White has insinuat­ed several times that the Big East asked Notre Dame for the commitment in an effort to sta­bilize the conference at a time when a further fracturing of the league -if not wholesale col­lapse -seemed possible. And when White first unveiled that plan, in May 2006, he men­tioned hopes to play several of the Big East games at the Meadowlands. 
Thus, it seems the case of Rutgers and Notre Dame is two schools trying to reconcile their own needs· within the con­straints of prior commitments but failing to do so -and not a malicious power-grab by White and Heisler. That would explain why Notre Dame has had an Pollock scored on a double by second baseman Jeremy
Devils 
Barnes with two outs. The Irish threatened to score
continued from page 28 
more, but left fielder Ross fifth, getting infield singles Brezovsky struck out to end from left fielder Brandon the inning with runners on 
Dotson and third baseman Jeff Squier. The runners advanced to second and 
?.f ., third with two outs, but catch­er Cody Pride hit a dribbler in front of the plate and was thrown out to end the threat. The Delta Devils threat-
second and third. 

..rve been working 
Notre Dame with the coaches on put two run­ners on with
keeping the ball low. 
one out in the

Hitters usually get 
bottom half of themselves out. The that inning, and slugger
pressure is on them 
Evan Sharpley

to get a hit. •· 
blasted one to deep right field. Initially, the

Brian Dupra 
ball looked to

Irish pitcher 
have the strength to 

striking out three, to finish the game for the Irish. 
At the plate, Notre Dame (29-12-1} drew first blood in the bottom of the opening inning. Center fielder A.J. 
Do you want to learn about Web page programming and development? 
CAPP30380 
Web Development: XHTMI. & JavaScripl 
Swnmer2008 
belted another ball to right field and this one did get over the fence with two on base to give the Irish a 4-0. 
"I was a little out of the one on my third at bat and I got under it a little bit," Sharpley said. "But I made an adjust­ment and I ended up getting a pitch that was a little bit in and I turned on it." 
Delta Devils starter Chris Mills worked seven innings, allowing four runs on six hits with five walks and five strikeouts. 
Notre Dame and Mississippi Valley State will face off again tonight at Frank Eck Stadium at 6:05p.m. 
Note: 
+Irish shortstop Brett Lilley added to his NCAA-record total for career hit-by-pitches. He was plunked for the 102nd time during the second inning. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

SOFTBALL 
Irish take down Valpo with help from Bargar 

DAN JACOBSffhe Observer Junior designated hitter Beth Norway swings through a pitch in a 4-3 Irish win over Loyola-Chicago Thursday. 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame wrapped up its 2008 non-conference slate with a 6-0 win at Valparaiso Tuesday. 
The Irish (35-1 7-1 overall, 12-6 Big East} were led by a stellar performance in the cir­cle from junior hurler Brittney Bargar. The Corona, Calif. native pitched a complete game shutout, and improved her record on the season to 27-10, giving up only three hits and striking out 11 in the process, 
It took the Irish a while to get their offense on track, earning only one hit over the first four innings. In the fifth, though, the Notre Dame bats found their spark. With two outs in the top of the frame, freshman right fielder Beth Jorgensborg start­ed the rally with a single through the ride side of the infield. After freshman catcher Erin Marrone and junior desig­nated hitter Beth Northway also singled, Jorgensborg came around to score, putting the Irish up 1-0. 
Even though the one run was all Bargar needed, the Irish added to the lead in the next inning. Forcing out Crusader starter Andrea Zappia for reliever Jill Jacobsen, Notre Dame scored three more runs in the sixth., two of them cour­tesy of a two-out, two-RBI Jorgenson single. 
Zappia returned to pitch the seventh, but it was to no avail, as Notre Dame added two more runs to its lead in the final inning. Northway started off the inning with a double, and was driven in by a Katie Fleury sin­gle up the middle. Fleury later scored on senior second base­man Katie Laing's groundout to second, giving the Irish their 6­0 margin of victory. 
Northway finished 3-for-3 with the double, a run, and an RBI. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu
ened once again in the top of the seventh, loading the bases with one out. But Squier popped out to Sharpley and Pride grounded out to third baseman Mick Doyle. 
Freshman Cole Johnson threw two scoreless innings, allowing just one hit and 
clear the fence, but Mississippi"Valley State right fielder Quinn Axton made the catch on the warning track. The next batter, Barnes, hit into a fielder's choice and the lead stayed 1-0. 
Two innings later, Sharpley 
Store our Stun 
Mini

orthe summerl 
Storaue.··
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
" ..,. ................................... .

866-232-2169 
D•t
6482 Br.ck Road.South-Bend 

Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass. 7minutes from campus

Wednesday, April 30, 2008 page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Commuter's woe and cheese 
41 Turkish VJ.P. 

(lunch dish) 42 Logical start? 
4 Parasite's need 43 Fountain spot,8 Too sentimental maybe13 Sporty Camaro 44 Except 
15 Cheese town 45 Did a glissade
161.R.S. option 17 Wife of Jacob 
46 Tasman 

181t's handed down 47 Bagel choice 
191974 pardon 49 Like Duchamp's recipient 
"Mona Lisa" 20 Desktop 
53 Def Leppard, for publisher's need one 

23 Regards highly 56 Deceptive talker 24 Wild cat 59 Fair-hiring org. 
28 Baseball rarity 60 "At Lasf' singer
29 Hawkeye's home James 
31 Acapulco gold 61 Really bothered 
32 Company with a 62 Tracking ability 
spokesduck 35 It may be upped 63 Fishing boat 36 Fifth qtrs .. so to 64 Chocolatier's speak gear 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 River of Flanders 66Super_ (game system) 
Down 
Barnes (card game) 2 Precincts 3 Take it easy 4 "SOS!" 5 Signs of decay 6 Bollywood cos-tume 7 Some feds 8 Tutor of Nero 9 Full of ardor 10 Flicks 11 Mahmoud Abbas's org. 12 Nikkei currency 14 Spotted speedster 
21 Clinton's first secretary of labor 
22 Word with fire or water 25 Bath sponge 26 Baseball's Big Papi 27 "Vissi d'arte" opera 29 Way to indicate mistakes 30 "Beetle Bailey" dog 32 Most AI Jazeera viewers 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Gary Whitehead 
33 Bach offering 46 Game with a 54 Tum down 34 Aspiring attys.' team of 11 55 Model T exams contemporaries
48 On the horizon 35 07 maker 56 What 20-, 37­
49 The Cratchits' 38 Crude carrier and 53-Across 
Christmas dinner 39 More or less may do 50 Stationery brand 
vertical. at sea 57MAm believe 51 no us 
40 Tow truck type ... ?" 45 Common sense 52 Critical times 58 M.p.h., e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $i .49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ­
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JNJM&i1rK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUHTT 
(IJ (] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc_ 
l~¥~-l 
FOUNSI ±I I 
www_jumbJe_com
tUSGRY j
J rr 
1 1 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHAr HAPPE:NE:D WHE:N HIS GRIP WAS L-OST. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: HE [ 

I I I J [ I I J " (I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: ELEGY DECAY ORPHAN LOCATE Answer: Some homemakers preserve summer ·vegetables because-THEY "CAN" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY; Uma Thurman, 38, Michelle Pfeiffer, 50; 
Daniel Day-Lewis, 51; Jerry Seinfeld, 54 

Happy Birthday: If you appear vulnerable or too generous. you will be taken advan 
tage of this year by someone looking for a handout. Put money and effort into your 
home, your family and your future. The younger and the older people in your life 
will give you the strength and courage to do what's best. Your numbers are 9, 20, 22, 
29,37,42 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Get things in writing or choose a new direction_ A ro­
mantic innuendo will lead to an interesting relationship_ Too much of anything will 
wear you out and cause you grief. Weigh carefully how you allot your time_ 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotions must not be brought into any discussion you have. Someone's motives will not be honest. Empty promises could surface_ A chance to voice your opinion will help sort out problems_ 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make some worthwhile changes_ Take on anything that interests you, even if you aren't sure what you arc doing. You're a quick study and will figure out how to handle things_ Keep anyone forcmg change on you at a dis­tance_ 5 stars 
CANCER. (June 21-Jolr 22): There will be a change in beliefs or the way you do things, based on interaction you have with someone you find very different_ Don't be vulnerable. but do consider the possibilities if it will help you further your own goals. A serious 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Give someone a chance before you decide to cut him or her out of yoW' life_ Love connections Call be made but do so for the right reasons_ A new set of rules is likely to be put into play by someone who isn't too trusting. 3 stars 
VIR.GO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Talking to someone who is open will bring about a change of events regarding your money, your health and your legal and contractual situation_ Make snre you have your facts straight so you can sidestep anyone trying to sabotage your plans. 3 stars 
l.IBR.A (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You arc the one with all the ideas. so why are you work­in~ in unison with people who are driving yon crazy? Maybe it's time to do your own th1ng on the side and see how it goes_ Start small and work secretively. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-No..-. 21): Someone is playing games with yon_ Don't talk about information you shouldn't share, regardless of who 1t's with. It is evident that you have deception within a partnership. 2 stars 
SAGITTAIUUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A little trip. a conversation with someone who makes you smile or taking time out for a little loving should all be in the mix today. Don't hold back if there is something you want to say. especially if it hllll to do with bow you feel and your personal intenllons. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone at an event or while networking will feed you a line. Do your homework and pick your friends, dealings and money ven­tures carefully. A partnership will cause setbacks and annoyances. Don't let love cost you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything may appear to be up in the air. Think things through and you will realize someone is tampering with your emotions and causing you to feel unsure. Hard work will pay off and give you greater self-esteem_ 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ifyou want to make changes. do so for the right relll!on, not because you want to impress someone or because you are impatient. Do things right the ti1'St time around. Take a moment to reassess the sttuation. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are charming, clever and convincing. You are inventive. imagi­native, popular, powerful and persistent_ You are open-minded and quick to see an opportunity. 
~genia's Web 8ites: a!ltroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialasl.comfor confidenlial con.sultatioru 


-
_> 
·­
.... 


' 
~ 
t Wednesday, April 30, 2008 
page 28 

~ 
\ ' 
~~,
-,,, 
~. ~ 
.'\ 
' \ 
'I 
,t ··~ \ t 
\ 
~ ~ 
\' 
,. 
.... ,, \, 
: 
' 
"\ 
~ 
i ~-­'!: 

> 
l 
L 
.,~ 
,~~f' j
•
'II?; 
., 
r( 
'I 
(I 
~­
I
;,
,.. .. 
·-·} 
~;
J 
,. 
·\(
;,f, /­
:):, 
~~~· 
i
',"I' 
' 
; 
(/ 
,( .. 
)1. 
(>",} 
!r' 
I" 
,, 
(r
.•. 
-!i 
t~ 
~I 
'f'r
' ~ . ·. :; ~, 
L 
' 
' 
'; 
... 
.. 
• 
•.. 
~ 
' 
BASEBALL 

Running M.th the Devils 
By CHRIS KHOREY Senior Sports Writer 
Notre Dame freshman pitch­er Brian Dupra scattered six hits in seven shutout innings as the Irish topped Mississippi Valley State 4-0 at Frank Eck Stadium Tuesday night. 
"We were very fortunate to win tonight," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "(Dupra] has just been getting better and bet­ter." · 
Dupra (3-2) struck out four and walked just one, but he had to pitch out of several jams. 
"I've been working with the coaches on keeping the ball low," Dupra said. "Hitters usu­ally get themselves out. The pressure is on them to get a hit." 
Mississippi Valley State (15­
21) threatened in the second after knocking back-to-hack singles to lead off the inning, but it couldn't plate either run­ner. 
The Delta Devils put another two runners on base in the 
see DEVILS/page 26 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish pick up transfer from Mississippi State 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
Former Mississippi State guard Ben Hansbrough will transfer to Notre Dame for the 2008-2009 academic year. 
Hansbrough, a sophomore 

who averaged 10.5 points and 
3.8 rebounds per game last season for the Bulldogs, will sit out next season then have two years of eligibility left with the Irish. 
Hansbrough is the younger brother of North Carolina for­ward Tyler Hansbrough, who won virtually every Player of the Year award this past sea­son. 
The 6-foot-3 shooting guard started 28 of Mississippi State's 34 games last season as the Bulldogs advanced to the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 

He could help fill a void left by the probable departures of rising senior guards and sharpshooters . Kyle McAlarney and Ryan Ayers after next season. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Laxers earn top seed in conference 
Notre Dame hopes to recapture the GWLL tourna­ment title it won during the 2007 season -and with that an automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament. 
"We are now in tourna­ment mode. We want to win," Corrigan said. "Our goal is to win and keep win­ning. We're only focusing on playing right now." 
The Irish fell to Johns Hopkins 11-10 in overtime in a tight first round game in the 2007 Tournament. If the Irish do not earn the GWLL title, they still have a chance to earn one of the nine at large NCAA tournament bids. 
The Irish victory against Ohio State created a three­way tie among the top teams in the league. Denver, Ohio State and Notre Dame all earned 4-1 records on the season, but the Irish received the top spot 
see GWLL/page 26 

fOOTBALL ANALYSIS Schedule in shambles? Not quite 
Rutgers nixes series, Notre Dame moves on 
By KEN FOWLER Senior Sports Writer 

Notre Dame expects to play at New Jersey's Meadowlands sports complex against Connecticut at least once and another team or other teams multiple times after Rutgers broke off discussion of holding a series there and in South Bend. 
John Heisler, Notre Dame's senior associate athletic director in charge of football scheduling, said Tuesday that Notre Dame and Connecticut are in the process of finalizing a contract for a reported six-game series. Notre Dame expects that Connecticut's three home games will be split in some way between the New England Patriots' Gillette Stadium in Foxboro, Mass., and games at the new home of the Giants and Jets, set to open in 2009. 
Notre Dame is in talks with other Big East teams to play in the new Meadowlands stadium, Heisler said, though he declined to mention specific teams. Athletic Director Kevin White told the South Bend Tribune that after discussions with Rutgers broke off, Notre Dame quickly received a "euphoric ver­bal" from another Big East school. 
Rutgers says 'no' 
Rutgers decided against playing the series because of Notre Dame's desire to play all Rutgers home games in the soon-to-be completed home of the New York Giants and New York Jets . 
Rutgers is beginning $100 million renovations to its relatively small stadium, upgrading the facility and increasing its capacity by almost 50 percent to 55,000. The new profes­sional complex, located in East Rutherford, N.J., is a little more than 30 miles from Rutgers' cam­puses in Piscataway and New Brunswick. 
Notre Dame would have been guaranteed only 5,000 tickets, Heisler said, though its fans likely could have swooped up a signifi­cant potion of the additional 25,000 seats if the game were played in the larger, professional stadium. In a terse statement issued late last week, Rutgers' athletic director, Bob Mulcahy said that all "Rutgers' home games should be played on­campus in Rutgers Stadium." 
News of the discussion's ending made headlines in New York and attracted negative commentary toward Notre Dame by longtime columnist Harvey Araton in Tuesday's New York Times and more gentle criticism by writer Charles Rich on AOL's popular sports blog, "FanHouse." 
Heisler, however, suggested that this was not a case of Notre Dame trying to make a power play on less-storied schools. 
"This was just a proposal of play­ing a handful of games, and it could have been anything from two to 10. 
see RUTGERS/page 26 


By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Thanks to its effective offense, No 7 Notre Dame defeated No. 9 Ohio State 17-12 in its final regular season game, earning the No. 1 seed in the Great Western Lacrosse League tournament. 
The Irish will take on No. 4 seed Quinnipiac in the semifinals on Friday in Birmingham, Mich., at 5 
p.m. The second semifinal matchup between Ohio State and Denver will follow at 
7:30 and the title game will be held the following Sunday. 
The previous meeting between the Irish and the Bobcats resulted in a domi­nant Irish win (16-6) on Notre Dame's home turf. Junior attack Ryan Hoff scored four goals to lead the Irish offense victory against the Bobcats. 

:j 









