
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins calls for increased faculty diversity 
17 percent ofNotre Dame's faculty are minorities compared to 28 percent at Yale, 25 percent at University of Chicago 
diverse ethnically, socio-eco­flipped through PowerPoint Research, 28 percent of full­faculty, as a percentage of the By KAITLYNN RIELY nomically and by gender is a slides comparing the percent­time instructional faculty in whole teaching and research 
Associate News Editor 

richer com­ages of female and ethnic 2006 at AAU private schools faculty, has increased from 11 munity for minority faculty members were female, compared with percent to 13 percent between 
University President Fr. John learning, employed at Notre Dame with 23 percent at Notre Dame. 1997 and 2006. Jenkins emphasized Notre discussion those employed at private When the professor numbers Comparing all faculty, 17 Dame's commitment to diver­and inquiry, schools in the Association of are compared by rank, Notre percent of Notre Dame's facul­sity, specifically to recruiting and one American Universities (AAU), Dame exceeds the average ty are minorities, compared to ethnic minorities and women w h o s e an organization of 62 leading percentage of female assistant 28 percent at Yale, 25 percent as faculty members, in his graduates research universities in the professors for AAU private at the University of Chicago, annual address to the faculty are better United States and Canada. schools, but falls below the 14 percent at Duke and 11 Tuesday. prepared to According to data from the average for female associate percent at Brown, in compari­
"Like many other colleges live and Integrated Postsecondary professors and full professors. son. and universities in the coun­work in a Education Data System The Office of Institutional Notre Dame's research sta­try, we recognize that an aca­world that is ever more global (IPEDS) and Notre Dame's Research shows the number of demic community that is more and diverse," he said. Jenkins Office of Institutional racially and ethnically diverse see JENKINS/page 8 

ELECTION 2008 


SMC lines up events for Rock the Vote Festival 
'Vote Smart' bus travels to college to educate students 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
When Saint Mary's students walked past the parking lot in between McCandless Hall and the Student Center on Tuesday they were met with the sight of a red, white and blue bus with the words "Voter's Self Defense System, Project Vote Smart" on the side. 
The bus. a part of www.votesmart.org, travels the country with information about the Web site and organization which pro­vides non-partisan, unbiased information on over 40,000 candidates running in local, state and national elections, arrived at the College five hours early and left three hours ahead of schedule due to a miscommunica­tion between Saint Mary's and the Vote 
see VOTE/page6 

Prof explains the role ofthe Electoral College in the election 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
Patrick Pierce, a professor of political science at Saint Mary's explained that the Electoral College is used as the method of selecting the president at a lecture dur­ing the College's Rock the Vote Festival. 
Pierce -part of the Festival's commit­tee which was made up of faculty, staff and students -said he thought students might want to understand what the Electoral College does in relation to the election. 
He discussed the current election and people's voting inclinations and explained what he thinks people really look for when they vote. 
"It's not really the self-interest thing 
see ELECTORAL/page 6 


Eck Center broadcasts intervievv with author 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
An interview about the new novel. Indignation, written by Pulitzer Prize winning author Phillip Roth was broadcast in the Eck Center Auditorium Tuesday. 
Fellow author Benjamin Taylor asked Roth questions regarding the novel and his inspiration for past works during the interview that included some reader sub­mitted questions from select uni­versities and bookstores across the country. 
Indignation, Roth's 29th novel, is a story about a passionate young man named Marcus Messner who is recounting his life against the backdrop of the Korean War. 
Many of Roth's works have dealt with a particular time in American history though he said the manner in which Indignation came to be was somewhat differ­ent than his previous works. 
"I did not really have a story in mind," Roth said. "I just had a period, and that period hap­pened to be the Korean War." 
Roth, was entering his fresh­men year of college when the Korean War broke out. 
He said it is impossible for him to look back on his college years and not think of, what he called, America's "Forgotten War." 
see ROTH/page 6 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Group debates Frosh-0 changes 
Student Activities V.P. discusses criticisms ofnew program at meeting 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
First Year Orientation should make first year students feel welcome at Notre Dame, Vice President of Student Activities Brian Coughlin told the Council of Representative (COR) as they discussed criticisms of the changes made to Orientation this year at their meeting Tuesday. 
see COR/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bovvl to prega111e 

The combination of creative minds, too much fnw time and a never-end­ing desire to drink aleohol has creat­ed a plethora of drinking games on college campuses across the country. 
Beer Pong,

Flip Cup,  Dan Murphy  
Powor I lours,  
()uarters, Anchorman,  Sports Editor  
Big Booty,  
Kings (or what­ 

ever you want to call it), the list just keeps on going. Some students have nvml created games to popular songs like "Hoxanne" by the Police, ACIDC's "Thunderstruck," or "Beer for my Horses" by the legendary Toby Keith. 
Most of these activities are used in the pregame portion of your night on the town. They get the blood flowing, so to speak, and provide some dis­tractions during that awkward sober stage to koep you from making inap­propriate passes at your friends that can be blamed on your beer. 
llowever. all these new innovations have sadly overshadowed some clas­sic pregame opportunities that have all but fallen ofT the map; games that our grandfather's taught our fathers that we have lert in the doset cov­ered by dust next to Battleship and l'okemon cards. 
One brave group is doing their best to reversn this trnnd and revive a classic -bowling. 
Bowling is a pt'rfeet combination of smni-athlotie skills, chances to talk trash to your opponents and a splash of responsible alcohol <~onsumption. Tho game is entortaining enough to play without any beer involved, whieh is a testament to its greatness. Try playing a round of water pong or flip rup with empty Solo cups and you'll quickly s1w what I mean. The pins, balls and alloys also provide enough sexual innuondos to safely trnad through those awkward moments that I nwntioned before. 
A few years ago a small group of students decided it was time to bring bowling back to the pregaming expe­rience. They started with small weekly meetings on Wednesday nights to unwind on hump day and work on their 7-10 splits. 
Just like Mike Anello and his cover page poses (sorry Mike), the secret didn't take long to get out. The group still meets every Wednesday at Strikes and Sparns, but every lane is filled and the line flows almost out the door onto Grape Hoad. 
Spacn is at a premium to join these pin pioneers, but that shouldn't dis­courage others from joining the trend. Hemember to think outside tho box, there are plnnty of' other gnmt opportunities ready to be unearthed. Takn a minute to eall your old man and ask for some tips, I am sure there are plonty or undis­covered throwbacks hiding in their minds. 
As for now, lnt mn just end by tip­ping my cap to thoso anonymous men and women who had the courage to try something new. Keep up the good work. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. . Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfa.~ a professional publication and strives f(,r the highest standard~ ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mi~take, plc-JSe contacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO SAVE ENERGY DURING ENERGY WEEK? 


Nathan Menendez 
senior Morrissey 
"Studying to become a chemical engineer so I can increase energy efficiency. ,, 
OFFBEAT 

Protests sparked by closing "nude" discos 
KATHMANDU, Nepal­Hundreds of disco workers protested in Kathmandu on Monday against a gov­ernment craekdown on "nude dancing" in its bid to improve the deteriorat­ing law and order. 
Police have raided scores of discos, night­clubs and dance bars in the past two weeks and detained 1,500 people say­ing many were running bars where "nude dances" were performed, not allowed by law in the Hindu majority society. 
There are hundreds of 
TODAY 

..I 
<C 
(.) 
0 




as to ask why ofin my we must be dorm room.,, more energy efficient.,, 
Victor Saenz Piper Muenez Mary Kate Roohan Katrina Rodriguez 
senior freshman freshman freshman off-campus Lyons Lyons Lyons 
"Studying "Studying "Unplugging my "Turning offthe philosophy so outside instead fian. , bathroom light 

on suspicion of drug-deal­ing. 
"In the shop we found 120 pieces of magic mush­room choeolate and count­less cannabis lollipops," said police, who confiseat­ed around 70 sachets con­taining various drugs, about 20 marijuana joints, a range of pills and some jars of drug-laced honey. 
Police said one eustomer, who appeared intoxieated, was arrested after trying to buy a bag of hallucino­genic mushrooms from an officer in the shop. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



HIGH 77 HIGH 73
...I 

LOW 53 LOW 47 
such night spots in the K·athmandu valley, although the country has no specific law to regulate them. 
Berlin candy shop sells hallucinogenic sweets 
BERLIN -Police closed down a Berlin sweet shop after discovering the owner was selling choco­lates and lollipops laced with hallucinogenic mush­rooms and marijuana. 
The 23-year old owner of the shop in the trendy east Berlin distric.t of Prenzlauer Berg, an area known for its vibrant night life, was taken into custody 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


when I leave." 
IN BRIEF 
There will be a lecture enti­tled "How We Can End the Genocide in Sudan" given by John Prendergast in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium, on Thursday from 
12:30 to 2 p.m. Lunch will be available prior to the lecture. It is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and the Center for Social Concerns This event is free and opnn to the public:. 
In "The Wonderbread Years," Pat Hazell linds humor in the experience of growing up in America. This event will bP Thurs., Fri., and SaL at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets arc $40, $32 faculty/stafT, $30 seniors, and $15 students and can be pur­chased at the Tieket Office. 
The annual Forum Film Festival will be held Friday at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Films on sustainability will be shown. The event is open to the publie. Tickets are free and must be reserved in advance at the Ticket Office. 
The 25th annual Domer Run will take plaee Saturday at 9 
a.m. The race will start on the west side of the Stadium. Runners must check in no later than 8:45 AM at the registra­tion tables. Hace day check-in will be held at Legends begin­ning at 8 a.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

GAME DAY SUNDAY 


80 
57 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 81 I 63 Boston 75 I 50 Chicago 77 I 48 Denver 85 I 50 Houston 85 I 62 Los Angeles 86 I 63 Minneapolis 72 I 55 New York 76 I 59 Philadelphia 78 I 58 Phoenix 99 I 78 Seattle 76/ 52 St. Louis 78 I 53 Tampa 89 I 75 Washington 76 158 
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ELECTION 2008 

Professor looks at 



faith and politics 
By EMILY DABISH 
News Writer 

As a part of Saint Mary's Rock the Vote festival and Super Tuesday series, Vincent D. Rogeau, a profes­sor in the Notre Dame Law School, discussed the bal­ance between political responsibility and being a Catholic. 
The Catholic faith calls fol­lowers to express the values of the faith through partici­pation, Rogeau said. 
"[Voting] is the primary way for expressing our val­ues," he said, even though some of the values of the faith may be compromised while voting. 

While the Ca·tholic faith gives guidance to voters through the values of the faith, it does not remark on what party to vote for because "it is not the posi­tion of the Church to say how people should organize their political lives." 
Certain principles should be acknowledged when mak­ing a political decision, pri­marily the right to life, he said. 
Right to life does not solely deal with abortion but 
includes unjust war and the death penalty, he said. 
Other principles Catholic voters should be concerned about include the dignity of the human person, social, economic and political rights and responsibilities, the dig­nity of work, and steward­ship for God's creation. 
Rogeau said the United States does not fully embrace these principles. 
"[Voters need to think about how a candidate's] policies affect the weakest among us [and) how these positions affect people who face discrimination," he said. 
He said every person is created equal and therefore it must be recognized that it is impossible to come to agreement on every issue. 
Since every Catholic value may not be found in one can­didate, Catholic voters should look for the candidate that respects others, he said. 
"It is important to have a well developed and informed conscience," he said, cau­tioning people not to be a one-issue voter. "Rely on your heart and God." 
Contact Emily Dabish at a edabisO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Chief Justice speaks to students 
Law students submitted questions for Supreme Court judge to answer 
Special to The Observer 

Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States John Roberts addressed a room packed with Notre Dame Law School students, faculty and staff on Sept. 12 (Friday). He visited campus as a guest of the Law School and Notre Dame's president, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. 
Roberts' talk was presented as a conversation, with William Kelley, associate pro­fessor of law, sitting on stage with Roberts, asking the jus­tice questions of his own and reading questions submitted by students. Kelley served in the White House as deputy counsel to the president from 2005 to 2007 and helped guide Roberts through the Supreme Court confirmation process. 
Roberts began by speaking briefly about his early years growing up in Long Beach, Ind. Following high school, he attended. Harvard University and earned a history degree. 
"It wasn'.t until law school that I knew I wanted to be a lawyer," he admitted. 
After graduating from Harvard Law School, Roberts clerked for renowned Justice Henry J. Friendly of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. From 1980 to 1981, Roberts clerked for then-associate justice William H. Rehnquist on the U. S. Roberts considers his job to Supreme Court. be "absolutely" fun. He enjoys 
"He taught me that there is the variety of cases and the more to life than being a ability to decide how he is 
lawyer,"  ·  going  to  
Roberts said. "He once told me, 'if you  "Preparation is key. Go over and over the case,  spend his day, whether it's reading a  
want spend with young  to time your chil­ write down a list of potential questions the judge may ask, and have  brief, writing an opinion, or reviewing a case with  
dren, you have to do it while they're young,"'  friends or family review them with you again and again,,  his clerks. One example of Roberts' approach to  
laughed Rob­ his work is  
erts. Over the course of 20  John Roberts Supreme Court Chief Justice  exemplified in the way he selects  

years as a lit­igator, Rob­erts argued before the Supreme Court 39 times. 
"I was nervous before every argument," he said. 
Roberts offered advice to students considering a career in the courtroom: "Preparation is key. Go over and over the case, write down a fist of potential questions the judge may ask, and have friends or family review them with you again and again." 
Roberts decided that, after two decades of arguing cases before the court, he wanted to view the law from the other side of the bench as a judge. 
"It's easier to ask questions than to answer them," he joked. 
his law 
clerks. He has been known to ask inter­viewees to tell him a joke after quizzing them on their legal views. 
"We spend a lot of time together, and I want to know I'll enjoy their company," he said. 
Some of that time is spent writing, reviewing and revis­ing his opinions. 
"On the front of the opinion, for record-keeping purposes, I always write what draft it is. You will never see fewer than 20 drafts before I issue my final opinion," Roberts said. 
Following his talk, Roberts mingled with students, faculty and staff at a reception and signed autographs. 


Men ofNotre Dame ...
Corby Night 
Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross contmunitv at Notre Danze 
o/ 

for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and infornta! discussion. 
Wednesday, Sept. 17, 8pm at Corby Hall 



vocation.nd.edu 


Questions? call 1-6385 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
COR 
continued from page 1 
"Orientation is one of those 
lowest eommon denominator 
activities," Coughlin said. 
"Everybody does it. It's our 
job to make sure that every 
student who comes here has 
a comfortable, safe and 
enjoyable experien,ee." 
The changes to Orientation 
developed first from a com­
mittee convened by Assistant 
Provost Dennis Jacobs that 
"talked about orientation at 
the 30,000 foot level," 
Coughlin said. The committee 
was comprised of students, 
parents, faculty and adminis­
trators. 
"This committee talked 
about how packed they 
believed the Frosh-0 sched­
ule was, the awkward gender 
relations, the session that 
happens in the Joyce Center 
on Saturday afternoon and 
the lack of a true academic 
component to orientation that 
the faculty was concerned 
about," Coughlin said. 
In an attempt to address som~ of these concerns raised by the original com­mittee, Jacobs established a standing University Committee on Orientation, which was chaired by Dean Hugh Page of First Year Studies and Vice President of Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman. 
"It was a meeting of folks who had worked on orienta­tion traditionally in the past," said Coughlin, who was a member of the committee. 
He said the committee made several major changes to the Orientation weekend, which allowed for more leisure time and tried to instill a sense of community within the dorms. 
"We tried to unpack the schedule a little bit, so [the incoming freshmen[ weren't running around constantly," he said. "We also wanted to start building eommunity within the halls at first-this was from some conversation with students and a lot from rectors. The Friday night went to something that had all in-hall activities. This was a change for 25 percent of the halls. 
"We also wanted to be a lit­tle more conscious to set a schedule that applied all across the University. Before, a parent would get the offi­cial weekend schedule from the University and they wouldn't know what the dorm was doing." 
Coughlin said that the com­mittee also wanted to make Orientation a more comfort­able atmosphere for students. 
He said he has heard that many halls used to wake first year students early in the morning to do activities, which the committee asked dorms not to do. "We also asked people to be respectful of first-year students' right to get a good night sleep," he said. 
He said there have been many criticisms to the new Orientation schedule from both first year students and upperclassmen. 
"Anytime any dif'ference comes on to the Notre Dame campus, there's some hesita­
tion," he said. 
He said dorms need to con­
sider physical disabilities of 
some of their orientation 
activities. 
"The request that was made 
of halls was that if you're 
doing something physical, 
consider the physical limita­
tions and capabilities of 
everyone in your first year 
class," he said. "The last 
thing we want to do is alien­
ate someone who has a dis­
ability, or is on crutches." 
He said students with dis­
abilities are left behind dur­
ing activities such as dorm 
runs during orientation that 
alienates them from their 
residence hall, "which is sup­
posed to be the cornerstone 
of the Notre Dame experi­
ence." 
Coughlin also said upper­
classmen have expressed 
concerns about first year stu­
dents spending too much time 
with their parents during ori­
entation weekend, but he 
thinks that criticism is unjus­
tified. 
"The chunks of parent time isn't much different," he said. "All we added was a one to one-and-a-half hour buffer between the end of the Sprit of Notre Dame Mass on Sunday and the first pro­gram. 
"I bet your parents would have loved a hug or a kiss interaction before they got back in the car and went home," he said. 
The standing committee will meet again this year to further evaluate the changes that they made. The return­ing members of the commit­tee will be joined by a first year student selected from Freshman Class Council and an upper class student who served on the Orientation staff for his or her residence hall, he said. 
Coughlin said the adminis­tration is not looking to change Orientation solely on what the committee recom­mended. 
"There's not a conspiracy," he. said. "There's a true desire to improve things for everyone. I know Dr. Jacobs well enough that he didn't hand select a committee to force things through." 
He said that the committee was convened to make neces­sary changes that make Orientation a better experi­ence for everyone. 
"If we have to program for those who are a little more shy, or less comfortable about being on campus, we have to do it," he said. "In terms of First Year Orientation, it's on all of us to make everyone in the community feel comfort­able and not awkward." 
The parts of Orientation that are rooted in the core of what the University is will not change, Coughlin said. 
"[We won't change] the importance of the residence hall community, exposing first year students and their families to some academic part of the weekend, having the spiritual component of Mass, and establishing com­munity," he said. "Residentiality, academic life, spiritual life, and community -that's what we're about." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 




Bebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 5-11, 2009 


Information night: 
Wednesday, Sept. 17, 2008 7:00PM ACE Office, Badin Hall 
Sponsored by the AJJtance for Catholic Education 


---------------------.
--~ 

ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 CoMPiLED FROM T1-1E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Intercepted calls prove self-defense 
TBILISI, Georgia -In a bid to portray Russia as the aggressor in last month's war, Georgia has released recordings of what it says are two intercepted cell phone calls pur­porting to show that Moscow invaded before Georgia's offensive against South Ossetia. 
The recordings released Tuesday, if authentic, will not cut through the fog of the final hours when escalating tensions burst into war. But President Mikhail Saakashvili hopes they will help dispel a dominant nar­rative that says his country was on the attack. He said they prove Russian tanks and troops entered South Ossetia many hours before Georgia began its offensive against separatist forces. 
"Evidence in the form of telephone inter­cepts and information that we have from numerous eyewitnesses conclusively prove that Russian tanks and armored columns invaded our territory before the conflict began," Saakashvili told reporters. 
Pakistan troops to open fire on U.S. 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Pakistan's army said Tuesday that its forces have orders to open fire if U.S. troops launch another raid across the Afghan border, raising the stakes in a dispute over how to tackle militant havens in Pakistan's unruly border zone. 
Adm. Mike Mullen, the U.S. chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, arrived in Pakistan late Tuesday amid the increased tensions. Mullen planned to meet with top civilian and military leaders to discuss a range of issues, including ways to improve coordination and cooperation along the Pakistan-Afghan border. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
RNC delegate robbed of $50K 
MINNEAPOLIS -Police are trying to find a woman who apparently drugged a Republican National Convention delegate and robbed him of about $50,000 worth of jewelry, cash and other items in his hotel room. 
Gabriel Schwartz, a Denver attorney and party donor, told police he met the woman in a bar at the luxurious Hotel Ivy in downtown Minneapolis and invited her to his room early on Sept. 4, a few hours after Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin accepted the GOP vice presidential nomi­nation. 
Once there, police say, the woman made drinks and told Schwartz to get undressed. 
The 29-year-old delegate told police that was the last thing he remembered. Police believe he was drugged but aren't sure what drug he was given, police Sgt. William Palmer said Tuesday. 
When Schwartz awoke, the woman was gone and so were cash and belongings that included a watch he valued at $30,000. 
Ohio Wal-Mart closed for methane 
GARFIELD HEIGHTS, Ohio -Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has closed one of its stores in the Oeveland area built atop a landfill amid concerns about potentially explosive methane gas. 
An independent contractor confirmed there is a problem with the odorless gas generated by rotting garbage, said Tara Stewart, a spokes­woman for the Bentonville, Ark-based retailer. The closure of the store is probably permanent, she said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Officer cleared after fatal shooting 
SOUTH BEND -A police officer was acting in self-defense when he fatally shot an Osceola man while being dragged by his pickup truck, a prosecutor said Tuesday. 
Mishawaka police Detective Jeremy Tyler had just ended his work shift late Aug. 25 when he stopped Eugene Nusbaum, 43, after seeing suspicious activity in the neighboring town of Osceola a few miles east of South Bend. Tyler believed Nusbaum was trying to cut a catalytic converter from a minivan in a used car lot and saw him throw an electric saw in the back of his truck. 
Ike raises death toll across Midwest 
Severe weather submerges roads in water, leaving 10 million without power 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Just a few months after near-record flooding across the Midwest, roads in the region were under water again Tuesday and more than 1 million peo­ple were without power thanks to the remnants of Hurricane Ike. 
"The old-timers knew it was wise to leav~ the sand­bags," said Arnold City Manager Matthew Unrein, whose town south of St. Louis still has the sandbag defenses it built when it was threat­ened by floods in March. The Meramec was expected to reach 18 feet above flood stage in Arnold on Thursday. 
Several rivers in Missouri were rising toward crests expected later this week, some more than 15 feet above flood stage. Flooding already was occurring at sev­eral towns along the Missouri and Mississippi rivers, including St. Louis. The President Casino on the St. Louis riverfront shut down for the third time since April because of high water, and the boulevard that runs in front of the Gateway Arch was closed. 
Ike dumped as much as 8 inches of rain on parts of Indiana, Illinois and Missouri after coming ashore in Texas during the weekend. It spawned hurricane-force wind in Ohio and a tornado in Arkansas that damaged several buildings. 
The devastating rain and wind in the Midwest brought Ike's total death toll to at least 4 7 in 10 states from the Gulf Coast to the upper Ohio Valley. 
The violent weather also knocked out power to more than 2 million homes and businesses across the Midwest, most of them in Ohio. As of Tuesday, the Ohio Emergency Management Agency said 1.4 million cus­tomers still had no electricity. 
The governors of Illinois, Ohio and Kentucky declared states of emergency. Several utilities said many customers might not be back on line until the weekend, and Louisville Gas and Electric say"s it could be two weeks before service is fully rest9red in Kentucky's largest city. 

More than a half-million Ky. customers lost power at the height of the storm. "This is the biggest outage on record in the commonwealth of Kentucky," said Kentucky Gov. Steve Beshear. He said half the state's 120 counties reported storm damage. 
The National Weather Service is projecting moder­ate flooding from Hannibal south to the convergence of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers. Major flooding is expected from St. Louis south .to Cape Girardeau, although few homes are t!Xpected to be affected. At Hermann, the Missouri is expected to crest 
11.5 feet above flood stage Thursday, enough to flood 37,000 acres of farmland and threaten at least two busi­nesses. 

The rain from Ike com­bined with earlier storms in southern and western Michigan to rupture a dam in Berrien County and cause massive sewage overflows and street flooding, authori­ties said. 
An 8-foot section of that earthen dam gave way Monday night on the Dowagiac River and about a dozen homes had to be evac­uated. 
The rain also overwhelmed Chicago's 4,300 miles of sew­ers -backing up into homes and inundating streets and parking lots. 
Stores in the Chicago area reported a run on sump and utility pumps. "People were running around like chickens with their heads cut off trying to stop the damage," said Pete Palermo, a manager of the Keystone Ace Hardware in Albany Park. 
Hundreds of homes were flooded in northwestern Indiana during the weekend and a busy stretch of Interstate 80/94 was still blocked by water Tuesday. Road crews were still work­ing to pump water from the highway, a major route into t.he Chicago area, the Indiana Department of Homeland Security said Tuesday. 
Indiana National Guard troops were activated Sunday and Monday to help evacuate about 5,000 residents from flooded parts of Munster, Ind., during the weekend. 

ELECTION 2008 
Financial crisis takes over campaign 
Associated Press 
GOLDEN, Colo. -Economic fears are suddenly dominating the presidential campaign, shoving aside lipstick on pigs and every other issue. Republican John McCain called for a crisis commission Tuesday, while Democrat Barack Obama laughed that off as "the oldest Washington stunt in the book." 
"This isn't 9/1 1:" Obama told a noisy crowd of more than 2,000 at the Colorado School of Mines, dismissing the idea of a need for study. "We know how we got into this mess. What we need now is leadership that gets us out. I'll provide it. John McCain won't." 
McCain, campaigning in Florida, promised reforms, too, to expose and end the "reckless conduct, corruption and unbridled greed" that he said had caused the financial crisis on Wall Street." 
The bewildering turmoil has shaken Americans' confidence, erased hundreds of billions of paper wealth for U.S. stock­holders and led McCain and Obama to forsake other controversies and scram­ble back to the economy as the primary concern of voters. 
The presidential campaign had taken an odd turn to side issues -Alaska's "Bridge to Nowhere" and moose-hunt­ing, Obama's crack about lipstick on a pig -after McCain's surprise pick of Gov. Sarah Palin as his running mate. There was a fascination with huge crowds attracted by Palin. But the col­lapse and merger of some of Wall Street's legendary companies forced a return to reality seven weeks before the election. 

McCain and Obama now are trusted equally on the economy, with 34 percent of voters naming each as the candidate who would do a better job dealing with what is easily the country's top worry, according to an Associated Press-GfK Poll conducted last week. Previously, Obama had had a solid advantage on the issue. 


.-------------------~ -------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 17, 2008 





Electoral 
continued from page I 
that drivns p1mple," he said. "It's finding someone who inspires them." 
The Eleetoral College was put in place by the framers of the Constitution, something those trying to understand it today need to keep in mind, he said. 
"I think the main thing !people ask I is why in the world we would have something like it," he said. 
Dmnocraey was associated with mob rule when the Constitution was written. he said. Because of this the framers were not willing to allow a pop­ular vote but gave the actual vote to representatives of the state .~o avoid "issues of judg­ment. 
"The electors were supposed to be smarter Ithan the average p1~rs1ml," he said. 
These represnntatives come from every state and the District of Columbia. Thny number of 1\lectoral Votes a state has is based on the number of rnpre­sentatives tlwy have as well as each state's two Senators, he said. 
The states are allowed to make thnir own laws regarding 
Vote 
continued from page I 
Smart organizers. 
"It was a miscommunication between us. we need to be in Indianapolis tomorrow morning which will be a three hour drive or so," Bob Kastan, the deputy media director of Vote Smart said. 
The bus, which had come through South Bend before, had made il'i way to the College from the University of Toledo and was on il'i way to Indiana University­Purdue University Indianapolis (IUPUI). 
"Last time we came to South Bend we nune to Notm Dame but we try to get to as many campuses as possible so we wanted to eome to Saint Mary's this time," Kastan said. "It happened to mineide with this Hock the Vote festival so it worked out well." 
K<L'itan said quite a lew students visited the bus while it was on campus who wen~ interested in finding out about Congresswoman Sarah Palin, Senator Barack Obama and Senator John McCain but he knew many studm1ts would not be able to visit boeaus1i' they were in d<L'iS. 
"A lew people came to us intnr­nstnd in their state candidates because we have information on candidat1~s running in local and state elections in all 50 statns," 
Roth 
continued from page I 
"llere in Amnriea, people were not totally mesmerized by a war that we were not fully engaged in as we had been during World War II," Hoth said. "One of the things that prompted me to put this particular book together was that younger people have no idea what the social. cultural. and sexual norms of the 1950s 
were." 
Many of the questions submit­ted by viewers at othi)r. universi­ties and bookstores (J used on Hoth's wrltt:Qg !->'cyl.e <4 · 1'how his work fl.P,P! · tA" . or com­ment on·· some­thing be> 
1ans to do. :_f 1 ., 
"I nevfl"·..,~·~;M 
the Electoral College and in half of the states it is illegal for elec­tors to vote against the popular vote of their state, in the other half. "they rarely vote against the people," he said. 
The few that vote against the popular vote are known as "faithless electors," he said. 
"Imagine how much pressure you face," Pierce said. 
It is possible for the Electoral College to elect a president that the popular vote didn't elect which is one of the biggest prob­lems many people have with the system, he said. 
This has only happened three times, and two of the three, including the 2000 presidential election in which Bush gained more electoral votes than AI Gore, but did not win the popu­lar vote, are "legally suspect," he said. 
lie said politicians are reluc­tant to change or remove the Electoral College because the margin of victory would be smaller, currently it "appears that the public has supported you more." 
"If you want a strong presi­d~mt, you have some reason to be nervous about a national popular vote," he said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO1@saintmarys.edu 
Kastan said. 
The Vote Smart Bus was on campus as a part of the College's second Super Tuesday event. Every Tuesday through Election Day, Saint Mary's will host events aimed to inform students about the issues about the election. 
Yesterday's event also included a Hock the Vote festival in the Student Center atrium during which students could get informa­tion from the College Republicans, the College Democrats, the Political Science Club and the League of Women Voters, among others. 
The College Democrats saw a large group of students, both "hardcore" Democrats and people who were curious about the Democratic Party, visit their booth, which excited Missy Waik, the dub's secretary. 
"It's great that people feel as if their vote counts, which it absolutely does, which can help improve America for the better," Waik said. 
The College Hepublicans also had a lot or people visit their table. though most of their visitors were self-eonfessed Hepublieans. 
"A lot of our club members brought Hepublican friends who anm't necessarily in the dub but wanted to register or vote or get morn information," club vice presi­dent Caitlin Sullivan said. 
Contact Liz Harter at 
eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
books to the events of today," he said. ''I'm focused on the time period that I have chosen to write about. If I wanted the book to be about something else then I would have chosen to write about something else." 
Hoth said he has come to think of himself of a historian of sorts beeause most of his books deal with a specific time in American history. 
in time." .eoniact Molly Madden mmadden@hcc-nd.edu ' 
. . \'T 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,059.02 +141.51
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,581 56 1,899 1,003,765,039 

NASDAQ 2 207.90 +27.99 
1!1-IIMIIIIIIrllill~lll!l!lll!ll!if~~~~~~~-~~~llllllllll\ll 
S&P 500 1,213.591 +20.89 
1;11rflllmlillill;ii;'ll~'lll{llllllill!!llli!l!ii!llll 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,083.40 -120.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) -21.22 -1.01 3.75 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.67 +2.01 122.10 RNANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +7.49· +1.43 20.52 POWERSHARES (QQQ) +0.78 +0.33 42.41 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.23 +0.008 3.491 13-WEEK BILL +6.17 +0.050 0.860 30-YEAR BOND -1.37 -0.057 4.095 5-YEAR NOTE +2.69 +0.070 2.671 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.56 95.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -6.50 780.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.98 90.13 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 104.9350 
IN BRIEF 
Fed holds key interest rate steady 
WASHINGTON -Showing a tough love stance for now, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and his colleagues decided to keep a key interest rate steady Tuesday. They acknowledged stresses in financial markets have grown, though, and hinted they stood ready to lower rates if needed. 
Wreckage on Wall Street in recent days did not force the Fed -as some thought possible -to reverse course and cut rates. The Fed left its key rate at 2 percent for the third straight meeting. It marked the first meeting this year the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rate policy, agreed unanimously with a decision. 
Senate reaches tax break agreement 
WASHINGTON -Senate leaders said Tuesday that they had broken a months­long impasse over a tax break package that would bring billions of dollars in relief to individual and business taxpayers, develop­ers of clean energy resources and people threatened by the alternative minimum tax. 
Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont., and his Republican coun­terpart on the panel, Charles Grassley of Iowa, said the package could reach the Senate floor this week. The tax package is one of the last major issues that Congress must address in the last weeks before its scheduled adjournment for the year. 
FDA defends chemical found in plastic 
WASHINGTON-With scientists at odds about the risks of a chemical found in plastic baby bot­tles, metal cans and other food packaging, the government on Tuesday gave consumers some tips on how to reduce their exposure to BPA even as it said the substance is safe. 
A Food and Drug Administration advisory committee met as a major study linked bisphe­nol A to possible risks of heart disease and dia­betes. The scientific debate could drag on for years. 
"Right now, our tentative conclusion is that it's safe, so we're not recommending any change in habits," said Laura Tarantino, head of the FDA's office of food additive safety. 
Stocks stabilize, but AIG teeters 
Nervous investors concerned about world's largest insurer's future 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street took a step back from the ledge Tuesday, with the Federal Reserve resisting a cut in interest rates and the stock market staging a small rebound one day after a stomach-churning drop. 
Investors still kept a nerv­ous eye on American International Group Inc., the world's largest insurer, which huddled with the New York Fed in hopes of staving off a failure that would create even more financial turmoil. 
The Fed, in its first unani­mous decision this year, kept its closely watched fed­eral funds rate unchanged at 2 percent -but noted that strains on the market have "increased significant­ly" and said it was ready to act if needed. 
Stocks slumped immedi­ately after the Fed announcement, with the Dow Jones industrial aver­age dropping about 100 points. But the Dow finished the day up 141, and back over 11,000. 
It was a breather from the chaos the shook the financial system Monday, when investment house Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy and the Dow Jones industrials suffered their biggest point drop since the Sept. 11, 2001, system than the collapse of A collapse of AIG would scrambled to revive credit terrorist attacks. Lehman. AIG stock was force Wall Street to untan­markets. The Fed injected 
But AIG, a company that down as much as 60 per­gle the complex credit $70 billion into the is little known off Wall cent Tuesday. derivatives markets and American financial system. Street but does business Late Monday night, all send the market scrambling The European Central Bank with almost every financial three major credit rating to figure out who owes pumped one-day financing institution in the world, agencies cut AIG's ratings what to whom -or even of nearly $100 billion into became the new star of the at least two notches. While who owns what. the 15-nation zone. The Wall Street soap opera. the new ratings are all still "Regulators knew that if Bank of Japan added $24 
The company, which considered investment Lehman went down, the billion, and England's cen­insures $88 billion worth of grade, they add pressure on world wouldn't end," tral bank almost $36 billion. assets, plays an outsized AIG as it seeks tens of bil­money manager Michael Cash left world markets role insuring mortgages lions of dollars to strength­Lewitt wrote in an op-ed Monday like an outgoing and corporate loans, but en its balance sheet. column Tuesday in The tide. The interest rate what has the Wall Street New York Gov. David New York Times. "But Wall banks charge each other for scared is that it's an inte­Paterson said Monday he Street isn't remotely pre­overnight loans soared as gral player in the murky would support a measure pared for the inestimable high as 6 percent -far world of hedge funds and allowing it to use $20 billion damage the financial sys­above the Fed's target rate credit derivatives. of assets held by its sub­tem would suffer if AIG col­of 2 percent and a sign 
Investors worry its failure sidiaries to pay for its busi­lapsed." banks didn't trust each would pose an even greater ness -essentially giving it As AIG teetered, central other enough to make even threat to the U.S. financial a bridge loan from itself. bankers around the globe 12-hour loans. 

Oil prices sink in Wall Street tumult 
guarantee more of the money-saving six months, shedding more than $5 and
Associated Press 
energy conservation measures of the wiping out all of oil's gains for the year. past year: Americans will cut back on Crude has fallen about $55 -or 37NEW YORK -Oil prices extended driving, airlines will keep fewer planes percent -since shooting above $14 7 on their retreat Tuesday, shedding $10 a 
in the air and U.S. manufacturers will July 11. 
barrel in a violent, two-day slide as be shipping fewer products. That in turn In London, November Brent crude felltumult on Wall Street dims hopes for a was expected to keep crude prices $5.02 to settle at $89.22 a barrel on theswift economic recovery and signals down. ICE Futures exchange, after earlier dip­another drop in U.S. energy demand. 
"The economic slowdown is complete­ping to $88.90.
Crude, which shot up near $150 a ly unavoidable now and people will be Oil's steep correction comes as traders barrel only two months ago, is now driving less, trucking less and buying were riveted by rapidly unfolding events down 8 percent for the year. 
less," said James Cordier, president of on Wall Street. Fears rose TuesdayMeanwhile, gas prices edged higher at Tampa, Fla.-based trading firms Liberty about the health of insurance giantthe pump, topping $3.85 a gallon amid Trading Group and OptionSellers.com. American International Group Inc. after
the aftermath of Hurricane Ike. 
"Ene~gy consumption will fall dramati­several ratings agencies reduced theirHowever, given crude's continuing slide, cally. ratings on the company. That amplified retail gas was expected to turn lower Light, sweet crude for October deliv­worries of more turmoil after Lehmanwithin a few weeks. 
ery fell $4.56 to settle at $91.15 a barrel Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bank­As uncertainty grips Wall Street, evi­on the New York Mercantile Exchange, ruptcy and Merrill Lynch & Co. wasdence mounted that U.S. consumers and after earlier dipping to $90.51, its lowest bought by Bank of America Corp. in abusinesses were bracing for a protract­level since Feb. 8. On Monday, prices rush sale intended to save the troubleded economic downturn that should 
closed below $100 for the first time in company. page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 17, 2008 


Jenkins 
continued from page I 
tisties show that in the fall of 
2007, 87 percent of its full 
tnaehing and research profes­
sors were white, compared 
with 83 percent of associate 
professors and 66 percent of 
assistant professors and 
instructors. 
Notre Dame should strive to 
increase female and minority 
faculty at all ranks, Jenkins 
said, but especially to recruit 
and train them in senior 
ranks. 
.Jenkins said he did not think 
there would be a "quick fix" to 
increasing the diversity of 
Notre Dame's faculty. But he 
recounted the work of his 
most recent predecessors, 
University Presidents Emeriti 
F~ Theodore Hesburgh and 
Fr. Edward "Monk" Malloy, in 
increasing the presence of 
both women and ethnic 
minorities at the University. 
"Whatever our current chal­
lenges, Notre Dame is today a 
more diverse and rich institu­
tion because of these leaders 
and the many people who 
worked with them," Jenkins 
said. "Our task is to build on 
the progress that they made." 
Jenkins said he is consider­
ing proposals made by the 
University Committee on 
Diversity and the University 
Committee of Women Faculty 
and Students about their rec­
ommendations to enhance 
support for women faculty and 
students and ethnic minori­
ties. He said he is working on 
his response to the recommen­
dations. 
In his faculty address two years ago, .Jenkins emphasized increased recruiting of Catholic faculty. He said the University will employ "useful strategies" they have dis­cussed to recruit Catholic fac­ulty. University Provost Tom Burish established the Office of Hecruitment Support, .Jenkins said, which will be headed by Fr. Bob Sullivan, whose title is now Associate Vice President for Academic Mission Support. 
.Jenkins stressed to the fac­ulty gathered in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center that although the University is "proactiveli' seeking to hire minorities, women and Catholics, these characteris­tics will not factor in decisions about reappointment, tenure or promotion. 
Research at the University 
.Jenkins' address to the fac­ulty last year encouraged a University-wide commitment to becoming a premier research institution, including undergraduate research. On Tuesday, Jenkins praised the accomplishments of the facul­ty thus far in the field of research and encouraged more progress. 
Last year, Jenkins listed membership in the AAU as a goal of the University. The University is continuing to strive toward membership in that organization, Jenkins said, but not just so it can be "part of a prestigious club." 
"Our goal, rather, is to become a better research uni­versity, and thus to make our­solves a compelling candidate for membership in the AAU so that we can reap the benefits of assoeiation, access to infor­mation and reputation that such membership ean bring," he said. 
During the 2007-2008 aca­demic year, Jenkins said, 
Take this j and love it 

You're going to notice something unusual right away. People sn1lle. They feel productive and we!1--recog··· nized. They go home satisfied. \Ne invite you to pur­sue a career at GE in engineering, finance, manufac­turing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. Get all the benefits of a global leader plus something you won't find any­where else: a job you con smile about 
www.gecareers.com 
Notre Dame Forum on issues involving energy and the envi­ronment. 
"We must strive, as a com­munity, to make practical steps in response to the ener­gy challenge in our lives and on our campus," he said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
research funding at Notre Dame increased by 4 percent, a substantial figure consider­ing that National Science Foundation (NSF) funding decreased in real dollars and National Institute of Health (NIH) funding was flat. 
The Innovation Park planned as part of Eddy Street Commons will "help move dis­coveries of our faculty to mar­ket," Jenkins said. 
He commended Cecilia Lucero, the assistant director for Undergraduate Research at the University, for organiz­ing Notre Dame's first cam­pus-wide undergraduate research conference. 
'A truly great and truly Catholic University' 
The faculty has continued to enhance the quality of teach­ing and learning at Notre Dame, Jenkins said. This fall, Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs will lead the launch of a new Course Instructor Feedback system so students can provide their impressions of the quality of teaching to their instructors. 
Duncan Hall, the recently completed men's dorm, and Ryan Hall, the women's dorm 
still under construction, are the first residence halls at Notre Dame that have class­rooms, Jenkins said, a feature that will "help deepen this integration of academic and residential life." 
To mark the five-year anniversary of Notre Dame implementing its university­wide strategic plan, Notre 
Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise, Jenkins said he will begin working with academic deans and other University leaders to update the strategic plan. Jenkins introduced Erin Hoffman Harding as the new Associate Vice President for Strategic Planning. 
Jenkins encouraged the fac­ulty to attend the upcoming 


,1maginot!•1n .-~;work 
---~~--------~--~ ---~----~----~~ 
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
President visits Gulf, evacuees 
Bush asks residents to waitfor instructions before returning to homes 
Associated Press 
GALVESTON, Texas ­President Bush got a first­hand look Tuesday at the fury that Hurricane Ike unleashed on the Gulf Coast, and was greeted by a virtual ghost town here where it made landfall. He urged frustrated storm evacuees to keep it that way until local officials. say it is safe to return. 
"I know a lot of people are anxious to get back in," Bush said. "I urge you to listen to state and local authorities before you come back." 
Ike dumped heavy rains on parts of Indiana, Illinois and Missouri after slamming ashore in Texas over the weekend. It knocked out power to more than 2 million homes and businesses across the Midwest, spawned a tor­nado in Arkansas and blew high winds through Ohio. The devastating rain and wind in the nation's midsec­tion brought the death toll from Ike to at least 40 in 10 states from the Gulf Coast to the upper Ohio Valley. 
In light of the continuing need from Ike and other storms in this year's busy hurricane season, Bush pleaded for donations from the public to relief organiza­tions like the American Red Cross. 
"I hope the country does not have disaster fatigue," he said. 
Many thousands of dis­placed residents face weeks or months in shelters, and Bush assured them personal­ly and publicly that the fed­eral government would reim­burse them for their costs, up to 30 days, of interim housing. Federal Emergency Management Agency Director David Paulison, who traveled with Bush, said the Bush administration was working hard to avoid a sce­nario like when people moved out of New Orleans because of Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and never returned. He said a state-led task force would work to 
place evacuees in motels and hotels, apartments and duplexes. 
"It's not just kind of ad hoc, like it was with Katrina," he said. "If we have to use mobile homes -that will be a state call -we have them available." 
The White House also announced Tuesday that the federal government will pick up all the costs of debris removal in Texas for a two­week period starting Saturday, the day the storm hit. This waives the state's required cost-share of 25 percent during that period. This waiver does not apply to Louisiana. 
Bush spoke to reporters in Houston, his first stop on a trip through parts of Texas most battered by Ike. The trip lasted less than three hours and marked the third· time in two weeks that the president has traveled to the Gulf Coast for a hurricane. 
While flying by helicopter from Houston to much hard­er-hit Galveston, Bush got an aerial tour of the damage. He saw the remains of the resort barrier island of Bolivar Peninsula, where there were flattened homes, flooded fields and bare foun­dations where houses once stood. Roads and beaches were strewn with debris. Homes that weathered the storm stood next to ones completely washed away. From the air, three sections of the same house that Ike tore asunder resembled chil­dren's blocks tumbled into a muddy field. 
Ike missed the largest con­centrations of oil and gas refineries in the region. But 
q.t least 14 Texas refineries closed before the storm made landfall, removing more than 20 percent of the nation's petroleum refining capacity and pushing gaso­line prices even higher. From his helicopter, Bush could see scores of ships full of crude waiting off the coast for a green light to deliver to Texas refineries. 
While damage to the U.S. 
refining industry was less than anticipated, Kevin Kolevar, assistant secretary for electricity delivery and energy reliability at the Energy Department, told reporters that it will take a week to 10 days for even the undamaged facilities to be restarted -if there is power. 
Paulison said an estimated 70 percent of Houston should have power by the end of the week, but Galveston won't fare as well. 
"Galveston is going to have a tough time," Paulison said. "That's heavy devastation there.... It's going to be a longer-term fix than getting Houston back up." 
With the rescue phase winding down, emergency workers were trying to pro­vide blankets, ice and tarps to victims. 
"I know there are some shortages, but thus far the demand has been met," said Bush, whose administration lost credibility with its slow response to Hurricane Katrina. "We'll continue to monitor the situation to make sure that people are taken care of." 
On the ground in Galveston, Bush held hands with Mayor Lyda Ann Thomas as they walked down a street where bushes were covered with black roofing paper. "They've got a great mayor and they're working hard," Bush shouted at reporters as he walked back to the presidential helicopter. 
Bush's tour of the damage took the place of a fundrais­ing swing he had planned for the day through Topeka, Kan., and Fort Worth, Texas. Those duties were being per­formed instead by first lady Laura Bush. Earlier this month, Bush scrapped his planned opening-night speech at the Republican National Convention in St. Paul, Minn., to fly instead to emergency command centers in Texas just as Hurricane Gustav hit. He returned to the region later that week to visit Louisiana, also socked by Gustav. 
ISRAEL 

Leaders threaten force against Iran 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM-Both front-run­ners for the leadership of Israel's ruling party vow to take a hard line against Iran, threatening possible military force if sanc­tions do not halt what Israel believes is a covert nuclear weapons program. 
The winner of Wednesday's pri­mary to replace Ehud Olmert as head of the Kadima Party would be in a strong position to succeed him as prime minister, and the stance toward Iran could have repercussions for peace in the Middle East. 
Israel's soft-spoken foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, is battling Shaul Mofaz, a former military chief and defense minister, in the race to head the centrist party. Both say they prefer a diplomatic solution, but promise to be as tough as needed in confronting Iran. 
Israeli officials describe Iran as the biggest threat to Israel's exis­tence. They cite Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's fre­quent calls for its destruction and the Iranian development of long­range missiles capable of striking the Jewish state. 
Mofaz has indicated a stronger willingness to turn to the military option. In June, he spooked world oil markets by telling the newspaper Yediot Ahronot that Israel would have "no choice" but to attack Iran if diplomatic efforts to end Tehran's nuclear program fail. ­
"If Iran continues its nuclear arms program -we will attack it," he was quoted as saying. 
After coming under heavy criti­cism for his comments, Mofaz toned down his language, but he hasn't ruled out a military strike. 
"I never said that military action is the preferred choice," he told Yediot Ahronot last week. "It would be a last resort in the event that other options fail." 
Livni, Israel's top diplomat for the past two years, has repeated­ly said she hopes diplomacy pre­vails. But she too has said force cannot be ruled out ifIran fails to 


lJ 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
presents 
The Religious History o.fAmerican Women: Reimagining the Past 
(University ofNorth Carolina, 2007) 
Catherine A. Brekus, editor, with contributing authors Anthea Butler, Kristy Nabhan-Warren and Kathleen Sprows Cummings 
Saturday, September 20, 2008 9 a.m. to noon McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education 

yield to sanctions. 
"Iran needs to understand the military threat exists and is not being taken off the table," she said in June. 
On the campaign trail, Livni, who was an agent with the Mossad spy agency before work­ing as a lawyer, has declined to discuss her Iran strategy. 
''I'm ready," she said last week. 'The only thing I won't do is say in advance what I would do. Headlines on this issue hurt more than help." 
Mofaz's supporters have sought to present Livni as lacking the security credentials to stand up to Israel's enemies, but she says people should not mistake her preference for diplomatic solu­tions for a lack ofresolve. 
"The fact that I'm a woman doesn't make me a weak leader," she said in an interview pub­lished Friday in the Jerusalem Post. 
"I would like to think that gen­erals also think twice when they make decisions, just like I do," she added. "It's not that generals pull the trigger and women don't. I have no problem pulling the trigger when necessary." 
While Iran says its nuclear pro­gram is for the peaceful produc­tion of electricity, the U.N. Security Council has imposed three rounds of sanctions over Tehran's refusal to cooperate with an international probe of the program. Israeli officials believe Iran could have the capacity to produce a bomb as soon as next year. 
Israeli policymakers and experts long have debated whether it would even be possi­ble for Israel to take out Iran's nuclear program. 
Such a mission would be far more complicated than the 1981 Israeli air raid that destroyed Iraq's partially built Osirak nuclear reactor or an Israeli raid last year on what U.S. intelli­gence officials described as an unfinished nuclear facility in Syria. 
Iran's government has atomic installations throughout the country, some underground or bored into mountains, while the Iraqi and Syrian installations were single, aboveground com­plexes. 
Also, there are signs Washington may be moving away from a military option, including a proposal to open a low-level 
U.S. diplomatic office in Tehran and a recent decision to allow a senior American diplomat to par­ticipate alongside Iran in interna­tional talks in Geneva. 
On Monday, five former U.S. 
secretaries of state, gathering to 
give their best advice to the next 
president, agreed the United 
States should talk to Iran. 
The wide-ranging, 90-minute session in a packed auditorium at George Washington University produced exceptional unity among the former officials from both parties -Madeleine Albright, Colin Powell, Warren Christopher, Henry A. Kissinger and James A. Baker III. 
"The military options are very poor," Christopher said. "And we have to tell the Israelis that." 

-----------------~~--~-~-------~ ~--~-~~--~­
page IO The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
EVERY ENGINEERING MAJOR I INTERNSHIPS I FULL-TIME POSITIONS 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Wednesday, September 17 Aerospace Engineering Night Joyce Center, Monogram Room 6:30-8:00 p.m. 
Thursday, September 18 Civil Engineering Lunch Joyce Center, Monogram Room 12:30-2:00p.m. 
Networking Reception Joyce Center, Monogram Room 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Career Fair Heritage Hall in the Joyce Center 5:00-8:30p.m. 
Friday, September 19 Interview Day Flanner and Fitzpatrick Halls 8:00a.m.-5:00p.m. 
Engineering Industry Day Networking Reception Sponsored by 
Chevron
> 

((~_.lLJI,.A,"trn--.....;-r~-.... ~ ..... Raytlleoa
accenture 

() ~ .., •.. • Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. Customer Succ:eslls Our Milsion

High ~(ormance. Deli~red. 
The Walsh Group 
PARTICIPATING COMPANIES 
Accenture Exterran Parsons Corporation 
Acquity Group ExxonMobil Perrigo Company 
Air Force Flight Test Center F.H. Paschen, SN Nielsen Pierce Associates, Inc. 
Alliance for Catholic Education General Electric PPG Industries, Inc. 
American Structurepoint, INC. Gilbane Building Company Praxair, Inc. 
Anning-Johnson Co. Greenline Financial Technologies PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
ARCO/Murray National Construction Company, Inc. Hewlett-Packard R. W. Armstrong 
AT&T Honda Manufacturing of Indiana LLC Raytheon 
Bain & Company, Inc. lnfosys Technologies Rolls-Royce Corporation . 
Bastian Material Handling, LLC ITT Corporation Schlumberger 
Baxter Healthcare ITT Space Systems Division SMART Business Advisory and Consulting, llC 
Belcan Advanced Engineering & Technology Janicki Industries "SPX Corporation 
Boland Johnson & Johnson Stepan Company 
Bosch K&M Machine-Fabricating, Inc. Stryker Instruments 
BP Energy Company Kiewit Western Co. Technology Services Group 
Carrier Corporation Kim ley-Horn and Associates, Inc. The Boeing Company 
Central Intelligence Agency lockheed Martin Trading Technologies 
Chevron Corporation Merck & Co., Inc. Turner Construction 
Clarity Consulting, Inc. Metavante Corporation U.S. Patent and Trademark Office 
Clark Construction Group, llC Michelin North America U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Chicago District 
Cook Nuclear Plant Microsoft U.S. Marine Corps Officer Programs 
Cowhey Gudmundson Leder, LTD Miller Brewing Company Valdes Engineering Company 
CTS Corporation Modine Manufacturing Company Walsh Group 
Cummins Inc. Morningstar, Inc. Westinghouse Electric Company 
Deloitte U.S.A. Firms Nestle Waters Xerox Corporation 
Delphi Corporation NetQoS 
Eaton Northrop Grumman Space Technology Companies listed in bold will be interviewing 
Epic Systems Corporation Office of Naval Intelligence on September 19 
ORGANIZED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
---~-------------­
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
SOUTH AFRICA 
Zimbabwean refugees seek asylmn 
Citizens cross borde_r to escape hunger, poverty from inflation 
Associated Press 
MUSINA, South Africa -A power-sharing deal has not stopped the flow of Zimbabweans streaming into South Africa to escape the hunger and poverty wrought by runaway inflation in their homeland. 
About 1,000 Zimbabweans seeking asylum formed a line that snaked across a packed­dirt parking lot in this South African border town Tuesday. Many had been waiting for days to file their applica­tions. 
Some said they feared President Robert Mugabe was still in a position to unleash violence on his ene­mies. Others said that while they found hope in the agree­ment signed Monday, they did not expect Zimbabwe's economic crisis to be quickly resolved. 
Under the pact, Mugabe remains president and head of government. Morgan Tsvangirai is prime minister­designate and will head a new Council of Ministers responsible for forming gov­ernment policies. 
Observers worry that rather than resolution, the agreement heralds govern­ment paralysis. 
In Musina, asylum seekers waited restlessly in a lot dot­ted with ash left over from the previous night's fires and lengths of cardboard used as mattresses. Children gath­ered around a blackened paint pot balanced over a fire to await a breakfast of corn meal porridge and milk. 
Robin Mucheana reached South Africa on Saturday and was still waiting Tuesday to have his application processed. 
For 15 years, Mucheana grew oranges, guavas, avoca­dos and vegetables on a small farm in Chitungwiza, south of Harare. This year, with official inflation the highest in the world at 11 million percent, he could not afford seedlings, -seeds or 
fertilizer. He and his wife resorted to selling vegetables on the streets, but were barely making enough to feed th-emselves and their three children. 
"In the morning, you wake up with bread selling at 8 trillion (Zimbabwe dollars), at 5 in the evening you get it at 10 trillion. And tomorrow, again, new prices," he said. "The hunger is the main issue. Some people are even dying." 
The International Red Cross estimates more than 2 million people are hungry in Zimbabwe, and that the number is going to rise to 5 million, about half the coun­try's population, by year's end. 
Some aid groups estimate that in recent weeks as many as 6,000 Zimbabweans have been crossing into South Africa every day. Many go back within a few days car-· rying groceries and other essentials that are scarce at home. 
But there has also been a spike in those seeking refugee status. 
While most are men, more and more women and chil­dren were coming, said Alexis Moens, an official with Medecins Sans Frontieres, which has been providing 
.medical  care  for  
Zimbabweans  and  other  
immigrants in Musina.  

"My feeling is that now more women and children are coming than before (because) the situation is ·get­ting a bit more desperate," she said. 
High prices aren't the only reason Zimbabweans are struggling. The last harvest was poor, and Mugabe's gov­ernment restricted the work of aid agencies in June, accusing them of siding with the opposition before a presi­dential runoff. The ban was lifted last month, but aid agencies say it takes time to gear up. 
"People are eating berries, people are eating roots, peo­ple are eating anything they can get their hands on," said James McGee, the U.S. ambassador to Zimbabwe. "We're seeing it all over the country." 
McGee added the political violence that followed elec­tions in March and sent many Zimbabweans fleeing across the border has sub­sided, but not completely dis­appeared. He said there were signs of tension in areas where the deaths of parlia­mentary candidates or other issues meant new votes would have to be held. 
Tsvangirai defeated Mugabe in March presiden­tial elections and his party also out-polled Mugabe's in parliamentary voting. But Tsvangirai did not win the simple· majority needed to avoid a runoff. An onslaught of state-sponsored violence forced Tsvangirai to with­draw from the second elec­tion, and Mugabe was declared the winner in a vote widely denounced as a sham. 
More than 100 Tsvangirai supporters were killed, thou­sands were beaten, and tens of thousands were forced from their homes. 
Richard Zuza, a pastor in Zimbabwe's capital of Harare, said the agreement was a start. But he was also in line for asylum Tuesday, as he had been for four days. He was fearful of returning because he said new elec­tions were being held in his area and he had been coun­seling his congregation not to vote for Mugabe's party. 
He said he wanted details on the agreement, such as whether Tsvangirai's party or Mugabe's would get the min­istries overseeing police and the army, two institutions accused of fomenting vio­lence against Mugabe's oppo­nents. 
"If they don't give Mr. Tsvangirai those soldiers, I don't think anything can change," he said. "Mugabe must resign. Then everything will be all right." 
Programs and Services (MSPS) 
Come meet MSPS staff, get some ftee fOOd, multicultural clubs! Music will be provided by Notre 
"Promoting Equity through I 
CHINA 

Baby formula has 
harmful chemicals 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -China's latest prod­uct safety scandal -tainted milk formula blamed for killing two Chinese babies and sickening 1,200 -expanded to include more foods Tuesday, with state media reporting some formula produced by companies involved was exported. 
State broadcaster CCTV report­ed on its evening newscast that a nationwide inspection of the 175 Chinese companies making baby milk powder showed that 22 of them had traces of the industrial chemical melamine in their prod­ucts. 
One company, Guangdong­based Yashili, exported its prod­ucts to Bangladesh, Yemen and Myanmar, CCTV said, but added that initial testing of samples of the company's exports turned up no trace of melamine. 
In Hong Kong, food inspectors ordered a recall after melamine was found in an ice cream bar made by Shanghai Yili AB Foods. The amounts of the chemical found "would not pose major health effects from normal con­sumption of the bar, however, small children should not eat it," the Center for Food Safety said in a notice posted on its Web site. 
The widening scandal is an embarrassing failure for China's product safety system, which was overhauled to restore consumer confidence and preserve export market~ after a string of recalls and warnings abroad over taint­ed toothpaste, faulty tires and other goods. 
It is also the second major case in recent years involving baby formula. In 2004, more than 200 Chinese infants suffered malnu­trition and at least 12 died after being fed phony formula that contained no nutrients. 
The official Xinhua News Agency quoted the Health Ministry as saying medical agen­cies were prepared for the probe to uncover additional cases and were setting up a treatment sys­tem for affected infants. 
The company at the heart of the food scandal, Sanlu Group Co., has apologized for the taint­ed milk powder, which the Health Ministry says was spiked with melamine. The company says suppliers who sold the raw milk apparently added the chemical, normally used in plastics, to make the milk appear higher in protein. 

Zhang Zhenling, Sanlu's vice president, apologized Monday but did not explain why the company took so long to inform the public about the contamination despite receiving complaints as early as March and having tests confirm the presence of the chemical in early August. 
The company went public with the information after its New Zealand stakeholder told the New Zealand government, which then in.formed the Chinese govern­ment. 
"The serious safety accident of the Sanlu formula milk powder for infants has caused severe harm to many sickened babies and their families. We feel really sad about this," Zhang said, read­ing from a prepared statement. 
Sanlu's General Manager Tian Wenhua was fired and dismissed from the company's board of directors as a result of the scan­dal, Xinhua quoted Communist Party officials as saying in the northern city of Shijiazhuang, where the company is based. 
In total, four men have been arrested in relation to the tainted milk, spokesman Shi Guizhong with the Hebei Provincial Security Department was quoted as saying by the official Xinhua News Agency on Tuesday. The newly arrested dealers were only identi­fied by their surnames as Ma, 40, and Zhao, 43. 
Earlier, police said they had arrested two brothers, surnamed Geng, who ran a milk collection center in Hebei province and are accused of watering down milk to increase volume then adding melamine, Xinhua said. They sold about three tons of contaminated milk a day, the report said. 
Details of the children's deaths show the problem appeared to have gone undetected for months. The first victim, a five­month-old boy from the western city of Lanzhou, died May 1, min­istry officials said. The second, an eight-month-old girl also from Lanzhou, died July 22. 
Vice Health Minister Ma Xiaowei told reporters that 1,253 infants had been sickened ­mainly after developing kidney stones -more than twice the number previously acknowl­edged. Of those, 913 of the infants were only slightly affect­ed, while 340 remained hospital­ized and 53 cases were consid­ered especially severe, he said. 
Shoddy and fake goods are common in China, and infants, hospital patients and others have been killed or injured by tainted or fake milk, medicines, liquor and other products. 
None of the milk powder was exported to Europe or the United States, although Sanlu is 43 per­cent owned by a New Zealand dairy farmers' cooperative, Fonterra. 
Fonterra, the world's biggest milk trader, says it urged Sanlu to recall the product as early as Aug. 2. Sanlu did not order a: recall until last Thursday, after the New Zealand government took up the issue with China. 
THE OBSERVER page 12 IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 17, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South .Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EntTOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fit1.parrick John Donovan 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A~sT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR~ Jenn Mett 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EntTOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EntTOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR! Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL<iNFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrt·nt, including advertisements, is nm governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Obsnvcr reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions 'o/;arding Obst!1'1ler policies should be directed to Editor in Chi!!(Chris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~ Oll!K'rvt:r (USI1S "i?'-J 2-4000) ~A Jluhllllhcd Mond;ay tluuu~h Frid;~y o:•.:qll during cum ;md W4"".11Wil jl("tiocl.s. A llli~.M:nptinn 10Th~ Ol-.,erver i~ $100 fi1r unc ;u:.,Jcmic yco~r; $5~ fiu nne I!CIIlotcr. • 
11u: Oh.Kr!(cr b published Jl. POSTMASTER 024 So111h Oini•1g Hall Send Jddr~ cum:aions to: 
NMtt D:~:mc. IN 46SS6-0n9 11l~ Ohservcr 
i'eriudi..:al postage p.lid .11 Nouc DJmc P.O. Boxn9 1tt1d .tddit1unJI m.1iling ulfica. 014 South Dintn~ Ha.ll 
NQnc Dame, IN 4MS6-0n9 

The Obtcrur is ~ member of (he A.woci.ued Pres;<,. All rcprndu.:riun t1gh" ate rt~trved. 
"Yes rna' am, white people get keloids, too" 
Working at a small independent bakery in a semi-gentrified neighbor­hood this summer, I had interesting encounters with every other customer. Some were a good kind of interesting (the lady who was en route to 
Katherine northern Khorey Michigan for her first ever kayak­
Both Sides 
ing trip), some 
Now 

were a bad kind 
of interesting 
(the people who complain to cashiers 
about prices), and some were just 
plain interesting (the residents of the 
nearby mental health facility). 
But one of my favorite interesting conversations came late in the sum­mer. A lady named T'Raina called in one day to request four loaves of six­grain bread. I took her order over the phone and, as I was working unex­pectedly the next day, served her when she and her teenage daughter came in to pick i~ up. l handed her her bag of bread and asked, "Can I get you anything else, ma'am? 
''I'm sorry, I'm just curious." T'Haina said, motioning to the area right beneath her own throat. "Are those keloids?" 
A pause for two points of informa­tion. First, for those of you who slept through that slide in Common Human Diseases, a keloid is a mass of scar tissue produced by the body in a par­ticularly overzealous healing of a wound. Keloids can occur in many shapes and sizes, from those resem­bling large stubborn pimples to huge lleshy scars that cover entire limbs. I have a few of the former; your Common Human Diseases textbook depicts the latter. · 
Second, keloids run in my family. Mine are beneath my own throat, a few inches from a childhood surgical scar that, oddly enough, healed up just fine. And, because I was on 
Xanga long enough to know just how 
much fun other people's medical sto­
ries are, those are all the details you 
need. 
Anyway, I'd recently gone through a long process to get the keloids conclu­sively identified as such. Now it was pretty refreshing that T'Raina had diagnosed them at first glance. 
"Yes, ma'am." I told her. "Those are keloids." "Oh." She said. "I didn't think white people got those." 
I was a little too taken aback to for­mulate a coherent answer, so I said "Urn, yes ma'am, they're keloids. I inherited them from my dad." (My father's father's family came from Syria about a hundred years ago. This is as close as I come to non-whiteness and is all I could think of). 
"Okay." T'Raina said. "I didn't mean to be intrusive. 1just wondered." "It's fine." I said. ''I'm just glad someone knows what they are." 
That was true. But the whole truth is there was something else I felt glad about. As I packaged up a few muffins for T'Raina, helped distribute the bags between her and her daughter, rang up her total and wished them a nice afternoon, I'll admit the guilty white liberal in me briefly danced a euphoric little solidarity dance. 
*** 
It is true enough that personal prob­lems of the·keloid magnitude aren't limited to any one race, age, gender or sexual orientation. These form basic human common ground. Guaranteed, no matter who or what you are, you are currently struggling with at least one of the following: 
Acne in the usual or perhaps odd locations, stale breath, inverted foot arches, stale armpits, hair that refus-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

es to conform to modern standards of beauty, hangnails, aversion to green vegetables, aversion to red meat, self­righteousness, and that al'l1iction most common to contact lens wearers with allergies: "eye boogers." 
. Thus we all struggle against the lit­tle imperfections. They may be the only things that people can agree they have in common. 
*** 

Last week I watched dozens of peo­ple say good-bye to their families at the International Departure gate at O'Hare. Some went down the security line reserved "For Deployed Military." Some were simply leaving for a long time. One girl my age broke quickly away from her parents before the exchange could become too emotion­al. Watching all that, realizing that the rest of the world goes through the same hard good-bye, made my own leaving the country easier. Somehow, knowing that a struggle belongs to everyone takes some of the weight from your own. 
Maybe that's because knowing you share someone else's struggle is a sure way to connect with them. So is a white girl with keloids -by virtue of them -automatically not a racist? Of course not. But she has a little more affinity for one of her bakery cus­tomer.s who happens to be black. 
And in the mirror the keloids look a lot smaller than they used to. 
Katherine Khorey is a junior studying English and Russian at Trinity College, Dublin. She plans to spend a lot of her free time baking organic bran muffins while wearing her hand-sewn flowered apron. Seriously. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 

Liz Harter Lorenzo Reyes \Vhat do you think of the new Madeline Buckley Sam Werner 
Facebook? 
Kelly Davis Scene Graphics Michelle Fordice 
Love it '"Whom areJJOu?' he asked, for he
Mary Cecilia Viewpoint 
Hate it had attended business colfege." 
Mitsch Patricia I don't care

Fernandez Diaz George Ade 
I don't have a Facebook U.S. dramatist 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Raytheon itnportant aspect of national defense 
I was rather dismayed when I read weapons they produce -make it pos­the Sept. 15 Letter to the Editor enti­sible for military and police to protect tled "Raytheon's money is blood your freedoms. This is not to say that money." This article presents a very government policy regarding the use of dangerous and myopic view. . the police or military is always noble. 
While I have no intimate knowledge However, the deployment of these of the weapons industry, I highly doubt forces is an entirely separate matter Miss Brosnihan does. from the basic issue of their baring 
In fact, it is evident that she is taking arms. It is simply a reality that this issue with the very existence of the world necessitates, on occasion, the company and weapons manufacturers use of force to ensure liberty. as a whole and no particular policy. It is true that we must all work for a Apparently she has forgotten that the ·more peaceful world, but unilaterally world in which we live is a dangerous .disarming is simply not an option. In one. The very freedoms that she, and fact, it is likely that doing so would in deed all of us, enjoys are protected only decrease Americoa's national secu­by force of arms. rity and the cause of bringing about 
It would be nice to believe that every greater stability and peace. After all, situation could be solved in a civil Pax Romana was not guaranteed by manner but this is not the case. Put please and thank you but by brute another way, there is a reason that force and clever diplomacy. members of the South Bend Police True, tolerance and some extent of Department carry firearms. cultural autonomy played a healthy 
Just as there exists persons who role in stabilizing the empire but the wish to do harm to their fellow backbone always consisted of its Americans (theft, homicide, etc.) there legions. In many ways, the world has also exists extra-territorial threats to changed since then, but human nature American citizens. These threats are has not. Brosnihan would do well to do dealt with through diplomacy when to remember these words: "If you want possible and force exerted by the mili­peace, prepare for war." tary when necessary. The brave men and women who compose the military Jim Napier and police forces are armed by compa­junior nies like Raytheon. Siegfried Hall 
Thus these companies-and the Sept. 16 
Ren1oving Raytheon not enough 
In response to Claire Brosnihan's Sept. What I truly want to know is do you 15 Letter to the Editor, I wholeheartedly really want some dictator to march into agree with the notion that supporting our country and take away our rights Raytheon in any manner is basically giv­because we would not have a military to ing them the power to kill. She makes a defend ourselves, or maybe you are a fan strong point claiming that no Notre Dame of dictatorship and communism? I am students should pursue a career with appalled that you would vehemently Raytheon, a career with a company that, attack our nation's freedoms-albeit in a in my eyes, is the epitome of evil. round about manner-but nonetheless, you However, I think it is necessary to take are disgracing our nation. If you are so her idea one step further and not support anti-American, might I suggest Canada, Raytheon in any means. Additionally, we or some other foreign nation which does might as well remove all support to any not have a military, therefore allowing industry or organization in which it pro­you to not be bothered by the blood duces blood money. I strongly think it is money being thrown around. But for me, in1perative that then we must start at the I am proud to be an American. top, the complete removal of the United But to stick to your point, I truly think States Military. Notre Dame should cut all support to any 
We need to end all support of our sol­and all activities where innocent lives are diers and veterans, I mean when is the lost. For starters, we might as well dis­last time that they have done any good for band our football team -yes there are us? Pensions for veterans, who wants fatalities every year in football -inno­that? Miss Brosnihan, do you not realize cent boys losing their lives. Additionally, that it is blood money that has brought we might as well stop sending money to about our nation's freedom? It appears missionaries that travel across the globe that you are suggesting that we throw to help those lesser off. In both of these away over 200 years of sacrifices made activities, football and mission work, by men and women of this fine country, innocent lives are lost and there is no way just so that no innocent life would e~er be we can have that now is there? harmed. Need I remind you of Pearl Harbor? Ifwe did not have a military Charles Cossell force, we would have been annihilated junior during WWII. Forgive me if I think a few Alumni Hall innocent lives are a necessary price for Sept. 15 the freedom of countless American. 
Recycling easiest way to save econon1y 
Blue recycling bins, stealth bombers, gas-sipping cars and M-16s all have the potential to be used for the same pur­pose: protecting America's interests and making her a stronger country. We all know the same familiar story of high energy prices due to our dependent addiction to foreign oil, and the typical Washington response: Do nothing. 
While those of us back in the real world wait around for our gridlocked leaders not to solve our energy prob­le!JlS as we helplessly watch billions of dollars get sent abroad in return for some black sludge, there is something that we can do both to help our econo­my and strengthen the relative position of our beautiful country in this danger­ous world. And the answer is easier than you think. Recycle, recycle, recy­cle. 
This may seem like a crazy thing for a relatively conservative Republican to say, as we Republicans seem to have a bad reputation on environmental issues. But trust me, in recycling I can find almost as much agreement with a crazy hippie environmentalist than my stomach finds with a 3 a.m. Taco Bell run. 
Recycling serves a multitude of goals, the most obvious being its environmen­tal benefits, but also including econom­ic and security benefits of great propor­tions for us in terms of more jobs, cheaper sources of materials and, most importantly, less foreign borrowing from China to pay for the greatest wealth transfer in history to hostile and questionable nations like Venezuela, Iran, Russia, ... actually almost every country we get our oil from. 
You may think I'm crazy, but hear me out. In America, we buy over $700 bil­lion of foreign oil every year. While much of this is refined to make gaso­line, a lot is also used to make the plas­tic that we use and throw away every­day. Recycled plastic saves 70 percent on energy costs, creates jobs through its collection and reprocessing and replaces oil that we import from dan­gerous places with a source that is already here. And this is all in addition to the fact that the plastic doesn't end up taking up space in a landfill some­where in New Jersey or chilling out on the Pacific coast with some sea otters. 
While I can understand if you don't like people from New Jersey, you can't possibly hate on cute sea otters. By reducing the amount of oil we use in plastic production, our gas will cost less, the American economy will benefit from the recycling industry's gro\Xth. Also the national transfer of our money to countries who hate us and sponsor terrorism with oil revenues will be low­ered as we pay more Americans to pro­duce plastic with resources we already have here at home. 
Increased recycling should not be lim­ited to plastic, however. It pains me when I see bag after bag after bag of Natty cans mixed in with the trash in dorm bathrooms every Sunday after the parties are over. Besides the gross fact that people were drinking Nasty Lite, it costs 95 percent.less to produce alu­minum from recycled cans than from virgin sources. That is a ridiculous margin, yet I see cans in the trash all the time. I could lament the waste and inefficiency for days and still be upset. 
When it costs 1.43 cents to make a penny, you know that raw material prices are ridiculously high, but in America we still throw everything away. 
People of Notre Dame, as good citi­zens of your country and your world, try to make a difference this year. While your contribution may not seem like much, and while recycling obviously won't totally solve our energy problems, together we can have a large impact. 
So stop being a lazy slob and dedicate a separate trash can to beer cans next weekend so that you can recycle them. 

When you are walking out the door of a DeBartolo classroom, resist the tempta­tion to throw your soda bottle in the lit­tle tan trash can by the door and hold onto it for another ten seconds so you can put it into the recycling bin on your way out of the building. And don't accept that stupid little plastic bag from th·e cashier at Subway when you are just going to walk 15 steps to a booth, sit down and eat it within site of the ugly yellow sign anyway. 
Just try to make a small conscious effort to recycle throughout the course of your daily life. I don't care if you do it for Captain Planet, Uncle Sam, John Doe, Our Lady or Jesus Christ himself, but just spend the extra two seconds to recycle your aluminum, paper and plas­tic each day. 
Collectively we will save ourselves money at the store and at the pump, help other Americans by creating jobs, and help protect the country that we so dearly love from foreign sponsored ter­rorism and other threats, just as she protects us and our freedoms with con­stant vigilance, everysingle day. 
Stephen Bant junior off campus Sept. 15 


THE OBSERVER 
page 14 
'·'· 
..... ~·.. 

'", -~· ....
~ 
J 


:~··\ .•.., ·•i,~,~~·· 
~,.,: 
. ., 

By JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Writer 
The Season 

Interrupted and ultimately shortened by last fall's writer's strike, "The Office" nonetheless delivered a rich fourth season. 
Starting with the premiere, "Fun Run," and Michael Scott's Dunder Mifflin Scranton Meredith Palmer Memorial Celebrity Rabies Awareness Pro-Am Fun Run For The Cure, the show's writ­ers hardly let up in the quest for more character­driven comedy, with a surprising amount of drama thrown in. 
The performances this season were still spot­on as they evolved. The saga of "Dwangela" gave Rainn Wilson a chance to flex some acting mus­cle, and his mournful, pining Dwight is weirdly endearing. Steve Carell keeps Michael's infuriat­ing and hilarious tactlessness, but injects quite a bit of pathos with Michael's romantic relation­ships, as seen in "The Deposition," "The Dinner Party" and with a new character, Holly, played by Oscar-nominated Amy Ryan in the season finale. 
Jim and Pam's relationship, after three seasons of anticipation, is finally official. Thankfully, it avoids the curse that plagued so many other eagerly awaited TV couples -that of instant boredom. Die-hard "Jam" fans may have seethed with frustration after Jim's botched marriage proposal in the season finale, but it will be inter-
r..~ 
'"l.... 
By MARY FRANCIS POPIT Scene Writer 
Why is NBC's comedy "The Office" so popular among Notre Dame students? Perhaps because of the parallels between the two worlds. Take, the end of last season, fbr instance. 
The office temp-turned-executive Ryan Howard 
(B.J. Novak) commits fraud and is sent to the real world's version of Hes Life. 
The old-timer boss. Michael Scott (Steve Canll]), is given a chance to pursue a senior/freshman romance when he meets the charming but unassuming newcomer Holly (Amy Hyan). He also finds out that his ex-girlfriend Jan Levinson (Melora Hardin) is pregnant, courtesy of a sperm bank. 
Dunder Mifflin's receptionist, Pam Beasley (Jenna Fischer), is accepted into the Pratt School of Design for the summer, yet she fails to get her ring-by-spring from Jim (John Krasinski). 
However, accountant Angela Martin (Angela Kinsey) gets her ring, albeit without enthusiasm, from her admirer, salesman Andy Bernanrd (Ed Helms). 
Finally, the show shocked viewers when Angela and her secret interest Dwight (Rainn Wilson) are caught in the otlice breaking a certain rule of du Lac. 
If these parallels seem interesting, yet over­whelming, then you would be on the right track. 
CENE 
esting to see what happens next season. 
Starting with the "Dinner Party," the season hit a rocky stretch, the product of the long months of the writer's strike that forced storylines to change and entire episodes to be scrapped. This may account for the abrupt feeling of the latter half of the season, where a few elements seemed rather tacked on, or at least underdeveloped. Events such as Jan's pregnancy, Toby's resigna­tion, and Ryan's arrest, while still in line with the characters, feel like half the story was left out ­which is probably true, as the strike cut about ten episodes from the regular season run. 

The Office Season Four NBC 
Created By: Ricky Gervais, Stephen Merchant Starring: Steve Carell, Rain Wilson, John Krasinski, Jenna Fischer, B. J. Novak 

Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
The DVD 

With only fourteen episodes, the $49.99 price tag for the boxed set seems steep, but a wealth of bonus materials helps fill the void. 
In three episode commentaries, directors, writ­ers and cast members weigh in on the making of the show from script to final edit, and the 20­minute blooper reel reveals just how much fun the cast and crew are really having on set. 
Perhaps the most intriguing of the behind-the­scenes features is an hour-long writer's panel from "The Office" Convention, although the video quality leaves much to be desired. 
Another nice touch is "Michael Scott's Dunder Mifflin Ad" on the second disk as a stand-alone, separate from the episode in which it originally aired. Some clever NBC promos fill out the first and third disks. 
The deleted scenes for every episode often rival the material that made it on television, so the included table draft of the script for "Dinner Party" is a great addition for fans wanting to compare it to the televised episode. The paper reproduction fits neatly into the cardboard sleeve. 
With this much material in the bonus features and 14 pretty darn funny episodes with great performances, any fan of "The Office" would appreciate the season four boxed set. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

The writers of The Office need to take the advice of one of their characters, Michael Scott, and 
K.I.S.S. -that is, Keep It Simple, Stupid. Last year's writer's strike has been worse for the writ­ers than Michael has been for Dunder Mifflin. It forced them to create plot lines but also tie up loose ends within the final six episodes, produc­ing entire installments that were akin to work at the Scranton paper company -lazy and unin­spiring. · 
Hopefully, executive producer Greg Daniels in the recent past yelled to his fellow writers "Conference room-now!" Here's what was like­ly discussed in this emergency meeting: 
1. 
Keep "The Office" within the world of Dunder Mifflin. The brilliance of the. show has been its portrayal of simplistic office life. Seasons two and three struck a healthy balance, giving us hints of the world outside of Dunder Mifflin, espe­cially with episodes such as "The Dundies" and "Diwali." However, this world exposed itself too much (much like a m~n did to Phyllis) in season four, with nearly every episode containing major plot lines outside of the Dunder-Mifflin otlices. 

2. 
Keep "The Office" to a half hour. As much as NBC hypes up longer versions of the show, the hour-longs recently have had disastrous conse­quences ("Dunder Miffiin Infinity" is an example). A Dwight/Michael antic is only funny for so long. Leave the hour-longs for the season finales and 


maybe the season premieres. 
3. 
Bring in Hicky Gervais as a guest star for some major resuscitation. The British comedil;m, who played regional manager David Brent in the original U.K. version, receives the gold yogurt lid for playing most disturbing boss. Surely he could make an appearance as David Brent, coming to America to sell otlice supplies, perhaps? 

4. 
Make this season the last one. If you love someone (or something), you need to know when to let him or her (or it) go.· This applies to the writers and fans of "The Otlice." Season four was evidence that despite great performances by the actors, the writers are running out of fresh ideas to keep NBC's hit series going. 


Season five, with its first two episodes entitled "Weight Loss" and "Business Ethics," has great potential to gain what season four lacked. The show deserves to receive the kind of treatment Michael Scott wishes for himself in one his talk­ing-head appearances: "I swore to myself if I ever got to walk around the room as manager, people would laugh as they saw me coming, and they'd applaud as I walked away." 
Notre Dame, get ready to laugh and applaud once again. 
Contact mary Francis Popit at mpopit@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
Rays top Sox in bottom of ninth, lead AL East 
Waters' complete game leads Orioles over Blue fays; Lowe and Dodgers edge closer to NL West crown 
Wednesday at Fenway Park in a on grounders.
Associated J>ress 
game Tampa Bay eventually won Waters pitched eight shutout 
ST. PETiiHSBUHG. Fla. -4-2 in 14 innings. innings in his major league I>ioner Navarro singlnd with thr~ Beckett retired. 13 in a row debut, allowing one hit in a road bases loaded and one out in the befom Floyd singled to right with victory over the Los Angeles ninth inning, enabling the Tampa one out in the Jifth. lie walked Angels on Aug. 5. Bay Hays to beat the Boston Hed Navarro. but escaped unscathed Scott opened the limrth with a Sox 2-1 and remain in lirst place when he struck out Eric Hinske homer to eenter, his 23rd, off in the AL East. and Gabe Gross to end the reliever John Parrish, as the 

Navarro dclivernd his seeond inning. Orioles won consecutive games game-winner in a week against The Bed Sox snapped a score· for the first time since a three­the defending Wo rid Series less tie in the sixth. game winning streak from Aug. !~hampions, lifting a fly ball that Jacoby Ellsbury beat out an 13-15. sailed over the head center lield­infield single and Dustin Pedroia The Orioles had chances for er Coco Crisp on a 2-2 pitch from followed with a sharp grounder more runs, but Ramon .Justin Masterson (6-5). that Rays third baseman Evan Hernandez grounded into a dou­
A night after Boston hit six Longoria bobbled and then ble play with the bases loaded to homers to rout Hays ace Scott kicked for an error. David Ortiz end the third and Brian Roberts Kazmir 13-5 and pull within per­grounded to first, moving the stranded two runners with an centage points of the division runners up, and Youkilis followed inning-ending double play in the lead, Tampa Bay wiped out a 1-0 with his sacrifice fly. fourth. deficit on Carlos Pena's seventh­Akinori Iwamura singled with Toronto starter Shaun Marcum inning homer ofT Josh Beckett. one out in the sixth for the sec­(9-7) left after two-plus innings 
The Hays, who have led the ond hit ofT Beckett. Pena's homer because of numbness in his right division for the past 54 days, in the seventh was his 15th since forearm. Marcum missed 27 moved one game ahead of the the All-Star break and only the games earlier this season with a Bed Sox, who have lost seven of second Beckett has allowed in his sore right elbow. eight at Tropicana Field this sea­last six starts. The right-hander gave up a son. Dan Wheeler (5-5) struck double and a walk in the first out the only batter he faced to Orioles 2, Blue Jays 0 without allowing a run and he set bail Tampa Bay out of a ninth­Chris Waters threw a four-hit the Orioles down in order in the inning jam and get the victory shutout and Luke Scott homered second before running into trou­before a crowd of 32,079. to lead the Baltimore Orioles to a ble with his control in the third. 
The Hays loaded the bases on victory over the Toronto Blue No. 9 hitter Juan Castro walked Jason Bartlett bloop single, a Jays on Tuesday night. and scored on a double by walk and a hit bal<>men. Navarro, Toronto lost its third straight Roberts before Marcum walked whose ninth-inning double off and saw a six-game home win­Nick Markakis, bringing manag­Jonathan Papelbon gave Tampa ning streak ended. The Blue Jays er Cito Gaston and trainer Bay a 5-4 victory at Fenway Park had won seven of their past eight George Poulis to the mound. last Tuesday, ended with a fly games against the Orioles. After a brief discussion, Gaston that fell just short of the warning Baltimore, which had lost 17 of called Parrish out of the bullpen five in the NL West with 11 to Pirates, down 4-0, scored on con­track. 21 coming in, posted its first as Marcum and Poulis headed to play. T.he Diamondbacks played secutive singles by Sanchez, Nate 
Beckett and Hays starter Andy shutout since beating Texas 9-0 the dugout. later Tuesday at home against McLouth and Ryan Doumit to Sonnanstine were outstanding on Aug. 9. Baltimore third baseman San Francisco. start the inning. Lowe recovered against each another for the sec­Making his ninth major league Melvin Mora threw his bat onto A questionable call aided the to get Brandon Moss to groundond time in six days. start, Waters (3-3) walked two the field after he was ejected by Dodgers' second-Lowe, lum­into a double play and retired 11 
Beckett limited the Hays to and struck out three. The left­home plate umpire Rob Drake in bering down the line, appeared of his final12 batters. Carlos Pena's 29th homer and bander was 0-3 with a 6.45 ERA the third. Upset after being to be out by a step on his sacri­Lowe has won his last four two singles in eight innings, and in his past four outings. caught looking at a knee-high fice bunt. Pirates pitcher Jeff starts, allowing two runs and 14 Sonnanstine held the Red Sox to Toronto rookie Travis Snider fastball, Mora argued with Drake Karstens nearly threw it away, hits in 26 1-3 innings -a 0.68 
three hits and an. unearned run had the only extra-base hit, ·a and was ejected as manager but TV replays showed second ERA -with the Dodgers winning on Kevin Youkilis' sacrifice fly in one-out double in the eighth, but Dave Trembley ran out to try and baseman Freddy Sanchez, cover­each game by a margin of at six innings. Waters got out of it by retiring break it up. With Aubrey Huff ing first, managed to scoop up least four runs. 
Both allowed just one run last Marco Scutaro and Jose Bautista batting, Mora tossed his bat into the ball before the runner The Pirates wish they could foul territory as he left the arrived. Umpire Tim Timmons win at PNC Park the way Lowe dugout. called Lowe safe. and the Dodgers do. Los Angeles 
It was Mora's first ejection of The Dodgers already had a run is 22-6 in Pittsburgh since the the season and the 12th for the in on Blake's lOth homer, then ballpark opened in 2001 and has Orioles. scored three more times follow­never lost a series there. The 
ing the one-out call at first. Dodgers are guaranteed at least Dodgers 6, Pirates 2 Russell Martin hit a sacrifice fly, a split in this four-game series. 
Derek Lowe held Pittsburgh to Andre Ethier singled in a run Lowe is 5-0 in Pittsburgh. five singles over seven effective after sitting out three games and With Karstens (2-6) losing his innings to remain unbeaten in his Ramirez doubled in the fourth sixth consecutive decision since career against the Pirates, and run. he pitched 7 2-3 perfect innings the Los Angeles Dodgers edged Blake tripled and scored on against the Diamondbacks on closer to the NL West title with a Blake DeWitt's sacrifice 11y an Aug. 6, the Pirates dropped their victory Tuesday night. inning later. Blake finished a eighth in 11 games and 19th in 
Casey Blake homered and double short of the cycle, hitting 25 games. They are 13-30 since tripled his first two times up after into a force play and grounding trading top run-producer Jason sitting out the Dodgers' 8-2 win out in his other two at-bats. Bay to Boston on July 31, part of Monday night with lower back Lowe (14-11) didn't need much the three-team deal that sent stiffness. Manny Ramirez had run support, though he rarely Ramirez to the Dodgers. three hits for the second succes­does against the Pirates -he is Ramirez, facing the Pirates for sive night, including an RBI dou­6-0 in six career'starts against the first time since that trade, is 
AP ble in a four-run second inning. them. He struck out three, 6-for-9 in the series.' He is hitting The Dodgers won their 14th in walked none and was in trouble .402 for the Dodgers with 14 16 games and lead Arizona by only in the fourth when the homers and 44 RBis in 43 games. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
THANK YOU 
TO THE PERSON WHO RETURNEDTHELEPRECHAUN BEAR TO THE SOUTH DINING HALL 
YOU MADE ME VERY HAPPY 
THANK YOU AGAIN. KATIE 
FoR SALE 
PURDUE WEEKEND 
VARSITY CLUB SUITE 
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS WITH 2 GAME TICKETS $800. 
CALL (914) 967-3023. 
FoR RENT 
House for rent Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. $1000/month +utilities. 
Call (574) 340-3895. 
Home for rent for ND football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from ND campus. Contact Rocky at Rock0299@aol.com. 
House near ND. 574-310-3663. 
Homes available now & 2009-1 0 & football wknds. 
574-329-0308. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 

Need Purdue tix & parking pass. 57 4-276-8507. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nantshtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap 
I 
Some day somebodys gonna make you want to tum around and say goodbye 
Until then baby are you going to let them hold you down and make you cry? Dont you know? Dont you know things can change Things'll go your way If you hold on for one more day 
It's just for decoration, man,. that's it and that's all 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMrtLED FROM THE ()BSERVER's w1 RF SERVICES
_Wednesday, September, 17, 2008 
page 17 
NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA Top 25 

team points. previous. 
1 Wake Forrest 575 1' 
2 SMU 552 4 
3 NOTRE DAME 518 5 
4 Maryland 490 8 
5 St. Johns 464 11 
6 California 458 6 
1 Connecticut 402 1 
7 North Carolina 402 12 
9 NorthWestern 366 14 
10 Akron 357 2 
11 lllinois·Chicago 350 16 
12 Creighton 322 3 
13 Saint louis 282 17 
14 Indiana 265 19 
15 Ohio State 229 10 
16 Boston College 227 9 
17 Loyola Md. 196 13 
18 Dartmouth 167 25 
19 louisville 144 NR 
20 Providence 127 NR 
21 South Florida 114 21 
22 Georgetown 94.5 20 
23 UD Oavis 59.5 NR 
24 UC Santa Barbara 50 13 
25 Duke 45 NR 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA Top 25 
team points previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 840 2 2 UCLA 790 1 3 North Carolina 734 5 4 usc 722 3 5 Perttand 719 6 6 Stanford 708 .. 
3 7 Virginia 636 9 8 TexasA&M 579 10 9 Florida State 555 1 10 Texas 549 8 11 Duke 518 12 12 Boston College 440.5 13 13 Oklahoma State 399 16 14 West Virginia 373 14 15 Wake Forest 351 19 16 Florida 350 17 17 Penn State 344 11 18 Calilomia 168 20 19 Villanova 152 NR 20 UC Santa Barbara· 136 NR 21 Colorado 110.5 NR 22 South Carolina 98 NR 23 Illinois 85 18 24 San Diego 82 NR 25 Kansas 74 21 
MIAA Women's Soccer Conference Standings 

RecordTeam 
W-L 1 Adrian 4·1 2 Albion 2·3 3 Alma 3·3 4 Calvin 4~1 5 Hope 3·3 6 Kalamazoo 3·4 7 Olivet 2·4 8 SAINT MARY"S 1·3 9 Trine 0·5 
around the dial 
CFB 
Kansas St. at Louisville 7:00p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 
Brewers at C.ubs 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 

MLB 

AP Milwaukee Brewers manager Ned Yost leans in the dugout during the first inning of a game against the Reds September 9. In Milwaukee. The Brewers fired Yost Monday with the team mired in a late-season slump. 
Yost says he has no regrets managing BreweiS 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Once he finished packing, Ned Yost figured he'd begin the long drive back home to Georgia. He might even tune in a ballgame. "I've got XM Radio, so I'll be able to listen to the Brewers pitch-by-pitch and be rooting Dale on in his first win," Yost said. A day after being abruptly fired as Milwaukee's man­ager and replaced by third-base coach Dale Sveum, Yost insisted Tuesday he had no hard feelings toward the team that let him go with 12 
IN BRIEF 
games left while tied for the NL wild-card spot. "If anybody thinks that I've got sour grapes or I don't want this club to sue· ceed, they're crazy. I'll be rooting them on every inch of the way and I hope they can win that wild card and go deep, deep into the playoffs and win the World Series," he said. Sveum starts out Tuesday night with the opener of a three-game series against the NL Central-leading Cubs at Wrigley Field. Yost intended to be in charge when he flew into Chicago on Monday. Instead, he's got a new 

90-Y.ear-old reminisces about 
Yallkee Stadium opener 
NEW YORK -Standing in front of the Yankees dugout during bat­ting practice, Joe Mignogna remembered opening day as if it were yesterday -opening day 1923, that is. 
Now 90 years old, Mignogna went to the very first game at Yankee Stadium with his grandfa­ther, 
"You want highlights?" he said. "I remember all the people -the fans and the dignitaries. The digni­taries wore fedoras, top coats. None of the fans here would have been let in." 
"Every time I come in, I get that feeling of exhilaration," he said. "I used to come here and sit in the rain, and a couple of times in the snow. When I was going to high school, my favorite place was out in the bleachers. I've still got splin­ters. 
plan: taking wife Debbie That contradicted what out to dinner for their 31st Attanasio and Melvin said wedding anniversary Monday at a hastily called Wednesday night. news conference about Yost said he had no idea four hours after the move he was about to be fired was announced. The two when he went into general said they had asked Yost manager Doug Melvin's for answers for the team's room in the team hotel in recent woes -including a Chicago and saw principal 3-11 stretch in September owner Mark Attanasio. and a four-game sweep in "When I walked in, I had-Philadelphia-before the n't even sat down on the firing. couch and Doug said we The slide left the Brewers, were going to make a trying for their first playoff change," Yost said. spot since 1982, tied with "They didn't ask me any the Phillies for the wild questions what did I think card. we needed to do," Yost "I don't agree with the said. "There was none of decision, but I respect 
that." 
Jets cut former AussieRules 
ptmter Ben Graham 
NEW YORK -The New York Jets waived punter Ben Graham on Tuesday, two days after a poor outing in a loss to the New England Patriots. 
Graham, a former Australian Football League star who was in his fourth season with the Jets, averaged just 27.3 net yards in the 19-10 loss. The Patriots ben­efited from excellent field posi­tion throughout the game, start­ing five of their nine offensive series in Jets territory. Jets coach Eric Mangini, who discovered Graham in an AFL kicking competition in Australia 11 years ago, made it clear Monday that he was disappoint­ed with the punting situation. "We'll look at it very closely, then we'll move forward here," he said. 

Doug Melvin's decision." 
Jays Marcum leaves with 
rignt forearm numbness 
TORONTO-Blue Jays pitcher Shaun Marcum left the game against Baltimore on Tuesday night after two-plus innings because of numb­ness in his right forearm. Left-bander John Parrish replaced Marcum, who missed 27 games in June and July because of soreness in his right elbow. Marcum struggled after returning July 22, going 3-2 with a 6.19 ERA in seven starts, and was optioned to Triple-A Syracuse on Aug . .22 to work on his location. He had gone 1-0 with a 1.26 ERA in two starts since being recalled on Sept. 2. 
Making his 25th start of the sea­son, the right-handed Marcum (9-6) gave up a double and a walk in a scoreless first, then retired the Orioles in order in the second. 
Wednesday, September I 7, 2008 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFL I 
Seattle trades for 
pair of receivers 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE -The Seattle Seahawks took two steps to bol­ster their injured-depleted wide receivers by trading for Keary Colbert and reacquiring Koren Hobinson on Tuesday. 
Seattle agreed to a one-year contract with Robinson, its for­mer No. 1 draft choice. Agent Alvin Keels confirmed the agree­ment and its length in an e-mail to The A<;sociatnd Press. 
Hobinson worked out for the Seahawks on Tuesday and con­vinced team president Tim Huskell he has changed since Huskell released him in the 2005 season because of repeated problems with alcohol. 
Tlw Seahawks have lost six widn reeeivers to injury this sea­son. Hobinson already is listed as No. 1 on Seattle's depth chart at wide receiver for Sunday's game against St. Louis, a matehup of winless teams. 
"Just because of the terms and drcumstanees I left Seattle on, I never thought I'd be back," Hobinson said on a conference call. ''I'm grateful for this ehance. I think it can be a good story-for me and the team." 
The 28-year-old Hobinson said he has b11en sober for 25 months thanks to a nP.w marriage, two young sons, a baby girl due next month and religion. 
''I'm definitely proud of that," he said. 
Robinson said the final inci­dent that cau~ed him to abandon his partying ways came in August 2006. Police said Hobinson. then with the Minnesota Vikings, led them on a ear ehase at spP.eds more than 100 mph, and that his blood­aleohol content was found to be 
0.11 percent, above the legal limit of 0.08. 
Hobinson was sentenced to 90 days in jail after pleading down · to a charge of fleeing police. IIe also was sentenced to three months in jail for violating pro­bation on a separate drunken­driving case in Kirkland, Wash., in 2006. 
Thn NFL suspended him for one year then reinstated him last Oetober. He caught 21 pass­es and returned kickoffs in nine games last season for Green Bay. If Robinson violates the league's substance-abuse policy again, he faces a lifetime ban. 
Last week when the Seahawks had four receivers injured, coach Mike Holmgren men­tioned Robinson to Huskell as a possible replacement. And quar­terback Matt Hasselbeck, Hobinson 's quarterbaek from 2001-04 in Seattle, told Ruskell that Hobinson had turned his life around. Ilasselbeck saw Hobinson during a weeklong Christian retreat in Dallas last winter and was impressed. 
"I don't know about the foot­ball side of it at all. I haven't seen him play in a long time," llasselbcck said Monday. "But,. I guess what I eare about more is that he grew up and really matured and got his life turned 
around in the right direction.  000  
I'm proud of him."  
"I understand the criticism  oo.  

if this was the Koren of four years ago, that would be war­ranted," Huskell said. "And we could be wrong but all of us
000 
believe in second chances." 
Logan Payne started Sunday's loss to San Francisco but injured a knee. He is the third wide receiver to be out for the season. Baekup quarterback Seneca Wallace pulled his calf while pressed into receiver duty and will miss up to a month. 
Colbert's agent, Gary Uberstine, said Tuesday in an e­mail to The AP his client is also coming to Seattle, from Denver. Fox Sports.com first reported the trade. 
The deal is believed to be for a fifth-round pick. It will likely become official on Wednesday, Huskell said. 
The 26-year-old Colbert has not caught a pass in two games with the Broneos after signing a three-year deal in March. He became tradable with the emer­gence of rookie Eddie Hoyal and the return of Brandon Marshall from suspension. Colbert was also behind former Seahawk Darrell Jackson and veteran Brandon Stokley. 
Colbert caught 32 passes in 12 games for Carolina in 2007. 
('?A NOTFIE DAME k 
~energy wee 
Thursday, Sept. 18 
9:30a.m. to 3:30p.m. 
South Quad 
(between Cushing 
and Hayes Healy) 
[RAIN LOCATION: 
Jordan Hall of 
Science Galleria] 
BEENL GHTENED 
t 
hn 



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL t•ROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2009-10 For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French 
INFORMATION MEETING 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 5:00pm 308 DBRT 
APPLICATIONS: http://www.nd.edu/--ois 

COME OUT TO THE QUAD AND LEARN MORE ABOUT ENERGY 
Visit with representatives from MAJOR ENERGY COMPANIES, 
including BP, General Electric, and Pace Global. learn about 
HYBRID VEHICLES from Tyler, U.S. Department of Energy, and the lightning Riders! 
CAMPUS ENERGY SAVERS-find out what departments across campus are doing to save energy. And SIGN UP FOR APOWER 
PLANT TOUR! 

ENERGY RESEARCH AT NO -learn about energy-related research at Notre Dame from student researchers. 
JOIN ASTUDENT CLUB OR ORGANIZATION-Join one of the environmentally focused teams! 
CALCULATE YOUR CARBON FOOTPRINT AND TAKE THE ENERGY QUIZ TO EARN ACHANCE TO WIN ONE OF THESE GREAT PRIZES: 
• 
"How to Reduce your Carbon Footprint: 365 Simple Ways to Save Energy, Resources, and Money," by Joanna Yarrow ($10 value) 

• 
Solar LED Flashlight Charger ($ZO value) 

• 
Wireless Optical Mouse ($40 value) 

• 
Solar Charger Ultra Kit ($40 value) 

• 
Voltaic Solar Backpack ($300 value) 


INCLUDING LOTS OF GIVEAWAYS! 
Energy Week is sponsored by the Notre Dame Energy Center Student Advisory Board for the purpose of creating awareness and educating the Notre Dame community on energy related topics and issues. This year, we are proud to support the Notre Dame Forum on "Sustainable Energy" and encourage everyone to attend. The Forum is scheduled for Wed., Sept. 24, from 3 -S p.m., in the Joyce Center Arena. For more information, visit http://energycenter.nd.edu. 
Corporate sponsors are: ~ 8811nlorm
~:~~ 
• Entertam 


i2l!J]l31nsplre
PACE 

... 
Wednesday, September 17 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

Jim McKenna 

Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
Professor of Anthropology COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LEITERS 
O.J. SIMPSON TRIAL 

Simpson witness contradicts self 

Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -A key wit­ness in the O.J. Simpson rob­bery trial was confronted with contradictions in his tes­timony Tuesday, including his claim that he didn't try to profit from the casino hotel room confrontation that led to charges against the former football star. . 
Memorabilia dealer Bruce Fromong, who returned to the stand after becoming ill Monday, told defense attorney Gabriel Grasso he didn't have money on his mind while allegedly being robbed of sports collectibles by Simpson and a group of other men. 
"You were not trying to profit off this?" asked Grasso. "I was not trying to profit from it," said Fromong. 
The attorney played a tape recording of the 2007 inci­dent in which Fromong said, "It's not [expletive] over. I'll have 'Inside Edition' down here for us tomorrow. I told them I want big money." 
Fromong acknowledged it was his voice and he conced­ed that he later advertised memorabilia on eBay with the statement, "The same ones stolen by O.J. in Las Vegas." 
On redirect questioning, District Attorney David Roger asked to play more of the tape excerpt in which Fromong raged against Simpson. 
"Nobody puts a (expletive) gun in my face. I stood up for this (expletive) when he was in jail. I stood up for him when he was on trial. I set up his offshore accounts," he yelled. 
Testimony came on the first anniversary of Simpson's Las Vegas arrest. He and co­defendant Clarence "C.J." Stewart are charged with 12 counts of robbery, kidnap­ping, assault with a deadly weapon and coercion. They have pleaded not guilty. · 

Tempers in the case boiled as Roger referred to the con­frontation as "the robbery." The defense, which claims Simpson was trying to recov­er stolen personal items, objected on grounds that was a legal conclusion. 
"He can call it alleged. I'm calling it a robbery," snapped Roger. 
The judge admonished Roger to say "at the time of the incident" or "at the time of the event." She told jurors to disregard his remark and then yelled at objecting lawyers: "Sit down!" 
"Listen folks," she said. "The last thing you want me to do as the judge is to start losing my temper in front of the fine ladies and gentlemen of the jury and having to deal with all of you. You've been warned, folks." 
Fromong's contradictions continued. He acknowledged that he said previously, "I felt my life was being threat­ened." 
But moments later, under inquiry by Stewart's lawyer Robert Lucherini, Fromong said, "I was not scared." 
He insisted the memorabilia Simpson sought was not stolen but said he didn't know where some of it came from. 
"I believe those items belong to Mr. Simpson's kids. They should go back to him," he said, claiming that if he and Simpson had discussed it, they could have reached "an arrangement" by which he would trade the items for Simpson's signature on pho­tos he could sell. 
Jurors Tuesday also saw surveillance video from the Palace Station casino hotel which showed the comings and goings of Simpson, Stewart and seven other men on the night of the alleged robbery. The tapes showed men walking about and even­tually leaving with boxes. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
NFL 
Big Ben's shoulder sprained, coach says 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Pittsburgh Steelers coach Mike Tomlin elarilied the status of quarter­back Ben Hoethlisberger's shoulder: Sprained but not sep­arated. 
The injury will likely keep Hoethlisberger from fully partic­ipating in practice Wednesday, but not from playing on Sunday against Philadelphia. 
The Steelers said last week that their quarterback was nursing a sore shoulder, but a TV commentator on Sunday night termed the injury a shoul­der separation. 
During his weekly news con­ference Tuesday, Tomlin appeared agitated by the latter description. 
"I have no idea where that report came from," Tomlin said. "It didn't come from me or my medical staff. If anybody in here has got any information about where that report came from, send them to me." 
Tomlin said Hoethlisberger sprained his AC joint, an injury to the ligaments that attach the collarbone to the shoulder blade. 
Asked if Roethlisberger was the source of the disputed infor­mation, Tomlin said, "Not to my knowledge." 
The issue may be one of semantics. The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons describes a mild shoulder separation as a sprain of the AC ligament. It differs from more severe shoulder sep­arations in which the ligament is torn. 
Whatever the InJury, Hoethlisberger threw for 186 yards and a touchdown during Pittsburgh's 10-6 win over Cleveland on Sunday and is expected to play this Sunday against the Eagles. 
"He said it feels better than it did a week ago, which is good," Tomlin said. 
Roethlisberger was sacked three times Sunday but perhaps endured his hardest hit -from 350-pound Browns defensive tackle Shaun Rogers -after releasing the ball. Roethlisberger appeared to hold his arm gingerly after that play. 
Tomlin said Roethlisberger can do no further damage to the shoulder by playing. The coach was asked if it was a worry that his quarterback was missing so much practice time. 
"It really depends on the quarterback," Tomlin said. "Some guys require a great number of snaps to get pre­pared to play. Some guys can learn visually, film room and so forth. Thankfully with Ben he's a pretty quick study and sharp guy.... It doesn't take him a great number of reps to be pre­pared to play. 
"Hopefully it won't be an issue this week. I know it won't be an excuse." 
In other injury news, defen­sive end Brett Keisel has a calf strain. He is out for the Eagles game and likely for at least a month overall, though Tomlin said he would be evaluated "week to week." 
U.S. WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Top players join new league 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-U.S. national team players received phone calls Monday night informing them of which club each would join in the new Women's Professional Soccer league. 
Then they sat down for dinner together. 
"We were kind of afraid to see one another, because we were certain somebody would not be happy," goalie Hope Solo said. "That wasn't the case at all. People were having glasses of champagne and cheering, and the competition had already begun." 
The WPS announced the allo­cation of its biggest stars Tuesday, with each of the seven squads receiving three players. The league is scheduled to debut in April. 
Solo will suit up for St. Louis -she donned a Cardinals cap as she was introduced. Kristine Lilly, the second-leading scorer in the sport's history, will play for Boston. Offensive star Abby Wambach heads to Washington. 
The league will also have franchises in the Bay Area, Chicago, Los Angeles and New York/New Jersey. 
A contract between the WPS and the national team players association has yet to be com­pleted, commissioner Tonya Antonucci said. Antonucci had said in July that she expected to have the agreement finalized by now. Some small details remain to be resolved, she said Tuesday. 

Two-time NBA MVP and soc­cer buff Steve Nash, a part­owner in the league, helped Antonucci announce which players will play where. 
"I think it's only time that we had the best women in the world playing here in America, representing themselves, repre­senting the game, representing us at the highest level, setting the standard for women's soccer around the world," Nash said. 
The WPS seeks to succeed where the Women's United Soccer Association failed. WUSA was launched after the success of the 1999 World Cup, but fold­ed in 2003. 
"One of the biggest lessons learned was to be fiscally disci­plined on the business side and have an eye toward starting out realistically and growing it, and having a growth plan without trying to be at the end of your growth plan immediately," Antonucci said. 
WUSA had the star power of Mia Hamm, Julie Foudy, Brandi Chastain, Joy Fawcett and Lilly. The 37 -year-old Lilly is the only one still playing. She'll return to the field after taking ofT 2008 to have a baby. 
Can she add one lasting pro league to her long list of accom­plishments that includes five World Cups and three Olympics? 
"It's important because I think I've been a part of so much in soccer, from the first World Cup, the first Olympics, a part of the WUSA, now a part of this," Lilly said, as she held 2-month-old daughter Sidney Marie. "Now to bring it home with all these new faces to start here is great." 
Wambach, who broke her leg before the Olympics, expects to be ready for the league's first game. Walking without an apparent limp Tuesday, she's able to swim and ride a bike. By late January or early February, she hopes to be playing again. 
First she needs to build back the 15-20 pounds of muscle she lost after surgery. 
The underdog U.S. team won in Beijing without her. 
'The league was going to hap­pen regardless. so whatever kind ofpublicity and promotion we can piggyback off of from the gold medal that they won, we're going to take it," Wambach said. "I know that they're going to use it, because this league is so important to all of us." 



Save the date. Keep it really, really OPEN. 
join us on Software Freedom Day September 20th. It's your opportunity to show support for all things open source. While you're at it, join a Sun Open Source University Meetup at sun.corn/swfreedom. Change (Y)our World. Support Software Freedom Day. 
+sun. 
microsystems 

The Network is the Computer ™ 
© 2008 Sun Microsystems. Inc. Sun and the Sun Microsystems logo are registered marks and The Network is the Computer is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.------------------·--~--------------------­
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2009, SPRING 2010, AY 2009-10, SUMMER2009 
INFORMATIONMEETING 
Thursday, September 18,2008 5:30pm 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2008 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2009-2010 MARCH 1, 2009 FOR SUMMER 2009 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-ois 

prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob in tht far east, strategically chosen to naatch your career goals. Apply by Oeiober 31! 2008. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or .;n you have by theendof May, 2008) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For roore WormationJ oontact Steve Skaar (skaar.1@nd.edu) 

page 21 
2010 WORLD CUP 

Blatter happy with visit to Cape Town 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa­FIFA president Sepp Blatter says he danced for joy after arriving in South Africa to check on preparations for the 2010 World Cup. 
Glossing over concerns about delays, rising costs, rampant crime and lack of transporta­tion, Blatter visited Cape Town's new "jewel" of a stadi­um Monday. The project has been beset by political wran­gling but now is slightly ahead of schedule. 
He was less flattering about the national soccer team, which failed to qualify for the 2006 World Cup, seems likely to miss the 2010 African Nations Cup and hasn't won any of its last five matches ­including against lowly Guinea -since June. 
Blatter said South Africa should have taken advantage of the four years since it was awarded the tournament to build up a strong team. 
"In 1996 they were African Champions ... and where are they now? It's incredible and I cannot understand that," he said. "Do something; move it." 
Blatter said he would raise his concerns with the South African Football Association on Tuesday, when he tours the venue for the opening and final match at Johannesburg's Soccer City and meets anti­apartheid icon Nelson Mandela, whose lobbying helped bring the tournament to South Africa. 
Blatter stressed his trip was a courtesy visit rather than an official inspection. He played down fears that the ongoing turmoil in South Africa's rul­ing party, pitting incumbent President Thabo Mbeki against likely successor Jacob Zuma, could have repercussions for the World Cup if key ministers involved in the preparation are dismissed. 
"We are absolutely not con­cerned about the internal political problems in South Africa," Blatter said. "We are going to organize and deliver this World Cup and it will be a great, great event." 
For Blatter, the success of the 2010 tournament has become a personal crusade. He hopes it will create a lega­cy benefiting millions ou the continent. · 
"When I left the plane and arrived on African soil, I start­ed dancing," the 72-year-old Swiss said during a news con­ference with Mbeki on Sunday. 
He may need to muster his nimblest footwork to avoid the many obstacles that loom. At the top of the list is public transit, or the lack of it. 
The government has set aside $1.7 billion to improve rail and road links in venue cities. Organizers hope the much-vaunted and hugely expensive Gautrain connecting Johannesburg's international airport with the city center will be ready in time, but there is nothing similar planned for either Cape Town or Durban. 
In an interview with a local radio program, FIFA general­secretary Jerome Valcke gave reassurances about the gov­ernment's ability to rein in vio­lent crime in a country where more than 50 people are killed each day, often for as little as a cell phone. 

"I am not so much con­cerned by security today. I think we are going the right way," he said, adding it was impossible to be 100 percent safe even in cities like Paris and Zurich. He said local organizers were working closely with Interpol and for­eign police and security forces to keep out hooligans. 
The government plans to increase police to 190,000 by the time of the tournament, and he notes that such major events like the rugby and cricket world cups were held without serious incident. Police and the armed forces have staged high-profile dress rehearsals to prove they can protect South Africa's skies and seas from potential attack. 
So far, less than half the 55,000 rooms needed for visi­tors have been secured. FIFA plans to step up marketing to persuade hotel and guest house owners to sign up. South Africa has 80,000 grad­ed rooms -more than enough to satisfy FIFA, according to government figures. Although there is plenty of accommoda­tion in tourist centers like Cape Town and Durban and the economic hub of Johannesburg, rooms may be hard to find in more outlying areas like Polokwane. 
Earlier concerns about the speed of stadium construction have eased. The stadium in the southern coastal city of Port Elizabeth will not be ready for the 2009 Confederations Cup but should be ready for 2010. 
Work is ahead slightly ahead of schedule at Durban's semifi­nal venue, and at the two sta­diums in Johannesburg. Valcke said that even Beijing's Bird Nest Olympic stadium looked small compared to Soccer City. Even Cape Town's $490 million stadium -the most controversial because it is in the middle of prime real estate -is on track. 
Cape Town Mayor Helen Zille said the 68,000-seat sta­dium, the site of one semifinal, would be the "world's most spectacular stadium in the world's most spectacular city." 
The big unknown remains the weather, given that it will be winter. Temperatures are near freezing at night in Johannesburg. Gales and tor­rential rain are buffeting Cape Town, and even balmy Durban feels distinctly chilly. Valcke conceded it would be a chal­lenge to persuade supporters to stay and celebrate in frigid fan parks at night. 
South Africa's last white president, F.W. de Klerk, joined Blatter's entourage on a wet, windy day to visit the muddy Cape Town stadium site. De Klerk, who helped steer in multiracial democracy in 2004, said the nation was united behind the success of the World Cup. 
"All of us want 2010 to recapture the spirit of 1994 when we launched the new South Africa," he said. 

,,, 

page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 17, 2008 Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 2.) 



-~%~­ ~' A.sso~ .  
SAINT MARY'S  ff .~<::­-< N Q:::s  
COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, !N  NOTRE DAME  



MLB 
Nationals score one, shutout first-place Mets 
Loss to last-place Washington puts New York second in the NL East, despite a small cushion in the wild-card race 

LONDON PROGRAM 
APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2009 & SPRING 2010 Wednesday, September 17, 2008 101 DeBartolo 5:30pm 
SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES WELCOME! 
.,. 
.J'1"­"; 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It took six days for the New York Mets to squander a 3-game cushion in the NL East. Now, the only race they lead is for the wild card ­and not by much. 
Odalis Perez shut down the slumping Mets and scored the only run of the game, sending Washington to a 1-0 victory Tuesday night that knocked New York out of first place. 
Philadelphia moved a half­game in front with an 8-7 win at Atlanta. It's the first time the Mets, who have lost four of five, have been out of first place since Aug. 26. They lead struggling Milwaukee by a half-game in the wild-card standings. 
Needing wins in a tense pen­nant race, the free-falling Mets can't find a way to beat the lowly Nationals. 
Sounds the same as last September -only this flop hap­pened faster. 
"We've got to dig down deep," David Wright said. "This is what makes it fun. You've got, what, 12, 13 games left and that's going to decide the season? This is what you work hard for, this is what you prepare for, and as an athlete, a competitor, you love this." 
The Mets and their fans aren't loving the flashback to last sea­son, when New York held a seven-game advantage with 17 to play only to lose the division crown to Philadelphia and miss the playoffs in one of the worst collapses in baseball history. 
They were up by 3 games with 17 to go this year, but that lead is gone. And on Tuesday night, New York also lost outfielder Fernando Tatis. for the rest of the season to a separated shoul­der. 
The Mets went 1-5 against the Nationals over the final two weeks last season -a big rea­son for their massive meltdown. This time, New York has dropped the first two in a four­game series at Washington mainly because it can't fmd any offense. • 
The Mets' four hits Tuesday wasted an outstanding start by Mike Pelfrey. The one real threat by the Mets was thwarted when Willie Harris made another key catch against New York, some­thing he's done regularly over the past year or so. 
"We're a better-hitting club than what we've shown here," manager Jerry Manuel said. "We've just got to do a better job, period, offensively." 
A day after John Lannan held the Mets to one hit over seven innings, New York mustered just two in the first seven innings against Perez (7-10). 
The lefty retired 13 in a row between those two hits -which came in the first and sixth innings -and never let a Mets runner advance beyond second base. Perez struck out six and did not walk a batter in 7 1-3 innings, his longest outing since Aug. 11, 2005. 
"He had the best command of the s·eason so far," Washington manager Manny Acta said. "He threw every one of his pitches for strikes. He was able to stop the middle of the lineup. He was just tremendous." 
Perez gave way to Mike Hinckley after giving up singles to pinch-hitters Ramon Castro and Robinson Cancel in the eighth. Hinckley got Jose Reyes to ground into a fielder's choice, putting runners on first and third with two outs. He then struck out Ryan Church to end the threat. 
Hinckley has opened his major league career without giving up a run in his first nine innings. 
"I said to him, 'Great job,"' Perez said. "'You saved my game."' 
Joel Hanrahan worked a per­fect ninth for his ninth save. He struck out Wright and Carlos Delgado. 
Pelfrey (13-10) was the hard­luck loser. He allowed seven hits and four walks in seven innings. 
"Sometimes you go up against someone that's very good, and Odalis Perez was very good tonight," he said. 




page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
NFL 
Hurricane Ike forces Texans from playing at home 
Houston hopes repairs to the structural damage on the roof of Reliant Stadium will be completed by early October 
Williams' mother, whose roof 
Associated Press 
was torn off during Ike. 
HOUSTON -Mario Williams "I lost the shingles first and dodged downed trees to get then the water started coming out of' his neighborhood and in before my ceiling col­worried about the safety and lapsed," he said. "I lost stuff. I seeurity of' his home as he left lost a lot. But, you don't lose for practice with a tree anything when you've still got splayed on one end of it. your family." 
He and the rest of the Tight end Owen Daniels' 
llouston Texans home suffered 
returned to extensive dam­
praetiee "It's really dij]icult, age from Ike, Tuesday f'or the not just for myself, with the eeiling 
first time sincn in one room col­
but for everyone.
llurrieane Ike, lapsing. trying to con­You've got to go work Surprisingly he eentrate on and you've got to never lost power f'ootball when and despite its
make a living. But at
most didn't damage, his have nlectricity the same time you're home became a and many were thinking: '/ hope my refuge this dealing with weekend for
place is still all 
significant dam­teammates look­
right."'
age to tlwir ing to escape homes. from the swel­"I f'eel very Mario Williams tering heat. lueky," said Coach Gary
Texans defensive end
Williams, tlw Kubiak was top overall pi<~k encouraged by in 2006. "My ama is very bad. the workout on Tuesday and is Tlwre's tons of' trees that are trying to balance the need for down, lots of' trees that fell his team to prepare for this through houses, but thank weekend's game with concern goodness no one was injured." for players and their families. 
Williams said a tree crashed "Our families come first and into his house during the we have to evaluate the situa­storm. but lw's still living there tion with each player's family, despite tlw damage and laek of' eaeh coach's family and do electricity. everything we can to put them 
"It's really diiTicult. not just in the best possible envirnn­f'or myself', but f'or everyon<~." ment so they are comfortable he said. "You've got to go work and thny can come up here and you've got to make a liv­and do their work," he said. i n g . B u t a t t h ~~ same t i m e "It's a juggling act right now you're thinking: 'I hope my but a lot of people are worhng plaen is still all right."' extremely hard to make it 
The Texans had been ofT work." sincn Thursday night. They Andre Johnson's home was returned to spared major work Tuesday damage in the on th1~ir practice "/lost the shingles storm, but he field aeross the was without
first and then the
strent from power until Heliant Stadium. water started coming Monday night. w h o s e in before my ceiling Now that he has retraet<ible roof electricity, he's
collapsed. I lost stuff. 
lost five pieces invited his in the storm I lost a lot. But, you teammates to allowing large don't lose anything hang out at his ehunks of' debris house until their
when you've still got 
to fall into it. service is 
They had a your family. " restored. more than hour­Johnson, who long workout in dealt with sev­
Mario Williams 
the shadow of eral hurricanes
Texans defensive end
the damaged growing up in stadium where Miami, said he dozens of 18-wheelers lined up was surprised by the extent of to prepare to fan out and dis­damage in the city. tribute food and supplies to "It was worse than I thought areas that were ravaged in the it would be," he said. "After storm. the hurricane was over I just 
Defensive tackle Travis got in my truck and rode Johnson's home was destroyed around to look at some of the in the hurricane. He lives in a things. I think the most shock­suburb near the home of ing thing was when I saw 
THIS WEEK IN 
F.rL, Sent.. 1J9th
$

J -~-· ~-...,. ~·· .,,,,.,/ ... ":4t 
vs~ Liberit
"""<·.·-··· ~··-"J .,.. ~ 
·:;;.. ~'~ ·~; .:~-::> 
'JJ.L i::J 


Hurricane Ike caused severe structural damage to Reliant Stadium, the home of the Houston Texans earlier this week, causing the team to relocate. 
pieces of the stadium missing of an expert on the subject. repairs to their damaged stadi­off the roof. You wouldn't ''I've got Mickey Loomis on um can be complPied in time expect it to happen to the sta­my speed dial," Smith said of for their next home game dium." the Saints general manager. against Indianapolis on Oct. 5. 
Texans owner Bob McNair "Obviously they Johnson said getting back to football have experi­knows the was a welcome respite from enced it, so I've 'Tm tired ofsitting Texans faee a the events of the past few actually been tough road in
around the house and
days. talking to playing 15
feeling sorry for 
"It certainly is for me,:' he Mickey over the straight games said. ''I'm tired of sitting last couple of myselfand the fact after their bye around the house and feeling weeks about les­was moved to
that we don't have 
sorry for myself and the fact sons that they last weekend to 
power and we have
that we don't h~ve power and learned, things accommodate we have trees crashed across that they would trees crashed across the change in the front of the house and all do differently the schedule
the front ofthe house 
that sort of thing." and how we can because of the
and all that sort of
"We just have to get on with try to approach hurricane. Ile it and it's nice to get out here our situation to thing." hopes the team and start thinking about foot­try and work can fight ball and sort of get away from through it." through this
Bob McNair 
some of the other every day The Saints and become an
Texans owner
problems. That's one of the played all of inspiration to benefits of sports." their games the area as it 
The Texans travel to face the away from the recovers. Titans on Sunday after moving city after they were displaced "I think we could be a bright last weekend's game with by Hurricane Katrina in 2005. spot for the city," he said. "A Baltimore to Nov. 9. General Four games were played at lot of people are going through manager Rick Smith said he's LSU, three in San Antonio and tough times and maybe us gotten advice on how to deal one in East Rutherford, N.J., going out winning games could with his team in the wake of against the New York Giants. make a lot of people around the hurricane from something The Texans are hoping that here happy." 
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
Feed your future 
• 

See how many ways there are to create your own path·at PwC. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 

Wednesday, September 17, 2008 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
and advance significantly in the NCAA Tournament," Brown said earlier this year. 
Sophomore middle blocker Kellie Sciacca was named to the Diet Coke Classic All-Tournament tnam after she registered a team­high nine kills on a .350 average against No. 8 Minnesota. 
Based on non-conference play, Cincinnati. Connecticut and Gnorgetown all sit atop the stand­ings with 6-3 records, but those marks could be a little mislead­ing. 
"Nobody is tearing it up right now," Brown said. 
Senior middle blocker Jessie Nevitt, who was named Big East Player of the Week as she moved past 1 ,200 career kills with 46 in the ASU Sheraton Invitational over the weekend, leads Cincinnati. 
"They have a good balance of youth and experience," Brown said. "Their middle bloeker .Justine Nevitt L<> very strong lead­
. ing their team." 
Connecticut blasted their way to a 6-3 record by beating up on some non-conference foes, but their losses to unranked Albany, Michigan State and OW­Milwaukee raise questions. 
Huskie junio·r libero Jessica Isaac earned a spot on the MSU Showcase All-Tournament team as she combined for five assists and 36 digs, including a 20-dig performance against the Panthers. 
Freshman Jibero Tory Rezin earned Big East Rookie of the Week honors and has been a pleasant surprise for the Hoyas. Junior outside hitter Jessica Hardy and sophomore middle blocker Vanessa Dorismond were 
0-line 
continued from page 28 
out of the ring. It was hard work," Young said. 
Offensive line coach John Latina said that his players are definitely pulling their weight but the lack of sacks should be attributed to the entire offense. 
"Our tight ends block, our receivers are doing a good job getting open, those are team stats and I've always believed that," he said . 
.Jimmy Clausen has helped his own cause several times already this year by fueling pressure and getting rid of the ball, something he strugglnd with in his first year. 
"It really is a combination of everything -the backs and the 
quarterback  making  good  
reads,"  left  tackle  Mike  
Turkovich said.  

Turkovieh said he struggled last year when he played guard, but was. committed to make him­self a better player in his final season at Notre Dame. 
"[Last yearll wasn't seeing the whole picture, I was just kind of doing my own thing," he said. "As an offensive line you have live guys out there and you have to see the bigger picture." 
The Irish have also shown that their line is deeper than before in their first two games. Last week starting guard Chris Stewart was playing injured throughout the first half. In the second half true freshman Trevor Hobinson stepped in and took over right where Stewart left off. 
"I thought Trevor really did a nice job for us," Latina said. "The good thing was I didn't notice him. On the offensive line if you are doing your job you don't get noticed." 
also named to the Georgetown Oassic All-Tournament team this weekend. 
Losses to unranked American, North Carolina and Missouri State also make Georgetown's early success suspect to a much tougher Big East schedule down the road. 
Preseason favorites St. John's (5-5) and Louisville (3-4) have h~d much more trouble opening their seasons, but they have also been subject to much tougher competi­tion. 
"St. John's and Louisville both have had the toughest sehedules so l'ar," Brown said. "They are bot~ very strong and very physi­cal. 
Much of the two teams strength comes from tlieir connections to players from Eastern Europe, Brown said. 
"They both rely pretty heavily on foreign players, which gives them a lot of big, physical, experi­enced players," she said. 
St. John's has losses to No. 9 California, Missouri, and LSU in its fight to .500. 
Leading .St. John's is senior libero Lena Lee with 164 digs . 
The Hed Storm has not lost at home since Nov. 11, 2005, going 24-0 during that time. St. John's has won all 10 home matches in each of the last two seasons. 
Louisville has also had a very difficult road, losing to No. 1 Penn State over the weekend. Senior outside hitter Tatyana Kolesnikova earned all-tourna­ment honors at the Chicago Classic this weekend. 
The Irish will start up Big East play in two weeks after hosting non-conference Liberty, UC Irvine, and Western Michigan this weekend in the Golden Dome Invitational. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
So far this year the line is doing so well that they are getting noticed. After the Michigan win, Clausen told the media that he would be taking the entire line out to dinner this week for all of their hard work. He hasn't made good on his promise yet, but the guys up front aren't going to let him forget. 
"We're still working on it. We're in negotiations," Young said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd-edu 
Sell 
MLB 

Marlins solve Osvvalt, beat Astros 

Sell re>r F~EE, 
c:>17-li17e 
Homes -Rentals -Cars -Computers -Appliances 
Nee.d extra cash? Searching for t::hat special needed 11::ern? Try our local website www.SeiiBuyit.c:om. lt:"s £reel List: an item vvlt:h photo. unlimited dlscrlptlon. until sold. 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
, presents 
The Cushwa Center Lecture 
Women, Religion, and Agency: Some Reflections on Writing American Women's Religious History 
Catherine A. Brekus, the University of Chicago . Divinity School 
Thursday, September 18, 2008 4:30pm 131 DeBartolo Hall 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The Houston Astros are running out of time to solve their problems at the plate. 
Jorge Cantu hit a three-run homer and rookie Chris Volstad allowed one run in eight innings to lead the Florida Marlins to a 5­1 win over the Astros on Tuesday night 
The Astros, who have lost three straight, entered the game 2 games behind Milwaukee and Philadelphia in the NL wild-card race. 
"We've got to figure out a way to get our offense going a little bit," Astros manager Cecil Cooper said. "Either they're making good pitches or we're not making good swings. Something's not happen­ing." 
Cantu's three-run homer in the first inning stopped Houston ace Roy Oswalt's franchise-record scoreless innings streak at 32 1-3 innings. Oswalt (15-10), who had lasted ~t least eight innings in five 
-coc::om
II. 

of his previous six starts, allowed five runs -three earned -and six hits over six innings. He struck out 10 to tie his season high. 
"We're playing the same way we did a month ago. We're just trying to go out there and play nine innings and see if we can win," Oswalt said. "Tonight, we got behind early and never caught up." 
Volstad (5-3) gave up four hits in his first start against the Astros and the second-longest outing of his career. The rookie right-han­der struck out four and didn't walk a batter. 
"After the game someone told me 97 pitches, 72 fastballs," Volstad said. "I just mixed in some off-speed pitches to keep them off' balance but it was mostly the two-seamer." 
Florida's lineup rattled Oswalt early. After Cantu's home run­his 27th of the season -Dan Uggla scored on a double by Cody Ross to give the Marlins a 4-0 lead. Oswalt then hit Alfredo Amezaga with a pitch, which drew warnings for both teams. 
In the second inning, Mike Jacobs doubled to the deepest part of Dolphin Stadium to score I lanley Ramirez and make it 5-0. Oswalt settled down after Jacobs' double, but the damage was done. 
Michael Bourn doubled to open the eighth inning and advanced on Brad Ausmus' fly to right. He scored on pinch-hitter Kazuo Matsui's groundout to make it 5­1. 


~-~-~------~--------------------~-~-------. 
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

JUMBLE 
JJWJW~JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REESA 
1 

rJ 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l;~ff'lrJ 
ETIORP 
I [ J tJ 
www.jumble.com 
I GUMPSY± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

UNWRAPPING THE:IR TRE:ATS DURING THE: COWBOY MOVIE: MADE: THE:M --­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r J l 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: rI I I I I I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  FLORA  HOARD  (Answers tomorrow) UNLESS HERMIT  
Answer:  For a dentist, making a living is  - 
HAND TO MOUTH  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Madeline Zirua. :!3; Alexis Bledel, 27; Marc Anthony, .W; Jennifer Tilly, 50 
Happy Birthday: Too much may be riding on your ability to stay calm and let things play out to the end where your financial, legal or even medical concerns come into play . Do your research. Its a \vaiting game this year and, the more observant you are. the better you will do. Your numbers are 7, 10, 18. ~~. 39, .t.t, :16 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Before you get into the middle of the fin,, make sure you know what you are dealing with. This can turn into a memorable day with lnts ofro­mance or it can go down the drain if you let jealousy get the better of you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are in a much better position than you realize. Broaden your horizons but don't think you have to spend a lot in the process. Ask ques­tions and you will be shown how to make your next move. '3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Things are heating up socially. Your ideas alone will draw a lot of attention and potential partnerships that .:an lead to profits. Love is looking good, so renew vows or make a new commitment. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Acceptance will be key when it comes to getting things done and holding on to what you already have. A short trip will result in inforn1ation that will help you achieve your most recent tasks. An older or experienced person in your life will help you. :! stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Follow your intuition and you'll make the right choice. A trip will pay off. Someone who's a little bohemian will inttigue you mentally. physically and emotionally. Love is apparent: plan your actions. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be taken ad,·antage of financially if you let your emotions lead you. Instead of spending. focus on bringing money in and ridding your­self of any debts you've incurred. Now is a great time to clear the air. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be difficy.lt to say no to, so pull in favors and plan a fabulous evening with someone you love to spend time \vith. Problems regarding home renovations or dealing with people you live with will escalate if you don't stay calin. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be tempted to get involved in something that sounds too good to be true. Do your research and you'll fmd out that someone is trying to trick you. Don'tlet your jealousy or emotions get the better of you. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Expect to advance one way or another. If you lose your job, a better one will become available. If you apply for a new position. you will not be denied. It's all a matter of taking the initiative without overselling what you have to offer. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19):·Don't let your heart rule your pocketbook. Rely on a trusted and conservative friend to show you the way to turn a little into a lot. A senti­mental moment may take you back to a past relationship that is bener left alone. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't disappoint someone who counts on you. Your intuition will help you move into the next phase of your life, financially and personally. A promise made will be kept, allowing you far more maneuverability. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You don't have tube pushy or manipulative to get your way. Simplicity, fair play and looking for the best personality fit will be most important. Before approaching anyone. be sure to ha.\'e your strategy totally worked out and ready to go. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are interesting. intelligent and constantly in search of new infor­mation. You are emotional. adaptable· and prefer to journey down unique paths. 
Eugenia's Web sires: astrondl'ice.com.for fun. eugenialast.com for confidential consultaTions 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Forces 6 Show off at the 
gym. say 10 Fingered, briefly 14 Come .... of the 
rain 15 Disappeared 16 Rise by the 
shore 17 Kitty 20 Hardly anything 21 Melville title 22 Atlantic City 
casino. with "the" 23 Resume datum 25 Things from 
faraway lands 27 Kitty 29 Poetic 
preposition 
30 "We not amused" 31 Place to kick 
back 
32 Grant portrayer 35 Annual coli. basketball 
contest 37 Where to get off 41 Gasoline choice: 
Abbr. 43 _ Smiley of 
"Sesame Street" 45 Cellular carrier? 46 Kitty 52 Flatter, in a way 53 Binds in a 
bundle 54 Therapists' org. 55 Humble reply to 
praise 57 Book Club 59 Kitty 62 The Stooges, 
e.g. 63 Main idea 64 "S.N.L." alum 
Cheri 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Members in a 100-member club: Abbr.
. 

66 Maker of moving walkways 67 Pesach feast 
Down Lock feature 
2 Canines' neighbors 3 Available · 
4 Terrarium denizen 
5 Like an inscribed pillar 
6 Some N.F.L. scores: Abbr. 
7 Plumb crazy 8 Paint type 
9 Reproduced, in a way 
10 "Rise and Fall of _....... Amin" (1981 film) 
11 Hoffman who has won two Oscars 
12 Tie up 13 Wedding hiree 
18 Spring Air rival 
19 Was imminent 24 Adventurers' tale 
26 Music quality 
27 Soup spherule 
28 Neutral hue 33 Lead-in to while 34 Stick 36 Spots for soaks 38 Served as an 
intra to 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Victor Fleming 
39 Corporate 47 Diamond 56" Can"
-gadfly's authority (Sammy Davis purchase, 
Jr. maybe 
autobiography)

48 Vitamin in liver 
40 Make use of 
58 Move a bit 49 Miss Piggy's pal 42 "Bye now!" 
60 Ring victories, 44 Gleeful shout for short 
50 Dupes 46 Super Bowl XLII 61 Sumter and winners 51 Dojo discipline McHenry: Abbr. 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
.. 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Narne ______________~---------------------------­Address ________________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
~-----~--~ ~--~~~~---­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, September 17, 2008 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 
Hold the line 
Irish offensive line showing major improvements through first two games, hasn't allowed a sack 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Euitor 
After two games in 2007, Notre Dame quarterbacks had been sacked 11 times for a loss of 87 total yards. 
Two games into the 2008 sea­son the Irish have yet to give up a single sack. Last Saturday the line held strong against virtually the same Michigan defensive front that got to the quarterback eight times last season. 
"I think it's a step forward," junior tackle Sam Young said. "We'rn only two games in and having no sacks is definitely something we're proud of, but we rocognize that we have to keep that up and keep Jimmy's jersey as clean as possible every week." 
The improved offensive line has been a huge part of Notre Dame's 2-0 start this year. The guys up front attribute their early success to a new attitude and an off-season of hard work. 
The group's core spent their summer in Florida working together to get better. They spent long days pushing sleds, flipping tires and even playing some improvised games ol" sumo wrestling. 
"You just lock into each other and push until someone comes 
see 0-LINE/page 26 


SMC SOCCER 
Belles to face Hope in non-conference rna tch 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Fresh ofT il'i second consecutive victory in the Sal Vacarro Tournament this past weekend, the Saint Mary's soccer team opens its home schedule with a non-conference match agains( I lope College. 
Although the match is consid­ered a non-conference match, the Belles arc very familiar with !lope, who is also a member of the MIAA. Saint Mary's always see I lope as a formidable oppo­nent who is always at the top of the conference. 
Hope, who enters the match with a 3-3-0 record, ranks third all-time in winning percentage in the MIAA and had at least a sham of thP. conference title for threP. eonsecutive seasons from 
200:~-2005. 
Th1~ Belles have a lot to build on from their performance in last woekend's Sal Vacarro Tournament, where thny took home their sP.cond consecutive title in a shootout victory. llowevor. according to lirst year coach Hyan Crabbe, the Belles will not rest on their laurels. 
"We have an incredibly big challnnge ahead of us," he said, "Hope is a quality program and playing them in a non-conference match will certainly test every­thing we have worked on up to this point." 
Despite the quality of their opponent, coach Crabbe has high expectations for the match. 
"In terms of expectations for tomorrow, I simply want the team to continue improving upon the positive strides we made over the weekend," Crabbe said. "Roles are becoming more defined on the field and we are getting better organized with each day. I think. we can come out and compete and make it a good match." 
The Belles desire for a competi­tive match will hopefully reverse their fortunes against !lope. Saint Mary's dropped both of its regu­lar season matches against HopH last season, falling both times by a score of 3-1, and the Flying Dutch eliminated the Belles from the lirst round of the MIM tour­nament in a tightly contested 1-0 match. Dating back to 2006, the Belles have a four-match losing streak against the Flying Dutch. 
The match is scheduled to begin at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Tean1 ends up eighth at Classic 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame finished eighth at the Cougar Classic, as senior Lisa Maunu paced the squad with an overall score of two­under par (214). 
The Georgia Bulldogs took the title with their six-under par (858) on the tournament 
Participating in her first col­legiate tournament, freshman Becca Hunter was second on the Irish with her seven-over par (223) effort, good for 37th place overall. To get to that point, llunter hit her tourna­ment-high round of one-over par (73) on the final day of the Classic. 
Sophomore So-Hyun Park came in third for Notre Dame, thanks in part to her two-over par (74) on the final day to end up in 11-over par (227), finish­ing in a tie for 47th. 
Coming up even with Park was junior teammate Annie Brophy who also reached the 11-over par mark. Finishing ofl" the Irish was junior Kristen Wetzel, who came in a tie for 50th with a 15-over par (231). 
The Irish return to action this weekend when the will head to East Lansing, Mich. to partici­pate in the Mary Fossum Invitational. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish looking for fresh start 
Big East play to start in two weeks, brings clean slate for 3-6 squad 
By JARED JEDICK Sporrs Writer 
The best thing about Big East play coming up for the Irish is that everyone's records are still the same within the conference. 
Notre Dame (3-6) has a steep hill to climb, however, after . being ranked fourth in the Big East preseason coaches' poll behind Louisville, St. John's and Cincinnati and having below .500 non-conference start. 
The main positive that the Irish can take out of their early losses is that they were against top quality opponents. Three of their losses came against No. 8 Minnesota, No. 9 California and No. 19 Cal Poly in the Network!AVCA Division I coach­es' poll. 
"The fact that our schedule has been very good is a real pos­itive for us," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "This is a pivotal time to get on a winning streak and gain momentum heading inio the Big East." 
Notre Dame has its focus set squarely on the Big East, and these non-conference losses can­not ruin the season. 
"We want to win the Big East 
see BIG EAST/page 26 · 


CASEY CARNEY!The Observer Freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy bumps a shot in a 3-1 win over Nevada August 30. 



