
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Genocide victims share experiences 
Survivors of the Holocaust and Hutu-Tutsi Rwandan crisis speak at Kroc conference 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
As part of a two-day confer­ence called "Witnessing Genocide: Truth, Reconciliation and the Media," Aaron Elster told of his victimization by the Nazis during the Holocaust, and Egide Karuranga discussed the Tutsi persecution in the Rwandan genocide during his talk Sunday. 
Elster focused on his intense fear of death and strong desire to survive after the Nazis invad­ed the ghetto occupied by Elster and his family. He was 10 years old in 1942 when he awoke from sleep and shepherded into a hidden room, a means to escape transportation to a con­centration camp. 
"Three dozen souls tried to squeeze into an average-sized bedroom," Elster said. "I was shaking and trying to hold back tears. I didn't want to die." 
The survival of the occupants of the room, he said, depended on the ability to be absolutely silent. Elster remembered hear­ing an outburst from an infant. The people in the room warned the woman to quiet the child, Elster said, and he watched as the mother exerted pressure on the baby's mouth. 
"I saw the legs of the baby flailing until they moved no more," Elster said. "I instantly wondered if my mother would do that to me." 
Despite these desperate measures, the Nazi guards dis­covered the Jews in hiding. 
"Demonic faces appeared, and gunshots shattered the silence," Elster said. 
"Total chaos" ensued and dead bodies lined the streets outside, marring the beauty of a sunny autumn day, Elster said. 
see GENOCIDE/page 3 

OIT installs shred bins in all residence halls 
Program in conjunction with University Archives helps students dispose ofsensitive material 
from physical security to computer security and paper records," said Michael Chapple, OIT's Informational Security Professional. 
University archivist Laura Edgar, who also helped to organize the initiative, said the shred bins will assist stu­dents in disposing of sensitive documents in a safe manner. 
"We want to give students the option to securely destroy of sensitive materials," Edgar said. 
Chapple said the Information Security Program noticed that there was a need for shred bins in the resi­dence halls after conducting a 
see BINS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Tvvojuniors 
•

receive awards 
Goldwater Foundation honors Riedl, Manion 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Two Notre Dame students, sophomore Eric Riedl and junior Andrew Manion, have been awarded scholarships for the 2008-2009 academic year from the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. 
Riedl and Manion are math and music double majors from Minnesota and plan on pursuing graduate degrees in mathematics after graduation, a University press release said. 
The prestigious scholarship, to which 1,035 students nationwide applied, covers the cost of tuition, fees, books, room and board up to a maximum of $7,500 per year, the release said. 
Congress established the schol­arship in 1986 to honor Senator Barry M. Goldwater, who served for 56 years as a soldier and statesman. 
The scholarship aims to aid students in the fields of mathe­matics, science and engineering to pursue careers in their respec­tive fields. 
Only 321 students nationwide received the scholarship. 
"The application process was fairly similar to a college applica­tion, just a little more work," Riedl said. 
Riedl started working on the application in mid-October, he said, and got the nomination from Notre Dame on Dec. 12. 
Riedl said the first step of the process was to submit an applica­tion to the University so that it can choose its four nominees. 
see GOLDWATER/page 4 


By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
The Office of Information Technology's Information Security Program has teamed with the University Archives department to install shred bins in all 27 residence halls to help students securely dis­pose of sensitive materials. 
The program is part of a campus-wide program to draw awareness to how the University accesses and processes information of all forms. 
"We're in the second year of a four year program that looks at all the ways we han­dle information -everything 


Dance n1arathon raises over $85,000 


Participants stay up all night for Riley Children's Hospital in Indy 
By LIZ HARTER 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Mer staying on their teet for 12 hours in support of children who can't at Riley Children's Hospital in Indianapolis, students from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and I Ioly Cross College were rewarded with the news that the event raised over $1:55,000. 
The money raised at the event, which ran from 8 p.m. Friday to 8 
a.m. Saturday, will go to the hospital, whieh never dP.nies care to a patient, receives no state funding and is entirely dependent on corporate and private donation.<>. 
"Never in my wildest dreams would l ever have thought we would have raised that much money," Dance Marathon co-president Francesca Johnson said. 
Proceeds from the Dance Marathon, which is in its third year at the College, has grown each year. Organizers more than doubled their first year total in 2007, rai<>ing over $47,000 while becoming the third biggest marathon in the state of Indiana. 
This year, the event raised $85,296.33, beating the total raised at Purdue University by about $10,000 to become the second biggest marathon behind Indiana University. Indiana has hosted a dance marathon for the past 18 years. 
"I don't think any of us expected it," Dance Marathon public relations chair Kelly Deranek said. "We hoped and worked hard to do so, but beating [Purdue] by so much, I don't think any of us could have expected that. It was a complete shock." 
The 378 participants were enter­tained by local band the Super Soul Fighters and the Saint Mary's cheer­leaders. They also kept busy playing improvi<>ed games of volleyball and basketball and sticking themselves to a giant Velcro wall. 
see MARATHON/page 4 

Professor exan1ines Cuba with art exhibit 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's communica­tions and performance studies professor Shannon Rose Riley discussed her photo exhibit, "He-Imagining Cuba," at the college's Cushwa-Leighton Library Friday. 
The collection featured over 2,000 images Riley took in her three years of travel to Cuba. 
Riley said the collection aims to take issue against pre­dominant U.S. views of Cuba. 
"I hope to challenge tradi­

tiona!, stereotypical views," Riley said. While researching Cuba­
U.S. relations and contempo­rary Cuban theatre, Riley encountered unexpected images typical Americans cannot see due to travel restrictions. 
"I was completely surprised at a lot of things I had been seeing," Riley said. 
The concept of the exhibit, Riley said, was to pair stereo­typical images with more sur­prising images to highlight 
see CUBA/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 7, 2008 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Don'tvvanna get served 
Although it goes without saying 
that North Dining flail is far bntter 
to any other eat­
ing establishment 
on campus with 
the words "Dining 
llall'' in it. a 
recent changn 
has led to a 
severn slip in its 
superiority. 
For some rea­
son unbeknownst 
to nearly all 
North Quad res­
idents, you're no 
longer allowed 
to serve yourself 
for pasta stir-
fry, Chinese stir-
fry. or fajitas. 
You know the sign at the exits to 
all the dining halls'! The one that 
begins with "You may eat as much 
as you like while you are in the din­
ing hall ... " Well part of the sign no 
longer true at North Dining llall (the 
part about leaving with only one 
fruit or pastry was always a joke). 
Previously, I would pile my pasta 
high with as much rigatoni, pepper­
oni. and spinach as I like. Now, I 
must bn satisfied with however 
much the "service associate" deems 
necessary. 
Ever since football season, I've looked forward to Fajita Fridays. I rmnomber af'ter pep rallies going back to tho dining hall and waiting in linn for what SIHHlHHI like (and was) an inordinate amount of time. But when I got those four delicious, slimming fajitas on my plate, it was all worth it. Last Friday. with the weekend at hand and fajitas ready to be eaten. I waitml in linn for just as long. But this time, because the portioning was no longer under my control. the payout was only two fajitas. Two fajitas? That was just enough to get me excited to eat the othnr two fajitas I usually get. Instead. I was faced with tho two options of either waiting in line for another 15 minutes just for another two fajitas or leaving the dining hall unsatisfied. Dejected. and with other things to do on my Friday night, I went back to my room, stomach unfilled. 
Maybe, I'm just a control freak, but if I want exactly one and a half spoonfuls of sausage on my pasta, why not? Sure, you can say "a little bit morn" or "a little bit less", but they never get it exactly right, do they? Everything else in the dining hall is serve-yourself (except for the make-your-own-pizza, which I would not trust myself with). why is the stir-fry any different? 
One more thing, the other dining hall on campus still offers serve­yourself stir-fry. I suppose we north campus residents aren't as trustwor­thy with our food as our south cam­pus brethren. II' this deeision isn't reversed, I may have to take my business to this other dining hall. It may be a bit ol' an extra walk, but if it mnans I'll have total control over my food (especially with the recent tuition hike, we deserve it), it would be more than worth it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd. edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The ( )bserver regards irsdf as a professional publica­lion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE ANY EATING UTENSIL, WHAT WOULD YOU BE AND WHY? 

Laura Nawrocki  Lisa Russ  Jeremy Thornton  Joe Bramanti  Kate Zinsmeister  Anne Laughlin  
junior  junior  law student  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Farley  Farley  off-campus  Fisher  McGlinn  McGlinn  
."A little spoon  "You think I  "A spark ­ it's  "A chopstick  ':4 hand,  ':4 scooper-fork  
-no  could be the big  the best ofboth  because  because I'm a  -its a dining  
explanation  spoon?"  worlds.,  Chinese food  barbarian. ,  hall invention.,  


needed., 
Electrocuted rat causes Stockholm power outage 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden­The electrocution of a fat rat in an electric station Saturday caused a three­hour power outage in Stockholm's central train station, halting elevators and escalators. 
The early morning out­age led to some delays in train traffic, said Jesper Ekenlund, a spokesman for power company Furtum. Nearby hotels and shops also were affected, he said. 
"The rat had sneaked into a secondary substa­tion and came into contact 
TODAY 
D:: 




is good., 

with some parts that caused it to short circuit," he said. 
"It must have been real­ly big because there's a certain distance between the parts it touched." 
Ekenlund said Fortum will now have to decon­taminate the area where the rat met its fate. 
Naked man climbs onto roof of his moving car 
READING, Pa. -A Heading man whose mini­van crashed after he climbed on its roof while driving about 55 miles per hour is in fair condition this weekend. 
Police in West Heading say the 38-year-old man later stripped naked and led them on a chase along the highway. 
Authorities are not iden­
tifying the man, who is not 
charged. 
He remains in a Heading hospital recovering from what witnesses call a deep gash in his side. 
Police say they used Taser jolts and pepper spray during the chase Friday but only subdued the man when they tack­led him. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

IN BRIEF 
Thane Rosenbaum, human rights law professor, critical­ly-acclaimed novelist, and essayist on culture and poli­tics, will give a lecture enti­tled "After Auschwitz and the Twin Towers: Trauma and Memory" today at 7:45 
p.m. in McKenna Hall. 
A town hall discussion called "Evaluating Obama's Speech on Race: A Town Hall Meeting on Haec Helations in America" will take plaee Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
The Student Immigration Forum will take place Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The play "The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlowe play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil, will be performed April S-13, 17 and 1S at 7:30 p.m. in the Deeio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Howard Hall Bone Marrow Drive will take place from 12 to S p.m. in the O'Dooley Hoom of LaFortune. 
Anne Thompson, Chief Environmental Correspondent at NBC News, will give a lecture called "Green is the 'new black', but will it stay in style?'' at 
10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH 52 HIGH 58 LOW 43 LOW 35 

TRAVIS ALLENrThe Observer 

Notre Dame alumna Andrew Sheehan and Steve Kurtz play ultimate during the Whitesmoke tournament Saturday in South Bend. The tournament was hosted by the Notre Dame Ultimate club. 
OFFBEAT 
LLI :::1: 
!d: 
LLI 
== 
...1 
cs: 
CJ 






0 

..... HIGH 67 53 63 49 
LOW 53 40 41 36 
HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 


Atlanta 67 I 51 Boston 46 I 34 Chicago 56 I 40 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 85 I 68 Los Angeles 67 I 51 Minneapolis 45 1 32 New York 50 I 40 Philadelphia 52 I 42 Phoenix 84 I 59 Seattle 48 I 39 St. Louis 67 I 49 Tampa 85 I 67 Washington 55 1 47 Monday, April 7, 2008 
Genocide 
continued from page 1 
"The fear of death and the pain of dying were terrifying me," he said. 
While the Gestapo busied themselves with the task of rounding up prisoners, Elster's father crouched and whis­pered instructions to escape. Elster moved through the damp ground, slid into the muddy sewer, and crawled through a barbed wire fence to escape. 
"[My sister Sarah's] eyes haunted me. How could I have left my family?" he said. 
While on the run, he hid in the forest and dug up raw potatoes for food. 
Elster discovered the where­abouts of his mother, who was working in a Nazi labor camp. After the Nazis exterminated the majority of the Jews in the camp, they kept about 50 pris­oners to clean up the remains of the dead, Elster said. His mother was among the work­ers that survived. 
Upon reuniting with her, Elster received instructions to seek refuge with an old neigh­bor in the town. while the mother stayed behind, hiding in a barn. 
"I felt abandoned. Mothers are supposed to protect their children," he said. 
Elster then returned to his town, where he begged an old neighbor to help him. The woman reluctantly gave him her attic to hide in, Elster said. lie lived there for two years. 
"My days in attic were spent in fear of being thrown out and being killed by Germans," Elster said. 
He described a vivid memory of looking out the window and seeing a young girl eating a strawberry in the neighboring yard. 
"My heart was aching from pain and envy. Her life seemed so normal," Elster said. "I wished I hadn't been born Jewish." 
While Elster lived contained in the attic, the Germans were defeated. He found his mother, who had survived in hiding as well. He later discovered that one of his sisters survived, while his father and younger sister died in the gas cham­bers. 
"[My sister] was a beautiful little girl," Elster said. "I carry the tormented image [of her] for all my days." 
Karuranga gave another account of genocide that occurred more than 50 years later in Rwanda. During the genocide, he took refuge at the Hotel Des Miles Collines, more popularly known as "Hotel Rwanda". 
Karuranga said that the Tutsi-Hutu conflict started in 1959. 
"In 1959 we were forced from our homes. I remember people coming to put our house on fire," he said. 
The families in his village were forced to hide in the jun­gle where there was little food, and the men had to protect their families against wild ani­mals as well as the killers, Karuranga said. He was advised to leave the country because, it was said, it did not belong to the Tutsis. 
"This was the first wave of refugees to the Congo, Burundi, and Tanzania," 
The Observer + NEWS 
Karuranga said. 

Despite the warnings, Karuranga's family decided to remain in Rwanda. He said in 1973, people began looking for power, and "used Tutsis as a scapegoat." 
"I started noticing hate prop­aganda," he said. 

As a result, Karuranga decided to leave Rwanda. He attended a university, and lived in several African coun­tries before he decided to return to Rwanda to see his parents. It was then that the peak of the genocide occurred in 1994. 
"I lived in a state of terror and fear," he said. 
The houses of the Tutsis were looted and destroyed, Karuranga said. 
"I heard people deny being Tutsi and say that they would never be Tutsi again before they were killed," he said. 
When the Hutus came to his home, Karuranga hid his chil­dren under the bed. 
"I was powerless in front of my children," he said. 
As the violence escalated, Karuranga received a ride to Hotel Rwanda, a safe haven for Tutsis, and paid for a spot for his family, where they lived in hiding until the genocide stopped. 
Karuranga stressed that during the Rwandan genocide, the majority of the killings were not made by an army, but rather by ordinary citi­zens. 
"One of the main questions of genocide is 'How can ordi­nary citizens kill 100,000 peo­ple a day?'" Karuranga said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
page 3 



Strategist leaves Clinton campaign 
Associated Press 

ALBUQUERQUE -Mark Penn, the pollster and senior strategist for Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential bid, left the campaign Sunday after it was disclosed he met with rep­resentatives of the Colombian government to help promote a free trade agreement Clinton opposes. 
"After the events of the last few days, Mark Penn has asked to give up his role as chief strategist of the Clinton Campaign," campaign manag­er Maggie Williams said in a statement released Sunday. "Mark, and Penn, Schoen and Berland Associates, Inc. will continue to provide polling and advice to the campaign." 
Communications director Howard Wolfson and pollster Geoff Garin will direct the cam­paign's message and strategic efforts for the campaign going forward, Williams said. 
Penn's departure comes as Clinton, considered the front­runner for the Democratic nomination last year, trails Barack Obama in delegates and the popular vote with a must-win primary in Pennsylvania April 22 and nine other contests remaining. Clinton almost certainly will end the primary season nar­rowly behind Obama in the popular vote and pledged dele­gates unless the nullified pri­maries in Florida and Michigan are counted -a scenario that seems remote. Her challenge will be to convince some 800 superdelegates to back her despite the numbers. 
Penn has been a lightning rod for controversy throughout the campaign and managed to retain considerable influence in the operation almost solely because of the candidate's loy­alty to him. He was known to get into angry shouting match­es with other members of Clinton's team, including long­time adviser Harold Ickes and media strategist Mandy Grunwald, who often disagreed with his strategic advice and resented his unchecked author­ity to design the candidate's message. 
Democratic strategist Chris Kofinis, who had been a spokesman in John Edwards' campaign, said Penn's departure was needed to help the candidate. 
"The worst kept secret in the whole Democratic race was that Penn's campaign strategy was not working and that the Clinton campaign has unfortu­nately paid the price," Kofinis said. "The truth is this the best move the Clinton campaign could have made and some­thing that I imagine most Clinton supporters wished had happened months ago." 


Kick-Off Event Henna/Mendhi Tattoos, Fair Trade Coffee, and Food! Free T-Shirts for the first 50 people! 
-Sarin Room of LaForlune -7:00pm-9:00pm 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April?, 2008 
thing that has information on it 
shared their stories throughout the everything that thi<> stood for and I you wouldn't feel comfortable 
night, including Hobert Campbell, a decided to just go for it," Campbell

Bins 

Marathon
other people having access to," 
freshman at Indiana University said. continued from page 1 South Bend. Organizers are taking a fewcontinued from page 1 Chapple said. 
Edgar said any documents 
Campbell suffered from a spinal weeks to reenergize after the event, survey last semester. that have a Social Security 
The morale committee also kept stroke in 2005 and became a quad­but they will discuss ideas on how "We do a survey of faculty, number or a bank account 
participants energized by teaching riplegic. After visiting Riley Hospital to improve the Dance Marathon staff and students every semes­number on them should also be 
them a "morale dance" choreo­he managed to regain use of his next year at the executive eoundl ter looking at various issues disposed of in the shred bins. 
graphed to music relating to the limbs and moved from a wheel­meeting next week, Johnson said. related to information security. She also said students could 
themed hours throughout the chair to a walker to a quad c,ane to "In the future, we hope to get One question we ask is how use the shred bins to dispose of 
evening. The group then per­a collapsible cane, what he uses more of Notre Dame and Holy everyone disposes of sensitive old tests. · 
formed the dance in its entirety at now. Cross involved not only as dancers information," he said. Chapple said each month the 
the end of the 12 hours. He said he didn't plan to tell his but as part of the planning commit­According to the survey, only contents of the shred bins are 
"At 8 a.m., we still had a crowd story Friday night and was visiting tee throughout the year," she said. 20 percent of students said collected and a shred truck 
dancing with as much energy as the marathon to drop his off "We really want to make it a huge they are cross-cut shredding comes to campus to destroy the 
they had when they had first younger brother to see the Super tri-campus organization with pas­sensitive information, Chapple materials. 
arrived," Dance Marathon co-presi­Soul Fighters, but remembered the sionate students from all three said. Edgar said while she has not 
dent Pauline Kistka said. "It was kids he helped at Riley by telling his schools working to make a differ­"We dec.ided the easiest way received feedback on the bins 
truly amazing and everyone fed off story and wanted to let participants ence in the lives of children." to help students was to put the in the residence halls, she has 
each other's energy and spirit." know that standing for 12 hours shred bins in the residence received encouraging respons­
Families who have personally really does make a difference. Contact Liz Harter at halls, so we talked to es from other campus offices 
benefited from Riley Hospital also "I looked at all the signs and eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu !Residence Life and Housing] who use the bins. and made plans to do that," "I have received positive Chappele said. feedback from the campus 
According to Edgar, as of business offices which have 
It was this cultural scene tions of the Cuban govern­March 13, each residence hall been using these bins since the 
that frustrated many people, ment. now has one shred bin, usually fall," she said. "I think every­

Cuba 

Riley said. "What we know has been tit­located in or near the hall's one appreciates the knowledge 
continued from page 1 After the Cuban Revolution tered through Cuban and U.S. mail room. that their sensitive information 
and Fidel Castro's rise to political rhetoric," Hiley said. "We'd encourage [students] is being disposed of in a secure 
American's misconceptions of power, Riley said Castro accel­Riley said she hoped the to shred anything they think is manner." 
an underdeveloped, commu­erated Cuban interests. Saint Mary's audience would remotely sensitive -financial 
nist Cuba. According to Riley, Castro dispel traditional views and statements, medical records, Contact Becky Hogan at 
Some works featured cyber instituted many literacy pro­appreciate the rich Cuban cul­junk-mail credit offers, any-rhgoan2@nd.edu 
cafes and Western Union grams and provided govern­ture. 
offices paired with stereotypi­ment-funded education for all "I hope to raise conscious­
cal images of Cuban cigars and Cubans. Despite current media ness about the great diversity 
1950 U.S. renovated cars. coverage, Castro distributed in Cuba," Riley said. 
ed, college as well as high school, 
Other works displayed cultural free pressure cookers in 2006, Freshman Cristina Posadas, Riedl said. · 
images of folklore festivals, Riley said. In addition, Riley an audience member, also

Goldwater 
In addition, each nominee 
traditional Cuban musicians said, Castro was the only man emphasized the event's impor­continued from page 1 needed to submit a two-page 
and open-air clubs. to kick organized crime out of tance. essay and a few shorter essays 
Riley also discussed Cuba's his country successfully. "'He-Imagining Cuba' is a This application included one focusing on his or her area of 
history as a background for Today, only four groups can very unique event at Saint long essay and a shorter essay of study. 
the exhibit. travel to the island -the Mary's. It's not a topic often one or two paragraphs in length. "Throughout the process I was 
"Despite Cuba's great diver­press. missionaries, govern­explored," Posadas said. liach student needed the name really impressed by how much 
sity, Cuba is extremely influ­ment officials and scholars This was the third of three of a profilssor to be contacted for the Notre Dame professors had 
enced by its proximity to the who will produce non-com­exhibits, part of a collaborative a recommendation, Riedl said, helped me," Riedl said. "Not only 
U.S.," Riley said. mercial work. effort between the Center for and after the student received a did a couple of them help me edit 
In 1935, Cuba gained protec­President Bush has further Women's Intercultural nomination from the University, my essays, almost all of the con­
torate status. By the 1950s expanded these restrictions, Leadership and the Cushwa­he or she needed three more rec­tent of the essays, indeed, the 
during General Batista's rule, Riley said. Leighton Library to explore ommendations from University entire application was about 
prostitution and illiteracy were "I think our government was intercultural differences. The sdP.nce professors. opportunities that they had gone 
at an all-time high, she said. afraid we would become radi­exhibit will continue through Similar to the college applica­out of the way to provide." 
Due to an influx of U.S. calized," Riley said. mid-June. tion process, each nominee need­
tourism to the island, Cuba Riley also said Cuba is not a ed to submit all transcripts from Contact Katie Peralta at 
was known as the American pure Communist state, con­Contact Katlyn Smith at institutions he or she has attend-kperalta@nd.edu 
Rivera, Riley said. trary to U.S. political percep-ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Join a company where you'll have the flexi ility to reach your goals. 
Whatever your career goals, you'll find a path that helps you reach them at Ernst &Young. We've created aflexible work environment that provides opportunities for managing your personal and professional growth and success. 
Visit us at ey.comjus;careers and our Facebook.com group. 
FOF~TUNE 

100 BEST 

COMPANIES gg
TOWORKFO~ 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 8, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wrRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite militants attack Green Zone, base 
BAGHDAD -Suspected Shiite militants lobbed rockets and mortar shells into the U.S.­protected Green Zone and a military base elsewhere in Baghdad on Sunday, killing three American troops and wounding 31, officials said. 
The attacks occurred as U.S. and Iraqi forces battled Shiite militants in Sadr City in some of the fiercest fighting since radical cler­ic Muqtada al-Sadr ordered a cease-fire a week ago. At least 16 Iraqi civilians were killed and nearly 100 wounded in the fighting, according to hospital officials. 
A military official said two U.S. troops died and 17 were wounded in the attack on the Green Zone, which houses the U.S. Embassy and the Iraqi government headquarters in central Baghdad. 
Explosives strike housing complex 
SAN'A-A housing complex used by foreign­ers in Yemen's capital came under attack late Sunday, with explosives shattering windows but causing no injuries, U.S. and Yemeni officials said. 
The U.S. Embassy in Yemen said "three explosive rounds" hit the compound in the upscale Haddah reighborhood. Two rounds exploded inside the compound and another blew up outside the building, it said in a state­ment. 
"The Embassy advises all U.S. citizens to exercise caution in this area of the city," the statement said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
House fire kills 3 Wisconsin students 
MENOMONIE, Wis. -A smoky house fire near a University of Wisconsin campus killed three students who never made it out of the rooms where they were sleeping early Saturday, even though neighbors said they heard alarms. 
Rescuers found two women and a man on the l1oors of three second-l1oor bedrooms near the University of Wisconsin-Stout. All three were pronounced dead at a hospital, authori­ties said. 
The smoke detectors were working, and neighbors called police when they heard the alarms, said Menomonie Police Chief Dennis Beety. Police don't know why the three victims were unable to make it out, and it was unclear whether alcohol was a factor. 
"There was a bottle of akohol and the top was off of it," Beety said, adding that that did­n't necessarily mean the students were drink­ing at the house. 
The cause of the fire was still being investi­gated. 

Authorities raid polygamist compound 
ELDORADO, Texas-Authorities who removed 219 women and children from a polygamist compound were struggling Sunday to determine whether they had the 16-year-old girl whose report of an underage marriage led them to raid the sprawling rural property. 
Many people at the compound, built by fol­lowers of jailed polygamist leader Warren Jeffs, are related to one another and share similar names; investigators said in some ease they were giving different names at different times. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana schools to cut energy costs 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's top schools offi­cial is encouraging the state's school districts to look into renewable energy technologies as a way to cut their energy costs. 
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Suellen Reed kicked off the Indiana Department of Education's yearlong "Learn Green. Live Green" initiative this month. Reed said some districts are already tapping into renewable energy, and saving taxpayer money in the process. 
"Many school corporations are making the switch to renewable energy sources to cut costs and reduce their carbon footprint, and they are to be applauded for these efforts," she said. 
Heston dies of unknown causes 
Filmmakers, politicians reflect on former actor, activist's death, career, NRA advocacy 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES, Calif. ­Nancy Reagan was heart­broken over Charlton Heston's death. President Bush hailed him as a "strong advocate for liber­ty," while John McCain called Heston a devotee for civil and constitutional rights. 
Even Michael Moore, who "mocked Heston in his gun-control documentary "Bowling for Columbine," posted the actor's picture on his Web site to mark his passing. 
Heston, who died Saturday night at 84, was a towering figure both in his politics and on screen, where his characters had the ear of God (Moses in "The Ten Commandments"). sur­vived apocalyptic plagues ("The Omega Man") and endured one of Hollywood's most-grueling action sequences (the chariot race in "Ben-Hur," which earned him the best-actor Academy Award). 
Better known in recent years as a fierce gun­rights advocate who head­ed the National Rifle Association, Heston played legendary leaders naut on a topsy-turvy '60s and '70s, Heston's proclaiming "from my and ordinary men hurled world where simians rule work dwindled largely to cold, dead hands." The into heroic struggles. in "Planet of the Apes." small parts and narration director flustered the 
"In taking on epic and "Charlton Heston was and other voice roles from actor in an interview later commanding roles, he seen by the world as larg­the 1980s on, including an in the film by pressing showed himself to be one er than life," Heston's uncredited cameo as an him on ·his gun-control of our nation's most gifted family said in a statement. ape in Tim Burton's 2001 stance. Heston eventually actors, and his legacy will "We knew him as an ador­remake of "Planet of the walked out on Moore. forever be a part of our ing husband, a kind and Apes." Moore's Web site, cinema," Republican pres­devoted father, and a gen­In 2002, near the end of www.miehaelmoore.com, idential candidate McCain tle grandfather with an his five years as president on Sunday featured a said in a statement that infectious sense of humor. of the NRA, Heston dis­photo of Heston, the date also noted Heston's He served these far closed he had symptoms of his birth and death and involvement in the civil­greater roles with consistent with a note from the actor's rights movement and his tremendous faith, courage Alzheimer's disease. family requesting that stand against gun control. and dignity." The disclosure was soon donations be made to the 
Heston's jutting jaw, The actor died at his followed by an unflatter­Motion Picture and regal bearing and boom­home in Beverly Hills with ing appearance in Moore's Television Fund in lieu of ing voice served him well his wife, Lydia, at his side, 2003 best documentary flowers. as Marc Antony in "Julius family spokesman Bill winner "Bowling for There was no other Caesar" and "Antony and Powers said. He declined Columbine," which took reaction on the site from Cleopatra," Michelangelo to comment on the cause America to task for its Moore about Heston's in "The Agony and the of death or provide fur­gun laws. death. Moore did not Ecstasy," John the Baptist ther details Sunday. Moore used a clip of immediately respond to e­in "The Greatest Story One of the biggest box­Heston holding aloft a mail and phone requests Ever Told" and an astro-office draws of the 1950s, rifle at an NRA rally and seeking comment. 

ZIMBABWE 



Mugabe uses violence to retain povver 
Earlier, news of the opposition victo­rule in Rhodesia and bring about an
Associated Press 

ry sent supporters into the streets, independent Zimbabwe. He was 
HARARE -For a few brief dancing, singing and waving the open praised for his policies of racial recon­moments, Zimbabweans suffering hand that is the Movement for ciliation and economic growth, and for under the authoritarian rule of Robert Democratic Change's symbol. The bringing education and health care to Mugabe allowed themselves a rare symbol of Mugabe's ZANU-PF is a the masses. burst of optimism after their longtime clenched fist, and it didn't take long for Then a coalition of trade unionists ­president suffered what appeared to it to show. backed by some wealthy white com­be a devastating electoral loss. Though opposition leader Morgan mercial farmers and their workers ­
But ruling party stalwarts and secu­Tsvangirai has promised Mugabe a formed the Movement for Democratic rity chiefs -worried about their own peaceful retirement, fears of violence Change which, along with civil rights fates in a post-Mugabe era -quickly against government opponents have groups, dealt Mugabe his first defeat dug in their heels, and Mugabe now grown as security forces and ruling at a 2000 referendum to entrench appears poised to do everything he party thugs took to the streets in the presidential powers. can to extend his 28-year rule. days after the March 29 election. Shocked, Mugabe responded by 
"There's a political hardening by the It would not be the first time Mugabe sending armed thugs, some veterans political elite of the ruling party," said resorted to violence to cling to power. of the bush war for independence, into Eldred Masunungure, a political ana­He had ruled his nation with little rural areas to seize white-owned lyst at the University of Zimbabwe. real challenge since 1980, when his farms and intimidate opposition sup­"They're in a panic mode." guerrilla movement helped end white porters. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 7, 2008 
IRAN 

Leaders visit war sites, seek support 
Associated Press 
TEIIHAN, Iran-Zahra Saremi took a dill'enmt sort of vacation this year to celebrate Iranian New Year -touring the bloody battle­fields of' Iran's long war with Iraq at a week-long camp dedicated to martyrdom and patriotism. 
Such tours are a crudal tool for Iran's deriealleadcrs as they seek to keep alive fervor for the 1979 Islamic Hcvolution, especially mnong young Jl(~ople witl1 little or no memory ofit. 
Saremi and about 100 young men and women lined up at buses one morning in Tehran in late March, heading for the border regions of' southwf~st Iran. About 1 million Iranians are taking the same journey during the three­week Nowruz holidays, which extnnd until mid-April, in tours organized by the Basij, the volun­teer paramilitary wing of' Iran's Hevolutionary Guards. 
They visit the desert scenes where lrania11 troops threw them­selves in deadly human wave attacks against Iraqi lines in oflhn­sives with eodenames like "Dawn is Corning" and "Certain Conquest." They hear lectures lhnn military ollicers, visit the old trenches and bunkers and sleep in military garrisons. 
Most important­

ly, they commem­
"The willingness to

orate martyrs. The battlefield "It is like a spir­obey shown by the tours resonate itual tour," said martyrs is what made because the 1980­
the 21-year-old 1988 war with
them successful. " 

Sarerni, her Iraq, in which at black, all-encom­least 1 million passing chador Ali Asghar Rajal people died over­flapping in the military commander all, is an emotional 
morning breeze. She has gone once before, two years ago. "I went there to pay trib­ute to those who fought the enemy <~Il(l lo.~t their lives to bring peaee lor us. 
Just how far the fervor for the Hevolution has ebbed is visible in Tehran's street<;, rife with Western influences the revolution onee sought to purge. Shops are packed with bootleg DVDs of Western movies and music, and many women now shirk the chadors rnquired in the revolution's early years -instead wearing tight jacket<; and headscarves that eover only a small part of thdr hair. 
Many among the millions of Iranians born since 1979 just want to put the revolution -and its Islamic clerical rule -behind them. 
That has made the Basij even morn important for elerical lead­ers, who want to keep up the drumb1mt of slogans m-enf'ordng the revolution's principles: fierce rnsistancn to the Unitnd States and Western culture. adherenee to striet lshunie law and rnverenee liw sacrifice. 
Tho Basij is seen by some as the Islamic republic's "hidden army." Their numbers are not known, though tho Hnvolutionary Guards say they are in thn millions. Basijis am in nearly every government institution. from post ortices to schools -normal employees oxeopt liw thoir mmnbnrship in the lim:n. 
Thoir rolo has incrnased under hard-linn President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who is bPiieved to haVI~ stopped up state funding lbr Basij groups. That mirrors the growing prominence of the Basij's patron, tile Revolutionary Guards: former and eurrent Guards offieers have gained important posts, and Guards-linked companies have received lucrative government contracts for construetion and other projects. 
The U.S. has branded the Guards' elite Quds Force a terror­ist group, accusing it or baeking militants in Iraq, and tile U.N. has slapped sanctions on Guards­linked firms accused of links to Iran's nuclear program. 
At times, the Basij plays its role through force. In 1999, they helped put down student proteslc; that beg<m at Tehran University in rioting that left several people dead. Basijis also are known to stop women in the streetc;, scolding them to wear Islamic dress. 
Far more pervasive, tilough, are the cultural events that Basijis lead. Student groups organize seminars and films at universities, often about Israeli "massacres" of Palestinians. Basiji tileater groups put on plays depicting stories of "revolution and resistance." 
There's even a Basiji film com­pany that produces movies about the Iran-Iraq war. One studio boast<> a yard full of old tanks and 
other armor. on 
the side of the 
highway from the 
new Imam 
Khomeini airport 
into Tehran. 
rallying point for 
Iranians. 
Nearly every 
Iranian family lost 
a relative in the 
brutal tighting, and even Iranians with no love for tile Islamic revolu­tion express nationalist pride at fending off then-Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. 
For Hassan Taheri, a 53-year-old war veteran boarding the same bus as Saremi, the tour is a ehanee to reconnect with an earlier era. "Years of war, blood and resist­anee," said Taheri, who was bring­ing his wife. "Many of my friends never came back from the war. When I go them, I feel I am with thorn." 
But most of those on the tours are young B<L<>ijis and their families -and a constant theme is linking the war to tile "third generation of the revolution." Those joining Saremi's tour were largely from Tehran's poorer districts, strong­holds of support for Ahmadinejad and oth1~r hard-liners. 
The tours are extensively cov­ered on state-run television, whieh throughout the holidays shows footage of young people touring battle zones or weeping at mar­tyrs' graves. 
They have been organized since 1992 by a Basiji-run agency. The group says 1 million people are participating this year, up from 700,000 I<L<>t year. 
"The willingness to obey shown by the martyrs is what made them successful," one military eom­mandor, Gen. Ali Asghar Hajai, told a group of' young Basijis taking part in one late March tour, according to the group's news ageney. 

Police tear-gas MSU students 
Officers arrest 52 people, ticket 48 for various offenses at party 
Associated Press "I think that there were some could be coming after police 
who were there because they review videotape. 
EAST LANSING -Police wanted to be tear-gassed as a Students convicted of charges used tear gas early Sunday to rite of passage, so to speak," involving riotous behavior disperse a massive crowd par­Wibert said. "After the initial could face long-term suspen­tying near the Michigan State munitions -the flash bangs sion, as allowed by state law. University campus after fights and the smoke bombs -they The event was held at Cedar broke out and officers were were actually chanting for tear Village, a student housing com­pelted with bottles and cans. gas." plex bordering the northeast 
Poliee said in a statement Michigan State student side of campus. that 3,000 to Vanessa Schultz The city and Michigan State 4,000 people of Macomb University had warned people had gathered County's Clinton on Friday to stay away from
"/ don't see how we
for the Cedar Township said the event, which was an Fest party late could have dispersed she got a whiff attempt to revive an East Saturday. They of the gas Lansing party tradition that
the crowd without 
said 52 people through her had been ended because of
tear gas." 
were arrested apartment win-past problems. and 48 others dow. In 2005, a crowd of' more were ticketed Tom Wilbert "I think every­than 2,000 college students for various one's mentality and others swarmed downtown
police chief 
ofl'enses. 
Nearly every officer at the scene reported being struck by a flying object, Police Chief Tom Wibert said at a news con­ference Sunday. Four small fires were reported, windows were smashed on two police vehicles and several officers and partygoers suffered injuries -mostly cuts and bruises. 
"I don't see how we could have dispersed the crowd with­out tear gas," Wibert said. He said the gas was used as a last resort and officers showed restraint throughout the night. 
Authorities said the crowd became increasingly unruly after 1 a.m., and about 80 offi­cers from various jurisdictions worked to contain the crowd. 
Wibert said police initially used only loud, smoking muni­tions rather than tear gas to try to get the crowd to leave, but only about half the people dis­persed. Tear gas was fired around 2 a.m. 
was like, 'We want to get tear­gassed. This is 
fun,"' said Schultz. She said she stayed inside because it didn't look like fun to her. 
"During the day it was all relaxed and fun," Schultz said. "It was kind of a shock when it turned weird. But we all kind East Lansing after the Michigan State men's basket­ball team lost in the Final Four. Police arrested 42 people. 

In 1999, property damage was estimated at up to $500,000 when the Spartan men lost in the Final Four. Hevelers overturned ears, smashed store windows and 
or knew what was going to happen once it started." 
Police said the majority of 

"/think everyone's 
Michigan State's 

mentality was like 'We
45,000 students stayed away from want to get the gathering and 
tear-gassed. This is 
that many of the 

fiun. '" 
troublemakers weren't students. or the 52 people Vanessa Schultz arrested, 28 had 
Michigan State student 
been identified as university stu­dents. 
They could face charges ranging set fires. Poliee arrest­ed 132 peo­ple, includ­ing 71 Michigan State stu­dents. 
There also were prob­lems during the Spartans' 2003 NCAA tournament run. But large gather­ings during Final Four appearances 

from disorderly conduct to in 2000 and 2001, for the most inciting a riot. More charges part, were peaceful. 

\ 
l 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish Crossings Town homes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east of the ND athletic fields, off Willis Street, these three and four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, including a 42 • flat panel HDTV. 
Geared for today's college student, and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable Separate laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
Large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Security/alarm systern on front and garage entrance doors 


Strict covenants enforced. 

Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for Fall Semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261.3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
Moqday, April 8, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 



Dow 12,609.42 -16.61
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,832 112 1,479 3,704,733,334 

AMEX 2i2GG.02. Hiii+7.43 NASDAQ 2,370.~8 +7.68 NYSE 9,157.53 +16.89 S&P 500 1,370.40 +1.09 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,22S~t1 ,-64.31 FTSE 100 (London) 5.947.10 +55.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.11 -0.15 136.89 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.59 +0.27 45.86 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -1.35 -0.36 26.36 CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.15 -0.28 24.08 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -3.06 -0.11 3.481 13-WEEK BILL -2.94 -0.04 1.320 30-YEAR BOND -1.57 -0.07 4.318 5-YEAR NOTE -4.36 -0.12 2.633 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.40 106.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.60 913.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.23 72.10 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 102.0600 EURO 0.6366 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0080 BRITISH POUND 0.5023 
IN BRIEF 

Dpt. of Edu. addresses college loans 
WASHINGTON -Education Secretary Margaret Spellings is seeking to ease worries that tight credit markets might make it hard for students to get college loans. 
Spellings said in an interview Friday that her department had reviewed the law and concluded that it has the authority to quickly free up money from the U.S. Treasury, if need­ed, to finance student loans. 
She said the money would be provided so that guarantee agencies -nonprofits that tra­ditionally back student loans issued by banks -can offer loans directly in a pinch. 
Spellings said she was clarifying her author­ity to do that because there had been confu­sion about whether she would first have to go to Congress and seek legislative action before going to the Treasury. That could be time con­suming, and legislative politics could cause further delay. 

Skybus shuts down due to fuel costs 
COLUMBUS -Low-cost carrier Skybus Airlines is shutting down Saturday and plans to file for bankruptcy protection next week, becoming the latest of the nation's airlines to fall because of rising fuel costs and a slowing econo­my. 
The announcement Friday came less than a year after Skybus started up at Port Columbus International Airport, offering several $10 flight<>. The airline's situation worsened in recent weeks, said Skybus spokesman Bob Tenenbaum. 
Fuel prices and the worsening economy com­bined to be insurmountable for a new carrier, said chief executive Michael Hodge. 
"We deeply regret this decision, and the impact this will haw~ on our employees and their families, our customers, our vendors and other partners, and the communities in which we have been operating," Hodge said in a state­ment. 
The airline makes 74 daily flights to 15 U.S. cities, Tenenbaum said. It has about 350 employees in Columbus and 100 at a second hub at Piedmont-Triad International airport in Greensboro, N.C. Employees learned of the shut­down Friday night. 




THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

VA employees abuse gov. credit 
Purchases amount to hundreds of thousands ofdollars at casinos, hotels, retailers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Veterans Affairs employ­ees last year racked up hundreds of thousands of ·dollars in government credit-card bills at casino and luxury hotels, movie theaters and high-end retailers such as Sharper Image and Franklin Covey -and government auditors are investigat­ing, citing past spending 
abuses. 

All told, VA staff 
charged $2.6 billion to 
their government credit 
cards. 

The Associated Press, through a Freedom of Information request. obtained the VA list of 3.1 million purchases made in the 2007 budget year. The list offers a detailed look into the everyday spending at the govern­ment's second largest department. 
By and large, it reveals 
few outward signs of 
questionable spending, 
with hundreds of pur­
chases at prosthetic, 
orthopedic and other 
medical supply stores. 
But there are multiple charges that have caught the eye of government investigators. 

At least 13 purchases 
totaling  $8,471  were  
charged  at  Sharper  
Image,  a  specialty store  

featuring high-tech elec­tronics and gizmos such as robotic barking dogs. In addition, 19 charges worth $1,999.56 were made at Franklin Covey, which sells leather totes and planners geared toward corporate execu­tives. 
Government reports in 2004 said these two com­panies, by virtue of the types of products they market, would "more likely be selling unautho­rized or personal use items" to federal employ­ees. 
Many of the 14,000 VA employees with credit cards, who work at head­quarters in Washington and at medical centers around the nation, also spent tens of thousands of dollars at Wyndham hotels in places such as San Diego, Orlando, Fla., and on the riverfront in Little Rock, Ark. One­time charges ranged up to $8,000. 
On at least six occa­sions, employees based at VA headquarters made 
credit card charges at Las Vegas casino hotels totaling $26,198. 

VA spokesman Matt Smith the department was reviewing these and other purchases as part of its routine oversight of employee spending. He noted that many of the purchases at Sharper Image and other stores included clocks for low­vision veterans, humidi­
. fiers, air purifiers, alarm devices and basic planner products. Smith said all the casi­no hotel expenditures in 2007 were for confer­
ences and related expenses. He said the spending was justified because Las Vegas is a place where "VA is build­ing a new medical center and an increasing num­ber of veterans are call­ing home." 
"The Department of Veterans Affairs, like many public and private groups, hosts conferences and meetings in Las Vegas due to the ease of participant travel, the capacity of the facilities, and the overall cost asso­ciated with hosting a con­ference," he said. 

Microsoft pressures Yahoo over buyout 
Associated Press A Yahoo spokeswoman declined to Yahoo was still dragging its heels. 
comment Saturday. "This is despite the fact that our 
SEATTLE -Microsoft set the clock In the letter, Ballmer said Yahoo's proposal is the only alternative put ticking for Yahoo to accept its $41 search share and page views, two forward that offers your sharehold­billion buyout offer in a letter to the · measures of the strength of the Web ers full and fair value for their Internet pioneer's board Saturday, portal company's business, appear to shares," Ballmer wrote in the letter. warning that if a deal wasn't reached have fallen since the offer was made Ballmer said the Microsoft offer has by April 26 the software maker at the end of January. At the time, grown stronger as the economic cli­would launch a hostile takeover at a Microsoft's cash-and-stock offer was mate has weakened. less attractive price. valued at $44.6 billion, or 62 percent "We believe that the majority of 
"If we have not concluded an above Yahoo's market value. Judging your shareholders share this assess­agreement within the next three by Friday's closing share prices, the ment," despite a forecast recently weeks, we will be compelled to take deal is now worth just under $41 bil­released by Yahoo that calls for the our case directly to your sharehold­lion. company's revenue to rise more than ers, including the initiation of a Yahoo's board formally rejected 70 percent during the next three proxy contest to elect an alternative Microsoft Corp.'s bid in February, years, he wrote. slate of directors for the Yahoo saying it undervalues the company. Microsoft has said from the start board," wrote Microsoft Chief Since then, the Silicon Valley com­that it would consider all possible Executive Steve Ballmer. pany has explored alliances with ways of getting the deal done, includ­
"If we are forced to take an offer Google Inc., News Corp.'s ing taking its offer directly to Yahoo's directly to your shareholders, that MySpace.com and Time Warner shareholders, as well as working to action will have an undesirable Inc.'s AOL, but no alternative to elect its own candidates to fill impact on the value of your company Microsoft's offer has surfaced. Yahoo's board at the company's from our perspective which will be Ballmer acknowledged the alterna­annual annual shareholder meeting, reflected in the terms of our propos­tive negotiations and questioned why, and thus the deadline for Microsoft al," he wrote. in the absence· of another offer, to nominate its slate. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 7, 2008 
LAos 
Nevv Chinatovvn to be constructed 
Communist government forced to explain; people fear loss of culture 
Associated p...,ss 
VIENTIANE, Laos -A high­rise Chinatown that is to go up by Laos' laid-back capital has ignited fears "hat this nation's giant northern neighbor is mov­ing to engulf this nation. 
So alarmnd are Laotians that the communist government, which rarely explains il<> actions to the popula­tion, is being forced to do just Chinatown, so why shouldn't Laos have one?" he told Laotian reporters. 
According to an artist's impression in state-run media, it will have a Manhattan-like sky­line. There is no word on how many Chinese will live there. The figure of 50,000 families is widely speculated but Somsavat denied any such number had 
been agreed 
upon. 
The idea of 

that, with what "We will lose our own 50,000 newcom­passes for an culture., ers to a city of unprecedented 460,000 is one public relations factor causing
Slthong Khamvong 

campaign. unease. Another 
Thn "Chinese Vientiane resident, is location: The City" is a hot former Communist Party complex is to go 
topic of talk and up on the That
member 

wild rumor, much of it laced with anxiety as well as anger that thn regime sealed such a monwntous deal in virtual secrecy. 
The rumblings are being heard even among some govern­ment officials, and foreign organizations operating in Laos are being told to refer to the venture as a "New City Development Project" rather than a "Chinese eity." 
Deputy Prime Minister Somsavat Lengsavad insists the deal poses no threat. 
"This is not unusual. Almost every eountry in the world has a Luang marsh, an 
area pregnant 
with nationalist symbolism and also ecologically important. 
It comes at a time when China is rapidly becoming the No. 1 foreign economic and political power in Laos. As migrants, money and influence roll across the frontier, northern areas of the country are beginning to look like a Chinese province. 
According to Somsavat, a Chinese company last fall was granted a renewable, 50-year lease to transform 4,000 acres of "rice fields into a modern city," thus stimulating the business 

and investment climate of one of 
the world's poorest nations. 
Somsavat, an ethnic Chinese­Laotian with close ties to Beijing, explained that when Laos fell short of funds to build a stadium for the Southeast Asian Games it will host next year, it turned to the China Development Bank. The bank offered a Chinese com­pany, Suzhou Industrial Park Overseas Investment Co., a loan to build the stadium in exchange for the lease. 
The deal was signed last September, according to official media, with no known prior notice to the public. The compa­ny, contacted in Suzhou, declined to answer questions. 
At a news conference, Vientiane Mayor Sinlavong Khoutphaythoune said three Chinese companies were involved in the project. 
Even some aging revolutionar­ies are critical, saying they fought to keep out the United States and others during the Vietnam War and now arc see­ing their own government open­ing the floodgates to foreigners. 
'The Lao people are not strong so they are afraid the Chinese will come in and expand their numbers and turn our country into China. We will lose our own culture," said Sithong Khamvong, a middle-class Vientiane resident and former Communist Party member. 
SOMALIA 
France contacts 
hijacker pirates 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU, Somalia ­France has made contact with pirates who hijacked a French luxury yacht off Africa's east­ern coast with 30 French and Ukrainian crew members on board, the French foreign min­ister said Sunday. 
About 10 suspected pirates stormed the 288-foot Le Ponant on Friday as it was returning, without passengers, from the Seychelles in the Indian Ocean. The pirates then guided the vessel down Somalia's eastern coast. 
The hijacking comes amid a surge in piracy in the seas ofl" the chaotic Horn of Africa nation, where a weak and impoverished government is unable to patrol its territorial waters. Pirates have seized more than two dozen ships ofl" the country's coast in the last year, typically demanding high ransoms to free their hostages. 
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner told France-Inter radio that France was in contact with the pirates. 
"We have established con­tact, and the case may take a long time," he said, without providing more details. Asked whether France would consid­er paying a ransom, he responded, "We'll see." 
"We have to do everything to avoid bloodshed," Kouchner said. 
Earlier, a local fisherman Mahdi Daud Anbuure told The Associated Press he saw the ship arriving at the northern town of Eyl, about 310 miles north of the Somali capital, Mogadishu, with a small boat heading towarq it, apparently with supplies. 
Abdirahman Mohamed Bangah, information minister for the semiautonomous northern region of Puntland, said he hoped international forces will "rescue this ship"at Eyl, confirming its location. 
France's prime minister said Saturday that he hoped to avoid force in freeing the crew but that no options had been ruled out. There are 22 French citizens, including six women, on board, as well as Ukrainian citizens, authorities said. 
A French diplomat working on the case said the hostages were being treated well, and that they have been provided food and given the opportunity to wash. The diplomat spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak to media. 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 1 s Schmitt Lecture Series 

Physics Ethics and
' ' 
the Lit e of Pr~actice 
Alasdair Macintyre Professor of Philosophy University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 McKenna Hall Auditorium 
4:00 PM 

For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 
Monday, April 7, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
RUSSIA 
Putin, Bush debate 


U.S. missile defense 
Associated Press 
SOCHI. Russia -President Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin failed to overcome sharp differences over a U.S. mis­sile defense system, closing their seven-year relationship Sunday still far apart on an issue that has separated them from the begin­ning. 
"Our fundamental attitude toward the American plan has not changed," Putin said at a news conference with Bush at his vaca­tion house at this Black Sea resort. "Obviously we've got a lot of work to do," Bush said. Despite the impasse. the two leaders agreed that Moscow and Washington would work together closely in the future on missile defense and other difficult issues. 
Putin declared there were no breakthrough solutions but said "certain progress is obvious" in the long-running dispute on mis­sile defenses. He was referring to 
U.S. concessions to assuage Russia's concerns. U.S. officials said that was what they wanted to hear him say. 
Bush also conferred with Putin's hand-picked suc­cessor, Dmitry Medvedev, but did not claim gaining enlargement that Bush has active­ly championed over Putin's vocal objections. 
The Sochi meeting came just days after NATO leaders agreed at a summit in Romania to invite Albania and Croatia to join the alliance. However, the alliance rebuffed U.S. attempts to begin the process of inviting Ukraine and Georgia, both former Soviet republics, to join, although their eventual admission seems likely. 
Putin called the U.S. missile plan -which envisions basing track­ing radar sites in the Czech Republic and interceptors in Poland -the hardest of U.S.­Russian differences to reconcile. "This is not about language. This is not about diplomatic phrasing or wording. This is about the sub­stance of the issue," he said. 
Bush reiterated his insistence that the plan -designed to inter­cept and destroy approaching bal­listic missiles at high altitudes ­should not be viewed as a threat to Russia. In a clear reference to Iran, he said the system would help protect Europe from "regimes that could try to hold us hostage." 
"I view this as defensive, not 
offense," Bush 
said. "And, obvi­
ously, we've got 
a lot of work to 

any insight into his "And, obviously, we've convince the 
soul, as he had experts this
got a lot ofwork to

with Putin upon defense system their first convince the experts is not aimed at 
encounter. He pro­this defense system is Russia." 
nounced Putin's Bush and
not aimed at Russia. '' 

protege a Putin did issue a straightforward joint statement fellow" and said he George W. Bush on missile was eager to work U.S. President defense as part 
with him. 
Putin was asked whether he -or Medvedev, the president-elect ­would be in charge of Russia's for­eign policy after May 7, when Putin steps down as president and is expected to be named prime minister. 
Putin said Medvedev would be in charge, and would represent Russia at the Group of Eight meet­ing of industrial democracies in July in Tokyo. "Mr. Medvedev has been one of the co-authors of Russia's foreign policy," Putin said. "He's completely on top of things." 
National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley, when asked later whether he thought Putin actually was going to cede authority on Russian foreign policy to Medvedev, said: "My guess is that these two men who have worked very closely together for now almost two decades will have a very collaborative relationship. That seems to be a good thing, not a bad thing." 
Hadley, who spoke with reporters aboard Air Force One on the way home to Washington, also said he dido' t see any prospect of a breakthrough on missile defense before Bush leaves office next January. "They can leave that to their prospective suc­cessors," he said. 
At their 28th and final meeting as heads of state, Bush and Putin sought to emphasize their good personal relations, praising each other extensively. But they also both acknowledged remaining strong disagreements, principally missile defense and NATO's east­ward expansion. 
Russia remains adamantly opposed to the expansion of the alliance into its backyard, an 
of a "strategic 
framework" to 
guide future 
relations 
between Washington and Moscow. 
The statement outlined time­worn U.S. and Russian positions but also held out the prospect for future cooperation, perhaps on a joint system. That, said Putin, rep­resents "certain progress." 
"If we manage to achieve this kind of level of cooperation on a global missile defense system, this will be the best kind of result for all our preceding efforts," he said. 
As Bush flew back to Washington, aides labored to make the case that the summit had ended with a positive out­come, particularly on missile defenses. Four times on the 11­hour flight, senior administration officials came back to the press cabin on Air Force One to press their arguments and, at times, to counter what they considered negative press reports. 
In the concluding document, Russia once again emphasized its heated opposition to the facilities in Poland and the Czech Republic. But U.S. officials pointed to lan­guage that said Moscow appreci­ates measures the United States has proposed to address Russia's objections to those sites. "If agreed and implemented such measures will be important and useful in assuaging Russian concerns," it said. 
Hadley said Russia may never 
formally say it welcomes the mis­
sile shield components in Poland 
and the Czech Republic. But he 
said if the sites are built and 
Russia puts liaison officials at the 
project, "I would argue that at 
that point they will have accepted 
those sites." 

EGYPT 
Workers riot during national strike 
150 arrested, 80 wounded after demonstrations at textile factory 
Associated Press 
MAHALLA EL-KOBRA, Egypt -Thousands of demonstrators angry about rising prices and stagnant salaries torched build­ings, looted shops and hurled bricks at police who responded with tear gas Sunday in a north­ern industrial town as Egyptians staged a nationwide strike. 
About 150 people were arrest­ed and 80 were wounded in the gritty Nile Delta town of Mahalia el-Kobra, where riots broke out among residents and disgrun­tled workers at the largest tex­tile factory in Egypt. 
Protesters stormed city hall, burned tires in the streets, smashed chairs through shop windows and ran off with com­puters. At least two schools were set ablaze and facades of banks were vandalized, police said. 
Nearly 100 others were arrested elsewhere across Egypt, officials said, as thou­sands skipped work and school and hundreds protested over the rising cost of food and dete­riorating working conditions. 
A call for a nationwide strike Sunday was the first major attempt by opposition groups to turn the past year's labor unrest into a wider political protest against the government of President Hosni Mubarak. 
The strike and riots in the north came two days before key elections for local councils, causing jitters in the govern­ment, which last week lifted import duties on some food items in an effort to soften eco­nomic discontent. 
The U.S.-backed government strongly warned citizens against participating in the strikes and demonstrations. Strikes and protests are illegal in Egypt, and protesters are often detained by Egyptian security forces. 
Nearly 40 percent Egypt's 76 million people live below or near the poverty line of $2 a day. The prices of staples such as cooking oil and rice have nearly doubled in recent months, amid wide­spread shortages of govern­ment-subsidized bread. 

Many Egyptians in Cairo responded to the calls for nationwide action by skipping work or school. Many shops were closed in the capital, and traffic was significantly lighter than usual in the normally car­clogged streets. 
In an effort to thwart mass protests downtown, the govern­ment sent hordes of riot police to many of Cairo's main squares to intimidate people from show­ing up. 
But there were some smaller protests. Hundreds of students gathered at two universities, chanting anti-government slo­gans, and activists outside Egypt's Bar Association waved banners demanding economic reform. 
"The strike is legitimate against poverty and starvation," chanted the protesters, who were surrounded by riot police. Protesters on a roof later show­ered security forces with glass bottles and bits of wood. 


Unused prescriptions go to poor 
States allow donations ofsealed drugs, pharmaceuticals from institutions 
Homar, Wyoming's state phar­

Associated Press 
macist. , A pilot program in 
NEW YORK -The struggle Cheyenne, Wyo., last year net­to keep soaring medical costs ted $81,000 in donated drugs in check is feeding an to fill 557 prescriptions. State increase in state programs officials say that's just a small that collect unused prescrip­slice of the vast reserves of tion drugs to give away to the drugs that go to waste each uninsured and poor. year. The program is now 
Some states allow donations working to get $180,000 in of sealed drugs from individu­drugs it has online so it can 
als, while oth­ be accessed  
ers only accept  by other pro­ 
pharmaceuti­cals from insti­tutions, such  'These are medications that would have  grams in the state. Drug recy­ 
as  doctor's  otherwise been  cling .  pro­ 
offices or assisted-living  destroyed.''  grams pay for them- 
homes. Drugs are typically  Roxanne Homar  selves "by just working  
vetted  by  Wyoming state pharmacist  with  one  

pharmacists to cross-check safety, then distributed by hospitals, phar­macies or charitable clinics. 
The type of drugs donated run the gamut and include antibiotics, antipsychotics, blood thinners and antide­pressants. 
At least 33 states have laws to allow or study drug recy­cling programs, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Most state programs are just a few years old or still in the test stages, but officials envision huge gains. 
In Iowa, David Fries, CEO of the Iowa Prescription Drug Corp., said the program has the potential to double or triple in the near future. Officials in Tulsa, Okla., also see plenty of room for growth. 
"There are millions of dol­lars of unused meds out there that have not been captured," said Linda Johnston, director of social services for Tulsa County. 
Regulations to ensure safety vary from state to state, but the basic concept is the same. 
"These are medications that would've otherwise been destroyed," said Roxanne 
patient and saving them and keeping 
them out of the hospital over the long term," Iowa's Fries said. 
Ensuring that a diabetic doesn't miss her medication, for example, might stave off "eye problems, foot problems, all kinds of medical condi­tions," he said. 
It's still too early to measure the impact of drug recycling in offsetting the costs of emer­gency room and other hospi­tal care for the uninsured. But when medical conditions go untreated, the financial toll is clear. 

t  A  study h  by e  'There are millions of dollars ofunused  many the  people state's  
Commonwealth  meds out there that  recycled drug  
Fund in 2006 found 59 per­cent of unin­ have not been captured."  program has helped statewide.  
sured  people  "In  health  
with chronic conditions either skipped a dose of their  Linda Johnston Director of social servic­es for Tulsa County  care reform, it's got to be a cumulative effect of a lot  
medicine  or  of  different  
went without it  efforts.  It  

because it was too expensive. seems like throwing a 10-foot One-third of that group visited rope down a 40-foot hole, but an emergency room or stayed we have to begin some­in a hospital overnight or did where," Scott said. 
both, compared with 15 per­cent of their insured counter­parts. 
The costs to treat uninsured patients in Wyoming alone are staggering. Every year, hospi­tals there provide about $120 million in uncompensated care, according to Susie Scott, executive director for the Wyoming Health Care Commission. 
There are between 80,000 and 90,000 uninsured in Wyoming, and their options for medical care are "general­ly limited to emergency room situations," Scott said. 
In Iowa, hospitals in 2005 provided $465 million in uncompensated care, accord­ing to the state's hospital association. 
Meanwhile, between March and December of last year, Iowa's drug recycling pro­gram collected 319,000 dosage units worth an esti­mated $292,000. 
In the face of such enor­mous costs, saving a few dol­lars by using recycled drugs may seem futile. But the sav­ings that could be achieved would add up over time. 
In Louisiana last year, one charitable pharmacy in Baton Rouge filled more than 38,000 prescriptions worth $2 mil­lion, the vast majority of which were donated medica­tions. Officials say they don't track how 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 7 2008 

THE OBSERVER 

Too much stimulation 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Oamc, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Oame, IN 46S56 
EDITOII IN CIIIEF Chris flin<· 

MANAGING EDI'IUII BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay rit7patrick Kyle West 

ASSl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Ass·I~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
NEWS EDITOII: Bill Brink 
VIEWI'OINT ElliTOII: Kara King 
SI'OilTS EDITOII: Chris Hinc 
SCENE ElliTOR: '[ae Andrews 

SAINT MAllY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PIIOTO EI>ITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Gronli 
CONTROI.l.f.R: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6.~1-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631 ..6900 observadG:Ilnd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 6.)!-4.)24 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-530.) viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@rilt.qlu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THF. 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofrhe Universicy ofNotr<' Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. Tlw Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrrisements based on content, 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhc majoricy of rhe Ediror in Chid; Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editors and deparrmenr editors. Commenrarics, letters and columns presenr the views of rlw authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.<·ttcrs ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "garding Obsmyr policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'I h.: l>h..ctwr (USPS ~')'J 2--4111.111) is puhh.ha.l Mnmlay dm•ut~h Friday cx<.:cpf chum~ n:;nu .Uil! Y"J~ ..IIIIfl pnltllls. A ~ul...cnl•titllt to The ()h..ervcr iK $IOU fur unc aC~.dcrnk 
year; S'i5 f(Jrmu:ftt'nll'lltt'r 
r!u: ClbscrvC'r i~o publiJhctl.n r<>STMASTER 
0.24 South 1Jinn1g Halt ~nd .uidft'5S cvrrection~ til: Num: l1.m1c, IN 4()'5')(,.Q779 Tilt: OllloCrYcr Pcrimli..:od pumge paid .If Noii'C DAmt 1~0. Bux n'J and .uJdition.tl mo~ilinp: otficao. 014 Sourh Dining llall 
Notre !lame, IN .i(,'}%-0779 

The OIJJ<:rver •~ .t member ul the A'1611CUICd Pres~. Allu:pmJm:ri11n riglm ue rc~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

As I'm writing this, I'm in the LaFortune computer duster; back­pack on the floor beside me -three pockets open-umbrella tightly l'old­Hd in ease or rain, notebook open on 
the left with Jackie 
research notes, Mirandola 
haphazardly Mullen 
added as they strike me, a to-do Guest 
list !'or bel'ore Columnist 
summer break 

poking out beneath the double-sided scribblHs of leeturp, notes. While writ­
ing that first sentence, I re-checked 
my e-mails twice, opened my 
Faeebook and checked the final score ol' last night's Braves game. 
My laptop back in the room has two browsers open right now-pne with seven tabs. the other with five. Each has been open for days. Turning ol'f my computer completely has become too risky; I might lose those tabs of interest that I would have looked at right away had I time and they are obviously too important to delete. 
My planner has meetings every night. Two, three, one during the day. The coiTee I spilled on the bottom half permeates through March and past the first two weeks of April. The crin­kled pages left in its wake renders flipping from week to week much more difficult than it was only a few months ago. June's blank pages seem so far away. 
Our TV set is old. But not much older than the ones where you can put a screen inside of the screen -in case just one program, one game is not enough action for you. I wanted to wateh a baseball game last night, which I used to be·content to only watch, maybe talk or eat, but not do anything else for those two and a half hours. Last night, I watched the open­ing piteh, the first half of an inning, then pulled out my laptop to answer some e-mails for work, then pulled out a book for tomorrow, read a few pages, decided that was distracting, took out an article for the same class, didn't get past the first double-sided sheet, called my mom, went to the bathroom, started looking up plane f'light prices for this summer, then realized that it was time for mass and I hadn't gotten anything done. Should I panic'? Should I skip it'? Will I sit during the homily and only think of how mueh stuff is in my room, piled on the desk, waiting for my attention'? 
My attention. There's a laugh. When's the last time I actually spent longer than an hour on anything? 
I'm getting hungry. Maybe I'll walk up to the Huddle and get a snack'? 
How many browsers are open on your computer? How many browsers are open in your brain'? We finish one meeting, finish one class, eateh up with one friend, read half of two arti­cles from the paper, road the first five pages of that chapter of the book for class, watch an hour-long sitcom (don't even try to sit down for a fea­ture-length movie unless you bring work to do while watehing}. No won­der we all go straight to the eomies ­there arc only three total, not too many words, and it might be the only time all day that you finish some­thing! (I just ehecked my e-mails again. One new.) 
I went to a dinner last week and at our table sat one of Notre Dame's long-tenured professors. A good­natured, agreeable man, he somehow seemed to find, throughout our two hour-long evening together, various topics of complaint regarding the Notre Dame student body. Heading the list was our ignorance to the Classics. I couldn't help but feel frus­trated inside -I read many of those in high..school, I'm not stupid or unin­telligent; how eould a whole genera­tion slip under the dumb mat'? Aren't our SAT scores at Notre Dame rising, anyways'? 
But then I thought back. When I read "A Tale of Two Cities," it was the middle of cross country season, which meant I was also playing dub soccer. I probably had NHS meetings after school that week, youth group and Chureh, maybe a fundraiser for stu­
dent government and a rehearsal for 
an orehestra concert. I probably was 
reading at least two other books for 
class, the paper in tho morning, a 
novel at night, and writing my sister a 
letter. Now, I don't remember 
Dickens. I don't remember the letter. I 
don't know what we played at the 
eoneert, or who tlw fundraiser bene­
fitted. 

When we don't stop, when we praise busy schedules, when we look down upon nine hours of sleep a night as lazy or loser-ish (do you really want to leave the party that early?}. we lose the benefits of what we are doing. We lose the reason behind why we are doing it as well. Twenty min­utes of nothing -really nothing, I mean; no sleep, no TV, no computer, no roommate, no phone, no food­shouldn't be unapproachably radical. As processing, thoughtful human beings, we need time to allow all that we're learning, all that we're absorb­ing, to aetually sink in. Otherwise, the knowledge superficially skims the topmost levels of our ratiocination. 
One German word captures it per­fectly: "i.iberlegen." It literally means "to lie above," but translates to letting it sit for a while so you ean think ­"sleeping on it," in effect. I always picture a brain, with the thought in question hovering above, cloud-like, until it develops to the point in which it can gradually percolate through the brain's wrinkles. Don't just study, go to meetings, to class, then volunteer work. Take some time between, do notping, and "i.iberlegen" it. Otherwise, why are you learning if only to forget? 
• 0 
.z 

Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a sopho­more German and History major. She's gotten four new e-mails since that second sentence. Still hungry ­wait, didn't I call someone for lunch? You can e-mail her, too, at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-life stem cell research 
On Mar. 26, I spoke to the Notre Dame Law School Pro­Life Club about what it means to be a pro-life Democrat and the eurrent politieal and policy debates in Washington regarding the sanetity of human life. During my speech, I talked about my opposition to using federal funds for embryonic: stem cell research due to my belief -and the beliefs of many of my constituents-that our tax dollars should not be used to advanee research that results in the destruction of human embryos ("Donnelly Expands Pro-Life Definition" Mar. 27 issue}. 
In the course of the one-hour discussion, I misspoke at one point, saying that I support increased federal funding for embryonic stem eel! research. This is not the case. 
I am a strong supporter of other promising forms of stem cell research that do not harm embryos or fetuses. Thankfully, the science of stem cells is rapidly develop­ing, bringing new breakthroughs with each passing year. We should fully explore the possibilities and potential of adult stem cells as well as those stem cells found in cord blood and amniotic fluid. Even more exciting is the most recent development that could lead to our one day being able to convert ordinary skin cells in to stem cells. 
To show my support of non-embryonic types of stem cell research, I joined Congressman Dan Lipinski of Illinois in introducing legislation last April to establish a National Amniotic and Placental Stem Cell Bank to eneourage stem cell research derived from amniotic fluid or plaeenta. I believe by using these means we can aehieve break­throughs that will result in cures and treatments for injuries and illnesses without harming human life. 
I will continue to protect the sanctity of life while also supporting the social programs that cneourage expectant mothers to choose life and enable those same mothers to feed, clothe and educate their children. 
Congressman Joe Donnelly 0-Granger Apr. 6 
OBSERVER POLL

News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Bill Brink Matt Gamber How far will Men's Hockey go in 
Emma Driscoll Sam Werner 
the Frozen Four? 
Claire Reising Andy Ziccarelli 
Lose in the semis 

Graphics Scene 
Lose in the finals "/ don't want to play golf When I hit Jared Wafer Hyan Raffin a ball, I want someone else to go ' 
Win it all 

Viewpoint chase it." 
I didn't know Notre Dame made the 
l.ianna 

Frozen Four Rogers Hornsby 
Brauweiler 
baseball player Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver. com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, April 7 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

What is a vote for a pro-life Democrat? 
The Democratic Party Platform explicitly states, "[wJe stand proudly for a woman's right to choose, consistent with Roe v. Wade, and regardless of her ability to pay. We stand firmly against Republican efforts to undermine that right." This is incompatible with Congressman Joe Donnelly's recent remarks at the law school that, as The Observer paraphrased, "despite people's impressions of the Democratic Party, the party is not inherently pro-choice." Even a vote for a personally pro-life democrat is a vote for a leadership staunchly opposed to life, and the priorities of the leadership are what rule the legislative process. 
Installing Nancy Pelosi (whose former chief of staff, Cecile Richards, runs the political arm of Planned Parenthood) as Speaker of the House ensures pro-abortion bills are brought to the floor whereas pro-life proposals are tabled and rarely, if ever, brought up for a vote. Pelosi's agenda includes the override of the president's Mexico City Policy, which would reinstate our taxpayer dollars paying for abortion overseas, federal funding for abortion, the "Freedom of Choice Act" (codifying Roe as a statute), etc. 
The third vote of the new democrat-con­trolled congress, H.R. 3, proposed funding embryo-destructive research. Donnelly voted "no," but the bill passed, due in part to the Democrat composition of Congress and in part to Pelosi's management of the floor (though 
Appreciate your speaker 
Every year an undergraduate commencement speaker is selected. Every year this announce­ment is followed swiftly by another snotty student complaining that the Pope, the President of the United States, or Bono was not selected for this most honorable event. Senator Lugar was not good enough. Jeff Immelt, CEO of GE, was not good enough. Now, Cardinal Theodore McCarrick is not good enough. Every year I am embar­rassed and disgusted that our student body feels the need to chide the University and the speaker for not being "good enough" for Notre Dame undergraduate students. 
Is it possible that undergraduate students no longer have the ability to look beyond their own pop culture and Comedy Central political pundits' know-how to really examine what light these speakers may shed on their experience in the real world? Can true knowledge only be revealed by those whose names we recognize? Ifthat were the case, then it would follow that there is not a single worthy piece of knowledge the grad­uating class of 2008 will be able to bring to the world upon graduation. I know this cannot be true. I know there are wonderfully bright and eager minds who hope their degree will be a tick­et to impact their communities and bring some trPsh eyes to some persistent problems. After being in the workforce for a couple of years, we are excited to have you. Trust me, we need you. 
Our past commencement speakers have made a significant impact in our world and it seems that the Letter to the Editor writers over the years are too obtuse to recognize these speakers' true value. ln the end, it's just a speaker. No one remembers their graduation ceremony. What you do remember are the 15 pounds you gained during a ridiculous party during senior week, the tears you shed when you say your last goodbyes to your family of friends at the grotto and all of the experiences that have prepared you for your next significant journey into the world. So can we please stop reinforcing this perceived cocky Notre Dame attitude? Let's show what Notre Dame class, spirit and dedication is all about. 
Joanna Cornwell alwn class of2005 Apr. 3 

ultimately 'vetoed by President Bush). Meanwhile, pro-life bills continue to languish. Even those sponsored by pro-life Democrats such as the Pregnant Woman Support Act are not brought to the floor under the current regime. 
Donnelly's votes against life-destroying meas­ures are commendable, but it was his vote for Pelosi that brought anti-life legislation to the floor and barred the possibility of pro-life bills. Donnelly was asked how he could reconcile his vote for Pelosi, or support of either of the Democrat presidential candidates with his pro­life convictions. His demeanor shifted and he attacked Republicans instead of addressing the concerns about his party leadership and anti­life platform. Donnelly's ability to protect the life in his district, as he informed his listeners he was "constitutionally required" to do, is seriously handicapped by his party's control of Congress. The bottom line is this: A nation can not have a pro-life direction when it is con­trolled by a party whose platform touts abor­tion as a "fundamental right" and whose lead­ership is determined to enshrine it as "repro­ductive justice." 
Anna Franzonello second year law student Badin Hall Apr. 2 

Redefining pro-life 
In response to Stephen Wallace's Apr. 2 letter "Defining pro-life," I have to disagree with his contention that "pro-life" should only include abortion, embryo-destructive research and euthanasia issues. While a common tenet of the pro-life movement is that "life begins at conception," it seems to forget that life doesn't stop at birth. The evil Democrats that Mr. Wallace castigates are the ones passing social welfare programs to make sure that these children have food to eat, a roof over their heads and clothes to wear. While Mr. Wallace might not see this as admirable as compared with, say, ensuring that every fetus comes to term, I applaud Congressman Donnelly for recognizing that pro-life means more than just pro­tecting life before it is born. Poverty, genocide, war, and disease are all issues that should be of utmost concern to those who truly care about protecting life. 
Only by narrowing his definition of "pro-life" can Mr. Wallace seriously claim that voting Democrat would be immoral. Once the definition of pro-life expands, his argument falls apart. Along with Mr. Wallace's narrow "pro-life" issues, the Republican Party is the same party that is focused on prolonging the war in Iraq, resisting action on climate change and stifling spending on social programs while preserving tax breaks on stock dividends for the super rich. If you narrow the definition of "pro-life" enough so that the Democrats are always voting outside of that definition it becomes much easier to say that Republicans are the only moral choice. Narrowing the definition of what is "pro-life" is a Karl Rove tactic used to blind people -especially religious people -from voting issues that truly are "life" issues. As long as this narrow definition of "pro-life" endures, it will remain a wedge issue that prevents us from seriously discussing issues that affect the lives of everyone in this country. 
John Kennedy second year law srudem off campus Apr. 2 

'Absurder' was being satirical 
As I read Theresa Thomas' Letter to the Editor ("'Absurder' this fact can be seen in the recent debate about "The Vagina in poor taste," Apr. 4), I was bewildered to find that she con­Monologues." There were several people I encountered (not sidered the article about "vaginas" being discovered on cam­to mention a few Viewpoint letters ) that managed to talk pus to be offensive. She claimed that " ... vulgarity in calling about the controversial play at length and not use the word women by a single private body part is abhorrent." She went "vagina" once. I recommend that Ms. Thomas look up the on to say, "Ifl were a female student ... at Notre Dame, I'd be word "satire" in a dictionary and then consult a basic anato­making an appointment this afternoon with school officials my book about the purpose of a vagina. She will hopefully dis­over the discriminatory and hateful joke." cover that vaginas are nothing to be ashamed of and that the 
Ironically, The Observer was satirizing the very attitude that Observer article was doing this university a service by point­Thomas' statements embody: an embarrassment of the word ing that out. "vagina" and the significance it holds. It is called a "vagina," not "a single private body part." The article used sarcasm to Michayla Sullivan make fun of the fact that many people at Notre Dame appear sophomore to have a fear of using the word "vagina" when a little over Walsh Hall half of the world's population has one. The demonstration of Apr. 4 
Please learn to appreciate satire 
Apologies to The Observer for members of the Saint Mary's community not understanding satire. It is quite absurd that a woman could possibly graduate from Saint Mary's without grasping a basic form of writing. 
Lauren Mangiaforte junior offcampus Apr. 4 

Title IX not tyrannical 
Greg Yatarola's Apr. 2 Viewpoint column denouncing the "tyranny" of Title IX (of the Education Amendments of 1972) distorts the requirements of that law and leaves out a crucial fact that completely undermines his arguments. 
First, Title IX does not demand proportionality -that the percentage of st,udents that are female and the percentage of athletes that are female be roughly the same. Instead, as per the "three-prong test" instituted in 1979, it requires either proportionality, a "continual expansion of athletic opportunities for the underrepresented sex," or "full and effective accommodation of the interest and ability of underrepresented sex." The U.S. Department of Education explains these three prongs in detail in sections 3-5 at http://tinyurl.com/36wfsb. 
So ifYatarola's (risible) claim that "from earliest childhood, boys are far more interested in athletic competition than girls are" was actually true, this lack of interest would be sufficient to justify disproportionality. Second, no school has ever had its federal funding revoked for failing to comply with Title IX because the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights enforces the law slowly, highly selectively and ineffectively. (See the report abstract at httpJitinyurl.com/2nehfo.) So despite the extremely flexible requirements of the law, schools are still failing to satisfy it in apparently significant numbers. lf Title IX is a tyrant, it is one nei­ther feared nor obeyed. 
Dan Hicks graduate srudent offcampus Apr.2 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 7, 2008 
Fashion Designers Shake Up Industry with New Business Deals 


StyiPs from top designers worldwide have told the magazine. rf~cently been finding their way to the closets of Kawakubo's thoughts speak to recent issues · increasing variety of consumers. This is due to a the fashion world of balancing creative in current trend of big-name retail chains collabo-with the financial bottom line. Established com-,.~
r rating with high-end designers and design hous-panies that are seeking to revitalize their look •• PS in an effort to produce also need to find leaders for their houses who 
f' 

• "cheap-chic" clothing collec-will design enough commercially appealin 
t. Kelly O'Sullivan d t t k fit
wns. pro uc s o eep pro 1 s up.
~·t 

. ., Target has featured the This strategic dilemma has lead to a frequ looks of Isaac Mizrahi for Scene Writer turnover in some design houses, presentin 
• 

years, although Mizrahi will cracks in the plan of brand reinvention that has 1soon end his relationship dominated the industry in the past decade. with the discount chain to ·Experts theorize that customers are not given' bPcome the creative director for Liz Claiborne. enough time to embrace the changes in their In a somewhat reversed move, Dana Buchman's favorite brands due to the rapid replacements ini looks will move from upscale department stores creative direction. Yves Saint Laurent, Lanvinl' such as Neiman Marcus and . . and Burberry avoided creating 
•• , .••.,,._,Saks Fifth Avenue to join Vera Establzshed compantes that confusion in their consumer Wang's by selling a line at budg-are seeking to revitalize their bases by implementing cleverl .."'"''"'nt-eonseious Kohl's stores. look also need to find leaders management moves to all owl These pairings have broken fi th . h h 'll their changes to be absorbed byl
the standard view in the fashion or etr OUSes W OWl the public. world that designer names are design enough Not all design houses orl rPserw~d for department stores commercially appealing designers are as lueky. Larsl 
and have no place at discount d k ,r; · Nilsson was released from hisl retailers. When Mizrahi and pro ucts to eep proJlts up. position at Bill Blass in 20031 Target forged their partnership and again this past February! 
in 2003, Mizrahi's career did not suffer. from his very brief stint with Gianfranco Ferre. Unexpectedly, the designer had an estimated Nilsson is infamous in the fashion world fodi.11. ·­$300 million ayear success on his hands. refusing to compromise his designs, instead 
II&M recently announced its newest design choosing to argue with management over what partner, Comme des Gar~ons, a Japanese design some would see as small details but what house founded. solely owned and headed by Hei Nilsson views as critical to his creations. Kawakubo. The label, whose name is French for Betsy Pearce, a strategy eonsultant for luxuryl 
). -~· 

"like boys," is known for its avant-garde aesthet-brands, explained the corporate side of thej 
ic. Its expected creations for this project include problem to The New York Times. ; womenswear. menswear, childrenswear, acces-"What kind of business would rationalize the! sories and a unisex fragrance. The line will be ereation of an entire product line four times a. available exclusively at 1-l&M, year and then produce it on spec?" launching first in Tokyo in she told the Times. November, and being rolled out When Mizrahi and Target Pearee believes that more ... -· worldwide within a few days. fi d h . h' . brands will soon experience
Past guest designers for the orge t etr partners lp m shakeouts if they do not focus on 
affordable Swedish retailer 2003, Mizrahi's career did the bottom line. 
include Karl Lagerfeld, Stella not suffer. Unexpectedly the With this becoming the trend, 
McCartney, Viktor & Holf and . . ' Nilsson's situation is not unique. Hoberto Cavalli. Its newest pair-destgner had an estlmated Recent replacements have hap­ing with Commes des Gar~ons is $300 million a year success pened again at Bill Blass, as well expeeted to draw a more on his hands. as at Chloe, Anne Klein and Paco sophisticated, fashion-savvy fol-Rabanne, which left designer lowing. Patrick Hobinson free to create 
In an interview with "British Vogue," upcoming looks for the Gap. Kawakubo explained her reasoning for working With these rapid changes for retailers and with the inexpensive retailer. designers, the fashion industry is not one that 
"I havP always been interested in the balance will be slowing its dynamic anytime soon. between creation and business. It is a dilemma, although for me creation has always been the The views expressed in this column are those first priority. It is a fascinating challenge to of the author and not necessarily those of the 
'work with II&M since it is a chance to take the Observer. dilnmma to its extreme, and try to solve it," she Contact Kelly O'Sullivan at kosulli2@nd.edu. 
Patricl(Robinson 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 7, 2008 
page 13 

CHRISTINA LEWIS I Observer Graphic 
things they sing about. 

Maybe there's something in the New Jersey water that produces everyman lyricists. If there are two running 
Bruce Springsteen has undergone motifs in the lyrics on "Sink or Swim," quite the resurgence over the last few it's driving and dancing. In fact, well years. Membership in the Church of over half the dozen songs mention one the Boss has grown exponentially, or the other, if not both. Likewise, the notably including the Killers and the mystical New Jersey created by the Hold Steady. work of Springsteen casts a spectre 
Who knows the reason, but "Born to over the songs. The cities are burned-Run" is now the hip out traps, escape is album and/or song to "/ Could'a Been a the only option for name-drop. Maybe it's Contender" starts offwith the restless youth on because the kids who · · ,/ · · · these songs. To call 
grew up listening to his JUSt sz~ger/f!Ultarzst Brz?n the lyrics "hopelessly music now have bands Fallon s vozce, a few quzet romantic" would be of their own. It's not lines about being broke and an understatement. that this praise isn't hungry before the band The Gaslight
well deserved, because . : . Anthem never go the Springsteen's music has kzcks zn trzumphantly. full E Street Band certainly been some of route instrumentally the most powerful of the past 35 though, limiting their repertoire to years. just the standard guitar, bass and 
This is not., however, an evaluation · drums1 with the occasional acoustic of Springsteen's longevity, despite first guitar and harmonica. The simple, appearances. This is a review of the though some would say standard, excellent debut album by New Jersey's approach works perfectly for the the Gaslight Anthem entitled "Sink or songs. This is where the group's punk Swim" released last May. These are rock influences show through. No the kids who grew up listening to horns, no piano clutter up the album. "Born in the USA", grown up with a The songs are short and sweet, band to call their own. One could say around three minutes apiece. the Gaslight Anthem play rock-and-It's very difficult to find a fault in roll, or punk rock or something differ-this album. Sure, this isn't the most ent. lt doesn't matter what words you mind-blowingly original sound, but it's use to pigeonhole the band -what instantly familiar, tried and true. Each does matter is that song stands out in its they play with the One could say the Gaslight own way, the lyrics same heartfelt honesty Anthem play rock-and-roll, are well-written. In the Boss did. Though or punk rock or something fact, everything that 
vocal influences are makes up a great 
obvious, it's really the different. It doesn't matter album is present. conviction and blue-what words you use to To put it simply, collar lyricism that z' e h l th b d· h t "Sink or Swim" is a 
they share. This is a p g on °e . e an , W a fantastic debut. From band that knows the does matter zs that they play the acoustic numbers deep power of a sim-with the same heartfelt like "Red ~t Night" to ple, well played rock honesty the Boss did. t~e ~?~rgmg rockers 
and roll song. hke I da Called You 
All this is obvious Woody, Joe" not a sin-from the first 30 seconds of album gle song fails to impress. The future is opener "Boomboxes and Dictionaries". very bright for this still young band, It is driving, powerful, anthemic and with only this full length and a recent­catchy. It's a song that you want to ly released EP to their name. The play in the evening as the sun goes Gaslight Anthem is without a doubt down, with the volume turned up and one of the most exciting bands making the windows down. It makes you want music today, and the stellar "Sink or to sing along, to quit school and start Swim" is proof for that. a band. Despite all this, the song does­n't stand head-and-shoulders above Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu the eleven that follow it. 
"I Could'a Been a 


-
Contender" starts off with just singer/gui­tarist Brian Fallon's voice, a few quiet lines about being broke and hungry, before the band kicks in triumphantly. The lyrics are about facing adversity head on. the song backs them up appropriately. The miracle is that this style never feels fake or forced, it's never hard to believe the Gaslight Ant_hem have lived the 
Sink or Swim 
The Gaslight Anthem 

Released by: XOXO Records Recommended Tracks: "Boomboxes and Dictionaries," "l'da Called You Woody, Joe" 
CHRISTINA LEWIS I Observer Graphic 

-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 7, 2008 
MLB 

Wang's strong start helps Yankees clip Rays 
Thomas' grand slam sends Red Sox to last place; Griffey homers, VaZquez shines in Reds' victory over Phillies 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Good thing for the New York Yanknns that Joba Chamberlain and Mariano Hivera have started the season in pnak form. especially with their vaunt11d oll'ense stuek in an narly April freeze. 
Al'tnr Chinn-Ming Wang pitehed four-hit ball into the sev­enth inning and llideki Matsui hit a two-run homnr, New York's top relievers elosed out a 2-0 vietory over the pesky Tampa Bay Hays on Sunday. 
With manager Joe Girardi baek on the beneh following an illness, Chamberlain and sneond baseman Hobinson Cano got the Yankees out of a dicey jam in the seventh. Hivera reeorded three quick outs in the ninth, and New York won for the third time this year when scoring three runs or fewer. 
The Yankees were 6-36 in such games last season. 
"You're going to have those weeks,'' Girardi said. "We got enough today and that's what matters. This ofl'ense will break out." 
Tampa Bay. which was looking for the best five-game start in its 11-year history, dropped to 3-2 af'ter winning the first two of the four-game series. Girardi missed those games because of an upper respiratory infection while b1meh coaC"h Hob Thomson man­aged in his place. 
"Nice being baek on the bench," said Girardi, adding that his fever was gone. "It's nice boing out in that fresh air. Even 'though it's chilly, you just feel better when you're out there." 
Matsui homered in the fourth 
ofT James Shields and finished 
with three hits. The Yankees (3­
3) have scored only 17 runs this season -no more than four in any game. 
"llopefully, you'll see a lot more hitting from us," Johnny Damon said. "We plan to score some runs here soon." 
Pitching in short sleeves on a 46-degree afternoon, Wang (2-0l held the Hays hitless until the fifth and took a two-hitter into the seventh. 
Cliff Floyd and Eric Hinske opened the inning with singles, putting runners at the eorners. Girardi brought in Chamberlain, who soon hit 101 mph on the stadium radar gun and struck out Willy Aybar on three pitches. 
Shawn Higgans followed with a line drive that appeared head­ed for center field, but Cano made a backhand stab and dou­bled up I linske at first base after he wandered too far off the bag. 
"It was a little different eoming in with runners on base, but it was good to do that," Chamberlain said. "You don't want to give up the runs for Chien-Ming. lie did such a great job. The bullpen's got to hold it down." 
Also working in short sleeves, Chamberlain tossed a perfect eighth before Rivera fanned two in a l-2-3 ninth. The Yankees 

AP 

Reds right fielder Ken Griffey Jr. rounds the bases after hitting a -two-run home run during Cincinnati's 8-2 over Philadelphia. 
are 20-2 in regular-season 
games when Chamberlain pitch­
es. lie has set up Hivera for a 
save in all three New York wins 
this season. 
"There's definitely an energy 
when he comes in," Girardi said. 
A trainer eame out to check on 
Wang after he appeared to slip 
on the mound in the limrth. lie 
stayed in the game, however, 
and finished with six strikeouts. 
Blue Jays 7, Red Sox 4 
The Boston Hed Sox headed 
home at last in an unusual posi­
tion -last place. 
Frank Thomas hit his 11th 
career grand slam, Vernon Wells 
added a two-run homer and the 
Toronto Blue Jays beat the Hed 
Sox Sunday to complete a three­
game sweep of the World Series 
champions. 
Boston failed to get a boost from Josh Beckett's first start of the season and went 3-4 on its opening three-nation trip, a journey of nearly 16,000 miles. The Red Sox are in the AL East cellar for the first time sinee April 10, 2005, when they were 2-4. 
"It's probably the best thing for us right now," Kevin Youkilis said. "A lot of us are tired. We're ready to go home. 
"All these different eountries, different currencies, I'm kind of sick of it." 
The Red Sox split two games against the Athletics in Tokyo and swept two in Oakland before arriving in Canada. They open the home portion of their sched­ule Tuesday at Fenway Park against the struggling Detroit Tigers. 
J.D. Drew said his teammates were feeling lifeless and beaten down. 
'That's kind of to be expected with the toll the trip takes," Drew said. "We're finally at the end of it, so it's back on track when we get to Boston." 
Catcher Jason Varitek said Boston can't rely on a return to Fenway to cure its woes. 
''We need to play a little better as a whole, pitch better, play better defense," Varitek said. "The swings will come around as a unit. I think there is a level of the trip, but we still have to play better baseball." 
Out since mid-March because of a strained lower back, Beckett (0-1) was activated from the dis­abled list to face Hoy Halladay (1-1 ). Beckett gave up five runs, three hits and four walks in 4 2/3 innings, striking out six. He reaehed 96 mph and threw 59 of 92 pitches for strikes. 
"Obviously, it's not the result you want, but health-wise, l felt good," Beckett said. 
Manager Terry Francona said Beckett looked sharp before starting to tire. 
"Early in the game, he was throwing the ball knee-high with good velocity, nice and free and easy, and staying in his delivery," Francona said. "In the fifth, I thought his legs were starting to go." 
Reds 8, Phillies 2 
Ken Griffey Jr. doesn't give much thought to his statistics ­not even the big one that's fast approaching. The day to talk about that one will come soon enough. 
For the moment, he's more wrapped up in smoothing out his swing and enjoying what he sees from the Cincinnati Reds' young starting pitchers. 
Griffey hit his 594th career homer Sunday, a two-run shot that resumed his pursuit of a sel­dom-reaehed milestone and powered the Heds to an victory over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Griffey's first homer of the sea­son ofT Brett Myers (0-1) left him six shy of becoming the sixth player in major league history to reach 600 homers. He would join Barry Bonds, Hank Aaron, Babe Ruth, Willie Mays and Sammy Sosa. 
One week into the season, he's still trying to get comfortable at the plate. 
"It's a day-in, day-out process," Griffey said. "I don't even think about it." 
Jeff Keppinger homered and drove in three runs for the Reds, who improved to 4-2 with anoth­er encouraging start by a new­comer. 


Hight-hander Edinson Volquez (1-0) struck out eight in 5 1/3 innings, the second time during the homestand that a young Heds pitcher made a good first impression. Johnny Cueto had one of the best big league debuts in franchise history on Wednesday, striking out 10 in seven innings of a 3-2 win over Arizona. 
"The first thing on my mind was I had to do a good job my first time in Cincinnati," Volquez said. "I think I did. I didn't go seven innings or have 10 strike­outs like J.C., but I think it was pretty good." 
The 24-year-old Volquez, who was part of the trade with Texas for .Josh llamilton in December, got a standing ovation whnn he left with a 4-1 lead in thn sixth. lie gave up five hits and a pair of walks. 
Griffey has the feeling that something good is in the making with the rotation. 
"We'm in the making of having a lot of fun," Griffey said. "We've got to go out and do our jobs to support them." 
Like Cueto, Volquez took advantage of the hitters' unfa­miliarity with his fastball or his approach. He got Jimmy Hollins to take a 94 mph fastball for a called third strike in the third inning, then caught Shane Victorino looking at a 95 mph fastball on the corner. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Housemate sought. Private roorn. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do If you or someone you care about Call631·7897. $400 monthly. not go it alone. has been sexually assaulted, visitWANTED FoR RENT PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to If you or sorneone you love needs shtrnl $14.25 BASE·APPT. STUDENT Blue & Gold Homes Showing for N.D., student neighborhood, central PREGNANT confidential support or assistance, WORK flexible, no experience 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" air, new appliances, very nice. 289-please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. Vive Je Retartha! needed, customer sales/service, leases bluegoldrentals.com 4071. OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? We beat dudes! conditions apply, ages 18+, 57 4-You do not have to be alone. We at1:7819. For rnore information, 273-3835, Large house available for 2009· Quiet and Private, Furnished or want to help. visit our website at: 
Ladies. meet Mr. Right.www. workforstudents.com 2010. Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br Call our 24 hour confidential hotline 
Just search "Jaytar'' on YouTube to Full renovations completed 2007. available. Cable & wifi included. at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· 
see the man of your dreams. Notre Dame Staff member seeks Close to campus. 4,000+ square One mile from carnpus. 1·800-No Abort or visit our web site nant.shtrnl or see our bi-weekly ad 
If you want to get to know house sitting/furnished rental feet, 5 bathrooms. Call 773-339·0299 for rates & avail· at in 
him better, corne to 288 Dillon. through July 31 while home is being MacSwain@ grnail.com ability. www.lifecall.org The Observer. 
built. Call574-360·6919. 

-

---------~-­

------------------------------------------------------...., 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 7, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 15 

NHL Standings Eastern Conference 

team  wins  losses  OTL  pts  
Montreal  47  25  10  104  
Pittsburgh  47  27  8  102  
Washington  43  31  8  94  
New Jersey  46  29  7  99  
NY Range~  42  27  13  97  
Philadelphia  42  29  11  95  
Ottawa  43  31  8  94  
Boston  41  29  12  94  
Carolina  43  33  6  92  
Buffalo  39  31  12  90  
Florida  38  35  9  85  
Toronto  36  35  11  83  
NY Islanders  35  38  9  79  
Atlanta  34  40  8  76  
Tampa Bay  31  42  9  71  

Western Conference 

team wins losses OTL pts Detroit 54 21 7 115 San Jose 49 23 10 108 Minnesota 44 28 10 98 Anaheim 46 27 8 100 Dallas 45 30 7 97 Colorado 44 31 7 95 Calgary 42 30 10 94 Nashville 41 32 9 91 Edmonton 41 35 6 88 Chicago 40 34 8 88 Vancouver 39 33 10 88 Phoenix 38 37 6 82 Columbus 34 36 12 80 St Louis 33 36 13 79 Los Angeles 32 43 7 71 
h,;rj ':i'O" />"F'{:: 0 t. :<;·).l.;~.: :-.',:::,. 
NCAA Softball 

USA Today/NFCA Top 25 
rank team overall 
1 Arizona State 39-1 2 Alabama 31-1 3 Florida 48-2 4 UCLA 31-3 5 Michigan 28-3 6 Texas A&M 34-6 7 Stanford 32-5 8 Arizona 25-9 9 Houston 31-4 10 lSU 29·7 
11 Oklahoma 30·8 12 Tennessee 31-7 13 Fresno State 32-5 14 Georgia 35-8 15 Northwestern 17-9 16 North Carolina 32-6 17 long Beach State 27·9 18 DePaul 20·10 19 Louisiana-lafayette 21-10 20 Hawaii 28·11 21 Virginia Tech 25·10 22 San Diego State 27·10 23 California 32·12 24 Ohio State 23·8
' 25 
Washington 22-10. 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Kansas vs. Memphis 
9:21 p.m., CBS 
NBA 


Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. ­The Big Three are getting a rest. 
With the Boston Celtics all but assured of securing the best record in the NBA, coach Doc Rivers has decided to rest stars Kevin Garnett, Ray Allen and Paul Pierce. 
None were scheduled to play Saturday night in Charlotte, even though a win would secure home­court advantage through­out the playoffs. At least two of them also could sit out Tuesday night's game at Milwaukee. 
Rivers also has scaled back some practices, 
although he intends to play everyone in the last five games over the final week of the regular sea­son. 
"We thought about it a month ago," Rivers said. "When you looked at the schedule, we had a game, two days off, a game and two days off. Honestly, we had hoped that we had clinched home court. ... But if we don't do it now, you literaHy can't do it. Because I believe you have to be playing going into the playoffs." 
Pierce wasn't with the team Saturday after his fiancee gave birth to a baby girl on Friday. Garnett and Allen made 
the trip and took part in pregame warmups. 
"They did their normal routine, because I'm a big believer in that," Rivers said. "This morning they did the normal shootaround with the guys. If you were here three hours before the game, Ray was out there, just like normaL" 
The Celtics were on the verge of setting the NBA record for the biggest sin­gle-season turnaround after going from 24 wins to 60 after acquiring Garnett and Allen in the offseason. 
Garnett is aveTaging 
18.9 points and 9.4 rebounds, while Allen is averaging 18 points. Pierce, who could rejoin the team before Tuesday's game in Milwaukee, is averaging a team-best 

19.9 points. 
"Doc has been running the ship the whole time. I'm just going to sit and watch from the sidelines," Allen said. "My body feels great. But it will be good to let these guys get min­utes." 
The Big Three's absence left an odd starting lineup for the Celtics against a team that has given them trouble this season. Tony Allen, James Posey and Leon Powe joined normal starters Rajon Rondo and Kendrick Perkins. 
IN BRIEF Invstigators to meet with 
CanseCo about Clemens 
SAN FHANCISCO -The federal government's top steroid investi­gator has asked to meet with Jose Canseco to speak to the for­
mer  slugger  about  Roger  
Clemens.  
Canseco's lawyer,  Robert  

Saunooke, told The Associated Press on Sunday that IRS agent Jeff Novitzky called him last week and said he wanted to dis­cuss a photograph that allegedly shows Clemens at a pool party at Canseco's home in 1998. 
The meeting would likely hap­pen within the next 30 days, Saunooke said. 
"There's no urgency or rush on anyone's part," he said. 
Novitzky had hoped to meet with Canseco this week while the former AL MVP was in California to sign copies of his latest book, "Vindicated," Saunooke said. 
Florida receiver Harvin 
to have heel surgery 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Florida receiver Percy Harvin will have heel surgery next week, but coach Urban Meyer expects the speedy playmak­er to be fine for fall practice. 
"It's not a career-threatening injury," Meyer said Friday. "It's a very minor surgery, probably an eight-week recovery and then he'll be full speed for offseason. They're saying in June we should be able to get him cranked up, for sure July." 
School officials said renowned foot specialist Dr. Robert Anderson will perform the surgery Monday in North Carolina. 
The Gators hope the surgery will relieve years of pain in Harvin's right heel, which has bothered him off and on since high school. 
It was initially treated as tendini­tis at Florida, but the pain persisted and eventually caused soreness in his knee and hip. 
Love's streak of 70 straight
majors to end at Masters 
HUMBLE, Texas -Davis Love III's streak of major championship starts will end at 70. 
Love had to win the Houston Open to qualify for next week's Masters ­and stretch the longest active run of major appearances. He shot a l­over 73 on Sunday to finish at 5 under, 11 shots behind champion Johnson Wagner. 
The 43-year-old Love will sit out a major for the first time since the 1990 U.S. Open. He tore ligaments in his left ankle last September, spent more than four months rehabbing and has struggled to recapture his old form, missing three cuts in seven starts in 2008. 
-
''I'm close to playing good," he said. ''I'm just not getting it done. I don't know if I'm ready for Augusta or not. I'm not really playing good enough to compete right now, so I probably don't deserve to play." 
-
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 7, 2008 
OLYMPICS 

Anti-China protesters try to snuff Olympic flame 
-
-
-
Associated Press 
LONDON -Demonstrators 
grabbed at Uw Olympie torch, 
blocked its path and tried to 
snuff' out its flame Sunday in 
raucous prol!~sts of' China's 
human rights record that forced 
a string of' last-second changes 
to a chaotic relay through 
London. 
The biggnst protests since last month's torch-lighting in Crnece tarnished China's hopo for a harmonious prelude to a Summer Games celebrating its rise as a global power. Instead. tho flanw's S:i.OOO-mile journey from c;reece to Beijing has he1:onw a stage for activists dm:rying China's recent crack­down on Tibetans and support for Sudan dPspite civilian deaths in Darfur. 
l>mnonstrators attempted to hoard the bus trailing the torch shortly af'ter British fivo-timo go I d nwd a I rower Steve H1~dgrav1~ started tlw relay at Wmnbloy Stadium. 
Loss than an hour latPr, a pro­tnstl~r slippPd through a tight polieo cordon and grippod the torch before he was thrown to tho ground and arwstcd. 
• "Beforn I knew what was hap­pening this guy had lurched toward me and was grabbing tho torch out of my hand and I was detnrminndly clinging on," former childmn 's tolevision host Konnie II uq told British Broadcasting Corp. television. 
"I do feel for tho cause," she said. "I think that China have got a despicable human rights r1~1:ord." 
Another demonstrator tried to snufl' the flame with a spray of white powder from a fire extin­guisher, police said. Still others throw themselves in the torch's path. They were tackled or dragged off by police. Authorities said 37 people were arrested. 
London's Metropolitan police said some 2,000 officers. on foot, motorcydes, bikes, and on horseback tried to keep the pro­cnssion under control. 
One group of Tibetan protest­ers was corralled in metal bar­rkades across from Bloomsbury Squarn. 
Write Sports Contact Chris at chine@ nd.edu 
"lt. feels like we are restrained 
like a sheep in a barn," said 
Passang Dolne, 27, a Tibetan 
national who works as a nurse 
in London. "It really hurts." 
Chinese nationals about 100 
yards away were allowed to 
move freely as they waved 
Chinese flags distributed by the 
Chinese Embassy and the Bank 
of' China. 
"We don't like the Tibet peo­ple who use this time against tho Chinese. It's not a proper venue," said Ting Yan, 27. 
The demonstration swelled near where Chinese Ambassador Fu Ying was expected to carry the torch. Frantic organizers shuffled the order of participants and Fu unexpectedly appeared in the heart of Chinatown, jogging unhindered with the torch bnl'ore handing it to the next runner. 
"Maybe on TV screens there might be some chaotic spin," Chinese embassy spokesman Liu Weirnin told the BBC from the relay convoy. "I saw more smiling faces, waving hands, and thumbs-up welcoming the Olympic relay," 
But there were ugly scenes between Trafalgar Square and Big Ben, where a dozen protest­ers charged the torch. 
"Everyone was running at (me). It was a bit weird," said Scott Earley Jr., 17, the torch­bearer at the time. 
About 100 demonstrators managed to briefly impede the flame's progress by surrounding it_ near St. Paul's Cathedral, forcing police to put the name on a bus before continuing. 
The toreh was closely fol­lowed in east London by dozens of demonstrators shouting "Shame on China!" Police stopped to form a protective phalanx three or four officers deep every time the torch was handed to a new runner. 
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown briefly greeted the flame when it arrived outside his Downing Street residence. 
Brown never handled the torch. but watched as Olympic gold medalist Denise Lewis handed it to Paralympic power­lifting hopeful Ali Jawad. Pro-


AP 

Police officers on bicycles restrain a protester along the route of the Olympic Torch on Sunday 
in London. 
Tibet demonstrators and police clashed yards away, near Britain's Parliament buildings. 
The torch made it unscathed to the 02 Arena in Greenwich after more than seven fraught hours that belied the London event's theme: "Journey of llarmony." 
"There was definitely a bit of an edge," British tennis player Tim Henman, one of the torch­bearers, told The Associated Press. 
Olympics Minister Tessa Jowell later said Britain was celebrating the Olympics, not China's human rights record. 
"The welcome of the Olympic torch to London is not the same as condoning the human rights regime in China or condoning the treatment of Tibet," she told the BBC. 
There had been scattered protests before the torch reached London, and more are expected as the flame moves on to Paris, San Francisco and New Delhi. 
"They've called the torch relay a journey of harmony, but on the ground in Tibet they are shooting and killing peaceful Tibetan protesters," said Matt Whitticase, spokesman for the London-based Free Tibet Campaign. "We want to use the momentum gathered over this weekend to really press our case that the torch should not be allowed to be paraded tri­umphantly by China." 
French torchbearers will be encircled Monday by several hundred officers, some in riot police vehicles and on motorcy­cles, others on skates and on foot. Three boats were also to patrol the Seine River, and a helicopter was to fly over Paris, police said. 
The head of Reporters Without Borders, arrested in Greece last month for protest­ing during the flame-lighting 


ceremony there, said the group had altered its initial plans because of the heavy police turnout. Without giving away details, Robert Menard prom­ised protests would nonetheless be "spectacular." 
Two-time French judo gold medalist David Douillet said torch carriers will wear badges reading 'For a better world' ­which French athletes also hope will be permitted to wear in Beijing. Paris City Hall is to be draped with a banner support­ing human rights. 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy has suggested he might boycott the Olympic opening ceremony depending on how the situation evolves in Tibet. 
Gayle Donsky, a spokeswoman for the San Francisco Bay Area Darfur Coalition, said her group did not intend to disrupt the torch relay and was not calling for a boycott of the Beijing Olympics. 


Thu.rsdny...~.pr1l 10th 7.00 pn1 LaFcwtune E~allrocnn 
..Tlns .ll.lCJnt.h ft?t:d'Uri.ll§t Jft?X/C,'JD /Jnd Th~:n lbod S\:lJJJpbi;g::;' 
Exposin!?,· the ND colnllH.lnJ ty to the best ethnic c·u1sine the South. Bend 
f·>_.:• ' 
are::1. h <:l.s t.o o .1.er. 
,_.,.n Y® >y M•>~~m• '..,_, ""'~·--' •·~ ~• 
"Expand:i:tl!; the C:ross >Oads ofLe aming ~h Innovation and Disco....,ry'' lr"ii 
-~ 
Monday, April?, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND SoFTBALL 
Irish sweep pair of Big East doubleheaders 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame swept a pair of conference double-headers this weekend, defeating St. John's 5­0 and 8-4 on Saturday and Seton Hall 12-1 and 6-2 on Sunday, extending its winning streak to six. 
"The girls really showed up and played hard," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "A domi­nant weekend like can't help but carry over for the rest of the sea­hitters," Gumpf said. "She is a son." very strong pitcher and I am get­
Junior pitcher Brittney Bargar ting out of her exactly what I notched all four wins on the expect." weekend for the Irish (22-10, 5-Continuing her impressive 1 Big East). Against St. John's offensive output this season, sen­(15-21, 2-6), she started the first ior second baseman Katie Laing game and came in relief in the went 7-for-16 with three home­second. Bargar (17 -6) also runs and 11 RBis on the week­earned her fourth shutout of the end. season. She allowed only three "Right now, Laing is in a posi­hits and one walk while striking tion where she really wants to out seven in the first game. be at the plate; you can see it in 
"Bargar threw a lot of innings her eyes," Gumpf said. "When and did a great job controlling you combine her great mechan-
PLS ?
• 
Party Like Socrates? 


Our students say: "PLS is a walk with Socrates, a prayer vvith Augustine, lunch with Tolstoy, vvrestling with Cervantes, a night of cards with Kierkegaard, a voyage with Hotner, a friendly wager \vith Pascal, and a pilgrimage with Chaucer all in one.~, 
Tl-IE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STtJDIES 
Sn1all Classes. Great Books. 
Curious? 
Stop by the Office 
215 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Visit the website 
http://pls.nd.edu 

ics, her confidence, and the way RBI for the I-rish and senior out­she sees the ball right now she fielder Sarah Smith added two can't help but have a great more to round out the final year." score. 
Freshman catcher Sadie Sunday's double-header Pitzenberger got things going against Seton Hall (13-20, 2-8) against the Red Storm, doubling saw an impressive offensive home freshman outfielder explosion from the Irish, that Brianna Jorgensborg in the top included two five-run innings. of the third. "The offense is really coming 
Laing added a run with a solo along for us right now," Gumpf shot to right-cen-said. "We can ter field that get down early bounced off the top and the girls 
of the fence in the "The offense is really are completely fourth. Laing coming along for us unfazed. They 
added two more need to not be
right now. ,

RBis in the seventh satisfied and with a clutch two­they need to out single. Deanna Gumpf keep hungry." 
Freshman pitch­Irish coach Bargar was 
er J ody Valdivia found herself in trouble early in the second half of the twin billing, walking the bases loaded with one out in the first. She stayed poised, however, striking out the next two batters to escape unscathed. 
Sophomore Christine Lux hit a solo homerun in the second to give Valdivia the lead. That lead was extended in the fifth when Laing's bases-loaded fielder's choice got the runner in at home. A sacrifice fly from junior infielder Linda Kohan brought the lead to 3-0. 
Valdivia again found herself in a jam in the fifth with the bases loaded and one out, but again she escaped without allowing any runs. 
Pitzenberger hit an RBI single that gave the Irish some insur­ance in the sixth. 
Valdivia's luck ran out in St. John's' half of the sixth, when St. John's senior Lisa Greer hit a two-run homerun. The Red Storm added two more runs in the inning to knot things up 4-4 and send the game to extra innings. Valdivia pitched 5 and 2/3 innings, giving up four runs on four hits and striking out eight. 
Bargar entered the game in relief to pitch 6 and 1/3 innings in the 12-inning contest to earn her second win of the day. 
The two teams went scoreless for five innings until Kohan broke the game open with a solo homerun in the 12th. Freshman Shannon Kelly added another 

25th Anniversary R.ed Smith Lecture in §'Journalism 
Tim. Russert 
NBC News Washington Bureau Chief 
''When Politicians Meet tl1e Press'' 
Monday, April 14 
\'Vashin.gton Han 
8 p.m. 
Tickets available -without charge-at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
again solid, 

.,
going five 

innings and only giving up one unearned run with six strikeouts. 
Laing, Smith and freshman shortstop Katie Fleury all had two hits, with sophomore out­fielder Ashley Ellis going a per­fect 3-for-3. Laing notched four RBis to add to her impressive run. 
Game two started off shaky for the Irish as Seton Hall earned an early 2-0 lead. 
The Irish did not let that stand for long, as RBls from Laing and Ellis knotted things up in the third. 
Jorgensborg hit her first career home run in the fourth inning to add two more runs. Laing added two more RBis to round out the scoring for the Irish. 
Bargar got her fourth win of the weekend by again coming in to relieve Valdivia in the third. Bargar gave up two hits and no runs with three strikeouts. 
One outstanding performer all weekend was Ellis, who went 10-for-14 on the weekend. She had two doubles, a home run, and three RBis. 
"Ellis had one of the most impressive weekends I've seen," Gumpf said. "She was playing outstanding [softball]." 
The Irish will take the field again on Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. in Chicago to battle Illinois­Chicago. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

page 18 Monday, April 7, 2008
The Observer •· SPORTS 
Boockford said. "Hoss did a the fifth with the Irish up 2-0 off a Mills sacrifice fly to right first live frames without a blem­great job of getting [Barnes! when he was hil with the line that drove in Boockford. Pollock ish, but eventually allowed the
Rutgers 

over when he got on base ... I drive. With two outs Rutgers then hit a two-out HBI single to only two runs the Scarlet continued from page 24 knew I just needed to hit the ball shortstop Dan Betteridge lined a give the Irish an 8-2 lead and Knights would score in the game 
hard in play and try to make it fastball right back at Korpi, bring Lilley home for the third in the sixth inning. If anything, Hoss Brezovsky and A . .J. Pollock work." striking him in the forehead. time in the game. his first inning was an indication but small ball proved to be the After Booekford broke the tie, "That was the first time I have The Irish added thn~e runs in of how things would go. The diiTerence as the picked up the Irish third baseman Greg Sherry seen something like that happen the bottom of the eighth to right-hander retired the Scarlet win Friday. Notre Dame's was hit by a pitch to load the in person," Mills said. "It put a extend the lead to 11-2, two of' Knights in order, on only 12 eighth-inning rally featured two bases. The next batter, shortstop little spark into our team, and the runs scoring on double by pitches. runs on just one hit and pro­Brett Lilley, hit a potential dou­we all wanted to pull together junior second baseman Jeremy To close out the game, pellod the Irish to thn victory. ble-play grounder to shortstop. and get a win for Wade." Barnes. Weiland tossed a perfect ninth 
"It was a grinder-typo game. I But Lilley beat the throw to first The senior was down for sev­Johnson pitched 4 and 1/3 inning and sent Hutgers home told the team I was morn proud from Hutgers second baseman eral minutes while Irish players, innings of relief and picked up with three straight losses. lofthis winl than any of the wins Victor CeglHs, allowing Gaston to coaches and trainers huddled the win, giving up live hits and The Irish bats, however, car­we'vn had this year," Irish coach score and give the Irish an around the mound. Korpi was three walks but only one earned ried their share of the load. l>avn Schrage said. insurance run. able to walk ofT the field under run. The freshman reliever was Starting right where it left off 
Sehragn said lw was especially "Lilley's a hustler. I think he his own power, and "should be able to work out of trouble sev­after Saturday's contest, Notre happy with his tnam's rnsilioney know what it was going to take okay" Schrage said. eral times with the help of the Dame producod 16 hits in the after it surrondered s1weral running down that line so he Frnshman Cole Johnson came Irish infield, who turned double 11-run outburst. Schrage said loads. gave it everything he got," in relief of' Korpi, and gave up a plays in three straight innings to his squad is becoming more 
Irish junior right-handor Kylo Sehrage said. "It was a bang­game-tying, two-run homerun to get Johnson out of jams. comfortable with the lineup -Wniland got tlw win with a per­bang play and he beat it out. the first batter he faced, Hutgers and not coineidentally, the Irish foct ninth inning after blowing That lu~lps for Kyle I Weiland I to third baseman Tom Edwards. Irish 11, Scarlet Knights 2 are winning games. l.hn save in tho eighth. have a two-run lead going into The runner scoring from first, ·coming off of' his season-worst "I think the guys are just set­
Hutgnrs tied tho garnn with a the ninth." · Betteridge, was charged to start last week, sophomore Erio tling into their roles," he said. run ofT Weiland but Notre Dame Korpi. Maust delivered yet another "They'ro getting used to the bat­responded that samn inning, Irish 11, Scarlet Knights 2 Notre Dame responded in the solid performanee, going eight ting order, and the older guys taking a load it would not rolin­Thn Irish rallied around an bottom of' the inning, scoring innings and striking out four arc starting to earry us too. Boss quish. Second basoman .Jornmy injured teammate Saturday, four runs on three hits to break without issuing any free passes. IBrezovskyl . .Jeremy [Barnes I Barnos loci ofT tho dncisivo outscoring Hutgers 9-0 al'tnr the game open and take a 6-2 Schrage knew his right-hander and Brett I Lilley I all had excel­eighth for tho Irish with a walk senior pitcher Wade Korpi was lead. Arter freshman Greg would overcome last week's out­lent wnekends. Scan Gaston is tlwn advanced to socond on a. hurt by a line drive. Lilley and Sherry walked and Lilley sin­ing and return to his previous coming oil' with his bat as well." sacrifice bunt by Brozovsky. sophomore outfielder David gled, Mills put down a sacrifice form. "He had pitched well Brezovsky went 4-l'or-5 with i\ftm· catdwr Sean Gaston was Mills were catalysts for most of' bunt trying to advance both run­bPfore today," Schrage said. "lie three doublf1S, two HBis and two hit by a pil!:h, right finldnr Billy the Irish o!Tnnsc, combining to ners. Hutgers starter Kyle was focused all week in the runs scored on the day, while Boockford groundnd a hard sin­go 4-l'or-5 and seorn six runs. Bradley's throw to first sailed bullpen and he knew what he Pollock went 3-l'or-4 with 2 HBis, gle through thn loft sido of thn "We played a eompletn game into right field, and Lilley and was doing. lie struck out four three runs, and three stolen infield. Barnes scored from sec­!Saturday!," Schrage said. "The Mills came in to score. and didn't walk anyone, and bases. Lilley, Barnes, Gaston and ond as thn throw from Scarlnt top of the lineup got on base, we Pollock followed with an HBI when he's throwing strikes he's Boockford each added a pair of Knights leiHield!H Donny played good defense, and we double to drive in Mills, and tough to beat. lie had all three hits in the game as well. Callahan sailnd ovor tho head of battled through a little bit of came around to score on a sacri­of' his pitches working today. I lis c.atdwr .Jon Gossard. Barnes slid adversity." fice fly for the fourth Irish run of breaking ball, fastball and Contact Michael Bryan at homo safely to givo Notro Damn Korpi was cruising through the inning. changeup all complimented each mbryan@nd.edu, Lorenzo Reyes a 6-5 lead. the Scarlet Knights' lineup until Notre Dame added two more other. He was just outstanding." at lreyes@nd.edu and Fran Tolan 
"We had to get a run," the scary moment in the top of runs in the sixth. The first eame Maust breezed through the at ftolan@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish beat Iowa, Syracuse to extend win streak 
After Krisik defeated sopho­and Tefft, Hielly and Ciobanu matches. Krisik extended her squad best 
By DAN MASTERTON and 

more Kelde Klockenga 6-4, 6-1, have won nine straight and arc Ciobanu put Notre Dame up 3-singles win streak to live matches 
LORENZO REYES 

Potts sealed the match with a 6-16-1 overall this season. 0, making it look effortless along with her sound defeat of Spicer 
Sports Writers 

1, 6-1 win over Berry from the Freshman Denise Ellison com­the way, disposing of Kalhorn 6-6-2, 6-1. The sophomore holds No.6 slot. bined with Potts to claim her first 2,6-0. the team-high 29-5 singles Another week11nd resulted in Hielley put up a 6-2, 6-2 win career win with the 8-2 victory Buck made it offical, and gave record, and she has won eight of mom wins for Notre Dame. over Poggensee-Wei. It was the over junior Maria Vasilevya and the Irish the win with her con­her last 10 games to seal the 
No. 20 Notre Dame is rolling, firth time in eight matches that freshman Christina Tan. More vincing 6-0, 6-1 handling of Tan deal. and in its path, it has left nine the sophomore won in straight importantly, the Irish started the at the No. 1 spot. Notre Dame will continue its straight opponents reeling. In sets. match 1-0 with the doubles With the win in hand for the season-ending home stand when their first eontest Friday, the Irish The lone loss for Notre Dame sweep. Irish and the score at 4-0, Notre No. 1 Northwestern comes into (16-7) upPnded Iowa and finished came in a tough match between Singles play would see much of' Dame still wouldn't let up. town at the Courtney Tennis oil' Syracuse at home on Sunday. Buck and Veselinovic. Buck's the same domination. Rielley took down Vasilevya in Center Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. 
impressive six-match losing Potts took care of Jones in straight sets 6-4, 6-0 by winning Irish 6, Hawkeyes 1 streak came to an end against quick fashion, 6-2, 6-2. The jun­the contest's final seven games to Contact Dan Masterton at The Irish ran their win streak Veselinovic, 7-6, 7-6. ior improved to 18-8 on the year secure the win and put the Irish dmastert@nd.edu and Lorenzo to eight in Iowa City. Iowa, on No. 41 TeiTt capped the match and has taken four of her last five up 5-0. Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
Friday in convincing fashion by 
mowing down the llawkeyes, 6-1. 
As usual, the Irish started strong as Iowa (11-5) could not stop the sizzling doubles attack, and Notn~ Dame's doubles point win streak J.,Tf'ew to nine. 
Junior Katie Potts and sopho­more Kali Krisik acted like they have been playing together all season. The pair raced to an 8-0 thrashing of Iowa's No. 3 pair, freshman Lynn Poggensee-Wei and senior Kayla Berry. 
Sophomores Colleen Hielley and Cosmina Ciobanu sowed up the doubles point with an 8-0 swenp of thnir own. The pair has lost just once in 16 matches together on the dual season. 
The nationally top-ranked pair of senior Brook Buek and junior Keley Tefft made it a doubles sweep, disposing of Iowa's No. 1 pair 8-4. Senior Jacqueline Lee and freshmen Alexis Dorr could not stop the nation's best as Buck and Tell't improved to 7-1 since · becoming No. 1. 
Notre Dame kept the momen­tum all match long, winning live of six singles matehes. 
Ciobanu followed up her dou­bles performance with a quiek singlns win. No. 122 Ciobanu was first oil' the court with a 6-1, 6-2 win over I>orr. 
win for Notre Dame with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over Lee. Tefft has been tough to beat in the No. 1 singles slot, now 11-4 against the opponent's best player. 
The remaining matches will all be at home, so the Irish closed their road schedule well above .500 with a 7-4 record. 
Irish 6, Orange 1 
The Irish returned home with the same momentum and focus that helped secure the previous eight wins in the streak. As has been the story all season, doubles play was the spark that started the Irish on the right path. 
In all of doubles play, Notre Dame lost only six games en route to sealing the point. 
Despite having half of the No. 1 nationally-ranked duo sitting out, the Irish still won the top spot in doubles play. Krisik, who stepped in for Tefft, combined with Buck to take an 8-3 decision over soph­omore pair Chelsea Jones and Ashley Spicer. The Buck-Krisik duo is now 3-1 in their doubles matches this season. 
Rielley and Ciobanu made quickly disposed of their oppo­nents, ousting freshmen Jacqyuelynn Tang and Simone Kalhorn, 8-1. Although they play behind the notorious pair of' Buck 



/he ..• ., E,nelish English majors choose careers 
in any field that values the ability to read, '-Vri te, and analyze '-Vith intelligence and subtlety_ Sorne go on to graduate study in literature leading to careers in a.ca.detnia~ others choose proressions such as la'-V, education, n,edicine, publishing, business, social vvork, prof"essional "vri ting, library science, 
journalistn, and public relations. 
Numerous orientation sessions available dluring the '-Veek of' April 7-11! 
For more inf'orn-.at:ion, or meeting times ·to declare the major, contact:: The Departtnen.t or English 356 O,Shaughnessy Hall; 63 1-7226 
Kannen Duke, Adtninistrative Assistant kduke@nd.edu 
http:I I english. nd_cdulU ndergradua.tcI 
Monday, April 7, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S GOLF 
ND claims 2nd in tourney 
WOMEN'S ROWING 


Irish take eight races against Mia111i, MSU 
No. 14 varsity eight beats RedHawks 
Observer StaffReport 
Senior tri-captain Eddie Peckels earned a share of the individual title as the Irish fin­ished second on their home course during the nine-team Irish Invitational. 
Peckels shot a career-best 68 (two-under) in the second round to finish at one-under par 139 for the two-round tournament. Before this week­end, his best tournament fin­ish was in 2004 at the Earl Yestingsmeier Invitational, where he finished seventh. 
Junior Josh Sandman recorded his fourth straight top-1 0 finish, tying for fourth with a one-over par 141 week­end. Freshmen Dustin Zhang (141), freshmen Tyler Hock (142), sophomore Carl Santos­Ocampo (143) and freshman Connor Alan-Lee (143) all fin­ished in the top ten for the Irish, who were edged for the team title by two strokes by Northwestern (578). 
Sophomore Doug Fortner, senior Greg Rodgers and freshman Jeff Chen all tied for 20th with a six-over 146 for the weekend. Sophomore Olavo Batista (149), senior Mike King (151) and sopho­more Kyle Willis (152) round­ed out the scoring for the Irish. 
Notre Dame's next meet will be the Big East Conference Championship, hosted by Cincinnati the weekend of April 20-22 in Hebron, Ky. 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame won eight of its 14 races against Miami and Michigan State in East Lansing, Mich., Saturday. 
Notre Dame's varsity eight­boat crew, ranked No. 14 in the nation, fell to the No. 8 Spartans before beating Miami later in the day. The second varsity-eight boat team and the first and third varsity four­boat teams did the same by losing in the morning before winning in the afternoon. 
The third varsity four-boat highlighted the day for the Irish, winning both of its races. 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wiggins leads Stanford to upset over UConn -_, loud pregame huddles. Her ished five assists shy of the bration mode. Mel Thomas and Katana
Associated Press 
message this time focused on first triple-double in women's "We ran with them and we Greene to season-ending knee 
TAMPA, Fla. -Candice her teammates' smarts and Final Four history. ran on them. That's their injuries that forced the Wiggins refused to let how far they had come since She didn't shoot particularly game," Gold-Onwude said. Huskies to rely more heavily Stanford lose to Connecticut. the first meeting between the well, going 7-for-19, but made "This is amazing. You saw on Moore, Montgomery, Tina Not again. teams. two huge 3-pointers to help after we got to the Final Four, Charles and Ketia Swanier. 
The Cardinal star continued "We failed the midterm, but Stanford pull away for good everybody was crying. This Auriemma said those players her electrifying run through we're going to take this final," after UConn trimmed a seven­time, we're happy, but we're were missed Sunday night. the NCAA tournament, scoring guard Rosalyn Gold-Onwude point halftime deficit to 4 7-46 also very focused." "This is the one team we 25 points and grabbing 13 recalled Wiggins saying. and appeared to be taking Pedersen finished with 17 can't match up with without rebounds while getting some Wiggins was a little more control. points, and Jayne Appel added the two guys that were hurt," timely help from Kayla specific. "They're a lot better team 15. Maya Moore led UConn the UConn coach said. Pedersen and JJ Hones as "We got killed by than they were back in with 20 points on 8-for-19 The changes VanDerveer Stanford shocked Connecticut Connecticut back Ill November. They played the shooting. made -basically modifying 82-73 in Sunday night's November, just absolutely game today the way we usual­UConn dominated the earlier her offense to revolve around national semifinals. killed. And, you know, they ly play it," UConn coach Geno meeting in the U.S. Virgin two post players rather than 
Back in the Final Four for changed the whole dynamic of Auriemma said. "We got done Islands, but both teams made one -increased the produc­the first time in 11 years, the our team," Wiggins said. in by our own stuff." significant changes during the tion of Wiggins' supporting Cardinal (35-3) avenged an "So we grouped before the When Wiggins wasn't mak­last four months of the season. cast. That also made the early season loss to the game and we said: 'Let's see ing big shots, Hones and Stanford coach Tara Cardinal less dependent on Huskies (36-2) and advanced how much better we've gotten. Pedersen stepped up to break VanDerveer tinkered with her the senior star who carried to Tuesday night's title game, This is a test for ourselves to UConn's heart. team's triangle offense follow­the team on her shoulders where they'll put a 23-game see we're not the same team Hones hit a deep 3-pointer ing the 12-point loss, which during the tournament. winning streak on the line we were in November." to put Stanford up 10 with showed the Cardinal exactly "We needed them to miss against Tennessee -a 47-46 The first player to have two 3:20 to go, then Pedersen what type of team it needed to some shots, and they didn't," winner over LSU in the second 40-point performances in the answered a 3-pointer that become if it hoped to be able Auriemma said. "Every shot semifinal. same NCAA tournament, drew UConn within 71-66 with to keep pace in a rematch. they missed in the Virgin 
Wiggins typically leads the Wiggins seemed to be every­a long jumper of her own to UConn made adjustm-ents Islands, they made today. Cardinal through emotional, where on the floor and fin-send Cardinal fans into cele-after losing starting guards Every one." 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Da111e dovvns Ball State, falls to Willia111 & Mary 
Stephen Havens quickly deficit in the first set and 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
added the clinching point won four straight sets to take Sports Writer 
with a 6-4, 6-2 victory over a 6-5 lead. However, he Ball State junior Jorge could not put away the Tribe No. 34 Notre split a pair of Rodriguez. junior, and lost the set in a home matches this weekend, Senior Andrew Roth picked tiebreak. Roth found himself beating Ball State on Friday up a 7-5, 6-2 victory over in a 3-1 hole in the second before falling to William & Cardinal freshman Shaun set, but once again battled Mary on Sunday. Bussert to run the score to 5-back to take a 4-3 lead. 
Friday's win was Notre 0. Freshman David Anderson However, Pagon evened the Dame's 18th consecutive win completed the singles sweep match at 4-4 and went on to against the Cardinals. It also with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over win the set 6-4. was Notre Dame's first win Ball State junior Joe Vallee. William and Mary won the since March 13 against North Notre Dame continued its doubles point at the outset of Carolina State. dominance in doubles play, the match. Notre Dame 
The Irish dominated in sin­which it also swept. Irish earned its three points from gles competition, winning 12 freshman Matt Johnson made singles victories by Parbhu, straight sets to win all six his first appearance in dou­Anderson, and Stahl. Parbhu singles matches. Freshman bles play with sophomore highlighted Notre Dame's Dan Stahl won the first Irish Sean Corrigan, and the pair singles play with a 6-1, 6-1 point with a 6-1, 6-1 win earned an 8-3 win over the straight sets victory over over Cardinals' junior Jimmy Ball State. pair of Perdomo Tribe junior Marwan Brann.on. The win was and Rodriguez. Ramadan. In addition to Stahl's 21st of the season. Despite returning to the Roth. both Helgeson and Junior Brett Helgeson fol­win column on Friday, Notre Havens both fell in straight lowed Stahl with his own 6-Dame found itself an upset sets. 1, 6-1 victory over Ball State victim Sunday, dropping a 4-Notre Dame returns to freshman Eduardo Pavia to 3 decision to No. 63 William action Saturday when it trav­improve to 25-8 on the sea­& Mary. els to Ann Arbor to face No. son. The match was tied 3 -3 14 Michigan. The Irish then 
Senior captain Sheeva heading into the final singles return home to play Parbhu put Notre Dame match that had yet to be Louisville Sunday. ahead 3-0 with a 6-2, 6-1 completed between Roth and over Cardinals junior Jose Tribe junior Dominic Pagon. Contact Mike Gotimer at Perdomo. Irish freshman Roth battled back from a 5-2 mgotimer@nd.edu 

-
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 7, 2008 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles split pair of ga111es against Al111a 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's split another MIAA doubleheader Saturday, losing thn lirst game and win­ning the seeond against Alma. 
Saint Mary's (15-5, 4-2 MIAA) lost the lirst game by a <J-1 eount in live innings. The Scots. who won the MIAA championship last year, held the usually prolific Belles ol'fnnsn to just two hits. A homnrun by senior McKenna Corrigan accounted for Saint Mary's only run. 
.Junior Calli Davison pitched a com plPtP ganw in thn loss. 
Before tho games, coach l•:rin Sullivan said she wanted hnr tnam to l'.omn out with morP nnnrgy from tho start. Slw got lwr wish in tlw sm:ond ganw, as tlw tnarn ralliPd from an narly snvnn-run dnl'icit to takP tlw !Pad. 
Tlw BniiPs srorod seven runs in tlw top of' tlw third to tin tlw g a nw hI' I'o r I' t lw S e o t s postPd orH' nwrP in tlw bottom of' tlw l'ranw. 
.Junior AshlPy Fusaro went 3-l'or-!i with fivP HBis in game two, including a game-winning thnw-run honwrun in the top hall' of' tlw sixth inning. 
Corrigan pitched in the nightcap, and became stronger after the first three innings. Her record now stands at 8-0. 
With the win, Saint Mary's ended Alma's H)-game win streak, which it had extended in game one. 
Saint Mary's sits in fourth in the MIAA, while Alma is sec­ond. 
Sullivan expressed confi­dence in her team as they look 
ahead  to  more  conference  
play.  
"I'm  feeling  really good  

about where we are in the conference," she said. "We gnnerally play up to our com­petition." 
The Bollns will play Bethel Collnge at Notre Dame's Ivy Field tonight bnfore they begin a two-week stretch of MIAA opponnnts. 
Thn split deeision came two days after tlw BPlles went 1-1 at Olivnt on Thursday. 
Tlw Lady Wildcats (5-15) are lnd by senior pitcher Paige Cooper and fmshman standout Emily Thompson. The team is coming ofT a split doublehead­er against Lyon College. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

LPGA 
Ochoa dominates opponents Sunday 
Associated Press 
HANCIIO MIHAGE, Calif. ­

Lorena Ochoa sot the silver tro­
phy on a table, clasped hands 
with her parnnl'i and sprinted to 
tho ndg11 of' thtl lake surrounding 
the I Sth grnnn at Mission IIiiIs, 
raising both arms a'> she plunged 
into the watnr. · 
Whetlwr sho is playing or celt~­

brating, the Mexican star is 
unstoppable. 
Oehoa buried her competition Sunday at tlw Kraft Nabisco Championship with baek-to-back birdies at the turn to build a live­shot load, tlwn dosnd with eight pars fi1r a S-under 6 7 and <tnoth­nr romp in a nH~jor that once gave her lit-;. 
1\ven mom inspiring were the li1stivities that followed. 
Sh11 joined hands with her par­nnts and sistnr-in-law and raced into the water. Iter brother, Alejandro. swing coach Hafael Alarcon and eaddin Dave Brooker Inapt from the bridge. Before long, two doznn friends and fami­ly membnrs were bobbing in the wator to the rhythm of a mariaehi band, a celebration unlike any othnr at this major. 
"I thought for a moment, 'Maybn I should try to do some­thing funny, like a flip or some­thing,"' Ochoa said. "No, no, no. Too dangerous. So I did the regu­lar jump. You always worry about tlw jump, but onee you win, I don't earn." 
Tho ripple Pll'ect is frightening. 

Ochoa b11camo the tirst player sinen Annika Sorenstam in 2005 to win two straight majors, hav­ing captured her first major in the Women's British Open at St. Andrews last summer by four shot-;. 
In filur start<> this year, she has won three tournament<> by a com­bined 23 shot-;. 
"Nothing ean stop her," said Se Ri Pak, who became the youngest player inducted into the World Golf llall of fame last year, a record that certainly will be bro­ken by the 26-year-old Ochoa. 
Sorenstam and Suzann Pettersen each dosed with a 68 and tied for sPcond, although they were never dose. 
Ochoa, who finished at 11­under 277, never trailed under the blazing desert sun, and was threatened only briefly. She answered with two straight birdies to make the turn in 32, and the rout was on. 
"It was commanding golf in both," Brooker said of the last two majors, starting with her four­shot win at St. Andrews. "She's very polished. Every win that goes along, she gains even more momentum. If she had been put­ting better the first three days, this might have been a runaway even earlier." 
This has always been some­what of a home game for Ochoa, who has been coming to the Nabisco since she was an ama­teur and bringing what seems like half of Mexico with her. She spent Wednesday morning meeting with the maintenance staff at Mission llills, helping them cook breakfast and thanking them for their hard work in preparing the course. 



For all of your skin care, cosmetic, and hair removal needs visit our South Bend office located just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble specializes in custom facials using LaRoche Posay skin care products, Jane lredale mineral-based cosmetics and waxing services. 
From your fac1~ to your legs, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth, soft &beautiful! 


If itk Monday,you•ve gottodoChili1! 
Every Monday get adouble order of Chicken, Steak or Combo Fajitas (enough for two) for just $12!"' 


~--------~------~-----~~--~~-----------------------­
Monday, April 7, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
ND gets 11 top-two places 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish, split up between the Stanford and Purdue Invitationals, enjoyed another successful weekend, accumu­lating 11 top-two finishes while dominating the running events at Purdue. 
Competing in the Stanford Invitational -one of the more competitive meets of the outdoor season -the Irish managed to accumulate three top-seven finishes from the three athletes that were sent to Palo Alto, Calif. 
The Irish garnered solid results in the throws at Stanford from junior thrower Anna Weber and sophomore Jaclyn Espinoza. Weber had the best weekend across both meets for the Irish finishing fourth in the hammer throw and fifth in the shotput at Stanford. Espinoza also had a strong showing taking sev­enth in the discus throw. 
At the Purdue Invitational, Notre Dame had even more success. The Irish took four first-place finishes -all in running events -and seven second-place finishes. 
Senior runner Brienne Davis took first in the 100­meter dash for the second consecutive weekend. 
In the 400-meter race, the Irish dominated by claiming five of the top six spots. 
Freshmen Cora Dayon and Natalie Johnson took first and second respectively for the Irish. Senior Crysta Swayzer, sophomore Samantha Williams and freshman Kelly Langhans took third, fifth and sixth respectively. 
Rounding out the great per­formance by Irish runners at Purdue, sophomore Elizabeth Myers took second in the 800-meter race and senior Ann Mazur finished second in the 1500-meter race. 

The Irish relay teams also fared very well at Purdue. Both the 4x100 and 4x400­meter teams took first in their races. 
The field events continued to be strengths for Irish this weekend. 
Sophomore Elise Knutzen took second in the javelin throw, junior Mary Saxer fin­ished second in the pole vault, and Sophomore Jaime Minor grabbed second in the triple jump. Saxer's mark in the pole vault was good enough to qualify her for the NCAA regional event in May. 
Next weekend, Notre Dame will head to the Mississippi· Open in Oxford, Miss. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Sto111ach w-on't sideline PG Rose 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO -Memphis freshman sensation Derrick Rose had a stomach ailment that forced him to miss media sessions Sunday, but will play in the national championship game against Kansas on Monday night. 
Rose received treatment from trainers instead of talking to reporters. Shortly after, the school released a statement 
settling any doubt about his status. Teammates weren't too wor­ried. 
"He eats Gummy Bears and Starburst for breakfast, and Twizzlers and Honey Buns for dinner. That's why his stomach hurts," fellow guard Chris Douglas-Roberts said. "We tell Derrick the whole year, 'Stop eating so many Gummy Bears and Sour Straws.' But he can't. ... Nobody eats Gummy Bears more than him." 

Sunday afternoon, Rose walked into a scheduled group interview with all the starters and coach John Calipari, then went over to Calipari and whispered something to him. They went into the hall togeth­er, then Calipari returned alone. 
"He said his stomach was bothering him," Calipari said. "I told him to go back and see the trainer." 
MEN'S TRACK 
Irish sprinters excel at Poehlein Invitational 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sports Writer 
Although Notre Dame was split all across country, many come back to campus with per­formances to be proud of. 
The majority of Irish sprint­ers finished well at the Mike Poehlein Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind., over the week­end. Freshman Chandler Brooks started it off with a sixth-place performance in the 100-meter dash with a time of 
11.33 seconds. Brooks also fin­ished with 22.97 seconds in the 200-meter dash to finish sev­enth. Fellow freshman Miklos Szebeny took third in the same race with a time of 22.33 sec­onds. Sophomore Balazs Molnar dominated the compe­tition place first in the 400­dash, running it in 48 seconds to match his time in the 2008 Big East Indoor Invitational. 
Freshman Kevin Labus fin­ished third in the 800 with a time of 1:56.18. Other top per­formances at the Poehlein Invitational included junior Kevin McFadden who finished first with a time of 3:57.43 in the 1,500-meter run. Freshmen Spencer Carter and Ryan Gamboa followed close behind with fourth and fifth­place finishes respectively. 
Junior Kevin Veselik and Matt Abernathy took second and third in the 5,000 while seniors Dan Curran and Mike Popejoy took first and second, respectively, in the 10,000. 
Senior Austin Wechter fin­
ished second in the 400-meter hurdles with a time of 53.87. Wechter currently ranks fifth in the Big East conference standings. 
As for field events, junior Blair Majcina started out the Irish in the high jump with a leap of 2.02 meters. Sophomore Eric Quick took first in the long jump and third in the triple jump. With his final jump of 7.53-meters, Quick qualified for the NCAA Regional Outdoor Meet in the long jump. 
For the Irish throwers, sen­ior Mike Schubert and fresh­men Denes Veres and John Belcher took first, second, and third in the shot put. Schubert and Veres qualified for the NCAA Regional meet as well. Sophomore Brandon Denon finished second in the discus with a throw of 51.18-meters. 
The rest of the the Irish ran at the Stanford Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif. Senior Adam Currie ran in the 800 with a time of 1:50.67, placing him eighth in the Big East stand­ings. Senior Jake Watson fin­ished third in the highly com­petitive 1,500 with a time of 
3:43.39. Junior Patrick Smyth stayed consistent with a time of 13:46.73, finishing eighth. 
The Irish resume action Saturday at both the Mississippi Open in Oxford, Miss., and the Spartan Invitational in East Lansing, Mich. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonw at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
*..,.J.. 
-...$.J 
~ 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites N omiuations for the 

Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April14, 2008 

Summer Internship Position Available Concessions Supervisor Internship in Baseball 
Professional Sports Catering and the South Bend Silver Hawks are seeking a Concessions Supervisor Intern to help run the concessions operation at Coveleski Stadium. This is a great internship for a driven, hard-working student seeking a fun summer job in a promising career-oriented position! 
The Concessions Supervisor Intern is responsible for: 
• 
Scheduling/mgmt of 1 00+ hourly FS employees 

• 
Assisting with product ordering 

• 
Overall organization, sanitation, and stocking levels of all concessions stands and food ports 

• 
Compiling concessions-related reports 


This is a full-time seasonal internship starting ASAP and going through August. This position is heavy on the hours and on the responsibility, but is also paid at $425 per week. Prior food service experience preferred. 
For more information, please view our job posting on GoIrish, or contact Jeff Osborn at j osborn@prosportsmarketing.net. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April?, 2008 
Swagger 
continued from page 24 
instantaneous n~action to a 
positiv1~ play," Wnis said. 
Following that, the drill became more intense, and a couple of skirmishes even broke out. There was no major incident, as Weis allowed the pushing and shov­ing to run their course. 

"Occasionally a fight breaks out, but sometimes a fight's not a bad thing, espeeially when it's not people cheap shotting or ripping off helmets or stuff like that," he said. "I think that th11y're starting to not only bl~ more physical but more competitive as well." 
Wide right 
At the end of practice on Saturday, Irish kicker Brandon Walker missed his only field goal attempt of the day -only his second miss of the two dozen he has taken this spring. 
Walker lined up to kick when Weis blew his whistle to simulate at timeout. Walker lirwd up again and the kick sailed wido right. 
Wnis said th1~ reason hn only allowed WalkPr to kick once was because it was the best way to imitate mal gamo sce­narios. 
W1~is took part of tho blame for the miss lwcausn hn did not giw WalkPr a lot of notice that lw was going to kick after prartice. 
"Kil:knrs, you know tlwy're a littiP diiTnrr•nt cats to start oiT with. If I had given him plenty or time and ho was n~ady to go, you might havP had a different rnstrlt." lw -said. 
OLYMPICS 
Unrest in Tibet cause for concern 
Associated Pres. 
BU.IINC --International Olyrnpir Committee head .lac.qtws Hogge said lw was "vpry COIICI'fllf'd" about llllfP.St in Tilwt. but downplayed talk of a boycott of the Beijing <;ames. 
''I'm very c.oncPrnPd with tlw intl'rnational situation and what's happl'ning in Tilwt," Hogge said Monday in BPijing. 
"Thn torrh rPiay has bonn targPtPII. Tlw lnt1~rnational Olympic CornmitlPI' has nxpn•ssNI its sl'rious concnrn and calls for a rapid pPac.nful rnsolution in Tilwt." HoggP said in a hriPf spPPrh at tlu~ nwPt­ings' OJWIIillg Cl'ri'IIIOny. 
China is facing rising criti­cism alwad of till~ August Olympirs on issuPs from its cnu:kdown on anti-government protPsts among Tilwtans to its dose rPlations with Sudan. 
lkmonsl.rators challenging China's policiPs in those areas tried to grab tlw Olympic torch and snuff out tlw llamn as it passed through London on Sunday. 
Hoggn's comments wen~ his strongPst yet on thn growing political storm surrounding the (;amns. undnrscoring rising (:onr.nrn owr llw potential that such protPsl.s would tarnish the Olympic movPml'nt. 
Battered up 
Thn~e Irish players missed parts or all of practice due to injury on Saturday. 
Tackle Matt Romine was banged up in practice last Wednesday and missed prac­tice Friday and Saturday. 
Tight ends Luke Schmidt and Mike Ragone both missed some drills due to injuries. Schmidt banged his head and had to sit out of some parts of the day and Ragone tweaked his ankle, Weis said. 
Weis attributed the injuries to the fast-paced tempo he has run practices at this spring. 
"You can see by the tempo, we're banging guys around pretty good," he said. "The tradeoff is you get more guys in the training room." 
Team camaraderie 
Weis continued with his team-building goals this spring by trying to lighten the mood. 
Hight tackle Sam Young fielded a punt against the sec­ond team coverage squad and returned it for about 15 yards 

before Weis blew the play dead. 
Weis also sat with some of the high sehool coaches at the practice (Saturday was also the eoaches clinic) and watched the linebackers prac­tice during individual work­outs. 
Even though Weis did want to keep the mood light, he said the team needs to know when to be serious and when not to. 
"I wanted to make sure they can differentiate between how football coaehes have to be on you and the fact that when they're on you they're trying to make you better, not on you just to be on you," Weis said. "And I think they're starting to get a better understanding of that. 
"When it eomes down to it, it still comes down to getting players to make plays. And I think as coaches, we have to put them in position to make plays and demand that they make them." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Lefty 
continued from page 24 
Its namesake, Lefty Smith, was the first Notre Dame hoek­ey coach of the modern era when he helped start the pro­gram in 1968. Smith was pres­ent for the announcement and was introduced by Greg Meredith, a former player under Smith and All-American in 1980. 
The artist's rendering pic­tured the inside of a rectangu­lar building with a lower, curved roof. The cavernous space of the current Joyce Center rink configuration was gone, replaced with seating wrapped tight along the ice and a video scoreboard in one cor­ner. 
White didn't release any new information on possible con­struction timelines or if the project was yet fully-funded. An anonymous donor gave $15 mil­lion to the rink fund on Sept. 12, 2007. 
The new rink's namB was a surprise to Smith, who said he realized something was up at the banquet when he saw mem­bers of the Boler family pres­ent. John and Mary Jo Boler were honored for their contri­butions toward funding the new rink at the banquet. 

Smith told the audience that when he got to Notre Dame to coach, he was also charged with running the rink at a prof­it. Smith said he had no idea how to sharpen skates or drive a Zamboni, but he and longtime assistant coach Tim McNeill spent seven days a week at the rink learning to operate it. 
They practiced driving the Zamboni on concrete, Smith said, but the off-ice training did little to make the first on-ice run any easier. 
"We ran smack through the boards," Smith joked about the inaugural Zamboni drive. 
Smith coached the Irish for 19 seasons until he retired in 1987 with 307 wins. He was named the WCHA coach of the year in 1972-73 and mentored six All­Americans for the Irish. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


Monday, April?, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
HE."t; 1>11:> You SEE. ntE ~ABSUIU:>E:IZ. • LA~T WEEK? IT HAl> .IOI'.ES Ai!>OUT ABoR-TION Sot>OMY I-IEATii !.&>~It'S D~ATH, cANCER PATIENTS '\Jr.il>Eil.­AG£ 6-lR.LS • G-IVING-~5EJC.UAL FAvoRS,· 
C...f'i...OTCJ-ILE.SS PANTIES ANI> 
SAirJT MAR.'f'S. . 

LOLLERSKATES 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DIDIER LEWIS 


It sucks. 
LINAPAEK

THE SINGLE LIFE 

WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Sarah Keller  
32 Paddled vessel 330ne of two choices on Halloween 34 Tournament favorites 36 Discovered by accident 37 A horse of a different color?  41 Towed items. sometimes 43 No traffic 44 Conventioneer's wear 46 Close-fitting hats 50 French military hats 52 Nokia offering 53 Repast 54 Suffix with billion  55 Fuss 56 Adolescent 57 Melody for Dame Nellie Melba 58 Piper's followers 59 Ultimatum's ultimate word 60 N.Y.P.D. alert  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Trustee group at 
an Atlanta

Its eye may be 
campus? brew 38 Peel 5 Daddy-a 39 Musical closings 
part of a witch's 
9 Sleep soundly? 40 Old Michael Jackson 'do
14 Popular cornstarch brand 41 Zellweger of "Chicago"
15 "_ my word!" 421n a bit
16 Prenatal sites 43 Thoroughfare at
17 Low-fat, as beef 
a New Orleans 18 Not on time 
campus? 19 Business on the 
45 Broadway Joe Internet 
47 Flip out 20 Polishing 
48 U.F.O. crew 

machines at an 49 Fishing float
Ithaca campus? 51 Swifter, e.g.
23 CPR giver 53 Rental
24 Opposite of arrangement atthrow away 
a Milwaukee 25 Geometry 
campus?symbols 
60 Letters that must 28 Recipient of 
be bought on "G'day" 
"Wheel of 31 Puts into effect Fortune" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Versifier 62 Kind of hygiene 63 Analyze in 
English class 64 Mental flash 65 Lice-to-be 66 Cross over? 67 Dance's partner 68 Let (up) 
Down Face powder 
ingredient 2 Lunchbox goody 3 Food thickener 4 John who wrote 
"Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies" 
5 Can opener 6 October gem 7 WhatTexas 
hold'em tables hold 8 Take furtively 9 Volvo's home 10 Stationer's supply 11 Sharif of "Funny Girl" 12 Baseball stat 13 Night school subj. 
21 Outstanding Comedy Series awards 
22 Addiction 
26" roll!" 27 Sin city 29 Vegetarian's 
protein source 30 Court (London tube station) 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jett Knurek {~~ Your eggs, gentlemen 
WHAT THE: BUSINE:SSME:N RE:AD BE:FOR£:: BRE:AKFAST. 



Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. r 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MOUSY DOWNY MUSLIN PENMANSaturday's 
Answer: What it cost the London mogul to lose some pounds -SOME POUNDS 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Candace Cameron, 32; Zach Braff, 33; Marilu Henner, 56; John Ratzenberger, 61 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotions gel the better of you this year. If you act on your impulses and not on facts, you will have to do a lot of explaining. Travel for business will pay off as long as you stick to work. Anger will get you nowhere but conservative action will lock you into something good. Your numbers are 6, 17,20,35,37,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can move into a power position but do so gra­ciously. If you brag or let your successes go to your head, you will not accomplish as much as you should. Problems while traveling are likely. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may want to interact with others but expect to face opposition if you do. Not everyone will agree with you and you could make matters worse by revealing too much regarding your position. Do things quietly by yourself. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): You can gain ground by taking action. Love is in your comer and getting involved in sometbing you believe in will lead to meeting some spectacular people. Don't let someone you are close to burden you with his or her responsibilities. 4 stars CANCER (June 21-JuJy 22): You can expect to be criticized if you are complain­ing about your life, your job, your world. Instead of being all doom and gloom, choose to make a difference. If you don't like something, change it. 2 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can win any challenge that comes your way. Travel, communication and doing things you enjoy should all be penciled in. But don't take chances when it comes to physical encounters --injury is in the picture if you are careless. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Put time aside to do the things you enjoy or to put your house in order. This is the wrong time to spend money or do costly renova­tions. It's a great time to pamper yourself. Keep things simple and enjoy the day. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll get all worked up if you let someone push you. Say no if you don't want to participate in something. A creative outlet will do more for you than bending to someone else's demands. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take aggressive action and you will reach your goals. Physical activities will inspire you to take on more. Keep your eyes open for anyone who may try to block you. Separate your emotions from what needs to be done. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): With a couple of simple changes you can make your surroundings comfortable and inspirational. Consider working from home or starting a home-based business. Making a little extra on the side will come in handy. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Slow down before you do some damage you can't reverse. Someone may be out to make your life miserable. If you have se­crets, don't reveal them. It won't take much for someone to spill the beans and get you in trouble. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A new idea will spark renewed enthusiasm in sometbing you wanted to do a long time ago. The future looks bright and, as long as you follow through and do the work yourself, you will be in control and have no regrets. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may feel like jumping from one thing to an­other but, before you do, consider how it will make you look. You want to give the impression that you are stable and secure, not unpredictable or unreasonable. Ac­complish something that shows talent. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, determined and hard working. You are a strong competitor and don't give up or give in to anyone or anything. You are col­orful and outgoing. 
Eugenia's Wt'b sites: astroadvice.com for fun, t~ugeniala.st.com for confidential consultations 
-


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 7, 2008 
page 24 
BASEBALL 
Bring out the broomsticks 
Notre Dame sweeps three-game weekend set against Rutgers 
By MICHAEL BRYAN, 
LORENZO REYES and FRAN 

TOLAN 
Sports Writers 
The weekend got progressive­ly easier for Notre Dame as the Irish swept Rutgers in a three­game series at Frank Eck Stadium. Notre Dame fought hard to win 7-5 Friday bflfore blowing out the Scarlet Knights on Saturday and Sunday by identical ll-2 scores. 
Irish 7, Scarlet Knights 5 
The Irish got home runs from 
see RUTGERS/page 18 


HOCKEY 

Future rink named for ex-coach 
By KYLE CASSILY Senior Sports Writer 

Athletic Director Kevin White announced Sunday that the new ice arena to be built inside the Joyce Center will be called the Charles W. "Lefty" Smith, Jr., Rink. 
White unveiled the rink's name at the hockey team's annual awards banquet held before a large crowd in the Mendoza College of Business auditorium. The announcement was accompanied by an artist's rendering of the arena's possi­ble design. 
see LEFTY/page 22 

FooTBALL 
Weis sees team developing swagger in spring 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
At the beginning of the spring, Irish coach Charlie Weis said he wanted his team to play with more swagger. AftPr Saturday's open practice, he elaborated on the building blocks to that goal -confi­dence, passion and emotion. 
Weis said getting players to play with these three things is imperative to move past last season's 3-9 rncord. But more importantly. he said he has seen this growing. 
"So the two things that we're trying to emphasize the most, they're starting to get. It's a slow process. but we're making some strides," he said 
Weis rnitPrated that gaining confidence stems from making plays. But he added that, since the team has started practice, he has seen growing confi­dence in a larger number of players than before. 
"Not the whole team, but there are guys !playing with confidence]." We is said. "Ultimately, you are trying to get enough of them where it becomes the whole team. 
Weis said he tries to work with the players who need more confidence building this spring. For example, he said he never has to worry about the confidence of linebacker Maurice Crum, Jr., and safety David Bruton. But he also said cornerback Gary Gray, who missed all of last season with a broken arm, has started mak­ing good plays in practice this spring and is gaining the confi­dence needed to be a good player. 
Weis said passion and emo­tion go hand-in-hand in trying to rev up his young team. He said that, with any young team, these things have to be explicit­ly taught so the players under­stand what they need to do. 

Weis said he is trying to avoid the "deer-in-the-headlights" style of play that many young players fall victim to. 
"I think there were a lot of times with a fairly young and inexperienced look, that you get that 'deer-in-the-head­lights' look. They freeze. And not that they freeze in the game, but you don't see that same passion and emotion," he said. 
Weis' plan to coach emotion this spring became most evi­dent Saturday during the "Irish Eyes" drill, a modified "Oklahoma" where an offensive and defensive lineman square ofT with a running back trying to make it past the defender. 
After one big defensive play in the drill, Weis said the cele­bration afterward had to be immediate and genuine. 
"This can't be something that's faked. It should be an 
see SWAGGER/page 22 


MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish lose heartbreaker on Denver's last-minute goal 
-
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
No. 19 Denver seored a goal in the final minute of play to defeat the No. 7 Irish (7-2. 1-1 GWLL) 9-H this Saturday in Bridgeville, Ill. The loss broke Notrn Dame's eight-game GWLL winning streak that dated back to the 2007 SllaSOn. 
"I foe! like we played a very good first half and a very poor soeond half. We wern up 6-2 in the lirst half and it should have bonn a bigger lead thnn," Irish eoach Knvin Corrigan said. "In my mind it's a matter of us not taking advantage of our oppor­tunities ofl'ensively." 
Junior attack Ryan Hoff led the toam with three goals fol­lowed by sophomore midfielder Grant Krebs, who earned two scores in the contest. Senior goaltender Joey Kemp tied a career-high 13 saves on the game. 
Notm Dame is now 7-2 on the season with a 1-1 record in league play. 
The effective Irish offense allownd the team to jump out to an early 6-1 lead over the Pioneers in the first half. Krebs scored the first Irish goal of the game followed by junior attack Dunean Swezey and llofl'. With a 3-0 lead, Denver's Jamie Lincoln scored the first of his three goals at the end of the first quarter. 

Senior midfielder Michael Podgajny scored at the begin­ning of the second quarter to begin another 3-0 run for the Irish. Following Podgajny, Hoff and Krebs each earned their second goals of the day. The Pioneers junior defenseman Mike Anderson scored the final goal of the half beginning Denver's five-goal run and mak­ing the score 6-2. 
The Pioneers offense surged during the second half. Lincoln scored the first goal of the peri­od, followed by goals from sen­ior attack Brett Koll and sopho­more midfielder John Dickenson. With only four min­utes remaining in the third quarter, the Pioneers tied the game at six apiece with a goal from junior attack Cliff Smith. 
Notre Dame junior midfielder Dan Gibson then scored a goal, allowing the Irish to retake the lead, but another goal from Smith just before the end of the quarter resulted in a 7-7 tie at the end of the quarter. 
With 9:26 remaining, HolT earned his final goal of the game, giving the Irish an 8-7 lead, but Lincoln completed his hat trick shortly after, and again the game was tied. With 40 sec­onds remaining sophomore mid­fielder Ilija Gajic scored a goal, giving the Pioneers a 9-8 edge over the Irish. 
"We've continued to give up some soft goals and had some soft turnovers throughout the season," Corrigan said. "We've gotten away with it with other teams but didn't this weekend." 
The Irish have a week on· and will return to the play April 18 against Quinnipac. 
"(The weekend offl will give us a chance to wgroup and acenss where we are and get baek to work on things both individually and as a team," Corrigan said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 






