
------------------------------------------------~ 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 115 TUESDAY. APRIL 8. 2008 . 
Writer aitidzes post-genocide actions 
Rosenbaum claims American society utilizes movies to numb feelings toward atrocities 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Renowned novelist and essayist Thane. Rosenbaum criticized America's numb response to atrocity and the movie industry's tendency to fictionalize the horrors of genocide in a lecture entitled "After Auschwitz and the Twin Towers: Trauma and Memory," Monday at McKenna Hall. 
Rosenbaum condemned "forgetting" and the "pretense of knowledge" as methods of coping with atrocity, and cited them as prolific in our cul­ture. 
"It is much better for our sanity to forget it, and pre­

said. 
Rosenbaum credited the need to ignore suffering as a product of American society. Americans are not good at mourning loss. 
"Our impulse is to move on and not look back," he said. 
The immediate flow of information enabled by new technologies that Americans have grown used to have desensitized them to the proper shock and awe that the dead require, Rosenbaum said. 
The "shockless" American Society is exemplified in Giuliani's reaction to the tragedy of 9/11, which "has the framework of atrocity," Rosenbaum said. 
tend it didn't happen," he see GENOCIDE/page 6 
Sophomores begin drinkdelivetysetvice 
Hansmann and Jeffrey found donndrinks.com, plan to deliver to all 27 residence halls 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Fed up with the high prices of the Huddle Mart and campus vending machines and tired of trudging cases of water back from the D6 parking lot, Morrissey sophomores Adam Hansmann and John Jeffrey regularly joked that they would gladly pay for a drink delivery service. The two enterprising business 
majors then realized back in February that they themselves could provide this service, using Hansmann's minivan to make deliveries. 
"Basically, the idea came from two places," Hansmann said. "We want­ed to start a business on campus and we realized the need from our own experience going off-cam­pus to buy drinks." 
The pair began develop­ing dormdrinks.com, a Web site where, starting this week, Notre Dame students can order drinks using a Google check-out account. 
"The Web site is key to everything we do," Hansmann said. "It allows you to go through and pick the products you want." 
On their Web site, Hansmann and Jeffrey list convenience, affordability, and integrity as their val­ues. 
"Dorm Drinks is not an overly-complicated busi­

ness and does not use sophisticated pricing or marketing strategies," the Web site reads. "If a stu­dent can get affordable, reliable beverage deliver­ies without the hassle of going off-campus or haul­ing cases of water or soda back to the dorm, we believe that he or she will find definite value in the service our business pro­vides." 
see DRINKS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Hovvard struck by burglaries 
NDSP says incident similar to one in Lyons 
By BILL BRINK 
News Editor 
Howard Hall residents reported three laptops and two wallets stolen from three different rooms on April 1, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Assistant Director Dave Chapman said. 
A laptop was taken out of each room, he said, and two wallets were taken. The bur­glaries happened between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., he said. 
Chapman said NDSP believes the burglaries to be related to the recent burgla­ries in Lyons Hall, whe-re laptops and wallets were also taken. Chapman said the same suspect is believed to be behind these burgla­ries. 
NDSP director Phil Johnson said last Monday that the suspect was identi­fied by "several people" as a black male, between 5-foot­8 and 5-foot-11, with a thin build, "frizzy long black hair" in a pony tail or braid, possibly bad or missing teeth and possibly sporting facial hair stubble. 
According to Johnson, the suspect carried a duffel bag and entered unlocked 
see HOWARD/page 6 

College security issues catnpus-wide safety alert 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's security issued a safety alert about a suspicious person on the College's campus through e-mails and flyers Monday. 
The alert described a "white male of medium build with a bald head" who was spotted on the roof of Hegina Hall by a student around 11 :43 p.m. Saturday night. 
A Saint Mary's security officer responded to a call made by the student and saw a male fitting this description on the lower roof of the building. 
The initial responding officer called for backup and proceeded to investi­gate the lower roof of the residence hall. 
However, according to the security alert, the suspect had managed to make his way off the roof and escape by the time this search was completed. 
According to the alert, "there should not be any­body working on the roof of buildings during night­time hours unless Security has been made aware of it." 
It asks that students familiarize themselves with the description of the sus­pect and immediately report p e r sons m atc-hin g this description to security, as they should be consid­ered suspicious. 
The Observer was unable to contact Saint Mary's security Monday. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
Studentprotests inCyber Cafe 
Pence says her project targets animal cruelty in food industries 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Students at Saint Mary's found some unusual decora­tions in the Cyber Cafe in the Student Center last week in the form of white, poultry­shaped forms hanging from the ceiling. The decorations, along with fowl-shaped posters hanging along one of the walls, are part of senior Mary Pence's senior compre­hensive project, she said. 
Pence said her project aims to raise awareness about animal cruelty, specifi­cally in the food production industries. 
"Its essentially to make them think twice about processed food that they eat," she said. 
Sodexho director Barry 
see PROTEST/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Study break 
at Yankee 

Stadiu111 
I don't know about everyone 
else, but I cannot wait until 
finals week. You sec, my finals 
schedule is a little peculiar. I 
start ofT with a cosmology exam 
on Monday morning. (Side note: 
I've been in that class for three 
months and still can't adequate­
ly explain what "cosmology" is, 
except that it has to do with 
stars, not makeup.) 
From 12:30 p.m. on Monday 
until S:OO a.m. on Thursday, I 
am finals-free. Now, some peo­
ple would spend that time party­
ing. Not me. Some people would 
spend that time studying. 
Definitely not me. No, I am 
going on a 
trip. 
Laura Myers
Not to Mishawaka. Not to . SportsChicago. 
Writer 
To Yankne 
Stadium. 
On Tuesday, May 6, the 
Clevnland Indians begin a three­
game snries with the Yanks in 
Nnw York. Barring the possibil­
ity that thn Indians get another 
chancn to whip the Bronx 
Bombnrs in the playoffs, this 
will bn thnir last ever visit to 
Yanknn Stadium beforn it is torn 
down in the ofT-season. 
It is for this rnason that I am hopping a Greyhound on Monday artnrnoon for a six-hour ride to Clnvnland. Aftnr a brief night in my hometown, my bnst friend Michelle and I will be on the road for another six hours. We should arrive just in time for the game, whieh we eaeh paid $33 to see from the upper deck, section six, row P. At the Jake (excuse me, the Prog), those seats arc $7. I'd just like to take a second here to point out that the number six has appeared three times as I discussed see­ing the Yankees play. 
At the game, I will undoubted­ly pay obscene amounts of money for a real ballpark frank and some fresh-squeezed lemon­ade. I will make catcalls when Grady Sizemore comes to the plate. I will hold up a sign explaining my journey to the viewers in Cleveland. It will have pictures. 
After the inevitable triumph of good over evil, Michelle and I plan to eat some New York Style Pizza. Unlike our friend Michael Scott, we will not be getting it at Sbarro. We will then immediately begin our drive back to Cleveland, and I will be on a Greyhound heading back to the Bend at 7:35 Wednesday morning. I'll arrive at Notre Dame no later than 2:00, ready to study for Thursday's history exam. 
That is, until 7:05. That's game time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at 
lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK IS MORE IMPORTANT-SHOWERING OR SAVING WATER? 

Aidan Fitzgerald  Carmen Adams  Chris Esber  Gabriela Cobos  Sohaib Hashmi  Sue Kippels  
sophomore Knott  senior Welsh Family  junior Knott  senior off-campus  junior Knott  senior off-campus  
"See the funny  "Short showers  "Saving water,  "Saving water,  "Group show­ "Saving water,  
thing about my  to save water  because the  because I love  ers. I'll scrub  because I love  
back is ... "  and stay clean!"  environment transcends  Hillary ... and Sue. ,  your back ifyou scrub mine."  Hillary ... and Gaby. "  





popularity!" 

VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Graduate student Sarah Shariq, left, gives sophomore Anne Barbera a henna tattoo during Mehndi Night in Lafortune's Sorin Room. 
OFFBEAT 
Postal workers attacked by wild turkeys 
MADISON, Wis. -Rather than rain or snow, or even dogs, postal workers in a West Side neighborhood near Owen Conservation Park are being pestered by wild turkeys this spring. Mara Wilhite, manager of the Hilldale Station Post Office, said she expected to deal with all manner of issues when she went to work for the U.S. Post Office. But that was not one of them. 
"Just when you thought you'd heard it all," she said. 
About five to 10 of the birds have been pecking at the postal workers as they make their rounds, and some of the birds have attacked the letter carriers with the sharp spurs on their legs. One of the birds went through the open door of a mail truck and scratched the driver. 
Wilhite sought help in the matter from Eric Lohner, regional wildlife program supervisor for the state Department of Natural Resources. 
Bride, groom spend wedding night in jail 

VALLEJO, Calif. -A weekend wedding turned into an unforgettable first night for these two newly­weds. Police said a bride and groom spent their first night as a married couple in jail after their wedding party at a Vallejo home got out of hand. 
When police had to return a second time to the home Saturday night, officers stunned both the groom and his cousin with a Taser when they both became aggressive towards the officers. 
The groom and cousin were arrested for allegedly resisting arrest. 
The bride was taken into custody on suspicion of pub­lic intoxication. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Rev. Robert Dowd will give a lecture Wednesday entitled "The Religious Factor in African Politics: Christians, Muslims and Political Culture in Nigeria, Uganda and Senegal" at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
A town hall discussion called "Evaluating Obama's Speech on Haec: A Town Hall Meeting on Haec Relations in America" will take place Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
The Student Immigration Forum will take place Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The play "The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlowe play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil, will be performed April 8-13, 17 and 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Howard Hall Bone Marrow Drive will take place from 12 to 8 p.m. Thursday in the O'Dooley Hoom of LaFortune. 
Anne Thompson, Chief Environmental Correspondent at NBC News, will give a lecture called "Green is the 'new black', but will it stay in style?" at 
10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 0::: 
LLI 
:::t: 
!cC 
LLI 
==.... 
c:c 

(.) 

0 
HIGH 60 HIGH 55
..J LOW 50 LOW 42 

49 
40 

58 40 

Atlanta 85 I 65 Boston 77 I 61 Chicago 82 I 64 Denver 63 I 41 Houston 91 I 79 Los Angeles 92 I 61 Minneapolis 65 I 65 New York 81 I 67 Philadelphia 82 I 62 Phoenix 92 I 71 Seattle 66 I 52 St. Louis 82 I 70 Tampa 91 I 77 Washington 81 I 62 
.r---------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, AprilS, 2008 


Lopez installed as newHesbmghChair 
Professor ofPeace Studies first to be appointed to position established by Kroc Institute 
Special to the Observer 
George A. Lopez was installed as Notre Dame's first Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Professor of Peace Studies on April 1. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1986, Lopez is a leading scholar of repression and human rights violations, ethics and the use of force, and economic sanctions. He is a founding faculty member. of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Lopez serves as an advisor to the U.N. Security Council, the European Union, and govern­ments, foundations and organ­izations involved in human rights, international affairs and peace research. He has written extensively on repres­sion and state terror. Since 1992, he and Kroc research fellow David Cortright have published five books and more than 25 articles and book chapters on economic sanc­tions. 
In 2002, Lopez and Cortright became particularly influential among those seeking an alter­native to war with Iraq. Their research disputing the pres­ence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq was pub­lished before the war in "Arms Control Today" and later in "Foreign Affairs." Their most recent book, "Uniting Against Terror" concerns the applica­tion of sanctions to counter­terrorism. 
A popular speaker, teacher and media commentator, Lopez has twice received Notre Dame's Kaneb Teaching Award. He also is the 2008 recipient of the Frank O'Malley award, given annually by the student government to an out­standing member of the Notre Dame faculty. 
The Hesburgh Chair was established by the Kroc Institute to honor Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president emeritus of Notre Dame, for his lifetime commit­ment to peace and justice. 
Video of Lopez' inaugural lecture, "The Sanctions Mystique: The Power and Perils of Multilateral Economic Coercion," is available at http://kroc.nd.edu/pastevents. 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Doctor opposes use of lethal injection 
Ohio anesthesiologist says procedure is inappropriatefor animals, humans 
Associated Press 
ELYRIA, Ohio -An anes­thesiologist testified Monday that Ohio's lethal injection procedure isn't appropriate for dogs or cats, let alone humans. 
Dr. Mark Heath's testimony on behalf of two murder defendants came in a Lorain County hearing on the consti­tutionality of state's method for putting prisoners to death. 
Heath, an assistant profes­sor of anesthesiology at Columbia University, says it's possible to perform lethal injection of prisoners in a humane manner, but that Ohio's method falls below the standard for euthanizing household pets. 
Under cross-examination, Heath testified that he is per­sonally opposed to the death penalty in whatever form it's carried out. Heath, who has testified about lethal injection in 11 states, also said he has not found an acceptable method for lethal injection of humans in any state. 
Ohio requires its executions to be carried out "in a profes­sional, humane, sensitive and dignified manner." 
The two men facing murder charges say the state's lethal injection procedure doesn't give the quick and painless deaths required by state law. 
Lethal injections are on hold nationally while the U.S. 
Supreme Court considers a challenge in a case from Kentucky, which is among the roughly three dozen states that administer three drugs in succession to sedate, paralyze and kill prisoners. 
The major criticism of the three-drug execution proce­dure is that if the executioner administers too little anes­thetic or makes mis­takes in vein, Heath said. He also warned drugs could go into the tissue instead of the vein. 

Heath said potassium chlo­ride, the third drug adminis­tered, which stops the heart, is sometimes used for eutha­nizing animals. He added that in veterinary procedures the person administering the drug has to be trained in assessing the depth in which 
the animal is

'That's a major
injecting it, sedated and the inmate violation or would have to could suffer departure from any be present at 
excruciating the bedside.
acceptable veterinary 
pain from the "That's a
standard.,
other two major violation drugs. or departure Heath testi­from any
Mark Heath 
fied that the acceptable vet­

anesthesiologist
design of Ohio's death house was problematic because it sepa­rates the inmate from the person administering the drugs in two separate rooms. The rooms are separated by a one-way mirror. 
"Doing it that way substan­tially increases the risk of a major problem occurring," said Heath, adding later, "I would never induce general anesthesia from a different room through long tubing." 
Anesthesiologists always administer drugs while stand­ing next to the patient so they can detect if problems occur, such as a leak or a ruptured 
erinary stan­
dard," Heath 

said of Ohio's method. 
Other problems that could occur come during the mixing of the anesthetic -sodium thiopental, which is sold in powder form -and the insertion of the catheters in the veins and kinks in the IV tubing, he said. 
Difficulties with two execu­tions in recent years, in which the execution team struggled to find suitable veins in inmates' arms, brought com­plaints that the method is unconstitutionally cruel and unusual. Ohio officials stand by the procedure. 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Schmitt Lecture Series 
Ph~sics 
a... rl··· d
........ i ...... ····· A'
' 

I 
j

I ···.:.!(
··:·::·:




the L 
Alasdair Macintyre 
Professor of Philosophy University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 McKenna Hall Auditorium 
4:00 PM 

For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
Drinks 
continued from page 1 
When asked why a stu­dont would ordor from dormdrinks.com rather than just utilizing the lluddle Mart or vending machines. .J e fl'r n y nxplairwd that while ovnry 
bottlP of water from a vending 
machine costs $ I . ;{ 5. a bottle of water from dorm­drinks.com costs only $0.25 on average. 
"l•:ven with tho delivery 
foo tackod on. it is much cheapor than the lluddle or tlw vending machines," .Jeffrey said. 
Last week. when the duo ran a beta-test of their service in Morrissey and Lyons, they received nine 

Protest 
continued from page 1 

Bowles said Pence's protest was not specifically aimed at the Saint Mary's dining serv­ice, and Pence asked him for pormission to hang her art­work in the Cyber Cafe. 
''I'm quite pleased with the message she's putting out," he said. "I think it's a worth­while cause." 
Instead, Pence said she was hoping to raise awareness about how poorly animals are treated in some parts of the food industry, specifically those run by big corpora­tions. 
"It's all for economic profit of big corporations so they ean kill their products 
work called attention to "the often inhumane treat­ment of animals in the meat production industry," sh-e said. 
The images hanging from the ceiling, which Tourtillotte described as "ghostlike forms or spirits of these animals" are there to remind students that these animals had lives and were killed in cruel man­ners. 
When people think about how animals are raised they often have these picturesque images in their minds of 
orders. Jeffrey said that he expects to receive about four orders from 11ach dorm. 
"We're not expecting the numbers to be through the roof originally," he said. "But we did get really good feedback from the people we delivered to." 
Hight now, the Web site lists mostly Pepsi products 

"h'ven with the delivery fee tacked on, it is much cheaper than the I fuddle or the vending machines." 
John Jeffrey sophomore 
such as Gatorade, Lipton Green Tea and Mountain Dew. but Hansmann said he is fnterested in expanding to include other non-alcoholic beverages. 
"The store 
we're going to get all the stuff carries mostly Pepsi," he said. "We're open to most products other than beer." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

farms with chickens running around freely, Tourtillotte said. 
"We don't think about the long buildings that smell strongly of ammonia and a dozen chickens are crammed into a cage and not allowed to move at all during their life times," she said. 
Pence also compiled a video using video clips from various Web sites for display in the Cyber Cafe. But the film, which showed the actual inhumane acts, was deemed inappropriate for display in an eating establishment, Pence said. 
"They wouldn't allow me to incorporate that because it was too graphic," she said. 
No one from Sodexho was available for comment about 
quicker and "It's all for economic get things on 
profit ofbig corporations 
the shelves 

so they can kill their 
faster even though it's products quicker and get not the 
things on the shelves 
healthiest of 

faster even though it's 
products," Penco said. not the healthiest of Pence's fac­
products."
ulty advisor 

J u I i e Tourtillotte Mary Pence said the art­SMC senior 
this. 

P e n c e stressed that she wasn't displaying the "ghostlike" poultry and the posters, which can also be seen in Moreau Art Gallery, to be offensive or "in-your­face." 
"You know, being an artist, I don't 

try to affect any one point of view by making a statement saying that they have to agree with me, its more of an attempt to make people think," she said. ''I'm not try­ing to offend anyone." 
Pence said she only wants students to stop for a moment and think about the life of the animal that they are eating and whether or not they were treated humanely. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Mendoza endorses U.N. initiative 
Business school says it will encourage corporate responsibility 
Special to The Observer 
The Principles for Hesponsible Management Education lPRME), a United Nations-baeked global initiative developed to promote corporate responsibility and sus­tainability in business education, has now been endorsed by more than 100 business schools and universities from around the world, including Notre Dame. 
Carolyn Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, was among the international task force of 60 deans, university presidents and oflicial representatives of leading business schools that developed the initiative, which was launched under the patronage of 
U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki­moon in July 2007. 
Participating institutions, including Mendoza, make a com­mitment to align their mission and strategy, as well as their core competencies -education, research and thought leadership -with U.N. values embodied by the six PRME principles. 
Actions encouraged under the initiative's framework include curriculum development around the corporate responsibility agen­da and research in support of sustainable management sys­tems, as well as public advocaey and opinion leadership to advance responsible business practices. 
"Thanks to the joint outreach by all partners, the PRME initia­tive has reached this critical mile­stone of 100 signatories," said Manuel Escudero, head of aca­demic initiatives at the U.N. Global Compact, which is one of the initiative's eo-conveners. Speaking on behalf of the PHME steering committee, Escudero stressed that "this will enable the initiative to bring good efforts to scale and truly embed the sus­tainability agenda in tho training of future businoss lnaders." 
The PHME steering committeo includes the U.N. Global Compaet, the Association to Advance Collngiatn Schools of Business, the European Foundation for Management Developmont, the Aspen Institute's Business and Society Program, thn Europoan Academy for Business in Society, the Globally Hesponsible Leadership Initiative, the Graduate Managoment Admission Council, and Net lmpaet. 
Following its early outreach and awareness-raising efforts, the initiative is currently estab­lishing several participant work­ing groups to fadlitate implemen­tation of the prindples and iden­tify best practicos. In addition, a Global Forum for Hesponsible Management Education will be convened Dec. 1 and 2 at U.N. IIeadquarters in New York. 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish Crossings Town homes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east of the ND athletic fields, off Willis Street, these three and four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, including a 42" flat panel HDTV. 
Geared for today's college student, and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
Large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 


Strict covenants enforced. 

lease today and move into your brand new townhome for Fall Semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261 ..3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 






ORLD &'NATION 
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 CotvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Teenagers raid school with baseball bats 
SYDNEY, Australia -Five teenagers bran­dishing baseball bats and machetes rampaged through a suburban school Monday and hit a teacher over the head, police said. Eighteen students were treated for minor injuries. 
The drama unfolded as hundreds attended an assembly in an outdoor area of Merrylands High School. As the attackers moved in, teach­ers rushed the students back to class, where they sought refuge behind locked doors, under desks, even in a cupboard. 
"I lind it very difficult to believe the brazen­ness of how they entered the school," Police Detective Inspector Jim Stewart said. Such school violence is rare in Australia. 
The teens, between the ages of 14 and 16. were arrested and likely would be charged with assault and other crimes, Stewart said. 
Mugabe supporters target farmers 
IIAHARE, Zimbabwe -Militant support­ers of President Hobert Mugabe targeted whites Monday, forcing about a dozen ranchers and farmers off their land as Zimbabwe's longtime ruler fanned racial tensions amid fears he will turn to violence to hold on to power. 
Mugabe's opponents pressed a lawsuit seeking to compel the publication of results of the March 29 presidential election that they say Morgan Tsvangirai won. 
The opposition leader urged the interna­tional community to persuade Mugabe to step down. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Post most Pulitzer winning paper 
NEW YOHK-The Washington Post won six Pulitzer Prizes on Monday -the most in its histo­ry -including awards for its coverage of the Virginia Tech massacre and a series exposing shoddy treatment of America's war wounded at Walter Reed hospital. ' 
The New York Times received two Pulitzers: one for investigative reporting, for stories on toxic ingredients in medicine and other products from China, and one for explanatory reporting, for examining the ethical issues surrounding DNA testing. 
Previously, the Post won as many as four Pulitzers in a single year, in 2006. The record is seven, won by the Times in 2002, mostly for its coverage of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Coast Guard calls off search for pilot 
BELFAST, Maine -The Coast Guard ended its search for the pilot of a small aerobatic plane that crashed into the ocean though state officials were continuing an underwater search Monday after­noon. 
The Coast Guard received a call of a SIAI­Marchetti SF-260 with one person aboard crash­ing into Belfast Bay near the Belfast airport around 6 p.m. Sunday. 
The Coast Guard identified the pilot as 60-year­old Doug Low of Lincolnville, the owner of Ace Aviation. 
Coast Guard official<; said an oil slick and debris matching the description of the plane were located about a mile offshore. During the nearly 15-hour search that ended Monday morning, Coast Guard and Maine Marine Patrol vessels and two Coast Guard helicopters were assisted by local agencies. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Blood Center debuts new technology 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Blood Center has added a touch of technology to make it easier for donors to register and give. 
The center debuted fingerprint identification Monday and recently introduced an online system for donors to make appointments and monitor their profile. 
It spent about $500,000 on a BIO-key sys­tem that allows donors to use their fingers for identification instead of presenting a picture ID or Social Security number. 
"We just thought this kind of solves all kinds of issues that can arise," said Lora Poore, vice president of quality systems for the Indiana Blood Center. "Your finger is always with you." 
Officials raid polygamist compound 
More than 400 children put into state custody in largest welfare operation in Texas history 
Associated Press 

ELDORADO, Texas ­More than 400 children, mostly girls in pioneer dress­es, were swept into state custody from a polygamist sect in what authorities described Monday as the largest child-welfare opera­tion in Texas history. 
The dayslong raid on the sprawling compound built by now-jailed polygamist leader Warren Jeffs was sparked by a 16-year-old girl's call to authorities that she was being abused and that girls as young as 14 and 15 were being forced into marriages with much older men. 
Dressed in home-sewn, ankle-length dresses with their hair pinned up in braids, some 133 women left the Yearning for Zion Ranch of their own volition along with the children. 
State troopers were hold­ing an unknown numner of men in the compound until investigators finished exe­cuting a house-to-house search of the 1,700-acre property, which includes a medical facility, numerous large housing units and an 80-foot white limestone tem­ple that rises discordantly out of the brown scrub. 
"In my opinion, this is the eight children before the lies, the sheltered children were being held at Fort largest endeavor we've ever sect moved to Texas. would have a tough acclima­Concho, a 150-year-old fort been involved in in the state Jessop said the community tion to modern life. built to protect frontier set­of Texas," said Children's emphasized self-sufficiency Tela Mange, a spokes­tlements, to be interviewed Protective Services because they believed the woman for the state about the 16-year-old girl spokesman Marleigh apocalypse was near. Department of Public Safety, and whether, in fact, the Meisner, who said she was The women were not said the criminal investiga­teenager was among them. also involved in the 1993 allowed to wear red -the tion was still under way, and DPS troopers arrested one siege of the Branch Davidian color Jeffs said belonged to that charges would be filed if man on a charge of interfer­compound in Waco. , Jesus -and were not investigators determined ing with the duties of a pub­
The members of the allowed to cut their hair. children were abused. lic servant during the search Fundamentalist Church of They were also kept isolated Still uncertain is the loca­warrant, but it was not Jesus Christ of Latter-Day from the outside world. tion of the girl whose call ini­Barlow, Mange said. Saints spent their days rais­They "were born into tiated the raid. She allegedly "For the most part, resi­ing numerous children, till­this," said Jessop, 40. "They had a child at 15, and dents at the ranch have been ing small gardens and doing have no concept of main­authorities were looking for cooperative. However, chores. But at least one for­stream society, and their documents, family photos or because of some of the diplo­mer resident says life was mothers were born into and even a family Bible with lists matic efforts in regards to 
.. not some idyllic replica of have no concept of main­of marriages and children to the residents, the process of 19th-century life. stream culture. Their grand­demonstrate the girl was serving the search warrants "Once you go into the com­mothers were born into it." married to Dale Barlow, 50. is taking longer than usual," pound, you don't ever leave Meisner said each child Under Texas law, girls said DPS spokesman Tom it," said Carolyn Jessop, one will get an advocate and an younger than 16 cannot Vmger, who declined to elab­of the wives of the alleged attorney but predicted that if marry, even with parental orate. "The annex is leader of the Eldorado com­they end up permanently approval. extremely large and the plex. Jessop left with her separated from their fami-The church members temple is massive." 

UNITED KINGDOM 


Princess Diana's death ruled not n1urder 
the pack of photographers chasing the high-speed crash that killed all
Associated Press 

after them in Paris in 1997. three in a Paris underpass on Aug. 
LONDON -A coroner's jury "The verdict is unlawful killing, 31, 1997, and on the paparazzi fol­returned the most serious verdict grossly negligent driving of the fol­lowing them. within its power Monday, ruling that lowing vehicles and of the Mercedes" Diana's sons, Princes William and Princess Diana and her boyfriend carrying the couple, the jury foreman Harry, issued a statement expressing were unlawfully killed because their announced. support for the verdict and thanking driver and pursuing paparazzi were That was the verdict of nine of the the jurors for their long work. reckless -behavior tantamount to 11 jurors. There was no indication "We agree with their verdicts, and manslaughter. why there were two dissenters. are both hugely grateful to each and 
Criminal charges were unlikely, All 11 agreed that the car slamming every one of them for the forbearance however, because the incident hap­head-on into a concrete pillar rather they have shown in accepting such pened in France outside the jurisdic­than striking the wall on the other significant disruption to their lives tion of British authorities. side was a key factor in their deaths. over the past six months," the princes 
Rejecting claims by the father of The jury also faulted Diana and said. Diana's boyfriend, Dodi Fayed, that Fayed for not buckling their seat Fayed's wealthy father, Mohamed the couple were murdered, the jury belts. Al Fayed, declared that the jury got it concluded after six months of testi­But jurors laid the heaviest blame wrong. "The most important thing is, mony they were victims of reckless on the couple's driver, Henri Paul, it is murder," he said as he left the speed by their drinking chauffeur and who had been drinking sho.rtly before Royal Courts of Justice. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
"In America, we have a very

Genocide 

smug idea of what it is to know. We are satisfied with continued from page I empty knowledge," he said. Hosenbaum claimed popular 
lin said lw was one or tho films contribute to the prolif­only writers to critieizn eration of false knowledge. Giuliani's rnsponsn to tho "Unfortunately, most 
attacks, and he took issun with Giuliani's requnst for Nnw Yorkers to go about thnir day in a normal rash­ion. 
"There is something about the notion of spending the day as if" noth­ing had hap­

"There is something about the notion of spending the day as ifnothing had happened that is a desecration to the dead." 
Thane Rosenbaum writer 
Americans learn from seeing movies. They don't read books or newspapers, he said. 
According to Hosenbaum, these l"ilrns dis­honor the dead because they perpetuate a pretense that one can know the plight of geno­cide victims -a 
pPIHHl that is a desecration to thn dead," Hosnnbaum said. 
This numbness of Amnrican socinty is an obstacle to romnmbnring tho victims of gnnocide in a respectful and appropriate manner, Hosenbaum said. 
In light of a genoeido or similar atrocity, "the highest priority is nwmory. remom­braneo, and memorial iza­tion," lw said. 
llowover, aeeording to Hosenbaurn, many Americans are too desensitized to do so. lnstoad, tlw propPr awn and humility an~ replaced with forgetfulness and even worso. f"also memory, hn said. 
Hosenbaurn said false mem­ory is the pretPnso of knowl­edge -it is the attempt to understand and share in the suffering of victims, when this is actually impossible to grasp. 

pretense that, he believes, dishonors the dead. 
"The truth is that the atroci­ties these movies describe are unimaginable and unknow­able," Hosenbaum said. 
People want to see films that 
about themselves, and about humanity, Rosenbaum said. 
"It is very selfish to engage in artistic representations that make you feel good. Its not about you," he said. This impulse to universalize the stories of the victims is "ulti­mately narcissistic." 
Ultimately, the tragedy of genocide is owned by the dead and the survivors, not the filmmakers, Hosenbaum said. 
"They have the right to have their stories told faithfully," he said. 
Given the outsiders inability to comprehend genocide, the impulse to forget and trans­form it is great, but this is "selfish and narcissistic," Hosenbaum said. 
"II" we are going to remem­ber, why not remember !geno­cide] in a way that doesn't force the dead to roll over and be revolted in the way that their suffering has been trivi­alized?" Hosenbaum said. 
The outcome of 
false knowledge 

are  lifP affirm­ "We haven't  resulting from the  
ing, so most filmmakers  learned anything."  movies and popu­lar media has not  
inelude  these  helped anyway, he  
themes,  Thane Rosenbaum  said. In the after- 
Hosenbaum  writer  math  of  the  

said. Films should teach about the failures of humans, not their successes, he said. 
"Tho vast majority of the people in the Holocaust died because there were no Oskar Sehindlers lof Schindler's Listl," Hosenbaum said. "This is not how the dead want to be remembered," he said. 
These are misleading stories that make people feel better 
Holocaust,  we  
have  had  four  
more genocides.  

"We haven't learned any­thing," Hosenbaum said. 
Hosenbaum's lecture con­cluded the two-day confer­ence on genocide, "Witnessing Genocide: Truth, Heconcil­iation and the Media." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Film to have U.S. premiere at ND 
Special to The Observer 
Award-winning film pro­ducer Leslee Udwin will introduce "Mrs. Hateliffe's Revolution" at the l"ilm's U.S. premiere Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at Notre Dame. 
The event is part of the Humor in European Film series, presented by Notre Dame's Nanovic Institute for European Studies. Tickets for the premiere perform­ance and a second showing at 10 p.m. that evening ar·e $3 to $6 and are available at the center's box office or may be purchased over the phone at 574-631-2800. 
Directed by Billie Eltringham, "Mrs. Hatcliffe's Revolution" is a dark comedy 


Howard 
continued from page 1 
rooms. When he saw that some of the rooms hn entered had students in them, he asked for some­one by name who did not live in the room. 
The thefts last week in Lyons took place during the 
that tolls how one woman finds her voke, takes control of her life and restores the balance to her distinctively dysfunctional family. In her presentation, Udwin will share her experiences as a producer and her inspiration for the movie, which is based on the true story of a fami­ly's defection to -and later, escape from -East Berlin in tho 1960s. 
Udwin's othnr films inelude "Who Bombed Birmingham" and "East is East," which won 25 international awards, including British Film of the Year, the 2000 Cannes Media Prize and Best Film at the Galway Film Festival. Udwin also won the London Critics' Circle Award for British Producer of the Year in 2000. 
same time of day, from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m., Johnson said last week. 
NDSP learned that Valparaiso University has experienced similar burgla­ries with a suspect whose description matched that of the suspect in Notre Dame's recent campus robbories, Johnson said last week. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, AprilS, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  12,612.43  +3.01  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,875  80  1,469  3,747,867,831  
AMEX  2,271.04  +5.02  

NASDAQ 2,370.98 -6.15 NYSE 91184.72 +27.19 S&P 500 1,372.54 +2.14 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13.,450,23 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 6,014.80 +67.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM) +29.30 +2.98 13.15 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.05 +0.07 136.96 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.22 -0.10 45.76 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +0.61 +0.16 26.52 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +2.15 +0.075 3.556 13-WEEK BILL +3.03 +0.04 1.360 30-YEAR BOND +1.18 +0.051 4.369 5-YEAR NOTE +4.18 +0.11 2.743 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.86 109.09 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +13.60 926.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -+0.95 73.05 
Exchange Rates YEN 102.5250 EURO 0.6365 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0127 BRmSH POUND 0.5030 

IN BRIEF 
Former city officials accused of fraud 
SAN DIEGO -The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a civil complaint Monday against five former San Diego city officials, alleg­ing they committed fraud by concealing a bai­)Oiming shortfall in the city pension fund. 
The complaint said the officials knew the city was underfunding its pension obligations and failed to disclose the extent of its problems to bond-rating agencies or to the investors who bought city bonds in 2002 and 2003. 
The complaint mirrors allegations against the nation's eighth-largest city that were settled in November 2006 aftnr the scandal helped force the mayor's resignation. The SEC ordered the city to hire an indepPndent financial consultant but stopped short of levying fines. 
The latest complaint filed in federal court in San Diego seeks unspecified civil fines from for­mer City Manager Michael Uberuaga; former Auditor Edward P. Hyan; former Treasurer Mary 
E. Vattimo; Patricia Frazier, former deputy city manager for finance; and Teresa A. Webster, for­mer assistant auditor and comptroller. 

Airline consumer quality rating down 
WASHINGTON-Low-cost carriers AirTran, Jet Blue and Southwest took the top three spol'> in a national survey of airline quality, while the indus­try overall hit its lowest rating in the nearly two decades of the study. 
The poor ratings come at a time of rising fuel prices and increasingly led-up consumers. 
At the bottom of the list released Monday were Comair, American Eagle and in last place: Atlantic Southeast Airlines. 
The past year "was the worst year ever for the 
U.S. airlines," said Brent Bowen, a study co­author and professor at the Aviation Institute at the University of Nebraska at Omaha. "Overall operational performance and quality declined once again to the lowest level that it's ever been." 
The annual Airline Quality Rating survey found that more bags were lost, more passengers were bumped, more consumers complainHd and fewer llighl'> arrived on-time than in the previous year. The overall "quality score" the researchers gave the industry (-2.16) was the lowest in the nearly two decades they've been studying the airlines. 


UAW negotiations set to resume 
Bargaining teams will meet Wednesday in hopes of ending six-week axle strike 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -Full bar­
gaining teams for the 
United Auto Workers and 
American Axle and 
Manufacturing Holdings 
Inc. will return to negotia­
tions Wednesday for the 
first time in nearly a 
month as a strike against 
the auto parts supplier 
entered its sixth week. 
The resumption of talks 
came after a meeting 
Monday between UAW 
President Hon Gettelfinger 
and company CEO 
Hichard Dauch. Although 
details of the meeting 
weren't released, compa­
ny spokeswoman Renee 
Rogers said the meeting 
was productive. 

Top negotiators for both 
sides will meet Tuesday 
and full teams will bar­
gain on Wednesday, 
Rogers said. The full 
teams have not met since 
March 10. 

Adrian King, who heads 
a UAW local at the 
American Axle complex in 
Detroit and sits on the 
bargaining team, said 
negotiators were told to 
come to Detroit on 
Tuesday, but were given 
no other details of 
Monday's meeting. 

Gettelfinger and Dauch 
met Monday in an effort The strike has caused a Dan Flores said. Oshawa according to Ward's 
to end the strike against parts shortage that has will resume two-shift pro­AutoinfoBank. · the auto parts maker that forced General Motors duction for three weeks On the American Axle 
has forced General Motors Corp. to close or curtail starting April 21, he said. picket lines in Detroit 
Corp. to cut production work at 29 factories, as Flores would not say Monday, there was opti­
across the nation. well as a Hummer plant from where the plants will mism that the high-level 
King said he is opti­run by AM General LLC. get parts. GM announced meeting could lead to a 
mistic about returning to But on Monday, GM con­last week that it would settlement ending the 
bargaining. firmed it would restart shut down its Arlington, strike. 
"I've got a thousand pickup truck plants in Texas, large SUV plant for Worker Scott Reinke of 
things running through Fort Wayne, Ind., and three weeks starting April New Baltimore said it's a 
my mind right now," he Oshawa, Ontario, that had 14. That plant had sign that GM is starting to 
said. been closed since late remained in operation pressure American Axle 
About 3,600 workers at February because of the using parts from an to settle the dispute, 
five American Axle plants strike. American Axle plant in which until recently had 
in Michigan and New York The Fort Wayne plant Mexico. affected only factories 
went on strike Feb. 26 will go to one shift this GM has not built full­that make large sport util­
mainly over wage and week, then to the normal sized pickup trucks since ity vehicles and pickup 
benefit cuts that the com­two shifts for the next Feb. 29, yet the company trucks that aren't selling 
pany is seeking. four weeks, spokesman still has a 118-day supply, well. 

Tribes reach deal to protect salmon 
Associated Press "This deal defies the decades of our salmon by working together col­
salmon science that say salmon recov­laboratively throughout the region 
WASHINGTON -A compromise ery in the Columbia and Snake River focusing on real on-the-ground solu­reached Monday with four Northwest Basin is not possible with habitat and tions that make a difference," she said. Indian tribes would commit federal hatchery programs alone," said Bill Both governors are Democrats. agencies to spend $900 million over Shake, a retired U.S. Fish and Wildlife Steve Wright, administrator of the the next decade on improving condi­Service official who advises a Bonneville Power Administration, a tions for endangered salmon while Northwest sportfishing group. regional power agency that led the leaving intact hydroelectric dams that Any scientifically sound plan must settlement talks, said the new agree­harm fish. include increased spill at the two ments should benefit salmon and 
The deal would end years of legal dozen dams and irrigation projects Northwest ratepayers alike. battles between the Bush administra­along the Columbia and Snake rivers "We have spent decades arguing tion and the four Northwest tribes. as well as removal of four outdated with each other. Today these parties However, it would not affect a fifth dams on the lower Snake River in are saying let's lay down the swords, tribe that is party to a lawsuit nor Eastern Washington, Shake said. let's spend more time working collabo­environmental groups that vowed to Oregon Gov. Ted Kulongoski called ratively to ... help fish and less time lit­press on in their efforts to breach four the agreement premature and said igating," Wright said. dams on the Lower Snake River in tribes were taking a short-term view. The agreement calls for federal eastern Washington. "It's a sad day for me," Kulongoski agencies to expand tribal efforts to 
Federal officials called the agree­said. protect endangered and threatened ment a landmark in the long-running Washington Gov. Chris Gregoire fish in the Columbia River Basin, dispute over balancing tribal and com­called the deal a "positive develop­spending up to $900 million over 10 mercial fishing rights, protection for ment" and said federal and tribal lead­years for hatchery improvements, threatened salmon and power ers should be commended for their stream restoration work, screens to demands from the region's network of efforts. protect fish and additional spillways hydroelectric dams. "We can best protect and enhance on some of the dams. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 

Donororgans cause cancer in recipients 
Four patients receive transplant organs with lymphoma after doctors misdiagnosed teen 
Associated Press 
GAIWEN CITY, N.Y. -Alex Koehne had a love for life, and always wanted to help people. 
So when his parents were told that their 15-year-old son was dying of bacterial menin­gitis, the couple didn't hesitate in donating his organs to des­perately ill transplant recipi­ents. 
"I immediately said, 'Let's do it'," Jim Koehne recalled. "We both thought it was a great idea. This is who Alex was." 
A year later, their dream that Alex's spirit might some­how live on has become a nightmare. 
It turned out that Alex did not die of bacterial meningitis, but rather a rare form of lym­phoma that wasn't found until his autopsy, and apparently spread to thfl organ recipients. The Long Island couple was told that two of the recipients have died, and two others had the donor kidneys removed and are getting cancer treat­ment. 
The rnvelation has led two hospitals to revise transplant procedurns, although the state Health Department found that no one was to blame. Experts say the possibility of getting eancer from an organ donor is extremely rare: Only 64 cases have been iden­that a 52-year-old man died of the same rare lymphoma about four m.onths after receiving Alex's liver. The cou­ple said they were also told a 36-year-old woman who received Alex's pancreas also developed lymphoma and died. 
Two patients who received the kidneys are undergoing cancer treatment and are far­ing well, according to the report in the January issue of the American Journal of Transplantation. 
All four recipients were noti­fied immediately of the autop­sy results and got chemothera­py, the report said. None have been publicly identified. 
The transplants were done at Stony Brook, NYU Medical Center and the University of Minnesota, according to Newsday, which first reported on the case. 
The report's authors noted a diagnosis of bacterial meningi­tis does not preclude donating organs because the recipients can be given antibiotics to pre­vent infection, but they con­cluded "a more thorough eval­uation of the donor" should be done when there is any doubt. 
"Tumors, especially lym­phoma, can masquerade as other causes of death, and may be missed in potential donors," they wrote. 
Teperman, 
who was not 
involved in the 

tified in a "Usually the organs case, said the national study or review did not
from rs-year-old are
230,000 cases, fault anyone 
according to the perfect. In this case, who made the United Network they weren't. " incorrect diag­for Organ nosis. Sharing. "No one was
Lewis Teperman 
"A 15-year-old able to say they 
surgeon
boy's organs are could have fig­
a gift from the Almighty," said transplant sur­geon Lewis Teperman, noting the majority of organ donors are mueh older than Alex. "Usually the organs from a 15­year-old are pe,rf:;-et. In this ease, they weren t. 
Teperman is the director of transplantation at New York University Medical Center, where two of the transplants wore done and lead author of a report on the ease. 
Last March, Alex. was taken to Stony Brook University llospital on Long Island after treatment at another hospital for nausna, vomiting, severe baek and neek pain, seizurns and double vision. Doctors told his parents they suspected he had baetorial meningitis -an infection of the fluid surround­ing the spinal cord and brain -although tests didn't reveal what bacteria eaused it. 
lin was treated with antibi­oties but died on March 30. 
The Konhnes requested an autopsy. They were told a month later that Alex had aetually died from a rare form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a blood cancer which al'f'eets fewer than 1,500 patients in the U.S. annually. 
"Our jaws dropped," Jim Koehne reealled. "We walked out of there crying." 
Jim and Lisa Koehne (pro­nounced KAY-na) later learned 
ured out that 
this diagnosis 
was lym­

phoma," he said. "We are rec­ommending that if the report­ed case is bacterial meningitis, maybe wait and get more cul­tures, possibly don't take the organs." 
But, he added, this case is so rare that it would have been difficult for anyone to predict what might have happened, and that physicians acted in good faith in trying to harvest organs for desperately ill recipients. 
NYU and Minnesota now fol­low the recommendation for additional tests for bacterial meningitis. 
Stony Brook officials said they followed organ donor net­work guidelines, but cited fed­eral privacy laws in declining to specifically discuss the Koehne case. 
A review by the state Health Department "did not find flaws in policies, procedures and actions at Stony Brook" involv­ing Alex's case, said agency spokeswoman Claudia Hutton. 
The New York Organ Donor Network, which coordinated the transplants, issued a state­ment of sympathy for the fami­ly. The network pointed out that 22,000 patients received life-saving organ transplants in the U.S. in 2007; and anoth­er 6,411 patients died while awaiting organ donations. 
Soldier'swidow-has sperm salvaged 
Medical experts say it's unlikely wife will bear late husband's child 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -A soldier's widow has succeeded in hav­ing sperm taken from his body and frozen four days after he was slain in Iraq, though medical experts said it's highly unlikely she would be able to bear his child. 
Sgt. Dayne Darren Dhanoolal, 26, died March 31 when an explosive detonated near his vehicle in Baghdad. He had talked often with his wife Kynesha about having children, according to court papers filed by her lawyer. 
On Friday, a federal judge in Columbus, Ga., granted her request for a temporary restraining order preventing the military from embalming the body until samples of Dhanoolal's sperm were extracted. The samples were taken later that day and are ip the custody of a medical representative for the widow, who is hoping to be insemi­nated even though fertility experts said the procedure almost certainly would not work with her late husband's sperm. 
"It's not viable," Dr. Andrew McCullough, associ­ate professor at the New York University School of Medicine, said Monday. 
Sperm maintain nearly normal movement and some function for the first three hours after a man's death. After that, their movement and viability declines, according to the Web site for the department of urology at Cornell University's Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College. 
Dr. John Park, a fertility expert and assistant profes­sor at Emory University School of Medicine, said there have been reports of viable sperm being retrieved up to 36 hours after a man's death. But he said it is "high­ly unlikely" any viable sperm could be retrieved four days later. 
Recovery of viable sperm appears relatively uncom­mon after 24 hours post­
mortem unless the body has been cooled, the Cornell site say~. It was not known what, if any, pre­cautions were taken to keep Dhanoolal's body suffi­ciently cool before his sperm were extracted. 
Despite the odds, Kynesha Dhanoolal persuaded the judge to allow the sperm to be collected. Dhanoolal did not have a will but had signed a military form desig­nating his mother, Monica Brown, to handle disposition of his remains. 
His widow asserted in court papers that Brown ini­tially did not agree with her wishes. 
However, "There's no battle anymore, Kynesha Dhanoolal said Monday after speaking with her mother-in­law over the weekend. 
The widow's attorney, Frank Myers, said emotions got in the way of reaching an agreement earlier. Now, "I think everybody is on the same page," he said. 
Brown did not return two calls to her Killeen, Texas, home on Monday. 
As of Monday, no agree­ment had been filed with the court, which will determine who gets possession of the sperm. 
"Hopefully, the peace will last and everybody will be happy in the end," Myers 
said. 
Dhanoolal 
was assigned to 
"This is strictly a the 2nd Battalion, 69th
personal choice of 
A r m o r
the family and not 
Hegiment, 3rd something we're Brigade Combat Team,
involved with." 
3rd Infantry Division at Fort 
Monica Manganaro Benning, in Fort Benning west Georgia. Fort Benning
spokeswoman 
spokeswoman 
Monica 
Manganaro said she was not aware of another time where the widow of a soldier stationed at the base made such. a request. 
"This is strictly a personal choice of the family and not something we're involved with," Manganaro said. 
Dhanoolal's body was to be flown Monday from Dover Air Force Base in Delaware to Texas, where a funeral is planned this Friday, accord­ing to the widow's family. 
The widow's mother, Yvonne Watkins, said her daughter hopes to have her husband's sperm artificially inseminated as early as this summer. 
*-I­
~ 
\.i.:::FJJ 
'0" 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nontinations for the 



Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a fom1er dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
EGYPT 
BELGIUM 
Police attack rioters as violence escalates 
EUOKscellphone usage on planes 
Calls will be connected through onboard base station linked to satellite 
interfere with flight naviga­agency opened a review of Associated Press tion and will have additional the issue in 2004 but ended it 
safeguard to protect against last year without taking 
BRUSSELS -You can use terrorism. action. your cell phone in the skies Meanwhile, travelers are On European flights, over Europe later this year already expressing concern installing a base station on under new rules that will about another kind of disrup­the plane will allow calls to allow air travelers to stay in tion -noisy passengers. The go directly to a satellite sys­touch -and raise the cringe­friendly skies are one of the tem, preventing phones from inducing prospect of sitting last refuges against shrill wreaking havoc with flight next to a chatterbox at ringtones and yapping instruments by sending out 30,000 feet. callers. signals indiscriminately, EU 
But don't expect to use your "If they use a mobile phone officials said. phone on a U.S. flight any­on long distance flights, it The system will rely on time soon. would be an inconvenience, European GSM technology. 
The decision Monday by the especially at night," said Stein Although the technical stan­European Union makes the Smulders of Halle, Belgium, dards for American and 27 -nation bloc the first region who commutes by train. European GSM phones are in the world to scrap bans on In the United States, cell different, American GSM the use of cell phones in the phone use on flights is phones would work on sky. The EU insists the banned by two regulatory European flights. change will not compromise agencies. Both said Monday Installing small base sta­safety. they had no plans to change tions on planes helps ensure 
Cell phone calls will be con­their rules. phones won't give off strong nected through an onboard Alison Duquette, a spokes­signals trying to connect with base station -think of a woman for the Federal a tower on the ground. But miniature cell phone tower -Aviation Administration, said Dave Carson, co-chairman of linked to a satellite and then the agency had a concern an RTCA Inc. committee to ground networks. A flight's that the phones could inter­studying wireless safety on captain will have the power fere with planes' electronic planes for the FAA, said there to turn off service anytime. equipment. was still a risk that a phone 
Phone service will be "The bottom line for us is might try to connect with a blocked during takeoff and that the FAA has no plans to ground tower. landing, EU spokesman allow passengers to use cell In Europe, travelers will be Martin Selmayr said. That phones on commercial allowed to turn on their means using your cell phone flights," Duquette said. phones after planes climb will fall under roughly the The Federal past 10,000 feet. That's when same restrictions as using Communications Commission other electronic devices are your laptop or iPod. also bans cell phone use on typically permitted. Captains 
EU officials also say the sys­flights, out of concern for will also be able to block cell tem has been thoroughly test­interfering with cell phone phone service during turbu­ed. They say the calls will not networks on the ground. That lence. 
Associated Press 
MAHALLA EL-KOBRA, Egyptian police attacked protesters who tore down a billboard of President Hosni Mubarak in a northern city Monday in the sec­ond day of violence fueled by anger over low wages and rising prices. 
In another sign of dissatisfaction with the U.S.-backed government, the country's most powerful oppo­sition group, the Muslim Brotherhood, said it was reversing a decision to participate in local elections Tuesday because of mass arrests of its members in recent months. 
Prices of cooking oil, rice and other staples have nearly doubled since the beginning of the. year and there are widespread shortages of government-subsidized bread throughout the country of 76 mil­lion people. Nearly 40 percent of Egyptians live under the interna­tionally defined poverty line of $2 a day. Complaints that the govern­ment is not doing enough to help the poor have turned simmering dissatisfaction with repression and lack of economic opportunity into rare open unrest. 
Thousands of demonstrators torched buildings, looted shops and hurled bricks at police in the Nile Delta city of Mahalia al-Kobra on Sunday. Nearly 100 others were· arrested elsewhere in protests over economic problems. Thousands skipped work and school and hundreds protested. 
Several hundred young men massed in Mahalia al-Kobra's main square on Monday, throwing · rocks at a billboard of Mubarak and slashing it with knives before toppling it. 
Riot police charged the group, firing heavy volleys of tear gas, pulling some of the men to the pavement and beating them with batons or fists. Protesters threw stones or canisters of tear gas at the police. 
At least 25 people were arrested, and 15 protesters and five police­men were hurt, security officials said on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to talk to the press. 
The government appears wor­ried by the unrest and lifted import duties on some food items last week in an effort to lower prices. It strongly warned citizens against participating in the strikes and demonstrations, which are illegal in Egypt. 
The Muslim Brotherhood said Muharak's administration also had arrested more than 1,000 of its members and potential candidates, detaining 400 after the group announced last month that it would take part in Tuesday's municipal elections. 

"The Religious Factor in African Politics" Rev. Robert Dowd1 CSC Assistant Professor of Political Science and Kellog Faculty Fellow -C103 Hesburgh Center -12:30pm-1:45pm 
Drop-In Zumba (Aerobic Latin Dance} 
-Rockne Memorial, Room 820 -8:00pm 
Student Immigration Forum Moderated by Professor Don Wycliff -LaFortune Ballroom -7:30pm 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, AprilS, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Reconsidering euthanasia 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Deirdre Krasula 
AssT. MANAGING EmTOR: Karie Kohler 
NEWS Emma: Bill Brink 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
SeEN£ EDITOR: 'Jae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAJ>IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Correz 
AD 0FSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLlER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(174) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (S74) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (')74) 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR (S74) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-11839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policit'S of rhe administration ofeither instimrion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contt•nt. 
'I 'he news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. ( :omml'tltarics, letters and columns present the views of the aurhors and not nt'Cl'SSarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availabk to all readers. The free expression ofall opinion' through lcners is encouraged. l.encrs ro the Fdiror must be signed and must include contact int(mnarion. 
Qtmtiow rrgarding Obsrrver policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefCbris !fine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

111~· ( l],.,..rVf'J (l !!'IP.., 'i')'J .!-41Miil) 1• J•Uhll~lu.:•l Mnml.ty tlu••u~h Frid.ty ct.Lt"l'l durin~ 
o ..1111 ,1rul Y.t~~IUIU p..:ri,,.h A•111"'-llpll•lll rn l'ho· l)h'>t·rv~r 11 $1 Olllur ••n•· at.;ui<.:LILit 
\"l".lr. so;··, fll!lllll' ~nllt",/•1 

rh(' Oho.crver i• puhli1lu~d Jl I'<JS"t'MA~TER 014 ~uurh DiuiuB II11JI \<:nJ .tddr,.:. wrrectinn~ ru· Nmft' [hmc. IN o1f,'i'ir, o: "J ThcOh~rvcr 
1\·riutlt~.tl 1"-"'/J~c p.ud .u Nmre D . .u::. P() lkr.c 771J .tnd o~dtlitulll.tl IUJfhfl~ nlfiLn. 11..!4 Su111h Dining ll.tll Nntrc Dame:, IN 46S'ih·0771J 
l11c Oh!ICrvcr 1~ .1. mcrnhcr ul rhc A,..,.,,ntLJICil l're". Allrc)nodm:tmn n~m ~h' rc.w:rv(',l 
"[T)hese crimes ... started ... with ... the attitude ... that there is such a thing as life not worthy to be lived. This attitude in its early stages concerned itself merely with the severely and chronically sick. Gradually the 
Charles Rice
sphere ... was 
enlarged to encom­
pass ... the racially 

Right or
unwanted and final­

Wrong?
ly all non-Germans. But ... the infinitely small wedged-in lever from which this entire trend of mind rAceived its impetus was the attitude toward the nonrehabilitable sick." That summary is from Dr. Leo Alexander's clas­sic analysis of the Nazi euthanasia pro­f,>Tam. 
One wonders what Dr. Alexander would think of the treatment of the "nonrehabil­itablll sick" in American law and culture today. This eornes to mind because of' Laurnn Hiehardson, a 23 year-old Dnlawam woman who may become the nnw Terri Schiavo. In 2005, Terri Schiavo, a disabled, brain-damaged woman on a feeding tube, was starved and dehydrated to death by order of a Florida court. Her parents and siblings wanted to keep her alive and care for her but her estranged husband wanted to remove the tube in accord with what he claimed were her wishes. After years of litigation that gained world attention, the husband pre­vailed and Terri died. 
In August 2006, Lauren Richardson overdosed on heroin, with resulting brain damage, while she was three months pregnant. On a respirator and feeding tube, she gave birth to a healthy girl in February 2007. She is off the respirator but remains on a feeding and hydration tube in the nursing home to which she was transferred after the birth of her child. Lauren's parents divorced when she was an infant and each has remarried. Both parent'> seek to be Lauren's guardian. The mother, Edith Towers, who has custody of Lauren's baby, would ter­minate Lauren's feeding. The father, Handy Hichardson, would keep her alive, bring her horne and provide treatment for her. Both sides agree that Lauren is in a persistent vegetative state, which is sort of an awake unconsciousness. Lauren did not execute an advance directive indicat­ing whether she would want to be kept 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
alive on a tube. 

On January 24, 2008, a Master in the Delaware Court of Chancery appointed the mother as guardian because he found that Lauren, while a competent adult, had orally "expressed her wish not to be artifi­cially sustained by medical treatment, including hydration and nutrition, in a persistent vegetative state." The appeals could take years. 
Cases like Schiavo and Richardson are dramatic but they arc like the tip of an iceberg. Such cases come to court and public view only because the family mem­bers disagree. More ominous is the acceptance by American law and culture of' the quiet execution of incompetent patients when the family and caregivers agree that it is time lilf the patient to die. 
A competent adult has the legal right to n~fuse any and all medical treatment. Since the 1980s that legal right has inducted the refusal of food and water whether naturally or artificiaiJy provided. A refusal of food and water with the intent to die is a form of suicide. "Suicide," a..'i John Paul II put it, "is always as morally objectionable as murder." 
If a patient is incompetent and on a feeding tube, the law permits the tube to be removed if the patient had expressed such a desire when he or she was compn­tent, or, in some states, if such removal is in the best interest of the patient. In moral terms, as John Paul said on March 20, 2004, "the administration of food and water, even ... by artificial means, lis] a natural means for preserving life, not a medical act. Its use [is] morally obligatory" as long as it achieves its purpose of "pro­viding nourishment to the patient and alleviation of his suffering." Nutrition and hydration are not intended to cure the cancer or other disease; the suffering they are designed to relieve is the suffering from hunger and thirst. 
Morally, a feeding tube can be removed from a patient when it is excessively painful, when the patient cannot absorb the nourishment and in the closing of the dying process when the lack of nourish­ment would not contribute to the death. When such factors are not present, ifyou remove a feeding tube from a patient with the intent not to put it back, the act and your intent are homicidal. It is, as John Paul put it, "euthanasia by omission." But the law permits such removal, when the parents and caregivers are in agreement that the incompetent patient would want to die or that it is in his best interest to die. Similarly, palliative sedation, which can be morally justified even ifit shortens life, can be used with the intent not to relieve pain but to kill; it is ordinarily difficult, if not impossible, to prove such intent. 
Starvation and dehydration can be an unplea..'lant way to go. "I watched my own sister anguish through 13 days without food or water," Terri Schiavo's brother, Bobby Schindler, recently said, "and there are no words that can properly describe this inhumanity ..... If you did the same thing to a dog, you would rightly join Michael Viek in jail for animal abuse." We can, however, expect starvation and dehy­dration of incompetents to give way to the lethal injection as the method of killing. 
"Euthanasia," said John Paul, "is a grave violation of the law of God." One mason we accept the intentional killing of the innocent as an optional problem-solv­ing tedmique, in abortion and now euthanasia, is that we have f'orgott1m that life comes from God and that it comes on his terms. In the nearly universal practice of contraception, we havn claimed "a power that belongs solely to God: the power to decide ... the coming into f1xis­tence of' a human p11rson." John Paul II, Sept. 17, 19X3. If, through contraception, you make yourself the arbiter of whether and when life shall be!:.,rin, you will pre­dictably make yourself the arbiter of when life shall end, as in abortion, euthanasia, etc. Contraception also affirms that there is such a thing as a "life not worthy to be lived," i.e., the life you prevent. Ideas do have consequences. 
Let Terri Schiavo's brother have the last word: "Persons with disabilities ... are just that-persons. They should be treated as our most precious trea..'lures retlecting who we should be a.<; a nation -not as damaged goods to be discarded when they outlive their 'usefulness."' Dr. Leo Alexander would agree. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at (574) 633-4415 or at rice.] @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Joseph McMahon Becky Hogan  Fran Tolan Alex Werner  I low far will Notre Dame Hoekey  
Nikki Taylor  Genie Alfonzo  go in the Frozen Four?  
Graphics  Scene  I ,ose in the semis  
Mary Cecilia  Chris McGrady  Lose in the finals  
Mitsch  Viewpoint  Win it all  
Kara King  I didn't know they made the Frozen Four  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  


Subm.it a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The best of us must so,rrzetimes eat our words. 
J.K. Rowllng British children's author 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A toast to Daniel Cerrone 
As I sit on the penultimate floor of Morrissey Manor and look down on the plebeians running around with their foul smelling liquids in their cups of Solo, it brings a tear to mine eye that they do not understand respon­sibility as you and I do so well. 
I exult in the fact that we stand so high above the vul­gar commoners and their sophomoric debauchery. We shall not descend from our ivory towers and indulge in their sinful libations and prurience. I raise my chalice to you and sip on the sweet ambrosia that is my grand­father's '52 Chateau Margaux Cabernet Sauvignon, which I have been savoring for the past three fort­nights. 
Let us hope they hear the wisdom of our words and embrace virtue and Christian values. I sincerely hope you continue the good fight, but as for me I must return to my life of excessive solitude and hubris 
Steve Brennen Nick Caprino John Fletcher Alex Reiner JUniors Morrissey Manor April6 

Alcohol personal choice 
It is 2:07 AM Sunday morning, and parietals just struck Siegfried Hall. I just had a great time hanging out with my friends tonight, and yes, alcohol was involved. The young men of my section enjoyed the Final Four games tonight with the help of our faithful friends from Milwaukee. Hearty laughs were aplenty, and beer was certainly a part of enjoying our time together. What pos­sesses some to knock on such an enjoyable beverage? 
The Observer recently received a letter ranting on the immorality of intoxication and those who choose to con­sume alcohol ("Rethinking alcohol consumption, April 4). The letter cited Catholic morality and the virtue of responsibility as the reasons for alcohol's sinfulness. We as a Notre Dame community must question this ques­tioning of alcohol's morality. 
Jesus himself condoned the consumption of alcohol amongst friends. What was His first miracle, the coming out party of His reign on earth? It was the biblical equiv­alent of a late night booze run. And not only did Jesus turn water into wine in order to keep the wedding party going, but He made the good stuff. His friends and fami­ly raved about how great it was for Jesus to save the best, albeit miraculous, booze for last. Jesus and his friends partied on, and all was well. 
The truth is, alcohol consumption is a personal choice. While I cannot justifiably condemn Cerrone's personal opinion, I can condemn his implication that his opinion is the moral authority on the matter. 

Consumption thought out 
I am writing to commend Daniel Cerrone on his insightful and brave commentary on alco­hol consumption ("Rethinking alcohol con­sumption," April 4). I agree completely with Cerrone. I often find myself disgusted at the abhorrent behavior of good people under the influence of alcohol. Why not have more respect for ourselves as human beings and intellectuals? Why willingly surrender control of your body and mind to a liquid? 
The recreational consumption of alcohol is something I will never understand. Everyone has the right to make their own decisions regarding their own bodies. My real problem with alcohol is when the others' recreational drinking infringes on my life. Drunk drivers kill many innocent victims every year. I have been rudely awakened at 4:00 a.m. by drunk girls shrieking in the hallway. I've seen vomit on sidewalks that are supposed to serve everyone. Where is the consideration for oth­ers? 
Recreational use of alcohol too often turns normally decent people into inconsiderate pigs. I for one am sick and tired of having my safety and comfort compromised by those who have surrendered themselves to alcohol. I call on my fellow students to make responsible and polite choices regarding alcohol. If you do choose to drink, never drive. Also, try to remember that the world does not revolve around you and your drunken escapades. Thanks! 
Kelsey Robertson sophomore Regina Hall April7 


Give North a chance at equality 
From the moment I stepped on campus, I was told that South Dining Hall was the superior dining facility. It took me some time to come to my own conclusion, but location aside, it is nearly impossi­ble to argue that North is the best. As a North Quader, it is a tough pill to swallow, but we can still take pride in the two best services of North: the pizza station and the stir fry. 
Unfortunately, recent changes have ruined the stir fry. I trust that the administrators at North make changes in an effort to improve the dining experience. So when dining hall workers started preparing the plates ofpasta instead of allowing students to do it, there must have been some rationale for the change. 
The problem is this rationale is impossible for me and others to figure out. Before the change was made, I doubt anyone thought, "I really wish some­one else was putting my plate of pasta together for me." As much as possible, people like to be in con­trol of what goes into their food. That very idea is what makes the stir fry so appealing; the ability to choose exactly what you eat. But when the dining hall employees do it, you lose some of that control, and you can end up with too little meat and too much of the healthy stuff. or vice versa. I add the healthy stuff just so I can rationalize eating ice cream after nearly every meal, not so it blocks out the taste of the slices of pepperoni swimming in oil on the bottom of the bowl. Similar problems arose last Friday when I ate what was probably the worst non-Lenten fajitas of my time here. 
A friend explained that the crepes and omelets are prepared by employees so that all the ingredi­ents can actually fit into their respective wraps. This is not an issue with the pasta or fajitas; if you can reasonably fit the ingredients into the bowl, then they will fit into the identical serving bowl. If someone carefully balances an incredibly large pile offood into the bowl, then it is their loss if some of it is spilled. As it is, most people don't try to get an unreasonably large amount of food stuffed into their bowl. 
Unlike the crepes and omelets, it is easy to judge how manageable the amount of food is, and most people respect that fact. Some people have sug­gested that it makes the stir fry quicker, but regardless of who prepares the food, there is still always food cooking on the stoves. The time it takes to cook the food is what makes the wait so long at times, not the preparation of the dishes. To improve the dining experience at North, the stir fry simply needs to return back to the previous sys­tem. There will be much less groaning with no adverse effects. 
Until then, I may need to take the time to walk to South. 
Stephen Siena freshman Keenan Hall March 31 

Those who choose to partake in alcohol consumption are not wrong for doing so, and the good times they enjoy with friends are not immoral. Moreover, alcohol does not change one's opinions; it just turns off the cen­sor. It has been said that drunken words are sober thoughts, and if someone only appears sexist or racist when they are drunk, they are just good at hiding it when they are sober. 
Cerrone also said that friendships formed while under alcohol's influence are false. I have plenty of real, live friends that I met while drinking who would beg to dif­fer. Alcohol can be a social lubricant, helping strangers get to know each other with a common activity and without some of the awkward inhibitions. 
This is college. Alcohol is a part of social life. Notre Dame's party scene is modest at best, and we can do without people like Cerrone attacking our morality for trying to have a good time. There is nothing evil about choosing to involve alcohol in what little free time we have to enjoy with the good friends we are with for but a few years of our waning youth. Jesus is welcome to party with me anytime. Cerrone, you're welcome to tag along too; who knows, you might just have fun. 
Danny Wemple sophomore Siegfried Hall April6 


Unnecessary change in stir fry 
Spider-Man. JFK. Syphilis. You may be wondering what any of these things have in common. You may think the answer is absolutely nothing, but you would be mistaken. I humbly beseech you my peers for a few moments of your time, but I forgive you if you skip over this to read another viewpoint article about the Vagina Monologues, or one of those hilarious comic strips. But for those of you who have stayed with me so far, I would like to address a serious issue: the stir fry situation in North Dining Hall. 
As I'm sure many of you have noticed, Notre Dame food services at North Dining Hall no longer deems students intelligent enough to tackle the nigh impossible task of putting ingredients onto a plate. Perhaps they think that Notre Dame students are so stressed out with schoolwork, parietals, the upcoming presiden­tial election, unplanned pregnancies, syphilis and the like that they have taken it upon themselves to remove the stress of han­dling our own ingredients. Or could it be that NDFS think all col­lege kids are just genuinely unhygienic and are trying to prevent the spread of an epidemic like Mad Cow Disease? 
Whatever their motives, this problem, like 25 percent of all problems, requires a solution. My solution? Change the stir fry system back to the way it was. I will not even dare use the word revert, because that has implications of regression, of going back­wards. This is not what we would be doing. The real regression was when this nonsensical system began. 
What makes this proposal the best? Obviously it is a practical system as it has been in use before. And it is useful in saving food. People know how much they are going to eat and won't take more than they can eat. And they also know how much of each ingredi­ent they want. How is a Notre Dame food Services person going to know if I want a lot of pasta and a little pepperoni? This is only going to waste more food. Also, this would save the valuable time of the workers who have better things to be doing than trying to guess how much broccoli you want. 
We have clearly seen that the older system is better than the current system. Are there any other practical solutions? I think not. I mean every other food station is choose your own, why not the stir fry? 
If my words do not stir you to action perhaps Spider-Man's can. "With great power comes great responsibility." Notre Dame stu­dents have proven that they can handle the "great power" of choosing their own stir fry ingredients with "great responsibility." We should have never had it taken away in the first place. To par­aphrase the late greatJFK, "Ask not what your [dining hall] can do for you, but what you can do for your [dining hall]." I'll tell you what I can do for my dining hall, put on my own ingredients. 
So what do Spider-Man, JFK, and syphilis have in common? They are all heroes, except the last one. They are all part of the reason why we should change the stir-fry system back to the way · it was. As I am sure many of you are familiar with the movie 300, I urge you: "Go stranger passing by and tell the Spartans [and NDFS] that [we should change the stir fry system back to the way it was]." 
Cornelius Rogers freshman Keenan Hall April3 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 

By STEPHANIE A~i$t:mf S'-'l:ne Editor c$!',1\' 
The phrase "Faust at . J:)ame"thrown around a lot th1s year, posters and in seminar · ss this month is comes to and pi'Odu~tions of Faust, a play and an opening. The renowned work "Th llisto•·y of Doctor Faustus" .. opens this evening on the J)ecio Mainstag<' Theatre, in will prove to be one of inventive and i pro­ductions of the piece this side of Shakespeare. 
This })roduction will prove to be far more than a simple retelling of the Faust stt>)ty; Its conventions are unexpijcted, especially of a work as old and revered as Faust. Faust<hiillself is tho only chat·acter to .wear seemingly normal clothing. The rest of · dons tight-fitting body sui~s in . . The idea of "ensemble" ts stressed, actors portray devils present among world. .... •.... ..·. <&; 
Huyen Nguynn, one o(~b:e ac~~ ensemble, says she found herself in duction because she enjll¥ed wurking direetor, Anton Juan, In v#itti and class. She says that he is :·a wonderful· World renown. This isJhe first sh worked with him, and it's{tp.tite .•. · Ue makes you think outside tht: box," She hints that the show "Will be very ing for tho senses.'' NguyeA d;escribed · asked that their voices be "oth beeause sins are not of this world." 
It is tt technically lltl"vy ~;ll.ow. Madden, Assistant Technical Director, that it is "one of the best shows and will have plenty of . · i ·· to see." The costumes tech ate a show that is "exciting. dark and in'.."'"~·····. t~L~;unw ing." . ...·. 
Juan describes it as "fluid as a as hilarious as burlesque/' It centers choice of man hBtween gMd and evil, •.. ·· .. edges of presumption and despair." · ·· 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
page 13 

ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic ­

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 

Ultimate highlights weekend of Irish club sports 
Women's water polo wins three of four at Invitational; Men's rowing grabs two top-three finishes at Crew Classic 
-
Men's Rowing 

Notre Dame sent two boats to 
San Diego last weekend to com­
pete in the 35th annual San 
Diego Crew Classic on Mission 
Bay. 

The Notre Dame Noviee eight boat finished third in the Petite Final on Saturday afternoon in a time of 6:30.25. 
The Notre Dame Varsity eight boat also finished third in the Men's Collegiate Varsity Cal Cup Petite Final. 9th overall. 
Notre Dame's top boat narrow­ly missed a second-place finish -which would have qualified them for the grand final -by a margin of only 0.35 seconds behind the University of California Davis Saturday morn­ing. In the Petite Final, it was nip and tuck down the course between the top three boats, Notre Dame, Drexel, and the University of San Diego. Drexel jumped out to an early lead, which it would not relinquish despite a strong challenge from the San Diego and Notre Dame crews in the final 500 meters. 
Notre Dame and San Diego battled back and forth before the Notre Dame boat took a slight advantage heading into the final 400 meters of the 2000-meter race. But San Diego made a push at the finish and the Irish couldn't answer. 

Equestrian 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's seven-rider team finished in fifth place in the IliSA Regionals at Purdue. Krista Jones' third-place in intermediate nat was the team's highest score. Heather LaDue, Jennifer Gilardi and Kelly Daniels placed fourth, fifth and sixth, respectively in the novice flat. 
Daniels also took fifth in novice fences. 

Sailing 
Notre Dame finished second in a field of ten teams at the MCSA team race qualifier this weekend in Wilmette, Ill. With the strong showing, the Irish earned a spot in Team Race Nationals in Newport, Hhode Island on May 30-June 1. Wisconsin finished first in the qualifier, with Northwestern and Michigan fin­ishing third and fourth, respec­tively. 


Ultimate Frisbee 
Notre Dame hosted 13 teams in the 12th annual Whitesmoke Invitational at South Bend's Tarkington Fields at Boehm Park. 
The Notre Dame women's squad opened the weekend against Valparaiso, winning eas­ily 13-1. It followed with another victory over DePaul, 13-3. The team's third game of the day came against long time rival, Purdue Brickhouse. Seniors Loretta Brown and Libby Whiting drove the offense against a quick Brickhouse defense, and junior handler Jean Whitney played exceptionally well as the Irish came out on top 13-6. 
Sunday morning featured sin­gle-elimination bracket play, with Notre Dame facing North Park in the quarterfinals. The Irish came out looking flat in the beginning, falling behind 9-4. But the Irish put together 7 straight points to win 11-9 and advance to the semi-finals. The Irish were not able to sustain their intensity as they bowed out in the semifinals with a 15-lloss to Michigan State. 
The Notre Dame men opened up pool play against DePaul. The 
team came out a little slow but 
after some key plays by Thomas 
Rivas, Notre Dame pulled away 
for a 13-3 victory. The Irish then 
blew out both Lewis and Purdue 
by respective scores of 13-2 and 
13-6. 
This set up a showcase match against the Notre Dame alumni team, which also went undefeat­ed in pool play. The Irish came out hard and played with an increased passion that wasn't seen earlier in the day. Leadership on the defensive side by grad student Steve Kurtz was the key to establishing the early tone of the game. After battling back and forth for most of the game, Notre Dame's condition­ing proved to be the difference as it pulled away from the alum­ni late in the game. A final score thrown by senior Eric Morin capped Notre Dame's 15-10 vic­tory. 
Sunday proved to be a much more challenging day for the team. After a first-round bye, Notre Dame opened against the Michigan State alumni team. The alumni team was very tal­ented but Notre Dame had the advantage of training and prac­tice. In a grueling battle, the leadership of Irish senior captain Mike Florack was the difference in a 13-10 win. The Irish then took on a South Bend club team with more experienced and tal­ented players. After a tight first half, the defense of sophomore Mike Carilli helped the team dominate the second half and win 15-8. The final was a rematch between Notre Dame and the Notre Dame alumni team. Notre Dame played open lines and strayed from its usual game plan as the Irish fell 15-11. 
Fishing 
Notre Dame competed in its first two events of the season, traveling to Fishers, Ind., for the Ice Box Bass Tournament before heading to Baldwin, Mich., for the WMU Steelhead Tournament. In the Ice Box, the Irish four-man squad placed third behind Indiana and Purdue. Garrett Coggon, Ted Kratschmer, Matt Dobertien and Matt Babcock competed for the Irish with Babcock catching the second-largest tish of the tour­nament. 

The dub did not place in the Steelhead tournament, as the only prizes captured were a cou­ple of raffied door prizes. 

Cycling 
The Irish competed in the Marian Midwest Cycling Classic this weekend and were chal­lenged by a mile of windy roads through the Marian College cam­pus. John McDunough started things for the Irish in the men's D race. McDunough was aggressive throughout the race and was rewarded with a top-10 placing. In the men's C race, Irish rider Kirk Post finished in 10th place. 
The only men's A rider to make the trip was Tim Campbell, who took sixth place in the sprint to tinish lOth over­all. 

Women's Water Polo 
Notre Dame headed to Purdue last weekend for the Boilermaker Invitational. They faced off against the Michigan State "B" team Saturday morn­ing, and won by a convincing final score of 10-3. Irish goalie Maggie Hyde recorded six saves in the victory. Cristina Romano and Bridget O'Neill each had a hat trick, while Ali Durkin added two. Meghan Pearl and Kelly Horner each chipped in with a score. 
The Irish faced a tough Purdue Alumni team later in the day but came away with a 12-5 victory. Romano zipped the ball by the goalie six times in the contest, and Horner put anoth"er three goals away. Pearl, Durkin and Ali Schilling each had one. Betsy O'Neill and llyde split time in goal. 
For the third game of the day, the Irish squared ofl" against var­sity opponent Wheaton College, with the Irish prevailing 11-6. Bridget O'Neill led the scoring with three goals, and Homano, Horner and Kristen llarchut each added two more. Schilling and Emily Harig completed the scoring with one each, and Betsy O'Neill and Hyde split the cage, making a combined eight saves. 
On Sunday the Irish went up against Michigan for the fifth time this season. The Wolverines handed a flat Irish team its first lost of the year, an 8-2 blowout. Bridget O'Neill scored both of the Irish goals. The Irish will head to Dayton next weekend for the Midwest Division Championships. 
Gymnastics 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's gymnastics club sent four women to Ann Arbor for the Michigan Madness Meet. Despite competing as individuals since there were not enough athletes to field a complete team, the Irish looked strong. Sammy Bello, Sophie Troy, and Kelleen O'Leary were particular­ly strong on the balance beam. Each stuck her routine and turned in a season-best score. 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Indiana's Gordon done with college; enters NBA draft 
seasons to enter the June able to withdraw his name season, and when Tom Crean speed and ability to create his
Associated Press 

draft. from the draft, something his was named Indiana's new own shot," Crean said. "I def­
INDIANAPOLIS Erie ''I'm doing this to compete father said was never consid­coach last week, Gordon did initely think he could be out­Gordon wasn't captivated by at the highest level, not for ered an option. not attend the team meeting, standing defensively as he the glamour or riches of the the fame or the money," It was the worst kept secret fanning even more specula­gets older, too. It's not a sur­NBA. He just wanted to com­Gordon said at the news con­in the state. tion. prise at all." pete against the best basket­ference. "I just had a couple From the moment Gordon Gordon is projected to go Of course, the big question ball players in the world. of weeks to really think about signed with the Hoosiers in among the top 10 picks, and is where Gordon will end up 
Next season. the 19-year­this after the season, and now November 2006, most people Crean said he did speak with next season, and it was a old will finally get his chance. is the right time to do it." expected the 6-foot-4 guard Gordon at the Final Four in young child seated on the 
Indiana's freshman guard Gordon's father, Eric Sr., with the nifty moves and NBA San Antonio over the week­noor in front of Gordon who told about 100 supporters said his son has not yet 3-point range to go straight end. In the end, it was the finally asked which team he'd Monday in his hometown of signed with an agent but that to the league after one col­decision Crean anticipated. be playing for next season. Indianapolis that he would he intends to. When that hap­lege season. Rumors contin­"He's an outstanding player "I don't know yet," Gordon skip his final three college pens, Gordon would not be ued to swirl throughout the with his range, quickness, said, laughing. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r·m· at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is s· cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply. ages 18+, 574-273-3835. www. workforstudents.com 
Notre Dame Staff member seeks house sitting/furnished rental through July 31 while home is being built. Call 574-360-6919. 

New student needs good laptop. 574-993-8733. 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09'09/1 0 Now offering "flex" leases bluegol­drentals.com 
HOUSEMATE SOUGHT. PRIVATE ROOM. CALL 631-7897. $400 MONTHLY For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to 
N.D.. student neighborhood, central air, new appliances, very nice. 289­4071. 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com 
For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighborhood. central air. new appliances, very nice. 289­4071. 
Quiet and Private, Furnished or Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br available. Cable & wifi included. One mile from campus. Call 773-339­0299 for rates & availability. 
Attractive 3-bdrm house plus finished basement available for summer. Rent mid-May to mid-August. Walking distance to ND. $1000 including utilities. Call233-2618 or 631-8213. 
DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease 2008­2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. largest & most private. Call Diane 574-261-3338. 

FoR SALE 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help.Call our 24 hour confi­dential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.sh tml UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
W.O.R.D. of the day: cleverity [noun] -the state of being mentally bright; having a sharp or quick intel­ligence. Etymology: result of linguis­tic shenanigans after losing appreci­ation for the suffix, -ness, as of late. 

-





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, AprilS, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 15 
NBA Standings Eastern Conference 

team  wins  losses  GB  
Boston  61  15  
Detroit  55  21  6  
Orlando  48  29  13.5  
Cleveland  42  35  1;9.5  
Washington  40  37  21.5  
Philadelphia  39  38  22.5  
Toronto  38  39  23.5  
Atlanta  36  41  25.5  
Indiana  33  44  28.5  
New Jersey  32  45  29.5  
Chicago  30  46  31  
Charlotte  29  48  32.5  
Milwaukee  26  50  35  
New York  21  56  40.5  
Miami  13  64  48.5  
Western Conference  
team  wins  losses  GB  
New Orleans  54  22  
San Antonio  53  24  1.5  
LA lakers  53  24  1.5  
Utah  51  26  3;5  
Houston  52  25  2.5  
Phoenix  51  26  3.5  
Dallas  48  29  6.5  
Denver  46  31  8.5  
Golden State  46  31  8.5  
Portland  38  39  16.5  
Sacramento  36  41  18.5  
LA Clippers  23  54  31.5  
Memphis  21  56  33.5  
Minnesota  19  57  35  
Seattle  18  59  36.5  

around the dial 
UEFA CHAMPION LEAGUE SOCCER Arsenal at Liverpool 2:30 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP 
Tennessee vs. Stanford 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
OLYMPICS 


Associated Press 

PARIS-Security officials extinguished the Olympictorch three times Monday as protests against China's human rights record turned a relay through Paris into a chaotic series of stops and starts. 
Despite massive security, at least two activists got within almost an arm's length of the flame before they were grabbed by police. Officers tackled many protesters and car­ried off some of them. A protester threw water at the torch but failed to extin­guish it and was also taken away. 
At the start of the relay, a man identified as a Green Party activist was grabbed by security officers as he headed for 1997 400-meter world champion Stephane Diagana. The man was tackled before he got close to Diagana. 
The procession continued but, soon after, a crowd of activists waving Tibetan flags interrupted it for the first time by confronting the torchbearer. The demon­strators did not appear to get close to the torch, but its flame was put out by secu­rity officers and brought on board a bus to continue along the route. 
Less than an hour later, the flame was being carried out when the procession 
IN BRIEF Former Cardinals phn_>:er
Spiezio charged witli DUI 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif.-Scott Spiezio pleaded guilty Monday to mis­demeanor .drunken driving and hit­and-run charges stemming from a December car crash in Orange County. 
Spiezios lawyer entered the plea as part of a plea agreement, said Farrah Emami. Spiezio was ordered to serve three years probation, undergo a three-month alcohol program, attend two Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and complete 80 hours of community service. 
Spiezio was cut by the St. Louis Cardinals in February after a warrant was issued for his arrest. Prosecutors said he crashed his ear into a eurb and fence in Irvine, then ran away. A neigh­bor told police Spiezio arrived at their condo complex appearing disheveled and apparently injured. The neighbor, identified in court papers as Michael P., alleged that Spiezio punched him, causing significa.q.t injuries. 
was halted by activists who booed and chanted "Tibet." Once again, the torch was temporarily extinguished and put on a bus despite protesters' apparent failure to get close. 
Some 3,000 officers were deployed on motorcycles, in jogging gear and using inline roller skates. Still, police barely stopped the second rush at the torch, and the attempt to extin­guish it with water. 
The torch was extin­guished for the third time when police interrupted the procession as a precaution because they spotted a crowd of demonstrators on a bridge they were approaching. 

Davydenko defeats No. 2 
Nadru in Sony Ericsson Open 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -As the men"s tennis tour moves to clay, top-ranked Roger Federer and No. 2 Rafael Nadal have yet to win a tournament this year. 
The tightening raee atop the rankings could become a mad scramble in Europe, and Nikolay Davydenko hopes to play a part. He won the Sony Ericsson Open on Sunday, beating Nadal6-4, 6-2. 
There was no question about his effort against Nadal. Davydenko broke at love to take the lead for good at 4-3 in the first set, and in the second set he lost only two of 19 points on his serve to pull away. 
When Davydenko belted one final fore­hand winner on championship point, he grinned and shook his fists, then punched the air. 
Nadal has yet to win a title this year as the tour switches to day, hi<> favorite sur­face. "I ti-link soon I am going to win a title," Nadal said. "I hope so." 
-
-
Riot police squirted tear gas to break up a sit-in protest by about 300 pro­Tibet demonstrators who blocked the torch route. 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy has left open the possibility of boycotting the Olympic opening ceremony in Beijing depending on how the situation evolves in Tibet. Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said Monday that was still the case. 
The torch relay also is ­expected to face demon­strations in San Francisco, New Delhi and possibly elsewhere on its 21-stop. six-continent tour before arriving in mainland China May4. 
-

Ochoa's impressive win 
alludes to four majors titles 
RANCHO MIRAGE -Lorena Ochoa continued her dominance of women's golf with a five-shot victory in the 'Kraft Nabisco Championship. giving her the last two majors by a combined nine shots. She was the only player without a bogey in the final round cin a tough Mission Hills course, closing with a S­under 67 and taking the greatest swim of her life. 
She won by five shots over Suzann Pettersen and Annika Sorenstam, among many major champions being left behind in the massive wake of Ochoa. 
Ochoa, who fini<>hed at 11-under 277, never trailed under the blazing desert sun, and was threatened only briefly. 
Ochoa became the first player since Sorenstam in 2005 to win consecutive majors, and with as much dominance as Tiger Woods enjoys on the PGA Tour, she also has raised possibilities of win­ning all four majors. 
-
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
ATP 

Davydenko looks to close gap in rankings 
Federer's struggles have opened up ATP race 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -As the men's tennis tour moves to clay, top-ranked Hoger Federer and No. 2 Hafael 

-Nadal have yet to win a tour­nament this year. The tightening race atop the rankings could become a mad scramble in Europe, and Nikolay Davydenko hopes to play a part. Ile won the Sony Ericsson Open on Sunday, beating Nadal 6-4, 6-2. "Maybe something changes 
-
with my tennis here in 
Miami," Davydenko said. "The 
clay-court season's coming 
now, and for me it should be 
diffenmt ten­
nis. Maybe I 
feel more con­

fidence, "for me it's I finish with the because I beat surprisil)g standing racket. very r.ood guys ''I'm going to
here. it's crazy" 
here. keep forever this 
Davydenko racket." becamfl the Nlkolay Davydenko In the final, first Russian that racket deliv­
ATP player 
to win the Key Biscayne men's champi­onship. lie won a U.S. tourna­mnnt for only the second time, and hn laughed when asked if the aceomplishment will make him famous. 
"Famous? Jlere? Yes, I would say if I would like to be famous, I need to win tourna­nwnts here," Davydenko said. 
In recent months, Davydenko has been best known for an ATP investiga­tion into !wavy wagering on a match he lost last August at an obscure tournament in Poland. lie retired in the third set, citing a foot injury, and says he did nothing wrong. 
Jle has accused the ATP of dragging out the investigation, but it proved not to be a dis­traction at Key Biscayne. 
"It's not every day in my 

-
mind," he said. "I don't think about the investigation. It should be my lawyer thinking, and my manager." 
Thoro was no question about his effort against Nadal. l>avydonko broke at love to take the lead for good at 4-3 in the first set, and in the sec­

-ond set he lost only two of 1 !J points on his serve to pull away. When l>avydenko belted one final forehand winner on championship point, ho grinned and shook his l'ists, then punelwd the air. During the trophy eeremony, he said ho didn't bnliove he had won the title. "For me it's surprising standing here," he said. "It's crazy." Serena Williams won her fifth Key Biseayne women's title Saturday by beating .Jolena .Jankovie 6-1, 5-7, 6-3. I>avydenko overcame a match point in the second round against Ernests Gulbis and beeame the fourth ATP player this year to win a title after facing match point. lie boat Andy Hoddiek in the smnifinals. The 26-year-old Davydenko is ranked fourth and has fin­ished eaeh of the past three years in the top five. But he has yet to reach a Grand Slam 
-
final, and the Key Biscayne title was only his second in a Masters Series event. 
"He's playing unbelievable tennis," Nadal said. "People like to write more about Hoger, about me, about Andy. People outside tennis can think different about Nikolay, but we know he's a very, very good player." 
Davydenko quickly became .comfortable with a new racket model he tried for the first time at Key Biscayne. He used the same racket in all six matches. 
"I have only one," he said. "Surprising I didn't break a string. Warm up and play match, warm up and play match, every match, and 
ered serves at up 
to 132 mph, 
allowing the 5­foot-1 0 Da vydenko to win five service games at love. He totaled 19 winners and had only 12 unforced errors, and his penetrating groundstrokes to the corners repeatedly made Nadal hit shots late and wide. 
The speedy Davydenko also came forward to win 17 points at the net. 

"I can't play better today, because he played at an unbe­lievable level," Nadal said. "I didn't feel my rhythm on court. He played more aggres­sive, with more good feelings." 
Nadal has yet to win a title this year as the tour switches to clay, his favorite surface. He'll try for his fourth consec-. utivn French Open title begin­ning next month. 
"I think soon I am going to win a title," Nadal said. "I hope so." 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vols, Stanford meet in finals 
Parker, Wiggins renew old youth rivalry on college's biggest stage 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. -Candace Parker and Candice Wiggins made memorable first impressions on each other when they met on a basket­ball court as kids. Both hope the final snapshot from their stellar college careers will include a national champi­onship. 
"We were in a 13-year-and­under AAU tournament in Florida, actually. She was like 6-foot-2 at 12," Wiggins said. "I remember being just like, wow, because she was different then. There's nobody in the game like her. I think she's carrying all the pressure and all of that really well and I really respect her for that." 
The feeling is mutual. Parker led Tennessee to its seventh national title a year ago and will try to help the Lady Vols become the first repeat champs since Connecticut won three straight from 2002-04, when they meet Stanford on Tuesday night for the cham­pionship. 
"I remember watching her play when we were in eighth grade and we were watching the championship national game," Parker said. "She was a ball of energy, always mov­ing. I think she's a great leader for her team and she really inspires by her play." 
While Parker clearly has raised the profile of her sport with her talent and persona, Wiggins has quietly led Stanford back to its first Final Four in 11 years. 
"I understand what Candace Parker is to women's basketball. She's a very prominent figure, a 
prominent face, and I don't 
expect any of that to 
change," Wiggins said. "I 
don't really see myself as 'the 
other Candice, but I definitely 
understand the exposure that 
she gives to women's basket­
ball." 
Wiggins has done much for 
Stanford in four years, but 
kept her humility. 
"She almost acts so sur­prised about everything, to be the USA Basketball player of the year, and if anyone saw her when she got the Wade she was shocked," Stanford coach Tara VanDerveer said. "She really is just very real and down to earth and it's really fun to see someone with that kind of demeanor to have all these great things happen to them." 
The spotlight, of course, will be on the two stars, but the title might well be settled by others. 
"We both realize we've got great support around us and I think that's what it really comes down to," Wiggins said. "And so it's not me ver­sus her, it's Stanford vs. Tennessee." 
The Lady Vols {35-2), who beat LSU on Sunday night on Alexis Hornbuckle's putback with seven-tenths of a second remaining and the Cardinal {35-3), who shocked UConn 82-73 in the other semifinal, are not strangers. The teams met Dec. 22 at Stanford, with the Cardinal winning 73-69 in overtime. 
"I remember the Stanford game like it was yesterday," Parker said. "We talk about how it ruined our Christmas and ending the year on a loss." 
Wiggins scored 22 and 
Rosalyn Gold-Onwude scored nine of Stanford's 10 points in OT to end the Cardinal's 11-game skid in the series. Parker had 25 points, 10 rebounds, four assists, four blocks and two steals. 
"For us, the confidence of beating Tennessee is huge," VanDerveer said. ''I'm sure Pat (Summitt) might pull out that tape." 
Stanford enters the final with the nation's longest win­ning streak at 23 games. The Pac-1 0 champs haven't lost since dropping consecutive road games to UCLA and USC in the first week of January. 
The Cardinal are riding high after avenging a November loss to UConn, a 12-point setback that prompted VanDerveer to tin­ker with her offense and gave Wiggins and her teammates a 

sense  of how  much  work  
needed to be done.  
"They're  a  better  team  

now," Summitt said. "I'm glad that we've played them. We know their tendencies.... We've got our work cut out for us." 
Wiggins had 25 points, 13 rebounds and five assists to pace Stanford's upset of UConn. Kayla Pedersen added 17 points and Jayne Appel, the Cardinal's other 6­foot-4 post player, finished with 15 points and 10 rebounds. 
Tennessee is 7-5 in champi­onship games and barely made it to No. 13, needing that last-second putback from Hornbuckle and shoot­ing just 30 percent. 
"We've got to make shots," Summitt said. "We were real­ly overanxious and after watching the tape. I'm even more convinced of that." 
Apply Today 
Limited Space Available!!! 
*Offering 6, 9 &12 month leases! *Gated Community witt1 Night Watchmen! *Free Application Fee for Students! *Close to campus! *Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball Courts! *Free Tanning/Fitness Center! *Community Business Center/Free Internet! *Heated Pool! *Now leasing for 2008-2009! *Close to everything.. .far from ordinary! 
astle1'oint 
1.801.1. C~eve~a:nd Rd _ South Bend, IN 466 3 'l 
4-4JJll f''l111 e11 ts Phone: l5'l4) 2'12-81.1.0 Fax: l5'l4) 2'12-81.1.4 
DJnT _ cppj _com­

Tuesday, April 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLS 
Fans vote in naming of team 
MLS's newest expansion team will take the name Seattle Sounders FC 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -The newest Major League Soccer team will be called Seattle Sounders FC. 
About half the 14,500 fans who voted on the team name wrote in Sounders. That was about 20 percent more than the choices offered by the 
The 2009 Dome 
Is accepting applications for writers, photographers, designers and section editors 
Dorm life Sports The Arts Academics Special Events Seniors 
Send infom1al statement and resun1e to Dome@nd.edu by April 14 ~earbook experience helpful but not necessary 
Watch for the 2008 Dome April 22-24 
club: Alliance, Republic or against a a blue and green Seattle FC. background with the words 
Club officials didn't want "Seattle Sounders FC" written the traditional Sounders across it. name, but fans had the write­The Seattle MLS team in option. The Sounders name already has deposits for has been identified with soc­13,000 season tickets. Play cer in Seattle since 1974. begins in March 2009 in 
The team also unveiled its Qwest Field. logo Monday, which shows a Seattle will be the 15th silhouette of the Space Needle team in the MLS. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
LSU 111eets President on White House trip 
National champion Tigers meet with Bush 
WASHINGTON -Louisiana State University's football team took a wild route to the national championship -los­ing twice in triple overtime, taking lots of fourth-down risks, grabbing a spot in the title game only when other teams lost late in the year. It was a season in which no school was on top for long. 
Until the end. 
"LSU was number one on the day it counted," President Bush said Monday in a White House ceremony honoring the team. "That's why they're here." 
LSU clobbered Ohio State 38-24 to win it all in January. Bush lauded the team's suc­cess on a damp, misty after­noon on the South Lawn. The players, standing on a riser behind Bush and along both staircases of the South Portico, smiled as Bush cracked one-liners and recapped their dramatic sea­son. 
The president noted some of 
MLB 
the team's best known con­tributors, including quarter­back Matt Flynn and defensive standout Glenn Dorsey. He described the team's coach, Les Miles, as a risk-taker and a strong leader. (He also ribbed him for not wearing his ­customary LSU hat, calling the sight rare and memorable.) 
LSU became the first two­time champion in the 10-year history of the Bowl Championship Series and the first to lose two games in a championship season. In the 
-

title game, LSU fell behind 10­0, then scored 31 unanswered points to blow open the game. · As he usually does in sports ceremonies, Bush made a point of saying the team has off-the-field duties, too. "When you leave here, I hope you leave here knowing that you've got a special responsi­bility, not only to represent your school on the football field, but to help make America a better place," he said. 
Spiezio pleads guilty to cri111inal charges 
Braves' Spiezio agrees to offered plea deal 
NEWPORT, Calif. -Scott Spiezio pleaded guilty Monday to misdemeanor drunken driv­ing and hit-and-run charges stemming from a December car crash in Orange County. 
Spiezio's lawyer entered the plea as part of a plea agree­ment, said Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman for county pros­ecutors. Spiezio was ordered to serve three years probation, 



..... IH*lllg 

TllU_l·scltiJrl ,..~p1·1l lOth 
.-; ()() ) . ­
i . .. ··-· r-111 

LaFortu:ne Ballrc>cnn 
Tlus 1nonth lf?i?lur:rn;;;:· .Jie.YU.','lil <"J..rld 
1
""l . £.' .J -•
i 

.11!:11 .Li..70£ 8 /:llllp.il11/ic!>J > 
Exposing the l'JD conunu.nit-v to the· be::St etbn1c cuis1ne thE• South BE•nd area has to offer! 
Brought 1D Ycu byMulticultural S tudent Program; ani Services "E><pandi.,g the C:ross JOads ofI.e=ill"!> Through Innovation and Disco,.,zy'' 
undergo a three-month alcohol  
program, attend two Alcoholics  
Anonymous meetings and com­ 
plete 80 hours of community  
service.  
He must also pay about  
$1,700 in fines and restitution,  
including $839 in damages  
caused by the crash, she said.  
Spiezio was cut by the St.  - 
Louis Cardinals in February  
after a warrant was issued for  
his arrest. Prosecutors said he  
crashed his car into a curb and  
fence in Irvine, then ran away.  
A neighbor told police Spiezio  
arrived at their condo complex  
appearing disheveled and  
apparently injured. The neigh­ 
bor, identified in court papers  
as Michael P., alleged that  
Spiezio punched him, causing  
. significant injuries.  
Spiezio was charged with  
misdemeanor counts of aggra­ 
vated assault, assault and bat­ 
tery in connection to the neigh­ 
bor's claims, but prosecutors  
dropped those charges because  - 
he "was pleading guilty to two  
counts and had a relationship"  
with the neighbor, Emami said.  
The 35-year-old Spiezio  
agreed March 31 to a minor  
league contract with the  
Atlanta Braves.  
"The penalty ... is fair, and  
permits Scott to move ahead  
with his career," Spiezio's  
attorney, Paul S. Meyer, said in  
a statement. "Scott appreciates  
the opportunity to demonstrate  
his good faith and his commit­ 
ment to a successful season."  
Spiezio won World Series  
championships with Anaheim  
in 2002 and St. Louis in 2006  
during 12 seasons in the  
majors.  

-
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Chalmers lifts Kansas past Memphis in final 
Down by nine, Kansas storms back in final minutes to send game to overtime; win third title in school history 
Hobnrt Dozier missed a dns­
Associated Press 
pnration shot at the buzznr, 

SAN ANTONIO -So patinnt and Hose went limping to the for 20 yPars. Kansas had no bonch. favoring his right leg. problem working an nxtra livn Brandon Hush. Darrnll Arthur minutns to bring a long-await­and Darnell Jaekson scorod nd rhampionship back to tlw tlw lirsl six points of ovnrtinw lwar!.land. to put Kansas alwad 69-63. 
Mario Chalnwrs hit a ;{­MPmphis, clearly nxhaustnd. pointPr with 2.1 SPCOIHIS Jnf't in didn't pull within thren.
-rPgulation to push thP ganw Arthur was dominant inside, i n t. o o v .. r ti rn I' • a n d t lw finishing with 20 points and I 0 .layhawks grinc!Pd it out from n~bounds, lots on dunks and t h P r n I'or a 7 5 -(J S vic to r y nasy lay-ups ofT lob passes. Monday night owr l'vkmphis in Chalnwrs finislwd with 1 S otw of thn lwst titll' ganws in points. Hush had 12 and rncnnt nwmory. Collins had II points, six Ch a lnw r s' shot pull n d assists and did a wonderful job Kansas into a ti1~ aftnr !wing shutting Hose for tho l'irst 2~ 
-
down ninn with 2:12 lnft. minutns. 
"Wn got. lhn ball in our most. Hosn wound up with IS rlut('h playPr's hands, and hi' points in a game that shownd d<~livPrP<I." Kansas roach Bill how rnady he is for the N BA. SnJ I' said. lin was 3-for-4 from the line, 
It was tlw first titl1~ ror however. and that one miss Kansas sinro I 1JSS, whPn with I O.S seconds left is what Danny Manning. now an assis­almost certainly would have tant roach for tlw Jayhawks, sealed the game and given the lnd thorn to an upslll of Tigers (;{S-21 their 11rst title. Oklahoma. And tho shot Instead, the title goes back narnnd Chalmnrs the most ou I.­to l.awrenee for the third limn standing playnr honor. in the fabled program's histo­
"I had a good look at it," ry. 
-
Chalmers said. "Whon it lnft "If we played 10 times, it'd my hands it f'nlt likn it was probably go 11ve and five," Self good, and it just wnnt in." said. "We got fortunate late." 
Tho 111 ost m nm orabIn JH~ r­The inventor of thn game, l'o r rn an<:n in this one ea m n James Naismith, was tho first rrom f'rnshman Derrick Hose of .Jayhawks coach. It's the Mnmphis, who complntnly took sehool that made household ovnr thn game in tiH) second names of Wilt Chamberlain, half. scoring 14 or his tnam's Manning -and yes, even 16 points during o1w stretch to North Carolina's Hoy Williams, lil't tlw Tignrs to a 60-51 lead the coach who famously left with 2:12 left. the Jayhawks, lost to them in 
But Kansas (37-3) usnd thn the snmifinals, but was, stratngy any smart opporwnt indeed, in the Kansas cheering or Mnmphis' would -fouling soetion to wateh Self bring the t ho he c k o u t o f o IH1 o I' t he titlo back that he never could. l'.ountry's worst free-throw­This game was not about shooting teams -and when coaches or sidestories, though. Bosn and Chris l>ouglas­It was about thn game, and Holwrts l'.ombined to miss four what a dandy it was -a well­of live ovnr thP last 1: 12, it lnf't needed rpprieve from a more­the door opPn for KU. or-less blah tournament in 
llustling the ball down tlw which 42 of 63 games were 1:ourt with 1O.S S<1eonds lnft decidnd by double digits. and no timeouts. Shorron This was the first overtime Collins handed ofT to Chalmors in the title game since 1997, 
-at the top of the 3-point linn wlwn Arizona beat Kentucky and Chalnwrs took tho shot. It 1'14-79. hit nothing but not and tied Kansas, mostly Collins, put tho scorn at 63. thn damps on Hose for the 


first half, allowing thn fresh­balance, 1S-foot shot ofT glass tragedy, that might have been man only four shots and leav­with the shot-elock buzzer most responsible for blending ing him spiking the ball on the sounding. It gave Memphis a this championship formula. floor as he walked to the lock­56-49 lead. Most teams would Hush tore up his knee during a er room after a frustrating 20 have been demoralized. practice game last May, and minutes. Clearly, Kansas is not like his NBA plans were put on 
It stayed that way for the most teams. hiatus. first five of the second half, In fact, the Jayhawks are a lie worked his way back into but Kansas couldn't pull away. team that has come together shape this season and is play­Douglas-Hoberts made sure of in tragedy over the last several ing his best right now. lie did­it, winning enough of the 1-on-months. The deaths of friends n't have the most impressive 1 matchups that the Memphis and family of Jackson, Sasha stat line or the night, but it offense creates to keep the Kaun and Hodrick Stewart all hasn't all been about slats for Tigers in range. cast a bit of a pall over this him in this, his junior season. 
Then, finally Hose took over team, making Jackson wonder llis defense was stellar, as -a 3-pointer here, a scooping at times if staying at Kansas usual, and surely his experi­layup for a three-point play was even worth it. ence and resolve played into next. Then, the capper,. an off-But it was an injury, not a Kansas' refusal to go away. 
MAKE A DIFFERENCE WITH SOCIAL WORK 
Join Saint Mary's College Nationally Accredited Social Work Program this summer and next fall and learn how to work with people in all settings: individuals, families, communities and organi­zations. With the knowledge you gain here, you can truly make a difference in the lives of others. 
Summer Session: May 19th-June 6th 
Human Behavior and the Social Environment I 
Monday-Friday 9:00 · 12:00 p.m. 
Family Violence and Sexual Abuse Issues 
Monday-Friday 1:00 -4:00p.m. 
Fall 2008 Courses 
Introduction to Social Work 
Tuesday and Thursday 11:00-12:15 p.m. or Tuesday and Thursday 3:30-4:45 p.m. 
Human Behavior and the Social Environment I 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday 9:00-9:50 a.m. or Tuesday and Thursday 6:00-7:15 p.m. 
Intercultural Leadership Development 
Tuesday and Thursday 3:30-4:45 p.m. 
Sexuality, Intimacy and Relationships 
Wednesdays 6:00-8:30 p.m. 
Earn aMajor or Minor in Social Work. For further information contact: 
Dr. JoAnn Burke, Chair 5741284-4513 .iburke(~:saintmarys.edu 
SaintMatsColleg~
Dr. Frances Kominkiewicz. Director 5741284-4515 kominkie@saintmarys.edu 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
For course descriptions and more information: www.saintmarys.edu/""Socworkl 
AP 

-

Tuesday, April 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Huff's homer seals Orioles' sweep of Mariners 
Tejada's home-run leads Astros to victory over Cardinals; Mussina passes Gibson on wins list as Yankees beat Rays 
Associated Press 
BALTIMOHE -Surprise, sur­prise: The Baltimore Orioles own the best record in the American Lfmgue and the Seattle Mariners are in last place. 
Sure, the season is only in its second week. Yet the rebuilding Orioles already have plenty to celebrate, most notably their first four-game sweep of Seattle since 1999 and their best start in 10 years. 
Aubrey Hull' homered to break an eighth-inning tie, Baltimore beat Seattle 5-4 Monday to remain atop the AL East at 5-1. 
"As a team, as a whole, we're playing great baseball right now," Huff said. "I know it's early, but we just swept a pretty good team over there. So obvi­ously we're feeling pretty good, and we just want to keep up the momentum." 
The Mariners and Orioles were involved in one of base­ball's biggest trades during the offseason. a 5-for-1 swap that sent Erik Bedard to Seattle. Baltimore got George Sherrill and Adam Jones, and they both played key roles in the sweep. 
Sherrill pitched a perfect ninth inning Monday for his fourth save, his third in the series. Jones had an HBI on Sunday and scored the tying run in the finale to set the stage for Huff's win­ning hit. 
Bedard, meanwhile, was scratched from his scheduled start Sunday and has only pitched in one game. 
Astros 5, Cardinals 3 
Miguel Tejada's two-run homer in the bottom of the ninth gave the Houston Astros a win over St. Louis on Monday night, snapping a five game winning streak for the Cardinals. 
Tejada's home run to right field off Kyle McClellan (0-1) scored pinch runner Darin Erstad. 
The Astros led 3-0 before the Cardinals throe-hit ninth inning. Hyan Ludwick's two-out, two HBI double off closer Jose Valverde (2-0l tied it at 3 in the top of the ninth. Cesar Izturis scored easily on the hit to right center field. Astros pitcher J.H. Towles was in position to tag Troy Glaus at home, but couldn't hold onto the ball during a colli­sion and Glaus scored the tying run. 
A single by Aaron Miles and a walk by Izturis set up an HBI single by Glaus. 
Yadier Molina grounded into a force out to end that inning. 
Back-to-baek homers by Lance Berkman and Carlos Lee broke a scoreless tie in the seventh inning. Berkman's home run, which came off Cardinals starter Todd Wellemeyer, bounced off the wall in center field and put llouston ahead 1-0. Lee li>llowed · with his third home run of the yPar, a shot that bounced oil' the facade in left field. 
Yankees 6, Rays 1 
MikP Mussina tied Bob Gibson on the carePr wins list by pitch­ing six sharp innings, Bobby Abn~u hit a two-run homer and thn New York Yankees beat the Tampa Bay Hays Monday night. 
Abreu wnnt 3-for-3 with a walk and llideki Matsui drove in two runs for the Yankees, who lost Derek Jeter after two innings but salvaged a split of 
SISTER SENQS IF HER OUTFIT 
to Kansas City after the game for the Royals' home opener Tuesday afternoon. 
Joe Girardi may have a thin bench to work with as he starts his first trip as Yankees manag­er. 
New York was without two regulars against the Rays and Jeter left before the third with a strained left quadriceps. First baseman Jason Giambi missed his second straight game with a sore left groin and catcher Jorge Posada got the day off. 
Jeter beat out a potential dou­ble-play grounder after Johnny Damon led off the first with a single to left. Abreu then pulled a 3-1 pitch from Jason Harrimel (0-1) over the wall in right to give New York a 2-0 lead on another chilly night in the Bronx. 
the four-game series before they headed west to start a difficult stretch. 
New York, which scored just 17 runs in its first six games, fin­ished with season highs for runs and hits with 11. 
Mussina earned win No. 251 and is tied with Gibson for 42nd place. He struck out three to equal Yankees TV broadcaster David Cone for 21st place with 2,668 Ks. 
Jonny Gomes homered for the Rays, who are 3-3 heading into their home, opener against Seattle on Tuesday. Tampa Bay has never finished with a win­ning record on its first road trip of the year. 
The Yankees went 4-3 on their season-opening homestand and play 18 of their next 20 on the road. They were scheduled to fly 
U.S. 
Cellular·. t:;•~.,os you :~n ;.-:T · -n .'i, Pix on all pl<~ns pll!s FREE Incoming Call<> •:-'1 SPiect plans. We think you'li find this to i::.e fair and decent. And that's a combination that works for everyone. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wirei,:;;Js where ,,,..,,; matter most"' 


-(<US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1-88B·BUY·USCC 
Ci2008 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish sit •
In sixth place in Florida 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Following a rain-delayed start, No. 25 Notre Dame sits in sixth plaee after thn eon­elusion of the first round at the Canes and Cardinal Classie at Don Shula's Golf Course in Miami, Fla. The Irish shot a respectable 1D­over par 29R over 1 R holes, 14 strokes out of first plaen. Notre Dame freshman So­llyun Park shot a one-under 71 to f'inish the day tied for third plae<L Fellow freshman Katie Conway also finishnd the day in the top ten, eard­ing a one-over 73, tied for ninth overall. 
No. 27 LouisviiiP sits eom­fortably atop the field of 14 with a 2R4 team seorn ­four-under par. Junior Cindy Lacrosse led the Cardinals by shooting a stellar five-under par 67 in the first round. Louisville leads second-place Georgia State (293) by nine strokes heading into the third round of play. Tulsa (294). South Florida (296), and the College of Charleston (297) fill out the top live, just ahead of the Irish. 

Irish junior captain Lisa Maunu shot a four-over 76 on the first day, with sopho­mores Kristin Wetzel (78) and Annie Brophy (RO) rounding out the field for Notre Dame. 
Monday morning's first round was delayed by two hours on account of heavy rain, and the second round eoncluded late Monday night. The third and final round begins today with a shotgun start at R a.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
MLB 

-
Crede propels White Sox over Minnesota 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Joe Crede appeared to be the Chicago White Sox's forgotten man, but now that he's healthy, he's sending out reminders -like that loud one he delivered on Monday. 
Crede hit a tiebreaking grand slam to cap a live-run seventh inning, and Chicago won its home opener 7-4 over the Minnesota Twins. 
Coming oil' a weekend sweep at Detroit, Chicago has won live straight for the lirst time since Aug. 10-14, 2006. The White Sox have won six of their last seven home opennrs. 
Crede, batting .393 with 10 HB!s, endured a back injury last season and trade rumors in the offseason. Last year, limited to 47 games beeause of his bad baek, he hit .216 with 22 Imls. With Josh Fields also available to play third, Chieago nxplornd trade oppor­tunities for Crede during much of the offseason. 

"The biggest thing coming into this season was staying healthy," said Credo, who struggled in spring training. "For me that was my main goal in the spring, was to be able to get out there and feel comfortable at the plate, feel comfortable on defense and No. 1 to stay healthy." 
Jermaine Dye tied the score at 3 with a one-out RBI single olT Pat Neshek, who had just relieved Matt Guerrier (0-1 ). 
A.J. Pierzynski struck out, and Carlos Quentin loaded the bases with a single. 
Crede broke his bat while driving a 1-0 pitch to the bullpen in left for the fifth slam, his first since June 24, 2006, against Houston. He did­n't think that high arching shot had a chance to clear the wall. Nor did Neshek. 
It did, by a few feet, and the crowd erupted. "I thought Delmon (Young) 
was going to come over in foul territory and seoop it up or if anything it would go out into the crowd and be a foul ball,'! Neshek said. "But it stayed straight. You hate that stuff when it happens as a piteher, but we have another 150­some games left. I lopefully, it doesn't happen too much morn." 
The White Sox would like to see more of this from Crede. 
"Everyone knows what Joe can do when Joe's healthy," Pierzynski said. "I don't think there are too many people in this elubhouse worried about what Joe Crede's going to do if he's healthy." 
Chicago's Javier Vazquez (1­
1) struggled early before set­tling into a rhythm, and allowed thrne runs and seven hits in seven innings, striking out eight and walking one. He is 4-0 with a 2.74 ERA in his last six starts against the Twins. 
Bobby Jenks pitched a scoreless ninth for his fourth save in as many chances. 
White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen was ejected after plate umpire Phil Cuzzi called a sec­ond strike against Paul Konerko during the third inning. Guillen went nose-to­nose with the umpire for sev­eral minutes as the crowd chanted "Ozzie! Ozzie!" The ejection was Guillen's 13th since becoming Chicago's manager in 2004. 

BASKETBALL 
Vitale a111ong Hall of Fa111e class 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO Broadcaster Dick Vitale, a man who had limited success as a coach but brought the game of basketball to millions of TV watchers, was selected to the game's Hall of Fame on Monday alongside Pat Riley, one of the most successful NBA coaches of all time. 
Overcome with emotion, Vitale broke into tears during the announcement in San Antonio, site of the NCAA Men's Final Four. 
:·1 can't run, can't jump, can't shoot, but just have had a tremendous -I'd like to think -passion about the game," said ·Vitale, who had a short stint as an NBA coach in the late 1970s but made his name as a college basketball analyst. 
Others in the Class of 2008 were Hakeem Olajuwon and Patrick Ewing, two greats who battled on the court for years; player Adrian Dantley; coach Cathy Rush; and William Davidson. owner of the Detroit Pistons since 1974. 
Over the decades, Vitale cre­ated his own lexicon with phrases such as "Get a T-0, baby," "You're a P-T-Per," and "Awesome, baby." . 
Monday, he said he "eried like a baby" upon learning of his selection and thanked Hall of Fame coach Bob Knight ­now a fellow ESPN analyst ­for spearheading a letter-writ­ing campaign on his behalf. 
"When I saw those letters, whether I'd ever gotten in the Hall of Fame or not, that was going to be my hall of fame," said the 68-year-old who was forced off-air for two months after throat surgery. 
No matter how strong their 

credentials, each member of the Class of 2008 seemed a bit star-struck. 
Riley, the third-winningest NBA coach ever, called his elec­tion "unbelievable, absolutely unbelievable." 
Riley won four NBA titles with the Los Angeles Lakers, then grabbed another one two years ago with Miami. He also has one championship as an assistant and another as a player. 
"Last night I lost my 64th game of the regular season," he said, referring to the Heat's current struggles. "And the next day I'm in the llall of Fame. I think there's an integrity in the Hall of Fame that far surpasses whatever your record is, if you have a body of work." 
The new class, which Hiley joked will bn the best-promoted ever because of Vitale's inclu­sion, will be inducted Sept. 5 in Springlield, Mass., home of the Naismith Memorial Basketball II all of Fame. 
Olajuwon and Ewing both played in three Final Fours, with Ewing's Georgetown team beating Olajuwon 's ·uouston squad for the 1984 national championship. 
"We both are warriors. We both want to excel. We both wanted to dominate, and when you play against the best you want to perform at your best" Ewing said. "So we both defi­nitely looked at each other as the best." 
Olajuwon got his revenge as a pro, leading the Houston Rockets to the first of two straight titles with a seven­game victory over Ewing's New York Knicks in the 1994 NBA finals -a team coached by Riley. 
"Growing up in Nigeria I did­n't really understand the mag­nitude of what it means to be a hall of farner," said Olajuwon, a 12-time All-Star. "I still eannot believe that I'm in the same company with all these great legends." 
Ewing, the Knicks' all-time leader in points, rebounds, blocked shots, and steals, among other categories, remnmbered field trips to the llall of Fame as a child and said he never imagined being a part of it. 
"And now I am," he said. 
Dantley, a six-time NBA All­Star, played for seven teams during his 15-year NBA eareer, including Davidson's Detroit Pistons. 
"To be included as a member of this elite group of men and women that have made signifi­cant contributions to the sport of basketball, I'm grateful," Davdison said in a statement. 
Hall of Farner Joe Dumars, who works for the R5-year-old Davidson as the Pistons' prnsi­dent of basketball operations and played with I>antley in Detroit, said in an e-mail to The Associated Press: "I can't think of two more deserving people than Bill Davidson and Adrian Dantley." 
Dantley was a finalist six times before finally making it in -more than anyone in the eurrent class. 
"It happened," he said. "It took a long time, but it hap­pened." 
Rush certainly understands. 
She led Immaculata University to three consecutive AIAW national championships from 1972 to 1974, won 149 games in seven seasons and lost just 15 -a .908 winning percentage. 
PLS? 

Perpetually Lacking Sleep? 

Our students say: "Ask not what your education can do for you, but what you can do to better your education. PLS may be the answer.'' 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES 
Small Classes. Great Books. Curious? Stop by the Office 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall Visit the website http://pls.nd.edu 
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Awards 
continued from page 24 
HB!s, good enough to earn her Big East player of the week honors. On the year, Laing is hitting .353 with six home runs and 36 RBis, and has put up a tremendous .676 slugging percentage. The player of the week award was Laing's second of the season. Laing and Bargar are the first team­mates to win the Big East pitcher and player of the week awards in the same week this season. 
The first pitch leaves the circle at 5:30 central time tonight. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
MLB 
Burrell leads Phils over Reds 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-Pat Burrell hit two of Philadelphia's four homers off Bronson Arroyo, a power splurge that swept Philadelphia to a 5-3 victory Monday and a splh of their four-game series with the Cincinnati Reds. 
Jimmy Rollins and Geoff Jenkins also homered off Arroyo (0-1), who had never before given up more than three in a game. 
Left-hander Cole Hamels {1­
0) overcame a maddening first, when the Reds scored two run with the help of a walk and an error. Hamels gave up five hits and three walks in seven innings. 
Brad Lidge, who came off the disabled list Saturday after recovering from knee surgery, gave up a run in the ninth before closing it out for his first save. 
Cincinnati loaded the bases off Lidge when Paul Bako walked with two outs, left field­er So Taguchi dropped Corey Patterson's fly ball after a long run, and pinch-hitter Ken Griffey Jr. was intentionally walked. 
Lidge bounced a wild pitch that let in a run, then got Javier Valentin on a 95 mph called third strike to end it. 
Cubs 10, Pirates 8, 
12 innings 
PITTSBURGH -Aramis Ramirez's sacrifice fly scored the go-ahead run during a two­run 12th inning in which the Cubs didn't have a hit off rookie Evan Meek, and Chicago rallied after squandering a seven-run lead to win Pittsburgh's home 

opener. Former starter Jon Lieber (1­
1) gave a depleted bullpen a big lift with three scoreless innings before Carlos Marmo! finished up in the 12th for his first save since June 27, helping the Cubs win their third in the row. 
Meek (0-1), the last remain­ing pitcher in the Pirates' bullpen, walked five -two intentionally. The Cubs' second run of the inning came on Mark DeHosa's bases-loaded walk. 
Ramirez and Geovany Soto each drove in two runs and Pirates starter Tom Gorzelanny walked three and committed a run-scoring throwing error during a six-run third finished off by Ronny Cedeno's three­run double off Phil Dumatrait. 
Rockies 2, Braves 1 
DENVER -Matt Holliday hit a two-run home run in the bot­tom of the eighth, Aaron Cook pitched seven strong innings and Colorado snapped a five­game losing streak. 
Tom Glavine gave up three hits in 6 1-3 shutout innings but got his second straight no­decision, despite owning a 0. 79 ERA in two starts. 
The game took just 2:05 to play, the shortest nine-inning game in Coors Field history. 
Matt Herges (1-0) got the vic­tory in relief of Cook, and Manny Corpas got his second save of the season. 
The Hockies trailed 1-0 into the eighth before rallying. Troy Tulowitzki led off with a double to right-center off of reliever Blaine Boyer (0-2), and after Todd Helton struck out looking, Holliday blasted Boyer's first pitch over the center field wall. 
Marlins 10, Nationals 7 
WASHINGTON -Hanley Ramirez, Dan Uggla and Robert Andino homered, and four Florida relievers combined for 5 2-3 innings of one-run ball. 
The Nationals dropped their fifth consecutive game after a 3-0 start, guilty of some sloppy fielding that led to six unearned runs at a less-than­half-full $611 million Nationals Park. 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles fall to visiting Bethel in blowout 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's scored just one run as Bethel glided to an easy 10-1 victory Monday night at Ivy Field. 
The strong pitching of Rachel Zirille, who allowed only two hits, aided the Lady Wildcats' effort. 
The Belles' lone run came in the first inning on an RBI single by senior McKenna Corrigan. 
The Lady Wildcats took control of the game from that point on, scoring in every inning but the second. Bethel had 14 hits off of junior Calli Davison, who took the loss to bring her record to 7­6. 
The Belles' record now stands at 15-6. 
On a positive note, a Saint Mary's player was named MIAA player of the week for the second week in a row. Junior Ashley Fusaro took the honor this week, following sophomore Ashley Peterson's title. 
Fusaro helped the Belles to their two wins last week over Olivet and Alma. During that time, she went 6-for-13 at the plate with seven RBis. In the team's 11-8 win against Alma on Saturday, Fusaro hit the game­winning home run in the fifth inning. 
Fusaro is third on the team in several major batting categories, with a .353 batting average, 17 RBI, and 24 hits. 
The Belles have a small break after a hectic few weeks, as they do not play again until Saturday. They will be traveling to play a doubleheader against MIAA opponent Albion. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
highly favored Delivery Boys.
Squires 

"We figured that if we shot 100 percent, we could
continued from page 24 

have pulled this one out," 
also energized the crowd, 
which was very much pro­
Squires. 
The Monstars hung in the 
game for the first half. but 
the team suffered from a 
lack of outside shooting. 
They were feisty on defense 
and had many steals. But 
when presented with the 
opportunities to finish, they 
could not pull the trigger. 
A lasting image from the 
contest was the clash of the 
pink shirt of freshman 
Austin Olson with his red 
knees, bloodstained from 
hours of diving all over the 
blacktop. Olson won the 
shirt at the Saint Mary's 
dance marathon earlier 
that weekend, but he was 
all man on Sunday. 
"The other team was dis­
qualified due to lack of hus­
tle," Olson said. "Deal with 
it." 
lie might have been allud­
ing to Ben Stiller's' charac­
ter in "Heavyweights," but 
the message is clear. This 
team is serious about mak­
ing a run for the champi­
onship. When asked how 
far he expected the Squires 
to go in the tournament, 
Olson was serious. 
''I'll have to answAr your 
question with a questions. 
llow many games to the 
'ship?" Olson said. 
Do Work 21, 
Congratulations Billy and 
Susie 16 
Do Work defeated 
Congratulations Billy & 
Susie in true David vArsus 
Goliath fashion. Do Work 
won despite having an 
injured player. 

Congratulations Billy & Susie was named in honor of senior Billy Lewis, who will marry his high school sweetheart. Susie Quasny, in the Basilica on June 14. Both were present at the game and were happily sur­prised by the name. 
The "Congratulations" players said Lewis and Quasny are both excited to have the full backing of their friends and family. 
No. 10 Delivery Boys 21, 
The Swooblers 8 
The underdog Swooblers started out on the right pace with a 2-1 lead, but a few baskets "delivered" by the favorites in the contest dealt the Swooblers down to an 11-6 halftime deficit. 
"[The Swooblers] played their game really well," Delivery Boys junior cap­tain Kevin Kelly (Captain Supreme) said. "They had a very good start." 
The Delivery Boys, who hail from Pizzeria Siegfried, did not allow the Swooblers to get back in the game. Using their superior defense and counterattack­ing fast breaks. they fin­ished off the underdogs by a tally of 21-8. Their 10-2 second half run was facili­tated by forcing ugly shots and outrunning their oppo­ne-nts. Freshman David "Large Onion" Rudy was instrumental in the team's late success. 
"Our fast-break success was the key to us winning," Kelly said. 
The Swooblers, under the guidance of sophomore cap­tain Tommy Clark. came into the game with a plan to shoot the lights out over the 
Clark said. "However, we shot 66.. -no, I'd say 32 percent. 
No. 22 I Can't Believe 
We're So Butter...SPRAY! 
21, Team Five Pieces 8 
Seniors Fritz Shadley and 
Hick Loesing and juniors 
Hyan Gorman, Bill Ehrlich, 
and Pete Leonard from I 
Can't Believe We're So 
Butter came in with a plan 
to move on to the next 
round. 
The game was evenly con­
tested at the start with the 
teams trading buckets. The 
No. 22 seed distanced itself 
a little from Team Five 
Pieces by going into half­
time with an 11-7 lead. 
Then, the higher seed 
completely took control in a 
second half that in no way 
mirrored the first stanza. A 
10-1 run acquired from 
fast-break points, lack of 
fatigue and beautiful pass­
ing put the dagger in Team 
Five Pieces. Leonard consis­
tently found his open team­
mates and getting it to the 
big men while Loesing had 
several key points and one 
assist down the stretch. 
"Pushing the ball in the 
second half and getting it 
down to our big guys has 
been our game," Loesing 
said. "We've been playing 
together for three years." 
Team Five Pieces seemed 
tired throughout the entire 
second half and the team's 
shooting suffered. 
"We shot OK, but hit a cold streak once they hit a hot streak," Team Five Pieces senior Captain Ben Hoesch said. "The small courts and tight rims hurt us as the smaller team." 
Catastrophic Failure 21, 
Asian Invasion 5 
In a match of "tackle bas­ketball" that turned very aggressive. Asian Invasion simply could not get into a groove while Catastrophic Failure scored lay-up after lay-up. 
The first half started with a 7-1 run for Catastrophic Failure, but the team's momentum slowed to a lull in the end of the first half and early second half as the Asian Invasion defense tightened up inside. 
"We really had to concen­trate on taking it to the hole," Catastrophic Failure captain Justin Deuerling, an aerospace mechanical engineer graduate student, said. 
Catastrophic Failure moved the ball around to create more open shots and finally ended the game. Catastrophic Failure ended up having too much strength on the boards for Asian Invasion although the turnover ratio may have not been in the losing team's favor. Asian Invasion senior Andrea Kelly had five steals in the first half. 
Asian Invasion was led by senior Anna Davis, who dis­played her sweet jump shot and "top-notch tackling skills." The team also had support from seniors Monica Tesi, Meg McDonough, and Meg Gaule. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu and Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 





Gold 
continued from page 24 
good things about him, though, because he'll proba­bly poop in my lunch bucket." 
As for Notre Dame's second­ary. Brown's specialty, David Bruton has filled some of the leadership void left by the departure of Tom Zbikowski. 
"David leads by example, which first and foremost that's the most important thing you have to do as a leader." Brown said. "You have to be able -without opening your mouth -show that a. you're dependable, and b. you're going to be there, you're going to make plays, you're going to do it the right way. And that's what leadership is all about. Leadership is not about being around four years and all of a sudden just because you've been here, you're a leader." 
At cornerback, last year's starters, rising fifth-year sen­ior Terrail Lambert and rising junior Darrin Walls, return. 
Crusaders 
continued from page 24 
Ross Brezovsky had a series to remember -on 12 plate appearances, the senior pro­duced six hits and four RBls. 
Notre Dame also displayed its speed against Rutgers. With sophomore David Mills now bat­ting in the two-spot, the Irish have added another dimension to the top of the order. Between Mills and Pollock, who hits from the three-hole, Notre Dame is a legitimate threat to play small ball and steal bases. 
Pollock leads the squad in stolen bases, swiping 12 on his 13 attempts. -four of those 
Rising fifth-year senior Terral! Lambert makes a tackle during Notre Dame's 21-14 win over Stanford on Nov. 24, 2007. 
But right behind them on the we've been pushing each depth chart are rising sopho­other on is helping each other more Gary Gray and rising out," Walls said. "We just junior Raeshon McNeil, who know that we're trying to have provided stiff competi­make each other better and tion for the returning starters make this team better." this spring. 
"The competition only helps Contact Chris Hine at us and I think that's one thing chine@nd.edu 
steals came against Rutgers. 
The Irish have six players boasting hitting streaks of at least three games. 
Mills is leading the way with an eight-game streak, followed by Brezovsky's six-game spurt. 
Another hot Irish bat belongs to sophomore Billy Boockford, who is 5-for-12 with three RBls during his current three-game hit streak. 
Despite the hot bats, the Irish pitching carried its share of the load. In the first two games of the Hutgers series, it was the bullpen that rose to the occasion and picked up two solid wins. 
Freshman Brian Dupra will take the mound for the Irish against Valparaiso (8-20) today. In his six starts, the righty has gone 1-2 with a 6.94 ERA. However, the freshman has con­tinued to improve throughout the season. Although he started shaky, allowing 14 earned runs in 12 1/3 innings, he has found his rhythm, allowing only four runs in his last 11 frames. 
His counterpart, senior right­hander John Snelten, will try to hold the Irish, despite having allowed opposing hitters to bat .354 against him. 
The first pitch is scheduled for 
5:05 p.m. today at Frank Eck Stadium. After taking on Valparaiso, Notre Dame will host Manchester on Wednesday. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD

MICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE
BLAcK DoG MIKE ARGIRION 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Sarah Keller 

32 Paddled vessel 41 Towed items, 55 Fuss sometimes
330ne of two choices on Halloween  43 No traffic 44 Conventioneer's wear  56 Adolescent 57 Melody for Dame Nellie  
34 Tournament  46 Close-fitting hats  Melba  
favorites 36 Discovered by accident  50 French military hats 52 Nokia offering  58 Piper's followers 59 Ultimatum's  
37 A horse of a  53 Repast  ultimate word  
different color?  54 Suffix with billion  60 N.Y.P.D. alert  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
LIZ MURPHY & SARAH MUSCARELLA 
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Trustee group at Its eye may be 
an Atlanta part of a witch's 

campus? brew 38 Peel 5 Daddy-o 39 Musical closings 9 Sleep soundly? 40 Old Michael Jackson 'do
14 Popular cornstarch brand 41 Zellweger of "Chicago"
15 "_ my word!" 42 In a bit
16 Prenatal sites 43 Thoroughfare at
17 Low-fat, as beef 
a New Orleans 18 Not on time 
campus? 19 Business on the 
45 Broadway Joe Internet 

47 Flip out 20 Polishing 
48 U.F.O. crew 
machines at an 49 Fishing float 
Ithaca campus? 51 Swifter, e.g.

23 CPR giver 53 Rental 
24 Opposite of arrangement at throw away 
a Milwaukee 25 Geometry 
campus? symbols 

60 Letters that must 28 Recipient of 
be bought on "G'day'' 

"Wheel of 31 Puts into effect Fortune" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Versifier 
62 Kind of hygiene 
63 Analyze in English class 
64 Mental flash 
65 Lice-to-be 
66 Cross over? 
67 Dance's partner 
68 Let (up) 
Down 

Face powder ingredient 2 Lunchbox goody 3 Food thickener 
4 John who wrote "Love built on beauty, soon as beauty, dies" 
5 Can opener 6 October gem 7 What Texas 
hold'em tables hold 8 Take furtively 9 Volvo's home 10 Stationer's supply 11 Sharif of "Funny Girl" 12 Baseball stat 13 Night school subj. 
21 Outstanding Comedy Series awards 
22 Addiction 
25 Pie nut 
26" roll!" 
27 Sin city 
29 Vegetarian's 
protein source 30 Court (London tube station) 
JJIJJWIDJ1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TCHAB 
[ J I 

@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NOPER jI [I []
tRUBECH I
J [) [] 
www.jumble.com
tSMALEY j
J ri 
1 1 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
----~ 
WHAT THE TEEN­AGERS TURNED INTO AFTER A DIP IN THE OCEAN. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: rI I I I Jr x I I xI xJ 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  TRULY  SOUSE  (Answers tomorrow) IMMUNE HEALTH  
Answer:  What the businessmen read before  
breakfast  -THE MENU  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LIST  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Pavel Bure. 37; Ewan McGregor, 37; Rhea Perlman, 60; Christopher Walken, 65 
Happy Birthday: Check out all the possibilities rather than assuming everything will go according to your plans this year. You are likely to overreact if you aren't prepared. Oversee everything. Detail and precision will be key to your success. Your numbers are 2, 10, 26, 29, 35,40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Settle down and let everyone else take care of things for a change. You need to break away from the stress and give yourself a chance to reclaim what's really important to you. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have the right idea and will certainly be able to convince others that you know what you are doing. Take care of any maners that require 
dealing with banks, institutions or government agencies. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can pick up valuable information that will allow you to help someone from whom you need a favor. Make a change at home and you will rid yourself of some of the tension you've been facing. An older individual will reveal some family background. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a dynamic approach to whatever you do and you will excel. Be a little unique, bold and no-nonsense and you will capture the attention of someone who will support what you are doing. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emotional matters are likely to escalate. A business trip will lead to an interesting meeting with someone who can help you see and do things a little differently. An offer regarding your vocation and what you want to pursue is heading in your direction. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Get your chores out of the way so you are free and clear to enjoy friends, family or someone you love. A love connection can be made if you are single 
or a commitment made from the heart to someone you are already involved with. Be a 
participant. 3 stars 

LffiRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): So much of what you do will depend on how you treat the people close to you. If you have been overreacting, expect to apologize but, if you have been helpful and understanding, expect a pleasant surprise. Don't mix business with pleasure. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Don't take anything or anyone for granted. You will not get the respect or the help you require even if you ask for it. Do the work yourself and you will have no regrets or apologies to make. Someone is probably withholding information. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Hard work and dedication will pay off and will keep you too busy to get into trouble on a personal level. Someone you are involved with will be sizing up his or her situation. You may want to distance yourself. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be the driving force behind what gets done. Your outgoing nature and your big ideas will take you over the top and on to massive projects. An emotional encounter will prove beneficial in the end. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan, 20-Feb. 18): Hidden matters will lead to trouble. Try to keep everything out in the open so you aren't blamed for something that is not your fault. A partnership can take a turn that will lead to greater security if you are honest. Share how you see things unfolding. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can gain ground by the way you handle situations today. You will be able to make professional headway by making a few alterations to your resume. A change at home will allow you to make extra cash doing something that is second nature to you. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and caring. You are strong, steadfast and determined. You aren't afraid to pitch in and help or to ask for assistance. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
--· 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April 8, 2008 
page 24 
ND SOFTBALL 
•

Irish head to UIC 1n search of road victory 
By SAM WERNER 
Spons Writ~r 
Notre Damn is looking to nxtend its winning stn~ak to snvnn ganws tonight wlwn it l'aens ofT against Illinois­Chicago in Chicago today. 

Thn Irish arn coming ofT a sucenssful wnnknrHI of Big l~ast play in which they lwat St. .John's 5-0 and S-4, and Snton llall 12-1 and 6-2. .Junior pitcher Brittany Bargar narnnd thn win in all four tilts, pushing lwr rneord to 17-6 on thn ynar. She earned Big l~ast pitclwr of the wnnk honors for hnr perform­Hill~e. tlw third time she has donn so this season. Bargar currently leads tlw Big l~ast in EHA (0.611. strikeouts (I :{21. and wins ( 171. 
So far this SPason. Bargar and frnshrnan Jody Valdivia have stif"lnd opposing ofTens­es. combining for a 22-10 
record and a miniscule 1.24 EHA. 
Against the Flames, the duo will have to shut down an ofTonse that has hit .285 this soason. In tlwir last game, a 17-2 drubbing of Youngstown State, Illinois-Chicago clob­bl'red the Penguins pitching starr. Leading the charge for Illinois-Chicago is junior piteher/infieldor Sarah Clynos, who is hitting .328 with eight home runs and 24 RBis. Teammate Ashlee Ackerman has also been on fire oiTensivHiy. posting a .347 average to go with her 14 HBis. The Flames are riding a six game win streak after swnHping Groen Bay and Youngstown State.· 
The Irish will look to senior second baseman Katie Laing to jumpstart their offense. Last week, Laing batted .526 with four home runs and 13 
see AWARDS/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Team set for mid-week games 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame returns to non­conference action today when Valparaiso visits Frank Eck Stadium looking to nnd the recent Irish hot streak. 
Coming off of an impressive three-game win strnak over Big East rival Hutgers last week­end, the Irish (HJ-Y-1) want to continue their winning ways. 
In order to take the series over the Scarlet Knights, Notrn Dame used both its pitching prowess and its bats to get the job done. 
Through the three-game stretch, the Irish outscored Hutgers 29-9, with sophomore 
A.J. Polloek leading tlw way. In the series, he went 6-of-11, with six HBis. As a result, the sophomore was named Big East player of the week Monday. 
In addition to Pollock's hot play at the plate, outfielder 
see CRUSADERS/page 22 


fOOTBALL 

Mining for gold 
Bro·wn experiments with Irish defense, hopes to hit "jackpot" 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Notrn I> a me is halfway through spring praetic1~. So how did ddnnsivP coordina­tor Corwin Brown say his defense is doing so far'! Not that bad. 
"From a srhnmatir stand­point, I think the guys are picking what. wn'rn asking thorn to do," Brown said arter praeticf~ Monday. "Wn'n~ adding a lot of' things to what we did last year and we're g1~1.ting a lot of' looks. They'rn getting comfortable ... Wn'rn starting to find out who does what fairly well." 
Brown has been comfort­able nnough with the dnl'ense to move snvnral playnrs around and try some nnw looks. Hising sophornorn linnbacknr Brian Smith has seen time on the inside of Notre Dame's 3-4 defensive sdwrne this spring and ris­ing sophomore sal'oty !Iarrison Smith, who's listed at 6-foot-2, 206-pounds, has taken snaps as a part of' the linebacking corps. These moves, Brown said, repre­
sent  an  attempt to  creato  
depth on defense.  
"We're  trying  to  juggle  

some things around, put togethor some different com­binations and see if wn can get thn same play from dil'­l'nrent spots but also create some depth just in ease or 
rrhe 

Rising junior Raeshon McNeil shuffles his feet during practice last Wednesday. McNeil has been challenging returning starters Terrail Lambert and Darrin Walls in spring practice at cornerback. 
injury or maybe a young guy that you plan on doesn't pan out as well or just trying to get different looks ... " Brown said. "You do that with a number of different combinations and hopefully you strike gold, you hit the jackpot and then you got something special." 
Brown also said he wanted to move Harrison Smith around because he has the ability to make big plays no matter where he is on the field. But Brown jokingly cautioned against giving him such glowing praise. 
"If you see certain guys making plays, you kind of 
want to see how far you can take that, so you try to put them in different positions because you know what you have here ... " Brown said. "lie's a hard-working [play­er), he's smart, he's tough. I don't want to say too many 
see GOLD/page 22 

BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL 
Chronert leads team to trilllllph 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI and 
PAT O'BRIEN 
Sports Writers 
Squires 21, Monstars 14 
In a game similar to the team's f"irst round win, tho Squires once again pulled away from the competition with a strong second half, turning an 11-Y halftime lead into a convincing vietory. Thn squad also won its first round game by the score or 21-14. The game turned on a stretch of a few possessions that was dominated by Squires freshman Matt Chronert. lie had a message for anyone who decides to challenge the Squires next. 
"Heturned to sender," said Chronert. "That's what they can expect." 
The game was plodding along in the second half, with just a few points corning in the first few minutes. Both teams were visibly tired. 
But Chronert brought life to the Squires with two bas­kets in two possessions. As if that weren't enough, Chronert made his presence felt on the defensive end with a thunderous bloek. He did his best impression of Dikombe Mutornbo, wagging his finger as he ran back down the court with a huge smile on his faco. The play 
see SQUIRES/page 22 





