
......., ·· .. ·.. ·:··. . ~~ 
..•..
p.8 --.···:~~~a.El .. ·p.9 R~ts-fro.D· 
., .:·
~ . 
J'"'···~J 
Aro110d -the Nation · •••and DJ.ore 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008
page 2 The Observer + IN FOCUS 
'Yes, we did' 
Victory chant fills Chicago in 
celebration of momemtous election 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
CHICAGO -Standing before a crowd of thousands in Chicago's Grant Park, with mil­lions more watching on televi­sion in the United States and around the world, president­elect Barack Obama announced that "change has come to America." 
Obama, with his wife Michelle and their two daugh­ters, took the stage at Grant Park Tuesday night, less than an hour after CNN, the station 
broadcasting  the  election  
results  on  giant  screens  
throughout  the  park,  

announced he had been elect­ed the 44th and first black president of the United States. 
Following CNN's announce­ment, cheering broke out in Grant Park. Obama support­ers, numbering over 100,000 broke out into cheers of "Yes, we did," an evolution of the "Yes, we can" cheers per­formed at Obama rallies dur­ing his campaign. 
Obama defeated Sen. John McCain, leading 338 electoral votes to McCain's 15 9 proved once more that the true strength of our nation comes not from the might of our arms or the scale of our wealth, but from the enduring power of our ideals: democracy, liberty, opportunity and unwielding hope." 
Obama told the story of a 106-year-old African American woman who cast a ballot for him Nov. 4 in Atlanta, Ga. He reflected on all the change she has seen in America in her life­time. And he asked Americans to ask themselves, if they or their children live to see the next century, what progress will they have seen? 
It was this story of the 106­year-old woman, who voted for an African-American president in the same ·lifetime as segre­gation and who was born not long after the Civil War ended, that resonated with Valerie Jefferies, a 44-year-old African American from the Chicago suburbs. 
"I understand her story because that is my grandmoth­er's story," she said. Jefferies' grandmother, who is 90 years old, voted Saturday for Obama. 
"It was a historic moment, 
for her as 
well as Sen. 

electoral votes ..Tonight we proved Obama," she at press time. said. "Her
once more that the true 
"If there is arthritis is so 
anyone out strength ofour nation bad, she 
there who still comes not from the could barely doubts that fill out the
might ofour arms or the
America is a ballot, but
scale ofour wealth, but 
place where all she made it things are pos­from the enduring through." sible, who still It was a
power ofour ideals: 
wonders if the p r o u d
democracy. liberty, 
dream of our moment for founders is opportunity and Jefferies as alive in our unwielding hope., well. 
time, who still "I voted this questions the morning," she power of our Barack Obama said. "I was democracy, president-elect overcome 
tonight is your answer, " Obama said. 
But his win in the presiden­tial race is not the end of the campaign, Obama said. 
"The victory alone is not the change we seek," he said. "It is only the chance for us to make that change." 
Obama acknowledged that his presidency will face great challenges, with two wars, schools to build, a financial cri­sis to heal and threats from America's enemies. 
"The road will be long," he said. "Our climb will be steep. We may not get there in one year or even in one term. But, America, I have never been more hopeful than I am tonight that we will get there." 
Speaking in the land of Lincoln, Obama quoted from the 16th president's Gettysburg Address, and used Lincoln's words to urge the victorious Democratic Party to celebrate with "humility and determina­tion to heal the divides." 
Obama spoke to those who did not vote for him, saying he will need their help in his pres­idency. He addressed those watching the election from outside the borders of the United States. 
"To those who have won­dered if America's beacon still burns as bright: Tonight we 
with emotion. I never thought that would happen." 
Emotions were running high all night in Grant Park, and when CNN announced that Obama had secured the elec­toral count, and won the presi­denc~ the crowd broke out in a sustained cheer. 
Joseph Colson, 34, was standing in the non-ticketed section of the Grant Park Election Night rally ·.vhen 
Obama's  victory  was  
announced. He said h e  was  
ecstatic.  

"Words cannot describe," he said. "I did not think I would see this day." 
He said he could not have asked for a better evening. 
"I was very nervous all day, and came down cautiously optimistic, but as the polls came in I got more excited," he said. 
George and Laurie Morgan, both 54, are self-des-cribed "political freaks." They were also watching the Election Night coverage in the non-tick­eted lot. 
"We've been following this for two years now," George Morgan said. "Every night we sit and watch TV. and this whole buildup of two whole years. but just like everyone else we had this fear that it wouldn't happen. So it's a com­bination of exalting and this great release. And, oh my God, this is finally over. And thank God it turned out the way it did." 
George Morgan said he was in Grant Park to see the Pope in 1979, but said he did not remember the crowds being this big. 
Laurie Morgan almost didn't come to the rally Tuesday night, but George convinced her. 
"He said, you've got to be part of something bigger than yourself, so we came," she said. 
The Silas family, Shana, 32, Earl, 36, and R.J., 6, were standing near the Morgans on Election Night in Grant Park. 
They came to watch the returns, with thousands of oth­ers, to "breathe living history." 
"It's been wonderful," Shana Silas said. "People from all walks of life, no fighting. We were hugging total strangers." 
The election results are sig­nificant to Shana and Earl Silas, who are African­American, and especially for their son. 
"It means I can tell him he can do anything and really mean it," she said. 
Ann Wanserski, 19, a student at Loyola University Chicago, came to Grant Park with her friends to watch the Election Night activity. 
"It's a complete adrenaline rush being here around all the people," she said. "I really felt like my vote counted." 
When the 270-mark was reached, Ryan M. Flesher unfurled a large banner that read, "Happy days are here again." 
But Flesher, 40, said he was anxious, not optimistic· for an Obama victory earlier that day. When the results came in and victory was declared, he felt relieved. 
And following the Obama speech, Flesher had packed a bottle of champagne in his backpack to celebrate with. 
But in Phoenix, McCain sup­porters were not celebrating, and the contrast to the Obama event was evident when the scene from Arizona was broad­cast in Grant Park. In his speech, Obama congratulated McCain for his hard-fought campaign. 
"Sen. McCain fought long and hard in this campaign," Obama said. "And he's fought even longer and harder for the country that he loves." 
The crowd at Grant Park watched McCain give his con­cession speech. McCain con­gratulated Obama, who he said has "inspired the hopes of so many Americans." 
"Sen. Obama has achieved a great thing for himself and his country," McCain said. He encouraged all Americans who supported him in the election to support the next president. 
Obama thanked his support­ers as well as his campaign staff, his running mate Sen. Joe Biden and his wife and his two daughters, who, he said, have earned a new puppy to 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
kriely@nd.edu 

By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

CHICAGO -Thousands of people, many clad in Obama gear, most from Chicago, descended onto Grant Park Tuesday night to take part in the Election Night rally, a night that ended happily for Obama supporters, as their candidate was named the 44th president of the United States. 
Approximately 70,000 mem­bers of that mass of humanity had tickets to the main event, the part of Grant Park where they were herded to await the results, and at 11 p.m. CST, to hear president-elect Barack Obama speak. 
The thousands more who had no tickets were directed to the non-ticketed section of Grant Park. The Observer composed two of the thou­sands. Here's our minute-by­minute account of Election Night in Grant Park. 
4:43p.m. CST 
We check into our hotel, then walk across the street to the Grant Park entrance. Ronnie "Woo Woo" Wickers, 67, catches our eye. He is dressed in a Cubs uniform, with Obama '08 inscribed on the back. 
"He'll win by a landslide," he says. The last time Wickers went to an Election Night rally, it was in 1960, for then-Sen. John F. Kennedy. 
4:50p.m. 
We go to grab dinner, but first run into Gregory Simon, 
44. He's selling T-shirts that proclaim Obama the 44th president. "This is the victory shirt right here," he says. "This is the official victory shirt." Simon says he voted 
earlier today for the man on the shirt. We leave Simon and his shirts to make our way through to the non-ticketed area. 
5:25 p.m. 
Catherine Matthews, 71, marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. from Selma to Montgomery. She did not think she would see a black man become president in her lifetime, so she says she wouldn't miss Election Night at Grant Park for the world. She is not nervous about the results. 
"At alJ of the previous elec­tions, it's been cold weather, it's been rainy. God has show­ered us with a beautiful, sun­shiney day and so I do believe that everything is going to be in his favor." 
5:37 p.m. 
Maggie Campbell, 31, has brought her children Henry, 4, and Liam, 2 mos., to Grant Park. She said she didn't think they would be at the event that late. 
"It's such a historic event, that I wanted to be a part of it, and have my kids be a part of it, so even if we could only stay an hour, we wanted to say we were there." She said she hopes Henry will remem­ber. "I keep telling him what a big deal it is. In 20 'years, I want him to be able to say he was here. 
5:42 p.m. 
Andrew Kang, 18, a fresh­man at Northwestern, has come to Grant Park with sev­eral of his college friends. Kang said he is a moderate Republican, but said he voted for Obama. He says there is a lot of excitement at Northwestern for the Illinois 
see CHICAGO/page 10 

Wednesday, November 5, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Clockwise from top left: Crowds watch the election returns projected on large television screens on the perimeter of Grant Park, with Chicago's skyline behind them. Catherine Matthews, 71, clad in Obama gear, came out to support the Democratic candidate; she marched with Martin Luther Kin~, Jr. from Selma to Montgomery, and told The Observer she would not miss Election Night m Grant Park "for the world." Excited Obama fans cheer when their candidate makes history, becoming the first black man to be elected to the United States presidency. A young child In attendance holds up a sign calling for peace, as those around him watch the returns In anticipation of an Obama victory. Members of the crowd celebrate the Obama win, and welcome the president-elect to the stage. 
page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
Joe Biden announced as Obama's running mate, Aug. 23 + Obama accepts Democratic nomination, Aug. 28 

ace 
Defining moments in the 



.. 


I 


Obama wins Ohio's 20 electoral votes. 
119:54 p.na.

118:40 p.m. Pennsylvania, the first battleground state called of the night, went to Obama, despite McCain's increased campaign effons in the Keystone State in the days before the election. 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Barack Obama swept to victory as the nation's first black president Tuesday night in an electoral college landslide that over­came racial barriers as old as America itself. 
The son of a black father from Kenya and a white mother from Kansas, the Democratic senator from Illinois sealed his historic triumph by defeating Republican Sen. John McCain in a string of wins in hard­fought battleground states -Ohio, Florida, Virginia and Iowa. 
A huge crowd in Grant Park in Obama's home town of Chicago erupted in jubilation at the news of his victory. Some wept. 
McCain called his former rival to concede defeat -and the end of his own 10-year quest for the White House. "The American people have spoken, and spoken clearly,'~ McCain told disappointed supporters in Arizona. 
Obama and his running mate, Sen. Joseph Biden of Delaware, will take their oaths of office as president and vice president on Jan. 20, 2009. 
As the 44th president, Obama will move into the Oval Office as leader of a country that is almost certainly in recession, and fighting two long wars, one in Iraq, the other in Afghanistan. 
The popular vote was close, but not 
the count in the Electoral College, 
where it mattered most. 
There, Obama's audacious decision to contest McCain in states that had­n't gone Democratic in years paid rich dividends. 
Obama has said his first order of presidential business will be to tack­le the economy. He has also pledged to withdraw most U.S. combat troops from Iraq within 16 months. 
Fellow Democrats rode his coattails 
I•f$! . ..,~, 

to larger majorities in both houses of Congress. They defeated incumbent Republicans and won open seats by turn. 
The 4 7 -year-old Illinois senator was little known just four years ago. A widely praised speech at the Democratic National Convention, delivered when he was merely a can­didate for the Senate, changed that. 
Overnight he became a sought­after surrogate campaigner,. and he had scarcely settled into his Senate seat when he began preparing for his run for the White House. 
A survey of voters leaving polling places on Tuesday showed the econo­my was by far the top Election Day issue. Six in 1 0 voters said so, and none of the other top issues -ener­gy, Iraq, terrorism and health care­was picked by more than one in 10. 
"May God bless whoever wins tonight," President Bush told dinner guests at the White House, where his tenure runs out on Jan. 20. 
The Democratic leaders of Congress celebrated in Washington. 
"It is not a mandate for a party or ideology but a mandate for change,'' said Senate Majority leader Harry Reid of Nevada. 
Said Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California: "Tonight the American people have called for a new direc­tion. They have called for change in America." 
Shortly after 11 p.m. in the East, The Associated Press count showed Obama with 338 electoral votes, well over the 270 needed for victory. McCain had 127 after winning states that comprised the normal Republican base. 
The nationwide popular vote was remarkably close. Totals from 58 percent of the nation's precincts showed Obama with 51 percent and McCain with 47.9. 
Interviews with voters suggested 
II McCain calls Obama to '""''"'.....'"''""'....'" 
llllp.111. NBC is the first national news organtzal:to to name Obama the 44th president ofthe United States after the Democrat took California, Washington, Oregon and to put him over the magic number of electoral votes. 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 5 
McCain accepts Republican nomination, Sept. 4 + Sarah Palin announced as McCain's running mate, Aug. 29 

battle for the White House 

that almost six in 10 women were backing Obama nationwide, while men leaned his way by a narrow margin. Just over half of whites sup­ported McCain, giving him a slim advantage in a group that Bush car­ried overwhelmingly in 2004. 
The results of the AP survey were based on a preliminary partial sam­ple of nearly 10,000 voters in Election Day polls and in telephone interviews over the past week for early voters. 
Democrats also acclaimed Senate successes by former Gov. Mark Warner in Virginia, Rep. Tom Udall in New Mexico and Rep. Mark Udall in Colorado. All won seats left open by Republican retirements. 
In New Hampshire, former Gov. Jeanne Shaheen defeated Republican Sen. John Sununu in a rematch of their· 2002 race, and Sen. Elizabeth Dole fell to Democrat Kay Hagan in North Carolina. 
Democrats also looked for gains in the House. They defeated Republican incumbents Rep. Tom Feeney and Ric Keller in Florida, 22-year veteran Chris Shays in Connecticut and Rep. Robin Hayes in North Carolina. 
At least two Democrats lost their seats. Rep. Kevin Mahoney fell after admitting to two extramarital affairs while serving his first term in Florida. In Louisiana, Democratic Rep. Don Cazayoux lost the seat he had won in a special election six months ago. 
The resurgent Democrats also elected a governor in one of the nation's traditional bellwether states when Missouri Attorney General Jay Nixon won his race. 
The White House was the main prize of the night on which 35 Senate seats and all 435 House seats were at stake. A dozen states elected gov­ernors, and ballots across the coun­try were dotted with issues ranging from taxes to gay rights. 
An estimated 187 million voters were registered, and in an indication of interest in the battle for the White House, 40 million or so had already voted as Election Day dawned. 
Obama sought election as one of the youngest presidents, and one of the least experienced in national political affairs. 
That wasn't what set the Illinois senator apart, though -neither from his rivals nor from the other men who had served as president since the nation's founding more than two centuries ago. A black man, he confronted a previously unbreak­able barrier as he campaigned on twin themes of change and hope in uncertain times. 
McCain, a prisoner of war during Vietnam, a generation older than his rival at 72, was making his second try for the White House, following his defeat in the battle for the GOP nom­ination in 2000. 
A conservative, he stressed his maverick's streak. And although a Republican, he did what he could to separate himself from an unpopular president. 
For the most part, the two presi­dential candidates and their running mates, Biden and Republican Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska, spent weeks campaigning in states that went for Bush four years ago. 
McCain and Obama each won con­tested nominations -the Democrat outdistancing former first lady Hillar~ Rodham Clinton -and promptly set out to claim the mantle of change. 
"I am not George W. Bush," McCain said in one debate. 
Obama retorted that he might as well be, telling audiences in state after state that the Republican had voted with the president 90 percent of the time across eight years of the 


"We've come to the end ofa long journey ..." 
0 II: 18 p.m. McCain spoke to a group ofsupporters at The Biltn1ore in Phoenix, encouraging them to find ways to come together as Americans after a disappointing result fOr the Republican camp. 

"Tonight is your answer." 
fJ II :57 P·•· 
President -elect Obama takes the stage with his family to deliver his victory speech to over 100,000 people in Chicago's Grant Park, becoming the first black man dected to hold America's top office. 



page 6 The Observer • IN FOCUS Wednesday November 5, 2008 


I head1 ia volet lutaoul 
100 
90 
80 70 
64.1 °/o 
New Democrat Seats 
Total= 54 Change =+S 

Number ofseats not up for election, 2008 Democrat 0 Republican Number ofseats won, 2008 
L. JDemocrat [ .JRepublican 
0 Undecided (as ofpress time) Undecided Total =4 
New Republican Seats 
Total= 40 Change= -9 

.) 
~.·· -~ Independent 

*caucus with Democrats 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 page 7 
The Observer + IN FOClJS 

~ Electoral Votes Accoi:ding to Projections 

__ 1_•s____.·---~·· 
McCAIN 
(majority) 
IIDemocrat 0 Republican 0 Undecided (as of press time) 

the race fo1 the houte 
5Q%

DDDDDDODOODDDDDODDDDDDDDODOOD
DDDDDDODODOODDDODDDDDDDDOODDD
DDDDDODDDDDDDDDnDDDODDDDODDDD
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD
DDODDODDODOODDDPDDODDDDDDDDDD
DDODOODDDDDDDDDODODDODDDDDDOD
OOODDDDDDDDDDDODDDDDDDDDDDDDD
ODDDDDODDDDODD0DDDDDDDDOOODDO
DODDDDDDDDDODDlDDDDDDDDDDDDDOD
oooooooooooooo:ooooooooooooooo·
DDDDDDDDODDDDD:DDDODDDDDDDDDDD
DDDDDDDDOODDDDlDDOOOODDDDDDOOO
DDDDDDODODDDDDlDDOODDODDDDDDDD
DDDDDDDDDDODDDlDDOODDOODODDDDD
DODDDDDDDDDDDO:OOODDDDDDODDDOD 
r-·· ·--~·---~···--·-··-~·-.1 
f New Democrat Seats l 
I!  -;  
i  l  
j Total= lSI  i  
L~hange  ~  +15  

r······ -··-·····-----······~---.l Undecided ·1 ! ~ New Republican Seats .. 
I 

Total= IS 
i Total= 171 
I

l Change = ·18 ' . ·l 


hot tac•' ia battleground 1tat•1 
Indiana 
Indiana was one ofthe last key battleground sates to be _. .·... called :md one o~ the closest. .Jf$, 
McCain hdd. ashght b.d  +;'.'"·~· -c~;·  
over Obama before the  .c.  
dection, but Ob:una  
pulled out the win.  


Ohio

,.---------, 
Ohio was long considered a ~~.. .. 
~:.;~ ;~~t{t!i 
state lcanmg towards · ! -: · ·-Obarna, and he clinched '· · · this key state early in the evening. 
Penn lvania 
McCain and Obama both campaigned heavily in this state in the week bd"ore the dcction, and ~. ,. , , 
:~2~a~~~e ··r -$·J'!/O ·~~--· . ~~~~ed -~~b~L5·~:., 
this state his wlast stand." 

o~publican 

Florida
,.---------, 
Polb shovml Obama lading · McCain by a small margin, and Obama turned that lead 
into a win. Florida, the pivotal 
sate in 2000, voted Rrpublican 
in the past I 0 prmdcntial dccrion.s. 


Vi ·nia 
This state ~ been solidly red in the past. but McCain's push in the final days of the campaign weren't enough 
to kcrp the state Republican~<· .· ... Obama garnered 13 .,, : '' <,. ·•.. , dcctoral votes here. Y~~-OJo·. 
...-.· •('Y·i~:.,;~~w~t.;~~-:-, 


A state th.J.t went dccidcd1y for Bush 
in 2000 and 2004  
stayed with the GOP  
as McCain arricd thc St:lte, despite Obama's  . oss r~  
efforts to increase  , ,e;. /•. ~;.•• ,. 111 /·,/) 
turnout among  
black voters.  

0 Undecided (u ofpRSS time) 


page 8 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Wednesday November 5, 2008 
indiana l"d diltrict race 
Joe Donnelly (Dem.) 
....

Luke Puckett (Rep.) --;·: .•.· 
-,.~ ~ . 
Other 

INDIANA GUBERNATORIAL RACE 

indiana gubernatorial race 
Jill Long Thompson (Dem.) Mitch Daniels (Rep.) Andy Horning (Lib.) 


Daniels wins re-election; House too close to call 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Republican Mitch Daniels defeated former Democratic congresswoman Jill Long Thompson on Tuesday to win a second term as governor, but early Wednesday morning it remained unclear which party would control the Indiana House. 
Republican control of the House co1:1ld make it easier for Daniels to get what he wants, since Republicans maintained their lock on the Senate and the governor's party would rule the General Assembly as it did the first two years of his first term. House Democrats went into the election with a 51-49 advantage. 
But it was possible the House would end up tied 50-50 for the second time since 1997 and 1998, and if so, Daniels victory would give control of the cham­ber to Republicans through a tie­breaking law. 
The parties traded control of three seats each, but Republican Kelly Gaskill led Rep. Scott Reske, D-Pendleton, by 34 votes in District 37 with nearly 12,000 absentee votes left to be counted in Madison County. The counting was to resume Wednesday morn­ing, and if Gaskill holds on, the chamber would be tied and Hepublicans would wield the gavel. 
Daniels wasn't shy about advancing his call for change into a second term as he celebrated his victory with supporters at Conseco Fieldhouse about 9:30 p.m. 
"The movement for change is moving ahead," he declared. · "This is less an endorsement than an instruction, this is less a victory than an assignment," Daniels said. "And what the peo­ple of Indiana have said is that they want us to press forward with change and improvement and reform to make education better, taxpayers better protected and make this the great state it can be." 
With 99 percent of Indiana precincts reporting, Daniels won 58 percent of the vote, according to unoflicial returns tabulated by The Associated Press. 
Long Thompson conceded the race shortly after 9 p.m. A victory would have made her the first woman elected governor in Indiana history. 
"This didn't turn out as we had hoped, but we put a big crack in that glass ceiling," she told sup­porters at the downtown Marriott in Indianapolis. "And it's only a matter of time before that thing shatters here in Indiana." 
Daniels, a former policy adviser to President Reagan and President George Bush, had a huge fundraising advantage throughout the campaign and oul-,pent his Democratic rival by at least $10 million. 
Democrats had hoped to capi­talize on the momentum of Barack Obama's presidential campaign and voter unhappiness over changes in Daniels' first term, which included decisions to observe daylight saving time statewide and lease the Indiana 

. Toll Road to a foreign venture. Many of those changes came during his first two years in office, with help from a House then controlled by Republicans. Democrats regained the House in 2006 but held a 51-49 edge that left open the possibility that Daniels could again find friendly territory in House chambers after Tuesday's votes were tallied. Republican Ed Clere of New Albany beat Rep. William Cochran of New Albany by 114 votes for a seat the Democratic incumbent had held since 1974. Former Democratic Greencastle Mayor Nancy Michael beat Rep. Amos Thomas, R-Brazil, in District 44, and Democrat Mary Ann Sullivan defeated Republican Rep. Jon Elrod in District 97 in Indianapolis. Democrat John Barnes also won District 89 in Indianapolis for a seat being vacated by longtime Republican Rep. Larry Buell. But Republican Mark Messmer of Jasper won an open District 63 seat being vacated by Rep. Dave Crooks, D-Washington. And Republican Randy Truit won a close race in the open District 26 seat being vacated by Rep. Joe Micon, D-West Lafayette. Senate Hepublicans, mean­while, maintained the 33-17 advantage they went into Election Day with. They have controlled the chamber since late 1978. 


INDIANA 2ND CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT RACE 
Moderate Democrat Donnelly wins second term in a landslide 
before Barack Obama's election wing of the party. Donnelly, who
By JOHN TIERNEY 

was guaranteed. was elected to the House in the 
News Writer 

"I believe Barack Obama is 2006 midterm election that gave going to win Indiana and will be the Democrats control of 
Joe Donnelly was re-elected the next president of the United Congress for the first time since Tuesday to a second term as con­States," Donnelly said. 1994, is himself a more moderate gressman from Indiana's 2nd He suggested that Obama's member of the party, as evi­Congressional District by winning election will make the United denced by his pro-life views. 67 percent of the vote. States a better place. Donnelly said that the 
"It's hard to put into words just "We all want a better country Democratic Party will have to how lucky and how fortunate I where we stand up for our fami­reconcile the views of moderate feel to have friends like you," lies, our jobs, and our soldiers rank-and-file members with the Donnelly said in his victory who protect our country," more liberal Congressional lead­speech at the West Side Donnelly said. ership. "This will be the Democratic Club in South Bend. In an interview with The Democratic party's big test," he 
"We've worked so hard to make Observer. Donnelly said that said. the country we love a much bet­despite the Democratic sweep of "There are a large number of ter place," he said. both houses of Congress and the additional pro-life Democrats" in 
Donnelly stressed a non-parti­presidency, bipartisanship will be Congress, Donnelly said. "We're san approach to the way he views necessary. going to pursue a very moderate politics. "We're going to try to work policy moving the country for­
"I want what's best for Indiana, together with Republicans and ward." for working farailies and for our Democral'i to get things done," he One of the biggest single issues country," he said in his speech. said. "We need to balance the of the next two years will be "That's what we are going to do budget, create new jobs and energy. "We still have to become in the next two years." make our country a better place." energy independent," Donnelly 
The pro-life Democrat also "People understand that I don't told a group of reporters. "We reached out to all the candidates worry about partisan politics," can't think that we have $2 gas energy independence, he said. Law School, thanked his on the ballot, both Democratic Donnelly told The Observer. "I and it's back to normal. We have Donnelly, who lost in the 2002 Congressional and campaign · and Republican. care about family, jobs, our a long way to go." 2nd district election, said he is staffs and said that he is "so hon­
"To all candidates, on our side troops ... That's what Indiana is The creation of new jobs will be "grateful to have run with ored" to be given the opportunity and on the other side, I thank you about." another issue that Donnelly said Senator Obama." to serve his district for another for standing up for our country." Not all of the Democrats elected he will focus on. Job growth will Donnelly, a 1977 graduate of Donnelly said. to the House and the Senate are be most significant in new indus­the University of Notre Dame and Contact John Tierney at 
Donnelly addressed the crowd representatives from the left-tries and is closely related to a 1981 graduate of Notre Dame jtieme1@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 5, 2008 page 9 
The Observer + IN FOCUS 
Around the Nation 
















ALABAMA 
ALASKA 
CALIFORNIA
ARIZONA 
ARKANSAS 
Republican incumbent Jeff 
A proposed ban on same­

Sen. Ted Stevens, who wao; con­
Democrat and former state leg­
Incumbent Democrat Mark 

Sessions trounced his 
sex marriage, which would
victed on seven felony -counts la'it 
Pryor didn't even face a
islator Ann Kirkpatrick narrowly 
Democratic challenger, State 
overturn a recent state
week, held a narrow lead over 
defeated Republican lobbyist 
Republican opponent for his 
Senator Vivian Figures by win­
Supreme Court decision, is
Democratic challenger Anchorage 
Sydney Hay to claim the seat in 
Senate seat, and won nearly 80 
ning over 60 percent of the vote 
percent of the vote against Green 
too close to call as of early
Mayor Mark Begich with three­
rural northern Arizona. 
in a state that traditionally votes 
Wednesday morning.
quarters of the ballots counted. 
Incumbent Rick Renzi was forced 
party candidate Rebekah 
for the GOP in major elections. 
Stevens maintains his innocence 
to resign after being indicted on 
Kennedy. Voters also approved a 
ban on adoption by same sex cou­
and will appeal his conviction. 
federal corruption charges. 
GEORGIA
CONNECTICUT 
FLORIDA
COLORADO 
DELAWARE 
Incumbent Republican Senator 

The retirement of Republican 
New England's only Republican 
Former banker and Democrat 
In a night where Democrats 

Wayne Allard left one of 
Saxby Chambliss held a narrow
won a number of victories, one
representative Christopher Shays 
Jack Markell parlayed his large 
Colorado's Senate seats vacant, 
lead over Democratic challenger 
lost his seat to Democratic chal­
fundraising advantage into a victo­
of their major losses came in 
opening the door for the 
Jim Martin with 95 percent of
lenger Jim Himes in a hard-fought 
ry over Republican Bill Lee, a 
Florida's 16th District, where 
precincts reporting. However, the 
Democrats in a state that has long 
contest. Himes will now represent 
concern over incumbent Tim
retired Superior Court Judge. The 
fate of this election -will not be
been a GOP stronghold. In a tight 
Connecticut's 4th District, which is 
Mahoney's extramarital affairs
seat was vacated by Democrat 
race, Democratic Representative 
decided until all absentee ballots 
composed of one of America's 
Ruth Ann Minner, who was forced 
allowed Republican Tom 
Mark Udall edged out Republican 
are accounted for.
Rooney to score a large win.
wealthiest constituencies. 
to retire due to term limits. 
IOWA
IDAHO 
INDIANA
HAWAII 
ILLINOIS 
Democrats Neil Abercrombie 
Riding the wave of Democratic 
The departure of Republican 

Incumbent governor Mitch
In the election to fill the seat of 
and Mazie Hirono coasted to re­
support for Barack. Obama,
Jerry Weller allowed the 
Daniels easily won re-election
longtime Republican Senator Larry 
election in the House of 
incumbent Senator Tom Harkin 
C.raig, who decided not to run for re­
Democrats to add another 
against Democratic challenger Jill 
Representatives. Meanwhile, 
easily defeated his opponent,
Long Thompson, a former
election after drawing national atten­
Congressional seat. Debbie 
Mufi Hannemann won re-elec­
Republican Christopher Reed.
Congresswoman. Daniels held a
tion for his escapades in an airport 
Halvorson, a state senator, 
Harkin emphasized his experi­
tion as mayor of Honolulu over 
nearly three to one advantage in
bathroom, Lt. Gov. Jim Risch easily 
gathered nearly 60 percent of 
ence in the Senate and his work
Councilwoman Ann Kobayashi. 
the vote in her victory over 
campaign contributions and won
defeated Democrat Lany LaRocca, a 
on the Agriculturdl Committee. 
close to 60 percent ofthe vote. 
former Congressman. 
Republican Marty Ozinga. 
MARYLAND
KENTUCKY 
MAINE
KANSAS 
LOUISIANA 
Incumbent Republican 
Incumbent Republican Susan 
The 1st District race between

Facing the nationwide back­
Incumbent Democrat Mary L. 

Senator Pat Roberts coasted to 
State Sen, Andy Harris, a
lash against Republicans, 
Landrieu won her third term in the 
Collins defeated Democratic 
victory in his bid for a third 
Representative Tom Allen by a 
Republican, and Frank M.
Senate minority leader Mitch 
Senate after defeating Republican 
term over former Democratic 
McConnell barely edged out 
20-point margin. Collins, who has 
Kratovil Jr., a Democrat, was
state treasurer John Kennedy. 
Congressman Jim Slattery. 
Democratic businessman Bruce 
Iandrieu was the only Democratic 
risen through the ranks in the 
closely-contested with Kratovil 
Kansas has not elected a 
Lunsford. It was the toughest 
Senator to face a serious challenge, 
Senate during her previous two 
edging a win. Democrats now 
Democrat to the Senate since 
hold seven of state's eight seats
challenge McConnell had faced 
but shored up support by securing bil­
terms, portrayed herself as a 
the Great Depression. 
lions of dollars in aid for Katrina vic­
moderate during her campaign...
since he was elected in 1984. 
in the House. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
MISSOURI
MICHIGAN 
MINNESOTA 
MISSISSIPPI 
Incumbent Senator Norm
Sen. Carl Levin, a Democrat, 
Jay Nixon, a Democrat who is

Sen. John Kerry, a Democrat, 
Incumbents in the House 
Coleman faced comedian and
easily defeated his seat against 
the state attorney general, won
retained his seat, defeating Jeff 
retained their contested seats 
writer AI Franken in a race that is
several challengers. Two house 
the governorship with nearly 60
Beatty, a Republican. 
Tuesday. Sens. Thad Cochran 
still too dose to call. Coleman origi­
percent of the vote. Of the nine
seats were tossups -the 7th 
and Roger Wicker, Republicans,
Democrats overwhelmingly won 
nal enjoyed a large lead over
district and 9th district, which 
House seats contested, four
kept their positions as well.
all four contests for seats in the 
Franken, but the economic down­
were won by Democrats, five by
were not called at press time.
House. 
Wicker's seat was the more 
turn allowed the one-time 
Republicans.
contested of the two. 
"Saturday Night Live" writer to 
NEW JERSEY
NEW HAMPSHIRE
NEBRASKA
MoNTANA 
NEVADA 
Democratic State Senator

Former Democratic Governor
Incumbent Sen. Max Baucus, 
Mike Johanns, a Republican, 
The 1st district was won by 
John Adler defeated
Jeanne Shaheen scored a major
a Democrat, won his sixth term 
won the Senate seat vacated by 
Shelley Berkley, a Democrat. 
Hepublican mayor of
upset in a narrow victory over
handily. Democratic Governor 
Chuck Hagel, defeating Scott 
The remaining Huuse seats in 
Medford Chris Myers in a
Republican incumbent John
Brian Schweitzer maintained 
Kleeb, a Democrat. Two 
the 2nd and 3rd districts were 
hotly-contested
Sununu. Shaheen linked her
his seat with over two-thirds of 
Republican House members 
closely contested and uncalled 
Congressional election that
opponent to President Bush
the vote. The only House seat 
defended their seats against 
at press time. 
was decided by less than one
while riding the wave of support
up for grabs went Democratic. 
Democratic challengers, with a 
percentage point.
for Barack Obama. 
OHIO
NORTH DAKOTA
NEW MEXICO 
NEW YORK 
NORTH CAROLINA 
Democrat Dennis Kucinich

Governor John Hoeven, a two­
Kay Hagan the Dom()(Tatic state sen­
Two Congressional representa­
Democrats gained ground in the 
defended his seat in the House in
term incumbent, defeated
ator, defeated Sen. Elizabeth Dole, a
race for the House in New York. In the
tives squared off in a contest for 
a highly mntested election. In the
mpubliean. 'lhl; fi the first time the ~ 
Democratic state senator Tim
New Mexico's Senate seat, and 
13th di'itrict, Michael McMahon, a 
first district, the race between
Mathern in a landslide. The
hao; been held by a Democrat in 16 
Democrat Tom Udall was able to 
Democrat, defeated Republican 
Steve Chabot, a Republic,an, and 
race was influenced by the
)'t'm'S. In the ra.mi to fill North Carolina's
soundly defeat his Republican oppo­
Robert Straniere for a seat currently 
Steven Driehaus, a pro-life
state's strong economy based on
13 House seats, seven Demo<rdts and
nent Steve Pearee. Both men were 
held by a Republican. Democrat 
Democrat, remained uncalled
oil and gas production.
five Republicans won re-election.
forced to vacate their Congressional 
Daniel Maffei won the 25th district 
early Wednesday. 
Democrat Bev Perdue won the gover­
seats, which were both won by 
seat against Republican Dale 
.. RHODE ISLAND 
SOUTH CAROLINA
OREGON 
PENNSYLVANIA
OKLAHOMA 
Incumbent Republican

With nearly 70 percent of the
In a closely watched race, Rep.
Incumbent Sen. James Inhofe, 
Democrat J~ff Merkley, speak­
Sen. Linsday Graham held
votes in their respective elec­
a Republican, won re-election, 
John Murtha, a Democrat,
er of the state house, held a 
his seat against challenger
tions, Democratic Reps. Patrick
defeating State Sen. Andrew 
retained his seat in the House
narrow lead over Senator 
Bob Conley, a Democrat. In
Kennedy, an incumbent, and
Rice. a Democrat. The only 
Gordon Smith with half of the 
against challenger William 
the House races, all six
Jim Langevin, won their seats in
incumbent Democrat, Dan 
ballots counted. Merkley is rid­
Russell, a Republican, in the 12th 
incumbents -of which two
the House. Sen. Jack Reed, a
Boren, won re-election to the 
ing the coattails of a voter regis­
district. In the 3rd district, 
are Republican -won re­
Democrat, kept his seat.
House. Republicans won the 
tration surge spurred by the 
Democrat Kathy Dahlkemper won 
election.
campaign of Barack Obama. 
an upset against Republiean Rep. 
rest of the House seats. 
VERMONT
TENNESSEE 
TEXAS
SouTH DAKOTA 
UTAH 
Popular Hepublican Governor 

Sen. Tim Johnson, a 
Sen. Lamar Alexander, a 
Challenger Rick Noriega, a 
Jon Huntsman Jr., a 
Jim Douglas coasted to re-elec­
Democrat, won re-election up 
Republican, easily defended six 
Democrat, was not able to take 
Republican, defeated two chal­
tion over Democratic House
against Joel Dykstra, a state 
opponents to win re-election 
the Senate seat held by 
lengers to win re-election to the 
Speaker Gaye Symington and
governorship. Republican Jason
legislator and Republican. 
Tuesday. Of the eight House 
Republican John Cornyn, who is 
independent Anthony Pollina.
seats up for grabs, four went to 
Chaffetz won a three-way race
Longtime House Rep. Stephanie 
in his first term. In a closely 
Democrat Peter Welch won re­
for the 3rd congressional dis­
Herseth Sandlin, a Democrat, 
Democrats, four went to 
watched House race, Rep. Nick 
election to the U.S. House with­
Republicans. 
Lampson, a Democrat, lost his
also won re-election. 
trict. 
out a Republican challenger. 
seat to Republican Pete Olson. 
WYOMING
WASHINGTON 
WEST VIRGINIA
VIRGINIA 
WISCONSIN 
Democrat Mark Warner won 
Returns early Wednesday 
Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner, a
West Virginians re-elected 
Sen. Michael Enzi, a 

showed Gov. Christine Gregoire,
against Republican James 
Republican, widely defeated
Gov. Joe· Manchin II I, a 
Republican, won his third 
a Democrat, holding a slight
Gilmore III in the election for 
Robert Raymond, an Independent
Democrat, in his race against 
term in Wyoming against 
lead over Democratic chal­
the state's open senate seat. 
challenger, to win his 16th term.
Russ Weeks, a Republican, and 
Democrat Chris Rothfuss. In 
lenger Dino Rossi. The race
Rep. Eric Cantor, the chief 
Republicans unsuccessfully sought 
Jesse Johnson of the Mountain 
a special election, Sen. 
remained uncalled at press
deputy whip for the House 
to pick up a Congressional seat in
Party. Sen. John D. Rockefeller 
Barrasso, a Republican, 
time. Of the nine House seats up
Republicans, won his fifth term. 
the 8th district. where Rep. Steve
IV, a Democrat, defeated 
defeated Nick Carter, the 
for election, two went 
Kagen kept his seat. 
Republican Jay Wolfe. 
Democratic candidate. 
---------------------------------~ -~ -~ 
page 10 The Observer + IN FOCUS Wednesday November 5, 2008 
President-elect faces unprecedented challenges 
Obama recognizes 'enormity' of various issues facing next admir:istration, urges patience on 'long road ahead' 
erative and careful in his response ­
Associated Press 
perhaps just the approach voters were 
WASHINGTON-Now the hard part. 
seeking after eight years of what critics 
Barack Obama essentially came out of call President Bush's cowboy approach. nowhere, beat the Democratic establish­Yet, Obama may be blamed for reces­ment, conquered doubts about his expe­sion woes despite the fact that he inher­rience and overcame questions about his ited the mess from Bush. The troubles race to be elected the first black presi­are on Obama's watch now even if dent after a grueling campaign that last­there's little he can do about them. The ed nearly two years. president in power always suffers when 
But for Obama there's no time to savor the economy tanks. Just ask the first his unprecedented victory. President Bush in 1992. Now he faces unprecedented chal­Indeed, coming in with a big victory lenges. doesn't guarantee success. 
The president-elect must immediately Democrat Lyndon B. Johnson won with confront the worst economic conditions 61 percent of the vote in 1964. He won since the Great Depression, determine his Great Society programs in his first the next steps in two lingering wars, and two years but his administration essen­lead his Democrats, inducting liberals tially collapsed in the final two with the expecting that the change he. promises escalation of the Vietnam War. will come instantly. In choosing Obama as the 44th presi­
It won't. dent, the nation took a historic leap 
On the heels of a campaign in which beyond its legacy of slavery and toward cash wasn't a concern,' Obama has to healing racial tensions just four decades tackle all of those tasks with no room in after the tumultuous Civil Rights move­the budget as the nation heads for a ment. painful, perhaps long-lasting, recession. AP Politically, Obama's election amounted
President-elect Barack Obama delivers his victory speech on Election Night at a
Even as he celebrated, Obama to a wholesale rejection of the status quo
rally at Grant Park in Chicago. 
acknowledged "the enormity of the task after eight years of Bush and Republican that lies ahead," and offered a sobering rule. assessment. March 4, 1933. than liberal while trying to satisfy the Voters were willing to take a chance on 
"We know the challenges that tomor­Obama gets just 2? to put together his left wing of his party. He will face a relative newcomer to the national row will bring are the greatest of our government; inauguration is Jan. 20. demands for a quick pullout from Iraq. stage. Obama is a 47-year-old black man lifetime -two wars, a planet in peril, He will chart the country's course He's promised withdrawal, but carefully. from Chicago with a liberal voting record the worst financial crisis in a century," against this dreary backdrop: Perhaps addressing his party faithful, who is in just his ·first Senate term and Obama said. "There's new energy to har­Unemployment is at 6.1 percent and pre­Obama said: "There are many who won't has offered few specifics on how he ness, new jobs to be created, new dicted to rise as high as 7.5 percent next agree with every decision or policy I would govern. schools to build, and threats to meet, year; pessimistic consumers have cur­make as president. And we know the ... Culturally, Obama's victory was so alliances to repair." · tailed borrowing and spending; home government can't solve every problem. much more for a nation on the verge of 
He warned: "The road ahead will be foreclosures are rampant; Medicare, But I will always be honest with you becoming a true melting pot; govern­long. Our climb will be steep. We may Medicaid and Social Security face huge about the challenges we face. ment estimates say white people will no not get there in one year or even in one financial problems; and, 152,000 U.S. From the outset, how Obama acts to longer make up a majority of Americans term." troops are in Iraq more than five years deal with these conditions will set the by 2042. 
No new president has faced so much after the initial invasion, while 32,000 tone for his presidency. The son of a black father from Kenya since Franklin Delano Roosevelt -and are in Afghanistan in the sixth year of Voters got an early glimpse of his style and a white mother from Kansas, even he didn't have two wars on his the war agains"t terrorism. last month when Wall Street collapsed, Obama's call for change created a move­plate. With Democrats expanding their stocks fluctuated and the government ment at a time of great upheaval in the 
Roosevelt had four months to come up majorities in both the House and Senate, intervened. He struck a cautious stance country. And, that proved to be a large with programs to address the Great Obama will have to figure out how to and deferred to lawmakers dealing enough force to overcome lingering prej­Depression before he took office on lead a country that's more conservative directly with the problems. He was delib-udices. 
Chicago 
continued from page 2 
people showing heavy support for the candidate." 
5:50p.m. 
We finally run into some Notre Dame people. Betsy Dwyer, a member of the class of '74 and Fred Nelson, a member of the class of '66, have entered the park. 
Dwyer, a community organizer, said Obama is her hero. She says he is the only politician she has ever prayed for. 
He's going to win in a landslide, Nelson predicts. He tells us to tell Charlie Weis last Friday's pep rally was the worst he's ever attended, high school or college. 
5:59p.m. 
We head over to the large television screen set up on the lawn, one of several screens all over the park, broadcasting CNN. 
6:00p.m. 
CNN projects Obama for Vermont, and Kentucky for McCain. 
6:15p.m. 
CNN introduces its new holographic feature, which gets laughs from the crowd in Grant Park. The station predicts as many as half a million to a million people could be in Grant Park this evening. 
6:28p.m. 
Three years ago, some people that Delisa Staples, 41, worked with told her Barack Obama would be the next president. 
Staples came to Grant Park to see if that would happen. "I wanted to be a part of history." 
6:45p.m. 
We realize that the Electoral Count is only eight for McCain and three for Obama. This could be a long night. 
6:56 p.m. 
CNN mentions Notre Dame while discussing its predic­tions for what the Indiana results will look like. 
7 p.m. 
Members of the crowd who had been sitting stand up to watch CNN project Illinois for Obama. 
7:10 p.m. 
Annie Hamel, 27, a citizen · of Canada, said she thinks if Obama wins, it will be good for the way that other coun­tries look at the United States. She says elections are not this exciting in Canada. 
8:06 p.m. 
Cody Heiden, 22, is stand­ing in Grant Park in an Obama sweatshirt he has made himself. 
8:24 p.m. 
We receive a text message that Oprah Winfrey has arrived in Grant Park. A few hours later, we see her for ourselves on television. 
8:34p.m. 
CNN projects Ohio will go for Obama. A few minutes later, CNN's John King said he does not think McCain can possibly pull out a win. The crowd at Grant Park is ecstatic. 
8:47p.m. 
Michael Phillips, 39, says he's feeling "absolutely elat­ed" after the Ohio and Pennsylvania projections. If Obama wins, he says he will kiss the person standing next to him. 
9:23 p.m. 
The crowd at Grant Park tries to start the wave. Seconds later, they give up. 
9:52 p.m. 
Dan Townson·. 45, is watching the final returns, victory cigar in hand, ready to be lit. 
9:58p.m. 
CNN declares an Obama win in Virginia. CNN's Wolf Blitzer can't be heard over the cheers. 
10:00 p.m. 
CNN declares Obama the 44th president of the United States. The crowd explodes. 
3:30a.m. 
We finally go to sleep, just half a mile away from where history was made. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Voter turnout could 
be highest in century 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -America voted in record numbers, standing in lines that snaked around blocks and in some places in pouring rain. Voters who queued up Tuesday and the millions who balloted early propelled 2008 to what one expert said was the highest turnout in a century. 
It looks like 136.6 million Americans will have voted for president this election, based on 88 percent of the country's precincts tallied· and projec­tions for absentee ballots, said Michael McDonald of George Mason University. Using his methods, that would give 2008 a 64.1 percent turnout rate. 
"That would be the highest turnout rate that we've. seen since 1908," which was 65.7 percent, McDonald said early Wednesday. It also would beat the old post World War II high of 63.8 percent in the famed 1960 John F. Kennedy-Richard Nixon squeaker. The 1908 race elected William Howard Taft over William Jennings Bryan. 
The total voting in 2008 easi­ly outdistanced 2004's 122.3 million, which had been the highest grand total of voters before. 
But another expert disagrees with McDonald's calculations and only puts 2008 as the best in 40 years. Different experts calculate turnout rates in dif­ferent ways based on whom they consider eligible voters. 
Curtis Gans, director of the nonpartisan Committee for the Study of the American Electorate at American University and dean of turnout experts, said his early numbers show 2008 to be about equal to or better than 1964, but not higher than 1960. He said it looks like total votes, once absentees are tallied (which could take a day or so), will be "somewhere between 134 and 135 million." 
What's most interesting about early results is not just how many people voted but the shifting demographic of American voters, said Stephen Ansolabehere, a political sci­ence professor at Harvard and MIT. 
Using exit polling data, Ansolabehere determined that whites made up 7 4 percent of the 2008 electorate. That's down considerably from 81 percent in 2000 because of increase in black and Hispanic voting, he said. 
"That's a big shift in terms of demographic composition of the electorate," Ansolabehere said early Wednesday. 
Breakdown by party voting also shows that Republican turnout rates are down quite a bit, while Democratic turnout rates are up, Gans said. 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
The Observer + IN FOCUS page 11 
Democrats gain ground in both House, Senate 
Dems grab seats from Dole, Sununu, and three other GOP Senators but will likely fall short of 60-seat target 
Democrats expand their House lead with broad gains, Speaker Pelosi calls House wins a 'wave upon a wave' 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Democrats fattened 
their majority control of the Senate on 
Tuesday, ousting Republican Sens. 
Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina and 
John Sununu of New Hampshire and 
capturing seats held by retiring GOP 
senators in Virginia, New Mexico and 
Colorado. 
Piggybacking on the excitement level raised by presidential victor Barack Obama and his voter-registration and get-out-the-vote drives, Democrats increased their effective majority to at least 56 seats in the 100-member Senate. 
They did not turn over a single seat to Republicans. All Democratic incum­bents on the ballot prevailed. 
But Republicans stopped a complete rout, holding the Kentucky seat of Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and a Mississippi seat once held by Trent Lott -two top Democratic targets. 
North Carolina state Sen. Kay Hagan, little known politically before her run. defeated Dole-a former Cabinet mem­ber in two Republican administrations and 2000 presidential hopeful. Dole had tried to tie Hagan, a former Presbyterian Sunday school teacher, to atheists in an ad that appeared to back­fire. 
In New Hampshire, former Democratic Gov. Jeanne Shaheen defeated Sununu in a rematch of their 2002 contest. 
In pair of western races, Reps. Tom and Mark Udall took over Senate seats held by retiring Republicans. Tom Udall, the son of former Interior Secretary Stewart Udall, defeated Republican Rep. Steve Pearce to succeed Pete Domenici in New Mexico. Tom's cousin Mark, the son of the late Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona, won the Colorado seat held by Republican Wayne Allard, who did not seek re-election. 
Former Democratic Gov. Mark Warner 
breezed to victory in Virginia to take a 
Senate seat held for five terms by retir­
ing GOP Sen. John Warner, beating 
another former governor, Republican 
Jim Gilmore. The two Warners are not 
related. 

Democratic vice presidential candi­
date Joe Biden won another six-year 
term representing Delaware in the 
Senate. It became moot when Obama 
won the presidential election. 
Democratic Sen. Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, the only serious GOP target, won her re-election over Republican state treasurer John Kennedy. 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D­Nev., attributed the Democratic gains to Obama's coattails. 
"It's been a really good night," Reid said in an interview with The Associated Press. "Obama ran a terrific campaign, he inspired millions of peo­ple." 
McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, had been a target of national Democrats after leading successful fili­busters against much of their legislative agenda the past two years. He won re­election against two-time Democratic gubernatorial candidate Bruce Lunsford in a contentious race. 
"Winston Churchill once said that the most exhilarating feeling in life is to be shot at -and missed," McConnell said late Tuesday. "After the last few months, I think what he really meant to say is that there's nothing more exhausting." 
In a tight Mississippi contest, Republican Roger Wicker, defeated for­mer Democratic Gov. Ronnie Musgrove to serve another four years of the term originally won in 2006 by Lott. Wicker was appointed to the post temporarily after Lott stepped down. 
With Warner's victory in Virginia, Democrats now control both Senate seats and the governor's mansion. Virginia usually votes Republican in presidential elections, but Obama also won there Tuesday. 
Associated P.ress 

WASHINGTON -Democrats expanded 
their control of the House and pushed for 
historic gains in their majority Tuesday by 
solidifying their dominance in the 
Northeast and making inroads in the 
South and West. 
Ousting 22-year veteran Rep. Chris Shays in Connecticut gave Democrats every House seat from New England. Their victory in an open seat on New York's Staten Island gave them control of all of New York City's delegation in Washington for the first time in 35 years. 
Democrats also rode the coattails of a 
decisive victory by Barack Obama in New 
Mexico to win one House seat they 
haven't controlJed in four decades and 
another the GOP had held for 28 years. 
Both were left up-for-grabs by GOP retire­
ments. 

"Tonight, the American people have called for a new direction. They have called for change in America," said House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. Exit polls showed voters troubled by the battered economy and deeply dissatisfied with President Bush. 
Democrats unseated eight Republican incumbents and captured nine open GOP seats, capitalizing on the unusually high 29 Republican departures. Republicans were only able to knock off three Democratic incumbents. 
With less than three dozen races still undecided, Democrats had won 242 and were leading for another 14. Republicans had won 160 and were leading in 13. If those trends held, Democrats could have a net gain of 20 seats. And Republicans were on track for their smallest numbers since 1994, the year a Republican Revolution retook the House for the first time in 40 years:· 
The Democratic edge in the current Congress is 235-199 with one vacancy in a formerly Democratic seat. Two Louisiana seats, one Democratic and one Republican, won't be decided until December because hurricanes postponed 
,._ -­
their primaries until Tuesday. 
It was the first time in more than 7 5 
years that Democrats were headed for big 
House gains in back-to-hack elections. 
They picked up 30 seats in 2006. 
"This will be a wave upon a wave," 
Pelosi said. 
Republicans were licking their wounds 
and cheered themselves mostly .by the 
prospect that Democrats -now holding 
the White House and bigger House and 
Senate margins -might overreach and 
position the GOP for gains in 2010. 
"We sort of got through this, we think, a little bit better than some people might have expected," said Rep. Tom Cole of Oklahoma, the head of the Republican House campaign committee. "Our worst days are behind us." 
Still, in the first sign of what promises to be a bitter round of GOP recriminations, Rep. Adam Putnam of Florida, the No. 3 Republican, told colleagues in a letter released near midnight that he was "reluctantly" stepping down from his post. 
In the northeast, GOP Reps. John R. "Randy" Kuhl of New York and Phil English of Pennsylvania were defeated. Democrat Eric Massa unseated Kuhl in New York's southern tier, and Kathy Dahlkemper, a 50-year-old mother of five, toppled English in a swing district of rural communities and old industrial steel towns in Pennsylvania's northwest corner. 
In Connecticut, Democrat Jim Himes, a Greenwich businessman, defeated Shays despite the Republican's highly publicized late criticism of McCain's presidential campaign. 
In upstate New York, former congres­sional statler Dan Maffei won election to succeed retiring GOP Rep. Jim Walsh, becoming first Democrat in nearly 30 years to represent the district around Syracuse. Downstate, Democratic city councilman Mike McMahon won the race on Staten Island to succeed GOP Rep. Vito -Fossella, R-N.Y., who was forced to resign amid drunk driving charges and revela­tions that he fathered a child from an extramarital affair. 
ELECTION 2008: REACTION AROUND THE GLOBE 

r 
I 
I 
I 
I 
!" 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 The Observer • IN FOCUS page 12 
I~ 
~ 
I 
.., 
,! 
. \ 
; 
I 
I 
; \ 
:t 
~ 
•.­
I 
i 
f \ 
' 
t r 
,I 
" 
I\ 
........ 
I' 
Itij 
l 
i •
t 
l I. 
l 
1 
1 
OUTSIDE COLUMN 
Global 
appeal 

Ten months ago, I was standing in line for the coat check at a posh London club when a man tapped me on the shoulder. 
He'd heard my American accent and wanted to get my opinion: Who did I think would win the Democratic 
Kaitlynn Rlely 
primary, Clinton or Obama? His curiosity sur­Associate prised me, and not 
News Editor 
just because it was a serious inquiry in a shadowy night club, a place where the men all wore skinny jeans, "The B­52's" (you know them, they sang Love Shack) were deejaying and we'd heard rumors that Peaches, the British socialite, was in the building. 
I've paid little attention to elections that happen in other countries, but in pubs and parks, in line for shawarma and on the Tube, Londoners asked me about my thoughts on the dramatic race for the American presidency. 
They weren't just being friendly. Elections in the United States attract the attention of the citizens of the world, because the outcome of the Nov. 4 election has a global impact. 
When I left the United States last January for London, I was worried I would be disconnected from the excit­ing races for the Democratic and Republican nominations. But an ocean away, news about the debates, the pri­maries and the speeches were front page news as well. 
"It's just like 'West Wing,"' one woman told me. But Aaron Sorkin's creation never got ratings this good. 
The world watched as Hillary Clinton made it closer to the presiden­tial nomination on a major party ticket than any woman ever had before her. They saw John McCain, a former Vietnam prisoner of war, capture the Republican nomination, and months later, they saw him pick Gov. Sarah Palin to be the first woman on the Republican Party presidential ticket. The world watched a black man accept the Democratic Party's nomination, in a country where slavery existed only 150 years ago. 
In January, the man in the queue said he didn't think Americans would ever elect a black man to the highest office in the land. And he didn't think Americans would elect a woman to the executive branch, either. 
But the long presidential campaign has produced many surprises, and, regardless of the winner, he would have been wrong today. On Election Day, Americans crossed a threshold, and the front pages of the Telegraph in London, I.e Monde in Paris, The \1oscow Times. and papers from Argentina to Thailand will tell the great story of the election. a story that is only possible in the United States of America. 
It was illuminating to S(~e the election from abroad, but I'm glad to be a long way from the nightclub queue. 
The people I met in London were just watching the election story. We lived it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
Jenn Metz Aaron Steiner John Tierney Joseph McMahon ~fary Jesse 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE HIGHLIGHT OF ELECTION DAY? 
"That my home state of Alabama voted the right 

small Irish town Tuesday that was home to an ancestor of Barack Obama, drinking to his hoped-for victory in the US presidential vote. 
Knocking back Guinness and dancing to Irish music, the party at Ollie Hayes's Bar was in full swing hours before the results were due from Tuesday's White House face-off betwt~en the Democrat and Republican John McCain. 
American flags and cam­paign boards spelling out Obama's slogan were dotted around the pub, where locals -one wearing an Obama t­shirt -watched coverage of the election on television. 
Two "Welcome to Obama Country" billboards have gone up at either side of Moneygall, a town of 250 in County Offaly, central Ireland, that hopes Obama will visit if he wins. 
"Senator Obama's connec­tion goes back six genera­tions, to when his ancestor Fulmuth KParney emigrated" in 1850, said Church of Ireland Cannon Stephen Neill on Monday. 
"There is a lot of excite­ment in the area," Neill added. 
The entire Kearney family has emigrated from the area, though some cousins by mar­riage still live locally. Gone, too, is the Kearney family shoe shop, with remaining traces of the building demol­ished three years ago. 
About 34 million people in 
,, 
way. 
Kyle Mahoney 
sophomore Anselme 

ELECTION OFFBEAT 
Determined Texas woman votes while in ambulance 
SAN ANTONIO -Betty Owen is 92 and after a stroke four years ago, needs a feed­ing tube and can't walk. But she was determined not to miss Tuesday's election. She arrived at her polling place on a gurney in an ambulance, where an election judge and support worker climbed aboard with an electronic voting machine and let her cast her ballot. 
"And you have voted," precinct judge Sam Green said after Owen pushed the red button finalizing her choices. "You know, you look so pretty in that red dress." 
Owen grinned, the San Antonio Express-News reported in Tuesday's online edition. 
Her daughter arranged for the ambulance ride at the last minute after Owen failed to get an absentee ballot. 
Owen, a Marine Corps vet­eran who served in World War II, cast her first ballot for Wendell Willkie, a Republican running against Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940. 
She became a Democrat after voting for John Kennedy in 1960. She cast a straight Democratic ballot Tuesday. 
Obama-linked town cele­brates while awaiting results 
MONEYGALL, Ireland ­More than 100 people packed into the local pub of this the United States claim Irish heritage, and past presidents Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan and John Kennedy all had Irish roots. 
Desperate Obama fans barter for Chicago rally tick­ets 
CHICAGO -Obama sup­porters are offering to trade everything from math tutor­ing to massage therapy for a ticket to the Democratic pres­idential hopeful's sold-out victory rally in Chicago Tuesday. 
The Obama campaign has done its best to prevent sal.es of the free tickets by requir­ing supporters who managed to sign up for the 65,000 passes to show photo identifi­cation. 
But there is no name attached to the "plus one" part of the ticket which allows ticket-holders to bring a friend, and scores of people are capitalizing on their luck. 
Sam Cooper offered his . extra ticket on the online website Craigslist to anyone willing to hand over the keys to "an old running car for my son." 
"I have a teenage son who'll need a car soon, as long as the car you have is in running condition and is not a complete clunker, we can do business," the ad said. 
Reached by AFP on Monday evening, Cooper said he has had a number of interesting ofl'ers -including "very polite offers of sex" which he had no interest in -but hasn't decided who to give the ticket to yet. 
He also posted an ad offer­ing the ticket to a "Bible­thumping Christian" and said in an email, "I have 'faith' in some more crazy answers about their religion." 
Some people are using their tickets to try to find lovn, or even a job while oth­ers are simply looking for cold. hard cash. 
One person with two pass­es to the rally in Chicago's downtown Grant Park offered to sell the two "plus one" spots for 1,000 dollars. 
"No sob stories need apply -we're saving to put 3 kids through college, so I don't need to hear about your stu­dent loans and how you can only afford 20 dollars," the ad said. 
The big prices have ofl'end­ed a number of people, whose angry rebukes can be found scattered through the more than 600 posts linked to Obama. 
One person gave their location as "Lef'tout" and wrote, 'This is seriously dist­gusting (sic) Especially where there are volunteers like myself and others who can't even get it." 
About a million people who were unable to get tick­ets to the rally are expected to make their way to the sprawling lakefront park on Tuesday night. City officials have promised to try to accommodate them. 
----------~--------------------------------------------~---­
•
-


ELECTION 2008 
Some students experience ID problems at polls 
Over 40 voters encounter identification difficulties at Legends, an on-campus polling location; 6 to 8 were turned away 

By AARON STEINER  tions about proper identifica­tion needed to vote.  residency," Fennel said. "So that was frustrating, because  
News Writer  "The law is strict and clear  he actually called, and they  
that you need a federal or  told him wrong information."  
Students made their way to  Indiana-issued ID to vote in  The situation especially  
the polls Tuesday at Legends  Indiana," said Mark Fennel, a  affects students from out of  
of Notre Dame, where Norman  law student volunteering at  state, Fennel said.  
Chadwick, Precinct Director,  the polls.  "It's a pretty targeted law,"  
said a steady stream of people  John Lehner, Precinct Sheriff  he said.  
voted throughout the day.  for the district that includes  Many were discouraged by  
"There were about 14, 15  Notre Dame's campus, said by  the situation, Fennel said, but  
people in line at 6 a.m.,"  4 p.m., around 45 to 50 people  Lehner said only a few voters  
Chadwick said, and while  had encountered problems  became particularly irritated.  
there were rarely lines, "all  with having insufficient identi­ "This one girl, she left here  
six booths [were] always full."  fication, with many students  with big crocodile tears,"  
"There's never been a time  bringing out of state IDs.  Lehner said, after the girl was  
when there's no voters in  Fennel said that he encoun­ not able to cast her first vote  
those booths," he said around  tered one student who was  after turning 18.  
4 p.m. Tuesday.  misinformed by officials about  Lehner said there are a few  
Most voters cast their ballots  regulations regarding identifi­ ways to fix the problem.  
successfully, but election offi­ cation.  Voters can get the proper ID  
cials and volunteers at the  "There was one student who  -or a copy of the ID -or  
polling location said some  actually called the county reg­ obtain an Indiana issued ID  
ANDREW WEBER/The uosonvRr Former Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps, far right, casts his ballot at Legends of Notre Dame Tuesday.  encountered problems stem­ming from misunderstandings because of Indiana's regula­ istration office, and the county actually told him that a Texas ID would work with a proof of  card at the Bureau of Motor see POLLS/page 3  

.. 
After casting his ballot at Legends Nov. 4, former Notre DamP basketball coach Richard "Digger" Phelps told The ObsPrver while voting is important, he says the nation desperately needs to refocus attention to the issues that matter. 
"We are so out of focus about the real issues," Phelps said. 
Phelps is no stranger to the political realm, having served in President George Bush's administration in 1992 and 1993 as special assistant to 
Digger talks politics 
the Executive Office of the want, and h~re's a cap on in the United States," he President for National Drug what you guys can spend." added. Control Policy. Phelps cited the high cost of He tied this to incarceration 
Phelps' criticized the cur­Obama's Election Night rally rates. rent campaign cycle, calling it in Chicago's Grant Park, cost­"80 percent of those in our "out of control." He specifical­ing $1.5 million. He said the federal, state and local pris­ly called for caps on campaign money spent during cam­ons are high school dropouts. spending. paigns would be better spent If we're dropping out a mil­
"After seeing both Obama addressing some of the chal­lion kids a year ... that's and McCain spend a billion lenges facing the country. 800,000 kids a year getting dollars in this campaign," "The fact that [Obama] ready for the prisons," he Phelps said. "Why don't we, spent a half million on a half said. the people, say, look ... have hour of television last week, Yet politicians find it neces­the Republican Convention, and the kids in Chicago don't sary to spend massive the Democratic Convention, have textbooks," Phelps said. amounts of money to get into pick a candidate, give us two "Every 26 seconds we're office, while the real issues months to decide which we losing a kid out of high school get pushed to the side, Phelps said. 
"A billion dollars for this campaign? And what do they do? All the ads are negative," Phelps said. 
However the campaigns might be run, though, Phelps said that voting is an integral part of preserving American freedom. 
"We live for one reason in this country -freedom, and people forget at times," he said. "We vote for freedom. We vote to protect the red, white, and blue, the flag." 
-Aaron Steiner 

ELECTION 2008 
Area GOP reacts to McCain loss, criticizes campaign 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 
At St. Joseph County's Hepublkan Party Headquarters Tuesday night, the evening hit a high point when West Virginia was called for Sen. John McCain_ But that ended up being one of the few moments of celebration for the over 200 people in attendance. 
The evening soon turned sour for the Republicans, as soon-to­be president-elect Barack Obama continued to pile up electoral votes and culminated when a cam­eraman had to encourage those in attendance to appear exeited for a live shot. 
Early in the night, eat­ing sloppy joe's on tables adorned with red, white and blue tablecloths, attendees, like sopho­more Ashley Meklis, found reason for opti­mism, suggesting that pre-election polls, which mostly favored Obama, used older methods not adapted to newer voting techniques. 
"I definitely expect an interesting night," she said. ''I'm really hesitant to trust the polls, because of all the people who've turned out." 
Taylor Wilson, a first­year Ia w student, had worked as a poll chal­lenger earlier in the day to ensure that voting reg­ulations were followed. Having sensed Obama was gaining widespread support at her precinct, ' she was not so hopeful. 
see GOP/page 6 
ELECTION 2008 
South Bend Democrats celebrate win in community 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
"Yes we did!" was the resounding ery at the West Side Democratic Club in South Bend as Barack Obama was elected as the 44th president of the United States. 
"This is historic. Great. Thi'i is the United States of America," said Alvin Levy, a South Bend resident. "We came together to elect an African-American, an American, as president of the United States of Ameriea." 
"This is everything that America stands for," Levy, a former Air Force reservist, said. "The United States has its mission sup­ported by all its people. That mission is to be the leader of the free world. I'm proud to be an Ameriean." 
Obama's election is "amazing and hard to put into words," according to Notre Dame College Democrats co-president Spencer Howard. "There are so many people around the country have been inspired by what he has brought to the table." 
Marilyn Florey-Krecina, an area resident who is not a United States citizen, was equally thrilled by Obama's election. 
"I am absolutely exhila­rated," she said. "He's going to be an amazing presidf'nt." 
Maxine Cra\\ford was in tears following Obama's vie tory. 
"I am so happy and so proud that we have elected a man who has compas­
see DEMOCRATS/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Stay politically active 
Up until recently, I'll admit, the only real politics I wa<> interested in were fictional. 
I have seen every episode of The West Wing-logging many hours watching C.J. Cregg's press conferences, President Josiah Bartlet's States of the Union and senior staffers' policy debates. 
However, breaking national news aside, I didn't really feel the urge to watch the Jenn Metz characters' real-life counterparts in the News Editor 
Bush administration on C-SPAN. I was appalled at myself to find, in attempting to answer a question at a trivia night, I could not name those next in the presidential line of succession after Cheney, something I could have done in a heartbeat if I was asked about the Bartlet White House. 
So, I may not be the ideal politically-active and politically-informed citizen. But, when it became time for me to observe my civic duty and vote for our nation's next president, my personal involvement in national politics increased dramatically. I found myself, for example checking Politico instead of re­watching another box set. 
The rest of the country, the people on this campus included, it seems, has followed s4it. 
This election has done wonders for our national culture -introducing new catch­phrases like "Gotcha" and "Change," reminding U.S. citizens of our proximity to Russia and boosting "30 Rock's" Nielson rat­ings. 
It's also made us active. It's made us pa.•;­sionate. And it's made us really think about the candidates and their platf()rms. 
We've been bombarded with all sorts of media coverage -factual, editorialized and satirical -about the election and its play­ers. Like most of America, I sat through about 12, horrible segments of SNL's "Magruber" sketches to see Tina Fey as Sarah Palin and Chris Parnell's eerily accu­rate impersonation of Tom Brokaw. 
While watching last Saturday's episode, a commercial addressed both my own tenden­cies toward political apathy and the nation's iodination to get very excited about politics only when politics are very exciting. 
The commercial a'iked, "What will you be thinking about Nov. 5?" 
Nov. 5-today-does mark a turning point in our nation's history, and also, in our nation's mindset. 
For the next few days, weeks, months, the media will still focus on politics -analyzing the election outcomes and the next adminis­tration's transition into the White House. 
But slowly, the regular news cycle will return, and the dialogue about the issues that decided this election will change back to dialogue about celebrity baby names, the new vampire movie coming out and whatev­er fantasy sport is in season. 
The percentage of us that watch the news, that regularly read newspapers, and that tune in for SNL, will decrea<>e, and soon. The current problems, however, will not disap­pear just because we stop watching them on 
T.V. 

Being politically active doesn't have to be popular only during election season. As col­lege students, we will personally feel the effects of the changes that may or may not be made by the new administration, and our elected representatives can continue to hear our voice if we take the time to make it heard. 
Keep the conversation going. Keep watch­ing 30 Rock. And keep thinking about the issues -today on Nov. 5 and afterwards. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact Jenn Metz atjmetz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times.""''e do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU WRITE IN FOR PRESIDENT? 





Casey Englebert Jeannine Decanantonio 
senior off-campus 
"'Fergie. ,, 
senior Howard 
"'Sr. Katherine.,, 


leeah Kohley Christopher Aguilar Jon Russ 
senior senwr Holy Cross off-campus Keough College 
"Leonardo from "Michael "Ronald the Ninja Dukakis Reagan. He was Turtles because because he a great he·s a leader. ,, would honestly president.·· 
provide for this country. ,, 

NICK SIMONSON/The Observer Notre Dame senior Nick Krafft speaks to a South Bend resident while canvassing neighborhoods for Barack Obama on Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 

92-year-old Texas woman votes In ambulance 
SAN ANTONIO -Betty Owen is 92 and after a stroke four years ago, needs a feeding tube and can't walk. But she was determined not to miss Tuesday's election. She arrived at her polling place on a gurney in an ambulance, where an election judge and support worker climbed aboard with an electronic voting machine and let her cast her ballot. 
"And you have voted," precinct judge Sam Green said after Owen pushed the red button finalizing 
WEDNESDAY 
0:: 
11.1 
:::r:: 
~ 
11.1 
3: 
..J 
ct 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 72
.... 

LOW 50 
her choices. "You know, you look so pretty in that red dress." 
Owen grinned, the San Antonio Express-News reported in Tuesday's online edition. 
Her daughter arranged for the ambulance ride at the last minute after Owen failed to get an absentee ballot. 
Son allegedly attacks mom in Myspace attercation 
HAYDEN, Idaho-An 18-year-old Hayden, Idaho, man was accused of stabbing his mother after she forbade him to use the Internet social networking site MySpace. The man was arrested last week for investigation of aggravated assault after his mother said he cut her wrist. 
The mother said she confronted her 6-foot-2, 320-pound son, after which he became aggra­vated and packed his belongings to leave their home. 
Police said he pulled a black and silver knife from his pocket as his mother tried to take his cellular telephone charger from him. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH 62 HIGH 69 HIGH 52 LOW 40 LOW 47 LOW 34 
the Crossroads Gallery (Notre Dame Downtown, 217 S. Michigan Street, South Bend) on Thursday at 12:05 p.m. The event is for a free environmental film series. 
Frank Baseman will pres­ent a lecture sponsored by the Snite Museum of Art and the Department of Art, Art History, and Design on Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the museum. The main event on Thursday is free and open to the public. Baseman is on campus to meet with and critique the works of design students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-m ail detailed inform a­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 43 HIGH 40 LOW 33 LOW 31 
Atlanta 74 I 45 Boston 63 I 49 Chicago 75 I 56 Denver 43 I 30 Houston 84 I 65 Los Angeles 72 I 52 Minneapolis 68 I 53 New York 62 I 53 Philadelphia 64 I 53 Phoenix 75 I 54 Seattle 51 I 43 St. Louis 80 I 57 Tampa 79 I 57 Washington 63 I 55 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ELECTION 2008 
Election night unfolds at Notre Dame 
Observer writers visit election watches at ND, SMC and off campus to gather student reactions to coverage 
coverage. Everyone seemed to
By BECKY HOGAN and 
be working hard, so we contin­EMMA DRISCOLL 
ued on to the LaFortune
News Writers Student Center. 
After the first polls started 8:40p.m. closing in the east, we decided Once we arrived at to experience the election scene LaFortune, we saw that Obama at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's had 102 electoral votes and to see how students would react McCain had 34. The gap was to the results widening. of the general Freshmen election C a v a
'"I've been a n a u g h 
throughout Hannan and
supporter ofSenator
the night. Nathan SergioObama and were watching the 8:15p.m. election coverage
everything is going 
We started for a few minutes
according to schedule
at Reekers and at a table in found a hand­I guess.,, LaFortune. Both ful of students planned to contin­watching the ue watching on
Sy Doan

early election their laptops
student

results on the throughout the TVs there. The night. first two states Sergio said that had announced their results: the race was going pretty much Sen. John McCain won eight as he expected. electoral votes in Kentucky and Although Hannan said noth­Sen. Barack Obama has secured ing would surprise him from the three from Vermont. election, he was amused by the 
CoJlege Democrats member initial uncertainty over Texas. Sy Doan was taking in some of "(I'm] still in shock that Texas the election coverage while is pretending to be blue for a working at Reekers and he was while ... I think it's funny," optimistic that the night would Hannan said. pan out the way he hoped. Sergio said that either candi­
"I like what I'm seeing," he date could have won the elec­said. "I've been a supporter of tion, and that a winner would Senator Obama and everything be determined by the end of the is going according to schedule I night. guess." Hannan said he felt a bit more 
Doan said he thought the gap certain about what the night between the two candidates would bring. would be slightly closer than "I've had a feeling since the the polls showed, but that the primaries that Obama would results would be clear as the win that I couldn't shake," night unfolded. Hannan said. 
"I think Obama is going to win by a healthy margin," Doan 9:10p.m. said. "I definitely don't think it We heard that there was an will come down to the wire." election watch in Cavanaugh, 
and wanted to check it out. 8:35p.m. There were about 20 girls gath­
We stopped at the Coleman ered in the social space watch­Morse Lounge and found stu­ing the coverage on CNN dents studying with both televi­together. sions displaying the election "I think [the elections] are 
Polls 
continued from page I 
card at the Bureau of Motor Vehicles by surrendering an out of state driver's license. If identification cannot be obtained, citizens do have the option of filling out a provi­sional ballot. 
"I try to give them as many options as possible," Lehner said. "I just want to see them vote." 
Lehner said of the 40-plus people with improper identi­fication, he estimated that only six to eight people were turned away. Fennel said more than 20 people filled out provisional ballots. 
"Most of them came back with proper ID," Lehner said. 
Provisional baJlots are not 
counted on Election Day, and the voter must go to the county election board within 10 days with proper identifi­cation to get their ballots counted. 
"The provisional balloting procedure is complex. You really don't want to vote pro­visional if you can possibly help it," Chadwtck said. 
Colin Fath, a Notre Dame senior, said he had to fill out a provisional ballot and couldn't get necessary identi­fication in time to vote with a regular ballot. 
"I didn't have an Indiana issued ID, so [they] wouldn't accept my Michigan driver's license," he said. "I did go down to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles ... and the only thing they could do in time is give me a photo ID there. 
"Unfortunately if I did that, 
going well," freshman Maggie yet to visit the newest residence 
Fahrenbach said. hall on campus. It was a good 
As Obama supporters, thing we did beea use the Fahrenbach and freshman Highlanders were enjoying old Laura Wetterer agreed that American classics such as Obama's victory in Pennsylvania peanut butter and jelly sand­was "reassuring." wiches and root beer floats in 
They expected to know the their social space. results of the election by the Freshman Davin Sakamoto end of the night. had been keeping up with the 
"I think soon there will be [a election results for a few hours definitive answer] with the way and now the count was Obama things are going," Fahrenbach 195, McCain 90. said. Sakamoto said he was pleased 
Both liked CNN's coverage of with Obama's lead. the events and said that they "I think it's pretty cool that did not think that it had been we're going to make monumen­biased. tal change for our country's 
They said the group of resi­future," he said. dents they were watching the elections with seemed to be 9:40p.m. split between supporting Our election trail was about to Obama and McCain. take us to the home of the 
"No one's giving up yet and no Belles. This took some time, one's celebrating yet," however, since we had to Fahrenbach said. search for the 
On our way Saint Mary's back from '"We all expected it election watch. Cavanaugh, we Our sources
was going to be a
passed through told us that the LaFortune again little more close and event would and found sopho­hardly fought., take place in more Jackson Vander Vennet Bangs filling in Theatre in the
Siobhan Gordon 
the electoral col­basement of 
student
lege map he found the Student in Tuesday's Center, but by Observer as the the time we results came in. He said he had arrived, it had relocated to his "fingers crossed for LeMans Hall. Obama," but that he wished he Senior Andrea Ortiz had been had given more thought to vot­on a campaign traiJ of her own, ing in Indiana so his vote would as she had watched election have had more of an impact. coverage in three different 
"I wish I hadn't voted in New places throughout the day ­Jersey. I realize now how close the Multicultural Affairs Office it's going to be," he said. in the Student Center, Vander 
Regardless of where he voted Vennet Theater and finally in though, he was excited about LeMans. She said she contin­fulfilling his civic duty. ued to move because buildings 
"It's just really awesome for began to close for the night. this to the first presidential Senior Siobhan Gordon was election I'm voting in," Bangs surprised that Obama was tak­said. ing such a large lead in the 
election. 9:25p.m. "We all expected it was going We decided to venture out to to be a little more close and Duncan Hall since one of us had hard fought," she said. 
had to surrender my license, and I couldn't have driven myself home." 
Fath said he does not have a passport or any other form of federal identification. 
This isn't the first time Fath has had problems voting. 
"My initial thought was actually, 'Not again,"' he said. Fath said that Michigan residents are not allowed to vote absentee in their first election, which prevented him from voting in a previous election. Fath thought he would be able to vote in per­son in Indiana after register­ing, but he was unaware of the identification regulations. 
"I hadn't thought about it. If I really had paid attention, I probably would have read [about it]," he said. 
Freshman Mike Della Penna said he was fully aware of the 
laws about identification, but there was simply no way for him to get proper identifica­tion in time. 
Della Penna, originally from Illinois, said he registered in Indiana and attempted to get an Indiana-issued ID over fall break, but was unable to without surrendering his Illinois state driver's license. 
"That's the only way ... but I don't want to do it, because my driver's license is hooked up to my bank accounts [and car insurance]," Della Penna 
said.  
He  came  to  the  polls  
Tuesday expecting to  have  
problems voting.  

"I figured I'd at least go over there and try," he said. 
After discussing the prob­lems and "pleading his case," he walked out of the poll after filling out a provisional 
10:30 p.m. 
Since Obama had promised throughout his campaign to put "Main Street" first, and he was close to clinching the necessary 270 electoral votes, we headed to Main Street Pub in South Bend to find some students tak­ing in the results off campus. 
Playing pool with his friends, junior William Kemp said he had been watching Fox News and CNN closely, which brought election coverage discrepancies among different news networks to his attention. 
As a pre-medical student, Kemp said the greatest issue in this election was healthcare and he supported McCain for his healthcare policy. 
''I'm pre-med, and I think my career is on the line. For me, [it's] McCain as far as health­care," he said. 
11:00 p.m. 
We were about to wrap up our tour of the election, and decided to make one last ofT-campus stop to Lafayette Apartments. 
Senior Mike Folger was cele­brating the results with his roommates. 
"I assume Obama is going to win, and it's great to be on the right side of one of the most his­toric elections," Folger said. 
Folger also said he was disap­pointed with the election cover­age on the major news networks because he felt the "fancy graph­ics" and large number of ana­lysts distracted from the results of the election. 
"All we want to know is who is going to win," Folger said. 
Deadlines are calling -we have to cut our trip short. However, the results of this his­toric election will continue to be analyzed long into the night, and for weeks afterward. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu and Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
ballot. 
In researching the issue, Della Penna said he found Indiana has some of the strictest laws about voter identification. 
Freshman Raymond Fagan said he wasn't on the list of registered voters when he went to the poll Tuesday, which led him to fill out a provisional ballot. 
"I registered in Indiana, and I mailed it in on the date of the deadline," he said, but his registration material was­n't received in time. 
Fagan said he was still "definitely" going to go in to try to get his provisional bal­lot counted. 
"I just want to get my vote counted," he said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Wednesday, November 5, 2008

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group addresses game day arrests 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Wrirer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) decided that education is the key for students looking to secure their rights in dealing with police and ushers on football weekends at its meeting Tuesday._ 
Student Body President Bob Reish opened the floor for COR members to give their advice on how he should approach meet­ings with the Ad Hoc Committee to Review Campus Safety, Security, and Hospitality Protocols and Practices for Football Gamedays, which was convened by University President Fr. John Jenkins. · 
Rci'ih has been selected as the student representative for the committee. 
COR members expressed a gen­eral feeling that there is a lack of information on what the rules are and that there are major differ­ences in how rules are enforced by individual ushers and at differ­ent games. 
"There's a lack of information regarding the law," student body vice president Grant Schmidt said. "That's a very tangible role for us to fill by informing them what is legitimate and what is not." 
Schmidt said there are two issues in regard to law enforce­ment before the football games when students enter the stadium and when they are at tailgates in parking lots. 
Sophomore class president Cynthia Weber said that informa­tion is critical. She also suggests including alcohol related policies in the dissemination of informa­tion to student.<>. 
"Students don't know exactly what the rules are off-campus and on-campus," she said. She attributed this general ignorance to the fact that most students are not from the Michiana area. 
"We need to cause understand­ing because there's a lot of mis­understanding," Weber said. 
COR advisor Amy Geist agreed that information is important, but said student government must be careful in how they disseminate information to students. 
"You don't want to present it as you're the authority of everything in the spectrum," she said. 
She also cautioned students about the ramifications of alumni withholding donations because they are upset about alcohol­related arrests. 
"Think about your experience as a student and as an alum as being greater than football," Geist said. 
COR also discussed the newly­formed Off-Campus Safety Committee, which will be chaired by Off-Campus President Billy Lyman. 
''We need to show students that we are dealing with this prob­lem," he said. "Show them that we are dealing with it immediate­ly, and we are dealing with it tan­gibly." 
Lyman said that the committee hopes to find ways to better inform students about safety con­cerns. He hopes to establish an off-campus listserv and schedule events with the South Bend Police that will inform students on how to stay safe off-campus. 
Lyman also hopes to establish a database that will track student safety incidents and the police response with these incidents. 
'This database is an immediate solution but we're going to keep it going all year and it will help us figure out long term solutions," Lyman said. "A-, long as we keep it going, it will definitely help." 
The committee's first meeting will occur Wednesday. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd.edu 
College celebrates women in politics 
By EMILY DABISH 
News Writer 
In recognition of the political season, the Cushwa-Leighton Library at Saint Mary's has dis­played a collection of memora­bilia representing the transfor­mative nature of women's role in politics. Consisting mainly of but­tons, the Joyce Shell collection includes pieces from the 1940's convention to the current race. 
Saint Mary's librarian Joyce Shell began the collection of memorabilia when her husband took her to political conventions. After visiting a few her interest in political memorabilia grew and she found particular interest in pins relating to women in poli­tics. 
The buttons show women's ambition, suffrage and contribu­tion. It also shows the progress of women in government. 
There are many buttons from various women's rights organiza­tions and issues including wonwn's rights, voting and equal pay as well as political parties. 
"These presented issues help to start an investigation," Saint Mary's librarian Robert Hohl said. 
Some buttons illustrate events that aren't commonly known, like women who ran for presi­dency before they even had the right to vote. Others show more widely acknowledged move­ments, such as women rebelling against inequality during the Women's Rights Movement. 
One of the earliest buttons, stating "Edith Not Eleanor," dates to the candidacy of Franklin D. Roosevelt. The but­ton not only shows thn support of Roosevelt's opposition, but also signifies the influence the first lady has in a presidential cam­paign. 
Other buttons show support of First Lady's Hilary Clinton, Nancy Reagan, and Barbara Bush. 
Several buttons asked for the First Lady to "pack up the white house" as though the old candi­date was going tak(~ everything with him. 
I Iohl explained such an idea is 


Health Care for the World's Poorest; 
Is Voluntary (Private) 
Health Insurance An Option? 

November 6, 2008 at5:00p.. m .. 
Spon5ored t;,y the Department of Economic5 and Policy Studie5 and the Poverty Studie5lnterdi5ciplinary Minor 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 


Jo.Rques van d€'r 
Gaag is a Ob=.tlnguis.h<P.d VIsiting Fellow tn the-Gtobal Et·onomy c\t\d ().@V@.Iopt'O@nt Proqram at: the Brooktngs tn"StittllP., Wa.,hingt,>n DC. Hh. research Interests include the ~.onornks tlf h~alth, education economics, poverty, 

and soc.ial poBde-~ HP h<'t!<> publjshed widely in refereed journals and book!., and served on thoe e-ditorial board of th~ .lourn~l of Human Resources, the Jou•·nal of Health Economic:s... the World Bank E.conomtc. Review, and 1he Lan<.•t. H• is. co­found~r and c:o-director of the Anuterdam ln:5otitut~ to.. international Developf'Tllle'nt. and senior economk: H~dvi"i.or of the Health lnsut..Ul<.'e Fund. He <."unently holds the position of Dist1ngui-s.hed Visiting fellow of the Brookings Institution In Wa:~~hington, where he 
studies international hl!!atth care-financing as wen as the ec:onorni<: cons.~ue-n<.es of AIDS. 
very relevant in the latest presi­dential race, and that some dis­played slogans are still current. For instance Shirley Crisholm, a black politician who ran for presidency in the 70's, used the 
slogan a "catalyst for ehange", which is reminiscent of Barack Obama. 
Certain pieces in the collection conveyed a sense of humor, one referring to Hilary Clinton as the "wicked witch of the west wing" and another to Barbara Bush as "first mama." 
Contact Emily Dabish at edabisO I @sain tmarys.edu 


Wednesday, November 5, 2008 Co~\t\PILED FRO/v\ THE OBSERVER'S \\'IRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fears rise of more Congo warfare 
GOMA, Congo -Congo's warring rivals traded accusations Tuesday that Angola, Zimbabwe and Rwanda are mobilizing forces to fight in Congo, as the prime minister flew into this besieged city to assess weeks of fighting that has displaced a quarter million people. 
The accusations of foreign involvement, reminiscent of a disastrous 1998-2002 war that drew in eight African nations, stoked fears of a wider conflict in this mineral-rich nation. 
The fighting has forced tens of thousands of refugees to struggle through the country­side with what belongings they can carry. Tropical rainstorms, which drench eastern Congo every day, add to their misery. 
On Tuesday, downpours sent refugees lucky enough to have shelter rushing to tents and huts made of woven banana leaves, while others huddled under plastic sheeting as they trudged through the thick red mud. 
Iraqi views mixed on US election 
BAGHDAD -Wasan Salah hopes Barack Obama will win the presidency because "he wants to withdraw the troops." An Iraqi Christian woman thinks he will too ­and so she's rooting for John McCain. 
Iraqis have nearly as big a stake in Tuesday's presidential contest as Americans, since the new president will face tough decisions on how to draw down 
U.S. 
forces without sacrificing security gains and vital American interests in the Middle East. 

Many Iraqis are eager to see an end to a 

U.S. 
military presence they consider for­eign occupation; American officials insist the troops are here to defend the Iraqi people against terrorists. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Arrows only for donated venison 
BISMARCK, N.D.-A North Dakota program that distributes venison to the needy will accept only deer killed with arrows, fearing that frrearm-shot meat may contain lead fragments. 
"We're calling out to bow hunters to spend a little more time in the tree stand," said Ann Pollert, executive director of the North Dakota Community Action Partnership, which adminis­ters the Sportsmen Against Hunger Program. 
Officials in North Dakota and other states have warned about eating venison killed with lead ammunition since the spring, when a physician conducting tests using a CT scanner found lead in samples of donated deer meat. 
Sister to testify that stepdad beat girl 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -Prosecutors in Massachusetts say the younger sister of a girl who suffered a severe brain injury will testifY that her stepfather pushed the child down a flight of stairs. 
Prosecutors made the revelation during open­ing statements Tuesday in Springfield for the trial of 34-year-old Jason Strickland, who i'> charged in the 2005 beating of his stepdaughter Haleigh Poutre. 
Strickland's lawyer says Strickland believed the claims of his wife, Holli, who told him Haleigh caused her own injuries. 
Haleigh, then 11, was comatose after suffering the injury. Her case led to a right-to-die battle, and she was nearly removed from life support before she suddenly began breathing on her own. She remains in a rehabilitation center. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Ticket splitting an election issue 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indiana's reputation for ticket splitting is a cause for worry for the can­didates for attorney general and schools super­intendent, two races in which longtime incum­bents aren't seeking re-election. 
The candidates have run commercials and held debates in an effort to grab voters' atten­tion in a year dominated by the races for presi­dent and governor. 
But the outcome of Tuesday's election will be influenced, at least in part, by what happens on the larger stage, said James McCann, a political science professor at Purdue University. 
Israel launches airstrike against Gaza 
Fighting erup~s on Israeli-Palestinian border for the first time since June truce 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY -Israel 
launched an airstrike on 
Gaza early Wednesday 
after its troops clashed 
with Hamas militants who 
fired mortars into Israel, 
leaving six Palestinians 
dead. It was the first bat­
tle since a June truce 
mostly quieted violence in 
the volatile territory. 
The Israeli army said the clashes erupted late Tuesday after its forces uncovered a tunnel in central Gaza that mili­tants planned to use to abduct Israeli soldiers. It said a special army unit headed to the area to destroy the tunnel. One Palestinian was killed in fierce gunbattles that ensued. 
Hamas then fired mor­tars across the Gaza bor­der into southern Israel and Israel answered with the airstrike in the early hours of Wednesday, killing five suspected Palestinian militants, Israeli and Palestinian officials said. The army said the airstrike aimed at the mortar launchers and hit them. 
The clashes threatened to unravel the cease-fire between Israel and Palestinian militant groups reached in June after months of indirect negotiations. The deal halted a deadly cycle of Palestinian rocket attacks Taber Nunu, a Hamas a "ticking tunnel," which Moaiya Hassanain, a and Israeli reprisals, government spokesman, was about to be used to Palestinian Health though sporadic rocket said the group considered abduct an Israeli soldier. Ministry official, said the attacks on southern Israel the Israeli airstrike a vio­The official, who spoke on initial gunbattles killed have persisted. lation of the truce. condition of anonymity one Palestinian and 
There has been only one "This is a serious breach because of the sensitive wounded three, including other fatality since the of the truce understand­nature of the matter, said one woman. Residents truce, in July when Israeli ings reached through the tunnel was dug from identified the man killed troops shot and killed a Egyptian mediation," he inside a Gaza home and as a Hamas militant. teenage Palestinian mili­said in an e-mail message showed that Hamas was Hassanain said rescue tant along the border with to reporters. "We consider using civilians for cover. officials were having a Gaza. this the most serious in a The official said Israel hard time reaching the 
The Islamic militant string of breaches." did not intend to break site of the fighting and Hamas, which controls The Israeli army the truce, noting that getting precise informa­Gaza, quickly vowed claimed the move against some 60 mortar have been tion on casualties. revenge. the tunnel did not violate fired since the cease-fire Israel has maintained a 
"Our response will be the truce, but instead was and Israel has chosen not blockade of Gaza, where harsh, and the enemy will a legitimate step to to respond. 1.4 million Palestinians play a heavy price," remove an immediate llamas also insisted it live, since Hamas overran Hamas said in a statement threat. had not violated the truce the territory in June 2007, on its military wing's Web A top military official and was acting to prevent seizing it by force from site. said troops had discovered an Israeli incursion. the rival Fatah faction. 

Budgetwoes hit police, health services 
Bloomberg did not give details on next June, and additional cuts of 5 
Associated Press 

his budget plan at a news confer­percent the following year. 
NEW YORK -New York City will ence Tuesday but said he would Those are targeted to save $500 cancel the police academy's next likely ask for a "slowdown, but not million this year and $1 billion in class, cut hundreds of jobs and really for a meltdown." fiscal 2010. close dental clinics for poor chil­"We don't know just how deep this The plans include canceling the dren to trim its budget amid an eco­recession is going to go or for how January 2009 police academy class, nomic crisis, a city official said long," he said. which means that approximately Tuesday. For now, his update will show that 1,100 would-be cadets will not 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg will the city faces budget gaps of $4 bil­enter the six-month program as announce those cuts and others lion this fiscal year and next, the planned. The next class would begin Wednesday when he gives an administration official said. in July 2009. update on the $59 billion budget, an To help bridge those deficits, Canceling an academy class is an administration official said. The Bloomberg asked all city agencies in unusual move. Past mayors have official spoke on condition of September to come up with their delayed the start of a class by a few anonymity because the update had own plans to cut spending by 2.5 months and then accelerated later not been officially announced. percent this fiscal year, which ends classes. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
GOP 
continued from page 1 
Obama was gaining widespread support at her precinct, she was not so hopeful. 
"People seem hopeful but not overly optimistic, at least from my perspective," she said. "I mean, it's a long shot." 
A trash-barrel sized red ele­phant, which sat on the podi­um, was soon removed so County Republican Chairman Chris Riley could host the evening. 
Despite many local candidates taking the podium to give con­cession speeches, Riley remained optimistic throughout the evening. 
"We all believe the same things, we're all in touch and we're coming back," he said. "Eat, drink and be Republican." 
About 10 members of the College Republicans were on hand to lend support to their party. 
Treasurer Stephen Bant said that an unusually close presi­dential race in Indiana did not 

out the flaws of Barack Obama," she said. 
President Edward Yap said Obama has a brilliant campaign manager who is adept at giving minority candidates an appeal­ing economic message. 
"I think he should have had Karl Rove," Yap said of McCain. 
The officers also questioned the effectiveness of McCain's message. Compared to Obama, they said that McCain did not convey his ideas well. While Obama's sound bytes of "hope and change" resonated with many Americans, they said that McCain's "country first" slogan never took off. 
"There's a level of brain washing that exists in America," said Hatstrom, who argued that many people are unaware of the policies behind Obama's slogans. 
Bant was also critical of the McCain campaign's strategy early in the race. 
"I don't think the campaign laid the right ground work," he said. "A lot of organization did­n't get done because the cam­paign was so decentralized." 
They also expressed their 

concern about the future of the country. 
Saying that there were limits to diplomacy, Hatstrom said that Obama could make major missteps in foreign policy. 
"I feel that he's so inexperi­enced that it's going to be dan­gerous for our country," she said. 
When asked about the future of the Republican Party with the Democrats poised to win both the Presidency and majori­ties in Congress, Yap, alluding to former Republican Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, said that the party "needs to find a new contract with America." 
Yap, however, expressed opti­mism about the future of the GOP. 
"I don't think the Republican Party is dead at all," he said. "We're still going to remain pro-life, fiscally responsible, for small government, and pro-sec­ond amendment. Those are val­ues that a majority of Americans believe in." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

Democrats 
continued from page 1 
compassion," Crawford said. "We are going to do a lot better, but it's going to take everybody to help." 
"Color isn't an issue anymore," she said. 
Crawford was happy that she was able to see an African­American be elected president. 
"Martin Luther King is very happy. We've seen that he's like a prophet. His dream came true," she said. "I am proud to be an American. I've always been proud to be an American, but especially so today." 
Paul Grzeszczyk, a 75-year old union member who grew up in New Carlisle, Ind., and has lived in the area all his life, is, like Crawford, most impressed by the historic moment of putting an African-American in the White House. 
"I didn't think in my lifetime I would see a black president," Grzeszczyk, whose ancestors were Polish immigrants, said. "When I was growing up, I remember New Carlisle (had a strong Ku Klux Klan base]. They came in front of the Church and bode well for local candidates hoping to ride a wave of sup­port for McCain. 
"With it being a tight race in Indiana, there isn't going to be a coattail effect," he said. 
A Democrat hasn't won Indiana in a presidential elec­
burned crosses. We went to the Church making sure the Church wasn't burned down. And the KKK came on horseback hooded under their wives' and grand­mothers' skirts." 
David Janes, a Notre Dame graduate from 1970 and a local activist, said he was happy about the winds of change that Obama's election signifies. 
"There are a lot of people in this room who are trying to change the hopelessness," Janes said. 
"We got everybody to close the circle tonight," Janes said. "We need to keep that circle closed than we can do it. We can change the course of this coun­try. 
"I am crazy with love for these people [in the West Side Democratic Club]." 
Janes said the movement that got Obama elected is all about being positive. 
"Love is all around us," he said. "It's a public kind of love that's called justice. That's what justice is -it's the love of lots of people. And all you can do is work for justice. 
"There's nothing more impor­tant than justice and love." Billy Gene Easton Singer, a longtime associate of Janes, said 
tion since 1964. 
Vice president Erica Hatstrom criticized McCain's campaign strategy, arguing that he took "too much of a passive stance" and should have focused more Obama's character and policies. 
"I wish he would have pointed 

Obama's election should be empowering. 
"There's no reason for anyone black to say we can't do some­thing," he said. 
Lee Gloster, a union member, was more focused on the tangi­ble results of Obama's election. "We're going to bring the troops home, get single ·payer medical coverage," and fix the mortgage crisis, he said. 
Gloster and Janes are both "old refugees from the 1960s," Gloster said. "We've been waiting 30 years for this. One and a half years ago, I said it couldn't hap­pen." 
Janes fired up the crowd prior to Obama's election by leading the club in a singing of what he called "The Freedom Song," or "Ain't nobody going to turn me around." He said he learned the song from Mississippi civil rights workers in the 1960s, but that Tuesday was the first time it had been sung in the West Side Democratic Club. 
The song shows that "we are a sea of togetherness," and that "that circle is this room," Janes said. 
Local candidates helped show that Indiana is a part of the change sweeping across America. 

Members of the community celebrate Sen. Obama's win at the West Side Democratic Club in South Bend Tuesday. 
"This is a great night in St. Joe Grant Park in Chicago. During County," said Ryan Dvorak, a vic­the speech, many people in the torious candidate for state repre­room began to cry or to hug each sentative. "We're· showing the other in joy. world and the country that One voice cried out, "It's all Indiana isn't automatically a red about love, it's all about love," state." and people at the table around 
The crowd was captivated by the voice burst out into cheers. president-elect Obama's victory speech. The room cheered "Yes Contact John Tierney at we can" in unison with those at jtiernel@nd.edu 
~!lenlion ~~~omores! The ~~~omore daS) (ounril ~ ~rouo to ~on~or lwo fanla~IK ~en51~i) e. 
All men in ~e (lass of 2011 are invite~ to jKirtidpate in our first annual Poker lournament at t~e Kn~~ts of (olum~us on nurs~ay from 7:30·10PM. (om~le lor one of our fu~ulou~ ~izffi ioclu~in~ a ~inle~o ~~~orne ~mk,l~ox, ana ~ih (er!i&a!es lo (~i~olle, ~esl ~uy an~ Jimmy Jo~n'~. 
lad~s are invite~ to allen~ our first annual ~IKI N~~t on friday in t~e ~fortune Notre Dame Room from ~-8 PM! [njoy roo~~~, makeu~, monkures one mo(klail~ one ~~e oil your )Ires) nom l~e wee~ ~lore ~eaoin~ oul on fricay n~~l. 
~na lo~l ~ul no! ~~1, aon'lfor~el Karaoh at Reekers on ~tur00y n~~t from 1:30·3:30 AM! 



Wednesday, November 5, 2008 

page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 9,625.28 +305.45 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,799 49 731 1,340,112,907 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.40 +3.30 100.41 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.83 +0.93 33.75 !SHARES MSCI E.M.I.F. (EEM) +9.13 +2.30 27.50 GEN ELECTRIC CO (GE) +7.62 +1.47 20.77 
· Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -3.56 -0.139 3.765 13-WEEK BILL +10.71 +0.045 0.465 30-YEAR BOND -2.29 -0.099 4.222 5-YEAR NOTE -5.25 -0.142 2.564 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +7.59 71.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +30.50 757.30 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +0.75 84.65 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 99.7000 EURO 0.7720 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1556 BRITISH POUND 0.6273 
IN BRIEF 
NYC construction rules overkill NEW YORK-It takes a lot of paper to raise a crane in New York City these days. 
On top of maintenance records and operator certification tests, engineers have to sign off before cranes are raised or dismantled. The city also requires documents that prove a safety meeting was held before work begins. 
It may seem like a lot to ask for, but New York is seeking to become a national example after two deadly crane collapses in Manhattan killed nine people this year. 
This year's spate of deadly accidents in New York and other U.S. cities, including Houston, Miami and Las Vegas, triggered the federal government in September to propose updated crane regulations for the first time in 40 years. 
But New York has introduced more strin­gent rules governing constructions in addition to those required by the federal government, including laws that require training for tower crane workers, limit the use of slings that hold loads, and overhaul licensing require­ments for mobile crane operators. 
"We have worked closely with industry offi­cials to develop checks and balances that are making construction sites safer than ever before," city Department of Buildings spokesman Kate Lindquist said. "There are thousands of construction sites in New York City that are managed without incident every day. and there is no reason why developers cannot build safely to avoid any preventable delays." 
Fierce competition in music war 
As one historic duel -the presidential race between Barack Obama and John McCain ­ends, another is heating up. The stakes are high: nothing less than the soul of rock 'n roll. The competition is fierce. 
And you will decide -with your wallet. 
In one corner is "Guitar Hero," the fran­chise that revolutionized the rhythm-game genre in 2005. In the other corner is upstart "Rock B&nd," which rewrote the rules last year by adding drums and vocals to the mix. Several third-party candidates are waiting backstage, hoping that one of the two major contenders hits a false note. 
SAUDI ARABIA 
Oil prices rise to highest level in 2 weeks 
Erratic oil costs are unique to 2008; presidential elections likely a factor 
Associated Press  
HOUSTON -Oil prices  
surged above $70 a barrel  
Tuesday in the final hours  
of a two-year U.S. presi­ 
dential campaign, mirror­ 
ing global stock markets  
that strengthened from  
Asia to Europe. A weaker  
dollar helped too.  
At home, the Dow Jones  
industrial average jumped  
300 points despite a new  
Commerce Department  
report that said factory  
orders fell 2.5 percent in  
September from August,  
much worse than analysts  
had predicted. ·  
As the pace of industry  
has slowed and businesses  
consume less crude, the  
price of oil has fallen $30  
from just over a month  
ago. The price of retail  
gasoline dipped below  
$2.40 Tuesday for the first  
time since early in 2007.  
Crumbling home prices,  
a shaky job market and  
gasoline that spiked above  
$4 per gallon have dramat­ 
ically changed how  
Americans use fuel. While  
plummeting gas prices  
have certainly been wel­ 
comed by consumers,  
much of that exuberance  
has been lost amid broader  
economic fears.  
"The volatility and huge  
price swings we've seen  
this year are unmatched," An SUV drives past a filling station advertising gas for $1.95 per gal­ 
said Ben Brockwell, direc­lon Nov. 4 in Cleveland. Oil prices surged above $70 a barrel Tuesday.  
tor of data, pricing and  
information services for  sidelines that's waiting to  The euro rose nearly 4  wants the dollar as a safe  
the Oil Price Information  see how this election is  cents Tuesday to $1.296.  haven."  
Service. "These erratic  going to shake out," Schork  The dollar lost ground to  The week has thus far  
changes are a 2008 phe­ said.  the yen, the pound and  been characterized by  
nomenon."  Oil has not traded above  other currencies as well.  volatile trading.  
On Monday, U.S. manu­ $70 in nearly two weeks.  Light, sweet crude for  Crude prices fell $4.46 on  
facturers reported lethar­ Some industry experts,  December delivery rose  Monday, but those losses  
gic numbers for October,  including Schork, also  $6.62 to settle at $70.53 a  were erased early Tuesday.  
showing the worst reading  attributed Tuesday's spike  barrel on the New York  Oil industry analysts ear­ 
in more than a quarter  to the weaker dollar.  Mercantile Exchange after  lier this year believed that  
century, according to the  Commodities such as oil  rising as high as $71.77.  the booming economies of  
Institute for Supply  are used as a hedge  "Anytime oil rises more  India and China would pick  
Management.  against inflation and a  than $4 a barrel, it's usual­ up any slackening of  
The presidential election  weak dollar. Investors flood  ly myriad items at play,"  demand if Western nations  
could be influencing the  the crude futures market  said Jim Hitterbusch, presi­ went into recession. Few  
market, said analyst and  when the greenback falls.  dent of energy consultancy  still hold onto that view, as  
trader Stephen Schork.  A weak dollar also makes  Ritterbusch and Associates.  the economic crisis in the  
"There may be a lot of  oil less expensive to buyers  "When the Dow is up, the  United States has spread  
money moving from the  dealing in other currencies.  world is good and nobody  across the globe.  

FCCprobescable,Veriwnpricingpolicies 
Associated Press inition channels. satellite TV and phone companies to To watch channels that have been offer the most high-definition chan­
PHILADELPHIA -The Federal moved, subscribers to analog service nels. About half of the nation's 65 mil­Communications Commission has must either subscribe to a more lion cable households buy only the opened an investigation into the pric­expensive digital tier, rent a digital analog basic or "enhanced basic" ing policies of major cable operators set-top box or use an adapter, which tiers. and Verizon Communications Inc. service providers are starting to ofl"er The agency also will investigate 
The agency wants to ensure that for free. whether providers are misleading customers are being treated fairly, The FCC's Oct. 30 letter went to customers into thinking that when FCC Chairman Kevin Martin said in Comcast Corp., Time Warner Cable analog television channels move to the an interview with The Associated Inc., Cox Communications Inc., digital tier of service the shift is relat­Press. Charter Communications Inc., ed to the federal government's man­
''I'm certainly concerned with the Cablevision Systems Corp., Bright date that all broadcasts be digital by increasing cable prices that con­House Networks, Suddenlink February, Martin said. sumers are facing," Martin said. Communications, Bend Cable The two moves are unrelated. "They are getting less anct being Communications, GCI Company, Linking the two in customers' minds charged the same or more." Harron Entertainment, a unit of could prompt more people to opt for 
The FCC wrote to Verizon and 11 Harron Communications, RCN Corp. digital video services. cable companies last month about and Verizon. Verizon was included The FCC has asked companies being their practice of moving analog chan­because it offers pay-TV through its probed to submit information about nels into digital tiers to free up band­FiOS service. their pricing and channel switching \\idth for other uses, such as high-def-Cable providers are in a race with practices within two weeks. 

p 
THE OBSERVER 

page 8 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Why bailouts don't work 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWs EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPOIITS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Mary_ Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK • 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edimrs. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fi-ee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q;«stions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obscmr (IJSPS 599 2--4000) is publish«! Monday through &iday except during cum and v.ac:uimt periods. A subw..Tlptiun 10 TIK Ohscrvcr is $100 for tHlC' a:cademk }'l:af'; $55 f'.or one serl)(!.r~r. 
The Obs<rvet is publishtd "'' POSTMASTER oz~ Sou<h Dining Hall Send :addrtss corrections to: 
None: D;)ffi(, IN 46~56-0779 The Obocmr 
l'<riodic.>l postage paid at No1r< Dan"' P.O. !1ox779 and addi<ional m.Uling office.. 024 South Dining H.U 

Nouc Dame. IN 46556-0779 
TIK Oh5crva i.s • rncrnbc:r ofchc: ~iatc:d Pras. AU rcprcMucti·on righu: arc: r~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Liz Harter Matt Gamber Madeline Buckley Jared Jedick 
Tess Civantos Scene Viewpoint Michelle Fordice Kara King Graphics 
Blair Chemdlin 
The events that have recently taken place in the financial markets give Americans and investors all over the world plenty of reason to worry. The complete annihilation of the invest­ment banking industry, as well Patrick Graff as the failure of companies like Guest Fannie Mae, Columnist Freddie Mac, AIG and Washington Mutual have destroyed investor confidence in the market. In an attempt to help remedy market conditions, theHouse and Senate recently passed a $700 billion bailout plan which would use tax­payer dollars to help buy up assets backed by failing mortgages. The hope is to help cash strapped compa­nies by buying up their illiquid assets and to provide even more credit to the market. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson seem to think that this will thwart a recession and allow the mar­kets to function normally again. The problem is it will not work, and, in fact, it will make the problem much worse. 
Let's go back to early 2001. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Chairman at the time, began slashing the federal funds rate (the interest rate at which banks lend to each other) in order to jumpstart the econ­omy out of an impending recession caused by the recently burst internet bubble. Greenspan lowered rates from 6.5 percent at the beginning of January 2001, to a ridiculously low 1 percent by June of 2003. After hold­ing rates steady for a year, the Fed gradually raised them back up to 5.25 percent by June 2006. The abundance 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 

How far will the ND men's basketball team go this season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
of credit through low interest rates gave incentive to many businessmen to begin making deals that would not be economically feasible if the rates were at the real market price. This manifested itself in the creation of a new asset bubble in the housing mar­ket. Housing prices began to rise rap­idly and all related assets, such as mortgage securities, became very lucrative. In short, people were bor­rowing when they shouldn't have and were living beyond their means because artificial market conditions made it possible. When the housing bubble burst, this short lived reverie came crashing down and billions of dollars in value suddenly disappeared from the economy. 
The problem is that artificially low interests rates cause malinvestments, which soon cause many unintended consequences. When scarce resources are allocated according to a central planner's policies instead of real mar­ket conditions, inefficiencies will always exist. The market's tool to cope with this situation on a large scale is recession. Recession allows the market to correct for activities that the economy cannot afford and consumers do not want. This $700 billion bailout plan will provide the credit to sustain these profitable and unprofitable activities for a limited time, but at a large cost. The influx of credit will continue to drive up infla­tion by dramatically increasing the money supply and thus rob purchas­ing power from every holder of U.S. dollars. When bubbles are created, recession is an unavoidable conse­quence; artificial credit will only cre­ate inflation and delay the inevitable. 
The actions of the Federal Reserve and Department of the Treasury show 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
an unwillingness to come to terms with the reality that the crisis is based on real factors which cannot be rectified through more of the same. When malinvestments and bad deci­sions are made, you have to allow prices to adjust downward to the real market value. Yes, we are looking at hard times. But if you continue to prop up this system that isn't viable, you will have depression for the next decade instead of recession for the next year. The bailout aims to contin­ue the fantasy that more artificial credit can fix the problem. Keynesian economists would have you believe that "deficits don't matter." Well, they are going to start to matter real soon when GOP growth begins to stagnate or turn negative as a direct result of current monetary policy. 
Capitalism works on the back of savings and our debt ridden govern­ment cannot afford the temporary relief a bailout will grant. It is time to be honest and realistic about our monetary future. We need to return to principles of sound money, under­stand that the Federal Reserve System is the problem and not the solution and create wealth through free markets. We must face the conse­quences and live within our means, for soon it will be too late. 
Patrick Graffis a Philosophy Major and Philosophy, Politics, and Economics Minor. He is a zealous defender offree markets and the Austrian School ofEconomics, as well as a member of the College Libertarians. He can be reached at pgrafj@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Bacchus hath drowned 
more men than Neptune." 
Dr. Thomas Fuller British physician 


p
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 


page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Why the rush? 
Have patience, guys ("Hark," Nov. 4). Having attended Notre Dame from 2004­2~08. I got two opportunities to rush the field: our 2004 win over top-S ranked Michigan and the 2005 loss to USC (fieldrushus interruptus thanks to the Bush­
Push). In both cases, I (and most of my fellow students) did not expect a win in those two games but obviously relished the wins when they happened. One thing that didn't happen was a ridiculous idea such as this last year when we went 3-9. I would have been embarassed to see my fellow students rushing onto the field after the last game, let alone capping my senior year with going on the field after that "epic" win over Duke (a team that is doing a lot better than Syracuse this year). You have a lot to look forward to next year, highlighted by home games against Michigan State, USC and BC, three teams which could be pretty good next year. If you are that hungry to rush the field once in your four years here, save it for one of those games. 
Dave McBride alumnus Class of 2008 Nov. 4 

That has to be one of the worst suggestions I have ever heard. Please, take it from me, for the rest of the senior class, if you want to do something for us, stay off the field! 
Sure, it looked like a blast when the kids from Texas Tech were rushing the field last week. However, please don't forget the reason they did it. They earned it by defeating the No. 1 ranked team in the land. I know you haven't had many chances to celebrate our team's victories, but our class had our opportunity. We played against No. 1 ranked USC here our freshman year, and just like the kids from Texas Tech, we rushed the field when we thought that we won. Unfortunately, it didn't turn out quite the way we hoped, but that was our chance. 
There are great teams yet to play at Notre Dame. All of you who weren't here for that game will get your chance. Just be patient. Again, for our sake, don't run out onto the field against Syracuse. The whole point of students rushing the field is to make a statement. Texas Tech's statement was to announce themselves as a championship contender. What statement are you trying to make? That we're excited to beat one of the worst teams in college football? I would rather be remembered as the class that rushed the field preemptively against USC than the class that rushed the field against Syracuse. 
If you don't like the rich tradition of Notre Dame that ties the students together with the alumni for one of the strongest bonds in college sports, please apply to transfer. Don't taint our traditions by stomping all over our field for no good reason. It's not worth it. Rushing the field would make us the laughing stock of the college football world. Please, for the sake of the senior class, all those who've already graduated and all those who will graduate from our great University in the years to come, stay off of our field. 
Tony Ceravolo senior off campus Nov. 4 

To My Fellow Irish: 
As a 1994 graduate whose last game as a student was the loss at home to BC, I sym­pathize with your feeling somewhat frustrated by the absence of a defmitive celebrato­ry moment in Notre Dame Stadium ("Hark," Nov. 4). I implore you, however, not to rush the field after the Syracuse game. Dress up, jump around, even throw marshmal­lows (gasp!), but please do not attempt the spectacle ofrushing the field after the game. 
One of only two possible perceptions will result: the student body has laughably low expectations for the Fighting Irish; or the student body is being disrespectful to Syracuse who surely will leave the stadium in defeat. Imagine the headlines Sunday morning atop the less-than-friendly sports periodicals. 
We will win the game, of that have no doubt. Save rushing the field for our victory over USC in November 2009. Your restraint today will make that moment all the more glorious then. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Stephanie Joyce alumna Class of 1994 Nov. 4 


U WIRE 
The eternal election comes to 
an undignified end 
When I go to my local polling station to vote today, I'm bringing a football with me. When I emerge from behind that curtain, my sense of democracy ful­filled, I am going to spike that football. Hard. I will not spike it because I'm Sean Klttrldge excited at the prospect of a new The Badger president, but Herald because I want that little piece of sewn-together synthetic pigskin to feel the pain I've dealt with for the last year. For too long I've been tortured with attack ads, debates, staged public appearances and sub­stance-free stump speeches. This was not a race, but a poorly scripted, prime­time TV show. And judging by how the public made out after this endurance test of negativism and rhetoric, I'd call that show "Lost." 
Remember Rudy Giuliani? Or how about John Edwards? The marathon for the presidency has run so long it's hard to remember the starting players. There was a time when nobody thought Barack Obama could beat Hilary Clinton, and even fewer people thought John McCain was actually alive. It's easy to see why presidents appear to age physically at an incredible rate; I swear, this campaign lasted decades. Arguing that Obama lacks experience is foolish when he's pretended to be president for the last three months. He's not a politi­cian. He's an actor. Or as a puckish McCain ad I've seen a mere 100 times would say, he's a "celebrity." 
But it was unfair of McCain to label Obama like that. Ultimately, they've both become celebrities. They've both toured the talk show circuit, basking in constant media spotlight. Obama bought a half hour of airtime to remind America how horrible the middle class has it, and McCain sent his VP to the Rockefeller Center to smile at jokes. Do McCain and Obama think the American public spends all its time watching TV? Apparently, as evidenced last night, they think we do. 
Monday night, with their final moments of airtime before the levers start falling Tuesday, both candidates were on TV in an exclusive interview with, you guessed it, ESPN's Chris Berman. John "Still Raising" McCain and Barack "The Boat, Baby" Obama 
sat down with a man whose political 
credibility is only matched by his ability 
to narrate a Home Run Derby. This is 
demeaning to the job of commander in 
chief, and Congress should get together 
to pass a law banning any person with 
presidential aspirations from appearing 
on a show with a Hank Williams Jr. theme song. I'm relatively confident his intro to Monday Night Football is pumped into cells at Guantanamo Bay. 
At this point, it isn't even important who wins. It just needs to be a landslide. I want a good, clean election with a pro­jected winner by 9 p.m., and I'm looking at you, Fox News. I don't want stories of disenfranchised voters; I don't want talk about lawsuits or recounts. If this elec­tion takes any more time, it will qualify for Medicare benefits, assuming they'd exist under the new president's health plan. If this job requires decisive action and "3 a.m. phone calls," there's no need to wait this long to vote. Cardinals manage to elect a new pope within weeks, and their choice needs to be unanimous. All-Star balloting takes a month or two~ but it determines home field advantage in the World Series, and 
something that's a little more important 
than the head of the executive branch. 
The American public might watch too 
much "Dancing With The Stars," but it's 
not totally devoid of brain cells, and I'm 
pretty sure we've been ready to check 
the right box for a while now. 
It just feels like that third "Lord of The Rings" movie: As soon as the screen fades and you think you've finally hit the end, there's another scene full of small people with hairy feet. I want to see the credits roll on this election. In fact, I'd like to see them fast-forwarded, like they do with movies on TV. No Jackie Chan-style outtakes, no extra scene with Ben Stiller in a fat suit, just a bunch of thank yous followed by blackness. This election needs a black ending, so make it happen. And don't make it close. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 4 edition ofThe Badger Herald, the daily paper at the University of Wisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

--~------------------------------------------------­
r 


page 10 Wednesday, November 5, 2008 Wednesday, November 5, 2008 




By JOSEF KUHN 
·!Scene Writer 

· Brian Wilson's done lying in bed. He's up and at 'em again with a new album, "That ;Lucky Old Sun." The former singer, bassist ·,and lead songwriter of the Beach Boys is 'widely known for the enormous impact he has made on pop music, but also for his long history of drug abuse and mental 
--issues. With this new album, though, Wilson seems to proclaim his final redemp­on and his newfound love for life. "That Lucky Old Sun" was released on ept. 2, a strange choice for a distinctly mmer-flavored record. The album cover features oranges and bright flowers, while the lyrics are chock full of images of the beach, the sun, and Southern California. What else would you expect from a former Beach Boy? The music is pop at its most exuberant, combining the warm vocal har­monies of the Beach Boys with more com­plex song arrangements and instrumenta­tion. The album centers on a theme that is ini­'tiated in the title track and then reprised ',several times throughout the album. In addition to this running theme, four so­called "narratives" intersperse the album. The narratives -spoken pieces of poetry placed over top of music-contain some of the best moments of the album, with Wilson almost channeling Jack Kerouac. The songs and narratives all flow seam­lessly into each other, making the album 
That Lucky Old Sun Brian Wilson _·.-Released by: Capitol Records Recommended Tracks: "Morning Beat," "Good Kind of Love" 
ea 
t'-. ... ~·.•.-.. ~~----­
: . ..,_: 

play like one long, sustained musical piece ­instead of a chopped-up assortment of indi-' vidual parts. What with the spoken pieces,· the "Lucky Old Sun" theme, and the related subject matter of all the songs, the album is undoubtedly best when played all the way through. 
Although the Beach Boys' influence can clearly be heard, the music departs from the surf rock genre in several key ways. One of the first things you will notice is Brian Wilson's voice, which is clearly that of an older man, not the fresh falsetto the adolescent Beach Boys. 
The music is more complex and challeng-· ing than that of the Beach Boys, although it is still highly accessible pop. Most signifi­cantly, the lyrics are more mature. Most of them express a joyful passion for life, using the vibrant locales of California as a back­drop. In a few songs, Wilson deals with his dark years of depression, but always with a happy resolution. 
It is clear that he has left his despondency behind and now has a much more positive outlook on life. Some other songs wax sen­timental about the bygone days of youth, but Wilson avoids melancholy, instead look­ing back with rosy glasses. 
While the album is enjoyable and definite­ly worth listening to, it is not without flaws. To some people, the pop music might seem overly cheerful. Sometimes the simple pop melodies and chord progressions might even seem tired and boring. Since Wilson's music has influenced so much of modern music, it is inevitable that listeners will feel like they've heard this stuff before. 
Likewise, many of Wilson's lyrics seem trite and cliche (though there are flashes of poetic brilliance). Nevertheless, the record's.: simplicity is its beauty. Often a happy song -·• with a catchy melody and uplifting lyrics -. are just what our jaded college souls are ·­yearning for. When that's the case-when it's negative 30 degrees outside and season­al affective disorder is setting in-look to "That Lucky Old Sun" to give you a little. warmth. 
Contact Josef Kuhn at jkuhn1 @nd.edu 

Interview with Brian Wilson 
Scene: This is a very revealing album and it seems to reflect on much ofyour life. What kind of experience is it for you when you perform it live? 
Wilson: Well, it's quite a thrill, actually. 
Scene: How does the audience usually respond? 
Wilson: Very well. They like it a lot. 
Scene: Is it fun for you when you perform it? 
Wilson: Yes, I love to perform it. 
Scene: What do you think a 20 year old com­ing to your show would get out ofit? 
Wilson: He would get a bang out of it because he would love the lyrics! 
-Scene: Where do you want to go from here? How do you see your music evolving? 
Wilson: I see the music turning into some good soft rock and some rock and roll. 
Scene: Throughout your career you have seen and often times initiated the growth and devel­-opment ofrock music. What is your take on rock 
music today? 
Wilson: I don't listen to the rock music of a fan-base in every generation. 
The man behind most of the magic is Brian Wilson, who formed the Beach Bovs with his two brothers, Carl and Dennis, his Cousin Mike Love and their friend Al Jardine. After a series of hits Wilson fell on some bad times as he dealt with . drug use for years. He continued to write as he i fell deeper into seclusion, but his bouts with: drugs weren't really over till the late 1980's. ' 
Now he takes the stage with a completely new· album, "That Lucky Old Sun," an ode to IA that: Wilson is fit to deliver. He will perform five in: South Bend at the Morris Performing Arts Center on Nov. 13, about which Scene talked with him. 
After noting the lasting impact of the trade-1 mark Beach Boy harmonies, Wilson explained that he wanted to paint a picture of LA using carefully chosen images. He also answered ques­tions about his feelings on the Beach Boy's long history. Part of the interview can be read below.­
. 
today. I listen to oldies but goodies on records. 
Scene: What's your favorite song to perform? 
Wilson: "California Girls" is my favorite. 
Scene: What is the greatest song you ever wrote? 
Wilson: "God Only Knows" 
Scene: If you were stranded on a desert island and got to bring the entire work of one musical artist, whose music would you want to have? 
Wilson: The Beatles · 
Scene: What has had the strongest impacts on your music? 
Wilson: I think maybe the Beatles, and the Rolling Stones, and Phil Spector. 
Scene: What inspired you to take this album and do a solo tour? 
Wilson: My wife. 
And so, with his wife's blessing he takes the stage at the Morris Performing Arts Center Nov. 13 to perform "That Lucky Old Sun," along with classic fan favorites. Tickets are $27-$62. Call 574-235-9190 for more information. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
By STEPHANIE DEPREZ Assistant Scene Editor 
Most of us inherit our musical tastes early on in life, growing up listening to our parent's favorites. We drive around in the car with our mom's radio station on and we watch dad fix things while listening to his CDs. 
At some point in your life, you probably heard the harmonic, sunny tunes of the Beach Boys. Beginning in the 1960s, these southern Californians came out with a series of surfer­friendly songs that are hard to resist. 
Their impact continues to be felt, often through the movies that still feature their songs, such as "50 First Dates" ("Wouldn't It Be Nice"), "Love Actually" ("'God Only Knows") and "Happy Feet" ("Do It Again"). Their presence in pop cul­ture is undeniable and they've managed to gain 
i.: 

' . ; / w. 



page 11 

lindsey Buckingham, a member of Fleetwood once described Dennis Wilson, drummer for Beach Boys, as halfway to his famous brother, 
Wilson. "He was crazy just like a lot of other people," Buckingham said, "but he had a really )?ig heart, and he was the closest thing to Brian [Wilson) there was, too. He was halfway there." A founding member of the Beach Boys, Dennis Wilson is not Brian or Carl, but a drum­mer, musician and songwriter in his own right. 
"Pacific Ocean Blue" was his only solo record, 
• 6 ............:J recorded and released in 1977. Legacy Records, a division of Sony BMG, has released a mastered version of "Pacific Ocean Blue" as part of a 2-disc set. The release's second disc is of Wilson's additional recordings with ou/CBS Records, which would have com­posed his second solo effort. The release is a fascinating glimpse into the life and art of a virtually forgotten man, overshad­towed in music history by his famous siblings and ·•. ·.. former project. "River Song" opens the album with a vocal . ·style similar to the Beach Boys, but in a way that 
· ·: ·reels distinct, both lyrically and in scope, from the most famous hits in that band's recorded past. The experimental sounds of Beach Boys albums like "Pet Sounds" clearly paved the way for Wilson's work here, but "River Song" helps this album take a new turn. "Pacific Ocean Blue" has 
i;t:H~terne1ms of seventies folk, funk and beach music, . ·but its occasionally eclectic feel somehow retains cohesiveness that helps the album feel com­
"What's Wrong," the second track, has ele­of his previous style, with strains of brass piano thumping emphatically through the 
Pacific Ocean Blue Dennis Wilson 
t Released by: Sony Records Recommended Tracks: "Mexico," "You and I," "Pacific Ocean Blue" 
track. That signature vocal sound, that Beach 
Boys harmony, is hard to escape, but Wilson . 
effectively makes it his own here and elsewhere. 
"Moonshine" has a quieter start and more melancholy feel. The following track, "Friday Night," is dark and waning, with a nearly two minute instrumental intro. It shifts in tone from the previous tracks, but in a way that still jives with the rest of "Pacific Ocean Blue." 
The vocals on "Dreamer" are grainy and dis­tant, an effect that's expanded and developed on "Thoughts of You." The latter track uses electron­ic effect to its benefit, alternating between the ,.,·,·'7.''?>'··"·:· stark piano and Wilson's gruff, honest vocal style, and a more stylized studio sound. The eflect is an intriguing one. 
The album's title track, "Pacific Ocean Blue," is a study in contrasts. The song makes use blended, harmonic background vocals, an almost funk-style musical arrangement and Wilson's gruff, almost Loudon Wainwright-esque singing. 
"Farewell My Friend" plays with background sounds -cooing birds, electronic effects and even the occasional ukulele. Wilson repeats the lines, "FarewelVI want to see you again," leaving the listener to think they're hearing a surfer's funeral dirge. Ironically, it was Dennis' surfer style that influenced the look and feel of the Beach Boys -ofthe band's original members, he was the sole surfer by trade. 
Other highlights on the first disc include "Tug Love (Feel the Pull)," "You and I" and "Only with You," but truthfully the entire album deserves a listen. Its fmal track, "Mexico," is a ~olid an intriguing effort. 
The second disc, "Bambu," picks up where "Pacific Ocean Blue" left off and develops it fur-.r ther, and is well deserving of its own review. Briefly, the sweeping anthem "Remember Me," the gruff stylings of "Wild Situation" and the Randy Newman-like "He's A Bum" are all excel­lent. "I Love You" takes a turn for the pseudo­psychedelic in its latter half, and "Constant Companion" is an energetic, brass-laden romp. 
In the liner notes to "Pacific Ocean Blue," gui­tarist and producer Earle Mankey describes recording with Wilson saying, "People would: start talking about notes, parts, the melody or the rhythm and [W'tlson) would say, 'I just want the truth.' That's all that mattered to him." For a real · sense of Wilson, the man, the artist and admit­tedly the former lleach Boy, check out "Pacific Ocean Blue." 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Islanders top rival Rangers thanks to short-handed goal 
Hurricanes waste three-goal lead only to win in overtime; Fisher scores first goal of season to lift Senators 

fall 5-2. 
Associated Press 
They went 0-for-4 on the 

NEW YORK -The New power play, while giving up York Islanders finally had a two goals, after connecting at third period to brag about. least once with the advantage 
After two straight late melt­in five of the previous six downs at home, the Islanders games. turned a strong effort by "Unacceptable perform­backup goalie Joey ance," Rangers coach Tom MacDonald into a 2-1 victory Renney said. "The power play over the New York Rangers let us down. Take responsi­on a pair of short-handed bility for it. Power play struc­goals by rookie Nate ture, if people are committed Thompson and Richard Park. to it and work hard at it, it 
"It was a huge morale-lifter can work. \Ve are playing for us," Thompson said after outside of what we have been his first NHL point broke up teaching our guys." the deadlock in the third MacDonald entered the period. "I can't say enough third period with a shot at for our team and Joey his first NHL shutout for the MacDonald for sticking with second straight night. the game plan." Subbing for injured No. 1 
Just 4:42 after Thompson goalie Rick DiPietro, scored, during a different MacDonald settled for his Rangers power play, Park seventh career NHL win in netted the Islanders' league­his 26th game. leading sixth short-handed He admitted to being a bit tally. The Islanders got out of disappointed to lose the a frustrated Madison Square shutout, but was happy to get Garden with their best win of out with a victory. the season despite being out­"This time of the year, the shot 36-19. wins are more important," 
In their previous two MacDonald said. games, the Islanders squan­Thompson finally solved dered three-goal leads in the Rangers goalie Henrik third. The first on Saturday Lundqvist after Frans resulted in a 5-4 regulation Nielsen's shot hit the post. loss to Montreal. On Monday, The puck popped in the air, they recovered to beat and Thompson swatted it in lead before pulling out a vic­Carolina. Grabovski got his eighth goal of the season Columbus 4-3 in overtime at with a baseball swing at 3:18. tory over the Toronto Maple fourth of the season at 3:40 early in the second for home. "I envisioned it going off my Leafs on Tuesday night. of the second period by cash­Ottawa, which improved to 3­
The Islanders own a two­shin pad or something like Tuomo Ru utu, Dennis ing in a great cross-crease 0-1 in its last four games. game winning streak follow­that. Definitely not like that, Seidenberg, Chad LaRose and pass from Hagman on a Tomas Fleischmann drew ing six straight losses (0-5-1), but it felt great," Thompson Ryan Bayda also had goals power play. Washington even at 1 with and they moved out of last­said. "I played baseball for for Carolina (7-3-2). Van Ryn set up a dramatic his fourth goal just 2:13 after place in the league standings two years. I don't know what Mikhail Grabovski had two third period by ripping a shot Heatley scored. (4-7-1). my batting average was, but I goals and Niklas Hagman and behind Ward at 14:32 to nar­Alexander Ovechkin 
"After the second period, don't think it was too good." Mike Van Ryn also scored for row the Hurricanes lead to 4-returned to the Capitals' line­we made a point to say, 'Let's Park then broke up Michal the Maple Leafs (5-4-4). 3. Toronto outshot Carolina up after he missed two games let them beat themselves. Rozsival's cross-ice pass at There were 10 goals scored 16-5 in the middle frame and in order to visit his ailing Let's let them make some the blue line and streaked when the teams faced each carried all the momentum grandfather in Russia. mistakes and try to capitalize down the left side. His drive other in Raleigh on Sunday, into the final 20 minutes. Johnson turned aside 42 on some opportunities. If we eluded Lundqvist at 8:00. so it wasn't all that surpris­That was evident early as shots, including 13 in the can do that and sneak two The Rangers dominated on ing to see the offense carry Grabovski's second of the first, which saw the Capitals points out of here, then it's a the shot clock in the second over to the second half of the game at 1:29 of the third successfully kill a Senators 5­good win,"' Park said. period, but couldn't dent back-to-hack series. period tied things up. That on-3 advantage for 1:57 mid­
Markus Naslund wrecked MacDonald. He made 18 The Hurricanes grabbed a gave the flashy Belarussian way through the opening MacDonald's bid for his first saves in the frame, while the 3-0 lead before the first peri­four goals in two games. period. NHL shutout when he scored Islanders sent only five shots od was half over. Toronto had the chance to Alex Auld stopped 26 shots with 1:41 left. in on Lundqvist. Ruutu beat Vesa Toskala pull ahead during a 5-on-3 in his sixth straight start for 
Despite the Rangers having "We had the momentum on with a low shot at 2:20, power play that lasted 1:13 the Senators. a 29-12 shots advantage our side; and I take responsi­Seidenberg scored on a but Ward stood tall, setting Heatley opened the scoring through two periods, this one bility for having two mistakes power play at 5:06 and the stage for overtime. 1:13 into the second to give was still too close to call. The on the power play that cost LaRose tallied his fourth goal Ottawa a brief 1-0 lead. The Rangers entered with a us the game," Rozsival said. of the season at 8:53 after Ottawa 2, Washington 1 high-scoring forward got league-high 21 points, but "There's no excuse for that." the puck bounced out from Mike Fisher scored his first behind Washington defense­they ended the night with a Gordon used his timeout the end boards. goal of the season with just man Jeff Schultz in the neu­more dubious distinction of with 7:57 left after Toronto started its come­under 40 seconds left in over­tral zone to receive a break­having allowed an NHL-worst MacDonald reached over his back when Hagman finished time to give the Ottawa away pass from Mike Fisher. five short-handed goals this head and behind it to snare a give-and-go with Nikolai Senators a win over the Heatley drove the net and season. Rozsival's rising drive. At Kulemin by beating Cam Washington Capitals on deked Johnson before stuff­
The Rangers have dropped that point, the Rangers held a Ward with a high shot at Tuesday night. ing the puck inside the left two straight after their fran­14-2 shots advantage in the 13:52 of the first period. Fisher took Daniel post and past the goalie's chise-best 10-2-1 start. This second and 25-9 overall. The Hagman-Grabovski­Alfredsson 's pass and shot outstretched right pad. effort against their biggest Kulemin unit was easily past Brent Johnson into an Fleischmann drew rival came on the heels of a Carolina 5, Toronto 4 Toronto's best on this night, open left side with 39.9 sec­Washington even at 3:26 disappointing loss at Toronto Niclas Wallin scored 1:52 providing energy and the onds remaining in the extra when he took a pass from on Saturday when they led 2-into overtime as Carolina team's second goal after period. Alexander Semin and put a 0 in the third period only to Hurricanes blew a three-goal Bayda had made it 4-1 for Dany Heatley scored his backhand past Auld. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe  A BABY TO CHERISH Debby is a  Two teachers ready to adopt  
FoR SALE  FoR RENT  homes, close to ND, fireplace, cathedral ceilings,  PERSONAL  Physical Therapist in a children s hospital who dreams of becoming a  newborn and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential.  
skylights, 2-car garage,  
 mom for the first time. Barry is a  Expenses paid.  
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE  HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10  10x20 deck.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  loving husband and TV producer  Stephenandliz@ aol.com or call  
FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2  SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS  Much more.  not go it alone. If you or some- who fills our home with laughter and  us toll free 1·888-760-BABY  
FULLBATHS.CRESSY  AVAILABLE. CONTACT  Call 574-232·4527 or  one you love needs confidential  has a natural love for children. We  
EVERETT PAM DECOLA 574­532·0204  KRAMER PROPERTIES 574­234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS·  269-683-5038. From $1 ,700/mo.  support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at  admire your strength in choosing adoption. We are happy to helpt  WANTED  
ES.COM  (574)631·7819 or Ann Firth at  Call Debby directly at 1·800-418·  
947 RIVERSIDE DR., 4 BDRMS,  2-bdrm house near NO.  574-631·2685. For more informa­ 0212; debbyandbarry@gmail.com  Nicolas Restaurant needs pizza  
2.5 BATHS, HISTORICAL HOME  1-bdrm apt. 100 yrds to ND. All  Very clean,  tion, visit our  maker for  
CLOSE TO NO. CflESSY  inclusive plus new appliances in  garage.  website at:  If you or someone you care about  Friday and Saturday evenings, 4­ 
EVERETT, PAM DECOLA, 574·  your kitchen. $500/mo. Call 574·  $675/mo.  http:/ /osa. nd. edu/depa rtments/pr  has been sexually assaulted, visit  10.  
532·0204.  243-7777.  Call 269-426·1570.  egnant.shtml  http:1/osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/  Call277-5666.  


COA.1PILED FROJ\1 THE OBSERVER'S \NIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
page 13 
CYCLING 
Football AP Top 25 

team point previous 
1 Alabama 1,600 2 2 Texas Tech 1,528 6 3 Penn State 1,525 3 4 Florida 1,398 5 5 Texas 1,353 1 6 Oklahoma 1,324 4 7 usc . 1,250 7 8 Oklahoma State 1,198 9 9 Boise State 1,030 11 10 Utab 1,028 10 11 TCU 958 12 12 Ohio State 898 13 13 Missouri 830 14 14 Georgia 808 8 15 LSU 746 15 16 Ban State 594 18 17 Brigham Young 536 17 18 Michigan State 456 22 19 North Carolina 418 21 20 West Virginia 303 NR 21 California 288 NR 22 Georgia Tecb 286 NR 23 Maryland 242 25 24 Florida State 128 16 25 PiHsburgh 96 NR 
Football BCS Top 25 

team  average  previous  
1  Alabama  .975  2  
2  Texas Tech  .937  7  
3  Penn State  ..929  3  
4  Texas  .853  1  
5  Florida  .826  8  
6  Oklahoma  .822  4  
7  usc  ..755  5  
8  Utah  .697  10  
9  Oklahoma State  .66&  9  
10  Boise State  .653  11  
11 12  Ohio State TCU  .555 .544  12 13  
13  Georgia  .53&  6  
14  Missouri  .493  14  
15  BYU  .374  20  
16  LSU  .371  19  
11  Ball State  .356  16  
18  Michigan State  .336  21  
19  North Carolina  .264  22  
20  Georgia Tech  .189  NR  
21  California  .113  NR  
22  Florida State  .087  15  
23  Maryland  .082  NR  
24  Northwestern  .081  NR  
25  West Virginia  ,081  NR  

NSCAA/Adidas Soccer Rankings 

Men Women 
1 Wake Forest NOTRE DAME 2 Creighton Portland 3 St. John's UCLA 4 Akron North Carolina 5 Maryland Florida State 6 Loyola, Md. Stanford 7 Tulsa Florida 8 Northwestern Oklahoma State 9 UIC usc 10 Saint Louis Boston College 
around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Cavaliers 7:00p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Lance Armstrong has yet to decide whether he will try for· an eighth Tour de France title in 2009. 
"I want to say I'm not trying to be coy; I'm not playing games with them (the Tour) or with fans or with media. I simply don't know," Armstrong said Tuesday during wind tun­nel testing at the San Diego Air & Space Technology Center. ''I'm not in a hurry. It's Nov. 4. 
"I know there is tension. There is tension with French cycling fans, with French media and certain­ly tension with the organ­izers. And right now I don't want to deal with tension. And I don't know if I want to deal with tension in July." 
Jean-Etienne Amaury, the new president of the Tour's organizer, said last month that Armstrong had "embarrassed" the event. 
Armstrong suggested his safety might be at risk if he enters the Tour again. The Austin, Texas, resident recalled watching his hometown college football team, the Texas Longhorns, lose at Texas Tech last weekend. 
"(Texas Tech fans) hated, hated Texas; they hated them.... I'm at home watching it and the trick there is that you're in a 
IN BRIEF 

Burnett decides to opt out 
of contract with Blue Jays 
DANA POINT, Calif. -A.J. Burnett told the Toronto Blue Jays on Tuesday that he will opt out of the remaining two seasons of his $55 million, live-year contract. 
The pitcher will forfeit $24 mil­lion and can tile for free agency. His contract called for a $6 million signing bonus, a $1 million salary in 2006 and $12 million in the remaining seasons. 
Blue Jays general manager J.P. Ricciardi said talks will continue on the possibility of a new deal for the hard-throwing right-hander,­who turns 32 in January. 
"We have a good dialogue going," Ricciardi said at the general man­agers' meetings. "They're going to get back to us later in the week." 
Burnett went 18-10 with a 4.07 ERA in 34 starts this season and led. the American Lefgue with 231 stnkeouts. \ stadium and you're sort of protected," Armstrong said. "Cycling's not that way. So if they hate you and you're on the roads and they want you, they can get you." 
His last Tours "weren't good," Armstrong said. 
He doubted that the ani­mosity would subside between now and the Tour's start in July. 
"The only way it would change is if I gave up my American citizenship and became a French citizen, which is obviously not going to happen," Armstrong said. "And that might not even change it." 
Armstrong questioned why he seems to be embraced by fans in other 

parts of Europe but not in France. 
"It's very weird and the psychology of it, I can't fig­ure it out," he said. "In a sense it's a historical event to them; no one had ever won more than five. The way I race the Tour, even stuff like I'm doing here today, the thought and methodical approach, and the robotic approach to racing, not showing emo­tion, not showing sufl'ering or pain, is not a popular style of racing in France. 
"To them panache is the guy who suffers and is swinging all over his bike and looks like he's about to fall off. And I've never found that to be an effec­tive way to try to win." 
Cardinal pitcher Carpenter
has surgery on right elbow 
ST. LOUIS -Cardinals pitcher Chris Carpenter had surgery Tuesday to transpose a nerve in his right elbow, the same procedure St. Louis slugger Albert Pujols had last month. 
The Cardinals did not say whether Carpenter remained on a timetable to return by spring train­ing. 
The 33-year-old righty pitched only 15 1-3 innings over four appearances last season after recovering from reconstructive elbow surgery. The 2005 NL Cy Young winner went 0-1 with a 1.76 ERA and was shut down in early September. 
After Carpenter visited four spe­cialists, the Cardinals announced Oct. 1 that he would not undergo a procedure on his right shoulder brought on by nerve irritation in his elbow. 
Nadal ailiru! from tendinitisin 
knee, doublful for Davis Cup 
MADRID, Spain -Rafael Nadal has tendinitis in his right knee and could be in doubt for Spain's Davis Cup final against Argentina. 
Medical tests Tuesday confirmed the tendinitis, and Spain team doctor Angel Ruiz-Cotorro said the top-ranked player would undergo treatment through Saturday. 
Nadal will have more tests Monday to assess the injury. Spain plays Argentina in the final on indoor hard court at Mar del Plata from Nov. 21-23. 
Spanish Davis Cup captain Emilio Sanchez Vicario will not pick Nadal if he is unfit, Nadal's uncle and coach Toni said Tuesday. 
On Monday, Nadal pulled out of the season-ending Masters Cup in Shanghai citing fatigue after a season in which he's played in 111 matches. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
NFL 

Leftwich likely to start next week 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Byron Leftwich has already shown the Pittsburgh Steelers he can finish. He may get the chance Sunday to prove he can start. 
With starter Ben Roethlisberger's status for Sunday's game against the Colts uncertain due to his reinjured right shoulder, the Steelers (6-2) may give Leftwich his first start since last Nov. 18 with Atlanta. 
Roethlisberger underwent an MRI exam Tuesday, but the Steelers did not immedi­ately release the results. He 

and signed with Pittsburgh only after former backup Charlie Batch broke his col­larbone Aug. 8. Batch is out for the season. 
"I truly don't know the offense yet," Leftwich said. "I just got here late in the pre­season, so that's what makes it tough." 
The Steelers felt they were equipped to handle a Roethlisberger injury with Batch around; he was 3-0 as a starter in 2005 and 2006. They feel the same way with Leftwich, who is expected to seek a starting job elsewhere in the league after this sea­
son. 
"That's the 

reinjured his hardest posi­
"We really don •t look
separated tion, backup 
right shoulder for or seek excuses. quarterback," on a quarter­We don't make them, wide receiver 
back sneak Hines Ward
whether we ·re talking
near the end of said. "To the second about Ben or anybody come into the quarter else.,, game after Monday night. really not tak­Leftwich took ing a lot of
Mike Tomlin 
over to set up reps in prac­a touchdown Steelers head coach tice, he did a 
with a long completion on his first throw, threw for a score and led another TD drive during a 23-6 win in Washington. 
Leftwich's linescore for a short but productive night's work: 7 of 10 for 129 yards, no interceptions and one sat­isfied locker room as the Steelers preserved their AFC North lead. 
"He made a lot of friends in there," coach Mike Tomlin said. 
The sore shoulder has bothered Roethlisberger, though he hasn't said how much, since he was hurt. Sept. 7 against Houston. 
''I'm sure his shoulder has affected him," Tomlin said. "How much it has affected him, I don't know. It really is kind of irrelevant. We really don't look for or seek excus­es. We don't make them, whether we're talking about Ben or anybody else." 
Unless Roethlisberger's injury heals in a hurry dur­ing a shortened week of preparation, the Steelers may need Leftwich to bail them out again. 
"No, it does not surprise me," Tomlin said Tuesday of Leftwich's ability to come off the bench and throw quickly and effectively. "That's one of the characteristics of Byron. That's who he is. He's a quick decision maker.... That's what makes him who he is." 
A former first-round pick and starter in Jacksonville, Leftwich spent last season with the Falcons after being cut by the Jaguars-: 
"He's an experienced play­er. He's not new to this," run­ning back Willie Parker said. "Nobody was surprised by how well he came out and played. Ben went down and Byron seamlessly came in and did what he had to do." 
Leftwich's mobility doesn't match Roethlisbfwger's, but his arm may be as good or better. Surprisingly, Leftwich was out of the league when NFL training camps opened 
phenomenal 

job. Byron gave us fits down in Jacksonville for a long time, so it's great he can come off the bench with the guys try­ing to rally around him." 
Depending on Roethlisberger's status, the Steelers may have to rally around Leftwich again Sunday. 
"He practices every week like he is going to help this team win the next game," linebacker James Harrison said. "He did the job we expected him to do." 
Tight end Heath Miller (sprained ankle) is doubtful for Indianapolis (4-4). but Tomlin said safety Ryan Clark (shoulder) could return after missing one game. Tomlin offered no update on left tackle Marvel Smith (back), who hasn't played in a month. 
NHL 

Devil's Brodeur out for 3 to 4 months 
diagnosed as a bruised elbow,
Associated Press 
and Brodeur had hoped that it 

NEWARK, N.J. -For the was not serious because there next three to four months, the was no swelling, discoloration New Jersey Devils are going to and much pain. learn about life without Martin Brodeur was taken to see Brodeur. several specialists before 
The 36-year-old Brodeur, a being told that the biceps had four-time Vezina Trophy win­torn from the elbow and would ner who is on the verge of require surgery. becoming the NHL's all-time "This is not a career-ending winningest goaltender, will be injury." Devils president and 
sidelined until at least February after "It's shocking because tearing a distal 
you expect my knee is 
biceps in his 

going to go or my
left elbow last • weekend. groin or my thumb, Brodeur will 
something I use as a
undergo sur­

goalie.,,
gery Thursday. 

"It's shocking because you Martin Brodeur expect my knee 
Devils goalie 
is going to go or my groin or my thumb, some­thing I use as a goalie," Brodeur said Tuesday in a conference call. "I didn't exp.ect,my biceps could be a big factor in an injury. It was a freak accident. That's why 1 am shocked about the injury. That's not something I expect­ed to hurt." 
The biceps attaches to the big bone (proximal radius) in the forearm at the elbow joint. 
Brodeur was injured Saturday against Atlanta mak­ing a second-period glove save on a shot that was going wide 
of the net. 
"I just extended my arm real quick and I just felt a pop, and a tap­ping kind of feeling in my biceps," said Brodeur, who stayed in the game for another minute before being replaced · by Kevin Weekes, the man who will now be 
of time." 
Brodeur said it will take two months before 

~7 think it•s a great 
he can start last season moving the opportunity for when he posted elbow again, a 44-27 record
[Weekes] to go out .
and then he and a 2.17 
would begin and prove himself to goals-against rehabilitation. be the top goalie. ,, average. His "Then it seven seasons depends on how with 40 or more
Martin Brodeur 
it responds," wins are an 
Devils goalie 
said Brodeur, NHL record, 
who had never had a major 
general manag­er Lou Lamoriello said. "This is a bump in the road. (He'll have) a total recovery, 100 percent, and with this type of surgery there is no doubt about ­and I have total confidence that he will be back in a short period 
injury in 

"I didn •t expect my biceps could be a big factor in an injury. It was a freak accident. That's why I am shocked about the 
,,

znJury. 
Martin Brodeur Devils goalie 
his career in which he has played in at least 67 games every NHL season since 1995-96. 
"It is an unfor­tunate situation for me and for my team," Brodeur said. "It is what it is. My spirits are pretty good. I might as well stay posi­tive. There is no reason to be 

asked to take over for the 15-negative. It is not something year veteran who has led New that will affect my career. My Jersey to three Stanley Cups. mobility, nothing is going to be The injury was originally a factor. It is just a question of 
getting my biceps back into shape." 
The starting job now falls to Weekes, who was outstanding on Monday night in a 2-0 loss to Buffalo, making 28 saves, including 19-of-20 in the first period. 
Brodeur called Weekes a great goalie and teammate, noting that the 33-year-old who is now in his 1Oth season was always upbeat last year despite playing in nine games. 
Brodeur started 77 games, and had a streak of 56 straight starts before missing Monday's game. 
"I think it's a great opportu­nity for him to go out and prove himself to be the top goalie," Brodeur said. "He is going to play in front of a great team like I did for a lot of years and, hopefully, he will do well for us and hold the fort until I come back." 
Brodeur has won the Vezina 
Trophy as the 
NHL's top goal­
tender four 
times, including 
and his 2.20 
career goals­
against average is the lowest in the NHL's mod­ern era. He set a single-season record for wins with 48 in 2006-07, breaking Bernie Parent's old mark of47. 
Brodeur has 544 career wins, eight shy of breaking Patrick Roy's NHL record of 
551. Brodeur is five shutouts from tying Terry Sawchuk's NHL record of 103. 
"It's unfortunate. It's too bad," New York Rangers coach Tom Henney said. "You want to see the best players in the game playing, obviously. We all have a lot of respect for Marty and what he's done and we want to see him get healthy. But in the meantime, let's make hay." 

The Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies welcomes the University Community to a talk by 
Distinguished folklorist Diarmuid 6 Giollain of University College, Cork and 2008-2009 Patrick B. O'Donnell Chair of Irish Studies 
"National Literatures, International Exhibitions, World Heritage: VernacularTraditions in Modernity" 

Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Canseco pleads guilty to charges 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Jose Canseco went to a Tijuana pharmacy looking for something to boost his testosterone level -low after years of admitted steroid use ­and got himself in trouble again. 
Umping slightly and saying he's tired, depressed and nearly bankrupt, the former slugger pleaded guilty Tuesday to a mis­demeanor offense of trying to bring a fertility drug across the Mexican border. He was sen­tenced to 12 months' unsuper­vised probation. 
The 44-year-old Canseco apolo­gized to U.S. Magistrate Judge Ruben B. Brooks. saying. "I made an honest mistake." 
Brooks wondered aloud whether to make community service and drug testing condi­tions of Canseco's sentence. The judge decided against those stip­ulations after attorney Greg Emerson said Canseco is dealing with physical difficulties due to his steroid use and is doing his best to turn around his life. 
"It was ignorance on my part, is all it was," Canseco told The A'isociated Press afterward. 
Canseco, who said he also has a bum knee, faced a maximum sentence of one year in prison and a maximum fine of $1,000. The former star was ordered to pay a $25 special assessment. 
"I didn't realize you needed a prescription, and obviously I'm paying for it," he said. "I do have a prescription for it now. I wish I would have gotten it sooner. I wouldn't be going through all this." 
In his 2005 book "Juiced," Canseco admitted to using steroids and also alleged steroid use by other baseball players, which attracted Congress' atten­tion. 
On Tuesday, Canseco said a gel he was using to try to restore his testosterone level wasn't work­ing, so he went to a Tijuana phar­macy seeking something better. 
"I didn't go down there looking for steroids," Canseco said while seated on a bench outside the courtroom with his girlfriend, who gave only her first name, Heidi. "I needed something to help me get my own levels back to normal, just to get me to, you know, normal working condi­tions, I guess. 
"Well, when you have no testosterone level, you're depressed, you lose muscle mass, no sex drive, no libido, you have nothing," he added. "You're kind of like tired, depressed all the time. You just don't want to do anything." 
The former AL MVP and Rookie of the Year was a six-time All-Star who hit 462 home runs in 17 seasons. 
NFL 

Quinn introduced as Browns QB 
Associated Press 

BEREA, Ohio -Derek Anderson answered the final question, bowed his head and stared blankly at the floor. He then walked slowly toward a door at the far end of Cleveland's locker room, paus­ing to exchange a fist bump with linebacker and fellow team cap­tain Andra Davis on his way out. 
Seconds later, Brady Quinn entered to face a media semicir­cle in front of Anderson's stall. 
Quietly, the quarterbacking torch was passed. 
On a Tuesday in which change was the buzzword across the country, power shifted for the Cleveland Browns. 
The team began a new era with fan favorite Quinn as its on-field leader. He'll replace Anderson, benched by coach Romeo Crennel who said he based his decision on the Pro Bowl QB's inconsistent play, Cleveland's poor offensive rank­ing and the club's disappointing 3-5 record at the season's halfway point. 
"I felt like we needed a differ­ent dynamic on the offense," said Crennel, who added that he had been considering a Quinn­for-Anderson swap "for a while now." 
The switch came one day after Anderson threw a costly interception late in the fourth quarter of Sunday's 37-27 loss at home to the Baltimore Ravens. Thousands of Cleveland fans, who have been enamored with idea of Quinn under center almost from the moment he arrived, responded to the pick by chanting "Bra-dy! Bra-dy!" in the final minutes. 
The timing of the change ­coming in a short week with the Browns hosting Denver on Thursday night -has prompted some to wonder if Crennel was obeying orders from higher in the organization or perhaps reacting to public pressure. Crennel, though, maintains it was his decision alone to go with Quinn, the former Notre Dame star who will make his first NFL start against the Broncos (4-4). 
"The short week had nothing to do with it," Crennel said. "It was just time, so I did it. We're not throwing in the towel. We're not giving up on the season. We're going to beat Denver." 
Browns linebacker Willie McGinest, who also played for Crennel in New England, said the abruptness of the decision seemed to go against the coach's steady-as-she-goes nature. 
"There you go," said McGinest, who plans to retire following this season, his 15th. "You fi!,TUre out where it's com­ing from then. Your guess is bet­ter than mine. I can't get involved in those type of theo­ries, or who made the call .... it's a decision somebody decided to make, or a collective group decided to make." 
Anderson, who led the Browns to 10 wins last season, was shocked by his demotion. But the soft-spoken, rocket­armed, 25-year-old understands the rationale behind the change. 
"We didn't win enough games," he said. "We're 3-5. That's how it is in this league. It's a bottom-line thing. RAC (Crennel) has always told us that, you've got to win. That's kind of how things go and a lot of times it goes to the quarter­back." 
Anderson threw six intercep­tions in his first four games, but he had just one in his previous four and seemed to be getting himself turned around. It didn't help him that No. 1 wide receiv­er Braylon Edwards had dropped 14 passes and that he hasn't had his full complement of targets with Joe Jurevieius out for the season and Donte' Stallworth slowed by injuries. 
"Obviously it is a team game and I can only control what I can control," Anderson said. "Obviously it's tough getting your job taken away from you. It means a lot to me, I put a lot of effort into it, and that's prob­ably the hardest thing for me." 
The Browns now turn to the wildly popular Quinn, whose No. 10 jersey was already in demand and should see another spike in sales. Quinn has pre­pared for the possibility he'll get into a game by studying film, directing the scout team and helping Anderson get ready. Now, he's the one in the spot­light -and under the magnify­ing glass. 
lumoAe • •xpos1t1ooetworkios Weds., Nov. 5 Thurs., Nov. 6 5:30 p~m. 11:45 a.m. 4:00-6:00 p.m. Vander Vennet Theatre Dining Hall Student Center Lounge Q&APanel with SMC Alums Lunch with SMC Alums Networking Exposition with SMC Alums Business Casual Attire Network with Saint Mary's Alums <• Explore Career Options •:• Learn About Career and Internship Opportunities  


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
NBA 

' 
' ' 
Billups fills Nugget's big need 
Associated Press 

~ t 
I I DENVER -Denver coach George Karl has been peti­
' ~ 
tioning for a pure point

! 
I: I \ guard, a player with a pro­' ~ ; clivity for passing. ',· He got his wish when the 
''\ 
Nuggets acquired Chauncey

'' 
Billups from Detroit on Monday in a trade involving Allen Iverson. 
Now, Karl needs to tweak the offense, restructuring it from Iverson's shoot-first mentality to Billups' pass­often mind-set. 
Not that he minds the chal­lenge. 
"We all get excited when you've got a point guard that's special," Karl said Tuesday. "I think he's an orchestrator of winning. He'll help everybody get bet­ter shots. He'll help me coach the game." 
Karl has been searching for just such a point guard since surrendering Andre Miller to the Philadelphia 76ers in the trade that brought Iverson to town in December 2006. 
"I think it fits, it fits what we need," said Karl, who's not expected to have Billups available Wednesday at Golden State, but should have him Friday' against Dallas. "But when you make a trade, there's a nervous depression -'Is this the right thing? Will it work out? How's it going to work out?"' 
Besides acquiring Billups, the Nuggets got Antonio McDyess and Cheikh Samb from the Pistons. 
If McDyess ends up playing 
for the Nuggets, it will be his 
third time with the team. But there's a chance the cost­cutting Nuggets could buy out his contract. 
"We'll let you know some­thing when we know some­thing," Nuggets vice presi­dent of player personnel Rex Chapman said after practice Tuesday. 
Karl wouldn't mind having McDyess around, a forward who's retooled his game after serious knee injuries. 
"Antonio used to be a run­ner, an athlete, a rebounder, a rim-hitter," Karl said. "Now, he plays the game. He'd be good for us." 
After a day to digest the news of the deal, the Nuggets were looking forward to the arrival of Billups for his sec­ond stint in Denver. They don't think he will take long to get acclimated. 
They can't afford any lag time. 
"He's got to learn quick, because he's going to get put in the rotation quick," guard Anthony Carter said. 
Part of the reason the trade took place was because the Nuggets saw shooting guard J. R. Smith's growth stymied. By trading Iverson, they cleared more minutes for him and received a covet­ed point guard in return. 
Smith appreciates the faith. 
"They're putting trust in me," he said. "I've got to go out there and play the way I'm supposed to play." 
He's eager to see what Billups can bring to the Nuggets. Although, Smith already has a pretty good idea since Billups led Detroit to six straight Eastern Conference finals, winning it all in 2004. 
"His reputation is unbeliev­able," Smith said. "He's a great leader." 
But he's quite a different player than Iverson, which will take some getting used to. 
"Chauncey's more of a dis­tributor, but he can score, he can shoot the ball," Smith said. "A.I. was more of a scorer who could score in bunches. When he's hot, he's unbelievable. He played hard every day." 
Does Smith prefer a passer at point? 
"That's tough," he said. "You always want people who can score, but you also need someone who can dis­tribute the ball." 
Billups brings both. That's why Karl can't wait to work with him, telling his new point guard as much in a phone conversation Monday night. 
"He's excited, but there's a part of him that will miss Detroit," Karl said. "I think every day he'll be more excited to see this new team. There's a freshness to being with a new team. There's an enjoyment to being with a new team. 
It's not really a new team, though. Billups played parts of two seasons for the Nuggets and remains a popu­lar figure in the Mile High City, a Denver high school prodigy who went on to play at the University of Colorado. 
"There are very few play­ers that have a connection as much as Chauncey has with the city of Denver," Karl said. "That specialness has an excitement." 

J 
1 
' 
Bibliophiles Rejoice! Bargain Books Galore 

November 5th -November 16th Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574)631-6316 • www.Ddcalolog.com 
0/(l()I(JJl 00)0&6, 
NBA 

Iverson ready to run with Pistons 
Associated Press 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich.­Allen Iverson spoke at length about the ways he's grown as a person and a player, saying he's willing to make sacri­fices to complete his career with a championship as a Detroit Piston. 
The former NBA MVP then 
set himself up Tuesday for an 
exchange that showed he's 
mature enough to be the butt 
of the joke. 

"One thing is for sure, I'm 
going to do whatever the 
coach wants me to do," 
Iverson said. 

"Even practice?" Joe Dumars asked, mockingly. 
"PRACTICE?!" Iverson replied with a sparkling smile, using the word he spoke over and over in Philadelphia in 2002. 
Dumars, the Pistons' presi­dent of basketball operations, welcomed Iverson at a packed news conference and delved into a deal that has created unprecedented excitement for a storied fran­chise with three NBA titles. 
"I can't think of one that has created this kind of buzz," said Dumars, who has been a Pistons player and executive for two-plus decades. "He brings a certain stature with him that only a handful of guys in this league can bring." 
The Pistons were close to trading for Iverson from Philadelphia entering the 2000-01 season, but 76ers center Matt Geiger used a clause in his contract to nix the deal. 
Then, the Pistons watched Iverson lead Philadelphia to the NBA finals and become league MVP. 
Eight years later, Detroit is hoping "The Answer" was worth the wait. 
Iverson does, too. 

"I want to be the piece that gets us over the hump," he said. "I've done so many things in this league, being an All-Star and scoring champion and things like that, but I haven't accom­plished my No. 1 goal and that is to win a champi­onship." 
The Pistons acquired Iverson in a blockbuster trade Monday, sending All­Star point guard and former finals MVP Chauncey Billups, top reserve Antonio McDyess and project Cheikh Samb to the Denver Nuggets. 
"This is a big day for us, but I would be remiss if I did­n't say how much we appre­ciated how much Chauncey Billups and McDyess did for us," Dumars said. "Much love to those guys because they helped build a foundation to help us become who we are today." 
Detroit is desperate for another shot at an NBA ·title after getting eliminated in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals the past three years following its third championship in 2004 and falling just short of winning a fourth the next season. 
"We think he is going to fit with exactly what we stand for here." Dumars said. "It's 
all about winning and being 
in the big dance at the end of 
the year. Those are his goals 
along with ours. 

"I don't think we're going 
to sit here today and make 
any grand promises, but 
everybody knows our goals." 

If Billups completes a phys­
ical and paperwork in time, 
Iverson will play Wednesday 
night in Toronto. McDyess 
and Samb have not been 
required to report to Denver. 
Barring injury, the 33-year­
old Iverson will make his 
home debut Sunday night 
against the Boston Celtics in 
an NBA game as intriguing as 
one could be in early 
November. 

If McDyess ends up playing for the Nuggets, he will land on their roster for the third time. 
The Pistons kept McDyess off the free-agent market last summer by giving him a $13.5 million, two-year extension. Detroit would love to have the former Olympian and All-Star back next month if the cost-cutting Nuggets buy out his contract. 
''I'll be talking with Antonio and his representative direct­ly," Nuggets executive Mark Warkentien said Monday. "But we think he's a heck of a player and know he's a quality guy. One step at a time." 
The Pistons have reached six straight Eastern Conference finals -the longest such streak since the Los Angeles Lakers' domi­nant run in the 1980s -and won the 2004 title without a player expected to be in the Hall of Fame. 
Their lack of a superstar seemed to hurt them the past three seasons, exiting the playoffs against Boston's Kevin Garnett, Cleveland's LeBron James and Miami's Dwyane Wade. 
Iverson brings plenty of star power to Detroit. 
The deal also clears a lot of salary-cap space for the Pistons because Iverson is making $20.8 million in the final year of his contract while Billups is in the second season of a four-year con­tract worth a guaranteed $46 million with a $14 million team option for a fifth year. 
Iverson has acknowledged being excited about being a free agent for the first time next summer. 
Iverson's agent, Leon Rose, said he is not negotiating a contract extension with the Pistons for his client and the team is not pushing to get a deal done to keep him around beyond this season. 
"We'll see how it goes and how it unfolds," Dumars said. 
Iverson's life has unfolded publicly for more than a decade, bringing to light run­ins with the law, feuds with coaches and complaints about practice during that infamous news conference in which he said "practice" about 20 times during a ram­bling monologue. 
"I don't do the same things I used to do. If I was still doing those things, I'd be a damn fool," he said. "I've learned from my mistakes. 
page 17 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
Notes 
continued from page 20 
against Pittsburgh and had an MRI on Monday to deter­mine the extent of the injury. 
"Just from looking at him, I would imagine he'd be gone for a little while. And based 
off of MRI [results], it could be when they come back he might have to get it scoped," Weis said. "But I don't want to be premature in what I'm saying, but just looking at him it didn't look like he'd be ready for a while. So that just means we move [fresh­man] Trevor [Robinson] up and let's go." 
The Irish will lose depth. at guard, but not 
down. It's up to them to use their hockey instincts and their skills to make plays to finish it off." 
T h e s e changes resulted in a weekend where five of the seven total Irish goals came with the man advan­tage. Ryan Thang, Dan Kissel, Christian Hanson, Billy Maday and Notre Dame jumbo packages. 
• Weis said he talked with former Notre Dame quarter­back Brady Quinn Monday night about Quinn's promo­tion to starter for the Cleveland Browns this week 
"He said, 'Well, it's the same as every week. I pre­pare the same every week.' I 
"Just from looking at him, I would imagine he'd be gone for a little while. And based offMRI [results}, it could when they come back he might have to get it scoped ... So that just means we move [freshman] Trevor [Robinson] up and 
let's go.,, 

Charlie Weis Irish coach 
too much experience. Robinson has been rotating into the lineup with Stewart in every game this season and has played tight end in the 
Man-up 
continued from page 20 
box." 
Jackson said he also shifted his special teams units around after going 0-16 with the man advantage in two losses to Miami the previous weekend. These changes included mov­ing Kyle Lawson to the front of the net, and forming a unit that had three right-handed shooters playing with powerful point man Ian Cole. 
"Were trying to create more emotion on our power play," Jackson said. "We just try to give them a basic outline to follow, then they have to make plays once they break the box 
Lawson tallied power-play goals for Notre Dame in two wins over the Wildcats. 
While Jackson said the mid­week changes contributed to this success, other factors were in play as well. 
"Northern plays a more pas­sive system on penalty kill, which could've had something to do with it too," he said. "Being on the Olympic ice sheet might have been a fac­tor, too, in a positive way." 
Defenseman Brett Blatchford also had a big weekend against Northern, notching four assists, three with the man-advantage. Jackson said after the series that he hoped Blatchford would develop into 
said, 'Hey, Brady that's a bunch of garbage; you can tell it to someone else who wants to hear that stuff.' I go, 'You can say you're prepar­ing the same every week, but it's the one thing when you're the back-up, the other thing is when you're the starter,' which is exact­ly what I said, 'you can tell somebody else that wants to 

er Charel Allen play the game. 
"What I see is that 
and starting point "You don't have
[Lechlitner's] really 
guard Tulyah to think about it, Gaines both grad­leading the team. you just go out 
uated. This year, She's definitely in. there and play," 
Lechlitner will she said. 
charge when she's out
lead the offense. Sophomore for­
"What I see is there., ward Devereaux that she's really Peters is nearing leading the full health after
Muffet McGraw
team," McGraw missing the sec­
Irish coach 
hear that,"' Weis said of the conversation. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

a better point man on the power play, and that playing at an off-point position has actu­ally helped him in that regard, allowing Blatchford to play primarily on his forehand instead of backhand. 
"He's walking across instead of pulling it across," Jackson said. "Also, it allows him to potentially see the ice better." 
This power play success is a far cry from the struggles that plagued Notre Dame in the middle of last season, when the Irish fell into an 0-for-39 slump at one point. 
But the Irish will be tested next weekend when they take on Boston College in a rematch of last year's national championship game. Jackson said the Eagles' speed on the 
"On the power play, it's going to be more challenging because /Boston College is] a quick team. They're fast, they rotate aggressively ... and we have to make sure that we can get them out ofposition and shoot the puck. , 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
penalty kill could give the Irish some trou­bles. 
"On the power play, it's going to be more challeng­ing because they're a quick team," he said. "They're fast, they rotate aggressively, so they close up those passing lanes rather quickly because they're quick and we have to make sure that we can get 

them out of position and shoot the puck." 
Notre Dame will also face stiff competition when the Eagles have the man advan­tage. The Irish will go UJ..I against a power play that has scored 13 goals in six games this season and has been called the best power play unit in the country. 
"We have to make sure that we don't give up cross-ice pass or cross-seam passes through the box," Jackson said, "And if we can avoid doing that, we give ourselves a better chance to have success." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Gannon 
continued from page 20 
and for the players to sprint out of traps and throw a hand in the shooter's face. 
"I think it's getting a lot better," McGraw said. "The sense of urgency, the awareness is much better. I've really been pleased with that." 
The Irish finished last season 25-9, 11-5 in the Big East, but shooting guard and leading scor­the team has so many veterans, however, McGraw said the fresh­man will have difliculty cracking the lineup. 
"The veterans are a little bit ahead of them in just knowing what we're doing," McGraw said. "We're doing a lot of the same stuff we did last year so it's been easier for them. There's a big learning curve for the freshman but they're handling it really well." 
Novosel said learning the oflense will allow her stop focus­
ing on what she's 
doing and simply in last year. 

McGraw said she will tinker 
with some lineup changes during 
the game. What she said she 
wants to avoid, however, is put­
ting all of the freshmen in at once, 
so she wants to mix one or two of 
the younger players in with the 
veterans. 
"We're going to start with a vet­eran group and try to get the freshman in as quickly as we can," she said. 
Gannon finished last season 16­12 and 10-7 in the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference. The Golden Knights scored 71.5 points per game and made seven 3­pointers per game. 
Junior guard Kristina Freeman made 48 3-pointers last season and hit 37.8-percent of her shots from behind the arc. Junior guard Kim Vargas led the Golden Knights in scoring last season with 16.2 points per game. 
Notes: 
• 
Peters will not play in the Gannon game because she missed a tutoring session. 

• 
McGraw said Lechlitner, sen­ior guard Lindsay Schrader, jun­ior guard Ashley Barlow, sopho­more forward Becca Bruszewski and junior center Erica Williamson will start. 


Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
said. "She's defi­nitely in charge when she's out there, the team really looks to her." 
Lechlitner said the team's offen­sive production can come in a variety of different ways. 
"There are a lot of opportuni­ties, a lot of different ways you can score out of it," she said. 
The freshman are adapting to the struggles of learning a new offense well, McGraw said. Since 
ond half of last 

season with a torn ACL. McGraw said she was surprised by Peters' level of par­ticipation this fall. 
"She gets a little stronger every day. She hasn't missed anything," McGraw said. "She's been really working hard." 
Lechlitner said it will be nice to have Peters back to assist with shot-blocking and the press, which Peters played a large role 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 5, 2008 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
tough victory in an MIAA mini­tournament later that month. Each match, despite the straight-set outcomes, were grinding, defensive battles that favored the team that made the fewest offensive mis­takes. 
Tuesday night's match fol­lowed suit, with the teams combining for 14 blocks and 163 digs in four closely-fought sets. In the end, Adrian was able to capitalize on errors from the Saint Mary's squad, while the Belles struggled late in each set and squandered several leads. 
In the first set, the Belles came out of the gate forcefully and established a 14-7 lead at one point. The Bulldogs took advantage of Saint Mary's mis­cues while getting some key kills to come back and tie the score at 19-19 before a kill by sophomore hitter Jacee Watson and two more by sen­ior hitter Kaela Hellmann pro­vided the Belles some breath­ing room. Saint Mary's closed out the set 25-21 to gain the 1-0 advantage. 
In the second and third sets, both teams traded points in the early going and were unable to gain an early lead. 
In the second set, Adrian's defense, a strength al1 season long, clamped down in the late going to seal a 25-22 victory. In the third set, the Belles gained an early edge before mistakes allowed the Bulldogs to rebound and seize a 25-21 victory. 
The Saint Marv's offense sputtered throughout much of the fourth set, and several late errors sealed their fate as Adrian claimed a 25-19 victo­ry, clinching the match. 
Hellmann led the Belles offensively and defensively with a .318 attacking percent­age and 18 kills alongside 25 digs and 1. 5 blocks. Sophomore defensive special­ist Meghann Rose added 21 digs and four service aces. Junior setter Liana Rohr kept the offense running with 43 assists in the absence of the regular setter, freshman Danielle Brink. 
Quiet throughout the match was hitter Lorna Slupczynski; the junior provided the spark for Saint Mary's all through the season, leading the team in kills while providing 2.82 digs per game. Slupczynski finished the night with 10 kills against seven errors in 36 attempts for a .083 attacking percentage. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


NBA 

Boston's Big 3 proves superior 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON-Boston's Big 3 outplayed Houston's trio of stars Tuesday night. 
Ray Allen scored 29 points, Kevin Garnett added 14 points and 11 rebounds and the Celtics shut down Ron Artest and Yao Ming in a 103-99 victory over the Rockets. 
Tracy McGrady scored 26 points for Houston and tried to rally the Rockets (3-1) down the stretch against the defending NBA champions. 
The Celtics led 101-97 when McGrady rose for a 3­pointer and was fouled by Tony Allen. McGrady landed awkwardly and grabbed his sore left knee as Boston coach Doc Rivers protested the call, claiming McGrady was trying to pass. 
Referees reviewed the play as McGrady walked off the blow to his knee. He was given three foul shots and made two, cutting Boston's lead to 101-99. 
Eddie House hit two free throws at the other end with 
9.6 seconds remaining. Brent Barry then shot an air­ball and Garnett caught it to secure the win. 
Paul Pierce added 13 points and nine rebounds for the Celtics (3-1). Yao went 4­for-14 from the field and 
scored eight points, while Artest missed 13 of 16 shots and scored 15. 
Since acquiring Artest in the offseason, the Rockets have boldly talked about contending for the NBA title. The Celtics proved Houston still has a ways to go. 
Yao, Artest and McGrady went a combined 0-for-8 to start the fourth quarter and the Celtics led 93-86 with 31/2 minutes left. McGrady converted a three-point play, but Ray Allen hit a 3-pointer at the other end. McGrady then hit a shorter shot and Ray Allen answered again. 
Luis Scola scored twice to cut Boston's lead to 98-95. Out of a timeout, Garnett swished a shot from the wing with 59.6 seconds left and McGrady missed a long jumper on Houston's next trip down. 
The Celtics ended the Rockets' 22-game winning streak last season with a 94­7 4 win at the Toyota Center on March 18. Yao missed that game with a stress frac­ture in his left foot. 
Houston feels more equipped to win games like this with defensive specialist Artest. He guarded Pierce from the opening tip and stole the ball on Boston's second possession. Yao, guarded by 6-foot-1 0 Kendrick Perkins, had a dunk and two hook shots in the first five minutes as Houston took the early lead. 
But Yao went to the bench with his second foul with 
6:35 left in the quarter and the Celtics went on a 15-4 run, hitting seven of nine shots. Pierce scored only four points in the first quar­ter, but Rajon Rondo had 10 and Boston led 28-22. 
Yao returned with 10:52 left in the first half. With Yao backing off, Glen Davis grabbed an offensive rebound and scored, part of a 15-5 Celtics run. Davis converted a three-point play, drawing Yao's third foul, to put Boston up 43-27 with 
7:56 remaining in the half. 
Yao went out again and the smaller Rockets' lineup mounted a 25-4 run, sinking nine straight shots, including three 3-pointers. The Celtics hit only one field goal and committed three turnovers in the five-minute stretch, and Aaron Brooks' jumper put Houston ahead 52-47. 
Ray Allen stopped the Rockets' run with a three­point play and swished a 3­pointer on the next posses­sion to put the Celtics back in front. Pierce hit a 3-point­er in the final minute and Boston led 58-53 at the break. 






A Special Information Session for Arts and Letters Students 
(Others are welcome to attend) 
umm r 

May 13th to June 14th 2009 
Y All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible 
Y Four and one-half week study in London 
Y Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, Spain, or Amsterdam 
Y Earn 6 credit hours 
Y Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Session for 2009 & 2010 Programmes THURSDAY 6TH November 2008 5:00pm to 6:00 126 DeBartolo Hall 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.eduf--,sumlon 

Wednesday, November 5, 2008 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
BLACK DoG 
"fl.(f: C..,UJIJT : oSAMA 'i'7 MU..L-ID.\1 
Mc.C.AIN 32.3 MII..!-ICN. . AXEL.R.O[) HOW 
THIS HAP~EN? 
THE DOME PIECE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
RE. SAYIIIJC'r "FooT&AU.." """'S 
~STERED 
To VOTE 'r 

DAVID CAVADINI 

JUMBLE 
JJlYOOliD11JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PAIGE 
j
rx I I
1 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~f~fl,·, 
DEIBES ± 
www.jumble.com
tTHORUG I 
Jumbles: CRAZE
Saturday's 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHEN THE: FARMER BOUGHT THE HUGE SPREAD, HE WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) SYLPH JOCKEY DULCET 

Answer: What the optician turned into at the party ­A "SPECTACLE" 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
Across 36 Pungent-63 Squirrel away Put out, as a fire smelling 64 Suspect's story 6 Furry TV 37 Expensive tooth 65 Stephen of "The extraterrestrial filling material Crying Game" 9 Arouse, as 38 Sport with beefy 66 Out of favor, interest grapplers informally 14 "In my opinion 39 Admonition to a 67 Derby prize showboating 68 The whole athlete shebang
15 Place for sheep to graze 42 Notes after do 69 Activities in 57­16 Mrs. Bush 43 Doll's cry Down 
17 Utensil used with 44 Almost any doo­flour wop tune Down 
18 Perry Mason's 45 What a driver's Satellite TV field license shows receiver proof of 
19 Out of kilter 2 Garfield's pal, in 47 Makes tough the funnies 
20 Old "Tonight Show" intro 48 Understood 3 _-friendly 23 Fork over 49 By way of (simple to operate)
24 Word after show 50 "Cheers" or know bartender 4 Put money in the bank
25 Bygone Rambler 53 Kid's book with a mfr. hidden character 5 Poker player's 27 Classic arcade 60 Atlantic or headgear Puzzle by Fred Piscop 
6 Give the O.K. 
game Pacific 
31 Hardly cramped 46 Local 55 Walk drunkenly 31 Set free 62 Buddhist sect noncollegian, to
7 Wife of Jacob 
32 Director Kazan 56 Top-rated8 Young Bambi a collegian
33 Napped leather 57 Features of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Benchwarmer's 
47 Bro's sibling 
34 Cybermessages science classes 
plea 

49 Open to bribery
35 Stadium toppers 58 "Dang!"
1 0 The Beatles' 50 Suds maker 
" the Walrus" 37 Pesky swarmer 59 5:2, e.g., at a 51 Rights org. racetrack
11 Wit's remark 40 Most common 12 Celestial bear U.S. surname 52 Golda ot Israel 
61 Muscles to 13 "Piece of cake!" 41 Zero 54 Poet Pound crunch 21 Rock's Bon Jovi 
22 Nita of silent For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a films credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 26 Windsor, notably Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
27 Father: Prefix 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
28 Felt sore 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 29 Oreo's filling 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 30 Sinking in mud solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS D:\.Y: Sean "Diddv" Combs . .39; Matthew McCo­
naughey. 39; Ralph Macchio, 48: Markie Post, 58 • 
Happ~· Birthday: Put yoursdf on the line tlris year. Happiness does not come without work. Now is a time of initiation but do not go overboard. A chance to get back into something you always wanted to pursue will be possible. Stop waiting for things to drop in your lap. Your numbers are 12,17,~0. 23.31,35,41 
ARIES tMarch 21-April 19): You may get stuck doing all the work if you let someone 
take advantage of your experience, enthusiasm and quick response. Look out for your o~>·n interests and refuse to gi,;e too freely. even if you are asked. ** 
TAliRPS (April 20-May 20): There may be a lot going on in your head but tlris isn't the time to let things fester. Discuss what's really bothering you and solutions v;ill be found. Be finn but not obstinate.***** 
GEI\UNI (May 21-Jrute 20): Talk your \\'ay into a new group and you will experience a lifestyle change that is long overdue. You have just as much to offer as th~ next person so believe in yourself. A business trip will pay off. * * * 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You're a softy but, if you give in to someone, he or she will want even more from you. Offer your advice and guidance but don't do the work for others. Build a strong group of people around you not a bunch of hangers-on.*** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Temptation must be kept at am1's length. Question anyone who is too willing to sacrifice his or her position or reputation. Be strong. An indiscretion will cause personal problems with family. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Shan" your concerns with someone you trust and you'll come up with a solution to a family problem that has been keeping you awake nights. Hono.>sty is the only way to clear these matters up so you can move on.***** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2..1-0ct. 22): You are probably not seeing things clearly so,lx:fore you say something you may regret, busy yourself with hobbies, pastimes or unfinished busi­ness. Problems with loved ones will escalate. Ask an older, experienced relative to me­
diate.** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 2]-Nov. 21): Taking a serious position regarding 'omething you be­lieve in will help you hook up with lil:e-mindecl people. Someone considering you for a particular position will recognize your compassionate nature. A change is upon you.** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be the one to take advantage, not the one being used to benefit others. Emotions will oc difficult to control if money is au issue. If you or someone you are dose to has gone over budget. find wa.>-s to raise extra cash. It could 
tum into pem1anent income.*** 

CAPRICORN (De-c. 22-Jan. 19): You will be left dangling by someone trying to get you to pay for or join something that may not be the best for you. Saying no will he your only option. Don't commit to anything that isn't ironclad and to your advantage. 
*** 

AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be upset or angered by someone who is continu­ally changing his or her mind. Show good faith by offering to help a go..:>d ,·ause. A love interest will develop with someone who has a lot in common with you. *** 
PISCES 1Feb.19-March 20): By helping others you will position youTSelffor success. The choice you make new can alter your financial future for years to come. An unusual development will occur regarding a gift, something you find or an inheritance or settle­
ment.**** 

Bh·thday Baby: You are sensitive--a humanitarian. a Good Samaritan and a loyal friend and lover You aren't afraid to take an unusual route and question anyont· who fears the unknown. 
Euge11ia's We!> sites: .·ugmiolos/.comfor coufideutial romultntions, mvspace .com!eugenialnst for Eugmia's blog. ustroadrice.comfor fim 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ----­

Address _______________________________________ City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 

MEN's SoccER 

Irish wait, watch as Big East tourney opens 
Observer Staff Report 
After Saturday's 1-0 win at West Virginia clinched the Big East Blue division, No. 13 Notre Dame will get to watch the 12-team confc.rence tour­nament field narrow itself to eight without playing a game. 
On Saturday, the Irish (11-5­2, 7-2-2 Big East) will host either the Mountaineers or Louisville, who play at 2 p.m. today. 
A win Saturday would place the Irish iu the semifinals Nov. 14 in Tampa, Fla., one victory away from the Nov. 16 cham­pionship game. 

In other first-round action, Villanova plays at Providenc:e, with the winner set to face St. John's, the Red division's top team. DePaul hosts Pittsburgh today for the right to play at Connecticut. 
Cincinnati plays at Georgetown tomorrow in the final first-round game, the winner of which will play at South Florida. 
If the seedings hold, the Irish would draw USF in the semifinals. 
HOCKEY 

NO shores up power play 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wrirer 
Last week's five power-play goal explosion may have come as a surprise to some Irish fans, but for Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson, it was just a cul­mination of something the team had been working on all week in practice. 
"We work on power-play skills and then we work on tac­tics," Jackson said. "We want our players to be creative, but we want to give them some guidelines to break down the 
see MAN-UP/page 18 


r 
I, 
I' ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
i' 
'· 
' 
I ! ' Bring it on 
,,·X 
Melissa Lechlitner ready to lead squad, starting with tonight's home exhibition game 
By BILL BRINK Sports Ediror 
Muffet McGraw means what she said during media day about stopping the 3-pointer this year. So much so that in practice, if a 3-point shot goes 

i uncontested, the players mustl run sprints. 
"In the beginning it was pret­ty atrocious actually," freshman guard Natalie Novosel said. "We were running a lot during prac­tice. But it's gotten a lot better." 
Notre Dame's exhibition game against Gannon tonight will test its progress in perimeter defense -Gannon shot 604 3­pointers last year. 
"We're going to be tested right away," McGraw said. "It's definitely one of the big things we're going to look at." 
Junior guard Melissa Lechlitner said McGraw wants the team to contest all perime­ter passes to prevent easy looks, 
see GANNON/page 17 


Wednesday, November 5, 2008 page 20 
fOOTBALL 

Weis says 'complexion' of games affects team's strategy 
ments about his team's inabili­seems to be the team But the complexion of games Harrison Smith personal foul By JAY FITZPATRICK 
ty to close out games in the spokesman for two weeks in a sometimes changes as all of a jumpstarted the Pittsburgh Managing Ediror 
second half. The Irish had two­row now, just like Michael sudden -let's say you're offense, rejuvenating the team score l e ads in two of their Floyd was trying to lateral the shutting the team's offense for the second half. 
Notre Dame coach Charlie three losses on the season -at ball in the North Carolin a down and all of a sudden they "You're feeling pretty good Weis said that the offensive North Carolina on Oct. 11 and game," Weis said of Floyd's start kicking it into gear," he about your chances, just as game plan isn't rigidly set Saturday against Pittsburgh. fumble on the final play of the said. "The complexion of the long as you keep on doing what before a game, but rather has After the loss to the North Carolina loss, which Tate game, there's ebbs and flows you're doing," he said. "And all to adapt throughout it, at his Panthers, sophomore wide also commented on. that happen in a game. So I of a sudden the momentum weekly press conference on receiver Golden Tate said that Although Weis said his team think each game has its own starts to go the other way, then Tuesday. he felt the team has the ten­is not complacent, he did say set of circumstances that come you have to go ahead and react 
"Well, I think that when dency to get complacent. Weis that shifts in a game's tempo with that." accordingly." you're running things on was not pleased with Tate's can sometimes change the Weis commented specifically offense, it isn't just grinding it comments, and said as much entire dynamic of the game. on the performance of his Notes: out and the running game," he during his press conference on "I mean, sometimes as you're defense against Pittsburgh. The + Irish right guard Chris said. "I think the complexion of Sunday. grinding it out and getting first Panther offense could only Stewart injured his knee run­how a game goes has a lot to "Let's just say that I'll have a downs or not getting first muster 71 yards of total ning onto the field Saturday do with how you call a game." talk with Golden and he won't downs, you're content with offense in the first half 
Weis was responding to com-be saying that any more. He playing a field position game ... Saturday, but an early see STEWART/page 17 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Junior guard Melissa Lechlitner will take over much of Notre Dame's leadership and scoring duties with a pair of starting guards graduating, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles out 
•
1n MIAA's first round 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's season ended Tuesday night with a first-round loss to Adrian in the MIAA Tournament, dropping the match in four sets to the Bulldogs, 21­25, 25-22, 25-21, and 25-19. 
The loss capped a 9-7 MIAA season for the Belles, who went 18-11 overall. 
The Belles' regular-season MIAA record had earned them the No. 4 seed and first-round home court advantage against No. 5 Adrian, who finished 8-8 in the conference and 15-15 over­all. 
The Belles previously clashed with the Bulldogs twice this sea­son, with each team picking up a victory in straight sets. While Adrian's defense shut down Saint Mary's in a home match on Sept. 2, the Belles scratched out a 
see BELLES/page 17 




