

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND develops strategies to achieve sustainability 
"Going Green" encouraged by a variety offactors 
By JOHN TIERNEY and AARON 
STEINER 
News Writers 
Editor's Note: This is the third installment of a multi-part series examining sustainability at Notre Dame. 
To make the goal of sustainability a reality for Notre Dame, the University must pay careful atten­tion to both economic and environ­mental factors, according to the Director of the Office of Sustainability Jim Mazurek. 
"!We want to) balance environ­mental and economic parts as well as the short-term and long-term goals of the University," Mazurek said. 
According to Mazurek, the cam­paign for sustainable energy is not solely an environmental movement. He said the University's motivations 
see GOALS/page 8 


Sustainable practices considered, adopted 
By AARON STEINER and JOHN 
TIERNEY 
News Writers 
Editor's Note: This is the final installment of a multi-part series examining sustainability at Notre Dame. 
As the General Electric Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt said at Wednesday's Forum on Sustainable Energy, "to do something, you have to do something." So how is Notre Dame becoming more sustainable? 
According to Tracy Jennings, co­president of Students for Environment Action, achieving true sustainability requires making peo­ple feel uncomfortable. 
"It's going to take a lot of change that necessarily won't be welcome," she said. It will take "a change in attitudes about what's necessary." 
On campus, Jennings said there 
see ENERGY/page 10 
Endowment valued at over $7 billion in 2008 

Notre Dame has 5.8 percent return for previous fiscal year; Malpass predicts "tough year" ahead 
just over $7 billion by the close kets," Malpass said. "For us to its funds in non-U.S. dollar tough year," he said. "I don't By KAITLYNN RIELY of the fiscal year ending June be up anything is a great year assets. Malpass also praised his know how it will end up, but I 
Associate News Editor 
30, 2008, Malpass said given what happened." core investment team -15 think it will be a tough year. If 
Thursday. The Observer reported last Notre Dame graduates -and we are positive again this year, I 
The Notre Dame endowment Notre Dame exceeded its year that the Notre Dame 170 investment partners spread think it will be a minor mira­pool brought in a 5.8 percent benchmark return of up 0.8 endowment was $6.54 billion, across the entire endowment cle." return for the last fiscal year, percent, Malpass said, in a year up from $5.08 billion the year portfolio with achieving a posi­The current uncertainty in the but Vice President and Chief when other indexes, including before. tive return in a "tough envirdn­financial markets -from the Investment Officer Scott the S&P 500 and Dow Jones, Malpass credited the ment." problems stemming from the Malpass said a "tough year" lies were down in the same time University's positive rate of But Malpass said he was subprime mortgage crisis to the ahead, given the country's cur­frame. return this year with its diversi­"downplaying expectations" for bankruptcy declared last week rent economic problems. "It just goes to show you what fied portfolio, which is risk con­next June's return. 
The endowment pool gr:ew to a tough year it was in the mar-trolled and invests almost half "I think it's going to be a see GROWTH/page 9 
Grotto groundskeeper retires at 75 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
The Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes is a meaningful place for many people at Notre Dame, but perhaps for none more than Norbert Wiskotoni. Norbert, or "Norbie" as his friends call him, retired last month as groundskeeper for the Grotto, a position he held for the past 14 years. 
"I loved working there at the Grotto. That's why I stayed there so long. That was the best job I ever had," Wiskotoni, 75, said. 
Wiskotoni's favorite part about the Grotto was the people, espe­cially the couples that proposed 
see GROTTO/page 11 



Students hope for third home victory 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 

Many optimistic Notre Dame students view Saturday's game against the Purdue Boilermakers as a chance for the Irish to prove their doubters wrong after last week's disappointing 23­7 loss to Michigan State. 
In their last game, Purdue pulled off a 32-25 comeback victory over Central Michigan. 
''I'm excited," sophomore Emily Murphy said. "I feel 
like this is a chance to redeem ourselves." 
West Lafayette, Ind., home of Purdue's campus, is only a short distance from Notre Dame. A large number of Boiler fans are expected to be present on campus this week­end, which will add to the charged atmosphere before and during the game, which kicks off at 3:30p.m. 
"The two schools are only two and a half hours apart, which definitely feeds into the rivalry," junior Justin 
see GAME/page 8 
page 2 Friday, September 26, 2008 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Stadiun1 needs color 
Last night I sellled in to kick oil' the 
we1~kend by watching the USC vs. 
Oregon Slate game. In the first live 
minut1~s of the game, Oregon Stale 
had already put 
up a touc~hdown. Dan Murphy 
But I was much 
more impressed Sports Editor 
with the Beavers 
in the stands than 
the Beavers on the field. 
As ESPN's camera panned through 
the crowd I could see nothing but 
orange. The overhead shots were just 
as impressive; it looked like it 
could've been a game in Tennessee. 
Every Saturday boring, grey cement stadiums that lie dormant six days a week are painted by loyal fans who shuflle in all wearing their team's col­ors. The Horseshoe turns bright red, Colorado blacks out the Rockies, practically the entire state of Pennsylvania shows up in their White T's to cheer for their Nittany Lions. 
Not to say that Notre Dame Stadium isn't one of the best places on Earth, but let's be honest the crowd could usn a little bit of work. Our bland navy blue shirts-those that wear them-don't do much to stand out against the rest of the collage of col­ors strewn about the stadium. 
Every week at the pep rallies wn 
listen to Charlie Weis tell the stud1mts 
that we aren't intimidating, we're too 
friendly, and we'rp nowhere near 
loud enough. 
Evnr sincn The Shirt eommilten 
opted to get rid of the traditional 
green in favor of a mustard ynllow 
four years ago, the studflnt seetion 
has been underwlwlming at Notre 
Damn Stadium. 
It's time to make a change. It's timt~ to show some Irish pride. 
This isn't going to be easy and it may take a few w1~eks to really see the results. but kenp the faith and you won't be disappointed. 
Here's my proposal: 
If you are in section 33 or 34 show up Saturday aftflrnoon wearing an orange shirt, or the closest thing to orange you can find in your wardrobe. Knott. we're going to need your help here. Hopefully that frflsh­man enthusiasm will be enough to make it happen. 
Sections 31 and 32, you are respon­sible for showing up in white. This shouldn't be too tough, most of the student body can probably just show up shirtless now that South Bend has taken care of whatHver tan you picked up over the summer. If not, grab a white t-shirt and throw it on. 
Finally, everyone in 30 and lower it's time to pull out those old school greens from the Ty Willingham era. If you've been at this school for three years and still don't have a green shirt. you are doing something wrong. 
Now just imagine sitting down Saturday night completely exhausted and flipping on SportsCenter to catch up on the scores from around the country. Imagine watching Miehael Floyd running into the endzone with the backdrop of a 10,000 person, stu­dent made Irish flag painting the cor­ner of Notre Dame Stadium. It's time to show our Irish pride. 
Make sure to spread the word. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Contact !Jan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The comic Th~ Domr Pi~a in the Sept. 25 edition ofThe Observer should be credited to Pat Gartland and not David Cavadini. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE FICTIONAL CHARACTER? 



Zach Reuvers Bert Hootsmans Greg Klazora Joanna Thurnes Rocky Stroud 
sophomore freshman sophmore sophomore freshman
Alumni Duncan O'Neill Walsh 
Duncan "Dora the "! think Blair "T.Jfrom "Pepper Ann 
"Aladdin,Explorer. Vamos from 'Gossip 'Recess' because she because who a explorar Girl' is the because he rules the doesn't love
juntos!" perfect witch. " rules the school." 



school.'' 

Charge dropped against man accused of farting 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. ­A West Virginia man accused of passing gas and fanning it toward a police officer no longer faces a battery charge. The Kanawha County prosecutor's office requested that the charge be dropped against 34­year-old Jose Cruz. 
According to a criminal complaint, Cruz passed gas and made a fanning motion toward patrolman 
T.E. Parsons after being taken to the police station for a breathalyzer test. Cruz denies fanning the Whitehouse has been carved in Palin's like­ness, complete with her familiar updo hairstyle and eyeglasses. 

Farmer Duke Wheeler says that Palin created a lot of excitement in the campaign and that he was hoping to generate some for this year's maze. 
Wheeler says it took an artist from Idaho at least eight hours to mow down stalks for the maze. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
gas and says his request to use a restroom when first arriving at the sta­tion was denied. 
An assistant says Magistrate Jack Pauley signed a motion to dis­miss the charge Thursday. 
Palin Is carved into cornfield 
WHITEHOUSE, Ohio ­An Ohio farmer would like to invite you to get lost inside the head of Hepublican vice presi­dential candidate Sarah Palin. 
A 16-acre corn maze near the town of 

India?" 
IN BRIEF 

Rescheduled due to rain, 
Cirque du Lac, hosted by 
Lyons Hall, will take place 
today from 1 to 4 p.m. on 
South Quad. The carnival 
will benefit Hannah & .Friends. 
Fortnight Productions will be performing a Silver Screen Review tonight at 8 p.m. and 10::~o in the LaFortune Ballroom. The show is free and no tieket is necessary. The show features musical perform­ances from several movies. 
The Student Activities Office will host "End Zone: The best of Chicago" Saturday at 10 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom which will include free Chicago Deep Dish Pizza, Chicago Dogs and Italian beef. The event will also feature Chicago trivia. 
The 3rd Annual Domer Doggy Walk will be Sunday from 12 p.m. to 3. There is a $15 registra­tion fee for all partici­pants. The walk will be around St. Joseph's Lake. All proceeds will go to help the Humane Society of St. Joseph's County. 
Mighty Clouds of Joy will be having a concert in Debartalo Performing Arts Center on Sunday at 2 p.m. The group sings gospel and worship. Tickets are available in Debartalo's box office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!( 
LLI 
3: 
....I <( 
(J 0



.... HIGH 80 HIGH 55 HIGH 73 LOW 55 LOW 50 LOW 54 

78 
54 


Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Datne ipaugurates Kellogg's Ford Family Progratn 



Program lists teaching, research, community engagement as goals; economist Collier speaks at ceremony 
work with the [Catholic] Church and find ways within themselves to improve the lives that they're living. We have a lot of confidence in this pro­gram," she said. 
Dowd said the Congregation of the Holy Cross has been involved with Uganda since 1958, making it the natural choice for the starting point for the Ford Program. Eventually, Dowd said he would like to see the program expand beyond Uganda into other parts of Africa and possibly onto other continents. 
"We didn't spin the globe and just point to Uganda, we are involved with Uganda because we have strong ties there dat­ing back to 1958," he said. "Our plan is to expand gradu­ally over time. We do plan to expand within Africa, but it's quite possible that we would even expand beyond Africa sooner rather than later." 
Lyden said the partnership with Uganda Martyrs and Nnindye is a type of community engagement that is one of the cornerstones of the Ford Family Program. 
"Community engagement is partnering with local commu­nities and people and working with them to come up with a plan to pull themselves out of poverty," he said. "Our most important partners are the people on the ground living and working in these villages." 
However, because Notre Dame lacks an agriculture department, the Ford Family Program formed another part­nership with Purdue University in order to help improve farm­ing techniques in Nnindye and Ruhiira. 
"I think it was mutual inter­est which brought us together," Purdue professor of Agricultural Economics Jess Lowenberg-DeBoer said. "The effort is really directed to cre­ate a partnership between Notre Dame, Uganda Martyrs University and Purdue, which would work on improving the standards of living in the coun­ty which is right around Uganda Martyrs and eventually in the rest of Uganda." 
Dowd, however, was quick to note the majority of the work must be done by the villagers themselves if the Ford Family Program is to be successful, and the role of outsiders is sim­ply to support the people living in poor conditions rather than directly intervene. 
"Development projects that are driven by the agendas of outsiders almost always fail. One thing we have learned is that good intentions are not enough," he said. "We're devoted to working with people 


By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistam News Editor 
At the Notre Dame World Heath Forum in 2006, University President Fr. John Jenkins announced the creat­ing of the Millennium Development Initiative, which would encourage Notre Dame students become more involved in developing economies in Africa. Two years later, what originally started as a small initiative housed within the Office of the President has grown, with the help of a $6 million dollar donation from W. Douglas and Kathy Ford, into the Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity -a comprehen­sive academic institution which focuses on human development that was inaugurated Thursday. 
"[The Millennium Development Initiative] was a great project with a lot of potential, but it wasn't an aca­demic part of the University," assistant director of the Ford Program Tim Lyden said. "We were limited by our status as an initiative." 
World-renowned Oxford economist Paul Collier, who recently published a new book titled "The Bottom Billion: Why the Poorest Countries are Failing and What Can Be Done About It," also spoke at the inauguration and praised the new program. 
"[The Ford Family Program] offers the alliance between phi­lanthropy and youth, and that is the alliance that is going to change the world," he said. 
A new addition to the Kellogg Institute, the Ford Family Program "seeks to build a transnational and interdiscipli­nary alliance of scholars, pub­lic servants, conscientious citi­zens and institutional partners to address critical challenges confronted by those living in extreme poverty, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa," according to the program's brochure. 
Director of the Kellogg Institute Ted Beatty said he welcomed the new program into the Institute because it shared in the common goal of promoting research that had a positive impact of the lives of others. 
"The primary reason [the Ford Program became a part of Kellogg] is it fits exactly with our long standing mission of promoting social science research," Beatty said. 

Director of the Ford Family Program Fr. Bob Dowd said he had three main goals -teach­ing about extreme poverty, researching those conditions and engaging members-of those communities. 
"The very basic goal of the Ford Program is to realize Notre Dame's mission, and that is channeling the incredible power of the human mind towards promoting the com­mon good," he said. "More specifically the Ford Program is devoted to, first of all, expanding and .enhancing the opportunities that Notre Dame students have to study develop­ment in the classroom." 
The efforts in the classroom will include the hiring of new faculty members and the intro­duction of a new interdiscipli­nary minor in international development studies. 
"[The new courses] could fall into any major, but what we would like to do is explore the possibility of introducing an interdisciplinary minor in international development studies," Dowd said. 
Currently, the Ford Family Program is building on the relationships previously devel­oped by the Millennium Development Initiative in the Ugandan towns of Ruhiira, a cluster of eight villages, and Nnindye, a collection of 12 vil­lages located 10 miles west of Uganda Martyrs University, the country's premier Catholic uni­versity. 
"Uganda is an incredible country," Ford Family Program founder and member of the University Board of Trustees W. Douglas Ford said. Ford, along with his wife Kathy and son Matt, visited the country with Dowd in the early summer of 2007. "The thing that struck us most was that you have these people who, by American stan­dards, are living very modestly to say the least, and you have the joy of helping the people out." 
Kathy Ford said the family was looking to start a social justice program at Notre Dame for some time, and after visit­ing Uganda with Dowd, she and her husband decided to found the program. 
"Being in Uganda was really almost life changing. The needs were enormous, but so was the spirit of the people, willing to at the grassroots level." 

Angola-native Guerra Freitas, who is the director of the philanthropic group Share Circle, which is currently work­ing to found Angola Central Highlands University, agreed with Dowd's point about Africans helping themselves. Freitas said one of the best agents for change was educa­tion. 
"I like this philosophy of helping Africans help them­selves, and one of the best ways to really do that is through education," he said. "You need to empower Africans to take up the destiny of their own country in their own hands." 
Collier echoed this point in his lecture, arguing Africans themselves must be the agents for change. 
"Our role is to help them in their struggle, not do it for them.... We can make a differ­ence, but to an extent," he said. "If we over-glamorize our role, we will fail." 
Collier also said America and Europe each must change its policies towards Africa, which have helped destroy the coun­try, and called for a plan to help rebuild Africa similar to the Marshall Plan used to rebuild Europe after World War II. 
"Improper behaviors that have to be recognized as such and stop," he said. 
Collier called on Notre Dame students to help create the political pressure necessary to force politicians into action. 
"Until we get a more sophisti­cated citizenry, politicians will never be pressured," he said. 
Last year, five Notre Dame students visited Uganda to do research on aspects of every­day life in the county, such as the poor quality of the drinking water, and described their experiences in a video shown at the ceremony. 
The enthusiasm of students at Notre Dame was the chief reason the Fords wanted to endow a program at the University, Matt Ford said. 
"I can't imagine too many other places where a program like this would be as welcomed as at Notre Dame, simply because of the student body," he said. 
Lyden said this type of hands­on research would be a critical component of the Ford Program, and students will be able to apply for internships in Africa with the Ford Program through the Kellogg Institute. 
"We want to conduct and promote serious research that will have a positive impact on people suffering in the develop­ing world. It is research that attacks real problems," Lyden said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Homes -Rentals -Cars -Computers -Appliances 
Need extra. cash? Searching for t:ha.t: special needed it:ern? Try our local websit:e www.SeiiBuyit.corn. lt:'s freel List: an it:ern wit:h phot:o. unlimit:ed discript:ion, until sold. 
r-----------------------------------­
Friday, September 26, 2008
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

A NOTRE DAME FORUM ENLIGHTEN ENGAGE EMPOWER 


STUDENTS: 
JOIN THE CONVERSATION 
We invite you to participate in a residence hall discussion on the topic of Sustainable Energy. See below for dates, times, and locations. All are welcome. 
Date  Time  Place  Sponsored By  Faculty/Student Facilitators  
Thursday Sept. 25  7:00-8:00 p.m.  Basement of Alumni Hall  Alumni and Lewis Halls  Professor Je Kantor, Connor Kobeski  
Monday Sept. 29  7:00-8:00 p.m.  Howard Hall Green Lounge  Howard and Sarin Halls <  Professor Richard Jensen, Nick Hittler, Kent Gonzales  
7:00-8:00 p.m.  Pasquerilla East 24-Hour Room  Pasquerilla East and Knott Halls  Professor Ed Maginn, Regina McCormack  
Tuesday Sept. 30  7:00-8:00 p.m.  FOG Community Center  Fischer O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences  Professor Mark McCready, Patrick Brown  
7:00-8:00 p.m.  O'Neill Haii24-Hour Lounge  O'Neill Lyons and Dillon Halls  Professor Joe Powers, Jackson Bangs  
Wednesday Oct. 1  5:30-6:30 p.m.  Cavanaugh Hall Basement Lounge  Cavanaugh Zahm and St. Edward's Halls  Professor Paul McGinn, Courtney Haven  
7:00-8:00 p.m.  Welsh Family Haii24-Hour Lounge  Welsh Family Pangborn and Fisher Halls  Professor Prashant Kamat, Connor Kobeski  
Tuesday Oct. 7  5:30-6:30 p.m.  Carroll Hall First Floor Lounge  Carroll and Badin Halls  Ms. Rachel Novick, Michelle Byrne, Ann Kelley  

For more information, visit forum.nd.edu or contact Ann Firth (firth.2@nd.edu) in the 0 ce of Student A airs. 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 26, 2008 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistani troops fire at US helicopters 
KABDL, Afghanistan -Pakistani troops fired at American reconnaissance helicopters near the Afghan-Pakistan border Thursday, and ground troops then exchanged fire, the U.S. mili­tary said. 
No injuries were reported, but the incident heightened tensions as the U.S. steps up cross­border operations in a volatile region known as a haven for Taliban and al-Qaida militants. 
Two American OH-58 reconnaissance helicop­ters, known as Kiowas, were on a routine after­noon patrol in the eastern province of Khost when they received small-arms fire from a Pakistani border post, said Tech Sgt. Kevin Wallace, a U.S. milit&cy :~okesman. There was no damage to aircraft or crew, officials said. 
Shooting triggers fear of copyrnt crime 
KAUHAJOKI, Finland -Panic spread among students in Finland on Thursday as threatening text messages and Internet postings raised fears of new attacks mimicking a deadly school ram­page. 
Worried children and parents jammed tele­phone help lines and scores of children stayed away from class after threat<; popped up against schools and students. 
While most appeared to be hoaxes, police were taking every threat seriously to avoid a repeat of Tuesday's shooting, in which a 22­year-old gunman killed 10 people and himself at a vocational school in this town in western Finland.kindergartens are considered an essen­tial service, providing universal day care for chil­dren between ages 2 and 7 for parents who are typically foreed to work to make ends meet. 
It was the seeond sehool shooting in the coun­try in less than a year. Last November, an 18­year-old man fatally shot eight people and him­self at a high school in southern Finland. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Ike delays space shuttle launch 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -NASA is delaying next month's shuttle launch to the Hubble Spaee Telescope because of problems stemming from Hurricane Ike and replacement parts for the observatory. 
Space shuttle Atlantis is now set to blast off late at night on Oct. 14 for the last visit to the orbiting telescope, officials said Wednesday. Liftoff had been scheduled for the wee hours of Oct. 10, technically making this a five-day post­ponement. 
Senior managers will reassess the launch date next week. 
Atlantis' seven astronauts, who wrapped up a practice countdown at the launching site Wednesday, lost a week of training because of Hurricane Ike. The hurricane shut down the Johnson Space Center in Houston, which did not reopen until this week. 
lawmakers receive free ~line cards 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -California lawmakers enjoy a perk not available to their colleagues in any other state: unchecked use of gasoline charge card<> that stick taxpayers with the bill. 
Through the first seven months of the year, California taxpayers have spent $220,000 to pay for lawmakers' gasoline, according to a review of records requested by The Associated Press. That includes July, when lawmakers already were past their deadline to approve a budget and the state faced a $15.2 billion deficit. friend, Ronald Goldman. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Man reunited with stolen legs 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A pair of prosthetic legs were to be returned to a 68-year-old man after he reported them stolen from hls garage. 
Joseph Kopinski got a call late Wednesday night from a security guard at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, where he takes physical therapy, saying someone had turned the legs in recently. 
A hospital security guard told co-workers that someone stopped her in the parking lot and gave her the prosthetic legs, hospital spokesman Mike Stack said. 
''I'm still in shock at the whole thing," Kopinski told the South Bend Tribune for a Thursday story. 
CEOs escape crisis with millions 
Heads ofleading banks leave beforefinancial crisis, take away millions in severance. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -With a Wall Street bailout looming that will almost certainly limit CEO pay, some of the poster boys of the financial crisis have already fled the scene, taking millions of dollars in severance pack­ages with them. 
Stanley O'Neal walked away from Merrill Lynch with a package now worth about $66 million. Less than a year later, the storied investment house was forced into a takeover by Bank of America. 
Ken Thompson was ousted from Wachovia in June with a "golden parachute" now worth more than $5 million, and Chuck Princ.e was forced out at Citigroup with a parting gift now valued at $16 million. 
They are among the best­known former CEOs in the American banking industry ­an industry that, after they left, was brought to its knees in a crisis that had lawmakers warning about the possibility of outright panic or even another Great Depression. 
"These guys took all this risk, and ultimately they won't have to suffer the conse­quences of their decisions," said Barry Ritholtz, who writes the popular financial blog The Big Picture and is CEO of research firm FusioniQ. 

Congress and the Bush administration were working bailout plan -meaning limits holdings valued at $22 million benefits and prior equity Thursday on a bailout pack­on what companies that take that he received on his depar­awards to which he was legal­age, perhaps with an ultimate part in the bailout could pay ture in November 2007. That ly entitled." cost of $700 billion, that would their top officers from now on. was after the nation's largest The CEOs and the former have the government buy bad Those limits could include bank announced far bigger­employers of the other execu­debt off the books of banks. restrictions or even an out­than-expected losses on mort­tives either declined to com­
Those banks are staggering right ban on severance pack­gage-related assets and other ment or did not return tele­
after the collapse of the hous­ages for current executives risky debt. phone messages. ing market triggered a wave of leading companies that go to Under Prince's watch, At Merrill Lynch, O'Neal's foreclosures, thinned out the the government for help. Citigroup built up its exposure pay package for his final year bloodlines of credit and left "At many of these compa­to mortgage and consumer as a CEO was $46.4 million, banks holding no-good mort­nies, there are new CEOs and credit markeis, and he was according to AP figures. He gage-backed securities. they didn't cause the prob­paid handsomely for the effort. was forced out in October 
Under the government plan, lems," said Lynn Turner, for­In his last fiscal year at the 2007 following the investment the long-gone CEOs would not mer chief accountant at the helm, his total pay package' bank's disclosure of $7.9 bil­have to give anything back, U.S. Securities and Exchange was nearly $25 million, lion in unexpected losses relat­said Steven W. Adamske, a Commission and now an inde­according to an Associated ed to the credit market tur­spokesman for the House pendent business consultant. Press CEO pay formula. moil. Committee on Financial Meanwhile, the former CEOs Responding to a request for His severance package of Services. He said there was no who accepted fat severance comment by the AP, Citigroup stock, options and retirement constitutional way to recoup packages from the banks at spokesman Michael J. benefits built up over a 21­pay retroactively. the heart of the crisis are long Hanretta said the "provisions year career was valued at the 
Recognizing a public outcry, gone. of Mr. Prince's severance time at $161 million. The mar­lawmakers from both parties For Citigroup's Prince that agreement reflected his contri­ket's downturn since then has have been pushing to add means $10.4 million in cash, butions to the company over driven the value down to curbs on executive pay to the $1.5 million in perks and stock 30 years as well as retirement about $66.5 million. 

CANADA 


Man found guilty of terrorist plot 
2001. a terrorist group. As the 94-page judgment 
Associated Press 

The arrests of the 18 group members, was handed down, the defendant's mother 
BRAMPTON, Ontario-A Canadian man known as the "Toronto 18," made headlines wept quietly in the back of the court. accused of participating in military exercis­around the world and heightened fears in The man has not been identified because es and firearms training as part of a group Canada, where people believe they are rel­he was 17, a legal minor, when he was authorities say plotted to storm Parliament atively immune from terrorist strikes. arrested in 2006. He is now 20. and behead the prime minister was found Prosecutors said there were plans to Prosecutors argued he attended a train­guilty Thursday. truck-bomb nuclear power plants and a ing camp where he participated in military 
The man's attorney says the plot was a building housing Canada's spy service. exercises and firearms training and that he "jihadi fantasy" and that his client knew Seven of those arrested have since had knowingly participated in a potentially nothingabout it. their charges either withdrawn, or stayed. deadly conspiracy. He had pleaded not 
A judge ruled Thursday that evidence of The trials of 10 adults, including the alleged guilty to terrorism-related charges. a terrorist group was "overwhelming." The ringleaders, have yet to begin. The young Sproat rejected the defense argument man is the first person to be found guilty of man was the first to go on trial. that the plot was a "jihadi fantasy" that the a terrorist offense in Canada since the Superior Court Justice John Sproat found defendant knew nothing about. country enacted anti-terrorism laws in the man guilty of knowingly participating in "He clearly understood the camp was for 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 26, 2008 
Dorms hold sustainability contest 
Students come together to reduce energy consumption in residence halls 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students who turned off the lights before twading to elass this morning brought their dorms closer to winning this year's "Dorm Energy Competition," along with its $500 prize. 
Beginning yesterday and lasting until Oct. 19, the com­petition will pit residence halls against on11 another to sen whieh can most improve its energy consumption. According to Hache! Novick, nducation and outn1ach coor­dinator for the Office of Sustainability, results will be compared against an average of nach dorm's usage over the last five years to dntnrmine thn winnnr. 
"The purposn of the compe­tition is to engage the stu­dents to participate in thn University's sustainability niTorts, " Novick said. 
Thn dorms that have more students unplugging appli­ances and turning off lights will be the more successful, GreeNI> president Lourdes Long said. 
"The dorm that wins is the dorm that gets the most peo­ple involved," she said. 
"It's not just about a month 
nightly, unplugging unused appli­"There's the ances, turning 
misconception that
off lights when 
no one is what one person does 
around, and doesn't make a replacing 
difference in the long 
incandescent 
light bulbs run. But it really can. 
with compact We expect a r o fluorescent 
percent reduction." 
bulbs, students can markedly reduce their Lourdes Long dorm's encrgy GreeNO president 
usn. Long also 
save $7,000 and prevent 95 met­ric tons of car­bon from being emitted. 
The competi­tive aspect and prize incentive are meant to energize stu­dents who would not ordinarily dedicate them­selves to envi­ronmental issues. 
"We want the kids that could­

McKenna receives award 
By MADELINE BUCKELEY 
News Writer 
Well-known on campus for his friendliness and a talent filr tap dancing, Dr. James McKenna, a professor in the anthropology d11partment, accepted the Charles E. Sheedy award for excellence in teaching Thursday. 
The Sheedy award has been given annually to a professor in the Colh1gc of Arts and Letters since 1970, according to the College's Web site. 
Socioloh'Y professor Dan Myers introduced McKenna as "the nicest guy in the world," joking that it is impossible to walk aeross earnpus with him in a timely manner because there arn always numerous students and faculty who stop him to chat. 
McKenna told th11 ObservPr he 
fnlt humblml, shocked and grati­
lied when he heard that he was 
to roceivo tho award. 
"What eould be better than bning told that you do well at something for which doing well moans pretty much everything," he said. 
MeKenna stressed thc idna that tea1~hing is a personal expe­ricnce in which you havB to transcend anonymity and make students realize that the teadwr earns about them personally. 
"For mn, teaching is not a sci­enen, but a unique art form," McKenna said at the award cer­emony twld in McKenna llall. 
lie said his teaching style involves getting to know nvPry student on a pPrsonal level. 
"I pretnnd I am teaching not to a dass. but lo one porson, as if I am having a conversation," McKenna said. 
I lis ttmching philosophies are partly inspired by his fourth grade tnaeher. Mrs. Masimina Hosn, lw said. "Everyday she would grent us onn by onn, hug us and whisper a personal mes­sage in our ear, telling us what a great day we would have," he said. 
"Learning was just enormously enjoyable and rewarding which reflects this notion that we are sensitive to the relational aspects of learning," McKenna said. 
McKenna began his teaching career at 25 at University of California Berkeley. rhe first class he taught was a large lee­turn class, he said. 
"I looked 15 years old and every T.A. was older than me by 5 years... but I survived," McKenna said. 
Thirty-four years later, McKenna said every class he teaches now is just as exciting, if not more, as the very first class he taught. 
"I've often asked myself how could I not be tired of some of the fundamental information, but I never tire of it and I know why that is the case," he said. "You see on the faces of your students the very surprise, excitement and shock that was on my f'aee when I first learned about some of the anthropologi­cal concepts, and its like I am learning it all over again." 
Along with teaching Anthropoloh'Y classes, McKenna teaches an Irish Amcrican tap dance class, turning his lifelong passion for dance into a Univnrsity course. 
A dancer since the age of two, McKenna has performed on the Lawrence Welk show as well as several other television pro­grams, he said. 
"The minute I saw Fred Astaire dancing on TV, I went to the nearest lloor and moved my feet," McKenna said. "I was a daneer beforn I was anything." 
The tap class combines Irish hard shoe dancing with American tap dancing, McKenna said. The eourse, whieh is avail­able to faculty and staff, teaches several dances and ends with a recital in South Dining Hall. 
Although a tap dancing profes­sor is a strange image, it is good for the students to see that even faculty members have diverse hobbies and skills, he said. 
McKenna's students and col­leagues praise his personal teaching style and fun personali­ty. 
Sophomore Elizabeth Benson said she was impressed that McKenna made a point to get to know everyone her Honors Introduction to Anthropology class. 
"He learned our names really quickly," she said. "You could tell he really loved teaching." 
She said she did not know much about Anthropology before the course, but loved it by the end of the class. 
"I am an anthropology major now because I liked his class so much," Benson said. 
Senior Kelly Donley took McKenna's Irish American tap class as a junior and now is a 
T.A. for the class. 
"He is good at communicating with the class and is always encouraging," she said. "He tap dances for us and has us do Irish Hard shoe dances as well as dance to a Michael Jackson number," she said. 
"It is one of the best classes I have taken," Donley said. "He is like Fred Astaire." 
Professor Dan Myers, last year's Sheedy award winner and the faculty member that nomi­nated McKenna, said Professor McKenna is a mentor and teach­ing partner to him. 
"Jim is the nicest person you would ever want to meet in your life ... that niceness is part of his teaching," he said. "People love him." 
. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



Small fire breaks 
out at power plant 
long competition, it's about getting people to live more cautiously," GreeNO student­coordinator Sarah Cline said. "If we can g-et people to change their lifelong habits, it'll definitely make a huge impact." 
According to Novick, by powering down computers 
success. 
"There's the misconception that what one person does doesn't make a difference in the long run,'' Long said. "But it really can. We expect a 10 percent reduction." 
If dorm-wide energy use is cut by 1_0 percent, Novick said, then Notre Dame will ByJENN METZ 
News Writer 

A fire broke out and was quickly extinguished at the University of Notre Dame power plant early Thursday morning. 
The fire was ignited at 

8:25 a.m. in an area of the plant that is currently under construction, Paul Kempf, director of Utilities, said. 
A tank of acetylene gas caught fire after hot metal from a steel pip being cut with a torch fell onto a hose connected to the tank. 
"Thanks to the quick action of our staff and some contractors and the use of fire extinguishers, the fire was quickly contained." 
Kempf said. 
A person present at the scene was able to shut off the valve to the tank, elimi­nating the source of the fire. Acetylene gas burns very quickly, he said. 
"By the time the fire department got there, the fire burned itself out." 
The plant reported no injuries or damages eaused by the fire. 
The blaze took plaee in an inactive area of the plant, so normal operations were not affected. 
According to Notre Dame News and Information, fire fighters from Notre Dame and Clay Township rnspond­~~d to the scene. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
said cell phone chargers waste a lot of energy. 
"Cell phone chargers are a good example of 'vampire technology,' which means they suck a lot of energy just by being plugged into the wall,' she said. "95 percent is wasted; only 5 percent is used to actually charge the phone." 
The coordinators are opti­mistic about the competition's n't care less about energy consumption, those who just want a piece of pizza." Long said. "Everyone likes compe­tition, everyone likes prizes." 
"I think there are very few things that get Notre Dame students more excited than competition," Cline said. 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

NDAlumni Association holds online ticket sale 
"wanted to introduce stu­
ByJENN METZ dents. and familiarize them 
News Writer 
with Irish Online and its 
many features as our future 

The Notre Dame Alumni alumni," he said. Association's first online Tickets were sold online ticket sale for this week­via credit card for face end's game against Purdue value, plus a $3 processing lasted only three minutes. fee per ticket. Goff said the 
More than 300 tickets Association makes no profit were sold in that time peri­off the sale. od to nearly 125 students, Goff said the Association Brad Goff, business manag­is considering offering er for the Association, said. online ticket sales in the 
"Thq.t was how in demand future. "It is unlikely we tickets were for this game,'' will have a sale period for he said. Stanford. but it is anticipat­
The Association sent out ed for Pittsburgh," he said. an e-mail to students It is still to be determined if through the Registrar's an online. sale will be Office notify-offered for the ing students game against of the sale. Syracuse. 
The e-mail "/ don't think anyone A I u m n i 
asked stu­would have imagined Association dents to reg­ticket sales are
they would have gone 

ister for the based on avail-
that quickly. " 

Association's ability, Goff Web site, said. They Irish Online, Brad Goff receive tickets to ensure from alumni on
buisness manager

they would a consignment
Alumni Association 

be able to 
aceess the 
sale. 
"This is the first time we've had an online ticket sale for students," Goff said. 
The Association decided to sell tickets online after student phone calls to the office showed demand. However, there was sur­prise at how quickly the tickets flew off the shelves Tuesday afternoon. 
"I don't think anyone would have imagined they would have gone that quickly," Goff said. 
The Association has sold nearly 1,000 tickets to stu­dents this year alone, Goff said. Tickets are sold in the Eck Visitor's Center for stu­dents, and also on home game days at Gate 3 of the Joyce Center four and a half hours prior to kickoff. 
"We wanted to make it convenient for students so they wouldn't have to come to wait in line to purchase tickets," Goff said. 
Also, the Assoeiation 
program. 
"They send 
them in, and we resell them," he said. Tickets are also received through other University allotments and from Alumni clubs nationwide. 
Goff said the Association must have at least 300 tick­ets to have a student ticket sale. 
The Association held an in-house ticket sale for the San Diego State game and sold approximately 450 tickets, Goff said. 
This year, the Assoeiation also had aeeessibility to tickets for away games, a rarity, Goff said. "We sold over 100 tickets to Miehigan State for students." 
Goff said the Association attempts to provide tickets at every home game. 
"That's another goal -we want to get the tickets in the hands of alumni, fans, friends and family members of the University," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, September 26, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,022.06 +196.89
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,468 66 977 1,644,932,394 

+23.31 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FANNIE MAE (FNM) +11.49 +0.20 1.94 WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM) -25.22 -0.57 1.69 FREDDIE MAC -1.59 -0.03 1.86 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.56 +1.86 120.79 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.410 +0.091 3.862 13-WEEK BILL +61.360 +0.270 0.710 30-YEAR BOND +0.820 +0.036 4.414 5-YEAR NOTE +5.30 +0.153 3.042 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -+2.29 108.02 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.00 882.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.13 98.13 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.3800 EURO 0.6845 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0329 




IN BRIEF 
Lawyer: Stevens clueless about cost 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Ted Stevens was clueless about the cost and scope of a pricey makeover of his Alaska cabin that led to federal corruption charges and threatened his lengthy career, his lawyer said Thursday at the opening of his trial. 
Federal prosecutors allege that Stevens -one of Congress' most powerful Republicans and a patriarch of Alaska pol­ities for generations -lied on Senate forms about more than $250,000 in home renovations and gifts from a wealthy oil contractor and close friend, Bill Allen, who expected political favors in return. 
But defense attorney Brendan Sullivan, in making the first public defense of the 84-year-old senator, shifted blame to Allen and responsibility to Stevens' wife, Catherine. 

Gold prices drop as investors sell assets 
NEW YORK -Gold prices turned lower Thursday as an agreement in principle on a U.S. financial rescue package prompted investors to sell safe-haven assets in favor of stocks. 
In other commodities, crude oil rebounded on hopes that the $700 billion bank bailout plan would stabilize the teetering U.S. economy and boost domestic energy demand. The White I louse-backed initiative would take billions of . dollars in risky assets off the books of troubled banks and other financial firms in a bid to pry loose locked credit markets. 
Investors greeted the news as a hopeful sign of improved economic fortunes ahead, yanked money out of safe-haven assets like precious metals and plowed cash back into equities. 
Gold for December delivery fell $13 to settle at $882 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, after earlier falling as low as $868.80. 
Other precious metals traded mixed. December silver fell 16.5 cents to settle at $13.275 an ounce, while December copper rose 
2.8 cents to settle at $3.1345 a pound. 
Jon Nadler, analyst with Kitco Bullion Dealers Montreal. said gold "made very little progress" as investors were wary of boosting safe-haven holdings after days waiting on the sidelines while officials worked out the bailout plan. 

$700 billion rescue plan effort stalls 
Despite news of a deal, progress to create rescue plan appears to have halted 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Urgent 
efforts to lash together a 
$700 billion rescue plan for 
the national economy 
appeared to be stalling 
Thursday night, hours after 
key lawmakers had declared 
they had reached a deal. 
Treasury Secretary Henry 
Paulson and Federal 
Reserve Chairman Ben 
Bernanke sped to Capitol 
Hill to try to revive or 
rework the proposal that 
President Bush said must be 
quickly approved by 
Congress to stave off eco­
nomic disaster. 
Congressional leaders 
were to meet with the eco­
nomic chiefs into the night. 
Mter six days of intensive 
talks on the unprecedented 
package proposed by the 
Bush administration, with 
Wall Street tottering and 
presidential politics intrud­
ing six weeks before the 
election, there was more 
confusion than clarity. 
The day's earlier apparent 
breakthrough, announced 
with fanfare at midday, was 
followed by a White House 
summit bringing together 
President Bush, presidential 
contenders John McCain and 
Barack Obama, and top con­
gressional leaders. But that 
meeting, aimed at showing 
unity in resolving a national 
financial crisis, broke up 
with conflicts in plain view. 
Inside the session, House 

Republican leader John But conservatives were government provide insur­with financial institutions 
Boehner expressed misgiv­still in revolt, balking at the ance to companies that going under or near the 
ings about the emerging astonishing price tag of the agree to hold frozen assets, edge and recession looming
plan and McCain would not proposal and the hand of rather than have the U.S. along with the resulting lay­
commit to supporting it, said government that it would purchase the assets. offs and increased home 
people from both parties place on private markets. Rep Eric Cantor, R-Va., foreclosures. 
who were briefed on the Sen. Richard Shelby of said the idea would be to There had been hopes for 
exchange. They spoke on Alabama, the top Republican remove the burden of the broad agreement, too, on a 
condition of anonymity on the Senate Banking bailout from taxpayers and prescription by now, with a 
because the session was pri­Committee, emerged from place it, over time, on Wall confident White House 
vate. the White House meeting to Street instead. The price tag announcement by the presi­
The earlier agreement by say the announced agree­of the administration's plan dent, McCain, Obama and 
key members of Congress ment "is obviously no agree­to bail out tottering financial congressional leaders. 
from both parties -but not ment." institutions -and the feder­But the best Senate 
top leaders -would have One group of House GOP al intrusion into private Republican leader Mitch 
given the Bush administra­lawmakers circulated an business matters -have McConnell would say after­
tion just a fraction of the alternative that would put been major sticking points ward was, "It's clear that 
money it wanted up front, much less focus on a govern­for many Republican law­more progress is needed and 
subjecting half the $700 bil­ment takeover of failing makers. we must continue to work 
lion total to a congressional institutions' sour assets. This There is wide agreement together quickly to protect 
veto. proposal would have the the U.S. economy is in peril, our economy." 

New home sales and factory orders fall 
Associated Press Labor Department analysts said report showed that new home sales 
that Hurricanes Ike and Gustav plunged by 11.5 percent in August,
WASHINGTON -Weekly jobless added about 50,000 claims, but a much bigger decline than the 1 claims surged to the highest level in even discounting the adverse percent dip that had been expected. seven years, durable goods orders impact from job disruptions in It pushed sales down to a seasonal­took a bigger-than-expected tumble Louisiana and Texas, the four-week ly adjusted annual rate of 460,000, and new home sales plunged to the average for claims rose to 445,000, the slowest pace since Januaryslowest pace in 17 years, according the highest it has been since 1991. to government data released November 2001, the month the last The average price of a new home Thursday. recession ended. fell in August by 11.8 percent to 
The latest trifecta of bad news In a second report, the Commerce $263,900, the biggest one-month about the economy raised new wor­Department said that new orders to drop on record. The median home ries about a possible recession and factories for big-ticket manufac­price was down 5.5 percent to underscored the concerns that are tured goods fell by 4.5 percent last $221,900. driving Congress and the White month, led by a big drop in demand Analysts said the trio of bad House to reach agreement on an for airplanes but also reflecting reports meant the third quarterhistoric bailout of the financial sys­weakness in everything from autos was ending on an extremely weak tem. to primary metals and machinery. note and raised the risks that the 
The Labor Department reported It was the largest setback since a October-December quarter will that jobless claims jumped by 4.7 percent fall in durable goods actually slip into negative territory.32,000 to a seasonally adjusted orders in January and raised wor­Many economists believe the gross493,000 last week, the highest level ries that the weakening economy domestic product will be negativesince shortly after the Sept. 11. was causing corporations to cut in both the final three months of 2001 terrorist attacks and far back on their investment spending this year and the first three months above what economists had been plans. of 2009, meeting the classic defini­expecting. The third weaker-than-expected tion of a recession. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 26, 2005 
thing to do." affected by Notre Dame's "You need to argue on both Catholic mission. 

Goals 
sides," Enderle said. "Moving the University University Vice President of toward greater environmental

continued from page 1 
Business Operations Jim sustainability may make good arn far more strategic than to Lyphout said that whichever economic sense, but as a base to their policy on "doing motivation for sustainability Catholic university, we can things because they're envi­might be cited, the offer a much ronmentally friendly." financial and envi-deeper moral 
GreeND president Lourdes ronmental benefits and theologi­
"It's important to be

Long agrnes that the Office of come hand-in­cal rationale Sustainability, where she hand. transparent along the for a 'green' serves as a student intern, "I don't think way, even about NO," she needs to make sure that they they're mutually said.
missteps and

balance the checkbook with exclusive," he The Qne
negative things. " 

their concern for the environ­said. "Because you piece of ment. "There's a tension, but do it for one rea­rationale there needs to be an aware­son doesn't mean Jhn Mazurek Mazurek ness," Long said. you can't do it for rejects is the
Director of the Office

She stressed the overlap the other." notion that
of Sustainability

between the two concerns -Lyphout added Notre Dame 
economic and environmental that however one is moving to -of sustainable policies. "You might justify the sustainability can make a financial argument move towards sustainability, purely based on improving its for a lot of these investments," the University has an ethical "image." she said. "The payback is stag­obligation to act in environ­"It's a valid point," he said of gering." mentally friendly ways. the criticism, but he points to 
Georges Enderle, a professor "We have a moral and an the quantifiable goals his of Business ethical reason office has set, and added that Ethics, says that to conserve our the University intends to be
"/don't think they're 

being on the resources," completely transparent about 
right side of mutually exclusive ... Lyphout said, achieving those goals. moral issues Because you do it for regardless if it Mazurek conceded that he often coincides is done for eco­was a bit "surprised" at how
one reason doesn't

with making a nomic or envi­eager University officials were profit when it mean you can't do it ronmental rea­to being so transparent, which comes to sustain­for the other. " sons. should go a long way in prov­ability. lie point­Theology ing their actions are not moti­ed to General Professor vated by improving Notre
Jim Lyphout 

Electric Margaret Pfeil Dame's image, he said. Chairman and University Vice President said Notre "It's important to be trans­CEO Jeffery of Business Operations Dame's obliga­parent along the way, even lmmelt's com­tion is also about missteps and negative ment at inl'luenced by things," he said. "If we have a Wednesday's Notre Dame the University's unique dip in recycling, because it's Forum on Sustainable Energy Catholic character. February and people aren't that he justified launching "I think a commitment to recycling as much, we're going Ecomagination, a GE division sustainable living flows from to be transparent about it." focused on developing green the whole Catholic social tradi­technologies, with two reasons tion," she said, noting that the Contact John Tierney at -an expectation of profitabil­tension between economic and Jtiernel@nd.edu and Aaron ity and because "it's the right environmental motives is also Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Young said. Bartkus said that the


Ga01e 
game will be dose. continued from page 1 
"The game's basically a toss up," he said. "Purdue Bartkus, said. might be slightly better, but 
Because of the short drive, Notre Dame has the home many Purdue students are field advantage. It should expected to make the trip to definitely be a great game." South Bend as well. Junior Adjoa Andoh also 
"A lot of my friends are said that Saturday's match­coming up for the game," up will be a elose one, but Purdue sophomore Peter predicted that a desire to Agostino said. Agostino will rebound from last week's also be in attendance on loss will give the Irish an Saturday. edge. 
The game is especially "I think that it's definitely 
meaningful to  going to be  a  
Notre Dame students with  "We have a good  fight to the end," Andoh  
ties to Purdue.  chance to win if  said.  "But  
"I have friends at Purdue, so I'll  everyone is pumped up and cheering a lot  with team back  the being home  
have fun gloat­ on Saturday."  and wanting  
ing if we win,"  to  prove  
freshman Shelly Birch said.  Sara Seidler junior  themselves again, they will pull it  
Some  stu­ out  in  the  

dents are more excited for fourth quarter." other aspects of a football Junior Sara Seidler is weekend. looking forward to the pep 
''I'll definitely be tailgat­rally and the game, and said ing before the game," junior that it will be a factor in the Anthony Logan said. excitement level on campus 
Although they say that this weekend. Notre Dame has had consis­"Hopefully the pep rally tently good defensive play will make the team and the this year, some students are students forget about last worried about the offense. week and get fired up for 
"Purdue's quarterbacking tomorrow," Seidler said. and offense are solid. but I "We have a good chance to like our defense," Jason win if everyone is pumped Miller said "We just need to up and cheering a lot on put more points on the Saturday." board." Today's pep rally will be 
Elizabeth Young, a sopho­held in the Joyce Center at more, said that turnovers 6 p.m. are the major issue. 
"We need to stop giving Contact Irena Zajickova at iza­the ball away so much," jicko@nd.edu 


R.c-fllt1llbt.r: BrHkf.ast i1 t".M ..u1t iDpcn"t•at JBto.al ofthe-dly ... l-9Jt.C•n e-•t it •n~·ti:ca •t.Le-f'Hp! 
Mnnd.ay-Frid.ay 61JG..J:C1Gpn~ Satunl.a~· ·Suad.ay 7 :tG-l:GGp111 

GO IRISH! 
ll7 S. ftlichit•n Stnft Da'Wilta11m Seuth 8mcl lii·PEEP 
Bi1 Graups Wdca~~~r...c-•11 •hud 

Thanks for making us your fa\'Orite breakfast and lunch olace 
NO Coupon 
Buy GIN:~ .and lrifM Sc<end eatrH Yi off \·"•lid th.rauch 
11/.t/11 


Go IRISH! 


Friday, September 26, 2008 



Growth 
continued from page 1 
by global financial services firm Lehman Brothers, the collapse of other financial institutions and now. a possi­ble Congressional bailout for many corporations, has caused what Malpass charac­terized as the biggest crisis in his 20 years at Notre Dame. 
But the University invests with the knowledge that the stock market experiences downturns, he said. And crises have happened before in the financial markets, Malpass said, giving examples like the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, the oil embargo in the 1970s and the Sep. 11 attacks in 2001. 
"It's really important to know that we are a long-term investor," 
Malpass said. University.
"We are an

"We are an "It's support­endowment, endowment, ing kids, stu­supporting supporting Notre dents and facul­
Notre Dame in ty," he said. "So
Dame in perpetuity. 

perpetuity. We it's vital." 
know there's We know there's Notre Dame's going to be cri­going to be crisis endowment was 
sis periods in the 14th largest
periods in the

the markets." educational Malpass did markets." endowment in not have num-the country last 
bers available, Scott Malpass year, up from 25th largest 20
but he estimat-Chief Investment Officer 
ed Notre Dame's endow­ment is probably down two to three percent since the begin­ning of the fiscal year. 
"We are down but it's a rea­sonable outcome given what happened in the markets," he said. "It's nothing extraordi­nary." 
Notre Dame's investment team and managers are approaching the market situa­tion well. he said. 
"I don't like to be down ever, but you can't be up in this period. I don't care how diver­sified you are," Malpass said, with the caveat of investing solely in U.S. Treasury bills and bonds. 
Hegulation and oversight could have prevented the col­lapse of financial institutions on Wall Street, Malpass said, but Notre Dame has been able to protect and preserve its capital because of its invest­ment approach. 
Notre Dame's investments are more diversified than most, he said, and the University puts more in hedge funds that can go long and short. The University has also done well by investing in gold, Malpass said. 
The 'financial lifeblood' of the University At the close of fiscal year 2007, the rate of return on the 

115 DLxie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
endowment pool was 25.9 per­cent, which placed Notre Dame in the top two among rates of return on university endowment. This year, the rate of return was substantial­ly lower, but everyone else experienced the same weak markets, Malpass said. 
Judging from the numbers he has seen from other schools, Notre Dame will prob­ably rank in the top five or six in terms of endowment returns of the top 20 endow­ments, he said. Top five or six is an estimate, as the rankings have not been released yet and Malpass said he has not seen all the numbers from other schools. 
The long-term goal of the endowment, Malpass said, is to beat inflation, and ideally gain a return of 5 to 6 percent above inflation. The endow­ment, he said, is the "financial 
lifeblood" of the 
years ago, 
Malpass said. It is the largest endowment for a Catholic university. 
In the long run, Malpass said, with good fundraising through the Spirit of Notre Dame campaign and good investments, he thinks Notre Dame can break into the top 10 in endowment size rank­ings in the next 10 years. 
Malpass, who marked his 20th anniversary at Notre Dame this August, said the senior leadership at the University, especially the investment committee of the Board of Trustees, have allowed him to build a strong team of investors. The team he built has had great stability and little turnover, Malpass said, with four of his six direc­tors working with him for 10 years or more. 
"When I came in 1988, the pool was $425 million. Now we are just over $7 billion ... " he said. "It's been a wonderful 20 years." 
Twenty years ago, the endowment supported less than five percent of Notre Dame's operating budget, Malpass said. It now funds over 20 percent of the cost of running Notre Dame. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

in a comfortable, casual setting 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 

Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692  
CATERING  1332 Hilltop Road St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900  
for every occasion  www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com  

FormerTeo:hnologyConsultant & IJnlversitv ofVirginia Graduate FOCUS Tearn Dir<::ctor at Vanderbilt Universitv 
Fo··.c'/.......·. u··•·· s..........,...... 
. ... . . . ..:........... · 
·v.~~~~ h·~;~I~t~ fd~owsbip Of c~uholk Unin;rsit:· StUtl(ntS 
I 
htte nbe scheduledfor Thursday,•October 2nd 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page I 0 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 26, 2008 
same," she said. "Transpo's 

free and you save on gas, so why not take the bus?" continued from page 1 For the Notre Dame commu­
nity, sustainability relates to aro many dil"licult decisions to the University's emphasis on be made. "tradition," according to 
"Should we build another GreeND president Lourdes building, or should we make Long. "The goal is to sustain another building energy effi­the University for as long as 
cient? It's so wasteful to build it's been in existence," she a whole new building when ... said. the heating systems in a lot of "We can think about it in the old dorms are so ineffi­terms of our kids, our grand­cient," she said. kids going here," she said. 
Sustainability is about much "We can think about a more than choosing between University that has enough economics and the environ­money to pay for [their] schol­ment on energy decisions, arships." .Jennings said. According to Jennings, tak­
"It's about not being waste­ing action on behalf of the ful," she said. "That's reusing environment is abo.ut thinking coffee mugs, using reusable in a new way. "The neat thing Grab-and-Go bags ... about the environmental 
"It means realizing how movement is that it doesn't your role, however insignifi­take much more than a cant, does play a part in the changed mindset," she said. 
larger environment." Such a need for a changed ·Students can realize their mindset was echoed by role by taking the Colorado small steps, Governor Bill Jennings said. "Every student Ritter in his 
"Every student closing 


Energy 
should have the goal 

should have the remarks at 
goal of taking out of taking out their the forum 
their recycling recycling more often Wednesday. morn often than "We have
than their trash can. " 

their trash can," to think dif­she said. "It's ferently," he roally the small Tracy Jennings said. changes -I can co-president of Students For the bike to Turtle University,
for Environmental Action

Crook, I can walk despite to Moijer. Since Wednesday's tlw Transpo's free, announce­why do I have to drive to the ment of a B-grade for sus­mall?" tainability after earning a D­
.Jonnings urgod students to two years ago, there are still s1H1 tho oconomic impact in more steps to take, according their own liVIJS of taking these to Georges Enderle, a profes­small steps. "You can see the sor of Business Ethics. economic and Pnvironrnental "I think there is a kind of goals IH11:orne one and the awakening out here in Notre Dame," he said. "Those sus­tainability issues are very important and I'm very happy about that. But I don't know how far that reaches to facul­ty, students, and staff. 
"''m happy that something got started, but I think we can and should do much more." 
Adopting, enacting sustain­able practices 
The Office of Sustainability is trying to do more about sustainability, having com­pleted Director Jim Mazurek's 100-day plan, something he enacted upon his installment as director of the office in May. 
One of the plan's goals was to begin the process of devel­oping a set of baseline data to judge Notre Dame's environ­mental impact -including the recently calculated carbon footprint -and the plan also required that the Office of Sustainability begin to devel­op a set of quantifiable per­formance targets ·based on that data. 
With those targets -and their recently developed mis­sion and vision statements ­the Office will begin to guide specific initiatives within seven core areas: energy, water, design and construc­tion, waste, procurement, food services and transporta­tion. 
Already, the University's emphasis on sustainability is showing results in many of these areas. 
For example, Senior Associate Director of Food Services Jim Yarbrough said Food Services worked to increase the amount of locally sourced food from 26 percent in 2006 to 40 percent in 2007. Any state that borders 

Indiana is considered local, he said. 
Yarbrough said he is work­ing with the Office of Sustainability on another promising initiative, compost­ing. 
"We want to divert all the waste we possibly can from the landfills," he said. 
either HVAC improvements ... or retrofitting lighting to newer, more efficient light sources," Kempf said. 
Facilities Operations Central Heceiving Manager Pat O'Hara praised the University community's growing commit­ment to recycling, which has already made a noticeable 

In improving the design and construction component of Notre Dame's  ''I'm happy that something got started, but I think  impact this year, he said. "Everyone is totally on board," O'Hara  
ecological  we can and should do  said.  
impact, University  much more."  One particu­lar recycling  
Architect Doug Marsh said his  Georges Enderle  initiative, Game  the Day  
office is incor­ professor of  Hecycling, has  
porating  Business Ethics  already proven  
Leadership  in  successful,  
Energy  and  according to the  
Environmental  Office  of  

Design (LEED) standards into Sustainability. all new construction. In fact, The office reports that the Stinson-Remick Hall, the weekend of Sept. 5-7, fans engineering building under recycled over seven tons of construction, and Ryan Hall, waste, and during the week­the women's residence hall end of Sept. 12-14, that num­under construction, will be ber jumped to over eight tons. LEED certified, he said. In making sense of all the 
Mazurek pointed out that individual initiatives and spe­Notre Dame is leading the cific targets the Office of state in LEED certified design. Sustainability sets, Mazurek 
"There are only 19 LEED said his office will begin to certified buildings in the state develop a "multi-year of Indiana [right now]." roadmap for sustainability." Mazurek said, and Notre Already, though, he said Dame is planning to add five he's seen success on campus buildings to that list in the and the community is on next few years. board, from students to top 
"We are really one of the University officials. driving forces here," he said. "It's been 100 percent posi­
In existing buildings, Paul tive," he said, which is good, Kempf, director of Utilities, since sustainability is here at said that the University is Notre Dame to stay. working to improve energy efficiency within 25 campus Contact Aaron Steiner at facilities. asteiner@nd.edu and John 
"We are implementing Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 11 
Peter Rocca, Rector of the Basilica.


Grotto 
continued from page 1 



ATHENS, GREECE 


INFORMATION MEETING 
*************************************************** 
Monday, September 29,2008 
5:30PM 

125 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Fall 2008, Spring 2009, and Academic Year 2008-09 Applications available online: www.nd.edu/-ois/ 

there. 
"What used to get me," he said, "People would come down there, young people, and propose in the Grotto. That would always fasci­nate me; what better place to start your new life?" 
People are also what Wiskotoni misses most about the Grotto. 
"I have a Jot of friends -a lot of friends I made at the Grotto. A lot of people who go to Church every morning, and football fans from all over. People were outstanding, and the students were great. I miss it. I miss the Grotto and I miss my friends, and the people that I worked with. I worked with some very nice people," he said. 
Wiskotoni has livf:)d in South Bend all his life, "except for three years in the service," he said. He served in the Army in the Korean War from 1951-53. He counts himself as a "life-long fan" of Notre Dame, due to his "strict Polish-Catholic upbringing" and South Bend heritage. 
After the Korean War, Wiskotoni was 20, and began working and eventually raising a family of three daughters and a son in South Bend. He worked at South Bend Stamping making auto parts before he came to Notre Dame. 
When he retired from Notre Dame due to health concerns, he also retired from two part-time jobs working as a sacristan at St. Matthew's Parish, and driving a flower truck with Country Florist in South Bend. 
Wiskotoni began working at the Grotto permanently after being hired to help out part-time on football weekends, according to his supervisor John Zack, University Sacristan. Norbert was always "personally interested in the Grotto because of his devotion to his faith," and his absence has already been felt, Zack said. 
"Norbie never missed a day of work. l-Ie had a nephew that died, and he came back to work after the funeral. When his brother and sister died, the same. He showed up no matter how cold or hot it was, Norbie showed up to work and did what he had to do. He was a great guy, a super guy. He never complained about any­thing, he took special pride in keeping the Grotto nice and stocked and clean. It was a mat­ter of pride for him," Zack said. 
"Devoted" is the word most 
"Norbie is one of the most con­scientious workers I have ever known," Rocca said, "Norbie was totally devoted to Our Lady and to serving the many faith-filled peo­ple who would come to the Grotto to light a candle and pray." 
Rocca also related how it's diffi­cult to imagine the Grotto without Norbert, since he labored "from dawn until late at night," espe­cially on football weekends. 
"We will forever remember Norbie for helping to make [the Grotto] such a place of comfort and peace for the many who spent time there in prayer," Rocca said, "The Grotto is perhaps the most special place on the Notre Dame campus, and Norbie Wiskotoni helped make it so." 
One of Wiskotoni's responsibili­ties was to remove old candles from the Grotto and replace them with new ones. Wiskotoni said it takes about three hours to change all the candles each morning. 
Aside from the memories of the people he's met, Wiskotoni will take with him some humorous memories as well. 
"A woman's hair caught on fire once, I was cleaning some wax at the time, and it's a good thing I was standing there because I put the fire out so she didn't get burned," he said. 
Wiskotoni also told a story about finding students sleeping in the grotto. Often, students will sleep overnight on the benches in the Grotto and, "normally I let them go," he said, "But once, I came in early in the morning and there was a young couple sleep­ing down there inside the grotto. Sleeping against the donation box. It happened -I'm an old man, but I have a good memory." 
Although he's been away from the Grotto for a month, Norbert plans to return as soon as possi­
b~. ­
"I should be coming back in the very near future," he said, "I miss it -the people I worked with, the University, the grounds. Everyone [at Notre Dame] does an excellent job." 
As for the future, Wiskotoni said he wants to catch up on the fishing he's missed the last few years. 
"It's a little late now, but next year, if I'm living, I'll be out on a boat three times a week. I love to fish. That time -it's so relaxing -you catch a fish and that's bet­ter yet," he said. 
Friday Sept. 26 6-1 
On MichifJCUl St. by the College Football Hall ol Fame Live Musical Perlormers: 
Creole Stomp 



7 -lOpm 
I '
I 

Admission $5 / Kids Under 12 Free 2-tor-1 Admission 6-7pm Activities Hosted m:t MDA -Participate and Support a Great Causel More inlo: dtsbFootballParty.com or call DTSB at 5'Jii2821110 
used to describe Wiskotoni by his Contact John-Paul Witt at friends and supervisors, like Fr. John-Paul.R.Witt.lO@nd.edu 
New mayor shuts down crime lab 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The Detroit police crime lab was shut down by the city's new mayor and police chief after an outside audit found errors in some evidence· used to prosecute cases involv­ing murder and other crimes, officials said Thursday. 
Wrongful convictions are a possibility, according to the audit, conducted by the Michigan State Police. Wayne County prosecutor Kym Worthy also noted that some criminals may have gone uncharged because of the lab's shortcom­ings. 
"We have no idea how many people are walking around that have committed crimes that we don't know about," said Worthy, who blamed the problems on human error, as well as a lack of funding, resources and training. 
The audit found erroneous or false findings in 10 percent of 200 random cases and subpar quality control compliance at the lab, Worthy said. 
The report revealed a "shock­ing level of imcompetence" in the lab and constitutes a sys­temic problem, she said at a news conference. When it caine to recognized work standards, the Jab met only 42 percent of a required 100 percent, Worthy said. 
Mayor Ken Cockrel Jr. and Police Chief James Barren made the decision to shut down the Detroit lab and use the state police lab for all Detroit criminal investigations. The lab com­mander was also relieved of duty, Barren said. 

P-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
page 12 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 26, 2008 



{)U~ 

I I 
I 
I. 
I 

I$') UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
The Law School 

It's now adream come true at St. Joe's Riverbend Landings. Where spacious riverfront homesites open onto a world of boating fun and excitement. Where the shops, wineries, golf and restaurants of charming New Buffalo and the 
Harbor Country beckon only minutes away. 
This exclusive residential development is located on the St. Joseph River in Michigan's Berrien County. Your private dock will launch you onto nine navigable miles of river which connect you to 600-acre Lake Chapin, the closest 

large all-sport lake in southwest Michigan. Motorboating, sailing, jet-skiing, fishing and more offer both adventure and serenity. 
Reserve your homesite at St. Joe's Riverbend Landings today. Caii888-RIVER 30 (888-748-3730) or visit RiverbendLandings.com 


Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 

NEW BUSINESS ELECTIVE COURSES: 
FAll2008-SPACE AVAilABlE-REGiSTER NOW in Room 101 MCOB­
COURSES BEGIN 9/29 and 11/1 Courses are 1.() credit, five weeks long. SIGN UP THIS WEEK: BAET 30300: Giving Voice to Values (Jessica McManus Warnell)-Course meeting dates: 9/19·11/S Take a course with nationally-recognized (Financial Times, others), cutting-edge curriculum•.•... The Giving Voice to Values (GW) course allows students the opportunity to develop a "toolkit" of specific steps toward ethical decision making and personal response to ethical challenges. Building on the BAET 20300 course, the GW elective explores the "post decision-making" stage. Thus, after one determines the right course of action, how does he/she act on it within a given context? The course will explore case studies and "scripts"-through individual and role-playing exercises, students will practice ethical decision making. Students will design their own scenarios and plans to teach ethical action. The course also includes the study of individuals who've contributed to society-what were their specific choices and actions? What were their paths to leadership? Includes a focus on 
relevant applications-entry level positions after graduation, job and other experiences students have already encountered or will soon encounter, and other practical contexts. Cases developed by the students may be 
included in a "Notre Dame Collection" of published Giving Voice to Values cases, part of an initiative of several top 
business schools incorporating this cutting-edge curriculum. Adapted in consultation with Mary Gentile (The 
Aspen Institute; formerly of Harvard Business School). 
BAET 30500: Globalization & Corporate Responsibilities of Large & Small Companies (Georges Enderle)­Exciting new course with real-world application -Comse dates: 11/7-12/11 This elective course builds on the course "Introduction to Business Ethics" and focuses on the ethical responsibilities of large and small companies in the global context. Because globalization is mainly driven by powerful multinational corporations, we conduct several case studies of MNCs and investigate their roles and responsibilities. We also pay attention to the challenges posed by globalization to small enterprises (for instance, Grameen Bank) that make up the vast majority of companies and ask about their responsibilities. For a deeper understanding of corporate responsibility, we develop a consistent framework that ranges from the high level of principles down to the operational level. Specifically, we discuss the United Nations Global Compact with its ten principles and the Global Reporting Initiative with its metric of economic, social, and environmental performances. Finally, we explore ethical responsibility from an investor's perspective with the help of the UNEP Principles for Responsible Investment that consider environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues. The course will use chapter 10 and 12 of the DesJardins's book "An Introduction to Business Ethics" (third edition, 2008) and a course packet posted on the I drive. 


India looks to do business with U.S. 
Associated Press 
MUMBAI -Indian nuclear energy officials say they would like to do business with GE and other U.S. firms. But if they can't, there's always France and Russia. 
Even as a landmark U.S.­India nuclear accord hangs in limbo in the U.S. Congress, the global gates of nuclear trade with India are now open. 
Whether or not U.S. compa­nies get the go-ahead to sell nuclear fuel and technology to India, the country's nuclear officials are confident they will get their uranium. 
"If a deal with Congress doesn't happen, we will have business with other countries. So simple," said SK Malhotra, a spokesman for India's Department of Atomic Energy. 
India reached nuclear trade agreements with Russia and France in January, though the government has held out on implementing them until a U.S. deal goes forward, said Shreyans Kumar Jain, chair­man of India's state-run Nuclear Power Corp. Ltd., which runs all 17 of the nation's nuclear reactors. 
The agreement before Congress would overturn three decades of U.S. policy by allow­ing nuclear trade with India, even though India has not signed a global treaty against the spread of nuclear weapons. 
The deal enjoys broad sup­port among leaders of both American political parties but, with other priorities on law­makers' plates, there's no cer­tainty it will get the nod before Congress adjourns this month ahead of November elections. 
What would happen then is unclear. 
Meeting Thursday in Washington, Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and 
U.S. President George W. Bush expressed hope that Congress will approve the agreement. 
Singh was to go on to France, where he was expected to ink India's nuclear agreement with that country. 
American companies worry they could be shut out of the Indian market. General Electric Co. helped build India's first nuclear reactor in the 1960s, and GE would love to rekindle that relationship. 
"It's a $30 billion-plus mar­ket in India. There's a huge opportunity for a company like GE," said Kishore Jayaraman, regional head of GE operations in India, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh. "We have been pushing for it." 
Today, India gets just 3 per­cent of its energy_about 4,100 megawatts-from nuclear power. By 2032 the govern­ment plans to quadruple total generating capacity, to 700 gigawatts, with nuclear accounting for 63,000 megawatts. 
That adds up to about 40 new nuclear reactors, worth some $80 billion, according to Jain. 
A key limiting factor on India's nuclear expansion has been ·a{;cess to uranium. Despite an aggressive hunt in basins, thrusts, and folds across the country, known domestic deposits will support only 10,000 megawatts of nuclear capacity. 
"All reactors are going to be sourced from foreign vendors and tied to fuel supply agree­ments," Jain said. 
Previously, India was largely unable to buy nuclear fuel and technology from abroad, because of its refusal to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and its testing of atomic weapons. 
On Sept. 6, under heavy lob­bying by the United States, the 45-nation Nuclear Suppliers Group made a historic excep­tion for India. That opens the door for nuclear sales to India -but, in the U.S. case, Congress ml}st approve. 
Jain says Nuclear Power Corp. hopes to finalize con­tracts with GE, Westinghouse Electric Co., France's Areva group, and Russia's Rosatom State Nuclear Energy Corp. to build a first round of eight reactors starting in 2009. 
The government, he added, plans to take a 30 percent equity stake in the new reac­tors, and borrow to raise the rest. 
Rosatom is already helping India build two nuclear reac­tors, under an agreement that predates Russia joining the Nuclear Suppliers Group. 
Areva has been active in pur­suing business, with CEO Anne Lauvergeon joining French President Nicolas Sarkozy on his January state visit, accord­ing to three Indian officials. 
If the deal doesn't go through Congress, said Ron Somers, presid~nt of U.S.-India Business Council, "we'll be the only one shut out." 
"It's like sitting on our hands watching a football game, not being able to play," he added. 
GE has been in close talks with the Indian government, Jayaraman said, but the com­pany cannot, by law, enter into advanced discussions absent a green light from Congress. 
"We have not had any detailed discussions," he said. A lot of Indian companies are also hopeful. 
Currently, private companies cannot operate nuclear reac­tors, but India is separating its civilian and military nuclear programs as part of the U.S.­India nuclear deal. That could pave the way for deeper pri­vate sector involvement on the civilian side, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, a top official in India's Planning Commission, said in a recent interview. 
Jain, of the Nuclear Power Corp., said a raft of companies, including the Tata Group, Reliance Power Ltd., GMR Infrastructure Ltd., GVK Industries Ltd., the Essar Group, and the state-run National Thermal Power Corp. have expressed interest in run­ning nuclear power plants in the future. 
Parts suppliers and builders, like Hindustan Construction Co., Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., Larsen &Toubro Ltd., Gammon India Ltd. and Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd. could also benefit from India's nuclear build-out. 
Deepak Morada, a spokesman for Larsen & Toubro, India's largest builder, said he thinks the capital and manufacturing requirements needed to help 400 million Indians who now live by can­dlelight switch on the lights, are simply too massive for the government to handle alone. 
"We are ready to partici­pate," he said. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 14 Friday, September 26, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9, Norro Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass1: MANAGING ElliTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 

VIEWI'OINT ElliTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGF.R: Maddie Boyer 
Ao 0F.SIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROlLER: Sracey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING (574) 63 I-6900 obmvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 6.3 I-5503 viewpoint. I @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454.3 spores. I@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 63 I-4540 scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
;me. I @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63 I -8839 
HIE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observt•r is the indcpcndmr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudems of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colk·gc. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policit'S ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves rhc right to refuse advcrtisemcms based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Vitwpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression of;1!1 opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcners to rht· Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~stiow rry,arding Obsn-ver policies shot<td be dirt:cted to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11w: ob..,...,..cr (LJSI'S 'VJ'l 2..-ihOII) u J•ubluh~·l Monday !hruugh Frid:~.y exi.:~W durJilfl (')l:;tnl .aml vo~~-:~~unn pniu..t... A•ullKI1Jlrlnn lo ·n,c Olberver i• $100 for nnr-.acade-mic 
year,$')') fur<IIIC:KUIQIIC'I 
rhc Obkrver il puhlilhc..! Jt I'O;TMASTER 
024 Suu1h Dining lt.dl Send .iddress c:orreaium m: 
Noc~ lh.m..-, IN 46')"KJ.077<J The Ob$crvcr 
Pcriodt..otl p<1$t~l!' p;aid ou Nmrr D.m1e r.o. Boxn9 
.mel addmun.tl mailing oflkcs. 014 South Dining H.dl 
Notre D:amc. IN 46'i5MJ~J 

The: OhM:t'ver i• 11 mc:1nbc:r ol 1hc: As.ou"''"'' Prt:i:~, All reproducdon t~hr~ 11tc ruerved. 
Resolving the forum time conflict 
Student attendance at this year's Notre Dame Forum on whether they chose to attend or not. Sustainable Energy was impressive -at least at the begin­All students -not just the freshmen -should be given the ning of the event. Throughout the two hours of discussion, option to choose to attend (or not attend) the Forum. which however. the audience left in droves. Some may have lost is, without competition, the biggest academic event at this interest, but others had to go to class. University each year. 
The Forum is one of the events at the University that is rt is something highly publicized, all across campus, with done right -the organizers have come up with pressing fliers, desktop backgrounds in the computer clusters and issues to bring to campus that prompt discussion for the light bulb stickers to put over light switches. This year's topic. entire academic year. Top experts in the field in question are especially, is popular with students. able to share their views, their ideas, and pos-Sustainability really is the buzzword around sible solutions. with students. campus -and Energy Week events, leading up to 
O
THE

At least, that is, those students who were Wednesday's Forum, also helped publicize the
BSERVER
permitted to attend. event. All freshmen at Notre Dame are given the Regardless of the amount of publicity, however,
Editorial
option to attend the Forum, as all of their all students did not have the free option to attend classes are canceled during the time of the without penalization, and others were forced to event. attend, whether they wanted to or not. 
There is no policy, however, that classes for sophomores, The University is a place of limitless opportunities for learn­juniors and seniors are required to be cancelled the after­ing -limitless, that is, when it comes to everything else noon of the Forum, leaving those students who have classes besides the most-publicized, most highly-anticipated academ­between 3 and 5 p.m. with a dilemma: Attend the Forum, and ic event of the year. All students were invited to attend via an take a cut? Or don't attend the Forum, and miss the discus-e-mail from the University president, but professors were not 
. ?

S!On. invited to allow their classes to attend. 
Some professors were considerate to those students who Next year's Forum, whieh undoubtedly will be just as well­wanted to attend, but others stood firm with their "you can organized, with just as many exciting panelists, will hopefully take an absence" response. Other professors still required be better-attended by upperclassmen. Attendance should that their students did attend the Forum as part of the class. continue to be encouraged, but the hundreds of students who 
What about those students whose professors fall in both undoubtedly will have a class schedul1~d during its two-hour categories-those that require Forum attendance, and those block, should not be penalized for wanting to join the conver­
who would not allow it? In that case, students are penalized, sation. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Sequester this 

I almost laughed out loud when Dr. Moniz began talking about sequester­ing carbon dioxide underground yesterday at the forum. Surely I was mis­taken and he was really talking about storing dangerous nuclear waste material or something equally devious, but unfortunately he was not. 
I was highly disappointed that all the panelists believed in the man-made climate crisis theory and felt that it was the key motivator for alternative energy. 
Hello! 

The key reason to seek new forms of fuel is for peace and prosperity. It can be argued that many of the wars fought in the 21st century are linked to oil resourees from the funding terrorist activities to the invasion of Georgia by Hussia. We must stop this dependence on foreign energy as soon as possible to both create opportunity back home ("Drill, baby, Drill!") and to get our nation out of the global chess game for natural resourees. 
People are blaming greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide for causing a climate shift. That would be disconcerting if the earth's climate remained static at all times, but we know that the climate has shifted many times in its long history, way before humans were even here. God uses carbon diox­ide and oxygen in a cycle to regulate the earth. As carbon dioxide increas­es, plants thrive and through photosynthesis convert and store the carbon and give off oxygen. As oxygen becomes more prevalent in the atmosphere, plant growth slows down and carbon dioxide given off by animals or released through fires (fires occur naturally due to lightning or dry weath­er) returns to normal levels. 
It is all a natural cyele, an old idea that scientists think they just discov­ered because they have forgotten the power of God. lie was even nice enough to store that energy for us underground to use when we had devel­oped enough technology and knowledge. 
There is nothing wrong with using oil and other natural resources like timber that God has given us to utilize. There are still many parts of the world with bad pollution problems such as China and India. These are the places environmentalist should be pushing the issue, not wasting their time on a simple theory that is unlikely something we can prevent and that will not have noticeable repercussions in our lifetime and probably for thou­sands of years (it takes a long time to melt an entire glacier). God is a little smarter about these things than He'll have you believe, so keep the faith in Him. 
1look forward to the response letters. 
Mark Easley freshman Keenan Hall Sept. 25 

Sustainability: It takes two 
In the past year, the University of Notre Dame has: implemented single-stream recycling to increase the overall volume of material recycled; emphasized locally grown produce and energy efl'iciency in Food Services; expanded game day recy­cling initiatives campus wide; created an Office of Sustainability with three full­time professional staff and a $2 million green loan fund; invest1~d $4 million to retrofit 25 buildings. And we've got a long ways to go. 
In the past year, what have you done to fundamentally alter the way you live? 
Lourdes Long senior otfcampus Sept. 23 





~-------------~·--------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Titne for Weis to go 
"You are going to have a hard-hitting, intelligent, nasty football team." 
These words, spoken in such a matter-of-fact way by Coach Weis at the beginning of his tenure, gave Notre Dame fans around the country hope. After three years, it is clear that we will never have a "nasty" football team with Weis running the show. 
I don't hate Charlie Weis. He respects Notre Dame tradition, embraces student life and has touched many lives through volunteer efforts. The problem is simply that Charlie Weis is not a college football head coach. 
While Weis displays a knowledge for the game and an uncanny ability to recruit talent, he is unable to combine the necessary skills to lead a college football team to a dominate level. In particular there are three main aspects of college football that Weis has been unable to grasp: motivation, game plan and putting his team in a position to excel. 
Coach Weis is not a motivator. The team is semi-disciplined, but rarely come out of the tunnel with the determination to beat up good opponents. While Weis has a desire to win, the emotion of our players is more business than excitement. This probably stems from Weis' NFL pedigree, but college is different. Teams need motivation. 
Secondly, Weis has failed to create a successful college football play­book. It is clear that he understands the Xs and Os of football, but the college game is dramatically different than the pros. When you don't have Brady Quinn's natural ability to lead your team to wins over mediocre teams, you need to adjust the game plan. The 2007 and 2008 seasons have displayed questionable coaching time and time again. Weis seems scared to run a misdirection or a cross-rout now that his players aren't NFL caliber. We have seen enough bubble screens, HB dives and fly-routs to last us a lifetime. What happened to a slant, post or pitch? 
Finally, Weis has failed to set his team up to win. We clearly have the talent to win football games. We have had back-to-back-to-back top-10 recruiting classes. While a select few of these players have relied on their God-given talent to excel, the team as a whole is underdeveloped. Do you think Pete Carroll or Jim Tressel would have allowed themselves to be put in a position to lose nine games? 
Attrition rate and lack of collegiate development are what put us in a position to have consecutive "off years". Charlie Weis hasn't desecrated our program, but our tradition of winning is fading, and has been for some time. You simply cannot go 3-9 at the University of Notre Dame. You cannot lose to the Naval Academy at home. And you certainly can­not lose by a combined 76-0 to your two greatest rivals. 
We used to compete for the National Championship on a yearly basis. This is certainly no longer the norm. Sorry Charlie, but I simply cannot picture you winning a National Championship. You're a good guy, a family man and a great recruiter. I'd certainly hire you as a quarter­backs coach. 
You just are not a University of Notre Dame head football coach. 
Michael Burdell 
junior Stanford Hall Sept. 23 

An open letter to the ND football tealll 
By now just about everyone has heard that two of your teammates were arrest­ed for underage drinking this past week­end. 
I'm not angry because they were caught. I'm disappointed because they were drinking. 
Now I'm not saying this because I expect you to be the face of our University. I'm not saying this because I think it's morally reprehensible for an underage person to drink. I'm saying this because I don't think that this shows a commitment to excellence: 
I'm issuing a challenge because I think you are guys are good. Really legitimate­ly good. I see Floyd and Tate wreaking havoc on cornerbacks, and Jimmy mak­ing some absolutely perfect throws now and then. I see a defense that plays with energy, makes solid strong tackles and creates big plays. 
But here's the challenge: At the end of the day, this is the University of Notre Dame. And like it or not (and I think that athletes of your caliber look to these kind of challenges to get amped) we want a national championship here. 
Sure we'd like a winning record, we'd like to beat Michigan, we'd like to win a bowl game. But The Shirt's back shows the picture of a player wearing a No. 12 jersey. That's what we're about. And that's a big part of why you came. 
So here is why I am disappointed: Some of you drink. This is a fact. I've been to parties where you are nursing down your solo cup, and I've seen you at Recker's at 2:15 as a living tribute to Dionysus and Bacchus. My problem is that unfortunately for all of us, our bod­ies don't like alcohol. Our minds love it, but the next day if we aren't physically sick, we are fatigued and irritable. If I am erroneous on any of these counts I would love to be corrected. 
I know you guys want to win every sin­gle game. I can't imagine the physical torment you endure during your prac­tices and workouts. But I'm saying that's not enough. I'm saying, you gotta want it. 
And I know every one of you says you want it. And I know every one of you plays like you want it. I want to see your off-field selves to live like you want it. Your physical condition is integral to how you do on the field, and if you want to win a national championship you can't expect your 95 percent to best someone's 100 percent. 
It comes down to a commitment to excellence. A 100 percent commitment. Once you get through Bowl Season and return victorious from some glorious southern tourist location, I would love to see you guys imbibing with the rest of the student body. It brings us together. It gives us stories. You've earned it. But not in season. It's irresponsible to your team­mates and it's irresponsible to your­selves. 
I don't write this letter for me -I know that no matter how hard I yell, jin­gle my keys on third down or silently pump my arms to Celtic Chant it's you out there on the field. I'm simply asking that you put your best self on the field. 
And that requires your body to run at peak condition. I know your trainers will tell you this, but even five beers on a Saturday night are going to affect your performance on Monday. It's just the way it is. And it sucks. But every day you walk around campus you're the man. Period. It doesn't matter who else is in the room. 
So here's what my challenge is for the rest of the year: Don't drink until the off­season. You can still go to any party and have a great time. Play like a Champion, but prepare like one too. Don't do it for me. Do it for yourselves. 
John Greil 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
Sept. 22 

Friday, September 26, 2008 
As this school year started the stu­dent body participated in a wide array of annual traditions. Freshmen partici­pated in Frosh-0, many students went to The Show. Dis-0 events happened 
across campus, the football season brought many alums back to campus, and stu­dents were once again physically assaulted while they were minding 


their own business  Bob Kessler  
off campus.  
Here in the north- House ofStix  
east neighborhood  
of South Bend, we  

have serious problems regarding safety of persons and personal belongings. While the problems are not limited to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity, we as students are targeted for robbery and assault. All too often we hear about students getting assaulted walking home from bars, being robbed of personal belongings and being mugged at gunpoint. These are serious problems that require serious atten­tion. 
The problem is that the students-res­idents of the northeast neighborhood do not have serious people looking out for them. Why should we? We only pay rent to live here, pay tuition to attend school here and contribute just as 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT 
Why not serious? 
much as anybody else does to the greater good of the community. For all intents and purposes we are members of this community. So why do I always feel so unsafe in this area? 
Last weekend local police expended their forces raiding three local bars and breaking up a house party on Colfax Ave. While I have no doubt that the house party was probably out of control, I am fairly certain that the patrons of the Linebacker Lounge were doing nothing out of the ordinary. If local police forces have the capability to spend a good portion of their week­end night raiding local bars where nobody is causing any problems, why do they seemingly not have the capabil­ity to increase patrols in the increas­ingly dangerous northeast neighbor­hood? 
What is even more confounding to me is that the police forces no longer seem to simply be targeting Notre Dame stu­dents. I have only heard of Club Landing because of my summer listen­ing to Tommy and the Bartender on WAOR, and was completely unaware that Inferno Bar and Grill even existed. I could understand if the local police were interested in making a quick buck by fining students that do not perma­nently reside here, but the fact that they are seemingly prioritizing bar raids over resident safety is utterly mind boggling to me. 
Not only were three bars and a house party raided on Sunday morning, but, according to the South Bend Tribune, a 19-year-old woman was raped near Notre Dame Avenue, and a 19-year-old man was shot across town. One can only wonder if these two incidents would have occurred had local police been more concerned with patrolling troublesome areas as opposed to raid­ing bars that were not causing any problems. For an institution that claims their mission is to "seek and finds ~ays to affirmatively promote preSJ:Jrvao,.and deliver a feeling of secu­rity, safety and productive quality serv­ices for all citizens in our community," the South Bend Police are certainly failing. 

What makes matters worse is that University officials seem content to let this irresponsible behavior by our local police force continue unchecked. It appears that Fr. Jenkins has repeatedly refused to use his influence with local leaders to create a safer environment. When contacted about the recent stu­dent assault, he refused to discuss it. Fr. Jenkins seems to be more con­cerned about his 'Academic Forum' than about issues relating to student safety. It is horrifying to wonder what sort of tragedy must occur for him to finally step up and take action. 
Furthermore, our trustees and con­tributing alumni do not seem to care one bit about these issues. They will bend over backwards to put their 
page 15 
names on buildings and ensure their football tickets are secure, but using their influence to create action where action is needed is not something that these former students are interested in. 
I understand that the University as a whole does not want students to live or gather off campus, but these gather­ings are unavoidable. At the very least our leadership should be working with community officials to create a sensible use of the police force and to promote a safer community as a whole. A cer­tain level of danger will probably always be present in the Northeast Neighborhood, but it is clear to me that more could be done and more should be done. 
I can only hope that this situation is addressed by University and communi­ty leaders before something dire hap­pens. The last thing anybody wants is for the parents of a Notre Dame stu­dent to get a phone call saying that their child has been murdered. I am afraid, however, that with the blatant negligence of our local police and University leaders it is only a matter of time before this will seriously, and unfortunately, happen. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


~ ~­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Friday, September 26, 2008 
This Week in the Blogosphere: Movies in 15 Minutes 
http://community.livejournal.com/m15m/ 
Star Wars, but Jones continues spoofs' abbreviated nature, and to foeus on new releases for the when entire scenes in Thfl Day 
Wrirer blog. Every few weeks a new Aftflr Tomorrow are summed up spoof will pop up, usually of a in one line, sometimes less i high-prof'ile film like The more whflrfl humor is concerned 
The genre of movie spool's has Prestige, Wanted, or the newest (A sample: "Sam: HUHRY! 
...........,run rampant lately, and in that Harry Potter movie. HAVE TO OUTHUN THE TEM running has ulti-Jones's ribbing PEHATUHE!" End scene.) mately tripped, isn't mean-spirit­Continuity between spoofs
Every entry is in the

fallen, and died a ed -it's just spot­the same actors, like Th sad, unfunny style ofa film screen­on. (Well, exeept Chronicles of Narnia and """~''"' death. The Scary play -although it for the spoof of (both starring James McAvoy), Movies 1 through The Happening. a regular occurrence. Every
often breaks down the

4, Disaster Movie, But how can you also comes loaded with Meet the fourth wall, including be "nice"-spirit­captures from thfl movie pa Spartans, Date characters like ed about that?) with some of the more mem Movie, the list So spot-on; in rable one-liners from Jones
"DJSTURBI:,1J

goes on -they fact, that they spoof scripts. Standouts include have all outstayed AUDIJJNCE," or, in the just are not that battle scenes from 300 with cap­their welcome in case ofthe /larry Potter engaging without tions like, "We have three hun­theaters. Now a viewing of the dred of the mansomest men to
movies, "SCREAMING

that genuinly actual movie. ever man something. What do elever and funny FANGIRLS." The entry for you have?" cinematic spoofs The Phantom of Though filmed spoofs can go have all but dis-the Opera, for cheap sight gags, gross-out jokes appeared, whereever shall the instance, would make little sense and pointless celebrity cameos, 
·parody lovers go? and probably the "Movies in 15 
A good refuge is a series of be a bit dis­Minutes" actually written spoofs at the "Movies in concerting if a Standouts include battle use clever para­15 Minutes" blog on LiveJournal reader went phrases
scenes from 300 with 
(abbreviated "m 15m") -and they in without any overblown dia­
captions like, "We have
don't n~quire a two-hour trip to knowledge of logue, pop-culturei the theater or a DVD player. · the Joel three hundred ofthe anachronisms and The blog's author, Cleolinda Schumaeher­mansomest men to ever various forms o Jones, started the script-style directed, internet speak to 
man something. What do 
parodies on a whim in 2004 for Gothic-cheese ~ctu~~ly make yo_u. her personal blog, but got such masterpiece. you have?" LOL -no, sen­an enormous response through Every entry ously, don't try to LivnJournal and the internet at is in the style read this in the large that she eventually got a of a film screenplay -although library, because the constant book deal. The book's slogan is it often breaks down the fourth barely suppressed laughter the same as the blog's: "The wall, including charaeters like surely get you kicked out. Biggest Movies Ever for People "DISTUHBED AUDIENCE," or, in Who Just Can't Be Bothered." the case of the Harry Potter 
The book has spoofs of the movies, "SCHEAMING FAN­

Contact Jordan Gamble at 
"classic" blockbusters, like GIRLS." 

jgamble@nd.edu
Titanic, Lord of the lUngs, and The blog's title refers to the 

Other Blogs Worth Checking Out 
ENTERTAINMENT WEEKLY'S PEREZ HILTON'S CELEBRITY JUICE, CELEBRITY SMACK 
PoPWATCH BLoG. NOT FROM CONCENTRATE. SMACKING CELEBS SINCE 2004! 
http:/ /popwatch. ew.com/popwatch/ www.perezhilton.com www.celebritysmackblog.com 
On 9/25, Mikn Bruno diseussed "Ameriea's Got Talent," Hollywood's "Most Hated Website" recently plugged a This site has "People" -esque artieles dotailing the I at­and wondnred who actually had talent. Here's the open-new single written and sung by the blogger himself. est in celebrity failure and weird-doing. A list of article ing paragraph: Lyries include "you'll see us on oprah and we'lllivn hap-topics indude "Are Britney and Kevin rnuiniting?!",and 
Full diselosure: I was not a faithful America's Got pily ever after...and then she'll marry us and give us a "Katy perry in aee thought nightgown" They are mostly Talent viewer this snason. I do, however, like singing, free honeymoon to Hawaii beeause she's oprah and links to other hot celebrity sourees, but it offers a com­dancing, and violin roek-outs as much as the next per-that's what she does." It also asked fans if Madonna's prehensive list of what's happening and what you nevP.r sor1. Plus. this is thn show with HasselholT, and I am flesh Brother, Christopher Ciccone, and Jabba the Hut were imagined. and blood af'tnr all --love the HolT. Lot's do this." snparated at birth. Tough question, indeed. 
Wel1ome To 

eMiitq Juke, Jot {IMI euncrtiiWk • 


------~-----~­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, September 26, 2008 
page 17 








-~ By JESS SHAFFER -""' Asst. Scene Editor 

Eric Benet's most recent release, "Love & Life", seems an odd hybrid. One-third soul­gospel fusion. One-third, smooth jams, love 
'·ballads. And one-third nearly pornographic accounts of his sexual exploits. A winning combination? Not so much. 
Not only is Benet creatively confused, he also suffers from generic vocals, uninspired instrumental, and lyrics that oscillate between unintentionally comical to cheesy to blatantly dirty. This is perhaps not surprising to those who know Benet from his two claims to fame. First, there's his acting debut in Glitter, Mariah Carey's raspberry winning flop. And there is his infamous marriage to Halle Barry, which ended in separation due to Benet's numerous extramarital affairs and alleged sex-addiction. Both career highpoints are clearly tragic. 
The opening song, "Love, Patience, and Time," provides and interesting opening to album. With contrived, but smooth vocals 
Love & Life 
Eric Benet 
Released by: Wamer Bros. 
Not Recommended Tracks: 
"lminluvwichoo," "Spanishish Fly," "Everlove," and 'Weekend Girl" 

The Office 
f
says ... \ 
• 
It's rare that my home state, New_ ampshire, gets a lot of attention in the 
Every four years, the networks and news­apers roll out the big guns for the New primary, the first in the nation, means that the possibility of my meet­
Brian Williams goes way up (score). 
few movies have taken place here, g "Animal House," at least if the material, Dartmouth, is any indica­"Jumanji" (yep. Look it up.); and "The New Hampshire" (shocking, I know). others. John Irving, the author, is a Hampshire native, as is Dan Brown of Vinci Code" fame. Somehow, Aerosmith a longstanding connection to the Granite and Bruce Willis recently pirated our 
motto for the title of "Live Free or Die ard." We've also got some sweet maple syrup. When your state has one eighth the popu­
of New York City, you tend to be kind flow profile. Unfortunately, this is especial­
true when it comes to all things entertain­ent. Filmmakers and television producers love 
trot out the small-town references when it 

Benet testifies to the power of love and over­coming hardship. An un-extraordinary open­ing presents a solid set of Christian values that deserves to be called nothing better than nice. Ironically, this soulful Christian jam is proceeded by "The Hunger," an egotistical account of Benet's psychical relationships complete with unnecessarily detailed make­out secessions and sex scenes. 
This necrophilia soundtrack is then fol­lowed by "You're the Only One I Need," which is perhaps the most redeeming track on the album. Still, this stint of sweet monogamy seems out of place. And further­more, its vocals fail to carry it through to its full potential. Benet has a tendency to sound more like a talented backup singer, and in this case particularly, lacks the power to deliver. In this way, he fails to bring anything new to the table, instead offering only mun­dane songs with oddly contrasting thematic qualities. 
Though Benet attempts to follow in the great tradition of Marvin Gaye, he lacks the class, cohesiveness, and charisma to make it happen. There are no iconic love jams of "Let's Get It On" quality to be found on this album. A great example of this is "Everlove," a nauseatingly cheesy love song that sounds like background music for a 1970s preteen date at a roller rink. Something about it, much like the entirety of the CD, lacks fresh­ness and just doesn't work. 
Other album low points include the amaz­ingly awful foursome of "Chocolate Legs," 
,.....,.. 


WLCH2 NASH 
comes to shows aiming for "quirky," such as that CBS (I believe) sitcom from a few years ago, "The Brotherhood of Poland, New Hampshire," which was mercifully axed after less than six episodes. 
Which is why, when I heard that Greg Daniels was planning on referencing my hometown of Nashua, New Hampshire on the season premiere of "The Office," one of my favorite shows, I kind of freaked out a little bit. 
For a little background information, here's a brief history of the glorious Gate City. The second-largest city in the Shire, following Manchester, it was originally settled as the town of Dunstable. Fast-forward two cen­turies to the present day, when Nashua has grown to a city of 85,000 awesome Northern New Englanders. Our French-Canadian con­tingent is one of the strongest in the nation, which lends local cuisine a north-of-the-bor­der flavor (and a whole Iotta gravy). I've lived there since I was eight, and I'd have to say that I'm a big fan. 
Obsessive fans of "The Office" may remember Daniels' previous mention of Nashua in an earlier episode. When the Scranton staffers were filming a commercial in the season 4 episode "Local Ad," the film­makers from corporate showed them a pre­vious ad featuring the Nashua branch. Michael's reaction was that the Nashua branch "sucks." 

Daniels has said that Nashua was one pos­sibility for the setting of "The Office," and recently told the Nashua Telegraph that he has always liked the city's name for a north­ern branch of Dunder-Miffiin. Even new 
rep Holly (Amy Ryan) came to Scranton way of the Nashua branch. Allegedly, a candy company, Merrimack and Nashua­based Swan Chocolates, is due to get shout-out in an upcoming episode. 
This, plainly speaking, is awesome. 

Some residents of the Great North Woods region might argue that Nashua is filled with "flatlanders" who don't understand the real New Hampshire. 
It's true that I've only seen a few moose in my lifetime, one of which was strollin through the athletic fields at my high school. I've also never skied, but that's mostly because I have nightmares of that episode from "Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason" coming true. 
Nashua, friends, is truly just as New Hampshire as any other part of the state, and I'm psyched to let it represent the Shire on "The Office." 
Even if it's for less than thirty seconds at a time. 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 26, 2008 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Pasquerillas square off in battle of winless teams 

Farley hopes to remazn unbeaten against winless BP; Bullfrogs, Phoxes face off for first victory of season 
freshmen didn't know what Badin v. Pangborn "We have been working on game is all about finding bal­
By CHRISTINA 
to expect. After winless efforts in a lot of goal line plays," she ance. The Ducks must con­
McDONNELL, DOUGLAS 
Pillai said that the Pyros their first few games, both said. "We didn't really have tinue to use a combination of
FARMER, KYLE SMITH, 
would focus this week on Badin and Pangborn will many plays scripted for young talent and experi­
CHARLIE SPOKES and 
playing tougher defense and look to ignite their offenses that." enced veterans while
KELLEN MATHERS 
that quarterback Caitlin this Sunday at 5 p.m. at While Pangborn's defense Cavanaugh has to improve
Sports Writers 
Lynch and running back LaBar Fields. has already proven itself, it its red zone efficiency on 
Kristin Mannion would try to In their will need its offense to support a so-far Pasquerllla East vs. play more aggressively. opening game offense to impregnable defense. Pasquerllla West "We need to work on con­last Sunday, perform on 
This year's battle of the sistency on both sides of the Pangborn "We just need to settle Sunday. Lewis vs. Walsh Pasquerillas will feature two ball," Pillai said. was stifled by down and let the Hackney is After a blowout 26-0 loss teams looking for their l'irst Welsh Family, confident that against Farley to open the
quarterbacks get used to
wins when Pasquerilla East Breen-Phillips vs. Farley losing 14-0, they can step season, Walsh hopes to con­
the receivers. " 
takes on Pasquerilla West at Breen-Phillips will try to and fell 19-6 up and do tinue the momentum of its 1 p.m. this Sunday at LaBar get some momentum, and to Walsh just that with 19-6 victory Thursday over Fields. Farley just hopes to keep its Thursday. Kathy Poploski the right Pangborn when it faces Pasquerilla West (0-0-1) going this Sunday when Pangborn game plan. Lewis at Riehle Field at 3
Pangborn captain 
comes into the game fresh teams meet at LaBar Fields captain Kathy "I think we p.m. on Sunday. off of a 0-0 tie against at 4 p.m. Poploski just want to Captain Kehau Meyer told Cavanaugh this past Farley's 26-0 onslaught acknowl-spread the her girls to "be ready for Tuesday. over Walsh edged the team's offensive ball out a little bit more and anything." 
"0-0 is last Sunday woes, but is confident that utilize a little more diversity "They're hungry for a embarrassing was led by thiYgs will gel as the season in our routes for our wide win," she said. on all "We'll need to get our sophomore progresses. receivers," she said. She said she's been encour­accounts," offense firing on all quarterback "We just need to settle aged by the interest and s a i d Emily Murphy down and let the quarter­Howard vs. Cavanaugh intensity the Wild Women
cylinders and get some

Pasquerilla and the backs get used to the As Howard looks to contin­have displayed in practice, West captain points on the board." Finest's pass­receivers," she said. ue its momentum after a big where they have worked on Cara Davies. ing attack. Poploski also hopes they win over Pasquerilla East, flag pulling and taking better The Purple Team captain will be able to execute much Cavanaugh angles to the
Cara Davies 

Weasels will and wide better on Sunday. hopes to ball. They
Pasquerllla West captain 

have to find receiver Jenny "We rushed a little bit [in rediscover "We're taking it one game have also something to Rolfs caught our first game]." she said. its offense at a time. When you start added some spark an ane-two of "The coaches said we beat this Sunday new drills
thinking about the 

mic offense Murphy's three ourselves." when the that the that didn't show up against touchdown passes. The Phoxes won't have an teams face championship or the coaches Cavanaugh. "The Finest hope to contin­easy time against the off at 2 p.m. playoffs you start designed to "We'll need to get our ue moving the ball up the Bullfrogs, whose defense at Labar keep their
forgetting what's in

offense firing on all cylinders field offensively with some held Breen-Phillips in check Fields. young play­and get some points on the quick routes and runs while in a 6-6 tie last Sunday. Last week, front ofyou." ers on their board," Davies said. "We'll at the same time spreading Badin captain Katie Rose the Ducks toes. sharpen up routes and find out the Hackney was bounced On offense,
Kehau Meyer

better spacing on the field." defense with pleased with back from route run­
Walsh captain 

Once this offense is longer her team's an opening ning and sparked, Pasquerilla West routes," defensive loss to Lyons studying the could be threatening thanks Rolfs said. "We have a lot ofgreat effort in to take playbook to an already stingy defense. Led by leadership back there and their first down the Pasquerilla East. have been priorities. Meyer The Purple Weasel defensive senior mid­game, and "Our team played great said that one of the problems
I think the freshmen are

line is dangerous and dle line­will be look­last game," Howard captain against Farley was that some
stepping up really well. " 

already has amassed several b a c k e r ing for more Kayla Bishop said. "We real­of the young players key sacks that held the Brighid of the same ly looked like a cohesive unit "weren't always sure about Cavanaugh offense back. McGann and Katie Rose Hackney against out on the field." where to go with their 
"It was an ugly game on sophomore Pangborn. On the other side of the routes."
Badin captain 

the offensive side of the ball, cornerback "We have a field, Cavanaugh continues Even though it can be a but our defense saved it E m m a lot of great to play well behind its stout long season and the team from being a lot uglier," Klosterman, leadership defense, as the Chaos have has long-term goals, Meyer Davies said. "We'll play a the young back there yet to allow a point this sea­emphasized the old cliche of sharper all-around game Farley defense started the and I think the freshmen are son. Cavanaugh looked winning the game at hand Sunday." season well. stepping up really well," she impressive moving the ball first. 
Similarly, Pasquerilla East Rolfs thinks the defense said of her defense. in an opening win over "We're taking it one game (0-1-0) is reeling after a will continue "to be strong After having some prob­McGlinn, but their offense at a time," she said "When painful 20-6 loss to Howard and aggressive in the next lems defending the run stalled in a 0-0 tie with you start thinking about the on Tuesday night. game." against Breen-Phillips, the Pasquerilla West Tuesday championship or the playoffs 
"We had some mix ups in On Sunday, Farley's Bullfrogs are making run night. you start forgetting what's in coverage on defense and defense will be tested. defense a focal point in prac­Howard's gameplan focuses front of you." weren't able to get a consis­Breen-Phillips' lone points tice. elsewhere as their offense tent passing game going on last week were off a 60-yard "We are going to work [on) racked up 20 points on Contact Christina McDonnell at offense," Pyro captain Tara touchdown pass by senior the defensive side, and read­Tuesday. cmcdonne@nd.edu, Douglas Pillai said. quarterback and team cap­ing the run a lot quicker," "We need to stay disci­Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu, 
Pillai, though, recognized tain Melissa Meagher. This Hackney said. plined on both sides of the Kyle Smith at that much of these errors dangerous deep-threat Hackney also said Badin ball," Bishop said. "The ksmith31 @nd.edu, Charlie might have come from the attack will surely look to has also been working in defense can't give up big Spokes at cspokes@nd.edu and fact that it was only the first take advantage of the youth practice to improve their plays." Kellen Mathers at game of the season and that on Farley's defense. efficiency in the red zone. For both teams, this next kmathers@nd.edu 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at che Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
House near ND. 574-310-3663. 
NOTICES FoR RENT TICKETS Home Game Rentals. Beautiful, WANTED PERSONAL 
Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully CHESS LESSONSFIDEIUSCF CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 National Master Internet or In-ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ WEST OF CAMPUS 3 large miles from Campus. $500 thurs-Wanted: ND football tix for family. If you or someone you care about Person (Michiana area) historic-574-233-6191 MSL #231736 Bedrooms each with Private Bath. sun. Call Joyce @574-339-9241. 574-251-1570. has been sexually assaulted, visit chess@comcast.net 574-277-8673 Great Common Room with floor to http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsapl 
Villa ranch at 18133Annettas Ctin ceiling Windows and outside Deck HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 South Benet 5 mins.to ND. Bui~ in 2004. overlooking rolling prairie. SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 3 bdrm, 2 bath. 1652 sq.ft. Vaulted great Breakfasts. No smoking; no pets. AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER football tickets. not go it alone. If you or someone
FoR SALE 
room, formal dining room, oak eat-in Call219-778-2585 or email PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR www.victorytickets.com. 57 4-232-you love needs confidential support kitchen, all appliances, large~ share@ sharefoundation.org KRAMERHOUSES.COM 0964. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base-room, first floor laundry. Fnished bas& Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann 
appt., flexible schedules, no experi-ment plumbed for bath, egress window. Firth at 574-631-2685. For more ence needed, customer sales/service, Patio. $249,500. Handicap acx:essible. Football Weekend B&B close to 2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. Need Purdue tix & parking pass. information, visit our website at: conditions apply, ages 18+, 57 4-273-Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack ND(574)243-9279 . Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274-574-276-8507. http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­3835, www.workforstudents.com Egenhoefer 574-280-~ 2829. nant.shtml 

OUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 26, 2008 CoMP!LF.D FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRF SERVICES page 19 
MLB 
NCAA Football 

APTop 25  
team  points  record  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25  usc (62) Oklahoma Georgia (2) Florida (1) LSU Missouri Texas Alabama Wisconsin Texas Tech Brigham Young Penn State South Florida Ohio State Auburn Wake Forest Utah Kansas Boise State Clemson Vanderbilt Illinois East Carolina TCU Fresno State  1,621 1,484 1,475 1,442 1,363 1,360 1,174 1,132 1,091 962 919 891 798 790 785 711 574 555 363 300 242 224 201 117 105  2·0 3·0 4·0 3·0 3·0 4·0 3·0 4·0 3·0 4·0 4·0 4•0 4·0 3·1 3·1 3·0 4·0 3~1 3~o 3·1 4-0 2·1 3-1 4·6 2·1  
NCAA Football  
USA Today Coaches'  Poll  
team  points  record  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 21 23 24 25  usc (56) Oklahoma (2) Georgia (2) Florida (1) Missouri LSU Texas Wisconsin Texas Tech Alabama Brigham Young Penn State Ohio State South Florida Wake Forest Auburn Utah Kansas Clemson Boise State Illinois Oregon TCU Fresno State Vanderbilt  1,517 1,424 1,388 1,345 1,284 1,247 1,143 1,041 944 939 931 818 744 121 678 650 528 506 378 265 233 174 151 117 103  2·0 3-0 4·& 3-0 4-0 3·0 3-0 3-0 4-D 4-0 4-0 4-0 3-1 4-& 3-0 3·1 4·0 3-1 3-1 3·0 2-1 3·1 4-0 2-1 4-0  
MIAA Women's  
Volleyball Standing s  
Team  Re cord  
league ·ouerall  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9  Hope Alma Calvin SAINT MARY'S Albion Adrian Kalamazoo Trine Olivet  7-& 5-1 H 3-2 3-3 2-4 2-5 H 0-6  12-3 13-5 10·3 10-4 10·7 6-8 5-12 4·10 3·12  

around the dial 
MLB 
Cubs at Brewers 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The Dodgers clinched their first NL West championship in four years Thursday with­out lifting a bat. 
Entering the day with a magic number of one, the Dodgers got what they needed when the second­place Arizona Diamondbacks lost 12-3 at St. Louis in the afternoon. That was several hours before Los Angeles faced the San Diego Padres in its final home game of the reg­ular season. 
Manny Ramirez found out the Dodgers officially qualified for the playoffs from a reporter after he entered an elevator to the team's clubhouse with teammate Pablo Ozuna about an hour after the Diamondbacks lost. 

"It's good, but it's just the first step," said Ramirez, who has played so well since joining the Dodgers less than two months ago that there's been MVP talk. "We're happy, but we're not going to go crazy about it. The goal is to go to the big dance, the World Series. This is not a cham­pionship yet. 
"Not a lot of players get a chance to go to the playoffs in their career. I've been blessed. You want to win it all. That's when you get that feeling you can't describe, like we had in Boston." 
The Red Sox won their first World Series in 86 years in 2004, with Ramirez winning the MVP award, and won it again last year. But Ramirez wanted out a few months back, and got his wish, being sent to the Dodgers at the trade deadline. 
"The sky's the limit. You never know," he said of the Dodgers' chances. "We're a pretty good team. Anything can happen." 
The Dodgers have won just one postseason game since winning the World Series 20 years ago, going 1-12 in four playoff appear­ances. They'll face either the Chicago Cubs, Philadelphia Phillies or New York Mets on the road to begin the first round next week. 
The Dodgers were in trouble after losing their eighth straight game Aug. 29, a 9-3 setback at Arizona that gave the Diamondbacks a 4_ -game lead in the division. But with Ramirez leading the way, they entered Thursday night's game having won 18 of their prior 23 games, including five straight over the Diamondbacks. 
IN BRIEF Favre's ankle appears 
to be healing quickly 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J.-Brett Favre walked with only a slight limp Thursday. 
The 38-year-old Jets quarterback twisted his left ankle Monday night in New York's loss at San Diego. Though the ankle was tightly wrapped, Favre appeared to walk comfortably through the locker room before practice. 
He took part in warmup jogs and threw with no noticeable discomfort in the half-hour of practice the media are allowed to watch. Favre took one awk­ward step on a handoff and appeared to grimace, but seemed fine afterward. 
He was listed as limited at practice on the team's injury report for the second straight day. 
"He was able to get a little bit of action" on Wednesday, coach Eric Mangini said before practice, "and I think it will be a little bit more today." 
Asked if that included 11-on-11 drills, Mangini said: ''Yeah, there's a little bit of that and we'll progress as he progress­es." 

NFL clears Browns 
after Ravens' inquiry 
EREA, Ohio -The NFL found no evidence that Cleveland Browns defensive players intentionally gouged the eyes of Baltimore run­ning back Willis McGahee during the Ravens' 28-10 win last Sunday. 
Ravens coach John Harbaugh sent tapes to the league's office in New York earlier this week asking for a review of two separate inci­dents. 
McGahee was cut on his right eye­lid and was poked in the left eye. He was forced to leave the game twice. 
League spokesman Greg Aiello said there was no evidence to sup­port the Ravens' claims that the Browns tried to injure McGahee. 
Harbaugh declined to name the names of the Cleveland players in question. 
"I don't think we should say," he said. "I wouldn't want to comment on it, but you can see it on the tape." 
Armstrong to be tested 
before reJoining Tour 
LAS VEGAS -The anti-doping expert charged with monitoring Lance Armstrong said Thursday he would test the seven-time Tour de France winner for "everything" and keep frozen samples of Armstrong's blood to be analyzed in the future. 
Don Catlin, who ran the first anti­doping lab in the United States at UCLA for 25 years, said testing details, including costs, still must be worked out with Astana, the Kazakhstan-based team that will pay for it. 
But he expressed confidence the pro­gram would be complete in testing for banned substances. 
"Everything that you've heard, and then probably some new ones," Catlin· told The Associated Press after appearing with Armstrong in Las Vegas. 
''I'm going further and I'm doing it because it's important for the world to recognize how to do these personalized anti-doping programs," Catlin said. 
---
~-~~---­

---------------, 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 26, 2008 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
Rivalry game pits Knott against Siegfried 

Fisher, Carroll battle for first win of season; Duncan battles Alumni looking for first ever interhall victory 
By NATHANIEL LEE, LIZA 
NAVARRO, SHANE STEIN­
BERG, CHRIS MICHALSKl, 
MOLLY SAMMON and CHRIS 
MASOUD 
Sporrs Writers 
Knott vs. Siegfried 
The across-the-quad rivalry 

between Siegfried and Knott will 
heat up once again this Sunday 
when the teams eollide at 1 p.m. 
at Heihle Fields. 
Thfl Humblers will be looking to begin another playoff-bound season against the Juggerknotts, who are hungry to return to post-season play after a disap­pointing 2007 campaign. 
Last week's bye gave Siegfried plenty of lime to think about last year's semi-final disappointment. 
"It obviously wasn't good enough and it left a bad tast11 in our mouths," Hambler captain Kevin Kelley said. "This year we look to go undefeated and win in Notre Dame Stadium." 
Meanwhile, the .Juggerknotts have been working hard to leave last year's l-3 disaster in the past, starting the season with a 6-0 win over Duncan. 
"Last year was overall a disap­pointing season," captain Aiden Fitzgerald said. "This year we have changed our whole outlook, and h<~ve ~eon working on better executiOn. 
Siehrfried will ndy heavily on a strong defense to stop the .Juggerknotts. The Ramblers hope a significant amount of vet­eran experience can lead them to the win. 
"We do not have key players, only a team that plays together looking to win and have fun doing it," Kelley said. 
Knott hopes a fresh young oll'ense will match up well with the Humbler defense. Sophomore quarterback .l.T. Hedshaw and junior receiver Jell' Skourup will bP key the passing game, while sophomore running back Cameron Smith is likely to get most of the touches in the back-liPid. 
"We'rn attempting to get away from the stagnant, mundane football we played last year and play with morn nxeitmnent and speed," Fitzgerald said. 
The gritty, experienced Hamblnr defense will be matched up against the flashy new-look Juggerknott offense this weekend in a game sure to have an impact on the playoff raee, and Mod Quad bragging rights for the futum. 
Fisher vs. Carroll 
With both teams looking to avenge tough losses, Fisher and 
Carroll will take to the field 
Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle 
Fields. 
In their opening games, Fisher 
and Carroll were held to only 
one touchdown by Sorin and St. 
Ed's, respectively. 
"After losing a heartbreaker to 
Sorin in the fashion we did, we 
are really looking to comeback 
strong and get a win," Fisher 
captain Brian Monson said. 
The Green Wave will be count­
ing on their strong defensfl, led 
by defensive end Patrick Hessert, 
linebackers Cameron Compson 
and Bill Whitaker and safety 
John O'Connell, to stop the 
Vermin offensive. 
"Before allowing that incredi­bly unlucky final drive which allowed Sorin to score, they had barely allowed positive yardage all game and forced several turnovers," Monson said. 
Fisher also suffered from 
many unnecessary penalties 
against Sorin, arid will try to 
eliminate these on Sunday. 
On the other side of the ball, the Green Wave are hoping to end more of their drives with touchdowns, and have made a few new additions and adjust­ments to their playbook. 
Sophomore quarterback Mike McMahon showed great poten­tial in his first start last week, scoring Fisher's only touchdown. As he continues to learn the oll'ense, he will be a key player going into Sunday's game. 
The Carroll offensive will be led by the duo of quarterback Kris Kast and wide receiver Tommy Mumford, who scored the team's only touchdown last weekend. 
Defensively, the Vermin have been working hard at practice this week, and will be focusing their attention on a strong sec­ondary. 
"Since both teams lost their first games, the team that loses will most assuredly be out of playoff contention," said Monson. 
Duncan vs. Alumni 
After both being shut out in their season openers, Duncan and Alumni will take to the field this Sunday looking not only for a win, but for a much-needed momentum builder. 
For Duncan, a victory this Sunday would be their first ever win. For the Dawgs, a team with experience on its side, a win this week would mark the first time they've won in almost two years. 
Duncan is led by freshman quarterback Chris Toups, who the team is very high on despite him not having playing football in high school. Other teams have 

had years to grow into a cohe­
sive unit, Duncan has only had a 
handful of practices to put a 
team together. Not to mention 
they're facing the hurdle of 
securing their first victory ever. 

"It would be huge for us to get 
that first win," Duncan captain 
Garrett Burke said. "It would 
definitely be a big momentum 
builder for us." 

For Alumni to come away with 
a victory Sunday, shutting down 
Duncan's long passing game is 
essential. Freshman safety 
Barrick Bellman could play a big 
role in this aspect. 

"We're very high on him," Alumni captain Luke Betterman said. "He's very fast and hits hard." 
On offense the Dawgs are led by quarterback Brian Baz, who will look to move the ball by opening up the pass and estab­lishing a consistent running game. 
Duncan will look to use a 
power running game to open up 
the field for Toups, who will be 
looking to his wide receiver core, 
especially Adam Zaabel and 
Mike Kearney, to tinally establish 
a passing game after failing to do 
so in their first game. 
Sorin vs. Zahm 

This Sunday, the Sorin Otters will look to continue their win­ning ways as they face off against the Rabid Bats of Zahm. 
The Otters (1-0-0) defeated Fisher 8-6 last week thanks largely to a controversial penalty call. 
Junior captain Rob Gallic seemed satisfied with their per­formance, especially that of the defense. 
"Our defense was dominating, as was expected," he said. 
Their opponent this week, Zahm, has yet to kickoff their 2008 season, as they had a first week bye. The Habid Bats hope to improve on last year's 2-1-1 regular season record and a close loss in the first round of the playoll's. 
According to Zahm senior cap­tain Theo Ossei-Anto, the main issue this year will be their lack of experience. 
"We have a lot of freshmen at key positions," Ossei-Anto said. "So we don't want to add too many kinks." 
One of these freshmen is quar­terbaek Greg Bennett, who will be leading the offense. Non­freshmen standouts this season are likely to be sophomore wide receiver Xavier Murphy on offense and junior linebacker Jarred Carter on defense. Anchoring the line will be senior Luke Derheimer. 
In preparation for the tough 
Otter defense, the young Zahm 
team has been working in prac­
tice on the basics of throwing 
and passing. 
Sorin, on the other hand, has 
been focusing their attention in 
practice to the victory formation 
and team endzone celebrations. 
The teams kiek off Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Dillon vs. Keenan 
After both teams were shut out 
last week, Dillon and Keenan 
fight Sunday not only for victory, 
but for a chance to prove that 
they can put some points on the 
board. 
"Keenan is considered the 
benchmark for inter-hall foot­
ball," Dillon junior wide receiver 
Chris Cugliari said. "Most teams 
can look to Keenan as a way to 
measure their progress, and this 
Sunday should give us an oppor­
tunity to do so." 
The game will be a match up of excellent defenses. Though Keenan was unable to score, its defense also shut out Keough to finish with a 0-0 tie. Dillon held a powerful O'Neill offense score­less for the whole first half last weekend. 
Keenan is working on a plan to prove its offensive game before Sunday. 
"We need to be able to consis­tently run the ball, so we need to work on team run blocking," Keenan sophomore Bart Dear said. "Also, quarterbacks and receivers need to continue devel­oping their timing," 
Senior running back Alex Gonzalez and senior wide receiv­er Jim Zenker will be the players to watch this Sunday as the Knights try to put the ball in the endzone. 
Dillon has a different approach towards bringing a better oll'en­sive game this weekend. 
"We're detinitely concentrating on eliminating our mental mis­takes on offense," Cugliari said. "We feel if we just execute the way we can, we're a team that can move the football." 
Dillon quarterback Joe Carigliano will be greatly tested come Sunday's game, and stand­out defensive players Ryan Shestak and Brett Barceau will try to stop Keenan's reworked offense. 
The two teams face off Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Keough vs. Stanford 
The defending champion Stanford Griffins will begin their quest for a second consecutive undefeated season this Sunday as they take on the up-and-com­ing Roos of Keough (0-0-1 ). 
After posting a perfect record 
of 7-0-0 last season that ended 
in a victory at the stadium, the 
Griffins expect nothing short of a 
repeat. 
"Last year we established our­
selves as one of the premier 
dorms in interhall football," sen­
ior captain Brian Salvi said. 
"With most of our key players 
returning, we have our eyes on 
the stadium." 
Led by Salvi at quarterback, the Griffins look to keep their offense simple but effective as they march downfield. Senior captains John Burke and Karun Ahuja will present a threat to the Hoos in the trenches, while returning safety David Costanzo anchors the secondary. 
The Hoos are anything but intimidated by the versatility of the Griffins. Emerging last week with a tie against Keenan, Keough is hungry for its first vie­tory of the season. 
''I'm never satisfied with a tie, but I was pleased with the way we played last week," senior captain Kevin Laughlin said. "Our defense was spectacular, especially against a dynamic offense like Keenan's." 
Holding Keenan to only fifty­two yards on the ground, the Keough defense looks to be just as stingy this week. However, they will be playing without freshman standout Patrick Gleason, who was injured last week during an interception return. 
Junior quarterback Matt Brennan will be key to the Keough offense this season, bringing his speed and power to the gridiron. Senior captain Nazur Ahmed adds versatility to the Hoos as both a running baek and middle linebacker. 
Both teams are confident they can emerge from Sunday's game as the favorite to win it all. 
"Not only do we have the moti­vation, but we have the person­nel and talent on offense and defense to run away with the division." Salvi said. "We'll be ready." 
Keough captain Ahmed also believes his team will be fired up and ready to go against Stanford. 
"Keough has be1m waiting for a team like this for years," Ahmed said. "This is the year we make a name lor ourselves." 
The two teams matchup Sunday at Hiehle Fields at 3 p.m. 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at 
nlee5@nd.edu, Liza Navarro at 
lnavarro@nd.edu, Shane 
Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, 
Chris Michalski at 
jmichal2@nd.edu and Chris 
Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



Open House Sundays 12-4pm. 

Welcome to Lake Chapin Shores, our exclusive 21-hoinesite development on a 600-acre all-sports lake. Everything you're looking for is right here. Spectacular open-plan homes nestled amid soaring, majestic trees. Sailing, waterskiing and canoeing on expansive Lake Chapin. Easy access to New Buffalo wineries, shops, antiques and restaurants. Your own private piece of year-round heaven, just 90 minutes from downtown Chicago. Inquire about introductory pricing on our lakefront homes from the $500's, and lakeview and wooded homes from the mid-$300's. 

Gall 877-90-GHAPIN (877-902-4274) or visit LakeChapinShores.com 
Old National Bank University is all about the green. 
Enjoy paper-free options, benefits that save you gas, time and cash, and banking conveniently located on or near 68 college campuses.2 
Plus, get a Free ONBGreen Pak filled with enviro-goodies like a 100% organic t-shirt when you open an accounU 
Free ATMs -Everywhere! 
Use any ATM in the country-for free! We'll waive your fee for using another bank's ATM and pay the fee the other bank charges. 
Open your account today at any Old National or cal! 1-800~731~BANK (2265). 
0 D 
10 
A 



Elkhart 300 N!BCO Pkwy 574-295-9100'" Mishawaka 3820 Edison Lakes Phvy 574-273-9700 
Member FDIC 
'Old National Bank refunds our fees for us1ng another bank's domestic ATM along with the fees the other bank charges you International AH-.'1/Check Card fees still apply. Free ATM usage reqUires an Old Nat1onal Check1ng account. Only accounts opened and maintained 1n our Mich1ana financial centers are eligible for free ATMs 'Proof of student status required annually, otherwise account reverts to Free Checking If account is closed with1n 180 days, a $25 fee 1s assessed. 'L1m1ted t1me offer. Quantities l1m1ted and available exclusively to new ONBU accounts. May~subst1tute gift of equal or lesser value Gift provided at account opening with mimmum 1nit1al deposit of $50. 


page 22 Friday, September 26, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 

! 
~ WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
! 
I 
I Walsh grabs first win of season oVer Pangborn 
By MATTHEW WILSEY, RYAN 
O'CONNELL and CHRIS 
WYNKOOP 
Sports Wri 1ers 
Walsh 19, Pangborn 6 
Walsh narnP.d their first win of 

the season last night with a victo­
ry over Pangborn. 
The Wild Women (1-1 ) jumped 

out to an early lead aided by a 
punt return inside the 20-yard 
line. Following a reverse that 
brought the ball to the 1-yard 
line, Meghan Hadley scored 
Walsh's first touchdown of the 
season on a double reverse. On 
tlw next possession. !Iadley gave 
Walsh a 13-0 lmtd with a 1 0-yard 
touchdown recpption from. quar­
terback Amy Langnncker. 
Thn Phoxes (0-2) answered 

with a 5-yard touchdown pass to 
Cathy Poploski from quarterback 
Cabby Tate, making the score 
13-6. Thn Phoxns threatened to 
score anottwr touchdown right 
bd'ore the first half. but Gabby 
Tate's 20-yard pass was dropped 
in the end zone. 
Walsh added a late touchdown 

on a QB sneak to make the score 
19-6. 
Last night's game was a major 

turn around l(,r the Wild Women. 
"We were timid in thn first 
game," assistant coach Dan 
Brown said. "This week we were 
a lot more aggn•ssive. While we 
had a lot morn penalties, that's 
no a problem because it is morn 
important that we were playing 
hard." 
Part of th1~ success may have been due to shifted coaching rnsponsibiliti1~s. Al't1w last week's loss, !wad coach JJ Heyes took over both tlw oll'ensivn and thn delimso. 
"We are focused on having mow fun and that is translating on the field," HPyns said. 
Missl'd opportunities prevented the Phoxns from scoring morn points. The n~ceivers couldn't hold onto the ball. dropping sev­eral passes, induding two in the end ZOIW. IIOW!Wer, one high­light for Pangborn was the play of Tate. Slw had no problem throwing the deep ball or throw­ing rolling out of thn pocket. 
"Siw movPd around in the pocket well and nxtnndnd lots of plays," of'f'pnsivn coordinator Patrir.k Kirkland said. "She put us in a position to win the ganw." 
Pangborn will look to get their first win of the season this week­end at Badin. 
Farley 14, Badin 12 
In a heated ganw with two lead changes in the final minutes, Farley's Firwst pulled out a dosH win against the Badin Bullfrogs. 
Farley quarterbaek Emily Murphy and Badin quarterback Katie Hose each threw two touchdowns in the game. 
The first few drives of the game left both teams scoreless thanks to each team's strong defensive play. Despite Farley's ofl'ense driving inside the Badin 20-yard line twiee, Badin's red­zone defense prevailed and Farley was unable to capitalize on the good lield position. 
"Their defense stopped us a couple times on the 1-yard line and we kind of got sick of it," Farley captain Jenny Hoi[<> said. 
Farley went on to score a touchdown and lake the lead 7-6. But after throwing an intercep­tion, Badin was able to drive down the liPid and take the lead 12-7, thanks to a failed 2-point conversion. 
With two minutns left in the 
game, the pressure was on for 
Farley to score quickly, but there 
wasn't a sense of panic from the 
team. 
"I knew that we had enough time and we had been moving the ball pretty successfully all game but hadn't put it in the end zone. It was a matter of determi­nation and we got it done," Rolfs said. 
On a series of great plays, Farley quarterback Emily Murphy had several great runs to pick up a first down when the team needed it. The drive result­ed in a touchdown and sealed the win for Farley's Finest. 
"!The winl was awesome. 
When we needed it, we brought 
it together. Our quarterback had 
some great runs and we ended 
up winning," Holls said. 
"You have to give it to Farley, they played great at the end of the game and got the win," Rose said. 
Despite the loss, the Bullfrogs' pnrfi1rmance gave them plenty of reasons to be excited about the rnmainder of the season. 
"I was really proud of our girls. I think this is the best I've seen us play oll'ensively and defensive­ly in the past few years," Rose said. 
Welsh Fam 19, Lewis 0 
The Welsh Family Whirlwinds came out tiring on all cylinders as they took down the Lewis Chicks on Thursday night. 
Quarterback Jenni Gargula completed her first thn~e passes, then threw a 20-yard touchdown pass and converted the extra point to give the Whirlwinds an early 7-0 lead. 
"Wp, rnally moved the ball well early," Gargula said. "Lewis was playing man-to-man coverage to start and we threw downfield to exploit that. Our receivers matched up well against them." 
After the quick score, the first half settled down into a defensive battle as both teams had drives that ended in interceptions in the opposing tnam's end zone. The Chkks had their best opportunity to scon~ late in the first half, after a good defensive effort gave them the ball in Whirlwinds ter­ritory. llownvnr, as they often did, Welsh Fam came up with anotll­er interception and went into the half with the lead. 

In the second half, the Whirlwinds dominated on both sides of the ball. The defense added two more interceptions to give them a total of four for the game. Senior Erin Fitzpatrick picked off two, senior Katie Hehberger added another, and sophomore Samantha Miller tal­lied one more. On offense, Gargula passed for one score and handed off the ball for another. 
After the game, Welsh Fam 
26 September 2008 3:00p.m., Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Admission is free and all are welcome. 
Contact: Tara MacLeod, Department ofIrish Language and Literature, University ofNotre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556, (574) 631-7615, e-mail: Tara.A.Madeod.15@nd.edu 
offensive coach Mark Mihallo had words of praise for his team. 
"Overall it was a great win, we passed and ran very well," MihaJlo said. "Still, all the crndit has to go to our defense today." 
"It was our second shutout of the year, our defense really stepped up. We stuck to our game plan and it worked for us. We have some work to do this week to improve some of our coverage schemes, but we're feeling good," assistant coach 
David Costanzo said. As for Gargula, she has her team focused on what's ahead. 
"We're confident right now, but we have some tough games com­ing up," she said. ·"Ultimately, we have our minds set on going to the stadium." 
Contact Matthew Wilsey at mwilsey@nd.edu, Ryan O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu, and Chris Wynkoop at cwynkoop@nd.edu 
WHY IlUSHr celebrates the Thomas J. and Kathleen O'Donnell Chait of Irish Language and Literature, ofwhich Professor Breandan 6 Buachalla is the inaugural Professor. 
WHY IRISH? is made possible by the generosity of Mr. Michael Murphy. 
~UNIVB RSJTY OF 
WNOTREDAME 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME IsuMMER ENGINEERING 
PROGRAMSI 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 
Information Meeting: 
Monday, October 6, 2008 Room 131 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 25 for Summer 2009 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/-engineer/sumlon/apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
·'

SMC VOLLEYBALL ' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 

Belles travel to face No. 16 Calvin, Adrian 

Saint Mary's hopes to ride momentum of three-game win streak as they compete in MIAA mini-tournament 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer  ue their climb out of the MIAA cellar after beginning the season 0-2 in the con­ well aware of what it will take to get to where we want this program to be.  tributes defensively with a team-high 1. 30 blocks per game. The Knights enter  five-game losing streak, having most recently dropped a close match to  
ference.  We want to be playing for  a  the  match  coming  off  a  conference opponent Alma  
Building  on  the  momen­ Saint Mary's head coach  champi­ hotly-con­ on  Tuesday. Senior hitter  
tum  from  its hard-fought  Julie Schroeder-Biek, whose  onship."  tested, four­ Jenny  Carlson  leads  
victory  over  Kalamazoo  on  squad eclipsed the 10-win  The Belles  set  home  Adrian's struggling offense  
Tuesday, Saint Mary's  mark for the fourth  will begin Saturday's  "We want to be  loss Hope,  to who  with 131 kills son. Senior  on the sea­Samantha  
heads to G r a n d Rapids,  "We need to build on that success. The returning  straight season w i t h  competition with a match against the  playing for a championship. "  is undefeat­ed in the MIAA.  Mercy and juniors Courtney Sellers and Natalie Niblock power the Bulldogs' smoth­ 
Mich., to face AVCA No. 16 Calvin and  players are well aware of what it will take to get to where we want this  Tuesday's win, con­siders the early suc­ Knights. Offensively, Calvin (10-3, 4-1) is lead  Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles' coach  In the late match, Saint Mary's will square  ering defense, with each player having accumulated triple-digit digs. The Belles begin play at  
Adrian  in  a  program to be.,,  cess  of  by freshman  off against  11 a.m. on Saturday against  
MIAA three­ her  team  hitter  the Bulldogs  Calvin, concluding the day's  
way mini­tournament  Julie Schroeder-Biek  crucial to making a  Rebecca Kemp, who has tallied 210  in their sec­ond meeting this season.  competition with a 1 p.m. match against Adrian. The  
on Saturday.  Belles' coach  run in the  kills with  a  blistering .413  Adrian (6-7, 2-3) disman­ tournament  is  held  at  
The  Belles  MIAA.  attacking percentage this  tled the Belles earlier this  Calvin's campus in Grand  
(10-4,  3-2  W  e  season.  Junior defensive  month,  handing  Saint  Rapids, Mich.  
MIAA)  are looking to add to  need to  build  on  that suc­ specialist  Kelsey  Sears  Mary's  a  blowout, three-set  
their three-game confer­ cess," Schroeder-Biek said.  leads the  team  with  217  home  loss. The  Bulldogs  Contact Michael Blasco at  
ence win streak and contin­ "The returning players  are  digs,  while  Kemp  con- come  into Saturday with  a  mblasco@nd.edu  


Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

WASHINGT 
GRAM 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 22, 2008 117 O'Shaughnessy, 5:00p.m. 
With special guest Tom Kellenberg, Executive Director and Public Policy Professor, Washington Prograrn. 


Deadline to apply for Fa112009 or Spring 2010 is November 15,2008. First Year students and Sophomores m.ay apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, \Vww.nd.edu/ ~wp 
page 24 
SMC SOCCER 
Comets to face Belles after layoff 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will return to the field for the first time in 10 days on Saturday when it takes on the Comets of Olivet College. 
During the long layoff, the team has tried to keep a competi­tive edge. 
"Dun to the long lay oil' since our Hope match, our training sessions have been a bit shorter in length," Coach Hyan Crabbe said. "Hather than bum the kids out, wn havn wmd this time to do some teaching and mix in some competitive activities as well. It is really tough because it almost feels like going through pre-sea­son all over again." · 
In their last match nearly two weeks ago, Saint Mary's lost a hmtrtbreaker to !lope College, whose two goals in the final sevnn minutes lifted the Flying Dutch to a 2-1 win over the Belles. I>nspite the loss, the Belles are nager to return to the field for their first conference match of the year against Olivet. 
"One of the easiest ways to get over a tough loss sometimes is to turn around and play another match," Coach Crabbe said. "The players have responded quite well." 
Entering the match, Coach 
Crabbe expects to have a full, healthy roster for the first time this season. 
"We have actually gotten very healthy," the coach said. "For the first time all year, our full roster is training and healthy. This has allowed me to really look at play­ers and develop our depth." 
Entering this weekend's eon­test, the Belles know that the stakes have been raised as they begin conference play. ·-­
"This weekend we open con­fernll<~e play and really need to get out and g(~t a positive result," Coach Crabbe said. "The players know every match has added meaning from here on out." 
In Olivet, the Belles face a team that they should match up with very well. When the two teams met last season, the match ended in a scoreless tie. The previous season, the Belles beat Olivet 3-2. 
Saint Mary's enters the match with a record of 1-4-1, including a championship in the Sal Vacarro tournament at North Central College. Meanwhile, the Comets enter the match with a 4­4-1 record on the season. This is the first conference match of the season for both squads. Play begins Saturday at Olivet at noon. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles to host first race in five years 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to continuo its sucenss this weekend when it hosLo.; the MIM .Jamboree Friday on Saint Mary's campus. 
The tmun is coming oil' a ninth­plaen finish at the Calvin Invitational last wcnkend, and baek-to-back fimrth place finishes befi>rn that. 
"I thought thn team was spectac­ular this past weekend," head cmu~h .Jackie Bauters said. "We had a very talented field, with ranked I>iv-lll proh>iams in the country and the ladins dnfinitnly brought thoir game. Although the overall team resulLo.; did not seem to bn great, the individual pt~rfiJrmanens were right on." 
Bauters noted that senior eo-cap­tain Caitlin Brodmnrknl and fellow snnior Erin Seidelmann both achi(wed pt~rsomtl beslo.; this week­end. 
Brodrnerkel added an interesting twio.;t to her olf.o.;eason training this summer. 
"I adually spent my swnmer in a rural village in Uganda," Brodmerknl said. "Therefore my ofHmason training eonsistnd of early morning runs on the dirt road of' Uganda <L'i thn sun rose." 
Thio.; is tl1n first homn meet li1r tlw Bdles sincn thn '02-'<H smLo.;on. 
"Thn BPilns hawn't run at homn sincn thn '02-'03 season," Bautnrs said. "It's been a while and I mn so thrilled that we are hosting the .Jambornn befim~ this senior class graduates. This race is for them, and I hope it io.; a ~-,rrnat memory lilT years to come." 
The Belles are looking to eome out and show off their hard work from this season, which indudnd 6 
a.m. praetiees on a daily basis. 
"The Saint Mary's Cross Country tmun is a grnat group of women," Brodmnrkel said. "We have a diffi­cult time getting pt~ople to see that since we compete so far from cam­pus. I am so glad that we will final­ly bn abln to show our friends, dass­matcs, <md faculty what our hours of hard work have enabled us to do." 
The Belles are coming off their best conf(~renee finish in school his­tory, whnn they placed f(Jurth last sea'i(m and am looking to cqmtl or best that finio.;h thio.; year. 
Bauters noted that freshman standout Arianne Hodriguez is returning from being ill but io.; look­ing liJr her to have a good race at home. 
"We are looking for our pack to dose the gap with Megan McCiowry and Arianne Hodriguez," Bauters said. "Hodriguez has been sick and we're hoping to see her feeling bet­ter and have an oulo.;tanding day at home. The Calvin team is ranked second in the nation and will unde­niably lead the entire field, but I would like to see our ladins stick up there with some of the young talent at Hope." 
After the Belles host .Jamboree tl1is weekend, tl1ey will head to the Adrian Invitational in preparation f'or the MIM Championships on Nov. 1. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at KgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Friday, September 26, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


You Make Plans. We'll Make The Rest. 
c 



Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" 
David E. Campbell John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science 
Darren W. Davis Professor, Political Science 
Christina K. Wolbrecht Associate Professor, Political Science 
12:00 Noon 

Saturday, September 27, 2008 Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art 
The 2008 presidential campaign has reshaped the American political landscape and has challenged old assumptions about the roles played by race, gender, and faith in politics. This talk will offer fresh perspectives on the 2008 campaign and discuss what it has meant for campaign politics, how it might affect the future of 
American politics, and what it will mean on Election Day. 
SOMETIMES 
discernment isn't so easy 

Fall 2008 Schedule  '-­ 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times.  ::.... q)  
~  09/06--San Diego State "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts" Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, History  
~  9/13-Michigan "Peter Pan as Cultural Icon" Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre  
~~~ ~­ 9/27-Purdue "Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science  
Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science  
Christina K Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science  
~  10/04-Stanford "The Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" Christopher]. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Economics  
~  11/01-Pittsburgh "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies  
~  11/22-Syracuse "Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design  
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu  
*+ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME  

Visit the NEW website for the Office of Vocations at vocation.nd.edu to learn more about the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Who knows ...you may be called. 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 26, 2008 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Oregon State holds on to shock No. 1 USC 

Beavers knock off the highly favored Trojans 27-21 for the third time in four tries at home in Corvallis 
Associated Press 
COHV/\I.I.IS, Ore. Freshman Jacquizz Hodgers ran for 186 yards and two touchdowns. and Oregon Statn built an early lead and hold on for a 27-21 upset victory ovnr top­ranked Southern California on Thursday night. 
The Beavers (2-2, 1-1 Pacific-I0) also upset USC at Hesnr Stadium in 2006. This limn, Oregon State took a 2 I -0 lead in the first half. then capitalized on a 
late turnover.  
USC  quarterback  Mark  
Sanchnz's pass  was  inter­ 
ceptf~d  by  safety  Greg  

Laybourn on the 30 with less than 3 minutes to play. Laybourn ran the ball back 28 yards to put Oregon State on the 2. and Hodgers 
ran 2 yards to make it 27­14. 
Sanchez hit Patrick Turner with a 14-yard scor­ing pass with 1: IIJ left, but time ran out on the Trojans (2-1, O-Il. Beavers fans, clad in orange, rushed the l"ield when the clock ran out. 
Oregon Stale's only other victory over a No. 1 team was a 3-0 win over USC and 
O.J. Simpson in 1967. 
The last time the Trojans Wflr11 in Corvallis, back in 2006, they wern upset by the Beavers, 33-31. That loss snapped a 38-game regular-season winning streak for the USC, ranked No. 3 at the time. 
Hodgers' rushing yards were the most by a Trojans opponent since Vince Young ran for 200 for Texas in the BCS national championship game in 2006. 
Beavers quarterback Lyle Monvao completed 18 of 26 passes for 167 yards and two scores. 
USC tailback Joe McKnight rushed for just 10 yards against the Beavers, after gaining 105 yards in the Trojans' 35-3 victory over Ohio State. 
Sanchez completed 18 of 29 passes for 227 yards and three scores, with the one crucial interception. 
The game opened with drama, as USC safety Taylor Mays was called for end zone again before half­time. Moevao's pass was nearly intercepted by USC cornerback Kevin Thomas, but the ball was tipped into the hands of James Hodgers to make it 21-0. 
a  personal foul  on  Oregon  
State  receiver  James  
Hodgers  on  an  8-yard  

James Rodgers finished with six catches for 36 yards and the two scores. 
USC answered on its first s e r i e s of t h e s e c o n d h aH with Sanchez's 26-yard scoring pass to Bonald Johnson. 
Sanchez found wide-open receiver Damien Williams, who sprinted down the sideline -and narrowly avoided Layi;>ourn's efforts to push him out of bounds -to narrow it to 21-14 with 2:56 left in the third quarter. 
The Beavers squandered a chance to add to the lead 

midway through the fourth when they tried for a l"ield goal, but Sean Sehnem's 41-yard attempt was blocked. 
The Beavers opened this season with two losses, at Stanford and Penn State, before returning home for a victory over Hawaii. 
Despite their struggles, the Beavers had ·seen steady growth on offense and the emergence of Jacquizz Hodgers, who went into the game against the Trojans as the nation's leading freshman rusher with 87.7 yards per game. 
USC had shown little vul­nerability in victories at Virginia and then at home against then-No. 5 Buckeyes. But coach Pete Carroll noted earlier in the week that the familiarity of Pac-1 0 play posed a danger. 
The Beavers certainly seemed to have the Trojans figured out, holding them to 313 yards total offense. Stafon Johnson was USC's 
leading  rusher  with  48  
yards.  Williams  had  six  
catches for 94 yards.  

USC was without corner­back Shareece Wright, who will miss several games due to a hairline vertebra frac­ture suffered in the Ohio State game. 
Carroll had said Wright was being disciplined after being charged with felony resisting a police officer earlier this month, but would have played against Oregon State had he been cleared medically. 
USC has lost three of its last four games in Corvallis. 
touchdown reception. 
Trojans coach Pete Carroll asked that the score be reviewed, because it did not look as if the ball had crossed the line. The touch­down stood, giving the Beavers a 7-0 lead. 
The Beavers more than held their own through the first half, with the Trojans appearing confused about how to handle the 5-foot-7 Jacquizz Hodgers -James Hodgers' younger brother. 
Jacquizz Rodgers, who ran for 117 yards in the first half alone, pushed through the defensive line 
for a  2-yard touchdown  run  
to make it 14-0.  
His  big brother  saw  the  


IRISH SPECIAL 
14" Cheese Pizza: Buy one get one free! 
Pizza King of Roseland 
The Proof is in the Taste 
Redeemable Tue-Wed-Thur Dine in Only Ad Must Be Presented Offer Good Until Oct. 1st 
277-2020 Free Delivery Fri & Sat-5:00-11 :00 

Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
MLB 
Red Sox trump Indians behind Lester's effort 

Boston's southpaw ousted Cleveland with six innings, allowing only a pair of hits working on just 86 pitches 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -If the Cleveland Indians hadn't broken up Jon Lester's bid for his second no­hitter this season, his own team would have. 
"He was coming out," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said. "I told him that was the first time I've ever rooted against him. The only way you're going to see something like that, it would've had to have been a group effort." 
Lester held Cleveland hitless through five before finishing with six innings of two-hit ing Boston to a 6-1 victory. plete game of his career. "If it Making his final tuneup start ended up working out where I before the play-could have done offs, Lester was it with not a lot working on a of pitches, then pitch limit of great. If not, then
"Whatever it is,
about 85 pitch­no big deal."
give me the ball 
es; he lasted 86 Kevin Youkilis before leaving to and I'll go pitch." was 2-for-3 with the cheers of the his 28th homer crowd and the for the Red Sox,
Jon Lester
handshakes of who retained a
Red Sox pitcher 
his teammates. mathematical 


"If it happens, it's nice. But we've got to get ready for the playoffs," said Lester, who no-hit Kansas City 


574.272.6767 
www.salonnouveau.com 
AVEDA.. 
1t.e ort ond ~<:'-nc. of purt £ower ond plcml--. 

Hair Care • Extensions • Skin Care • l\1ake Up Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards "Welcome back students and faculty, book any 2services and receive $20 off with this ad. Not Valid with any other promotion." 
ball on Thursday night, lead-on May 19 for the first com­
-~~~RY 1S FALL 2008
,-,.,.,,.....,,"""'"" EU LECTURE 
SPONSORED BY THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 


MARIO MAURO 
VICE PRESIDENT) EUROPEAN pARLIAMENT 
Mondayt Septernber 29, 2008 
4:30 PM, 129 DeBartolo Hall University ofNotre D~ne 
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
chance of win­
ning the AL East 
-if they win their last three games of the season and Tampa Bay loses its last three. The Rays lost to the Detroit Tigers 7-5 on Thursday and hold a two­game lead and the tiebreaker in the division. 
To Boston, that was more important' than whether Lester (16-6) became the fifth pitcher in history with two no-hitters in a season. Francona was spared an uncomfortable situation when Josh Barfield lined a clean double into left field to lead off the sixth; Lester also gave up Jamey Carroll's RBI single before leaving with a 5-1 lead. 
Lester said he wasn't worry­ing about where he fit into the playoff rotation. Instead, he's just happy to know he has a spot after going into last year's postseason as a mopup man before eventually getting the start in Game 4 of the World Series when Boston clinched its second title in four years. 
''I'm not worried about Game 1, 2, 4, 8," he said. "Whatever it is, give me the ball and I'll go pitch." 
Three Red Sox relievers threw a perfect inning apiece to finish off the two-hitter, with Jonathan Papelbon pitching the ninth in a non­save situation t9 get ready for next week's playoffs. First comes a weekend series against the rival New York Yankees that is uncharacteris­tically meaningless. 
"That's OK," Francona said. 

"It's fine with us." 
Jacoby Ellsbury and Jed Lowrie, the top two hitters in the Boston order, hit back-to­hack singles in the first and back-to-hack doubles in the second as the Red Sox opened a 5-0 lead after two against Jeremy Sowers (4-9). 
Lester allowed just one baserunner in the first five innings, hitting Grady Sizemore with a pitch in the third. The Indians didn't get a hit off the 24-year-old lefty until Barfield, the No. 9 hitter who entered the game batting .160, led off the sixth. 
Barfield took third on a balk and scored when Carroll sin­gled under second baseman Dustin Pedroia's glove. But Lester got Ben Francisco on a weak flyball to right and struck on Johnny Peralta to 

FOOTBALL HOURS 

Join us after the pep rally for food, drinks,
FRIDAY Restaurant: 11:00 am -Midniglll and plenty of football coverage on our Pub: 11:00 am-2:00am 
144" screen and 161arge, flat screen TVs. 
SATURDAY Return on Saturday for our pregame party Restaurant: 8:00am -Midnight 
and enjoy breakfast, lunch, and our tailgate
Pub: 8:00am -2:00 a_m 

menu. Spend your weekend with friends 
514-631.2582 and fans at Legends! www.legendsofnotredame.org 

end his outing. 
"He was as good a left-ban­der as we've seen all season," said Indians manager Eric Wedge, who said he wasn't thinking about being no-hit ­yet. "He has to get a little deeper than that. But he had that kind of stuff." 
Youkilis homered in the sev­enth to make it 6-1. 
After spending the last five days at or above .500, Cleveland dropped to 79-80. 
The Indians, who were elim­inated from the playoffs by Boston last year after taking a 3-1 lead in the AL champi­onship series, will finish the season with another chance to play spoiler. Cleveland has three games against the White Sox, who are fighting with the Minnesota Twins for the last playoff spot in the AL. 


..--------~-­
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 26, 2008 
MLB 
Beltran's late inning hit pushes Mets past Cubs 
Braun's homer lifts Brewers past Pirates; Diamondbacks fall to Cardinals, knocking them out of playoffs 
tive September collapse. 

Associated Press 
Cancel doubled leading off the 

NliW YOHK -With a desper­seventh and scored on Reyes' ate rally in the rain, Carlos grounder. Then, with two,outs Bellran and the New York Mets and none on in the eighth, New k1~pt their playofl' destiny in their York hit four straight singles to own hands. tie it. 
Beltran singled home thn win­Hamon Martinez, making his ning run with two outs in the first start for the Mets after a ninth inning and New York beat helpful performance off the the Chicago Cubs-7-6 on bench Wednesday, eut it to 6-5 Thursday night for a huge win with a single. Cancel, added to that hailed its late-season slide. the lineup because of Brian 
"I was going to the plate think­Schneider's aching back, lined a ing I have to come through," 1-2 pitch to right off Bob Howry. Beltran said. "We have three Kosuke Fukudome's strong games left and it's going to be throw home was up the line but hard." it arrived ahead of Ryan Church, 
Arter trailing by three runs in who danced around catcher tlw seventh, New York fought Koyie Hill on the wet dirt. With back to move within one game of both players struggling to main­NL East-leading Philadelphia tain their footing, Church slipped with three to play. The Mets also to the ground, then lunged and stayed tied atop the wild-card touched the plate with his hand standings with Milwaukee, for the tying run. which beat Pitl<>burgh 5-1 in 10 Hill threw his arms up in dis­innings. belief and the erowd responded 
"The one thing about this team with a thunderous roar. A puls­is it has responded to adversity," ing Shea Stadium shook under New York manager Jerry the feet of jumping fans. Manuel said. "Tonight was Joe Smith (6-3) escaped a jam another example of that." in the top of the ninth, and the 
Hich Harden pitched six solid Mets rebounded from a demor­innings in his final playoll' tune­alizing, 10-inning loss up for the NL CPntral champions Wednesday night. that's never gone through any Brewers to a run and seven hits the previous mark of 199 last and lightly usP<I rookie Micah Wright hit a sacrifice fly in the adversity in his life as an ath­in seven innings. year -and Howard began the Iloll'pauir went 5-for-5 with live first for his 124th HBI. matching lete," Sveum said. "That guy hit "He threw the ball really well," day with 196 this season. HBis and his first two major Mike Piazza's team record set in in little league, he hit in high Pirates manager John Russell "It's obviously something I league homers -including a 1999. school. he hit in college, he hit in said. "It's a big reason I sent him have to work on for next year." tiebreaking shot in the seventh Church's two-run double with pro ball, he hit in the big back out for the extra inning. It said Heynolds, finishing his first off Hicardo Hincon that gave two outs in the fourth tied it at 3. -leagues. And then you're thrown was a 1-1 game, and I really was full year in the majors. "Of Chieago a 6-3 lead. Chureh was 3-for-3 with a walk into the spot and sometimes, tryirig·to get him a win there." course, it's not the greatest of 
"lie put on a show tonight. It and his first. extra-base hit since people struggle." Pittsburgh threatened to take records to have, but you move was fun to watch," teammate Sept. 9. Mitch Stetter (3-1) earned the the lead in the ninth, but reliev­on. A lot of young guys strug­I>errek Lee said. "I think the victory after pitching out of a er Salomon Torres got pinch hit­gle." Bmwers and the Phillies, they Brewers 5, Pirates 1 jam in the lOth. ter Doug Mientkiewiez to fly out Heynolds has 34 errors and couldn't be disappointed in our That slashing swing and those Despite their slides in with runners at first and second. could become the first player to efl'ort." 450-foot drives in batting prac­September, Braun and the lead the majors in errors and 
But the Cubs. resting most of tice tell Brewers interim manag­Brewers have three games left Cardinals 12, Diamondbacks 3 strikeouts since Minnesota Twins tlwir stars, couldn't hold on. er Dale Sveum that Ryan against the Chicago Cubs with a The Los Angeles Dodgers shortstop Zoilo Versalles (12 2 
"From top to bottom on this Braun's ribs can't be bothering playoff spot on the line. clinch~d their first NL West title strikeouts, 39 errors) during his roster, guys want to fight and him that much. And if they do make it, they since 2004 before taking the 1965 AL MVP season. He's hav­guys want to win," Reed Braun tells a slightly different might have an unexpected ace field, thanks to three straight ing a nice year even with the Johnson said. "We're not going story, but the slugger isn't using up their sleeve: pitcher Yovani disappointing losses by the strikeouts with 28 homers and to cruise." a lingering injury to his rib cage Gallardo. Arizona Diamondbacks. 96 HBis, although he's batting 
The Mets play Florida in the museles as an excuse for an Making his first start since Arizona was only two games .240. final regular-season games at extended September slump. And tearing a knee ligament May 1, out with six games to play. The The Diamondbacks led by as Shea Stadium this weekend. after hitting a lOth-inning grand Gallardo pitched only four defending division champions many as 6.5 games in April Philadelphia hosts Washington, slam to beat Pittsburgh innings but made them count. bowed out quietly in a rout by while going 20-8. The rest of the while the Cubs visit Milwaukee. Thursday night and keep the The Brewers' promising 22-the St. Louis Cardinals on season, they've struggled for 
Pitching what could be his Brewers tied atop the NL wild­year-old right-hander struck out Thursday. consistency. final game for the Mets, Pedro card race, he might not need to. seven while giving up a run and "It was just disgusting," Conor "Obviously, it hasn't been the Martinez struck out a season­"This is the most frustrating three hits. Jackson said. "It was embar­type of year we expected," high nine and left to a warm thing I've ever been through as a "It's great," Gallardo said. "I rassing. You can't pitch, you Melvin said. "After the first ovation with the score tied 3-all baseball player," Braun said. ''I'd spent four months watching this can't hit, you can't win games." month we couldn't put together in the seventh. lie pointed to the never make an excuse to try to team go at it every day. And it Arizona (79-80) led the divi­any kind of an extended period crowd and raised his fist high. justify my performance but just hasn't changed. They still go out sion by 4.5 games before play on that resembled the team that 
"I appreeiate their support, in physieally, I've been unable to do there, play hard every day, and Aug. 29, then lost 11 of 14 as the played in the frrst month. case this is my last game, my what I've been used to doing." they're going to find a way to get Dodgers took control of the divi­"The expectations get raised last start." Martinez said. "I wish Until the Brewers needed it it done." sion. The Diamondbacks had and you don't follow through." I could continue and come back most. Gallardo cruised through the rebounded by winning seven of Pujols (35) and Ryan Ludwick with the Mots. But this isn't the Milwaukee went into the 1Oth first three innings as Milwaukee eight to put the heat on the (36) hit consecutive homers in a time to think about those things. tied 1-1 and their fellow wild­took a 1-0 lead on an RBI double Dodgers, but began to fade five-run seventh that opened an ... I couldn't go by without saying card contenders, the New York by Bill Hall, then appeared to Tuesday when the Cardinals 11-3 lead. Troy Glaus walked thanks." Mets, having already had beaten run out of gas in the fourth, giv­scored four .cuns in the first four times to match his career 
After he was gone, New York the Chicago Cubs. The Brewers ing up a one-out homer to Steve inning oft' Randy Johnson in a 7-high, and Felipe Lopez had three tied it in the eighth on big hits by loaded the bases with two out to Pearce that tied the game. 4 final. hits and two RBls. a pair of unlikPiy players: spare bring up Braun, who was 0-for-4 "I am sure he did a lot of work "They hit a hot stretch, and we La Russa endorsed Pujols for part Hamon Martinez and third­in the game and hitting just to get where he's at," Pearce hit a cold stretch. Put that the NL MVP earlier this week, string catcher Hobinson Cancel. above .200 in September. said. "Kudos to him. Good job. together and you get the adding he didn't think anyone 
Jose Heyes singled off Kevin Braun clobbered a 2-2 pitch He looked great out there." Dodgers jumping around right else was close. Hart (2-2) to start the ninth and from reliever Jesse Chavez (0-1) Expected to be the Brewers' now," Chris Snyder said. "Whatever he ends up with, swipnd second for his third steal deep to left field, holding up his No. 2 starter behind Ben Sheets Albert Pujols hit a three-run he's had a monster season," La of the game as David Wright bat and hollering at the this season, Gallardo made only homer and finished with four Russa said. fanned for the second out. Brewers' dugout as he began to three starts before tearing a lig­RBis to back Joel Pineiro (7-7), Pineiro matched his season Carlos Delgado was intentionally circle the bases -celebrating ament in his right knee while who allowed three runs and best with seven strikeouts after walkml and Beltran lined a 2-0 the first ~:,rrand slam of his career trying to hurdle a baserunner three hits over seven innings on going 0-2 with an 8.40 ERA in pitch off the glove of a diving and the Brewers' first grand against the Cubs on May 1. his 30th birthday. St. Louis had three previous September starts. llofl'pauir at first base. slam this year as a team. Gallardo also had arthroscopic been eliminated from postseason "It's a nice way to go out," 
The ball trickled down the "There's no better feeling in surgery on his left knee just contention on Tuesday. Pineiro said. "You kind of wish right-field line as Heyes scored the world than a walk-off home before spring training, but said "You had an obligation to play you had more starts like that easily. giving the Mets their sec­run -especially based on the he didn't have any concerns like we've been playing all year," early in the year to try to help ond vietory in six games sinee situation that we're in," Braun about returning so quickly. manager Tony La Russa said. the team out a lot better." they grabbed the division lead said. "They wouldn't be throwing "It's not enjoyable at all, but you St. Louis haa 17 hits and nine with a win last Friday at Atlanta. Sveum attributed Braun's me out there to pitch if every­have to compete." walks against Doug Davis (6-9) 
Beltran was mobbed by struggles to the pressure of a thing wasn't the way it's sup­Arizona third baseman Mark and five relievers. The three­soak1~d teammates near first playoff race more than the posed to be," he said. Reynolds s~t a major league game winning streak follows a base, a sigh of relief -for one injury. Gallardo's return trumped a record with two more strikeouts, slide of 10 losses in 12 games night, at least -as New York "Sometimes, you've got to strong outing by Pirates starter raising his season total to 201. that knocked them out of the tries to avoid its seeond conseeu-realize that a young man like Zaeh Duke, who held the Philadelphia's Ryan Howard set Central race. 

Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
Big East 
continued from page 32 
every match seriously. The non-conference and confer­ence seasons build on one another. It's just another part of the season." 
The Irish are looking for­ward to the Big East season and want to see a strong showing early. 
"We are definitely going in with an intensity," Brown said. "We will be determined and fired up." 
The Irish have been game­planning this week to fill the void left by junior outside hit­ter Serinity Phillips, who is out with, an ankle sprain. Phillips was on the all Big East presea­son team. 
"It's a day-to-day thing," Brown said. "[Phillips) will definitely not play this week­end. She is going to stay at Notre Dame and we are going to try and get her ready for next week, but that is still uncertain." 
To counter the loss of Phillips, the Irish have been experimenting with some dif­ferent combinations. 
"We want to try and get a rhythm with different lineups," Brown said. "We want to try and be balanced and move people around in the lineup. Our best two hitters [junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin and [freshman outside hitter Kristen) Dealy need to get the ball." 
Brown also wants to utilize some formations that the team is not necessarily used to. 
"We want to experiment with people for a better block and use different weapons," Brown said. 
First up on Friday is a trip to South Florida (9-5). The Bulls currently sit at third in the Big East thanks to a strong non­conference showing to start the season. 
USF is led by junior outside hitter Marcela Gurgel who earned All-American honors last year. Gurgel currently ranks fourth in the NCAA in kills per set at 4. 7 5 and ninth in aces per set at 0.63. 
Gurgel had a season high 23 kills and four aces in their match last year against Notre Dame. The Irish pulled out the home match with a four-set victory. 
"South Florida depends pret­
. ty heavily on their outside hit­ter Gurgel," Brown said. "We need to be concerned about Gurgel, but we can't just con­centrate on her." Sunday's match comes against a much-improved Georgetown (7 -6) squad. The Hoyas sit at sixth in the Big East with a decent non-confer­ence season. "Georgetown will be much improved from last year," Brown said. "They were near the bottom last year and they have no returning players to carry them, but we are Notre Dame and we will have a tar­get on our backs. We expect to be pushed." Senior setter Caitlin Boland is fifth in the Big East, averag­ing 10.78 assists per set. The Hoyas rank fifth in the Big East and No. 60 in the nation with 1.64 service aces per game. Look for the Hoyas to try and exploit this advan­tage. The Irish will continue Big East play next week with matchups against Louisville and Cincinnati. 
ContactJaredJedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

HOLDING ON 

TRAVIS ALLEN/The Observer Sophomore wide receiver Duval Kamara catches a pass in Notre Dame's 23-7 loss to Michigan State Saturday. 
MLB 

Tvvins overco111e division rivals 
Alexi Casilla's 10th-inning single puts Minnesota back in first 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -The win­ning run reached home plate to put the Minnesota Twins back in first place, and Carlos Gomez and Denard Span still had plenty of ener­gy to burn. 
They raced from the dugout toward Alexi Casilla and tackled their teammate, in celebration of his 10th-inning single that capped a 7-6 comeback victory over the Chicago White Sox on Thursday night and gave Minnesota a half-game lead in the AL Central. 
The Twins love to use their speed, and they ran circles around the wilting White Sox while sweeping this three­game series. 
"They play their heart out, they show up to play against us this week, and the result was what you saw," Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen said. "They never quit." 
The White Sox led 6-1 after a six-run fourth in which Minnesota starter Kevin Slowey was knocked out with a bruised wrist and the Twins made three costly defensive mistakes. 
"You think, 'Oh, boy, there they go.' But you know what? Not this ballclub," Minnesota manager Ron Gardenhire said. 
The Twins host the Kansas City Royals three times this weekend to finish their schedule, while the White Sox head home for a three­game series against the Cleveland Indians. If these teams are still within a half­game of each other after play is completed Sunday, Chicago must make up a rainout against the Detroit Tigers on Monday. Then, if they're tied, the Twins will have to travel to the South Side for a one­game playoff Tuesday to determine the division cham­pion. 
Save for that fourth, which Guillen called their only good inning of the series, the White Sox looked beaten all week. Missing Carlos Quentin (wrist) and Joe Crede (back) from theirlineup didn't help, but the rest of their sluggers contributed little. 

Catcher A.J. Pierzynski was defiant. 
"It sucks, but we're still alive," he said. "Hopefully we go home and win four games and we kick their (butt) on Tuesday.... They found a way to get enough hits and scrape some across. (Stuff) hap­pens." 
Joe Nathan (1-2) pitched two perfect innings for the victory, part of a Minnesota bullpen that totaled 6 1-3 scoreless innings and surren­dered only two hits. 
Casilla's soft hit into short. center off Bobby Jenks (3-1) scored Nick Punto and led to a wild party on the field at the Metrodome, where the Twins went 8-1 against the White Sox this year. 
"We're going to give you nine tough innings no matter what. You can never count a team out that has heart like we do," first baseman Justin Morneau said. 
Matt Thornton relieved White Sox starter Gavin Floyd and got four outs on 10 pitches, but Brendan Harris greeted him with a pinch double in the eighth and Guillen summoned Jenks after one out. Gomez made up for a fielding gaffe with four hits and two RBis, sin­gling in Harris and scoring on Span's triple off Jenks to tie it at six. 
Span repeatedly pumped his fist and screamed toward his dugout, while Jenks walked around behind the mound muttering to himself. His streak of 15 straight saves converted ended. 
"We've got a lot of confi­dence. We've got a lot of young guys here and ... if we keep playing like that, we make the World Series," said Gomez, who also made a slid­ing catch to end the ninth. 
This was, of course, a delight for the crowd of 43,601, the second-largest in Minnesota this year. 
"That was unbelievable. 
The loudest thing I've ever heard in my life," Gardenhire said. 
Slowey retired the first 13 batters he faced before Orlando Cabrera homered in the fourth, and the right-han­der should have been on the bench long before he was hurt. 
Gomez helped seal Wednesday's 3-2 win with a running catch in center of Pierzynski's drive for the sec­ond out in the ninth, but he overeagerly chased Jim Thome's one-out fly to the warning track Thursday and -failing to heed Span's call in right field -collided with his teammate as they both converged on the ball. 
Neither player could hear the other above the din, and given the outcome the Twins didn't seem to mind the aggressive mistake. 
"He thought I had a good bead on it. I thought I had a good bead on it. But some­times too much speed, that'll happen," Span said. 
Thome got a double, and Paul Konerko followed with an RBI groundout. Alexei Ramirez later hit a low chop­per to third baseman Brian Buscher, who charged and bobbled the ball when he tried the glove-to-hand trans­fer. The ruling was a single, and the Sox led 3-1 before they broke it open on Juan Uribe's smash that nearly broke Slowey's wrist. X-rays were negative. 
The Twins got two back in the bottom half on a two-out RBI triple by Gomez followed by a bloop double from Span. Gomez hit another triple in the sixth and scored on a sacrifice by Span, cutting the lead to 6-4. Guillen called for Thornton to get Joe Mauer, who's surging toward his sec­ond batting title in three years, to ground into a field­er's choice. 
That was all Gomez needed to see. 
"He said, 'If the bullpen can keep 'em at six, we're going to take this thing,"' Span said, "and he was right." 


page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 26, 2008 
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 


Consider a Career at. Louis Dreyfus 
We are looking for talented students to expand our global cornrnodiiy trading business. A background in economics, finance or mathernatics is desirable but not the only requirement for an entry-level trader. 
Learn to trade physical commodities in both ·domestic and global markets while managing the substantial risks int1erent in volatile rnarkets. Successful candidates must be able to act decisively, think critically and communicate well. 
Since 1851, Louis Dreyfus has been a leader in trading, transporting and providing the basics of modern life to the four corners of the globe. With 12,000 ernployees in over 53 countries, we are an international cornpany where talented and dedicated people work together across borders and tirne zones every day. 
Our international presence and our growing history make Louis Dreyfus a unique career destination. If you want to work for a company that will always rise to rneet new opportunities, Louis Dreyfus is the place for you. 
Se alienta a los estudiantes con fluidez en espanol o portugues. 
Encorajarnos especialrnente aos candidates fluentes ern espanhol ou portugues. 
We are an Equal Opportunity/Affirrnative Action Employer and strongly support workforce diversity. 
For rnore information visit us at www.ldcornmodities.corn 
Unbeaten 
continued from page 32 
are capable of staying in the game against top-tier oppo­nents. 
"What it looks like is they play to the level of their opponent," he said. 
The Cardinals lost a heart­br!1aker in double-overtime to No. 9 Texas three weeks ago before falling 3-2 to No. 12 Oklahoma State on Sept. 12. Their most recent contest was a 2-1 setbaek at Ohio State in overtime last Sunday. 
"They're coming ofT a tough loss to Ohio State," Waldrum said. "You almost wish they came in with a win so they weren't so hungry for a win." 
After the home game Friday night, the Irish will travel to take on another Big East oppo­nent in Cincinnati. 
Und1~r first-year coach Mkhel11~ Salmon, Cindnnati has boon inconsistent this season, alternating wins and losses en routo to a 4-4-0 record. 
Bock said the tough early­season stretch for the Bearcats mirrors the experience Notre Dame had last year. In 2007, the Irish struggled to a 3-4-1 record to open the season. 
"A team like that ean be very 
Please 
The Obs 

Read aCha 
vulnerable; we were like that last year where every game you have to fight for it," she said. "We need to put the game away right away in the beginning. I Iopefully we can do that and it won't even be close at the end." 
Waldrum said the matchup with Cincinnati is a challenge partly because the Bearcats have a sub par playing field. 
"It's not an ideal facility, it actually has a big garage next to it and it's Astroturf," Waldrum said. "It's basically not the type of field that soccer should be played on." 
Waldrum compared the field to DePaul's complex. Last Friday the host Blue Demons, who are just 2-7-0, kept the game close and lost just 1-0 on a late goal to the Irish. 
Waldrum said the most important thing fqr the Irish this weekend is itot to take either Louisville or Cincinnati lightly. 
"Of course people on campus are talking about us being No. 1 and you see the '#1' sign [atop Grace Hall] lit up," he said. "But these girls have been through this enough to know that the ranking isn't winning the games for us. We still have to go out and win the games." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Rebound 
continued from page 32 

compete for wins when we do play well." 
Although veteran juniors Doug Fortner and Carlos Santos-Ocampo had poor out­ings, three sophomores distin­guished themselves for the Irish. Tyler Hock played with consistency to lead the team in scoring, finishing five-over for the weekend, tied for 16th overall. Fellow sophomores Jeff Chen and Connor Alan-Lee also turned in respectable showings, illustrating the strength of the team's under­classmen. 
Kubinski considers the devel­opment of the younger players to be key for Notre Dame's suc­cess this season. 
"It's truly an thrilling time for our program," Kubinski said. 
"Notre Dame is stocked with very hard-working and talent­ed young players. We just need that breakthrough win. As long as we keep working and keep our goal in sight, it will come." 
The tournament begins Sunday morning at the Poppy Hills Golf Club at 8 a.m., with play concluding Tuesday after­noon. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 



Irish players huddle during a stoppage in play against Dartmouth in a 2-1 Notre Dame victory 
Sept. 5 at Alumni fields. 
Quinn 
continued from page 32 

East rookie of the week for his play last weekend. Maund has played every minute of all seven games for the Irish this season. 
Notre Dame's decorated defense will have its hands full with Sunday's opponent, though, as the Cardinals hold a 3-0-1 record at home and are averaging 1.62 goals per game. 
Senior Ryan McDonald and freshman Colin Rolfe each have scored three goals to lead Louisville. 
The Cardinals finished last year in second place in the Red Division and lost in the NCAA Tournament's second round, 1­0, to eventual runner-up Ohio State. 
"We are starting to come 
'for lenge? 
together and make good progress," Clark said. "There's still a lot of soccer left to be played ... but it's always good to have a good start to a sea­son." 
After its two-game trip this weekend, Notre Dame will wrap up a three-game road stretch when it travels to Michigan Wednesday. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

El LouisDreyfus
Com.m.odities 

.r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-------­
Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 



I 
"Lollipop" Katy Perry Madonna 

"I kissed a girl..." "Four minutes" 
Lii'Wa ne 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 32 C.ondomless vis-54 "An Inconvenient It has 33 letters a-vis protected Truth" topic 
16 All-Star Game. 34 Tacoma-to-Walla 
e.g. Walla dir. Down 
17 Optionally Neck ties? 
35 Shows one's 18 High seats feelings 2 Open 
19 "Lucia di 3 Burlesque-goer.
37Rio_, Lammermoor'' typically
multinational lord and 
coal-mining giant 4 Mantilla wearers namesakes 
5 Setting of the 39 ..... Verdes 

~0 Oscar nominee 2007 animated 
Estates, Calif. for "My Man film "Persepolis"40 Chaotic place 
Godfrey" 
6 They might ~1 Storms 44 Classic 197 4 make you tear 
role for Marty Feldman 

~3 Field with bases up 
~4 Wandered from 7 Store figure the direct course 45 Middle: Prefix 8 New Guinea port 
~6 Actress Berger 46 Inner opening? 9 "You're 
~7 Skid's cause. absolutely right" 
47 Gun, to maybe 10 Ex-senator Sam 
Guillermo ~8 Protected by law of Georgia and 
49 Ham, e.g. 

~9 Four-year sch. of others Puzzle by Kevin G. Der 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
30 Idea person 
31 Ancient city to which Paul wrote an Epistle 
33 Angels are sometimes seen over them 
36"Loveis reciprocal _": Marcel Proust 
38 At all 
40 Treating badly 41 Japanese mushrooms 
42 Pack in a ship's hold 
43 Baseball's Joe and others 
45 Battle 
48_1shii, character in "Kill Bill" 
50 Men might dress in this 
52 High-quality vineyard 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
~h~r~ tine:· nutim~C! f""nm/nJJ77h:::.fnnlm r.rnc::C!\Mnrrl<: fnr \/tillnn 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
--~-------------------­
. 
page 31 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJW/MIDibJ!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
APANG 
j
[] [ I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
t~~rl] 
TIBESC 
HOW A NIGHT 
I [ J (] 
ON THE TOWN
www.jumble.com 
l-EFT HIM.
I HYFORT± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I rI J I 
suggested by the above cartoon . 
Ans: IN A " ( 
I I I I ]" [ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: AWARD BANAL SUCKLE ADDUCE Answer: When he tried his hand at archery, he discovered it had -"DRAWBACKS" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Judah Friedlander, 39; Lauren Graham, 41; Ber­nardo Bertolucci, 68; Jerry Lewis, 82 
Happy Birthday: Let your creative juices flow and they will lead you in a very unique and prosperous direction. Now is the time to take all your past experience and put it to good use. Mend fences and start fresh. Opportunity will come through the contacts you make while helping others. Ultimately, you will find it easy to move forward. Your num­bers are 6, 14, 18, 27, 3~, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will be on edge, waiting for things to go wrong or backfire. Your overreacting will cause the biggest setbacks, so refuse to let anyone or any­thing get to you. Anger, jealousy and stubbornness will work against you. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Take action and start the ball rolling. If there is someone you want to hook up with, put in a call or, if you want to make changes to your home or update your look, today is a great time to begin. Aim for whatever target you set. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There may be too much going on for you to stay in control. Give your undivided attention to what's most important to you. If you spread yourself too thin, you will fall short of your goals. Criticism can be expected. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you when there is so much going your way. Love, intrigue, travel and a multitude of exciting activities should lead to a very interesting day. Get out and get moving. Plan a passionate evening that will please the one you love. 3 stars 
LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Keep everything aboveboard. You don't want to be caught in a lie or questioned about something that may not have been done to proper specifications. Tread carefully, especially around partners or those who can influence your future. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Doors are opening and favors will be granted. Mingle, run your ideas by friends, socialize and take an active role in your community. Love is in the stars and, if you put a little effort into making someone happy, you will get the same in return. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): You will cause a ruckus if you are too friendly with too many people. Loyalty will count for something today so don't play with other people's emotions. A personal loss is evident. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A creative twist will give you the edge you need. Don't let someone's emotional hold on you stop you from continuing with your plans. False infor­mation may deter you from doing what's right. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you let others meddle in your affairs, it will work against you. Keep your personal thoughts and plans a secret. When the time is right, you can move forward without criticism. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can stabilize your position, your finances and your plans to secure your personal and professional life. You will have some interesting ideas that, if launched properly, can make you a handsome profit. Someone from your past is still interested in a future with you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Forget about the things you can't change and put work and responsibilities on the backbumer for a moment. Regroup and rethink your strategy. If you are creative and inventive, you will have a much better chance of achieving your goals. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Roll out the red carpet for your friends and invite people over for some recreational fun. Your hospitality will help position you for deals, projects and future consideration. Love is in the picture and a passionate end to your day is likely. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are helpful, caring and persistent. You are friendly, engaging and in­credibly charming. You know how to get what you want. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
51 Pro at protection

higher learning in Providence 53 Health form field 
~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

11 Duds 12 When computers are working 13 Spanish city and province on the Mediterranean 14 Baroque dances 15 Freebie on some airplane flights 22 Lie in the sun 25 Sticks 26 Some Rockefeller Center murals 28 Time-honored 29 Plumber's job, 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, September 26, 2008 
page 32 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Squad riding six-gan1e unbeaten streak into vveekend 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports EJiror 
No. 3 Notre Dame will put its six-game unbeaten streak to the test as the Irish will play their first two true road games of the young season this weekend. 
Cincinnati (2-3-2, 0-1-1 Big East) will host the Irish (5-1-1, 2-0-1) tonight at 7 p.m. before Notre Dame travels further south to No. 16 Louisville (6-1­
WoMEN's SoccER 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Ediror 
As orw of the four remaining unboaten and untied teams in tho eountry, No. 1-ranked Notre Dame will take on Louisvilll) at homo tonight then travel to Cindnnati to take on the Beareats Sunday. 
Despitn their top ranking, the Irish said th11y do not feel any added pressure to remain unbeaten. 
''I'd say (the ranking! is always in tlw back of your mind because other teams see you and thnre's a target on your baek." senior eo-captain Brittany Bock said. "But for us, we always take it one game at a time and play nvery gamn like wn're 0-0-0." 
But Notrn Damn's record is in faet S-0-0 and eoaeh Handy Waldrum said his tnam is used to being thn tnam to beat. 
"I think it would be quito dif­ferent if' this was tflC first time we were evor No. 1," he said. "But I think we know how to handle it ... We've got players 1, 1-1-0) for Sunday's 1 p.m. mateh. 
"This is, without question, our hardest weekend of the season so far," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "We have two Big East games against two tough oppo­nents. It will definitely be a challenge and I hope we're up for it." 
Notre Dame has played its last five games at home after opening at the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic in Bloomington, Ind. The Irish did not play the host Hoosiers in that tourna­ment, so both of Notre Dame's games there are considered to have been at a neutral site. 
Cincinnati is coming off a 2-1 loss to No. 4 Connecticut on Sept. 21 and has struggled to score goals so far this season, tallying just five through seven games. Sophomore Branden Stelmak is the only Bearcats player with more than one goal -he has two. 

That bodes well for an Irish defense that has dominated of late, shutting out a pair of Big East foes last weekend and giv­ing up just one goal over their last four games -all against Big East teams. 
Senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn already has three shutouts in his first year as Notre Dame's full-time starter and has allowed just three goals over the last six games. 
Quinn hasn't been at it alone, though, as a pair of Irish defenders has already earned individual accolades this sea­son. 
Senior defender Matt Besler, a preseason All-American, earned a spot on the College Soccer News national team of the week and was named to the Big East honor roll two weeks ago. 
Freshman central defender Aaron Maund was named Big 
see QUINN/page 30 

View from the top 
like [Bock] who have handled this." 
Waldrum also said that simply playing under the shadow of the Golden Dome makes his players comfortable with the national spotlight on them. 
"I think that, just being Notre Dame, we're used to that," the coach said. "We're everyone's big game on their schedule and it's just this campus that does that." 
Tonight, Louisville will attempt to stop Notre Dame's unbeaten streak short of double digits. 
Last season when the two teams met, the visiting Irish eked out a 1-0 win. 
"With Louisville last year, we had a little bit of a difficult time ... " Bock said. "We just have to focus on coming in and playing aggressively. We need to respect them but at the same time play our game and take care of business." 
Despite its 3-3-1 record, Waldrum said Louisville is a dangerous squad because they 
see UNBEATEN/page 30 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish begin Big East play 
Conference play to start with games against South Florida, Georgetown 
By JARED JEDICK Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame is prepared to begin confon~neo play tonight and Sunday with two big matchups against South Florida and Georgetown. 
Conferen1:e play is like a 1ww start for tho Irish (5-7}, who have been hovering around .500 for most of the non-conferenee season. 
Despitn the heatnd nature of' playing against f'amiliar teams in the Big East and the games meaning more, Notre Dame's approach will stay the same. 
"[Big 1\ast play I is not really di!Teren t for us," head eoaeh Debbie Brown said. "We take 
see BIG EAST/page 29 


MEN'S GOLF 
Irish looking to rebound after tenth-place finish 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After a lOth-place finish at the USF Olympic Club Intercollegiate earlier this month, Notre Dame will try to get its season on track at the Saint Mary's Invitational this weekend. 
The Saint Mary's College (California)-hosted event will be held at the Poppy Hills Golf Club in Pebble Beach, Calif. 
Irish coach James Kubinski is not dwelling on his team's early struggles. 
''I'm honestly not disappoint­ed with the USF event," Kubinski said. "Like any team playing a first tournament or game, you're not sure what you have, or have to work on, until you start competing. Coaches will always tell you it takes a couple games to reduce the turnovers and get in 'game shape.' It's the same here." 
After outstanding summer seasons from several of its golfers and a roaring tour through Ireland early last month, Notre Dame had high hopes for its fall season opener at the USF Olympie Intercollegiate Invitational. However, the Irish were unable to recover from two disappoint­ing opening rounds, and fin­ished lOth in a field of 15. 
"We'll be fine," Kubinski said. "We needed an event. I think, in not playing as well as we can, yet putting up reasonable, if not great, scores, we proved we can 
see REBOUND/page 30 



page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 26, 2008 

COMMENTARY 
Game depends on Irish psyche 
Tomorrow's ganw could gr;· Pit.lwr way, and which routo it lakos dojJf'Hds on how tho Irish n~covor from thnir loss. 
Last snason. tlw losses 
oclipsod any hopn of improvn­mont. Thorn wore few 
n~domning qualities, and it became 


tough for Bill Brink 
Notre Damn 
to pull itself Sports Editor 
together 
after losses. 
So the 
question isn't really how good 
Purdue is or how good Notre 
Dame is. The question is how 
Notre Dame responds to its 
loss. 
After the 38-0 loss to Michigan last year, Irish eoach Charlie Wois said he started the season over. There's no need for that this year, but the team. both as individual units and as a whole, must regroup to have sueeess in the rest of the season. 
The offensive line could regress after Miehigan State nullified its effectiveness. It eould lose eonfidenee. Should that happen, the running game will once again fail to produce yardage. The offense will again become one-dimen­sional, foreing Jimmy Clausen to throw. lntnrceptions follow, and there goes the game. 
Or the offensive linemen could buckle down and play like they did in the first two games, when they didn't allow a sack and helped tho running backs rush for more than 100 yards. They're bigger, stronger and better than last yoar. and they know it. The only question is how this loss aiTocted them compared to last year. 
What about the running backs, the horsos who couldn't shed their reins against Miehigan State'? Will they bnlinve tho stat sheets' indica­tions of thoir utility to the team? 
Thny might. 
Or they could remember the holes they've hit and the touchdowns they've scored in tho first two games. They could force the del'ense into tho box and move the chains. This opens the finld for the play-adion pass, whieh Clausen showed he can throw wnll against Michigan. 
Clausen may let his intercep­tions gel to him. lie could have them in the back of his mind all game. forcing him to throw the ball away. Or he may remember his effective­ness in the four-and live-wide sets and eontimw to pass nfTeetively. With the live-wide set spreading the field, the 
defense follows suit, and here 
comes the run again. 
Michael Floyd could think 
about his fumble every time a 
ball comes his way. Or he 
could realize that he needs to 
movn on and learn from his 
mistakes. 
What's important to remem­
ber about tomorrow's game is 
the relative equality of the two 
teams. Both are 2-1. Nqtre 
Dame beat an injured San 
Diego State team and a 
Michigan team that gave it the 
ball six times. Purdue beat up 
on Northern Colorado and 
barely snuck past Central 
Michigan. Notre Dame lost to 
a Michigan State team that 
played better, and Purdue, 
who hasn't yet played on the 
road, lost in overtime to 
Oregon. 
Purdue quarterback Curtis Painter can still run the spread offense effectively, but he lost two of his primary weapons, speedy wide receiv­er Dorian Bryant and tight end Dustin Keller. Clausen has budding stars at receiver in Floyd and Golden Tate. Purdue running back Kory Sheets has a shade under 20 earries per game and averages 5.7 yards per carry. Notre Dame aver­ages 2.6 per carry. 
The game is, for all intents and purposes, a toss-up. One could make 10 arguments for both sides and wouldn't be able to declare a definitive ­winner. So it's up to the way both teams execute to deter­mine the game. No one can exeeute without having confi­dence in what they're doing. And to have confidence, Notre Dame needs to believe -actu­ally, to know -that last week was an aberration, a fluke, a one-time thing. 
The offensive linemen need to know they will flatten their opponents. The running backs need to know they have the ability to hit the holes, move the chains and score. Clausen needs to know he ean hit his receivers. 
And they do. This isn't like last year, where each loss sunk the team deeper and deeper into despair. This is this year, where the team has provnd it can produce on offense and halt production on defense. Michigan wasn't erunch time, and Michigan State wasn't crunch time. This is. Notre Dame has already proved it has moved on from last season. Now it needs to prove, by recovering from a loss, that the. transition is complete. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the writer and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at 

Check out our blog at observersportsblog.21cr.info 
2008 Irish opponents 
Last week  This week  
Idle  vs. Idaho  
Idle  vs. Wisconsin  
W, 23-7, ND  at Indiana  
W, 32-25, C. Mich.  at Notre Dame  
W, 23-10, SJSU  at Washington  
L,Va.Tech, 20-17  at Miami  
L, 28-27, BYU  vs. Stanford  
W, 21-20, Iowa  at Syracuse  
W, UCF,34-7  vs. Rhode Island  
W, 23-21, Rutgers  at Wake Forest  
W, 30-21, NE'ern  vs. Pitt  
Idle  at Oregon St.  

FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AT 
THE'COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
HALL OF FAME 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 
11:00 am -2:00pm Habitat for Humanity "Wall Build" on the Gridiron Plaza. Part of the "Building Hope-Building Homes" initiative 
12:00 pm-1:00 pm Live Radio Broadcast: "College Pigskin Blitz" from 
the lobby of the College Football Hall of Fame 5:00pm -7:00 pm Hall of Fame Flag Football Tournament 
6:00 pm -10:00 pm Football Fridays Block Party featuring Creole Stomp 
EXTENDED ND HOME FOOTBALL WEEKEND HOURS: 
Friday: 8:00am to 8:00pm ·• Saturday: 8:00am to 8:00pm • Sunday: 8:00am to 5:00pm 
For more information visit www.collegefootball.org 

r---~---~----------------------------~ 
: THIS 

s3off t~e price of i
WKND 
1

admiSSion w1th coupon
ONLY!

I Ofle1 good 9/26-9/28/08 I 
~------------------------------------~ 
Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Brute detertnination 
the field in his freshman year it was time to grow up.

By CHRIS HINE 
and prior to his sophomore "Am I going to college to 

Editor in Chief 
season, he was close to giving have fun, or am I going to col­it up for good. lege to support Knucklehead?" This time last year, the NFL "My heart wasn't really set Bruton said last year. "And I was still distant dream to sen­on foot-narrowed it down ior safety David Bruton. b a 11 , " to 'I'm going to lle was having a solid sea­Bruton school and play­son in an otherwise miserable said. "I ''I'm zeroed in· a lot more ing football to year for Notre Dame, but to didn't support
than I was. Of course it 

Bruton, the idea of playing on p I a y Knucklehead."'
wasn't easy first becoming 

Sundays was still unfath­m u c h Without Jaden, omable. freshman a father. ..your head's just Bruton said he But to some people, it wasn't year and spinning, but I found a wouldn't be the so incomprehensible. Bruton I wasn't man -or the 
way to turn it into a

started to notice these people a big fan football player ­showing up to watch him play. "of being positive and use it as a that he is today. Bruton may have not have a receiv­motivational force." And the NFL known them, but they certain­er and would just be ly knew who he was. They not get­something he 
David Bruton 

were NFL scouts. t i n g watched on TV 
This season, Bruton has m a n y Irish safety every Sunday. given those scouts a lot to looks at "It put my life praise -he recovered a fum­defensive in perspective," ble in the fourth quarter on back. I Bruton said. ''I'm Notre Dame's 1-yard line felt like I'd never play anyway zeroed in a lot more than I against San Diego State. And or see the field." was. Of course it wasn't easy against Michigan, Bruton But Notre Dame fans can be first becoming a father; you forced another fumble and thankful Bruton had a conver­don't know left or right any­had an interception inside the sation with his friend and more and your head's just Notre Dame 5-yard line. teammate, Kelly Lewis. Lewis, spinning, but I found a way to Bruton, now playing in his his coach's son, convinc.ed turn it into .a positive and use final season for Notre Dame, Bruton to give football another it as a motivational force." has developed a knack for get­shot. Bruton saw some action Bruton is not one to go out ting turnovers at key times -early in the season at wide much on the weekends. He certainly something that will receiver due to an injury to said he doesn't go to many 
PHIL HUDELSON!The Obse!Ver 

help him get to NFL. one of the starters. Then, house parties. Instead, he said 
Safety David Bruton brings down a ball carrier during Notre Dame's
"I realized it wasn't that Bruton earned the starting he does work, watches TV or, 
21.-14 win at Stanford on Nov. 24, 2007. 
far," Bruton said. "''m in my spot at safety his junior year in keeping with his love of the final year here, and I have a and parlayed that into a schol­Olympics, play "Mario and really good chance to go to the arship at Notre Dame. Sonic at the Olympics" on his Still, Bruton said that doesn't Bruton is there to back them next level." Now, the Olympics were an Nintendo Wii. worry him too much. up. 
But just a few years ago for afterthought. "I feel like that's only fair," "I plan to be a lot more "He's got range back there Bruton, getting to that next But even a free-ride to one Bruton said. "Jaden's mom is ready than I am now when I that not a lot of safeties level meant going somewhere of the most storied programs taking a whole lot of responsi­go to train," Bruton said. "My have," cornerback Raeshon other than the NFL -the in college football history was­bility on herself and that kind 40-time will drop. I'm not McNeil said. "It allows me, Olympics. n't enough to give Bruton the of hinders her from going out. really worried Terrail kind of focus he needed to It's feels like the right thing to about that. My Lambert, Finding football make it to the NFL. do. I'm not here to just shoot vertical jump, ''I'm here to provide Robert In high school, Bruton the crap. I'm here to provide I'm really not Blanton, Gary
and hopefully get a

dreamed of becoming an ·Getting his priorities straight and hopefully get a good worried at all Gray, whoev­Olympic sprinter, much like In November 2005, during future for my son." because that's good future for my er's in there, his cousin, Tyson Gay. his freshman year, Bruton's me, I just jump. son. to play with a 
"I wanted those 200-and son Jaden -who Bruton Getting ready for the future The bench might little more 400-meter races," Bruton said affectionately calls But before Jaden can see his be the only thing confidence 
David Bruton 

with a smile. "Knucklehead"-was born. father play on Sundays, that's suspect and be a little Football was merely an When interviewed for a Sept. Bruton has to go through the but when you Irish safety more aggres­afterthought. 28, 2007 article by The laborious and highly-scruti­train you can sive 
Bruton, who played wide Observer's Jay Fitzpatrick, nized pre-draft process where always put on because you receiver and safety for Bruton said Jaden's birth every bench press and 40-weight and up your reps." know anytime on a deep ball, Miamisburg High School in caused him to make the deci­yard dash time could raise or And if he ever needs advice Bruton's going to be in the Miamisburg, Ohio, hardly saw sions in his personal life that lower your value in the draft. he has former teammates now vicinity." 
in the NFL -John Carlson, And if Bruton has anything John Sullivan and Tom to say about it, he'll be in the Zbikowski -to ask ·for vicinity of a lot of deep passes advice. He also can call up a for years to come after his new friend of his that he final season at Notre Dame is made at last year's Blue-Gold over. game -former Tampa Bay But Bruton in the NFL is and Denver safety John something Irish defensive Lynch. coordinator Corwin Brown 
"He told me doesn't want to to just be imagine right aggressive," "I will say that I've now. 
Bruton said. "Oh, I'm not
been around guys 

"You have to going to go 
showcase your and I've seen guys down that abilities, show that have done it at a road," Brown you can hit and s a i -d
pretty good level and 

get your Wednesday. respect that ifhe does things the "But I will say way." right way he can that I've been Bruton has around guys
do it." 

taken the Pro· and I've seen Bowler's advice guys that have to heart. His David Bruton done it at a teammates Irish safety pretty good respected him level and if he enough to make does things the him captain this season, a dis­right way he can do it. I'll just tinction he carries with pride. leave it at that. I want to 
"You're not just a guy who focus on him being a good made plays and got voted college player right now. I because of popularity, you don't want to put him in were voted because you were Canton." a hard worker and you've Canton may seem far away made plays and you have for Bruton at this point, but a guys' respect," Bruton said. few years ago, so did the NFL. 
On the field, his teammates 


Irish safety David Bruton runs the ball back after recovering a turnover during Notre Dame's in the secondary play a little Contact Chris Hine at 35-17 win over Michigan on Sept. 13 at Notre Dame Stadium. differently because they know chine@nd.edu 
Friday, September 26, 2008 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT
Record: 2-1 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 
Sept. 6 SDSU-W Sept. 13 MICIDGAN-W Sept. 20 at MICH. ST.-L Sept. 27 PURDUE Oct. 4 STANFORD Oct. 11 atUNC Oct. 25 at WASH. Nov.1 PITI Nov. 8 atBC Nov. 15 NAVY Nov. 22 SYRACUSE Nov. 29 at USC 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
23-15 

against head coach Purdue: 2-1 CharlleWels 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. HI Wt. YR 
1 Deion Walker WR 6·2 188 FR 3 Michael Floyd WR 6·3 215 FR 4 Gary Gray DB 5·11 188 so 5 Armando Allen RB 5-10 195 so 6 Ray Herring DB 5·10 198 SR 7 Jimmy Clausen OB 6-3 217 so 8 Raeshon McNeil DB 6·0 190 JR 9 Ethan Johnson DE 6·4 275 FR 9 Kyle Rudolph TE 6·6 252 FR 10 Dayne Crist QB 6-4 233 FR 11 David Grimes WR 5-10 177 SR 12 Nick Lezynskl QB 5·8 157 so 12 Robert Blanton DB 6·1 180 FR 13 Evan Sharpley QB 6·2 215 SR 14 Brandon Walker K 6·3 202 so 15 Brian Castello QB 6·2 191 so 15 Dan McCarthy DB 6·2 200 FR 16 Nate Montana QB 6-4 200 FR 18 Duval Kamara WR 6·5 219 so 19 George West Jr. WR 5·10 196 JR 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5·11 195 SR 21 Barry Gallup Jr. RB 5·11 200 JR 22 Harrison Smith DB 6·2 206 so 23 Golden Tate WR 5-11 195 so 24 Leonard Gordon DB 5-11 187 •JR 24 Bnan Coughlin WR 6·0 172 JR 25 Jonas Gray RB 5-10 230 FR 26 Jamoris Slaughter DB 6·0 182 FR 27 David Bruton DB 6·2 212 SR 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6·1 203 SR 29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6·0 202 JR 29 Michael Garcia WR 6·1 178 so 30 Steve Paskorz FB 6·2 235 so 31 Sergio Brown DB 6·2 205 JR 32 Luke Schmidt TE 6·3 246 JR 33 Robert Hughes RB 5·11 237 so 34 James Aldridge RB 6·0 225 JR 35 Kevin Smith LB 5·8 200 SR 35 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 241 JR 36 Joe Bizjak K 6·2 165 JR 36 David Posluszny LB 6·0 220 FR 37 Mike Anello DB 5·10 170 SR 37 Eras Noel RB 5·8 190 so 38 Chris Bathon DB 5·10 192 JR 38 Christopher Gurries WR 5-10 181 so 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5·11 190 JR 40 Maurice Crum Jr. LB 6·0 235 SR 41 Scott Smith LB 6·3 235 SR 41 Nikolas Rodriguez RB 5-11 205 SR 42 Kevin Washington LB 6·1 250 SR 42 Dan Franco WR 5·10 188 JR 43 John Leonis DB 5·9 169 SR 43 Eric Maust p 6·2 177 JR 44 Asaph Schwapp FB 6·0 257 SR 45 Darius Fleming LB 6·1 236 FR 45 Kri& Patterson WR 5·11 185 SR 46 Steve Filer LB 6·3 236 FR 47 Joe Vittoria LB 5·11 244 JR 47 Mike Narvaez FB 5·11 231 JR 48 Steve Quinn LB 6·2 225 SR 49 T aryan Smith LB 6·1 244 JR 51 Dan Wenger c 6·4 302 JR 52 Braxston Cave c 6·3 315 FR 53 Morrice Richardson DE 6·2 255 JR 54 Anthony McDonald LB 6·3 225 FR 55 Eric Olsen OG 6·5 303 JR 56 Kerry Neal LB 6·2 246 so 57 Mike Golic Jr. c 6-3 280 FR 58 Brian Smith LB 6·3 245 so ­59 Chris Stewart OG 6·5 337 JR 61 Martin Quintana LB 6-1 242 JR 62 Bill Flavin c 6-3 252 so 63 Jeff nssk OT 6·3 306 SR 64 Tom Burke LB 5-10 242 JR 65 Mike Hernandez OL 6·2 275 FR 67 Tom Bemendert~r c 6·5 300 SR 69 Carl Brophy OL 6·4 278 FR 70 Matt Romtne OT 6-5 292 so 71 Dennis Mahoney OL 6·6 290 FR 72 Paul Duncan OT 6-7 308 SR 74 Sam Young OT 6·8 330 JR 75 Taylor Dever OT 6-5 308 so 75 Lane Clelland OT 6·5 281 FR 76 Andrew Nuss DE 6-5 304 so 77 Mike Turkovich OG 6·6 305 SR 78 Trever Aob1nson OG 6·5 301 FR 79 Halis Williams DE 6·2 302 FR 81 John Goodman WR 6·3 197 FR 82 Robby Parris WR 6·4 210 JR 84 Will Yeatman TE 6·6 265 so 85 Sam Vos WR 5-10 199 JR 86 Paul Kupptch TE 6-3 232 SR 87 Joseph Fauna TE 6-7 245 FR 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore DE 6-4 257 FR 90 John Ryan LB 6·5 264 JR 91 Emeka Nwankwo DE 6·4 295 so 93 Paddy Mullen NT 6-3 300 JR 94 Justin Brown DE 6-3 277 SR 95 tan Williams NT 6-2 310 so 96 Pat Kuntz DE 6-3 283 SR 97 Kallen Wade LB 6·5 255 JR 98 Sean Cwynar DE 6-4 283 FR 99 Brandon Newman NT 6-0 310 FR 
Irish 
LLI 
::E 
<C 
Q 
LLI D:: 
..... 
0 
Z'" 
LLI 
::;) 
c 
D:: 
::;) 
a. 
(/) (/) 
~ 
<C 
z 
<t 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
Weis and his staff' made a good adjust­ments at halftime last week and-seem to have the team believing that a repeat of 2007 isn't going to happen. It will be interesting to sec how they handle this week's off-the-field activities.  
Joe Tiller announced at the beginning of this sea­son that this is his final go-round. Tiller has brought the Purdue pro­gram a long way since 1996 and can finish his career with a .500 record against the Irish with a win on Saturday.  


Clausen looked com­fortable in the five wide receiver set last week but made a few bad throws and question­able decisions that cost the Irish big time. lie needs to continue to spread the ball around and remain accurate on intermediate routes.  
Fifth-year senior Curtis Painter has the wisdom of a veteran and the confidence to do well after having his way with the Irish last sea­son in West Lafayette. lie's looked good so far this season but only has three passing touch­downs thus far.  

Both teams are cur­rently sitting at 2-1. Weis has revived the team slightly, but Tiller's tl,'oops w~rtt;OJ1e big play away from be~ng unde­feated and 'l!;w.rankcd. Whoever ean make the better adjustments as the game goes on will likely win. 
The name of the game is rebound for Notre Dame. The 
.offensive line can't be as bad as they were last game, so the running game will turn around. Jimmy Clausen will .throw two TDs and a pick. Purdue's spread oll'ense will 


IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
After a poor showing  The Irish proved last  
last week against the  week that they can throw  
Spartans, the Irish will  the ball. Allen looked good  
continue to try to estab­ catching passes out of tho  
lish themselves as a  backfield and Floyd, Tate  
well-balanced offense.  and Hudolph all played  
The "pound it" mentality  well. As long as it can  
might be toned down  avoid mistakes, the pass  
but expect to see plenty  attack should roll against  
of all three backs, at  the Boilermakers.  
least in the first half.  
Purdue has given up an  The Boilermakers'  
average of almost 200  athletic secondary have  
yards per game on the  picked ofT two passes in  
ground against teams like  each of their last two  
No. Colorado and C.  games -including two  
Michigan. Purdue has  inside the red zone to  
managed to dig it'> feet in  stay in the game against  
near the goal line with  Oregon. But the  
only three rushing touch­ Chippewas did put up  
downs given up this sea­ almost 300 yards  
son.  against them last week.  





Notre Dame struggled last week against Michigan State in large part because it couldn't establish an offensive identity. Look for Weis to make adjustments sooner this week if the run­ning game continues to struggle. The defense played better Notre Dame has a tough secondary. but Curtis Painter will be hard to keep in check. Notre Dame's seven points last week is not indicative of how it playod in the second half oflensivnly. This i'i a winnable game for the Irish, but expect Painter to keep it 


nullify Notre Dame's blitzes. Kory Sheets in the first two games than it did against dose. Brandon Walker will finally kick his will have his fun, but Notre Dame's D-line MSU -and they were both spread offenses first field goal of the season. 
can handle him. like tl1e Boilermakers.
experts 
FINAL SCORE: FINAL SCORE: FINAL SCORE: 
Notre Dame 21 Notre Dame 24 Notre Dame 24 Purdue 20 Purdue 17 Purdue 21 

Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Purdue 
Boilermakers

HEAD 
Record: 2-1 
Purdue Boilermakers 

Purdue 2008 Schedule 
Sept. 6 NO.COLO-W Sept. 13 OREGON-L Sept. 20 C.Miffi-W Sept. 27 atND Oct. 4 PENNSfAlE Oct. 11 atOlllOSfAlE Oct. 18 atNW'ERN Oct. 25 MINNFSOTA Nov.1 MlaHGAN Nov. 8 atMICRSfA'IE Nov. 15 atIOWA Nov. 22 INDIANA 

the Irish to play with 8th year with the Times, has bee a beer. What, was 
some balance. Painter named National Sports Columnist Columnist "The Keggers" taken? will be a non-factor f(Jr Purdue, as long as the Year by a variety of organizations. Notre Dame wins on a touchdown catch bySheets can be contained ND will remain Plaschke is also a regular paneli the favorite player of my daughter Tessa and unbeaten at home. on the ESPN daily talk show, "Around her buddies at Farley and PE, some Domer 
ANAL SCORE: e Horn" and made his film debu 
named Golden. Notre Dame 27 ith three lines in the Will Smith 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24, 
Purdue 21 
Purdue 17 

PURDUE RUSHING 
The run defense has given up back-to-hack 100 yard rushing games to McGuffie and Hinger. They struggled to stop the run against Michigan's spread, which Purude also runs. It will be tough to shut down the ground game if they stay with a nickelback. 
Kory Sheets torched the lrL<;h for 140 yards and two touchdowns last year. The fifth-year senior is on the verge of breaking a slew of Purdue rushing records and has looked impressive as a workhorse back so far in his last year with the team. 
For the third week in 
a  row,  Notre  Dame  
face  
g to  do  
ust a mat­ 

ter of how m"J~h. 
PURDUE PASSING 
Despite their first game without an interception, the Irish secondary con­tinued to impress by locking down the Spartan receivers, for the most part. Sergio Brown and Gary Gray are both emerging as playmakers along with the rest of the veteran defensive backs. 
Curtis Painter brings plenty of experience and has been spreading the ball out well after losing his favorite target in Dorien Bryant last year. Tardy has filled in well and broke through with a big touchdown against Central Michigan last week. 

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame looked zone is not an option with 
Scoring outside of the red 

flat out of the gates in our kicking unit. Whether 
their first Joss this sea­you blame the snap or the 
son. The team seems kick, something has to 
determined to prove that change. Tate's late kick 
they are for real this return showed a little hope, 
year and should be but the special teams have 
ready early on. But they been generally unimpres­
have to overcome off­sive thus far. 
the-field problems with Yeatman and Golic, Jr. 
Purdue will be looking dangerous returner aver­
Desmond Tardy is a 

to send Coach Tiller out aging over 30 yards per 
with a big win over return including a 70­
their in-state rivals. The yarder in the season 
verdict is still out on the opener against No. 
Boilermakers and a win · Colorado. Chris Summers 
in South Bend ·could is a respectable 5-for-7 
prove that they are the on field goal attempts. 
real deal in 2008. 
z 
0 
-t 
::a 
m 
c 
>
:s: 
m 
"tJ 
c= 
::a 
c 
c= 
m 
It's easy to be excit­
ed after a win, this 
week will test the new 
cranked up Irish men­
tality when the 
Boilermakers come to 
town. The offense 
looked promising and 'Purdue's weak run 
defense should allow 


Tardy has the poten­tial cha 

The last I looked, which was honestly about a decade ago, Purdue's nickname was, "The Boilermakers." I'm sorry, but I just cannot 
pick a team whose mascot is a shot of 
, 

liquor accompanied by 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Joe Tiller 12th season at Purdue career record: 
83-54 
against Notre Dame: 5~6 

Joe Tiller head coach 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
2 Torn Williams s 6-2 208 JR 3 Frank Duong s 5-8 178 SR 
Waynelle Gravesande WR 6-0 169 FR 4 Fabian Martin CB 5-11 199 SR 5 Justin Siller RB 6-4 220 FR 6 Desmond Tardy WR 6-1 199 SR 6 Kevin Green CB 5-10 185 FA 7 Brandon King CB 5-11 192 JR 8 Keith Smith WR 6-2 226 so 9 David Pender CB 6-1 180 JR 10 Royce Adams CB 6-0 190 JR II Arsenio Curry WR 6-4 217 so 12 Curtis Painter QB 6-4 230 SA 13 Chris Summers K 6-1 179 JR 14 Joey Elliott QB 6,2 211 JR 15 Charlton Williams CB 6-2 200 so 16 Jett Panfil QB 6-5 226 so 16 Mike Mathews QB 6-2 185 FR 17 Chris Bennett QB 6-3 205 SR 17 Aaron Valentin WR 6-1 205 JR 18 Nnamdi Ezenwa LB 6-2 210 FR 18 Roberto McBean WR 6-0 192 SA 19 Caleb TerBush QB 6-5 210 FA 19 Brandon Whittington WR 6-2 213 SA 20 Gavin Roberts s 6-1 196 FA 21 Greg Orton WR 6-3 199 SA 22 Dwight Mclean s 6-1 203 JR 23 Ralph Bolden AB 5-9 185 FR 24 Kory Sheets RB 6-0 206 SA 25 Dan Dierking AB 5-10 186 so 26 Patrick Carroll WR 6-1 181 FA 26 Tommie Thomas s 6-2 175 FA 27 Alvin Blackmon WR 200 FA
-6-1 27 Kevin Green LB 6-2 236 so 28 Cory Kemps p 5-11 220 FA 29 Jason Wemer LB 6-4 221 JR 30 Joe Holland OLB 6-1 211 FA 30 George Brigandi AB 5-8 198 FR 31 Josh McKinley s 6-1 218 so 32 Albert Evans s 6-0 195 FA 33 Jaycen Taylor RB 5-10 180 SA 35 Logan Link s 6-1 218 FA 36 Walter Williams s 5-10 201 JR 37 Carson Wiggs p 6-0 194 FA 38 T.J. Barbarette WA 5-6 160 FR 39 John Humphrey LB 6-1 237 so 40 Derek Jackson LB 6-2 230 FA 40 Sean Matti RB 5-11 229 FA 41 Mike Conway CB 5-11 189 FR 42 Anthony Haygood LB 6-2 230 SR 43 Adam Wolf s 5-11 204 SR 44 Frank Halliburton FB 6-3 251 JR 46 Mark Thompson s 6-0 2QO FA 47 Chris Carlino LB 6-2 215 FA 48 Jared Crank FB 6-2 235 FA 48 Zach Heiniger LB 5·11 197 FA 49 Nickcaro G61ding DE 6-5 225 FA 50 Eric Hedstrom G 6-6 292 JR 51 Garret Miller T 6-8 275 SA 52 Jarrod Shaw LB 5-11 221 SA­53 Dan Barry G 6-2 309 FA 54 Jared Zwilling OG 6-4 293 JR 55 Mike Chacksfield OT 6-5 292 FA 56 Monroe Brooks DT 6-6 277 FA 57 Tyler Haston LB 6-3 222 so 58 Robert Maci DE 6-4 225 FR 59 Adam Brockman DE 6-3 241 so 60 Andrew Brewer c 6-4 289 FA 61 Zach Jones T 6-5 300 JR 62 Andy Huffman LS 6-3 287 JR 63 James Shepherd T 6-6 309 FA 64 Connor McCulley G 6-1 265 FA 65 Austen Moret c 6-2 282 FA 67 ·Peters Drey T 6-6 284 FA 68 Dennis Kelly OT 6-8 270 FR 69 Kris Cooke DT 6-1 320 so 70 LaSalle Cooks DE 6-3 243 FA 71 Alex Magee DE 6-4 295 SA 72 Justin Pierce G 6-4 314 so 73 Ken Plue T 6-7 361 FA 74 Sean Sester T 6-7 325 SA 75 Zach Reckman G 6-6 308 JR 76 Rick Schmeig G 6-3 312 FA 77 Ryan Prater T 6-5 286 so 78 Cory Benton c 6-3 287 SA 79 Jerrnaine Guynn DT 6-1 288 SA 80 Jerry Wasikowski TE 6-4 255 SA 81 OeVarro Greaves LB 6-2 208 FA 82 Kurt Lichtenberg WR 6-1 179 FA 82 Crosby Wrigbt TE 6-3 241 FA 83 Joe Whitest WA 6-2 195 SA 84 Eric Mebane DE 6-4 198 FA 85 Kyle Adams TE 6-5 251 JR 86 Josh Hicks WR 5-7 165 FA 87 Kris Staats WR 6-1 197 so 88 Jeff Lindsay TE 6-4 238 so 89 Colton McKey TE 6-5 256 FA 90 Ryan Baker DT 6-5 280 SA 91 Preston Numa DE 6-3 275 FA 92 Mike Neal DT 6-4 293 JR 93 Kawann Short DT 6-4 318 FA 94 Ryan Kerrigan DE 6-4 255 so 95 Keyon Brown DE 6-3 241 SA 96 John Finch TE 6-3 245 so 97 Gerald Gooden DE 6-3 235 FA 98 Corey Chapman DE 6-2 234 JR 99 Nick Mondek DT 6-6 275 FA 
Irish 
experts 


As a 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 26, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 


ND points scored PU points seored 
33.3 

ND points allowed 
PU points allowed 
ND rush yards PU rush yards 
ND rushing allowed PU rushing allowed 
ND pass yards PU pass yards 
ND passing allowed PU passing allowed 
Where is yourfavorite place to eat off-campus? 
I love McDonald's. Chicken nuggets, Double Cheeseburger ... Dollar Menu. 
Ifwe looked at your iPod, what's the most played song? 
I listen to a lot of Young Jeezy's new album, Gucci Mane. I'm from the South so I pretty uch, T.l., Jay-Z. 
What's the hardest class you've had at ND? 
I gotta say philosophy with Ms. Jensen. Intro to Philosophy. 
Who's the toughest guy you've ever played against? 
I went against Jake Long, but I would say the tackle from Boston College IGosder Cherilus]. He was huge. Once he put his hands on me, I chopped his hands as hard as I could and they didn't move. 
What's yourfavorite TV show? 
The guys and me have been hooked on "Heroes" lately. With the new series just starting come out, so "Heroes" right now. 
Ifyou had a super power, what would it be? 
To be able to fly. I wouldn't have to sit in traffic or anything like that. 
Did you pick number 56 for a reason? 
That was just the number they gave me. I had 12 in high school, so I was expecting to get 12 but Coach [Weis] don't play that. Coach do the number system like the NFL. 
Do you have a pre-game ritual? 
Not really. I just put my headphones on and listen to my music. Just get in my own zone, own little world. 
Friday, September 26, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Turkovich eases into left tackle position 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
So far this season. Notre Dame's ofl'ensive line has givnn up three sacks, which is as many as it surrendered in the first quarter of last season. On major part of that is the pPrsonnel changes made in the trenches, espe­eially at left tackle. 
Senior Mike Turkovich took over the duty of protecting quarterback .Jimmy Clausen's blind side this season, replacing senior Paul Duncan. 
Turkovich played all of last season, starting every game at left guard, before making the transition in the spring. He said. the transition was a result of the rotation the offensive linemen did during training camp to find the best fit. 
"In the spring, we were rotating guys around and [offensive line) coach [John Latina] said, 'Could you go in at left tackle today?' And I was working with [the back­ups) because I was getting back in the rotation [after] an injury," Turkovich said. 
Turkovich said he felt com­fortable with the switch to the outside of the line right away. 
"I thought, 'Hey, this is your chance. Just play with reckless abandon.' You can't be thinking out there. Just do your job and do it fundamen­tally sound," he said. 
Latina said that the transi­tion from guard to tackle is a more difficult one than from tackle to guard because you are more isolated and. facing a different kind of rusher. Playing in what the coach called "a phone book amount of space," a guard is general­ly matched up against a large defensive tackle. But an offensive tackle has to block speedier defensive ends and linebackers one-on-one. 
One main reason Turkovich has been able to transition so easily is because he has played the position before. Ilis first two years at Notre Dame were spent as a tackle before he moved inside last season. Turkovich said he made the switch to guard because Latina said it would be his best fit. 
Turkovich also played tack­le in high school, but started 
his football  career as  a tight  
end.  
"In  high  school I  was  a  

tight end that ate himself into the tackle position," he said. "I weighed 215, 210 my junior year of high school, bulked up my senior year." 
"(urkovich also credited his teammates with easing his transition back to tackle, especially left guard Eric Olsen. 
"When you play next to a guy like Eric [Olsen], he's a good player and he makes it easier on you. You know he's going to do his job," Turkovich said. "You can trust him. Same thing with 
tight ends, you. can trust them. It's made the transi­tion easier." 
This season, Turkovich has been a solid p·erformer on the line, as evident by the fact that Clausen has yet to be hit from his blind side. And during l&st week's 23-7 loss to Michigan State when the line surrendered its only three sacks of the season, the Spartans blitzed when the Irish were in empty backfield formations, putting the offen­sive line at a disadvantage. 
Turkovich said the offen­sive line is better than it was last season, but still has room for improvement ­especially after netting only 16 yards rushing against the Spartans. 
"We can get better as far as the run game and get better with our fundamentals,." he said. " ... Last game they were getting pressure and getting sacks and we can't win if that happens." 
But even with the line's marked improvement this season, something Turkovich has been a major part of, he remains his own harshest critic. 
"Even if I make a block on a play, I'll still [thinking] I could have done better," the senior said. "I think that I've done good things, but there's definitely room for improve­ment still." 
Turkovich said the most important thing for him this year is to make sure he leaves Notre Dame on a high 


note. After last season's debacle for the linemen, he wants to make sure his last days in an Irish uniform are his best. 
"[There was] definitely was a sense of urgency [this sea­son]. I said to my family, 'This is my last year, I have to make an impression. I have to go out there and play my hardest because if you don't go out there and you don't play, it's going to be the end of your career,"' he said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Irish look to slow down Purdue RB Sheets 

By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
Last Saturday Purdue trailed Central Michigan 25-24 with just over a minute left of the clock. A loss would drop the Boilermakers to 1-2 with two consecutive losses. 
That's when they handed the ball to Kory Sheets. Sheets broke through the line, juked past a linebacker and ran the rest of the 46 yards to victory. 
"He definitely has some moves. I think we all saw that last week," Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said. 
The juke, which was shown on virtually every sports high­light reel last weekend, left the Central Michigan linebacker scratching his head and looking for his jock strap. 
"Kory has done a heck of a job being the full-time guy," Irish head coach Charlie Weis said. "The guy's got good speed, he's got good quicks. He likes to run north and south, which is the sign of a good runner." 
Sheets has rushed for 352 yards and six touchdowns in three games this season. He averages about 20 carries a game,.but his biggest threat is the ability to change the game every time he touches the ball. 
Two weeks ago against then­No. 17 Oregon, Sheets took the second play of the game 80 yards to put his team up 7-0 right out of the gates. 
"If you give. him a hole he can hit it and he can take it all the way," Brown said. "He's been around, he's not a rookie." 
The fifth-year senior certainly isn't lacking in experience. 

Sheets ranks in the top ten in Purdue's history in attempts, yards per rush, all-purpose yards and rushing yards. He is also tied for second all-time with 37 career touchdowns. 
Even before getting to Purdue, Sheets was no stranger to the record books. He was named the Hartford Courant's Player of the Year in his final year at Bloomfield High School in Connecticut. He rushed for over 250 yards in a game four times his senior year including a 400-yard effort in three quar­ters of the state semifinal game. 
Sheets red-shirted his fresh­man year, but since then he has played 'in every single game in the past four years for the Boilermakers. 
Notre Dame has faced some impressive backs so far in 2008, but none have the experi­ence that Sheets brings to the table. 
"We're expecting to stop him as much as we can; he's a good athlete," senior defensive tackle Pat Kuntz said. 
In its past two games Notre Dame has struggled stopping the run, giving up 131 yards to Michigan's Sam McGuffie and 201 yards to Michigan State's Javon Ringer. The defense believes that they know how to keep Sheets from running wild this Saturday. 
"We just have to make tack­les," defensive end Justin Brown said. "If we make tack­les, sometimes they won't make those big plays." 
Making sure tackles has been easier said than done for the Irish against premier backs. There were 16 missed tackles against the Wolverines and 17 more last week in East Lansing. The team has spent a good deal of practice this week working on their technique. 
"I think we just have-to take what we've learned in the past two weeks and apply it on the field this time," said Irish safety and leading tackler Kyle McCarthy. 
Kuntz said that the best way to avoid missed tackles is to get as many gold helmets to the ball as possible. 
"Definitely wrapping up and gang tackling. It's going to take a lot of running to the football," he said. 
Last year in Purdue's 33-19 win over Notre Dame in West Lafayette, Ind., the defense had some problems getting Sheets to the ground. He racked up 141 yards and a touchdown on his 27 carries. 
Corwin Brown said Sheets is so dangerous because of the great balance that the Purdue offense shows. With fellow fifth­year senior Curtis Painter at quarterback, the Boilermakers are able to keep defenses guessing by spreading the ball around the field and then mak­ing sure Sheets gets the touches he needs. 
"First and foremost in our defense we have to stop the run. That's what we prepare for every week," McCarthy said. 
The Irish said they aren't out for revenge after giving up the 141 yards last season, but they could make a statement by playing a complete game on defense this week. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

page 8 Friday, September 26, 2008 

PRIME STEAKS AND SEAFOOD • SPORTS THEATRE ROOM WITH 15' SCREEN SEATING FOR OVER 500 • LARG.EST .MANTINI BAR IN THE AREA PRIVATE DINING -OUTDOOR SEATING • BANQUETS • CATERING 
~VILLAMACRI at 
-0::!/~C.ANA 
. , ~c:z)ARI< 
.. ·····~-... 

· l-fulrit; df t:J:i~(:')fodal Nciti:-e D~e Football Radio Show. Hosted ij:y J~ck N BrookS eac:h Monday at 7:00 p:rn ough:Ndirernber 24..; WSBT 960 AM. 




We get fired upfor football!
TACO 

r--------------------------------,
BELIJ 

:It~ $699 10 Seasoned Beef Tacos Ccrunchyorsoft) : 

1 '~ plus tax -OR-10 Bean Burritos 1
Open 'til2am or later. I TACO OR. expires 10/31/08. Offer goOII Gilly at pstldpatllg TACO lliU® lacllleu • 1M pier Soli• 1M, IN-. Offer exd•Olck111, StHk alii I• • Supr-Yenioas. PIIIOS& presentlh~ aJUpon when ordering. Limil: 0111! coupon per jie11011 per visit. No! good wilh any other ollar. Void if copied, lronslerred, repraduud or where IHours may vary by location. I BEL-... prohibited. Cash redemption volue 1/20th 18111. ©2008 TACO BEll CORP. 7303-8
'------------------------------------1 







