
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 15  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15.2008  
ELECTION 2008  
Thinline  debate and advocacy  

Do election politics have aplace in the classroom? 
ByJENN METZ 
News Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the first installment ofa series examining the place of politics in the class­room. 
This semester, many courses at Notre Dame, in many different disciplines, share one topic of dis­cussion -the 2008 presidential election. 
The Democratic and Republican national conventions dominated the media for the first two weeks of the semester and became grounds for discussion in the academic setting. The elec­tion will continue its presence in the classroom even after Election 

Rain soaks cainpuses, sets record 
By ROBERT SINGER 
News Writer 
No official provisiOns have been made for the construc­tion of an ark, but the rain­fall flooding Notre Dame campus has been of record proportions. 
According to the National Weather Service, South Bend was drenched by a record 
6.58 inches of rain on Saturday, breaking the previ­ous mark of 4.69 inches for a single day, set 40 years ago. 
Early in the afternoon, Saint Mary's Lake over­flowed, sending its waters across the intersection of Holy Cross Drive and St. Mary's road and becoming one with St. Joe's Lake. The turn was soon barricaded. 
The waterway gained force as it flowed across the grassy stretch overlooked by Columba Hall. Fish from St. Mary's Lake were-swept up by the current and struggled to return upstream, maneu­vering tree trunks in the process. 
A river. albeit nine inches deep, formed behind the statue of Father Sorin on God Quad. The reflecting pool in front of the library over­flowed. Miniature ponds have sprung up and made sidewalk travel. if not treacherous. troublesome. 
The most prominent of 
see RAINIpage 6 

Day. 
In a classroom setting, there's a thin line between academic dis­cussion of certain platforms and outright advocacy for a certain partisan belief. The political views of professors may influence the readings they assign, the manner in which they teach their courses, and the direction of dis­cussion in the class. While pro­fessors have certain freedoms, too much emphasis on strong political beliefs may make stu­dents, who might not share in those beliefs, uncomfortable in class. 
A question arises; then, that could cause debate in its own right: Should political discussion 
see POLITICS/page 4 


Students celebrate vvin over UM 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Many students said they couldn't have been happier with Notre Dame's 35-17 win over Michigan on Saturday, especially after many analysts predicted an Irish loss. 
"We got our respect back," said sophomore Emily Hutchens, referencing Irish linebacker Maurice Crum's speech during the pep rally Friday. 
After suffering through a 3-9 campaign last year and watch­ing the team only beat San Diego State by eight last week, many students were happy to see the Irish take a command­ing 21-point lead in the first quarter. 
"The first quarter was the best quarter of football I've seen from the Irish in a while," freshman Joey Horan said. 
Freshman Reggie Henke agreed, adding he could see the fan's excitement bubbling over after the game. 
"Afterwards there were peo­ple sliding around in the mud and you could tell the fans couldn't have been more happy," he said. "We've only been here a month and to experience a win over Michigan was awesome." 
Just before halftime, it start­ed to rain, but most fans remained to watch the game. 
"It was great. Everyone was in a good mood overall, and I think the rain contributed to that," senior Michael Wodarcyk said. 
Horan said he was happy to stand in the rain to watch the Irish victory despite a cold. 
"I was sick, and the rain did­n't help, but it was still great," he said. 
As a senior, Woodarcyk said he was happy to see the team defeat its rivals during his last season as a member of the stu­dent body. 
"It was a really fun game with a lot of big plays, especial­ly considering last year's sea­son and the rough game last week," he said. 
However, while he was cer­tainly happy with the win,. sophomore Scott Mcintosh said 
see GAME/page 3 


Howard installs new CFL light bulbs 
CFL's use 75% less energy than incandescents 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Howard Hall will take the first steps to becoming a greener dorm by putting a Compact Fluorescent Light Bulb (CFL) in every room in the hall, Environmental Commissioner Lauren Henderson said. 
General Electric donated 130 energy smart CFL light bulbs to the dorm, Henderson said. 
According to General Electric, their CFL bulbs last up to 10 times longer than a 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
51intMary's recruiting 
foreigners 
College welcomes 5 internationalfirst years 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
This year's first year class has five international students, an increase from last year's class, which had one international stu­dent, said Vice President for Enrollment Management Dan Meyer. 
That makes this year's class of international students a "substan­tial increase," he said. 
In addition, five of the 460 first­year students are United States cit­izens who were educated over­seas, Meyer said. 
The international students come from China, Myanmar, Guatamala, Iraq and Vietnam, Meyer said, and the students who are U.S. citizens were educated in Bolivia, Kuwait, Korea, Italy and Switzerland. 
Two of the international students had difficult times getting to the United States, he said. 
The student from Iraq was "actually a refugee or displaced student," Meyer said. Before com­ing to school she was living in a refugee camp, he said. 
The Burmese student "came over after the devastation over there," he said. 
"We didn't even think she'd get out of the country," Meyer said. 
The increase in international students is part of College President Dr. Carol Ann Mooney's Strategic Plan for Saint Mary's, called "The Path to Leadership 2012," in which she hopes to increase international enrollment 
see SMC/page 3 
normal incandescent light bulb and they use up to 75 percent less energy than nor­mal bulbs, Henderson said. 
"We are really excited about taking on new initia­
tives this year," she said.  
Henderson said she  was  
partly inspired to  use  CFL  
bulbs  by  AI  Gore's  "An  

Inconvenient Truth." In the book, Gore states that if every 
U.S. household changed one light bulb to a CFL bulb, it would save enough energy to reduce pollution as much as removing one million cars 
see HOWARD/page 6 


r----------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 15, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Facebook face-lift 
Faeebook got an update. 
Personally, I like il. To be honest. 
there's little I eould do about it if I hated 
it. And actually, I jumpnd on the band­
wagon a few weeks ago when they 
began the "trial 
Aaron Steiner 
period" before 
the final switch 
()(:r.urn~d. News Writer 
But of course. 
glanr.ing at my News Feed over the 
weekend. in between the· "GOOO IRISH! 
wooooOO! IRISII 2-0!" and weather­
related status updates. there are quite a 
f(lw "so-and-so hates the new far.ebook" 
or "so-and-so wants the old Faeebook 
back." People are resisting the change 
and want the old way back. 
I.ike every good non-issue that some­body wanl<> to protest, there are already multiple Far.ebook groups about il. Seriously, I think I've only ever joined one or two Far.ebook protests, and I don't ever remember hearing that the group achieved it's "five million mem­bers in one week!!" goal, or that they had any efl'er.t whatsoever. Something tells me the guy who believes you can get millions of people to sign up to your peti­tion in a few days probably isn't able to organize actual change. 

But I understand the complaints. It's natural to resist change when the cur­rent setup seems to be working fine. Maybe the 'old Facebook' worked for you. But it wasn't perfect. 
The biggest problem the new version fixes is the application-obsessed user's profile page. The new version deans up the profile page, moving the clutter to various tabs. You may lind it inconven­ient to use. but believe me, the real inconvenience was searching for five minutes just to find your wall. By that point, I'm likely to have given up looking. You probably missed the chance to get my message just so you could show me your 62 bumper stickers, your favorite drinks, your record Jetman score, who thinks you're a hottie, your Zombie type, your Shakespeare quote of the week, and the dumb grafliti about inside jokes I don't understand. 
Now I can find your wall in a few sec­onds. That alone L<> worth the change. 
Plus, the menus are cleaned up and condensed. The News Feed gives me more infi1rmation faster and is suppos­edly "more relevant." On the face, these should all be good changes, and in action, they are. 
Ultimately, there's little you can do. Users were outraged when the News Feed was introduced, but aside from tweaking the settings a little bit, they did­n't do much about it. People adjusted. I bet you'd be outraged today ifyour News Feed di<>appeared. 
The· same goes for the most receni face-lift. Most people are thrown a curveball by the change, a few hundred thousand will protest, but the change will stay. Perhaps they'll take some sug­gnstions and twnak things. Maybe they'll lose a few thousand or even million users, but it won't even make a dent in the 100 million user base. Give it a few days, and the outrage will subside. 
And I would bet that a few months from now, it'd be going back to the old version that would make you really out­raged. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publicaion and strives lr>r the highesr srandards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, rerugnize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WET WERE YOU AT SATURDAY'S GAME? 






Caroline Green  Julie Romano  Michael Ryan  Matt Fanous  
sophomore McGlinn  sophomore Breen Philips  freshman O'Neill  senior O'Neill  
"Really wet, just how I like it.,  "Not that wet, I was layered."  "Super-dee­duper wet."  "Mother nature made me plenty wet."  


IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Michael Floyd tries to catch a pass during Notre Dame's 35-17 win over Michigan Saturday. 
OFFBEAT 
Dog saves owners life by calling 911 
PHOENIX -"Man's best friend" doesn't go far enough for Buddy -a German shepherd who remembered his training and saved his owner's life by calling 911 when the man had a seizure. 
And it's not the first time Buddy has been there for owner Joe Stalnaker, a police officer said Sunday. 
On a recording of the 911 call Wednesday, Buddy is heard whimpering and barking after the dispatcher answers and repeatedly asks if the caller needs help. 
"Hello, this is 911. Hello ... Can you hear me? Is there somebody there you can give the phone to,"says the dispatcher, Chris Trott. 
Police were sent to Stalnaker's home, and after about three minutes Buddy is heard barking loudly when the officers arrived. 
Pilfered Primate returned a little battered 
EAST MACHIAS, Maine ­An 8-foot-tall mechanical gorilla is back home at an eastern Maine flea market­style store two weeks after it was stolen and later dumped in a cornfield in Vermont. 

A pickup truck carrying the somewhat battered and torn gorilla arrived Saturday afternoon at Sandy's Sales a day after being picked up at a Vermont police barracks. 
Owners Sandy and Lowell Miller were delighted to see the gorilla dubbed "Seemore," which was stolen from outside their store over Labor Day week~ end. But they agreed the gorilla needs some tender loving care for its injuries: a head severed from its body, holes and rips in its face, and a broken arm. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Kelly Kraus  Pat Sturm  
freshman McGlinn  sophomore O'Neill  
'Tm still dripping_ ,  "I wasn't the wet one, ponchos are a good thing. "  

IN BRIEF 
Mendoza Coll.ege of Business will.be hosting a Berges Lecture: "Values and Decision Making" from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. on Monday in Jordan Auditorium. 
A live video interview with Philip Roth, Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award Winning Author will take place in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on Tuesday at 8 p.m. The interview will celebrate the release of his novel "Indignation" and b.e 
conducted  by  author  
Benjamin Taylor.  
There  will  be  a  lecture  

entitled "How We Can End the Genocide in Sudan" given by John Prendergast in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium, on Thursday from 12:30 to 2 p.m. Lunch will be available prior to the lecture. It is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and the Center for Social Concerns This event is free and open to the public. 
In "The Wonderhread Years," Pat Hazell finds humor in the experience of growing up in America. This event will be Thurs., Fri., and Sat. at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio. Mainstage Theatre. Tickets are $40, $32 faculty/staff. $30 seniors, and $15 students and can be purchased at the Ticket Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LIJ 
::t: 
!C[ 
LIJ 
3: 
_. 
c( 
(.) 0 

HIGH 62 HIGH 50 HIGH 69 HIGH 74
..I 
LOW 47 LOW 43 LOW 50 LOW 52 
Atlanta 81 I 63 Boston 82 I 56 Chicago 61 I 50 Denver 73 I 50 Houston 83 I 61 Los Angeles 88 I 65 Minneapolis 66 I 49 New York 72 I 60 Philadelphia 82 I 59 Phoenix 104 I 78 Seattle 81 I 56 St. Louis 67 I 53 Tampa 91 I 76 Washington 85 I 66 

HIGH LOW 


Monday, September 15, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMEAC opens Free Store 
Store sells used, donated, and recycled items to promote green campus 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
If students at Saint Mary's are looking for any gently-used clothing, shower caddies or binders, they can now get them for free at the Saint Mary's Environmental Action Coalition's (SMEAC) Free Store. 
SMEAC has been planning the Free Store since Dr. Louise Weber, a professor of biology and environmental studies at Warren Wilson College, spoke at Saint Mary's during the spring semester last year. 
Warren Wilson is "an almost 100 percent green college," SMEAC public relations coordi­nator Jamie Thordsen said. "[Weber] gave us many tips on how we could take steps towards becoming a greener campus and one happened to be the free store." 
The Free Store is a way to get people to reuse usable items and also allows them to donate items they don't need instead of throwing them away, she said. 
SMEAC gathered many of the items in the store as students were moving out of the dorms at the end of last year. 
"A lot of it [came out of the trash]," Thordsen said. "The clothes were donated, but there were binders full of paper that people threw away last year, not even in the recycling." 
Members spoke with Carrie member working in the store. Call, the director of the Office The student doesn't have to for Civic and Social make a donation to be able to Engagement, about finding a take things, but donations are 
room  to  welcome whenever  
house  the  the store is open.  
store at the beginning of this year and were given  "We're going to have to go heavy on promoting donation  "We're gong to have to go heavy on promoting donating because  
Room the ment  3 in base-of  because we've been cleared out [today.}"  we've been cleared out [today]," SMEAC vice presi- 
LeMans Hall,  dent  Monica  
which is in front of the vending  Monica Aguirre Vice President SMEAC  Aguirre said. "The store is going to need donations in  

machines. 

The store opened for business yesterday with the first hour being open to SMEAC members only. 
"This is only for the grand opening," Thordsen said. "It's our way of saying thanks to our club members for their support and encouraging them to be active in our club this year." 
The SMEAC hour also provid­ed organizers with a dry run, allowing them to see how the store will run. 
"It gave us enough time to change any unnecessary proce­dures or establish new ones as we [saw] necessary," Thordsen said. 
Students who visit the store are allowed to take anything the'y need as long as they check out the items with the SMEAC order to keep run­
ning." 
Both officers said 
there were a lot of students 
who stopped by the store to see 
what it had to offer. 
''I'm really surprised with the 
turnout," Aguirre said. 
Junior Kate Doornbos was one of the students who stopped by; she picked up a blonde wig that someone left in the dorms last year that she .said she'd find a use for around 
Halloween. 
"[I think the Free Store] is a 
really great idea," she said. "I 
plan on coming back." 
The Free Store will be open 
twice a week starting this 
Wednesday from 5-8 p.m. and 
Sundays from 12-2 p.m. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOl@saintmarys.edu 

Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
he would like to see a more efficient attack from an Irish running game, which averaged only 3.2 yards per carry. 
"I was impressed, but I'd like to see more consistency in the running game," he said. "Although the offensive line has played spectacularly so far." 
Sophomore Chris Schiraldi said he was even impressed by the halftime show, which fea-
SMC 
continued from page 1 
to "three to four percent of stu­dent enrollment," he said. 
The College hopes to continue increasing its number of interna­tional students through the aggressive recruitment policies that have been implemented, he said. · 
Most of the international recruitment is done online and by e-mail, Meyer said, but there is now more of an aggressive follow up. 
After the College finds an "international lead," they are "making sure that we follow up on two or three occasions after that," Meyer said. 
One approach is to seek out international high school stu­dents who are part of exchange or study abroad programs in the United States, he said. 
He gave the example of a Japanese student who was study­ing at Oay High School in South tured the Michigan band play­ing some songs by once popu­lar boy bands such as *NSYNC. 
"I think they had some really good song choices," he said. 
Though neither team is cur­rently ranked, Mcintosh said he was happy to see Notre Dame beat Michigan. 
"It doesn't matter that we're both not ranked, a win against Michigan is still a big deal," he said. "This game is college foot­ball." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu. 
Bend, but is now back in Japan. 
"When she was here, we had the chance to talk to her," he said. "Her application will be coming in for the fall of 2009." 
In addition, Saint Mary's is working with the Department of Defense and the Department of State, Meyer said. 
The Department of Defense oversees schools on military bases and the Department of State "runs similar schools in various locations where the United States has embassies," he said. 
"[Saint Mary's] made a consci­entious decision to reach out to them," Meyer said. 
The increase from last year to this year is a trend that the College would like to continue, he said. 
"We want to continue to expand this and see ifwe can get to the point where we're enrolling 10-15 first years that are international," Meyer said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO1@saintmarys.edu 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about. .. · 

anish and Portuguese Langua e 

f!J

" zil 
IC il 


Tuesday, Sept. 16, 2008 5:00pm 155 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 15, 2008 
A<>soeiated Responsibilities," says political debate would be appro­Where is the line? "But I don't think that generally principles of academic freedom priate, "where policies decided on The line between political advo­works out or is what lpolitieal sci­
Politics 
continued from page 1 

play an integral role in the dass­room'! 
The easy answer, University Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis .Jacobs said, is yes. But that yes eomes with certain caveats. both for professors and studenL'i. 
Academic freedom 
Professors in all fields of study have Cl)rtain obligations to uphold with tlwir studenL'i, outlined in a University document called the Academic Articles, Jaeobs said. 
Th1) most rPlevant part of this document. in terms of political discussion in the classroom. he said, has to do with acadcmie freedom that, like every other freedom. comes with expecta­tions. 
"I think there are certain responsibilities that faculty have in the practke of aeademie free­dom, to be rnspeetful of others and to understand the boundaries of thPir expPrtise or their particu­lar discipline," he said. 
Artide Ill, section 2, titled "Academic Freedom and 
include the "freedom to teach and to learn according to one's obliga­tion. vision, and training" and "respectful allowance for the exercise of these freedoms by oth­ers." 
A third principle calls for the "avoidance of using the University to advance personal opinion or commercial interest." 
These three principles are cru­cial in any discussion regarding political debate at an academic level, .Jacobs said. 
"There should never be an issue of' advocacy -a professor should not be an advocate of a particular position politically," he said. 
Individuals at the University, faculty and students alike, have an opinion on a political topic. A question for professors, however, is "to what extent in the profes­sion of being a professor do you reveal that," Jacobs said. 
In terms of relevance to the sub­ject matter, Jacobs provided the example of a mathematician expressing an opinion around a political subject. 
"That would be inappropriate," he said. There are many courses across the University, however, where 
either the national or internation­al, global level would be absolute­ly at the heart of what the course is all about," Jacobs said. 
Individuals in the classroom should express their ideas and opinions in those cases, but in a respectful manner "that in the end would make us all better informed citizens," he said, and political debates, where appropri­ate, should remain present in the academic setting. 
"We want students to be actively engaged citizens, to be citizens of the political process. And so to say that those kinds of discussions or debates are barred from the classroom would be doing some­thing damaging, I think, to an educational institution," Jacobs said. 
Debate at an academic level is one thing, he said, but advocacy for a particular side is improper. 
"It would be naive to say, that when any of us speak, what we say does not reflect our personal beliefs," Jacobs said. "Faculty members are not there to advo~ cate for a position, but to help stu­dents understand how reasonable debate in a political sphere takes place." 

cacy and debating a certain posi­tion at an academic level is a hard one to draw, Political Science Department Chairperson Michael Zuckert said. 
"It's hard to draw the line between political science -politi­cal analysis-and political advoca­cy because what's involved in political analysis is the judgment of the adequacy or inadequacy of various political proposals," he said. "And that may or may not end up favoring particular posi­tions." 
The evaluation of a political position, an integral part of the study of political science, is difl'er­ent than the evaluation of a work of art, Zuckert said, because it may seem appropriate for a teacher of art to make a distinc­tion between better or worse. 
"It's not as controversial," he said. 
However, controversies related to politics are unavoidable, due to the nature of the discussion of dif­fering opinions regarding a posi­tion, he said. 
In the field of political science, he said, there is sometimes an "asp!~ation to be completely value free. 
ence] should do or be," Zuckert said. 
Professors should keep in mind the power differential between their position and the position of students in the classroom when deciding the amount they inte­grate their own beliefs into their curriculum, he said, and their "ability to make people feel uncomfortable." 
Drawing the line, though difTI­cult, is a mark of good teaching, Zuckert said, and different profes­sors may take different'strategies in presenting political opinion in the classroom setting. 
"You can't just draw this line in a firm way -but I think them am ways of presentation which are more sensitive to the elassroom situation," he said. "However, sometimes, in moments of heated partisan debate, it can be ea...:;y for people to forget where they are and. what they're doing." 
ThP next part of this series will present professors' strategies of presenting politics in their courses relating to the 2008 election. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 



Christian Culture 
LECTURE Saint Mary's College 
Poetry as an Act of History: AI-Andalus, Sefarad, Spain 
featuring 

Marfa Rosa Menocal 
Director of the Whitney Humanities Center at Yale University 
The Christian Culture Lecture honors Professor Bruno Schlesinger and is made possible by the generosity of Dr. Susan Fitzgerald Rice '61 and her husband, Dr. Donald B. Rice. 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 15, 2008 COMPllED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Protesters' revolt kills 15, injures 55 
LA PAZ, Bolivia -President Evo Morales struggled to assert control over a badly frac­tured Bolivia on Sunday as protesters set fire to a town hall and blockaded highways in opposi­tion-controlled provinces, impeding gasoline and food distribution. 
At least 30 people have been killed in the poor Andean nation this week, Interior Minister Alfredo Rada said. All the deaths occurred in Pando province, where Morales declared mar­tial law on Friday, dispatching troops and accus­
.. ing government foes of killing his supporters. Pando's security chief, Alberto Murakami, told The Associated Press by telephone that 15 peo­ple had died and 55 were injured. 
Pope preaches love will prevail 
LOURDES, France -People must cling to hope even in dire circumstances like injustice and tor­ture, Pope Benedict XVI told the faithful at Sunday Mass in Lourdes, which has become a shrine for desperate causes and hope against all odds. 
"The power of love is stronger than the evil which threatens us," Benedict told at least 100,000 pilgrims gathered for Mass on a rain­soaked field. 
Some knelt on cardboard boxes or plastic bags to protect themselves from the damp conditions, while others watched from wheelchairs. 
About 6 million people, many of them sick and suffering, visit the French town in the foothills of the Pyrenees each year to drink from and bathe in its cool spring. Many Roman Catholics believe the water has healing powers, and the Church has officially recognized 67 miracle cures here. 
Benedict was in Lourdes to mark the 150th anniversary of visions of the Virgin Mary to a 14­year-old peasant girl, Bernadette Soubirous. She was later named a saint. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Curfew issued in devestated city 
GALVESTON, Texas -Houston officials have issued a weeklong curfew for the city devastated by Hurricane Ike. 
Officials announced that a 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. cur­few would begin Sunday night and last until Saturday. Most of the city has lost electricity, streets are littered with debris, and police are worried about the safety of residents. 
Police say residents should not be on the streets during the curfew unless it's an emer­gency. 
Ike slammed the southeast Texas coast. on Saturday, trapping many people in homes who had stayed behind. Hundreds have had to be res­cued and crews are still canvassing neighbor­hoods inundated by Ike's storm surge 
Evacuees wait to return home 
SAN ANTONIO -Hurricane Ike's deadly surge has kept thousands of evacuees holed up in cramped quarters -shelters, RVs, even a warehouse -as they face the prospect of returning to flood-ravaged neighborhoods left without electricity. 
Others huddled in motels in the hopes that they had enough money to stay until it was safe to return -that is, if they had homes to return to . 
. More than 1.2 million people fled the Texas coast during Ike's approach, but officials estimated as many as 140,000 defied evacuation orders and stayed to ride out the enormous Category 2 storm. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Three killed from midwest storms 
MUNSTER, Ind. -A father and son drowned in northwest Indiana while try­ing to rescue children from a flooded ditch as heavy rains from the remnants of Hurricane Ike forced hundreds of evacua­tions across the Midwest on Sunday. 
The two men were killed while helping kids escape a ditch in Chesterton, about 35 miles southeast of Chicago, Fire Chief Warren Highwood said. None of the chil­dren were injured. One death was also reported in Arkansas, where a 29-year­old man was killed when a tree fell on a 
Rescuers save 2,000 following Ike 
Texas victims found within destruction after search and salvage operations 
Associated Press 
GALVESTON, Texas ­Rescuers said Sunday they had saved nearly 2,000 peo­ple from the waterlogged streets and splintered houses left behind by Hurricane Ike . Glass-strewn Houston was placed under a weeklong curfew, and millions of peo­ple in the storm's path remained in the dark. 
As the floodwaters began to recede from the first hurri­cane to make a direct hit on a major U.S. city since Katrina, authorities planned to go door-to-door into the night to reach an _untold number of people across the Texas coast who rode out the storm and were still in their homes, many without power or supplies. 
Many of those who did make it to safety boarded buses without knowing where they would end up, and without knowing when they could return to what was left of their homes, if anything. 
"I don't know what I'll be coming back to. I have noth­ing," said Arma Eaglin, 52, who was waiting for a bus to a shelter in San Antonio after leaving her home and wad­ing through chest-deep water with nothing but her clothes. ''I'm confused. r don't know what to do." 
The hurricane also bat­tered the heart of the U.S. oil industry: Federal officials said Ike destroyed a number of production platforms, though it was too soon to know how seriously it would affect oil and gas prices. 
Ike was downgraded to a tropical depression as it moved into the nation's mid­section and left more harm in its wake. Hoads were closed in Kentucky because of high winds. As far north as Chicago, dozens of people in a suburb had to be evacuat­ed by boat. Two million peo­ple were without power in Texas, Arkansas and Louisiana. 
The death toll from the storm rose to 13. Three were in the hard-hit barrier island city of Galveston, Texas, including one body found in a vehicle submerged in flood­water at the airport. Many deaths, however, were out­side of Texas as the storm slogged north. 

Ike's 110 mph winds and battering waves _ left Galveston without electricity, gas and basic communica­tions -and officials estimat­ed it may not be restored for a month. 
"We want our citizens to stay where they are," a weary Mayor Lyda Ann Thomas said. "Do not come back to Galveston. You can­not live here right now." 
Houston, the nation's fourth -largest city, was reduced to near-paralysis in some places. Power was on in downtown office towers Sunday afternoon, and Texas Medical Center, the world's largest medical complex, was unscathed and remained open. Both places have underground power lines. 
Its two airports -includ­ing George Bush Intercontinental, one of the busiest in the United States -were set to reopen Monday with limited service, but schools were closed until further notice, and the busi­ness district was shuttered. 
Five people were arrested at a pawn shop north of Houston and charged with burglary in what Harris County Sheriffs spokesman Capt. John Martin described as looting, but there was no widespread spike in crime. 
Authorities said Sunday afternoon that 1,984 people had been rescued, including 394 by air. In addition to peo­ple who were literally plucked to safety, the figure includes people who were met by crews as they waded through floodwaters trying to get to dry ground. 
Still others chose to remain in their homes along the Texas coast even after the danger of the storm had­passed. There was no imme­diate count Sunday of how many people remained in their homes, or how many were in danger. The Red Cross reported 42,000 people were at state and Red Cross shelters Saturday night. 
The search-and-rescue effort was the largest in Texas history, including more than 50 helicopters, 1 ,500 searchers and teams from federal, state and local agen­cies. 

THAILAND 
Thailand calls for a compromise 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK -The Thai government ended a state of emergency imposed in the capital to control a violent political crisis, saying on Sunday it had only served to scare away tourists crucial to the country's economy. 
Emergency rule was imposed by the government on Sept. 2 after a night of violent clashes between anti-government supporters and opponents left one man dead and dozens injured. 
Images of the mayhem were broadcast around the world, prompting travel advi­sories from several countries. 
Calm was quickly restored and busi­ness and daily life continued as normal in the Thai capital. The army refused to exercise its authority under the decree to oust tens of thousands of protesters from the prime minister's compound, where they have been camped in tents since Aug. 26. 
Acting Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat urged all sides in the deepen­ing political standoff to compromise and help restore the country's image. 
"If we continue the state of emergency it could damage the country's economy," Somchai said after meeting with the army chief and other senior security officials. 
The stock market has fallen about 25 percent since anti-government protesters started their campaign with street demonstrations in May. 
"We should bring back the smile to the country once again, as we are called 'The Land of Smiles.' We have to restore out­siders' confidence, especially tourists, that we are a peaceful country and have no more conflict," Somchai said_ "I am confident that all parties concerned will soften their stance and come to a com­promise." 
Monday, September 15, 2008 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Howard 
continued from page 1 
from U.S. roads, she said. 
"We are trying to do what he said on a smaller scale," Henderson said. 
The effort started last year when Howard Hall decided to 
create an environment committee with an environmen­tal commis­sioner head­ing it within the dorm. Henderson said. 

As the commission­e r , Henderson 
"Doing something like this join the 
might seem environ­ment com­
insignificant, but it's the little 
mittee and

changes that add up." 
compete in t h e Lauren Henderson upcoming e n e r g y
Environmental Commissioner 
competi­

Howard Hall 
decided to contact General 
Electric over the summer 

about donating their. CFL 
bulbs, she said. 
"I was able to get them 

through the Vice President of 
Ecomagination, a division of 
the Green Initiatives for 
General Electric:," Henderson 
said. "I just contacted her bye­
mail and IPt her know what 
was going on with Howard and 
asked if it would be possible if 
we eould gnt a donation of the 
bulbs," she said. 

At l'irst. tlw vice president. Lorraine Bolsinger. said the bulbs were sold out all over the country. but later they became available. llenderson said. 
"We are very lucky to have 

tlwm," slw said. 
The bulbs will bn handnd out 

to the residents in Howard at 
tlw dorm's hall council meeting 
Tuesday. Ilenderson said. 
"There are 160 people in Howard induding staff and we will give out one per room," llenderson said. 
Although thP bulbs cannot be used in the ovnrhead lights in the room, thny can be put in the freestanding lamps and desk lamps the girls have in thnir rooms, she said. 
Tht~ lnftover bulbs will be given to housekeeping so they can replace them when other lights burn out. Henderson said. 
"It's important to remember that doing something like this might senm insignificant, but it's the littlo changes that add up," she said. 
Installing CFL bulbs in the dorm is only the first step in Howard's initiative to become a greener dorm, Henderson said. The Environment Committee is in the planning stages for sev­eral other projects, she said. 
One project focuses on alter­ing the water bottle usage in the dorm, Henderson said. She has been researching a water bottle made by a company called Watergeeks Laboratories, hoping to pro­vide them for students, she said. 
"My room drinks an awful lot of water bottles because we don't want to drink the tap wat~r." she said. "We are thinking of getting water bot­tles for the dorm that have built in purifiers so we can fill up the bottles straight from the tap and rnduce the plastic waste in our dorm." she said. 
Otlwr projects in the works are altering the recycling methods for the dorm and offering environmental-friend­ly <:osnwti<:s and toiletries, llnndnrson said. 
These projt~<·ts hav<~ excited othnr lloward n~sidnnts about bn<:oming involvPd in making lloward a grPPrwr dorm. 
Freshman Shannon 

McNaught said she is happy to see so much environmental awareness on campus, 
"I took an environmental sci­ence class in high school and got involved in a lot of environ­mental action there," she said. "I was really excited to see something in Howard pertain­ing to the same idea." 
Virginia Benz, another fresh­
man, said 
she is 
excited to 
tion in which e v e r y 

dorm attempts to be the "greenest" dorm on campus. 
"I am excited to see if we can win !the competition). I think we have a good chance," she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
water, and a touchdown catch. This is where heroes
Rain 

are made, this is where leg­continued from page 1 ends live, this is the middle 
of South Quad," sophomore these is "Lake Dillon," locat­Kale Frank said. ed in front of the dorm on An NDSP officer eventually 
South Quad. 
A group of men from· Sorin Hall made an afternoon visit to " L a k e Dillon" for a little adven­ture. 
One threw a football to the middle of the lake, while the others took turns sprint­ing in and 

halted the group's activity.
"Nothing beats a face full 
Students ofmud, a mouth full of from the 
water, and a touchdown Houston 
area, which
catch. This is where 
has been heroes are made, this is hit hard by 
where legends live, this is Hurricane 
Ike, com­
the middle ofSouth 
pared cam­
Quad." pus condi­tions to their home-
Kale Frank 
towns.

Sophomore 
Junior 
R y a n 
Dworaczyk 
making diving catches. said, "It's better than "Nothing beats a face full Houston. We're underwater of mud, a mouth full of right now." 
Freshman Natalie Lester has experienced Hurricane Ike's effects twofold. 
''I'm from Houston, so we got hit there, and now her.e," she said. 
Many students found ways to adjust to the. rainfall, cancelling plans and choos­ing to stay inside and study. 
"I had plans of going to play basketball," said fresh­man Caleb Atwood. "Not now." 
Sophomore Nicole Huiz from Pasquerilla East has been forced to cope with the rainfall. 
"Yesterday, I was working at a concession stand and the rain was the most horri­ble thing ever," she said. .. 
She added, "I haven't had to change my plans much, but I have had to change my clothes." 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 



---------------------------------------------~-------------------------------------------------------------. 

Monday, September 15, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,421.99 -11.72
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,799  70  1,413  1,99,524,230  
AMEX  

NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 +2.65 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 1~;214.76 i'h!Ut::if,?P FTSE 100 (London) 5A16.70 +98.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) -30.83 -5.41 12.14 LEHMAN BROS HLD (LEH) -13.51 -0.57 3.65 WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM) -3.53 -0.10 2.73 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.46 +0.58 126.09 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +2.98 +0.11 3.73 13-WEEK BILL -7.59 -0.12 1.46 30-YEAR BOND +2.66 +0.1120 4.3260 5-YEAR NOTE +2.46-+0.0710 2.9560 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.31 101.18 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +19.00 764.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.60 86.30 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.3700 
EURO 0.7034 
IN BRIEF 
Government may face difficult choice 
WASHINGTON -Former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan says the government may face a difficult choice as it tries to help arrange a rescue of Lehman Brothers without using public money. 
The field of possible buyers for the investment firm seems to be narrowing and discussions are continuing. The Bush administration is seeking to avoid a Bear Stearns-like bailout. 
Greenspan says if the effort falters, officials may have to decide whether to allow Lehman to be liquidated or whether to have the govern­ment support the firm. 
Greenspan says he is not making any recom­mendations because he doesn't know enough about Lehman's financial situation or the reper­cussions of any solution. 
He says there could be more big financial companies in trouble in the future. He says that doesn't have to be a problem, depending how each situation is handled, and he says the gov­ernment should not try to protect every strug­gling institution. 
Lehman Brothers continues to crumble 
SAN FRANCISCO -The mortgage melt­down is like a financial hurricane, then think of Lehman Brothers as a casualty that waited too long to cry for help. 
By the time that Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. sent out its distress signal, the U.S. gov­ernment had become reluctant to lend a helping hand as it did other recent bailouts that could cost taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. 
And without some government protection, other banks still trying to cope with their own risky real estate investments weren't inclined to come to Lehman's rescue. 
Finally, investors and lenders have become leery of throwing more money into the seem­ingly bottomless pit of losses piling up as the home values securing mortgages across the United States continue to crumble. 
"The first losses in a crisis are usually easi­er to take," said Daniel Alpert, managing director of Westwood Capital LLC. "It's the last losses that become debilitating because the well starts to run dry. There just isn't a lot of cushion left." 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Banks back up troubled· companies 
Up to 100 billion dollars in funds found to lend to failing businesses 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -As the out­look for Lehman Brothers dimmed Sunday, U.S. and foreign banks were pressed to create a plan aimed at inoculating the global finan­cial system against the investment bank's failure, a top investment banking offi­cial said. 
Banks were in tense talks to create a pool of money worth up to $100 billion to lend troubled financial com­panies, the official said on condition of anonymity because the discussions were ongoing. And officials at the 
U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve were expected to announce they 

. are prepared to be more generous in the Fed's emer­gency lending program for commercial and investment banks. The plan comes as top gov­ernment officials and Wall Street executives held marathon, but so far fruit­less, meetings to save Lehman Brothers, and amid signs that the 158-year-old investment bank might be · forced to seek bankruptcy protection and liquidate. The company's shares have plunged 95 percent in the past year over worries that it does not have enough money to cover losses from its mas­sive real estate holdings. The official also said the Treasury Department and the Fed were pushing Bank estate holdings. If no deal were reached, it Brothers, who spoke on con­of America Corp. to buy The Lehman talks original­raised the specter of a bank­dition of anonymity, said Merrill Lynch & Co. On ly were aimed at selling the ruptcy and liquidation of the employees were briefed of Friday, Merrill Lynch's investment bank in whole or investment bank, which in the situation earlier Sunday shares fell as investors fret­in part. The deal was trip­turn could have a tumultuous afternoon via conference ted it might be the next ping on the potential buyers' effect on world markets. Late call. Lehman executives did investment bank to come insistence that they receive Sunday, Dow Jones industrial not explicitly say the compa­under pressure from its port­the same kind of help that average futures were down ny was filing for bankruptcy folio of risky mortgage­Bear Stearns Cos. got last 276 points, or 2.4 percent, at protection, but essentially backed securities. March when JPMorgan 11,182. confirmed the bank was Expectations that the 158-Chase & Co. bought the secu­Traders and bankers planning to liquidate its year-old Lehman would sur­rities firm with a $29 billion across Wall Street came irtto assets. vive dimmed Sunday after­Fed-backed loan. the office Sunday to prepare There were other signs noon after Bar.clays PU; Treasury Secretary Henry their departments for what is that Lehman was moving withdrew its bid to buy the Paulson has said the govern­expected to be a brutal day closer to a bankruptcy filing, investment bank. Barclays ment will not help close a in the market. JPMorgan with several reports that it and Bank of America were Lehman deal, and it was employees who work trading has hired Wei!, Gotshal & considered front-runners to clear late Sunday he was not desks were asked to come in Manges, the law firm that buy Lehman, which is budging. at 7 a.m. EDT, way before handled the collapse of 
foundering under the weight Lehman declined to com­the market's 9:30 a.m. open. investment firm Drexel of $60 billion in soured real ment on the talks. An employee at Lehman Burnham Lambert in 1990. 

Gas prices jump due to hurricane 
South Carolina, Hawaii and Alaska, for 22-year-old college student Isiah 
HOUSTON -Pump prices jumped according to auto club AAA, the Oil James. He bought four gallons of gas above $5 per gallon in some parts of Price Information Service and Wright at $3.99 near the Columbus, Ohio, the country Sunday as Hurricane Ike, Express. suburb of Worthington. which caused less destruction than States fed directly by refineries "You've got to work harder," he feared, left refineries and pi-pelines along the Gulf Coast were particular­said. idled and destroyed at least 10 off­ly hard hit and supply may be spo­Hurricane Ike appears to have shore platforms in the Gulf of radic for the next few weeks with destroyed a number of production Mexico. refineries shut down, said Tom platforms and damaged some of the 
Far beyond areas struck directly by Kloza, chief oil analyst with the Oil pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico, feder­high winds and flooding, Ike left Price Information Service. al officials said Sunday. behind it a bizarre pattern of prices A station in Knoxville, Tenn., was Fly-overs revealed that at least 10 at gas pumps, with disparities of asking $5.19 for a gallon of regular production platforms were destroyed more than $1 a gallon in some states, gas. In Nashville, about 180 miles by the storm, said Lars Herbst, and even on some blocks. away, gas was going for $3.50. regional director for the U.S. 
"We're on the other side of the Whatever pain is being felt at U.S. Minerals Management Service. looking glass," said Claire Raines, gas pumps will likely be a very brief "It's too early to say if it's close to who lives near Knoxville, Tenn. "I phenomenon, analysts say. The dour Katrina-and Rita-type damage," just passed three gas stations with drumbeat of the global economy has Herbst said. prices that ran from about $3.50 to the vast majority of traders believing The MMS says Hurricane Katrina close to $5 within walking distance." the world has lost its appetite for destroyed 44 platforms three years 
Average prices exceeded $4 per high-priced crude and gasoline. ago, and soon after Hurricane Rita gallon in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, The pain was immediate, however, destroyed 64. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, September 15, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

The vanishing intellectual 
P.O. Box 779, Nor"' Dam<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay firzparrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: jenn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITQI{; Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPlliCS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

AD 0F$1GN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CoNTROlLER: Stacy Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(174) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhc independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and o'?jectively as possible. Unsigned e-ditorials represent rhe opinion of tlw majority ofthe Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free t·xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "garding Obsm1a policies should be di"cted to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The (11lW'rvcr (liSPS 5"1'1 l-4000~ u puhli9hed Mondllly 1hwugh Frid:ay cxttpr during cum .md V.IQIUm pcrin•k A •ui"'-Tiptmn 10 '11'C l)h..c'rvcr if $100 fOr or-e •C;-ldcmic 
yc.u;$5'lfutunc;~orcr. 
'rhc Ohscrvrr is publis~ .u: POSfMASTER 
02-\ South Dining ~b.lt Send addru~ corrections to~ 
Nurre D.mtc. IN ..655tl-On9 TheOI~rvcr 
Pcrindi•.:al pm1.agc p:tid u Not~ 0.1mc P.O.IloxTI'l 
.Uid oaddiciou.1l nuiling offica. 024 Somh Dining Hall 
~ttc Dame, IN 46556-4)n9 

1bc Obscrn·r ih a mc:mhcr t)f lilt-A.v.uciated rr~. All rcptuducrion tight~> otrc fCil,"l'\l~, 
Along with the Tasmanian Tiger, the 
Lindbergh baby and the Soviet Union, 
the intellectual might someday be 
regarded as one of the great disap­
pearances of the twentieth century. 
The term "intel­
lectual"-a 
learned man or 
woman whose 
life is dedicated 
to informed dis­
cussion in order 
to influence pub­
lic opinion -first 
came into popu­
lar usage with the . Dreyfus affair in 
the 1890s. They 
defended the 
common good, 
appealed to 
human rights, 
national sentiment, justice, humanity 
and so on -the self-appointed public 
moralists of literate societies that 
placed a premium on free speech and, .. 
ostensibly, principled debate. 
In the world of universities, there are 
still some last flickers of public 
engagement, but you would be hard­
pressed to find them. Whether due to 
the scarcity of academic jobs, the pub­
lish-or-perish mentality, the intense 
specialization of each discipline or 
some combination of these and other 
factors, academics have too much to 
risk-tenure and other professional 
considerations -to venture outside of 
their own small patch of academic turf. 
It's certainly not the case that academ­
ics aren't smart, thoughtful, passionate 
or engaging, just that the academic 
environment provides too many disin­
centives from doing anything other 
than focusing on lab reports, lectures 
and the next article or book. 
For their part, universities typically 
justify their existence and quality 
based on their stated commitments to 
academic excellence (whatever that 
means), small class sizes, selective 
admissions and skills development. 


Once again, there is too much to risk -donations, quality applicants, facul­ty satisfaction and prestige -to do more than store, increase and pass on knowledge. After all, universities make it clear that their mission is education and any attempt to apply that educa­tion to political, social or cultural issues is extracurricular. It's not a bad thing by any means. But the closest thing most university-goers will ever experience to real political engage­ment in the classroom will be a "witty" political wisecrack that connects the topic du jour to some current event or public figure. And in every case, it is an ironic (probably unintentionally so) acknowledgment of the inconceivably vast distance between the academic world and th~ world of public dis­course·_ about as wide, it turns out, as the distance between knowing facts and real understanding. 
As uncomfortable as these observa­tions may be (and they are observa­tions, not criticisms), it seems to be not an isolated problem, but rather a malaise that runs deeper than the groves of academe. Here's an example that's probably familiar to most gradu­ate students, or for that matter humanities majors in general. When I decided to begin my Ph.D. program here in history, one of my college roommates, who is now working for Microsoft, couldn't possibly fathom why for two reasons: First, because the pay was comparatively lower than what someone of my age would be making working in the public sector; and second, because in his mind I was going to waste my life doing something as irrelevant as history. This scene, as you can imagine, has played out and continues to play out with anyone working in the sort ofjob that involves poor compensation and dedication to an ideal, whether it's academia, the arts, an NGO or the like. 
The point, simply, is that money, not ideas, seems to be the driving force in most people's lives nowadays. In fact, 
people probably act on emotion rather than reason most of the time, too. It takes less effort to be moved by emo­tion and economics, and it's much harder with ideas. A glance at political debate, at the news or at pop culture should be proof enough that we think of ourselves and our lives mostly in economic terms-How much is a col­lege degree worth? Ilow much do I need to retire comfortably? -and that we are moved by emotions foremost. We let ourselves be blinded to princi­ples and ideas just because it's easier to declare upfront that all ideas are equally valid and not have to think about them altogether, and let our­selves be moved by our passions or whether we like the proponents or opponents of one or another argument. And, in another probably unintentional irony, we forget that the result of all this talk of relativism, tolerance and political correctness-none of which are necessarily bad -has in the end turned into anti-rationalism, anti-intel­lectualism and the demolition of the value of ideas and principles. Trained not to think, what else do we have to fall back on except acquisition and emotion? 
So at a time when it seems that pub­lic intellectuals can contribute to pub­lic dialogue more than ever, none are forthcoming. The university, it seems to me, has all the elements to nurture and protect not only engagement among its faculty, but encourage thoughtful, critical, principled reflec­tion on the great problems of our time, inside and out of the classroom. That it falls short of doing both surely is doing nothing to combat the failing public confidence in the value of ideas and in higher education. 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. student in history. He can be con­tacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY's· STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Mandi Stirone Matt Gamber What do you think of the new John Tierney Jared Jedick 
Facebook? 
Alicia Smith Mike Gotimer Graphics Scene 

Love it "See simplicity in the complicated. 
Andrea Archer Analise Lipari 
Hate it Achieve greatness in little things." 
Viewpoint I don't care

Lianna Lao-Tzu 
I don't have a Facebook founder of TaoismBrauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, September 15, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bad ga111e day behavior a disgrace to football tradition 
A rare visit to a Notre Dame football game a week ago with a fellow alum revealed to both of us the degeneration of what was once a festival we could cel­ebrate without endangering our souls. Standing out­side the Stadium, we witnessed a student clad only in shorts with this lewd message on his back: "Suck this." and a golden arrow pointing downward. He was in a frenzied state accompanied by more than a half dozen Notre Dame girls scantily clad, their bodies painted green and gold. The student was dancing around and engaging older alumni with their families, lifting his arms up saying: "Come on, let's get it up." As the alumni fans walked by they nervously greeted him and joined him in his revelry. 
Unfortunately this behavior was not an isolated inci­dent that day. It grieved me to see the Notre Dame football tradition being prostituted by a spirit of lewd­ness and revelry. My thoughUs: Enjoy Notre Dame football, celebrate but do not become frenzied, drink but do not get drunk, clown if you like but do not be lewd. Let's not lose Heaven over earthly festivals. 
Gus Zuehlke 
alum 
Class of 1980 
Sept. 13 
Favre not such a golden boy 
In response to Jay Fitzpatrick's article about Brett Favre ("I just love football," Sept. 11), I'd like to say that Favre is perhaps one of the most overrated athletes of our time. Mr. Fitzpatrick's article essentially sums up the typical football analyst's opinion about Brett Favre: 
1. 
Favre is a "gunslinger." This title is simply an attempt at justification for Favre's tendency to throw way too many interceptions (he has the all-time interception record). 

2. 
Favre is an "old-fashioned country boy." Why is this relevant? Are we somehow supposed to appreci­ate an athlete from the deep south more than an inner-city athlete? Emmitt Smith-a better running back than Favre is a quarterback-grew up in the projects. Not once was he described as an "old-fash­ioned inner city kid." 

3. 
Favre "just loves to play the game." I doubt he enjoys it much more than the average NFL player. Yes, he shows emotion. But consider this: In the final game of the 2002 season with five minutes left in the game, Favre intentionally called an incorrect play to his offensive line. He ran the opposite way of his linemen, leaving him unblocked and prime to be sacked by Giants defensive end Michael Strahan. Why did Favre do this? To make sure his buddy Strahan achieved the single-season sack record (the sack he "earned" by tackling Favre gave him the record). Favre tainted the game by lying to his teammates just so his friend got a record. I'm sure he enjoys playing football, but "fixing" a record seems a bit unethical (also, Favre's own tight-end, Bubba Franks, confirmed that Favre lied in the huddle about the play). 


Brett Favre had a good career. But let's keep it in perspective. 
Ryan McFarlane junior Sarin Hall Sept. 12 
Raytheon's 111oney is blood 111oney 
In response to Matt Florian's Sept. 11 Letter to the Editor ("Notre Dame presence essential in CIA, Raytheon"), he may have a point when he said that Notre Dame graduates should pursue jobs in the CIA in order to change it, but he has no case whatsoever in claiming that Notre Dame students should pursue a career with Raytheon, a weapons manufacturer. Although it is doubtful that one would have the power to "think twice" when making a tough decision in the CIA, an organization that has little room for moral prob­lems and places emphasis on obedience to orders with little respect for human rights, it is ludicrous to suggest that taking a job with a weapons manufacturer would change it in any way. Raytheon would continue to man­ufacture its bombs and other weapons for its own bene­fit and its investors' at the expense of countless inno­cent people. It would be like taking a job at Starbuck's when you are morally opposed to coffee. Although Raytheon may use the euphemism "technology leader specializing in defense, homeland security and other government markets," let's not deceive ourselves: They are making things that will kill other people, and any Notre Dame student who takes a job with them is intrin­sically part of that mission. 
In addition, Notre Dame should not accept the blood money given to sponsor its Class of 2009 Senior Kick-off Event by Raytheon. I am ashamed that this Catholic uni­versity has done so, despite the pope's condemnation of torture and the arms trade. Notre Dame does not allow Planned Parenthood at its Career Fair, so why should it allow Raytheon and the CIA-Are all not responsible for the deaths of innocent people? 
"That weapons of war are bought and sold almost as if they were simply another commodity like appliances or industrial machinery is a serious moral disorder in today's world .... Jobs at home cannot justify exporting the means of war abroad," U.S. Catholic Bishops, 1995 "Sowing Weapons of War" 
Claire Brosnihan sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall Sept. 11 

U-WIRE 
No fix for declining dollar 
When I walked up to the currency exchange counter in Lima, Peru, and was told that 100 American dollars translated to no more than 270 Peruvian nuevo soles, my jaw dropped. I had been in Peru the previous sum­mer, and the 2007 Laura Saiki­exchange rate would Chaves have given me at least 320 soles. Now I was KaLeo 0 50 soles short? The dif­Hawaii ference could have bought me at least two cases of beer! As a frequent jet-setter and an economics student, shouldn't common sense have prepared me for the dropping value of the dollar? Nope. 
The current economic conditions have caused the American dollar to plummet against most currencies in the world, like the euro, yen and -to my surprise ­the Peruvian nuevo sol. While students studying abroad have definitely felt this change in their wallets, the slumping dol­lar is an indicator of even greater eco­nomic woes in the United States. 
All over the nation, a rise in the stan­dard cost of living, coupled with stagnant wages, are major causes for concern. With food prices steadily rising and gas still a heavy burden, many fear inflation and unemployment might get out of con­trol. CNN reported that in Hawai'i alone, food prices were up 5.5 percent last year and inflation hit 4.8 percent. 
As I realized upon my return to Hawaii, these economic woes are starting to become more and more prominent. There I was at the supermarket, waiting to pay $6 for a gallon of milk and about $5 for a loaf of bread. Everyday necessi­ties are draining consumers' wallets, leaving them scratching their heads and wondering when the sun will shine once again on the economy. 
The sad news is that it probably won't be any time soon. There are still many black rainy clouds coming in. Many econ­omists forecast a recession; others insist that we are already experiencing one. In fact, the current economic situation is one of the most -if not the most ­important issues in the upcoming elec­tion. Presidential candidates are devising plans and escape routes to try to "fix" the economy. Tax cuts here, rebates there and-voila! Problem solved. 
But while these programs are great, the economy cannot be fixed overnight. Stock markets and consumer and investor confidence cannot be restored so easily. To top it off, the mess caused by the subprime mortgage industry and the housing market have left many financial institutions in crisis. Contrary to what the public wants to hear, it could be years before the economy is stable once more. 
So what should we do in the meantime? One idea is to start saving in euros, yen or hell, even nuevo soles. Because with this kind of uncertainty, who knows how far the dollar will drop before rising again? 
This editorial first appeared in the Sept. 11 edition of the Ka Leo 0 Hawaii, the daily paper at the University of Hawaii. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

..-------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 15, 2008 

By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 

"Saturday Night Live's" season pre­miere this past weekend began on a strong note with a humorous opening bit, "A Non-Partisan Message from Governor Palin and Senator Clinton," a message that sexism is inappropriately playing a role in the presidential cam­paign. Tina Fey cameoed as Sarah Palin, who is portrayed as inexperi­enced, while Clinton, played by Amy Poehler, is depicted as a "supporter" of Obama. The sketch referenced Palin's apparent confusion over the Bush Doctrine in her first major interview on ABC when Poehler mentioned the doc­trine and Fey stated, "I don't know what that is." 
Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps hosted the show and stated in his open­ing monologue that hosting SNL was "seriously like the ninth greatest moment of my life" after winning eight gold medals at the Beijing Olympics. William Shatner also made a surprising cameo during the monologue, attempt­ing to throw in an endorsement of "Priceline." 
The show went downhill from there, 
Scene Writer 

"Saturday Night Live" has had a slew of memorable moments in its history. The quotable sketches have often worked their way into the pop-culture lexicon of America. When did the cow­bell become cool? When Bruce Dickinson said it was. Here, we count down the top 10 most memorable moments in the past 20 years of "SNL" history. 
10. Five-Timers Club (1990­present): Ever since Tom Hanks refer­enced the exclusive club while hosting SNL for the fifth time, it has been­known as home to some of the most notable celebrities and musical guests. including Steve Martin, Tom Petty and Drew Barrymore. 
9. Lazy Sunday (2005}: Chris Parnell and Andy Samberg appear in this two­and-a-half minute digital short, rap­ping about their exciting afternoon trip to see "The Chronicles of Narnia" movie and teaching us that "Mr. Pibb plus Red Vines equals crazy delicious" and "Google maps is the best!" 
8. Iran So Far (2007}: Following Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's speech at Columbia University last fall, Andy Samberg, along with Maroon 5's Adam Levine, serenades the Iranian with a predictable sketch titled "Quiz Bowl," a question-and-answer game show between public school Richmond High team and Amish home school Jasper Family team, depicting the home-schooled team as ill-informed and extremely religious. 
A commercial for Jar Gloves also dis­appointed with a ridiculous and exhaustive chain of events, stating that problems opening jars leads to injuries, suspicion and eventually trial and prison. 
Lil Wayne performed as musical guest, first playing "Got Money" and later, the crowd-pleasing "Lollipop." The music overshadowed the vocals to some extent, but otherwise, the rapper lived up to expectations. During "Lollipop," Wayne unexpectedly pulled out a guitar at the end of the song and played a few chords. 
"Weekend Update" was spattered with weak political jokes and stabs at Governor Palin, including the introduc­tion of a new guest named Alaska Pete, played by Will Forte. Nicholas Fehn, the recurring guest political comedian, also appeared to the audience's disap­pointment, as his incomplete sentences and thoughts were not funny the first time and certainly are not funny now. 
President in a clever attempt to mock his denial of the existence of homosex­uality and the Holocaust. 
7. Barry Gibb Talk Show (2003­2006): This talk show stars Jimmy Fallon and Justin Timberlake as Bee Gees Barry and Robin Gibb. While. Robin Gibb is portrayed as mostly silent with occasional bland answers, Barry Gibb tends to verbally attack the guest politicians in a humorous falset­to, prompting an amusing call and response with Robin. 
6. Brian Fellows' "Safari Planet" (1999-2003): This recurring talk show features Tracy Morgan as Brian Fellows, a man with a sixth-grade edu­cation and no license in zoology, asking nonsensical questions of wildlife center and zoo representatives, such as "Why do seals like to go clubbing?" 
5. Celebrity Jeopardy with Sean Connery, Burt Reynolds, and Jerry Lewis (1996): This Celebrity Jeopardy parodies categories like "Potent Potables" and '"S' Words," misread by the contestants as "swords." The con­testants' incompetence becomes more apparent as the show progresses, prompting the final clue: "This body of water gives Salt Lake City its name." 
4. Harry Caray's "Space: The Infinite Frontier" (1997): Will Ferrell portrays the Cubs announcer as an astronomy talk show host, who asks a Andy Samberg played a frazzled Cathy from the "Cathy" comic strip as another new guest. 
"The Charles Barkley Show" could have been very funny after last season's Sundance Channel Iconoclasts with Charles Barkley and Bjork. However, the sketch relied on cliched jokes, like guest world-record runner Usain Bolt apparently being so fast that he came and went in a second. 
A final commercial, "The Michael Phelps Diet," nearly saved the show. To help people trying to lose weight, Phelps recounts his typicall2,000-calo­rie-a-day diet, stating "it works won­ders for me" with a subtitle "based on 4000 laps of swim practice at world­record pace." Jared Fogle from Subway made a cameo, and the diet was hilari­ously promoted but described as "almost certainly fatal." 
All in all, the show did not live up to expectations. The new season hurt from the departure of Maya Rudolph, and far too many sketches tried too hard to lure laughs instead of going for the political wittiness the show could be delivering. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
guest scientist if he would eat the moon if it were made of spare ribs and whether he would rather be the top scientist in his field or contract Mad­Cow Disease. 
3. "The Hanukkah Song" (1994): Adam Sandler writes this song about Hanukkah "for all those nice little Jewish kids who don't get to hear any Chanukah songs" and teaches us much about who in the celebrity world is Jewish and who is not. 
2. Wayne's World with Aerosmith and Tom Hanks (1990): In this classic sketch, Wayne Campbell and his best friend, Garth, play the "Wayne's World" theme song with Aerosmith on their TV talk show, broadcast from the basement of Wayne's parent's house. Tom Hanks plays Garth's cousin Barry, who is an Aerosmith roadie. 
1. More Cowbells (2000): Parodied at the Sept. 6 Notre Dame half-time show, producer Bruce Dickinson requests "a little more cowbell" from a sweaty Will Ferrell during the recording of Blue Oyster Cult's "(Don't Fear) The Reaper." Dickinson sums up the cowbell's importance with the classic line, "Guess what? I've got a fever and the only prescrip­tion-is more cowbell!" 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 


NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 15, 2008 BSERVER Notre Dame 35, Michigan 17 
CrankUMup 
Notre Dame makes statement with 35-17 win over Michigan 
By LAURA MYERS • Sports Writer 
When it rains it, it pours. 
On a wet and sloppy field, Notre Dame capitalized on six Michigan turnovers to beat the Wolverines 35-17 on Saturday. Michigan led in every offensive category, but four fumbles and two interceptions put the Wolverines behind on the score­board. 
The Irish scored two touch­downs in the first four minutes of the game to take a com­manding lead they didn't relin­quish. 
The first came after Wolverine running back Brandon Minor dropped a swing pass behind the line of scrimmage on the fifth play of the game. Sophomore line­backer Brian Smith came up with the ball at the Michigan 11-yard line, and the Irish scored less than a minute later on a 2-yard run by sophomore Robert Hughes. 
"When a team allows you to put points on the board, you most definitely have to put points on the board," Hughes said. "That's how you win games." 
The ensuing kickoff was dropped by Michigan's Michael Shaw. Senior Mike Anello recov­ered the fumble on the Wolverine 15-yard line. Once again, the Irish turned a Michigan turnover into a touch­down when sophomore quarter­back Jimmy Clausen threw a 10-yard touchdown pass to sophomore Duval Kamara. 



IAN GAVLIK!fhe Observer Irish sophomore Brian Smith races towards the end zone after recovering Michigan quarterback Steven Threet's fourth quarter fum­ble. Smith's return put Notre Dame ahead 35-17 with 14:50 left in the game and was one of six Wolverine turnovers on Saturday; 
"All over the locker room and  
all over our meeting last night,  son.  After  kicker  Brandon  with  defensive  pressure.  the Irish 5-yard line in the  "We made big plays on special  
this morning, and before we  Walker's PAT, the Irish were up  Coming into Saturday's game,  fourth quarter. Bruton also  teams, we made big plays on .  
came out, was turnovers were  21-0.  the Michigan defense led the  forced a fumble on the Notre  offense, and we made big plays  
going to determine the outcome  The play was the longest com­ NCAA with nine sacks in its first  Dame 2-yard line in the third  on defense," he said. "All three  
of  the  game,"  Irish  coach  pletion of .Clausen's -career until  'two games. Howeve.r, it was  quarter.  unit!i have to step in and do  
Charlie Weis said. "You're not  the second quarter, when he  unable to record one against  "Instead of going seven for us,  their jobs  and  make  some  
going to turn it over four times  found Tate on an underneath  the Irish.  it's seven for them," Michigan  plays."  
like we did last  route and the  "[Clausen] is  coach  Rich  Michigan's  offense  relied  
week and walk out the winner.  "For our team, and for  young receiver broke two tack­ running, grow­ing up, throw­ "When a team allows  Rodriguez said. Bruton is mak­ almost exclusively on freshmen Sam McGuffie and Martavious  
Fortunately, we won the turnover ratio rather signifi­cantly." With 5:06  our students, and for our alums, and for our fans, today was a bigwin.,,  les and ran for a 60-yard gain. That play was part of an 87­yard drive for the Irish that  ing the ball away instead of doing some­thing stupid," Weis said. Avoiding  you to put points on the board, you most definitely have to put points on the board."  ing a habit of grabbing turnovers on the goal line. He also helped force a fumble on the 1­ Odoms. McGuffie ran around and through the Irish front seven, finishing the day with 25 carries for 131 yards. He also made four receptions for 4 7 yards and a touchdown. Odoms  
remaining in the first quar­ter, Michigan  Charlie Weis Irish coach  ended with Hughes in the end zone for  turnovers was the key to a win for the Irish on  Robert Hughes Irish running back  yard line against San Diego State in Notre Dame's  had six receptions for 56 yards. Notre Dame's win moves the series record to 20-15-1 in favor  
turned the ball  the second time  Saturday. They  opener.  of Michigan and it ends a two­ 
over on downs.  in  the  game.  were  able  to  "You do what­ year  spell  of  Wolverine  
After a pass interference call  Hughes carried a total of 19  limit their own while cashing in  ever you can to keep them from  blowouts.  
put Notre Dame in Michigan  times for 79 yards and two  on the Wolverines' mistakes.  scoring," Bruton said.  "For our team, and for our  
territory, Clausen pump faked  touchdowns.  Several  of  Michigan's  He also had 10 solo tackles  students, and for our alums, and  
and threw the ball 48 yards  Clausen finished the game 10­ turnovers  came  when  the  and five assists in the game.  for our fans, today was a big  
downfield, where sophomore  for-21 passing with two touch­ Wolverines were close to scor­ Weis said that he knew going  win," Weis said.  
wide receiver Golden Tate was  downs and two interceptions.  ing. Senior safety David Bruton  in that his team would need to  
waiting. Tate ran it in for his  Weis noticed a difference in his  intercepted a pass by Michigan  play a "complementary game"  Contact Laura Myers at  
second touchdown on the sea­ quarterback's ability to deal  quarterback Nick Sheridan on  to get the win.  lmyers2@nd.edu  

play of the gameplayer of the game stat of the game quote of the game 
"MCUACL, how do you like that? I 
Golden Tate's 48-yard touchdown David Bruton 
6 

feel like an athlete for the first time in my life."
reception 
Clausen shome-run pass gave the tackles, one for a loss. He also forced 
Bruton led the team with I 5 total Michigan turnovers, including Irish a 2 I -o lead with five minutes four lost fumbles and two 
Charlie Weis 

remaining in the first quarter. 
a fumble and intercepted a pass on interceptions. 
Irish coach
the goal line. • 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 15, 2008 
report card 
8­
A­A­
A 
c 
8 
A-
C+ 
special teams: A fumble recovery sparked the team, but kickoffs were weak and Michigan's punter racked up 13 yards on a successful fake. 
coaching: The team looked more pre­
A 
pared ilian any game la..'it year and iliey 
were fired up to play. Weis fi:mght 
ilirough if1iury and ilie rest ofhL'i stall' stepp!~d in without mL'ising a beat. 
overall: Notre Dame looked 
impn*-">ive from start to finish. The 
jump fi·om week one to week two
3.22 
w«s a_dear impnwement lbr the frL'ih. 
adding up the numbers 
Wins in Notre Dame Stadium. The first came on Oct. 4, 1930 when the Irish beat Southern 
300 
Methodist 2D-14. 
80 
Return yards lor David Bruton and Gary Gray who both had long runs following interceptions in the second hall. 
Rushing yards for Michigan punter Zoltan Mesko. He was the team's sec­
13
ond leading rusher. 
3 Times in the past lour seasons under Weis that Notre Dame has started 2-0. 
Different receivers that Jimmy Clausen has con-
g
nected with so far this season. Tate is his favorite target with 10 catches thus far. 
2 Times that Weis opted to keep the offense on the field on 4th down in the second hall despite a comfortable lead and being in field goal range. 
Tackles in two games for Irish safety Kyle McCarthy. He had 10 against the 
24 
Wolverines. 
127 
Receiving yards lor Irish sophomore Golden Tate. Tate had catches of 60 and 48 yards in the game. 
quarterbacks: Clausen threw two more touchdown passes and did a good job of avoiding big losses. But the rain held him to 10-of-21 and he threw two interceptions. 
running backs: Hughes hit pay dirt twice and Aldridge ran hard in his season debut. The Irish were able to move the ball and. more importantly, hold on to it in the slippery conditions. 
receivers: Tate showed ofl' his speed in another solid game and Kamara looked more comfortable this time around. Floyd also picked up some yardage with pass intnrfence calls. 
offensive line: For the second week in a row the men in the trenches didn't give up a single sack. They handled the Wolv1~rine line and gave the backs enough room to get the job done. 
defensive line: McGullie torched the Irish for 131 yards on the ground. The line held their own but could not get too much pressure on Threet in the passing gamn. 
linebackers: Brian Smitl1 recovnred two fumbles and took one 35 yards into .ilie endzone. Crum played well despite an injury, but McGuffie was able to cut into tim seeond levnl several tinles. 
defensive backs: Bruton played lights out {(Jr ilie second week in a row and McCariliy wa..'i second behind him wiili 10 tackles. Gray 1-,rrabbed hls fir:st career pick. 

"..i
...
.. -· . . . 

ALLISON AMBROSEffhe Observer Sophomore running back James Aldridge dives over Michigan safety Brandon Harrison on a run near the goal line on Saturday. Aldridge had 31 yards on nine carries in his first appearance of the season on Saturday. 
Details bode well for Irish 
For perspective, a little compari­son. 
Points Notre Dame scored in the first two games of last year: 13. This year: 56. 
Rushing yards for N.otre Dame in the first two games of last year: negative eight. This year: 218. 
Sacks Notre Dame allowed through the first two games of last year: 15. This year: none. 
Quarterback Jimmy Clausen said the improved protection made a "huge" difference this season and was quick to show his appreciation. 
"I told the offensive linemen in the locker room, I said, "Pick a place you want to go to dinner. I'm buying this week," he said after the game. ''I'm giving them a bonus." 
A bonus they, as well as the rest of the Irish, deserve. 
The win over 

Bill Brink 
Sports Editor 

Michigan said with "We made some big plays He understood his actions what Irish progressions and
on special teams and
coach Charlie Weis avoided mistakes. 
has been preach­offense and defense, and Two plays later, ing with words -I think at this stage of Clausen's head fol­fears about last lowed Floyd all the
our program I think it's 
season are way down the through. Any important that we play a right sideline. It thoughts of a complementary football also followed his repeat of last pass as it was
game.

year's season can intercepted. Oops. be debunked. This But that's where team is different, Charlie Weis Notre Dame is the attitude Irish coach right now. One 
upbeat, the offense able, the defense tough. 
But before we proclaim all ties to 2007 severed, some qualifications exist. Notre Dame played poorly against an injured San Diego State team and won on the strength of one good quarter of football. It also beat a Michigan team that fumbled seven times and is in its first year running a spread offense. 

The question to ask now is: Can the Irish maintain this early suc­cess? Why Notre Dame beat Michigan is obvious, but to find why it has the opportunity to con­tinue to win, to erase any lingering doubt from last season, you have to delve a little deeper. 
Just before the end of the first quarter, Clausen threw a swing pass to Robert Hughes for a loss of three yards. It was a lousy play. Hughes was in double coverage and Clausen was under pressure. But what's telling about the play is what Clausen didn't do. 
Michael Floyd lined up on the right side with David Grimes in the slot. After the snap, Clausen looked to Floyd, whose route took him downfield, but Floyd was covered. He turned and checked Grimes, who ran over the middle, but the defense had Grimes covered as well. Finally, he looked left, to Hughes, and completed the pass. 
Clausen went through his reads and looked off his receivers, some­thing he had trouble with against San Diego State. He didn't stare 
down one receiver 
or try to force the 
ball into coverage. 
aspect of the team 
doesn't dominate. 

Clausen can throw interceptions, but he knows the defense has his back. The defense can allow Wolverines running back Sam McGuffie to run all over the field, but it knows the offense will score points. The offense may fail to move the ball, but no matter, because David Bruton and Mike Anello have punt coverage locked down. 
"We made some big plays on spe­cial teams and offense and defense, and I think at this stage of our pro­gram I think it's important that we play a complementary football game," Weis said. "As long as we show up every week and get some plays out of all three elements, I think that gives us a chance." 
Another example of Notre Dame's advances this season: the running game. Michigan allowed 1.1 yards per carry in the first two games of the season, and in the second-half downpour there was no secret Notre Dame would run. Yet Hughes rushed for 79 yards on 19 carries, averaging 4.2 yards per carry, and two touchdowns. 
"[Notre Dame] did a nice job blocking," Michigan coach Hich Rodriguez said. 
The running game led to the suc­cess of the play-action pass, a third reason Notre Dame can shake off last season. Two plays in a row in the first quarter, Clausen play­faked and threw downfield. The first, to Floyd, was incomplete, but the secondary bit on the play fake; only a pass interference prevented a catch. On the next play, the sec­ondary was fooleg on the play­action again, but this time they weren't so lucky. Clausen hit Golden Tate over the middle, 21-0 Irish. 
Two games don't define a season, nor can they reveal every strength and weakness the team has. But there was hope hidden in the mud Saturday, and should the Irish con­tinue to display that hope, they're back, and they're good. 
"The rest of the world can do whatever they want to, looking at 2007, but this team is moving for­ward," Clausen said. 
In a race to outrun the stigma of last season, it looks like 2007 is out of sight. 
Contact Bill Brink at 
wbrink@nd. edu. 
The 11iews expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruj?r. 
Monday, September 15, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Takeaways the key to big victory 

By CHRIS HINE Spons Writer 
There's a new fad sweeping the Notre Dame football team. Mike Anello's doing it. David Bruton's doing it. Brian Smith's doing it. No, it's not "Crank me up." It's called forcing turnovers. 
And that fad reached a fever pitch Saturday, when Michigan turned the ball over six times in its rain-drenched 35-17 loss to Notre Dame. 
"It's what we preach," Bruton said. "We always talk about stripping the ball, espe­cially in the wet conditions. It's an oppor­tunity to get the ball out." 
But Notre Dame didn't need help from the rain to get its first few turnovers. Smith grabbed his first fumble ofthe game early in the first quarter when Michigan running back Brandon Minor dropped a swing pass. Smith dove on the ball, which was thrown behind the quar­terback, on the Michigan 11-yard line to give the Irish great field position. 
"I didn't know if it was a fumble or not," Smith said. "If it's a swing pass, there's a chance that it's still alive." 
That fumble led to a 2-yard touchdown run by Robert Hughes. Michigan fumbled the ensuing kickoff, and Anello picked it up for Notre Dame, leading to a touch­down reception for wide receiver Duval Kamara. 
''I'm obviously disappointed in our exe­cution, we certainly didn't help ourselves early," Michigan coach Rich Rodriguez said. "Turnovers will hurt you at anytime but the ones that are really discouraging are the unforced errors." 
But in forcing their third turnover, the Irish continued a trend from last week's game against San Diego -causing a six at the time, and the touchdown saving sive lineman," Bruton said to laughter turnover inside the defensive red zone. play gave the Irish a much-needed boost after the game. "But don't forget, I played 
Down 28-17 in the third quarter, on their way to a 21-13 victory. the whole game. I was tired." Michigan was driving down the field in "The red zone, we claimed that as our But before Bruton's pick, Brian Smith the pouring rain and red zone," Bruton said. grabbed his second fumble off a mishan­seemed poised to cut Notre "We just have to step up dled snap from Wolverines quarterback Dame's lead to four before and make plays." Steven Threet and took it 35-yards for a
"The red zone, we 
Bruton forced a fumble on But Bruton wasn't touchdown.
claimed that as our
the Notre Dame 4-yard done making plays in the For good measure, cornerback Gary line. The slippery ball slid red zone." red zone on Saturday. Gray added a late interception to get in around the field for a few In the fourth quarter, on the party. seconds before defensive he intercepted Michigan "Coach Weis put an emphasis before
David Bruton
back Sergio Brown quarterback Nick the game that this game was going to be
Irish safety 
scooped it up. Sheridan at the Notre a game of turnovers and field position ... " 
In Notre Dame's first win Dame 5-yard line and Smith said. "And as a defense we want to against San Diego State, returJ:!ed it 39 yards set the bar that we want to get at least Bruton combined with safety Kyle before being horse-collared to the ground three or more and score." McCarthy to force Aztecs running back by Wolverines offensive lineman David Brandon Sullivan to fumble on Notre Molk. Contact Chris Hine at Dame's 1-yardline. The Irish were down "Yeah, 1 got horse-collared by an offen-chine@nd.edu 
Charlie follows in Brady's footsteps 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Irish coach Charlie Weis suffered a torn MCL and ACL during the second quarter of Saturday's game. Junior line­backer John Ryan blindsided the coach after he was knocked out of bounds by a Michigan blocker. 
Weis wore a brace in the second half and said that he would forego surgery at this point in order to stay on track with his coaching duties. 
''I'll show up as a coach, but I'll be gone for the year as a player. Tommy Brady's got nothing on me," Weis said while joking with reporters at the post game press confer­ence. 
Weis then added: "I feel like an athlete for the first time in my life." 
Weis said that he will hold 
off on surgery for the forsee­
able future so that he does 
not miss any time at work. 
Lou's in town 
The 1988 National 
Championship team was in town this weekend to honor coach Lou Holtz, who had a statue dedicated to him Saturday mDrning. Their inspiration, Weis said, ended Friday night after the pep rally, where the '88 squad was honored and Holtz spoke. 
"We used them yesterday," Weis said. "Today was ours. Today, it was not Lou, it was not the '88 team, it was those guys in that locker room, stepping up trying to earn respect." 
Firing out of the gates 
Notre Dame's 21· points in the first quarter Saturday is the most the Irish have scored in the first quarter since their 38-3 victory over Washington in 2004. It also ties the record for most points in a quarter against Michigan. The mark was first set in the fourth quarter of Notre Dame's 28-20 come­back victory in 2004. 
Knock on wood 
For the second game in a row, the Irish offensive line did not give up a sack after giving up an NCAA-worst 4.8 sacks per game in 2007. At the post-game press confer­ence, when asked to com­ment on the turnaround, Weis began knocking on his wood­en podium and said, "Let's leave it at that." 
... 
Going deep 
Golden Tate's 60-yard reception in the second quar­ter was the longest offensive play for the Irish since former tight end John Carlson made a 62-yard reception against Michigan State in 2006. 
The 300 Club 
This weekend's win was the 300th victory at Notre Dame Stadium for the Irish. The stadium first opened in 1930 and the Irish won their first ever home game on Oct. 4 of that year in a 20-14 game against Souther Methodist University 
Floyd on the field 
Freshman wide receiver Michael Floyd started and saw most of the snaps at 

receiver for the Irish in his second game at Notre Dame. Floyd played in place of David Grimes. "What got [Floyd] on the field so much was David's back," Weis said. "MiChael's behind him and the last couple days of the week David's back tightened up." 
Floyd had two catches for 10 yards in the game but also drew a pair of pass interfer­ence class that put the Irish in good field position. 
Three-headed monster 
The Notre Dame backfield continued to rotate with Robert Hughes, James Aldridge and Armando Allen all receiving carries. Hughes led the way with 19, but Aldridge who did not see any action against San Diego State also had nine carries. Allen was the main back in week one but only picked up four yards on two carries against a stout Michigan defense. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
•

scoring SUITIInary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  21  7  0  7  35  
Michigan  7  10  0  0  17  

First quarter Notre Dame 7, Michigan 0 
Robert Hughes 2-yard run with 11:52 remaining. PAT good (Walker) Drive: 3 plays, 11 yards, 0:50 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 0 
Duval Kamara 10-yard catch from Clausen with 
11:00 remaining. PAT good (Walker) Drive: 3 plays, 14 yards, 0:52 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan 0 
Golden Tate 48-yard catch from Clausen with 
4:51 remaining. PAT good (Walker) Drive: 1 play, 63 yards, 0:15 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan 7 
Sam Mcgullie 40-yard catch from Threet with 
1:56 remaining. PAT Good (Lopata) Drive: 7 plays, 75 yards, 2:55 elapsed. 
Second quarter Notre Dame 21, Michigan 10 
K.C. Lopata 23-yard field goal with 11:53 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 67 yards, 3:21 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan 10 
Robert Hughes 1-yard run with 8:47 remaining. PAT good (Walker) Drive: 6 plays, 87 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan 17 
Kevin Grady 7-yard run with 5:41 remaining. PAT good (Lopata) . Drive: 7 plays, 60 yards, 3:06 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 35, Michigan 17 
Brian Smith 35-yard tumble recovery with 
14:50 remaining. PAT good (Walker) 
statistics 
total yards L~ 388 

rushing yards 
~ 
passing yards 
U.') 

KD 1471 
return yards 
~.
..-. 
time of possession 
~
-··· 

passing 

Clausen 10-21-2 Threet 16-23-0 Sheridan 3-5-2 
rushing 

Hughes 19-79 McGullie 25-131 Aldridge 9-31 Mesko 1-13 
receiving 

Tate  4-127  Odoms  6-56  
West  2-10  McGullie  4-47  
Kamara  1-10  Mathews  4-46  
Grimes  1-3  Stonum  3-35  

tackling 

Bruton  15  Trent  9  
McCarthy  10  Brown  8  
Crum  5  Thompson  7  

~ -------------------------------------~--------~------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 15, 2008 


Rain Dance 
Players and fans joined together in the pouring rain Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium to celebrate a victory for the 300th time in the building. Af~er two years of embarrassing losses to the Wolverines, Charlie Weis 
and his gang came were ready from the get-go. Defense and special team.-; set things up early on and Notre Dame never looked back. Clausen stayed safe behind a solid wall of offensive linemen as he found Golden Tate and Duval Kamara for big plays in the end zone. Expectations were low following a questionable victory over San Diego State, but the Irish exceeded even Lou lloltz's lofty prediction-who was on hand to witness the win. I loltz and his 1988 National Championship team looked on as a new era of Irish "players moved to 2-0 in 2008. 
-Dan Murphy 


Clockwise from top left: Michael Aoyd jumps on one of Saturday's many fumbles. Senior Pat Kuntz celebrates near the student section. Duval Kamara hauls in his first touchdown of the season. David Bruton runs through a tackle during his interception return. Robert Hughes sheds tacklers as he scoots to a Notre Dame first down. 
~---------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, September 15, 2008 
page 11 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
Flt!ling in 
I(), ,t: <\)it/1 
You 
..._

c Bowser's Minions
MARY 

this little ditty, an exchange between the By ANALISE LIPARI pair's rap personas -well, at least their Scene Editor rap personas for that particular episode -with sweet rhymes like "They call me I recently realized that it's been over a the hiphopopotamus/ 'Cause I got flows 
It's time for the 
year since "Flight of the Conchords" first that glow like phosphorous/ Poppin' off aired on HBO. In my mind, June 17, the top of this esophagus." 2007, will go down as an historic day in Mushroom the canon of American television, a day "Leggy Blonde:" Murray (Rhys Darby), when "New Zealand's the somewhat self-important manager of 
Kingdom to
fourth most popular 
.--------, "Flight of the Conchords" who runs the guitar-based digi­band during his menial day job, gets his bongo a cappella-rap­day in the spotlight with this ode to the un1on1ze. funk-comedy folk duo" leggy blonde in his office. Note the lyric first hit Stateside air­poeticism of lines like, "Leggy leggy leggy waves. leggy/ leggy leggy leggy leggy/ blondey 
They are ridiculous, blondey blondey blondey/ blondey quirky and wonderful, blondey blondey blondey." and I love them. Oh, and you should, too. Analise Lipari "If You're Into It:" Bret's invitation to 
It's unlikely that _______ Coco (Tony winner Sutton Foster) to join 
le Rop Bottle: Translated 
these 15 months have him in a variety of romantic activities: "It 
-.-·>;<··;:,." . . 

passed without you, Scene Editor could be a dream come true/ Providing dear reader, at least that's what you're into." Jemaine pro­being semi-aware of songs like "Business vides some key vocal commentary. Time" or "Jenny." Plus, the beauty of col­lege often lies in the obscure, pseudo­"Foux du Fafa:" Scholars of French 
And you thought
intellectual, relatively indie things we might debate the academic merits of enjoy on a daily basis. With its cable sta­lyrics that translate to "Where is the 
text messages
tus, obscure background and wordy lyric pool?" but viewers can only sing along to style, the show's underground status with the song's addictive chorus. college kids has quickly grown since it needed first aired. "Bret, You've Got it Goin On:" Here, 
The tragedy is that the second (and Jemaine poses an innocent and universal subtitles.potentially final, if recent interviews with question of life: "Why can't a heterosexu­the band are to be believed) season isn't al guy/ Tell another heterosexual guy that due to air until 2009. Le sigh_ his booty is fly?" 
Before their move to the United States, Brett McKenzie and Jemaine Clement "Albi the Racist Dragon:" Albi, the had an eponymous BBC Radio series in main character in a fake cartoon that 2005. These six episodes, with titles like stirs Bret and Jemaine's inner children, "Dan & the Panda" and "Neil Finn Saves is, in fact, quite racist. The Day!" were the precursors to the duo's future TV fame. In their earliest "Sellotape:" Love, according to the days, the duo played in the Melbourne duo, is like a roll of tape; "it's real good Comedy festival, the Edinburgh Fringe, for making two things one." On the other and the U.S. Comedy Arts Festival in side of the roll of tape, love sometimes 2005. "breaks off before you were done." It's all 
To those of you who are new to "Flight about the tape of love -"the sticky 
nly in 

of the Conchords," I've itemized a few of stuff." my favorites among their musical library. To those of you who are alre_ady fans, Thank Samwise Gamgee that these ustralio. let's watch season one on DVD sometime. New Zealanders are in our lives and on Well, if that's what you're into. our TV screens. 
"Hiphopopotamus vs. Rhymenoceros:" Contact Analise Lipari at Bret and Jemaine take on hip-hop with alipari@nd.edu 
nese Pizzo Commercial 
I 
I •
t S lUSt... SO... darn... catchy. 
Photo courtesy of guardian.co.uk 

. Bret (Bret McKenzie) and Jemaine (Jemaine Clement) enjoy some Chinese in New York City on their HBO comedy series, "Flight of the Conchords." 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

..-----------~··-­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 15, 2008 
MLB 

A-Rod hits grand slam to propel Yankees past Rays 

Maddux allows two hits in seven, Dodgers still fall after Tulowitzki's game-winning home run in 10th 
work through." 
Associated Press 

Pavano has started only 24 
NEW YOHK -Derek Jeter games for the Yankees since didn't waste any time after he signing a four-year, $39.95 mil­honwrnd in thn fifth inning lion contract before the 2005 Sunday. lie quickly traded a bat season. and a ball for a rmnindnr of thn "lie did not want to come day hn tied Lou Gehrig for thn out," said Girardi, who opted most hits at Yankee Stadium. for the safe route on a muggy 
"It's del'initl'ly special," he day in t_he ~ronx. "lie told me said. he was ltne. 
Jeter collected throe hits for David Price, the top overall the third straight game, Alex pick in the 2007 draft, made his Hodrigunz belted a grand slam major league debut for Tampa and the New York Yankees beat Bay and threw 5 1-3 impressive the Tampa Bay Hays 8-4 to win innings in relief or struggling thn wnnkend snrins against the starter Edwin Jackson. The 6­AL East leaders. foot-6 left-hander allowed two 
The Hays wnnt 3-6 on their runs and three hits, spending 10-day trip to Toronto, Boston much of the outing in the upper and Nnw York and will carry a 90s. one-game lead into their three­"It was fun," he said. "This game snries against the second­one here was obviously special. place Hed Sox beginning I settled down pretty good, Monday night in Florida. started breathing better. That 
"It's never good to lose a first inning was pretty rough." series," managnr Joe Maddon Price retired six straight said. "It was obviously a tough before Jeter led off the fifth road trip ... not nasy at all. The with his 11th homer, giving him Yankees are one team that we 1,269 hits at the House that haven't played well against this Huth Built. The sellout crowd of year." 54,279 roared as the captain 
Jason Giambi hit a two-run rounded the bases after his homer. for New York, still cling­opposite-field drive to right, and ing to faint playofl' hopes during cheered even louder when he its final homestand at its long­came out of the dugout for a time ballpark. curtain call. "I got some balls up," Jackson fifth. He threw 40 pitches despite not hitting more than 86 
Mariano Hivcra entered with The fans continued to chant said. "They took advantage of through the first five innings on the radar gun. two on in the ninth and struck the shortstop's name as Giambi it. It just wasn't my day." and faced one batter over the "You never know what pitch out Erick Aybar for his 35th batted against Price, who Hodriguez reached 100 HBis minimum through six innings. is coming," Tulowitzki said. save in 36 opportunities. The struck out four and walked for the 11th straight season Rockies manager Clint Hurdle "There are so many pitches in All-Star eloser also moved into none. with his 34th homer of the year. said it was tough watching the back of your mind, and then a tie with Lee Smith for second Jeter had a chance to break It also gave him at least 100 Maddux shut down his team. he rarely misses his spots." on thfl career list with 478 the record in the seventh but runs in 13 consecutive seasons. "When you're going through Maddux was denied a win saves. grounded into a double play. Jeter reached on a perfectly it, it's like you're sitting in the because Aaron Cook was nearly 
''I'd rather have the team, our He'll likely get another opportu­placed bunt single and Giambi dentist's chair," he said. "It as dominant. The Hackies team, tied for first place," nity Monday night when New finished a 12-pitch at-bat with a seems like he's throwing half a starter allowed eight hits over Hivera said. York opens a four-game series walk to set up A-Hod's first baseball out there. He can do eight innings, struck out two 
Fernando Perez, who went to against the Chicago White Sox. grand slam since Sept. 25, things with the ball that are and walked none. His most nearby Columbia University, hit "They always say records are 2007, at Tampa Bay. very, very special." troublesome inning was the a three-run drive for Tampa meant to be broken but this Maddux didn't stick around second when he allowed three Bay, which started the trip with one, with the stadium closing Rockies 1, Dodgers 0 for the ending, which carne hits and the Dodgers had run­a 3?-game lead in the East. here in a week, you know at Even with Greg Maddux turn­against reliever Hong-Chih Kuo ners on first and second with 
Oft-injured Yankees pitcher least I know I tied for it," he ing in one of his best outings in (5-3). The Rockies loaded the two outs. Cook worked out of Carl Pavano (3-1) allowed three said. a decade, the Dodgers' surge bases on singles by Matt the jam by getting Maddux to P.arned runs and five hits before The Yankees, almost certain toward the NL West title hit a Holliday, Garrett Atkins and ground out to second. hfl was booed ofT the mound in to miss the playoffs for the first speed bump. Hyan Spilborghs, and Tulowitzki It was the deepest Cook has thn sixth inning following a visit time since 1993, are nine Troy Tulowitzki singled home lined an 0-2 pitch down the pitched in a game since July 25, by the trainer and manager Joe games behind wild card-leading the winning run with one out in right-field line to end Colorado's but he failed to notch his 17th Girardi. Roston. the 1Oth to help the Colorado seven-game losing streak. win, which would have tied the 
Pavano was pitching to Eric The Hays loaded the bases Rockies end the Los Angeles "I wasn't looking for anything franchise's single-season win llinske with one out and a run­after Pavano departed, and Dodgers' four-game winning in particular, I just wanted to total. ner on first whP.n hn got thn Damaso Marte walked Akinori streak with a win on Sunday. put the ball in play," Tulowitzki "I felt pretty comfortable out mound visit. Aftnr a short dis­lwamura to make it 7-4. Jason The Dodgers, who had won said. "I liked my chances if I put there," Cook said. "I felt like I cussion, thn right-hander Bartlett followed with a sinking 12 of 13, began the day with a 4 the ball in play." wasn't trying to do too much, walked oil' as the sellout crowd, liner but Brett Gardner made a 1/2-garne lead over Arizona in Manny Corpas (3-3) pitchnd mechanically just trying to stay familiar with his injury history, terril'ic tumbling catch to end the NL West. the top of the 1Oth to get the within myself." showored him with boos. the inning. The win spoiled a terrific out­win. From the third through the 
''I'm at a spot right now Gardner also made a diving ing by Maddux. Maddux gave It was the first time in the 14-seventh inning, Cook was as wlww I'm starting to wake up catch to rob Gabe Gross of a hit up two hits, struck out three year history of Coors Field that tough as Maddux. lie allowed muscles I havnn't used in a in the eighth. and didn't walk a batter in a game was scoreless after nine two singles in that stretch, but whilo," said Pavano, who left Jackson (11-11) never looked seven shutout innings. innings. both runners were wiped out by with a stilT left hip and expected comfortable and dropped to 0-3 "Who ever thought that it "It's a very uncomfortable double plays, and he faced the to be OK for his next start. in his past three starts. He would be a good day to pitch at ballpark to try and relax," minimum number of batters. "EvP-ry lime I go out thern, allowed New York's first three Coors Field?" Maddux said. Dodgers manager Joe Torre "Cookie threw a good game, then~·s more innings than the batters to reach before Maddux retired the first 13 said. "I look up today and there man," Maddux said. "He had last time and morn pitches than Hodriguez hit a 3-1 pitch into batters and had a perfect game are all kinds of goose eggs up his stufT going. Got a couple of the last time so I rnnan these the bleachers in right-center for until Atkins singled through the there." double plays when he needed it. arn things I'm going to have to his 17th career grand slam. hole at short with one out in the Maddux was dominating He made big pitches." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m .. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
House for rent. Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot. Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. $1000/month + utilities. Call (574) 340-3895. 
Homes available now & 2009-10 & football wknds. 574-329-0308. 

Home for rent for NO football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from NO campus. Contact Rocky at Rock0299@ aol.com. 
House near NO. 574-310-3663. 
FoR SALE 
PURDUE WEEKEND VARSITY CLUB SUITE FRIDAY AND SATUR· DAY NIGHTS WITH 2 GAME TICK­ETS $800. CALL (914) 967-3023. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO football tickets. www.victorytick­ets.com. 574-232-0964. 
Need Purdue tix & parking pass. 574-276-8507. 

LOST & FOUND 
MISSING -One musical Leprechaun bear from the South Dining Hall. Please return to the South Dining Hall and no questions asked. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at1-7819 or Ann Firth at1 -2685. For more information, visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
Mike Shanahan and the Denver Broncos have big ones. 
Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1­800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
You keep on shouting You keep on shouting I want to rock 'n roll all night,and party every day. I want to rock 'n roll all night,and party every day. 


----~----~-------~-------------------, 
OUND THE NATION 
CoMrrLED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES
Monday, September, 15, 2008 
page 13 


NCAA Football USA Today Top 25 

team points previous 
1 usc 1,518 1 2 Oklahoma 1,423 3 3 Georgia 1,393 2 4 Florida 1,355 
4 5 Missouri 1,294 6 6 LSU 1,233 7 7 Texas 1,128 8 8 WH>Gonsin 1,027 16 9 Auburn 955 9 10 Texas Tech 887 12 11 Brigham Young 846 15 12 Oregon 783 14 13 Alabama 771 16 14 Ohio State 736 5 15 Penn State 724 17 16 South. Florida 685 18 . 17 Easl Carolina 508 19 18 Wake Forest 498 20 19 Kansas 416 11 20 Utah 400 22 21 Clemson 233 23 22 West Virginia 159 24 23 Illinois 127 NR 24 Arizona State 113 13 25 Florida State 110 
MIAA Women's Volleyball Conference Standings 

MIAA Record 
Team 

W·L 1 Alma 4-0 2 Hope 3-0 3 Adrian 2·0 4 Calvin 2·0 5 Albion 2·2 6 SAINT MARY'S 1-2 7 Kalamazoo Hi 8 Trine 0·4 9 Olivet 0·4 
around the dial 
NFL 
Eagles at Cowboys 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
White Sox at Yankees 7:05p.m., CSN 



Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -If Lane Kiffin does get fired by the Oakland Raiders, he might want to apply for employment in Kansas City. 
Amid escalating reports that Kiffin was in trouble with owner AI Davis and could be dismissed almost any time, the Raiders rushed for 300 yards Sunday and handed their harried young coach a 23-8 victory over the mistake­prone Chiefs. Kiffin has only five wins in 18 games with the Silver and Black, but two have been at Kansas City's expense. 
"I don't worry about things I can't control. 
IN BRIEF 
Biffle opens Sprint Cup Chase 
with New Hampshire win 
LOUDON, N.H.-Greg Biffie began the Chase for the championship as a long shot. 
Wmless for almost a year and seeded a distant ninth in the 12-driver field, few considered him a serious contender. But "The Biff' never counted himself out, believing a strong run Sunday in the opener at New Hampshire Motor Speedway would put him in position to race for the Sprint Cup title. 
Biffie used a self-described "textbook pass" on Jirrnnie Johnson with 12 laps to go to snap a 33-race winless streak and vault all the way to third in the Chase standings. He trails co-leaders Johnson and Carl Edwards, his team­mate at Roush Fenway Racing, by just 30 points. 
Johnson finished second and said he knew Biffle would make a run on him after David Ragan and Carpentier brought out a pair of cautions with less than 20 laps to go. 

That's not my decision whether I'll be here," said the 33-year-old Kiffin. ''I'm going to prepare my staff for the game next week." 
Rookie Darren McFadden rushed for 164 yards to help give the Raiders a happy ending to a tumul­tuous week that started with a 41-14 blowout loss to Denver on Monday night. There had also been a public spat between Lane and defensive coordinator Rob Ryan and Kiffm's com­ment that Davis "doesn't 
. keep people very long." Also with something to celebrate was kicker Sebastian Janikowski, whose three field goals including a team-record 
56-yarder. 

"Lane's going to be Lane, Rob's going to be Rob and Al's going to be Al at the end of the day," said Oakland cornerback DeAngelo Hall. "We don't have any control over what happens up there. We just come out and try to play ball." 
The young defense of the Chiefs gave up the third­highest total in the history of the franchise. Michael Bush, with 90 yards rush­ing, personally beat the 55 yards the Chiefs had as a team. 
In using three quarter­backs, the Chiefs had only 65 net yards at halftime. 
After Tyler Thigpen's 2­
Seahawks lose backup
QB and WR in warmups 
SEATTLE -Seneca Wallace was scratched by the Seahawks against the San Francisco 49ers on Sunday, . the fifth injury to a Seattle wide receiver already this season. _ 
The team announced just before Sunday's kickoff that Wallace would miss its home opener because of a new calf injury. The dynamic backup quarterback was set to have a big role at receiver after practicing there the last two weeks. He ran pass patterns during pregame warmups. That's apparently when he got hurt. 
Courtney Taylor, Logan Payne and Michael Bumpus -an undrafted rookie from Washington State signed from the practice squad on Saturday -started the game in a three wide receiver formation. Then on the sec­ond series, Payne left after getting hit on the knee by Dashon Goldson during a reception. 
yard touchdown pass to Tony Gonzalez and 2-point conversion made it 16-8 with 4:04 left, the Chiefs recovered Bush's fumble. But Kirk Morrison inter­cepted Thigpen's pass and with 51 seconds left, Bush scored on a 32-yard run to put out of reach one of the worst games the Chiefs have played at home in years. 
The only sour note for Oakland was the injury in the first half to running back Justin Fargas. He went out with a groin injury early in the first half, but that gave McFadden, the overall No. 4 draft pick last April, a chance to fmd his rhythm. 

Jeter home run breaks 
Yankee Stadium hit record 
NEW YORK -Derek Jeter hit a solo homer in the fifth inning Sunday, tying Lou Gehrig for the most career hits at Yankee Stadium. 
Jeter connected against Tampa Bay's David Price for his 1,269th hit at the ballpark, which is in its final season. 
The crowd roared as the New York captain rounded the bases after his opposite-field drive to right, and cheered even louder when he came out of the dugout for a curtain call. 
The fans continued to chant the shortstop's name as Jason Giambi batted against Price, a highly tout­ed prospect making his major league debut. 
New York is playing its last home­stand at Yankee Stadium before moving into a new park across the street for next season. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 15, 2008 
MLB 

Zambrano hurls no-hitter for Cubs 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE Carlos 
Zambrano pit1:hed the first no­
hitter for the Chicago Cubs in 36 
years, returning from a recent 
bout of rotator cull' soreness to 
shut down the Houston Astros 5­
0 Sunday night in a game relo­
cated because of llurricane Ike. 
Zambrano stopped a Houston 
team that had not played since 
Thursday. The storm forced 
baseball to move two games 
from Texas to Miller Park, home 
of the Brewnrs, and the Astros 
flew hours before they took the 
linld. 
Zambrano. known for his emo­
tional displays on the mimnd, 
knpt himsnlf in control until 
striking out Darin Erstad to lin­
ish on· his first start since Sept. 2. 
The big right-hander dropped 
to his knees and pointed to the 
sky with both hands aftnr getting 
Erstad to swing and miss. 
Zambrano (14-51 was immedi­
atnly mobbnd on the mound by 
his teammates. 
The erowd of 23,441 -mostly Cubs fans -Prupted in a wild ovation aftnr chanting "Let's go Z!" throughout the final inning. 
Zambrano struck out a season­
high 10 and walked one in the 
Cubs' first no-hitter since Milt 
Pappas pitdwd one against San 
Dingo in 1972. 
This was the second no-hitter 
in thn majors this season ­
Boston's Jon Lnstl~r did it against 
Kansas City at Fnnway Park on 
May 19. 
The Astros only once came elose to a hit. David Newhan lilwd a driwl that first baseman Derrek Lee jumped to catch to end the fifth inning. 
Zambrano helped himself, too, by charging ofT the mound and across the lirst-base line to catch lluntnr Pence's foul pop for the second out in the eighth. 
Zambrano began the ninth by gntting II um berto Quintero to ground out on one pitch -it was his 1 OOth of the game. After pinch-hitter Jose Castillo also grounded out, Erstad chased a full-count pitch low-and-away for Zambrano's first shutout since 2004. 
With his jersey untucked, Zambrano paraded triumphantly through a series of interviews in front of the Cubs dugout, then waved to the still-cheering crowd as he walked down the steps. 
Coming into the game, Cubs manager Lou Piniella said he wanted to limit the 27 -year-old Vonezuolan ace to 100 pitches in his return to the rotation -and Zambrano managed to come elosB, even while pulling off the no-hitter. Zambrano threw 110 pitehns, 73 for strikes. 
The win could be yet another sign of good things to come for the NL Central-leading Cubs, whose fans have gotten used to doing more crying than cheering in September during 100 years' worth of World Series frustra­tion. 
The Cubs took a 7? -game lead in the NL Central over the fading Brewers, who were swept in a day-night doubleheader by the Philad1~lphia Phillies. 
The A'>tros fell two games baek of the Brewers and Phillies, who are tied in the wild-card raee. llouston had won six in a row and 14 of 15. 
Zambnino didn't allow a basnrunner until he walked 

Michael Bourn in the fourth inning. 
He allowed only one more baserunner the rBst of the night, hitting Pence in the back with two outs in the lifth. 
Zambrano also made an offen­sive contribution in the Cubs' four-run third inning, singling and then chugging home from first on Lee's double. The Cubs ehased Randy Wolf(10-12) in the third, his shortest outing of the season. 
It was the first complete game for Zambrano since June 16, 2007, at home against the Padres. lie hadn't thrown a shutout since April 7, 2004, a two-hitter at home against the Hoekins. 
Alfonso Soriano led off the game with a home run, his 28th of the year. 
tJ
Ki 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Fol!r Belles finish in top tvventy 

McClow_ry finishes 12th, team garners fourth place overall 
By KATE GRABAREK 
SportS Writer 

Four Belles runners fin­ished in the top-20 of Friday's 111-person, 11-team Bradley University Open in Peoria, Ill., sending St. Mary's to a fourth place team finish with a score of 93. 
Junior Megan McClowry paced the Belles effort with a 12th place finish with a time of 20:37. 
Freshman Adrianne Hodriguez (15th place, 21 :05), sophomore Catie Salyer (17th, 21:10), fresh­man Joanne Almond (20th, 
21:1 9) and senior captain Caitlin Brodmerkel (30th, 
21 :37) rounded out the scor­ing for Saint Mary's. 
"Everyone is stepping up," Belles coach Jackie Bauters sai~:l. "We have a great group that is working hard to push each other beyond their com­fort zone. I don't know that any one is taking charge, rather the team is realizing their roles and their poten­tial." 
Freshman Hanna Vicary (32nd, 21 :44), sophomore Clare McVey (39th, 22:04), senior Becca Mason (43rd, 22:09), senior Alicen Miller (52nd, 22:30) and senior Caitlin Stevenson (60th, 
22:53) all finished in the top­60 and broke the 23-minute mark. 
"So far I believe [the girls] are handling the balanee of being a student-athlete well," Bauters said. "I believe the team and myself really try to create a supportive, positive environment for everyone to succeed in. While the first week was a little bit of a jolt back to reality, they have all continued to be 100 pereent on their game at practice and from everything I hear, also in the classroom." 
Illinois-Wesleyan won the meet in dominant fashion, with each of its five scorers finishing in the top-11 for a team score of 36. Monmouth College (87 points) and Lewis University (90) also finished ahead of Saint Mary's. 
Lewis's Kathryn Hague took home the individual title with a time of 19:07, and Monmouth's Mary Kate 'Beyer finished seeond in 19:22. 
The Belles will head to Grand Hapids, Mieh., on Sept. 20 to run in the Calvin Invitational. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

September 18, 2008 
Rainsite: LaFortune Ba 
Come meet MSP5 staff, get some free fOOd. and be multicultural clubs! Music will be provided by Notre D 
"Promoting Equity through I 

FINAL NOTICE!!! SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Last Day for Photos -Friday, September 26 
Don ,t be left out. Sign up at www.LaurenStudios.com 
(Use the school password "DOME 2009n to access the Notre Dame Portrait Schedule) 
Who: Class of 2009 Students 
When: Only until Friday, Sept. 26 
Where: l...a }~ortune 108 
Why: To be in your 2009 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook 
=-Remember-~~ 


Sign Up Today! www..LaurenStudios.com School Password ­
__QOME 2Q_Q9_ 
-~--­
----------------------------------~ 
Monday, September 15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Bannister gets first win in three n1onths
Models Needed 
Looking for MODELS 

to model for Figure Drawing on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30 -3:15 PM during the fall semester. Modeling is done in the classical tradition, with nude poses. $20 per ho~r 
Please contact: Prof. Maria Tomasula at Tomasula.3@nd.edu 
Dept. Art, Art History & Design Riley Hall 




';:; 


Pasta & Salad Just $7.99* 
Your choice of one of these lunch entrees and a Papa's or Caesar individual salad 
Lasagna 
Layers of Pasta, Ricotta and MQzzarella Topped with Spicy Marinara or Traditional Meat Sauce 
Pasta Con Polio Grilled Chicken Breast, Sun-Dried Tomatoes, tvlushrooms, Fresh Basil and a Light Alfredo Sauce TL'ssed with Bow-Tie Pasta 
Wild Mushroom Fettuccine 
Portobella, Shiitake and Domestic Mushrooms Sauteed with Fresh Spinach, Roasted Garlic Cream Sauce and Fettuccine 
Spaghetti Diavolo 
Whole Wheat Pasta and Spicy Italian Sausage Tossed in Spicy Marinara Sauce 'With Pepperocinis and Romano Cheese 

p,.,.,~~ 
-[ITALIAN KITCHEN 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

"Val1d i iarn to .3pm L<n,teJ t1me only. ~Jot val1d with any othe1 coupons, discounts or prornot1onal offero. 

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Brian Bannister finally got a win as his Kansas City teammates kept piling up hits and runs. 
Bannister won for the first time in nearly three months and Ryan Shealy homered twice and drove in five runs as the Royals totaled 17 hits to defeat the Cleveland Indians 13-3 Sunday. 
Bannister (8-15) gave up four hits and three runs in the first inning, then ssttled down and won for the first time in 14 starts to snap his nine-game losing streak. He had not won since beating Colorado in an interleague game June 23. His last win over anAL club was June 1, a 6-1 triumph in Cleveland. 
"Over the last couple of months, it seems like my con­fidence has been tested every time out," Bannister said. "I felt that today in the first inning, but it was nice that the offense exploded and took some of the pressure off my shoulders." 
The right-hander improved to 3-1 with a 1.91 ERA in five career starts against the Indians after allowing three runs and six hits over six innings. He had been pound­ed for 10 hits and seven runs 
over 3 2-3 innings by Minnesota in his previous start Tuesday and had a 7. 79 ERA during his losing streak·. 
"It will be much more fun going into my next start with this under my belt," Bannister said. "The offense stuck it to them and didn't shut it down. It was fun to watch." 
Shealy had his second career multihomer game, giv­ing him four homers and nine RBis since being recalled from Triple-A Omaha on Tuesday. The five RBis tied a career high. 
''I'm getting pitches to hit and even the balls I'm not hitting· hard are finding holes," Shealy said. ''I'm going to try to ride this out." 
Jose Guillen drove in three runs while David DeJesus and Alberto Callaspo had two RBis apiece as Kansas City hit .366 (59-for-161) in the four-game series, winning the final three. 
"Hopefully, it's one of those things that we can keep going," Royals manager Trey Hillman said. 
DeJesus put Kansas City ahead 5-3 with a two-out, two-run single off Edward Mujica (2-2) in the fourth. Guillen followed with a two­run double off Juan Rincon. 
Grady Sizemore doubled off Bannister to lead off Cleveland's first inning. Jhonny Peralta and Ryan Garko had RBI singles around a sacrifice fly by Victor Martinez for a 3-0 lead. 
The Royals tied it at 3 in the third off Indians starter Jeremy Sowers. Shealy hit a solo homer in the second. In the third, Callaspo had an RBI double and scored on Shealy's two-out bloop single to right. 
Sowers retired the side on eight pitches in the first, then needed 67 pitches to get through the next two innings. 
"When you throw that many pitches in a couple innings, I didn't see it getting any bet­ter," Indians manager Eric 
Wedge said. "It's a little far­fetched to think he's going to go out and find it." 
Sowers gave up three runs and five hits over three innings, his shortest outing in 14 starts since June 30, a three-inning stint in a loss to the Chicago White Sox. 
"I wasn't terrible, but I was leaving the ball up," Sowers said. "I think some of it could be a testam ent to their hit­ters. They were seeing the ball good the whole series and you run into teams like that sometimes." 
The left-bander was coming off his best performance of the season when he yielded only four hits and one run over eight innings in a win Tuesday night in Baltimore. 

Full Breakfast Buffet at Legend's after run/walk Awards to First-Place Finishers in 28 Divisions 
For more informationvisit recsportMd.eduorcaft 631·61 00 

---~----------------­
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 15, 2008 

NFL 

Brady-less Patriots beat Favre's Jets 
Associated Press 
ST HUTIIEHFOIU>, N.J.-Life 
without Tom Brady might not be 

so bad fi>r New England af'ler all. 
Matt Cassel was etlieient run­
ning the oll'ense in his first NFL 

start, taking over li>r the injurnd 
quarterback and leading the 
Patriots over Brett Favre and the 
New York Jets 19-10 on Sunday. 

"I thought Malt did a good job," eoac:h Bill Beliehiek said. "It wasn't perfect. We had some rough spots. IIe did a good job of making good decisions. He didn't put us in any bad situations and inade some good positive plays. I thought lw managed the game well." 
Cassel, who hadn't started at 

any level sinee his senior year of 
high school, was 16-of-23 for 
165 yards, Sammy Morris ran 
for a touehdown and Stephen 
Gostkowski kicked four field 
goals. 
"At the end of the day, you've got to have morn points than the other team and that's what we did, so I'm satisfied," Cassel said. "I didn't have too many butter­flies going out. I've been in the system for four years, so I'm confident I know I can run it." 
The Jets, slight favorites going 

in, and Patriots receiver Handy 
Moss said New England was still 
the team to beat even without 
Brady, who was lost for the sea­
son last Sunday when he injurnd 
his left knee against Kansas City. 
The Patriol'i {2-0) then showed why, ruining the Jets' home opener and Favre's first regular­season home startf(Jr New York. 
"We knew we had to play our 

best football to win," Pavre said, 
"and we wenm't able to do that." 
New England won its 21st straight regular-season game, and beat the Jets for the eighth straight time at the Meadowlands. 
"To come in here, to this hos­tile environment. and win when everyone picked you to lose, is grnat," safety Rodney Harrison said. "With all the stull' wn had to go through and endure last week with Tom. this is a great victory." 
Favre went 1R-of-26 for 181 yards and a TIJ for the Jets (1-1 ), but the PatrioL'i took advantage of a big mistake by the veteran. 
With the Jets facing a third­and-22 from their 11, Favre ran out of tht~ pocket to his left and flung a pass to Chansi Stuckey fi>r 2R yards. Three plays later, though, FavrB made a poor deci­sion. hanging a pass intended lor Chris Baker that was easily 
picked off by Brandon 
Meriweather. It was Favre's first 
interception with the Jets. 
"I just underthrew it," Favre 
said. "I saw the guy and maybe I 
got a little greedy.... l made a 
bad throw. I'd like to tell you 
something dill'erent." 
On third-and-9 from the 30, 
Cassel threw a screen to Kevin 
Faulk, who got a few blocks and 
got down to the 8. Three plays 
later, Morris leaped over the pile 
for a 1-yard touchdown to make 
it 13-3. 
"A lot of it is comfort level," 
said Cassel, who backed up 
Carson Palmer and Matt Leinart 
at Southern California. "I don't 
have as much experience as 
Tom, of course, but I think I was 
OK managing the game." 
Gostkowski added a 28-yard 
field goal with 17 seconds left in 
the third quarter. 
Favre led the Jets back into it, 
connecting with Stuckey for a 2­
yard touchdown with 10:18 left, 
but Gostkowski kicked a 27 -yard 
field goal to make it 19-10 as the 
Patriots ticked 5 minutes off the 
clock. 
"We cut it to six and it was a 
chance for us to give them the 
ball back right away and give 
them a chance to go seore, but 
we couldn't get it done," safety 
Ker.ry Rhodes said. "In those sit­
uations, you've got to make 
those kinds of plays." 
The Jets went three-and-out 
on their next possession, and the 
Patriots ran out the clock to seal 
it. 

"They kept it simple," Rhodes said. "They didn't want (Cassel} to lose the game, so they did a lot of screens and safe passes. They tried to keep it safe for him." 
The Jets had their opening 11­play drive end with Jay Feely, filling in for the injured Mike Nugent, missing a 31-yard attempt. Cassel then led the Patriots on a 12-play drive, capped by Gostkowski's 21-yard field goal. 
Gostkowski's 37-yarder gave the Patriots a 6-0 lead. 
The Jets wasted an impressive drive that featured a vintage play by Favre. The veteran quar­terback scrambled on third-and­9 from their 21, stepped up and threw across his body, finding Coles down the right sideline for 54 yards. A zigzagging 11-yard run by Leon Washington got the ball to the 3, but the Jets gave the ball to Jones three times for 1, 1 and minus-2 yards. They had to settle for a 21-yard field goal by Feely. 
Diet Coke 
continued from page 20 

16 before finding their footing and claiming the third set 25­
19. Notre Dame appeared to have some momentum, pushing the fourth set to an 18-18 tie. The Mustangs rallied, though, and ended any hope of an Irish comeback, taking the fourth set 25-21 to earn a 3-1 win. 
"I thought we started tenta­tively and then played pretty well at the end of the match," Brown said. "But, again, I just think the tentativeness definite­ly cost us in that match." 
Senior middle blocker Justine Stremick made her season debut against Cal Poly after missing the first six matehes recovering from offseason sur­gery. Stremick posted eight blocks and three kills in only three sets for the frish. 
"It was great to have Justine back," Brown said. "Even though she's not 100 percent, she has been cleared by the doctor, and I think she gave us a huge lift coming off the 
Mustangs 
continued from page 20 

star here, there's no question about it," Waldrum said. "But she hasn't even found her place here completely yet." 
Notre Dame dominated every aspect of the contest, taking 14 corner kicks to SMU's one and not allowing a shot for the entire first half. The first shot for the Texans was a harmless effort that was saved by Irish goalie Kelsey Lysander when the result of the game was no longer in doubt. 
"We've really been trying to 
THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
~0 •

wo When 1tf s the prestigious Luce scholanhlp, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by October 31? 2008. 
bench." 
Going up against Cal (6-1 ), the Irish played perhaps their best match of the season, push­ing the No. 4 team in the coun­try to five sets. In a match that saw 28 ties and 15 lead ehanges, Stremick and sopho­more Kellie Sciacca paced the Irish with four blocks apiece. Sciacca also led the Irish with 14 kills in the match. 
In the fifth and decisive set, the Golden Bears jumped out to a 7-1 lead. The Irish rallied, though, to tie the set 10-10. The teams traded points and a Beth Wildermuth ace made the score 14-14. Notre Dame could­n't finish the job, though, and Cal earned the final two points to close out the set and the match. 
"It was disappointing to come up short and not get that win beeause we did play them very well," Brown said. "There were far more positives to that match than negatives, but certainly we were disappointed we didn't come up with the win." 
In the final matchup of the tournament, against Minnesota (8-1), the Irish never seemed to 
mm1m1ze the shot total and scoring chances of our oppo­nents ... " Waldrum said. "Tonight I was really pleased with our ability to do that. We didn't give them any opportunities until we made some [substitutions]." 
Waldrum praised junior Haley Ford and sophomore Stephanie Sohn as defenders who played a big part in the shutout. ' 
Junior midf'ielder Courtney Rosen opened the scoring 
19:59 into the contest when she sent a rebound into the back of the net with her left foot. Freshman Molly Campbell, who did not even start for the loaded Irish, get in a rhythm, falling in three sets, 25-19, 25-14, 25-21. Notre Dame almost recovered in the final set, pushing the match to a 20-20 stalemate, but the Golden Gophers rallied to claim the match. 
"As a team we all struggled," Brown said. "Especially today, with blocking, only having one block in the entire match." 
Despite the three losses, Sciacca was named to the all­tournament team. Against Minnesota, the sophomore tal­lied a team-high nine kills and 
a .350 hitting percentage. On the season, Sciacca is second on the team with 80 kills. She also leads the team with a .273 hitting percentage on the year. 
"I think she did well," Brown said. "She is a very, very strong offensive player for us and we do rely on her to carry a lot of the offensive load." 
The Irish return home next weekend to host the Golden Dome Invitational with Liberty, UC Irvine and Western Michigan. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
notched her f'irst career goal to give Notre Dame a two­goal lead at the end of the first half. 
Henderson's first goal fol­lowed a cross from Hanks, who raised her arms in cele­bration after reaching the 60­60 milestone. 
Junior midfielder Amanda Clark put an exclamation point on the Irish win with a chip into the right eorner of the net from 45 yards away. 
On a rainy night at Alumni Field, 1,412 fans braved the weather to watch tho Notre Dame win. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Monday, September 15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS 


Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 5-11, 2009 


Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 

-~---~--,---~----~--------------. 
page 17 

NFL 
49ers upset Seahavvks with late field goal 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Times appear to be changing in the NFC West. 
Joe Nedney shook off a missed field goal as time expired in regu-, lation and kicked a 40-yarder 4:40 into overtime Sunday, sending the San Francisco 49ers past the Seattle Seahawks 33-30. 
The loss left the four-time defending division champions 0-2 for the first time since 2002. 
San Francisco (1-1) overcame eight sacks of J.T. O'Sullivan to beat the Seahawks for just the third time in 11 games, in the first overtime game of the 19-game series between the two teams. 
O'Sullivan was 20-for-31 for 321 yards and one touchdown in the second start of his six-year career. Seattle's Patrick Kerney and rookie top pick Lawrence Jackson sacked him two times each, but the jour­neyman passer kept coming back. 
The 49ers got the ball to start overtime. On third-and-7 from the San Francisco 23, O'Sullivan found Isaac Bruce over the much shorter Josh Wilson for 33 yards. Bruce caught four passes for 153 yards, his most since 2004, one week after O'Sullivan never even threw his way in a loss to Arizona. 
O'Sullivan then threw a quick jump pass for 5 yards to Arnaz Battle on third-and-3. That set up Nedney for redemption. 
San Francisco nearly won it when O'Sullivan frantically escaped a ninth sack and found Frank Gore for an improvised 17­yard completion. They set up Nedney for a 41-yard kick, but he missed wide right by a few feet, forcing overtime. 
The Seahawks turned over the ball three times, two on deflected interceptions of Matt Hasselbeck. Patrick Willis returned one of those 86 yards for a touchdown. Hasselbeck, missing his top six receivers after two more injuries Sunday, was 18-for-?6 for 189 yards -the second consecutive substandard game for the three­time Pro Bowler. 
After Olindo Mare kicked his third field goal, from 32 yards, to put Seattle ahead 30-27 with 7:41 left, O'Sullivan drove the Niners deep into Seahawks territory. San Francisco settled for a 28-yard field goal by Nedney that tied it with 2:42left. 
Julius Jones, whom the Seahawks turned to largely out of necessity when they sustained more injuries at wide receiver, started his first game for them with Maurice Morris hurt. He led a 15-play drive that ended with T.J. Duckett's first touchdown with Seattle, from 1'yard to tie it at 27. 
Jones had 127 yards on 16 car­ries, his biggest rushing day since Dec. 24, 2005, for Dallas at Carolina. It was first 100-yard rushing day since Dec. 10, 2006, for the Cowboys against New Orleans. 
The 49ers rallied from a 17-6 hole late in the first half to take a 27-20 lead in the third quarter. 
They tied it when Hasselbeck's pass to Billy McMullen, signed Wednesday and playing his first game since 2006, banged off him and cornerback Walt Harris near the 5. The deflection floated to Willis at the 14, and the 2007 Defensive Rookie of the Year weaved 86 yards with his first career interception and touch­down. 

NFL 

Gutsy call helps Broncos shock SD 

Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Values-Based Decision Making" 
Robert Nyhuis Senior Program Manager Herman Miller Corporation 
Monday, September 15, 2008 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Associated Press 
DENVEH -The Denver Broncos were on such a lucky streak, why not roll the dice? 
Showing ultimate confidence in his ofl'ense and maybe an equal dollop of distrust in his defense, Mike Shanahan went for the 2­point conversion with 29 seconds left and Jay Cutler hit rookie Eddie Royal over the middle to give the Denver Broncos a 39-38 win over San Diego on Sunday. 

"Sometimes you have to go with your gut," Shanahan said. "I just felt like it was a chance for us to put them away. I didn't want to count on the coin flip. I wanted to do it then, and obvi­ously it worked out." 
It was the third successful 2­point attempt from a team going for the win instead of a tie in the waning seconds of a game since the 2-point eonversion was added in 1994, and the first since 'ntmpa Bay boat Washington 36­35 on Mikn Allstott's run on Nov. 13, 2005. 
The Chargers (0-2) wern both stunnnd and steamed at their second straight loss in the wan­ing seconds. 
The Broncos (2-0) had the ball because an errant whistle had erased Cutler's lost fumble two plays earlier. 
Trailing 38-31, the Broncos reached the 1 but on second-and­
Monday, September 15, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

JUMBLE 
~lYM&~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
MAXIO 
b

I I I I 
©!2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
rJ J 

All Rights Reserved.  
NOARP jI I r  ()  
NUGMIP  
1  rJ  (j  
www.jumble.com I QUESMO t  

1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHAT. SHE: IS IN AN t:NGL.ISH C.L-ASS? 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


Print answer here: 

A CIIIIIIJ 
Saturday's  I Jumbles:  GUISE  SNORT  (Answers tomorrow) TOWARD SEETHE  
Answer:  Many authors of Halloween books are­ 
"GHOST' WRITERS  

CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Formulaic 1 Feeling bloated 37 "Long ago and 6 Eyeliner boo-boo _away ..." 
11 "Don't tase me, 38 Furnace output !" 39 Western treaty 14 Make amends 
grp. (for) 40 Car with a logo 15 Bizarre of four rings 
16 Experiment site 41 Lubricate 17 Psychologically 42 Put-upon manipulated 46 Out, as a library 19 I 
book 

20 Lawman Wyatt 48 Smooth and lustrous
21 "The Andy Griffith Show" 49 At an angle boy 52 Galas 
22 Cowboy's 53 Norwegian greeting coastal feature 
24 End of a 55 Car that comes student's e-mail with a driver address 57 Opera set along 
26 Town shouters the Nile 28 Place to play 61 _Vegas twenty-one 62 Like players in 31 Jewish mystical pin-the-tail-on­doctrine the-donkey 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
F R 0 G P R I N CIE~R I C K 
L E V E L E 0 0 U T I N O N A M I T Y V I L L E V A N E 
pAN!~~~~~~~~~~~ 
...,...,._-+-A-+"-S;,S"" D R U M. M L I I R K • S E P A R A T E
li
E 5 HERE I T I s•A L GIE R A o c • T S H A T T E R D I L U~~T 
5 c 0 c H E 0 0 A H 0 A H 0 A H • N E 0 N 
~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 
0 A R S P R E S C I E N C E F R E E R 0 S E Y G R I E R 
65 Likely 66 Helpers 67 Rationed (out) 68 Crosses out 69 Silly birds 70 Escalator parts 
Down 
Comic Kaplan 2 Gillette razor 3 Go out of sight, 
as gas prices 4 Criticizes, 
perhaps unfairly 5 Craving 6 Ivory or Coast 7 "If be the 
food of love, play on": Shak. 8 Onetime dental anesthetic 9 "_you sleeping?" 1 0 Fiery-tempered sort, they say 11 Loses it 12 Ayn who wrote 
"Atlas Shrugged'' 13 Follow orders 18 Cause for 
23~:~::s 
25 Racket 27 "Rocks" 28 Make aware 29 No matter what 30 Stench 
~~ ~:~~~~edown 
34 When repeated. a toy train 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Thomas Heilman 
35 Way cool 45 "Xanadu" grp. 56 Retailer's goods: Abbr.
36 AOL and others, 
47 Rower's need 
58 Unemployed
in brief 50 Omit in 59 Bottomless 
40 Demands much pronunciation 60 Tosses in(of) 63 "This puzzle is51 Eats by 42 Pocketbook really, really 
candlelight, say43 Termite look-hard," e.g. 53 Source of linen 
alike 64 Takes too much. for short
44 Free from 54 Mock 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: A.J. Trauth, 22; Adam Lamberg, 24; Callum Keith Rennie, 48; Sam Neill, 61 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): There is too much at stake to take an unnecessary risk. You will exacerbate a personal situation if you confront the person you feel is contributing to the problem. Sit back and watch --time is on your side. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Plan a surprise visit or take a trip back to your roots. Reconnecting with old friends will lead to an idea, offer or even a move. A secret will be revealed that will help you understand your past and do better in the future. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Someone may try to take advantage of you by play­ing on your emotions. Don't give in to pressure when you should be havin[! fun with your lover or friends or working on a project that can help you gain ftnancial freedom. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Hard work, sweat and tears are the best route to success. Personal progress can be made if you set up a budget, a new diet and an exercise routine. Positive changes are within reach. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): Surround yourself with people you love. There is plenty to learn from friends and relatives who are experienced, handy or knowledgeable. Talks will direct you to an idea, concept or service that can pave your way to fi­nancial freedom. 3 stars 
VffiGO {Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll make progress if you face issues head on. Re­assess your personal relationships. Faruiliarity will count for something, so delve into your past for answers and to revive old friendships. 3 stars 
LffiRA {Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Reevaluate your current position and the contacts you have made in the past. Someone of importance can make a difference but you have to find a way to approach this person. Stick to facts, figures and possibilities. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Spontaneity will be the answer, especially if you or someone you care for is feeling down and needs a pick-me-up. Enjoy l!Ome of life's little pleasures. A secret, well-planned and executed, will be worth more than money can buy. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't spend what you don't have or count on something before it's complete. Talks will be full of innuendoes and promises that aren't likely to unfold. Don't lead anyone on or expect anything from anyone. Love is on the rise. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN {Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Go over your financial situation and see what you can afford. You may be tempted to take a trip or contribute to something that may not be all that reputable. Do your research and see if you still feel like making a donation or loan when you have the facts. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Put your money, your resources and your trust in what you, yourself, can do. Check out courses or deals that interest you or discuss your future with someone experienced. Believe in yourself and push your talents. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a new look at an old concept or idea. With a little upgrading and dating, you should be able to make it work. If you have to make a few concessions to lure the righ1 person into the deal, it will be worth it in the end. 3 stars · 
Birthday Baby: You have willpower, substance and the ability to take over and fi­nalize. You are charming and popular, a leader and a competitor. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
----------·---------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to rec·eive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
... 


THE OBSERVER_ 

PORTS
Monday, September 15, 2008 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Into the history books 

Senior forward Kerri Hanks earns 60th career assist to become sixth player ·ever with 60 goals, 60 assists 

SMC SOCCER 
Previously vvinless Belles run table to vvin tournalllent 
Central Sunday to take home son. The win was the coach Central tied the game 1-1 on a three of her seven saves in the By MIKE GOTIMER 
the title. Ryan Crabbe's first win as the free kick of their own in the two periods. Sports Writer 
The Belles got on the board Belles .coach. 65th minute. With a 4-3 lead, Duffy made a first Saturday when senior co­And the win put Saint Mary's For a moment, it appeared as save on North Central's final 
Saint Mary's entered this captain Lauren Hinton found in the title game of the tourna­if the Belles would take a 2-1 shot of the shootout that weekend's Sal Vaccaro the back of the net in the 24th ment for the second consecutive lead in the second half, but clinched the Belles' second con­Tournament at North Central minute. Freshman Julie year. what would have been the secutive tournament title. College in Naperville, Ill., with­Hamilton increased the Saint The Belles scored first in the game-winning goal was disal­The Belles return to the field out a win. Mary's lead to 2-0 goal 10 min­rainy game against the host lowed. . for their home opener on 
The Belles ( 1-3-1) left as tour­utes into the second half. Cardinals on a free kick as jun­The 1-1 tie forced overtime, Wednesday against Hope nament champions after a 2-0 Junior goalkeeper Patty Duffy ior co-captain Bridget Ronayne and neither team got a shot off College in a non-conference victory over Mount Mercy played the entire game, and her scored her first goal of the sea­jn the first overtime. In the sec­College Saturday and a 1-1 (4-3) two saves helped earn Saint son. Saint Mary's took a 1-0 ond overtime and the shootout, Contact Mike Gotimer at shootout thriller over host North Mary's its first win of tl1e sea-lead into halftime, but North Duffy took over and recorded mgotimer@nd.edu 
..... 
NO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
ND loses to 3 top-25 teams 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame went toe-to-toe with three top-25 teams in as many days at the Diet Coke Classic: in Minneapolis, but the Irish (3-(>) eame up short against No. 16 Cal Poly, No. 4 Cal and No. I I Minnesota. 
"We do bnlinvn that we can play with anybody in tho n,oun­try," Irish mach Debbie Brown said. "Tho probiPm we're facing right now is that we're just entirely too ineonsistnnt and a little too error-prone." 
Against Cal Poly (5-2). tho Irish startNI oil' sluggishly. drop­ping the tirst two sets 25-20, 25­
see DIET COKE/page 16 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish tied for eighth after one round in S.C. 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame opened its s.ea­son with a 9-over-par team score of 297, good for an eighth place tie after one round at the Cougar Classic in Hanahan, S.C., at the Yeamans Hall Golf Club. 
Senior Lisa Maunu and fresh­man Becca Hufl'er led the Irish by each carding a one-over 73, placing them in a tie for 16th­place as individuals. 
Georgia's Mallory I Ietzel and Virginia's Whitney Neuhauser each shot four-under 68s to take the first-round lead. Georgia and Virginia top the team leaderboards as well after even-par 189's. 
Junior Annie Brophy, along with Maunu and llufl'er, scored three birdies on the day. placing her in 39th-place with a three­over 75. 
Junior Kristin Wetzel shot a four-over 76, good for 53rd, and sophomore So-Hyun Park's eight-over 80 placed her in 87th to round out Notre Dame's round-one competitors. 
Th1~ event's 22-team field includes live top-25 teams. Four other teams, inducting the Irish, received votes in the Golf' World/NGCA preseason Coaches' Poll. 
The second round begins today at 7:40 a.m., and the third and final round will begin Tuesday at 8:45 a.m. 

By FRAN TOLAN Associate Spons Editor 
Freshman forward Melissa llnnderson seored twice in No. 2 Notr1~ Dame's 5-0 home win over SMU Friday, but it was senior Kerri llanks' night. 
llanks notched her 60th 1:areer assist when her cross into the box found Henderson, who put it home in the 54th minute to make llanks just the sixth player in NCAA history to have 60 goals and 60 assists in a career. 
"We're so proud of every­thing Kerri has been able to aeeomplish in her career and what she's meant to our pro­gram," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said to und.com. "llnr initials are all over the sehool and NCAA record books. and we were absolutely ecstatic that she was able to hit this milestone in front ol' our home fans." 
Ilanks joins two Irish players -Jenny Streiffer (70 goals, 71 assists from 1996-99) and Cindy Daws (61 goals, 67 assists from I 993-96) -in the exelusive 60-60 club. 
"It was good that [Hanks] got the assist and got it ol'f her back," Waldrum said. ''I'm sure now she'II be aiming for 70-70 ... It also says a lot that the assist that· put Kerri over the top went to Melissa Henderson, who has a really bright future in her own right." 
Henderson's second goal may not have been as historic as her first, but it wasn't any less impressive. Just six min­utes after her first tally, Henderson sent a rocket off the crossbar and into the goal to seal a game that highlighted the depth on the Irish roster. 
"The two goals didn't have anything to do with me," a humble Henderson said. "Both times my teammates made great plays and I was just in the right place at the right time." 
Waldrum, however, didn't hesitate to praise one of his program's rising stars. 
"She had a great night tonight and she's going to be a 
see MUSTANGS/page 16 
CARNEY!The 

Junior Megan Fesl, left, and sophomore Kellie Sciacca go for the block during Notre Dame's 3-1 win over Nevada Aug. 30. 



