
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 57 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER20, 2008 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
More students violating zoning off campus 
Upwards of 30 single family homes in campus neighborhoods occupied illegally by more than two unrelated residents 
By AARON STEINER News Writer  Toppel, director of Code Enforcement for the City of South Bend said. Most homes in residential  filed reports of over a half dozen violations in neighbor­hoods south of Notre Dame's campus since August of this  _,_~~:< Meighbodtooas wi'tif'~~ported :-:---s_ingle family zoning -~iolations ' , ~ v -:..; ' ' ...  
While the number of stu­ districts in South Bend and St.  year.  Reported  violations  
dents living off campus has  Joseph's County are zoned sin­ include homes on Pokagon St.,  
remained stable over recent  gle family. No  more than two  Angela. Blvd., Marquette Ave.,  
years, an increasing amount of  unrelated people  are allowed  and N. Foster St. Some of the  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's  to  occupy  a  single  family  records showed  cases with  
students living off campus are  home, according to  county  fines of up to $1,000 per day.  
in violation of local zoning  Assistant Zoning Administrator  Toppel said her office has  
codes, according to city and  Mark Lyons.  investigated at least 15 prop­ 
county officials.  "Three students constitutes a  erties in the city this school  
More students are violating  violation, both in the city and  year,  more  than  twice  the  
city and county regulations  the county," Lyons said.  number of cases  as in past  
about the number of unrelated  Students are increasingly liv­ years. Toppel said there are  
occupants a home may have.  ing in single family homes as  numerous other properties in  
"What I am seeing this year  new houses become available  violation that are  not being  
are  a  lot more single family  for rent or purchase, Toppel  investigated.  
homes  -properties that are  said.  Chuck  Bulot,  the  county  County City  
zoned for single family  use  According to files obtained  building commissioner, said  East of Campus South of Campus 
only ­ being occupied by more  by The Observer through  a  
than two students," Catherine  public records request, the city  see CODES/page 4  BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic  


Vizioteam 
wins Case 
StudyBowl 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The final round of the Notre Dame Entrepreneurship Society's Case Study Bowl took place Wednesday evening, as students attempted to prove it is possible for a company to be successful, even in today's shaky economic cli­mate. 
The Case Study Bowl is a com­petition between three undergrad­uate teams each representing dif­ferent companies and debating each other about specific compa­nies of their own choosing, said club Marketing Officer Kevin Kray. 
The Case Study Bowl first began in 2007 and quickly became the Entrepreneurship Society's signa­ture event. It is based on Harvard Business School's own case study program. 
Thi'> year's Bowl started out with six teams representing six differ­ent companies. The preliminaries, held on Oct. 28, eliminated half of those teams leaving the remaining three to go head-to-head in the finals. 
The three companies that were featured in the finals this year was computer giant Google, holding company Berkshire Hathaway and LCD television manufacturer Vizio. 
Each !-,'Toup, composed of three­to five-man teams, had 20 minutes to discuss the history of the com­pany, their current operations, the outlook for the future, and provide an overall analysis of the company in DeBartolo IJaiL Following each 
see BOWL/ page 6 


ND will not halt current construction projects 
ing," Affleck-Graves said. "We have a 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
number of projects that we are still seek­
Assistant News Editor 
ing funding on, and those projects will be delayed until we can get the funding." 
Despite concerns over the recent eco­Afileck-Graves credited the University's nomic slowdown, Notre Dame will be able conservative economic approach for to complete its current construction proj­preparing Notre Dame for a recession. ects and the University will continue to "But in general we always run the function normally, although future building University in a very fiscally conservative plans may be delayed, Executive Vice way," he said. "We always balance our President John Afileck-Graves said. budget ... so we're in a much better posi­
"All of the construction projects we have tion to face an economic downturn than 
on campus at the moment are fully fund­almost any other school in the country." 
Construction on Ryan Hall, the new women's ed, and we are not going to stop construc­
dorm, will continue despite economic troubles. tion on them because we have the fund-see ECONOMY/page 6 
DAN JACOBS!The Observer 

STUDENT SENATE 


Group passes resolution 
Motion calls for dialogue about absences for interviews 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Student Senate unanimously passed a reso­lution addressing student absences for inter­views that called for greater dialogue between students and their professors at their meeting Wednesday. 
The students who drafted the resolution, led by Academic Affairs committee chair Ryan Brellenthin, was originally told that there was an existing policy in the College of Business that excused student absences for interviews. I Iowever, Brellenthin said that he was later informed that no such policy exists. 
The committee decided to draft a resolution designed to raise the issue of student inter-
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt see SENATE/page 4 presides over Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
College to host Choir Festival 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Twenty-four years ago, Nancy Menk, the acting Department Chair of Saint Mary's music department started the High School Women's Choir Festival. The Festival, which will be held again this year on Thursday and Friday, is comprised of 20 women's choirs from five different states who travel to the College to perform. 
"It's a festival for high school girls' or women's 
see CHOIR/page 3 
Thursday, November 20, 2008 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Opposing vievvpoints 
I joked with sonm fi~llow Observer stalf mmn­hers I<L<>t week that I eould only write inside columns about Notn~ Dame l(,otball and the Chieago Cubs -those ar1~ tho only two subjects on which I feel both p<L<>sionatnly and well­infhrmed. I said. 
Thanks to the Kenlor 
brothers, who havn 

Matt Gamber
gairwd Viewpoint­renown fi>r their tragi­cally undying def(msns Associate Sports of tlw movin "Tropic Editor Thunder" and it<> ehar­acterizations of those with intelbtual disabilities, I have found a new topic. 
I viewed the film la<>t night fhr the second time with tl1is issue in mind, and the lack of sensitivi­ty toward the subject is both blatant and dis­turbing. 
"I watehed a lot of retarded people, spent time with them, observed them, wat1:hnd all the rntardnd stu II' tl1ey did," says Tugg Spnedman, Ben Stiller's charactnr. "There were times when I W<L'> doing 'Jack' that I actually li~It retardnd like wally retarded. In a wdrd way, I had to sort ofjust free mysnlfup to believe that it wa<> OK to be stupid. or dumb ... to bn a moron." 
And then thl'i gem from Hob1wt Downey Jr.'s 1:haracter: "You W<L'> farting in bath tubs and laughing your a<>s olr." 
Seriously? ThL<> doesn't "disparage or harm tim image ofindividuals wit11 di'iabilities," which Dream Works spok1~sman Chip Sullivan said the film managnd to avoid doing? 
At it<> best, tl1is nxehange drew cheap laughs from those who didn't think much oJ'it. At its worst. it broke the hnarL<> of those who low~ someone with an intellectual disability and work tirelessly to repair tl1is public insnnsitivity. 
In his Nov. 12 Viewpoint lettnr titled "Leaming to Laugh", Colin Keelnr not only states that "a little humor only serves to high­light these great challengns" liu:nd by people with intnllnctual disabilities, but he concludes, ''I'm sure [our Blessnd Mother I had a sense of humor a<; well." 
For).,rive me lhr my liliJiong enrollmnnt in pub­lie schools (until now), as perhaps I missed the dmpter on the Blessed Motlmr's comedic tastes, but I lind it hard to imagine she'd be chuckling horn. 
No, my public schooling didn't teach me whethnr the Vir).,rin Mary prefnrred "Yo Mama" jokes to those about "retards", but it did provide me the opportunity to interact with the mentally handicapped. both on an everyday ba<;is in the hallways and through volunteer work with the Special Olympics. 
It shouldn't even take these experiences, how­evor, to rnalize the daily hardships both those with int!~lleetual disabilitios and their loved ones enduro. Does a llollywood blockbuster really need to pile on with a marketing campaign ba<>1~d on the slogan "Never go full retard"? 
Suro, th1~ film's dedared goal, as the film's supporters argue, may have been to satirize the film industry, and the movie il<>elf also contained jokes about African-American stereotypes, for example. But every time one eame up, another character pointed it out and tore it down. 
Where wa<> the defense of people with intel­lectual disabilities. the voice saying "I ley, that's not right'"? Protestors were hiddnn from thP 1:amnra.s at the film's premiere, suppressed from dnf(mding a minority whose greatest vul­nerability is il<> permived (and often real) inabil­ity to delimd itself. 
Bnmdan Keeler's letter Monday suggested, "the very lea<>t you ought to do is familiarize yoursPifwith opposing viewpoint<>." 
Sound advice -now follow it. 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of jounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that Wt' will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contacr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How DO YOU FEEL ABOUT SNOW? 







Dan Sheper  Lauren Elliot  Matt Lodwich  Matt Ong  Michael Sizemore  
freshman Keenan  sophomore Pangborn  senior Dillon  senior Alumni  sophomore Dillon  
"/ like it. I'm from a sunny  "It's pretty."  "/ love snow!"  "Get back to me in March."  "!feel like it's Christmas  

state so it's different. " 

OFFBEAT 

lnnmates sneak through ceiling to have sex 
BLOOMFIELD, Ind. ­Three male and three female inmates at a southern Indiana jail face charges that they devised a way to sneak between cell blocks to help pass their time behind bars by having sex. 
The inmates figured out how to remove metal ceiling panels in the Greene County Jail and used the passageway more than a dozen times in September and October, according to court documents. 
The men -ages 44, 38 and 17 -and the women -ages 27, 26 and 21 -crawled through the ceiling after midnight, having sexual encounters and drinking homemade alcohol that was found hidden in the male cell block, a police affidavit said. 
Undercover officers use Taser on pallbearer 
WILMINGTON, N.C. ­A North Carolina sheriffs official has apologized for plunging a funeral into chaos when under­cover agents tried to arrest the dead man's son -and used a Taser on him in the process. 
It happened as the cof­fin was being loaded into a hearse. The officers planned to quietly arrest pallbearer Gladwyn Taft Russ III, The Star-News of Wilmington reported Wednesday. 
Relatives said two deputies dressed in coats and ties grabbed Buss and kneed him in his back before Tasering him. One deputy's gun fell out of its holster. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
D:: LLI 

!;;: :J: 
LLI 
3: 

0. 
0.
..... 
<C 

* * () * * * * 
*** **** * 


..J 0 HIGH 34 HIGH 27 HIGH 29 HIGH 36 LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 16 LOW 23 
before Thanksgiving." 
IN BRIEF 
The Kellogg Institute will host a lecture today at 4:15 
p.m. entitled "The Future of Democracy in Central America" in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. This roundtable discussion will examine democracy's future in Central American nations. 
The College of Science is hosting a Planetarium Show Featuring Exoplanets in the Digital Visualization Theater in the Jordan Hall of Science at 8 and 9 p.m. today. The event is free and will be fol­lowed a by a question and answer session. 
The Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film "Boy A" at 6::~0 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. today. In the film, a man who committnd a terrible crime as a child is released from jail as an adult into a world he has never been part of. 
There will be a ground­breaking ceremony for Harper Hall, the new home of expanded medical and cancer research initiatives at the Indiana University School of Medicine -South Bend and Notre Dame, Friday at 10 
a.m. adjacent to Haelin­Carmichael Hall on the cor­ner of Angela Boulevard and Notre Dame Avenue. 
Notre Dame Women's Soccer will compete in the NCAA Fourth Hound Tournament Sunday at Alumni Field. Time and team to be announced. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

0. 
* * * *
*** * 

HIGH 40 HIGH 32 LOW 31 LOW 22 
Atlanta 52 I 30 Boston 39 I 30 Chicago 43 I 30 Denver 65 I 36 Houston 73 I 53 Los Angeles 77 I 51 Minneapolis 34 I 24 New York 38 I 29 Philadelphia 35 I 29 Phoenix 86 I 57 Seattle 55 I 45 St. Louis 55 I 32 Tampa 62 I 43 Washington 38 I 32 
Thursday, November 20, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Choir 
continued from page 1 
choirs that we started 24 years ago," Menk said. "It's to promote good singing among high school travel choirs." 
The 20 choirs perform dur­ing the two-day festival in the O'Laughlin Auditorium on Saint Mary's campus. 
The event is not a competi­tion; however, there will be three commentators giving remarks about each choir's performances. The commen­tators this year are Dr. James Bass, Western Michigan University's Director of Choral Studies, Dr. Jill Burleson, Ball State University's Assistant Director of Choral Activities, and Dr. Eric Johnson, Northern Illinois University's Associate Professor of Music and Coordinator of Ensembles. 
Each choir will perform three or four different songs. After each has finished, one of the judges will instruct them on stage for 15 to 20 minutes. 
"Every choir gets to have the chance to have this sort of clinic with one of the com­mentators," Menk said. "Then the other two commentators give them written comments. The three commentators rotate all day so we're watch­ing different people on stage do the actual clinic." 
The choirs are chosen on a first come first serve basis. Each choir must fill out an application in order to be accepted into the event. 
"This year I have a waiting list of six or seven more choirs that would like to come," Menk said. 
Menk created the Festival because, "there are a lot of festivals out there for mixed choirs. But at the time I started this, they didn't have any that were just for high school girls' choirs. This seems the most logical place to have it at this women's col­lege. We are really centrally located." 
During the Festival, five choirs will perform each morning, and five in the afternoon. At noon, Saint Mary's own women's choir will perform. 
"That's supposed to be sort of a highlight of the Festival. The idea is that we are a good model of what a good women's choir can do, the kind of repertoire that we can sing and the kind of tone quality that we can produce and the kind of musicianship that we can display," Menk said. 
The Festival begins at 9:30 
a.m. Thursday and will close for the day at 4:30 p.m. It will take place at the same time on Friday. The event is free of charge. 
Contact Alida Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



Group 111akes allobnents to clubs 
Executive Board plans to meet with treasurers of organizations 
service. The forum will be held
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
in the Student Center Lounge at
News Writer 
5 p.m., Catherine Meadors, Student Services commissioner 
Mo Weaver, Board of said. Governance (BOG) treasurer, Barry Bowles, General announced that allotments Manager of Sodexo at the were decided and handed out to College, will be attending the 
clubs  and  forum in order  
organizations at Saint Mary's  'They took a lot of time  to take ques­tions and sug­ 
during  to make sure that those  gestions from  
Wednesday's meeting. T h e  that should have received money  the students about the food in the dining  
Executive Board worked  received money.,,  hall. "I know a lot  
late into the night in order to choose how  Patrick Daniel Director of Student  of people have concerns so if you have con­ 
the allotments  Involvement  cerns,  please  

would be given out, BOG advi­sor Patrick Daniel, Director of Student Involvement said. 
"They took a lot of time to make sure that those that should have received money received money," Daniel said. 
The Executive Board will be meeting with the treasurers of each group receiving money in order to explain how the allot­ments work. 
BOG also discussed an open forum being held today in order to address concerns about food 
just come. He is 

more than will­ing to answer questions," Meaders said. 
In other BOG news: 
+ The Senior Class Board is hosting the "Welcome to the Jungle" dance on Dec. 4 from 8 to 11 p.m. in Haggar Parlor, said Jenny Antonelli, president of Class of 2009. Tickets are $5 and the dance is open to all classes. 
"It's just like a fun couple hours on a Thursday night," 
Antonelli said. 
+ Saint Mary's students put together and sent more than 2,500 letters to troops in Afghanistan, student body pres­ident Mickey Gruscinski said. 
Student Diversity Board (SOB) will be hosting "Sugar Makes the World Go Round" on Dec. 2 in the Student Center Lounge at 
6:30 p.m. Adriana Rodriguez, president of SOB said. 
"It will be different snack foods from countries all over the world," Rodriguez said. Different clubs and organiza­tions from the Modern Language and Intercultural Studies departments will be making the desserts and SOB will be providing beverages. 
+ In honor of Native American Heritage Month, Multicultural Services, Anthropology department, and the Anthropology club have been holding events to raise awareness about the culture said Rodriguez. 
The final event will be a panel discussion on Current Issues facing Native Americans from 
7:30 to 9 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre on Nov. 24. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at achamO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Like to study in Dublin? 
Interested in summer language programs in Galway? 
Need a summer internship in Ireland? 
Want a unique Minor? 
Roinn Theanga & Litriocht na Gaeilge 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature 
Spring '09 Course Offerings include 
Language Courses  
IRLL 10101  Beginning Irish I  MacLeod  
IRLL 10102  Beginning Irish II  O'Callaghan  
IRLL 20103  Intermediate Irish  Corbett  
IRLL 20203  Advanced Readings in Irish Culture  6 Conchubhair  
Literature Courses  
IRLL 20109  Celtic Heroic Literature  Fogarty (TR 12:30-1 :45)  
IRLL 30109  Introduction to Irish Writers  6 Conchubhair (MWll :45-12:35)  
IRLL 30112  Irish Folk Custom & Belief  6 Giolhin(TR 12:30-1 :45)  
IRLL 40316  Folklore, Lit & Irish Culture  6 Giollan (TR 9:30-10:45)  
IRLL 50318  The Feminine in Irish Literature  6 Crualaoich (TR 3:30-4:45)  

For tnore information visit 412 Planner Hall or telephone 631-0499 http://studyirish.nd.edu/ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 20, 2008 

Codes 
continued from page I 

that he has seen more concen­trated violations in neighbor­hoods 1mst of campus, includ­ing properties in a six-block area around Warrick St. Bulot said between 15 and 20 homes have been reported this year. 
"The unfortunate side of these issues is that students are going to have to move," Toppel said, or face fines and possible legal action. 
Establishing the current code and exceptions 
Lyons said the current zon­ing regulations were enacted in 2004. The new code restricted the number of unre­lated people who may live in a property zoned single family. 
People can be legally related by blood, marriage or adop­tion, Lyons said. 
"If you have two students in a single family home, that's the maximum you can have, because they're two unrelated people," Lyons said. 
There are exceptions to this code, however, Lyons said. 
When the current zoning code was enacted in 2004, homes that were occupied by more than two unrelated peo­ple at the time were "grandfa­thered in." 
"If you can prove you've con­sistently used it for that use (with more than two unrelated occupants) since 2004, without lapsing for more than a one year time period, you can con­tinue to use it" with more than two students, Lyons said. 
Lyons said that of the homes students are currently living in off campus, there is a "mix­ture" of homes that are in vio­lation and homes that are legally grandfathered. 
Many of the homes rented by well-known rental companies in South Bend are not in viola­tion, Lyons explained. 
"A lot of them in the city were existing (student homes)," Lyons said, prior to the new code. 
Local landlord Mark Kramer said he is aware of the code and all of the homes he rents to more than two students are legally grandfathered. 
"I will not rent a house if it's not zoned correctly," Kramer said. While Kramer does rent properties that are zoned sin­gle family and are not grandfa­thered, "we never put more than two students in the house," he said. 
Home purchases, new rentals Increase violations 
Still, Toppel said some land­lords rent non-grandfathered single family homes to more than two students. 
In addition, many of the new violations come from homes that are purchased by the stu­dents themselves or their fami­lies, Toppel said. 
"Housing is rather reason­able in South Bend and it's sometimes more reasonable ... to purchase a home, and have the student bring [roommates) to make the mortgage," she said. 
Toppnl said violations arise from both ignorance about regulations as well as blatant violation of the code in other eases. Thn property owner ­whether it is the resident or a landlord -is legally responsi­ble for knowing and abiding by the eode. 
"In my opinion, most of the time, students aren't aware," Toppel said. 
When parents purchase homes, some do not know 
about regulations, while others fair, to draw a middle line." choose to blatantly violate them. Dealing with current, future 
"I've had more parents be cases blatant about it than students," Bulot said of cases the coun­Toppel said. ty is currently investigating, a 
When parents-or landlords series of nine properties in the -purchase homes, Toppel neighborhood east of campus said she instructs real estate must be resolved in the coming agencies and sellers to notify months. Toppel said she has a prospective buyers of the number of violations she is codes. currently 
Pam DeCola, addressing, and a real estate the outcomes agent at the will be varied.
"We do make sure that
South Bend Toppel said office of Cressy we let the prospective she would con­& Everett, said buyer know that it is a tinue to work that entire real with landlords,
St. Joseph County 
estate commu­sellers and real 
nity is sensitive ordinance that you estate agents, to the code. cannot have more than and continue to "We do make investigate com­
two unrelated people in 
sure that we let plaints as they the prospective a residence. " come in. But she buyer know said students that it is a St. should be aware
Pam DeCola 
Joseph County of the risks they
real estate agent
ordinance that take when mov­
you cannot have more than two unrelated people in a residence," DeCola said. 
She said that while agents make the code known, there are often cases where "there ends up being at least two if not more students living there." 
Investigating violations, enforcing code 
Toppel and Bulot said inves­tigations about over-occupied single family homes are driven solely by complaints, most often from neighbors. 
"We investigate every com­plaint that comes in," Bulot said. "We go out physically to see if there are any overt signs of over occupancy." 
This includes multiple cars with out-of-state plates, multi­ple bikes and other visible indicators, Bulot said. 
Once there is enough evi­dence to prove the home is over-occupied and in violation, Toppel and Bulot said they send preliminary letters detail­ing the violations. Toppel said that the city allows 10 days to resolve the issue. Owners can prove they were in compliance, rezone -which she said is highly unlikely-or move stu­dents out of the home until only two occupants remain. 
For properties that remain in violation, citations are issued starting at $50 and reaching up to $1,000 per day. Legal action is the last resort, Toppel said. 
Both Toppel and Bulot said they try to be reasonable when dealing with students and in forcing any of them to move out. 
"Sometimes there are leases involved, and we don't want to put any unnecessary burden on a [resident) as long as in good faith they're making progress," Bulot said. 
Toppel said the increasing number of violations have led her to be stricter when it comes to allowing students to wait until the end of a semes­ter to move out. 
"We can't really offer that [lenience) anymore as a city, because it's become blatant," Toppel said. 
Toppel said she recognizes that it is difficult to move out of a house mid-semester. 
"The students are going to be upset. One, they're going to have to leave their friends. Two, they're going to have to find a new place to live," Toppel said. "And how do you draw straws? Who's leaving the house? 
Toppel added: "I try to see both sides of the story, to be 
ing off campus 
to a single family 
home. 
"I would suggest they look somewhere else before they put themselves in that posi­tion," she said. 
Lyons said students should investigate whether the home they are renting or purchasing is properly zoned, especially if they plan to have more than two people living in the home. 
That's especially important when leases are involved, he said. 
"For the students to protect themselves, they need to get something in writing, from that landlord, that says it is a legal property to be used that way [as a student house]," Lyons said. "They want to do their home­work and not put themselves in risk of a situation where they would need to find a new place to live in the middle of the year." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
views to the faculty's attention because they "thought it would be a little presumptuous to demand that the faulty do something different," he said. 
Creating a policy on the issue is a last resort for Brellenthin. 
"If we can fix it just through dialogue without a policy, then we don't want a policy," he said. 
Sorin senator Mike Sayles said this idea that creating a policy isn't the best way to han­dle any potential issues with interviews earlier in the meet­ing. "Mostly the professors, especially in the business school, say it's fme to miss class as long as you notifY them," he said. "They know interviews are going to happen. It's OK as long as you let them know in advance." 
However, Pasquerilla West senator Megan Sennett said that she has had a problem with missing class for an inter­view. Sennett, a junior account­ing major, said that she has spent parts of three of the past four weeks in Atlanta on inter­views. She said that she had to drop a class that meets only on Fridays because she was only allowed one absence. 
"It is actually an issue," Sennett said. 
Brellenthin said that his com­mittee based the need for a pol­icy mostly on "anecdotal evi­dence." But he said that the need for some sort of resolution is not entirely dependent on students having problems miss­ing classes for interviews. 
"Even if every professor was granting absences, we just want to get the dialogue going," he said. "It's a good thing for stu­dents and professors to get together and talk." 
Sayles objected to one specific section of the resolution that he interpreted as saying the reso­lution was necessary because the job market is eurrently competitive. 
"It shouldn't matter whether the market is competitive or not competitive," Sayles said. "I don't think there's a greater need now than five years ago lor somebody to go to an inter­view. It's always been a part of the process." 
But Brellenthin defended the wording of the resolution because it "signals a change from the status quo." 
"As time passes and the mar­ket place for jobs gets more competitive, there's a reason to change the status quo," Brellenthin said. 
Sayles made a motion to remove the clause that dealt with market competitiveness, but his motion only received two votes and was defeated. 
In other Senate news: 
+Student body vice president Grant Schmidt announced at the meeting that Food Services has agreed to allow students to use the east room of South Dining Hall and two rooms in North Dining Hall for study space during exam week. 
The study spaces will be open from 9:00 p.m. until 2:00 a.m. from Dec. 14 until Dec. 18. 
This is in addition to the Career Center's donation of the interview rooms in Flanner Hall as exam week study space. 
+ Senate approved the sale of coupon booklets to students after Thanksgiving by unani­mous acclamation. The booklets have already been produced by an unnamed area resident. 
The booklets will contain dis­counts to a variety of different area establishments, including Pappa John's Pizza and the Star of India restaurant. 
Discounts in the book will not be able to be applied to alcohol purchases, Schmidt said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 20, 2008 COMP[L£0 FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRf. SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Media leaders criticize journalist ban 
.JERUSALEM -Leaders of the world's biggest media organizations filed a protest with Israel's prime minister Wednesday criticizing the government's decision to ban journalists from entering the Gaza Strip for the last two weeks. 
The protest was the latest in a chorus of international criticism of Israel's Gaza dosure, tightened after a five-month truce began unraveling about two weeks ago in a flurry of Israeli airstrikes against militants and Palestinian rocket barrages targeting Israeli towns. 
Those signing the letter included Associated Press Chief Executive and President Tom Curley, Heuters Editor-in-Chief David Sehlesinger, New York Times Executive Editor Bill Keller, ABC News President David Westin, BBC News Director Helen Boaden and other top exeeutives from CNN, the Canadian TV net­work CTV. the German broadcaster ZDF, and the French news service Agence France Presse. 
Indian navy slop) Somaliabased pirates 
NEW DELHI -The ship, operating off the coast of Oman in the lawless waters of the Gulf of Aden. was crewed by heavily armed men, some carrying rocket-propelled grenade launch­ers. Behind it were a pair of speedboats -the sort pirates often use when they launch attacks on merchant ships in these violent seas. 
What li>llowed, ollieials said Wednesday, was a rare victory in a sea war against Somalia-based piracy that has become increasingly more vio­hmt, and where the pirates an~ ever more bold. 
A patrolling Indian navy frigate quickly identi­fied the vessel as a "mother ship" -a mobile attack bas<~ used to take gangs of pirates and smaller speedboats into deep water -and ordered it to stop and be searched. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Daschle accepts Cabinet offer 
WASIIINGTON -Former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle has accepted President-elect Barack Obama's offer to be Secretary of Health and Human Services, Democratic officials said Wednesday. 
The appointment has not been announced, but these officials said the job is Daschle's, barring an unforeseen problem as Obama's team reviews the background of the South Dakota Democrat. One area of review will include the lobbying connections of his wife, Linda Hall Daschle, who has lobbied mostly on behalf of airline-related companies over the years. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't authorized to discuss the mat­ter publicly. 
Poultry grower investigates abuses 
LEWISBURG, W.Va. -Global poultry grower Aviagen Inc. said Wednesday it has suspended a supervisor and would investigate a video released by an animal rights group that appears to show horrific abuse of turkeys at the company's West Virginia farms. 
People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals said the video, which includes workers stomping on turkeys' heads and twisting their necks to kill them, was shot by an undercover investigator who worked on the companies' farms for more than two months. 
LOCAL NEWS 
BMV reverses license plate ruling 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Bureau of Motor Vehicles has reversed an earlier ruling and decided that a woman may have a personalized license plate carrying the words "BE GODS." 
The nwersal comes after Liz Ferris sued the BMV in federal court for refusing to issue a new plate carrying the same words she had on other plates for several years. 
Ferris contended in her lawsuit that the BMV was discriminating against her for expressing her beliefs. 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Experts emphasize self-help-for Africa 
Economists hope for foreign investment for profit, easy access to Western markets 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG, South Africa -Two weeks after Africans danced for joy to see a black man elected president of the United States, a Kenyan newspaper columnist delivered a crisp warning to this complex and troubled continent: "Obama is not the Great Black Hope." 
Africans will have to look for solutions within them­selves, not abroad, Priscah Edith Awino wrote in the Daily Nation, the leading newspaper of Barack Obama's ancestral land. 
The self-help theme has become increasingly preva­lent with the recognition that 50 years of Western aid and emergency rescues of famine, disease and war victims have failed to cure Africa's ills, and may even have held the continent back. 
So rather than expect Obama to be a cure-all, Awino wrote, his election "should inspire us to build institutions that will pro­duce leaders with Obama's greatest strengths -his dignified bearing, states­manship, brains, know-how and depth." 
Many of the remedies Obama has said he would African economists, is more eign policy legacy. later took partial responsi­apply to Africa's miseries foreign investment for profit Bush, who twice visited bility for failing to prevent will sound familiar: aid and easier access to Africa during his eight years the 1994 genocide that left twinned with an emphasis Western markets. Obama in office, crafted an emer­more than 500,000 dead. on fostering entrepreneur­indeed has promised to gency plan to combat It declared the conflict in ship; tough talk for dicta­"expand prosperity" by fos­HIV/AlDS-the largest ever Darfur a genocide, imposed tors; commitment to fighting tering African entrepre­deployed against an infec­sanctions on Sudan and AIDS. neurship, opening U.S. mar­tious disease. The White trained and transported 
He has also said he would kets wider and boosting U.S. House says Bush's effort has other nations' soldiers for double foreign aid spending investment in Africa. enabled 200,000 children of peacekeeping there. But it from $25 billion in 2008 to South African economist HIV-positive women in didn't send in its own $50 billion by the end of his Iraj Abedian would like to Africa to be born virus-free. troops. first term. see Obama lead the way to War, as much as disease Now as Obama prepares 
But he hasn't said how a breakthrough on the long­and poverty, is Africa's for office, Congo's conflict is much of it would go to stalled world trade talks, scourge. And Obama may deepening again, despite Africa, and the continent from which, he says, Africa be no more able than previ­the biggest U.N. operation will struggle for a place on a and other vulnerable areas ous American presidents to in history to hold elections presidential agenda that of the world would be the intervene decisively. after a war that had sucked includes Afghanistan, Iraq, first to benefit. The U.S. has been wary of in neighbors to become Iran's nuclear program, the In a way, Obama has a African military entangle­what was called "Africa's Israeli-Palestinian conflict, tough act to follow: Some of ment since its blood­first world war." A resur­the global financial melt­President George W. Bush's drenched encounter with gence of that war may only down, and climate change. Africa initiatives have wide­Somalia, where it led a U.N. underline the limits on any 
What would really help, ly been seen as one of the force in the 1990s. It didn't American president's ability says a new generation of few bright spots of his for-send troops to Rwanda, and to alleviate the suffering. 

Lawsuits seek to nullify Proposition 8 
tiona! change. measure, which would have allowed
Associated Press As is its custom when it takes up gay marriages to begin again while SAN FRANCISCO -California's cases, the court elaborated little. the justices considered the cases. The highest court agreed Wednesday to However, the justices did say they court denied that request. hear several legal challenges to the want to address what effect, if any, a The justices directed Brown and state's new ban on same-sex mar­ruling upholding the amendment lawyers for the Yes on 8 campaign to riage but refused to allow gay couples would have on the estimated 18,000 submit arguments by Dec. 19 on why to resume marrying before it rules. same-sex marriages that were sanc­the ballot initiative should not be nul­The California Supreme Court tioned in California before election lified. It said lawyers for the plain­accepted three lawsuits seeking to day. tiffs, who include same-sex couples nullify Proposition 8, a voter­Gay rights groups and local govern­who did not wed before the election, approved constitutional amendment ments petitioning to overturn the ban must respond before Jan. 5. that overruled the court's decision in were joined by the measure's spon­Oral arguments could be scheduled May that legalized gay marriage. sors and Attorney General Jerry as early as March, according to court All three cases claim the measure Brown in urging the Supreme Court spokeswoman Lynn Holton. abridges the civil rights of a vulnera­to consider whether Proposition 8 Both opponents and supporters of ble minority group. They argue that passes legal muster. Proposition 8 expressed confidence voters alone did not have the authori­The initiative's opponents had also Wednesday that their arguments ty to enact such a significant constitu-asked the court to grant a stay of the would prevail. 
Thursday, November 20, 2008
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
EconoiDy 
continued from page 1 

Unlik(~ many othPr univnrsities that arn now facing dif'ficultins eomplnting their construction Jlrl!i­nds, Al'flnck-Cravns said Notre Damn only bngins constructioh when it has rnceived all of the money rHH:essary f(>r the pn!jnct. 
"Our policy is that we cannot begin construction of buildings until wn havjl 100 pnn:nnt of tho rnonny plndgnd from donors. We have to havn 75 pnn:ent cash in hand. and tho rnmaining 25 pnr­cent rwnds to be in within live years," lw said. 
Whiln current construction proj­ects, such as Hyan flail and the addition to the Law School, will be completed, Afllm:k-Gravns said plans for a new student center, two new dorms and a soeial seienee building will probably havn to bn put on hold. 
"Tiwm's a lot of other building that wn want to do on campus but we won't do thmn until we gnt the funding fbr them," he said. "So, in a sensn. we arn slowing down just to tho nxtent that we don't get peo­pln to provide tlw funding." 
All lour of the buildings are part of the administration's plans for the development of the campus, and Aflleck-Graves said they had already planned out where the new structures would be placed. 
"We have place markers on campus for where new buildings can go. We haven't decided what those buildings will be," he said. "For instance, the social sdence building is slatnd to go just south of the llesburgh Center for International Studies. We know that the two new dorms are slated to go on old Juniper, just east of Pasquerilla East and Knott. We know the student activity center is slated to go just nast of the Stepan Center." 
AITleck-Graves said it would probably be a few years befi>re the school can raise enough funds from its donors to begin those proj­ecl'i. 
"I think everybody knows that funding L<> going to be much tighter in the next few years. The econo­my is not in good shape; the finan­cial markets are still in some disar­ray," hn said. "We're reliant on the donors to provide the funding." 
llowever, Allleek-Graves said the absence of these buildings would not have a significant impact on life at the University. 
"At the moment we are operat­ing the University without those buildings and we will continue to do so," he said. 
Aff1eck-Graves said the University would have to be more conservative in purcha<>ing, which would include cuts in travel expenses and eomputer and equip­ment upgrades. 
"I think parl-; of our operations will have to look at cost savings across the University, maybe in some of our pureha<>ing," he said. "At the moment we're pretty well positioned to handle most other things." 
Moreover, Affleck-Graves said the endowment would remain strong throughout tho reeession. lie said the endowmnnt would probably shrink over tho next cou­ple of years becausn it is heavily invested in market-rnlatnd seeuri­ties, but it is important to remem­ber the endowment had grown rapidly over the past f(mr years. 
"The endowment will always lluetuate because it is invested in a lot of market-related securities, and so certainly the endowment will go down," he said. "But it h<L'i also gone up dramatically in the la<>t four years, so it fluctuates with the market." 
However, Affieck-Graves said thn University would continue to extract the same amount of money from the endowment eaeh year as tlmy had previously. 
"We don't like to pay out a fixed percentage of the endowment eaeh year," hP said. "We like to pay out a spncilie dollar amounl so we'll always have the same amount of eash coming out or the endow­ment." 
Nlleek-Graves crnditnd his prPd­ecessors for establishing tlw University's eonsnrvative polides that will help st(wr thn school through the rneession. 
"I think the people who lnd tim University's linandal system befhn~ me -Fr. Ned Joyen and Fr. Tim Scully -did sueh a wonderful job of creating a finandal disdplinn in the University that has always allowed us to bo cautious of over­spending in good times and that is providing us now with a great reserve so we don't have to impact our operations too much," he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Bowl 
continued from page I 

individual prPsPntation, thrne Univnrsit.y prorPssors sPrving as judgns giw tlwir insights on tlw information prPsnnted and tlw team's perliwrnaru·(•. 
"Although tlw PVI'IIl will be Pdu­rational and givP tlw audinncn insight on tlwsP companies, it is intnndPd to hn a Vl'ry fun and liwly nvPnt with a sporL'i tlwnw, audi­Pnrn intPraction, rrPn pizza and drinks. cUI PIIWPP and morn," Kray said. 
While t.lw Bowl is Pdw:ationalliu· tlw part.icipanL-;, it is also inl(mna­tivn to tlw audinm·n as well, Kray said. 
"It te<u:hes the audinnee about several highly suecnssful and inno­vatiw companies, a<> well as how they ran relate to them," Kray said. "Student-; can learn about the companies bPing presented and lnarn how to rPlate their successes in tlwir own liws. They also learn innovative and creative ways of perf(wming pn~sentations." 
At tlu• end or each presentation, tlw teams discussed how tlwir par­ticular company's ideals can apply and he implenwntml into the aver­agP studcmt's lif(~. All thwe teams inli1rmed the audienee to rmnain true to their ideals when setting goals and to always mtain intngrity in everytl1ing that they do. 
After all the prnsnntations had been given, audinnee rnmnbers were given a ballot to vote on whieh presentation thp,y thought had been the best overall. The audience was asked to judge each ~-,rroup ba<>ed on the presnntation of tho material, creativity and the rel­evanee of the presentation. The audience aceountnd fi>r 50 pnrcent or the vote, and the judges the other 50. 
After all tlw votes had been munb~d. team Vizio was dnclared tlw winner of the Case Study Bowl. 
"The Entrnprennurship Soeinty is not just anQthnr nerdy academic dub." Kray said. "We wish to hold ewnl-; that not only l(>ster entre­preneurship and crnative thinking but that arn also lim and informa­tive." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 

Thursday, November 20, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 7,997.28 -427.47 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
303 46 3,390 3,099,532,871 
AMEX ···1;.4S.42••·ffi~~~~t; NASDAQ 1 386.42 -96.85 NYSE s;o11~oo ~®;ala·~mJ S&P 500 806.58 -52.54 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,910.20 ~3~a.001 FTSE 100 (London) 4,005.68 -202.87 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -6.41 -5.58 81.50 CITIGROUP INC (C) -23.44 -1.96 6.40 POWESHARES (QQQQ) -5.22 -1.48 26.86 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -10.47 -1.23 10.52 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -4.07 -0.14 3.39 13-WEEK BILL -40.91 -0.05 0.06 30-YEAR BOND -4.15 -0.17 3.97 5-YEAR NOTE -4.74 -0.10 2.09 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.77 53.62 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.30 736.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 84.60 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 95.8000 EURO 0.8003 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2545 BRITISH POUND 0.6687 
IN BRIEF Earmarking may come from Obama 
WASIIINGTON -They are old bulls both, legendary for fiercely lording over the Senate Appropriations Committee and fun­neling billions to their home states. 
But while Sens. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., and Ted Stevens, R-Alaska, will no longer be leading the panel. the congressional habit of doling out earmarks is unlikely to change. 
If anything, the biggest challenge to "ear­marking" money for specific projects ­derided as pork by critics but considered hometown boons by defenders -may come from President-elect Barack Obama. He has said he will pare such expenditures to their 1994 levels. billions below today's amounts. 
The grizzled duo -Stevens turned 85 on Tuesday, Byrd's 91st birthday is Thursday -have long been the faces of a committee that. with its House counterpart, control more than $1 trillion a year in spending on everything from aircraft carriers to zoologi­cal research. They have 90 years in the Senate between them. 
Bush plans to attend APEC forum 
WASIIINGTON -President George W. Bush doesn't see his final Asia-Pacific summit this week as a farewell but rather a chance to enlist more nations in the battle against a financial crisis that threatens to pull the world economy into a severe economic reces­sion. 
In a pre-trip briefing, administration offi­cials said Wednesday that Bush was focused on getting more nations to sign on to a broad action plan that was adopted this past week­end by the Group of 20 nations in Washington. Ile also will have one-on-one talks with the leaders of Russia, China, South Korna and Japan. 
Bush leaves Friday for· a three-day trip to Lima. Peru. where he will attend the 21­nation Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. likely his last summit with world lead­ers. 
Nino of thn nations at the APEC summit also attendnd the Washington meeting, a gathering of' about 20 leaders representing the seven wealthiest nations and including major devel­oping economies China. Brazil and India. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Senate scraps plans to vote on auto bailout 
General Motors, Chrysler, Ford Motor Co. could face financial collapse 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON A 
Democratic Congress, 
unwilling or unable to 
approve a $25 billion bailout 
for Detroit's Big Three, 
appears ready to punt the 
automakers' fate to a lame­
duck Republican president. 
Caught in the middle of a who-blinks-first standoff are legions of manufacturing firms and auto dealers ­and millions of Americans' jobs after Senate Democrats canceled a show­down vote that had been expected Thursday. President George W. Bush has "no appetite" to act on his own. 
U.S. auto companies employ nearly a quarter-mil­lion workers, and more than 730,000 other people have jobs producing the materials and parts that go into cars. About 1 million on top of that work in dealerships nationwide. If just one of the auto giants were to go belly up, some estimates put U.S. job losses next year as high as 2.5 million. 
"If G M is telling us the 
truth, they go into bankrupt­
cy and you see a cascade 
like you have never seen," 
said Sen. George V. 
Voinovich. R-Ohio, who was 
working on one rescue plan 
Wednesday. "If people want 
to go home and not do any­
thing, I think that they're 
going to have that on their engaged in a high-stakes countered the White House. gram created by Congress in 
hands." game of chicken, positioning "If Congress leaves for a September -designed to 
The automakers -hob­themselves to blame each two-month vacation without help the companies develop 
bled by lackluster sales and other for the failure. having addressed this impor­more fuel-efficient vehicles 
choked credit -are burning Senate Majority Leader tant issue . . . then the -to meet the auto giants' 
through money at an alarm­Harry Reid, D-Nev., scrapped Congress will bear responsi­immediate fmancial needs. 
ing and accelerating rate: plans Wednesday for a vote bility for anything that hap­Voinovich and Sen. Kit 
about $18 billion in the last on a bill to carve $25 billion pens in the next couple of Bond, R-Mo., along with 
quarter alone. General in new auto industry loans months during their long Democratic Sen. Carl Levin 
Motors Corp. has said it out of the $700 billion Wall vacation," said Dana Perino, of Michigan, were at work 
could collapse within weeks, Street rescue fund. the White House press secre­on that measure Wednesday, 
and there are indications It's really up to Bush's tary. trying to placate skeptical 
that Chrysler LLC might not team to act, he said. She said there was "no Democrats by including a 
be far behind. Ford Motor "I don't believe we need appetite" in the administra­guarantee that the fuel-effi­
Co. has said it could get the legislation," Reid said. tion for using the financial ciency loan fund would ulti­
through the end of 2008, but Treasury Secretary Henry industry bailout money to mately be replenished. 
it's unclear how much Paulson can tap the financial help auto companies. "It is the only proposal 
longer. industry bailout money to The White House and con­now being considered that 
For now, however, with the help auto companies, Reid gressional Republicans has a chance of actually federal emergency loan plan said, but "he just doesn't instead called on Democrats becoming law," said stalled in the Senate, law­want to do it." to sign on to a GOP plan to Republican leader Mitch makers in both parties are Not our responsibility, divert a $25 billion loan pro-McConnell of Kentucky. 

Fear of deflation affects stock market 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -A growing fear of economic deflation helped take the air out of the stock market Wednesday, and another white-knuckle final hour on Wall Street pushed the Dow Jones industrials under 8,000 to their lowest close since the financial meltdown began. 
Consumer prices in October took their biggest monthly plunge in the six decades that records have been kept ­a reprieve for shoppers but a danger sign for the economy because falling prices can make a mild recession spiral into something worse. 
The drop illustrated once again how quickly the economic danger can shift in tumultuous times like these. The infla­tion fears that grippc.d the nation just a few months ago now seem like a distant memory. 
"Consumer price inflation has sud­denly screeched into reverse," said Brian Bethune, economist at IHS Global Insight. "The inflation threat has disap­peared from the radar screen." 
Worried about the economic data, a gloomy outlook from the Federal Reserve and the fate of the Big Three automakers, investors yanked money out of the stock market. The Dow drift­ed lower for most of the day, then plum­meted in a tumultuous final hour of trading. 
It crossed under 8,000 in the last min­utes before the closing bell and closed down 427 points, or about 5 percent, at 7,997-its lowest close since March 2003. The average has dipped below 8,000 on other days since the meltdown began in mid-September but had not closed there. 
The Standard & Poor's 500, a broader snapshot of the stock market, slipped more than 6 percent. The financial cri­sis has already wiped out $6.7 trillion of value from the S&P 500 since its October 2007 high. In the same period, the Dow has lost more than 6,000 points. 
"I don't know what the catalyst is going to be where we turn the corner and people start buying stocks whole­heartedly again," said Jon Biele, head of capital markets at Cowen & Co. "People got out of the way. The financial situa­tion hasn't changed." 
The Federal Heserve sharply lowered its economic projections and signaled that further interest-rate cuts might be necessary to ease the economy's worst crisis since the Great Depression. 
Documents from the Fed's most recent closed-door deliberations on interest rate policy showed a worry about "significant weakness" in the economy and a worsening job market. 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, November 20, 2008 
===== 

THE OBSERVER 
Love thee 'Noder Dame' 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
When I was in Boston the other week­frequent bedfellows. "Weis Saves Job, at mistake by flipping on him so quickly.
024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
end, my cab driver kept correcting my Least for a Moment,"read one headline Temperance is still a virtue, even at an 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

pronunciation of my alma mater. this Sunday, as if another completed Irish school. 
Chris Hine 

"We're going to the Boston College­bomb would have immediately decimated And measuring it temperately-­MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Nuder Dame football game,") explained. Paris. During the game, Steve Beuerlein weighing the whole of this year versus Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan "Nader Dame ... asked a rambling question about the the whole of last year ---the discussion pfl111' ...."He joined state of the program to Jack Swarbrick, about Charlie seems silly. We are trend­
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

his thumb and who did himself no favors by expounding ing up. The women's soccer emphasis
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 

index finger on his at length about the state of the women's aside, Jack Swarbrick is right. Last week, NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Mctz 
right hand and soccer team. he told a reporter, "I would tell them I am VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King shook it. "Knowtre It's a wonder I haven't seen the pithy-if very pleased with the progress we have SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Dahm." cheesy-likes of "Why Irish Eyes Aren't made this year and that we are moving in Bill Brink I laughed to be Smiling"and "Yuck of the Irish." the right direction, that we're going to be ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari polite. "Yeah, but But two years ago, that foaming mouth even better next year, and that I would we're from was salivating. Heck, two months ago, hope they would move forward with us." 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 

Indiana, so we're that mouth was salivating. And that's Anybody can recognize how different 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 

allowed to say why the calls for Charlie's head are this team is than last year's. How much GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse Nader Dame." absurd and, more importantly, embar­more promise we have. Our freshman ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer "You go rassing. and sophomores take the field and play there?"he asked, It's not just that people are bailing on with other schools' juniors and seniors: 
All DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 

knowing full well that the answer had to Charlie Weis now. It's how quickly they Michael Floyd, the brothas Smith at line­
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

be yes. leapt onto the bandwagon and how backer, and yes, before Boston College, 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 

"You go there and you still say 'Noder quickly they're leaping off. People outside even Jimmy Clausen. Because of them, OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO Dame?' What are you? Stupid?" Notre Dame will use Charlie's contract we have hope, and it is justified hope. 
(574) 631-7471 My always-supportive first cousin extension as evidence, and appropriately Whether times are good or bad, that's 
FAX 

chimed in from the seat next to me. so. But it's more fundamental than that. what our evaluation of Weis and others 
(574) 631-6927 

"Oui, monsieur." Four years ago, the third quarter has to be about: hope. I lope in the face of
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu "Eh out ... It's Knowtre Dahm--don't ended and the hero worship began in the difficulty (last season). I lope in the face of EDITOR IN CHIEF give me this 'Nader Dame."'IIe took his student section as the 1812 Overture uncertainty (this season). The audacity of 
(574) 631-4542 hand off the steering wheel to form mock played. Everybody formed their W's and hope. 
MANAGING EDITOR 

quotation marks. chanted Weis (except for the confused But let's not go too far. If we're playing 
(574) 631-454 I obsme@nd.edu 

"Knowtre Daahhhhhhmmm,"he said-­alumni at the USC game, of course, who like this next year, then we'll talk. But for 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

this louder and more drawn out, as if I actually believed we would follow Hudy now, nebulous mob of foaming alumni, 
(574) 63I-4.n4 

BUSINESS OFFICE were a foreigner in Paris who only need­Ruddeger's suggestion and chant cut it out. Temper yourself a bit. You're 
(574) 631-5313 ed my cab driver's patience to help me "Charlie.") Now, it's not unusual to hear a embarrassing us all. News DESK pick up the local language. few Lou's in there, from kids who are But the very least, the knowledge of a 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
I shorted him on the tip when we cooler than me. Others sit. Most still better future is why we're still Noder 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

reached the stadium. chant---but its not the same. Our hero Dame, and not Knowtre Dahm. 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
Of course, in the end, he may have has been impugned. 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu been right, seeing as we played like we Five games into the season, we're Andrew Nesi is a senior American SCENE DESK were French. excited about impending BCS champi­Studies major from Fairfield, 

(574) 
631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu Sure makes the near-collapse against a onships, eight games in, we want to over­Connecticut. He can't believe that a 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

military academy this Saturday seem haul the whole machine. 2005, we're broken switch on the popcorn machine in 
smc.1 @nd.cdu 

appropriate, eh? well on the way to a Charlie Weis CoMo has shut down popcorn production 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphow@)nd.cdu Watching TV and reading online, you'd dynasty; 2008, we're well on our way to a for the last three weeks. lle hopes that, in SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS think that Charlie has lost more populari­Jon Gruden ...or Brian Kelly ... or, yes, addition to fixing the problem soon. 
(574) 631-8839 ty than Dubya over the past two years. Skip Holtz dynasty. Maybe George Campus Ministry subtracts this painful Apparently somewhere ---probably in O'Leary is available? time from the normal 40 days without
THE 

the lakefront suburbs of Chicago or the The way we swing, you'd think AI Davis popcorn in the Spring. He can be reached 
OBSERVER ONLINE 

www.ndsmcobserver.com forums of NO Nation--a nebulous mob was a prominent alum. at anesi@nd. edu of alumni is foaming at their collective It's not that we should still worship The views expressed in this column are 
POLICIES 

mouth. Charlie. It's that we never should have. those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper Last week, "Weis"and "hot seat"were But now, we're only compounding our those ofThe Obser11er. published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's Collegt·. Editorial contt•nt, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
advertisements based on content. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Jenn Metz Lorenzo Reyes Becky Hogan Alex Barker What are your plans Emma Driscoll Viewpoint for Thanksgiving? Graphics Katrina "'Tis better to be silent and be 
Rlair Chemdlin Schmerold Stay on campus thought a fool. than to speak and Scene Stay home and have relatives over remove all doubt." Mark Witte Visit family 
Abraham Lincoln former U.S. president

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 20, 2008 page 9 
Athletic Director needs to schedule better 
I don't know if the Church looks ahead on the schedule when it assigns readings for each Sunday, but it sure blew it this past weekend. Ideally, you look to match the hardest parts of the schedule with the easier teams ­
Fr. Lou DeiFra

a San Diego State opener, for exam­ple. And you put your harder games, Faithpoint ideally, after a bye. Notre Dame didn't do a great job this year, scheduling the bye the first week of the season, then loading up on four straight tough games in November, with no bye, three of which they lost. 
The Church needs Florida's AD. The Gators play the Citadel this week with a BCS berth on the line. And they had their bye week before Tennessee. That's how you set it up. 
As students head into crunch time this semester, they need a bye week on the Gospel. Something consoling-"come to me all you who labor and I will give you rest."Or something energizing, a spiritu­al Hed Bull -"The water I give you will become like a spring of eternal life welling up within you."Or even a crank­it-up pep talk-"I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. And I have given you power to trample on snakes and scorpions."(Uh, Jesus, I actually don't need those here in Indiana, but how about "acing tests without studying for them?") 
That's what we needed this past Sunday, as dark, snowy, assignment­packed November descended upon us ­
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Jane(s) 
To the eleven and a balf girls and one camel (a surprisingly good kisser) that I have hooked up with this semester, 
First, l would like to thank you for your time and consideration. It is an honor to have made it through your rig­orous selection process. 
Second, I would like to make it abun­dantly clear that I do not plan on marry­ing any of you. In fact, I would like to publicly pronounce to everyone that I am not, in fact, looking for a relationship, and my random hookups are in no way my own way of coping with my deep­seated desire for a meaningful relation­ship. 
Third, I would also like to thank every­one for reading this, both on campus and on the Internet around the world. Presumably, you all now know that I have casual morals. I'm glad I could finally get that out there to everyone, especially my parents. Mom and Dad, I know you would be so proud if you could only have seen me in the heat of the moment. 
Fourth, despite my complete lack of interest in a relationship, I am wonder­ing why you don't want to be one of my very best friends. Those nights were so magical. In fact, I even remember most of your first names. Presumably, we could even get started on learning last names too at some point. If making out randomly after 30 seconds of conversa­tion isn't enough to base a friendship on, how am I supposed to make friends of the opposite sex at this school? 
Fifth, and finally, I would like to thank The Observer for running this Jetter. After all, I could have simply contacted you individually via Facebook or some other medium. Instead, I am glad that I have the chance to share my feelings and insecurities with the rest of the world as well. 
Will Guappone junior Fisher Hall Nov.l9 
a soft, peace-inducing, inspiring Gospel. Instead, the Church AD gave us the equivalent of USC on the road. The Gospel of the Talents. Death to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's perfectionists. You know the one: a master gives one servant five talents, another two, and another one. Then, when the master returns from his journey, he asks for their returns. The one with five made another five and gets a posh promotion. The same for the one with two. But the one with just one talent played "Guitar Hero" in his room all week, gets read the riot act, and loses even the one he had. Just what you needed to hear with five papers and an Orgo Final on the horizon 
Of course, this passage has its place in the Gospel messages we need to hear. Just not right now. Because one tempt­ing way to interpret this Parable of the Talents is: "If I max out with my gifts, God will be really pleased with me and throw his arms around me and Jove me."This, I submit, is not at all what Jesus is trying to convey in this Gospel. Furthermore, it's a very dangerous interpretation for our spiritualities, especially if we're perfectionists-that the love of God can be secured by per­forming perfectly (or at least highly effi­ciently) with our gifts. 
But this interpretation does not square with the God whom Jesus reveals throughout the Gospels as a whole. How can we, for example, square such an interpretation with the Parable of the Prodigal Son? In this parable the younger son not only does not "max out" his gifts, but completely squanders them on debauchery and prostitutes. And when he returns to his father (another image of God), the father, very movingly, runs out to meet his irresponsible son and embraces him in his arms. 
The concept that we earn love by our performance is often learned from the first time we bring home our report card full of /\s and everybody in our house goes nuts. This is followed by academic awards, honor societies, huge SAT scores and all the rest-each usually, and reasonably, triggering celebrations of our achievement. Though in the deep recesses of our hearts, we can also begin to think, mistakenly, that these are cele­brations of our being. That we are good, worthwhile, and lovable because we have produced these achievements. And as our spiritual lives mature, as yours are in powerful ways during these col­lege years, this dynamic of "I-am-loved­because-I'm-successful"can, quite natu­rally, get projected onto God. "God loves me more when I do well with my life."That, needless to say, places a bur­den on your tests and your life -the acceptance of God -that is a tremen­dous, and ultimately unbearable, load to carry. 
It is easy to see how last Sunday's Gospel about the talents could be read as an exhortation to please God by max­ing out with your gifts. But it is equally easy to see how incompatible such a spirituality is with the Parable of the Prodigal Son, or the Lost Sheep (who doesn't seem to have been the brightest goat in the herd), or the Beatitudes' exaltation of precisely those whom the world normally judges unsuccessful. 
The love of God is already ours. It was won for us by Jesus Christ and granted to us at our baptism and continued life in the Church. This is why St. John writes: "The love of God is this: not that we have loved God, but that God has loved us. "This is as clear a statement as possible that we do not earn the love of God, not by our achievements, not even by our virtue, nor anything else we can accomplish. The love of God, simply, is already won for us. 
If we have been given five talents, or two, or one, we are indeed called to cul­tivate them and place them at the serv­ice of our brothers and sisters. But we do so not so we can "pass the test"and earn the love of God. Rather, freed up by an ever-deepening certainty of the love of God that we already have, we become more and more filled with a prodigal happiness to develop and share what we have with others, especially the poor and sorrowful, that they too might know the happiness and the love of God with which we have been gifted. 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director ofCampus Ministry Bible Studies and ACE chap­lain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this Faithpoint are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tw-o to tango 
Dear Melissa (who's hooked-up with six guys this semes­ter). 
It takes two to tango. If you truly "Jove to kiss boys, "then perhaps a much larger portion of the initial blame lies with you than your letter recognized. If you love to eat ice cream and despair when you find yourself opening the freezer, don't blame Ben and Jerry's. 
Your greatest problem lies with the lack of attention that you, the "victim" of the hook-ups, receive from those ex­flings. I'll confess, though, that I'm not quite sure how much of a relationship you expect to have established with a kiss. Do you even remember their full names? 
Probably not. But that's a problem which arises as a result of hooking-up without having established a relation­ship -there's no relationship. 
What disturbs me is that, though you admit equal blame, you seem to place responsibility with your hook-ees rather than yourself. Yes, they haven't talked to you since the event, although you reluctantly admit in your letter that a few have. In defense of the silent, though, you've likewise failed to initiate the desired discourse. Did you call their cell phones? Your defense was a broken phone, so you lost most of the numbers which you had obtained -but what about the ones you haven't lost, did you call them? And of the ones you did Jose, did you bother to spend three sec­onds to check a Facebook account? 
No, you just chalk-off the male gender as hopeless, write us up as another lost cause when you write, "I doubt you would answer even if I could call you" (p.s.-you can). And as a dude, I'm just sick and tired of being portrayed as a criminal every time I do something that apparently falls in with a facet of the "hook-up culture. " 
On that note, I was a kissing booth for Halloween with a warning that read "Too hot to handle. Contains nuts." I'd have written, "Warning: Won't make exceptional effort to contact you after we kiss. This is just meant to be fun for both of us," but I assumed that those were obvious assumptions for something that was clearly meant for entertainment and little else. 
I think you reached the right conclusion-if you're look­ing for friends, it's probably not a great idea to make-out with the other person within the first few hours you've met him or her. Sorry about the hobby. But I think that you need to reflect on your reasoning for the decision; don't blame those mean old boys for not initiating the conversa­tion which you too shy away from. 
v'Dennis Grabowski freshman Dillon Hall Nov. 19 
The Love Doctor 
Dear Melissa Buddie, 

I was horrified to learn, in your recent letter to the Observer, that you were actively considering swearing off what are colloquially known as "ran­dom hook-ups,"or what I prefer to think of as "fun­fun pleasure times." Your experiences with those six (no more and no Jess) boys are certainly not unique, and definitely not grounds for removing yourself from the competition for Queen of the Make-Outs. As someone who is a self-proclaimed boy-kissing hobbyist, what could possibly make you give up those stolen moments of passion because of a few small helpings of awkward turtle in the dining halls? 
As it happens, though, I can sympathize. It may shock you to learn this -but many of the strapping young fellows you've locked lips with are not inter­ested in anything serious, or even casual. The dam­age has been done to your youthful naivete, and nothing but a full-blown hook-up romance will restore it. At least, that's the diagnosis of this par­ticular Love Doctor. And his remedy is simple. 
Knowing (as I do) the true source of your reluc­tance to make yourself available, that source being the abiding awkwardness of previous hookups, and knowing (as I do) that you have not yet truly experi­enced the glory of a true 'fun-fun pleasure time,' I would like to throw my hat into the ring as a candi­date for an elected office you didn't even know existed. That office? President ... of your heart. 
I consider myself something of an amateur philematologist (philematology, n.: the art or science of kissing). But more than this, I know how to treat a woman right. 
Facebook bumper stickers have taught me that the secret is to purchase you 11 real roses and one fake one, and have them delivered to your dorm by a ser­enading Spaniard. When you call to tearfully gush about my thoughtfulness, it will be then that I make this promise to you. "I will love you until the last rose dies." 'After which, of course, we will hook-up like wild animals, 
So keep an eye out for me on Friday night. I'll be the well-dressed man with the flower in his button­hole, waiting to show you new realms of pleasure. 
PS-I live on North Quad. Things won't get weird. 
Brooks Smith sophomore Nov. 19 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Thursday, November 20, 2008 

Tonight and tomorrow, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will host one of Buenos Aires' hottest exports: the spirit­ed, passionate dancers of Tango fire. The act, whieh features five dancing couples performing alongside with the Quatrotango Orchestra, is a pulse-pounding, music-thumping night of Latin entflrtainment that should not be missed. 
"Everything may be beautiful at the ballet, but at Tango Fire, evflrything is smoldering," says a recent review in EDGE Philadelphia posted on the offi­cial Tango Fire Web site. Departing from other touring dance spectacles, such as "Hiverdance" or similar phenom­ena, Tango Fire features a vari­ety of reinterpretations of the title dance itself, the tango. Traditional moves are accented by a theatrical flair, resulting in a show that's bound to captivate and surprise. 
The troupe also takes audi­ences through a history of the dance's evolution; earlier por­tions of the performance will oftnn focus on "Milonga," a 19th century country-dance that bngan in Buenos Aires. The stage setting of this portion is a "Cafe del Tango," complete with cafe tables and lamps. More modern variations of the tango are fea­tured in the latter portions of the group's shows, incorporating impressive lifts and quickly paced moves into the rhythms of the dance. The performers dress to the nines, with glamorous and lively. gowns for the women and fedo­"I don't think I will ever get ras and suits for the men. sick of the Tango," Christian 
Choreographers Yanina Fajar Miflo, one of the featured dancers and Nelson Celis have organized in Tango Fire, told the Australian an impressive troupe of dancers newspaper The Daily Telegraph for Tango Fire, divided into tradi­in a recent interview. "I will still tional male-be dancing female part­it when
Departing from other touring 
ners. One I'm old." couple, hus-dance spectacles, such as From the band and sound of
"Riverdance" or similar 
wife pair T a n g o
phenomena, Tango Fire features a
Mauricio Fire, this Celis and variety ofreinterpretations ofthe passion for lnes Cuestra, dancing
title dance itself, the tango. 
have per­c o m e s
Traditional moves are accented
formed in across the Tango hous­by a theatrical flair, resulting in a stage and es across 
show that's bound to captivate invigorates 
s 0 u t h the audi­
and surprise.
America and ence. Each 
Europe, including those in Brazil, Italy and Peru. Another pair, German Cornejo and Carolina Giannini, have been studying the dance since they were teenagers, and have performed all over the Argentinean capital. 
Of course, Tango Fire would simply be a troupe of dancers without the smooth performances of their main vocalist, Javier 'Dardenal' Dominguez. Dominguez, a native of Buenos Aires, began a singing career at age 26 and has also made the rounds among the most famous tango houses in Argentina. The accompanying band also includes violinist Marcelo Rebuffi, pianist Gabriel Clenar, bass player Gerardo Scaglione and Hugo Satorre, who plays a traditional instrument called the bandoneon. The soundtrack of Argentinean music keeps the mood energetic 
couple approaches the dance differently, ranging from the more formal stylistics of Fajar and Celis, who perform in addition to choreo­graphing the act, to more roman­tic interpretations by other cou­ples in the show. 
Tango Fire is appearing at the Performing Arts Center courtesy of their Visiting Artist Series. Performances begin tonight and tomorrow night at 7 p.m. Tickets cost $48 for general admission, $38 for faculty and staff, $36 for seniors and $15 for students. For more information about the per­formance, visit performingarts.nd.edu. Fans can also visit the company's official Web site, www.tango-fire.com, for video, biographies of compa­ny members and more. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

Thursday, November 20, 2008 page 11 


Winter seemed especially devious this year. It snuck in, teasing all of us on campus with the occasional warm day, even as the temperatures slowly dropped and those dark clouds rolled in. Tuesday's snow seems to announce that it is finally here in full force. But don't let those cold winds and gray days get you down. Here are a couple of ways to fend off that winter depression over the next few months here in South Bend. 
1. Pretend you're a kid again. Surviving a Notre Dame winter is all about attitude, and the easiest way to keep your chin up is to remember when every walk through that winter wonder­land invoked images of sledding and snow days. We don't get many snow days anymore, but it is worth it to try to approach it with joy. Reopen your eyes to how beautiful -and how much fun -all that snow and ice can be. Here's a hint: the hill between Bronson and Lewis is great for sled­
. ding. 

2. 
Stay healthy. Eat well, exercise, and drink a lot of water. As the temperatures drop, we try to stay inside, eat lots of heavy foods and don't have the advantage of high temperatures to remind us when to head to the tap. Keep yourself in shape and you'll feel better through the season. Remember, if you bundle up properly, are careful with ice, and don't go out when it is too cold, you'll be perfectly fine going outside to exercise. 

3. 
Really enjoy your coffee and tea. You've probably been drinking it all semester just for the caffeine kick, but now that it's cold outside, that warm mug is especially comforting. And don't forget that it is apple cider season!


,.• 


4. Invest in some fun hats, scarves, and gloves. 
are all going to ading to class at same time, so help each other out by adding some pizzazz to the trip. Pick out colorful winter accessories and don't be afraid to be a little silly. We'll appreciate you helping us put a smile on our face. 
5. 
Pull yourself out of bed. I know it's hard when it's dark and cold outside, but keeping your regular sleeping hours (well, as regular as they can be for a college student) ensures that you don't cut into an already shortened day. 

6. 
Stay social. Don't give into the temptation to avoid the cold at all costs, bundle up and get out. Winter is too cold to take on alone. 

7. 
Of course, winter really does mean staying in some days. It is the time for curling up with good movie. Take a few hours break and invite some friends over for a movie and hot chocolate with plenty of marshmallows. Try winter season classics or even your Christmas favorites as we move closer to December. Some good options are "Little Women," "Ice Age," and "Meet Me in St. Louis." 

8. 
Do some winter cleaning and revamp your room. Move some things around and introduce some new colors and decorations. Even if it is just printing out those pictures from the semester and summer and pasting them on the wall, it will refresh the room and how you feel in it. 


Don't let winter win! Put a smile on your face, a scarf around your neck, and take a romp never a trudge -through the snow. 
The view expressed in Scene and Heard those of the author and not necessarily those the Observer. Contact Michelle Fordice a mfordice@nd.edu. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
It's getting cold outside. If we 
·. didn't need to eat, I'm sure a lot of us might pick staying inside over braving the snow­
i drifts to get to North and 
South. Alas, we must perse­~ vere. Here are two entrees that · might make the journey to i your favorite dining hall feel a t little more worth it. i This week's recipes: 
i Meatball Sub 

' The dining hall puts out 
'' meatballs for pasta quite often, k so why not put them to use in this classic, warm and gooey 1 sandwich? It is great served with a salad. Thanks to Megan Cefferillo for inspiring this 
Pick up a long roll and two slices of provolone cheese. 
If you are in South, sprinkle parmesan cheese and Italian seasoning from the spice rack onto the inside of both sides of bread. Place a slice of pro­volone cheese on top of that on each side. Lay the bread flat and run it though the toaster by the Panini presses. If you are in North, toast the bread, then sprinkle parmesan cheese onto the insides of both sides of bread and cover with pro­volone. Zap it in the microwave for the cheese to melt. 
Head to the pasta bar and add a layer of meatballs. Top with marinara sauce. 
Ranch Dressing and Chicken Pasta 
This dish is apparently a tra­
dition of the Notre Dame Hockey team before each game. Now, before you run away from the odd idea of using ranch dressing on top of pasta, give the idea a try. Of course, you may feel like you need to play a hockey game by the time you finish eating it! Serve it with a garden style salad with a light vinegar based dressing. Thanks to Chris Hall for inspiring this recipe. 
Fill a bowl with short pasta. Cut up a chicken breast and mix it into the pasta. Drizzle ranch dressing over the pasta and chicken and mix. 
Heat in the microwave for less than a minute to warm up the dressing. 
Sprinkle on some black pep­per. Want some variations? 
Before you heat the dish, try mixing in broccoli and sliced mushrooms. If you want to give it a bit of a kick, add in a little hot sauce along with the ranch dressing. 
Quick Tip 

Figure out which section of the dining hall you visit the least and head in that direc­tion. Haven't made a waffle since the novelty wore off? Have one for dinner. Skip over the offerings of the Mexican 1 bar most days? Make yourself · a good taco salad. Varying J your routine will prevent you ·.· from tiring of the dining hall I too quickly. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to fea­ture it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 20, 2008 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Reynolds, Fisher lead 'Nova past Niagara 
Michigan State survives IPFW behind late 13-0 run; Wake finds offensive stride in blowout win over UNC-Wilmington 
career-high 31 points against

Associated Press 
Fordham on Monday, fouled 

VILLANOVA, Pa. -Scottie out. Cunningham finished 
Heynolds scored 1<J points, with 11 points. 
Corey Fisher had 15 and This was a preliminary 
Hnggie Hedding 14 to lead round game for the Philly 
No. 23 Villanova past pesky Hoop Group Classie. The 
Niagara. 77-62 on championship round games 
Wndnesday night. will be played Nov. 28-29 at 
Playing their third game in the Palestra. six days, the bangnd-up Niagara dropped its 18th Wildcats (3-0) were just vul­straight game against ranked rwrable enough to be severe­opponents and hasn't beat a ly tested at hom11 by Niagara. Top 25 team since a win over The Purple Eagles (1-1) No.4 St. John's in 1984. opened the second half on a hot streak and a pair of 3s Michigan State 70, helped slice the deficit to sin­IPFW 59 gle digits. Haymar Morgan scored 
Tho Wildcats played their eight of his 22 points during third straight game without a deeisive 13-0 run swingman Dwayne Anderson Wednesday night and No. 5 (foot). and 6-foot-10 center Michigan State survived a Casiem Drummond (foot) was scare from IPFW, beating the limited to only 2 minutes. Mastodons. 
Corey Stokes scored seven Michigan State (2-0) led 32­points and played with a 24 at halftime, but opened taped sprained left thumb. the second half making just 
Battered and bruised, the 1-of-10 shots. They fell Wildcats still got it done. behind twice by three points 
Heynolds sank two from the to IPFW (0-2), which lost its free-throw line around the 8-opener to Xavier by 28. minute mark and a jumper by Trailing 44-42, the Hedding helped the Wildcats Spartans took control mid­regain a double-digit lead at way through the second half. 60-48. From there, they It started with a free throw slowly did enough to win by Delvon Hoe. Then Kalin their 18th straight home Lucas quickly added a 17­game. foot jumper. Then Morgan 
Tyrone Lewis scored 16 scored on an inbounds pass points and Hob Garrison had and a moment later added a 15 for Niagara. free throw. 
This was a homecoming of The Spartans then forced take control, scoring four Wednesday night. Seahawks before reaching sorts for some of the Purple IPFW turnovers on three straight baskets inside before Chas McFarland had 19 the century mark on Teague's Eagles. Coach Joe Mihalich straight possessions. The Korie Lucious capped the run points for the Demon driving score with 61/2 min­was a former La Salle stand­Mastodons only missed two with a 3-pointer with 2 sec­Deacons (2-0), who led utes left. out and assistant coach for shots during the 13-0 run, onds left to give Michigan almost the entire way in a Wake Forest jumped out to the Explorers, assistant but the Spartans forced four State a 32-24 halftime lead. game that featured plenty of a 22-point lead midway coach Phil Martelli Jr. played turnovers. But then the Spartans transition buckets and quick through the first half and led at Saint Joseph's for his Lucas added 17 points and shooting went cold to start shots for both teams. Wake 61-44 at halftime. The father, and forward Bilal Goran Suton had 10 rebounds the second half. Michigan Forest shot 57 percent and Seahawks hung around early Bonn transferred after play­for the Spartans. Ben Botts State was finally able to find scored 41 points off 24 after the break, getting as ing two seasons for Villanova. led IPFW with 22 points its touch, though, making 10-turnovers to improve to 11-0 close as 69-60 on a 3 from 
Niagara had their mini-run despite going 4-for-17 from of-21 shots the rest of the all-time in the series. Wolf with 15:40 to play. early in the second hall' to 3-point range and David way as the Spartans finally Johnny Wolf scored 24 Teague quickly restored knep the game elose. Lewis Carson scored 17 points. put the Mastodons away. points to lead the Seahawks order, assisting on a dunk hit a 3-pointu and Benson IPFW. which shot 25 per­It was the first time a Big (2-1), who had scored 100 from L.D. Williams before Egemonye followed with a cent in its opening game loss Ten team traveled to Fort points in each of their l'irst draining a 3 from the corner tough inside bucket and free at Xavier, its worst shooting Wayne to play the Mastodons, two games. UNC-Wilmington to push the margin back to throw. Anoth11r l'rne throw night since becoming a whose biggest win since mov­shot 48 percent for the game 15. Wake Forest put the (~ut the gap to 40-38, and the Division I program in 2001, ing to Division I came three and hit 12 3-pointers, though game away with a 10-point Villanova fans that came outshot the Spartans 46 per­seasons ago when it beat in­the Seahawks struggled to burst, with Johnson finding nxpecting to see anothnr easy cent to 43 percent. state rival Indiana State 54-match up with Teague, Teague for a transition layup win wern pretty quiet in the But the Spartans had a 38-46. The Mastodons have Johnson and McFarland all and Teague adding a driving Pavilion. 28 rebounding advantage and dropped eight straight games night. basket over Dominique Lacy 
Hndding hit a 3 to give the made 19 free throws on 28 against ranked opponents, UNC-Wilmington had rallied that helped Wake Forest take Wildcats a littln bit of space attempts compared to IPFW's including four to Michigan from a 17-point deficit in the a 92-68 lead with 91/2 min­on tho scoreboard, but it did­6-ol'-7. State. final 6 minutes of regulation utes left. n't last long. Lewis and The Mastodons, playing to beat Appalachian State Teague surpassed his previ­<;arrison each sank 3-point­slowly deliberately, twice Wake Forest 120, 108-101 in overtime to open ous high of 27 points set nrs and the deficit was back managed to grab the lead, UNC-Wilmington 88 the year, then followed with a against Miami last year, down to five. 18-15 on a 3-pointer by Jeff Teague scored a 107-95 win over Troy. But going 10-of-17 from the field 
Hndding's jumper capped a Carson with 3:48 left in the career-high 31 points, James the Demon Deacons looked and 9-of-12 from the foul line 9-0 spurt that was sorely half and 21-20 when Botts hit Johnson added 25 and No. 20 plenty comfortable playing at while spending time defend­needed onee Dante a 3 with 2:46 left. The Wake Forest beat North a fast pace, weathering sev­ing UNC-Wilmington's top Cunningham, who seored a Spartans appeared ready to Carolina-Wilmington on eral spurts from the scorer, Chad Tomko. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct. in South Benet 5 mins. to ND. Bui~ in 2004. 3 bdnn. 2 bath. 1652 sq.ft. Vau~ed great room, formal dining room. oak eat· in kitchen, all appliances. large 3-season room. first floor laundry. Fnished base­men! plumbed for bath. egress window. Patio. $249,500. Handicap accessible. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack Egenhoefer. 574-28().7/.YJ 
4 ND v. USC Football Game Tickets. Face Value. Bob 574-287-2210 FOR SALE: $20,000-A SET OF TWO TIME-SHARES AT VARSITY CLUBS, MISHAWAKA. IN. One Sophomore TimeShare (1 Flexible Week, cannot be booked during ND Horne Football games) and One Senior TimeShare (1 Flexible Week. guaranteed booking for ND third home football game). Gall Sara Slavinski 71&-361-0911 or email s.slevin­ski@gmail.com for more info. You can view Varsity Clubs at ILXresorts.corn 
3-bdnn, 2.5 bath Condo. Close to ND, Master bdnn on main floor wroth. Catwalk between bdnn upstairs. 1896 sq. ft. 1330 Bridgewater Way. Mishawaka $179,900. Cal1574-247·1567. 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPER­TIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER­HOUSES. COM 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Housing. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276·6118. 
Furnished 2-bdrm, house. 
Living room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. 
Call 605-397-8135 or 57 4-234-3007 or 574-261-4444. 
Student rentals 2009/2010. St. Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. $1300­$1960/mo. 5-7 bdrms 1st & 2nd floors. 
Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876· 3537. 
Walk to ND Campus! 

18390 Warrick St. 6 bdrms/1bath, detached garage. $1500/mo, 
Application/credit check required. 574-277-0116 
Walk to ND Campusl 

Fully remodeled home. 1617 Sconswood Dr. 2 bdrms/ 1 bath, 1+ car detached garage, $1300/mo. 
Application/ credit check required. 574-277-0116. 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go ~ alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assis­lance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631­2685. For more infonnation, vis~ our webs~e at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­mentslpregnant.shtml 


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Thursday, November 20, 2008 page 13 

Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team 
1 Connecticut 2 Oklahoma 3 Rutgers 4 North Carolina 5 Tennessee 6 Duke 7 California 8 Stanford 9 Louisville 10 Baylor 11 Maryland 12 TexasA&M 13 Vanderbilt 14 Texas 15 NOTRE DAME 16 Virginia 17 0hio Slate 18 Arizona Stale 19 Oklahoma Stale 20 Auburn 21 Purdue 22 Florida State 23 Xavier 24 TCU 25 Old Dominion 
points 
1,125 1,018 1,010 
963 931 
900 788 
764 
724 698 680 658 
603 519 459 440 361 
345 291 258 
178 173 152 148 106 

NCAA Cross Country  
USTFCCCA Rankings  
Men  Women  
1  Oregon  Washington  
2  Oklahoma State  Oregon  
3  Stanford  Florida State  
4  Portland  Princeton  
5  Alabama  Villanova  
6  Wisconsin  West Virginia  
7  Northern Arizona  Minnesota  
8  lona  Wisconsin  
9  Michigan  Texas Tech  
10  Geogetown  Michigan State  

around the 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 23 Miami at Georgia Tech 7:30p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Texas ­The NFL is giving Adam "Pacman" Jones another chance. 
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said Wednesday the suspended cornerback has been reinstated by league commissioner Roger Goodell, but he must miss two more games -this Sunday and the following game on Thanksgiving. He'll be back Dec. 7 at Pittsburgh. 
"He much appreciates the Cowboys and Jerry Jones for standing behind him and encouraging him, and he's grateful to the commission­er," said Worrick Robinson, Adam Jones' Nashville-based attorney. 
Jerry Jones would not reveal any conditions the commissioner may have imposed and the league office said it would not have any immediate comment. However, Robinson, said, "He knows what he has to do. It's very clear." 
"He's a long way, a long way from having clear sail­ing," Jerry Jones said. 
Adam Jones was suspend­ed from the entire 2007 sea­son because of multiple inci­dents while with the Tennessee Titans. Over the offseason, he was traded to Dallas and then given another chance by Goodell. The Cowboys gave him a security team to help keep him in line, but on Oct. 7, Jones got into an alcohol­related scuffie with one of the bodyguards during a private party at a Dallas hotel. 
Jones spent part of his time away undergoing alco­hol rehabilitation. 
"He has demonstrated something very important to all of us," Jerry Jones said. 
It also will be up to Pacman to police himself. The Cowboys will no longer be providing bodyguards. 
"It all starts with him and his decision-making," Robinson said. "He's com­fortable making decisions for himself." 
Robinson said the alcohol therapy was "something he needed to do." 
"The real issue was more 

IN BRIEF Graham placed on IR,
finished for the season 
TAMPA, Fla. -With leading rusher Earnest Graham out for the season, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers will lean more on Warrick Dunn. 
Graham limped off the field with a right ankle sprain after his only carry during last week's victory over Minnesota and was placed on injured reserve Wednesday. That means a greater role in the offense for the 33-year-old Dunn. 
"I expect to play a lot more. But at the same time, we have other guys who can come in and make plays," Dunn said. ''I'm just going to do my part to help us move the chains, score touchdowns and win games." 
Graham entered last season as the third-string tailback, but wound up playing a major role in Tampa Bay winning the NFC South because of injuries to Carnell "Cadillac" Williams and Michael 
Pittman. Vikings' Allen fined heavi­
ly, won't be suspended 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -Minnesota VIkings defensive end Jared Allen has been fined $25,000 for a recent spate of late hits, but he won't be _suspend­ed. 
He's not planning to reduce his aggressiveness, either. 
After his summons to NFL head­quarters in New York on Tuesday, Allen returned to Winter Park to con­tinue resting and rehabilitating his sprained right shoulder. He vowed his approach to pass rushing would not change, even though he's been fined a total of $80,000 this season -over three separate levies -for what the league has deemed unacceptable con­tact during games. 
"Not at all. I will play football the way I play football, and that's the way it is," Allen said after Wednesday's practice, in which he did not partici­pate due to his injury. ''I'm not a dirty than allegations of an inci­dent at a Dallas hotel," Robinson said. "There were personal issues that, until addressed, there was a like­lihood of another incident occurring." 
Jerry Jones said Adam Jones can have "limited par­ticipation" this week, but would not be part of full­squad practices or condi­tioning. He can return to practice Monday. 
Goodell suspended Adam Jones indefinitely on Oct. 14, saying he'd put a timeframe on it after the cornerback missed at least four games. This decision means it will be a six-game suspension. Jones also missed the entire 2007 season. By the time he returns, he will have been 
player. I never have been. I play hard football, and that's the bottom line." UNC's Zeller out for season 
with broken left wrist 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -Top­ranked North Carolina's unmatched depth just got a little thinner. 
The school said freshman 7 -foot­er Tyler Zeller will likely miss the rest of the season with a broken left wrist he suffered late in Tuesday night's win against Kentucky. Zeller had surgery Wednesday to repair fractures in two places, a recovery that nor­mally would take 12 to 16 weeks. 
Zeller, who started the first two games in place of injured star Tyler Hansbrough, was injured after taking a hard foul by Ramon Harris in transition after a turnover. He fell to the ground under the basket and got up hold­ing his wrist before heading to the locker room with 1:26 left and 

page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 20, 2008 

F N 0 T R E:, ·o···"A. M. . E 
. 

,. :: ··~::c:q.K:;':=.::::':':?\~~.::: •.::::,,;:~'= , ..,,,.,.:.,.;;;:.:..;;·::·""'""''''···=·=··== .... ~· ,
= 

k . 
.. F" EAT U RED. EVEtJ T:~.l:~ldJ-SLJIF:RlDA¥.· 

. 
Thursday, November 20, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
Bruszewski shot 7 -for-9 from left in the first half. Turnovers to go. at it, and that's exactly what I 
the field and hit two 3-pointers in and fast breaks accounted for Evansville struggled to shoot in did," she said. I came into the
Irish 
the first minutes of the game.  many of the points scored in the  the first half, making only 35 per­ gym and shot multiple times. As  
continued from page 20 whole game," Evansville coach  Those two attempts equaled  Rebounding was a big  run. Barlow s a d turnovers  cent of its field goals. The Aces finished the game 6-for-18 from 3-point range, something  long as I step into my shot, it's alright. Mallory had a career-high six  
Misty Murphy said. "That led to 31 turnovers, and that lod to the final seore." MeGraw said tho team's defense had not peaked, but that the turnovers were a good sign. ''I'm pretty happy with our assist-to-turnover ratio," McGraw  her tries f r o m behind the arc last season, when she went 1­for-2.  disappointment. Coming off the LSU game and out-rebounding a very athletic team and then coming in here tonight and allowing ourselves to get out-rebounded. Evansville  fuel the fast break. "If you can get up and get quick steals on people and turn it  McGraw said she wasn't thrilled about. "Playing all man-to-man, I thought to give up 18 attempts was a little more than we want­ed," she said. Bruszewski continued to score in the second half. She made two  assists in the game and did not commit a turnover. This was Mallory's first game of the season -she was suspended from the LSU game because of an incident at an off-campus party. Guards Ashley Austin and Ashlee Barrett both scored 10  
said. What bothered McGraw, she said, was the rebounding. Evansville {1-1) out-rebounded Notre Dame 42-36. "Hebounding was a big disap­ "I was hitting them in warm-ups, so I thought  outworked us. They played hard, they got on the boards, they did everything they needed to do.  into quick layups with­out having to set up an offense, that's what  free throws just into the half, then made a jumper and a layup to put the Irish ahead by 19. Aces forward Anaris Sickles scored eight of her 10 points in the second half, six of them from  points for the Aces, and Sickles led the team with seven rebounds. McGraw sees the potential in the defense, she said, but the team needs to work to get there.  
pointment. Coming off the LSU game and out-rebounding a very athletic team and then coming in  t o d a y would be a good day  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  we like to do," Barlow said.  a 3-pointer and three foul shots. Barlow started hitting 3-point­ers in the second half. She went  "I think we came off the LSU game thinking we can be a great defensive team, and we still can  
here tonight and allowing our­ to  try,"  Thanks in  0-for-1 in the first half, but made  be, but we've got a lot of work to  
selves to get out-rebounded,"  part  to  a  three after the break, including  do before we can be a great  
McGraw said. "Evansville out­ Bruszewski said.  couple buckets from Lechlitner,  one right after she entered the  defensive team."  
worked us. They played hard,  Bruszewski's 3's came right  Notre Dame went on a 15-4 scor­ game to put Notre Dame ahead  
they got on the boards, they did  before a 19-5 run that gave Notre  ing run late in the first half to  71-4 7 with 9:22 remaining.  Contact Bill Brink at  
everything they needfld to do."  Dame a 27-10 lead with 12:34  make the score 42-20 with 5:57  "You just gotta get repetitions  wbrink@nd.edu  

YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 
... Pleas~re~ycle

Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants 
to serve our country's mission abroad. Our careers offer rewarding, fast-paced,and high impact challenges in Intelligence collection on issues of 
criocal importance tO US national se<:urity. Applicants should possess a high degree of per·sonal integrity. strong interpersonal skills. and good written and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and professional backgrounds. Do you want to make a difference for your country? Are you ready for a challenge? 
The Observer.All applk.ams for National Clandestine Service positions must successfully undergo several personal interviews, medical and psychological exams. aptitude testing, a polygraph interview, and a background investigation. Following entry on duty. candidates will undergo extensive tt"aining. US citizensnip required. An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free worl< fOrce. 
For more information and to apply. visit: www.cia.gov 
THE WORK 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 20, 2008 
Koppel 
continued from page 20 
took ovnr tlw announcing duties fin· the horne mont against Purdue on Oct. S wlwn thn normal announcer, (orrner Irish swimmer Louis Cavadini, was unable to do it. 
"Coach told the tmun that I was going to lw tlw 'Voice of tlw Irish' li1r the mm~t." Koppel joked. 
Koppel's injury will keep him out of the pool li1r six to snven months, but that surnly isn't going to stop him from staying active with the tnam, even if it is from tho side­linns. 
"I really enjoyed announcing at Um meet," he said. "I also still go to praetiee almost every day and try to help out with coaching and otlwr small things that I ntn do. Even though it's lnss than I wish I muld be doing, I'm glad I'm still able to mntribute in somn way." 
With that said. Koppnl rmnains focused on getting healthy and making a rnturn to the tnam next S01L<;on. 
"llopnfully before my knee is fully healnd I will be able to start doing some light workouts in the watm," he said. "Onee it is fully healed I plan on training a full workload all summer so that I ean be back in good shape by next sea­son." 
Welsh acknowledged that the team is going to really miss Koppd's presence in the pool. 
"I Ie had been swimming faster than we had ever seen him swim," Welsh said. "But he'll bn back and he won't let the injury keep him down." 
Koppel has remained positive through this entire experience even picking up a few of life's important lessons along the way. 
"First, I learned that I am not a football player," he said. "Also, right now I'm learning a lot about having patience with the recovery procoss and staying optimistic." 

Koppel will be at the meet cheer­ing on his teammates when they lace Ohio State at home on Friday night. llowtwer, it has not been determined whether or not he will bn called upon again to resume his role as "Voice of' the Irish." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu and Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

RUNNING THROUGH THE RAIN 

Freshman runningback Jonas Gray carries the ball in the rain during Notre Dame's 27-21 win over Navy Saturday. 

Mannheim Willie Nelson Steamroller & Family with Christmas Music Billy Bob Thornton Friday, Nov. 21 Friday, Nov. 28 
Diane Penning Jim Brickman South Bend Symphony Pianist &Composer 
Home for the Holidays Holiday Concert 
Sunday, Dec. 7 Monday, Dec. 15 
Valai§ 12()~ale fvent§ 
Bella Bridal Event Wedding. Experts Style Show 
··dfui!h' 
New Year's Eve Gala Dinner/Dance with Pat Heiden Dance Band 
105 WestCoifaxAvenue South Bend, IN · 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at evelazgu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at mlaffert@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil. nd .edu/ 
· t:!·!!)},, 

E ·1

or s. -mat @nd.edu 
Thursday, November 20, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
S01yth 
continued from page 20 
meet any weakness you have is going to be exposed because the level of talent there is so high. We've been working since June all the way up to this point." 
He said that it is very tough to treat the championships like just another race. 
"There's definitely more pres­sure," he said. "Some people respond really well to it, and some people don't. It's really unique-it's 1Ok, it's over hill and dale, the weather could be good or bad, you have to be prepared for anything. I would argue it's the toughest race in the whole NCAA system, including winter track and outdoor track." 

Smyth said he hopes to get the front of the pack early in the race, and to stay there. 
''I'm going to put myself in a good spot and just hope for the best, run the smartest race that I can," he said. "Once you've put yourself in that position, anything can happen. 
"As for the team, I mean, we were the last team to get a berth, so the only way to go from here is up." 
This race is also important for Smyth's post-graduate running opportunities. 
"You're only as good as your last race when you're looking to run after college," he said. ''I'm just try­ing to make that last race as fast as possible." 
Smyth was not always a runner. The cross country coach at his Salt Lake City high school convinced him join the team as a way to get in shape for basketball, his primary sport at the time. 


"The cross country coach was always trying to steal athletes from other sports," Smyth said. "I thought it was a good idea, to get in some good workouts and get ready for basketball season. When I got down there, I realized I was pretty good. " 
Smyth was a standout runner in high school, winning the Utah state cross-country championships twice. Though he considered schools like Georgetown and Stanford, he said he found Notre Dame to be the best fit both academically and athletical­ly. 
He made an impact immediately in 2005, his freshman year, placing well in several races. None was big­ger than his 99th place finish at nationals that year. In the last 1,000 meters, Smyth put on a burst of speed to run past 15 competitors and was the fifth Irish runner to cross the finish line, assuring the team would place third overall. 
"I kind of came through in the clutch there, and that was kind of the springboard to the rest of my career," Smyth said. "A lot of people see the individual side of cross country because everyone talks about the frontrunners and what­not, butit's really a team sport. 
''I'd have to say that was my greatest accomplishment." 
The four-time all-Big East and two time All-American certainly has several accomplishments to pick from, and looks to add one more on Monday. 
Contact Laura Meyers at lmeyers2@nd.edu 
LETTH that TIME. 
Whether it's a camera phone to capture those unforgettable moments or a smart phone to e-mail them to the world, with all the newest 
~.

phones, the one you want is here. 
getusc.com 
-IIi\ ., 

Y.US.Cellular. 
©2008 U.S. Cellular. believe in something better· 
Novosel 
continued from page 20 
and four rebounds in the effort. Shannon was held to 2­of-6 shooting and had five turnovers. 
Just because this was the sisters' first official game against each other, it was by no means the first time they had squared off. There was a strong sibling rivalry between the two on their backyard hoop. 
Natalie said that her sister usually had the edge in those games because of her height advantage. 
"She used to always beat me, she was taller ... But it only made me better," the Irish guard said. 
Natalie credited those games in the backyard with helping her develop as a player. The most important trait she learned going one-on-one against her taller, older sister was persistence, she said. 
"She beat me, day in and day out, and it only made me more competitive. And I think that's why I'm so competitive now. Just maneuvering around big­ger people and shooting under them and being more crafty with the ball," she said. 
Both sisters said there was never any serious trash-talking on the court -and that there wouldn't be after their first team game against each other -but that does not mean they were not intense. 
"I would always get so mad, so angry. Throw balls at her, curse her -yeah it hap­pened," Natalie said. 
Shannon agreed, and has proof of the games' intensity. "I've got a couple scars from that," she said. 
Shannon said that she has seen marked improvement in Natalie's game during her short college career, and that she will develop into a solid player for the Irish. 
"I think she's gotten huge leaps with every game that she's played. She had a couple of nice offensive moves in there. I even got a hand on one of her shots and it still went in. I'm just really looking forward to watching her over the next three years," she said. 
As Natalie's career is just beginning, Shannon's is start­ing to come to a close -but will likely end as one of the best ever at Evansville. 
After the Notre Dame game, Shannon is 307 points from cracking 1,000 -a reachable feat since she had over 350 points last season. She is also within striking distance of the school's top 10 list in free throws made, rebounds and steals, and is also third all time in blocks with 82 after Wednesday's game. 
Since it is Shannon's senior 
season, the large Novosel con­
tingent sat in the Evansville 
cheering section in the Joyce 
Center. The sisters estimated 
that about 20 family and 
friends drove to South Bend to 
watch the game. 
"I think they were wearing a 
little bit of both. They were sit­
ting in my section because I 
am a senior and they've got 
more opportunities to come 
see [Natalie]," Shannon said. 
Even though the fans were 
all in Shannon's corner, their 
mother remained neutral. 
"I think my mom has a com­
bination of all of our colors on 
her shirt. She said she was 
going to try to do that," 
Shannon said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 20, 2008 

Floyd 
continued from page 20 

would mean increased touches for players like David Grimes, sopho­more Duval Kamara and junior Robby Parris. Parris had one catch for nine yards after Floyd was side­lined against the Midshipmen. 
"I thought Robby Parris stepped up really nicely on Saturday," Ianello said. 'We've played a lot ofguys at a lot of different spots in practice to build ourselves in ease someone broke a shoelace during the game and we had to put someone else in." 
Ianello also said that at 6-foot-4, 210 pounds, Parris's size helps give Oausen a big target to look for in Floyd's absence. 
Weis said that the receiving eorps had suffered injuries earlier in th1~ season and he was not concerned with how they would react. 
"Remember when Michael really started playing was at the expense ofDavid Grimes early in the year. So now that we have a healthy David Grimes back, David and Michael are not the same body type and not the same player but certainly lessons the loss," he said. 
Grimes was hampered for most of the first half of the season with a back injury. The senior captain appeared to be back at full strength last week when he had three catch­es for 22 yards. 
Both Ianello and Weis said that no new players will be thrown into the mix, eliminating the possibility of other promising true freshmen like Deion Walker or John Goodman seeing some action. 
"We would do everything we eould not to have that happen at thi<> time," Wei•:; said. 
Goodman and Walker have yet to play this sea'iOn and would txl eligi­ble for a fifth year in the future. 
Floyd, in the meantime, is dealing well with his first real serious injury. 
"He's been fine. lie's been doing -everything the trainer has asked him to do. He's in meetings, he's attentive," lanello said. 
He is expected to be back in prac­tice by mid-December which the coaching staff is confident will be enough to rebuild his stamina for a potential bowl game. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Team Bus 
www.theteambus.com 
:\1 hlt:Hc/At.·:ult•mit· ( iruup~ Fratt·nlily/Sururity ( iruups ( in•Uil/Cumpmty <>utinJ.!:o. l]~trtt•rs/"li nus 'llll":tlt~r/Cc~m..·t~rts../Spoe ..-ting En•nts 
-l'£ ChurdJl"'S/Sdtnul ( iruUJ1S 
Convenient. Safe. Reliable . 
...Studying Abroad? .... 
Apply Now to be a 
Resident Assistant 
lor 2009-2010 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE AT: 
ORLHeNDeEDU 
APPLY Now! 
CONTACT YOUR RECTOR TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW PRIOR TO DEPARTING FOR YOUR STUDY ABROAD EXPERIENCE 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5876 1 FAX 574.631.3'154 1 E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Thursday, November 20, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

Did you see that girl Melissa's he thinks the best way to make 
Viewpoint from yesterday? 
good friends is to drunkenly make out with them. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJJW&~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 


.. 
to form four ordin.ary words. 
DYSUK 
[IJ I I 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RIPEV 
j
I I r [) 
BELFEE j 
WHAT THE: BE:AUTI­C.IANS DID BE:FORE:
[) [ I I 
THE: C.OSME:TIC.S 
www.jumbfe.com 
E:XAM.
tCOSHUL j 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer. as
J r cJ

1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: "(I I III I]" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: FAINT ROACH HECTIC MARMOT Answer: When they met on the tennis court and later married, it was a -MATCH MATCH 
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Gives a stage 65 Stand for a cue portrait
Speaks, informally 40 Honeybunch or 66 Taboos 
cutie pie 67 Cry before "Get 41 Glowing your hands off!" 
4 Speak 
9 Smokey 
remnants of a
Robinson's fire Downmusic genre, for 42 Abbr. after many Have a chair by,short a general's as a table 

14 .......... de France 
name 2 _Yale, for 15 End of a 
43 Meyerbeer's whom Yale hangman's rope 
"_Huguenots" University is 16 Love to bits 44 Painting surface named 17 Bore 45 Publisher of 3 Six in 1,000,000 
20 Have in Cosmopolitan 4 Out of sight one's head and Good 5 Also 21 and outs Housekeeping 6 _Sawyer 22 The "I" in T.G.I.F. 48 Boer 7 Reverse of 53 Before, in poetry WNW
23 Boar 55 Baseballer Mel 8 Fix the electrical
28 Nap 
56 "Maria _," connections of 29 "Golden" song 
Jimmy Dorsey 

9 Didn't have 
32 Ad-lib. musically #1 hit enough supplies 
35 Sign before 57 Bohr Virgo 10 Problem in
62 Actress Garbo 
focusing, for36 Person 63 "Er ... urn .. ." 

short

performing an 64 Old tennis racket exorcism string material 11 "Don't worry about it" 
12 "Phooey!"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Panhandles 18 Club with a lodge 19 Bankbook abbr. 
~ElE!m~··· 24 Knuckleheads 
_,; 25 Tribulations 26_dye 27 Lena or Ken of film 30 "This Then" (Jennifer Lopez album) 31 French summers 
32 Computer image file format 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Timothy Powell 

33 French weapon 45 Sticker through a 53 Scoring lady's headgear advantage
34 Sights at after-Christmas sales 46 Coils of yarn 
54 avis 36 Lab's dish 
47 Soft powder 58 Suffix with Israel 38 Mini-plateau 49 Biblical suffix 59 Dr. provider
39 "Will you marry me?," e.g. 50 Stable sound 60 Japanese moolah
40 Brandy fruit 51 Come afterward 
42 Hoops official 52 Wretched 61 Paulo, Brazil 
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Kerri Strug, 31; Jodie Foster. 46; Meg Ryan. • 47; Allison Janney, 49 
Happy Birthday: Weakness will work against you this year, so stand tall and make your point clear as you proceed forward. Keep your mind on work and getting ahead. Promptly take care of any personal financial problems or expenses that arise and you will win. Your numbers are 2, 8, 23,27, 32, 34,44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Step into the spotlight and do something that surprises ev­eryone. A powerful from-the-heart presentation will generate attention.***** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get railroaded into giving your valuable time to a cause or someone you don't believe in. Don't be swayed by someone playing on your emotions. Keep spending to a minimum. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make residential moves, investments and some agreements that will help you out financially. Consolidation and a strict budget will help get you moving on the right track before the year comes to an end. Offer a service and make extra cash.**** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have to keep an eye on both household matters and the changes occurring in the workplace. Now is not the time to instigate something new but it is a good time to stabilize your position by strengthening what you already have. 
*** 

LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Take a good look at what you need to do to make your life better. It will take your mind off what others are trying to get you to do. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on yourself and the ones you love. Love is looking positive and a little get-together late in the day will resolve some questions.*** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful what you say in the heat of a discussion. Concen­trate on what you can do outside the home with people who agree with your position and your solutions. Your creative input to a discussion will get you more involved if you want 
to be.**** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It won't be worth getting upset with someone who doesn't see things the same way you do. An odd occurrence will leave you questioning what actu­ally happened. You will be able to take care of everything without missing out on what 
you want to do, as well.** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone from your past will still feel a strong con­nection to you. If you refrained from taking action in the past, do so now before it's too 
late. A challenge will get you all pumped up and ready to go. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't pay for someone else's mistake. Getting in­
volved in something because someone makes you feel guilty will be costly. Someone trying to get you to do something will give you a false impression regarding your respon­
sibilities or duties. *** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep things upfront and honest, especially with rela­
tionship issues. Someone you are close to will question your plans for a bigger and better 
lifestyle. Explain your position but don't pass on an opportunity because of jealousy or 
fear.*** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your persistent nature will pay off and bring about a change of attitude among your peers. Talks, travel and financing should all be scheduled 
into your plans. Keep talking until the right partner comes along. You are in the driver's 
seat.*** 

Birthday Baby: You have strength of character, determination and the desire to follow through with your plans. You are strong, dedicated, emotional and caring. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, 
my space .comleugenialast for Eugenia's blo g, astroadvice.com for fun 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, November 20, 2008 
page 20 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Smokin' aces 

Novosel sisters squared off, Irish guard secures bragging rights with win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
While Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw was gameplan­ning for Evansville this week, freshman guard Natalie Novosel had a much more spe­cific target in mind. For the first time in her career, she would get to square off against her big sister, Shannon. 
"There was a lot more !talk­ing between us] than usual. We saw each other last night. We're just excited to play each other, it's a once in a lifetime chance," Natalie said. 

at h1ast 16 points. While this was the first time "I thought Becca came out and 
the two have played against
Top: Junior guard Ashley 

shot the ball well to start the each other, they have been
• 
game," Irish coach Muffet Barlow, center, scrambles teammates before, at McCraw said. for a loose ball in a 96-30 Lexington Catholic High School Every player scored for Notre in Lexington, Ky. They helped
exhibition win over

Dame, and five Fighting Irish the team win the state champi­players scored double figures -Gannon Nov. 5· onship during Shannon's sen­guards Melissa Lechlitner and Right: Freshman forward ior year of high school. Brittany Mallory had 11 and After Wednesday's game,
Kelly Watson dribbles

guard Lindsay Schrader had 12. Notre Dame secured bragging 
.. But the Purple Aces' turnovers down the court against rights for Natalie, even though told the story; Evansville gave Gannon. she said her sister's seniority Notre Dame (2-01 the ball 31 might counteract that. The limns. Irish won 96-61, with the
Photos by: 

"We were on our heels the freshman adding six points
CASEY CARNEY /The Observer

see IRISH/page 15 see NOVOSEL/page 17 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Slllyth returns to NCAA's for third tillle in his career 
Terre llaute, Ind., for the national course and visualize the race," ofthe best runners in the country." No. 29 Irish mnn, who arc mostlyBy LAURA MYERS 
linal'i, <md hi'i eighth overall run on Smyth said. Smyth said hi<> elite status i<> surre­freshmen and sophomores, hnad to 
Sports Writer 
the course. That includes hi<> fourth After winning his second straight al. the national meet. plaen finish at the 2008 Pre-national regional meet on Saturday, expecta­"It's always what I a<>pircd to," he ''I've been there before and in a lot 
When Patrick Smyth lines up lor meet on Oct. 18. tions for Smyth are higher than ever. said. "People say those things about of different circumstances," Smyth the start of the NCAA ''I'm going to be thinking back to Smyth finished 15th at nationals in me, and it's unbelievable that that's said. "Pretty much what I've been Championships Monday, the vinw that race, where I could have run 2007 and has been improving ever where I'm at." telling the guys that at the national will be a liuniliar one. smarter, where I could have run since. Following Saturday's regional, Smyth said he looks forward to 
This is thl) senior's fourth trip to stronger, just try to visualize the coach Joe Piane called Smyth "one being the veteran presence as the see SMYTH/page 17 
ND SWIMMING 
By ALEX BARKER and MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writers 
/\llnr tearing his J.CJ. and a mus­de in his ealf while playing in a pickup football game, sophomore swimmer PJ KoppPI had little hopP of making further contributions to tlw tPam until next season. That was until Notrn Dame mach Tim Welsh came to him with an inter­nsting proposition. 
"Coach asked me if I wanted to bn the announrPr for the next nwet." Koppel said. "Doing some­thing like that rPally makes me still (i~ellikn a part of the tmun." 
/\t the rnqunst of Wnlsh, Koppnl 
sec LIGHTNING/page 22 


FOOTBALL 
Floyd, B. Smith to miss rest of regular season 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 

Thl<> Saturday when Notre Dame takes on Syracuse in the final home game of the season, it will be with­out the services of freshman wide receiver Michael Floyd. 
"You try to build your depth as you go through the whole sea<>on," Irish receivers coach Rob Ianello said. 
Floyd lett the field on the third play from serimmage last Saturday against Navy and did not return. In a press conference Sunday alter­noon, Irish eoaeh Charlin Wei<> said that he, along with sophomore line­backer Brian Smith, had sprained his knee and would be out for approximately four weeks. 
"It would really, really be unrea­sonable to see either one of them playing the next couple of week.r.;," Weis said. "So, you know, the bad and the good. The bad: they miss the next two games, but th1~ good is there will in all likelihood be another game left aller that." 
The win in Baltimore made Notre Dame ollicially bowl eligible. 
In the meantime, l<mello and Wei<> said that they li1el comfilrtable dele­gating Floyd's normal workload to the other regular receivers. This 
see FLOYD/page I 8 




