·,, 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
, Mooney attend papal speech inWashington 

Pope discusses faith and education in talk at Catholic University 
By BILL BRINK News Editor 
In an address to Catholic educators from across the country at Catholic University in Washington, D.C., Pope Benedict XVI discussed education and faith in the university setting. 
Academic freedom is an important part of Catholic education, but is subservient to the teachings of the Catholic Church, the pope said Thursday. Notre Dame President Father John Jenkins and Saint Mary's president Carol Ann Mooney were in attendance. 
The pope said Catholic institutions must be consistent with the faith and teachings of the Church both inside and ouL'iide of the classroom. 
"Any appeal to the principle of academic free­dom in order to justify positions that contradict the faith and the teaching of the Church would obstruct or even betray the university's identity 
see ADDRESS/page 4 



University and College presidents react to Benedict's address 
By LIZ HARTER, BILL BRINK, and CHRIS HINE News Writers 
When Pope Benedict XVI addressed over 200 Catholic university presidents and educators, including the presidents of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, Saint Mary's president Carol Ann Mooney did not know what he would say when he entered the room. 

"There was all this speculation like, 'Would he scold us?' There was none of that. I didn't expect that, but I guess I didn't expect it to be quite [as much of] an uplifting experience as it really was,·· Mooney said in a press release Thursday. 
Instead, Benedict's speech was not a scolding but an "affirmation of the importance of Catholic education," Notre Dame president Fr. 
see POPE/page 3 



Finish on the 50 to benefit H 
and Friends 
Inaugural SK race and one-mile walk will take students around catnpus, finish on Notre Dame Stadium's 50-yard line 
and Maura Weis to help spe­idea for the event arose last "I used to do a lot of run­number of registrants so far.
By KATIE PERALTA 

cial needs children. spring. ning [in high school]. I "As of Wednesday night,
Assistant News Editor 

The 3.1 mile race will take "We seriously started tak­thought this would be a cool we 'had 300 signed up participants around the ing a look [at planning th·e opportunity for a good already," Bergstrom said. 
This Saturday will be a Stadium, through the Notre event] at the beginning of cause," Bergstrom said. The event, Bergstrom said, bustling day on the Notre Dame campus around South this semester once we got Although race coordina­has received a great deal of Dame campus, from the Quad, around the Stepan the approval of SAO tors initially entertained the support throughout its plan­annual Blue-Gold game to Center and back to the [Student Activities Office1." idea of inviting the entire ning stages. the first ever Finish on the Stadium to finish on the 50-Bergstrom said. South Bend community, they Adidas donated T-shirts, 50, a 5K race that will finish yard line after running Six Alumni race commit­eventually decided to keep it which each participant will on the 50-yard line of the through the tunnel. tees were responsible for open to only Notre Dame, receive with his or her reg­Notre Dame stadium. The event also features a various planning aspects of Saint Mary's and Holy Cross istration fee, while colle­
Sponsored by Alumni Hall, one-mile walk for those not the race. Bergstrom's fellow College students. giate service organization the event will benefit wishing to run. Alumni residents chose him Bergstrom said the event, Circle K provided volunteers Hannah and Friends, the Race coordinator senior to head the effort once it although only in its first charity founded by Charlie Clint Bergstrom said the was underway. year, has seen an impressive see FINISH/page 6 
Scam seeks· personal information of students 
By BILL BRINK News Editor 

The Office of Information Technology (OIT) recently informed students of an e-mail scam that has attempted to obtain students' personal information. 
The scam, known as "phish­ing," works by sending out an e-mail designed to replicate an e-mail from OIT asking for stu­dents to enter their passwords, said Gary Dobbins, OIT Director of Information Security. 
"The latest round has changed to asking for pass­words under the guise of deleting [the student) e-mail account if you don't supply it to them," Dobbins said. 
Once the creators of the false e-mails get a student's pass­word, Dobbins said, they use the account to send out mas­sive amounts of spam. 
"As organizations get better at fighting sources of spam, spammers get better at using legitimate sources," Dobbins said. 
Formerly, it was possible for spammers to send such e­mails from home PCs, Dobbins said. Now, however, internet access companies are enacting stricter rules about usage so spammers have to resort to using other people's accounts. 
Dobbins said OIT did not know specific information about whether Notre Dame students had fallen victim to the false e-maiJs. Students at other colleges have had their 
see OJT/page 4 



Faith-science link examined 
Lecturer Barbara Fiand discusses scientific discovery and spirituality 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Lecturer and author Barbara Fiand explored the relation­ship between scientific discov­eries, particularly in quantum physics, and spiritual views Thursday at Saint Mary's 23rd annual Madeleva Lecture. 
In her lecture, entitled "Awe­filled Wonder: The Interface of Science and Spirituality," at the College's Little Theatre, Fiand said humans interpret their place in reality through a worldviaw, a perception cur­rently being transformed by scientific discoveries. 
Traditional perceptions, such as dualism, Fiand said, stress the division of spirit and sci­ence. 
see AUTH0 R/page 3 


• 
______________.. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 18, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Bye bye, Bubble 

"Well, Katie, you will only be living on the Notre Dame campus for only anoth­er month," my mom said a few weeks ago. I had not really stopped to consider this phenomenon. No more parietals, no more lofted beds, no more Sunday morning Katie Peralta recaps, no more com­
Assistant
munal bathrooms. I 
News Editor
have long taken these 
little things for grant­
ed. Leaving the Bubble seems all the 
more daunting. 
While studying abroad for the next academic year, I won't see the girls from my dorm with whom I have become such great friends these two years. The good news is we will all be living in a house together senior year. 7 .6.1. 
While I am initially excited about the prospect of a complete change of scenery. I realize how much I will truly miss being on this campus. 
I know we all complain about the parietals, the despot that is DuLac, the smell of the ethanol plant on those cool Indiana mornings and the hard water that-strips your hair of any luster. 
But there also are those Saturday mornings on home football weekends. And there are those all-nighters when it seems like everyone has big tests the next day. And there are those enormous group trips to the dining hall. And walk­ing home at night under the light of the Dome. And we cannot forget the ease of rolling out of bed 15 minutes before classes start. 
I am starting to sound like a nostalgic 
high school senior again. 
The fact of the matter is, though, that with the prospect of not being here for a year looming over my head like the University's in loco parentis, I am forced to start realizing the relative luxury we have here of living on campus. 
I am not going to start a tirade about urging people to stay on campus as long as possible -trust me, I am as ready to move on as any other sophomore. I guess I am just starting to realize what seniors are going through. 
Seniors are not only thinking about moving away from all their friends to different parts of the country, but also about moving onto their respective big­kid jobs, maybe about getting married, maybe about being broke and complete­ly self-reliant for the first time. 
To be honest, the prospect of being totally independent is terrifying at this point in time. 
There is something about this place that makes us feel so safe and comfort­able. There is definite truth to the refer­ence of The Notre Dame Family, and even more, the Notre Dame Bubble. 
As much as it is easy to get comfort­able in this, it obviously is the natural progression to be booted away from here, ready or not. 
As my Nana always said, "Healthy 
birds fly." . That is not to say you're done with 
this place forever, or even that you 
should forget anything that happened 
here that took you to where you are 
now. 
I think we're all pretty lucky to have called this comfy nest our home for a time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In an April 16 arricle about the Council of Representative, The Observer reponed that last year's student government budget allocation was $659,439.39. That was incorrect. The budget alloca­tion was $479,383.56. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE SONG TO SING IN THE SHOWER AND WHY? 







Emily Norrs  Meredith Thornburgh  Colin Fisher  Brandon Reichardt  Conor McNamara  
freshman  grad student  freshman  senior  senior  
Badin  off campus  Fisher  off-campus  Carroll  
...Livin, on a  ..I can see clearly  ...The  ..Bleeding Love  ..'Circle ofLife'  
Prayer' because  now the rain is  Rubberducky'  because I keep  because of  
Bon Jovi is my ,,hero.  , gone.  song by Ernie from Sesame  bleeding ... ,love.  Mufasa.,  

Street., 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 
Sophomore Ellen Pfister attempts to walk a straight line while wearing "drunk goggles" at the Saint Mary's Fire and Safety Fair. 
OFFBEAT 

Mayor finds cat inside of own wall 
NORTH ARLINGTON, N.J.-Mayor Peter Massa put out a citywide cat call when his Maine Coon dis­
appeared. Massa had  an  
automatic  call  sent  to  
8,500  voters  on  

Wednesday asking for help finding Max. Turns out he didn't have to look that far. Massa's wife, Val, says 14-year-old Max was found inside a wall of their house Thursday morning. He had been missing since Tuesday. Val Massa says she doesn't know how the 20-pound cat got in the 5-inch hole under the stairs. Max was dehydrated and hungry, but otherwise fine. The Massas had also offered a $500 reward. 
Man rears lion in back­yard until neighbors com­plain 
BUCHAREST, Romania ­Romanian media say a man was rearing a lion in his back garden until neighbors decided they had heard enough roaring and called police. 
Rompres state news agency said police found a caged 3-year-old lioness, as well as two deer, a stag and two peacocks roaming the garden of the man's home in the southern vil­lage of Pietrosita. 

The agency's report Wednesday said the 28­year-old man is being charged with illegal pos­session of wild animals and could be sentenced to up to a year in jail. 
The daily Evenimentul Zilei newspaper says the lioness will be taken to the Bucharest zoo. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0::: 

11.1 ::J: 
~ 
11.1 
3: 
..... 
..•• ' ••. 
c:( (,) 


0 

HIGH 73 HIGH 63 HIGH 62 HIGH 65
...I LOW 63 LOW 51 LOW 46 LOW 49 IN BRIEF 
·"The Shirt" will be unveiled Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Co-host of Mike and Mike in the Morning Mike Golic will be the guest speaker. Festivities begin at 4:30 
p.m. and "The Shirt" itself will be revealed at 6 p.m. 
College Democrats and College Republicans will put on "Crossfire Debates" today at 
6:30 p.m. on South Quad. 

Flipside will host "The Office" Trivia Night tonight from 9:30 until midnight at the Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium.Teams of up to 5 can register together together. 
Alumni Hall will sponsor the first annual Finish on the 50 5K race Saturday at 8 a.m. Race registration is $15 and the event is open to all ND, SMC and HCC students. 
The African Student Association will sponsor Africa Night Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the door and from LaFortune ticket office for $3. 
Keenan Hall will sponsor its 4th annual Muddy Sunday from 10 a.m. until 6:30 p.m. at Holy Cross Field. Proceeds benefit Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity. 
The Notre Dame Department of Music will host a Spring Concert of the ND Brass Ensemble and University Band on Sunday night at 7 in the Leighton Concert Hall. The event is free but ticketed. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 71 HIGH 74 LOW 53 LOW 47 
Atlanta 75 I 49 Boston 70 I 43 Chicago 59 I 48 Denver 64 I 26 Houston 71 I 62 Los Angeles 77 I 53 Minneapolis 57 I 39 New York 77 I 50 Philadelphia 78 I 47 Phoenix 89 I 57 Seattle 48 I 39 St. Louis 63 I 56 Tampa 82 I 59 Washington 79 I 53 
Friday, April 18, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
"The God of today can no 
longer be seen as external to
Author 

the world," Fiand said. continued from page 1 She also said this discovery challenges the finalization of 
"[Dualism] has been Christian dogma. responsible for dividing the "Creation is an ongoing, worlds of spirituality and sci­evolutionary event bursting ence," Fiand said. from the center of the uni­
According to Fiand, the two verse," Fiand said. concepts stem from very dif­The Christian imagery of a ferent sources. Scientific heaven above and a hell beliefs, Fiand said, are rooted below also does not agree 
in a materialis­ with  the  
tic view of soci­ emerging  
ety,  whereas  world perspec­ 
religion has a spiritual world­view.  "The meeting point of  tive. Rather, humans inhab­ 
"The dogmas  science and religion  it an omnicen­ 
for science and religion are rooted in dual­ is humility and a common passion for  tric universe in which God flows in each  
ism,"  Fiand  the unknown. ••  of  us.  Fiand  
said.  said.  
But Fiand said the signifi­cance of sci­ Barbara Fland author and lecturer  In addition, quantum dis­coveries refute  
ence  for reli­ religious inter­ 
gion is  a  new  pretations of a  
phenomenon  static universe  
and  a  concept  with linear and  

powerful for human growth. spatial time frames of a 
To illustrate her point, beginning and end, Fiand Fiand provided an example of said. a significant interface of sci­·'The quantum perspective ence and spirituality. tells us that separation is an 
In 1914, "Einstein heard illusion, communion is our the universe whisper to him essence, where the outside that it was expanding in all and the inside intertwine," directions," Fiand said. Fiand said. 
Rather than thinking of the Fiand suggested an ultimate universe as a "celestial con­collaboration between science tainer," Fiand said, the center and religion. of the universe is everywhere. ··The meetiQg point of sci­
In relation to Christianity, ence and religion is humility this discovery of a growing and a common passion for the universe alters traditional unknown," Fiand said. images of God and metaphors of faith, such as the heaven Contact Kadyn Smith at above and the hell below. ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Pope 
continued from page 1 

John Jenkins said in a telephone interview with The Observer Thursday. 
Jenkins said the reaffirmation of the importance of Catholic education was the central point of the pope's address. 
"I think the pope gave a great affirmation and inspiration," Jenkins said. "It's a chance to refocus on our central mission and I think that's what it will bring." 
Mooney said the experience of being addressed by Benedict was a thrilling one. 
"We were in the room a long time before he came in for secu­rity reasons so we were all anx­iously awaiting him," she said. "When he came into the room it was just electric." 
The speech he gave was uplifting and personable, she said. 
"It was sort of a pep talk," she said. "He's been a university professor and in one sense it was as if he was 
Church in Catholic educa­tion was crucial and must continue to be a cen­tral commitment of the Church. 
Mooney said she was sur­prised with Benedict's message concerning the definition of a Catholic institution. 
"At one point he said that being a Catholic institution isn't dependent upon statistics. It isn't even dependent on the 
orthodoxy and the content of the courses [offered at the institution]," Mooney said. "It's more about the spirit of the place. It's more about it being a place where people encounter the liv­ing God." 
Mooney said she agreed with Benedict's state­ment that being a Catholic institution is about the opti­mism that faith 
"It's a chance to refocus on our central mission and I think that·s what it will bring. ·• 
Father John Jenkins Notre Dame president 
speaking to us as '"It was very pastoral, Catholic)." his fellow aca­very encouraging and Mooney said 
demics.'' the Pope reaf­
very eloquent.·· 
Jenkins said firmed academ­the pope's mes­ic freedom even sage about the Carol Ann Mooney at Catholic 
role of the Saint Mary's president institutions. 
brings and the hope that can be communicated to others because of the Catholic faith. 
"I think he's absolutely right," she said. "It's not a list of things that makes a place Catholic in it's character, it's the spirit that infuses it and leads people to hopefulness and leads people to live different kinds of lives [that makes it 
"He said fac­ulty at universi­ties have the freedom to pursue the truth wherever their careful analysis leads them to find it," she said. "He also emphasized that if we're Catholic institutions we have particular missions and certainly an obligation to pro­vide our students with teaching Catholic doctrine and practices." Jenkins said the pope's speech 
was reenergiz­ing to the Catholic edu­cational com­munity. 
"He began the speech and ended the speech by thanking and affirming the work of Catholic edu­cation," Jenkins said. "That kind of affirmation was, I think, everyone's 

favorite part." 
Mooney said he also called upon the Priests, Brothers and Sisters in the audience to con­tinue their educational min­istries. 
"He's a quiet speaker and at times it was a little difficult to follow what he was saying, but when he said that, everyone knew what he was saying and responded very positively," she said. "The place just erupted in applause." 
Mooney said she wanted to emphasize how pastoral the Pope was in speaking to the educators. 
"He treated everyone in the room as sort of a coworker in a vineyard," she said. "It was very pastoral, very encouraging and very eloquent." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu, Bill Brink at wbrink.@nd.edu, Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu. 
The Shirt 2008 
---·---·····--­
thesbirt.nd.edu FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 2008 $15.00 
The Shirt To Be Revealed 
Friday, April 18, 2008 , The Shirt 2008 will be officially unveiled at the Hamn1es Notre Datne Bookstore. Highlights of the event are listed belo\v. In the event of rain, the Unveilirig Ceretnony will be held inside of the 
Hanunes Notre Oan1e Bookstore. 
FREE BRATS & VitaminWater@ 4:30 PM 
free food before the ceremony, while supplies last 
UNVEILING CEREMONY@ 6:00 PM 
featuring speech by Mike Golic and official unveiling 
• 

STUDENrf DISCOUNT WITH ND ID 
pay just $11. 00 for The Shirt zuhen you shozu your ZJalid lvotre Dame Student !D. Friday on&, lirnit 2. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 18, 2008 

OIT 
continued from page 1 
accounts used for spam, he said. 
"As soon as a student [at another school] would send cre­dentials back believing mail, the account sends out large amounts of 
spam mail," '"We would never tion, Dobbins Dobbins said. said. Authentic
come out and just
"We can tell that OIT emails, he 
someone has delete hundreds of said, will provide 
responded to a thousand ofe-m ails students ways to phishing attack contact OIT if
with harsh warnings 
in some cases, they have ques­
but can't tell and little advance tions, while the what they said. notice.·· imposter e-mails Anecdotal do not. reports some­Dobbins said
Gary Dobbins 
times say the spammers responses aren't OIT director of are getting the response information security smarter, and it is 
[the spammersJ wanted." 
Dobbins said there are three telltale signs students can use to distinguish between real e-mail from OIT and an imposter. 
The first, he said, is the fact that OIT will never ask students for personal information through e-mail, a fact pro­claimed on Webmail's home page. 
"It wouldn't make any sense," he said. ''We have it. We don't need it for anything. We're run­ning the systems their pass­word opens for them." 
The second sign, Dobbins said, is the presence of an unre­alistic threat. 


Address 
continued from page 1 
and mission, a mission at the heart of the Church's munus docendi and not somehow autonomous or independent of it," he said. 
The Church is the body that is to uphold moral and ethical teachings, he said, and will con­tinue to uphold those doctrines. 
"Similarly, the Church never tires of upholding the essential moral categories of right and wrong, without which hope could only wither, giving way to cold pragmatic calculations of utility which render the person little 
"Particularly disturbing is the reduction of the precious and delicate area of edu­cation in sexuality to manage­ment of 'risk,' bereft of any refer­ence to the beauty of conjugal love," he said. 
Regardless of the view of aca-6 demic freedom, Pope Benedict said Universities are an important place for students to interact with Jesus. 
"First and foremost every Catholic educational institution is a place to encounter the living God who in Jesus Christ reveals his transforming love and truth," he said. 
The Pope considered Catholic education a way for the Church to 
"We would never come out and just delete hundreds of thousand of e-mails with harsh warnings and little advance notice," Dobbins said. "Scare tactics, for example, if you don't do this right now, bad things will happen to you. We try to give them plenty of advance notice and a phone number and other contact info." 
The third sign 
is the lack of 
contact· informa­
becoming harder 
and harder to 

distinguish between real and fake e-mails. 
"By the end of this calendar year I expect it will be really difficult to tell a real one from a fake," he said. 
Spammers, he said, will add contact information similar to that which OIT now provides. 
"We're going to have to go down to two earmarks," he said. "A dire threat, or asking for som~thing that if student thinks about it, we should already have or shouldn't need." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
bear the message which originat­ed with God. God revealed himself to the people, he said, which cor­relates with the human wish to know. 
"God's desire to make Himself known, and the innate desire of all human beings to know the truth, provide the context for human inquiry into the meaning oflife," he said. 
The pope urged religious lead­ers not to abandon their aposto­lates and to continue to improve the Church's presence in under­privileged areas. 
"In places where there are many hollow promises which lure young people away from the path of truth and genuine freedom, the consecrated person's witness to 
more than a "First and foremost 
pawn on some 
every Catholic 
ideological chess-board," he educational said. institution is a place
The pope said 
to encounter the 
there was deval­
uation in the living God who in 
teaching of sex­Jesus Christ reveals ual relations and 
his transforming love 
was concerned 
and truth.··
with the direc­
tion sexual edu­
cation had gone. Pope Benedict XVI the evangelical counsels is an irre­placcable..gift," he said. 
The pope focused much of his speech on the nature of 'truth' as defined in Catholicism and as a way to include oneself in the Church. He said faith was the way to do that, but acknowledged that the Church was in a crisis of faith. 
"Only through 

faith can we freely give our assent to God's testimony and acknowl­edge him as the transcendent guarantor of the truth he reveals," he said. 
The Catholic identity of a uni­versity, he said, does not depend on statistics or course content, but on the devotion to the church exercised by students and faculty. 
"Only in faith can truth become incarnate and reason truly human, capable of directing the will along the path of freedom," he said. 
Conta<:t Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
,.,I --~~~~~~~~~Q~ }T-IE_SAC:~Ep HE~RI 
f'~,, ..... O·••••• ·-J. 







t~~~ I 
I 
CM 
Campu~ Mioistry 
CONCERT OF 

~A~_!3J~)Q~ Mll-!~!_~~ 
Notre Datne Handbell 
and 

Celebration Choirs 

Sunda-y, April 20, 20013 g:OOPM Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart Free Admission 


$1.00 Off Coupon: 
Type this code upon checkout and receive $1.00 off your delivery price: 
~ QUENCH42 ; 
I.-. -.-. -.-. -. -. -· Also check outour rew delivery options: Coke zero, VitamnWater, Gabrade G2, and Diet Ct*e Check out these deals... Aquafina Water-$8.49 Propel Fitness Water -$14.99 

32 pack-16.9 fl. oz bottles 24 pack-16.9 fl. oz bottles 

r---------·------------------------------------­

Friday, April 18, 2008 CotvtPILED FR01\t THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bush, Brown showcase cooperation 
WASHINGTON -President Bush and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown tried to dispel doubts about their relationship Thursday, showcasing personal bonhomie as well as common ground on vexing issues such as the Iraq war, a showdown with Iran, global trade and the crises in Sudan and Zimbabwe. 
Brown, particularly, appeared to make an effort to move beyond the leaders· frosty first meeting in July. 
The prime minister, then only a month in office as successor to top Bush ally Tony Blair, was given a coveted invitation to the presiden­tial retreat at Camp David. But he displayed stiff formality that raised questions about whether he would work as closely as Blair had -or much at all -with Bush. 
That didn't seem in doubt in the Rose Garden after Thursday's nearly 90-minute Oval Office meeting. 
Europeans move to ban cells on trains 
VIENNA, Austria -The world has never been more connected, but in some corners, it's developing a real D.ang-up over the ubiquitous cell phone. 
Taking a cue from France's national railway, which offers phone-free "zen zones" on high­speed trains, Austria's second-largest city this week began ordering public transit com­muters to keep their phones on silent mode. 
The crackdown in the southern city of Graz has triggered a noisy debate between advo­cates of free speech and people who say they're simply fed up with having to listen to annoying ring tones and intrusive cell phone chatter. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

COC says ftu vaccine was a poor match 
ATLANTA -The current flu season has shaped up to be the worst in four years, partly because the vaccine ·didn't work well against the viruses that made most people sick, health officials said Thursday. 
This season's vaccine was the worst matc:h since 1997-1998, when the vaccine didn't work at all against the circulating virus, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The 2007-2008 season started slowly, peaked in mid-February and seems to be declining, although cases are still being reported, CDC officials said. 
Pope meets with sex abuse victims 
WASHINGTON --Pope Benedict XVI, after urging bishops, priests and parish­ioners to heal the wounds caused by the clergy sex abuse scandal, talked and prayed privately with survivors Thursday in what was believed to be a first-ever meeting between a pontiff and abuse vic­tims. 
The Rev. Federico Lombardi, a papal spokesman, said that Benedict and Boston Cardinal Sean O'Malley met with a group of five or six victims for about 25 minutes in . the chapel of the papal embassy, offering them encouragement and hope. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. strains to register primary voters 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana counties inun­dated with voter registrations thanks to the hotly contested Democratic presiden­tial primary are struggling to process the applications in time to send their poll books to printers, and some say a state system designed to clean up voter rolls is hindering their progress. 
Some 160,000 voter registrations were processed in Indiana since January, bring­ing the number of registered voters up to nearly 4.28 million, the Secretary of State's office said. In the week before the April 7 registration deadline for the May 6 primary, nearly 86,000 forms were sub­mitted. 
The crush caused voter registration offices around Indiana to hire additional staff, extend hours and work through weekends to process the forms. 




Troops risk depression, study says 
One in five U.S. troops are facing post-combat ailments, states project co-leader 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Roughly one in every five 
U.S. troops who have sur­vived the bombs and other dangers of Iraq and Afghanistan now suffers from major depression or post-traumatic stress, an inde pendent study said Thursday. It estimated the toll at 300,000 or more. 
As many or more report possible brain injuries from explosions or other head wounds, said the study, the first major sur­vey from outside the gov­ernment. 
Only about half of those with mental health prob­lems have sought treat­ment. Even fewer of those with head injuries have seen doctors. 
Army Surgeon General Eric Schoomaker said the report, from the Rand Corp., was welcome. 
"They're helping us to raise the visibility and the attention that's needed by the American public at large," said Schoomaker, a lieutenant general. "They are making this a national debate." 
The researchers said 
18.5 percent of current and former service mem­bers contacted in a recent survey reported symptoms of depression or post-trau-. appropriate and effective though the Defense The lack of numbers matic stress. Based on care for these mental Department has not from the Pentagon was Pentagon data that more health conditions, there released the number of one motivation for the than 1.6 million have will be long-term conse­people it has diagnosed or Rand study, Tanielian said deployed to the two wars, quences for them and for who are being treated for in an interview. the researchers calculated the nation." mental problems. The most prominent and that about 300,000 are The study, the first large­The Department of detailed Pentagon study on suffering mental health scale, private assessment Veterans Affairs said this the military's mental problems. of its kind, includes a sur­month that its records health that is released reg­
Nineteen percent -or vey of 1,965 service mem­show about 120,000 who ularly to the public is the an estimated 320,000 -bers aCross the country, served in the two wars and Army's survey of soldiers, may have suffered head from all branches of the are no longer in the mili­taken annually at the bat­
· injuries, the study calcu­armed forces and includ­tary have been diagnosed tle zones since 2003. lated. Those range from ing those still in the mili­with mental health prob­The most recent one, last mild concussions to tary as well veterans who lems. Of those, about fall, found 18.2 percent of severe, penetrating head have completed their serv­60,000 are suffering from Army soldiers suffered wounds. ice. The Iraq war has been post-traumatic stress, and mental health problems 
"There is a major health notable for the repeat depression runs a close such as depression, anxi­crisis facing those men tours required of many second. ety or acute stress in 2007, and women who have troops, sometimes for Veterans Affairs is compared with 20.5 per­served our nation in Iraq longer than a year at a responsible for care of cent the previous year. and Afghanistan," said time. service members after Other studies have vari­Terri Tanielian, the pro­The results of the study they have left the military. ously estimated that 10 ject's co-leader and a appear consistent with The Defense Department percent to 20 percent of researcher at Rand. mental health reports from · covers active duty and troops had symptoms of "Unless they receive within the government, reservist needs. mental health problems. 

Carter meets with Hamas one more time 
Associated Press Hamas' exiled political chief, Khaled have to be involved in some way." 
Mashaal, and Syrian President Carter said he told Barnas leaders 
CAIRO, Egypt -Jimmy Carter held Bashar Assad. from Gaza that they should stop rock­another meeting with officials from Carter's meetings with Hamas, et attacks on Israel, which have the Islamic militant group Hamas on which Washington lists as a terrorist prompted deadly Israeli military Thursday, arguing it is necessary to group, have drawn sharp criticism assaults on the crowded talk to all parties to achieve peace from Israelis, U.S. officials and some Mediterranean coastal territory. Any between the Palestinians and Israel. of Carter's fellow Democrats, includ­"killings of civilians is an act of ter­
The former U.S. president said he ing presider.tial candidate Barack rorism," he said. urged Hamas leaders from the Gaza Obama. He said that during his visit to Strip to stop militants from firing Carter again strongly defended his Israel, the first stop on his trip, he rockets into southern Israel. The efforts to reach out to Barnas, which saw rockets that had been fired by Cairo meeting came a day after won Palestinian parliament elections Hamas and "met with people who Carter talked with Hamas ,officials in in 2006. lost loved ones." the West Bank, further angering "You can't have an agreement that "At the same time, if you live in Israelis when he embraced one of must involve certain parties, unless Gaza, you know that for every Israeli them. you talk to those parties to conclude killed in any kind of combat, between 
Making what he calls a private the agreement," he said in a speech 30 to 40 Palestinians are killed peace mission, Carter was scheduled at the American University in Cairo. because of the extreme military to be in Syria on Friday for talks with "You have to involve llamas ... They capability of Israel," Carter added. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, April 18, 2008 
UNITED NATIONS 
U.N. takes action to bring peace to Darfur 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -The United Nations and the African Union said Thursday they want their 26,000-strong peacekeep­ing force on the ground in Darfur quickly. 
The U.N. Security Council and the African Union's Peace and Security Council met behind closed doors, a day after the 
U.N. chief expressed extreme disappointment·at the lack of progress in ending the five-year conflict in Darfur. 
South Africa's U.N. Ambassador Dumisani Kumalo, the current Security Council president, told reporters ·after­wards that both organizations want the AU-U.N. peacekeeping operation in Darfur known as UNAMID "fully staffed as soon as possible." 
"The message was very clear from both councils that we would want UNAMID to suc­ceed in Sudan," he said. 
Only about 9,000 troops and police from the joint AU-U.N. force are currently deployed in Darfur. The United States is urging the U.N. to get 3,600 new peacekeepers on the ground by June. 
In a report to the council Wednesday, U.N. Secretary­General Ban Ki-moon said he was "extremely disappointed at the lack of progress on all fronts in the efforts to address the situation in Darfur," he said. 
"The parties appear deter­mined to pursue a military solu­tion; the political process stalled; the deployment of UNAMID is progressing very slowly and continues to face many challenges; and the humanitarian situation is not improving," Ban said. 
More than 200,000 people have been killed and more than 2 million have fled their homes since ethnic African tribesman took up arms in early. 2003, complaining of decades of neg­lect and discrimination by the Sudanese Arab-dominated gov­ernment. 
On Somalia, Ethiopia's ambassador to the African Union, Sahle Work Zewde, reit­erated that the AU wants the 
U.N. to take over peacekeeping quickly from the 2,600 AU troops from Uganda and Burundi currently deployed in the country. 
"We really believe there is a peace to keep," Zewde said, stressing that the AU troops have been there for a year and are doing "a good job." 
"So we don't understand why the full-fledged troops could not come. The main problem is funding, and we hope that the 
U.N. would be able to have an interim arrangement," he said. 



Finish 
continued from page 1 
for the event, Bergstrom said. 
"The women's running club has also been involved with the race," Bergstrom said. 
Because of the annual Blue-Gold game later in the afternoon, Bergstrom said 
race organizers must be out of the Stadium by 10 a.m. 
"It was a small block of time we had to work with. It is special. though. The only other race to finish in the Notre Dame stadium is the Sunburst race [in June]," Bergstrom said. 
The race will take place Saturday morning at 8 a.m., and race registration is $15. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

."'i.r.........,"'"",.,..·rl by, C~'lmpu.o; M · . R('-.<~ideoce.$, Gn.'tduate Stt-Jdent Union, ,,,.,....,...,"'"'·-,..,,..ISt.ud~~nt Set·vict"-<> & .A.c:t:ivities, Interfaith Fe.!lowship and Nf) MueJimStudentA...~iahon 
C-M 

Fantastic Villa in The Forest 
On the water. Hardwood Floors. Vaulted Family Room. Fireplace. 2 Full Baths. l51 Floor Laundry. Huge Master Suite. $184,900 

Ontu.,;
~21 
Jim Dunfee Realty 
360-6360 


Friday, April.l8, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,620.49 +1.22
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

S&P 500 ... .... ... 1,365.56 +0.85 
!1 ;1111:t;llfo~C¥ol:,\ji.ll:J·l:';:~.;1'1;3SJI~II;'~IIIil{):oo1; 
FTSE 100 (London) 5.980.40 -65.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.15 +0.20 137.05 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.73 +0.44 25.90 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.22 -0.10 45.27 NOKIA CP ADS (NOK) -14.07 -4.74 28.95 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.89 +0.033 3.729 13-WEEK BILL +8.52 +0.095 1.210 30-YEAR BOND -0.02 -0.001 4.524 5-YEAR NOTE +2.73 +0.077 2.897 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.07 114.86 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.40 942.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.40 76.75 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 102.4550 EURO 0.6291 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0096 BRffiSH POUND 0.5025 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. public corruption is growing 
WASHINGTON -The FBI is grappling with growing numbers of public corruption cases and a surge in mortgage fraud investigations, FBI Director Robert Mueller said Thursday, wonder­ing aloud whether Americans are "becoming more crooked." 
In a speech to the American Bar Association, Mueller asked the assembled defense lawyers for help in "creating a culture of integrity" by report­ing evidence of wrongdoing by politicians and corporate executives alike. 
"Anyone who follows the news these days and sees repeated references to corporate fraud and public corruption might think the nation is in the midst of a moral crisis," Mueller told the defense attorneys. "Have we as a society become more corrupt? Or have we in the FBI simply become more adept at rooting out fraud and corruption?" 
Currently, the FBI has 2,500 cases of public corruption under investigation, an increase of 50 percent from five years ago, Mueller said. He called public corruption the FBI's top criminal priority. 
At the same time, corporate fraud cases have increased by more than 80 percent, Mueller said, pointing to the recent surge in mortgage fraud investigations. The FBI is investigating an esti­mated 1 ,300 mortgage fraud cases _ including 19 into subprime lending practices by U.S. finaneial institutions. 
Democrats avoid Iraq funding vote 
WASHINGTON-Democrats in Congress, seek­ing to avoid a vote on funding the Iraq war dur­ing the fall campaign season, are considering combining President Bush's two pending requests into a single bill to be voted on this spring. 
House Democratic aides said Thursday that Bush's $108 billion request to finance military and diplomatic operations in Iraq and Afghanistan through Sept. 30, the end of the 2008 budget year, may be combined with his $70 billion request to continue the war into the next president's h~rm. 
"You vote one time and get the money out of the way," said Hep. John Murtha, D-Pa., chair­man of the House panel responsible for the Pentagon budget. I le cautioned that House lead­ers have not otlicially endorsed the idea. 

Airline strike reaches a climax 
US Airways pilots oust their union in an attempt to reject an unfavorable arbitrated 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX Three years after their compa­nies joined forces, pilots from America West Airlines and the former Virginia-based US Airways remain locked in a bitter seniority dispute that's become a caution­ary tale as other carriers ponder a new wave of consolidation. 
The internal fight at Tempe, Ariz.-based US Airways Group Inc. reached a climax Thursday when pilots ousted their union of 59 years and replaced it with another group. The new union, the US Airline Pilots Association, is dom­inated by pilots from the former US Airways. It will try to throw out an arbi­trated seniority ruling that isn't favorable to them. 
"It's going to be extremely difficult for me personally and profes­sionally to watch what happens to this pilot group now," Capt. Jack Stephan, chairman of the ousted Air Line Pilots Association for US Airways, said in a state­ment after the vote was announced. 

"Industry consolidati0n is inevitable, and the economy is slowing. I believe that these chal­lenges will be too much to ask of an untested, under­funded union." 
The struggles of US Airways pilots have become a highly visible example of the problems with consolidation. 
Pilots at Delta Air Lines helped management fight off a hostile bid from US Airways last year. At the time. some Delta pilots said they wished US Airways would finish its current combination before looking to join with another company. 
This year, Northwest Airlines Corp. and Delta Air Lines Inc. gave their pilots time to work out seniority issues before announcing plans to join forces earlier this week. However, Northwest pilots refused to go along and 
the  companies  moved  
ahead  without  a  pilot  
agreement.  

Pilot problems have "made almost every merg­er in the past messy, expensive and time con­
suming for management," said Calyon Securities analyst Ray Neidl. "If you can get them in the boat and paddle with you, mergers would go so much smoother." 
Although US Airways' profit surged the first year after the companies com­bined, problems among its pilots have festered. 
Pilots have said that dis­agreements over seniority have led to shouting matches in airport termi­nals. Supporters of rival pilot unions have sent each other threatening e­mails, engaged in at least one shoving match and called each other to the parking lot to settle their arguments. 
Seniority is extremely important for pilots. Their place in the company pecking order decides what planes they can fly, what routes they'll take, and when they can go on vacation. 
The US Airline Pilots Association was created last year by a disgruntled group of pilots who were unhappy with their sen­iority. 




Poor job numbers fan recession fears 
cal." a statement accompanying the report. 
Associated Press 
Stocks drooped following a rally The jobless numbers told the same 
NEW YORK -Higher unemploy­Wednesday, with the Dow Jones indus­story. The four-week average for job­ment claims and weak readings from trial average down 30. 78, or 0.24 per­less claims was 376,000, down only two economic indexes reinforced cent, to 12,588.49, in afternoon trad­slightly from 376,750, the previous recession worries Thursday. ing. The Standard & Poor's 500 index week. Aside from the period in the fall 
The Labor Department said slipped 5.41, or 0.40 percent, to of 2005 after Hurricane Katrina, the Thursday that applications for unem­1 ,359.30, and the Nasdaq composite four-week average for claims has risen ployment benefits rose to 372,000, an index fell 18.80, or 0.80 percent, to to levels last seen in 2003 when the increase of 17,000 from the previous 2,331.31. country was mired in a long jobless week. The Conference Board index is recovery after the 2001 recession. 
Separately, the New York-based designed to forecast economic activity Claims have been unusually volatile Conference Board's gauge of future in the next three to six months based in recent weeks, falling by 51,000 two economic activity rose 0.1 percent for on 10 economic components, including weeks ago after having risen by 35,000 March, reversing five months of stock pricus, building permits and ini­the week before that. Analysts said decline. But the private business tial claims for unemployment benefits. that claims have been difficult to read group's indicator has shovvn a 3.3 per­The Conference Board said another because of trouble the government is cent annual rate of decline since of its indexes, which measures current having adjusting the figures for season­March 2007. economic activity, has also deteriorated al changes to reflect this year's unusu­
That's "the kind of result, that when­in recent months, with weakness ally early Easter and because of the ever we've seen it in the past, the U.S. becoming more widespread among the impact of a strike at a key parts suppli­economy has been heading into a components of both. er for General Motors. recession," Michael Gregory, senior The readings suggest "economic Whi.le the weekly unemployment economist for BMO Nesbitt Burns, a weakness is likely to continue in the claims were in line with economists' Toronto investment bank. "The reces­near term," Ken Goldstein, labor econ­expectations, those expectations, over~ sion signal here is clear and unequivo-omist at the Conference Board, said in all, are grim. 
Friday, April 18, 2008 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Court hearing decides custody of 416-children 
Associated Press 
SAN ANGELO, Texas -A court hearing to decide the fate of the 416 children swept up in a raid 0n a West Texas polygamist sect descended into farce Thursday, with hundreds of lawyers in two packed buildings shouting objec­tions and the judge struggling to maintain order. 
The case -clearly one of the biggest, most convoluted child­custody hearings in U.S. history -presented an extraordinary spectacle: big-city lawyers in suits and mothers in 19th-century, pio­neer-style dresses, all packed into a courtroom and a nearby audito­rium connected by video. 
At issue was an attempt by the state of Texas to strip the parents of custody and place the children in foster homes because of evi­dence they were being physically and sexually abused by the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, a renegade Mormon splinter group suspected of forcing underage girls into marriage with older men. 
As many feared, the proceed­ings turned into something of a circus -and a painfully slow one. 
By midafternoon only two wit­nesses had testified, and both only to lay the foundation for doc­uments to be admitted. One wit­ness, a state trooper, was cross­examined by dozens of attorneys, each of them asking the same question on behalf of a child or parent. 
As the afternoon dragged on, no decisions had been made on the fate of any ofthe youngsters. 
Texas District Judge Barbara Walther struggled to keep order as she faced 100 lawyers in her 80-year-old Tom Green County courtroom and several hundred more participating over a grainy video feed from an ornate City Hall auditorium two blocks away. 
The hearing disintegrated quickly into a barrage of shouted objections and attempts to tile motions, with lawyers for the children objecting to objections made by the parents' attorneys. When the judge sustained an objection to the prolonged ques­tioning the state trooper, the lawyers cheered. 
Upon another objection about the proper admission of medical records of the children, the judge threw up her hands. 
"I assume most of you want to make the same objection. Can I have a universal, 'Yes, Judge'?" she said. 
In both buildings, the hundreds of lawyers stood and responded in unison: "Yes, Judge." 
But she added to the chaos as well. 
Walther refused to put medical records and other evidence in electronic form, which could be e-mailed among the lawyers, because it contained personal information. A courier had to run from the courthouse to the audi­torium delivering one document at a time. 
"We're going to handle thi'> the best we can, one client at a time," Walther said. 
Little evidence had been admit­ted by midafternoon. The first attempt to admit evidence result­ed in an hourlong recess while all the lawyers examined it. The rest of the morning was spent in argu­ments about whether to admit the medical records ofthree girls, two 17-year-olds and one 18­year-old. 

SOUTH AFRICA 
President refuses to resign 
Political leader claims to have won election, accused of treason 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG -Protests are fizzling at home, and his efforts to rally the world to the cause of democracy in Zimbabwe are being stymied by fellow Africans. 
Morgan Tsvangirai -who has been beaten, accused of treason and nearly killed since founding Zimbabwe's main opposition movement in 1999 -wouldn't hazard a guess as to when the cri­sis over an election he says he won will be resolved. 
If he knew who could persuade Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe to step down, he said in an interview with The A'tsociated Press, "certainly that person should be contacted immediately." 
Tsvangirai was relaxed, even able to joke about reports from his homeland Thursday that Mugabe's regime considers him a traitor. But he is a man under con­siderable pressure. 
Nearly three weeks have passed since the presidential vote. No offi­cial results have been released, and the opposition, which says Tsvangirai won, accuses Mugabe of withholding the results to stay in power after a campaign that focused on Zimbabwe's shell­shocked economy. 
There has been talk of a recount or a runoff. But Mugabe could well simply continue to suppress the results and cling to power. 
Human rights groups report increasing violence against Tsvangirai's supporters. Zimbabwe Doctors for Human Rights said Tuesday its members had treated more than 150 cases of injuries consistent with assault and torture since the March 29 poll, including a rash of recent ones linked to a crackdown sparked by the opposition's call for a stay-away from work protest. 
The stay-away call was little heeded, both because few Zimbabweans can afford to miss even a day of work, and because police and militants loyal to Mugabe cracked down. 
Tsvangirai said the stay-away "may have been an exhausted strategy." But he wasn't home to help his aides plot tactics. He has been traveling outside Zimbabwe for most of the period since the election, and acknowledged his homeland was a dapgerous place for him. 
"There are rogue elements there who might take the law into their own hands," he said. 
The former trade union leader said diplomacy, not fear, was the main reason he was abroad. He would not say when he would return, saying his priority now is mobilizing international pressure· onMugabe. 
Tsvangirai's comments came the same day Zimbabwean state media reported allegations the opposition leader was plotting an "illegal regime change" with for­mer colonial ruler Britain. 
The opposition leader dismissed the treason charges and said accusations that he was plotting to overthrow the Mugabe regime were "outrageous." 
"We are determined to have democratic change through dem­ocratic means," not through vio­lence, Tsvangirai said. "The peo­ple themselves are the ones that will change the government." 
In Washington, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told reporters Thursday that Mugabe's recent rule has been an "abomi­nation" and urged Zimbabwe to release election result.'>. 


"It's time for Africa to step up" and denounce the government campaign of arreslc;; and intimida­tion that followed the vote, she said. "Where is the concern from the African Union and from Zimbabwe's neighbors about what is going on in Zimbabwe?" 
But African leaders rarely criti­cize one of their own. And Mugabe, for his part, regards the 
U.S. as the enemy and is unlikely to be influenced by such denunci­ations. 
On Thursday, South Africa issued its strongest call yet for Zimbabwe's government to release the election results. "When elections are held and results are not released two weeks after, it is obviously of great concern. The situation is dire," government spokesman Themba Maseko said. 

New tile bath. stainless appliances, furnace, fixtures, more! Garage. Fenced yard. Enclosed porch. Backs to zoo & park. S74,500 

~ 


::;::-.,-21, 
Jint Dullftt Really 
360-6360 
Rachel Thompson 

\ 

-Benefit dinner with burribE, pupusas, churros, chips and saJM..,. \rttgin ma.rgaritas, and much mor~! 


-Enterta.iruru:!nt galore: live music1 dancing, trivia., prizes (including gift cert.ilicates to Chipotle), and aPINATAt 


Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss ooe of the linited number of Irish Crossings Tc:Minhooles available for lease this fiiH_ .hJSt two blocks east of the M> athletk fields. dfWilis Street. these three and four-bedroom toMlhcmes come furnished. inc.kdng a 42• flat panel ti>Tv. 
Geared for today's c:~ student. and larger than an apartment. these towmomes indude a full, ~ivate bath in each btttoom_ Each towmome fean.es: 
• 
4r flat panel Jt>TV in ftanished family room 

• 
fm1ished bedloootS with bUtt-i1 desk. ftJI..si1e bed.~ do5et and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 

• 
Separate latRiry room with washer &myer 


• Large deck 
• 
Two-<ar attached garage. plus three addtional parking spaces 

• 
F~~ kitchen with separate piWlby 


• Alarm system oo kont and garage enbarKe doors 
Strict covenants enfotced. 
lease today and move into ,..-brand new tOWI•IDme for fal Semester 2008. Cal Diane at 51-4.2613338 or email us at «iahe@iiishcrossings.com.
-Tickets are only $6 and aU proceeds \\>ill go to St. Adalbert's Parish and No MorQ Deaths! 

Friday, April 18, 2008 

The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Archbishop to give lecture on solidarity 
Monetary Fund, especially
Special to The Observer 
those concerning interna­
tional debt and poverty 
Archbishop Diarmuid reduction. Martin of Dublin, Ireland, Earlier on Friday, at 2 will speak on social solidar­p.m. in the LaFortune ity today at 7:30 p.m. in Student Center ballroom, Washington Hall. Notre Dame alumni and stu­
Archbishop Martin's lec­dents will attend "Stories of ture, "Solidarity: Past, Faith and Service." Present, Future: Reflections A groundbreaking cere­On Social Concern," is one mony for Geddes Hall, the of several events celebrat­new building for the ing the 25th anniversary of Institute for Church Life Notre Dame's Center .for and the Center for Social Social Concerns. Concerns, will be held 
The former secretary of tomorrow at 9 a.m. at the the Pontifical Council for construction site on the Justice and Peace, west side of Notre Dame's Archbishop Martin was Hesburgh Library. appointed Archbishop of A special Mass marking Dublin in 2003. Prior to the 25th anniversary will be that appointment, he repre­celebrated at 10 a.m. sented the Vatican at the Saturday in Notre Dame's major United Nations inter­Basilica of the Sacred national conferences on Heart. University social questions in the President Father John I. 1990s. He also took part in Jenkins, and Archbishop activities of the World Bank Martin will be concele­and the International brants. 


KENYA 
Opposition leader elected into office 
Gang backs down at request ofnew prime minister, call to stop terror 
oath of loyalty to the presi­years," senior gang leader Associated Press 
dent. Stephen Njenga said, adding 
"Kenyans will be watching that gang leader Maina 
NAIROBI -Kenya's oppo­your performance and they'll Njenga prophesied Odinga's sition leader was sworn into judge you by the services you rise two decades ago. "Raila office as the country's prime deliver," Kibaki said at the has asked us to call off the minister Thursday, fulfilling inauguration ceremony. strike and because we a key step in a power-shar­Odinga said Kenya was respect him, we will honor ing deal aimed at ending a embarking on a new era of his request." deadly political crisis in the unity. "We will give him time to East African nation. "We have been to hell and look into our issues." 
Within hours, a feared back. Never in our history Kenya is a key U.S. ally gang promised to heed new will we return to this time," and regional economic and Prime Minister Raila he said. "We are not creating military powerhouse that for Odinga's call to stop its cam­two governments in one: It is years was one of the most paign of terror in the capital one government." stable nations in East Africa. -one small sign that resolv­He used his inauguration But the disputed December ing Kenya's political crisis to address the Mungiki gang elections laid bare frustra­could help return peace and that has been terrorizing the tions over poverty and cor­stability to the fragile nation. capital. At least 14 people ruption -and ethnic rival­
More than 1,000 people have died since the banned ries in a country where were killed and 300,000 dis­gang launched a protest K.i k u y u s , the tribe K i b a k i placed following the against police Monday that belongs to, are perceived to December elections that both has paralyzed parts of dominate others, including Odinga and President Mwai Nairobi. the Luo, Odinga's ethnic Kibaki claimed to win. With "I want to tell our brothers group. the violence escalating, the the Mungiki we shall talk to The apparent olive branch rivals agreed in February to them. We should stop beat­offered to the Mungiki, a share power -but then ing each other. We should gang dedicated to spreading wrangled for weeks over stop killing each other," Kikuyu culture, by Odinga, a how to divide up their coali­Odinga said in Swahili. "We Luo, is another strange tion Cabinet. should sp-eak together as strand in Kenya's web of pol­
On Thursday, ministers Kenyans." itics, ethnicity and violence. finally took up their posi­Later, he told local Citizen Many Mungiki say they tions, 20 each from Kibaki's TV he was expressing a per­were approached during the and Odinga's camps. Kibaki's sonal view that had yet to be violence by Kikuyu politi­party retained the key decided as policy. cians to act as an ethnic finance and internal security But the Mungiki responded militia but refused to get ministries and Raila's allies by promising to call off their heavily involved because the will head up agriculture and violent protests at Odinga's gang was angered by the oversee local government. request. extrajudicial killings of more 
The entire government, "We have waited for Raila than 450 Kikuyu youths last including Odinga, swore an to be prime minister for 20 year. 
ATIENTION FACULTY & STAFF 
EARN $500 PROFIT WITH NO INVESTMENT! CALL TODAY FOR DETAILS 
234-5650 
PREFERRED TICKETS 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesdar through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 

-· -•.= -_ ---:: :: :· . := : ·:_ : : =: ·: : :· _::_.::. ::-:_-:-__= . .
:~:) ::~: : _: ·r. :·· -: ::_ :=: :< :: ::: ::_ :__ :: /~-j_-:: :>_r··,· ·:-·: :. ;-_-=:<-:-.:=::___::>. ~--:: ::-:: ::: :·:::__::.:_;;),:::<: .;_ ::. ::::: :;... :. =:-::: _: :· >->_:-..:. =: 
:;; :~~j~{11 y~ ,,, ;E~;ij'/;~Jjo~j,J~to His own world, and worship Him in the beauty and joy c!f,holin~~~" 
. . ~--~-l~)A~~-t::t .M~Jrt~;..t.~~k~~ /~~<tte ~ ~-1J (_, 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler . 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Maty Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EonoR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotte Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicm should be directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob.rrver {USPS ~99 2-4000) is publish<d Mondoy mrough Friday C~Cq>r during tx.;I.1Jl and vacation period,. A"Rlhscri:prkm toThl' Obs::rvcr il $100 fUr o~~tmi£" year; $55 fnr one ~maRcr. 
The Ob><rv<r i• publish<d at: POSTMASTER 
024 Somh Dining H.JI Send address correaions to-: 
N<><ro Dam<, IN 46556--077? 'ThcObS<Mr 
Periodical p<»<agc paid a< None Dame r.o. Sox779 
and utdirional mailing offi=. 024 Sourh Dining H.JI 
Notre Dame. IN 16556-0779 

TheObs<rver is a m<mbc.-oi !h< Associared Pres:s. All reproduction rigl\!s an: 
....rvcd. 
SMC security needs examination 
When a Saint Mary's student in Regina Hall reported a tres­Saint Mary's security should have sent multiple officers passer on the roof of Regina Hall on April 5, it took the quickly to Regina Ball when it was reported that an unknown College's security department two phone calls and approxi­man was on the roof. If more than one officer had responded mately 15 minutes to send a security guard to the scene and to the student's phone call, the man may have been appre­investigate the reported suspicious activity. hended, for he was still on the roof when Security finally 
For a department that is on campus to maintain the safety arrived, according to the student who placed the phone call to and security of its students, the fact that it took two phone Security. But since it took two phone calls for Security and only calls for Security to arrive on the scene is unset-one officer responded, the man had time to tling. There are too many things that could have escape. happened, too many things that could have OTHE Last year's tragic shootings at Virginia Tech and
BSERVER

gone wrong between the time of the first phone February's shootings at Northern Illinois highlight­call to Saint Mary's Security and the time an ed the importance of having an on-campus securi­
Editorial
officer arrived at the scene. In this instance, ty force that reacts quickly to any call it receives. 
Security dropped the ball and left the safety of the College's campus in jeopardy. · 
Saint Mary's Security needs to look into this problem. ask how it could have occurred in the first place and make sure this slow response doesn't happen again. 
Saint Mary's mission states, "Safety and security on campus is of paramount importance to the College and is a major focus of certain departments." 
If this is the case, why are student needs not being met with immediate response and concern? Security personnel are employed by the schools to keep them safe. Any failure to respond to even the most minor threat undermines the confi­dence that students have in Security. 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
The rules 






of rugby 
Come support the Notre Dame Rugby Football Club as they take on the No. 25 team in the nation, Ohio State. The match is at 12 p.m. on the new rugby pitch, next to the Bookstore Basketball courts. Don't know the rules you say? Be not afraid, for I come before you with this basic guide to rugby. 
A rugby match is played over two 40-minute, running­clock halves. Each side has 15 players; eight players make up the forwards or 'pack' (similar to linemen and linebackers in American football) and seven players make up the backs (similar roles to the backs and receivers in American football). 
The ball can be moved by carrying it, passing it later­ally or backwards, or kicking it at any time during play. A "knock on" is called if the ball is hit or passed forward accidentally, resulting in a serum to the opposition. 
When a tackled player goes to the ground, they must release the ball immediately. As soon as that happens, the opposition will want to get their hands on the ball, and the team in possession will not want to give it away. So to gain possession, both sides must try to drive over the ball to make it available for their teammates, this is called "rucking." 
A serum is used to restart in a number of situations and involves each teams' forwards coming together, binding together by the shoulders over the 'mark' and trying to hook the ball back to their team's side once the ball is placed in the channel. If a ball is kicked or taken out of bounds, the ball is restarted by a lineout, similar to a soccer throw-in. A try, worth five points, is awarded when a player touches the ball down in the opponent's try zone. A conversion kick, worth two points, is attempted after a try is scored. 
Well I hoped that we all learned a little something here. So before you watch the Blue-Gold game, and before you go and enjoy some roasted pig on St. Pete's Street, come support the Notre Dame Rugby Football Club. 
Bob HugUelet sophomore S£anford Hall April16 
Even though an event of that magnitude is 
unlikely to happen, the failure to quickly react to the event at Regina Hall shows that Saint Mary's se~urity needs to treat every threat equally. 
The inability for Saint Mary's security to respond to an unarmed, unidentified trespasser on a seemingly uneventful night casts doubts about their ability to respond to a crisis of a larger magnitude -be it a shooter, assault or robbery. 
While Saint Mary's is a much smaller institution than Tech, Northern Illinois and Notre Dame, basic principles of security should remain. Saint Mary's should be well-equipped to handle such incidents because being properly prepared is the first step in crisis reaction. 

Fight the crime, not the cause 
I must disagree with Andrew Dreyfuss's letter entitled "The pragmatically pro-life party" (April 17) for two rea­sons. 
First, he claims that the free-market economic policies of someone like McCain would be bad for the poor, and, there­fore, would cause abortion rates to increase. His evidence is that abortion rates decreased in the 1990s while educa­tion was being well-funded and interest rates on student loans were low. Well, as long as we're going to start throwing around dubious correlations, I could point out that the 1990s was also the decade of NAFTA, welfare­reform, and conservative fiscal policy. Perhaps that era's emphasis on economic growth, personal responsibility and increased economic opportunity were the real reason for the improved abortion statistics. Sorry, but when making an empirical argument you should give us something a lit­tle more rigorous than a mildly plausible story. 
Secondly, I must point out that pro-lifers see abortion as a human rights issue. Sure, when making policies we should look at consequences, not just intentions. But would you really want to be the one arguing that: "I don't want to outlaw slavery, but I do want to make the world such a wonderful place that no one would ever want to own a slave?" Or, "We shouldn't outlaw rape, rather we should encourage men to find more constructive things to do with their time." 
If the government does not even protect the right to life, then it is failing on a most fundamental level. 
Dreyfuss's emphasis on getting at the root causes of abor­tion is admirable, but such a task may be more tricky than he thinks. It should be noted that attempts to fight the root. causes of crime during the 1960s and 70s proved to be dis­astrous for the most part. Nonetheless, I do have some hopes that the "carrot" of increased social welfare spend­ing could potentially be effective, but any serious plan to end abortion would also include the "stick" of punishing abortion doctors. Any candidates that refuse to protect the lives of the unborn with the force of law are, ultimately, not . very good friends of the pro-life movement. 
Gregory Barr junior Knott Hall Aprill7 
TODAY'S STAFF 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Peralta Lorenzo Reyes Ashley Charnley Jared Jedick Brian McKenzie Pat Stynes 
Graphics Scene News Sports 
"It's kind offun to do the impossible." 
Mary Jesse Mark Witte Viewpoint 
Walt DisneyKara King U.S. cartoonist 
THE OBSERVER 
p
Friday, April 18, 2008 


page 11 
E~tend parietals, save your soul 
The other weekend, while preparing for a delicious dining hall dinner and pretending to try to do homework, I overheard a conversation between a stu­dent of the University of Michigan and the student with Lenny which he was stay-Meehan ing. 
While I wasn't lis­Guest tening very intently, columnist I couldn't help but catch some commentary on the differ­ence in policies between the two schools. "Wait, you mean to tell me that you can't have girls in your dorm past 2 a.m.?" the Michigan student inquired. "That's so [insert derogatory adjective here]. How the hell do you get laid?" 
Now, I have come to expect such remarks from visitors; I receive them all the time from my friends back home. What I did not expect, however, was the response from the Notre Dame student: "Yeah, we all hate [parietals]. It's by far the worst part of going to school here." 
People ask me all the time why I chose Notre Dame out of all of the possible University choices. There are various reasons I give, all of which are true: the emphasis on academics, the sense of community, the strength of the athletic programs. 
One of the biggest reasons for me, though, is the conservative Catholic background. The fact that religion is integrated into every part of this univer­sity makes students kinder to one anoth­er and provides a greater atmosphere of trust and understanding. No one is criti­cized for going to Mass because half the student population goes to Mass. There is very rarely any crime on campus; I feel as though I can safely leave my bookbag in the cubby holes outside the dining hall without risk of theft. 

However, one cannot pick and choose Catholic values to follow. I know several people who consider themselves devout Catholics, yet have openly admitted to being sexually active. Any true Catholic knows that premarital sex is very much against religious teachings, but it seems that religion is consistently cast aside in favor of convenience and lust. Enter the University of Notre Dame. 
Here, the institution has the ability to regulate the actions of its students, and to a certain extent, it does. We all know that premarital sex is prohibited by duLac, and that parietals prevent mem­bers of the opposite sex in any dorm past midnight, or 2 a.m. on weekends. Their policies have reduced the amount of debauchery compared to other schools, and I applaud them for that. 
But is enough being done? It is no secret that casual sex is abundant on campus, despite the University guide-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Catholic crossroad 
While there has been much discussion of late concerning the "Vagina Monologues" and the proportion of Catholic faculty, these two issues have largely been treated as separate and iso­lated. Of course, they are not unrelated, but are part of the larger question of the identity and future of the University. 
Is Notre Dame at a crossroad? Is it turning away from its tradition? If it is true that we become the sum of our choices, then the decisions made on these and a host of seemingly less than seismic matters could eventually change the very character of the University. 
The fact that, from a humble start, Notre Dame became arguably the pre­eminent Catholic college known in every corner of the globe, was no surprise to Fr. Hesburgh who often placed it in the context of the original great universities, which were Catholic. But is that legacy assured? Many recent comments and editorials seem to think that it is. 
They echo the advertising slogan "We can have it all," implying that since our Catholic tradition is a given, in cases of conflict, our focus should be on greater academic freedom. I do not believe that Fr. Hesburgh would be so cavalier with our moral tradition. Point one, for exam­ple, he would not have permitted the Vagina Monologues on campus. 

The future of Notre Dame as a beacon of Catholic truth will require courageous leadership by President John Jenkins. But it will also require the commitment of the rest of the Notre Dame family. More than a few alumni have indicated concern that their alma mater not become another Georgetown (i.e., faux Catholic). 
It bears remembering that most of the Ivies, including Harvard, Yale and Princeton began as church affiliated schools. Something happened along the way. Is Notre Dame the next Georgetown? It is up to us. 
John Moore Wilbraham, Mass. April13 
Importance of high school 
In the April 15 column titled "Let's talk about alcohol, baby," Greg Yatarola stat­ed that binge drinking and related behaviors are more associated with high school students. This is probably true. It is not about the topic of his column that I have concern. 
Rather, he wrote: "High school's large­ly a waste anyway, needlessly long and hardly challenging (I say this as a high school teacher)." I find such a statement not only degrading to the profession of teaching but also to Greg himself. 
As a former high school teacher I know that high school can be made very chal­lenging for every student. It can be the place where a student develops a vision of the world and his/her place in it. It can be the opening of minds to conflict­ing ideas. It is a time to learn to read with criticism, write with persuasion and participate in the visual and performing arts. It is where the initial knowledge base for a scientific career is acquired. It is the place to find one's passion. 

Who sets the expectations and tasks for the students? This is the job of the teacher! If Greg finds high school need­lessly long and hardly challenging for his students, may I suggest that he look for a different profession, or at least get some assistance from someone in the field. 
Not only high school students but all students at every level need to be chal­lenged. They need teachers who are willing and able to do it. 
Mary Lou Derwent alumna Class of I962 April!6 
lines. Students either ignore parietals, or they merely work around them, commit­ting the sin earlier in the evening instead. · 
By contrast, examine the service acad­emies such as Navy and Air Force, which practice the strictest of disciplines with regards to cross-gender interaction. In order to prevent any "extra-social" behavior, guys and girls are never allowed to be in the same dorm room if the door is closed. Extreme? A bit, hut it gets the job done. 
Now, I'm not saying that duLac should adopt a policy like the service acade­mies. However, the University does have a Catholic identity to maintain, and it cannot be denied that the current rules in place don't completely fulfill their purpose. Something needs to be done to show the world that Notre Dame is a true Catholic institution that does not simply look the other way when it comes to premarital sex. 
My proposal: extend the restricted hours of parietals. Parietals are an excellent way to prevent sexual rela­tions, particularly after events such as dorm parties where inebriation is inevitable. If parietals were to begin two hours earlier (1 0 p.m. on weekdays, midnight on Friday and Saturday), this would serve to further reduce overly intimate situations. Unless a couple has 
intentions of having sex, there is no rea­
son why they can't hang out in a public 
place. 
Every dorm has a 24-hour space, and 
there are plenty of other places to be 
past parietals such as Reekers or 
LaFortune. Not only that, but this 
change only adds two hours to the sys­
tem already in place and wouldn't 
change much as far as gender relations 
are concerned. Sure, it would be incon­
venient, but what is a minor hassle com­
pared to our students' immortal souls? 
Now, I realize that the extension of parietals will probably never happen. Many people think that Notre Dame "imposes" its Catholic viewpoints too much as it is, and of course students that are sexually active will be adamant­ly against my proposal. However, some­thing needs to be done to prevent the casual sex on this campus, regardless of how inopportune it seems at first for the students. 
In a world full of sin, it is essential for a Catholic university to promote its val­ues, and that includes abstinence. 
Lenny Meehan is ajunior computer science major. He can be contacted at jmeehan@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 




Olympics symbolize peace 
Recently, there have been protests in the U. S. against the Chinese gov­ernment for its human rights and Tibet issues. That's fine by us. We are willing to listen to different voic­es. 
Unfortunately, things are turning in an ugly direction. Some demon­strations became overly exaggerat­ed, some media coverage was seri­ously distorted and some organiza­tions have even started to advocate boycotting the Beijing 2008 Olympics. 
This is not acceptable. As Chinese students here. we feel deeply hurt by this situation, and it hurts even more for millions of hospitable Chinese people who have been working very hard to prepare for the games. 
We do not intend to stop your protests, but we hope you can leave the Olympics alone. Studying at Notre Dame, a school with a strong sports tradition, we all understand that the Olympics, from the begin­ning of their history, have always been a celebrated opportunity for the whole world to set aside their differences; to take a break from the wars; to gather together with people with different backgrounds; to cheer for the victories; and to witness the realization of dreams. 
The Olympics are not about poli­tics, and should never be sacrificed for any political purpose. We are here to ask you to step a way from boycotting the Olympics. Let's make the Beijing Olympics an event to bring people closer, instead of to separate people from each other. 
For those who still want to boycott the Beijing Olympic, give it a second thought -Beijing's hosting of the Olympics is a move on China's part to open up its door and its mind to different people and voices. If you boycott it, you are actually closing the door from your side. It will be a pity, and not only for the Chinese people. 
Yue Li Lili Ji 
graduate students offcampus April 17 



THE OBSERVER 
E
page 12 


Friday, April 18, 2008 

MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic  
ther refinement of their sound. The  Often bands of this sort are  crip­ was  made to soundtrack your sum­ 
By RYAN RAFFIN  album received widespread critical  plingly self-serious, but yet again,  mer.  
Assistant Scene Editor  accolades, receiving high marks from  Minus the Bear is atypical. Song titles  So their live appearance at Legends  
Pitchfork,  the  Onion  A.V.  Club,  range from nonsensical ("Dr. L'ling"),  Saturday will act as  a  perfect way to  
The eclectic and unique indie rock  Kerrang magazine and Alternative  to  tongue  in  cheek  ("The  Game  usher  in  the  summer  months.  
of Minus the Bear, which has been  Press. Its fine balance between pop  Needed Me''), to  Starship Troopers  Appearing with like-minded opening  
unparalleled  since  ·  and progressive-rock guitar wizardry,  quotes ("You're Some Sort of Big, Fat,  bands Portugal. The Man and the Big  
their 2001,  formation in is coming  Minus the  with tasteful incorporation of elec­tronics raised eyebrows not only in  Smart-Bug, Aren't You?"). In fact, the name "Minus the Bear" itself is  Sleep on an off-date of their spring 2008 tour, this is sure to be one of the  
Saturday to Legends.  Bear  critical circles, but  derived from  a  lewd  best concerts Notre Dame has ever  
Though the most often-noted feature of their sound is gui­tarist Dave Knudson's finger-tapping, their originality stretches far beyond fretboard innovation. Their music can take the  Legends Saturday 9:00pm Admission is free with Student ID  expanded their fan base even further. From the quick, upbeat "Knights" to the extended, yet never boring, "Lotus" and "Dr. L'ling," the group showed that pro­ Possessing the musical maturity ofa more experienced group, their experimentation always satisfies, leaving listeners awed that such a  in-joke between band members. This light-hearted nature keeps things in bal­ance, because hav­ing fun is vital to both the band's longevity and the enjoyment people  seen. Although the openers may on first listening, recall the classic rock acts of yesteryear in their heavier, more blues-oriented approaches, all three bands on the bill share a for­ward-looking mindset. Taken togeth­er, this show is certain to be a guitar player's dream, with all three acts sporting impressively talented gui­ 
form of laid-back, nine-minute jams or dance-pop, yet they never sound uncomfortable with what they play. Even when playing in  gression and acces­sibility are not mutually exclusive. The dichotomy  relatively young group could be so accomplished.  derive from listening to them. All these things combine to make  tarists. With the semester coming to a close, make sure you're in attendance tomorrow night at Legends for an intimate look at three of the most  
sophisticated time signatures, every­thing is executed with precision and grace. Possessing the musical maturi­ty of a more experienced group, their  between the futuristic and the tradi­tional is what sets them apart, music that you can both dance to and think about. When added to an already stel­ Minus the Bear's music perfect for the summer. The laidback songs serve as a perfect soundtrack to those lazy afternoons in the sun. Lead vocalist  original acts in music. The show begins at 9 p.m. Saturday at Legends, and doors open at 8:30. Admission is free for all Notre Dame,  
exp erimentation always satisfies, leaving listeners awed that such a rel­ lar back catalogue, including their 2002 debut "Highly Refined Pirates"  Jake Snider sings of driving and beaches, of girls and bars. Whether  Holy Cross and Saint Mary's students. For more information see  
atively young group  could  be  so  and 2005 follow-up "Menos el Oso," it  it's the hip-hop inspired dance beats  http://www.legendsofnotredame.org/cl  
accomplished.  is clear Minus the Bear is one of the  of "The Game Needed Me" or the slow  ub.  
The band's most recent release,  best indie rock outfits playing music  jam of "I Lost All My Money at the  
2007's "Planet of Ice," marked a fur- today.  Cockfights," each song seems like it  Contact Ryan Raffins at rraffin@nd.edu  


By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
The theme of this year's PEMCo. Revue -"Why We Tell the Story" ­comes from a song from the musical "Once on This Island," which fits, con­side ring that the Pasquerilla East Musical Company's pro­duction offers a once­
bers. 
"It's a series of songs from a variety of musi­cals showing all different characters and ranges of emotion." producer Connor Nowalk said. "The performers choose the numbers that they would like to be in the show, and it's up to the director to not only choose the best numbers, but to choose the numbers 
which will fit together as a  cohesive  
whole loosely joined by a  common  
theme of the show."  

Revue performers will belt out some fan-favorite show tunes, including "Good Morning" from Singin' in the Rain, "Nicest Kids In Town" from Hairspray, "For Now" from Avenue Q 
and of course, "Why We Tell the Story" from Once on This Island to close the show. 
Apart from the name­brand numbers, Nowalk's co-producer Mary Elizabeth McLaughlin also prom­ises a variety of songs from several lesser­known musicals. 
"The Revue provides a very nice variety of Broadway show tunes -there is something for everyone," she said. "A common thread in a good portion of the 
songs is that they will make you laugh until you cry. This is a very funny show. Still, the numbers that aren't comedic will give you chills. I think the show this year provides a really nice bal­ance." 
McLaughlin also promised a repeat performance from what she terms 'Notre Dame's favorite boy band,' the Altar Boyz, who will perform "Church Rules." 
"The Revue is at its very core. a way for PEMCo. to reach out to the campus and share what we love about musical theatre," McLaughlin said. "I think the song does a really nice job explaining why we do what we do. As I said before, the show encompasses so many different emotions, and it explains that we have found a way, through song, to show this to people." 
McLaughlin said the most challenging part of putting on the production was­n't recruiting talent to the stage, but rather cutting down the number of acts to a manageable amount. "We have so many incredibly gifted people on this campus, and it's very difficult to keep a show down to 20-25 numbers when you're so inspired by everything you see. Our director, Martha Calcutt, has done such an amazing job putting together just a phenomenal show. I guess in that sense, the challenge became the reward when we saw the show come together so beautifully. These kids just work so well together. I could watch the Revue over and over and over again." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

wr~ ........  ~'!u,n  ~tOJOI4\..,"'···.....  
MINl....  IWl T•~•.04JU.I.\~  
...............1of *'If ti A#4ilii.lll6 to\"\OIIMM41-­ -~  

Tlrllels OA 5alf at the laferlullt Box Office: ~ t ~ 
in-a-semester chance 
to take in  some show  
tunes.  
As  .the  second  of  

PEMCo.'s two annual shows, the Revue offers a slate of musical num­bers from musicals, including all manner of solos, duets, ballads, comic songs and even large scale dance num­
..The Revue is at its very core a way for PEMCo. to reach out to the campus and share what we love about musical theatre.·· 
Mary Elizabeth McLaughlin Revue co-producer 

THE OBSERVER 
Friday, April 18, 2008 




page 13 


By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
"Juno" entranced audiences spanning the country and generations during Oscar sea­son, and now, the witty and sarcastic title character with an affinity for blue slushies has made her way to DVD. Juno, Bleeker, Leah, Mark, Vanessa, Bren and Mac are the characters who comprise the quirky, orange Tic-Tac-filled world that shows us the jour­ney of a young girl dealing with adult prob­lems and the loss of her innocence. 
The indie comedy follows Juno MacGuff (Ellen Page), a wise-cracking pregnant teen who decides to give up her baby for adop­tion. Enter perfect couple Mark and Vanessa Loring (Jason Bateman and Jennifer Garner), who decide to take in Juno and Bleeker's (Michael Cera) offspring. Helping Juno through her nine months of pregnancy are best friend Leah (Olivia Thirlby), father Mac (J.K. Simmons) and step-mother'Bren (Allison Janney). 
"Juno" was a critical and box office suc­cess and it even garnered an Oscar nomina­tion for Best Picture. It was the "Uttle Miss Sunshine" of 2007, but its appeal and popu­larity may have even extended beyond Steve Carell and Abigail Breslin's indie hit. Something miraculous happens when Diablo Cody's Oscar-winning screenplay, Jason Reitman's Oscar-nominated directing, Kimya Dawson's music and the cast's acting meet in "Juno." Yes, all those elements together produce a truly great film, but they 
Juno 
20th Century Fox 

Directoc Jason Reitman Written by: Diablo Cody 
Starring: Ellen Page, Michael Cera, Jennifer Gamer, Jason Bateman and Allison Janney 
also create a cinematic experience that allows the audience to identify with and par­ticipate in the story. We feel what each char­acter feels, and regardless of their flaws, we cannot help but like and understand every one of them because their characters are complex, well-developed and of course, funny. It's a comedy after all, but it's a come­dy with a bigger heart than most of last year's fihns. 
Page's performance earned her an Oscar nomination for Best Actress, but two other outstanding performers who were over­looked in awards season are Jennifer Garner and Allison Janney. Garner slowly unveils the character of the initially icy Vanessa and shows us the pain of a woman who longs to be a mother. Meanwhile, Janney is a scene-stealer every chance she can get as Juno's nail technician step-moth­er, Bren. The crucial scene where Bren tells off the ultrasound technician is one of the film and Janney's best. 
The DVD's special features are comprised mostly of behind-the-scenes featurettes, that offer some insight into the making of "Juno" and how everyone involved in the fJ.lrn came together to work on the project. We are reminded more than once that screenwriter Diablo Cody is an ex-stripper and that EUen Page is so much like the title character in real life. Other extras include a gag reel, a gag take in which director Reitman blows up at Rainn Wilson (convenience store clerk Rollo) and a cast and crew "jam" and dance party. 
The deleted scenes are worth a look in 
order to understand how any one of those scenes were not particularly relevant to the advancement of the plot or character development and would have slowed down the pace of the film. Also included in the special features are screen tests with Page, Cera, Simmons and Thirlby, which show the progression of scenes from such a raw form to the final cut that we see in the film. 
The best feature on the DVD is the commentary by Reitman and Cody. All too often in film, the screenwriter 
Photo courtesy of kylesmithonline.com 

Diablo Cody shares her commentary on the film in the DVD's special features. 
is pushed aside once production begins and is no where to be found on DVD commen­taries or featurettes. Cody, however, held a unique position in the making of"Juno." Her script had barely been touched from its orig­inal form when shooting began, and she had the freedom to be on set and work with Reitman in making sure that the final prod­uct was the ".Juno" that both of them envi­sioned. The commentary shows the ease of their relationship and offers insight into all production aspects of "Juno" -not just the directing. 
The only criticism of the DVD is that "Juno" loses some of its magic when trans­ferred to the DVD format. Films are made to be viewed on giant screens in darkened the­aters in order to totally immerse audiences in the worlds of those films. It's harder to recapture that immersion into the "Juno" universe when watching from home. However, that is no fault of the screenwriter, director, cast or crew. "Juno" remains one of the best films of 2007 for all its humor, intel­ligence and warmth. There's no getting arow1d its brilliance. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

Opera a truly rewarding 
•


experience 
I never honestly contemplated the 
thought that I might one day be in an 
opera. Like most folks of the artsy per­
suasion, I did theatre in high school, 
which meant plays and musicals. I loved 
singing and dancing on stage, especially 
musical comedy and I considered 
Broadway to be the end-all ofsinging 
entertainment. 
I came to Notre Dame as an intended 
music major, having not the slightest idea 
of what I was getting myself·into. 
Suddenly, the choirgirl music theory that 
had been my saving 
grace while singing 
Stephanie

for years was 
DePrez

incompetent in the 
face of Music 
Assistant

Theory I, as I was 
Scene Editor 

asked to analyze 
classical pieces in a 
fashion I had never 
heard of. I began to understand what it 
meant to be a true music major here at 
Notre Dame. And, on a bit of a whim, I 
tried out for the opera. 
I was elated when I got into the opera, 
but I hadn't the slightest clue what I was 
going to be doing. I'd never heard of 
Faust, not the opera. the man, or any­
thing. I figured it would be a hard-core 
version ofmusical theatre, because 
instead ofdoing individual songs, we 
would be singing the whole time. I also 
had this idea in the back of my head of 
this archaic art form; offat ladies in 
Siegfried horns singing in a language I 
couldn't understand. 
Rehearsals began in January, as mem­bers of the double cast (two people play­ing each principle role on alternating nights) learned all the individual music. It was quite intimidating to be standing next to seniors who had done this for years, to listen to their golden voices and watch them work. They knew what they were doing, but to me it still sounded like lots of classical music with some English (thank God) words thrown on top. I didn't believe in it. 
Rehearsals with the complete chorus began and the story started taking shape. The classical music began to make more sense in its different settings. An aria was no longer a random song showing off a voice -it had a purpose, it was advanc­ing the story. And what a story it was. I began to realize the complexity of the story of Faust, his deal with the devil, his love for Marguerite and their journey. There is love. There is drama. There is damnation, and the Devil might win. 
Last Saturday, during our final rehearsal, before moving into the the­atre, I leaned over to the man playing Faust and said, "I really like this music." He gave me the look of, isn't-that-obvi­ous? I then said, "No, you see I don't like classical music ... it's not my thing ... and I LOVE this." The opera was clicking into place and the passion that it radiated was overwhelming. By the end of our final run-through, I was in tears. The music and the story had hit me that hard. 
I have never been a part of something so moving, so graceful, or so intrinsically satisfying. "Faust 1859" has everything. There is a love story, a knife fight, temp­tation, comedy, a grand chorus and the Devil himself. I have spent every rehears­al transfixed backstage, watching in the wings and waiting with bated breath for each new scene. And it only gets more moving as the days go by. I came in as a sworn Broadway baby, but right now, I couldn't be happier. Opera rocks. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sde­prez@nd.edu. 

Friday, April 18, 2008 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 





Griffey's home run powers Reds over Cubs 
.... 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Hey, man _ as Dusty Baker likes to say _ the Reds were relieved to get out of Wrigley Field with a victory and end a five-game losing streak. 
"It's been a tough five days. We needed this game badly," Baker said Thursday after Joey Votto and Ken Griffey Jr. led Cincinnati over Chicago Cubs 9-2. 
Baker's return to Chicago, where he managed the Cubs from 2003-06, started with two losses, right after the Reds had been swept three games in Pittsburgh. 
"We didn't want to have back­to-hack sweeps. Five in a row felt like it was a month," Baker said. 
Votto doubled with the bases loaded, homered, drove in five runs and made a niCe defensive play, while Griffey hit his 596th career homer. 
"The most important thing is the win. The home run is irrele­vant. I hit one the other day and what happened? We lost," said Griffey, who also homered in Tuesday's series opener. 

He's not even thinking about No. 600 or where he might hit it. But would he like to do it in Cincinnati? 
"Why is that such a big deal? Do you think I will?" he said. "100 was at home, 200 was in Boston, 300 was in Cleveland, 400 was in Colorado and 500 was St. Louis. What do you think the odds are going to be?" 
Edinson Volquez (2-0) gave up four hits and a run in five innings. In three starts now, he's allowed only 12 hits and has an ERA of1.17. 
"I feel more comfortable now. I have more confidence, too," said Volquez, who joined the Reds in a trade from Texas in the offsea­son. ''I'm getting older and I'm learning from the last two years. I'm getting pretty comfortable." 
Ted Lilly (0-3) remained win­less in four starts after going 15-8 last season. He was tagged for six hits and five runs in six innings. 
''I'm just losing patience at this point," Lilly said. "I want to go out there and give us a solid out­ing and give us a chance to win. I feel I owe that to my teammates." 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

No.7 Mathletes' Dan Crisman sinks game-winning shot 
the elite eight. 8." Reed said about his game­The Delivery Boys did not bow The Monstars stormed out toBy ALEX BARKER With the game tied at 18, changing performance. out and kept it close until the a 5-1 lead and Get Your Weight
Sports Wri£er 

Mathlete freshman Sean Reed The Delivery Boys came out end. Up was unable to get any closer 
took the game into his hands and controlled the pace of the "It is a disappointing loss as the Monstars took the game No. 7 Mathletes 21, No. 10 and set his team up for the vic­game early grinding out an 11-obviously," freshman Mike and advanced into the elite Delivery Boys 19 tory. Reed drove down on two 10 halftime lead. "Large Garlic" Garcia said. "We eight. 
The Delivery Boys hit a num­consecutive possessions and At the half, the Mathletes needed to take care of the ball "It was q, well-played game," ber of great shots. However, converted on two spectacular, seemed to be phys-more. But I Monstar sophomore Ryan Dan Crisman of the Mathletes acrobatic layups to give the ically exhausted have to give Hornacek said. "They are all hit the greatest Mathletes a 20-and were clearly credit to them, great guys and great players." shot of all. It was 19lead. more fatigued than ··u was a well-played they played Hornacek led his team's great the game-winner. ·Tm not going to lie, After a key the Delivery Boys. game. They are all well." overall shooting performance 
''I'm not going to defensive stop, However, that sparked the Monstars to an
it felt great. My team great guys and great
lie, it felt great," Reed once Crisman refused to No 11. 11-6 halftime lead. the freshman said had the confidence in again drove let that get in the players.,, Monstars 21, After a brief momentum swing of his shot. "My me to take it and I down the court way of a victory for No. 6 Get your at the beginning of the second team had the con­undoubtedly his team. "DC", as weight up 16 half, the Monstars once again
made it.,, Ryan Hornacek
fidence in me to poised to con-it read on the back Like in the regained control of the game
Monstars team member

take it and I made vert a third of his jersey, shot movie "Space and pulled ahead 16-10. it." Dan Crisman consecutive lights out in the Jam", these Although Get Your Weight Up 
In a tightly con­Mathletes team member attempt, but second half shoot-Monstars did not give in on the final pos­tested game in instead drew a ing his team back into the jumped out to an early lead and sessions, they were unable to which neither double team game. At one point in the sec­looked to be the class of the hold off the Monstars from team held greater than a two­and kicked the ball out to ond half, Crisman had scored competition. However, unlike emerging as the victors. point lead, the Mathletes, Crisman who sank the shot. three baskets on three consecu­the movie, they held onto the behind Crisman's shot, outlasted "It felt really good. I'm glad I tive possessions to regain the lead and cruised to a well­Contact Alex Barker at the Delivery Boys to advance to could help send us to the Elite lead for the Mathletes. deserved victory. abarker1@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. £O 3 p.m. at the No£re Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nex£-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cems per charae£er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves £he right to edit all classifieds for content withom issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

Volunteer Help (1 male,1 female)to OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Nice house PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE 
run a puppet theater for kinder-for rent 1/2 mile from campus. 3 bed-WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. 
WANTED SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE­APPT. flexible, no exp. nee, cus­tamer sales/service. cond. apply, ages 17+, positions available throughout US & Canada, www.workforstudents.com Summer daycare in my home for children ages 5 & 8. Need depend­able. energetic ~tudent available M­F, 7:30-5:30, $250/wk. 247-1258 or jkerwin@ memori­alsb.org New student needs good laptop. 574·993-8733.  garten kids in a local school in early afternoon on Fridays. Will train. Call Bill Staunton 574-217-8063. Need reasonable, dependable lawncare person. Call Sue 233­7719 or lv. message. NOTICES BElGER MANSION in Mishawaka ­7 rooms available for grad week­end. All private baths. www.beigermansion.com or call 574-255-6300 Ron.  FoR SALE $74,500! Updated 2BR, Finished Lower Level! Minutes to Campus & UP Mall, Bookcases, Hardwood floors, Fenced yd + more! Sweet Home! Bobbie Van Osdal C-21 Jim Dunfee Realty 574-235-3075 Condo For Sale. Close to ND. Quiet community-beautifully cared for. Contact Paul @ 574-993-5858. Subaru 99 Forester/great condi­tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 Kl $6,500/ 234·2104.  FoR RENT Blue &Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighbomood, central air, new appliances, very nice. 289-4071. DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease 2008­2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest & most private. Gall Diane 574-261-3338. SUMMER HOUSING. 6 bdrm house Next 2 Clover Ridge. Big back yard. hrocha@nd.edu  rooms and 2 full baths. NC. Must see! Call Darin at 574-631-2721. 1 OR 2 Bdrm apt.in historic neighbor­hood. One mile to ND. Laundry & security. $510/mo. Call574-532-8718. 54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 bed­room 1 bathroom ranch house near ND, behind Nicks Patio. Wasrer/Dryer,C/A, 1-<:ar garage, $725'mo. $250 security deposit jimc343@yahoo.oom 3 bdrm homes &1 bdrm apts. Close to ND. Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email:greatlakespg@ gmail.com PERSONAL  We want to help. Call our 24 hour con­fidential hotline at 1·800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go tt alone. If you or someone you love needs confidentiaj support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our 'Nebsite at httpJ/osa.nd.edlidepartmentslpreg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml  
•  






ATION 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVJCES page 15
Friday, April 18, 2008 


MLB 
American League, East Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
NY Yankees 9-7 .563 71 71 Boston 9~7 ,563 75 81 Baltimore 8-1 .533 63 70 Toronto 8-8 .500 82 63 Tampa Bay 6-9 .400 78 68 
American League, Central Division 
team record perc, RF RA 

Chicago Sox 9-5 .643 78 53 Kansas City 9-6 .600 52 46 Minnesota 1·8 .467 63 66 Detroit 5-10 .333 63 94 Cleveland 5·10 .333 63 84 
American League, West Division 
team record perc . RF RA 

LA Angels 9-7 .563 81 75 Oakland 8-8 .563 64 59 Seattle 8-8 .500 77 73 Texas 7-9 .438 68 75 

National League, East Division 
team ·record perc. RF RA 
Florida 9·5 .643 66 75 
NY Mets 7-6 .538 69 49 
8-8 ..500 74 69

Philadelphia Atlanta 5-9 .257 72 62 Washington 4·11 .267 53 81 

National League, central Division 
teqm r(?t;ard Pf!PC• RF . RA st Louis 11'"5 .688 74 Milwaukee 9·6 ,$00 · 74 Chicago cubs \? 9~6 · .GOo 82 PIUSburgh 7~~~ .467 .·72 
"'" CincinnatiAt 7;.g .438 ··· ·· ··· 69 Houton 6·10 .315 60 

National League, \N,st Division 
re.cord perc. RF RA 
11"4 
8-7 
7~8: e~a· ····· 
i 
6-18 



:--·-··--···--.·:·: ·: ·····:·::. 
~ ~olfWeek Men's Gc:tlf @ankirags 
··'· .. . team ·rectJrd events 
1 Georgia 98·19 s 2 Alabama 106-U-1 9 3 UCLA 76·13 . 7 4 Charlotte 85-14-1 7 5 Sollttlem CaUfomia 94-17•1 · 8 6 · Okfalloma State 100-24 9 
' 1 Florida 89·39-1 9 
8 Georgia Teeh 83-35--2 8 9 Tennessee 99·32~3 9 10 Florida State 90-32•4 9 11 Stanford 11·27 · 8 12 Cbattanooga 130·30-4 11 13 UNLV 113·32;.2 10 14 Sootb Carolina 101-39-2 g 15 Duke 75·35"3 9 16 Auburn 90-36-2 g 17 Texas A&M 86·51-1 10 18 Clemson 87·39-1 9 19 UCF 79·45--3 9 20 Arizona Slate 65--47-2 8 21 Loulsvitle 103-48-3 11 22 East Tennessee 72-57-2 9 23 Michigan State 75-33·2 10 24 Indiana 100·33·2 10 25 Wake Forest 84-44-5 10 
around the dial 
NHL 
Predators at Red Wings 
7:30 p.m., Versus 
Stars at Ducks 
10:00 p.m., Versus 
·· ·• · 

NFL 


Associated Press 
OWINGS MILLS, Md.­Steve McNair intended to complete the final three years of hi~ contract with the Baltimore Ravens. He worked hard during the offseason and arrived at 
mtmcamp  ready  to  
assume  his role  as  the  
starting quarterback.  

His body had other plans. 
MeNair announced his retirement Thursday, ending a 13-year career in which he was selected co-MVP, led the Tennessee Titans to the Super Bowl and orches­trated the most success­ful regular season in the Ravens history. He received a standing ova­tion from his teammates after revealing his deci­sion, then contained his emotions during a hastily arranged news confer­ence. 

"Coming out and mak­ing this decision, it was hard," he said. "In your mind, you feel like you can play, that you can still compete. But when your mind and your body are not in accord, it's not 
going  to work  in  the  
National  Foot ball  
League.  

"My mind was there. Mentally, I could go out and play. But physically, I couldn't do it anymore. 
Not to the capacity that I need to help my team­
mates win a  football  
game."  
The  3 5 -year-old  

MeN air guided the Ravens to a franchise­best 13-3 record in 2006, his first season in Baltimore. But he injured his groin during the sea­son opener last season and never regained the form that enabled him to earn a berth in four Pro Bowls. 
McNair developed back and shoulder injuries and played in only six games in 2007. He threw only two touchdown passes, was intercepted four times and lost seven 
fumbles before being placed on injured reserve in December, ending his most frustrating season in the NFL. 
He underwent surgery on his non-throwing shoulder in December and spent much of the past three months getting ready for his 14th NFL season. But McNair had an inkling that all the running and weightlifting might be for naught. 
"My mind was telling me, 'Yes,' and my body was like, 'No, what are you doing?' I came up with (the idea of retiring) two or three days ago, but it's been lingering ever since December." 
IN BRIEF UCLA star Kevin Love 
decides to go pro LOS ANGELES -UClA's Kevin Love Ls NBA-bound. 
Less than two weeks after leading the Bruins to the Final Four, the All­American freshman announced Thursday that he'll skip his final three college seasons and enter the NBA draft. 
"I feel like I'm in the right spot to take my game to the next level," Love said Thursday. "Since I was 5 years old this has been a dream ofmine." 
Love made his announcement at a news conference while sitting between his father, former NBA player Stan Love, and UClA coach Ben Howland. 
The 6-foot-10 Love said he did not immediately plan to hire an agent, which would temporarily allow to keep playing for UClA. 
"I want to maintain my eligibility in case something happens," Love said. He later added that it's "definitely a possibility" that something could prompt him to change his mind. 

Bulls coach fired after 
disappointing season 
DEERFIELD, Ill. -John Paxson used words like "disappointing" and "disturbing" while describing the Chicago Bulls' nightmare of a season. The general manager talked about pride and accounta­bility, too. 
''I'm most accountable," he said. 
But Jim Boylan took the fall. 
The Bulls fired their interim coach on Thursday, likely the first of several changes after a disap­pointing season in which individ­ual agendas wrecked whatever chance the team had at getting back to the playoffs. 
While Paxson went out of his way to praise Boylan and said there was no "defining moment" that led to his dismissal, it was clear a change was coming. That happened during a morning meet­ing at the team's practice facility, and Boylan left without comment­ing. 
Krystkowiak fired after 
first season as Bucks coach 
MILWAUKEE -Larry Krystkowiak showed up at the Milwaukee Bucks' practice facility early Thursday morning, sweating through his T­shirt during a rigorous workout as Neil Young music blared in the back­ground. 
A few hours later, he was gone for good. 
Krystkowiak might indeed have a heart of gold, as his choice of work­out music would suggest. But as new Bucks general manager John Hammond attempts to make a championship contender out of an organization seemingly happy just to sneak into the playoffs every few years, that wasn't enough. 
"The bottom line on this decision is that this is a results-driven league,'' Hammond said. "Sometimes it comes down to wins and losses. Once again, the man that Larry was and the effort he put forth had little to do with the decision." 
I ~ 
) . 
Friday, April 18, 2008 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 


Golfers head to Ky. for Big East tournament this weekend 
By PETE REISENHAUER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hopes to carry momentum from its top finish two weeks ago to help them end strong at the Big East Tournament starting this Sunday in Hebron, Ky. 
The Irish believe that they can continue on a path that 
they started at the Irish Invitational two weeks ago, and feel that they have a good chance at the Championship's this weekend. 
The team is going to have to continue to drive the ball well and keep all of their players in play, but felt that this is very possible after the last solid performance. They are still cautiously optimistic, however, because their last performance was done on their home course, but they still feel that they can carry that momentum with them to Kentucky. 

They will once again need strong performances by Josh Sandman, who got his fourth consecutive top-1 0 finish in the last tournament. They will also need a solid performance by freshman Dustin Zhang who was also able to finish tied with Sandman for fourth at the Invitational. These two were just two of the six Irish golfers that finished in the top-10 for the tournament. 
The seeding for the tourna­ment is completely random and goes as follows: Seton Hall, USF, Marquette, Connecticut, Cincinnati, 
Louisville, Villanova, Notre Dame, Georgetown, StJohn's. 
Although the tournament is being held in Kentucky, not far from Louisville, it will be hosted by the University of Cincinnati and will run from the 20th to the 22nd at the Traditions Golf Club. 
Contact Pete Reisenhauer at preisena@nd.edu 
•
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

·No. 25 Irish head to Elk Run with high hopes 
Squad has won a program-record four first-place finishes this season, including three-tournament streak 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
"It feels like all the pieces are coming together." 
Head Coach Susan Holt's words on the eve of the Big East tournamenf"·encapsulate No. 25 Notre Dame's season so far ­one of unprecedented success 

.~ 
fueled by youth and mental toughness. The Irish hold the No.1 seed heading into their penultimate tournament -the Big East Championship -at the Elk Run Golf Club in Batavia, Ohio. The tournament will be composed of three rounds played at the par-71, 5,724-yard course, from April 20-22. 
Coach Holt, whose squad has earned eight top-five finishes this year, is optimistic of the team's chances. 
"Our goal all year has been winning the Big East Championship," Holt said. "That's what we expect to do, and we deserve to have that happen. We've been playing good golf lately and it seems like our time." 
Although Notre Dame· has been set firmly in the crosshairs with the No. 1 seed, Holt is confi­dent in her team. 
"We've been in this position a number of times because of the successes we've had. We're used to it. The team is tough." 
This season has been marked by historic successes for the Irish. The squad has had a pro­gram-record four first-place fin­ishes this season, including a program-first three consecutive tournament victories. Notre Dame also collected honors at Golf World Magazine's mid-sea­son awards banquet, being named the most surprising women's team, while Irish fresh­man So-Hyun Park was named 



9:30AM-11:30AM 


Dorothy Corson 
A Cave OfCandles 

Matt Cashore/ Kerry Temple 
Celebrating Notre Dame 

·1' 

HAMMES 


NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSIDRE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndca1alog.com 

most surprising women's player. Park is on pace to shatter the program's single-season scoring record of 74.12 with a season average of 73.26, and has card­ed eight consecutive top-10 fin­ishes, including two first-place finishes. 
Junior captain Lisa Maunu has also performed strongly. second behind Park with a 75.35 scor­ing average and two podium fin­ishes. In addition, every Notre Dame golfer has carded at least one top-1 0 fmish this year. 
The Elk Run Golf Club is for­eign ground to the Irish, but Coach Holt feels her team will perform well regardless. 
" It's a neutral site, and we've never played it," Holt said. "But we've had success this year on new courses so we're not too worried. We haven't changed our preparation, and it's been nice this week so we've been able to play every day. We made 
M 1 L f s S!DfLlNt 
Jim Langford 
Spirit ofNotre Dame 

Fr. James King CSC 
Known By Name 

a commitment to do exactly before the NCAA tournament what we're doing. We're on next month. track." 
The tournament will be the Contact Michael Blasco at fmal of the year for Notre Dame mblasco@nd.edu 
Store our Stun 

r esummerr 
can or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2169 
6482 Brick Road. South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass,7 minutes from campus 
~--­


MIDI Steraue.· 
Depot 


11:30AM· 1:30PM 
Maura Weis 
Bill Schmitt 
Miles From The Football Weekends Sideline At Notre Dame 
Frank Maggio 

Notre Dame And The Game 
That Changed Football 
(accompanied with local 
sports writer Joe Doyle) ·Scott Baker Sweeney 

Tears OfMary 

Events are subject to change. Please call574-631-5757 to confirm. 
070088S032708A 

Friday, April 18, 2008 page 17 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers preparing for two-game weekend 
CCSD~ 

CLARK COUNTY SCHOOL DJSTRlCT 
For Health Service Professionals inquiries: Speech Pathologists 
702.799.7437 
Occupational Therapists 
702.799.7441 
School Psychologists 
702.799.7465 
Nurses 
702.799.7443 
For Teacher Inquiries: 
702.855.5414 
Interviews are conducted at various locations nationally, daily in 



6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street .Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 


(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer 
In the spirit of baseball season, Notre Dame is mak­ing this a double-header weekend. 
Corning off a heart-break­ing 9-8 loss to No. 19 Denver two weeks ago in Chicago, the Irish will look to bounce back with two games this weekend. They begin Friday, taking on the Quinnipiac Bobcats at the School Field in South Bend at 4 p.m. Then the team will travel to Bethlehem, Pa. to play the Mountain Hawks of Lehigh Sunday at 1 p.m. 
The Irish have never lost in five total games against Quinnipiac and Lehigh. 
With the April 5 loss to Denver, the Irish, who are currently tied for the No. 10 ranking in the USILA coach­es' poll, fell to 7-2 overall and 1-1 in the Great Western Lacrosse League. Quinnipiac (7-2, 1-2 GWLL) is coming off an 11-10 overtime win over Air Force and will undoubt­edly be looking to pull off a late-game comeback of their own against the Irish. 
After resting up Saturday. the team will take the field against a 6-8 Lehigh team that is averaging 6.36 goals per game this season, com­pared to a goals-against average of 8.29 per game. 
Notre Dame will look once again to its solid crop of upperclassmen to lead it this weekend. Junior attackman Ryan Hoff, who scored six goals in last year's contest against Quinnipiac, leads the team with 22 goals this sea­son. He is followed by fellow junior attackman Duncan Swezey, who has scored 16 this season and led the team with four goals in last year's 14-2 win over lehigh. Senior midfielder Michael Podgajny rounds out the top three scorers with 15 goals. 
In net for the Irish will be senior Joey Kemp, a two-time All-American whose 6.75 goals-against average ranks him seventh in the nation. Kemp didn't allow a goal in 37 minutes in last year's win over the Mountain Hawks, and he will undoubtedly look to do the same come Sunday. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish fall again to Vanderbilt squad 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 
For the second straight year, the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team entered its showdown with Vanderbilt with momentum, coming off of a win over Big East rival Georgetown. 
And for a second straight year, the Irish walked away on the losing end, this time falling to the Commodores 9­
6. It was the lowest offensive output of the year for Notre Dame. 
"We weren't on our game. I don't know why," coach Tracy Coyne said. "If I did, I would have fixed it." 
Junior attack Jillian Byers led the Irish in scoring with three goals, two of which came in the second half. However, it would prove to be too little to late for Notre Dame, which fell to 10-5 on the season. 
"\Ve just couldn't find an answer," said Coyne. 
The Irish have very little time, however, to recover from the loss. On Saturday, the Irish will travel to Piscataway, N.J. to take on Rutgers. The Scarlet Knights are 2-2 in the Big East Conference and 7-8 overall. 
While each game has been important for Notre Dame, this game could have extra significance on the season: The Irish were riding high after a 4-1 road trip that saw them defeat two top ten 
teams, but the loss to Vanderbilt has taken away considerable momentum. How coach Tracy Coyne's team responds on Saturday could determine Notre Dame's fate for the rest of the season. The game will be the final regular season game to take place before the Big East tournament, which will be held at home in Notre Dame, and the Irish are look­
ing to  come  in  on  the right  
foot.  
"We  want to solidify  our  

number two seed in the [Big East] tournament," Coyne said. 
The game at Rutgers caps off an eventful week for the team. In addition to the numerous awards and honors that each have received already earlier in the season, Byers and senior midfielder Caitlin McKinney have each been selected as nominees for the Tewaarton Award, given annually to the top lacrosse player in the nation. Out of the 18 nominees, 5 will be named finalists later in the year. 
As for Saturday's game, do not expect another slow start from the Irish. Coyne called the game, "a way to get back on track." and went further. 
"We didn't capitalize on our opportunity [Wednesday]," she said. "But I'm happy we have another chance to go out and be the team that we want to be in 2008." 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

--------------------~---------------------. 
page 18 Friday, April 18, 2008 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Please join us as we celebrate 




twenty-five years: 
"SOLIDARITY: PAST, PRESENT, FUTURE" ARCHBISHOP DIARMUID MARTIN 

/ 
FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 2008 7:30PM WASHINGTON HALL 

i. 
--------... ----------­

Since his appointment as Archbishop ofDublin in 2004, Archbishop Martin 
has established himself as an international diplomat for peace and .iustice. 
He has represented the views of the Vatican as a delegate to many major 
international agencies, most notably the United Nations and the World 

Trade Organization. In his efforts to promote global solidarity. Archbishop 
Martin has actively worked to address the issues of international debt. 
poverty reduction, racism and other related forms of intolerance . 

./ 

CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 25th ANNIVERSARY MASS SATURDAY, APRIL 19, 2008 
10:00 AM 

BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Presider: Rev. John I. Jenkins. C.S.C. Homilist: Rev. William M. Ues, C.S.C. 1v1usic by the Notre Dame folk Choir Reception to follow. 
HiElUN IVERSITY OF 
VJsrr socialconcerns.nd.edu FOR MORE .NOTRE DAME 
Center for Social Concerns 
Friday, April 18, 2008 page 19 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

ROWING 


Rowers sweep field inIndianapolis 
Observer staff report 
Notre Dame won all six races it entered in the 2008 Indiana Invite at Eagle Creek Park in Indianapolis, Ind. 
The Irish were victorious in the varsity eight, second varsi­ty eight, varsity four, second varsity four, novice eight and second novice eight races. 
The No. 16 varsity eight crew posted a time of 6:25.0, followed by Indiana (6:31.0) and Purdue (6:39.4). 
In the second varsity eight race, the Irish boats took first and fourth with times of 6:32.5 and 6:52.0. 
Notre Dame took the top two spots in the varsity four race with times of 7:17.3 and 7:33.5. 
They also took the top two spots in the second Varsity Four race with times of 7:29.2 and 7:37.5. 
In the novice eight race the Irish had a winning time of 6:48.3. 
The second novice eight crew came in with another victory with a time of 7:19.5. 
Sunday April 20th Open House 1Oam-5pm 

AT EDlSON LAKES 
Come meet Chris Zorich this Sunday .from 1-3 pm at the fastest selling community in Michianal 

Chris Zorich 
S1"onebridge Villas a1" Edison Lakes Ranch Villas s1"arting in the 190's 
625 Dublin Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Call 574-247-0770 or e-mail Jim@g90re.com 
www.stonebridgecondos.net 
Directions: Take Edison Road east, cross over Main Street at The Varsity Club then go one block to Park Place and turn right. The entrance to our community is just 200 yards down on the right side ofPark Place. 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles extend win streak to three 
the match against Bethel
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Tuesday and versus Adrian 
Sports Writer 
Thursday. 
At No. 1 singles, Gebert 
Saint Mary's attained its went up against the Bulldog's third consecutive win Simcina in a tough match Thursday as the Belles that eventually led to Gebert crushed conference rival asking for a line judge when Adrian in a 9-0 sweep. The she was up 4-3 in her second Belles lift their record to 8-9, game. Gebert managed to 3-3 MIAA as the Bulldogs fall come out successfully, win­to 5-12, 2-6 MIAA. ning 6-3, 6-3. 
"It was nice to get another At No. 2 singles Hurley took win, especially our third in a out Bahr 6-0, 6-1 for her fif­row," Belles coach Chuck teenth win of the season, put-Rubino said. -ting her at 15­
Thursday's 2. Saint Mary's win is the energy contin­
..1 expected Adrian to
Belles second ued on the
be a stronger team. 
conference win courts as No. 3 in a row, the but a win·s a win. Reed defeated first being Brooks 6-1, 6­
Kalamazoo is going to
their 8-1 win 2, moving her
be tough competition.,, 
over Tri-State to 8-8, 3-3 on April 12. MIAA. Saint Mary's Chuck Rubino No. 4 Jessica started off Kosinski won
Belles coach 
strong in the doubles divi­sion and made winning all three doubles matches look easy. 
The Belles No. 1 duo of sophomore co-captain Camille Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley took out Adrian's Robyn Bahr and Katelyn Simcina 8-4 for their ninth win of the season. Gebert and Hurley move to 9­8, 5-1 MIAA as Saint Mary's No. 1 doubles pair. 
Sophomore co-captain Lisa Rubino and freshman Betsy 
Reed easily knocked out K a t i e MacFarlan and Leeann Brooks 8-0 in the No. 2 doubles match, putting them at 7-8, 3­3 MIAA. Freshmen Franca Peluso and Jessica Camp stepped up for the sec­ond time this 
her seventh 
match as she 

beat MacFarlan 6-2. 6-1, lifting her to 7-9, 3­3 MIAA. No. 5 Rubino quickly took out Brede 6-1, 6-0 for her eighth singles win, mov­ing her to 8-8, 3-3 MIAA. 
Freshman Laura Arnold played at No. 6 singles for the Belles for the second time this week, defeating Kuss 6-1, 6-0. 
"This win will hopefully give us confidence going into Kalamazoo," coach Rubino said. "I expected Adrian to be a stronger team, but a win's a win. 
Kalamazoo is 

..This win will 
going to be hopefully give us con­tough competi­
fidence going into tion." 
Saint Mary's

Kalamazoo.,, 
will take on 

Kalamazoo Chuck Rubino Saturday at 1 
p.m. for their

Belles coach 

week in No. 3 doubles for Saint Mary's, winning 8-0 over Emily Brede and Chrissy Kuss for their third match as a pair, moving Peluso and Camp to 2-1, 1-0 MIAA. 
"We stepped up our doubles game," sophomore co-captain Lisa Rubino said. "We played really well today." 
Saint Mary's continued its momentum into the singles division, a trend they started against Tri-State Saturday and have carried over into 
fourth  home  
match  this  
w  e  e  k  

Kalamazoo is currently fourth in the MlAA with a 4-2 conference record, and 10-7 overall. Luckily for the Belles, the Hornets' No. 1 singles player Mary Atallah has been injured lately and not performing at her regular level. 
"Kalamazoo is a big confer­ence competitor," Lisa Rubino said. "We just hope to keep our success going." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOl@saintmarys.edu 

:~ \ 
\ \
! \ 
l~ 
1. \ 
:~ 
1\ 
I\
h 
~ 
~ 
l \ 
\ 
\ 
,' ~ 
~

'l \ 
t<
' l
~I 
iI
l \ 
~ ~ '~ 
t} 
\ 
'( 
~ 
~ 
~ f-·­
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
t 
~ 
>' >'< H 
t ( t 
I 
t t 
.....
I 
I I, I 
I. 
\ 
'1­
1' 
I\ 
1\ 
'(' \.: 
>i 
( 
,, :~ 
'( ; 
( 
l 
i 
page 20 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish gearing up for two more big events 
Friday, April 18, 2008 

The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC GOLF 


Belles play in Spring Fling 
By ALEX BARKER Sporrs Writer 

Saint Mary's will compete in Illinois-Wesleyan's Spring Fling this weekend, the last tournament before the NCAA qualifiers are set to conclude. 
"We need to get some karma going for us before the qualifiers," coach Mark Hamilton said. 
The Spring Fling will be a very competitive field for the No. 28 ranked Belles. However, competing with and beating tough teams is nothing new for them. 
"There are going to be four of the top-1 0 teams in the country at the tourna­ment this weekend," said Hamilton. "Last weekend we were able to beat five differ­ent teams that were ranked ahead of us so l'in not wor­ried." 
Peaking at the right time this spring has been 
RESERVATION fORMS 
and addltiona' event information may be: obtalned at: 
www.ndmemphit.com · fC!l(K on'ClUB HEADUNfS'] 
. --··:-:.:·.;-.. 
oreontatt · Rid Duerrat 
reduerr@aotcom 
(90l) 685-7224 

Freshman Rosie O'Connor. have their eyes set on one She has led the Belles in the goal -qualifying for the 

By ALEX BARKER and 
EUGENIA ALFONSO 
Sports Writers 
·Just two weeks shy of the Big East Outdoor championships, Notre Dame will compete at both the Central Collegiate champi­onships and at the Mount SAC Relays. 
The Irish will send eight of their top runners to the presti­gious Mount SAC relays in Walnut, Calif. There, they will compete against some of the toughest competition in the nation. 
During last weekend's meets, the Irish had success from their middle distance runners. 
Freshmen Natalie Johnson and Kelly Langhans had a wonderful meet last week competing at the Mississippi Invitational taking first and second, respectively, in the 800-meter race. Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson also ran well taking first place in the 3000­steeplechase. 
Notre Dame will send the field athletes and the rest of the run­ners to the Central Collegiate championships in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Last week, the Irish also had great results in the field events. 
Junior Anna Weber led the Irish in the throws events posting a landslide first-place finish in the shot put and a second-place finish in the hammer throw. 
Behind Freshmen Jessica Sullivan and Jasmine Williams, the Irish took second in the pole vault and fourth in the long jump. 
Each of these three-day meets will prove grueling for the ath­letes, but they will need every chance they get to improve before the Big East champi­onship and to qualify for the NCAA meet in May. 
Notre Dame prepares once again to get some qualifying marks for the upcoming Big East Outdoor Championship meet dur­ing the weekend of May 3 and 4. The team again will be split between to meets to get the best possible competition for their event. Some of the team mem­bers will be heading to the Mount SAC Relays in Walnut, California while others will head for the Central Collegiate Championships in West Lafayette, Indiana. 
Freshman thrower Greg Davis will be participating in the Central Collegiate Championship meet. He has been working on his technique this past week and is optimistic about the results this weekend. 
"My technique is getting closer to where I would like it to be," he said...I feel that if Icontinue to work on my technique in practice I will be able to let loose and just go after some throws in the meet." 
The Irish can expect some good competition at Mount SAC. 
"Mount SAC is an awesome meet and there is always great competition," senior Austin Wechter said. 
The next meet after this week­end for the Irish will be the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa and the Hillsdale Relays at Hillsdale, Mich. 
Contact Alex Barker and Eugenia Alfonso at abarker1@nd.edu and ealfonso@nd.edu 
past three including a overall indi­vidual per­formance last week at the Vassar Invitational. 
" S h e [Rosie O'Connor] has worked really hard this spring and now it is really start­ing to pay off for her," Hamilton said. "She has finally made the adjustment 

tournaments national tournament. second-place Currently the Belles are in 
"There are going to be four of the top-1 o teams in the country at the tournament this week­end. Last weekend we were able to beat five different teams that were ranked ahead ofus so rm not worried. ·• 
Mark Hamilton Belles coach 
second place just 18 strokes behind No. 12 Olivet after the first round of the qualifiers. If the Belles are unable to clinch the automatic bid by over­taking Olivet in the MIAA conference qualifying tournament, they may still be able to receive an 

to playing on the· collegiate level." 
The final two rounds of the NCAA qualifiers will take place a week after the Spring Fling and the Belles 
at-large bid based on their performance in tournaments like the Spring Fling. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS PRESENTS 
2008 UNIVERSAl NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
~~AN EVENING WITH COACH CHARUE WEIS" CASH BAR I SEATED DINNER I COACH WE.IS TALK I AND MORE Coach Weis will autograph footballs to be raffled 
Thursday, April 24, 2008 6;00 PM 
The Racquet Club of Memphis 5111 Sanderlin Avenue Memphis, Tennessee 

Charlie Wo~:>is, HP;ad Coadl, UnlvPr~ity of Notre Oiime, Gue~t Speaker 
Net proceeds from this event will benefit the Notr~ Dame Club of Mernphis Schol<mhip fund supporting Notre Dame student> from the Memphis area 
The Notre Dame Club of Memphis is one of more than 250 Notre Dame alumni clubs worldwide which comprise the 
ij1 NoiR.£\)AME 
Alumni As.sodation 
Coach Weis' visit is in recognition of the Club's receipt of the Notre Dame Alumni Assodation's Outstanding Club Award. 

Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
JV>)))) ) ) ) 

hi www.ndprayercast.org 
Campus Ministry 

Free iTunes subscription far reflecti"l.'e listening on your iPod. Type "ndprayercast" on the iTunes search engine,-or-log onto www.ndprayercast.org Hear it here this week: Rev. Ralph Haag, c.s.c. Songs of the ND Folk Choir • Psalms • Homilies • Prayers • lvfcditative music 
Weekly rebroadcasts of the Sunday 11 :45am Liturgies 
(_ 
Friday, April 18, 2008 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Serving 
Lunch e~ 
Dinnef' 
1iu:s·Sat 
J 1-2; 4-9p!n 
Clost:d Sunday &Monday 


Our Specialties Include Exquisite 
Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sand\\-ichcs Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: lentil Soup&: Garlic Paste 
Come Dine With Our famity And Be Our Fdcnd! 
115 Dixie \Vay North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 

Phelps, Wade Korpi, and Eric Maust will have their work cut
wvu 

out for them on the road. 
continued from page 24 The Irish offense is second in 
the Big East, batting at a ..364 
Senior Tyler Kuhn leads the clip. Notre Dame coach Dave team and has been one ofthe top Schrage said he was very hitters in the con-impressed with his 
ference this sea­team's batting
"Everybody·s hitting 
son. Kuhn leads lately. the Big East in well and picking "Everybody's batting with a hitting well and
their teammates 
.447 average and .. picking their 
up.
has seven home teammates up," runs and 42 RBI Schrage said. "We on the year. Dave Schrage really like our West Virginia lineup all the way
Irish coach 
has averaged one through nine." 
8.71 runs per Notre Dame game, and the Irish have a team picked up the latest win in their ERA of 3.95. Irish starters David streak Wednesday with a 5-4 vic­tory over Northern Illinois at U.S. Cellular Field in Chicago. The game against the Huskies bene­fited the Northern Illinois February 14 Scholarship Fund, which will establish scholarships in the names the students that died in the shooting tragedy at the school this year. 
"There weren't any losers [Wednesday]," said Schrage, who coached for four years at Northern Illinois. 4,600 were in attendance at U.S. Cellular, the home ofthe Chicago White Sox. 
First pitch today is scheduled for 7:05 p.m. at Hawley Field in Morgantown. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
IN CONCERT GRA.M:MY & STELLAR AWARD NOMINEE 
..IVST HAVING CHVR<;;:H 
DATE: Saturday, April 26. 2008 TIME: 7:00p.m. 
PLACE: Second Baptist Church 24828 Fillmore Road. P.O. Box 3895 South Bend. Indiana 46619 
TICKETS: $25 in advance $30 at the door 
$7 Dollar!J· O([EACH 1icket Purchased With A Notre Dame J.D. 
Reserve your tickets by contacting Second Baptist Church by phone at (574) 287-3000 Church/(574) 876-9462 Secretary; OR. by visiting the following local businesses: Cutrageous Barber Shop; The Look Hair Salon; WUHS. Betty's Cleaners (Benton 
SOFTBALL 



Squad set to face Big East leaders 
Irish to play South Florida and Louisville for pair of road games 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will enter into its most important weekend of the year, taking on Big East leaders South Florida and Louisville in a bid to gain the advantage in the regular season race to win the Big East. 
The Irish (27-13, 7-3 Big East) are coming off of a S-0 loss to No. 13 Northwestern Tuesday in which they only managed one hit and an 11-5 win over Wisconsin on Wednesday in which they rediscovered their bats. 
The win over the Badgers was highlighted by a team record three-home run inning which included bombs from junior third baseman Lind a Kohan, freshman shortstop Katie Fleury, and sophomore first baseman Christine Lux. Kohan also added another three-run homer later in the game. 
Freshman catcher/outfield­er Sadie Pitzenberger leads the Irish with a .343 batting average, while senior second baseman Katie Laing adds some pop to the lineup, hit­ting .341 with six home runs and 41 RBis. 
Junior Brittney Barger (20­


7) leads the league in wins and strikeouts with 157. 
Freshman Jody Valdivia has been regaining much of her dominant form from earlier in the season, giving two solid innings in relief in the loss to Northwestern. 
The Cardinals (23-15; 9-3 Big East) will go into Saturday's games second in the Big East standings, giving the Irish a chance to grab the advantage with a sweep. 
Louisville is coming off a doubleheader split with Big East opponent Pittsburgh on Sunday. The Cards overcame a 4-0 deficit to win the first game 11-4 and lost the sec­ond 8-0. The loss snapped an eight-game home winning streak for the Cardinals. 
LouisvilJe's offense has been impressive this season, with a .275 team average and five players over the .300 mark. Sophomore catcher Melissa Roth (.377 average) and freshman third baseman Chelsea Bemis (.324 average) are leading the way for Louisville's hitters. 
The Louisville pitching staff has also been solid this sea­son. Sophomore Kristen Wadwell (12-9) brings a 2.20 ERA with 108 strikeouts to the table and junior Kassie Stanfill (9-5) comes in with a 
3.01 ERA with 110 strike­outs. 
The University of South Florida (36-13; 11-1 Big East) earned the No. 25 spot in the Ultimate College Softball Coaches Poll this week~ The Bulls currently lead the Big East and will provide a stiff test for the Irish. 
South Florida is coming off a perfect weekend of Big East play at home with sweeps of conference foes Pittsburgh, 1-0 and 2-1, on Friday and Syracuse, 5-4 and 1-0, on Sunday. 
Bull's freshman pitcher Capri Catalano has a perfect 11-0 record on the season. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Corne honte to Welcome to River Bend-a place where healthy, active lifestylesthe NEJ·fl and harmony with natun: combine to create the hon1e you've always dreatned of. In this exclusive, gated conununity, you~u enjoy your own secluded spot in the woods, yet have easy access to cultural events) educational opportunities, and some of the finest shopping and dining in JVlichiana ­all just 1ninutes fr01n your doorstep. RIVER BEND OFFERS: Secure living ·within a natural environment. A sustainable, green approach to dcvelopn1ent-including low··density housing to ()rotect the mature forestation) and resrricnons against the usc of toxic chemicals and pesticides. Natural hiking trails for your acrive life. ~leander through the }!tsl 22 lot.r are now at'tlifable:' woods and over rolling terrain to find yourself on the bank$ of Don i miJ.r this oJJ('f..fn.a-lfjetime the beautiful St. Joseph River. o_ppottJtni(;y lo onm c1piete '?_{ thi.1 Cotnmunity boat dock, so you and your Eunily can enjoy time trufy 11niqm proper(y. L.JJtated in on the St. Joseph River. J'Jikr, within 15 mimtlei qfNotre Idyllic private estates, 22 lots .ranging in size fron1 2.5 to 8.5 '{...:. '·~Dame (1/ld Uniw1:ri!y Park 1.\1ail. acres with 8 River frontage lots available. <-· Call todav to learn n1ore: 574-255-2914 or 269-687-7343.. For lot plans and other details, visit \\1"\V"\v.NaturalLivingatRiverBend.com Ril'er Bend..Des~grJCd nirb Nature.  



t 
'"-;';.. 
!' ).. ( 
.. 
'{ 
._; 
-:-,, 
{ 
\ 
J. 
~ :·\ 
>? 
~~ 
,. 
) ; 
>(. 
), 
•i 
..· 
:~ 
~ ' 
:~ 
'I 
; 
~ 
t 
;· 
) 
' 
•, 
> 
!
I ' 
' 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
the underdogs a 1-0 lead. 
Pat Nolan's squad took control quickly though. The Waivers were just too strong down low, forcing their opponents to settle for out­side shots. 
"We had a little bit of a size advantage," Waivers captain Matt Gibson said. "And we tried to use it." 
Wakim'ole's Pat Riebel said that his team was used to playing against a bigger squad. 
"Every game we've had a disad­vantage in side," he said. "They were good, though." 
To compensate, his team was forced to take outside jumpers, and made enough to stay oompeti-


Miller 
continued from page 24 
field. 
Corrigan said Miller loved to throw batting practice, and wouldn't stop regardless of whether his arm was tired or if a ball hit him. 
"He would always race out there," she 
advisor for the team, helping them to keep up with their majors, grades and other scholastic matters. When he was unable to fulfill this role in the fall following his diagno­sis, the players noticed the dif­ference. 
"For some of us, academics slipped a bit, and we realized that coach Miller was always on top of it. He knew if you weren't doing well, and he always got on you about edu­cation," said Corrigan. 
Sullivan agreed that Miller always made sure the girls had their priorities straight, push­ing "academics first, athletics second." 
Miller showed his fun side during Christmas, when he 
Friday, April 18, 2008 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 




'7(Pu Ve CPme nI-Pn911/ny! 
Let us help you go farther. 
Announcing the Notre Dome Federal Credit Union Student Relocation loon. 
Low Rate  .90%  
of only  APR  
Apply today!  

tive for most of the game. "You've just got to take what they give you," Riebel said. 
Wakim'ole kept it close for most of the game, until The Waivers went on a 4-1 run to start the sec­ond half. Gibson attributed to the strong second half to his team's improved outside shooting. Robert Heroman, one of those guards, was ice cold in the first half. In the second stanza, though, he caught fire and began draining long­range bombs. His final shot, a jumper from the quarter, ended the game and sent the Waivers on to victory. 
"Our guards shot decently well in the second half," he said. "And we just stepped up and played good defense." 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
regularly dressed up like Santa Claus, not only for the team but also for community events. 
"He did this in like eight dif­ferent places. He lived in this costume," Sullivan said. 
Miller was unable to attend games and practices regularly in the spring due to his illness. Rashid said this gave a little extra motivation to the team, because they wanted to live up 
to his expecta­
said. "He loved tions . 
../ think he really 
to throw us "There's at trick pitches, cared for us, least one time even though like we were his every practice they weren't when I think,
granddaughters or
really tricks. He 'Oh, this is what had a lot of fun something." he used to do,'" trying to get she said. us." Sophomore
Sarah Montelongo
Miller served S a r a h
Belles sophomore 
as the faculty 
Montelongo summed up the love Miller had for his team. 
"I think he really cared for us, like we were his grand­daughters or something," she said. "I don't know -there was just that certain some­thing." 
The Belles play three double­headers this weekend begin­ning today, against Hope College, Adrian College, and North Central College. They plan to play well for Miller. 
"He still expects the best out of us, and we have extra moti­vation knowing he's watching up there," sophomore Ashley Peterson said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
1544 Vernerlee Lane 
South Bend, Indiana 
Walk to Campus 
Cheaper than rent! Cheaper than hotels for game days, J PW and Graduation 
~  4 BR/1.5 BA Tri-Level in Great, Desired Neighborhood  
~  2 Car Garage (Detached)  
~  NEW Windows, Roof, Siding-2007  
1!:11  Central Air and Furnace< 10 years old  
1!:4  Taxes below $1,000 with exemptions  
t!;4  Asking $115,000. Home must sell. Bring all offers!  

(574) 287-7395 -or-rjtraz@alumni.nd.edu 

Recruits 
continued from page 24 
ing for." 

"A couple ofStocktons each year, and you're going to have a heck of a football team. He's a guy Notre Dame would love to land early because it is a big need position," Frank said. 
Stockton is not near the top of any recruiting boards at defensive tackle, including scout.com, but Frank said he would be a solid pickup for the Irish. 
"I think that he's definitely not the top target that they have at defensive tackle, but he's right up there with anybody," he said. 
Craig Roh 

Roh is a 6-foot-5, 225-pound defensive end out of Chaparral High School in Scottsdale, Ariz ­and one of the most sought-after recruits in the country for next year. 
"Tons of offers, everybody under the sun has offered this kid," Frank said ofRoh. 
Roh had 99 tackles and 15.5 sacks as a junior last season, en route to being named all-state. Frank called Rob a good, physical pass rusher who loves to pursue the quarterback. 
"I think Notre Dame would like to get a couple [defensive ends] and they have been zeroing in on him," Frank said. 
Frank said that, despite the amount of schools offering Roh, Notre Dame has a good chance of landing him, but that this weekend could decide that. 
"If he likes the visit up here, I think Notre Dame will have a real good shot to land him, but it's all going to come down to the visit. He seems like a Notre Dame kid, like a kid that will fit in really well at Notre Dame," he said. 
EJ.Banks 

Banks is a cornerback out of Montour High School in McKees Rock, Penn. 
Banks plays offense and defense in high school, as quarterback and a defensive back. Last season, Banks had 2,155 yards from scrimmage and 16 touchdowns on offense in addition to three inter­ceptions on defense. 
Frank said what Notre Dame likes about Banks is his physicality. 
"He is a Corwin Brown type of corner. A big physical guy, and plays press coverage at the line of scrimmage as well." 
Frank said Banks has the speed to play cornerback, but is also a lot stronger than most comers. Banks' physicality will be a big asset in Notre Dame's defense, Frank said, because of the style of play that both defensive coordinator Corwin Brown and assistant head coach­defense Jon Tenuta like. 
"That's why you see Notre Dame going after bigger guys at comer, like E.J.," Frank said. 
Jake Gollc 

Golic is the only verbal commit­ment Notre Dame has this recruit­ing cycle, just as his brother, center Mike Golic, Jr., was one of the first commits to the Irish last season. 
The younger Golic is a 6-foot-5, 212-pound tight end out of Northwest Catholic High School in West Hartford, Conn. 
Golic was the only tight end Notre Dame offered, and Frank said he thinks Golie was the Irish's top guy. 
"Jake's got a little growing to do, but he's got that nastiness that Charlie Weis is looking for," Frank said. 
Frank said Golic has nice hands, but that he could use a year or so on the bench to develop. 
"But once he does [develop], you're going to have a pretty dam good football player," Frank said. "I think that's why they offered hinl. 
Golic's father, Mike Golic, Sr., played defensive line at Notre Dame and his uncle Bob Golic was an All-American linebacker. 
Devonte Holloman 

Holloman is one ofthe top safety · recruits this season, coming out of Independence High School in Charlotte, N.C. 
Frank said Independence is one of the top high school football pow­ers. Like Rob, he said a lot of schools have already offered Holloman. 
Frank said Holloman, who stands at 6-foot-2, 200 pounds, "has a college body already" and that this gives him an opportunity to play right away. 
"I think we'll know a little bit more about him and his interests after this weekend," Frank said. "But I think he's developed a pretty good relationship with Corwin Brown and I think he wants to come up here and check it out." 
Jordan Barrett 
Barrett is a former teammate of current Notre Dame commits Dayne Crist and Anthony McDonald at Notre Dame High school. Barrett is a 6-foot-2, 225­pound linebacker. 
Frank said the Irish coaches noticed Barrett when they were watching film on McDonald during last season's recruiting cycle. 
Frank said what really stood out about Barrett was his work ethic. 
"I trunk they are looking for guys that can go 100 percent all of the time, and I think he fits that bill," Frank said. 
DJ.Adarns 
Frank said Adams is comparable to 2008 Notre Dame recruit Jonas Gray and has scholarship offers from schools such as Maryland, Clemson, Boston College, and Michigan State. Notre Dame hasn't offered scholarships to many run­ning backs in this class, Frank said. 
Adams, who stands 5-foot-10 and weighs 212-pounds, is a resi­dent of Norcross, Ga., which means this visit could make or break whether Adams commits to the Irish. 
"With all kind of southern kids, you can't really say how they're going to react to Notre Dame because a lot of them haven't been up in this part of the country before," Frank said. "It's either a home run visit or it's kind of the nail in the coffin for southern kids. They either really love Notre Dame or they cross it off." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Friday, April 18, 2008 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


DIDIER LEWIS 
Based on the subject's description as 'shiny, bald, head'; St. Mary's Security Police have released the three following amateur sketches of the man accused of_ creeping around the roof of Reg1na Hall. 
THE SINGLE LIFE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 26 Coast Guard Climbing Mt. boat Everest, for Sir 27 It's hard to recall Edmund Hillary 

29 Cowboys, but 121937 Paul Muni not Indians drama 32 Fitting decision? 14 Art, 33 Clued in, once metaphorically 36 Stains 
16 History 37 Delicate 38 Singer who is
17 Probe part owner of 
18 Manfred 
Forbes Earth Band magazine 39 First name in

19 Roman well fragrances20 Basic verse 40 "In that area" option 41 Cousin in a 
21 Whacked Balzac title 
22 Drum containers 
42 Cut across 23 Site of the siege 
44 Reminiscent of 
of Candia 

the 1890s 24 Feaster on frogs 
45 Census Bureau 25 Legato indicator data 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

4 7 Only if it's worth the trade-off 48 London Zoo locale 
Down 1 Remote access? 2 Stanford of Stanford 
University 3 Base runners? 4 Evidence that 
one is short 5 A foot has 305 of these: Abbr. • 6 Like most 
medicine bottles 7 Things in rings 8 Big name in 
college guides 9 Old one, along the Oder 10 Holmes fought him 11 50-50 
proposition 12 Hand holding 13 Passing subject? 14 Artist Wyeth 15Notlit 
19 Princess Ozma's creator 
22 Nine (London district) 23 Bug zapper? 25 "Dear" ones 
.... 

LINA PAEK 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Paula Gamache 26 Under a quilt. 
say 
27 Set off 
28 "Blue II" painter, 1961 
291t's headquartered in the G.E. Building 
30 Sacramento suburb 
system, e.g. 33 Bit of jazz improvisation 
34 Bait 35 Meter makers 37 Certain inverse 
function 38 Get going 

direcci6n 41 City bombed in 
the gulf war 
43 Waste 

44 Rockne protege 
46 Country singers England and Herndon 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available' for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crossworas ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords . 

JUMBLE 


Jlf1JWID11rfl. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LIWLT 

I [J 
'I 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~R~~i~,~~ 

[]
tDEECES t

J I I J 
www.jumble.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

~ 
WHY THE: YOUNG KING Rf=FUSE:O TO 
WEAR A CROWN. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: IT ( 

I I JrI I J " [II.]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: MINER BAGGY GUITAR UPHELD Answer: What the couple got in the lighting store ­A "BRIGHT" IDEA 
HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Victoria Beckham, 34; Jennifer Gamer, 36; Liz Phair, 41; Olivia Hussey, 57 
Happy Birthday: Strive for 1?!-:rfection this year and r.ou will get much more than you expect in return. Your ability to cover every detail and to stay on top of what everyone is doing will put you in a strong position. Your numbers are 5, 18, 21, 27, 37,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Business will help you keep things in perspective today. As soon as you bring personal or emotional matters into the picture, you will probably make poor choices. Don't overspend, overreact or take on others' responsibilities. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Give whatever you do your all and you will reap the rewards. There is money to be made, advancements to be gained and plenty of opportunity as long as you stick to what's being asked of you. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June lO): Problems with a friend, relative or child will cause worry and will take up your time. You will have to make some fast assessments and adjustments in order to balance everything. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put in a little extra time and effort at home. It will make a difference to someone you care about. An emotional matter can be dealt with and the changes mad~ w~ll ~elp you realize what you have and how much you want to restore or mamtaJ.n 1t. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep your ears open for any change in plans that people around you make. It will make a difference to your game {>Ian if you are prepared for what others do. Money can be made but don't spend frivolously. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will find it hard to keep your emotions in check. especially when dealing with partnership or personal matters. An opening in a group you wish to join looks promising. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Taking a strong position will have an impact on those around you and may stifle what you are trying to accomplish. Any crucial changes made at home may put you in a demanding pos1tion. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-NoY. 21): An interest from someone you least expect may appear to be a comr.liment at first. However, be careful --this person may want something you don t want to give up. A change at home will not turn out as planned. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep things fair and Y.OU will excel. Try to take advantage and someone will call your bluff. A trip wdl pay off in the deals you make. Love and romance are skyrocketing. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jllll. 19): Changes will be pushed at you if you are diffi­cult to get along with. You will have to compromise if you don't want to ruin a deal you've been working on. Someone you love may agree with you for the wrong reason. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (j1111. 20-Feb. 18): You may not be totally sure of what others might do but, if you follow your heart and act on your feelin.gs, you will come out on top. When it comes to business, don't get involved soc1ally with your colleagues or authority figures. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Man:h 20): An emotional deal can be reached if you are forth­right about the way you feel and what you expect from those with whom you are dealing. A finn offer, commitment and partnership can result in greater prosperity and a brighter future. 3 stars 
Birtbdaf_Baby: You have vision, persistence and the ability to make things 

-
i 
1 
j 
.i 
I
·; 
f 

Friday, April 18, 2008 page 24 

fOOTBALL RECRUITING

'},. ' 
'~ 
t 
•f 
'I 
y 





Spring recruiting
'f 
... 
.~ ) Highly-touted recruits \\I,. ' visit campus for 79th 
)• 
> annual spring game 

By JAY FITZPATRICK and CHRIS HINE 
Sports Writers 
Most of Notre Dame's freshmen recruits for next season haven't graduated high school, let alone participate in a single practice for the Irish so far. 
But the recruiting cycle for next year has already started, and the Irish welcome eight of the best recruits in the country to campus this week for the annual Blue­Gold Spring Game. 

Notre Dame has offered schol­\: arships to all eight players. 
" 
. ~ CierreWood 

Wood is the No. 3 running back for next year, and a five-star recruit according to the recruiting Web site scout.com. 
Wood was a dominant force for his high school, Santa Oara High School, carrying the ball 178 times for 2,612 yards last season. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for scout.com, said part of Wood's appeal is that he can also play special teams. 


"He's a guy who is electrifying on special teams, a great return man, very explosive player, and can hit the home run," he said. 
Frank added that the Oxnard, Calif., native has a chance to make an impact for Notre Dame imme­diately. 
"He's a difference maker. Notre Dame has a lot of great players, but they don't have a lot of differ-

CLASS OF 2009 RECRUITS ON CAMPUS FOR 

200 BLUE·GDLD GAME 


CIERRE WOOD RB 
·.CRAIG ROH DEITE TYLER STOCKTON DTIOG ANTHONY LALOTA OT 
E.J. BANKS RBICB \ ;;; .. JAKE OOLIC TE 
< 

H~DIVONTI HOLLOMAN s 
JORDAN BARRETT LB 
D.J. ADAMIRB 
ence makers. And he's a good size at 6-foot, 205 pounds. He aver­ages over 14 yards a carry, the guy is tremendous," he said. 
Anthony LaLota 
LaLota is a defensive end who only recently began playing foot­ball. The 6-foot-6, 260-pounder from Princeton, N.J., played his first full season of football last year, when he had 40 tackles and 10 sacks for the Hun School. 
Frank said LaLota's experience may force him to sit a sea<;on, but that he has the athleticism and potential to be a good player. 

"When you watch him, he's just an extremely athletic kid that just runs real well, plays aggressively, pretty big kid that just plays very well," he said. 
Frank said the most important thing for LaLota is to work on technique between now and when he starts playing college ball. 
"I think he's one of those 'pro­jectable guys,' a guy who's not ready to play from day one because I think he might need a little work on technique. But he's a guy that's got so much athletic ability that you think that it'll be a short time before you see him on 
the field," Frank said. Frank also called Lalota "an ideal candidate defensively." 
Tyler Stockton 

Stockton is LaLota's teammate at the Hun School in Princeton, N.J., and was al'io a strong pres­ence on the d·efensive line. 
Frank said Stockton could play nose guard or defensive tackle and that Stockton has attended Notre Dame's football camps a few times. He also said Stockton is "exactly what Notre Dame is look-
see RECRUITS/page 22 
BASEBALL 



Irish set for 3-gameset in Big East 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will try to pro­tect its lead in the Big East and keep its 10-game winning streak intact this weekend fac­ing off against conference rival West Virginia. 
The Irish (23-9-1, 10-2 Big East) travel to Morganstown atop the Big East standings, one game ahead of Cincinnati and St. John's. Notre Dame's winning streak is highlighted by six straight wins in confer­ence play. 
Irish junior second baseman Jeremy Barnes said the streak helps motivate the team. "With a 10-game winning streak you have a target on your back," said Barnes. "Notre Dame is all about pride and every day we're coming out trying to keep it going." 
The Mountaineers enter the series following a tough series against Seton Hall. The Pirates took two of three of from visit­ing West Virginia, dropping the Mountaineers to fifth in the Big East with a record of 7-5. 
West Virginia will face the Irish with an explosive offense currently tops in the Big East. The Mountaineers are averag­ing a .364 average as a team, with four starters batting over .400. 
see WVUIpage 21 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Mean Girls take down Anthony Travel 21-12 


By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
No. 8 Mean Girts 21, No. 9 Anthony Travel12 
Mean Girls advanced to the round ofeight Thursday night with a victo­ry over Anthony Travel. 
The Girl'i led the whole way, using their size advantage to cruise to a 17-10 lead late in the game. All it See Also took was a 
"No.7 Mathletes' 
few buckets 
Dan Crisman sinks
from Mean Girl Alex game-winning Klupchak to 
shot"
put the game away. page 14 
" T h e y were a good team," Klupchak said. "But we were bigger. we were able to get rebounds and get a lot of quick outlet passes for lay-ups." 
Klupchak also pointed to his team's ability to shut down Anthony Travel's offen<>e, but. in the end, size made the diflerence. 
."We played some tough man-to­man," he said. "Even if they beat us off the dribble, we were just too big on the inside." 
Travel captain Mike Henry saw the loss a difl'erent way, though, playing down the Girls' height advantage. 
"We looked tired," he said. 'They pushed it more than we did. They came out ready to play, and we weren't ready." 
Mean Girl<> moves on to play the winner of Kramer Properties and To Catch a Predator. Klupchak was confident. despite the possibility that they wuld be going up against the No. 1 overall seed in the next round. 
"If we play the number one team, we'll have our work cut out for ll'i," he said. "We'll have a chance. They're very good, but we'll have a chanee." 
No. 4 Pat Nolan Presents The Insurance Waivers 21, No. 13 Wakim'ole 14 
Unranked Wakim'ole's cinderella run eame to an end Thursday night, as it fell to The Insurance Waivers. 
Things started out well enough for Wakim'ole when Michael Wakim stole the ball and made <m ea'iy lay­up on the game's first play to give 
see BOOKSTORE/page 22 

SMC SOFTBALL 

-Belles mourn loss of coach 
Assistant coach Don Miller died after six-month battle with cancer 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's lost a colleague, teacher, and coach Sunday night when assistant coach Don Miller died after a six-month battle with cancer. 
Miller, 67, a mathematics pro­fessor who had been at the College since 1967, began working with the softball team during the 2000-2001 aeademie year. Current head coach Erin Sullivan was a freshman on the team at the time. 
"I knew him as a player and then as a coach, and it was fan­tastic,'' she said. 
Sullivan said he spent his early years with. the team as a first-base coach and statisti­cian. 
Junior Katie Rashid said that Miller was a man of few words, but that the words he did say were powerful. 
"He demanded perfection. He expected the best of us all the time," Rashid said. 
The players all agreed that Miller seemed intimidating at times. 

Don Miller, right, who died on Sunday, watches the action dur­ing a game in the spring of 2006. 
"He didn't just dish out com­pliments." senior MeKenna Corrigan said. "You really appreciated when he would compliment you. because you knew ... that it was something you did that was really good." 
Sullivan pointed out that this exterior masked the caring man beneath. 
"He was a little gruff when you first got to know him, but he cared more than anyone,'' Sullivan said. "If you asked him for anything, he would always help you." 
His care was evident through his actions both on and off the 
see MILLER/page 22 


------------------------------------~~~ 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 18, 2008 
COMMENTARY 


Selective memory necessary for Irish success 
An essential part of becoming a man in today's society is devel­oping an efl'ective selective mem­ory. Every man has it and every woman complains about it. 
For example, a guy sits down to watch his favorite TV show or some sporting event. His wife (or, in some cases, the girl whom he settled for) is in the other room 
barking at him. He knows she's talking and that what she's saying is very impor­tant to her. He doesn't want 

to listen to Chris Hine 
her because what's on Sports Writer TV is so 
captivating, but he doesn't want to get caught ignoring her either. 
So he pulls a trick on his sig­nificant other. Every now and then, he'll chime in with a "Huh­uh," "sure" or "OK," but he never takes his eyes -or his attention -away from the TV. His selective memory has kicked in. He selected not to pay atten­tion to his wife. He has no clue what his wife just said, though she thinks he memorized every word and will do everything she tells him. 
Then, the next day, when his wife complains about the vacu­um not being run, he responds with a casual, "Oh, I didn't know you wanted me to do it." His wife, now infuriated says, "Well, I told you yesterday, don't you remember?" He just says, "Nope, sorry. I'll do it now," and then proceeds to perform a (like­ly mediocre) running of the vac­uum cleaner. 
Selective memory is a part of every marriage and a sitcom cliche,·but it's just what Notre Dame needs. Last season requires selective memory. It's simply too painful to remember. But that doesn't mean Notre Dame should forget everything about last season. The Irish should erase completely disas­ters like the 38-0 loss to Michigan from their memories. Nothing good can come from remembering what happened in that game. But they shouldn't forget how they felt after that game was over -and should resolve to never have that feeling again. 
The offensive line should put the nine sacks it allowed against Georgia Tech in the past, and remember how they began to improve toward the end of last year, when the Irish protected the quarterback better and began to develop a running game. 
The defense needs to put the Navy and Air Force losses behind it, and focus on the potential it showed during the Boston College and Stanford games. 
Developing a selective memory doesn't mean forgetting every­thing that went wrung. After all, that's how you get better as a team, improving on what went wrong. But you can't let the memory haunt you, or it'll affect you at the most inopportune time, like late in a close game. 

As with any disaster, you have to be able put the worst of it behind you while still learning from the experience. For the Irish, they have to strike that fine line between learning from last season and being over­whelmed by last season. That's where selective memory helps. It can separate the bad from the truly awful and enable them to move on and become better for having gone through such a bad experience. 
Let's face it, last season, a lot of people shut off Notre Dame games early. Husbands every­where sat down to watch four hours worth of football, which meant they thought they harl four hours to selectively listen to their wives. But nobody wants to sit through a blowout, so a lot of men were forced to turn off the games and lend an extra ear to their wives -almost as bad as going 3-9. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris 1/ine at chine@nd. edu 

Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen gets sacked while left tackle Paul Duncan tries to hold off another defender in Notre Dame's 21-14 win over Stanford on Nov. 24 in Palo Alto, Calif. 

Friday, April 18, 2008 page 3 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
Six pieces of the puzzle 
After a season under intense scrutiny, Irish 0-line bonds over fitness, fights and food 
he said.
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
These dinners arc not a tra­
Sports Wriler 
dition for Irish linemen; in fact, it's just six close friends enjoy­
When Notre Dame football ing a meal together. The only players walk into the Isban difference is the amount of Auditorium in the Guglielmino food they eat. Athletics Complex for inter­Olsen said the group has views, they normally walk in killed a good number of buffets individually, one at a time. in the their time there. Wenger When the offensive line came said the six of them could han­through the door Wednesday dle two or three pizzas, but night, all six arrived at once, when he learned right tackle and sat in a row awaiting Sam Young said guard Chris reporters. Stewart eats two or three 20­
This is all part of Irish coach inch pizzas on his own even on Charlie Weis' plan: The line­a diet, Wenger changed his men are a unit on the field and story. are treated like one off of it. "Oh, I didn't realize Chris But Weis didn't have to insti­was coming," Wenger joked. tute this plan; the linemen Jokes like these are near already do everything together constant among the linemen, anyways. and no one is spared. Stewart's 
thing is that he eats too much. Together as one Wenger gets picked on for 
The offensive linemen are a his "love handles," Young said. self-proclaimed tight-knit Olsen looks either like a sheep­group, on and off the field. dog or Barf, the half-man, 
Guard Mike Turkovich said half-dog from "Spaceballs." they hang out together outside Turkovich mumbles when he of practice and go out to eat talks. Tackle Paul Duncan has together. They even have their a thick Southern accent. lockers close together in the And Young himself? Irish locker room. "I look like Big Bird. Or Larry 
Center Dan Wenger said Bird. Or a bird," he said. playing and fraternizing with 
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
his linemates has been great Irish eyes are smiling 

The Irish offensive line runs through drills during practice on March 31. The line allowed 58
so far this spring. For the linemen, their close­

sacks last season, when Notre Dame finished 3-9.
"We're having a lot more fun, ness off the field has only we're understanding what strengthened their perform­each other is ance so far in don't win, everybody sees you The line got to work immedi­improve in the weight room. doing, we're practice. getting your butt beat. If you ately in the weight room with "We're on a mission. We got playing as a One of the win, it's great, it's intense," he strength and conditioning embarrassed last year and unit," he said. ..We're having a lot most intense said. coach Reuben Mendoza to get nobody wants that to happen 
This cama­the Turkovich took credit for stronger -and the results were again," Olsen said. 
more fun, we're parts of 

raderie mostly Irish spring starting a fight earlier in the apparent when the football Weis said the players need to
understanding what 

manifests itself practice has spring during t e a m take control of the team, and when the team each other is doing, been the Irish this drill, say-announced Olsen said the lifting is just one travels as a Eyes drill, a their new example of how this is true
we're playing as a ing it felt great 

group to modified to be in that weights earlier with the linemen.
unit.., ..It's an aggressive
Bruno's Pizza Oklahoma pit­kind of envi­this spring. "This is our 0-line now. This after most ting one offen­ronment. sport, so to get out Young bulked is our offense," Olsen said. practices. Dan Wenger sive linem an Fights are aggression with a guy up from 315 "That kind of pride really Wenger said with a running not the norm lbs. to 330 lbs., pushes us to be the best we
Irish center we're always playing 
the topic of back against in the drill, but Wenger added can be." conversation is one defensive they are not with and having fun 18 pounds to Olsen said this attitude always the lineman or line­uncommon. with, so I think it's move up to 300 kicked in early in the season, same. backer. The drill has sparked Young said and Duncan but that everyone realized
fine."
"The food on the table, pretty some fights in practice, mostly Duncan gets moved from what improvement would take. much just 'Pass it here,"' he involving the offensive line. into the most 292 to 308. Stewart said the line did said. Turkovich said it is important fights during Chris Stewart Even though mostly "strength and power 
Guard Eric Olsen agreed. to do well during Irish Eyes practice, but Irish guard Olsen only specific drills" during the off­
:'There's no talking because because everyone is watching that most of added three season under Mendoza's plan. everyone's so hungry that we one person at a time. them are 15 pounds since "Some of had to do a little pretty much just chow down," "All eyes are on you. If you yards away last fall (up to more cardio than others." said 
from the ball. 303 lbs.), Wenger said he was Stewart, referencing the diet 
"That's how far I push impressed with Olsen's per­Mendoza put him on. them," Duncan said in his formance in the weight room. defense. "Pretty much Olsen was a 
Olsen picked on Duncan's beast." said Wenger, after response to most fights, claim­some coaching from Olsen Even though building team ing he tries to avoid them by himself. chemistry is important, win­running from the fight because Even though these workouts ning is always the most impor­he "forgot his helmet." are a normal part of the winter tant metric for a football team. 
Young agreed, saying .that, for the team, Weis said he And the offensive line is an even though Duncan fights thought the linemen felt some integral part of that. often, they consist ofjust a sin­accountability So what do 
gle shove. from last sea-the linemen see 
"Sometimes he just comes son's debacle. themselves over and says, 'Hey man, I'm "It all starts ..It all starts with the bl.ocking like go n n a start a fight, "' said with the fact next year?
fact that this is a 
Young, imitating Duncan's that this is a "Eric Olsen's
prideful group that is 
Southern drawl. prideful group clogged arter­
But the linemen said they that is embar­embarrassed by how ies," Stewart enjoyed the new intense prac­rassed by how we played last year. " said. tices, especially the fights. W'J. played last "Animals," 
"I personally think it's fun," year. If you're Turkovich said. Stewart said. "It's kind of nice. not embar­Charlie Weis "Chris Stewart It's an aggressive sport, so to rassed, you're Irish coach when someone get out aggression with a guy not going to get goes after his we're always playing with an any better," food," Wenger having fun with, so I think it's Weis said. "First said. fine." of all you have to identify if But Olsen had a more serious 
you are part of the problem. shot. Pumping iron Then you have to decide what .. Tough, nasty, mean offen­
During the offseason, Weis you are going to do to go about sive line we've always been," said one of the goals for most fixing it." he said. of the team was to build mus­The players themselves --------------------------, 
Sophomore tackle Sam Young rests during practice Wednesday. cle -and espt:~cially with the agreed, saying they took Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at Coach Charlie Weis said Young will play right tackle this season. offensive line. accountability for working to jfitzpa5@nd.edu 



page 4 Friday, April 18, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER -Players to watch Offense Roster Notre Dame With John Carlson No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. Class I D.J. Hord WR 6-1 197 JRdeparted and Will 5 Armando Allen RB 5-10 190 FR 7 Jimmy Clausen QB 6-3 207 FRYeatman's status 11 David Grimes WR 5-10 177 JRunclear, the pres-WR12 Nick Lezynski QB 5-8• 157 SR QB 11 .Kamara13 Evan Sharpley 6-2 216sure of the tight JR 14 Brandon Walker K 6-3 197 FR 19 Westend position falls 15 Brian Castello QB 6-2 191 so 18 Duval Kamara WR 6-5 222 FRsquarely on 19 George West WR 5-10 197 soRagone. The rising 21 Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 185 so 23 Golden Tate WR 5-11 188 FRMike Ragone sophomore caught 24 Brian Coughlin WR 6-0 172 JR one pass last sea­29 Michael Garcia WR 0-1 178 so No.83 TE 32 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 248 soson for seven yards. 33 Robert Hughes RB 5-11 238 FR 34 james Aldridge RB 6-0 212 JR 37 Eras Noel RB 5-8 190 so After an injury to 38 Christopher Curries WR 5-10 181 so 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 196 sostarter John 39 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 241 so Sullivan, Wenger 41 Nik Rodriguez RB 5-11 205 SR 42 Dan Franco WR 5-10 188 JRstarted the last 44 Asaph Schwapp FB 6-0 261 JR 45 Kris Patterson two games of the WR 5-11 185 SR 46 joe Vittoria FB 5-11 244 JR OLDseason -both 47 Mike Narvaez FB 5-11 231 JR 51 B. Smith51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 287Irish vicotries. The so 48 S. Smith55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 303 sorising junior will 59 Chris Stewart OL 6-5 339 so 62 Bill Flavin OL 6-3 252 soDan Wenger take over the start­63 Jeff lisak OL 6-5 306 JRing center position 67 Tom Bemenderfer OL 6-5 285 JR No. 51 OL 70 Matt Romine OL 6-5 279 FRfull time next fall. 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 308 JR 74 Sam Young OL 6-8 330 so 75 Taylor Dever OL 6-5 289 FR LDE. Stewart, who 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 301 JR 53 Rleh.ardaoa 78 Trevor Robinson OL 6-5 306 EEweighs a mammoth 90Rya.n80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 204 so 339 pounds, played 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 209 so. 83 Mike Ragone TE 6-5 230 FRguard, tackle and 85 Sam Vos WR 5-10 199 so even tight end in 86 Paul Kuppich TE 6-3 232 SR LCD 2W•IJ•short yardage situa­4 Graytions last season. This year, he will Chris Stewart use that experience as a full-time con-No. 59 OL Class repr,esents current year in schooltributor. The Notre Dame Sports·Information ·Office is looking for student assistant workers during the 2008-09 school year I in the areas of broadcasting, writing and photography for its web site www.und.com. Students with a specific interest and background in these areas can contact Bernie Cafarelli at 631-8458 before the end of the school year. These are paying positions. Paid Advertisement  

·-----------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 18, 2008 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 


starters Defense Roster Players to watch 

No. NamE' Pos. HI. Wt. Class As a freshman 2 Darrin Wall~ DB 6-1 180 so 
4 Gary Gray DB 5-11 180 FR last year, Williams 6 Ray Herring DB 5-10 197 so played in all 12 8 Raeshon McNeil DS 6-0 187 FR WR 
20 TE.>rrail Lambert DB 5-11 191 SR games at nose 
11 Griaea 

24 Leonard Gordon DB 5-11 194 so 
guard and made 45 
27 David Bruton DB 6-2 207 JR 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-1 207 so tackles. This sea­29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 203 so 
82 Parris 

son, he will need to 
30 Harrison Smith DB 6-2 205 FR 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-2 196 so play even better to 35 Kevin Smith DB 6-0 180 SR lan Williams


fill the void left by
RT 

38 Chris Bathon DB 5-10 181 so 74:Youna 
40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 230 SR departed defensive 
No. 95 DL

41 Scott Srn ith l.B 6-4 235 JR
75D~r 

end Trevor Laws. 
42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 241 JR 43 Eric Maust 5-10 177 so
p 43 John Leonis DB 5-9 169 JR 45 Mike Anello DB 5-10 180 so With Tom 47 Aaron Nagel LB 6-1 229 FR 
Zbikowski, who held 
48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 231 JR 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-1 245 so down the strong 50 Steve Paskorz LB 6-2 235 FR 
safety position for
53 Morrice Richardson LB 6-2 244 so 
56 Kerry Neal LB 6-2 245 FR the last four years,61 Martin Quintanta DL 6-1 242 JR
OLB 

gone, McCarthy is
64 Tom Burke LB 5-10 242 JR
56 Neal 

69 Dorian Inzunza DL 5-9 255 SR the front runner to
97 Wade 

76 Andn.•w Nuss DL 6-5 292 FR 90 John Ryan DL 6-5 260 so take his place. The 91 Emeka Nwankwo DL 6-4 283 FR rising senior made Kyle McCarthy 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 290 so 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 261 SR 20 tackles and had 

No. 28 DB

95 Ian Wiliams DL 6-2 300 FR an interception last 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 257 so 
fall. 
RDE 94:Brown 


Smith stepped into 
91 Nwankwo 

a starting role late last season as a freshman and made 
RCB 

25 tackles at outside 
20Lambert 

linebacker. This
8 McNeil spring, he has worked outside and inside to give the Irish defense Brian Smith flexibility. 

No. 58 LB 



ADJUSTED GAME FORMAT & SCORING FOR 

2008 ILUE~ODLD GAME 
79th Annual Spring Game Will Feature the Offense Against the Defense 

GAME FORMAT 
GAME CLOCK 
Two 30-minute halves with a. running clock. Clock stoppages only due to injun'es or timeouts. Normal clock rules apply to the last two minutes of each half. 

TIMEOUTI 


Each team is allowed three timeouts per fzalf. 
HALFTiiME 
Halftime will last 20 minutes. 


COl-\·-· TOSS 
A preliminary coin toss (Wednesday, April 16) determines jersey color, sidelines and locker room for the offense and defense. A ceremonial coin toss at the beginning of the Blue-Gold game deter­mines which end zone the defense will defend. 


OTHER RULES 
Players in redjerseys must be tagged off with two hands to be down. All other players are live. Each posession starting a half, following a score or after a defensive­stop will begin on the 35-yard line. If the ball is punted, then the dn"ve will begin from the spot of the return. There will not be any kickoffs. A scon'ng point system (n'ght) will determine the winner of the game. 
POINT SYSTEM 
OFFENSE DEFENSE 
1F;-;t;a-p~~----MTs;;J£xt;;p-;;;;~-·--­
First Down 

22-:p-;f-;[c-;',;;e-;;-;;;-M/;;;di-:P7ntc7;;;;;;;si~-;;­
Explosive Play ··.·. ··. Defensive Stop 
( 1 0-yard rush/20-yardpa~X Sack 

3pfdda;;;J"___M;;;;JiBi;kedFiddG;;i 
Blocked Punt 3 and Out 


8------------------------­
-Touchdown Turnover · 
10------------------------­
. Turnoverfor Touchdown 
.. 


Friday, April 18, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 6 
Laws' departure leaves void on D-line 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
It's going to take more than one player to fill the shoes that last year's leading tackler Trevor Laws left behind, but the Irish defensive line said its up to the challenge. 
Having already played a season together, and despite its final record, the defensive line boasts a little bit more experience and little bit more confidence. But that hasn't stopped second-year defen­sive coordinator Corwin Brown 
even when you aren't pressur­ing there's a feeling that your being pressured, or those guys have the mindset that they're being pressured." 
Tenuta's aggressive style has helped to fill the hole that Laws left in the defensive line. Laws brought an energy to the team that is mirrored by Tenuta's forceful style. 
"Trevor's personality was a really big contributor to prac­tice and the atmosphere we had on defense cause he's a real fun guy, energizer kind of guy," defensive end Justin Brown said. "As far as coach 
from throwing new things at his players.  "As a whole we're a lot more aggressive  Tenuta comes, he brings that aggressive  
''I'm happy, I like our kids, I like what were  and everybody's playing down."  mentality, aggressive style of play, just full  
doing," he said.  out coming off  
"Once  our guys  Corwin Brown  the ball, getting  
really start to  defensive coordinator  in the gaps and  
hone in and get  playing ball."  
comfortable,  But Tenuta's  
because every- aggression  

thing is still new to them right comes from the sideline and now, it's new to me, some of not on the field. The defensive it, so I know its new to them, line has stepped up as a and the more comfortable whole to take on the energy they get, the better they'll get Laws left behind. and the better we'll play." "He really brought a lot of 
Throwing new schemes at passion, a lot of leadership to the defensive line is some­the position and to the [defen­thing Brown has learned from sive linel. and we're really assistant head coach (defense) going to miss that, but you Jon Tenuta's aggressive style. gotta step up and replace 
"[I've learned] how to gang him," tackle Ian Williams up on the run, how to con­said. "The team as a whole stantly pressure the other has stepped up, we're playing side, constantly," Brown said a lot better, more aggressive of Tenuta. "And sometimes and I just feel a better year is coming this year." 


In addition to having a little more fire, the defensive line has gained versatility with experience. 
"The thing about our system is it really doesn't matter where you align, everything is just like something else, and the only thing we were doing was just tinkering, moving things around to get different looks," Corwin Brown said. 
With Notre Dame's 3-4 
package, Brown and Tenuta have the option to play to the team's size or speed, while playing down the field is one thing Tenuta and Brown have been stressing at practice. 
"As a whole we're a Jot more aggressive and every­body's playing down," Justin Brown said. "That's one thing coach Tenuta stresses is play­ing downhill and that's one thing I see everybody doing is playing downhill, just coming 
and playing on the other side of the line of scrimmage." 
With the ability to play downhill, the Irish defensive line will likely be able to attack the line of scrimmage with some of Tenuta's aggres­siveness, in a way that will include the defense as a whole, and not just one play­er. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 





No shoes to fill: McCarthy has own style 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

It's a question most people would get annoyed with if they heard it ad nauseum ­"How are you going to replace Tom Zbikowski?" But if Kyle McCarthy is bothered by it, he doesn't show it. Instead, McCarthy turns the question into a guiding force to get through the doldrums of spring practice. 
"It's a pretty big challenge," McCarthy said of taking over Zbikowski's strong safety position. "Anytime you're replacing an All-American candidate and a fan-favorite, there's definitely going to be a little bit of pressure, but I'm taking that as a way to moti­vate myself and just get bnt­ter." 
Free safety David Bruton, who had breakout season in 2007 with three interceptions and 85 tackles, said McCarthy is going to put his own unique stamp on Notre Dame football and not simply try to be a replica of Zbikowski. 
"He never takes anything for granted. He's business­like," Bruton said. "He might not be Zibby, but he's Kyle McCarthy and you shouldn't want to be like someone. You should want to be better or find yourself, and obviously, Kyle is doing that." 
Last season, McCarthy had 20 tackles and one intercep­tion. While he wants to create his own identity at strong safety, he'II still try to main­tain Zbikowski's tough style of play. 
"I definitely have my own personality," McCarthy said. "There are a lot of similarities between me and him, but I'm definitely my own player my own person. After people watch me play I hope they see me kind of as a tough hard­nosed kid who has a nose for the ball and a good all around player." 
With Zbikowski, who was one of Notre Dame's captains last year, gone McCarthy, along with Bruton, has 
stepped  into  
more  of a  lead­ 
ership  role.  

Irish coach Charlie Weis said McCarthy's confidence has improved this spring. 
"It's one thing when you're fill­ing in for Zibby, but it's another thing when it's your job to lose. And he's playing like it's his job, not like he's try­ing to lose it," Weis said in a 

..Any time you're 
a great line of replacing an All­communication 
American candidate between him 
and [Bruton[,"

and a fan favorite, 
Weis said. "It's there's definitely not like Kyle 
going to be a lot of has to turn 
around and

pressure, but I'm 
count on David.

taking that as a way They're com­
to motioate myself municating very well
andjust get better.,. 
between the two of them Kyle McCarthy which has 
Irish safety made every-
press conference on April 11. 
Part of any secondary's suc­cess is communication among the defensive backs, and developing a rapport can be difficult with someone new tossed into the mix. But Bruton said the transition this spring has been smooth. 
"He knows his calls. It's not me trying to get everybody on the same page, it's him work­ing one side. I'm working the other," Bruton said. "If he's uncertain about something. 
I'll blurt it out because he'll do the same things. There are no question marks about whether we're right or wrong on a call because we're always on the same page." 
Weis has monitored the defense more this spring than in past years, and said he notices a good chemistry between Bruton and McCarthy. 
"Now, he has been here for four years and the confidence is as much mental as it is physical because there's 
thing flow a lot 
better than  I  
was anticipating."  
Though  Bruton  said  

McCarthy is "all business" on the field, McCarthy will add a different dimension to the secondary this season. 
"He's a fool. He's a funny man. always joking, always laughing," Bruton said. "lie brings a different personality to the secondary. lie's a come­dian and he's a real cool guy." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Friday, April 18, 2008 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Tenuta brings tenacity, aggression to defense 

By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
You only need one word to sum up coach Jon Tenuta: aggression. That's what he's brought to Notre Dame's defense this spring. 
The former defensive coor­dinator from Georgia Tech has brought his blitzing scheme to the Irish, and thinks it's just what the Irish need to become an intimidat­ing force. Tenuta wants to make sure it's the Irish call­ing the shots on defense next season and not the other way around. 
"All I want to do is dictate to the offense, I never want the offense to dictate to me," he said. 
It's a coaching style that he has developed over the years, one that has grown out of a wealth of experience. But he claims that his aggression has mellowed with age. 

"I was probably more aggressive when I was younger and learned from my mistakes in being overboard in some aspects ... and learn­ing situations tapered, when not to be that aggressive," he said. "But I believe in 75 to 85 percent of the time we're coming after them." 
As for the defense and the coaching staff, it's a style of play everyone is getting used to. 
"(The aggression is] like multiplied, cause that's all [Ten uta I thinks about," coach Corwin Brown said. "Now you see how or why other people view him in that light because he's constantly talking about pressuring the ball, making the quarterback not set his feet, making the running back run sideways." 
It's been an adjustment for Brown, one that's kept him on his toes. 
"I've been more of 'OK we're going to 
angle, think when you were at the Patriots when you ran this blitz, think about when you played at the jets and you guys did this, so and an so forth.' He has it, and he's been around it, its just fitting it all together and just do it." 
Tenuta's also has an ability to use personnel in different ways. This spring, rising sophomore Harrison Smith has played at both safety and linebacker. 
"(Smith] can play on the front level, on the second level ... and he does a heck of 
a job at the 

pressure some­third level so 
times' and all of "/ believe that 75 to his multi tal­
a sudden we'll 85 percent ofthe time ents allow him change it up, to do a lot,"
we're coming after 
give 'em a curve Tenuta said.
them.,,
ball, give 'em a "And really it little bit of cov-helps our pack­erage, all of a Jon Tenuta age." sudden we're Having a ver­
assistant head 
gonna change it satile player
coach/defense
up and give like Smith at them this, safety gives the where as he's more got his Irish defense more room to foot on the gas," Brown said. maneuver. With his speed 
And from Tenuta's experi­and skill, Smith can cover the ence, he's been able to help third wide receiver or can Brown develop his coaching adjust back and play as a skills -reminding him to linebacker. It's that type of think back to his former days aggression and flexibility that as a player and draw off what Tenuta can teach with his he did then while adjusting it experience. to the college hash marks. "There is no substitution for 
"Obviously I've known experience ... [Brown] has it, about [Brown] for a long time lets just keep going." ... the things we go over and But only time will tell if over every day, well he did aggression turns into wins. that. I say, 'Corwin think back when you were at Michigan Contact Deirdre Krasula at when you ran slant and dkrasula@nd.edu 

Clausen ilnproves 'everything' in offseason 
Clausen had his best game of looks for the offensive line's and Jimmy, we've been able to his junior year," Weis said. 
By BILL BRINK 

last season in a loss to Air Force, blocking schemes. manage getting through the High praise for a sophomore
Sports Writer 

when he threw for 246 yards "Mentally, I've progressed a spring with giving him a heavy with three career wins. But with and three touchdowns. He then lot," he said. ''I'm starting to get dose," Weis said. . Clausen's increased practice The improvement was there, had 194 yards and three more the little pieces of the playbook, Weis flirted with hyperbole time this off-season, added mus­but it wasn't evident until the touchdowns against Duke and last year I was trying to get the when asked about how Clausen cle and better grasp of the play­end of a dismal season. went 19-for-32 for 196 yards in big picture." compared to former Irish quar­book, anything is possible this 
The so-called prodigy who the finale against Stanford. The mental aspect of Clausen's terback Brady Quinn, he of 36 season. That goes for the team hadn't lost a game in high school Adjusting to campus life, along transition encompasses, as Weis broken Notre Dame passing as well as Clausen, who said suffered through a 38-0 loss to with the sheer number of plays and Powlus said, everything. records, who led the Irish to two himself of spring practice: Michigan and was sacked 34 he was required to learn, threw Powlus said Clausen ·was a per­BCS bowls in his junior and sen­"We've got a fire burning right times. But after a bone spur in Clausen for a loop, but he said fectionist, and that his perfec­ior year. now." his elbow healed and he recov­this year is different. tionism and work ethic has "At the start of his junior year, ered from a sore hip after a par­· "Coming in last spring, I was transformed him into a leader. I would expect !Clausen] to be Contact Bill Brink at ticularly nasty crunch against new to everything, the college· "He's a hard-working guy, he way ahead of where Brady was wbrink@nd.edu Purdue, Jimmy Clausen perked experience and being a college wants to know, he wants to do it up. And now, a year after his student; getting thrown in with right," Powlus said. "He strives first spring game, Clausen's everything, not knowing the to make every throw perfect and coaches agree on what he's plays," Clau~n said. "Now, this strives to know exactly what's improved: everything. spring, it's pretty much night happening on every play with 
I
"Everything," Irish coach and day." everybody. When you do that Charlie Weis said. "Mentally, Weis compared Clausen's you put yourself in a leadership -I leadership, physically, every cat­learning curve to college class position." egory the arrow has been point­levels. Clausen, he said, jumped Clausen said his increased ing up." from 100-level classes to 300-grasp of the playbook helped 
Quarterbacks coach Ron level classes, bypassing the 200 him become a leader. . Powlus agreed. level entirely. He's not quite at "You can't be a ieader until 
"It's everything," Powlus said. the 400 or graduate level yet, you know what you're doing," he "Managing the offense. the run Weis said, but made a "quantum said. "Last year I was just get­game, going through the reads leap" in knowledge. ting my feet wet real fast, pick­in the pass game, you can see To avoid a repeat of last sea­ing put everything as quick as I the quarterback's mind work­son, Clausen took the initiative can. Now I have a better grasp ing." to improve upon himself. For of the offense. I know what 
His improvement can be starters, he packed on 18 we're supposed to do and what traced like an exponential equa­pounds of muscle, mostly, Weis we're capable of doing." tion throughout last season. The said on March 26, to his upper A final factor in Clausen's improvement poked out of the body. His extra mass, along with apparent leaps-and-bounds shadows briefly against Purdue, the fact that his throwing elbow improvement is the absence of when he completed 19-of-26 has healed, makes him healthier junior quarterback Evan passes with a touchdown and an than ever. Sharpley, who is currently play­interception before he left the "Jimmy's throwing the ball ing first base for the Irish base­game because of an injury. He with a lot more zip, he's a lot ball team. This means Clausen is played in 10 games, starting stronger," wide receiver David getting the majority of the reps nine, and completed 56.3 per­Grimes said. in practice, drilling the playbook cent of his passes. He threw for The voluminous playbook that into his head even deeper. On 
1.254 yards, seven touchdowns troubled Clausen last year is the flip side, too many reps could and six interceptions. Not quite coming into focus for him, he hurt an arm which already had earth-shattering, but his last said. Hather than concerning trouble, but Weis said he is tak­three games sang a different himself with the routes of the ing care to keep Clausen healthy. tune. · receivers, he said, Clausen now "Between the coaching staff 


_..---~.-~""!"!"".-__,....,....-------~ ----. -------­
Friday, April 18, 2008 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 8 

A DEBATE BETWEEN THE COLLEGE DEMOCRATS~ ~ -, AND REPUBLICANS 
FRIDAY 18 
6:30PM 
G LE UTH QUA 

Come to hear party representatives discuss where 
their party stands on the economy, health care, and 
foreign policy and get registered while you're there. 
Free pizza and pop wi II be served. 
r 
., 
.­
----~--------­









