
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Panel: Journalism's future unclear 
Advisory Committee for Gallivan Program says Internet radically changes profession 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
The Advisory Committee for the Gallivan Program of 
Journalism  discussed  the  
changing  landscape  of  
Journalism  with  students  

Monday, focusing on the stu­dents' future career options in the industry. 
The panelists looked at how technology has changed the traditional form of print jour­nalism and what those changes will mean in the future. 
"Newspapers will never quite be the same," Bill Dwyre, for­mer sports editor and current columnist for the Los Angeles Times, said regarding the effect of the Internet on print journalism. 

The upcoming years will be a period of adjustment for print journalists because of the fast information available on the web, but newspapers and the Internet are different enough to be maintained on a different basis, Dwyre said. For exam­ple, papers might no longer print lists of final scores of var­ious games, but the papers will tell the reader why a team won, he said. 
Dwyre said the next genera­tion of journalists would be part of the adjustment process. 
"You will be part of the sort­ing through process," he said. 
see PANEL/page 4 




Police make 35 arrests at football game 
NDSP partners with local authorities to crack down on underage drinking at tailgates 
-~ if-f=;;.,_..~ 
·.· Ntt'I'Itl~ nit111f
1 I•utt.ltiili ,;~,,,jf~ 
2 1.-.I~I..ONII~S :1:1 I•tJJII..U~ IN'l'OXIt~A'I'ION i\lliU~S'I'S 
:1 I~.JI~(;'l'J~)) l"llOII S'l'i\I)JlJ)J .... 
··.I(; ili..(~OHOI.. f~ITA'I'IONSO~ ~~~ :!Jl 



' ' ' tt t ~~ 
'!.l\·t.\~,\~~iilttt~t'
• •• ,_,.,...__. ••••""""•• .. , ..,. ••••• .,. v.•.-.·.-....v.••••• , ..... w.··:•·· ··.w:.r;-·.w;··>",>::>" 
MARY JESSE/The Observer 
ByJOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Thirty-five people were arrested and taken into cus­tody on Saturday, according to Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Assistant Director David Chapman. 
Arrests were made by NDSP, the Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police and South Bend Police. 
Four of the custodial arrests, defined by Chapman as when the "person is taken into custody and taken to the 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Roles of nevv task forces discussed 
By AARON STEINER 
News Wrirer 
New Campus Life Council task force chairs detailed the initial plans Monday for their groups, which focus on new student introduction, student safety and technology in dorms. 
Meg MacCaughey, SUB rep­resentative and chair of the Task Force on New Student Introduction, said her group will work on various projects "that we think are really important to integrating new students to Notre Dame." 
One priority is intnrnational studnnts. 
see CLC/page 4 county jail," were for public intoxication outside the stadi­um. One custodial arrest was made outside the stadium for disorderly conduct, one for minor consuming alcohol and two for provision of false information and minor con­suming alcohol. In addition, there were two felony custo­dial arrests -one for theft and another for aggravated assault. 


At the stadium, 25 people were arrested for public intoxication and transported to jail. Three people were 
see ARRESTS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ELECTION 2008 
Activists call for energy leadership 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
Strong political leadership is necessary to resolve the prob­lems presented by the energy crisis, professor of Chemical Engineering Mark McCready said Monday at Pizza, Pop, and Politics: Choosing an Energy Policy. 
"We could have some politi­cal leadership," McCready said. "It doesn't help if we just have people bickering on party lines, neither of which has half a solution." 
McCready compared the need for leadership in current energy crisis to Britain's need for leadership during World War II -a void filled by Winston Churchill. 
"There have been times in the past when leaders have stood up and said this is what's important. We need that now," McCready said. 
In addition to the need for political leadership, McCready said the energy issue will also require personal action. 
"You all can be responsible for your own lives," he said. "You get what you support." 
Lourdes Long, founder and president of GreeNO, agreed there is a need for energy 
see POLITICS/page 6 

SMC Class Gift holds competition 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
This week the Saint Mary's Class Gift Campaign is kicking off their philanthropic activities for the year with a competition between the classes. 
The competition, planned by the Class Gift committee, was one of many suggestions the group discussed to gain support and recognition of the Campaign, co­chair Molly Goldsmith said. 
"We decided that a competition between the classes would be the perfect way to encourage stu­dents to participate in the cam­paign and have some fun at the same time," she said. 
Goldsmith said this competition fits into the Oass Gift Campaign's main goal of 100 percent partici­pation from each class. 
"Donor participation of students is very important in Saint Mary's national rankings and opportunity for financial aid to students," she said. 
The event also ties into the Class Gift Campaign's third annu­al Karaoke Idol, which will take place on Thursday, Nov. 6. The class with the most participation in the competition by the end of the week will win the opportunity to watch a professor representing the class sing a song during Idol. 
The committee nominated pro-
see GIFT/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Mysununer reading 
In my quest for easy summer rnad­

ing, I trim[ out romance novels. They 
seared rne. 
So I inevitably drirtnd to the Young 

Adult corner at my library. Like a good 
lazy reader, I only eonsidered book 
with awesome 
covers. 
Jordan Gamble 

"Another Time, Another Love," by 
Scene Writer 

Vivian Sehurfranz, 
drew me in 
because or it's 
striking paperback tableau: a guy in a 
Hevolutionary War uniform standing 
next to snow-capped tombstone (duh, 
historical fiction for the win). I grabbed 
it and cheeked it out and started read­
ing it before it I realized that one of 
those lame time-traveling-romance 
novels. The main character isn't even 
from the Hevolutionary War-she's 
some gal from 1995 with a penchant 
for stirrup leggings and saying "must­
n't." 
All I really eared about was the his­

tory stufl". honestly. I'm not much into 
sd-li. Maybe this is a good book if you 
like "The Patriot" in book form with 
the eonveninnt time-traveling mecha­
nism so you can still have high school 
and fashion trauma. 
So, after becoming exasperated with all of Ninnties Gal whining about her boyfriend who doesn't take her to Olive (;ardnn. I skipped ahnad through the book to lind the historic~al fun that surely must ensue (based on tho cover, anyway). Wnll, it gets worse. Nineties Gal just goes back in time for littln bits: a ball here, some tc~a parties there. I never got into it enough to figure out how exactly she travels back to thn 1770s with her hottin ghost friend Edward (who's British and has a snxy aec~nnt, of course). 
I guess what I was really looking for this summer was the adult version American Girl books. (American Girl is a linn of dolls and books eovetnd by every girl under twelve. Think History Barbie, only mon1 anatomically cor­rect.) 
These books had it all: history, morals. adventurc1, awesome clothes, and even romance. My favorites were tho Felidty ones that took place in 1774. It's because of Felicity that I'm obsessed with colonial America and the reason I picked up this Schurfranz novel in the first place. In seeond grade I would sit on my bed for hours, chain-reading all live books in the Felicity series, along with Molly (World War II) and Addy (the Civil War). 
But not Samantha, beeause all my friends had prissy, frilly Samantha dolls. None of these Samantha girls knew what "stays" were or what "side­saddle" meant, or how to politely refuse tea in case they were protesting taxation without representation. Samantha's stories took place in 1904, and all the Samantha girls knew were the various ways to create calling cards and to wear big bows in their hair. 
But I di!-,rress. 

Maybe I should just contact the American Girl company and see if they have any plans to expand the series into the characters adult years, bncaus11 Felicity and Ben the merchant apprentice should totally hook up. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion anJ mives lor the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have maJe a mistake, please comact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TV SERIES SEASON PREMIERE WERE YOU MOST EXCITED ABOUT? 







Patrick Kosciuk  Jon Parry  Jlohn Maier  Caitlin Broglie  Jessica Judge  
junior O'Neill  senior Keough  junior Keough  sophomore Welsh Fam  sophomore Welsh Fam  
"House. because I missed 13. Who's Amber again? I guess  "Man vs. Wild, because Bear Grylls is a fraud."  "Dancing With the Stars, because Kim Kardashian is  "Grey's, because the icicles scene made me laugh."  "Grey's, because the icicles scene made me cry. "  

it doesn't smoking." matter now. 

OFFBEAT 

Tenants: landlord uses dead cats to push us out 
NEW YORK -Tenants of a Brooklyn building said their landlord came up with a new idea for how to kick them out: Let the smell of the cats out of the bag. Dead cats, that is. 
The stench from the car­casses did catch the tenants' attention -but they stayed and sued. 
One tenant, Daisy Terry, told a City Hall news confer­ence on Sunday it was so bad she had to hold her nose coming down the stairs. 
The building in Brooklyn's Bushwick neighborhood was purchased last year by a papers as Heskel. A call to Heskel Properties in Manhattan was not immedi­ately returned. 
company  listed  in  court  
TODAY  
0::  

Terry said the landlord used the dead cats to try to push out rent-stabilized ten­ants. 
Pooch freed after pa•1111 gets stuck in drain 
HOMER CITY, Pa. -­Chalupa the Chihuahua may understandably be a littLe bath shy in the future. The tiny dog created a big fuBs when one of her rear paws got stuck in a kitchen sink drain at her owner's Homer City home Sunday night. 
Ruth Gallagher said her daughter was bathing Chalupa when the pooch became stuck. They tried liq­uid soap, cooking oil and ice to no avail before calling the fire department. 
Homer City Volunteer Fire Department Chief Jeff Sisko said firefighters disassembled the plumbing under the sink and had to use tin snips to complete the 30-minute res­cue. 
Chalupa appears none the worse for the ordeal, but Gallagher said she's got to find a plumber to put the sink together. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI 
:::t: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 



0,,,,,,,
... 

,,,,,,,
c:( 

e
(.) 


...J 0 HIGH 63 HIGH 58 HIGH 57 HIGH 60 LOW 48 LOW 48 LOW 40 LOW 37 IN BRIEF 
The Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy, in conjunc­tion with the Hispanic Law Students Association, is spon­soring "Yearning to Breathe Free: Immigrants and the American Dream," a sympo­sium on immigration Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Law School courtroom. 
Haiti experts from campus and abroad will be leading Round Table Discussions on Tuesday, from 7-9 p.m. in McKenna Hall entitled 'Why Haiti?' 
Th<~ film, 'The Fog of War' a documentary about the life of former U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara will be shown on Tuesday at 
6:30 p.m. in the _Hesburgh Center. The film, directed by Errol Morris, follows McNamara's life from WWII through the Vietnam War. It won the 2004 Academy Award and the Independent Spirit Award for Best Documentary Feature. 
Cathie Black, President of Hearst Magazines and author of Basic Black: The Essential Guide for Getting Ahead at Work (and in Life), will deliver a leeture titled "Seeking Balance in Life" at 7 p.m. Thursday in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The lec­ture is part of the Berges Lecture series and is present­ed by the Center for Ethics and Heligous Values and Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 62 HIGH 
68 

LOW 42 LOW 
45 

Atlanta 81 I 61 Boston 68 I 55 Chicago 61 I 50 Denver 79 I 46 Houston 88 I 61 Los Angeles 85 I 62 Minneapolis 61 1 44 New York 74 I 57 Philadelphia 77 I 63 Phoenix 101 I 79 Seattle 82 I 57 St. Louis 66 I 52 Tampa 83 I 72 Washington 79160 
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
NASA to delay Hubble mission 
Telescope stopped sending data Saturday; repair pushed back to 2009 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­NASA said Monday it is delay­ing its mission to the Hubble Space Telescope until next year because of a s-erious breakdown of the observatory in orbit. 
Space shuttle Atlantis had been scheduled to blast off in just two weeks, but an unex­pected problem with the Hubble appeared on Saturday night when the telescope stopped sending science data. 
That potentially means a new repair issue for the astro­nauts to confront -one that they haven't trained for and never anticipated. 
The abrupt, mysterious fail­ure of the command and data­handling system for Hubble's science instruments means that the telescope is unable to capture and beam down the data needed to produce its stunning deep space images. 
Early Monday afternoon, NASA announced that the Oct. 14 launch had been post­poned until at least early next year, possibly February. Each month's delay will cost the Hubble program about $10 million. 
It could have been far worse, said NASA's science chief, Ed Weiler. 
"Think about if this failure had occurred two weeks after the servicing mission, we had just put two brand new money and take all the risk instruments in and thought involved in a shuttle mission, we extended the lifetime for we want to be sure that we five, 10 years and this thing leave Hubble as healthy as we failed after the last shuttle possibly can and potentially mission to Hubble," Weiler lasting for five or 10 more told reporters Monday years." evening. It will take time to qualify 
"So in some the old replace­sense, if this ment part; it had to hap­"If this had to was last used pen, it could­for testing in
happen, it couldn't 
n't have hap­2001. The 
pened at a have happened at a equipment won't better time." better time. " be ready before Hubble January, which 
~ 

manager would most like­
Ed Weiler
Preston Burch ly mean a 

said the first NASA science chief February 
step is to try to fix the tele­scope by switching to a back­up channel for the science instruments' command and data-handling system, and allowing observations to resume. That should take a week or two. Even if the effort succeeds as engineers suspect it will, Burch and other offi­cials still want to send up a replacement part for the bad component. 
That's because there would be no other options if that one last working channel malfunc­tioned. 
"Our plan right now is to take the delay and put up the new hardware ... so that we can keep Hubble going for as long as possible," Weiler said. "If we're going to spend the 
launch, Burch 
said. 
The replacement job would be relatively straightforward for the astronauts, who have trained two years to carry out five Hubble repair space­walks. The work would take less than two hours and could be squeezed into one of the already planned spacewalks. 
Work already has begun to switch the telescope to the backup channel. It is a com­plicated process; the backup channels on the various mod­ules that must be switched over have not been turned on since the late 1980s or early 1990, right before Hubble was launched. Managers also want to assess all the risks. 
"This is a major event for Hubble," Burch said. 

Alumni publish their ND stories 
Special to The Observer 
"We Are ND: The Story of Notre Dame as Told by Her Alumni," a compilation of sto­ries shared by hundreds of alumni from all generations, recently was published by Booklink of Ireland. 
The mystique of Notre Dame reaches far beyond the foot­ball field. It extends into its classrooms, residence halls, chapels, social circles and more. Numerous authors have tried to define the University's mystique; some have claimed there is no way to define it. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association asked alumni to tell their Notre Dame stories, and the response was over­whelming. "We Are ND" allows readers to relive stu­dent journeys through the postwar 1950s and the unrest of the 1960s, understand the impact on all its students when the University went co­educational in the 1970s, revel in the success of Notre Dame football in the late 1980s, and learn how the University, overall, has evolved in the new millennium. 
In their own words and with many personal, never-before­published photographs, Notre Dame alumni recall the peo­ple, places and events that helped shape their beliefs, val­ues and lives. 
Edited by Angela Sienko, senior editor of alumni com­munications, and Walt Collins, former editor of Notre Dame Magazine and Notre Dame professor emeritus, the book includes an introduction by Charles F. Lennon, associate vice president and executive director of the Alumni Association, and photographs by University photographer Matt Cashore. 
"We Are ND" is available in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or online at www. weareNDBook.com. 






li 
... w. 


The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION 
with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 2nd 5:30PM -129 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is Nove11.1ber 15,2008 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
A possible review of Frosh-0 lighting in Mod Quad, which
CLC 
changes was discussed at previ­Zahm rector Corry Colonna ous CLC meetings, but said was worsened by construc­
continued from page 1 
MacCaughey indicated CLC tion in the area. 
would not touch Frosh-0 issues "Will there be adequate light­
"Coming to Notre Damn is in the mm1ting yesterday. ing there?" Colonna asked. otherworldly in itsnlf," Student body president Bob O'Connor said the task force MaeCauglwy, who is a transfnr Heish called the group's initial will look into getting more sl.udnnt lwrsnlf, said. "We're plans "very comprehensive." lighting or blue lights as well as roally aiming to intPgratl1 th11rn Student Government parlia­working with the University morn into 1~ampus lifP." mentarian Nicole O'Connor architect. 
llnr task forcn will also addressed sncurity concnrns as O'Connor also talked about rnview tht~ tmnsfnr orinntation chair of' the Task Forcn on the possibility of creating bike program. which is organized by Student Safety. lanes on roads surrounding a studnnt group. "Ongoing projects [from last campus. 
"It's a vnry difTnrl'nt procnss year's task force I inelude the Grant Schmidt, Student body than frnshman orinntation," shn good neighbor guide," vice president, is the new chair said. "!My task foren isl hoping O'Connor said. which helps stu­of the Task Force on to work with tho studnnts that dents who are moving on· cam­Technology and Study Space in work on them." pus undP.rstand their new Dorms. 
The task force will also rnsponsibilitins as nnighbors. The four issues for his task addrnss how all students arn Another area of concern was force are examining the Pharos intngratnd into till' grcatPr the banning of taxi services on printer systems in dorms, COlli Ill Unity. campus. reviewing the University's cen­
"South Bond gnts a bad rap Sr. Sun Dunn, assistant vice tral calendar system, discussing but in rnalit.y it has a lot to otTer prnsident for Student Affairs, the possibility of using advertis­in tnrm of rulturn and othnr said after a follow up shn dis­ing screens within dorms and opporl.unitiPs," MacCauglwy covered that no taxi service evaluating study spaces across said. 1·ompanins were bannnd from campus. 
Slw also said bn1·aus1' othnr campus. Schmidt said Devin Fee, the 1~ampus ol'liees managP fresh­"No spncilic companies have Student Senate Campus nwn oril'nl.ation. Student be1m banned yet. but a few spe­Technology Committee chair. Covnrnnwnl. and CJ.<: will not cific drivers have been would help his task force with addr11ss tho orinntation proenss banned," she said. many of their initiatives, espe­that shn said is aln~ady "wnll O'Connor also said her task cially in examining the calendar rnanagl'd." force will nwiew security con­system and the possibility of 
"W1~'ro n~ally not going to cerns in the Ilesburgh Library, integrating Google Calendars. fi1cus on Frosh-0 since they do eiting a letter from a student a really good job of it," detailing safety concerns. Contact Aaron Steiner at MacCaughey said. Another safety concern was asteiner@nd.edu 
provides scholarships and finan­eial aid for currnnt students, runs
Gift 
the Class Gill Campaign, formerly called the Senior Gift and
continued from page 1 
Quarters Campaign. 
"Working under two names wa'i l'essors who they thought each confusing for stud1mt<>," Frey said. class would most identify with, "So we changed our name to tlu~ Goldsmith said. They then Class Gift Campaign because it approached the professors and makes our philanthropic purposn four of them clear and it volunteered li1cuses on each 
to represent "It's a way to show class." the classes. appreciation for the T h ~~ 
Biology Campaign rais­
opportunities you have at
professor es money for a 
Thomas Platt Saint Mary's and to help gift, whieh each 
will repre­the College continue class will sent the first donate to the
educating future 
years. math­College at the ematics pro­generations. " end of' its senior fessor year. Jomme Snow "It's a way to
Heather Frey 
will sing if show apprecia­
assisJant director 
the sopho­tion for thl'
Saint Mary's Annual Fund
mores win, opportunities \1ary Porter, you have at another mathematies professor Saint Mary's and to help the will represent the juniors and College continun nducating f'utun~ communications professor Susan generations," Frey said. Baxter is representing the sen­Currently, the Campaign is sta­i,ors. tioned outside the Noble Family 
"[These] four brave souls volun­Dining Hall in the Student Centnr teered because they believe in inviting students to make their what we are doing to raise money gift to the College or they can for Saint Mary's and educate stu­make their gift online at dents about the importance of www.saintmarys.edu/elass-gift­philanthropy at lthe College!," campai!,'ll. !Heather Frey, assistant director of the Annual Fund said. Contact Liz Harter at Saint Mary's Annual Fund, which eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
ejected from thn stadium for "alcohol-rnlatnd violations of stadium ruins,'' Chapman said. 
In addition. 16 arrest tickets, dnf'innd by Chapman as when "the pnrson is not taknn into custody, but is issund a cita­tion and must appear in court whnn conta(~tnd by the court,'' wnre issund to adults for alco­hol-rnlatnd ofTnnsPs such as minor consuming alcohol or minor in possnssion of alcohol. Two arrnst tkknts wnre issued for "inducing a minor to con­sumn alcohol" and one was issund for provision of false idnntilkation. 
Whnn asked if thnrn arn spe­cial procedurns for handling studnnts involved in these situ­ations, Chapman said, "I can­not say what usually happens whnn a studnnt is involved. It 
is on a case by case basis, depending on the circum­stances." 
NDSP and other police departments will continue to work together during home football games, Chapman said. lie encouraged students and visitors to report unlawful behavior to NDSP by calling 574-631-5555 or using a call box in one of the parking areas. 
Chapman advised students and visitors to not let "alcohol get in the way of your safety or fun or keep you from enjoy­ing a great football game." 
"Keep in mind that laws regarding the use of alcohol will be enforced and you are responsible for your conduct," he said. "Law enforcement officers will arrest underage drinkers on campus and at tailgate parties." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

Monica Yant Kinney said younger journalists have a
Panel 

chance to be the first continued from page 1 reporters in a new way of producing news. 
The panelists agreed the changing industry will offer opportunities to versatile and determined journalists. 

These changes in the indus­try open a wide area of chance for emerging journal­ists, executive producer of 
The  Koppel  Group  for  
Discovery  Networks  Tom  
Bettag said.  

"This is now the Wild West wi~h so many outlets and so many jobs," he said. 

The older generation of reporters that say journalism is dying say so because they are scared of new reporters, whose brains are wired to the new mediums of journalism, Bettag said. 
Metro columnist for the Philadelphia Inquirer and for­mer Observer Editor-in-Chief 

If students have an opportu­nity to do something new, they can afford to try it, whereas a reporter at 42 or 43 would not be able to do so, Kinney said. 
"The opportunity to take risks is at 22 or 23," she said. 
Director of publishing and the online editor for the Poynter Institute Bill Mitchell described the current media situation as "unpredictable" and a "period of media chaos." 
However, jobs will still be there for journalist~. he said. 
"The spoils will go to those of you who are adventurous and enterprising," Mitchell said. 
A journalist will be able to tell the story, whatever the medium, Yant Kinney said, 

referring to news stories for­
matted to be read on a cellu­
lar phone. 
"If you had to, you could write Ia story) in 150 words," she said. 
Chief Environmental corre­

spondent for NBC News Anne 
Thompson said the news 
business goes in cyeles and 
has already changed since 
she first entered the business. 
When she first started, 
Thompson said she worked with a crew and collaborated with them as a team. Now, she works almost' as a "one­man band," recently traveling to the Amazon with only a producer, Thompson said. 
"I grew up in an era of spe­cialized journalism," she said, "Now you are expectnd to do everything." 
She said the next genera­tion of journalists would be part of the "figuring it out" process of the changing land­scape of journalism. 
"You should ~e excited." Thompson said. 
The panelists said many of' the changes in the traditional newspaper form of journalism are an effect of cost cutting practices based on the econo­my along with technology. 
The money spent in printing a paper, along with other costs, presents a compelling argument for a press-less paper, Mitchell said. 
But panelists noted the importance of distinguishing true and objective news from online blogs and the un­checked flow of information on the Internet. 
"I think the American public deserves one clean shot at the facts before peopje start com­menting on it," Dan LeDuc, a Metro editor for the Washington Post, said. 
Despite changing mediums, journalism is still fundamen­tally searching for the truth, and those who perform the task well will always be able to find employment, Thompson said. 
"If you can write well and gather news, you will always have a jq)l," she said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday September 30, 2008 CoMPILED FR01\i Tr-·H OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq ready to compromise on security 
BAGHDAD -Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki said Monday that the government is ready to compromise to reach a securi­ty accord with the United States because Iraq still needs American troops despite the drop in violence. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, al-Maliki said neither he nor Iraq's parliament will accept any pact that fails to serve the country's national interests. A poorly constructed plan would provoke so much discord in Iraq that it could threat­en his government's survival, he said. 
/\1-Maliki said, however, that he is firmly committed to reaching an accord that would allow U.S. troops to remain in the country beyond next year. 
Equador adopts a new constitution 
QUITO, Ecuador -Ecuador's leftist President Hafael Correa urged his opponents Monday to join his efforts to build a more just society, saying the overwhelming victory of his constitutional referendum gives him a broad mandate. 
"Thank God my triumph was so convincing and so crushing, beyond all our expecta­tions," he told international reporters at a breakfast. "Let's hope they reflect and let the country advance peacefully." 
With 90 percent of ballots counted, 64 per­cent of Ecuadorean voters approved the measure, according to official results. Correa got the majority he needed in all but two of Ecuador's 24 provinces. 
The 20th constitution in the history of this chronically unstable nation considerably broadens Correa's powers and will let him run for two more consecutive terms, consoli­dating what he calls a citizen's revolution. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Evidence of water, snow found on Mars 
LOS ANGELES -NASA's Phoenix spacecraft has discovered evidence of past water at its Martian landing site and spotted falling snow for the first time, scientists reported Monday. 
Soil experiments revealed the presence of two minerals known to be formed in liquid water. Scientist<> identified the minerals as calcium car­bonate, found in limestone and chalk, and sheet silicate. 
But exactly how that happened remains a mystery. 
"It's really kind of all up in the air," said William Boynton, a mission scientist at the University of Arizona at Tucson. 
Gray wolf reinstated as endangered 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -A federal court Monday overturned the Bush administration's decision to remove gray wolves in the western Great Lakes region from the endangered species list. 
U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman in Washington sided with environmental groups that accused the government of misreading the law last year when it lifted protections for about 4,000 wolves in Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin. 
It was the second setback in a week for the administration's campaign to return manage­ment authority to state officials in the two regions where the wolf has rebounded after being driven to the brink of extinction in the lower 48 states. 
LOCAL NEWS 
IU blames coaches for NCAA charge 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana University says an NCAA charge that it failed to monitor its men's basketball program is unwarranted because former coach Kelvin Sampson and his coaching staff withheld information and concealed impermissible phone calls from the compliance depart­ment. 
Indiana's response to the NCAA's latest charge, leveled this summer, was released Monday in response to a Freedom of Information request from The Associated Press. 
Congress rejects financial rescue bill 
Most at-risk lawmakers voted against $70GB financial rescue package yesterday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Lawmakers who had the most to lose risked the least. 
Two-thirds of Congress' most vulnerable members Republicans and Democrats alike -voted against the mas­sive economic bailout package, opting to protect their seats on Election Day rather than fol­low their party leaders off a political cliff. 
"We're all worried about los­ing our jobs," Rep. Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said. Even though he's not likely to lose re-election. Ryan spoke for his more vul­nerable colleagues in tough fights to remain in office. "Most of us say, 'I want this thing to pass, but I want you to vote for it, not me.'" 
The 228-205 rejection of the $700 billion rescue package for the financial markets reflected the every-man-for­himself posture of lawmakers with no plan to prop up the economy five short weeks from the election. Of the 19 most vulnerable House lawmakers tracked by The Associated Press, 13 of them voted against the bill despite pleas from their party leaders to pass it. 
Many of them said they could not vote for a bill that would allow some executives of the failed companies to be paid many times what their cash-strapped constituents could ever hope to earn. 
Among the "no" voters was Rep. Nick Lampson of Texas, $700 billion boondoggle that I against the bill: best for the economy. "People's widely considered the most thought had a huge, dramatic Reps. Nancy Boyda of jobs are a great deal depend­vulnerable incumbent impact on our citizenry." Kansas, Don Cazayoux of ent on this, (as well as) their Democrat from a heavily Of the 11 most-endangered Louisiana, Carol Shea-Porter home loans and all of their Republican Houston-area dis­Republican incumbents, eight of New Hampshire, Chris livelihood." trict. He reflected on his con­voted no: Carney of Pennsylvania and Not Young, an 18-term law­stituents hit hard earlier this Reps. Don Young of Alaska, Lampson. maker and Alaska's only rep­month by Hurricane Ike, say­Marilyn Musgrave of Colorado, The three vulnerable resentative in the House. ing in a telephone interview Tim Walberg of Michigan, Joe Democrats voting "yes" were Currently under an ethics that calls to his office ran at Knollenberg of Michigan, Sam Tim Mahoney of Florida, Paul cloud, Young voted no mostly least 15-1 against the package. Graves of Missouri, Robin E. Kanjorski of Pennsylvania because 99 percent of the con­
"Think of all the people who Hayes ·of North Carolina, Steve and Jerry McNerney of stituents who called his office have lost houses. If they lost a Chabot of Ohio and Dave California. were against the bailout. $100,000 house, the most the Reichert of Washington. Some of those who voted for Such a massive government government can give is The three vulnerable the bailout said they did so in takeover he said, was a step $28,100," Lampson said. Republicans who voted "yes" possible conflict with the dis­toward socialism and a philo­
Contrast that, he suggested, were Reps. Christopher Shays tricts they represent. sophical leap he could not with the $500,000 limit on of Connecticut, Mark Kirk of McNerney, a wind engineer make. compensation packages for Illinois and Jon Porter of and political neophyte before "Alaskans have asked me to executives of the failed compa­Nevada. his election to Congress in do what I did," he said. "We nies that would participate in Of the eight most-endan­2006, said his district opposed are a reflection of the people, the bailout. "I thought it was a gered Democrats, five voted the bailout but he felt it was and we always have been." 

EGYPT 
Kidnapped European tourists freed 
desert and fled soon before the rescuers The five Germans, five Italians and a 
Associated Press 
arrived. Romanian, along with eight Egyptian 
CAIRO -Egyptian and Sudanese Egyptian officials released no details drivers and guides, arrived in Cairo on troops, backed by European comman­of the rescue except to say troops used the military plane, smiling as they dos, swooped down in helicopters helicopters to bring out the prisoners. walked across the tarmac to be greeted Monday to rescue a tour group that had "They took everything from us and left with bouquets of flowers. been kidnapped in Egypt and taken on a us with nothing," one freed Egyptian, They were taken to a military hospital 10-day dash across the Sahara to the Sherif Abdel-Monem, said of the kidnap­for checkups, but doctors said none had frontier of Chad. pers. Speaking in an Egyptian military been hurt. 
Freedom for the 11 European tourists video taken on a airplane flight to Cairo, The ordeal began Sept. 19 during a and eight Egyptian guides came hours he added: "But they treated us well. It safari on the Gilf al-Kebir, a desert after Sudanese troops killed six of the was not harsh treatment." plateau renowned for prehistoric cave abductors and captured two who The video, obtained by Associated art in a remote corner of southwestern revealed where the remaining gunmen Press Television News, showed the Egypt, near the Libyan and Sudanese were holding their captives. hostages inside the military plane, borders. While the group was camping, 
The brother of one of the freed laughing and joking, drinking bottled heavily armed gunmen in SUVs seized Egyptians said he was told that the kid­water and being tended to by army doc­them and took them across the nappers abandoned the captives in the tors. unguarded border into Sudan. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
Gas shortage hits southeast U.S. 
Ike caused three-week crunch on fuel that could last until mid-October 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA-Motorisl<> are ris­ing before dawn so they can be at the filling station when the dl-lliv­ery truck arrives. Some are skip­ping work or telecommuting. Others are taking the extreme step -for Atlanta -of' switching to public transportation. 
Across a section of the South, a hurricane-inducnd gasoline short­age that was expected to last only a few days is drag­ging into its third 
week, and experts "There is no gasoline among pan­say it could persist in Atlanta, in icky drivers in into mid-October. the hardest­
Charlotte, in

The Atlanta area ha<> hit areas to been hit particularly Chattanooga. It's like top off their hard, along with a Third World tanks every Nashville and west­time they pass 
country."

ern North Carolina. an open sta­
Those lucky tion has only enough to f'ind gas Newt Gingrich made matters 
are paying more former House Speaker worse. 
than drivers else­where around the country. 
''I've used up gas just looking for gas," said Larry Jenkins, a construction worker who pulled his red pickup truck into a Citgo station in Charlotte, N.C., on Monday. The sign said $3.99 a gallon, but the pumps were dosed. Many filling stations in the arna have not had gaq for days. 
"Right now, I'll pay anything for gas," Jenkins said. "I don't care if it's $5 or $6 a gallon. I need it." 
The shortage started with the one-two punch of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, which shut down refineries along the Gulf Coast. Now, more than two weeks after Ike, many refmeries are still mak­ing fuel at reduced level<>. 
While other parl<> of the country get gasoline from a variety of domestic and overseas sources, the Southeast relies heavily on two pipelines that carry fuel from the Gulf of Mexico. Because the gasoline moves at just 3 to 5 mph, it can take up to 10 days to reach 
Atlanta. 
A tendency 
"Fuel is 
coming back into the system, but as soon as it comes in, it's being sucked back out by consumers who are afraid the shortage is going to continue," said Ben Brockwell of the Oil Price Information Service in Wall, N.J. 
In the meantime, government agencies have postponed public hearings, community colleges have canceled dasses, and some companies have provided vans for carpooling or encouraged employ­ees to work from home. 
I lours-long lines, "No gas" signs and plastic bags covering fuel-pump nozzles are familiar sights around Atlanta, where drivers have become intimately familiar with fuel delivery schedules, ris­ing before daybreak when they know gas is coming to a certain station. 
"I was just in Atlanta yesterday. There is no gasoline in Atlanta, in Charlotte, in Chattanooga. It's like a Third World country," former House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Sunday on ABC. 
Police officers and a security guard were on hand to manage the flow of cars at a downtown Atlanta gas station around mid­day Monday. 
Kathy Burdett, 49, of Forest Park. said the shortage ruined her weekend plans to visit Stone Mountain with out-of-town guests. 
"I didn't go anywhere all week­end and we kept close to home," said Burdett, who had to hunt for the gasoline her friends needed to make it home to Tennessee. 
The average price for regular gas Monday was $3.94 per gallon in Georgia, 30 cents higher than the national average, according to the AAA. Motorists were paying an average of $3.89 a gallon Monday in North Carolina and $3.80 in South Carolina. 
Authorities in North Carolina and Tennessee said they were investigating reports of price­gouging, while Georgia's con­sumer affairs oflice has subpoe­naed sales records from 130 gas stations because of similar com­plaints. 
Politics 
continued from page 1 
oversight in society. 

"We're going to have to be attentive to our society," Long said. "Not turning the heat on in the winter ,isn't an option. We're talking about deaths." 
High prices at the pump were a big issue for the pan­
elists at the event, but those prices aren't going to decrease any­time soon. 
"Oil should­n't be cheap," Long said. "It's not cheap in most other nations. It's a scarce com­modity and demand is high." 

Professor of Economics and Econometrics Richard Jensen added: "Oil prices are going to rise," he said. "We're running out. The scarcer it gets, the higher prices are going to go." 
It's important to remember the price of oil is not the only issue involved in the energy crisis, the panelists said. 
"Price crowds out the other big concerns that are part of this issue," GreeNO vice president Colleen Kelly said. "It brings this issue to people's attention, but it also crowds out other aspects." 
Long stressed all the issues of the energy crisis are inter­related. 
"There seems to be a con­vergence on this energy issue," she said. 
Environmentalists, war hawks, economists, all "somehow have something in common now and can work toward common goals," Long said. 
The energy crisis can be boiled down to a three-fold issue, McCready said, citing energy security, energy sus­tainability and the impact of energy use on the environ­

"Oil prices are going ment as facets that
to rise. We're running 
must be 

out. The scarcer it 
addressed. gets, the higher prices "We may have to make
are going to go. " 
choices between one, Richard Jensen -two, and professor three on this 
increasingly 
one," he said. 
Most impor­tantly, Long insisted an intel­ligent, healthy dialogue is necessary to solve energy problems. 
"The dialogue really has been completely dumbed down this summer," she said, referring presidential candi­dates John McCain and Barack Obama's respective positions on domestic oil drilling. 
On many facets of the energy issue, the candidates have quite similar positions, Long said. "They're really the same on !drilling], it's just a matter of language," she said. "Our responsibility is to raise the dialogue." 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd.edu 

Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 

Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 





lrishRowApartments.com 574.277.6666 
JUst~~~tOfBuhldtt€ on Vanoss. Just nor \h of Belvveen the Buns Restaurant. 

luxury apartments
IIIrish 
ROW NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2009 

Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 
10Jones  ,365.45  -777.68  
Up:  Same:  Dawn:  Composite Volume:  
202  20  3,333  3,300,545,822  
AMEX  1,75~t9z!tl~157.52  
z~~~AQ  ~;~~~bi'H'siwg~i~~~  
S&P 500  1 106.39  -106.62  
FTSE 100 (London) 4,818.77 -269.70 


NIKKEI (Tokyo} < fl::tz5('3$fi1fm56i;2f!' 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -7.84 -9.47 111.38 WACHOVIA CP (WB) -81.60 -8.16 1.84 SELECT SECTOR SPDR (XLF) -13.18 -2.82 18.57 NATL CITY CP (NCC) -63.34 -2.35 1.36 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE -5.10 -0.195 3.632 13-WEEK BILL -45.78 -0.380 0.450 30-YEAR BOND -4.50 -0.196 4.161 5-YEAR NOTE -9.83 -0.300 2.720 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -10.52 96.37 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.90 894.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.93 96.75 
Exchange Rates YEN 103.8550 EURO 0.6950 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0473 BRITISH POUND 0.5535 
IN BRIEF 
Dispute over tax relief continues 
WASHINGTON -House Democrats said Monday they would not relent in their dispute with the Senate on a major tax relief package, increasing odds that businesses could lose out on critical tax breaks and millions could get hit by the alternative minimum tax this year. 
!louse Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md .. suggested it might be next year before consensus can be reached on a tax initiative that includes adjusting the AMT, providing tax relief to disas­ter victims and extending tax credits for renew­able energy development, business investment and individual education and child care costs. 
The House had intended to adjourn for the year on Monday. But that plan abruptly changed when lawmakers rejected the $700 billion fman­cial bailout legislation. forCing congressional and administrative leaders to regroup. 
The House now plans to reconvene on Thursday, perhaps giving lawmakers another shot at the tax bill. 
Lawmakers in both the House and Senate stressed that the tax relief bill would create tens of thousands of jobs and contribute to the nation's energy independence. But House Democrats insisted that more of the package, totaling $138 billion in House bills, be paid for so as not to increase the deficit. Senate Republicans, averse to new taxes, said any changes in the Senate-passed tax bill would kill the entire package. 
Conswner spending stagnant in August 
WASHINGTON -Consumer spending in August turned in the weakest performance in six months, underscoring the threat the econ­omy faces as the government's stimulus pro­gram fades into the past. 
The Commerce Department reported Monday that consumer spending was unchanged in August, even worse than the small 0.2 percent gain economists had expect­ed. It was the weakest showing since spend­ing was also f1at in February. 
Personal incomes were up a better-than­expected 0.5 percent. a rebound after a 0.6 percent drop in July. After-tax incomes, which felt the impact of the stimulus program to a greater extent. dropped by 0. 'J percent, how­ever. 
DOW suffers biggest single-day loss 
Dow down 777 points yesterday after Congress rejected economic bailout 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-The failure 
of the bailout package in 
Congress literally dropped 
jaws on Wall Street and 
triggered a historic selloff 
-including a terrifying 
decline of nearly 500 points 
in mere minutes as the vote 
took place, the closest thing 
to panic the stock market 
has seen in years. 
The Dow Jones industrial 
average lost 777 points 
Monday, its biggest single­
day fall ever, easily beating 
the 684 points it lost on the 
first day of trading after the 
Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist 
attacks. 
As uncertainty gripped 
investors, the credit mar­
kets, which provide the 
day-to-day lending that 
powers business in the 
United States, froze up even 
further. 
At the New York Stock 
Exchange, traders watched 
with faces tense and 
mouths agape as TV 
screens showed the House 
vote rejecting the Bush 
administration's $700 bil­
lion plan to buy up bad debt 
and shore up the financial 
industry. 
Activity on the trading 
floor became frenetic as the 
"sell" orders blew in. The 
selling was so intense that 
just 162 stocks on the Big 
Board rose, while 3,073 
dropped. 
The Dow Jones Wilshire 
5000 Composite Index disconnect on Capitol Hill? to be done, and the market Holdings Inc., all of them 
recorded a paper loss of $1 This becomes a problem dropping 400 points in 10 felled by bad mortgage 
trillion across the market because Wall Street is very minutes is telling you that," investments. 
for the day, a first. uncomfortable with uncer­said Chris Johnson, presi­And it raised the ques­
The Dow industrials, tainty," said Gordon dent of Johnson Research tion: Which banks are next, 
which were down 210 Charlop, managing director Group. "This isn't a market and how many? The 
points at 1:30 p.m. EDT, with Rosenblatt Securities. for the timid." Federal Deposit Insurance 
nose-dived as traders on "The bailout not going Before trading even Corp. lists more than 110 
Wall Street and investors through sends a signal that began came word that banks in trouble in the sec­
across the country saw "no" Congress isn't willing to do Wachovia Corp., one of the ond quarter, and the num­
votes piling up on live TV their part," he added. biggest banks to struggle ber has probably grown 
feeds of the House vote. While investors didn't from rising mortgage loss­since. 
By 1:42 p.m., the decline believe that the plan was a es, was being rescued in a Wall S.treet is contending 
was 292 points. Then the cure-all and it could take buyout by Citigroup Inc. with all of it against the 
bottom fell out. Within five months for its effects to be That followed the recent backdrop of a credit market 
minutes, the index was felt, most market watchers forced sale of Merrill Lynch -where bonds and loans 
down about 700 points as it believed it was at least a & Co. and the failure of are bought and sold -that 
became clear the bill was start toward setting the three other huge banking is barely functioning 
doomed. economy right and unlock­companies -Bear Stearns because of fears that any­
"How could this have ing credit. Cos., Washington Mutual one lending money will 
happened? Is there such a "Clearly something needs Inc. and Lehman Brothers never be paid back. 

Citigroup to buy Wachovia banks 
Associated Press worth of debt, Citigroup will absorb 2006 acquisition of mortgage lender NEW YORK -Citigroup agreed up to $42 billion of losses from Golden West Financial Corp. Monday to buy Wachovia's banking Wachovia's $312 billion loan portfo­Wachovia, like Washington Mutual operations for $2.1 billion in a deal lio, with the Federal Deposit Inc., which was seized by the federal arranged by federal regulators, mak­Insurance Corp. agreeing to cover government last week, was a big ing the Charlotte, N.C.-based bank remaining losses, if any. Citigroup originator of option adjustable-rate the latest casualty of the widening also will issue $12 billion in pre­mortgages, which offered very low global financial crisis. ferred stock and warrants to the introductory payments and let bor­The deal greatly expands FDIC. rowers defer some interest payments Citigroup's retail franchise -giving The remainder of Wachovia will until later years. Delinquencies and it a total of more than 4,300 U.S. include its asset management, retail defaults on these types of mortgages branches and $600 billion in deposits brokerage and certain select parts of have skyrocketed in recent months, -and secures its place among the its wealth management businesses, causing big losses for the banks. 
U.S. banking industry's Big Three, including the Evergreen and Wachovia shares, which had along with Bank of America Corp. Wachovia Securities franchises. It slumped as the global credit crisis and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will continue to be a public company intensified in recent months, dropped 
But it comes at a cost: Citigroup under the Wachovia name. $8.16, or 81.6 percent, to close at Inc. said it will slash its quarterly div­The agreement comes after a $1.84. They had traded as high as idend in half to 16 cents. It also will fevered weekend courtship in which $52.25 over the past year. dilute existing shares by selling $10 Citigroup and Wells Fargo & Co. both Citigroup shares, meanwhile, fell billion in common stock to shore up were reportedly studying the books of $2.40, or 11.9 percent, to $17.75. Its its capital position. Wachovia Corp., which was weighed shares have traded between $12.85 
In addition to assuming $53 billion down by losses linked to its ill-timed and $48.95 in the past 12 months. 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

40 Days for Life 
P.O. Bnx 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H•ll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EI>ITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hin~ 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre KrasuJa 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VU·WPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD 0F.'iiGN MANAGER: Mary Jes~ 
CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 63 t-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obmvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsrne@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631·5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 6j 1-5303 vit-wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 ... 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper publislll'd in prim and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertirements, is not gowrncd by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirurion. The Observer reserves the right to refu.s<.· advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as acctlrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of th<· majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediwrs and dcpartrn~nr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prt'SCnt the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi<'Wpoint space is available to all readers. The tree t·xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.ctrcrs to the Editor mtL.r be signed and must include mntact intormation. 
Questions rtgnrding Obsav"polici~s should bt di"cud to hiifOr in 0JiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'he (lht.frwtr (USI'S 51}') .Z.4UIKI};. pubh.f,ctl Moncl.t)lthrnu~h Frid;ty except durin~ Clii!U .tml '0/JI,.;tlltl/1 per•···'·· A .ui"'(Jipt'lllll w .,,,e l)h~~r IJ $1!10 rOrunc .t~.ademi~..· yc.u, $'i'i li•r onc:M:mc~rer. 
Ihe Ohlerver 11 pubiOOt-d .u I'OSTMASTEk 02-i ~~~url1 ll111111K ll.1ll Send ;addru.~ currc::clioru to: Nmre 0Jruc, IN 4MS6·0n9 Th~Ohlcrvtr l\-rin1li~.tl pun;agc p.tiJ Jl Nom {lame l!o Boxm .111d addi1iurul mJilins ntficr•. 014 Suuth Dining ! laU 
None Dame, IN 1(,'i'56-0779 

The O~rvc:r rlllt mc::mher of 1he ~Ki.&lt-d Prea. All reprutlucJUIU ri~C£ ilf<: l~rvt:d. 
Are you "pro-life" but tired of the way abortion becomes a political football every four years? The politicians make their points tm one side or the other. And then they forget it-for another four years. 
If you are look­ing for a positive and non-political approach, consid­er the 40 Days for Life, an interfaith initiative which began "right here in Hiver City" on Scptembnr 24th and will run until November 2nd. The campaign, organized by local residents, is part of a rapidly grow­ing national ell'ort. It includes Notre Dame students, faculty and staff who have joined it. 
First, let's take a look at how the 40 Days for Life campaign works. It has three components. If you can't do them all, do what you can: 
1. 
Most important: Personal prayer and fasting for an end to abortion. Decide for yourself how to do this. You ean pray anywhere, anytime. Fasting can be of the Lenten sort, giving up something for l:orty days, even some­thing as big as chocolate. 

2. 
Peaceful, lawful witness for life, 24fi, outside the Women's Pavilion at 2010 Ironwood Circle, South Bend, between Edison and Rte. 23. This con­stant vigil is neither a demonstration nor a protest. It is primarily a prayer, reminding ourselves and the communi­ty that the legalized execution of the innocent is an evil that cannot be over­come by politics as usual but indispen­sably through the grace of God. You can sign up for a particular time but you don't have to. Just come when you can, if only for a few minutes. You will make a difference. 



3. Community outreach, taking a pos­itive pro-life message to individuals and the community in every constructive way we can. 
The national 40 Days for· Life began as a local event in 2004 in College Station, home of' Texas A & M. It was organized in a few weeks but enlisted over one thousand participants. One result was a 28 percent reduction in abortions in that community. In 2005 and 2006, the campaign spread to a half-dozen other cities, with positive results including the closing of abortu­aries or reduction of their "business" hours. In 2007 the program went national and began to take ofl', with campaigns in the fall of 2007 and spring of 2008 in 139 cities in 43 states. More than 150 thousand participated, with 35 thousand in the prayer vigils at abortuaries. The fall 2008 campaign is the largest yet, with 40 Days for Life in 173 cities in 45 states as well as the national capitals of Washington and Ottawa. 
Why take part in this unique testimo­ny for life? Because the stark reality of legalized abortion requires each of us to take a personal stand. Evasions won't work. When Louise Brown, the first "test-tube baby" was born in 1978, the whole world knew exaetly when her life began-at the union of the sperm and the ovum in the in vitro fertilization process. To deny this reality of another human life inside the mother, at every stage from that fertilization, can today be the product only of ignorance or willful denial. "In simplest terms," said Cardinal Edward Egan of New York, "they are human beings with an inalienable right to live." 
The new technology of morning-after pills and other early abortifacients is making abortion a private matter beyond the effective reach of the law. Surgical abortions, such as those per­formed at Ironwood Circle, are decreas­ing in frequency. The 40 Days for Life vigil at Ironwood is not therefore to infer that the existence of such execu­tion centers is the only problem. Hatber, the abortuary on Ironwood is one sign of a malignant culture in which the intentional infliction of death on the innocent is accepted as an optional problem-solving technique. The "great­est destroyer of peace today," said Mother Teresa at the 1994 Prayer Breakfast in Washington, "is abortion, because it is a war against the child, a direct killing of the innocent child, mur­der by the mother herself. And if we accept that a mother can kill her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" We were appalled at the random killings at Columbine, Virginia Tech and nlsewhere. But, except for the age and visibility of the victims, how were those murders essentially different from the thousands more that are legally committed eac,h day in abortuaries throughout the land? 
The prayer and witness eomponents of the 40 Days for Life are more than a reminder of the rnality of every abor­tion, whether surgical or chemical. Abortion, now moving beyond the reach of' the law, is the first sacrament of the militant, agnostic sncularism which is our dominant public religion. The only remedy for abortion is the voluntary reconversion of the American people to the conviction that every human life is precious because it is a girt from God. The 40 Days for Life campaign is a pos­itive way of asking for the grace of increasing that conviction in the minds and hearts of all of us. For more infor­mation contact ndjusvitae@gmail.com or www.40daysforlife.com/southben. Or call Dr. Tom Akre and Mary Akre at 574-933-1835. 
Charles E. Rice is Professor Emeritus at the law school. He may be reached at (574) 633-4415 or rice.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Viewpoint Joseph McMahon Lauren John Tierney Brauweiler 
Who won the political debate? 
Sarah Mervosh Sports Graphics Lorenzo Reyes "There are some that only employ 
McCain
Andrea Archer Greg Arbogast words for the purpose ofdisguising
Obama 
their thoughts." 
Scene I didn't watch Jess Shaffer 

Voltaire French author, satirist
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 page 9 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't be a chop cop 
Dear Mr. Kimberly, atcd with the game of football. Otherwise, oh champion of 
In response to your Sept. 27th letter, "Stop the chop", we acceptable football cheers, just enjoy the game. Although we must respectfully say that you sir, are wrong. The first down appreciate your valiant efforts to set the student body "chop" is in no way a tribute to the tomahawk chop of FSU straight, these efforts are in vain. Despite what you may and Atlanta Braves fame. If you knew how the game of foot­think, we arc quite aware that we arc not at Bobby Bowden ball is oflieiated. you would know that an arm extended in Field. the dirm:tion of forward progress indicates a first down. The repeated extension and flexion of our arms is not a toma­Matt DeStefani hawk chop but rather a celebratory first down gesture per­sophomore formed in synchronization to the beat of our wonderful Dillon Hall drumline. If you absolutely need to continue being a football Jim Hasson cheer elitist, please instead focus your efforts on the battle ,,r, sophomore against the inane menace to cheers know as "the Wave". Dillon Hall This "cheer". unlike the first down chop, is in no way associ-Sept. 29 
Duncan disappoints 
I had a dream that one day, the sons of Duncan Hall would be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood and indulge in the leftovers from Donutina. My dream, and that of many other Domers, was shattered on Friday, Sept. 26, when the men of Duncan appeared at the pep rally dressed as Highlanders. The "Duncan Donuts" chants were prevalent but futile. The battle had been lost. I fear that the residents of Duncan perceived the Donut idea as frivolous and, therefore, unworthy of true consideration. The student body was of a different opinion, however. To summarize the thoughts of a few peers: "Oh, man, it could have been great. A built-in giveaway item ... inner tube races on the lakes ... ring toss/hula hoop competitions (among the dorms and for little kids on football wcckcnds) ... thc possibilities were endless." "At pep rallies and dorm events, Duncan's catch phrase could have been, 'The Donuts Go Nuts!"' "Kilts and face paint arc funny the first time (St. Ed's), not so funny the second time (Keenan), and wearisome the third time (Duncan). Imagine if the Duncan dudes had all been dressed as strawberry-frosted donuts when they hosted the Purdue pep rally. That would have made musical chairs so much sweeter. It should also be said, as a side note, that St. Ed's and Duncan arc obvious rivals. The O'NcilVMorrisscy suggestion is just Duncan's alias. Think about it-oldest dorm versus newest, original second-floor chapel versus imitation, current St. Ed's rector (Father Ralph Haag) versus former (Father Tom Eckert) .. .it's quite natural." "Duncan's only six-man could have been the coveted 'half-dozen."' The mascot was there for the taking. When you can generate that kind of enthusiasm among the student body, why not embrace it? 
Emily Rankin 
sohphomore 
Farley Hall 
Sept. 28 

Students lack personal responsibility 
I believe that one of the great qucnccs, are the preferred reaction described as "law-abiding" or in tragedies of our generation is the to mistakes. "good disciplinary standing", as Mr. absence of responsibility for one's Last week ("Mixed Messages", Strickland suggests; regardless of actions. We have grown up in a Sept. 23), a letter by Brian their moral character, general con­society that emphasizes the impor­Strickland suggested that the duct, or any other positive quality, tance of personal choice, but is University was failing its students the fact is that they arc breaking reluctant to hold people account­through its "collaboration with law the. law. This is not an argument able for their choices. We have enforcement agencies" that enforce for or against the morality of grown up in a society where par­the law (hence, their name) by underage drinking. But to drink ents will purchase another sports arresting students who break said underage is to take a risk, and if car for their 16-ycar-old child after law. If any student on this campus you arc caught, the consequences he or she totals the first one; where is unaware that it is illegal to drink are well-known. To imply shock or adults will not only overlook but alcohol under the age of 21, then indignation that the "good reputa­will facilitate underage drinking by the admissions office may need to tion" of Notre Dame students docs high school students; where kids review its admittance standards. not exempt them from the legal can get paid for A's but grounding Assuming that this is not the case system is ridiculous, and indicative students for failing classes is no and that all of Notre Dame's high­of our generation's failure to take longer in vogue. caliber student body is aware of responsibility for its actions. 
Of course, this is not the case in this fact, I fail to understand how every instance; many of us have those that knowingly choose to been blessed to grow up in families break this law should be either Nicole Burson that have taught us the importance surprised or offended when the freshman of taking responsibility for one's well-known consequences of illegal Lewis Hall decisions. But for much of our gen­actions arc applied to them. Sept. 28 eration, excuses, and not conse-Such students can also hardly be 
Sequester that 
I almost laughed out loud reading Mark Easley's letter ("Sequester this," Sept. 26) blast­ing the idea of underground carbon sequestra­tion this past Friday. I would normally assume that someone who would so unrcpcntantly slam an idea would have a fairly strong understand­ing of the concept prior to their criticism, but you know what happens when you assume. 
I will admit I was not able to attend the Forum last Wednesday to hear Dr. Moniz's comments that subsequently spurred Mr. Easley's condem­nation of them. I do not know the context within which Dr. Moniz proposed carbon sequestration as a viable solution to sustainability issues in America, but for the benefit of the doubt, and for Mr. Easley's sake, I will assume that it was intended to address the issue of carbon emis­sions. I actually do agree with Mr. Easley that eli" mate change is a natural process that would happen independently of increased carbon emis­sions over the past two years, and that scientific evidence is at best inconclusive linking carbon dioxide and climate change. What Mr. Easley's apparent lack of research into the issue of car­bon sequestration fails to discover, unfortunately, is that injection of carbon dioxide into the ground through enhanced oil recovery (EOR) techniques is a far more economically viable and indeed profitable venture than his "Drill, baby, drill" exhortations would ever produce. 
Oil fields in the U.S. and Canada that have had all of the easily recoverable oil removed can now become useful again, as EOR utilizes injected carbon dioxide to force oil from the rock and soil to which it binds itself very tightly, thus reaching an abundance of oil reserves that have to this point been unrecoverable. The United States Department of Energy estimates that large-scale adaptation of EOR could generate an additional 240 billion barrels of oil that would also require no exploration and discovery costs. The addition­al jobs returning to oilfields in the US would only add to the boon increased domestic oil produc­tion would effect on our economy. 
While I have admittedly agreed with you that carbon dioxide is not the sole culprit in the issue of climate change, any scientist worth his or her salt will tell you that introducing large amounts of substances into a system will effect change of some sort. You claim that God gave us petroleum and timber to use however we see fit. If you want to go on that theory, you can hardly dis­agree God did not give us an infinite amount of either resource. He must not have looked too kindly on America in the first place, giving us only, under the most generous estimates, three percent of the world's petroleum reserves. We have to develop new methods to extract more from less in order to buy time to develop renew­able sources of energy. EOR promises to help give us that time to improve solar, wind, hydro, and geothermal energy so that we can put our drills away and enjoy complete energy independ­ence. I hope you're still laughing now, Mr. Easley. 
Gene Leyden 
sentor 
Dillon Hall Sept. 27 

Another 'copyrighted' cheer 
I am writing to make evident another cheer performed at our football games that is clearly a signature cheer at a dif­ferent school. I'm talking about the different parts of the stadium shouting, "Wc--Arc--N--0" in response to cheerlead­ers holding up the respective signs. To anyone like me who has been an avid Penn State fan for most of his life, this cheer completely infringes upon Penn State's trademark "We Arc Penn State." For those oblivious to Penn State's cheer, the song officially called "Kernkraft 400" by Zombie Nation is sometimes played in Beaver Stadium after a good play, and there is a point in the song when the entire stadium (100,000+) chants in unison, "We Arc Penn State" If you arc still skeptical, a quick Youtubc search for 'Penn State Zombie Nation' might be worthwhile. Now don't get me wrong-I would pick NO above Penn State any day, and so I have no complaints about just the student section doing the "We Are (clap clap) N.D. (clap clap)" at appropriate times, but the official cheerleader cheer that gets the whole stadium saying it needs to be eliminated. The concept of the entire stadium chanting "We Are ... " is, I believe a Penn State tradition. 
Piyush Ranade sophomore Dillon! Hall Sept. 29 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 



By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
The man with the bluest eyes in Hollywood is gone. 
Paul Newman, legendary actor, faithful husband and dedicated philanthropist, died on Saturday. He was 83. 
At 11 a.m., I turned on my tele­vision without much thought. I wanted to scroll through game day coverage, and to see what else was happening in the world. What I saw on CNN were flash­ing pictures of an old man, still handsome after all these years, with captions written in the past tense. "Raced." "Donated." "Acted." "Died." 
As a member of Generation Y, I know that Paul Newman's leg­endary days passed before my parents graduated high school, Jet alone met, married and had children. But the longevity of his career. his popularity through more than five decades, shows that young people, myself included, have never known a Hollywood without him in it. 
Our knowledge of film history is undoubtedly limited; the fur­thest our collective memories can go back is probably 1_992. And as great as stars like Susan Sarandon, Leonardo DiCaprio and others who've found fame within our lifetimes may be, they're only a small percentage of the legends on the silver screen. 
Since what feels like forever, Paul Newman has been a part of our lives. 
There are always those movie stars that your parents tell you about -the ones they watched when they were young, the ones they or even their parents loved. In my house, those names ranged from Marlon Brando to Barbra Streisand. But there was one man my mother always loved in a way that my good­natured dad begrudgingly accepted, and that man was Paul Newman. 
He was born in Shaker Heights, Ohio on January 26, 1925, to a Christian Scientist mother and a Jewish father. llis mom got him started in acting at an early age, and by 1952 he was acting in his first Broadway play, "Picnic." It was on the set of "Picnic" that he would meet his future wife, Joanne Woodward, with whom he would forge one of the longest-lasting marriages in Hollywood. 
Later he would study acting at the Actors Studio in New York alongside aetors like Brando and James Dean. Tinseltown would soon come ealling, and the 1950s and 1960s held for Newman a 
PAUL NEWMAN 
REMEMBERED 
string of roles that have become outright elassie performanees. In 1963, his performanee as the title character in "Hud" was 
a.n immediate hit, creating a man of substanee and emotion out of what was written as an unfeeling thug. "Cat on a Hot Tin Hoof," Newman's first foray into Tennessee Williams territory c1pposite Elizabeth Taylor, was another classic. Two of his sig­nature roles, the lead in "Cool Hand Luke" and Butch Cassidy in "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," would follow later in the 1960s. These films are classics in their own right, but it's questionable as to how classic they would be without their particular leading man. 
Later he would reprise his role in "The Hustler," Fast Eddie Felsen, in 1986's "The Color of Money," which would finally bring this multiple nominee the Oscar he deserved. 
The first Paul Newman film I ever saw was not "Cool Hand Luke," nor was it any of the oth­ers I've just mentioned. No, the Jirst film of his that I remember watching was 1994's "Nobody's Fool." In the film, Newman plays Sully Sullivan, a man in his twi­light years grappling with the ~~hanges that age will invariably bring. His performance was quiet and subtle, forming the Paul Newman I first knew. 
Later I saw him as a younger man, an actor with power and substance who took command of the screen. He was a man of quiet strength, someone whose wckeyed smile could get him out of any situation. He was a screen idol for three generations, and now he's gone. 
It's funny how you can feel a connection to people you've never met, who you've only seen on televisions and in movie the­atres (or, in this case, on your bottle of Caesar dressing with a laurel wreath around his head). The whole concept is kind of surreal. In Paul Newman's case in particular, it all felt so strange. It's rare that you wit­ness the death of a giant, of someone larger than life. On Saturday, I did. 
lie once said that he was "a great believer in luck, and the extraordinary role that that plays in our lives." But it wasn't luck that made him a movie star -it was talent, intelligence and grace. 
Thank you, Paul Newman. Hest in peace. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and are not necessarily those of The Observer. Analise Lipari can be contacted at alipari@nd. edu. 
·~·· 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
page 1 1 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 

The misanthropic, misguid­ed, murderous medical meany is back for the new season of "House." Hugh Laurie has picked up right where he left off, leading his new team of doctors into the fray of prime­time television. This season has kicked off to what some may call an odd start, but it promises to be one of the most original seasons yet. 
"House" has had a great run so far. Four years ago, the tel­evision audience was intro­duced to Dr. Gregory House, a brilliant diagnostician with a gimp leg and a knack for needling everyone from his patients to his boss. 
"House" wasn't only a criti­cally-acclaimed show, but it also gave "American Idol" a run for its ratings. It pre­miered the same year as "Grey's Anatomy," but unlike "Grey's," it has managed to keep its fan base consistently satisfied. 
The first two seasons were pure gold. with the procedural drama having enough twists to keep the audience guessing every week. House battled corporate takeover of his hos­pital, forcing his friends to jeopardize their own careers in order to make sure nobody else played in his sandbox. 
He taunted and eventually tangoed with his ex in season two, convincing her to leave her husband only to tell her it wasn't going to work. 
The third season took a deeper look at House's addic­tion to vicodin, which he claims to be taking for the pain in his leg. He managed to get his boss, Dr. Lisa Cuddy, to commit perjury in court so that he didn't end up in jail for his abuse of painkillers. Season four led to a survivor­style competition between young doctors to be on his medical team, because a year working with House almost guarantees any future position in the medical world. And, most recently, his drunken state landed him and his best friend's girl in a bus crash that killed her. 
Cue season five. This season of "House" is the most impor­tant yet, considering that it must make up for ground lost during last year's writers' strike. Every show on televi­sion is scrambling to make up for lost story time, and "House" is no exception. Many viewers complained last year that they didn't see enough of the old team, the original doc­tors House started out with. 
Producers watched the strike rage on with heavy hearts as they were forced to write out a blossoming romance between Dr. Alison Cameron, now working in the ER, and Dr. Robert Chase, House's go-to surgeon. Season three ended with their first "real" kiss, but season four left them in the background, making quick entrances and exits as House focused on his new team. 
The writers struggled, since they had to let House pick a new team, and then integrate them into life at Princeton Plainsboro Teaching Hospital, in what effectively was half a season. 
Not this time. Both the cast 
is conveniently located near c 

and the creative team behind "House" are fully aware of their duty this year. They are acutely aware of the need to go back to basics and to return to the groove of "House" with­out being repetitive. Still, everyone seems confident that Hugh Laurie and his crack team of misfit medicine men (and woman) will pull it together. The new actors are visibly getting more comfort­able in their respective roles. And the world knows Laurie's getting more comfortable, as he's earning $400,000 an episode this season, finding the year's wages somewhere around $9 million. 
This season has started with a bang (and if you wish dodge the spoilers, stop reading now). Wilson has experienced a summer of heartache and pain, taking time off from his job as an oncologist. When he returned in the season pre­mier, it was only to pack up his office and ship out. 
House used his usual tactics to get Wilson to stay, and even attempted a sincere apology for being involved in the death of Wilson's girlfriend, but Wilson, sick of baby-sitting House, left with a biting accli­mation of "We're not friends anymore, House. I'm not sure we ever were." 
This would leave any man crushed, angry, or confused, but not House. Rather than dealing with his emotions, he opted for the less obvious choice -hiring a private eye to spy on Wilson and report back on his activities. 
Thus the Big Season Guest is introduced. Lucas, a free­lance PI, has stepped into the 
corner ofSouth Bend Ave., Corby Blvd. -about one mile from Main Circle. But 
, Frankie's does not bring much "a"~'"''~v 
the best part about Frankie's is the sn:Iellfnmi The smell of roasting pork is palpable as · pull into the parking lot, and carries into · 
Just inside the front door is the tak(l~out counter, but around the corJ:ler out of the foy to the main room, which is also where you ,. . · dining· room itself is Spartan, co.fi~i$ting of only 15 tables or so, seating for aroUnd 40 people 
There is room for more, but the dining area more spacethan it uses. The room is not well for decoration has only a few Notre Dame foot-
sit in two corners. of thE!tJ)oto. only be described as an at1ten1Pttj 
friendly atmosphe6~ ·. etwork and the other to Nit•k<>.loci<>fl•n Ordering is a little different at Frankie'~. than at most 
restaurants inthe area. Walk uptri the counter the window (which it really is, With apane of glass between you and the workers) and plaql}your order. After deciding, slide your money · ugh the slot and t your receipt. You then wa :t;lt J9od~ ••··• .. is put through a Lazy Susan .... ... .... tairi th~ · aration between. customers. andwo.t:kers ..The food a li~~l()J(lngetJMn. expeeted; but is still warm 
you getitl ·· · · ··· Ifyou do not wish..to eat in at Frankie'~, the entire 
role of House's mini-foil, tak­ing the place of Wilson as offi­cial listener to House's whining and provider of guy-talk. But whereas Wilson could push House's rudder in the right direction, Lucas just wants to get paid. 
Needless to say, when Wilson finds out that his place has been bugged, he isn't too pleased. Though he shows no outward signs of wanting to ever talk to House again, it's clear that Wilson is having a hard time staying away from everything he had at Princeton Plainsboro. 
Wilson's MIA, House is scheming, the newbie doctors are still figuring out the ropes. The only person holding it all together right now is Dr. Cuddy, Dean of Medicine, and creator of most of the show's sexual tension. She and House have been tripping each other up for the past four seasons in a game of you-can't-have-me­but-I-know-you-wan t-me. They even alluded to a possi­ble one-night stand they had in college. It has been con­firmed that sometime early this season there is going to be some action to that effect. The jury is still out, though, as to if that will be a boon for the sea­son or just extinguish a story­line four years in the making. 
It's a new season, a new situ­ation, but the same old House. This year, the "House" team knows they are playing catch­up, but they seem ready for the challenge. House is on FOX on Tuesdays at 8 p.m. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
MLB 

Rain can't dampen White Sox playoff hopes 
After rain delay ofthree-plus hours, Ramirez's grand slam helps Chicago beat Detroit, force one-game playoffwith Twins 
home somehow," he said. 
Associated Press 
Did he ever. Then again, his 
CIIICAGO -Alexei Hamirez days on the Cuban national spread his arms wide, raced team taught him about big around thP bases like a little games. kid and jumped into Paul "My team in Cuba was always Konnrko's embrace at home in the playoffs and I played in plate. the Olympics and international 
No wonder they were so games. I've been in tougher sit­happy. The White Sox would uations, I feel," he said -through play onn more day. a translator. 
Hamirez set a rookie record Washed out earlier this with his fourth grand slam of month, Chicago and Detroit the season, and Chicago beat waited through a rain delay of D1~troit X-2 in a rainout make­more than three hours before up Monday, forcing a one-game starting. Gavin Floyd (17-8) tiebreaker against Minnesota won on three days' rest ­for the AL Central title. short rest has been successful 
The Twins will visit the White trend for many teams in the Sox on Tuesday night, with stretch. John Danks starting for The loss left the Tigers in last Chicago on three days' rest place, capping a season they against Nick Blackburn. The began with hopes of reaching division champ begins the play­the World Series. offs at Tampa Bay on Thursday. "It's been a tough year," man­
"Tomorrow, 162 games mean ager Jim Leyland said. "Today nothing. It's only about one pretty much sums up what's game and that's great," White gone on all year, really. It has­Sox manager Ozzie Guillen n't been a very good year and it said. "A good feeling." wasn't a very happy ending." 
When Guillen told Ramirez to Detroit, with nothing really to a runner on second and no es. reached against Garcia. He relax before batting with the play for, took a 2-1 lead into outs. "He admitted he was nervous, walked Orlando Cabrera and bases loaded, the 27-year-old the sixth. But former White When Garcia left, things got which was good because if DeWayne Wise before Dye hit infielder made a promise. Sox ace Freddy Garcia, who'd wild. you're not nervous in that situa­an RBI single, but retired the 
"I told Ozzie to have confi­allowed only two hits to that Leyland summoned Armando tion, there's something wrong next three batters. dence in me. I'm going to go point, had to leave with tight­Galarraga (13-7) -the team'5. with you," White Sox catcher Detroit tied it in the fifth as out and get these runners ness in his right shoulder with best starter this season -and A.J. Pierzynski said. "He didn't Raburn singled, stole second 
he threw two wild pitches that have his best stuff but he bat-and scored when Brandon Inge allowed the tying tled and made doubled to left over the leaping run to score. pitches when he Wise. 
After Jermaine "Tomorrow I 62 had to to get After his early struggles, Dye walked, through it." Garcia rebounded, retiring 11
games mean
Bobby Seay Pierzynski straight before Griffey singled relieved and nothin;g. It's only added an RBI with two outs in the fourth. threw Detroit's about one game and double during a Garcia was 40-21 with third wild pitch that•s great.,, two-run eighth. Chicago from 2004-06 and won of the inning. Floyd's error three games in the postseason 
Jim Thome helped Detroit of 2005, including the clinching struck out, but Ozzil~ Guillen take a 2-1 lead Game 4 of the World Series. He after an inten­White Sox manager in the sixth. is close friends with White Sox tional walk to Miguel Cabrera manager Ozzie Guillen and they Konerko, Seay doubled with texted each other leading up to also walked Ken Griffey Jr. to one out before Marcus Thames the game. load the bases. hit a hard liner that White Sox Guillen warned that the White 
Ramirez sent the first pitch third baseman Juan Uribe Sox had better "be ready for from Gary Glover, another for· snagged for the second out. Freddy." mer White Sox pitcher, into the When Ryan Raburn hit a slow Garcia was traded to the left-center field bleachers, set.. roller between the plate and Phillies after the 2006 season ting off a happy trip around the mound, Floyd bobbled the ball for Gio Gonzalez and Floyd, and bases for the rookie whose while reaching down to pick it both of the starters wore jersey nickname is "The Cuban up and threw high past No. 34 on Monday. Garcia, who Missile." Konerko at first, allowing had shoulder surgery in August 
Floyd gave up five hits and Cabrera to score. 2007, signed a minor league 
AP one earned in six innings. He Chicago scored in the first but contract with the Tigers on Aug. struck out eight and walked had a much bigger inning brew­14 of this year and was making two while throwing 118 pitch.. ing when the first three batters his third start for Detroit. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from B a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO Gorgeous Complete•ly Rehabbed UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ House, 
WANTED FoR SALE 574-233-6191 MSL #231736 TICKETS Do not go it alone. 
STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base-appt., flexible schedules. no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835, www. workforstudents.com Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI 
plus 2.5 Pts. 100% secured w/real estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. 
Call574-360-8707 or Email: 2heavn@comcast.net 
Life is better at the beach! Stop in 
and preview these new construction 
2B,2B Lakeview Condominiums of 
East Edge in Miller Beach, IN. This 
intimate 12 unit sustainable 
designed building is nestled in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, 45 minutes from downtown Chicago and just steps to the pristine beach. 
Building features an elevator, garage parking, bamboo floors 
throughout and all Energy Star appliances to name a few features. 
Pre contruction pricing starts from $189,000. RESERVE YOURS BEFORE 10/31/08 AND WE WILL 
SEND YOU ON A WINTER WEEK­END GETAWAY TO MIAMII! Open houses are every Sunday from 1­5pm at Oak Ave and County Line Rd in Miller Beach, Indiana through­out the Fall. For more sales infor­mation call Sharon at 610-574-2064 or email Sharon Jackson@ realliv­inghelios.com 

FoR RENT 
House near ND. 574-310-3663. HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. 
Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274-2829. 
4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dish\\ asher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, central air, beautiful light fixture•s. deck and front porcl1. Marble entry­
way. All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediate•ly, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. 
$1180 per month. Call Harold 574-31~i-7781. Home Game Rentals Beautiful, 
Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 miles from Campus. $500 thurs­sun. Call Joyce 574-339-9241. 
Wanted: ND football tix for family. 
574-251-1570. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND 
football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­
0964. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 
(574)631-7819 
or Ann Firth at 
574-631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
Hey Ri, Just wanted to stop by and say hi 
Season Timeline -(SDSU) Calls for Dayne Crist -(Michigan) Michigan gave us that game -(MSU) Did you see those intercep­lions? -(Purdue) So how many Heismans is Jimmy going to win? 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 CoMrn.FD FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 13 
NSCAA Women's Soccer Poll 
team record 

1 NOTRE DAME 8·0·0 2 UCLA 7·0·1 3 North Carolina 7·1-1 4 Portland 7·1·0 5 usc 7+0 6 Stanford 8·0·1 7 TexasA&M 7-1-0 8 Florida State 6-1·1 9 Texas 7·0·1 10 Duke 8+0 11 West Virginia 6+2 12 Oklahoma State 8·0-0 13 Virginia 6+1 14 Wake Forest 7+0 15 Boston College 6·1-1 16 Florida 5·2·1 17 Illinois 6·3·0 18 Colorado 7+1 19 Georgetown 6·0·2 20 UC Santa Barbara 6·2·0 21 San Diego 5·2·2 22 California 5·3·0 23 Penn State 5-4·0 24 LSU 6-0-0 25 Kansas 6·2-0 
NSCAA Men's Soccer Poll 
team record 

1 Wake Forest 6-D-0 2 Maryland 5+0 3 NOTRE DAME 5·1-1 3 St. John's 6-0·2 5 Connecticut 4·0·3 6 SMU 6+1 7 Northwestern 7·0·1 8 Creighton 5+0 9 Akron 5+2 10 Illinois-Chicago 5-0·2 11 California 4·1-2 12 Saint louis 3-0-3 13 Boston College 3-2·1 14 Indiana 4+2 15 North Carolina 5·1·1 16 Ohio Slate 5+1 17 Loyala (Md.} 6·0·1 18 Dartmouth 4-1·0 19 South Florida 4+1 20 louisville 6+1 21 UC Davis 6·1·0 22 Providence 3·1-3 23 UC Irvine 6·0·2 24 Georgetown 6~2-0 25 Drake 7-1·0 
MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 
Team Record 
league overall 

1  Adrian  1-0·0  6·2·1  
2  Alma  1-0-0  5-3·0  
3  Calvin  1·0-0  5-2·1  
4  Olivet  1·0·0  5-4·1  

NFL 


Associated Press 
Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers intends to play against Atlanta on Sunday despite a sprained shoulder that his coaches will be watching closely in prac­tice. 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy and his assis­tants will spend this week monitoring Rodgers' progress and preparing rookie backup Matt Flynn to start, just in case. 
"Speaking with Aaron this morning, he has every intention on play­ing," McCarthy said 
Monday in Green Bay. "But l think Wednesday's practice will be a pretty good indicator for us. It's just something we'll have to continue to rehab and see where we are on Wednesday." 
Rodgers was injured on a scramble in the third quarter of Sunday's 30-21 loss at Tampa Bay. He stayed in the game and threw a touchdown pass to Greg Jennings, but sat out part of the fourth quar­ter. Rodgers said after the game he might have separated his shoulder. 
"It felt like that's what possibly happened," Rodgers said Sunday. "But we're going to wait until tomorrow to figure out exactly what the problem is." 
McCarthy said Monday that medical tests revealed no major struc­tural damage. 
"I think it's just how he responds to rehab and how fast we can move forward," McCarthy said. 
Rodgers, the Packers' first-round pick in 2005, has had two injuries in the p,ast two seasons despite li!llited playing time. Some have inter­preted that as a sign of Rodgers being injury prone, particularly when compared to the quar­terback-record consecu­tive starts streak belong­ing to his predecessor, Brett Favre. 
But Rodgers' ability to play through a broken foot in a 2006 game against New England also could be interpreted as a sign of his tough­ness. And McCarthy said Rodgers' ability to throw a touchdown pass after the injury showed he can play through pain. 
"For him to muster up and throw that ball the way he did was a tribute to his ability to deal with that in that particular situation," McCarthy said. 
JACKSONVILLE, After experiencing 
5 Kalamazoo 0·0·0 4·5·0 I Jacksonville Jaguars offensive tack­the wild highs and lows of the Mike noticeable limp when Manu 
6 Albion 0-1-1 2-6·0 le Richard Collier, shot while sitting Martz years, the winless St. Louis Ginobili walked into the San 
7 Hope 0-1·0 6-4-0 in a car outside an apartment com­Rams opted for cool, calm, reserved Antonio Spurs training facility 
8 SAINT MARY'S 0-1-Q 1-5·1 plex earlier this month, is para­Scott Linehan as their next coach. Monday. 9 Trine 0·1·0 3·7·0 lyzed below the waist and his left On Monday, they admitted their Even better, there was no sign leg was amputated, his doctor said mistake and fired Linehan after of bad feelings from his team­Monday. four consecutive lopsided losses to mates. Collier was on a ventilator for open the season. Defensive coordi­Ginobili, who had surgery on his about three weeks and has no nator Jim Haslett, a fiery type and left ankle in early September, memory of the shooting, said Dr. polar opposite in terms of could miss at least two months of Andy Kerwin, a surgeon for the demeanor, was given the unenvi­the season. Though off crutches 
I. 

around the dial 
University of Florida at· Shands able task of trying to revive a fran­and out of a protective boot, he's Jacksonville hospital. chise that has become an NFL door­still got plenty of rehab. 
"His overall condition has mat. "It could he a blessing he's got­improved greatly," Kerwin said. The Rams have lost 17 of their ten operated on, and (surgeons) "We expect him to be discharged last 20 games, most of them routs. went in there and cleaned thingsMLB soon." But no matter how dire the situa­out," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich Collier will undergo physical tion appears, Haslett said it'll never said. "Had he not hurt it in the therapy to learn how to move from be as bad as in his final season as Olympics, he probably would have
Twins at White Sox 

his bed to a wheelchair. He will head coach of the New Orleans done it 15, 25, 35 games into the
7:30 p.m., TBS 

never walk again, the doctor said. Saints in 2005 in the aftermath of season. 
"He has extreme grief for a life­Hurricane Katrina. "His ankle probably would be in time of dreams he won't be able to "This is nothing," Haslett said, better shape now than it's been in fulfill," the agent said. "compared to that." years." 
IN BRIEF Collier, P.aralyzed below Rams fire Linehan after Still recovering, Ginobli to 
waist, has leg amputated· disappointing start to season miss up to two months 
Fla. ST. LOUIS -SAN ANTONIO -There was no 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Defense helps Cavanaugh stay undeafeated 
Pangborn grabs first win of season with offensive outburst; interceptions produce points in Walsh's win over Lewis 
ond half and marched into the offense firing on all cylinders. the win. "threw the team for a bit of aBy CHARLIE SPOKES, KYLE 
red zone behind two Bishop They scored two touchdowns "We saw our quarterback loop."
SMITH, KELLEN MATHERS, runs for fourth down eonver­early to put Badin back on grow up today," Herman said. Holfs went on to creditDOUGLAS FARMER, and 

sions and a 12-yard pass to their heels. "She's doing better with her Murphy.
CHRISTINA McDONNELL senior Laura Geizman, the "The first half, our offense reads, looking ofT her "Emily did a great job keep­

Sports Writers 

Dueks' number one reeeiver. seemed to click," Pangborn receivers, and just throwing it ing the team together," Holfs "She's got a lot of experi­captain Kathy Poploski said. around to everyone." said. "And .~he had a couple of' Cavanaugh 7, Howard 6 ence," Bishop said. "It's great The two scores left Badin (0-Though the win boosted the great runs. 
Cavanaugh exacted revenge to have her around." 2-1) demoralized and faeing an confidence of a young Walsh As of Sunday night, Holf's list­for last year's last-second The Cavanaugh defense uphill battle the remainder of team, I-Ierman stressed that his ed herself as questionable with defeat as they kept lloward out responded to Howard's impres­the game. team needs to stay humble. badly bruised ribs for next of the end zone as the elock sive drive by tightening up and "We got in such an early "We still have a long ways to Sunday's game against Walsh expired on a 7-6 victory. stopping thn Dueks on fourth hole, [and] the games are short go," Herman said. "We're pret­Family. 
"That was the same game as and goal. so it was tough for us to cw:ch ty much a second half team. Chamberlain hopes to kPnp last year." lloward coach Kyle Howard got th'e ball back up," Badin coach Jon Heintz We need to be a wh·ole-game the team from getting frustrat­Carter said. "Except that last again after stopping the Chaos, said. team if we hope to make it all ed. lie optimistically calls the time we scored with four sec­but their drive again stalled at While Pangborn converted its the way to the Stadium this Babes "undefeated," as both of onds left and this lime they got the Cavanaugh 7-yard line. chances, Badin struggled to year." their games this season have us back Iwith a defensive The Chaos again failed to kill score, having two drives For Lewis, the loss was dis­ended in lies. The Babes will stopI." enough time off the clock, snuffed out in the red zone by couraging, but they know they look to change that fact. and 
Howard opened the scoring though, and were forced to interceptions. still have time to improve. remain undefeated, on in the first half with a 10-yard punt with 40 seeonds left. "Where we failed to score, Assistant Coach Christian Thursday against Pangborn. rushing touchdown by sopho­lloward couldn't capitalize, they capitalized," Badin cap­Galvan cited a series of unfor­more quarterback and captain and the game endf~d in defeat tain Katie Rose said. tunate plays as the reason for PW 12, PE 6 Kayla Bishop. for the Ducks after two consec­Heintz also recognized the the loss. Lewis held even with Pasquerilla West earned 
"I just had to scramble," utive incomplete passes from Bullfrogs failure to make the Walsh throughout the first half, their first win of the snason Bishop said. "I was responding the 39-yard line. most of their offensive chances. playing "mistake-free ball" as this Sunday with a 12 -6 victo­to the pressure." "The defense played really "Converting in the red zone Galvan called it. ry over rival Pasquerilla East. 
The Ducks could not covert wnll," Bishop said. "We were was the difference," he said. The second half was a differ­The PW (1-0-1) offense came the two-point conversion just ineffective in the red zone Badin's defense struggled to ent story, though, and out strong early, taking an though. and the score stayed at on offense. We'll have to focus slow the Phoxes offense, espe­turnovers proved to be the early lead that the defense pro­6-0. on winning our next two games cially quarterback Gabby Tate, downfall of the Chicks. Galvan tected throughout the second 
Cavanaugh responded near in order to make the playoffs." who gave the Bullfrog second­said he did see encouraging half by putting constant pres­the ~~nd of the first hall' as the ary trouble all afternoon. signs, however. A fierce Lewis sure on the quartnrback. Chaos offense marched down Pangborn 21, Badin 9 "It was the first time we have pass rush harassed Walsh The scoring began early in thn field and seomd behind the Pangborn grabbed its first played a quarterback that has quarterbaek Emily Murphy all the first half when the Purple play of quarterback and cap­win of the young season been that strong throwing and game, sacking her twice and Weasel quarterbaek connected tain Katie Dunn. Cavanaugh Sunday, triumphing 21-9 over running," said Rose. forcing a bad pass that Lewis with a receiver for a touch­weot into halftime up 7-6 after the winless Badin. The absence of a few key intercepted. down on a fourth and goal adding the PAT. Pangborn (1-2) came rushing receivers and linemen also hurt Galvan was also impressed play. The two-point conversion 
lloward eame out in the see-out of the gates with their Badin, but Hose was happy with his team's offense. failed, though, and the Pyros with the way the subs per­"We certainly showed a lot of (0-2) took over on offense. formed. improvement this week," he llowever, Pasquerilla East 
"The girls who ended up said. "[We] certainly threw the quickly lost any momentum stepping in to play did a great ball better, certainly got down they had started to gain when job," she said. the field a lot more." Though their drive was halted behind 
The dying minutes of the they have yet to win, Galvan the 10 yard line on a key inter­game saw Badin go into their emphasized that the Chicks are ception for the Purple Weasels hurry-up offense, desperate for still "nowhere near over with that was run in for a touch­a score. After a long dri,ve, our season." down, putting the Weasels up freshman Carli Fernandez by 12. caught the Bullfrogs first Breen-Phillips 0, Farley 0 "We started off rough on both touchdown of the day. Badin In a defensive showcase, the sides of the ball," Pyro fresh­decided to go for a three-point Breen-Phillips Babes and man Nneka Ekeehukwu said. conversion, and they were Guc­Farley's Finest ended their "There were runs that we just cessful with the attempt. It was game Sunday in a 0-0 tie. couldn't complete." too little, too late, though, as Each team had two chances The Pyros finally scored in the time was no longer on their at putting points on the board, last minutes of the second half side. but thanks to superior defense, when quarterback Caitlin Lynch 
Heintz was disappointed with and one penalty, neither team connected for a touchdown the loss, but still happy with his succeeded. pass. However, even this team's effort. On the first drive of the momentum didn't last long. 
"For the most part we played game, Farley marched down Pasquerilla West forced another well," he said. "But they just the field, and sophomore quar­key interception with less than got the best of us." terback Emily Murphy threw a a minute left to play that stilled 
five-yard touchdown pass, but the PE oll'~nse. Walsh 14, Lewis 0 an illegal block negated the "The last game was tough for 
Several key turnovers paved play. us on both sides of the ball. This the way to a 14-0 Walsh victory B.P., meanwhile, had two win was definitely a huge confi­over Lewis Sunday at LaBar drives end two yards from the dence booster," Purple Weasel Field end zone. An interception off a senior captain Cara Davies said. 
Faced with a scoreles~• tie deflected pass stopped one Clearly, the win energized the after halftime against the possession. The other simply PW team that was held score­Chicks (0-2), Walsh (2-1) safety could not gain the final two less against Cavanaugh last Kim Bugos intercepted Lewis yards. game. quarterback Brianna Curtis on Coach Brya~ Chamberlain PW coach Derek Woznicki a deep pass over the middle. did see some positives in his had nothing but praise for his The Wild Women then drove team's offensive performance. team's performance.. down the field and scored on a "Our offense had more ups "The offense really clicked receiver sweep to put them up than downs," he said. "The today and our defense made the 7-0. downs just came at inoppor­big plays," Woznicki said. 
Later in the half, Walsh tune times." On the other sid£1, even the scored again on a run to the On the final drive of the Pyros played a much tighter left to increase the advantage game, with less than a minute game despite taking the loss. to 14-0. Two more Wild Women remaining, Farley faced third­"We've improved a lot from interceptions sealed the victory, and-goal from the 1-yard line. last week so we're all excited providing a good birthday pres­Neither a quarterback sneak for the next game," Ekechukwu ent for coach J .J. Rees. nor a quick pass attempt could said. "We know we'll come out 
Walsh cornerback Allison gain the yard, and thus the strong early after today's Vicenzi also came away with a game ended in a scoreless tie. game." key interception, while quar­The longest lasting effect of terback Emily Murphy consis­this game could be the limita­Contact Charlie Spokes, Kyle tently found receiver Bugos tions to the Farley offense Smith, Kellen Mathers, Douglas downfield, providing a vertical without injured wide receiver Farmer, and Christina threat to the Walsh passing and team captain, senior Jenny McDonnell at cspokes@nd.edu, attack. Rolfs. In the first half. a Breen­ksmith31 @nd.edu, 
Assistant Coach Jeremiah Phillips defender knocked Holt's kmathers@nd.edu, IIerman said Murphy's matura­out of bounds and to the dfarmerl@nd.du, and cmcdon­tion was a key compone t1t of ground. Holf's felt her injury nell@nd.edu 

Tuesday, September 30, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL PREVIEWS 
Pyros ready for must-win game against McGlinn 
Howard tries to rebound against Pasquerilla West; Lyons prepares for crucial game against unbeaten Cavanaugh 
By TIM LANG, CHRIS 
MASOUD and CHARLIE 
SPOKES 
Sports Wrirers 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla East 
With their backs almost against the wall, and the playoffs looking more and more like a pipe dream, the Pasquerilla East Pyros (0-2) are set to square off against the mighty McGlinn Shamrocks (1-1) tonight at 9 
p.m. at the Riehle Fields. 
Fresh off of an impressive 14-6 victory over Lyons, the 
Tharsde~y Octobqr 1, 1008 • 7:30 pm 
Thv Stotv Thvotrv Kolomozoo.. Mlchlgon 
TI~<>ts on sal<z now at Stat<> ~rvBoJ<om~... all Tk:k<>tmast<>r l~atlons. ~hargcz by phoncz 269/373-7000 or onllncz 
www.tl~kvtmastczr.com 

Gcznczral $22.50 

or show 

Shamrocks will try to contin­ue their winning ways versus the Pyros, using a combina­tion of Sarah deGroot's preci­sion passing and a pass rush which registered a season high four sacks last week. 
The big question mark, however, is whether the Pyros will be able to rebound from two crushing defeats and notch their first victory of the season. 
In a 12-6 loss to Pasquerilla West last Sunday, the Pyros showed flashes on both offense and defense, but inconsistencies and break­downs on defense, especially 
Frlde~y Octobqr 3. 1008 • 7:30 pm 
Emens Aadltorlam Boll Stotv Onlvvrslty Mandv. lndlono 
Tk:kcots on sal<> now at Em<>ns tkkvt offtc<>, an-d all TI~kvtmastvr lo<atlons. Charger by phOII<Z 765/644-3131. 
or online 
wvvw.tl~k<>tmastvr.~om. 

Information 85-1539 or 
in the secondary, hindered in our eyes," Ducks quarter­any chance they might have back Kayla Bishop said. ''I'm had of busting out of the loss confident our offense can get column. it going." 
Captain Tara Pillai remains The success of the Ducks' confident her squad has what offense will rely heavily on it takes to play competitively the shoulders of Bishop and with an emerging McGlinn her offensive line as they 
team  and  was  look to march  
encouraged by  down the field  
a  solid week of  "We had a lot to work  effectively  
practice. "We had to work  a lot on,  on with most ofour time trying to fix our  against a stingy PW defense. Wide  
with  most  of  inconsistencies in  receivers  
our time trying to fix our  pass coverage.  L a u r a Giezeman and  
inconsistencies  Kaitlin  
in pass  cover­ Tara Pillai  Robinson will  
age," she said.  PE captain  present  a 


"However, we also added some different plays and worked on some new routes." 
Tonight's matchup will set­tle for sure if the Pyros can rally from this hole they've dug themselves into. If they cannot, their playoff hopes will most certainly be extin­guished. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Howard 
The Howard Ducks will try to turn their season around as they face the Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla West this tonight at 7 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Coming off a painful 7-6 loss to Cavanaugh last week, the Ducks (1-2-0) know they need to rebound against PW (1-0-1) if they want to keep their slim playoff hopes alive. 
"This is a must-win game 

University of Notre Dame 
Office of International Studies Presents Study Abroad Programs in China (Beijing, Shanghai & Hong Kong} Information Session 
Wednesday, October 1, 2008-5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
threat to the 

Weasel sec­ondary, as either one is capable of taking one to the house on any given pass. 
"We're creating the big plays, we just need to capi­talize on them in the red zone," Bishop said. 
But don't expect the PW defense to give the Ducks any help. Led by the speed and quickness of defensive linemen Jordan Johnson, the Weasels hope to be in Bishop's face all night. 
"The defense has done a great job of putting pressure on the opposing offense," senior captain Cara Davies said. "The defense will have to step up again." 
Led by Davies at quarter­back, the undefeated Weasels hope to ignite a dynamic offense that posted 12 points en route to their first victory of the season against PE. 
"We just want to take care of the ball and limit the turnovers," Davies said. "The offense will fall into place." 
The experience of two-way starters Cynthia Curley and Alyssa Moya may give PW the edge, as the juniors pose a threat on the receiving core and in the secondary. The addition of talented freshmen on both sides of the ball gives depth to the PW bench. 
Lyons vs. Cavanaugh 
The Lions of Lyons Hall have their work cut out for them as they bring their 1-1 record to Riehle Fields at 8 
p.m. tonight to take on the 2-0-1 Chaos of Cavanaugh. 
Led by a daunted defense that has allowed only six points through three games, the Chaos are trying to gain momentum as they keep their sites set on the play­offs. On the other sideline, Lyons needs to bounce back from a loss to McGlinn to solidify its playoff resume. 
"Our play was sloppy at the start of last game," Lyons captain and quarter­back Claire Connell said. "We are determined to come out ready to play tonight." 
Cavanaugh's offensive pro­duction has come on the heels of consistent quarter­backing play from captain Katie Dunn. 
Lyons also relies heavily on its defense to keep them in games, led by senior Shannon Brady. 
"Shannon Brady leads the defense," Connell said. "She does a great job executing [at middle linebacker] as well as communicating with the rest of the defense." 
If the Lions are to win this defensive battle, count on sophomore Neva Lundy to be the one celebrating in the end zone. 
"She was a key receiver last year and has continued to perform well in our games this season," Connell said. 
The game tonight promises to be full of intrigue as Cavanaugh tries to continue its unbeaten run and Lyons tries to keep its playoff dreams alive. 
"We are going to play hard right from the first whistle and keep the momentum in our favor," Connell said. 
Contact Tim Lang, Chris Masoud and Charlie Spokes at dangl@nd.edu, cmasoud@nd.edu and cspokes@nd.edu 

Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Academic Year 2009-2010 Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 More information available at www.nd.edu/""ois/ 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 30, 2008 


MLB 

Blue-collar Bre-wers ready for postseason 
Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE -The words 
are tattooed on Dale Sveum's 
arm. 

It's the same message his 
father used to deliver before 
games. It's the same thing the 
Milwaukee Brewers' interim 
manager scrawled on a club­
house board Sunday. 
"Give 'em !lei!." 

CC Sabathia sure did. So did 
everyone else. 

Now Prince Fielder and these 
blue-collar Brewers, the guys 
who untuck their shirts after 
each victory to acknowledge a 
job well done, get to move on. 
"Something special has hap­
pened," Sveum said just before 
getting on a bus to fly to 
Philadelphia for Game 1 on 
Wednesday afternoon. "We 
want to continue it throughout 
the playoffs and hopefully got 
11 more wins." 

Next up, the Phillies, who 
were swept out of last year's 
playoffs by Colorado. 

Quite a way for the Brewers 
to start October, after such a 
shaky start to September that 
included a 3-11 stretch and cost 
manager Ned Yost his job. 

"I sent Ned an e-mail," gener­
al manager Doug Melvin said 
just after the Brewers clinched. 
"Dale's done a wonderful job 
these last 12 games in a tough 
situation with the pitching the 
way it was. (But) this is a big 
part of Ned, too." 

On Monday, Melvin still hadn't 
heard from Yost, whom he 
picked to run the Bre-wers six 
years ago and who had prom­
ised to be celebrating wherever 
he ended up. 

"I haven't heard back from 
Ned, but I plan to hear back 
from him. I don't know if he's 
traveling and he went away for 
a few days or whatever. I've 
talked to Ned a couple of times 
(previously)," Melvin said. 

With Sveum taking over, the Brewers reached the postsea­son for the first time since 1982. 
"We didn't take the direct path that everybody wanted us to take, but we took the fun path," said infielder Craig Counsell, who grew up in the suburbs of Milwaukee and won World Series rings with Florida and Arizona. "We made it excit­ing." 
It was a long time coming, and thousands of fans came out for a rally sending the Brewers oiT. 
Milwaukee hasn't seen the playoffs since MVP Robin Yount (now the bench coach) hit two home runs on the season's final day win the AL East. That squad also saw manager Buck Rodgers replaced with Harvey Kuenn as "Harvey's Wallbangers" reached Game 7 of the World Series. 
This season looked lost so many times, including May 1 when Yovani Gallardo tore a ligament in his right knee hur­dling a baserunner in Chicago. 
Melvin lamented he'd no longer have his promising young righty to form a 1-2 punch with ace Ben Sheets. 
But Melvin focused on finding the best rental after years of building a farm system that produced a lot of homegrown talent. 
On July 7, Melvin landed Sabathia from the Indians for four prospects in what looks like one of the best midseason trades ever. 
Sabathia (11-2, 1.65) has been dominant in every way, throwing seven complete games with the Brewers and winning 
·14 of his 17 starts. In his past 
three, he's thrown 335 pitches -all on short rest. 
Sabathia looked get stronger in each of his starts as the game went on, striking out 11 against Pittsburgh,...~;on Wednesday before a four:hitter in Sunday's 3-1 vietory over the Cubs. 
In the final inning, Sabathia was still hitting mid-90s mph on the radar gun, and nearly hit a homer himself in the sixth with a long foul ball. 
"We're never going to give up," shortstop LJ. Hardy said. 
Without the larger-than-life lefty, these Brewers would have fallen far short and nearly played themselves out of the postseason race anyway. 
After being the second best team in the NL most of the sea­son, Milwaukee lost four straight to the Cubs to end July and four more in Philadelphia that erased what was left of a 5?-game wild card lead enter­ing September. 
But these Brewers kept bouncing back behind Sabathia and just enough power when it counted. 
"It's been a crazy week, crazy month, crazy year for that mat­ter," said Ryan Braun, who hit the tiebreaking homer with two outs in the eighth. "We really had to overcome a lot to get to this point. A lot of different guys contributed. 
"It is really special. Nothing was given to us. We haven't played great this month, but great teams find a way to over­
come  that  and  win  tough  
games," he said.  
Sveum,  who  played  in  

Milwaukee until 1991, waited for his chance to help the fran­chise that drafted him in the first round in 1982. 
"This is a dream come true," said Sveum, who parlayed his pitching staff perfectly down the stretch after being the oft­criticized third-base coach in the 2004 Red Sox championship run. "It's just a fantasy world right now." 
It sure helps to have Sabathia, who keeps adding zeros on the scoreboard -and to his poten­tial payday once free agency begins -with each trip to the mound. 
But Sheets, who started the All-Star game and is the longest-tenured Brewers player, might not get that chance despite years of toiling on terri­ble teams. Sheets says he's like­ly done for the year because of a bad elbow. 
But Gallardo is back, sched­uled to pitch Wednesday's Game 1 after throwing 67 pitch­es over four innings on Thursday in his first start since May 1. 
"I love that they're giving me the opportunity to go out there," Gallardo said. 
Sabathia will pitch Thursday's Game 2, his fourth straight start on three days' rest, and could return on full rest for a potential Game 5, if necnssary. 
"This is big because the city's been starving for this. Everybody's excited," Sabathia said. "This is unbelievable." 

Tuesday, September 30, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
kind of flat, not really ready to blocked. their offensive strategy, as Dillon in a Big Red victory, 7-0. play football." "Our receivers did a great job defeated the Knights 7-0 Sunday Alumni 9, Duncan 0 
Ra01blers 
continued from page 20 
to move down field deep into Knott territory. A touchdown pass from Max Young to sopho­more receiver David Ruffer capped the 80-yard drive. Knott blocked the PAT to hold the score at 6-0 
"We were a little rusty today, but we executnd when we need­ed to," Siegfried coach P J Zimmer said. ''I'm sure we'll con­tinue to improve, as long as we keep up the quiekness and inten­sity." 
The next two drives ended in punts, and the Ramblers headed into haliUme with the lead. 
On the first drive of the second half, Marcus Young got most of the touches, rushing for 30 yards on 8 carries. From the 1-yard line, Max Young snuck over the goal line J(x the second Rambler swrP. Huffer, who is aLso the kickm, made the extra point to put Siegfried up 13-0. 
"We gave up some big key plays today," Knott coach Brian Lohr said. "We faced a great team out there, and they just stuck to fundamentals. We need to work on executing consistently and we can win games like this." 
Knott continued to struggle oll'ensively, as Hedshaw threw an intflrception on the Juggerknotts next drive. The Ramblers also had difficulty moving the ball on offp,nse, and had to settle for a 40-yard field goal attempt which hit the left upright. 
Knott had one final possession, but the Siegfried defense shut them down once again and regained possession on downs. Marcus Young took the final touches to run out the clock, as the Hamblers walked away victo­rious. 
"We looked good," Young said. "It was our first game, but we came out and played well." 
Sorin 8, Zahm 0 
Sorin kept its undefeated sea­son intact with an 8-0 victory over Zahm Sunday. 
Both offenses came out very slowly, and thfl first four drives of the game rflsulted in three-and­outs. 
After the fourth failed drive, though, Zahm caught a break as Sorin's punter caught the snap with a knee on the ground, resulting in a turnover on downs. The Habid Bats looked to quickly capitalize on the short field posi­tion with a long pass play that forced defensive pass interfer­ence. 
After another first down, Zahm had first and goal from the 2­yard line. The Rabid Bats could­n't capitalize, though, and the drive ended with a fourth-down sack by defensive lineman Matt Gamber, also an Observer A<;soeiate Sporl<; Editor.. 
The score remained 0-0 until late in the third quarter when Otter quarterback Casey "Pistol" McGushin connected with Hob Gallic on a slant route for a 37­yard touchdown. 
"He made a great read and got thll ball to me quick for the long touchdown," Gallic said. 
A missed extra point left the score at 6-0. Zahm's next drive was stunted by two .defensive plays by safety Mike Browder that kept Habid Bat receivers from making first-down catches. 
The game ended with the Otters punting the ball to the opponent's 1-yard line, and Sorin earned a safety three plays later. 
Despite the loss, Zahm coach Kyle Jones was not entirely dis­pleased. 
"Overall we had a solid per­formance; we just couldn't make the big plays," he said. "It was our first game and we came out 
"Our strength is really in our ground game, and when we get behind it is tough to air it out and get back in the game." 
Sorin captain Hob Gollic was happy with the win but realized his team has to play better in upcoming games. 
"Overall we moved the ball really well," he said "We had a few too many penalties and bonehead plays, but overall the offense was solid." 
Carroll 7, Fisher 6 

After a period of Fisher domi­nance, Carroll has regained pos­session of the crooked stick. 
In a close game that came down to the last 1 0 seconds, the Vermin pulled away with a 7-6 victory, thanks to a last-second touchdown pass from quarter­back Nick Ruof. 
"We played hard, we didn't give up, we made things hap­pen," Huof said. 
Offensively, both sides started slow, with consistent three-and­outs to start the game. 
"When the offense struggles, it forces the defense to be on the field too long and they end up getting tired by the fourth quar­ter," Fisher captain Brian Monson said. 
Both teams picked off some passes, including one by Carroll defensemen Sam Russ. 
The half ended scoreless. 

Fisher came out strong in third quarter, with Cameron Compton leading the Green Wave to a first down. Ultimately, Jamie Ellis put Fisher on the board with a touch­
-down. Fisher missed the extra point, though, and the score remained 6-0. 
Carroll's offense struggled, with a fumble early in the fourth, but regained possession with seven minutes left in the game. 
Offensively, Carroll made quite a few offensive adjustments dur­ing practice in the recent week, including moving quarterback Kris Kast to running back, and replacing him with captain Nick Ruof. 
With three minutes on the clock, Kast gained 15 yards to put the team in scoring position. 
Ruof was able to capitalize on the opportunity with a pass to the back right corner of the endzone for the score. Kicker Mick Tomchaney completed the extra point with seconds to go, solidify­ing the win for the Vermin. 
"Sometimes the breaks don't go your way, it's tough to work so hard and to end up losing two games in the way we have," Monson said: "Our defense has really done a great job and it is on the offense to step up and be more consistent against St. Ed's next week." 
Next up, Carroll will face Zahm, Sunday at 2 p.m. on Riehle Fields, and Fisher will face St. Ed's at 1 p.m. 
Stanford 20, Keough 7 

Keeping true to their word, the Stanford Griffins rolled past the Roos of Keough for a command­ing 20-7 victory in their season opener. 
Stanford (1-0-0) has now recorded eight consecutive victo­ries dating back to last year and has not lost a game in two years. 
Keough (0-1-1) came outfired up, containing the Griffm offense with pressure from the defensive line and forcing a punt on their first drive. 
But Stanford's defense responded quickly, recovering a muffed snap on the second play of the ensuing Keough drive. 
Three plays later Stanford quarterback Brian Salvi connect­ed with sophomore tight end Thomas Smith on a 25-yard pass for their first touchdown of the year. The PAT attempt was 
of creating separation all day," 
senior captain Salvi said. "I don't 
think there's a linebacker in the 
league who can cover Tommy." 
The Keough offense retaliated on the following drive, balancing a powerful running game and a spread offense. Senior running back Nazur Ahmed pounded the ball on the ground while quarter­back Matt Bruggeman hit receivers with quick passes. A 3­yard pass to wide receiver Kevin Laughlin, evening the score at 6­. 6, capped the 14-play drive. The extra point gave Keough a one­
point lead 
"Our line controlled the trench­
es," Ahmed said. "I have com­
plete confidence in their ability to 
make holes and protect the quar­
terback." 
But with only two minutes · 
remaining in the half, Stanford 
executed a· flawless two-minute 
offense. 
Salvi found wide receiver 
Anthony Rizzo for a pair of 25­
yard passes, and the drive culmi­
nated in a touchdown pass to 
senior David Costanzo as time 
expired. Stanford completed the 
two-point conversion, giving 
them a 14-7 lead at haUlime. 
Keogh's offense was unable to 
find a groeve for the rest of the 
game. 
Anchored by Stanford corner­
back Chris Gill and hard-hitting 
safety David Costanzo, the 
Stanford secondary prevented 
the Roos from completing a sin­
gle pass in the second half. 
After forcing a Keough fumble, 
Stanford added some insurance 
points when Salvi found Smith 
again for a 35-yard touchdown 
pass, sealing the deal. 
"The bottom line is we lost the 
game because we couldn't stop 
the big play," senior captain 
Laughlin said. 
Dillon 7, Keenan 0 
For the Big Red, it was a week of firsts. For the Keenan Knights, it's another week of reworking 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2009-201 0 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

at Riehle Field. 
The game started well for Dillon as it recovered a fumble on the first play, causing Keenan to lose its possession and giving Dillon a little motivation that they carried throughout the game. 
"They shut out a team with a pretty good running game," Dillon team captain Chris Cugliari said. "In particular, defensive end Jordan Smith, and safety Dan Braun, with his inter­ception, played well and caused turnovers." 
The Keenan offense struggled to run effective plays against Dillon's defense for most of the game, and they only completed one 12-yard pass in the first half. 
Approaching the conclusion of a scoreless first half, Dillon looked ready to score with excel­lent field position. On third down, and just inches from a first down, defensive players from the sidelines shouted confidently as they ran the ball for the Big Red's flrst first down of the sea­son. 
A controversial call brought the flrst half to an end, when a potential Dillon safety was deemed an illegal touch. 
"It's the referee's call," said .Keenan head coach, Ben O'Connor said. "They made the right one." 
After the half, the shutout ended as Dillon was able to score their first touchdown of the sea­son, to put them ahead 7-0. 
"It was great to finally get on the scoreboard." Cugliari said. "We felt that our offense was capable of breaking out at any point, and to put a touchdown drive together that took off the entire third quarter was some­thing big for us." 
"I hope to greatly improve our offense, mainly our run blocking and our passing," Keenan cap­tain, Bart Dear said. 
The Knights were unable to come back with a touchdown of their own, and the game ended 
The Alumni Dawgs ended a lengthy losing streak, defeating the Duncan Highlanders 9-0, as the Highlanders fell for the sec­ond consecutive scoreless week. 
"It's a new era for Alumni," Alumni freshman tackle David Cowley said. "It was our first win in about three years or so, and we're hoping to continue with a winning streak." 
An early field goal by Alumni gave a boost of confidence to the Dawgs offensive momentum. 
The game picked up again later in the second half with a touchdown from Alumni quarter­back Par Rushford to tight end Mike Delack to put the Dawgs ahead 9-0 after a missed extra point. 
In its flrst year, Duncan has a large number of freshmen, and a full team that has never played together before. 
"The hardest part of having a young team is trying to get the guys acquainted with Interhall play," Duncan team captain run­ning back Garrett Burke said. "If you want to win you have got to keep the same mental discipline and aggressive mentality." 
One thing that sets Alumni out from the rest is their fans. Accompanying the team was a one-member, trombone pep band that played the songs of the Fighting Irish as Alumni fought for a victory. 
Though Alumni pulled out a win today, they still have some kinks to work out offensively. 
"We kept getting to the red zone, but couldn't score," fresh­man defensive tackle Chris Kinney said. "Next week we play Siegfried, and that will probably 
Contact Nathaniel Lee at nlee5@nd.edu@nd.edu, Liza Navarro at lnavarro@nd.edu, Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu, Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu and Molly Sammon at msam­mon@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
Go gle The bus is coming. 
Please recycle 

Limrt one coupon per customer. Valid at the Fall 2008 Vera Bradley OUtlet Sale during one of the dates and times on this coupon only. Not to be used and Is void outside the staled date(s)/time(s). One time use only. The original coupon 
• must be surrendered at the time ol redemption. May not be combined with any other offer or coupon. Otter void to 
employees of Vera Bradley and wh..-e prohibited. Coupon is void If altered, forged, transferred, reproduced or copied. 
Irish 

continued from page 20 
yard scoring drive -56 of those 
yards coming on the touchdown 
pass. 

It's pretty tough to fmd a com­plaint there as well. 
It looks like it will have to be special teams then; they're always good for a verbal beat­down. Let's start with the kickoff squad who held two of the nation's most dangerous return men to an average of 14 yards per return -maybe not. What am I supposed to whine about? The Irish even kicked a 41-yard field goal. 
It's time for the last resort­you. 
Last Friday one of The Observer's most talented and good-looking young writers pub­lished an idea to turn the student section into a giant, man-made Irish flag. Sections 33 and 34 wear orange, 31 and 32 wear white, and 30 and lower wear green. 
Understandably, about as many people read the columns as peo­ple who read that copy of.Du Lac the administration hands out freshman year. But I'm going to give this another try anyway. 
This Saturday let's show the Stanford Cardinal that they truly 
Fortner 

continued from page 20 
two-way tie for first with UT­Arlington junior Michael Van DeVenter. Trailing Fortner is Irish freshman Max Scodro, whose fourth-place finish at the John Dallio Memorial last week bumped him up to the varsity squad. Scodro carded an even par-71, good enough for seventh overall. 
"Max [Scodro] is coming ofl' an impressive ... finish in his first college event," Kubinski said. "He's an upbeat young guy with a great deal of talent. I think he'll give us a very positive vibe this week." 
Sophomores Connor Alan-Lee and Jeff Chen each tallied three-have the weakest nickname in all of college sports. Even the UC Santa Cruz Banana Slugs are more intimidating than a tree. What better way to show some Irish Pride than turning ourselves into a giant flag? 
The navy blue splashed with patches of green and yellow looks weak when compared to the bright orange Oregon State side­lines, or the giant blue "S" in the middle of a sea of white at Penn State. 
It's true, unless you live in Knott Hall an orange shirt might be hard to come by. But make the trip down to Meijer for a 6-pack for $5. Or, it's safe bet that Salvation Army has a great selec­tion of orange get-ups for even less. If not ask a friend who lives in Michigan, I'm sure they have something in their hunting gear collection. 
It'll be worth it when you see yourselfjumping around on SportsCenter after Clausen hits one of his receivers for the oblig­atory corner of the end zone fade touchdown on Saturday. 
You have my word that this will be the last of the Irish flag columns, but give it a shot. What do you have to lose? My apologies for whining, but hey, I needed something to complain about. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

over 74 to put themselves in a tie for 26th place overall, while fellow sophomore Tyler Hock added a 75 to round out the Notre Dame squad. 
"We're all very motivated," Kubinski said. "We have some­thing to prove this weekend. We weren't satisfied with our results out at [the USF Olympic Club Intercollegiate]. I know we'll give it a great, great effort at P.oppy Hills ... I look for us to be competing at the top of the board by Tuesday afternoon." 
The second round concluded late Monday evening with Notre Dame tied for fourth with UT­Arlington. Fortner posted a 70 to fall into second place behind San Francisco's Domingo Jojola 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
KICKING OFF 


DAN COOPER!The Observer 

Junior kicker Ryan Burkhart kicks off to the Purdue return team during Notre Dame's 38-21 victory. 
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

JJW7MJID)1JZ
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
, First we work on posture,

one letter to each square, I/ then on rhythm, to form four ordinary words. 
·. / I then... 
SlONE 
I I I 


©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
[~ffb

tMYSLOB t / I 
WHAT IT TAK~S

J I I J / 
www.jumble.com TO B~C.OM~ A BALLROOM OANC.~r<.
I LETTEK ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I CI J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans:[ I X I J 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: PEACE LATCH MISFIT HELPER Answer: In for dinner, but frequently out all night ­FALSE TEETH 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Modern organizers,

Sleuthing aid briefly
11 Early education 33 Judge, e.g.
15 Hammer wielder 34 Skittish wildlife 
16 Bangkok 35 Record finish? 
currency 36 Fail to be
17 YouTube phenomenon 37 Food also called mostaccioli
18 ........... witness 38 Fictional 
19 Suffix with polymer 
Pulitzer-winning journalist in a

20 Walk-on parts? 2006 film 
21 Safari hazard 40 Didn't fizzle 
23 "Rhapsodie norvegienne" 41 Aquatinting acid 
cor,nposer 42 Succeed 24 Co-creator of 43 Grinders Hulk and Thor 
44 One might be 25 Napoleon, e.g. kidding 28 Allergist's 45 U.S.C.G. rank procedure 
48 "Madama 29 Lexicon listing Butterfly" wear 30 Relative of 49 Much-anticipated homespun Paris debut of 31 Century-ending 
1992 Middle Ages 52 Colleague of 38­year Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

5~ !-'lace tor trophies at an awards luncheon 
54 Concert venues 55 1971 Elton John song 
Down Kind of bean 
2 See 51 -Down 
3 Plot segment 
4 Where folks go off and on: Abbr. 
5 "View From the Summit" memoirist 
6 Swell 
7 _Lopez de Loyola, founder of the Society of Jesus 
8 People may get them before going to coli. 9 Part of a giggle 10 Hockey Hall-of­Farner Bryan 
11 Not in the picture 12 Archer's post 
13 Action thriller staple 14 Homey's acceptance 
22 Innards of some clocks 23 Posts: Abbr. 
24 Earth-shattering activity? 25 Casbah fugitive of French film 26 Noted diary words 

WILLSHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Erica Eleniak, 39; Emily Lloyd, 38; Bryant Gwnbel, 60; Jerry Lee Lewis, 73 
Happy Birthday: Use your Libra sophistication to gain access to groups that inter­est you this year. Before you know it, you will be in a leadership position. There is money to be made and new prospects in the future if you use your good sense of style and originality. Your nwnbers are 6, 8, 16, 26, 35, 40, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll be a little anxious, especially if things aren't moving fast enough for you. Don't hesitate to take over and push a little harder to get results. It's your insight and creative touches that will give whatever you are doing that added pizzazz. *** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Someone may try to outshine you at work, school or within your group of friends. Be methodical and ponder the situation fully before you decide to make a statement or move that could alter your standing. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get your work done but have fun doing it. The more networking you can fit in, the further you will get professionally. This is a wonder­ful time for you to express your thoughts, ideas, concerns and plans. ***** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22)c Concentrate on family, your lover and your friend­ships. So much can go wj'ong if you are shortsighted or neglect something or someone. A new conc9>t or way of doing things will help you achieve more but the change may be difftcult'*** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Open up about the way you feel and what you want to see happen. Money will come to you from an unui!Ual source. This should help you make the changes at home t)lat will ease stress ana add to your comfort and effi­ciency. ****· 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Look for an interesting position in a field that suits you and you will excel. A change rlfcareer or ·companies or even starting your own little business can all work ()dt well. Oppi>rtunities are present. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Y01i've. got lots on your plate and plenty of people wait­ing to see how you ate 11oing to handle e~rything. Dop.'t Jet your emotions get the better of you. Let your~ntuition guide you, not your heart. *** 
"·~ 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make a few n!lcessary changes to your personal life and the way you -divide wo,k and down time. and yon·will eliminate a lot of stress. 
Keep a level head to accomplish the moat in the l~st amount of time. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A chance to show your talent will ensure ad­
vancem~t. A trip may be spurred on ~y something that bllppens but phone ahead or deal wtth matters over the Internet mstead of ui person. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Watch what you say and be careful where you travel. Someone is trying to make you look bad, so be ready to troubleshoot. Over­spending, overdoing or overindulging will lead to more trouble. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18).: There is an opportunity to close a deal, push a settlement through or even collect money owed to you. Your insight will guide you to make the right choices·. You will win in legal matters. ***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Confusion is present. Don't be surprised if someone 
you least expect undermines you. Don't be bullheaded and forge ahead. You don't 
have all the facts. *** 

Birthday Baby: You are imaginative, intuitive and ingenious. Your charisma cap­
tures interest and attention. You tend to go overboard trying to please. Subtle 
power plays are your forte. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eu.geniala.st.comfor confidential consultations, myspace.com/eugeniolastfor Eugenia's blog 

Puzzle by Brad Wilber 
27 Alternative to a rip cord 
28 Coarse type 
30 Canal (connector of lakes Ontario and Huron) 
33 It intersects the nave 
34 Secretary, e.g. 
36 Garden no-no, now 37 One of six pieces by Bach 39 Daisy variety 40 Like some questions 42 Vertiginous 44 Wink accompanier 

45 "Power Lunch" channel 
46 Legendary kicker 
47 Legal hearing 

50 Sch. in Kingston 
51 With 2-Down. seat of Costilla County, Colo. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nvtimes.com/learninQ/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa~ nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip__________ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 30, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S GOLF 
Stuff of legends 
Fortner's impressive effort vaults himselfand his squad to the top ofthe standings in California 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Spons Wrircr 
Doug Fortner, whose 6 7 last month at Ireland's famed Ballybunion has become the stuff of' legend, conjured up a little magic again Monday. 
The Notre Dame junior's two­under 61) catapulted both him­self and the team to the top of thn standings al'tnr the first round at the Saint Mary's (California) Invitational at the Poppy I tills Golf Club in Pebble Beach, Calif'. 
The Irish lead the field of 17 wi t h a fo u r-ove r 2 S R• fo u r strokes ahead of UT-Arlington ( 292) at the par 71. 6,639-yard eours1~. The University of San Francisco rounds out the top three with a 293, trailing the Mavericks by one strok!L 
Notre Dame coach Jim Kubinski was heartnned by the progress Fortner made during the summer and early going of the season. 
"Doug IFortnerI is rounding into form," Kubinski said. "I think he'II be on a mission this [wnekl. lie has worked very hard on his overall game these last couple wenks and is show­ing good signs with the flat stick." 
Fortner's 69 placed him in a 
see FORTNER/page 18 


NO WoMEN's GoLF 
Thanks to record round, squad now infirst place 
Observer Staff Repon 
Breaking the program rocord score for a single round by two strokes, Notre Dame now stands in second place at the lleather Farr Memorial. 
Thn second-round five­under par 283 bestod the pre­vious mark. a 285 set in the first round of last year's Cougar Classic. 
Lnading the charge was sophomorn So-llyun Park, who pae1HI the Irish with hnr two-umler par 70. Park made hill" way into the record books as well. as she firod a six­undnr par 66 in tho afternoon session equalling the prnvious mark sot by lwr senior tnam­matn Lisa Maunu. also at last snason's Cougar Classic. The sophomorn's pffort was high­1i g h t n d t h r o u g h lw r ni g h t birdies on the day. Slw also finds lwrsnlf in a first-place tin with Kay llony of CSU-Long Beach at night-under par 1:{6. 
Breathing down lwr tnam­matn's nnrk was Maunu, who shot a one-undPr par 71 in tho morning snssion followed by a two-under par 70 in the after­noon holes. Iter rounds have lwr in the top-I 0. in a tin for 
seventh at three-under par 141. 
Junior Annie Brophy didn't do so shabby herself, shooting a one-over 73 in the second round to go with her first round total of even-par 72, placing her in a tie for 16th at one-over par 145. 
Freshman Becca Hunter did her part to help propel the Irish to their record day, tiring a three-over 75 and a two­over 74. good enough for a 29th-place tie at five-over 149. 
Hounding out the list was sophomore Katie Conway, who saw a one-stroke improve­ment over her first round scorn, shooting a three-over par 75. Through the first two rounds. she is in a tie for 42nd. with a score of seven­over par 151. 
The Irish cannot afford to ease their pace, although they haV!) built a comfortable lead. Colorado is four strokes behind tlwm with a score of one-over par 577, and CSU­Long Beach trails the Buffalo with a live-over 581. 
The invitational coneludns today as the final round is scheduled to begin at S:30 MST. 
FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
One n1ore ti.tne: shovv Irish pride 
All right, it's time for Tuesday's version of the Monday morning quarterback. 
Let's start with the quarter­back. Sophomore Jimmy Clausnn threw for 275 yards, thrnn touch­
downs and no intercep­tions. Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said in the post-game press con­ference that it wa.<> the 

Dan Murphy best game 
he has seen the young gunslinger play at Notrn Dame. 
Not too much to complain about there. 
But how about that balance? Offensive coordinator Mike Haywood called 39 passing plays and 36 running plays. The Irish backfield managed to piek up 201 yards on the ground in those 36 plays. 
It looks like the offense can escape an angry column for this week. 
Something must be wrong with the defensn then. In the second half the Irish defnnse held Purdue to three punts, two turnovers on downs and one 64­
see IRISH/Page 18 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Siegfried rolls past Knott 
Sarin overcomes Zahnz; Carroll edges past Fisher; Dillon wins first game 
By NATHANIEL LEE, CHRIS MICHALSKI, LIZA NAVARRO, CHRIS MASOUD, and MOLLY SAMMON Sporrs Wrirers 
Siegfried 13, Knott 0 

In Siegfried's first game of the season, senior quarterback Max Young helmed a dynamic offense, and Jed the Hamblers past their Mod-quad rival Knott in a 13-0 win last Sunday. 
The Juggerknotts could not contain the versatile Siegfried offense, and fell to 1-1 on the season. 
Both offenses came out sloppy to start the game. Siegfried SE·n­ior defensive back Tom Owens picked Knott sophomore quar­terback J.T. Hedshaw on the first play of the game. Three plays later, Knott recovered a fumbled handoff to regain pos­session. But the J uggerknotts could only drive to the Siegfried 43-yard line, and were forced to punt the ball. 
The Hambler offensn would get into gear on their next pl)s­session, using the dynamic run­ning back eombination of junior Dex Cure and senior Marcus Young. The two traded carries 
see RAMBLERS/page 17 






