
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SMC, HCC not represented at CCAC 
Kirsits says colleges were notified; officials there say they never received invitations 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
When the Community Campus Action Coalition (CCAC) met for the first time last Wednesday, both Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College did not join the University of Notre Dame, Indiana University South Bend (IUSB) and the City of South Bend in atten­dance. 
Both eolleges insist that they did not receive invitations to or notifi­cations about the meeting. CCAC Chairman and Councilman-at­large N "Buddy" Kirsits said that 
Perfection a problem for GRC 
Rakoczy speaks about lifestyle problems 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Heather Rakoczy, the director of the Gender Relations Center, led a dis­cussion Wednesday on how competitiveness and perfec­tion ism affect men and women on campus as part of the "Notre Dating" series about relationships at Notre Dame. 
"Students sometimes think that parietals and single-sex halls are the biggest factors affecting gender relations here, or that if we got rid of the Catholic character of Notre Dame then it would be more like other schools," she said. "But I think the factor is perfectionism and compet­itiveness. Those create obstacles to friendly rela­tions with the other sex." 
One obstacle caused by competitiveness was "com­partmentalization, a work­hard-play-hard lifestyle where students pull all­nighters from Monday to Thursday and then drink and hookup on the week­ends," Rakoczy said. 
Compartmentalization is dangerous because "it cre­ates unrealistic expecta­tions," she said. 
"Even if you could sustain that for four years, you can't for the rest of your life. And I don't know if you would want to," Hakoczy said. 
Senior Sarah Waller said that high-pressure, compart­
see DATING/page 6 

invitations were sent to both insti­tutions. "They did not respond to our letters," Kirsits said. 
Tina Holland, the Holy Cross College senior vice president of student life, disagreed with Kirsits, saying the letters weren't sent to Holy Cross. 
"Nobody at the College received an invitation for the CCAC," she said. "I received a message from my contact at Saint Mary's, and she said that she did not receive one either." 
Furthermore, Holland said that 
see CCAC/page 4 

Students welcome break 
Week offers short vacation, service opportuties, respite from work 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 

Whether it's a week-long respite from the Indiana tun­dra in the tropical climates of Florida and Mexico or partic­ipating in one of the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) service seminars or Campus Ministry retreats, many Notre Dame students will leave campus~ during the spring break, which begins Saturday. 
The CSC offers diverse service opportunities for stu­dents during spring break. From community-based learning in several Southeastern states as part of the CSC's Appalachia sem­inar locations to exploring American health care prob­lems in Washington, D.C., students are able to move out of the classroom and into the real world. 
Jessie Jenkins, a Lewis sophomore, plans to attend an Appalachia Seminar in Harlan County, Va., during the week off from school. While she admits that it is tempting to relax on a beach, she says she looks forward to the service opportunity. 
"This is a good opportunity to get involved with the CSC," Jenkins said. "I think this will be a new experience that will broaden my outlook on life." 
The CSC is also sponsoring an Ignatian Spirituality Silent Retreat from March 2-7 in Donaldon, Ind. 
Other students are looking forward to unwinding at home. 
McGlinn sophomore Sarah Rodts plans to return home to Oak Park, Ill., where she looks forward to catching up on sleep, shopping in Chicago and even doing some lagging schoolwork. 
"I am looking forward to my best friend being home also," Hodts said. 
Other students will take to the (hopefully) sunny beach­es. 
Brian Price, a sophomore from Zahm, plans on escap­ing the cold weather of Indiana with a trip to Cancun with his friends over break 
''I'm looking forward to the nice weather, the sunshine and the mamacitas," Price said, referencing a slang word that harkens on the Spanish term for women. 
Some students, however, choose to stay on campus during the break. 
Although many buildings will close early during break, students remaining at Notre Dame still have a few options for keeping busy during the break. 
RecSports' facilities will open at 6 a.m. and close at 7 
see BREAK/page 6 


Theology on Fire lecture focuses on friends 
said. 
He said our friends not only help us through hard times, but also teach us goodness and morality. 
"When we are good friends we are learning about goodness and what God is like and pre­pares us for our relationship with God," Egan said. "All of life and all of love are a gift." 
Egan said that it is important to give of oneself as a gift to friends. 
"Mutual presence is essential to the quality of life because mutual presence is the only thing that brings about com­mitment," Egan said. 
If we cannot commit to each 
see FRIENDS/page 6 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Richard Egan, the president of the North America Carmelite Institute in Washington, D.C. quoted classic Beatles song "With a Little Help From My Friends" as he spoke on the importance of friendship dur­ing Wednesday's Theology on Fire lecture in the Saint Mary's Student Center. 
With biblical allusions and references to ancient philoso­phers and theologians, Egan stressed the importance of friends in students' lives. Friendship is a sacrament because Christ is a partner in the friendships we form, he 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
STUDENT SENATE 
Newminor suggested for Univ. 
Non-discrimination clause also discussed 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
The Student Senate passed resolutions supporting the creation of a Native American Studies minor and encouraging student input in the renovation of campus study spaces at its meeting Wednesday night. 
The Senate also voted to amend a resolution encour­aging the addition of sexual orientation to Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. 
Senators Erdina Francillon and Ezinee Ndukwe of the Multicultural Affairs Committee (MAC) presented information about the minor's relevance to the University, as well as results from a survey about student interest in the topic. Francillon explained the connection between Notre Dame's legacy and Native American tribe -such as through Father Stephen Theodore Badin, the priest who gave a farm to Notre Dame founder Father Edward Sorin. Badin stayed with the Potawatomi tribe near the St. Joseph River. 
"MAC truly believes [Native American history] is an integral part to learning about American history," Francillon said. "There is a correlation between Notre Dame's history and Native 
see HISTORY/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Headlines & deadlines 
1\arly this morning -after the past­
deadline stories trickled in, after an edi­
tor chm:ked the headlines one last time, 
even as the presses 
ran -my term as 
nnws editor ended. 
So long a.:; no 
unexpected spring 
break events con­
sume my meager 
savings, my time at 
The Observer is 
through. 
l joined the paper 
freshman year, 
eager to lind my 
place on a campus 
that still intimidated 
me. Two friends 
from my classes and dorm had begun 
writing news stories, and it seemed to be 
working for them. 
(lt eontinued to work f!Jr them. Maddie 
IIanna and Mary Kalil Malone just com­
pleted their terms a<; Editor-in-Chief and 
Assistant Managing Editor and an1 head­
ed oil" to internships at top papers.) 
Somewhere between writing my first story about campus MIX Day celebra­tions and covering the University's rnsponse to I Iurricane Katrina, I fell f!Jr journalism. 
I fellli•r the unexpected confidences, 
the newsroom chemistry and the rush of 
the catalytie deadline. 
Between covering Father .Jenkins' ver­
dict on the Vagina Monologues and 
reporting on the Common Council's 
attempl'> to make students rngist11r par­
ties, I learnml then1 was a lot mon1 to the 
craft than linding that per!i1et lede and 
that defining quote. 
The adremtline rush may have drawn 
me to this craft, but it was in the tension 
of applying thn loltiest ideals of reporting 
to messy wality that I became committed. 
As my colleagues in the sporl'i depart­mnnt oftnn remind me, many of the news stories we eover can seem a bit trivial. But that's OK. The Observer may have a tiny eoverage area, but the world of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is fascinat­ing and -to many people-immensely important. 
After ~-,rraduation, I'm going to try and give real-world, big-city reporting a chance. Or, givnn the journalism job mar­ket. I should say it's going to give me a chance. 
For now, my biggest concern is how I'll Jill 40 free hours 11ach week. But with only 10 more weeks to live by my best friends, I don't think lilling time will be hard. Without the weekly 6 a.m. editing nighL'i, my body may finally return to iL'i natural sleep cycle, and my friends can finally stop wondering whethnr their throwaway remarks about campus life will be turn11d into stories lilr the next week's papers. 
Forward your press releases and news tips to Bill Brink, my replacement. If you see mn at breakfast, it will be bncause I got up early, not bncause I haven't slnpt. 
News is unprndietabln, and the next f{)W wnnks c:ould hold a story so big I'll be back in the South Dining Hall nnwsroom, bogging Brink to put me on it. But if' this is the last thing I ever write li1r The Observer, I ean live with that. 
I'll leave knowing I've limnd more than a pastime. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen1er. 
Contact Karen l~angley at klangll'l@nd.edu 

Karen Langley 
News Editor 
NOTICE 
This is The Observer's final issue before Spring Break. The Observer will next publish on lueday. March II, 2008. We hope all srudenrs enjoy the week free ofdasscs. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 27, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR SPRING BREAK PLANS? 

Adjoa Andoh Angela Sutton 
sophomore sophomore Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla East 
"Sleeping on my "Going to 
couch at home. " Houston, Texas, with Lauren and Angie!" 
Gabby Ymalay 
junior Keenan 
"Spending quality time in Club Hesburgh. ,,, 





Dana Gates Jackie Collins Nicole Gill 
junior senior sophomore Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla East 
"Going to·a "Going to "Going to chalet, ifyou Glenmary Florida to get know what I Farms for tanned. But not 
,,

mean... Appalachia. toasted.,, 

DUSTIN MENNELlA!The Observer 
Bryce Chung and leigh Hickman, members of the Notre Dame Glass Club, make glass beads at their meeting on Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 
The Bengal Bouts quarterfi­nals will be held tonight at 6:30 at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are available at the Ticket Ollice. 
The lilm "The Diving Bell and the Butterfly" will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on tonight at 7. 
University President Father John Jenkins will appear on "Oflice Hours," hosted by senior Bob Costa, tonight at 9:30 on NDtv, channel 53 on campus cable. The episodn will also be availabln online at www.ndtv.net shortly after it airs. 
"Rasquiat" a film detailing the )if{) and strugglns of gralliti artist, Jean Michel Basquiat will be shown tonight at 10 in 
Browning  Cinema  in  the  
DeBartolo  Performing Arts  
Center.  

There will be Stations of the Cross on Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The film "I'm Not There," which tells the story of legendary singer Bob Dylan at different stages of' his life and with diller­ent actors in the lead role, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Friday at 7 p.m. 
Students will perform "1,001 Black Inventors" a play in which a family lives without the inven­tions of' Africans and African­Americans on Friday at 7 p.m. in Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh library 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 41 HIGH 35 LOW 34 LOW 21 
Python eats Australian family dog 
BRISBANE, Australia-A 16-foot python stalked a family dog for days before swallowing the pet whole in front of' horrified children in the Australian tropics, animal experts said Wednesday. 
The boy and girl, ages 5 and 7, watehed as the scrub python devoured their silky terrier-Chihuahua cross­breed Monday at their home near Kuranda in Queensland state. 
Stuart Douglas, owner of the Australian Venom Zoo in Kuranda, said scrub pythons typically eat wild animals such as wallabies, a smaller relative of the kangaroo, but sometimes turn to pets in urban areas. 
"It actively stalked the dog for a number of days," Douglas said. 
NYC man pays hundreds for squirrel homes 
NEW YOHK -What may be the cheapest rooms in Manhattan are made espe­cially for squirrels. A self­appointed protector of' squir­rels has paid to have soft­pine boxes made for the crit­ters and had them placed in trees at City Hall Park. 

Mark Garvin said he paid a "couple hundred dollars" to have each of' the boxes made. The Parks Department installed three at the park. 
Garvin, a biologist, said he and his wife appointed themselves caretakers of' about 60 or so squirrels at the park after 9/11. 
"That whole park was coated in white dust," 
he said. "The animals were dying over there, so that's w~en ~e really got deter­mmed. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0:: IJ.I 
:::z::: 
(--~rv(f~

~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
0

v ­< (.) 
0 
HIGH 26 HIGH 16 HIGH 34 HIGH 29
..... 
LOW 22 LOW 12 LOW 22 LOW 26 
Atlanta 51 I 32 Boston 29 I 8 Chicago 30 I 27 Denver 57 I 35 Houston 73 I 61 los Angeles 73 I 51 Minneapolis 28 I 22 New York 29 I 17 Philadelphia 40/35 Phoenix 81 /55 Seattle 56 I 43 St. louis 43 I 37 Tampa 61 /42 Washington 38/25 
--·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Gmody looks at globalization 
Theology professor co-edits a collection ofessays concerning migration 
Special to The Observer 
Father Daniel Groody, assis­tant professor of theology at Notre Dame, is co-editor of "A Promised Land, A Perilous Journey: Theological Perspectives on Migration," released this month by Notre Dame Press. 
A collection of essays by scholars, pastors and lay peo­ple involved in immigration aid work, the book presents an interdisciplinary treatment of the subject of migration. focus­ing on the theology of migra­tion and the ethics of migration policy. 
The authors recognize that one characteristic of globaliza­tion is the movement, not only of goods and ideas, but also of people. The crossing of geo­graphical borders confronts Christians, as well as ·an citi­zens. with choices: between national security and human insecurity; sovereign national rights and human rights; citi­zenship and discipleship. The essays focus on the particular problems of immigration across the U.S.-Mexico border. 
Father Groody, director of the Center for Latino Spirituality and Culture in Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies, also is the author of "Globalization, Spirituality and Justice: Navigating the Path to Peace" and "Border of Death, Valley of Life: An Immigrant Journey of Heart and Spirit" and editor of "The Option for the Poor in Christian Theology," which won the 2007 Pax Christi USA Book Award. 
Father Groody has been studying Mexican immigration for some 20 years and has pro­duced two film documentaries, "Dying to Live: A Migrant's Journey," which aired on PBS, and "Strangers No Longer," which was created for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops and their Justice for Immigrants Campaign. Both seek to present the "human face" of the immigrant, and Catholic social teaching on 
migration.  
A forthcoming film  titled  
"One  Border,  One  Body:  
Immigration  and  the  

Eucharist" highlights a Mass held at the U.S.-Mexico border with half the community in the U.S., the other half in Mexico, and the altar joined at the fence. 
Currently, Father Groody is conducting research on theolo­gy and immigration at the Refugee Centre at Oxford University. 
Cassel: Musharraf shoUld resign 
Special to The Observer 
With Pakistan's recent parlia­mentary elections swept by opposition candidates, President Pervez Musharraf should resign, according to Douglass Cassel, director of the Notre Dame Law School's Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
Sen. Joseph Biden, who recently traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan, said that he thought Musharraf would quit his job peacefully and "go gen­tly into that good night," but Rashid Qureshi, a spokesman for Musharraf, yesterday dis­missed Biden's remarks, adding, "It's very clear that the president has been elected for a period of five years by the rep­resentative assemblies who had been elected by the Pakistani people and not by any senator from the United States." 
"The defeat of President Musharrafs party in the parlia­mentary elections is an impor­tant first step," Cassel said. "It means that the prime minister and the government will now come from the opposition. We must hope that Mr. Musharraf will now take the next responsi­ble step-to resign from the presidency, which he unlawfully usurped after firing most of the Supreme Court." 
Cassel, a specialist in interna­tional human rights and inter­national criminal law, has been a consultant to the United Nations, the Organization of American States, the U.S. State Department, and the Ford Foundation. From 1992 to 1993, he served as legal advisor to the U.N. Commission on the Truth for El Salvador, supervis­ing its investigations, and act­ing as principle editor of its report. 

The 1st Aaaual Uaive..sity of Not.,e Da.ne 
Unde..g ..adaate Sc:hola..s Confe..enc:e r ..iday, May 2, 2008 
To accommodate students conducting research during spring break, the submission deadline has been extended to MONDAY, MARCH 17 
Students from ALL COLLEGES are invited to submit abstracts of proposed presentation of their Research, Critical Analysis, and Creative Endeavors 
Students wishing to participate in the College of Science 2nd Joint Annual Meeting should submit their abstracts to the Undergraduate Scholars Conference 
Guidelines and application are available on-line at: www.nd.edu/-urnd 
Alulllni Association aquires nevv executive 
'84 grad appointed associate executive director 
Special to The Observer 
Elizabeth "Dolly" Duffy, president of Atchison Products and a 1984 gradu­ate of the Notre Dame, has been appointed assistant vice president for universi­ty relations and associate executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
"I am excited to have a person ·of Dolly's experi­ence and integrity joining our team," said Charles F. Lennon, asso­

ciate vice "/ am excited to have executive for president for a person ofDolly's public rela­
university tions firms in
experience and
relations and St. Louis and e x e c u t i v e integrity joining Kansas City. director of the 
our team." She began Alumni her career as Association. the press
Charles F. Lennon
"She possess­secretary for es a strong executive director a U.S. con­

work ethic, a Alumni Association gressman 
Notre Dame. She and her husband, Dan Fangman, who earned his master of business administration degree from Notre Dame in 
·1984, purchased Atchison Products in 1990 and grew it substantially over 17 years. The company post­ed $15 million in sales in 2006 and last year was acquired by BIC Graphic USA. 
Prior to purchasing 
Atchison Products, Duffy spent five years as an account 
wide range of skills and a deep sense of commitment to Notre Dame. I look forward to working with her in fulfill­ing . the Alumni Association's mission of facilitating active involve­ment of alumni, nurturing the lifelong learning and spiritual development of our graduates, and foster­ing connections among alumni." 

Duffy will oversee the day-to-day operations of the Alumni Association, 
and currently 
serves on the 
board of directors for the Promotional Product Association International. 
Also active within Notre Dame's alumni community, Duffy has served on the board of directors for Notre Dame clubs in Washington, D.C., St. Louis and Kansas City. In addition, she is a member of Notre Dame's Advisory Council for University Libraries. 
"It will be such a joy to return to Notre Dame as a 
including com­munications, marketing, finance, tech­nology, alumni affinity groups, and professional, academic, spiritual and service pro­grams. 
"Dolly's role in the Alumni Association is very important to Notre Dame and our world­wide alumni b a s e , " University president Father John Jenkins said. "Her business background 

"Dolly's role in the Alumni Association is very important to Notre Dame and our worldwide alumni base. Her business background and exceptional leadership ability will be invaluable to the Alumni Association, and we are blessed to have her returning to Notre Dame." 
Father John Jenkins University president 
place  to  
work,  wor­ 
ship  and  
raise  our  

fa m i I y," Duffy said. 
Duffy and Fangman will be relo­cating to the South Bend area with their five children. Duffy will assume her role at the Alumni Association in August. 
Founded in 1868, the Notre Dame Alumni Association serves more 
and exceptional leadership ability will be invaluable to the Alumni Association. and we are blessed to have her returning to Notre Dame." 
Duffy earned a bachelor's degree in history from 
than 122,000 alumni and helps coordinate the activi­ties of 267 Notre Dame clubs around the world. It also oversees the University's Eck Visitors' Center on campus. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
vide contact information for Saint Mary's and lloly Cross to the

CCAC 

CCAC last week. continued from page 1 "Thny had a hard time getting 
hold of them. so I said I'd be lloly Cross was nnvnr notiliml that happy to provide contad inli>rma­a nwnting was being planned. tion, so at lnast they'd have a "We krww nothing about tlw place to start," he said. nwnting," llolland said. Both Saint Mary's and Iloly 
Slw lnarrwd of tho nuwting Cross intend to send representa­
through  Tlw  tives to the next  
Observer's covnr­ meeting, follow­ 
agn of tho <wont last Thursday, she  "They're pretty  ing a formal invi­tation.  
said. "It's prntty disturbing to havn linmd out about it in tho paper and  capable ofnotifying all kinds of developers [about  "IIoly Cross College has always stepped up to work with  
be accused of not having answnn~d messages," shn said.  zoning hearings/ and the businesses always get those. I  council mem­bers," Holland said. "We are very interested in  
Saint  Mary's  would trust our  our relationships  
College President Carol Ann Moonny said via an n-mail  Clerk's Office did a good job with that.  with folks in town. and cer­tainly have no  
that lwr institution was not notifind nithnr. "Saint Mary's  Somebody /at Saint Mary's or lloly Cross} just probably looked  reason to ignore any opportunities to get involved in something as  
did not recnivn an invitation to attend. Consnqunntly,  at it and flipped it aside or something like that."  important as this." Mooney also said that Saint  
Saint Mary's did  Mary's plans to  
not send a repre­sentative," she said.  AI "Buddy" Kirsits CCAC chairman  participate in the group if an invi­tation is  
Even so, Jiath<w  received.  
Mark  Poorman,  "Our decision  

Notre Dame's vien president for about participation will not bfl student all'airs, said that Saint influenced by our not having been Mary's and lloly Cross are indud­presnnt for the initial meeting," ed in thn ovnrall plan for the she said. "We are looking fbrward CCAC. to the next meeting." 
"Thnrn an~ spaens providnd for Kirsil'i said the colleges will be Notrn Damn, !USB. lloly Cross invitnd again to the second meet­Collngn and Saint Mary's College," ing. he said. "Tho CCAC was constitut­"We have indications that [their ed with Notnl Damn, !USB, Iloly absence] is going to change. Cross and Saint There's been Mary's. Thnre are communieation 21 people on the that they will CCAC and thorn "There are spaces partieipatn," he were always posi­said.
providedfor Notre 
tions set aside for l>nspite the
Dame, /USB, Holy
those schools, too." controversy Kirsits confirmed Cross College and regarding the Poorman's statn­invitations to
Saint Mary's College.
ment that positions the first meet­
The CCAC was
·are reserved on the ing, all parties 
CCAC for Saint constituted with said the CCAC 
Mary's and lloly could play an
Notre Dame, /USB,
Cross, saying that important role. 
Holy Cross and Saint
each of the four "It is very institutions can Mary's. There are 21 important for 
havn orw student people on the CCAC all the colleges 
and one administra­and universities 
and there were
tor representative in South Bend on tho eomrnittllP. always positions set to be in contact Kirsits did not aside for those and work with personally snnd or the city,"
schools. too. " 
delivnr tho invita­Mooney said. tions li>r the Feb. 20 "Our students meeting to lloly Father Mark Poorman attend activi­
Cross and Saint vice president for ties, shop and Mary's, but he said live in South
student affairs
Wednesday he is Bend and are positive that tlwy part of the wen~ mailed. community." 
"Tho City Clerk's Olliee handles Poorman agreed that every s<mding lettnrs and making phone institution needs to bn represent­calls," he said. "They're pretty ed at the group. capable of notifying all kinds of "All lour schooL<> have a stake in dnvelopers [about zoning hear­the discussion. These arc com­ings[ and the businesses always mon concerns of the various get those. I would trust our Clerk's schools and the local community," Ollice did a good job with that. Poorman said. Somebody [at Saint Mary's or Holy Kirsits also stressed the impor­Cross) just probably looked at it tance of the CCAC to make the city and flippnd it aside or something more comfortable for everybody. like that," he said. "We need to iron out problems 
llolland said them is no way the with partios and make sure stu­invitation would get misplacPd at denl'i are rnspnetful of neighbors lloly Cross. and make the neighborhood safer 
"We'rn a pretty small place," for studcnl<>," Kirsil<> said. "We're she said. "If somebody calls, looking fbr idea'i and communica­you're going to know. You're not tion." going to..get lost in any burnaucra­ey hnn~. Contact John Tierney at 
Poorman said lw olliwnd to pro-tierney.16@nd.edu 



Write 
ThH Senate also presented a resolution on including

History 
sexual orientation in Notre 
continued from page 1 Dame's non-discrimination 
clause. 
American his tory." Currently, the clause pro­Out of 429 students who hibits discrimination on the participated in the survey, basis of "race/ethnieity, 
22.4 percent were "very color, national origin, sex, interested," 57.5 percent disability, veteran status or were "somewhat interested" age," according to the Ofl'ice and 20.0 percent reported of Institutional Equity's Web they were "not interested at site. all" in having The resolu­this area stud-tion cites the ies available on Catechism of
"Jt's notjust how 
campus, the Catholic 
Francillon said. people used to live in Church's 
Biology pro­the past. It's what we teachings to fessor Gary accept homo­
can learn from the
Belovsky said sexual per­
traditions and the
that Native sons, as well American stud­cultures ofthese as examples ies still has rel­of other
people and how it can 
evance today American
shape ourfuture
and is not a Catholic col­"dead way of attitudes towards leges that life or dead include sexu­
things like the 
culture." al orientation
environment. That's 
T h e in their non­University will what we're trying to discrimina­
work with do -notjust relive tion clauses. 
tribes from The Faculty
the past."
Montana, and Student 
Michigan and Senates northern Gary Belovsky passed simi­Wisconsin 
to biology professor lar resolu­build the pro­tions in 1998, gram, he said. but they did 
"It's not just how people not achieve the desired used to live in the past. It's results, O'Neil senator Matt what we can learn from the Molloy said. traditions and the cultures Senator Denise Baron, who of these people and how it drafted the resolution with can shape our future atti­Molloy, said she wants this tudes towards things like the year's resolution to encour­environment," Belovsky age dialogue among stu­said. "That's what we're try­dents. ing to do -not just relive "There has been sort ol' a the past." letdown and a halt in com­
munieation with the dia­
logue necessary to really 
approach this issue." she 
said. 
Another resolution on 
Wednesday's agenda pro­
moted greater student­
administrator communica­
tion about campus study 
areas. 
There is no "struetured 
way of getting student infor­
mation," and some students 
have shown discontent over 
recent renovations, 
Academic Affairs chair Carol 
llendriekson said. 
"I know a lot of people were kind of upset with the first floor library renova­tions, in terms of' getting rid of the second l'loor comp cluster, establishing [fewer) computers in tho first floor area," shn said. "Almost always, the computers are at full capacity there." 
In other Senate News: 
+ 
Studnnt body vice presi­dent Maris Braun said the second annual Community Summit will take place on March 2S. City ol'l'ieials, business leaders and stu­dents will gather to discuss community relations issues. 

+ 
Karen Koski, the chair ol' the Social Concerns Committee, discussed a "stu­dent service or social action fund." Such a fund would allow students to apply for grants after serviee projects, so they ean continue to con­tribute to the community they served. 


Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivantos@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 CoMPILED FROb.'\ TI·H OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bejiing suffers low water levels 
BEIJING -When 16,000 athletes and offi­cials show up this summer, they will be able to turn the taps and get drinkable water ­something few Beijing residents ever have enjoyed. 
But to keep those taps flowing for the Olympics, the city is draining surrounding regions, depriving poor farmers of water. 
Though the Chinese capital's filthy air makes headlines, water may be its most desperate environmental challenge. Explosive growth combined with a persistent drought mean the city of 17 million people is fast running out of water. 
Meanwhile, rainfall has been below average since 1999. The result: Water resources per person are 1/30th of the world average, lower even than Israel. 
Columbian rebels free four hostages 
CARACAS, Venezuela -Colombian rebels freed four lawmakers Wednesday after six years of captivity, the guerrillas' second hostage release this year as they seek to per­suade the international community to strike them from lists of terrorist groups. 
The four former Colombian politicians were reunited with relatives amid tears, hugs and grasped flowers at Caracas' inter­national airport. 
"You've given me the opportunity to live again," freed hostage Gloria Polanco said when she was freed in a Colombian jungle clearing, thanking Venezuelan President llugo Chavez for making the release possi-
NATIONAL NEWS 

Conservative editor and author dead 
NEW YORK -William F. Buckley Jr. died at work, in his study Wednesday. The Cold War had ended long before. A Republican was in the White House. The word "liberal" had been shunned like an ill-mannered guest. 
At the end of his 82 years, much of it spent stoking and riding a right-wing wave as an eru­dite commentator and conservative herald, all of Buckley's dreams seemingly had come true. 
"He founded a magazine, wrote over 50 books, influenced the course of political history, had a son, had two grandchildren and sailed across the Atlantic Ocean three times," said his son, novelist Christopher Buckley. "He really didn't leave any stone unturned." 
Tennessee man kills four people 
BRISTOL, Tenn. -A man killed his ex-girl­friend's current boyfriend, her mother and two other people, then killed himself after police caught up with him in a rural area, authorities said. 
Rusty L. Rumley came to the family's apart­ment in a public housing complex Wednesday morning under the ruse of needing help moving furniture, Bristol police Chief Blaine Wade said. 
Rumley, 26, took Francis Watson -his ex­girlfriend's 43-year-old mother-and her neighbor Roy Malone to a breezeway outside the 10-story Edgemont Towers where he shot them, police said. 
Then he returned to the family's eighth-floor apartment and asked his former girlfriend for a drink. As she got it, he fatally shot her boyfriend, Brandon Michael Roskos and another friend,3-year-old Danny Wayne Murray, Wade said. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Execution date set for murderer 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Supreme Court has set an execution date for a man convicted of killing a Franklin College stu­dent. 
Michael Dean Overstreet, 42, is slated to receive the death penalty on May 30. 

Ile was convicted in 2000 of abducting, rap­ing and murdering 18-year-old Kelly Eckart of Boggstown in 1997. 
The Supreme Court set the date for Overstreet's execution on Monday after deny­ing a second appeal of the sentence. 
"We're very pleased that the appeal was denied," said Johnson County Prosecutor Lance Hamner. 
GAZA STRIP 
Israel, Hamas exchange rocket fire 
Bloodshed intensifies between rival forces following deadly attacks on college offices 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -Israeli air­craft blasted Hamas gov­ernment offices and metal shops late Wednesday, killing a baby and wound­ing more than 30 people in a retaliatory strike after a militant rocket killed an Israeli college student. 
The bloodshed fed wor­ries about a new outbreak of heavy fighting between the Israeli army and mili­tants in the Gaza Strip. 
Hamas claimed responsi­bility for the deadly rocket attack on the college in the southern Israeli town of Sderot, which came a few hours after two Israeli airstrikes killed seven peo­ple in Gaza, including two senior commanders in the Hamas rocket operation. 
After nightfall, a third Israeli strike aimed at a rocket squad in northern Gaza killed two youngsters leaving a mosque, Palestinians said. The Israeli military said it car­ried out the airstrike but had no knowledge of civil­ians being hit. 
Then Israeli planes attacked the office of Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh and the nearby Interior Ministry, both of which were empty. Haniyeh and other Hamas leaders have been in hid­least 40 rockets at Israel on At nightfall, four rockets those responsible" for the ing, fearing Israeli assassi­Wednesday, the military exploded in the Israeli rocket attack. In a state­nation attempts. said, many more than the coastal city of Ashkelon, ment to Associated Press 
Palestinian health offi­average of daily barrages including one near the Television News, he dis­cials said a 6-month-old that have disrupted life in city's main hospital, police missed arguments that baby was killed by shrap­the region. Associated said. No one was hurt. Israel "cannot or will not nel in the late-night Press pictures showed Ashkelon is 6 miles north (carry out) a wide-ranging airstrike in Gaza City and rockets streaking into the of the Gaza Strip. operation in Gaza." about 30 residents of near­sky from a densely populat­The fatal attack on Battered residents were by buildings suffered ed area of northern Gaza. Sderot intensified calls in both angry and resigned. wounds. A few minutes One rocket exploded in a Israel for a large-scale "We knew this was coming. later, Israeli aircraft hit two parking lot at Sapir ground offensive in Gaza It's a shame that it hap­metal workshops. College. Israeli officials said aimed at clearing the bor­pened. This is a difficult 
The Israeli military said a student, a 4 7 -year-old der area of rocket squads, day," Sderot's mayor, Eli the targets were command father of four, was killed by though previous incursions Moyal, told Army Radio. posts at the government shrapnel that struck his have halted such attacks David Barnan, head of building and sites where heart. Israeli TV stations only briefly. the college's students asso­weapons are made and showed a second man Prime Minister Ehud ciation, said he was stored. The military being carried on a stretch­Olmert, who is visiting shocked by what he saw. "I blamed Hamas for setting er with wounds to his legs. Japan, has ruled out such can't put it into words," he up such operations in pop­The student was the first an invasion for now. told Army Radio. ulated areas, and said Israeli killed by a rocket But during a visit to Barnan demanded that injuries to Palestinian civil­since May, when two peo­Sderot late Wednesday, the government carry out ians were unintentional. ple died in separate Israeli Defense Minister its pledges to reinforce 
In all, militants fired at attacks. Ehud Barak vowed to "get buildings at the college. 


Clinton loses key endorsem.ent to Obam.a 
wants "to be on the side of the people." he's been under tremendous pressure.
Associated Press 

"After taking some time for serious He's been my friend. He will always be reflection on this issue, I have decided my friend. At the end of the day it's not WASHINGTON -Civil rights leader that when I cast my vote as a superdele­about who is supporting us, it's about John Lewis dropped his support for gate at the Democratic convention, it is what we're presenting, what our posi­Hillary Rodham Clinton's presidential bid my duty ... to express the will of the peo­tions are, what our experiences and Wednesday in favor ofBarack Obama. ple," the statement said. qualifications are and I think that voters 
Lewis, a Democratic congressman Lewis' endorsement had been a covet­are going to decide." from Atlanta, is the most prominent ed prize among the Democratic candi­Lewis first announced his Clinton black leader to defect from Clinton's dates thanks to his standing as one of the endorsement in October and has campaign in the face of near-unanimous most prominent civil rights leaders of the appeared on her behalf on television and black support for Obama in recent vot­1960s. at event<> across the country, at one point ing. He al<>o is a superdelegate who gets "John Lewis is an American hero and accusing Obama supporters of trying to a vote at this summer's national conven­a giant of the civil rights movement, and fan the flames of race against her. tion in Denver. I am deeply honored to have his sup­Clinton has frequently cited his support 
In a written statement, Lewis said port,"Obama said in a statement. in trying to establish her credentials Obama's campaign "represents the Clinton, questioned about Lewis during among minority voters, saying she saw beginning of a new movement in a satellite interview with Houston televi­her campaign as a continuation of his American political history" and that he sion station KTRK, said: "I understand work. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 28, 2008 

Friends 
continued from page I 
other, then wn are not f'ul­

through the seven sacra­ments," Egan said. "They arc gifts of' God's self, and (;od manifests himself' in our f'rinndship." 
God lives in each person, 
filling our duty as a friend. he said. 
"!Friends! also constitute a basis for cre­ating a moral life," Egan said. 
(;od plays a signif'icant role in our f'rinnd­ships, Egan said. but we 

"/Friends/ also constitute a basis for creating a moral life." 
Richard Egan North American Carmelite Institute 

so we learn about God's love from our friends, he said. 
"We love the other for some good of our self, but love is gen­uinely love when I effec­tively do good to bring 
orten vinw these bonds as sncular. Instead, he argund, just as lovfl is a gift from Cod, so is f'riPndship. 
"(;od gives us himself' 


Dating 
continued from page I 
mnntaliznd rPiationships nncourage a "hook-up cul­turp" on campus. 
"llo.ok-ups arc a way to avoid a spectacle where Pveryonc knows that you're trying to get married," she said. 
Patrick Tighe, the eo-chair of the GPndcr Issues Committee of' the Student Snnate, said that hook-ups 
f'rinnds," hn said. "That's the goal for a lot of' guys." 
Sophomorn Patriek Bnars said that goal-driven rnla­tionships turn lovers into commod i ties. 
.. y0 u d0 ll •t think 0 r tlw Ill as anot.hnr human being, someone you really earn about b<ling with, but somn­thing that can got you where you·re going," Bnars said. 
Tighn said that it was logistically diff'icult to havn nwaningl'ul f'rinndships with womnn in thn dorms. 


Write SMC news. Call Liz 284-5365. 

about the good of the other," Egan said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO I @saintmarys.edu 
"It's a littlP hard, a bit weird to just hang out with a girl in the dorm," he said. "All your guy friends will wonder what's going on. But I don't have a car to go off-campus. What are going to do'?" 
Senior Gina Torres said that relationships at Notre Dame are complicated by the potential for mispercep­tion. 
"People generally think that there's something sexu­
ally charged 
when people 
go to dinner 
together," she
"There's just this

are sometimes said. "It's just expectnd, par­expectation that dinner." 
ticularly of' you'll have a hot girl Senior Katie 
male stu­Smith said
with you to impress

dents. that the "There's just your friends. That's potential for 
this expecta­the goal for a lot misperception tion that worries her.
ofguys."

you'll have a "IIow does a hot girl with question like, you to Patrick Tighe 'Would you impress your sophomore like to have 
dinner 
tonight,' 
translate'? I'm not trying to trap him into marriage. Eating at the dining hall should be normal," she said. "It's not mueh morn loaded to say morn forward things at a bar." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 

Break 
continued from page 1 
p.m. during the weekdays of break. Health Services, while still open during the bn~ak. will also have shortened hours. 
Those hoping to catch up on work while staying campus can rest easy, knowing that the llesburgh Library will maintain its usual hours during the weeklong vacation. · 
Both North and South Dining Halls will be closed, but stu­dents staying on campus can use the Huddle Mart and the restaurants in LaForunte llall. 
Students looking for some entertainment can take advan­tage of the shows and perform­ances at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (!)PAC). Showing in I>PAC's Browning Cinema Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights will be the Bob French program by the South Bend Symphony Orchestra and a performance by the Hubbard Street Dance Company of Chicago. 
All lWAC performance and show tickets arn available for purchase online. 
Briana Bower, a sophomore from Lyons who plans to stay on campus over the break, looks forward to relaxing in her dorm with her roommate over break. 
"I cannot wait for catehing 
Dylan biopie ''I'm Not There."  up  on  sleep and  not  doing  
Two other movies  homework,"  
playing at  DPAC  Bower said.  
will be the docu- She  said  
rn  e  n  t  a  r  y  that she and 

"/ will be staying
"Sharkwater" and her room­the 1949 classic here doing a lot mate, aware "Third Man." ofnothing." of the dining 
Other perform­halls' closing, ances at the DPAC have been 
Danny Nolan 
will include a stocking up 
senior  on  food  for  
their room.  
"We  also  
plan  on  ven­ 
turing  out  to  LaFun  and  

Hnckers," Bower said. 
Another student staying on campus is Sorin senior Danny Nolan, who looks forward to not being busy for onen. 
"I will bn staying hern doing a lot of nothing," Nolan said. "And I plan on eating a lot of Subway." 
Contact Katie Peralta at kprealta@nd.edu 

Choose From 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese 

• 
Ham & Cheese 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 






MARCO'S 
Fres" Sakect 
Sub 
99 

EACH 




574-243·1122 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcm•.com C2007 Marco's LLC 5724(1)ND-1007 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Minimum Order $8.00 For Delivery 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 

SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

For more information go to http://ace.inten1.googlepages.com/home 
>:.\ 

ACE UNDERGRADUATE NTERNSHIPS 

Thursday, February 28, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,694.28 +9.36

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,331 81 997 4,102,204,169 
AMEX 2;354:66;\{i~ji!;l:')~~~:~~~ NASDAQ 2,353.78 +8.79 NYSE 9/292.89 -9..~~~~ S&P 500 1,380.02 -1.27 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,816.51 ~214,1i~' FTSE 100 (London) 6,076.50 -10.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.10 -0.14 138.22 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.50 +0.22 44.29 FANNIE MAE (FNM) +1.11 +0.30 27.27 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +0.44 +0.12 27.56 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.26 -0.010 3.850 13-WEEK BILL -6.99 -0.145 1.930 30-YEAR BOND -0.13 -0.006 4.651 5-YEAR NOTE -0.45 -0.013 2.875 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.24 99.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +12.10 961.00 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -1.80 92.50 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 106.3650 EURO 0.6618 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9813 BRITISH POUND 0.5044 

IN BRIEF 
New House bill targets oil companies 
WA"'HINGTON -The House approvnd $18 bil­lion in new taxes on the largest oil companies Wednesday as Democrats cited record oil prices and rising gasoline costs in a time of economic troubles. 
The money collected over 10 years would pro­vide tax breaks !or wind, solar and other alterna­tive energy sources and for energy conservation. The legislation, approved 236-182, would cost the five largest oil companies an average of $1.8 bil­lion a year over that period, according an· analysis by the House Ways and Means Committee. Those companies earned $123 billion last year. 
Senate Democratic leaders said they would put the bill on a fast track and try to avoid a Hnpublican filibuster. The White House said the bill unfairly takes aim at the oil industry. President Bush is expected to veto the legislation if it passes Congress. 
Sales of new homes hit 13-year low 
WASHINGTON-In more bad news for the beleaguered housing industry, sales of new homes fell in January for a third straight month, pushing activity down to the slowest pace in near­ly 13 years. The median price of a new home droppnd to the lowest level in more than three years. 
The Commerce Department reported Wndnesday that new home sales fell by 2.8 per­cent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 588,000 units, the slowest pace since February 1995. 
The median price of a new home dropped to $216,000 in January, down 4.3 percent from the Dncember median sales price, the point where half the homes sold for more and half for less. Thai was the lowest median price since September 2004 and underscored that the steep slide in housing is still under way. 
Analysts believe that housing activity has fur­ther to fall as a tidal wave of mortgage foreclo­sures is dumping more unsold homes on an already glutted market. For January, the invento­ry of unsold homes dropped but since ihe pace of sales activity slowed as well, ihe number of months it would take to exhaust the current inventory rose to 9.9 months, the longest period in more than 26 years. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Markets finish mixed onseesawday 
Bernanke says central bank will remain vigilant against weak economy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street finished mixed in another seesaw session Wednesday after regulators allowed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to buy more mortgages and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said the cen­tral bank will remain vigilant about the weakened econo­my. 
Investors pared the mar­ket's gains after both devel­opments had initially boosted confidence amid increasing signs of a slowing economy. Wall Street has in recent · months grappled with con­cerns about rising prices, a weaker dollar and continued turmoil in the credit markets. 
Bernanke indicated the Fed is more concerned about the sagging economy then the immediate risks of infla­tion. In testimony on Capitol Hill, he told lawmakers the Fed will "act in a timely mmmer as needed to support growth and to provide ade­quate insurance against downside risks." 
The remarks came as the dollar plunged to a record low against the 15-nation euro. That sent already inflated oil and gold prices 

further into record high ter­Traders gather on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Wednesday. Wall Street finished ritory, and raised the 
mixed after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bemanke's comments on the economy.
prospect of accelerating inflation. economy." high of $1.5057 as sentiment The yield on the benchmark 
Meanwhile, Fannie Mae Major indexes initially increased that the Fed would 10-year note, which moves and Freddie Mac -the moved higher before continue its rate cut cam­opposite its price, fell to 3.85 biggest sources of financing investors cashed in profits, paign. The U.S. currency was percent from 3.86 percent for U.S. home loans -following a pattern set in mixed against other major late Tuesday. It then rose helped give the market some recent weeks. The Dow currencies. back up to 3.86 percent in ballast after the government Jones industrial average -The dollar's continued slide after-hours trading. removed restrictions on the now up four straight sessions drove more money into com­The moves followed a gov­size of their portfolios. That -rose 9.36, or 0.07 percent, modities -especially into oil ernment report showing offered a chance for an eas­to 12,694.28. and gold. business investment in ing of the extremely tight Broader indexes were nar­Oil prices broke through a durable goods weakened mortgage market that has rowly mixed. The Standard new intraday high of $102 a more than forecast at the been battered by the sub­& Poor's 500 index fell 1.27, barrel in overnight trading, start of the year, playing into prime loan crisis. or 0.09 percent, to 1,380.02, ihen fell $1.24 to settle at the nervousness about eco­
'The government is trying and the Nasdaq composite $99.64 a barrel on the New nomic slowing. The to do their part," said Todd index rose 8.79, or 0.37 per­York Mercantile Exchange. Commerce Department Leone, managing director of cent, to 2,353.78. Meanwhile, gold futures set a reported durable goods equity trading at Cowen & Stocks were somewhat new high of $961.30 an orders dropped 5.3 percent Co. "Together, this helps put under pressure after the ounce. in January, exceeding fore­a little more faith in the euro climbed to a record Bond prices rose slightly. casts. 

CourtmayIEXiuce ExxonValdez damages 
Neither has much to do with the legal liar to laws governing accidents on the
Associated Press 

principles that underlie the case. water. 
The award represents less than But several justices said that limits 
WASHINGTON-Nearly 33,000 three weeks' worth of Exxon profit, could be appropriate in this context Alaskan victims of the Exxon Valdez which was $11.7 billion in the last too. disaster could see their court-ordered three months of 2007. Justice Stephen Breyer, who has payments cut by more than half -to Still, Exxon has vigorously fought to voted to overturn damages awards, about $30,000 each-if the Supreme knock down or erase the punitive said he worried how the court's deci­Court hands Exxon Mobil Corp. a par­damages verdict by a jury in Alaska in sion in this case would play in other tial victory in a long legal fight over 1994 for the accident that dumped 11 maritime accidents. punitive damages. million gallons of oil into Prince "This is a very dramatic accident. It 
The justices reached no firm conclu­William Sound. The environmental involves oil spills, and they cause an sions in court Wednesday, but they disaster fouled 1 ,200 miles of Alaskan enormous amount of trouble," he said. appeared to agree with Exxon that the coastline and led to the deaths of hun­"But there are accidents eve·ry day, $2.5 billion -or $75,000 a person -dreds of thousands of seabirds and and ships are filled with accidents like ordered by a federal court is excessive marine animals. automobiles in other places. And there punishment for the massive 1989 oil The verdict has been cut in half once are all kinds of things that go wrong .... spill. by a federal appeals court. What principles do you have to sug­
Two justices, who could hold the bal­The problem for the people, busi­gest, if any, for creating a fair system ance of power in this case, suggested a nesses and governments who waged that isn'tjust arbitrary?" payout of about $1 billion might be the lengthy legal fight against Exxon is Justices Anthony Kennedy and appropriate. that the Supreme Court in recent David Souter suggested that perhaps a 
There was little talk in court of the years has become more receptive to reasonable number would be twice plight of Alaskans who depend on the limiting punitive damages awards. The the amount of money the company has area environment for their paychecks Exxon Valdez case differs from the paid to compensate victims for eco­
or of Exxon's run of recqrd profits. others in that it involves issues pecu-nomic losses, about $500 million. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
Navy official testifies against for111er sailor 
Classified info may have leaked to terrorists 
Associated Press 

NEW HAVEN, Conn. -The Navy would have immediately c:hanged plans had it known that details of ship movements had bnnn leaked to suspected terror­ism supporters, a former top Navy ollidal testified Wednesday at the trial of a former sailor on tnrrorism charges. 
Hassan Abu-Jihaad. 32, of Phoenix, has pleaded not guilty to fnderal charges alleging he 
provided materi­al support to ter­rorists and dis­dosed elassilied national defense information. 
If convicted, he faees as many as 25 years in prison. 
Abu-.Jihaad. an American-born Muslim eonvert 

"It's a very 
attack. But he vulnerable period of said he was still concHrned
time for us. " 
because even if the allegedlyDavid Hart Jr. leaked details Retired Rear Admiral were not pre­
formerly known as Paul R. llall, is aeeused of' leaking informa­tion that could have doomed his own ship. lie was a Navy signal­man and rnceived an honorable disc:harge in 2002. . 
lie is aceused of leaking details that induded the makeup of his Navy battle group, its planned movements and a drawing of the group's forma­tion when it was to pass through the Straits of Jlormuz on April 29, 2001. 
Files found on a computer disk recovered by authorities from a suspected tnrrorism supporter's home also induded the number and type of personnel on each ship and the ships' capabilities and ended with instructions to destroy the message, according to testimony. 
Hntired Hear Adm. David llart .Jr.. who was involved in plan­ning the deployment of the bat­tle group and was the com­mandnr, testified Wednnsday that he would have immediately alerted his supervisor in 2001 had he known that a battle group document was in the hands of suspected terrorism supporters. lie said he would havn sought an opportunity to change the time and nature of the operation. 
"It was a very vulnerable peri­od of time for us," Hart said. lie noted narlier that naval oflieials had taken steps to protect sailors aftm 17 of them were killed in the 2000 tflrrorist attaek on the USS Cole in Yenwn. 
Hart also said that sailors wnre typically in a heightened state of readiness through Strait of' llormuz. a busy. narrow Persian Gulf waterway where thny are frequently challenged by Iranian oflieials. 
llart eonfirmed that the infor­mation Abu-Jihaad is accused of leaking was sonsitive and dassi­lied. 
But on cross-examination, Abu-Jihaad's attorney, Dan Labelle. said the Navy wasn't shy about letting the world know when it was deploying ships to the Persian Gulf because it wanted to projeet strength and deter a erisis. 
"I think that's fair to say," Hart rHspondnd. 
Hart testified that some other information in the l1mked doeu­mHnts was incorrect, inducting a elaim related to the vulnerability to a small craft 
cisely accurate. 
they would have 
given away the key taetieal HIHment of surprise. 
Dol'cnse attorneys introduced a ship log indicating that the battle group passed through the . Strait of llormuz on May 2, 20(J1, not April 29. But Hart tes­tified that the plan did call for passing on April 29 into an area sometimes confused with the Strait of Hormuz. 
The documents indicated that ships would pass through the strait in a dual formation, which did not happen. Hart said. He also called a diagram that showed a submarine on each side of the ships "tactically unfeasible." 
Prosecutors noted that a title on the document appeared on only one column of the ships, suggesting a single formation. 
Prosecutors also acknowledge that they don't have direct proof that Abu-Jihaad leaked details of ship movements. But they introdueed e-mails he exchanged with a Web site opor­atp,d by suspeeted terrorism sup­portors. 
Prosecutors also introduced a doeument showing Abu-Jihaad had a secret security clearance, saying that could have given him access to the ship movements. 

Fla. poweroutages a mystery 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Power executives were still in the dark Wednnsday about how a glitch at a substation triggered a blackout that cut power to mil­lions across south Florida. The outage darkened traffic signals, foreed hospitals to scramble for generators and cut off air con­ditioners in the afternoon heat. 
Sporadic outages Tuesday spanned 300 miles of the peninsula but appeared to be concentrated in the southeast portion of the state. 
Communities along the south­west coast, in the Florida· Keys and as far north as Daytona Beach reported interruptions. 
Florida Power & Light spokeswoman Amy Brunjes said Wednesday the utility can't say whether it will be days or weeks before the explanation for the blackout is found. 
"As long as it takes to get to the cause·... Brunjes said. "We're conducting an extensive investigation." 
While the outage cut power to 2 million to 3 million people at its peak, power was quickly restored to most parts of the state and authorities said no injuries were reported. Only about 20,000 people lacked electricity during the evening eommute home. 
Bob Wild, a sports marketing eonsultant who lives in Miami's southern Kendall neighbor­hood, said he didn't even notice the blackout, thanks to his home's generator. 
"Our daughter called us from Washington and said she'd seen the blackouts on TV. That's when we found out." he said. 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN



STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 



----------------------------~-~-------------~--------------~ 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Barracks open for Katrina hoineless 
.New Orleans still sees huge amounts of people living in camps 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Since Hurricane Katrina l1ooded his home 30 months ago, Donald Collins says, he has l1ed to an evacuation center, huddled in an abandoned house and lived in a tent outside City Hall. Eventually the former sanitation worker migrated to a downtown underpass where crack sales and clothing donations seem equally com­mon. 
Mayor Hay Nagin has anoth­er stop in mind for Collins and about 200 other people who have been squatting there for months: a military­style barrack that critics say is short on long-term solu­tions to a homeless epidemic. 
'Tm not going," Collins, 52, said as he gulped a beer at 
10:30 a.m. on a Monday, describing himself as a Katrina-inspired alcoholic on a waiting list for subsidized housing. "Something else will turn up." 
N a gin vowed to use health and safety codes to move the men and women living under­neath the stretch of Interstate 10 known as the Claiborne Avenue bridge to the tarp­covered facility that was awaiting fire inspections. Aware of the camp's proximi­ty to the French Quarter and other tourist destinations, the mayor wants the move done by the end of the week. 
The barrack, 120-feet long and 30-feet wide, is air-condi­tioned, filled with double­decker bunk beds and stands on the grounds of a mission in the city's Central Business District that has worked with the homeless for 20 years. 

But even its administrator said he is unsure the facility that offers only meals and overnight stays to about 120 people can really help a homeless population that has doubled to 12,000 since Katrina struck in August 2005. 
"We'll do what we can," said Lou Banfalvi, project director at the New Orleans Mission. "We can offer them shelter. We cannot offer them a place to build a house." 
Nagin spokeswoman Ceeon Quiett said state and federal governments continue to wrap their housing assistance in red tape, while the mayor has been unfairly cast as an advocate of get-tough meas­ures against the homeless. 
The city's public advocacy unit, unarmed officers with the New Orleans Police Department Homeless Assistance Collaborative, city housing department workers, and mission staff will usher people into the barrack as early as Thursday, Quiett said. Those who do not go elsewhere will face citations, and arrests could take place if drugs are found, city officials said. 
The encampment attracted former Sen. John Edwards, who stopped there the day he ended his presidential bid and pledged to "never forget" the downtrodden. Visiting pro athletes have handed out food there on the way to the New Orleans Arena and Louisiana Superdome a few blocks away. 
Countless tourists also have passed the spectacle of curb­side panhandlers, frayed camping tents, scattered sleeping bags, discarded home furnishings that stretches for about five city blocks not a half-mile from the French Quarter. 
Steve Wheeler, 52, was part of a group called Homeless Pride that formed in the City Hall plaza, where 250 people lived until the pending demo­lition of an adjacent building prompted city officials and homeless advocates to clear the plaza. 
Wheeler accused Nagin of trying "to force people back into abandoned houses, back into the business district and back into the Quarter." 
On a local morning news show last month, Nagin said his frustration with the squat­ters is first-person. 
"I mean I pass underneath the bridge all the time, the Claiborne Avenue. Yesterday I passed there, some guy was drinking beer and just flip­ping the bird to citizens," the mayor said. 
The camp has grown increasingly fetid and danger­ous, just like its predecessor in front of City Hall. 
On Monday, a man appar­ently seeking to smoke crack shuffled by asking anyone who would listen, "You got a pipe? You got a pipe?" Another stormed through the grounds and pounded his hand against the tent of a rival he believed slept with his girlfriend the night before. The other man showed up later, and Collins warned him to stay away. 
''I'm going to get it together and get back in a nice house," said Collins, still working on the beer. "I won't be on the street long." 
love needs help 
ll.l'"''""~'"' call. 

Confidential support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7 407 OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 vrunpl:tS Ministry, 1-7163 
«<><t,u<eJllr Counseling Center, 1-4365 Health Services,.1-8286 
's Care Center: 234-0363 Charities: 234-3111 
we1Jsite ~~: clepa~~~ents/pregnant.shbnl 

Exchange student returns underfed 
Associated Press 
HALLOWELL, Maine Jonathan McCullum was in perfect health at 155 pounds when he left last summer to spend the school year as an exchange student in 
Egypt. . 
But when he returned home to Maine just four months later, the 5­foot-9 teenager weighed a mere 97 pounds and was so weak that he 
struggled to carry his baggage or climb a flight of stairs. Doctors said he was at risk for a heart attack. 
McCullum says he was denied sufficient food while staying with a family ofCoptic Christians, who fast for more than 200 days a year, a regimen unmatched by other Christians. 
But he does not view the experi­ence as a culture clash. Rather, he said, it reflected mean and stingy treatment by his host family, whose broken English made it difficult to communicate. 
"The weight loss concerned me, but I wanted to stick out the whole year," he said in an interview at his family's home outside Augusta. 
Friends and teachers at his English-speaking school in Egypt urged him to change his host fami­ly, but he stayed put after being told the other home was in a dangerous neighborhood of Alexandria. 
After returning to the U.S., he was hospitalized for nearly two weeks. The 17-year-old has regained about 20 pounds, but his parents say he's not the same boy he was when he left under the aus­pices of AFS Intercultural Programs. 
"He was outgoing, a straight-A student, very athletic. Now, he's less spontaneous and more subdued," said his mother, Elizabeth McCullum, who was shocked when she met her son at the airport on Jan. 9 and saw he had lost one­third his weight. 
Jonathan McCullum's parents said the exchange program should have warned them that students placed with Coptic families would be subject to dietary restrictions. 
Marlene Baker, communications director at AFS headquarters in New York, declined to discuss McCullum's experience. She referred calls to the program's lawyer in Portland, Patricia Peard, who said she could not comment on McCullum's case because of the potential for a lawsuit. 
McCullum said his host family gave him only meager amounts. of food, and his condition worsened during the last seven weeks, when the family observed a fast limiting the amount of animal protein he was given. 
The host family was a couple with two younger boys and a daughter who was in the U.S. on an AFS exchange. McCullum said the parents gave him the smallest food portions, hid treats in their bed­room and complained that the cost of his upkeep was more than they spent for their daughter when she was home. 
The host father, Shaker Hanna, rejected McCullum's story as "a lie," suggesting that he made it up because his parents were hoping to recover some of the money they paid for his stay as compensation. 
"The truth is, the boy we hosted for nearly six months was eating for an hour and a half at every meal. The amount of food he ate at each meal was equal to six people," Hanna said. He added that the boy was active, constantly exercising and playing sports. 

Man pleads guilty to 
selling dead body parts 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A man accused of plundering dead bodies and selling their parts to tissue com­panies for transplants will plead guilty after a judge rebuked prosecutors Wednesday and refused to let them renege on a deal they reached with him weeks ago. 
The judge's order means Michael Mastromarino, 44, will go to prison for a minimum of 18 years and up to 54 years for his ghoulish crimes -possibly putting him behind bars for the rest of his life. 
"Mr. Mastromarino may never see the light of day," said Brooklyn Judge Albert Tomei, 
whose  words  brought  
Mastromarino's mother  to  
tears.  

Prosecutor Monique Ferrell said there had been a "change in circumstance" and a trial was needed to reveal the full "scope of harm he caused." She said it was only in the last year that prosecutors had become fully aware of his activities. 
The Brooklyn district attor­ney's office said in a statement e-mailed after the hearing, "With the abundance of evi­dence and the number of vic­tims that were violated, and with their families expressing their preference for a trial, we thought justice and the public would be better served if we went to trial." 
Mastromarino's lawyer, Mario Galluci, called the prosecution's arguments for withdrawing the plea agreement "ridiculous." 
The judge called the prosecu­tion's reasons "specious" and said they had "no substance." 
''I'm not here to have show trials," Tomei said. 
There will be at least one trial for prosecutors. Chris Aldorasi, who was implicated in cutting up the bodies but has denied wrongdoing, has refused to plead guilty and take any offer that includes time behind bars. 
Aldorasi will face trial begin­ning Monday, when Mastromarino is to enter his plea. 
Mastromarino and Aldorasi, both in court Wednesday, face charges of enterprise corrup­tion. body stealing, opening graves, unlawful dissection and forgery. 
Also charged in the scheme, which Mastromarino is accused of masterminding, were a Brooklyn mortician named Joseph Nicelli and another cut­ter, Lee Cruceta. 
Cruceta has pleaded guilty and will testify against Aldorasi. Mastromarino will not testify against Aldorasi, his lawyer said. 
page I 0 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
Panel says kids need flu vaccines 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-All children ­not just those under 5 ­should get vaccinated against the flu, a federal advisory panel said Wednesday. 
The panel voted to expand annual f'lu shots to virtually all ehildren exeept infants younger than 6 months and those with serious egg aller­gies. 
That means about 30 mil­lion more ehildren could be getting vaeeinated. If heeded, it would be one of the largest expansions in flu vaeeination coverage in U.S. history. The flu vaecine has been avail­able sinee the 1940s. 
The Advisory Committee on I'mmunization Practices said all children should start get­ting vaccinated as soon as possible, acknowledging that many doctors havn already ordered tlwir vaccine for the 200H-2001J snaso n and may not be abln to givP the shots u n ti I 2009-20 I 0. Tlw 1'1 u sea­son generally starts in the fall and continues through spring. 
Tho panel's advice is rou­tinely adoptl~d by the (enters for Disf~asn Control and l'revnntion, which issues vac­cination guidelines to doctors and hospitals. 

Flu shots were already rec­ommnndnd for those consid­ered to be at highest risk of death or serious illness from the flu, including children ages f> months to 5 years, adults 50 and older, and peo­pln with weakened immune systems 
The panel said that should be expanded to ineludn chil­dren up to age 1R. 
Children ages 5 to 1R get flu at higher ratns than other age groups, but they don't tend to get as sick. Of the 
:H> , 0 0 0  n s t i m a t e d  a n n u a I  
dnaths attributed  to  the flu,  
only 25  to  50  oecur  in chil­ 

dren in that age bracket, CDC ol'f'icials said. 
But 1:hildrnn who stay home sick from school eause par­ents to stay home, so reduc­ing the illness in this group should cut down days of lost work, some experts said. 
Exports bnlievfl giving f'lu shots to morn ehildren may also prevnnl tlw illness from sprfHtding to adults and the elderly, although studies haven't elearly established that will happen. 
Shots are not the only option. A nasal spray vac­rine, FluMist, is approved for hnalthy people ages 2 to 49. 
Panel members wal'f'led a hit on wlwthnr to make the reeornmnndations kiek in immndiatnly. Some publie hnalth professionals pushed them to make the elearest nndorsenwn t possi bin of the f'lu vaeeirw. eoneerned that tlw publie is losing faith in flu shots bneause this year's vaecinn was not well matched to eireulating virus­es. 
I nd11ed, a l'ew argued that thn committee should reeom­rnnnd flu shots for every lwalthy pnrson, ratlwr than adding another set of ehil­drnn now and maybe young adults in a fnw years. 


Candidates debate Iraq war policy 
McCain, Obama argue long-distance over al-Qaida, Bin Ladin and pulling out troops 
Associated Press 
TYLER, Texas -Republican presidential hopeful John McCain mocked Barack Obama's view of al-Qaida in Iraq, and the Democratie con­tender responded that GOP poli­cies brought the terrorist group there. 
The rapid-fire, long-distance exchange Wednesday under­scored that the two consider each other likely general elec­tion rivals, even though the Democratic contest remains unresolved. 
McCain criticized Obama for saying in Tuesday night's Democratic debate that, after 
U.S. troops were withdrawn, as president he would aet "if al­Qaida is forming a base in Iraq." 
"I have some news. Al-Qaida is in Iraq. It's called 'al-Qaida in Iraq,"' McCain told a crowd in Tyler, Texas, drawing laughter at Obama's expense. He said Obama's statement was "pretty remarkable." 
Obama quickly answered back while campaigning in Ohio. "I do know that al-Qaida is in Iraq and that's why I have said we should continue to strike al-Qaida targets," he told a rally at Ohio State University in Columbus. 
"But I have some news for John McCain," Obama added. "There was no such thing as al­Qaida in Iraq until George Bush and John McCain decided to invade Iraq.... They took their eye off the people who were responsible for 9/11 and that would be al-Qaida in Afghanistan, that is stronger now than at any time since 
2001." 

Obama said he intended to withdraw U.S. forces from Iraq "so we actually start going after al-Qaida in Afghanistan and in the hills of Pakistan like we should have been doing in the first place." 
While he praised McCain as a war hero and saluted his service to the country, Obama said the Arizona Republican was "tied to the politics of the past. We are about policies of the future." 
Noting that McCain likes to tell audiences that he'd follow Osama bin Laden to the "gates of hell" to catch him, Obama taunted: "All he (McCain) has done is to follow George Bush into a misguided war in Iraq." 
McCain said he had not watched Tuesday night's Democratic presidential debate but was told of Obama's response when asked if as pres­ident he would reserve the right to send U.S. troops baek into Iraq to quell an insurrection or civil war. 
Obama did not say whether he'd send troops but responded: "As commander in chief, I will always reserve the right to make sure that we are looking out for American interests. And if al-Qaida is forming a base in Iraq, then we will have to act in a way that secures the American homeland and our interests abroad." 

On Wednesday, Obama expanded slightly that he "would always reserve the right to go in and strike al-Qaida if they were in Iraq" without detailing what kind of strike that might bn -air, ground or both. 
McCain said later in San Antonio: "So I guess that means that he would surrender and then go baek." 
Throughout the primary sea­son, McCain has repeatedly attacked Obama and Clinton Jor saying they would withdraw troops from Iraq. 
"And my friends, if we left, they (ai-Qaida) wouldn't be establishing a base," McCain said Wednesday. "They'd be taking a eountry, and I'm not going to allow that to happen, my friends. I will not surrender. I will not surrender to al­Qaida." 
lie said that withdrawing troops would be "waving the white flag." 




25°/o OFF. 
clothing, general books, gifts, accessories & supplies! 

10°/o OFF. 
law reference 
books, & computer supplies! 

*In-store purchases on 2/29/08 only. 
Leap Year Sale excludes textbooks, food, health and beauty items, diploma frames, special value spring break merchandise, St. Patrick's Day merchandise, calculators, computer hardware and software, gift cards, and previous or online purchases. May not be combined with other discounts, coupons or offers. 

NoTRitDAME-~ 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574)631-6316 • www.ndcatolog.com 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Fire111en unprepared for alternative fuel fires 
Rescuers not trained to use foam on flames 


Ex-cop sentenced to 57 years 
Ohio resident murdered pregnant wife, disposed of body in rug in park 
investigators their first clues to his his family.
Associated Press 
mother's disappearance when he Outside the courthouse, Davis' 
CANTON, Ohio -A former said, "Mommy's crying. Mommy father, Ned Davis, said he hadn't police officer was sentenced broke the table. Mommy's in the forgiven Cutts. Wednesday to life in prison with a rug," and later, "Daddy's mad." "He violently murdered my chance of parole after 57 years For more than a week, Cutts daughter and granddaughter. for killing his pregnant lover and denied knowledge What would you their unborn child. of her whereabouts do?" Davis said. 
"He violently

Jurors spared Bobby Cutts Jr. as thousands "Mr. and Mrs. the death penalty on the most searched in the murdered my Cutts did not serious charge, an aggravated area amid blanket raise him to do
daughter and 

murder count in the death of the national cable TV this, of that I'm 
granddaughter. What

fetus. coverage. He finally sure. Everybody 
Cutts, 30, had sobbed on the led authorities to would you do?" lost today." witness stand when he claimed the body, wrapped For the aggra­the death of 26-year-old Jessie in a comforter. vated murder
Ned Davis

Davis from an elbow to the throat The victim's charge in the 

victim's father 

last June was an accident during mother, Patty death of the an argument. He said he dumped Porter, wept as she unborn baby, her body in a park in a panic. He told the judge she was risking her the judge accepted the jury's rec­returned to the stand after his family's disapproval in asking for ommendation of life in prison conviction to ask jurors to spare Cutts to be freed at some point to with parole eligibility after 30 his life. share life with his son, now 3. years. 
Prosecutors argued that Cutts "I hope and pray I can raise him _ The additional years without killed Davis and the nearly full­to forgive you," she told Cutts. "He parole that were tacked on to term baby at her home in north­knows what you did. You would Cutts' sentence were for charges east Ohio to avoid making child not believe the stories he's told of murder in Davis' death, abuse support payments. us." of a corpse, burglary and child 
The couple's son, Blake, then 2, "I do forgive you," she said, endangering for leaving Blake was found home alone and gave drawing tears from members of Davis alone. 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Ad1nissions stafT, the counselor is expected 
to make an i1nportant contribution to the recruitment and selection of 
the first-year class by managing relations \vith the prospective applicants, 
their parents, high school personnel and alutnni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and con1munication \vithin the geographic area, assesstnent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions. Additional responsibilities \vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
An1ong our candidates, \Ve w·ill specifically seek an 
African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's dearee and strona familiarity 
b b ~ 
\Vith all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong co1nn1unication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the \villingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 



Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after April 1. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 

Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 
Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. ­The nation's drive to use more alternative fuel carries a danger many communities have been slow to recognize: Ethanol fires are harder to put out than gasoline ones and require a special type of firefighting foam, 
Many fire departments around the country don't have the foam, don't have enough of it, or are not well­trained in how to apply it, firefighting experts say. It is also more expensive than conventional foam. 
"It is not unusual to find a fire department that is still just prepared to deal with traditional flammable liq­uids," said Ed Plaugher, director of national programs for the International Association of Fire Chiefs. 
The problem is that water doesn't put out ethanol fires, and the foam that has been used since the 1960s to smother ordinary gasoline blazes doesn't work well against the grain-alcohol fuel. 
Wrecks involving ordinary cars and trucks are not the major concern. They carry modest amounts of fuel, and it is typically a low-concen­tration, 10 percent blend of ethanol and gasoline. A large amount of conventional foam can usually extinguish such fires. 
Instead, the real danger involves the many tanker trucks and railcars that are rolling out of the Corn Belt with huge quantities of 85 or 95 percent ethanol and car­rying it to parts of the coun­try unaccustomed to dealing with it. 
"Now, the most common hazardous material has a new twist to it," said Mike Schultz, a firefighter who manned a foam gun during a recent blaze in Missouri. 
The risk is more than theo­

. retical. Over the past several years, ethanol accidents on highways, along railroads and in storehouses and refineries have triggered evacuations and fires from Texas to Minnesota, injuring several people and killing at least one person. Water is not used against gasoline fires, because it can spread the blaze and cause the flames to run down into drains and sewers. Instead, foam is used to form a blan­ket on top of the burning gasoline and snuff out of the flames. But ethanol -a type of grain alcohol often dis­tilled from corn -eats through that foam and con­tinues to burn. Such fires require a special alcohol-resistant foam that relies on long-chain mole­cules known as polymers to smother the flames. Industry officials say the special foam costs about 30 percent more than the standard product, at around $90 to $115 for a five-gallon container. Fighting ethanol fires also requires a change in tactics. Brent Gaspard, marketing director for Williams Fire & Hazard Control Inc., an industrial firefighting compa­ny in Texas, said firefighters cannot just charge ahead and attack an ethanol fire with foam. "If you just plunge the foam into the fuel, it's going to be less effective. You have to let the foam gently run across the surface so you create a shield," he said. Industry officials said fire departments in just the past few months are becoming more knowledgeable about ethanol blazes and the spe­cial firefighting foam. At the ethanol industry's annual conference in Orlando, Fla., a member of a leading ethanol trade group is leading a session this week on safety for ethanol employ­ees, emergency workers and communities. Fire officials in Iowa and Missouri also want to offer firefighters there ethanol training. 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------------------------~-------~---------------­

page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre .Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle Wesr 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~s'l~ MANAt;ING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'<liNT EI>ITOR: Joey King 

SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hinc ScENE ElliTOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Karie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Du.<tin Mennella 
GRArmcs EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cnnez 
All DF.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardi<t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 obst·rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6j!-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vit-wpoint.l @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4~43 <pons.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 6.}1-8767 obsphow@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Ob>crver is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the studenrs of rhc Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr M.try's ( :ollege. Editorial contcnr, including adverrimnents, is not governed by policies of rhc adminisrration ofeirher insrimrion. The Observer rest•rves the righr 10 refuse adwrriscnwnrs b;t,ed on t·omcm. 
"J 'he news is reported as accurarcly and objccrively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represell! the opinion of rhc majoriry of rhe Ediror in Chief: Managing Editor, Assistall! Managing Edirors and deparnncnr editors. Commcmarics, lerrers and columns prcsem rhe views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is availablt· to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. L<:tters to rhe Ediror must be signed and must include ('OII!act int(>nnation. 
Questiow rrgardi11g Obsm1er polici~s shot<!d b~ dirmed to Editor i11 C'hiefMaddie Hamw. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11~; (lh!it'rvct (US~S 'W9 l-41KKI) ••1•uhln•hcd Munday thruugll frid11y excel'' 1luriug cum .md VlK.'allllll pcru,J,, A tulla(·npti••ncu ·n,ct.)h\l'rvc:r it$100 fm nne at.kkn•k yc;an $55 furmu:~~Ctml!"'tcr 
Ibc: Ul»crvcr '" pubhJhcJ .u POSTMA!;TF.R 024 ~•mlh Dinintt ll.~JJ Send .ld(ltt~~ wrrtetium to: Norn: Dame, IN 4M56-07?9 ThcOh~~Crvcr l'crindiaJ pmugc puid at Nor~ Do~mc P.O. Boxn9 .and udditiun.ll m.1ilinK uffiw. 024 Sumh Dining Hall Nouc Dame, IN 4(,'}56-0779 
111c: Obser«r 11 d member ol rhc: Auoc.tJICd Pn:t;!;. All rc:prudm:tinn nglm 1Hc rcKrv«i. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 

How to judge people effectively 
Despite being routinely compliment­ed on all facets of my personality, there is still one characteristic of mine that I never tire of hearing lauded. People often tell me that I am one of the best judges of 
John Everett

character they have ever known. I mention the 
Kids These 

praise of others not 
Days

because I needed it to recognize my own worth, but because I can see why some among my scant readership might harbor doubt. Doesn't everyone think they are good judges of character? 
I lowever, when I say that I am great at judging character, I do not merely mean, like the majority of claimants, that I can tell whether a person is good or bad, trustworthy or dishonest. 
No, I can do far more than simply put people into one of two categories. You see folks, humanity is not binary; there is variation. What is necessary is a level of comparative judgment. Yes, we can all recognize that the platitude n~peater in the first row of our philoso­phy class is not someone with whom we would like to associate, but say an evil billionaire said you had to either be stuck on an island with him or your shrewish ex-girlfriend. Which scenario would be worse? 
I've decided to help out should this nightmare scenario ever come to fruition. My own breakthrough on this came when I realized that the best way to judge people on this Earth, since we can never really know what secret motives they might possess or what lurking terrors roam their consciences, is to evaluate them based solely on how much you enjoy their company. 
Using religious, moral or ethical standards, or any standard which does not come from within, is insincere. We all like some fairly awful people, and 
there are saints who try our patience. 
I have determined that there are nine basic circles of how much I appreciate someone. The model sounds very much like Dante, and I will admit to some influence from that great source, though a crucial differ­ence is that there are positive as well as negative circles contained within this nine. 
The first four circles are all enjoy­able people, however, the levels serve as an indicator of degree. Circle 1 is the select collection of people whose presence would always be enjoyable to you. This is a distinction indeed. Placing a person here means that it would not upset you to have them knock at the door on your wedding night. I mean, who wants that oh-so­special Scrabble game interrupted'? 
Circle 2 is where most friends will end up, as nearly everyone can be grating occasionally. Circle 3 is people you like, but not that much. It is handy to think of this level in terms of favors. These are people you wouldn't want to pick up at the airport. 
Circle 4 is reserved for bad people whom you still enjoy. Basically, these people are funny, or brilliant, while possessing debilitating naws. Perhaps you might say about someone in Circle 4, "I wish Grover would cut down on the drinking. but he makes me laugh." 
Cirele 5 is the waiting station. This is the collection of people on whom there is insufficient information on which to judge. In my case this boils down to people I have never seen. If you've been in my line of sight for longer than 5 seconds, chances are you are not in Circle 5. 
Circle 6 is the reverse of Cirele 4. the home for the saints we can not stand. Maybe they're too squeaky-clean, or oddly nice, or any of 100 things that 
sound crazy when you try to explain 
them in print. I'm going to guess you 
get what I mean and move on. 
The last three levels are where it starts to bPcome dil'ficult, as this is where everyone you seriously dislike is going to wind up. Now, most people I dislike I dislikP nearly equally, howev­er, it is important again to remember that we are not looking at this through any socially constructed code, so you are not judging these people as worse than one another. 
What you must ask is whether there is any part of your dislike that might be considered unreasonable. It is pos­sible that all of these people deserve to burn in Circle 9 (after all, if you dislike them, they must be unsavory charac­ters, no?) but if there is any doubt in your mind, then you must allow them to rise to Circles 7 or 8. depending on the magnitude of your doubt. 
Don't fret too mueh though, once you get more evidence on how bad some­one is, you ean slide thHm down with­out reservation. Imaginary vengeance is always more enjoyable when backed by certitude. 
So there you havn it, a handy guide to ranking the people you nneountnr everyday, be they friends, classmates or unwitting archenemies. Now you'll be ready when that island-owning bil­lionaire comes to call. 
John Everett is a senior English major. 1/e is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. lie is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. If you have any informa­tion regarding his whereabouts, please contact jeverett@ndedu 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Liz Harter Chris Khorey Mandi Stirone Ellyn Michalak Emma Driscoll Laura Myers 
Katlyn Smith Scene 
Graphics Cassie Belek 
Matt Hudson 
Viewpoint 
John Dailey 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You haven't won the race, ifin 
winning the race you have lost the 
respect ofyour competitors. " 
Paul Elvstrom yachtsman 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 28, 2008 page 13 
Bandwagon fan's guide to Irish basketball 
While most think of February as the shortest month of the year, in the world of sports, it can sometimes seem like the longest. The endless chasm between the Super Bowl and Selection Sunday 
Bob Kessler

can be difficult to get through in most years. Despite this, House of February has been Stix a great month for this university, and I'm not talking about the proliferation of waffle fries in the SDI-1. 
February has been lit up under the dome at the Joyce Center with the Irish basketball team continuing a home win streak that has lasted since 2005. It's pretty amazing looking back: two years ago (when we last lost at the JACC, to Marquette) nobody would have expected that we would witness our football team lose more games than our basketball team over the next two years. Even for people who have been to every game (home and away) of both teams since Chris Quinn went pro, Brey's team only has one more loss than Weis's. 
Our miserable year on the gridiron can almost be forgotten because of our surprising success on the hard­wood. Noise levels in the JACC during recent games have approached levels that Notre Dame Stadium hasn't heard since Oct. 15th, 2005, and with much more favorable results. As the streak continues, students are arriving to games earlier and earlier and the bandwagon is growing bigger and big­ger. For the benefit of all those new to Irish basketball, or who don't see the games from a student's perspective within what Pat Forde deemed the second-best student section in the country, the following is a brief guide to Notre Dame basketball. 
Our team this year is built on senior leadership and youthful excitement. I could never say enough about Rob Kurz. He's gone through thick and thin in years gone by and now he's getting the payoff. Since most of the students won't be here for Senior Day next week, I'd like to thank him for his outstanding play over the last four years. 
Then we have the superstar. Luke Harangody might be the best player in the Big East, but his enthusiasm and excitement during games are what get the crowd going and keep them going. Some tried to call him Bam-Bam last year (because of his resemblance to "The Flintstones" character) while Digger calls him "Gody," but the fans in the JACC just prefer to call him "LUUUUUUUUUUKE." 
Next, there are the point guards, or as some like to call them: The Three­Headed Monster. "The Three-Headed Monster" is a rarely seen creature which comes out of hiding when Coach Brey puts Kyle McAlarney, Tory Jackson, and Jonathan Peoples in the game at the same time. This is proba­bly our most exciting lineup because a three point guard lineup has the potential to do amazing things. While The Three-Headed Monster only makes brief appearances, each of these three players is awesome in his own right. Tory Jackson gets rebounds like it's his job, K-Mac drains threes from ridiculous range, and Peoples has the biggest calves this side of Robert Hughes. 
Before I get into the coaches and fans, let's not forget about Ryan Ayers, Zach Hillesland and Luke Zeller. While each of these guys has his own unique skill-set, they all share the ability to throw down at any given moment in a game. Their recent dunks have brought the JACC up sev­eral decibels and kept the local fans on their feet. 
The fans at the JACC just seem to keep the team going. While the Legion is referred to as the 6th Man for the Irish, everybody knows the real 6th man is Janice McAlarney (J-Mac, mother of K-Mac). J-Mac is really big on the team this year and is seen on TV in nearly every game behind the bench sporting her trendy black jer­sey. She's the teams No. 1 fan and should be an honorary member of the Legion. 
No matter how bad the shirts look, we can't forget the Legion. Students sit behind the basket wearing black this year, a nice color choice, with designs that remind us of something 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Strong bodies fight • • • 
I am a junior and a third year boxer in the Notre Dame Boxing Club, otherwise known as the Bengal Bouts. Exactly a week before Monday's preliminary lights, my nose was broken by a friend and fellow boxer in a sparring match. I knew immediately that because of the injury, I would not be allowed to participate in this year's Bouts, and doctors eventually confirmed my speculation. I was frustrated and sorely disappointed when I found I would not fight in the tournament, but I quickly accepted my situation, knowing that freak occurrences like this just happen-such is boxing, such is life. 
As friends and colleagues who know me as a boxer came to discover I would not be participating in the Bengal Bouts Tournament this year, their majority reac­tion had been. "That's such a shame, and after all that training." Whenever I heard this, it sounded as if all my preparation for a tournament I would not fight in was just a waste of time, that I would have concentrated my efforts in other endeavors had I known that I would not be in this year's Bouts. This cannot be further from the truth. I am a boxer for many reasons, but one of them is not just so I can be a Bengal Bouts champion. 
For one thing, if I had not started boxing my freshman year, I would be a pudgy little lump sitting in front of my computer all day. Another thing is that I don't fight just for a shot to win. That sort of selfish pride is for freshmen and novices who learn to drop after their first year. I am a member of the Notre Dame Boxing Club because of the friends I have made and the things I can accomplish that extend outside of the ring, outside of Notre Dame. 
What most people do not understand about the Bengal Bouts is that it is as much of a team sport that boxing can ever be -we train as a team, we learn as a team. If you really want to excel in Bengal Bouts, you cannot do it alone. You cannot just jump rope in a corner or hit a punching bag for hour and assume you are set. What is most important is communication. You need others to tell you what you are doing wrong, what you're doing right, and to help you apply what you learn. 
That's precisely why we work together -to help each other. We suffer and grow as a team. This is why you see boxers hug each other after a grueling match, why they can smile and laugh with their opponent even if each fighter is bloody and broken. It is why some boxers cringe at their weight bracket, because they see they might have to fight a friend they have been training with for two or three hours a day for a whole semester. 
It is why I can still enjoy watching this tournament despite not being able to fight in it, because I can cheer on these fighters whether I know them or not, and shake their hands backstage, telling them they had a helluva match no matter how they did. 
Most important of all, the members of the Notre Dame Boxing Club fight for something far beyond themselves. As many know, all of our proceeds help the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh, money that helps create schools, provide healthcare, build shelters, and other such necessities of life that most of us take for granted. Many people cringe at the idea of being in a fight. They are afraid of being hit, of the pain. But if you ask any boxer, they will tell you that a punch in the face is noth­ing. It is inevitable, so you learn to take it and move on. And even after all the years of punches to the face and to the body that we take, it is nothing compared to the pain that those in poverty we raise money for feel every day of their lives. For every broken nose and black eye, we know it will be gone soon enough; for those in Bangladesh, their pain does not go away. 
When our practices are over and we feel exhausted and bruised and famished, we know that we will soon take a shower and go to the dining hall; for those suf­fering in poverty, they do not have that comfort. I am not disappointed that I cannot fight this year because I can still contribute to Bengal Bouts' true purpose by selling tickets, asking for donations and getting the word out. 
When you watch the quarterfinals on Thursday night, as well as the later fights, please keep all of this in mind. If you have decided not to see the fights this year, please buy a ticket anyway. If you have already bought a ticket, feel free to pitch in a few extra dollars. This tournament is not a contest for a trophy or pride or glory. It is a fight for survival, a fight for those who can­not fight for themselves. We have a motto in Bengal Bouts that has driven the program for decades and summarizes exactly what we are doing and why. It is a motto that I and hopefully every other boxer will remember for the rest of our lives: Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished. I hope everyone on campus and elsewhere take this saying to heart as I have. 
Ryan Simmons junior Keough Hall Feb. 27 
out of Hello Kitty. Really, there could­n't possibly be a less intimidating font choice for the shirts this year. At least they aren't as bad as "The Shirt," which is made to fit Charlie Weis and Scott Malpass; even those ones that are sized small. 
Finally there is our coach, Mike Brey. His tieless wardrobe and trade­mark fist pumps keep the team excit­ed and keep the fans on their feet. He built this team with high character guys, he has kept this team together when times were tough, and his com­munication with the students is unri­valed. Few games go by where Brey doesn't send an e-mail to the students to pump them up, and he will never refuse to say a few words to students and fans. Coach Brey loves the stu­dents and fans almost as much as Bruce Pearl loves Erin Andrews. We really appreciate it, Coach. 
Hopefully this was helpful to new fans on the bandwagon as we get set for the stretch run and the madness to begin. 
Go Irish, Beat Cardinals. 
Bob Kessler is a junior majoring in political science and economics. He'll be in Europe next week, but you can always read more ofhis work at saltystix.com. Complain about this column at rkessler@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Comic shocks sensibilities 
I recently read Liz Froehlke's Viewpoint letter regarding yet another comic strip poking fun at poor Saint Mary's College. I was also appalled when I read Monday's comic strip poking fun at our sister school. This instigated several of my friends to make SMC jokes, like referring to the trol­ley that runs from main circle to SMC as the 'sluttle.' I reminded them that SMC is full of very respectable women that certain­ly do not live up to the stereotypes of being sexually promiscuous or complaining about every SMC joke in The Observer. 
I am sure that Ms. Froehlke was enraged as well, seeing as though she took the time to write a response to a comic mocking SMC midterms in the beginning of SMC midterms week. It is very prestigious to attend a school that is ranked first in its category (the top Roman Catholic, all­women, liberal arts college located in Notre Dame, Indiana according to US News and World Report). 
Froehlke labels ND students as "arrogant bullies," and I reluctantly agree that I am surrounded by 8,000 of the rudest people on the planet. Notre Dame has such disre­spect for SMC, with the exception of allow­ing them to attend our football games, join some of our clubs, come at here on the weekends, participate in ND/SMC co-op programs, and write in our newspaper. 
Every student at SMC needs to write to The Observer demanding the removal of the comic strip and the expulsion of its authors. This will ultimately prove that the Belles are not all uptight and unable to see the irony in their own arguments. This is a national crisis. After all, everyone knows that student-run newspapers set the moral standards for the rest of the country. 
Kevin Kray freshman Carroll Hall Feb. 27 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 

SCENE AND HEARD 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
llope springs eternal every February and March, and for the New York Mets, it couldn't come soon enough this year after the disastrous end to last ynar's season. In the wake of last season's September dnbade, in which the Metropolitans imploded like a area with his boyish good looks and Jose Heyes, who has stolen bases galore (78 swipes last season) and the hearts of fantasy baseball team owners across the nation. He's also good for about a million goofy Soulja Boy-esque celebration dances in and around the dugout steps. 
What makes the Santana acquisition even sweeter is that we (and I say "we" because I am aetually a part of the team, not just a mere fan) managed to 
dying dwarf star, the future once again looks bright <pick up our ace by beating the Yankees at their own for the star-studded team. game. In off-seasons past. our cross-town and pin-
The names. of the boys in orange and blue go some;i stripedtivals often stole the show by making splashy thing lih this: Pedro · · signings during the winter Martinez, John Maine. Carlos What makestheS:atttana(J,Cquisition months. including sluggers Delgado, Carlos Beltran, Jos13 even sweetet( i$ thafwe(alld 1 sag Jason Giambi and Alex Heyes, David Wright and ···· ······ ··· . ll · ·· Rqqriguez. Contestants in this Moisns Alou. "we"because/f.J."(ti UtjttUJ;. Y f! paft ()f pait off-season's San tan a 
And, after a Feb. 1 trade~ the teaiTI, notjust a merefan) man· sw9epstakes included both and-sign with the Minnesota aged to pick ttp our ace by beating the New York Yankees and Twins, we got Santana. As in, h v; k . · h • ·...· th(J Boston Hed Sox, two Johan Santana, the t e ~.an eeJiiat t e~tOll),tt game. q~h¢r high-spending teams. 
Venezualan southpaw and strikeout machine good for over 200 plus strikeouts pnr s1mson. As a friend of mine likes tosay, the team is stacked like blueberry pancakes. After the trade, my Facehook wall filled with com­
mnnts about the deal. including one from a, grbwing Twins fan saying. "Have fun with Santana.'' t{e~}f:of your loss, my friend (competitive balance inML~ i$ joke), but I will. · . · ·· ··· .,•••, 
Santana turns 29 on Man:h l3>He's still ¢ntei'irig his prime. Pairing Santana with Martinez at th¢ top of the rotation is like landing poeket rockets just hope the team doesn't f1op like last seas.&n they blnw a seven-game lead with a mere H left, a collapse of epic proportions. Looking e roster, tho Mets are at least paper champions: with Santana, Martinez and Maine holding down the top spots, the rotation looks to be strong, with the aging and somewhat injury-prone Martinez the sole spot of concern, although he looks fully recovered from the torn rotator cuff injury which sidelined him for most of the 2007 campaign. 
And with our vaunted slate of sluggers (Beltran, Delgado, Alou), there's no excuse for anything less than a trip to the World Series. We've also got young talent such as David "Mr." Wright, who has stolen the hnarts of females everywhere throughout the tri-city 
..'i ·... ,· ··.· .. ...... Me:t~ owner Fred Wilpon has put hfs tnoney Where hiS l'llOl)th is, opening up the cofi~frS so that generalma11~ger Omar Minaya could puftogether a ch~mpionsh{p,i::aliber ball club. {3arring injury (that~¢rril;ile force of darkness which snatchessea~ons aWay like thieves in the 
pightYthprp a,r~, Jl,() more excUses for anything less thaO: gr:qatness, BeyQndjust the Santana deal and our loaded li.J}~J,l}l, Mets farts bad the pleasure of watch­ing.tlut.tdirty qpeatings(:qundrel Hoger Clemens pub­licly elllh<J.rrttS$. hbuself with his far-fetched tales of 
~Ul)piclo and wayward injections of 1312. ·. Now th '· .... · ...,· .. ··.. ss has launched a federal investi­'gat$9nofl1<1$~fClemens for pe~jury (serves him rightfor to~sing hMnballs and broken bats at Mets hero 
and the greatest hitting catcher of all time, Mike Piazza). life is good for Mets fans right now. Let's hope that doesn't change after the March 30 spring opener at the Florida Marlins, which incidentally happens to be the club that KO'd the swooning Mets to put them out of their misery and finish their his­toric meltdown last season. Can you say, "revenge series?" 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, February 28, 2008 
page 15 

By KELLY O'SULLIVAN Scene Writer 
Pashionistas all over the world look forward to the twice-yearly shows that make up fashion weeks across the globe. The weeklong festivities are composed of showcases of the newest designs from both up-and­coming and well-estab­
1 i s h e d The shows in the fall of2008 Capital" of Italy, shows 
designers. brought more color and concluded even more The shows recently. The end of the
excitement into the lives of
in the fall of week's festivities 
2008 brought fashion followers everywhere, included a strong show 
more color during what would otherwise be created by Donatella and excite­Versace for the Gianni
a dreary February. 

ment into the Versace line. The sil­
lives of fash­ion followers everywhere, during what would otherwise be a dreary February. 
Designers in New York sent their newest creations down the runways Feb. 1-8 during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week. Highlights included Marc Jacobs' Paul Revere-inspired collection, which focused on the blou­son and showcased a quiet and muted lhwolutionary War-esque style against a louder background. 
Models walked down the runway in front of a Sonic Youth rock concert and images in a video installation by Tony Oursler that Anna Sui, Badgley Mischka, Zac Posen, Ralph Lauren and Bill Blass. 
London held its Fall 2008 shows Feb. 10-15, showing off the edgy and individualistic British style. Poltock & Walsh showed a collection that fea­tured the color blocking of chocolate and jewel tones. Emilio de Ia Morena ended the double feature at London's Science Museum with innovative 
tweed looks. 
In Milan, the "Fashion 

houettes of the collec­tion were a far cry from 
flashier looks of past ticular sig­
Iconic Italian fashion brand
seasons for the designer. nificance Characterized by Emilio Pucci showed a palette of were the clean, architectural icy pastels and trademark collection's lines, Versace presented coats.
graphic designs to inspire the feel 
the look of a strong, Whether independent woman. ofan Alps vacation. they were 
The industrial elements of individual pieces included the con­cealment of buttons along seams to avoid a cluttered look. The geometric feel was further shown in angular dress straps, pencil-thin pants and metal pin heels on shoes. 
In con-

included crashing waves and one blinking eye.  Highlights included Marc Jacobs' Paul Revere-inspired collection,  trast to the highly­structured  
Finalists  for  the  which focused on the blouson and  construc­ 
fourth season of Bravo's "Project Hunway" presented their collections at  showcased a quiet and muted Revolutionary War-esque style against a louder background.  tional ele­ments of the gar­ments,  
Bryant  Park,  the  m  a  n  y  
results of which will be  pieces fea­ 

broadcast on March 5, naming a win­tured prints that were echoed in the ner and providing them with the venue's decor as models walked down means to start his or her own fashion the rounded runway. Compiled from line. Other designers who presented historic Versace images, Berlin-based in New York this year included icons Dutch artist Timothy Roeloffs inter­
preted iconic elements of the brand using bold colors and graphic designs. 
The Missoni show also presented some unique creations. Angela Missoni used fur in a playful and innovative way, while keeping the tra­ditionally more mature material look­ing young by pairing it with floral prints and silk blouses and dresses. 
Iconic Italian fashion brand Emilio Pucci showed a palette of icy pastels and trademark graphic designs to inspire the feel of an Alps vacation. From fur-lined parkas to skinny leg­gings meant to be tucked into ski boots, the designs looked ready to be worn either out on the slopes or by the fire in the lodge. 
Burberry's show, set to soulful music by Billy Bragg, showed off clothes in rich and delightful fall col­
ors. or par­

wool or leather, olive or plum, double-breast­ed or cocoon, there was a coat for everyone paraded down the runway in Milan. 
Of other interest, Roberto Cavalli's new collection was reminiscent of Machu Picchu, Peru. The pieces included an alpaca vest, a woven straw hat and many pieces with rose embellishments, bringing attention to the details featured on dress skirts and bodices alike. 
With reports in from New York, London and Milan, and Paris's shows wrapping up at the end of this week, the fall 2008 collections are present­ing many interesting new styles and ideas for the looks that will hit the streets at the end of the summer. 
Contact Kelly O'Sullivan at kosulli2@nd.edu 
Passion for Fashion: Designs from New York, London and Milan hit the runway 
Photo courtesy of style.com Marc Jacob's collection featured Paul Revere-inspired pieces. 



This high, woven straw hat was inspired by Machu Picchu. 


page 16 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS Thurday, February 28, 2008 
NBA 

New Bulls spark team to first win since big trade 
Sixers' Miller, Green combine for 52 to drop Magic; Raptors trump Timberwolves for eighth straight time 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Larry I I ughes and Drew Gooden seem to be adapting to their new team just fine. 
llughns had 29 points and (;ooden added 10 points and 15 rd)Ounds. helping the Chicago Bulls beat the Indiana Pacers 113-107 on Wednesday night. It was tlwir first victory since the duo was acquired from Cleveland on Feb. 21 as part of a thrne-tnam trade. 
The Bulls lost their first two gamns -at llouston and Dallas-following the trade. 
"Our chemistry is starting to come tognther a little bit," Chicago coach Jim Boylan said. "There's a lot of things that go into changing a team ... but at the end of the day, it's basket­ball and they do what they do out there." 
llughes, who scored 10 points in the third quarter to knep the Bulls close, believes the trade will help further his earner. 

''I'm happy with it," he said. "We did a lot of winning in Cleveland and I gained a lot of good experience, but I was def­initely ready for a change. I like the position I'm in now." 
Gooden is starting to warm up to his new team, also. 
"Larry was excited, but for me, I didn't know what to expect." he said. ''I'm getting along with these guys ­they're a great group of guys ­and I know we have a chance to .m.~ke a good run at the play­oils. 
With the score tied at 82, the Bulls scored the first seven points of the fourth quarter, including five by Andres Noeioni, to open a seven-point lead. 
Indiana cut the deficit to 97­94 following seven straight points by Dunleavy with 6 min­utes left. The Bulls answered with the next six points, capped by Hughes' 3-pointer, to regain a 103-94 edge. 
The Pacers got within 110­105 with 57 seconds left, but 

AP Bulls center Joaklm Noah dunks In front of Pacers forward Danny Granger during Chicago's 113-107 win Wednesday. 
Gooden's free throw and 
Hughes' layup sealed the victo­
ry. 

"Tonight was a good win for us," Boylan said. "We missed 15 free throws and we're still able to win. That shows a lot of grit." 
Pacers guard Travis Diener wasn't surprised by Hughes' big night. 
76er 101, Magic 89 

This is how the Philadelphia 76ers wanted to enter their West Coast road trip. 
Andre Miller scored 22 of his 26 points in the first half and Willie Green had a season-high 26 to lead the Sixers to a victo­ry over the Orlando Magic on Wednesday. 
The Sixers have won seven straight at home with their last loss at the Wachovia Center coming to Orlando on Feb. 1 ­and eight of 10 overall. Their next three games are at Golden State, Phoenix and Los Angeles to face the Clippers. 
"This is a good confidence booster," Green said. "Especially going into the games on the West Coast have coming up. Tonight we played the way we wanted to play we ran, we got up and down, and we got a win. It was big for us." 
Miller and Green, the Sixers' starting backcourt, outscored Orlando starting guards, Jameer Nelson and Maurice Evans, 52-2. Miller was 11-for­16 from the floor and added nine assists and six rebounds. Evans played 10 minutes in the first half and did not return. 
The Sixers had lost their first two meetings to Orlando earli­er this month, four straight overall and six of the last seven to the Magic. Orlando also had won the last four meetings in Philadelphia. 
Andre lguodala added 24 points, and the Sixers held Orlando to 40.5 percent shoot­ing, forced 20 turnovers and had 12 steals. Despite hitting 11 of 26 from 3-point range, the Magic failed to reach 100 points for the first time in 10 games. 
"I thought a lot of it was due to our pick-and-roll defense," Sixers coach Maurice Cheeks said. "We trapped the pick­and-roll, got out to the 3-point shooters and made them put the ball on the floor." 
Before the game, Magie coach Stan Van Gundy called the Sixers "the best running team in the league." The Sixers outscored Orlando on the break, 21-9. 

"Twenty-plus fast-break points is the way we're trying to play," Cheeks said. 
The Sixers also constantly harassed Orlando All-Star Dwight Howard, who managed 14 points on 6-for-13 shooting and 16 rebounds. He also went just 2-for-7 from the free-throw line. 
Raptors 107 Timberwolves 85 
After another frustrating loss, Minnesota Timberwolves coach Handy Wittman warned his players to show more consis­tency -or start looking for work elsewhere. 
Chris Bosh scored 28 points, 
T.J. Ford had 16 and the Toronto Haptors beat the Timberwolves for the eighth straight time on Wednesday night. 
Still buzzing from a 111-1 00 home win over Utah the night before, Minnesota looked good early, taking a H)-point lead midway through the first quar­ter. Six minutes later, the lead was all but gone and the Timberwolves were headed for another dispiriting defeat. 
Wittman scolded his team for failing to match the effort it showed against Utah. 
"If you want to get to the position of being a playoff team, a win like that you have to back up with an effort the next night," Wittman said. "That's going to be the differ­ence on whether you're going to make it in the league or not. That's what we're trying to find out here, who are we moving forward with while we're rebuilding this'? If you ean't understand that for 82 games, we'll find someone who can." 
AI Jefferson scored 23 points and Rashad McCants had 19 for the Timberwolves, who have lost eight of their past 10. 
Handy Foye added 18 points as Minnesota dropped to 2-24 on the road and 1-11 in the second game of baek-to-baeks. 
"We've only won 12 games," Foye said. "You ean't be satis­lied with one night. You've got to keep trying to win -every night." 
Andrea Bargnani had 12 and Jamario Moon added 11 for Toronto, which has won five of six overall and four straight at home. The Raptors have won their past eight by an average margin of 22.3 points. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS  3-4 bdrm,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
NOTICES  Make a difference in the life of a child!  jwillys Grill Exciting New Menu  3 bath home close to campus,  PERSONAL  Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential  
Summer therapy camp for children  Apply Friday  safe, cathedral ceilings,  
 support or assistance, please call  
NOW HIRING ALL POSITIONS  with physical disabilities. Located on  2-4 p.m.  fireplace,  Adopt: Active, young, loving couple,  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  
jwillys  shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay,  www.jwill~s.com  2-car garage,  teacher and business owner, wish  more information, visit our website  
Grill EXCITING NEW MENU APPLY  MI. Positions available for  10x20 deck,  more than anything to raise your  at:  
FRIDAY 2-4 P.M. www.Jwill;ts.com  Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation,  FOR RENT  deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008.  newborn with care, warmth and love.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  Call574-232-4527  Expenses paid.  in  
WANTED  and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June  Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex"  or 269-683-5038  Please call Josette and Tim  The Observer.  
8 through August 3. Salary, room &  leases  or  1-800-418-0230.  If you or someone you care about  
$14.25  board, and experience of lifetime  bluegoldrentals.com  574-340-1844.  has been sexually assaulted, visit  
BASE-APPT.  provided. Call or write for applica- PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  
STUDENT WORK flexible.  lion and information. Bay Cliff  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09  5 bedroom house  ONE WHO IS?  shtml  
no experience needed, customer  Health Camp, P.O. Box 310,  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING  just off  You do not have to be alone. We  
sales/service,  Big Bay, Ml 49808, (906) 345-9314,  FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR.  Angela & 31.  want to help. Call our 24 hour confi- THIS IS THE LAST ISSUE OF THE  
conditions apply, ages 18+.  email BayCiiffHC@aol.com.  CALL 574-234-2436  Available now & for next year.  dential hotline at 1-800­ OBSERVER UNTIL TUESDAY,  
574-273-3835.  Visit us  OR  2 baths & laundry.  No Abort or visit our web site at  MARCH 11. HAVE A SAFE AND  
www. workforstudents.com  at www.baycliff.org  KRAMERHOUSES.COM  232-6964.  www.lifecall.org  FUN BREAK.  






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERvrcEs 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. GF. GA 
New Jersey 37-21·6 80 171 150 Pittsburgh 36-21-7 79 190 173 NY Rangers 32-24·8 72 166 153 Philadelphia 31-25·7 69 192 182 NY Islanders 30-27·7 67 158 184 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Ottawa  36·22-6  78  210  
Montreal  34·21-9  77  201  
Boston  33-23·6  72  169  
Buffalo  30·24·9  69  188  
Toronto  27-28·9  63  177  



Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team  record  pts.  GF  GA  
Carolina  33-28·5  71  196  208  
Washington  29·27-8  66  181  191>·.  
Florida  28·30·7  63  175  189.  
Atlanta  29·31·4  62  170  208  
Tampa Bay  25-30·7  57  177  203  

Western Conference, Central Divisic:m 
team record pts. GF GA 
Detroit 42-17-6 90 203 145 Nashville 32-24-8 72 186 18.1 Columbus 29-26-9 67 156 166 St. Louis 28-25-10 66 160 176 Chicago 29-27-6 64 178 180 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. GF GA·· 
Calgary 33-22-9 75 182 181 Minnesota 34-24-5 73 171 172 Vancouver 32-22-8 72 167 157 Colorado 32-26-6 70 175 176 Edmonton 29-30-5 63 173 193 
Western Conference, Pacific DiVision 
team record pts. GF GA 
Dallas 40·22·5 85 199 164 Anaheim 36·23-7 79 167 163 San Jose 33·21-8 74 161 151 Phoenix 32·26-5 69 173 171 Los Angeles 26·34·4 56 186 212 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO Poll 

rank team record pri'Jvious 
1 Michigan 26-4-4 1 2 North Dakota 21-8-2 2 3 New Hampshire 21-7-2 3 4 Colorado College 23·8·1 4 5 Miami 27-6-1 5 6 Michigan State 21-9·5 6 7 Denver 21-10-1 8 8 Boston College 16-9·7 7 9 Minnesota State 16-11-4 11 10 Clarkson 18·10-4 12 11 NOTRE DAME 21-11-4 9 12 Sf. Cloud Stale 16-13·3 1fi 13 Wisconsin 14-13-7 10 14 Princeton 17-10-0 17 15 Minnesota-Duluth 12-12-6 13 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN 
Michigan State at Wisconsin 9 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -They have guys nicknamed Big Papi and Dice-K and Bones. They have a star pitcher who famously danced in his underwear and a left fielder who is such a sublime hitter that he gets away with being loopy. 
So when the Boston Red Sox, World Series champi­ons, showed up at the White House on Wednesday, President Bush had a blast. 
"I love the fact that you've got some of the game's biggest stars," Bush said, honoring the team on a chilly day on the South Lawn. "I mean, Big Papi. The guy lights up the screen." 

That would be David Ortiz, the lumbering left­handed slugger and team leader who proudly held the World Series trophy. 
Then, in a line that even surprised the players, Bush sent a zinger toward absent left fielder Manny Ramirez. 
"I guess his grandmother died again," Bush said to prolonged laughter. "Just kidding." 
Ramirez says his various antics are just a matter of "Manny being Manny." He also missed the Red Sox 2005 World Series cere­mony at the White House. 
Visiting a sick grandmoth­er, he said. 
Bush said he did not 
mean  to  poke  fun  at  
Ramirez,  then  did  so  
again.  

"I do want to quote him," Bush said. "He said, 'When you don't feel good, and you still get hits, that's when you know you're a bad man.' I don't know what that means. But if bad man means good hit­ter, he's a really bad man, because he was clutch in the World Series." 
With their second World Series title in four years, the Red Sox looked com­fortable as returning guests on the South Lawn. Boston had not won the 
IN BRIEF Judge refuses reguest to 
postpone Simpson bihl 
LAS VEGAS -The judge in O.J. Simpson's armed robbery case on Wednesday refused defense lawyers' requests to postpone his trial. 
"''m here to tell you all that the April 7 trial date is going to be pre­served," Clark County District Court Judge Jackie Glass told defense lawyers and prosecutors, noting that lawyers agreed on the date in November. 
"There have been months to be able to prepare for this case," the judge said. "This is, despite what you've told me, not a complicated case." 
Simpson and co-defendants Clarence "C.J." Stewart of North Las Vegas and Charles Ehrlich of Miami weren't required to be in court for the brief hearing. They are accused of robbing two sports collectibles deal­ers peddling Simpson memorabilia at a Las Vegas casino hotel in September. 

Major League coaches don 
helinets after 2007 tragedy 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Glenn Hubbard trotted on the field Wednesday wearing a helmet ­and feeling downright ridiculous. 
"You know what it feels like?" he asked before a spring training game. "Look at that kid over there." 
Hubbard pointed toward a young batboy standing at the edge of the Atlanta Braves dugout, his head dutifully covered by a helmet. 
"That's what I feel like," Hubbard said, not bothering to hide the dis­gust in his voice. "A batboy." 
Actually, Hubbard is the first base coach of the Braves, a job he's always done with nothing more than a cap on his head. But last year's tragic death of minor league coach Mike Coolbaugh -the victim of a line drive to the neck ­prompted the major leagues to take action. 
.. 
title for 86 years until the 2004 squad swept the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Bush noted the pitching of Japanese player Daisuke Matsuzaka, known as Dice-K. His pres­ence drew a huge number of Japanese reporters. 
"His press corps is big­ger than mine," Bush said. "And we both have trouble answering questions in English." 
Then there was Jonathan Papelbon, the relief pitcher who danced in the Fenway Park infield in his underwear when the Red Sox when the pen­nant. 
"Thanks for wearing pants," Bush told him. 

Jewish team may be forced 
to forfeit game on Sabbath 
DENVER -State senators have taken up the cause of a Jewish boys basketball team whose playoff run 
· may be halted because its players can't play on the Jewish Sabbath. The Herzl!Rocky Mountain Hebrew Academy team could be headed for a regional championship on Saturday, March 8, if it wins one more game. But the Denver team's religious beliefs prohibit students from playing on the Jewish Sabbath between sundown Friday and sun­down Saturday. If the school makes it to the championship round but refuses to play the Saturday game, it would lose by forfeit. Earlier this month, the Colorado High School Activities Association, which governs sports and other high school activities, rejected the team's request for a schedule change. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Arthur leads No. 7 KU to victory over Iowa State 
Kemp key as Memphis runs over Tulsa; Georgetown tops St. John's to take over first place in Big East 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa -Kansas hadn't 
played like itself the past few 
weeks. The Jayhawks knew the 
problem stemmed from a laek of 
energy, and they finally found 
that extra bounce against Iowa 
State. 
Darrell Arthur had 18 points 
and 10 rebounds, Mario 
Chalmers and Brandon Hush 
eaeh added 15 points and 
Kansas (No. 7 ESPN/USA Today, 
No. 6 AI') beat the Cyclones 75­
64 on Wednesday night to snap 
a two-game road losing streak. 
The Jayhawks (25-3, 10-3 Big 
12) played with added intensity from the opening tip, jumping ahead by 15 early and leading by as much as 22 midway through the second half. But Kansas had to hold ofT the pesky Cyelones (14-14, 4-9) down the strnteh. The Jayhawks let a 57­35 lead dwindle to 64-55 with 
4:04 to go thanks to a 20-7 run by Iowa State. 
The hole was too deep for the Cyclones, though. Chalmers hit a 3 that effectively killed Iowa State's momentum, and Arthur added a layup to make it 69-57 with 2:08 left. 
The win helped the Jayhawks erase the sting of a 61-60 loss at Oklahoma State last Saturday. Their prnvious road defeat came at No. 5 Texas back on Feb. 11. 
"When you'n~ 24-3, you shouldn't be able to say the ship needs righting. But our players all know that it did," Kansas eoaeh Hill Self said. "We were a better team tonight than we were the last two to three weeks. Our ).,TUys had more ener­gy and they seemed to be more focused and played with more of' a purposn." 
WHsley .Johnson had 20 points and Jiri llubalek added 14 for Iowa State, which has lost eight of its last 10 and appears head­nd for its second straight losing season. 
The .Jayhawks also shot better from the outside than they had in recent games. Chalmers and Hush each went 3-of-4 from 3­point range for Kansas, which shot 63.6 percent from beyond the are. 
"When they're shooting the ball like tonight -they took 11 3s and made snvcn of them ­they're going to be tough for anybody to beat because thny can scorn oll' the block, they ean score ofT of tho dribble," Iowa State coach Greg McDermott said. 
Iowa State got as close as six early in the second half, but the Jayhawks responded with a 21­5 run to go up 57-35. 
The Cyeloncs ran ofT seven quick points after the brnak, cut­ting Kansas's lead to 36-30. Arthur then hit a long jumpt-r, and Darnell Jackson's layup pushed the Jayhawks back ahead by 10. Sherron Collins and Hussnll Robinson added free throws, and Sasha Kaun hit a layup that gave Kansas a 4()-30 lead. 

Memphis 82, Tulsa 67 
The Memphis Tigers went to work early to get rid of tho bitter taste from the end of their per­feet season. 
Willie K~~mp scored 14 points and keynd a first-half rally, lead­ing the Tigers (No. 3 ESPN/USA Today, No.2 AI') to an 82-67 vic­tory over Tulsa on Wednesday night in their first game since field, including 4-for-7 outside game were about two close of easy chippies," Georgetown their only loss of the season. the 3-point arc, as five Tigers shots he missed. Specifically, coach John Thompson III said. 

It was a successful rebound scored in double figures. first-half dunks. "If those shots go in you feel a from losing its No. 1 ranking to "It helps our inside game a Less than eight minutes into lot better at halftime. And it Tennessee 66-62 on Saturday lot," Kemp said of his outside the game, Summers was on a happens sometimes when you night. And the Tigers made sure production. "If I'm making that fast break and tried to throw get frustrated on offense, you're they jumped out early against shot, our big men are going to down a dunk. Instead, the ball not as attentive on defense." the Golden Hurricane. have a good game." bounced off the back of the rim With the win, Georgetown (23­
"I feel like we are a good Doneal Mack matched into the courtside seats. A few 4, 13-3 Big East) moved a half­team, a championship team," Taggart's 12 points, while minutes later, Summers had the game ahead of Louisville for sole said reserve Shawn Taggart, Robert Dozier added 11 points ball on the baseline and went up possession of first place in the who had 12 points. "Every and eight rebounds. Antonio for a dunk that again missed the Big East. The lead may be short­championship team, when they Anderson finished with 10 mark. lived: Louisville plays third-place take a loss, they want to come points, all in the first half as "It happens sometimes. You Notre Dame on Thursday night. out and prove a point and play Memphis built a 43-19 lead at can't dwell on it," Summers The 1-Ioyas improved to 15-0 at hard. I feel like our bench intermission. said. "If I was worried about the home this season with their showed we can score and we dunks, I probably would have fifth-straight win against St. can produce on defense." Georgetown 64, St. John's 52 taken myself out of the game John's {10-17, 4-11). 
The victory assured Memphis The dunks weren't falling for completely." When these two teams met in (27 -1, 13-0 Conference USA) at DaJuan Summers, but the 3-Summers had trouble with the New York on Jan. 30, least a share of the confernnce pointers were. slams, but his 3-point shooting Georgetown led by 27 points at regufar-season title with three Summers was 5-of-8 on 3-helped Georgetown to a win in a halftime and ended up with a games to play. It marks the third pointers and scored 21 points in game that was closer than 74-42 win. This time, straight year the Tigers have Georgetown's (No. 10 ESPN/USA expected uniil late in the second Georgetown held a narrow 27­held at least a share of the C­Today, No. 11 AP) 64-52 win half. 23 lead at halftime, and the lead USA crown. against St. John's. "The first half was one of evaporated early in the second 
Kemp was 5-of-1 0 from the Yet all the questions after the those halves, we missed a bunch half. 

Annou11cing the Year 2008 A11nual A''lards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albcti Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition fix travel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Grams will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000. and will not nonnaHy cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy arc invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work win normally be in Italian; wiiJ involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs tor foreign study include, but arc not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students arc encouraged to­consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Departrnent ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
~ 
-

Students arc invited to submit a Jetter vvhich should include: 
I)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confim1ed) tor the same project  

(i.e. Office of International Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.) 
AppJication Deadline: \Vednesday, Fehrua•·y 27, 2008 Albert Rnvarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship . Pt·ogram in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall Univet·sity of Notre Dante 
----~~-------------------~
r-----------­
Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 

Sharks ride three-goal second period past Jackets 
Sabres goalie Miller stops 24 shots despite midgame nose injury, leads team to victory over Nashville 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Brian Campbell couldn't let go of everything from his past. 
A day after he was traded by Buffalo to San Jose, Campbell had an assist in the Sharks' 4-2 win over the Columbus Blue .Jackets on Wednesday night. Then he packed away his equipment -in his old Sabres bag. 
"I had fun out there tonight. It was nice. I'm always looking for the puck. I thought we worked it pretty good," Campbell said. ''I'm just kind of sitting back a little and reading plays and seeing what I can and can't do in the system here." 
Campbell had his first point in a Sharks sweater, Jonathan Checchoo ran his goal streak to four games, Joe Pavelski had a goal and an assist and Torrey Mitchell and Jeremy Roenick also scored for the Sharks, who won their third in a row and improved to 20-8-3 on the road. Joe Thornton added two assists, and Evgeni Nabokov had 17 saves. 
Sharks coach Ron Wilson liked what he saw from Campbell, who put in 16 solid minutes and was on the ice for Cheechoo's power-play goal and assisted on Pavelski's. 
"He showed that he's a play­er, that he wants to be on the ice all the time. He's generally always in attack mode," Wilson said. "You can see he's a sneaky hitter, too. He moves pucks really well. You can see his speed. I think he will really help our power play, obvious­!y." 
Campbell was playing his first game for San Jose, which solidified its hold on fifth in the Western Conference. He was picked up along with a sev­enth-round draft pick on Tuesday from Buffalo for for­ward Steve Bernier and a first­round pick this summer. 
Columbus took the ice for the first time since trading captain Adam Foote and center Sergei Fedorov. They were dealt before Tuesday's NHL trade deadline for two draft picks and a college player. 
David Vyborny ended a 24­game goal drought by scoring twice for Columbus, which started the night in 11th place in the West. 
"As the game went on, we were devoid of emotion," Blue Jackets coach Ken Hitchcock said. "We're not going to win games playing the way we did tonight." 
The teams traded first-period goals. The Sharks scored with a man advantage, Cheechoo redirecting Pavelski's one-timer from the left circle before Vyborny backhanded a rebound past Nabokov. 
Vyborny then scored his fifth of the season with an almost identical shot in the second period, backhanding another rebound high and hard past Campbell as he dived to block it. 
Sabres 8, Predators 4 
Steve Bernier can stop wor­rying. The pressure is off now that he made his Sabres debut memorable. 
Bernier scored goals on his first two shots and added an assist in sparking a win over the Nashville Predators on Wednesday night, a day after being acquired in a deal that sent All-Star defenseman Brian Campbell to San Jose. 
"When your confidence is not where you want it to be and the first shot you make you score, it helps," said Bernier, labeled an underachiever dur­ing three seasons with the Sharks. ''I'm glad everything went the way I wanted every­thing to go.... Yeah, it's a good start, but nothing is done yet." 

Bernier snapped a 12-game goal drought, the longest of his NHL career, and enjoyed his fifth multigoal game. 
Toni Lydman had a career high four assists, Ales Kotalik had a goal and two assists, and Derek Roy, Daniel Paille, Jason Pominville, Tim Connolly and Andrew Peters also scored as Buffalo snapped an 0-1-1 skid. Buffalo jumped into eighth place in the Eastern Conference, two points ahead of idle Philadelphia. 
It was an important state­ment by a Sabres team that had the potential of unraveling after losing Campbell. a key player and team leader. 
"To have a player step in and have as good night first night. it's almost a dream come true," Sabres coach Lindy Ruff said of Bernier. 
Jason Arnott scored twice for the Predators, 0-2-1 in their past three games, including a 6-3 loss to Dallas on Saturday. David Legwand and Jan Hlavac, making his debut after being acquired Tuesday in a trade with Tampa Bay. also scored for the Predators. 
Nashville, which kicked off a season-high, six-game road swing, entered the game in eighth place in the West, but lost ground when San Jose and Minnesota -both ahead of the Predators-won. 
"It's quite frustrating because the urgency has got to be there," Predators coach Barry Trotz said. "We blew a chance to get points. By the time we get home, we might be out of the playoffs. We might be ninth." 
The Sabres broke the game open late in the second period when Pominville and Roy scored three minutes apart to put Buffalo up 6-3. 
As blowouts go, it certainly proved entertaining, with Bernier's performance one of numerous highlights in a game between teams in different conferences. 
It was a game in which all four goaltenders played; fea­tured a seven-goal second peri­od; had the Sabres nearly squander a three-goal lead for the second straight game; fea­tured a chippy third period with numerous fights; and had a penalty shot. Nashville's Scott Nichol missed his second con­secutive attempt this season. 
The scariest moment came three minutes into the second period when Sabres goalie Ryan Miller was knocked woozy and had his nose blood­ied after being struck in the mask by Marek Zidlicky's shot. The force of the drive knocked loose the main metal bar that runs from Miller's forehead to chin, and pushed it back on his nose. 
With the tip of his nosn swollen but not broken, Miller returned after missing about 8 minutes. He made 24 saves to preserve the victory. 
"It was entertaining, no doubt," said Miller. who wasn't aware that lllavac had con­verted the rebound. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
• 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, comrnitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/programs-and-links/dennymooreaward.shtml 
Non1inations are due by Tuesday, March 11, 2008. 
SMC SOFTBALL 



Belles begin 2008 season over break 
Team 'Will travel to Florida 'Withfour newfreshman 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Wrirer 

Several fresh faces will dot the lineup as Saint Mary's begins its 2008 season next week. 
The Belles, who will travel to Florida over spring break, have four freshmen and three sophomores among their ranks. 
"The young players have come here to play hard every game," coach Erin Sullivan said, who is in her third year as head coach of the program. "The leadership they have received from our five upper­classmen has been invalu­able." 
The team does have some experience including returning junior ace pitcher Kristin Amram, who has already given this year's freshmen something to strive for. In her freshmen year, she struck out 201 bat­ters on her way to becoming MVP of the MIAA conference. 
Sullivan points to the team attitude as a reason for the team's achievements in recent years. 
"We don't have any 'stars,"' 
she said. "Each player brings something different to our sue­cess." 
Saint Mary's played well in 2007, setting a 28-13 mark that put tlwm third overall in the MIAA. The top four teams in the conference make it to the postseason tournament. The Belles have qualif'ied for the tournament in both of the past two years. 
After returning from Florida, the Belles will begin their non­conference schedule. The first MIAA game is against Calvin on March 29. 
Saint Mary's brings a strong offensive attack along with its excellent pitching. Sullivan said practice time has been devoted to making the offense even more explosive in order to start out strong. 
The Belles' biggest goal is to make it back to the postseason tournament. Sullivan -is confi­dent about her team's abilities. 
"We have been a successful team in the past," she said. "We have a great idea of what we need to do to get there and succeed." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 



Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S GOLF 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish look to rebound,
Team opens spring season 
By PAT STYNES 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will travel to California during spring break to participate in the USC Collegiate Invitational. hosted by the North Hanch Country Club in Westlake Village, Calif. 
The Irish will look to improve upon their 15th­place finish at the John Hayt Collegiate Invitational and hope to gain some momen­tum going into the second half of the spring season. The relatively young team ­eight out of 12 players are underclassmen -will gain valuable experience in California. When they return, only thnw tournaments will remain before the Big East Championship. 
The underclassmen combo of sophomore Doug Fortner and freshman standout Tyler Hock will need to step up on Monday if the Irish hope to compete with the tough teams of USC and Oregon State. Fortner and Hock cur­rently lead the team with the lowest scoring averages 
(72.77 and 73.20, respective­ly) and will look to continue their recent streak of strong play. 
The most important factor this week, however, will be the play of junior Josh Sandman. Sandman had a strong showing at the Hayt Invitational, finishing at a tie for 29th, and will look to con­tinue his steady play in hopes to garner a second All-Big East award this spring. 

travel to California 
With great pitching, defense, and team speed, the Irish have the potential to be exceptional this year if the bats start to heat up, Gumpfsaid. 
"I think our team speed has been cancelled out by not getting hits," Gumpf said. "If we can get some base-runners, we will score a lot." 
Especially important to the Irish bats' success will be senior out­fielder Sarah Smith. 
"Sarah needs to put the ball in play," Gumpf said. "When she hits the ball, she is very hard to get out, and that could give us a spark." 
The Irish will face three teams from the Big West Conference, and the Irish expect to face a strong lineup and a solid pitching staff. 
"The Big West is known for its hitting," Gumpf said. "But we also expect to see some decent pitch­ing. So we need to hit the ball well one through nine to compete." 
After the Worth Invitational, the Irish will take a day off before traveling to Hiverside, Calif., to take on UC Riverside (4-9), anoth­er Big West team. 
The Irish will then take a short one-day break before getting right back on the horse and competing in the five-game Long Beach State Invitational from March 7-9. 
The Irish will take on UClA (14­2), Long Beach State (8-6), VIrginia Tech (9-4), Cal State Fullerton and Cal State Northridge (5-10). _ 
The Bruins have won their last eight games and will provide the most difficult test for the Irish during the trip 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

By JARED }EDICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (4-5) looks to rebound from a tough showing last week and start hitting the ball hard during a long west coast road trip over of spring break. 
The first leg, The Worth Invitational in Fullerton, Calif., consists of three games, two on Saturday and one on Sunday, against Pacific (5-9). UC Davis (9-7) and Cal State Fullerton (5-6-1). 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said she would like to see a marked improvement in her squad over the break, as she believes their trouble hitting is keeping them from living up to their potential. 
"I am absolutely not satisfied with our record," Gumpf said. "We are a much better team than the way we are playing right now." 
Gumpf said her team needs to be more aggressive. 
"We have been a very reac­tionary team thus far, and I would like to see us become much more aggressive," Gumpfsaid. 
The Irish pitching staff, high­lighted by junior Brittney Bargar and freshman Jody Valdivia, has two shutouts in the young season. 
"If he plays with poise and ers." 
"The pitchers look really good," confidence and stays in the The USC Collegiate 
Gumpf said. "I would like to see present, handling the emo­Invitational will last all day 
them have some runs to work tions that all players must on March 3 and 4, after 
with." deal with, Josh will do great which the team will take a 
The hitting, however, has been a things," Irish coach Jim 10-day break and resume 
much different story. The Irish Kubinski said. "''m looking play March 14 at the 
have averaged 2.67 runs per forward to seeing how Josh Schenkel E-Z-GO Invitational 
game. will take the reins of our No. in Statesboro, Ga. 
"We need to jump on good pitch­1 spot and anchoring our 
ers early," Gumpf said. "If we take lineup. He has the talent to Contact Pat Stynes at 
an aggressive approach we will be mix it up with the top play-pstynes@nd.edu 
very good." 
for a permanent solution to remove unwanted hair? 
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble, offers safe, comfortable and affordable laser hair removal, using state-of-the-art FDA-Approved equipment. 
Each hair removal procedure is tailored to your individual skin and hair type, allowing us to offer the most effective solution for hair reduction from the face and body. 
Find out which laser hair removal protocol fits your needs. Visit Peggy today for a free, personalized laser hair removal consultation. 

Our South Bend location is justminutes from campus on

20o/o OFF 

North Michigan Street. your 1st laser service when you mention this ad! Call Peggy Todayl 
(up to $200) 

574.. 282.2020 
From your mobile phone, text DUMMIES to 24474 to save$$ and win big! Visit your college bookstore or dummies.com· to find out more! 
nurJlM:rt.,:r

Standard tF.xt mess.~ge rates apply. 
A ftrau.bl !mp!Jllt u: :>t'Wtl.EY 


page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 

ND faces 111ajor road test against No.9 Illini 
Last season's national runner-up, Illinois is just 5-4 this season 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Dnspite No. 12 Notre Damn's rnennt victorins, it will be tested again this wenkmul on llw road by No. IJ Illinois. 
The Irish aro c:oming ol'f" a 7-0 win over Purdun last wnekc~nd at thl' Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"We playPd very solid rna tclw s top to h otto m !against Purduol," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "I had m y a p p r ~~ h e n s ions a b o u t somn matches, · hut WI' nwt tlw challenge." 

Gonzales. Bayliss said Irish senior Shenva Parbhu has never raced Gonzales or Howe. 
In the Purdue match, Bayliss switched his No. 2 
and  No. 3 doubles  tnams  
around.  
"At  thn  National  Team  

Indoors I folt like we hit a wall with the doubles teams." Bayliss said. "We looked at a lot or options. Freshmen David Anderson and Daninl Stahl are a good tnam." 
Tho change paid ol'f" for the Irish. who won the doubles point against the Boilnrmakers. 
To accompany the doubles change. Bayliss has contin­ued to rnly on the duo or Parbhu and llc~lgeson to bear 
the brunt or thn load at one doubles. 
"/Illinois/ went to

Tlw lllini have " T h e y a lofty ranking, Florida and played a have done a but they are great job al.!
great match. They lost
only 5-4 this y n a r , 
many three-setters."

season. ThPy Bayliss said. lost badly to "It is im por­Bobby Bayliss 
No. 12 Florida t ant for last wenkPnd, B r e t t
Irish coach
6-1 . 
"Thny arP tlw 
NCAA runnor­
up and also in the top-1 0," 
Bayliss said. "Thny went to 
Florida and playnd a gn~at 
match. They lost many three­. setters." 
Four or tlw Illini's singles 
matches went three snts, 
with tlw Illini dropping all 
hut orw or them. 
Illinois has two strong 
playnrs at the top or their 
linnup, similar to the Irish. 
The Illini arn lc~d at No. 1 
sing~~~ s by nation a I No. 1 3 
senior Hyan Howe. Howe beat 
Irish junior Brntt llelgc~son in 
a close match last year, best­
ing him 7-5 in the third set. 
At No. 2 singlns, Illinois 
has anothnr dominating play­
or in national No. 77 Huben 
[llelgeson I 
to establish 

himself at the rwt. lin is looking !'or the ball more up there. Sheeva IParbhu I is also serving bet­ter." 
Al'ter !'acing Illinois, the Irish will return home for a few days and then head west to La Jolla, Calif., for the Pacil'ic Coast doubles tourna­ment. where they will get accustomed to outdoor play. 
"We will work on our tran­sition to the outdoors," Bayliss said. "We will use those outdoor practice days to get more adopted and relearn how to develop points." 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 

The Observer + SPORTS 
FENCNIG 




23 fencers head to Regional 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame qualified 23 of a maximum 24 fencers for the crucial March 2 NCAA Midwest Hegional in Detroit. 
The Irish are expected to be tied with rival Ohio State for the largest number or com­petitors at the event. 
"It's a tough competition, and I think we were success­ful to qualify that many fencers," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
In fact, 24 Irish fencnrs accumulated enough points during the season to make the l'ield, but an NCAA rule limiting teams to a maximum of four fencers per evnnt will force sophomore l'oilist Teddy Hodges to travel to the event as an alternate. He will com­pete only if one of his four men's foil teammates with­draws before the competition. 
The Regional in Detroit will largely determine what Irish fencers will compete at the NCAA Championships rrom March 13-16 in Columbus, Ohio. Results from the Regional will account for 60 percent of each rencer's rat­ing, and the remaining 40 percent will come from results from the regular sea­son. 
Arter officials calculate post-Hegional rankings, the top-l'ive fencers from the Midwest in five of the six weapons will automatically qualify for the national com­petition. Only four men's foilists from the Midwest Regional will earn spots at the national competition. 

Tom Horton 

Fencers who do not qualify after the results from the Midwest Hegional are calcu­lated have one chance to earn a spot at the NCAA C h am p i o n s h i p s . Two n o n­qualifying fencers in each weapon will earn at-large berths to the national event. 
But schools are limited at the NCAA Championships to a maximum of two fencers per event and 12 overall. Last season, 11 Notre Dame fencers qualified for nation­als, which was held at Drew University in Madison, N.J. 
"We will try to qualify as many as we can to be on the medal position Iat nationalsI." Bndnarski said. "Bnlow 10, it's hard to get the medal position." 
Bednarski is optimistic about Notrn Dame's chances. 
"If they confirm what they did during the whole season," Bednarski said, " ... then we will have done good." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


* 
fiOLY 
CHOSS COLLEGE 

You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL l)fRECTORS NEEDED 2008-2009 
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
MARRIED OR SINGLE GRAD STUDENTS LA\V STUDENTS 
CONTACT RESUFE(a;HCC-ND.EIJU FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 10 Irish face Albany 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will hope to rekindle some of last week's first-quarter magic when it takes on No. 13 Albany at home Saturday at 1 p.m. 
In their first home game of the season. the Irish leapt out to a 6-0 lead in the first quarter against Penn State before settling down to a comfortable 15-9 win over the Nittany Lions. Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said he was happy with his team's performance in the first home game of the sea­son. lie only hopes they can repeat their early domi­nance in the coming games. 
"We'd likfl to bottle that and sec if we could do it every week." Corrigan said. "We were handling the ball really well and we won a lot of faee-offs. I think we were up 3-0 before they had the ball at the offensive end of the field ... and when you're playing make it take it it's a whole lot easier." 
Now the Irish, ranked No. 10 in the Nikellnside Lacrosse rankings, will take on Albany -a team that Corrigan thinks will present a unique challenge for his team. especially coming off a win against the annual foe Penn State. 
"!Albany isl a different team," he said. "They have a very unique style. The chal­lenge isn't just in the level of their talent but also in the style of their play. You don't play a lot of people who play that way." 
Corrigan said the Irish will look to defend against Albany's aggressiveness on both the offensive and defensive ends of the field. They will also have to watch out for Great Danes senior goalkeeper Brett Queener, a preseason honorable-men­tion All-America by Inside Lacrosse, who Corrigan said is prone to a unique style. 
"[He's) all over the field," Corrigan said of Queener. "He carries the ball up the field to create transitions and will even come out and double-team people." 
Still, Corrigan said, the one of the biggest chal­lenges the Irish will face 
against the Great Danes is not having to be prepared to counter Albany's game plan, but rather being able to implement their own. 
"The trick is to [prepare] while not losing your own identity," he said. "It's not just trying to go up against somebody else, it's remem­bering what you do and dic­tating what you want to do. If we're doing things right in preparing for people we're trying to understand Ithem I and what they're good at and we're learning to exe­cute our stuff." 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 


Black ingenuity is an integral part of everyday Iife. Peek into the lives of a suburbanite family as they try to survive in a world gone mad when the inventions of Africans and African Americans disappear! 
Staying on campus during spring break? Need something to do? 
Date: Friday, February 29, 2008 Time: 7:00 PM Location: Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
ND hits West Coast for three big contests 

Squad will take on Stanford, Oregon, Cal during break 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
No. 11 Notre Dame won't get much of a break while classes aren't in session next week, but don't feel too sorry for them ­the Irish get to take a trip to California. 
The Irish (3-0) will play at Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif., on Sunday before flying to San Diego to take on Oregon as a part of the annual East-West Challenge. Notre Dame's spring break action will conclude with a game against California in 
Pasadena, Calif. 
The West-Coast trip will give the Irish exposure not only to the California sun, but also to a wider audience. The Stanford !:{arne will be broadcast on LSTV.com, while Notre Dame's match­up with California will 
be played in the historic Rose Bowl. 
"It's a really important road swing because we're playing three Pac-1 0 teams, and I think playing three games in a week is going to be challenging for us," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "Plus playing Thursday night and Saturday too, it's going to be a good test to see where we are." 
Notre Dame began its road schedule with a 14-11 victory Sunday over Ohio State. The Irish saw a healthy advantage quickly dissolve late in the sec­ond half, and while they were able to hold off the Buckeyes, Coyne hasn't forgotten what she saw. 
"There were definitely things in that game exposed some of our weaknesses, and we've been addressing those in prac­tice," Coyne said. "We've been putting some extra pressure on our defenders to bring the ball out of the defensive unit, but I think in preparing for Stanford, because they have one of the best goalies in the country, we're going to have to focus on doing some things differently on the offensive side as well." 
The Irish have gotten the pro­duction they expected from a pair of preseason All-Big East picks in senior captain Caitlin McKinney, whose 42-game point streak is a school record, and junior attack Jillian Byers, who leads the team with 15 goals through three games. 
But what has given Notre 
"ft,s a really important road swing because we,re playing three Pac-I o games, and I think playing three games in a week is going to be a ·challenge for us. ,, 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
Dame the opportunity to achieve its early season suc­cess, Coyne said, are the contribu­tions of some of the team's younger players ­including thsoe by freshmen Shaylyn 

Bailey (1 0 goals, three assists) and Kaitlin Keena (four goals, four assists). 
"The freshmen have obviously been great, and I think it's our sophomores, too, because we have three in Gina Sciascia, Rachel Guerrera and Maggie Zentgraf who are getting a lot of minutes," Coyne said. "The leadership of the juniors and seniors with a combination of the youth movement is giving us some good looks and some dif­ferent things we can do. Tactically, even in the Ohio State game, we were trying some dif­ferent things, so it's exciting." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS
SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary's opens 



Irish take on No. 2 Jackets 
Ramblin' Wreck took
season in No. Carolina 
Observer Staff Report 
After taking second in two fall tournaments, Saint Mary's will open its spring campaign March 3-4 at the Saint Andrew's Inviational in Pinehurst, N.C. 
The tournament, which L<i host­11d by Saint Andrew's Presbyterian Collegn, will b11 held at Woodlake Hesort and Golf Club. 
In thn fall season, Saint Mary's partieipated in six events, taking 1:uh and 15th in non-conference 
SMC TENNIS 

tournaments at Perris State and Illinois Wesleyan. 
The Belles finished in 2nd in the first two MIAA Jamborees, at Kalamazoo and Tri-State, then finished fourth at the final fall Jamboree, hosted by Alma. 
In the MIAA Championship tournament, Saint Mary's took third. 
After the Saint Andrew's event, the Belles will be oil' until March 29, when they will compete in the Northern Kentucky Invitational. 
down Notre Dame 2 times last season 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Come this Saturday, No. 16 Notre Dame will know exact­ly where it stands among the best in the nation. 
That's because the Irish will host No. 2 Georgia Tech at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Yellow Jackets defeated the Irish twice last year, both times by the score of 4-2. 
The f1rst loss to the Yellow Jackets came last February in the ITA National Women's 
Indoor championship game, 
and the second also ended hopes for some hardware, occurring last May in the NCAA quarterfinals. 
Belles begin lOth year 

with spring break trip 
Despite the previous losses 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's opens its 1Oth season this spring break as it travels to Orlando, Fla., for sovnn non-conference rnatch­os. 
Tlw Belles, who went 13-13, 5-3 MIAA last spring, finishnd out their season tied for fourth in the conference with rival Calvin, their best l"inal standing since placing first in 2004. 
New to the squad this sea­son is head coach Chuck Hubino and eight freshman members, who join the two rnturning team members, sophomores Camille Gebert Notre Dame dropped the cru­cial point against North Carolina. Coach Louderback is looking to regain the dou­bles momentum, and stressed this in practice all week. 

"Doubles play is going to be very big against them," he said. "If we can't get the point, winning four singles matches against [Georgia Tech] is going to be really tough. We've been playing really well in doubles. Against North Carolina we were just playing tired. We had a couple of tough match­es before that so we were a Thompson's. When we had them we felt like they could go out and get us a point any time and Kelcy and Brook are the same. They have stepped it up every time we go out, and the other girls really look to ~.hem to get things start­ed. 
Tefft has also been impres­sive in singles play, amassing an 11-2 overall record in the dual match season thus far. Coupled with the notable play of sophomore Kali Krisik, who has 12 dual match wins to lead the Irish, the Yellow Jackets could face some stiff 
I i t t I e fatigued, but I'm happy where we're 

"Doubles play is 
at with our 

going to be really big 
doubles." 

The No. 3 against them." doubles tan­dem in the 
Jay Louderback
nation of 

Irish coach 
junior Kelcy Tefft and senior Brook Buck has 
competition this weekend. 
After the Georgia Tech match, Notre Dame must shirt its focus to Hawaii. The Irish have a long trip ahead of them to face the Hainbow Warriors at the University of Hawaii TennisMary's in a different position than other MIAA compntitors, but Gebert sees it as an advantage. 

"I think that it is such a pos­itive thing, plus an advantage, having eight new freshman, and only two returners lead­ing the team this year," Gebert said. "It will put us ahead of other teams, because we have so much talent this year, and even more depth." 
Along with new members, a new coach and a new snason come new goals for this young toam. 
"One of the goals is to improve on our dual meet record and compete for the MIAA championship," Rubino 
said. "We'd like 
to the Yellow Jackets, Irish coach Jay Louderback does­n't feel as though there are any hard feelings between the teams -he simply wants his team to play well and come out with a win. 
"I don't think there is any bad blood," Louderback said. "They won the NCAAs last year, so they were a very good team. They have great depth all around so we are going to have to be playing our best. They have one play­nr who is the sixth-best in the nation. They're very good." 
One aspect that the Irish will need to execute in is their doubles play. After win­ning six straight doubles points in as many matches, been on a hot streak. With a Tefft-Buck win early on in the match, the Irish could build some momentum and begin a possible upset. 
When Louderback thinks of the pair, he is reminded of' another storied Notre Damo duo before them. Catrina and Christian Thompson both graduated in 2007, and twice in their careers held the No. 1 ranking in the nation as a doubles team. 
"They're excellent for us," Louderback said. "They just understand each other very well. They actually remind me of when we had the Complex on March 6. 
The complex is outdoors and will mark the 11rst time the Irish will play outside all season. "[Hawaii isl good at the top but they don't have the best depth," Louderback said. "We haven'l seen them play at all, just their scores. The one thing they do have going for them is that they play outdoors. Since it's our first outdoor match, we're flying in early and getting in five days of outdoor prac­tice." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
to improve on 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC !'RESENTS
and Lisa "We're going to have fourth place from Hubino. last year, and I
a relatively young 

"We're going think we have the
team, starting four 

to have a rela­potential to do tivnly young freshmen and two that. We want to team. starting improve team 



h£ub~MUSIQVE
sophomores."

four freshmen comradery and and two soph.: the chemistry of om ores, Lisa Rubino the team; we Hubino said. Belles sophomore have a lot of new 

"We have a lot of potential that's untested, and spring break will be a good time to gnt our feet wet and get in somn good competition." 
The Belles will play all non­conference teams over break and are looking forward to the matches as a chance to pre­pare for this season's MIAA competition 
"Spring break is going to give the eoaches a real chance to Slle the girls play under f'irn," Hubino said. "They arc tired of playing each other and are rnady to take it out on othnr players. The coaches espneially want to see how the girls compete under pres­surn." 
Having only two returning members does put Saint 

players. Our dou­
bles haven't played with one another, and to improve as a team overall is a goal we strive for daily." 
The Belles start competing on March 2 in Orlando, where they will play seven times ­against Methodist, Martin Methodist, Grand Valley State, Kings, Ursuline, Saint Scholastica and Wayne State -throughout the week, and they will begin conferenee play on March 18 at Albion. 
"We're all anxious to go down south and start compet­ing." Hubino said. "All the girls and the coaching staff' want to see where this poten­tial will go." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOI @nd.edu 

GREGORIAN CHANT FROM MEDIEVAL MANUSCRIPTS 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 & 9:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 12, 2008 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL MARl I' I~ DU\AR!Ol.O CENTER fOR TIH PERI"ORMING ARI"S
fiJ 
fREf AND OPEN TO TIH I'UBl.l<.:

UNIVERSITY Of 
TICKI'TS $3 ~DEBARTOLO
NOTRE DAME 
DEPAltT!\.WNl 0(1 Ml:~IC i'H(lNE 574·631·.1800 l'{lR TICKETS ~ PERFORMINGARTSCENTER 
Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Bulls 
continued from page 28 
Dame (22-6, 10-4 Big East) got its final stretch of three games before the Big East Tournament -and its race for a first-round bye -off to a great start. 
"I think our team is starting to peak. and I think it's the perfect time with the Big East Tournament coming around, and the NCAA Tournament," Schrader said. "We've gotta play two more games really, really hard, and we'll see where we go from there." · 
Schrader had 17 points and 13 
rebounds in her 'Tve been waiting for inbound the ball second double­my opportunity; rve at times; the double of the Irish grabbed
been working for it. " 

season. Senior three inbounds guard Charel passes and Allen had 14 Melissa D'Amico deflected anoth­points, and three Irish center er in the first half minutes. Schrader had eight points in that span, and Allen, who twice rebounded under the basket and made the put-back, had six. 
The Irish led 23-6 until Bulls junior guard Shantia Grace hit a 3-pointer with 9:46 remaining. Notre Dame led by 20 soon after, and when the Irish were up 24 with 3:30 remaining, McGraw emptied her bench. 
Notre Dame's fortunes in the game were displayed as time expired in the first half. Allen's shot teetered on the rim as the buzzer sounded before dropping in to give Notre Dame a 46-15 
lead at the half. 
The Bulls were 
hard-pressed to 
other Irish play­ers had double figures. Allen also shut down the Bulls' offense from her position as the leader of the Irish full-eourt press. 
"She gives us a bigger person at the top, and she really used her length today very well," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said of Allen.... She's smart, she can play the passing lanes really well, and I think that disrupted them initially." 
Senior center Melissa D'Amico. who hasn't play often this season before freshman forwards Devereaux Peters and Becca Bruszewski suffered injuries, had 10 point.<; on four-of-seven shoot­ing off the bench. 
'Tve been waiting for my opportunity; I've been working for it," D'Amico said. "With Becca and Devereaux out, we weren't going to get down on ourselves." 
D'Amico made an immediate impact. blocking a shot seconds aft1~r she enternd the game. 
Schrader and Allen controlled the Irish offense in the first five alone. 
"We did a real­
ly good job of that today," she said. "We got some steals oft' the press as well." 
The Bulls found some sem­blance of a shot early in the sec­ond half, it didn't make much of a difference. 
With less than 14 minutes left, senior guard Tulyah Gaines passed to sophomore guard Melissa Lechlitner, who artfully one-timed the ball to Allen under the basket. After a deft spin, Allen sank the turnaround jumper to make the score 58-25. 
Sophomore guard Ashley Barlow had been quiet through­out the game. She was scoreless and had three fouls until she made one of two free throws with 
12:05 left in the second half. Visibly frustrated after splitting another pair two minutes later, Barlow forced a steal on the press and drove to the hoop her­self for her first field goal of the game. On the next possession, she did the same thing. 
After hitting her career-high fourth 3-pointer with 7:53 remaining. freshman guard Brittany Mallory fell to the floor, grasping her left ankle after land­ing on a defender's foot. She was helped off the court, but she said her ankle would be fine for Saturday's game against Seton Hall. Mallory finished with 14 points. 
McGraw said there was still work to be done. She had focused on getting Mallory, Allen and Schrader to rebound better in practice -which seems to have worked; Allen had eight, Mallory had seven and Schrader led the team with 13. McGraw also said she wanted to work with what she called a "big guy" lineup, when both D'Amico and sopho­more center Erica Williamson were both in the game. Overall, however, McGraw was optimistic about her team's future. 
"We're playing for a lot of things," she said. "We're playing for a seed in the NCAA tourna­ment, how high can we get? We've had a great year, we want to keep it going to the Big East tournament." 
Notes: 

+ Allen moved into ninth on Notre Dame's all-time scoring list with 1,437 points. She passed current Irish assistant coach Niele Ivey, who had 1,430. She is also three steals away from becoming the first Notre Dame women's basketball player with 1,000 points, 500 rebounds, 200 assists and 200 steals. 
''I'm so glad that she's going to leave her mark on the program because she's done so many great things for us all four years," McGraw said. 
+ South Florida's 15 points in the first half were its fewest all season. 
"I think we should be proud of that," Schrader said. "We should be capable of doing that every game." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Broncos 
continued from page 28 
fall. The junior netminder has allowed more than two goals in one game just twice during that stretch, and he holds an impreilsive 1.53 goals-against average in his last 15 starts ­yet has just five wins to show for his efforts. 
"It's a little straining on you knowing going into games that I probably have to stop all [the opponent's shots] or keep it down to one [goal], and I feel like it is a lot of added pres­sure," said Pearce, who has increased both his mental and physical preparations to ele­vate his game. "In the begin­ning of the year when we were scoring, I felt really confident in the team in front of me that if I let a goal or two in early that I'd be fine and could relax because we'd end up putting four in. 
'Tm sure our offense will fig­ure it out and start scoring some goals, though. I'm not too panicky or freaking out, but it is nice when you have offensive support." 
Notre Dame's scoring woes certainly don't stem from a lack of chances. In their last four games alone, the Irish have attempted 132 shots (33 per game) but have managed only six goals -including scoring just once on 41 tries in a Feb. 16 tie at Alaska. 
"We're trying to pick our cor­ners too specifically right now," said senior right wing Evan Rankin, who scored Notre Dame's lone goal in Friday's 3­1 loss to Ohio State. "We just 

Pizza 
continued from page 28 
season at this point," Schrage said. "But we obviously want to win every weekend." 
Despite playing their first games outdoors on grass in several months, the Irish made only two errors in three games. 
The Irish begin play in West 

Fridoy February 29, 2008 • 8:00 pm Morris Pczrforming firts Center Sooth Bend, Indian<:~ 
WG:IcoiM<I by: Uadwqi-/Garltylee~p.com 

--l 
l 

l
need to get our pucks to the net and bear down in front. 
l 

We've got to knock in a few j dirty goals because you know what? Ninety percent of goals in hockey are going to come from that. 
"We could talk about bounces all you want, but we need to start making our own breaks, doing it for ourselves and not just relying on the bounces to win or lose games for us." 
By no means is the season lost, as the Irish have already clinched a first-round bye in the conference tournament by way of finishing fourth in the CCHA standings. 
But if Notre Dame hopes to regain the form it showcased en route to a 16-4-0 record through December -which it must do not only to advance in the NCAA Tournament, but also to guarantee a berth at all -this weekend represents the last chance to do so. 
"We had a good discussion about what we need to do to turn things a bit, and this is a team that's only going to be as good as the intensity they play with," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "I've been talking to spe­cific guys about their physical intensity, and the big thing is that I can hold them account­able by taking them out of the lineup, but they need to hold each other accountable to play at that level of intensity. 
"These guys know what they have to do to get going again in a positive direction -its about our offensive intensity and grit­tiness to make improvements." 
Contact Matt Gamber at 
mgamher@nd.edu 
Palm Beach on Saturday against Mount St. Mary's, and then play a doubleheader Sunday against St. Bonaventure and Boston College. After a day off Monday, the team concludes the tournament Tuesday and Wednesday with games against Maine and Lehigh. 
"This weekend is an excel­lent opportunity for the team to string together a winning streak and build momentum," sophomore pitcher Eric Maust said. "We have so much talent this year-it's ridiculous." 
After a day off for travel, the Irish will resume play March 7 in Corpus Christi, Texas., in the Whataburger Classic. Notre Dame opens against Texas A&M Corpus Christi, and then will play South Alabama and Arizona. 
Schrage also saw the tourna­ments as· opportunities for the team to gain some confidence and recognition early in the season. 
'Td like to start a winning streak and get our guys some momentum," Schrage said. "We want to let people know in the Big East that we have a good squad and will have a good season." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mhryan@nd.edu 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 28, 2008 
Syracuse on Sunday, the Irish 30 points and knocking down were out-rebounded 51-33. a school-record nine 3-point­

Cards 

Notre Dame still leads the Big ers against Syracuse, who continued from page 28 East with a plus-7.5 average began the game in a 2-3 · 
rebounding margin and will zone. right th(~re in llw hunt for llw look to regain its form on the McAiarney joined Big East till(~." glass tonight. Louisville is llarangody as the only two­
The Irish aro on a thrnn-fifth in the conference with a time winners of the award in game winning plus-3.4 the entire conference this streak aftnr reboundirig season.Brey said the team is hnating margin. trying not to look too far Hutgnrs on "We've outrebounded "Wn'll be ahead, but it does understand tlw road and tested again. that it is among the elite
teams that are more or

notching Our back­squads in the conference. 
as athletic as us."

homn wins board will be "I framed it this way with 
o v e r tested big them the other day. I said, Pittsburgh Luke Harangody t i rn e 'lley [get! position for one of and Syraeusn. [tonight)," the byes, and we know that's
Irish forward 

But Irish Brey said. good for us because we did it coach MikP "Louisville last year ... and maybe Brny said lw just climbs it more," Brey said. "And that's nxpncts the crowd at as good or better than how I ended it. They know Louisville to most closely [Syracuse[." what I'm talk­rnsembln what Notre Dame llarangody ing about saw in its last loss, an 84-78 said the Irish because this dd"nat at Connedicut on Feb. should not have is going to be
"Our backboard will

l:t trouble bounc­an interesting 
"W1~'rn going into a similar ing back after be tested big time stretch, and atmosplwrn as Storrs," Brey the poor show­[tonight]." we can dream said. "And we played really ing under the big dreams wnll [tlwrnl. LPt's see if we basket Sunday. and keep
Mike Brey

can be a littln smarter down "We've out­working for the stretch and a little morn riJbounded Irish coach that." poisnd down the stretch teams that arc The Irish bneausn that's an area where morn or as ath-are 1-6 all-we can improvn from Storrs letie as us." time against to Freedom llall." llarangody said. "We just Louisville in Freedom llall. 
In the loss to the Huskies, have to think about getting a The game will be televised at Notrn Damn IPd most of thn body on somebody." 7 p.m. on ESPN. game bnforn missing its last Irish guard Kyle McAlarncy snvnn linld-goal attempts. was named the Big East play­Contact Fran Tolan at 
In their 94-87 win over nr of the week after scoring ftolan@nd.edu 

Hope 
continued from page 28 

Saint Mary's coach Jcnn I fen ley said. 'They have a lot of experi­ence in this tournament." 
llopn has won the MIAA tour­nament five of the last seven years and am this season's MIAA regular season champions with a record of 16-0. 
Neither the Belles nor llenley hav~ much experience in the MIAA tournament, but they have bRnn in this position once belim~. Last season, in Henley's first y1mr as Saint Mary's coach, she led her team to one of the best sea­sons in school history, as well as the farthest the Belles have ever gone in the MIAA tournament. 
Saint Mary's may have lost to Hope twice already this season, but this time they are looking to avenge their earlier losses and prove themselves a stronger team than their last meeting. Saint Mar.y's has improved on problem areas such as dnfense and rebounding, outrnbounding Adrian 50-38 in their Feb. 20 win and Olivet 38-33 on Tuesday. 
"We have to find ways to slow down thnir transition game, con­trol the boards and play great team defense," Henley said. 
Strong defense will be crucial for the Belles if they want to stop the Flying Dutch's season-long 25 game winning streak. 
Saint Mary's does have two key advantages ow~r Hope, however -snnior guard Alison Kessler and junior forward Erin Newsom. 
Averaging 20.8 points per game, Kessler is a powerhouse scon1r. Shn leads thfl MIAA in points this s1mson and is ranknd 1Oth in all of Division Ill for avnr­agp, points pnr gamfl. Kessler holds numerous school rncords, induding most carep,r points with 1604 to date. as well as the MIAA record for most free throws made in a game with 22. 
Newsom leads the Bell!~s· rebounding ef1'ort and is tho top MIAA reboundm. Averaging 8.8 rebounds per game, with 221 this season. Newsom has been Saint Mary's go-to player under the basknt. 
Her contributions from the floor have helped the Belles win­ning elliJrt as well. She is second on the tmun in scoring with 286 points, placing her tenth in the MIAA, as well as leading the MIAA in free-throw percentage with 92.9 percent. 
The game will tip ofl' tonight at 
7:30 in Ilolland, Mich. 
"I think our team has played very well down the stretch. To get into the semifinals is a great accomplishment and doing so two years in a row says a lot about our players," Henley said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

2008-2009 Center for Applied Mathematics Graduate •---ello"\Vship Poster Session 

Tuesday, March 11, 2008 lO:OOAM-12:00PM Hurley Building Foyer ('with the globe) 
For further information, please contact Andrew Sommese Director, Center for Applied Mathematics. 
Marketing Services, Inc. 


Thursday, February 28, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY 
HENRI ARNOLDMICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE

BLAcK DoG MIKE ARGIRION 
MVRPDC.I(, t>11> Yov &-E-T THE LATEST 
THAT SCRAMBLED vVORD GAME

PENTAG-oN B~IE.FfNG-7 ~YS THE 
b;f H!HW AnwM end Mlki< Af@ilion 
IF IT h.IE!t.E AN E-NE:MY WEAI"o>IS SYSTEI"' 

ltJTEltNET NEcl>S TO 8E DfAL.T WITH 
DIDIER LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 



EDGITS 


Now atratl{i& !he cit~ louer.s 
to brm the surprise anEmer, a$ 
sugge~ed by the abt:A<e cartoo1<. 

Answer here: HE ~'(IIIIIJ)' 

(Atl!;ilo\'Ern t{lmorrow) OFTEN LOUSE LIZARD MA:RFtOW When ~~ goose l;!a<tl'~rs flaw up and away, they were -STILL ''DOWN'' 
LIZ MURPHY and SARAH MUSCARELLA 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
o~ know, ou.r ~-~ l"eJt.ll~ t\n!-1'\-'+ ~ tntu'~~. 
?lvs r~ veally Ylo+ ~ecce a+
Or~l'\1'1~-vie.-s\;oiAlJ. ~Ad<:: rA ui.elon~+z, tv~~e..v 
CAl'\ <1-ff~At'OLVIC.t:: IV\ 01.-tV" CoMic-. 
Jo t:)CJ\) w-,eo,V\! Li ~ 1 itwi~ &\-tw~y ~\)~o.K ? 


CROSSWORD 
Across 4D Plague 66 Bun toppers 
1 Learns 41. Brut~'! 
Oown

8 t958 sci-fl 42 •.• 
Pivoting razor

classOC: s!arring 43 Maids holder Steve McQueen 2 t:~istoo 15 Jose C1.mrvo, tor 44 Saint ot dancers 
3 1/M ot a 
one 46 Of!C>tr, in old 
checkerboard,times

16-· 
maybe: Abbr. 17 Ditector !van 47letters before 
4 So fast year

18 Most monstrous glmers 
5 Coon!ry sfnger

19 Tay!ot, Wi!son Of 48 "Th<! Guiding 
with the 11;}97
Harding li9hf aimr tr\ple platinum hit

20Rear·_ 50 Very 
"How Do I Live"22 Book Jn the 

53 Jazz's Peterson 
6 Flll in the ~ (aBook of Monnon 
55 It may be said 
h!nl. to this

23 "That's au 1_. 
while crossing 
fl1Utzle's theme}24 Rice dish 

uwfln~rs 
7 Oc<aan lin®r?

27 PlaCe lor a 
58 1984 film wilt!
houseplant 8 "Oy, vey!" cause 
ltW! tag!ioo "Its 4 

3D Gotumn of boxes 9 Snow of 
a.m., do 'f(}U
on a affac!km
know wnem your
questiormafre 
t 0 film d!W1'MOj'Jing
car is?"

31 Defendants, order: Abbr.
legally 61 A deadly sin H Give a rundmWl

34 Prize 63 Of !.temenaous 
t2 It may be on a
fervor

37 -· 
property64 •.•

39 Supporters of 
t3 Btme: It
the arts 65 Holiday meakl 
t4 Roo and black, pethaps

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 Flexible blade 
~:+:'-~ 23 Startle ~~~~• 25 Classk: camera 
~:-+:':-t':.'-1. 26 Otg, ~~~~=+:::i 27 Para® hOOfJflil!il, 
Mefly 28 Tabrlz native 
29Mmtt 

~~~· 30 '04, '00 and others 31 Not so wefl dt.me 32 Hwy. plannars 33 E.xp1anatory phrase ~-!+:+.:+.::1 :~5 Dry White 
..::..&.;::..&..:....L.;;.i!.:..:J 36 Dark 

c:Axo-wiVIj ~1-a,vlovd::.s 
••• ()Y ~erpes. 
WILLSHORTZ 

f1tnl<i il'f ttirtt Qlnsbwg 
38 St _ icomroon 
hosplta1 name} 40 Class o! '08 in 
'00, <Lg. 42 Omery sort 45 Risque 
bea.chwear 
47Sauce 
48 Venae .. (major bldoti voosehs} 
49 Some lasteiWrs 00 Tho sun, moon 
and stars 51 Too!bat heading 52 Boom 54 Famous Mama 
55WM:teach 
compiatod pair 
of tr*'me 
answers 'in this puzzl~ is 

5£ Frozen drink brand 
59 "0 patria =".,,." ("Aida" ana} 

for answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1A9 a minute: at; with a 
credit card, 'l-8{)0-8l4-5.SM · Ann:ual subscriptions are avaiJable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 yl'.!ars: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online sutr<-uerlptions; Today's puzzle ant! more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crossv.•ottts ($39,@5 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlpuzzleforum. Crosswords for young soiv~rs: nytlmes.com/leaming/xworcts. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rozonda "Chilli" Thomas, 37; Adam Bald­win, 46; Ralph Nader, 74; Elizabeth Taylor, 76 
Happy Birthday: Your unique way of helping others will bring special rewards your way this year. The more you can do from your home, the better. Work on a tight budget and don't let other colleagues or friends depress you. Protection, patience and prudence should all be factored in this year. Your numbers are 12, 15, 20, 39, 45, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Be more secretive about your finances. You will face emotional and financial deception that will leave you in a precarious position. Don't feel pressured to make a move if you aren't ready. You should stay busy. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be totally stressed out if you take the people around you too seriously. Separate and sort through the issues as they arise. The action you take now will determine what happens down the road. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't give in to someone who wants you to slack off when you have so much to gain by working hard today. You'll have some great ideas that will gain interest from people who can influence your future. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): An opportunity is there for the taking but, if you are re­luctant to take a chance or make a change, you may miss out. Do all those things you've been talking about but haven't followed through with. Get serious about what you want. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Taking on more than you can handle will lead to emotional issues. If you decide to become aggressive, you aren't likely to win. You will put some­one off with your demands. You are far better off taking care of yourself and chilling out. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check out what others have to say and to contribute. Once you know where you stand, you can make a clear decision. An opportunity must be jumped on, especially if it will help you expand your circle of friends. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Organization will help you get what you want. A love rela­tionship is taking an interesting turn. Don't get emotional but do let your true feelings be known. A creative endeavor will be well received and have the potential to make you some cash. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You won't be seeing things clearly today. Someone you are close to may try to ruin your plans. Be a little secretive about your comings and goings and you will accomplish far more in the end. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Lean toward people who have a serious attitude and you will get the help, information or insight you've been searching for. A little fun mixed into your work will help those around you see you in a different light. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A chance to settle something that has been pending will be made available to you. Don't feel you have to go it alone, especially when emo­tional issues are involved. A change will be as good as a rest. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen to what someone close to you has to say. You may not like what you hear but there will be a certain amount of validity to the infor­mation given. Use this insight with your own strategy and you will fmd your way. 2 
stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be fooled by a get-rich-quick idea. Instead, invest in a sure thing. The wrong choice will lead to arguments with family. An older or expe­rienced individual will help you out. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional, relentless and determined to get things done your way. You are willing to go the distance and do things differently. You are a protector, a crusader and a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consul­
tations 



THE OBSERVER 









PORTS
Thursday, february 28, 2008 
page 28 
HOCKEY 

Irish to finish regular season against Broncos 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 

Coming ofT another disap­pointing wnek11nd conferenee series, time is running out for No. 11 Notre Dame (21-11-4, 14-8-4 CCI lA). 
The sclwdule couldn't have worknd out much bntter !'or the Irish. though, who are 5-7-4 in thn months of January and 
BASEBALL 

Tealll. hopes to recover frolll. last week's losses 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Notre l>ame will spend spring break in the warmth of Florida and Texas -but there will be little time for mst and relaxation. 
Notre Dame will play eight ganws in ni1w days as it partic­ipates in the Papa John's Challengn and thn Whataburger Classic the next two wnnknnds. 

The Irish (1-2) return to tlw state of !;lorida for the Papa John's Classie hoping for b1~tter rnsults than their last visit th ern. Notre Dame d ropp1Hl two of' th n1e gam ns in the Clearwatnr Invitational last woekend. bnating Iowa but falling to Liberty and Albany. 
The Irish opened the season with a 6-2 loss to tournament host Liberty, managing just six hits against Flames right-han­der Clarence Nicely. 
Notre Dame recovered the next day against Iowa, coming from behind four times in a 13­12, l<l-in ning win. Senior shortstop Brett Lilley hit a two­out, two-run single in the 10th for a walk-off win. 
The Irish finished the wnek­end with a 12-4 loss to Albany. 
Notre Dame coach Dave Sehrage said the team was dis­appointed with its results, but there were several good signs in the tournament. 
"We played very well defen­sively, and we'rn farther along hitting-wise than we were last 
see PIZZA/page 25 February but catch a break by closing out the regular season with a home-and-home against conference basement-dweller Western Michigan (7-24-3, 3­21-2 CCIIA). 
That's no guarantee of suc­cess, however, as Notre Dame has managed only one win in its last six games -all against unranked conference foes. 
"It just feels like we're run­ning on a treadmill," junior goalie Jordan Pearce said. "We're working hard, working hard, and we're just not getting any goals. I think everyone knows they'll come, so we just need to keep our heads up and remain confident even though we've been struggling as of late." 
Notre Dame will honor its five seniors following Saturday night's 7:05 p.m. game, a day after Friday night's 7:35 p.m. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


ND massacres Bulls, 92-49 
McGraw's players call blowout Big East victory fun' 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

On a night when its offense dominated and its defense smothered, Notre Dame was all smiles. 
"Basketball i'l fun. It should be fun, right?" junior guard Lindsay Schrader said after the game. "Why would you play ifit isn't fun?" 
It would be hard for the lri'lh not to enjoy themselves when they're winning in convincing fashion, like they did Wednesday in a 92-49 victory over South Florida. Notre 
see BULLS/page 25 

Irish guard Ashley Barlow drives between defenders in Notre Dame's 92-49 win over South Aorida Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
contest at Western Michigan's Lawson Arena, recognized as one of college hockey's loudest 
"One of our focuses is to come out and have a strong first period, a strong first 10 minutes, just to weather the storm [of the Broncos' student section]." Pearce said. "Especially it being their senior night, we just need to let the game settle down and allow ourselves to take over from there." 
For that to happen, an offense that hasn't scored more than twice in a game since a 5­3 loss to Ferris State on Feb. 8 needs to pick itself' up. 
Pearce leads the CCHA with a 
1.82 goals-against average in conference games, and he has performed admirably through­out the team's two-month free-
see BRONCOS/page 25 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Fracas at Freedom Hall 
( 
Contest at Louisville 
has major irnplications 
for conference title race 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Wrircr 

No. 17 Notre Dame has I u rked in second or third plac11 for most of the Big East s1mson. but the Irish can take a major stPp toward finishing in tho top spot tonight when thny takn on No. 13 Louisville at thn Cardinals' Freedom IIall. 
Louisville (22-6, 12-3 Big East) is half a gamP behind Cnorgotown for first plaee in the conference, but the Irish (21-5, 11-:~) are nipping at the loaders' heels and ean leapfrog the Cardinals with a win tonight. 
"It's gonna be Ia! tough atmosphere down there in Freedom llall," Notre Dame forward Luke llarangody said. "It should be crazy with them I 
Irish forward Zach Hillesland drives to the basket in No. 17 Notre Dame's 94-87 win over see CARDS/page 26 Syracuse Sunday at the Joyce Center. The Irish travel to No. 13 Louisville tonight. 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles face unbeaten, No.lHope 
SMC will take on Flying Dutch in MIAA quarterfinals 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

After a 71-62 victory over Olivet on Tuesday night, Saint Mary's takes on national No. 1 Hope tonight in the smnilinals of the MIAA tournament for t.he seeond year in a row. 
The Belles (13-12, 8-8 MIAA) were knocked out of the MIAA tournament last season by the Flying Dutch (25-0, 16-0 MIM). 
Saint Mary's last faced Hope on Jan. 26, losing 82-73. The Belles are 5-3 since that contest and are coming ofT a four-game win­ning streak, including beating Olivet twice in one week. 
"Hope is a very solid team," 
see HOPE/page 26 



