
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Season-high ejected from football game 
Throwing of snowballs, marshmallows possible causes for high number of ejections 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
A season-high number of 22 people were ejected from the Stadium on Saturday for "vio­lations of Stadium rules," according to Assistant Director of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) David Chapman. 
Which rules were violated and information regarding consequences of the snowball throwing and marshmallow fight was not available as of press time. 
Fourteen people were arrested Saturday on the Notre Dame campus, accord­ing to Chapman. 
"The offenders were trans­ported to the county jail," he said. "One person was trans­ported to the hospital for intoxication." 
At the Stadium, five people were arrested for public intoxication, two for public intoxication and disorderly conduct, one for resisting law enforcement and assault and one for resisting law enforce­ment and disorderly conduct. 
Outside the Stadium, two people were arrested for pub­lic intoxication, one for resist­ing law enforcement and pub­lic intoxication and two peo­ple were arrested for theft. 
The 14 arrests and 22 ejec­tions at the Syracuse game compare to 34 arrests on campus and nine ejections from the Stadium for the first home game against San Diego State University, 29 arrests and two ejections for the 
see ARRESTS/page 6 

MARY JESSE!fhe Observer 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group calls for printers in every residence hall 
Resolution passes without opposition, will now be presented to Student Senate for consideration 
aging the installation of printers within each resi­dence hall," Schmidt said. 
The resolution passed with 14 votes, with one council member abstaining. 
"This exact resolution will now be proposed in Senate and will be voted upon," Schmidt said, who added that the resolution will then be presented to University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman, who has two weeks to respond. 
"This has been something 
see CLC/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ResLife preps for returnees 
Office says it will try to accommodate wishes 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
As students return from their Study Abroad experi­ences next semester, the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) has been working to ensure students requesting on-campus hous­ing will be able to receive rooms. 
According to the ORLH Web site, Notre Dame's 28 resi­dence halls have space for over 6,200 students. In any normal year, these dorms are completely full during the fall semester, but are only filled to about 95% capacity during the spring semester. 
Scott Kachmarik, associate director of ResLife, said there should be no problem accommodating the students returning to campus for the. Spring Semester. 
"Overall, there will be plenty of room," he said. 
Kachmarik also said there may be issues with over­crowding in specific dorms. 
"There are a few halls that are experiencing a problem of more residents returning than leaving," he said. 
ResLife. however, is work­ing to fix this issue to attempt to accommodate stu­dents who wish to live in a specific dorm. 
"Many of those will be resolved by January and the few that cannot be assigned 
see ABROAD/page 6 


By AARON STEINER News Writer 
The Campus Life Council finalized a resolution calling for discussions about the installation of printers in res­idence halls at their meeting Monday. 
Grant Schmidt, student body vice president and chair of the Task Force on Technology and Study Spaces in Dorms, presented the res­olution his group created to the council. 
The resolution is "encour-

Students hope team can redeem itself at USC 

Band to travel to Coliseum for first time in history 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Band of the Fighting Irish will make its first-ever trip to Los Angeles for Saturday's game against the University of Southern California. 
"It's taken a couple years to put together, and was primarily funded by just four alumni," Notre Dame Marching Band Director Ken Dye said. "This is the very first time, it's been talked about for decades, and it 
see BAND/page 6 


Supporters would like to see team avoid embarrassing loss 
By KATIE KOTARAK News Writer 
Following Saturday's disappointing loss to Syracuse, students hope the Fighting Irish football team will look to rebound and close their regular season with a win over a heavily favored No. 5 USC team. 
"Even if [Notre Dame] doesn't win, I hope they look better than they did [last week] by showing some effort," Saint Mary's junior Ashley Peterson said. 
see GAME/page 6 


Tuesday, November 25, 2008 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


I atn 
thankful for 
It is that time of year again: the time of yoar that my mom makes me and all of my brothers and sisters (and whoever happens to eat Thanksgiving turkey in our house) write down things that we· ·.re thankful for on slips of paper and put them into a basket. Then, one by one, each piece 
Emma Driscoll 
of paper is read 
out loud and 
everybody has to 
News Wire 
guess who wrote 
Editor
it. Since my sib­
lings and I range 
in age from five to twenty-two, there 
is really never too much mystery 
involved. 
I have to admit that this year has 
been stressful in different ways. As a 
senior, there are applications to sub­
mit, interviews to bear through and 
decisions to make. Lately, there have 
been a lot of "last (insert event) ever" 
moments, such as darting for classes, 
sitting in the student section, and 
being in thn middle of the first snow 
fall of the year at Notre Dame. This 
Thanksgiving, I am finding myself 
particularly grateful for anything that 
has helped me put my time at Notre 
Dame in pPrspective and for the peo­
ple and resources that make this 
school a place that I have come to 
love. 
On Thursday, I will try to fit all of 
the following on my "what I'm thank­
ful for paper": 
Snniors bning able to go on the foot­
ball field and leave through the tunnel 
after Saturday's game. 
Tlw silence in the stadium just 
bnfore Officer Tim McCarthy speaks. 
Souvnnir mugs of hot chocolate in 
the Stadium. 
ND Food Services for going out of its way to make meals spneial, especially Candlnlight dinners. 
NI> Food Services for chicken cordon 
bleu days. 
Healizing that I don't know where I will be at this time next year, and for Professor McKnnna's final lecture that helped me understand that that is not necessarily a bad thing. 
Tap daneing class. 
Everybody who works hard to keep our campus beautiful and accessible -at all hours and during all weather conditions. 
Peopln who spend hours laughing at YouTube videos. 
For still being in college and thus sonwwhat able to rationalize spending hours laughing at YouTube videos. 
Thn Hon Clark Academy performanc­es of "You Can Vote However You Li ko." 
Passionate people-no matter what you are passionate about, you consis­tently remind me that although the world is a big place, it's possible to make an impact. 
Long meals in the dining hall with friends. 
Facebook albums. 
"I Don't !'eel Like Danein'" and "You Get What You Give." Just to be hnre. For family traditions that, although I 
mocked for ynars, I know I will still bn keeping for the rest of my life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscoll@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a protcssional publication and strives for the highest standards of jounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE A THANKSGIVING DISH, WHICH WOULD YOU BE? 
4 







Cody Borgstrom  David Zodigian  Paul Schlveter  Oliver Chmell  Katie DeMartini  
sophomore Carroll  sophomore Keenan  senior Zahm  freshman Morrissey  senior Welsh Family  
"Turkey so I could have all the stuffing that I wanted.''  "Pumpkin pie ­save the best for last."  "Bruss ell sprouts because I like to save the bestfor last."  "Mashed potatoes so I could get covered in gravy.  "Thanksgiving leftover sandwich because I like to savor the  


OFFBEAT 
Jet pack pilot flies across 1,500-foot-wide canyon 
CANON CITY -A daredevil wearing a jet pack has flown across a 1,500-foot-wide canyon in southern Colorado. The sponsoring Go Fast Sports & Beverage says Eric Scott took 21 sec­onds to cross the Royal Gorge at 7 5 mph on Monday. It says he did­n't use a parachute while flying across the 1,100-foot-deep canyon. 
He was wearing a jet pack powered by hydro­gen peroxide and devel­oped by Jet Pack 
International. The com­pany developed it for stunts, promotions and 
other  events  for  Go  
Fast.  
Both companies  are  

based in Denver and were founded by entre­preneur Troy Widgery. 
Panda attacks man who wanted a cuddle 
BEIJING -A panda at a zoo in southern China attacked a student who snuck into its pen hop­ing for a cuddle with the endangered bear, state media said on Saturday. 
The 20-year-old male student surnamed Liu jumped over the fence at the zoo in the tourist city of Guilin, ignoring warning signs not to, Xinhua news agency said. 
"The panda, named Yangyang, was wide awake. Apparently scared by the intruder, he bit at Liu's arms and legs," it quoted an unnamed worker as saying after zoo keepers managed to calm the bear and rescue Liu, the report said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

a:: 
LLI 
::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
0. 

~)

...I 
~ 

<C 
*** .

(.) * * * * 0 HIGH 36 HIGH 27 HIGH 38 HIGH 40
..J LOW 27 LOW 22 LOW 27 LOW 27 
flavor." 
IN BRIEF 
Zhigang Suo, professor of engineering and applied sci­ences at Harvard University, will present a seminar on the thermodynamics of large deformation in soft active materials on today at 3:30p.m.. The lecture, enti­tled, "Thermodynamics of Large Deformation in Soft Active Materials," will be held in room 1:~8. DeBartolo Hall. It is spon­sored by the Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering. 
The Entrepeneurship Society is having a series of 
presentations  on  business  
entitled  Case  Study  
Challenge.  The  event  is  

Wednesday from 5-7 p.m. in t 55 DeBartolo. 
Men's soccer will be play­ing in the second round of the NCAA Tournament against Northwestern on today at 7 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
Direct from Buenos Aires, Estampas Portefias pres­ents a new, fresh look at tango on Wednesday at 7 
p.m.. A combination of live music, alluring dances and just pure fun, Tango Fire is an event for everyone who wants to move and shake. This event is held in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in the Decio 
·Mainstage Theatre. Tickets are $48, $:~8 for faculty/staff, $36 for sen­iors, and $15 for all stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0.

~ 
**** **

* * HIGH 39 HIGH 34 LOW 29 LOW 26 
Atlanta 56 I 35 Boston 45 I 38 Chicago 38 I 29 Denver 57 I 34 Houston 76 I 46 Los Angeles 71 153 Minneapolis 32 120 New York 48 I 43 Philadelphia 48 I 41 Phoenix 82 I 57 Seattle 55 I 41 St. Louis 49 I 29 Tampa 77 I 58 Washington 50 140 
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
FLEX to create freshmen involven1ent 
New program gives underclassmen opportunity to join class council 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
As a part of his plan to get more freshmen who didn't have the opportunity to join the Freshman Class Council involved in student govern­ment, student body president Bob Reish has implemented a new program called the Freshman Leadership Experience (FLEX). 
FLEX is composed by four committees the Intercollegiate Committee, the Google Apps Committee, the Freshman Booklet Committee and the Legal Services Committee. Each committee is made up of 8 students and has its own project to work on for the year, Reish said. 
The Intercollegiate Committee is working on bring­ing other colleges together to discuss how they integrate freshmen. They are looking at schools that are similar in size, academic standing and reli­gious affiliation to Notre Dame, Reish said. 
FLEX member Meghan Donoghue, who is on the Intercollegiate Committee, said they are also working on mak­ing a "a big flow chart of power from Father Jenkins down" so students know "who's in charge of what." 
"In general, it's really hard to know who to go to if you have an issue," she said. 
Donoghue joined FLEX because she wanted to get involved on campus, and had experience with student gov­ernment in high school. 
The Google Apps Committee is working on informing stu­dents on what Google Apps can do for them, FLEX programmer director Blair Carlin said. 
"They're going to promote all of the things that Google has to offer," she said. "There is so much that the student body doesn't know that can really help them." 
Reish said the Freshman Booklet Committee will put together a booklet of advice from upperclassmen for fresh­men to use. 
Reish gave examples of the type of advice that would be in the book, such as going to the dining hall at certain times that are less crowded or going to one away game a year. 
"It's just advice that you learn throughout the yeats," he said. 
The Legal Services Committee is researching through other universities to gather legal advice for on and off campus, Carlin said. 
"They want to produce a know-your-rights type pam­phlet as well as set up some sort of contact through the law school," she said. • 
In addition to working on 
these group projects, Carlin said FLEX will bring people from higher level positions in 
. student government to speak to the group, so that the freshmen can get to know more about what student government has to offer. "We really want to expose them to all the different branches of student govern­ment so that they knew the dif­ferent avenues that they could take and that they weren't just limited to being the president of their class," she said. Donoghue said that she isn't sure if she will run for class council next year, or try some­thing different. ''I'm just waiting to see what intrigues me," she said. While Freshman Class Council is made up of one rep­resentative per dorm, dorms were not taken into considera­tion in the interview process that Carlin conducted. FLEX is meant to be something com­pletely different than Freshman Class Council, Carlin said. Donoghue said that she feels that the members of FLEX are diverse, which is what Carlin intended when she interviewed students. "I didn't want everyone to be the student body president in high school," Carlin said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
CHINA 




China maintains its hold on Tibet 
Associated Press 
XIAHE--Chinese paramili­tary police with riot shields and batons abruptly took up posts Monday on the main street of this Tibetan town, disrupting the bustle of Buddhist pilgrims in a reminder of China's deter­mined control of the region. 
With some Tibetans push­ing harder against Chinese rule, the communist govern­ment is determined to pacify the area. 
The show of force Monday was meant to deter unrest while a local court sentenced a group of Tibetans for tak­ing part in large anti-govern­ment protests in March in Xiahe, a small town abutting a sprawling complex of gold­en-roofed temples. 
Though the verdicts were not publicly announced, the trial also seemed timed to answer the complaints of the Dalai Lama and other exiled leaders meeting in India over the weekend that Tibetans' patience with China's domi­nation was thinning. 
Seven months after Tibetans across western China exploded in the largest 
uprising against Chinese rule in nearly 50 years,-the authoritarian government is adjusting tactics. Police checkpoints and guard posts in place for months are sud­denly dismantled, only to reappear without warning days later. 
"We are in the grip of the Communist Party. Tibet is occupied. The Dalai Lama has fled to India. My heart is sad," said a monk who has studied at Xiahe's Labrang monastery for 15 years and declined to give his name for fear of government reprisals. 
On a spare altar in his small room was a framed portrait of the Dalai Lama. 
Monday's police action in Xiahe came after several weeks in which riot squads had rarely been seen on the streets, residents said. 
Helmeted police with trun­cheons and six-foot-long poles stood outside the courthouse and government buildings. At a checkpoint with sandbags chest high on a bridge, uniformed officers studied identification papers and stopped all but a few dozen vehicles from entering the one-street town. 


SMC hosts Native American panel 
communities, the panel said cul­
By EMILY DABISH 
ture changes as time progresses,
News Writer 
as do people and society. However, 
there are many traditions that 
In recognition of Native remain in tact. American heritage month, Saint For instance tribal elder Majel Mary's College hosted a discussion DeMarsh described how women in panel on the Native American lega­her band, the Pokagons, will sing cy at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. and pray for bodies of water. In 
The panel consisted of Native Native American culture all American history experts and aspects of the land and animals Potawatomi elders. are considered important. 
Moderator Ben Secunda began "Water is the life blood of mother 
by describing the Potawatomi's earth," DeMarsh said. "Without local influence. water there is no Potawatomis. living." Joseph and 
''The [Native The panel 
Madeline Betrand, explained how in
American] legacy 
helped to start the past being Sain-t Mary's has long been Native American College by lending was not totally
forgotten. '' 

out a building to accepted. They the sisters of the referred to them­Holy Cross. This Ben Secunda selves as a once early convent moderator "hidden minority." helped to serve as Now more Native a foundation for Americans are the college and became its first proud to embrace their heritage. permanent structure. According to Tom Topash, 
"The [Native American] legacy Potawatomi member, there is a 
has long been forgotten," Secunda desire to get over "trauma by his­
said. "[Then~ is a need tol restore a torical oppression --to heal and 
sense of native pride because of move forward." 
past friendship with native peo­Today, because of past efforts by 
ples." Native Americans, there is a choice 
Currently the Potawatomi tribe is whether or not to embrace the cul­
working to regain some of their ture. Native peoples no longer 
lost traditions. They are encourag­have to worry about trying to 
ing colleges to offer classes teach­blend in with American culture, 
ing their native language in hopes since society has become far more 
to regain more fluent speakers. accepting. 
The panel described ceremonies, The panel urged people to talk to feasts, honorings and powwows as Native Americans in their commu­the way they keep their identity nities at home to learn more and to alive. seek out events like local powwows 
"Culture raises eyebrows at that exhibit some of native tradi­times... [The Potawatomi's are] not tions. just a l:asino tribe," panel member ·Marchell Wesaw said. Contact Emiy Dabish at 
In an effort to build welcoming edabisO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Charity gives money to terrorists 
Group convicted offunnelingfunds to Palestinian militant organimtion 
former chairman, and Shukri zation carries a maximum 15­
Associated Press 
Abu-Baker, the chief executive, year sentence on each count; 
DALLAS -A Muslim charity were convicted of a combined money laundering carries a 
and five of its former leaders 69 counts, including support­maximum 20 years on each 
were convicted Monday of fun­ing a specially designated ter­conviction. 
neling millions of dollars to the rorist, money laundering and Solis ordered the Holy Land 
Palestinian mil-tax fraud. leaders detained, citing the 
itant group M u f i d long prison terms they may 
Hamas, finally "/feel heartbroken Abdulqader face and their ties to the 
handing the a n d Middle East. 
that a group ofmy

government a Abdulrahman Holy Land was accused of signature victo­fellow Americans fell Odeh were con­giving more than $12 million to ry in its fight for the prosecution's victed of three support Hamas. The seven­against terror­counts of con­week retrial ran about as long
fear-mongering

ism funding. spiracy, and as the original, which ended in 
theory.,,

U.S. District Mohammed El­October 2007 when a judge Judge Jorge A. Mezain was declared a mistrial on most S o i convicted of charges.
I s Noor Elashi
a'nnounced the one count of Holy Land wasn't accused of
daughter of former

guilty verdicts conspiracy to violence. Rather, the govern­
Holy Land chairman

on all 108 support a ter-ment said the Richardson, 
counts on the rorist organiza­Texas-based charity financed 
eighth day of tion. Holy Land schools, hospitals and social 
deliberations in the retrial of itself was convicted of all 32 welfare programs controlled 
the Holy Land Foundation for counts. by Hamas in areas ravaged by 
Relief and Development, once "I feel heartbroken that a the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
the nation's largest Muslim group of my fellow Americans The U.S. designated Hamas a 
charity. It was the biggest ter­fell for the prosecution's fear­terrorist organization in 1995 
rorism financing case since the mongering theory," Elashi's and again in 1997, making 
attacks of Sept. 11. daughter, Noor, said outside contributions to the group ille­
The convictions follow the the courthouse late Monday. gal. Government officials raid­
collapse of Holy Land's first "This is truly a low point for ed Holy Land's headquarters in 
trial last year and defeats in the United December 
other cases the government States of 2001 and shut
"My dad was
tried to build. President George America, but it down. 
W. Bush had personally this is not persecuted for his Prosecutors announced the freezing of Holy over." political beliefs. It's labeled Holy Land's assets in 2001, calling She said that Land's benefac­
as pure and simple
the action "another step in the she was proud tors -called 
as that."
war on terrorism." of her father zakat commit-After Monday's verdict, fami­and that he was tees -as ter­ly members showed little visi­"paying the rorist recruit­
Noor Elashi 
ble reaction until the jury left. price" for sav­ing pools. The
daughter of former
Several women sobbed loudly. ing lives. charities, the
Holy Land chairman
"My dad's not a criminal!" "My dad was government 
one nearly inconsolable persecuted for argued, spread 
woman said loudly. Court per­his political beliefs," she said. Hamas' violent ideology and 
sonnel told the family to calm "It's as pure and simple as generated loyalty and support 
her down, and as family mem­that." among Palestinians. 
bers rushed her out of the A sentencing date hasn't It was a "womb to the tomb" 
courtroom, she said, "They been scheduled, but the pun­cycle, prosecutor Barry Jonas 
treated him like an animal." ishments could be steep. told jurors during closing argu­
Ghassan Elashi, Holy Land's Supporting a terrorist organi-ments last week. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
that's been a issue since I've 
been at Notre Dame," Schmidt 
said. "A lot of students feel that 
it would be a great convenience 
for students to have printers in 
their residence hall." 
Currently, there are Pharos printers in 10 dorms, and the council's resolution recom­mends that printers be added to remaining dorms. The first ten were installed as part of a pilot program. 
Schmidt said while additional printers may be a convenience, his task force came up with multiple arguments in addition to being convenient, stating that the additional printers were "something that students would greatly ap~.reciate for a number of reasons. 
The resolution notes in the recent Student Survey complet­ed by Student Government, 91.1 percent of respondents felt that there was a current need for a printer in their dorm, or they already had a printer located in their dorm. 
The document also states that under current circumstances "some students arc required to walk across campus for printer usage which, depending on the hour of the day or night, leads to safety eoncerns." 
Devin Fee, the Student Senate Campus Technology Committee ehair, said now is a prime opportunity for the installation of more printers in dorms. The University's contract with Xerox expires at the end of the calen­dar year, and Fee said the Office of Information -Teehnology (OIT) and Procurement are negotiat­

ing a purchase of used Xerox 
printers  which  would  be  
installed in dorms.  
The new dorm printers ­ and  

the existing ones -would be maintained by orr as part of the agreement. 
"If we can support OIT on this issue, and get Fr. Poorman's voice on this, it has a pretty high chance of success," Fee said. 
In other CLC news: 
+ 
Schmidt said his Task Force has arranged for the east side of South Dining Hall to be avail­able as study space between Dec. 14.and 18. The two dining rooms on the south side of North Dining Hall will also be available. In addition, the Career Center will donate the interview rooms for use as group study space. 

+ 
Student Government parlia­mentarian Nicole O'Connor, chair of the Task Force on Student Safety, said her group is continuing to gather informa­tion for the creation of an off­campus Web site. 


"Right now we've divided up the assignments and we're gathering information," she said. 
The Web site will include information on restaurants, shopping, safety and crime pre­vention, she said. 
+ Student Body President Bob Reish said the Task Force on New Student Introduction is continuing discussions about the current policies and proce­dures dealing with transfer ori­entation. Reish said he met with Dan Saracino, assistant provost for Admissions, about the issue. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Ca111pus hosts holiday festivities 
Students, staff celebrate Thanksgiving over extended break 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Notre Dame students will have one more day to enjoy the Thanksgiving holiday, which begins Wednesday, after the University's Academic Council decided in August to extend the break to allow for easier travel. 
Some students will take advantage of the extra day to travel home and visit family. 
Freshman Mary Coyne said she is looking forward to 
Sophomore Yanning Sun, who is from China, said that she will spend part of her Thanksgiving break exploring Chicago and the rest of it on campus. 
''I'm going to Chicago with friends to go shopping, and then I'll come back [to cam­pus] to sleep a lot. If I have time, I'll do homework," Sun said. 
Sun also said she plans to take advantage of the Thanksgiving feast that North Dining Hall will host. 
"My parents are

going home 
in Washington, coming up [to celebrate 
D.C., for the Thanksgiving], so I'll be break. 
spending the week in a

Coyne said 
hotel in South Bend." 

she plans to go to a lake with her fam­Jacob Wenger ily over the 
freshman

break and to relax at home. 
''I'm mostly looking forward to watching the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade," she said. 
Freshman Ryan Solava said he plans to go back home to the Chicago area for Thanksgiving and will be bringing one of his friends home with him. 
''I'm going back home ... and a friend of mine is staying with me," Solava said. 
Others have decided to stay on campus for the break. 
Atlantic char. Thursday's 

N o r t h Dining Hall operations manager Dan Patterson said that the din­ing hall's Thanksgiving feast will fea­ture three main entrees 
turkey, ham and 
menu also 
includes traditional favorites such as candied sweet pota­toes, mashed potatoes and butternut squash. 
Patterson also said they will prepare gravy, green bean casserole and julienne carrots for the approximately 1,300 
·guests they expect to serve. Additionally, there will be hors d'oeuvres as guests enter the dining hall, and desserts will include pumpkin pie, apple pie and a chocolate fountain. 
Patterson said he did not think the longer break would affect the number of guests that would eat Thanksgiving dinner in the dinning hall. 
"I think it will be the same base of people -those that live too far away to go home. We also get a lot of guests, faculty and staff who come in," he said. 
Patterson said the Dining Hall staff tries to vary its Thanksgiving menu each year. 
"We try to put a different spin on it every year," Patterson said. "In a way it's routine but in a way it's not. We try to perfect it every year." 
Patterson said much of North Dining Hall's staff began preparing the Thanksgiving meal at 5:30 
a.m. last Saturday. 
Some students like fresh­man Jacob Wenger will have family in to visit him over the break. 
"My parents are coming up [to celebrate Thanksgiving[, so I'll be spending the week in a hotel in South Bend," Wenger. 
Wenger said his parents will be bringing a turkey with them from a store in Pennsylvania. 
''I'm looking forward to not going to classes," Wenger said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

RtL]~.Now! 
BAUG-:.3021 0 

This one credit -hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society during the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
Pe£Jti.lu) iJ1lo ~ g~tt:uv 'fufwte,: <Jfu, 7~ ~ YNWvaiwM 'foJt'jiluj a.Jv Ab~ Sodef..tJ ~ 13~ wifA .N~ 
Josh Dorfrnan, Founder & CEO, Vivavi 
'fo~ht Dvvef.opm.~ ~ e& WoJtU o~ Auefe~ Chcmtjf>: 7hor"-'j~ 61tAJ~n a.Jv fvo Ovvo 'fuiu.JUA! 
John Smart, President, Acceleration Studies Foundation 
Sr~~; PMl. P\e&ntt. ~ 7~ 6Mm 0 0J~It4fj, ViRMi 
Jean Sweeney, Vice President, 3M -Environmental, Health & Safety' Operations 
k:e~tj ~~ g!t.ed 

David M. Walker, President & CEO, Peter c;. Peterson Foundation 
S~ifdtJ ~ Cn"folt4fj, R.e~M4~: 'Jfu, Mci)oM.tf'!l, Stova 
cJack Daly, Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations, McDonald's Corporation 
'Jut,(~7b~: How to Ptd cluuu;f> ~ P~e, ({}1_£ Su, _Atto~t£ CfeAJt,~ WM (A, CnfVli.lttJ Edie Weiner·, President, Weiner. Edr·ich, Brown, Inc. 
'J/3() 

Seventh speaker to be deterrnined 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and employees. There are no prerequisites 
to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases. examinations or term papers. Registration is available online. 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 CoMPILED FRO!v1 TlH: OBSERVER'S WIRE SERV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Venezuelan opposition gains votes 
CARACAS, Venezuela -Modest opposi­tion gains in state and local elections, cou­pled with sagging oil prices, could hamper President Hugo Chavez as he lays the groundwork for a new attempt to persuade Venezuelans to do away with term limits. 
The opposition won five of 22 states up for grabs, including the two biggest ­Miranda and Zulia -as well as mayoral races in the two largest cities. 
The opposition's gains, however, did not dampen Chavez's ambitions. 
"We've handed them a new defeat ... and a big one," Chavez said at a news confer­ence Monday night, calling the results "a great revolutionary victory." 
lie said Sunday's vote showed that Venezuelans want him to press ahead with his socialist policies, and he has hinted at a renewed effort to make constitutional changes that could expand his powers and let him run for re-election in 2012 and beyond. 
Bomber targets Green Zone 
BAGHDAD -A woman hiding a bomb under her long robe blew herself up Monday · among Iraqis waiting to enter the U.S.-protect­ed Green Zone, where lawmakers plan to vote this week on a pact that would let American forces stay in Iraq for up to three more years. 
The morning attack in central Baghdad killed seven people, by an Iraqi count, and came about 45 minutes after a bomb destroyed a minibus carrying Trade Ministry employees in the eastern part of the capital. At least 13 people died in that blast, most of them women; some of the bodies were burned so badly that authorities could not immediately identify them. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Defense rests in Myspace trial 
LOS ANGELES -The defense in the MySpace hoax trial rested Monday with­out calling a Missouri mother to testify on her own behalf, instead relying on her tearful daughter to direct blame else­where for an Internet ruse that allegedly led to a teenage girl's suicide. 
The case neared closing arguments with 

U.S. District Court Judge George Wu yet to rule on a defense motion for dismissal on grounds that Lori Drew, 49, could not be held responsible for violating the serv­ice rules of the MySpace social network­ing site because there is no proof she ever read them. In comments to lawyers, the judge cited a rule under which he may wait until after a verdict to rule on the motion. 
Suicide broadcast on webcam 
MIAMI -The father of a college student whose suicide was broadcast live over a web­cam said Saturday he was appalled by the virtual audience that egged on his son and called for tougher regulation of Internet sites. 
Abraham Biggs Sr. said those who watched and the Web site operators share some blame in his 19-year-old son's death. 
"I think they are all equally wrong," he said. "It's a person's life that we're talking about. And as a human being, you don't watch someone in trouble and sit back and just watch." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana revisits teenage driving laws 
INDIANAPOLIS -Teenagers would be required to complete at least 50 hours of supervised driving practice and wait longer before getting an Indiana driver's license under a proposed bill unveiled by lawmak­ers Monday. 
The bill, aimed at reducing the number of crashP-s caused by young people, also would ban teen drivers from using cell phones and handsfree devices while driving. Probationary drivers would have to display a placard issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the rear window of their vehicle. 

Astronauts finish final spacewalk 
Unprecedented clean and lube job completed at international space station 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­Astronauts successfully car­ried out one last spacewalk Monday, finishing an unprecedented clean and lube job that they began a week ago at the internation­al space station. 
Spacewalker Stephen Bowen wrapped up work on a jammed solar-wing rotary joint as his partner, Shane Kimbrough, squirted some extra grease as a precaution on another joint that is working fine. 
When the repairs to the gummed-up joint were deemed officially complete, Mission Control radioed up its applause. 
"Finally," Bowen exclaimed. "Thanks for your work," replied Mission Control, erupting in laugh­ter. 
Just before Monday's spacewalk began, NASA added a 16th day to space shuttle Endeavour's mission. Managers wanted to give the astronauts more time to fix a machine that's supposed to turn urine into drinking water; additional repairs were performed Monday for the fifth day in a row. 
The $154 million recycling equipment was delivered by Endeavour, along with other a test of the newly repaired grease guns 225 miles up. "We'll see if we need to add home makeover items need­joint Tuesday. Regardless of There was one less tool kit some Diet Coke to the plan." ed to expand the space sta­the outcome, more space­after a sack full of grease For the record, there is no tion crew to six next year. walks are planned on later guns and other items floated Diet Coke -or any other 
Monday's spacewalk was missions for a better, longer­away on the first spacewalk soda-up there. 
the fourth for Endeavour's term fix. last Tuesday. The astronauts have man­astronauts. Greasy repair An identical joint on the Inside the space station, aged to collect samples of work on the clogged joint left side of the orbiting com­meanwhile, skipper Mike the recycled water for consumed most of their plex has worked perfectly, Fincke performed more return to Earth aboard time. but NASA wanted the space­repair work on the new Endeavour, relying mostly 
The rotary joint on the walkers to grease it up to urine processor. on converted condensation. right side of the space sta­ensure its longevity. Once NASA was hoping for a full NASA would prefer more tion hasn't worked properly they opened up this joint, four-hour test run Monday urine in the mix; that's the for more than a year, pre­the astronauts noticed wear following Fincke's tinkering. way the system was venting the solar wings on on some parts. On Sunday, the urine designed.that side from pointing auto­The dialogue between the processor shut down after No one can drink the recy­matically toward the sun. spacewalkers and the astro­operating less than three cled water until tests show Grinding parts left the joint nauts inside was technical hours; before, it never even it's safe. Additional samples full of metal shavings. and full of numbers denot­made it that far. will be returned on the next 
Almost all the gritty mess ing the various panels on the When informed more space shuttle flight in was cleaned up during the joints. "Too many numbers," urine might be needed, February, to confirm every­first three spacewalks and one of the spacewalkers Fincke said, "Well, we've got thing is working properly. new bearings were put in. grumbled. a very adequate supply of NASA's goal is to have six Bowen finished the job As they have before, the yesterday's coffee to help." people living on the space Monday, paving the way for spacewalkers had to share Mission Control then joked: station by June. 



Biden aide to fill his Senate seat 
Associated Press 

WILMINGTON, Del. -Edward "Ted" Kaufman, a former aide to Sen. Joe Biden, was named Monday by Delaware Gov. Ruth Ann Minner to fill the Senate seat Biden is leaving for the vice presi­dency. 
Kaufman, co-chair of Biden's transition team and an Obama­Biden transition project advisory board member, plans to serve until the 2010 election, when a new sen­ator is elected. He said he is com­fortable stepping down after two years in office. 
"I don't think Delaware's appointed senator should spend the next two years running for office," Kaufman said. "I will do this job to the fullest of my ability, and spend my days focused on one thing and one thing only: serving Delaware." 
Speculation on Biden's successor had centered in recent weeks on his son, Attorney General Beau Biden. But last week the younger Biden announced that he planned to fulfill his National Guard duties and wouldn't accept an appoint­ment to his father's U.S. Senate seat. 
Biden is a prosecutor for the 261 st Signal Brigade, which left for Iraq last week. The unit is due back in September 2009, in time for Biden to run for his father's Senate seat. 
The elder Biden said in a state­ment, "It is no secret that I believe my son, Attorney General Beau Biden, would make a great United States Senator just as I believe he has been a great attorney general. But Beau has made it clear from the moment he entered public life that any office he sought he would earn on his own." 
Just before announcing Kaufman as the appointee, Minner acknowl­edged speculation about the younger Biden being picked for the post and said she would have strongly considered him. 
"The fact that Beau Biden is com­mitted to fulfilling his obligation and not seeking appointment to this office tells us everything we need to know about his character," she said. "Should Beau choose to run for this office in 2010, he will -as will whoever runs -have to earn on his own the trust of the people of Delaware." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
to their hall will be accom­modated as groups in otlwr halls," he said. 
Whiln there arn no official numbnrs yet, Kaehmarik estimates thnre will be around :{50 students rnturn­ing from Study /\broad pro­grams. lie also said thnre are around 20 students returning to eampus from olT-eampus venLtnS. 
/\s for nnw students, then~ are five nnw freshmen that will bn moving into the dorms for tlw spring semes­ter. Also, thorn will be an additional 20-30 transfer 

students who will be wel­between 5 and 7 residents comed into the dorms as were breaking their contract W<~)J. to move off-campus. That 
While the majority of the number will grow slightly as traffic mov-we usually ing in and h a v e out of the "/ believe the last/ heard around 10 dorms is or so can­
was that somewhere 
attributed cel in the
between 5 and 7 residents 
to students spring studying were breaking their semester," abroad, Kachmarik
contract to move 
there are a said.
off-campus.,,
small num­With the ber of stu­addition of 
dents who Scott Kachmarik Dunean have ehoscn associate director of Reslife Hall came to move otT­30 extra campus for beds for the remainder of the sehoul undergraduate male stu­year. dents. While there are over 
"I believe the last I heard 100 dorm rooms in the dor­was that somewhere mitory, most of these were 
band's first trip to Los Angeles for the USC game in


Band 
the band's 154-year history. 
continued from page 1 "It's a chance to be the 
l'irst ones to do it, so it's 
has rnquired a Jot of plan­been one of the focuses of 
ning." the season for the band," 
Dye explained that Notre Dye said. 
Dame fans and alumni have Saint Mary's senior Jessica 
wanted to see the marehing Sheehan said she is excited 
band play at the USC game to be a part of the band's 
for years. historic trip. 
"We've seen USC bring ''I'm really excited to go their band for the last 35 because it's something we've ynars Ito Notre Dame's never gotten to do before," Stadium]. This is really one Sheehan said. "We have t-of the shirts that premier say 'Making 
match­"We've seen USC bring their History' 
ups, and because
band for the last 35 years
the alum­that's what
[to Notre Dame,s Stadium]. 
ni thought w e r e it was This is really one ofthe doing." historieal­Sheehan
premier match-ups, and the
ly impor­said while 
tant for alumni thought it was the she will 
the band historically important for not be in to be southern
the band to be there. ,,
tho r e , " California Dye said. long, she is 
Dye said Kenneth Dye looking for­one of tlw Band director ward to the donors trip. w h 0 ''I'm excit­helped fund the trip played ed to see friends out there in the marching band. [in Los Angeles! and get 
"/\11 the big eosts for the away from the snow for a trip are predominately while," she said. anonymous donations ... one Sophomore Courtney was a formPr band rnnmbnr, MeVey also said she is excit­and tho !other thren donors[ ed to be a part of the band's just want'od to see it hap­"monumental" trip to pen. California. 
Dyo said the band mom­"We're del'initely all very be rs have been exdtnd about exeited about it. It's totally going to the USC gamn all unprecedented for the snason since this is tho [marehi ng] band to go to the used as a way to loosen the congestion in other residence halls. 
"The effect of Duncan is that we are able to reduce overcrowding and open up lounges and room configura­tions that create a ladder­effect whereby students ean attained more desirable room set-ups as they progress through to their Senior year," Kaehmarik said. 
Overall, ResLife does not anticipate any problems with the transition to the Spring Semester. 
"Hight now it appears to be about normal," Kachmarik said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 

Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
"Even if the odds anm't look­
ing good for !Notre Dame'sf. 
they should still go into !the 
gamel with an intent to win ... 
and leave !the Coliseum[ with 
some dignity." 
Many studerts will bo travel­
ing to Los Angles for the game 
next Saturday. Senior Nieole 
Yergler said shn is exeited about 
seeing the Irish on the road 
over the Thanksgiving week­
end, despite that fact most 
experts have predieted a Trojan 
victory. 
"It will be awesome to experi­ence my last ND football game lin thnf Coliseum ... with my whole family and a big group of friends, ND and USC fans included." Yergler said. "It should be an exciting day, regardless of' our underdog sta­tus." 
Last Saturday's loss aside, Yergler said she is optimistic about the game against the Trojans this weekend. 
"Saturday's loss to Syracuse was a huge let-down, but November 29 is a new day. The players rwed to get pumped up for their last game of' the season land] go out there and do what they've practieod," she said. 
llowever, many Notre Dame fans are not as optimistic. Senior Garrett Busch said he simply hopes the Fighting Irish just don't embarrass them­selves. 
"I think we are going to lose, and by lose I mean get absolutely obliterated, however I always have hope for a mira­de ... and being Notre Dame I figure God owes us a rnirade about now." Buseh said. "All I ean hope for is [Notre Dame] putting up a decent fight and not embarrassing lthemselvesl like [they] did the last two times !they] matched up with IUSCJ." 
While not all students will bn traveling to Los Angeles, some will be returning to campus to watch the game with friends. Saint Mary's sophomores Janine Kingsbury and Franca Peluso said they will be watching the game in Alumni !!all. 
"Jiopel'ully I Notre Darnel goes into the game with positive atti­tudes," Kingsbury said. "[The players I need to play like they know how and hopefully wn'll see a win." 
Yergler said playnrs searching for inspiration must simply remember the rich tradition of' Notre Dame football, and hope­fully the Fighting Irish will be able to pull off the stunning upset. 
"We need to step up to the challenge ar"ld be confident in the talent we have. We need to play some Notre Dame foot­ball," said Yergler. 
Contact Katie Kotarak at kkotarO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
Michigan game, 35 arrests and threp njnetions for the Purdue game, nine arrests and seven ejections l'or tlw Stanford game and eight arrests and four njnctions for the Pittsburgh game. 
The Stanford and Pittsburgh games were designated as games for which parnnts of undergraduate students wnrn allowed to purchase tickets. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
USC game," McVey said. "Small groups of students [from the marching band] have gone in the past, but this is a monumental trip. Our director was telling us what a big landmark this is." 
Dye said that the trip will cost approximately $250,000 to fly the 350 member band already had plans for Thanksgiving will not attend the game. 
"The ]band members] that wanted to are, some that had previous plans for Thanksgiving are not going, and we give them that option. But almost everybody is going to the USC game," 

and its staff. "That's about 
''I'm really excited to
what it eosts to do a flying trip go because it's -airfare, one something we've 
night of hotel 
never gotten to do
and buses 
before.,,
around the 
L.A. area," he said. 
Jessica Sheehan 
Additionally, 
SMC senior band member
Dye said the Notre Dame 
he said. 
The entire marching band's staff will also travel to Los Angeles for the game, Dye said. 
Dye also said a truck left N°1 0
r e am e
last Sunday to transport the 

Club of Los Angeles and Notre Dame Club of Orange County will host the band for a few meals during the game weekend. 
"The two [alumni] clubs in 
L.A. and Orange County are feeding the band a couple of times," he said. 
Sheehan said the band will play at Notre Dame High School Sherman Oaks and Crenshaw High Sehool before Saturday night's game. 
She also said there is a group of and members that will be playing at the pep rally on Friday. 
According to Dye, the majority of the student band members will make the trip to Los Angeles to cheer on the Irish in the Coliseum, however some students that band's larger equipment to Los Angeles for the Thanksgiving weekend match-up. 
Dye said that all the band members will fly out of Chicago, unless they are from the Los Angeles area. 
"Some of [the band mem­bers] are going home, those that live far away are not," Dye said. 
lie also said the majority of the band members will only stay Friday night, but some will also stay Saturday night due to Bight availability. 
"The majority lof the band members! are flying back after the game on Saturday," he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,443.39 +396.97 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
3,261 28 488 166,250,315 

AMEX 1,301.,02 +97Jl0 NASDAQ 1,472.02 +87.67 NYSE ·S,313.7b +353;97 S&P 500 851.81 +5l.?H NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,214.91 ;f3~ult2 FTSE 100 (London) 4,152.96 +372.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +57.82 +2.18 5.95 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +6.93 +5.51 85.03 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +15.19 +1.47 11.15 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +6.11 +1.63 28.30 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.46 +0.173 3.340 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 0.010 30-YEAR BOND +2.51 +0.092 3.755 5-YEAR NOTE +10.80 +0.215 2.205 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.57 54.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +27.70 819.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.80 92.10 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 96.6550 EURO 0.7769 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2384 BRITISH POUND 0.6610 
IN BRIEF Obama announces budget director 
WASHINGTON -President-elect Barack Obama intends to name Peter Orszag as his budget director, Democratic officials said Monday, turning to Congress' chief adviser on spending and taxes as he fills out his economic team. 
Orszag, 39, is serving a four-year term as head of the Congressional Budget Office. 
If confirmed by the Senate, he would head the Office of Management and Budget, the agency that makes sure a president's priorities are translated into spending deci­sions. 
The Democratic officials said Orszag's appointment was scheduled for Tuesday in Chicago, where Obama was holding his sec­ond news conference in as many days. 
Obama announced four members of his economic team on Monday, including Timothy Geithner, currently the president of the New York Federal reserve, to be treasury secretary. 
The officials who described Obama's plans to appoint Orszag did so on condition of anonymity, saying they were not author­ized to divulge his selection before the president-elect announced it. 

GM bails on Tiger Woods' contract 
DETROIT -General Motors is bailing out on Tiger Woods. 
Woods, a global icon in sports with his 14 major championships, has been carrying the Buick logo on his golf bag for the last nine years and still had one year left on his contract. 
But General Motors Corp. was looking to cut costs and hoard cash while trying to survive the worst sales downturn in a quar­ter-century. And it said Monday the world's No. 1 golfer wanted more time for himself, especially with a second child on the way. 
"Timing is everything," said Larry Peck, golf marketing manager for Buick. "We've had such a great partnership with Tiger. It's hard for us to walk away from that. But this frees up time for him. And it sure frees up a lot of money for us." 
The endorsement deal. believed to be worth at least $7 million a year, was to expire at the end of 2009. 



THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Obama takes rare pre-inaugural action 
President-elect confers with Bush, urges Congress to pass job-creating bill 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Forget about 
waiting for Inauguration 
Day. 
Looking almost like a co­president, Barack Obama cited an "economic crisis of historic proportions" on Monday, conferred with the man who's still in the White House and urged Congress to pass a costly, job-creating stimulus bill as quickly as possible. 
It was a rare pre-inaugu­
ral call to action, delivered 
as the outgoing Bush 
administration approved 
fresh billions to bail out 
one of the nation's largest 
banks. 
For a day, it all seemed to 
work. 
Stock prices surged ­
the biggest two-day per­
centage gain for the Dow 
Jones industrials in 21 
years -as investors took 
heart from the actions and 
words of the incoming and 
departing chief executives. 
"If we do not act swiftly 
and boldly, most experts 
now believe that we could 
lose millions of jobs next 
year," said President-elect 
Obama, 57 days shy of tak­
ing office in the shadow of 
the worst economic crisis 
since the Great Depression. 
He blended criticism of 
Detroit's beleaguered Big 
Three automakers 
General Motors Corp., Ford 

Motor Co. and Chrysler LLC for "meaningful cuts and smoothly. Officials said the govern­
-with a pledge of support sacrifices" to restrain fed­At the same time, the ment might invest $20 bil­
for government aid to help eral spending. juxtaposition of the outgo­lion in the firm, and guar­
them survive. "We can't The president-elect was ing and incoming chief antee $306 billion in risky 
allow the auto industry to expected to stress that executives grappling -assets. 
vanish," he said, pledge at a second news publicly and simultaneous­Encouraged by the 
although he added that a conference on Tuesday. ly -with the economy action, investors sent the 
blank check for an industry Democratic officials said he underscored the severity of Dow Jones industrials up 
resistant to change was not intended to name Peter a crisis that has sent job­397 points. Coupled with 
the solution to its long­Orszag, currently the head lessness rising, caused a Friday's gain, that mean an 
term decline. of the Congressional large spike in mortgage 891 point increase over 
At a news conference in Budget Office, to be his foreclosures and crippled two trading days, the 
which he introduced New budget director. the credit markets. biggest percentage rise 
York Federal Reserve Obama and President Bush said his administra­since October 1987. 
President Timothy Geithner George W. Bush spoke by tion's dramatic overnight Obama made a point of 
as his treasury secretary telephone during the day, rescue of Citigroup Inc. saying his administration 
and named other top eco­their first disclosed conver­was necessary to safeguard "will honor the public com­
nomic officials, Obama said sation since a visit at the . the nation's financial sys­mitments made by the cur­
restoring the economy to White House more than a tem and help the economy rent administration to 
health took priority over week ago, and each man recover. He said more such address this crisis," words 
deficit concerns. Still, he appeared eager to show a moves might follow if other of reassurance to the finan­
said he would be looking transition proceeding institutions need help. cial markets. 



More aid sought as home prices fall 
Associated Press assets. ly to get worse before it gets better." 
The Dow Jones industrials soared From real estate agents to carpet 

WASHINGTON -With nationwide nearly 400 points, and the 891-point makers, businesses dependent on a sales of existing homes falling more rise since Friday gave the Dow its healthy housing sector are calling on than expected last month and the biggest two-day percentage gain since lawmakers and the incoming adminis­median sales price plunging to October 1987. The major indexes all tration to subsidize lower mortgage $183,000, the U.S. housing market jumped more than 4.5 percent rates and beef up tax credits in a des­keeps getting worse. Bracing for more Monday. perate effort to stimulate housing bad news likely on the way, industry Obama unveiled the top members of demand. groups pressed President-elect Barack his economic team, beginning with Spending $50 billion to lower mort­Obama to help stem the damage. New York Federal Reserve President gage rates would yield about 500,000 
Meanwhile, the major Wall Street Timothy Geithner as Treasury secre­more home sales, projects the National 
indexes surged Monday on the govern­tary and Lawrence Summers as direc­Association of Realtors. ment's plan to bail out Citigroup Inc., a tor of his National Economic Council. "If home prices overshoot down­move investors hope will help quiet Summers led the Treasury Department ward, then it can lead to collateral some of the uncertainty hounding the under former President Bill Clinton. damage to the economy," said fmancial sector and the overall econo­Obama urged the new Congress to Lawrence Yun, chief economist at the 
my. The Treasury Department says it pass an economic stimulus bill, pledged Realtors group. The cost would be will invest another $20 billion in help for the troubled auto industry and "very reasonable" compared with the Citigroup, and the government agreed blessed the Bush administration's billions the government is spending to to guarantee large losses the company bailout of the financial industry. Even rescue major banks such as Citigroup, might absorb on real estate-related so, he conceded, "The economy is like-he added. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass'l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: jenn Metz 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScF.NE EDITOR: Analise Lipari SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PnoTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAPtJJCS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary jesse 
CoNTRO!J..ER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obmvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESk 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The OhscJYer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhc srudenrs of rhe University of Notre IJame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer rescJYes rhe right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdirorials represent rhe opinion of rhc majority of rhe Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department edirors. Commentaries. letters and columns present rhe views of rhc authors and not necessarily rhosc ofThc ObscJYer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions ~arding Obsmm· policies should be dirt:cted to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'llu: OIMI.'rvcr (USP"i ';99 2-4QtKI) 11> publithcd Mond•y rhmugh Friday CXI.CJ.lf duri~ cum .uut vJ~~uun periu~l•. A ,uiM.Cripuunw "111c Ob\t'rvcr ill .$100 tOr<mc ac.aJcmk 
yc<~r; $55 ti.,rnncK"mesrcr.  
rhc Ohservet l• pubh•hcd .u  I'OSTMASTER  
021 !rlmuh Dimns Ho~ll  Xnd addrm correaion1 10:  
NutrT O.amc, lN 1(,ssr..orn  The Ob.cmr  
Perimlh.;~l pmtJ~e paiJ ,u NotK" Do~mc  1~0. Box 719  
.md ¥!didouJI nuilm!lulfica.  ON S~1uth Dining H~l  

Nom: D;~mc, IN 465';6..0779 
~ Ob8trvt't 11 a mcmhe1 o( 1hc ~M.I;llcd Pros. All tcprodu~;rinn righ" arc re..erw:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Joseph McMahon Bill Brink Ashley Charnley Alex Barker Sarah Mervosh Michael Blasco 
Graphics Scene Mary Jesse Analise Lipari Viewpoint 
Kara King 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Senior legacy options debated 
Unpaid internship 

The senior class has an exiting opportu­nity available to us these next few weeks; voting on what we want to leave behind as our legacy here at Notre Dame when we graduate. The 2009 Senior Class Legacy gives the senior dass the chance to make a major difference in the lives of many stu­dents to follow us. This year we have the option to vote on a new fund for future students that can benefit studenl<> for sev­eral years to come. This is the option of the unpaid internship fund. 
Think back to your past summers of work. You worked full-time hours, gained invaluable experience both in your possi­ble future career and in "real-life." You may have worked side-by-side with the professionals in the firm, sat in on meet­ings, worked on major projects and gained knowledge and skills that you can't learn in the classrooms. 
Now imagine this experience without the pay. Maybe some of you experienced this, or maybe some of you were unable to partake in an internship because the firm couldn't pay you. This is actually a very common dilemma, one that I personally experienced the summer before junior year. This happens across all industries in which the expertise and ideas of interns are highly valued, yet the funds simply are not available. 
The unpaid internship fund can make all the difference of those students. It is a fund that would support students in unpaid summer internships via an award that would go toward paying expenses during the internship. This provides stu­dents previously unable to gain this work experience the opportunity to build their resumes and make them a more mar­ketable student upon graduation. I think this program is the best way that our sen­ior class can give back to this University that has given us so much. It will be a last­ing legacy that can help so many future students fortunate enough to attend Our Lady's University. 
Abby Wilgenbusch senjor off-campus Nov. 17 

Community service 
Seniors, it's time to decide what we want our class legacy to be. While all three of the available options are great, I believe one of them stands out as the truly com­passionate choice. If we end up selecting the community service option, the pro­ceeds of our legacy will go to the Center for Social Concerns in a special fund ear­marked for local community programs. The CSC will have more resources to devote to its programs focused in South Bend, including community-based learn­ing and research for Notre Dame students, community and economic development programs and partnerships with local coalitions for social change. It seems that this year more than ever I hear our class­mates worrying about how dangerous this town is and how unsafe they feel off-cam­pus. 
Pair that with all the anti-Notre Dame sentiment you find on the South Bend Tribune's website, and the tension between students and city residents is pal­pable. The disconnect between the University and the city seems obvious to us, and we finally have an opportunity as a class to do something tangible to change it. 
Wishing for a better relationship with the South Bend community gets us nowhere -it's time to realize that the South Bend community is our community too. 
So when you vote for our class legacy, please vote to give our gift to the Center 
for Social Concerns. The Class of 2009 can 
give a gift that benefits not only future 
Notre Dame studenl<> but also the entire 
city of South Bend. 
Anna Curtis senior 
off~campus 
Nov. 19 
EcoFund 

In light of Notre Dame's recent elforl<> to address sustainability on campus, last year's Senior Legacy establishing the EcoFund was appropriate and eflective. The point of a Senior Legacy is to create an impact lasting far longer than our four years at this University. That's also what sustainability is all about and why the Class of 2009 should continue to support the EcoFund. 
The EcoFund enables students, faculty and stafl' to take ownership over their original ideas and turn them into projecl<; that contribute substantially to campus sustainability efforts. For example, the EcoFund could support the goals of both of the other Legacy options -pursuing an unpaid internship about energy or envi­ronmental issues, or supporting the sus­tainability work of the CSC in South Bend or around the world. 
Our class has contribut1~d substantially to sustainability at Notre Dame-and the EcoFund is a wonderful way to leave our fmal mark. Energy and climate change issues will impact each of us in our per­sonal and professional lives. Let's set the right kind of precedence at Notre Dame. 
Lourdes Long senior off-campus Nov. 19 

Consider train travel 
Thanksgiving is right around the cor­ner. Chances are good that you, like millions of other Americans, will be going home for the long weekend. Chances are also good that you will be either flying or driving. Unless you live within a couple hour's drive, your trip will probably be uncomfortable, expen­sive, stressful and it will probably involve a delay. It will also emit a lot of Carbon Dioxide and other pollutants, in addition to the more aesthetic problems of noise and light pollution that these modes of transportation foster. 
It does not have to be like this though; there is a third option: rail travel. Trains are a very comfortable, incredi­bly efficient mode of transportation, and they can be made extremely fast, reli­able and comparatively cheap. 
Many Americans have never even rid­den on a train. They do not consider trains when making travel plans. Even though I have had experience with com­muter rail and subways all my life, I never really considered long-distance rail until this fall, when my CSC Energy Policy Seminar took the Capitol Limited to Washington, DC for Fall Break. The trip was incredibly comfortable -we had at least three feet of legroom in coach (first class passenger had full sleeper compartments) and access to a 
full lounge car. My flight for 
Thanksgiving has been booked for 
months, but after my Fall Beak journey 
I have been looking at Amtrak timeta­
bles for future trips. 
Trains are far lighter on the environ~ ment than other modes of transport. According to the Federal Aviation Administration, trains are the most effi­cient mode of transport in terms of emissions per passenger. Electric trains can be powered by renewable sources of power such as wind. Additionally, rail lines take up far less space than a road carrying an equivalent amount of traffic would. 
America's rail network was once the envy of the world, providing safe, reli­able and fast access to virtually every town of any size. Rural areas currently without airports nearby enjoyed regular service, and mail and freight moved at least as quickly as today aboard special­ized trains. We let it decline after World War II though, putting our faith in auto­mobiles, the purchasing, maintenance and fueling of which, according to rail­road historian John Stilgoe, places an unsustainable burden on many American families. Having been raised in a car culture, many people see trains as relics of the past. 

This is changing though. Cities such as Denver and St. Louis, have recently installed popular light-rail networks, and Amtrak has introduced new rail routes extending service into Maine by popular demand. New Jersey Transit reported a 6 percent increase in com­muter rail ridership in 2007. Calif<>rnia recently passed a ballot initiative pro­posing a high-speed rail network link­ing the major cities in the state. Many European countries have had high­speed rail for over a decade which have become accepted as the preferred mode of transportation for trips under 500 miles in length. 
For decades, America was at the fore­front of railroad innovation, inventing high-speed rail with creation of stream­liners in the 1920s. Famed trains such as the Santa Fe's Super Chief and the New York Central's 20th Century Limited are still remembered today for their speed and luxury. Rail was once known to all as "the way to travel," and it still is; we just need to remember it. 
Jackson Bangs sophomore Stanford Hall Nov. 17 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Education is the ability to listen to 
almost anything without losing your 
temper or your self-confidence. " 
Robert Frost poet 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Get your head in the ga111e 
So here is what Charlie had to say after the game. I'm not making a case for or against his firing. This article might be emanating from my severe frustra­tion with this day and with Weis. The game itself was a disaster, and it was my mistake to watch the press conference. And before you jump at me and defend Weis. read the entire article. I have quoted nothing out of context. I just want to make sure that people are aware of what the Head Coach of Notre Dame thinks after a loss to Syracuse. Here are some exact quotes from his press conference. In parentheses is what I get out of it. 
"We challenged the one play, which ... you know we don't have replays here" (So you challenged with­out any legitimate certainty.) "But I was fairly confi­dent that he had his toe inbounds" (You were confi­dent. Hence it must be the case. How far from the play were you?). 
"I know Pat [Kuntz! had to eall the time-out in the second half; I'm not exactly sure why at this point" (Do you know now Charlie, or not yet?) 
"At the end of the day, they had to go down the field and score two touehdowns, and give eredit to Syracuse -they did too." (That's exaetly what I need ... a head coaeh giving credit to the 19.5 point underdog ranked 1 08th in the eountry and who got blown out by Rutgers-don't even give me the respecting the other team nonsense.) 
"That [53-yard field goall was right on the cusp of his distance." (Haha ... good one) 
"I truly separate myself from feeling bad for me. I really only worry about them I the players]. I worry about those kids and their families. I worry about my coaehes and their families. I worry about my wife and kid. But I don't worry about my mentality." 
(What about the fans Charlie? Do you worry about them? Do you worry about the 80,000 people at the stadium who pay to see Notre Dame Football, and the 2 million fans that wateh on TV?) "I don't feel miserable for me." (Well maybe you should.) 
• "Jimmy did not make the big mistake we've had the last eouple of weeks. l-Ie was a lot more effieient at what he was doing." (18 ineompletions, a 17-yard sack, accomplishing nothing in the red zone ... that's the definition of efficiency.) 
Three questions about the future of Notre Dame football and his job status: "I don't like answering big picture questions like that without doing some seri­ous reflecting on what I think is the appropriate answer." (Ok, I buy the spur of the moment aspeet, but you have seven years left on your ten-year eon­tract. As of now, you are the big pieture. Might wanna start thinking about stuff like that.) 
So ... no mention of any hope for the future of the program. Just ignoranee. No motivation, no inspira­tion, no passion, no emotion. After a loss like this, I personally want a coach who keeps his head up, acknowledges mistakes and says something about getting better results. One whO-offers even a hint of an apology to the fans. Not one who tells me Jimmy Clausen was efficient. Not one who thinks the 53­yard line is Brandon Walker's target line. Not one who ignores arguably the most signifieant questions of the press eonference. 
I mean, e'mon Charlie. Syraeuse? 
Piyush Ranade 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Nov. 22 

To the stadiu111 ushers 
Thank you kindly for your vigilant removal of so many hostile student snowball throwers. 
When I was a young boy, I was hit in the head with a snowball by some sehool yard bullies. The pure shame alone was unbearable, not to mention the multiple surgeries I had to undergo to correct the injury. This act in whieh, during winter season, many festive youth demonieally take joy is a state­ment to eaeh victim, "We do not like you; we think you are a loser." 
Sure I eould have taken it lightly and assumed that it's not malicious and just for fun; but dearly snowball throwing is a hateful, wicked attempt to single out a person and defile, embarrass and hopefully maim them. I can only plead that for the next big quad snowball fight, we bring in SWAT and not only save some lives, but perhaps even save some poor students' self-worth. 
Satire aside, it is unfortunate that some of our players were hit. I hope this was aeeidental given the weakness of aeeuraey for even the soberest, most discerning snowball thrower. On the other hand, that trooper getting smoked in the head was hilarious. I fmally learned what he and his posse contribute to the game and sehoul. Their eagle eye powers which give them superhuman vision to swiftly kick out students who try to hit them with snowballs should make us all feel safe. 
Every home game you attend, eheck your inseeu­rities at the entranee. They see all. It is sad that eritics and disgruntled alumni are questioning the students' pride in and support of our team and school just bee a use of some thrown snowballs. While the students at very good football sehools hardly make it to the games, nearly every Notre Dame student attends every home game, stays . standing the entire game and remains to sing the alma mater and victory mareh in honor of the team regardless of weather and the outeome. 
Or perhaps these critics have never stayed until the end of a game and didn't know this. 
Connor Keenan sophomore Siegfried Hall Nov. 24 

Jersey chasers need a bye -week 
Several hours following the football game this weekend our friends sat and eontemplated how a team so full of talent eould lose to an abysmal Syracuse team; a team so bad that their eoach had already been fired. 
Some people might think it might be our coaching, and while this might be part of the problem, I still think there is an unremitting X-faetor affeeting the performance of our players. Later that night, we went to CJs Pub and it became painfully obvious what that X-faetor was, positive reinforeement for a miserably pedestrian performanee. 
Don't get me wrong, we know the players were frustrated mourning their loss and eombating low self esteem upon entering the bar. However, their dejection beeomes pacified and inflated egos eome roaring back when several of the most desirable girls that Notre Dame and St. Mary's have to offer are hanging all over them, while the proverbial Joe the plumbers of Notre Dame are anxiously seouring the establishment for a deeent eatch that is either too intoxicated to notice that you're not wearing a Notre Dame football sweatshirt, or doesn't realize that she too could be hanging off the jock strap of a player who has been warming the beneh for the backup long snapper. 
But I digress, we are asking the jersey ehasing women of Notre Dame and St. Mary's, to take at least a week off when we lose to a team like Syraeuse. This behavior is preposterous. I don't pet my dog when he takes a poop in my house. If some­one is not performing to the level that they should, you do not reward their lack luster performance. Let them get angry as they strike out with you. You ean even use clever rhyming eomebacks to deter your unworthy suitors. 
For example: Learn how to block and then I'll toueh your 'soek.' Bring back the fire, and motivate them to play to their potential. It is simple psycholo­gy. Beeause let's faee it ladies, what jersey would you rather ehase, someone on a 6-5 Notre Dame team or a player on a future national championship team with Heisman consideration. 
Plus, there are a lot of other cool jerseys out there. Feneing: awesome. Water Polo: sexy. Wrestling: need I say more? I have a Tony Romo jersey, maybe I would be wise to wear it out next weekend? 
And lastly, feel free to hook up with Golden Tate, he tore it up this Saturday. 
Ryan Shook and Shea McCarthy juniors off-campus Nov. 24 

We deserve ND 
Dear Ms. Stephan ("Student behavior embarrassing," Nov. 24), 
You have gone too far. I acknowledge that the snowball­throwing wasn't the best thing for Our Lady's PR Department, but you have overstepped the boundaries of this issue. I am referring to your assertion that we, the stu­dent body, "are undeserving of the university so many of us love." Even as a non-snowball-thrower, I am deeply offend­ed. 
I am not quite sure how to respond to your implieation that we do not love our university. To keep it simple, you are wrong. (While I understand you believe our behavior dis­plays a lack of respeet and love, if we really didn't love Notre Dame, we wouldn't have remained in the stadium for the entirety of the game in 18 degree weather.) To assert that we do not deserve this University is the sharpest and most unjust insult you eould have delivered. It is a blatant slap in the faee to anyone, student or parent, who has worked hard and made sacrifices to make this education possible. 
The senior elass, more than any of us, deserves this University. And Saturday night, they deserved a win. You may eriticize our behavior, you may even talk down to us like we are children, but you have no right to tell us that we do not deserve our university. 
Go Irish. 
Whitley Esteban 
sophomore 
Lewis Hall 
Nov. 24 


Snovvball stories misleading 
Ms. Stephan's ("Student behavior embarrassing," Nov. 24) and Ms. Wuellner's ("Snowball incident disrespectful," Nov. 24) let­ters yesterday lead me to assume that they were not in atten­dance at the game on Saturday but instead were vietims oftbe irresponsible journalism that reported a relatively innocuous event as an all-out assault on our own football team. 
While the concerns of our alums that the reputation of Notre Dame students may be at stake are well founded, Notre Dame fans have cause to be embarrassed not beeause of their aetions but because of the way they were described by the media. Insinuating that Notre Dame fans were barraging their own team as a result of displeasure with the team's performance­whieh the AP, Ms. Stephan, and Ms. Wuellner are all guilty of­is simply false. Snowballs were being thrown before the game started and lobbed primarily at friends within the section. The snowballs that made their way onto the field were most fre­quently aimed at eameramen and state troopers. The few snow­balls that hit our own players were stupid, dangerous and dis­traeting, but they represented a miniscule pereentage of the snowballs that were thrown and were likely errant throws aimed at Oven-Mitts, cameramen or other non-athletes. 
Expecting college students in the midst of a festive snowy atmosphere not to throw snowballs is absolutely ridiculous. Calling the student body immature is unfounded. Criticize our fan base for leaving the game early. Criticize our fan base for not being loud enough. Criticize our fan base for booing. But please, don't criticize the members of the student body for acting their age and being goofy at a football game. Don't project the behav­ior of three students (the number of snowballs that the AP reported aetually hit Notre Dame players) onto the rest of the student body, especially when your reaetion has been manipu­lated by shoddy and irresponsible journalism and a laek of first­person evidence. 
Finally, please take your energy and emotion and pour it into another letter, this time to your local paper which ran the AP story that falsely represented your alma mater. 
Michael Streit junior Alumni Hall Nov. 24 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
"A Charlie Brown Thanksgiving" mother's house Jor ~~:tr~ditjonal 
In this 1973 holiday speeial. Turkey Day meaf~.}th all the Charlin Rrown Is fadng a tricky triti~ings. ' +w pt·ediramt>nt. lhw tfi\ a few bum­The special won at Jimmy in bling mishaps. he finds himself 1974 after it aired on/CBS. au''~···#· st.uek prnparittg ror tw~ simulta­:woo. ABC has aired "· neous Thank~giving dinners. He Rt:own Thanksgiving;· and Sally arc already spending· 'the other Peanuts te . . . on spe­tlw day with tlwir gJ.·andmothnt. cials. From 2005 tri~2007 ,_ th~, . but Pnppcrniint Patty has invited .. ·netwt~rk moved the spc£ialto t))~,f Mu.rcic, Franklin and herself to Monday beft~f.c Thaqksk\:v~ng;*(l
ctiun(w at ''Cltuek's" house, comp(:lt6 With its Tbursd,. . ro.~ 
Linus, with his trademark wis~ gratrtming ct·urtng tM No dom and blank!J.t in Low, suggests ratings $W¢c:ps. This year~ V· that Chnrlhl Brnwri host both din­er, thE't spa:ctnJ is due toreturn to nt>rs, cooking ~9.1' all of his its , tradittPA{th :spqt. on frinnds. The 'pair. along with 1'.ha.nks'giviri~ .Jlighti "Tp,cked Snoopy and Wvodstock. put between ~h~ saga 0~ ~pus t~:nd 
togHther a feast of jeliybeans. the Great PinnpkiltiOU. H'·allriween · popenrh. buttnrod toast and pret"' and the beauty that is<'i~'Charlie zel slieks. Eventually, thH group Brown Christma bis Peanuts winds their way to his grand-special is sur~ w s~~; ·· 
Macy's Thanlsgiving Day Parade 

From thf' Broadway perf6rm· ances, to the lloats, with smiling kids and l'&lliOUlt;,musieians, to the train onarger"'·thcu-life baJ­looqs hll'verlng over New York City. to tho final arrivttl of Santa Claus: Fow things say Thankst,tiving TV morn than the Macy's ·r~uoksgiving Day Parad<~. Jloste,d )Jj(the crt>w from NBC's "The 'troday Show" and usually fonturing th~} ever-spirlt~ nd Willard Scott, the televi&,Qd parade has been a hallmark of tlw holiday for dtiCadcs. Hqre·s a Iittlo history tor you: 'fh(ii parade as it is no'W adually hogan in I 924. when Mac~v·s r.nmsferrt~d t.h(l llramborger's' parade, based in Newark. N.J .. to' New York. The Iirst balloon to march in tho pa1·ade ·was Felix the Cat in 1927. later followed by Mh:key 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 

It's officially that time or year again. 
No, not Christmas time -yet. No matter what retail giants, overzealous kiddies and that one girl down the hall who hasn't stopped playing Mariah Carey's "All I Want For Christmas Is You" may tell you, it isn't Christmas time just yet. It's close, precarious­ly and delightfully close, but not yet. 
No, children, the time has come for this nation's annual dose or tryptophan, that day set aside ror giving thanks to the Lord and stufting yourSf!lf as silly as possible. It is the day of tasty turkey, buttery mashed potatoes, cwamy pumpkin pie and good, old-fashioned backyard football games. It's even the day when popsters like "American Idol" contest­ant David Archuleta and llannah Montana herself. Miley Cyrus, are scheduled to ride through New York City on a giant float and stop in rront of that old, bP!oved Macy's on your television. 
That day is Thanksgiving, and it is finally here. 
One of the great things about Thanksgiving is how quintessentially American it is. It's unlikely that most other nations would legally set aside a day for giving thanks (our neigh­bors to the north aside). We hold tightly to 
Mouse in 1934. The parade was actually suspended during World War II. resutnlng in 1945. Ii earned its place in Americana after it was featured in· the 1947 film "MiraCle on 34th Street;" .. and a telecast followed in 1952. 
One of the higbUg.l}ts of the parade.is the var~f?ty. ofballoons featured. Pll,st parade · have lricl:ud~d <' Penuyb 
Explore •· 
of late · 
''F" . · 'th 11··· · t...
1gure WI ...· eut:.....·..... ··... ·.• 
Year after Year, the parade also fea~Q:r · · ~;4lchool march~ ing band.<r. JP.ilsic anf! ~pip'­p('ts frum Broathyay a;ho\NS. 11liS' year, Milt)Y (:yrUs, David ArcliUleta afld::A;libtnda Cosgrqv are' among th~,:wh~dule.d pe~;-· 
· former~>. .... " ·· 
NPL . .. , 
·Three d~ft'erent rNFL ganies are ,airing on Thanksglying.• this year. ::rhe Detruit Lions wiU. host the Te.nntlssE.Ill·•.Titans at -l~30 pm on 
Cowboys,will tak<1 . Seattle Seahawks at·home 
•······•·· at 4 5 on Fox. and the: Arizona -M~-·JI.• J\a ......l~ ... ··Cardinals: will fl\ce ihc Philtt,delpbia Eagles at 8 p.m. on tl}e NFI.Network and ('fFL.eom.For anytween foo.thall viewers looking t6 catch some. NFL action, pop star Jesse McCartney is slated to perform during the halftime show of the Detroit-Tennesse6 game. For the rest of us, the 
games themselves should prove entertaining enough. 
the belief that the first Thanksgiving was a moment or community and understanding between two disparate peoples, the Pilgrims and the Wampanoag Native Americans, a New England melting pot of cuisine and cul­ture cemented, we think, over a mutual love for really dry poultry. 
Scholars and historians may tell us that the real cuisine of the first Thanksgiving proba­bly included eel, venison and swan, but no matter. We'll have our cranberry sauce and eat it too. 
One of Thanksgiving's heartier orferings won't show up on your Grandma's dining room table. Instead, you'll find it in the den or the living room, on your television. Thanksgiving TV is another, albeit more recent, tradition. Like your typical array or holiday side dishes, there's a little something for everyone when it comes to Turkey Day TV. Sitcoms will often have Thanksgiving spe­cials whkh range from zany to heartwarm­ing, football games will abound, and a eer­tain cartoon blockhead and his gang may also appear. 
To prepare you for the choices you 'II face on Thursday, Scene has compiled a slew of options for you to sample. llappy Thanksgiving, everyone! 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

weighthigh school classmate of 
Ross, Rachel and Monica. And you ' can't.; forget the episode when ' Chand~er, as punishment for kiss­
itlg Joey's girlfriend, Kathy, spends the day traj}ped in a box. 
Other sitcoms have had their own ThanksgMng episodes. The ".GihuortiGirls" hopped to four dif­ferent dinn¢rs in "ADeep fried WEIS1'arrwlJts for M-Kore.:aJl Thanksgiving," with taJJ::.utJ..t:.!>· · entrMs ranging from tofurkey. to a fried fowl. CBS's "Huw [ ·· ur MQther" ctil<'lbrated .when Marshall gave ~cond of five slaps he 
ned as the loser of their ".S~ap Bet." And in a classic episode of "Cheers," Diane's attf'mpts to bring doeorum to the :f:heers gang's version of the holi­day r~sults in a slapstick food .l;'ig4t. complete with a flying bowl of mashed potatoes. . . 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
page 11 
Lindsay Poulin I Observer photo 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ Assistant Scene Editor 
Tonight at 7:30 in Washington Hall, the Music Department's Opera Workshop class will perform Francis Poulenc's 1957 work "Dialogues of the Carmelites." The performance will fea­ture selections from Poulenc's 20th century opera about an order of nuns attempting to survive during the Reign of Terror in France. 
Poulenc, once described by critic Claude Hostand as "half bad boy, half monk" ("le moine 

et le voyou"). was a versatile Opera Workshop After the interactive composer who also wrote discussion, and benefit­
Performance
chamber music, ballet, ing from that discussion, choral pieces, music for tilm Tonight the class will present the and more. "Dialogues of the production again, incor­
Washington Hall 
Carmelites" is based on a porating whatever com­
7:30p.m.
screenplay by French author ments and suggestions Georges Bernanos. which Free Admission the audience has given 
was in turn based on a German novella by Gertrud von Le Fort. The opera actually first made its debut in Italian at the La Scala opera house in Milan. 
The students' performance will include four songs from the opera, with each song containing a different prayer. 
The performance is a pure workshop experience, rather than a finished product. The class has been working since fall break on all aspects of this them. 
By this process, the students of the Opera workshop hope to illustrate a truth about perform­ance: that it is an active collaboration between audience, performer and composer. 
The show itself will run for approxi­mately 25 minutes. It will be per­formed in English. Tickets are free at the door. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edn 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 
program: Learning the text and exam­ining the staging, costumes, makeup and lights, while also handling publici­ty in groups run by the students them­selves. The goal of the workshop is to present the material as one does in performance -by accepting and shar­ing where the process of production is at this given moment. 
What will be different about the experience that one would usually expect from an opera is that the stu­dents will then engage the audience in 
dialogue about their 
work. 


Opera NO performs Gounoud's "Faust" in April. The fall Opera Workshop class will present "Dialogue of the Carmelites" tomorrow night at Washington Hall. 
Interested in all things entertainment? 
WRITE FOR SCENE. 
Contact Analise at alipari@nd.edu 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 



Broadcast Yourself 

Chandler's Worst Thanksgiving 
Thanksgiving with the Bings 
You wish your turkey was this talented. 

Does spinach go with turkey? 
Overstuffed and underpaid 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 



NBA 

Wizards fire Jordan after -worst start in franchise history 
Injuries to All-Star guard Gilbert Arenas and center Brendan Haywood have contributed to Washington's 1-10 record 

was fired Monday; Handy
Associated Press 

Ayers will be Tapscott's top 
WASIIINGTON Even assistant. 
without Cilbert Arenas and Jordan, the Eastern 
another injured starter, the Conference's coach at the 
Washington Wizards never 2007 All-Star game, was in 
imagined they would be as his sixth season with the 
bad as the franchise ever Wizards. He led the team to 
has been. the playoffs each of the past 
So after opening 1-10 to four -the longest postsea­match the worst start in son streak for a Washington team his­coach since tory, the Dick Motta did Wizards it from 1976­fired "That's an unacceptable HO. Under e o a c h Jordan,
record, obviously. We
E d d i e though, the 
Jordan thought the change need­team made it 
and his ed to be made. We needed past the first 
top assis­round only
to do things a little 
t a n t once.
bit different." 
Monday In September, and gave shortly before director Ernie Grunfeld the start of of player training camp,
Wizards president
develop­the Wizards ment Ed picked up a Tapscott one-year his first NBA head coaching option to keep Jordan under job. contract through the 2009­
"That's an unaeceptablfl 10 season. That, along with record, obviously," tPam the key injuries to Arenas president Ernie Grunfeld and center Brendan said. "We thought the Haywood, were reasons ehangfl needed to be made. Jordan's job was thought to We nendod to do things a be safe and why. little bit different." Monday's move came as 
With that in mind, something of a surprise, Grunfold despite the p h o n e d team's record. AP Jordan and "I don't Washington Wizards interim head coach Ed Tapscott, center, works with JaVale McGee, right, 
think any of during Tapscott's first practice as an NBA head coach Monday afternoon. 
de 1i v ere d "We're better than I-Io.
the news -the players after the We know it. But we're saw it com­gery on his shooting wrist. ly that one," second-year "We've been a little sieve­coach spent all responsible. " ing," Haywood "Other teams in the guard Nick Young said. like." Monday said. league also have injuries," Tapscott vowed to empha­While never before a head morning dis­Jordan Grunfeld said. size defense and rebound­coach in the pros, Tapscott tributing Ed Tapscott leaves as the Washington opened 0-5, ing, and he has plenty of turkeys dur­Wizards coach Eastern then beat the Jazz at home wants his front-office ing a team Conference's to avoid the first 0-6 start team to experience,
"We need to guard the 
charity longest­in franchise history. push the including as e v n n t . tenured coach That victory, though, was ball up the rim, guard the lane, be a president Grunfnld and No. 3 in followed by another five­court on more physical team. It and chief then informed Tapscott -the NBA behind Jerry Sloan game losing streak. The offense. operating
doesn't mean I think were
who was at the arena, of the Utah Jazz and Gregg Wizards' record mate hes That isn't officer of the watehing tape and prnpar­Popovich of the San Antonio the worst start in franchise very differ­going to try to turn Charlotte ing to help .Jordan at prac­Spurs. history; the only other time ent from greyhounds into Bobcats and, tice. Asked if he was shocked the team was 1-10 was in w h a t before that,
Clydesdales. " 
lnstt~ad, Tapscott wound by the firing, co-captain 1966, when it was called Jordan as vice presi­
up running tlw session. Antawn Jamison bristled the Baltimore Bullets. talked dent of play­"Surreal," he said. and replied, "Why wouldn't "It just felt like we were about, Ed Tapscott er personnel The coach at American I be going in the although Wizards coach and basket­
University in the 1<JHOs, and shocked'? wrong direc­without the ball opera-an NBA front-office tlmploy­The team is t i o n , " 7-foot tions for the ne for years since, Tapscott 1-10, not Grunfeld said. Haywood Knicks in the
"Why wouldn't I be
will make his professional the coach. "It felt a little in the paint. Washington 1990s. He joined the coaching debut Tuesday Next ques­shocked? The team is bit stale and has been allowing 103.5 Wizards' front office in night against the visiting tion." we needed to points per game, which August 2007 after spending
I-Io, not the coach. 
Golden State Warriors. T h e freshen it up." ranks 27th in the 30-team a year as an analyst for the
Next question." 
"We're better than 1-10. Wizards The final league. team's television broad­We know it. But we'n1 all have strug­straw for "We need to guard the casts. responsible," Tapscott said gled to even Antawn Jamison Jordan rim, guard the lane, be a Tapscott was an assistant at a nnws conference, a be competi­appears to more physical team. It to current Maryland eoaeh
Wizards forward
whistle dangling from a tive at have been a doesn't mean I think were Gary Williams at American string around his neck. times this 122-117 loss going to try to turn grey­University in the 1970s and 
lie was given the title of season, Saturday hounds into Clydesdales. became head coach in 1982. interim coach and will run with Arenas night to the But we have not been a very In eight seasons at AU, the Wizards until the end of recoveri'ng from his third undermanned New York physical team, and so we're Tapscott finished with 119 the season, when Grunfeld operation on his left knee in Knicks, who had only seven going to try to play more victories. said he plans to "evaluate 1 1/2 years, and with players available. physically on defense," "We all respect him," everything." Associate head llaywood out for perhaps "We lost games we were Tapscott said after what he Jamison said. "We know he coach Mike ()'Koren also the entire season after sur-supposed to win -especial-termed a hard practice. has a great basketball IQ." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must he prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for contenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Student rentals 2009/2010. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Big wheels keep on turning, not go it alone. If you or someone FoR RENT Living room, kitchen, dining room, St. Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. PERSONAL you love needs confidential support Carry me home to see my kin. 
full bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 $1300-$1960/mo. 5-7 bdrms 1st & Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Singing songs about the Southland SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS Avail Jan. 1. 2nd floors. If you or someone you care about Firth at 574-631-2685. For more AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER has been sexually assaulted, visit information, visit our website at: I miss Alabamy once again PROPERTIES 574·234-2436 OR Call 605-397 ·8135 or 57 4-234-3007 Contact Bruce Gordon 574-876-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-
KRAMERHOUSES.COM or 574-261-4444. 3537. I nant.shtml And I think its a sin 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 
Men's Basketball APTop 25 

team points record 
1 North Carolina (72) 1,800 3-fl 2 Connecticut 1,694 4·0 3 Louisville 1,646 2-fl 4 Pittsburgh 1,423 4-fl 5 Michigan State 1,402 2·0 6 Texas 1,355 2-fl 7 Duke 1,330 6-fl 8 NOTRE DAME 1,291 2-fl 9 Gonzaga 1,222 2·0 10 Purdue 1,161 4·0 11 Oklahoma 1,094 4·0 12 Tennessee 1,005 3·0 13 UClA 916 3·1 14 Arizona State 767 3·0 15 Marquette 735 3·0 16 Xavier 600 5·0 17 Florida 535 3·0 18 Memphis 500 4·1 19 Wake Forest 414 2·0 20 Villanova 356 3·0 21 Georgetown 349 2·0 22 Miama 272 2·1 22 Kansas 272 2·0 24 Davidson 238 3·1 25 Wisconsin 214 4·0 
Women's Basketball 
APTop 25 
team  points  
1  Connecticut (44)  1,124  
2  North Carolina (1}  1,070  
3  California  971  
4  Oklahoma  943  
5  Stanford  925  
6  Baylor  845  
7  Louisville  836  
8  Texas A&M  741  
9  Tennessee  716  
10  Maryland  704  
11  Texas  664  
12  Duke  626  
13  Rutgers  583  
14  NOTRE DAME  579  
15  Auburn  469  
16  Virginia  444  
17  Vanderbilt  352  
18  Oklahoma Stale  318  
19  Purdue  303  
20  Ohio State  258  
21  Arizona State  257  
22  TCU  211  
23  Old Dominion  186  
24  Michigan State  79  
25  Xavier  67  
25  Iowa State  67  


record 
3~0 
s-o 
3-6 3·1 3·1 4-0 3·0 ;;.3-6 
't'3·1 
3·1 
s-o 
3-1 2·2 3-6 4-D 2-1 4·1 2-1 3-D 3·1 2-1 4·0 3·1 5-0 2-2 3·0 
NCAA Swimming CSCAA Rankings 

Men  Women  
1  Texas  Georgia  
2  Stanford  Stanford  
3  Michigan  Arizona  
4  Arizona  Texas  
5  California  Florida  
6  Florida  Calitomia  
7  Tennessee  Auburn  
8  Auburn  Texas A&M  
9  Minnesota  Minnesota  
10  Georgia  Indiana  

around the dial 
NHL 
Blues at Predators 
7:00 p.m., Versus 

L_ 

Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA. Penn. ­Donovan McNabb's benching lasted less than 24 hours. 
One day after he got yanked at halftime of a close game, the five-time Pro Bowl quarterback got his job back -for now. McNabb will start when the Philadelphia Eagles host the Arizona Cardinals on Thursday night. 
"Donovan is the quarter­back. I don't want to leave here until you understand that," coach Andy Reid emphasized at his news con­ference Monday. "Donovan is the quarterback for this foot­ball team." 
McNabb was pulled from a game for the first time in his career after two dismal quar­ters in Sunday's 36-7 loss at Baltimore. The Eagles (5-5-1) only trailed 10-7 at the time, but Reid thought second-year pro Kevin Kolb gave the team a better chance to win a game it desperately needed to maintain its slim playoff hopes. 
Kolb played poorly while McNabb watched from the sideline in a hooded jacket and minus the headset back­ups usually wear to assist coaches. 
"Sometimes you have to step back to step forward in a positive way and Donovan will do that," Reid said. "This has nothing to do with Kolb's performance or Donovan's performance." 
The Eagles are on the verge of missing the playoffs for the third time in four years since losing the 2005 Super Bowl. No matter how they finish, this could be McNabb's last season in Philadelphia. 
McNabb, who turns 32 on Tuesday, is signed through 2013, but there's no chance the Eagles will pay him $9.2 million next year to be a backup. He's 22-21-1 as a starter since leading Philadelphia to four straight NFC championship games from 2001-04. 
"As I sit here right now, he's my starting quarter­back," Reid said. "I need to coach better. Donovan needs to play better and the guys around Donovan need to play better." 

McNabb was 8-for-18 for 59 yards with two intercep­tions and a fumble in the first half against Baltimore. Last week, McNabb threw three interceptions and lost a fum­ble in an overtime tie with Oncinnati. Overall, he's com­pleted 58.8 percent of his passes for 2,770 yards, 14 touchdowns, 10 interceptions and a passer rating of81.1 
"I think I know Donovan McNabb better than anybody in this room," Reid said. "I know (seven) turnovers, that's not him. That's no part of his game. You back up an inch and you evaluate it and you should be able to step forward a mile after that." 
IN BRIEF Three perjury charges
dropped against Bonds 
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. -Three charges against Barry Bonds were dismissed Monday by a federal judge who left intact most of the indict­ment alleging he lied to a grand jury when he denied knowingly taking performance-enhancing drugs. 
Bonds, baseball's home run king, is scheduled for a March 2 trial. He had faced 14 counts of making false declarations to a grand jury investi­gating steroid use in sports and one count of obstruction ofjustice. 
His lawyers had asked U.S. District Judge Susan Illston to dismiss 10 of the lying charges, claiming he was asked unclear questions in front of the grand jury in 2003. Jllston ruled Monday to dismiss three charges and consolidate or rewrite another two. 
Bonds has pleaded not guilty to all charges. Bonds' lawyer, Allen Ruby, didn't immediately comment, saying had not yet read the ruling. 
Snyder takes up reins 
again at Kansas State 
MANHATIAN, Kan.-After a restless retirement, coach Bill Snyder is ready to turn Kansas State into a winner again. 
Three years after handing off a suc­cessful Wildcats program to Ron Prince, the 69-year-old and wispy-haired Snyder was hired to take charge of the school he transformed from college football's biggest losers to national championship contenders. Prince was fired this month but is completing the season. 
"The Kansas State family is in flux right now," Snyder said at a news con­ference Monday. "I want to be able to help. I want to be able to soothe the waters. I've learned some lessons and there are some things I will do to encompass my family." 
Snyder signed a five-year contract for a base salary of $250,000 and a total compensation of about $1.85 million annually, athletic director Bob Krause said. Krause said he had made no offers to anyone else. 

Cowboys' Jones returns to 
practice after suspension 
IRVING, Texas -Suspended comer­back Adam "Pacman" Jones was back at work with the Dallas Cowboys on Monday, going to meetings and a practice even though he can't suit up until Dec. 7 against Pittsburgh. 
Jones is allowed to do everything but play in the next game-Thursday against Seattle -as he works his way back from his latest suspension, a six-game penalty for violating the league's player conduct policy. He previously was suspended for the entire 2007 season and coach Wade Phillips said Monday it's reasonable to believe another slip-up would get him per­manently banned from the NFL. 
'We've got to hope, for his sake really, that he has cleared all that up," Phillips said. "All the pressure is on him, really, to . do the right thing." 
Jones did not come into the locker room during the 45 minutes it was open to reporters. A team meeting followed, then an extended walkthrough that was closed to media. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Harris, Flynn lead Syracuse victory over No. 18 Florida 
Abrahms leads Texas past St. Joe's in Maui Invitational; Longhorns to face Harangody, Irish in semifinals 
Associated Press 
KANS~S CITY, Mo. -Paul 
Harris had lS points and 11 
mbounds . .lonny Flynn seorml 1 S 
points and Synu~usP bnat No. 17 
Florida S<J-S:{ Monday night in 
thn snmifinals of thn CBE Classic. 

Syracusn (4-0) opened thn sea­son with nasy wins ovnr Ln Moyne, Hidmwnd and Oakland, shooting ovnr ;i() p!m~tmt while scoring over S2 points a gamn. The Orange had similar success against. a much liwmidable oppo­nnnt, picking apart Florida's :~:onn with dribble drives and spot-up shooting from the perimeter. 
Syracuse shot 51 perennt /'rom tlw linld and had 19 assists on 31 liPid goals, taking eontrol with a big run early in the seeond half'. Andy Hautins hit livn 3-pointers and had 15 points -all in the first half -Arinze Onuaku added 1;{ points and 12 rebounds. and Kris Joseph had I 0 points li1r the Orange. 
Syracuse will face thn winner between No. 22 Kansas and Washington Tuesday night in thn !~hampionship ganw of a tourna­nwnt that features four of tlHl last six NCAA champions. 
Alex Tyus f'inislwd with a ntrnnr-bnst. 24 points on 11-of-14 shooting and Nkk Calathns had I1J points for Florida (3-1 ), which lost dnspitP getting 12 steals. 
Thn Gators made defonse a priority in the ofl'season allnr fin­ishing near the bottom ol' the Southeastern Conference in sev­eral categories. Florida defended well in its first three games this season, forcing 23 turnovers a game, holding each opponent under 60 points. 
But aller beating up on Toledo, Bradley and Southern Utah, the Gators had a little more trouble with the bigger, faster Orange. 
Syracuse repeatedly beat Florida on· the dribble, penetrat­ing the lane for easy lay-ups or kiekouts to shooters at the 3­point line. 
The Orange had 11 assists on 16 11eld goals in the 11rst half, more half' of those coming on dribble penetrations by Harris, Flynn and Eric Devendorf'. 
Onuaku had a pair of dunks on 
drive-and-dishes and Joseph had 
a couple of easy baskets inside to 
help Syracuse take command 
early. 
· Hautins took it from there, 
doing most of his damage by 
spotting up at the are. 
Syracuse's best perimeter shootnr had yet to find his stroke this season, scoring 20 total points on 6-of'-24 shooting, induding 4-for-20 on 3-pointers. lie came out firing against Florida, hitting live 3-pointers in the l'irst hall' despite Florida's coaches repeatedly yelling "shooter!" each time he touched the ball. 
Rautins couldn't keep it going in the second half. though, finish­ing 5-for-9 from the 3-point line. 
It didn't matter the way the Orange were shooting. 
Syracuse was 16-for-32 in the first half and even bottor in the second, using a 10-2 run early in the second half to go up 56-44. Florida came dose a few times, but couldn't got dosor than four. 
Texas 68, St. Joe's 50 
Texas' latest outstanding defensive effort left coach Hick Barnes complaining about the Longhorns' offense. 
A.J. Abrams had 17 points to lead No. 6 T!~xas to a victory over Saint Joseph's on Monday in the opening round of the EA Sports Maui Invitational, but the Longhorns committed 16 turnovers and that's what Barnes wanted to talk about .. 
"We turned it over way too many times. We have to cut that down," he said. "Defensively we gave the effort we wanted and we got good play ofT the bench, but the turnovers were just care­less mistakes. We have got to value the basketball. We're too good a team to score 68 points. We can fix that." 
The Longhorns (3-0) will meet No. 8 Notre Dame, which beat Indiana 88-50, in the semifinals on Tuesday. 
Abrams was 4-for-7 from 3­point range, extending his strong start from beyond the arc as he was 8-for-17 in Texas' first two games. 

The Longhorns had allowed 
44.5 points and 28.7 percent field goal shooting while forcing an average of 22 turnovers in their first two wins. No. 3 looked very familiar. 
Ahmad Nivins had 14 points and 13 rebounds to lead the Hawks (1-2), who finished 17­for-58 from the field (29.3 per­cent). including 4-for-21 from 3­point range, and turned it over 18 times. 
"This team has been really focused on playing defense, try­ing to get stops, and that's a good thing," Abrams said. "On offense we just have to slow down and not play at 100 miles an hour. We have to get efficient and get wide-open shots." 
Saint Joseph's scored six of the final eight points in the first half to pull within nine, but Damion James had seven point<; in Texas' 11-2 run to start the second half. Saint Joseph's missed three of its first four shots in the half and had three turnovers in the open­ing 1:40. 
The Hawks scored seven straight to make it 48-37, but they came up empty on their next eight possessions and Texas had its first 20-point lead, 57-37, on a layup by Gary Johnson with 
8:55 to play. 
"We laced it up and stood toe to toe with a team that in my estimation can be in Detroit in March," Saint Joseph's coach Phil Martelli said, referring to the site of this season's Final Four. "We had too many turnovers from our older guys and the pri­mary ballhandlers and we have to do a better job as we go for­ward. We weren't good enough and that's all right for today." 

James and Johnson both had 14 points for Texas. Johnson led the Longhorns with 10 rebounds. 
Darrin Govens added 12 points for the Hawks, who used a matchup zone to try and handle Abrams. 
"We recognized it and that made it better for us," Abrams said. "We were playing too fast and guys weren't ready for it. We have to get down to 70, 75 miles per hour and read what the defense is giving us." 
This is the Longhorns' third appearance in Maui with their best finish a third in 2004. 
ATTENTION: DON'T MISS OUT: DIRTY SEXY MONEY 
AN ABSOLUTE MUST-SEE TV: WEDNESDAYS, ABC, 10:00 P.M. EST. 
WITH ASTELLAR CAST OF ACCLAIMED, AND SEXY, ACTORS: WILLIAM BALDWIN [OF "BACKDRAFT" FAME & A GREAT NOTRE DAME FAN], PETER KRAUSE, DONALD SUTHERLAND [OF "MASH" the Movie & KEIFER SUTHERLAND FAME], JILL CLAYBURGH &BLAIR UNDERWOOD. 
TUNE IN AND GET "SEDUCED" BY THE FILTHY AND WEALTHY "DARLING" FAMILY OF MANHATTAN. 
[FICTION, OF COURSE,-OR, IS IT???©$©$©$©$©] 
This Message Approved By the Newly-Elected New York Senator Patrick Darling-or, is it???©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©©© 

Tuesday, November 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Yao' s do111inating perfor111ance spells doo111 for Heat 
Jefferson's 25 not enough as Howard, Orlnndo turn back Milwaukee in a match-up between injury-plagued teams 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Ron Artest is diffi­cult to please. 
After seeing Yao Ming shake ofT waves of defenders in a 28­point, 12-rebound effort that helped the I Iouston Rockets beat the Miami Ileat 107-98 on Monday night, someone asked Artest to assess his center's per­formance. 
"I thought he could have played better," Artest said. The Heat surely wouldn't have wanted to see that. 
Yao shot 9-for-15 from the lloor and seored 19 points in 19 second-half minutes, more than doing his part in keeping the undersized Heat at bay. Miami primarily used 6-foot-8 Udonis Ilaslem -by far, the smallest starting center in the NBA ­against the 7 -foot-6 Yao, along with a steady stream of help from the weak side to get in the Chinese star's way. 
"We did all right, but Yao's Yao," Heat forward Michael Beasley said. "He's 8 feet tall. Ain't much we can do." 
Artest scored 20 and Hafer Alston added 14 points for I louston, which finished with six players in double figures and outrebounded Miami 51-35. Luis Scola had 11 points and 13 rebounds, while Carl Landry and Aaron Brooks each scored 11 for the Rockets, who finished off a 3-0 road trip against East teams. 
Dwyane Wade scored 23 points for Miami, doing so on 7­for-23 shooting, which prompted another quick line from Artest. 
"He played really bad tonight," Artest said. "He didn't play like I'm used to seeing him play." 
Mario Chalmers added a career-best 23 points. including five 3-pointers. for the Heat, who also got 17 points from Shawn Marion. 14 from Beasley and a season-high 12 from Yakhouba Diawara. 
By now. the !!eat are used to dealing with some major lack-of­size disadvantages. 
But facing Yao dearly exacer­bated the issue, something the Hockets happily exploited. Miami would always have someone helping llaslem against Yao. even two people dropping into the lane at times, so the Rockets' center often took what the Heat defense gave and found some­one who was open. 
It wasn't coincidence: With Yao on the floor in the first hall'. the 
Rockets were 5-for-7 on  3-point  
tries, 2-for-4 with him  on  the  
bench.  

"He really docs create a matchup problem down there," llcat coach Erik Spoelstra said. "lie's so ellicient. You can't foul him. it's tough to play in front of him, it's tough to play in front of him. But in the first half, we kind of opened up the door for the 3-point shooting. We didn't close out quite as hard as we have in other instances and they got it going." 
Miami had its moments, though. against Y<w. After he grabbed a rebound in the open­ing minutes, Chalnwrs -who is 17 inehos shorter than Yao ­ran from behind. stripped the ball away. thrm stepped out and hit a :{-pointer. 
Y<w got revtmge on the next trip, rolling to the basket after setting a pick and dunking over Chalmers, who could only shake his head. 
"On this trip, we're finding a way we're going to play basket­ball, (take) advantage of what we have as a team and create open shots," Yao said. 
Miami faced a sizable early deficit for the second straight game, this time an 11-point hole in the opening quarter. But things never got truly out of hand, and when Wade hit the first two baskets after intermis­sion. the Heat found themselves only down 56-52. 
The margin was trimmed to two after a layup by Beasley moments later, but Miami ­which has alternated wins and losses in its last 10 games ­never got closer. 
After Beasley's score, the Rockets went on an 11-0 run, with Yao getting nine of those points. 
He had three-point plays on consecutive possessions, the sec­ond of which actually became a four-pointer when Haslem was called for a technical for arguing that Yao was in the paint far longer than the allowed three seconds. 
"Felt like 10 seconds in the paint to me," Haslem said. "I was guarding the guy all night. I'm conscious of three seconds." 
In the fourth, whenever Miami got close, Houston had an answer, never letting its lead fall below four. And when Alston hit a 3-pointer with 1:47 left to make it 103-93, the outcome was sealed. 
"Another solid win for us," Rockets coach Rick Adelman said. "For the most part, we fol­lowed the game plan on Wade. Ron did a great job just making him work." 
Orlando 108, Milwaukee 101 
Dwight Howard was still standing, and that's all that mat­tered for the Orlando Magic. 
Howard had 24 points and 13 rebounds as the Orlando Magic outlasted the Milwaukee Bucks 108-101 Monday night in a matchup of injury-depleted teams. 
Richard Jefferson scored 25 points to lead Milwaukee, which lost Andrew Bogut to a knee bruise in the third quarter. The Bucks were already missing Michael Redd and Luke Ridnour. their starting backcourt, to injuries. 
Iledo Turkoglu, forced to play some point guard when Jameer Nelson went out with a groin pull, and Hashard Lewis each added 22 points for the Magic. Howard picked up his fourth foul halfway through the third quar­ter but played eight minutes in the final quarter, scoring 7 points but making only 5 of 11 free throws. 
"It was a war of attrition, 
that's what it was. They came in 
here missing guys and we came 
in missing one, then lost one and 
had one in foul trouble. Neither 
tf~am was playing with the guys 
they really wanted to play with 
most of the night." 
Orlando (10-4) led by 12 with just under two minutes left, but poor free throw shooting and Jefferson almost brought the Bucks back. His short jumper with 24 seconds left cut the lead to 103-100, but free throws by Turkoglu and Lewis sealed the win. 
"Some games we just come out and our talent takes us over the edge, but we've got to learn how to play together," Howard said. "Sometimes our talent won't take us that far." 
Milwaukee committed 39 fouls but Orlando made only 38 of 54 free throws. 
"We cannot afl'ord to come out here and try to outscore these guys," Luc Mbah a Moute said. "They have an offense that is more established than our offense. Our main thing is to defend. Tonight we did not do a good job of it." 
Howard made only 10 of 20. "It's every game, so I do worry about that," Van Gundy said. 
Bogut got the better of a matchup of back-to-back No. 1 overall draft picks early. Bogut made a pair of jump hooks over Howard to start the game. He then drew charges for two of the three fouls that sent Howard, the 2004 top pick, to the bench with about seven minutes left in the second quarter. 
Bogut had 16 points and three rebounds in the first. Howard, the No. 1 pick had only four points and six boards. 
In the first three minutes of the second half, Bogut picked up three fouls trying to stop Howard inside, sending Bogut to the bench with four. A minute later, Bogut was taken to the locker room for X-rays. 
"I took a charge in the first half and got a knee," Bogut said. "But I'll be OK." 
Turkoglu hit a 3 at the end of the first quarter to give the Magic a 33-23 lead. Milwaukee cut the lead to six midway through the second quarter, but another basket by Turkoglu gave Orlando a 58-47 halftime lead. 

Both teams have already been hit hard by injuries. The Magic announced earlier Monday that sixth man Keith Bogans would miss at least a month with a bro­ken thumb. 
Redd, out since Nov. 5 with a high ankle sprain, was joined on the inactive list by point guard Ridnour, who suffered a scraped and bruised knee against the Bobcats. Ridnour had missed two games earlier this year with lower back spasms. 

Hedd was averaging 21.3 in four games before his injury. 
"People are saying to us, 'You're coming close to beating good teams, what would take you over the edge?'" Jefferson said. "Those guys might be able to take you over the edge, but that being said, you can't go out there and wait." 
Orlando's early-season sched­ule was littered with teams that finished last in their divisions, and three of the Magic's losses early wins were against the four teams they've played with a win­ning record. 
YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 
Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qualified applicants to serve our country's mission abroad. Our careers offer rewarding, fast-paced,and high impart challenges in intelligence collection on issu~ of critical importance to US national :seCllrity. Applicants should possess a high degree of personal integrity, strong interpersonal skills. and good written and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and professional backgrounds. Do you want to rnake a difference for your country? Are you ready for a challenge? 
All applicants for National Clandestirte Service positions must successfully undergo several personal interviews, rneclir:al and psychological exams. aptitude testing,. a polygraph interview, and a background investigatiOn. Following entry on duty. c;mdida:tes will undergo extensive training. US citizenship required. An equal opporrunlty employer and a drug-free work force. 
For more information and to apply. visit: www.cia.gov 

CROSS COUNTRY 

Smyth earns third All-Americanhonor 
Men finish 19th at NCAA championships 
Irish and 74th overall with
By LAURA MYERS 

a time of 30:52, and junior
Sporrs Wriu·r 

.Jake Walker finished right behind him, crossing the Patrick Smyth earnPd his line 76th in 30:53. third eross-eountry AII­Freshman Joe Miller came Amnriean honor Monday in 134th in 31:26, and sen­with a IOth-place finish at ior Daniel Clark rounded the NCAA Championships in out the scoring for the Terre llaute, Irish, l'inish­Ind. ing 152nd 
This was with a time Smyth's fourth of 31:37. trip to the ''Top 20 in the country, The Irish national meet women fin­
that's not too bad. 
and his high­ished 29th of
It was a pretty
est placing. 31 teams in lie finished good showing." their first the 10-kilome-champi­ter race i n onship
Joe Plane
29:4H. appearance
Irish coach
"lie ran since 2005. well," men's Junior head coach Lindsey Joe Piane Ferguson led said. "lie's a tough kid and the Irish and finished 99th that really showed today." overall with a time of 21:24 
Smyth led Notre Dame to in the 6k race. Sophomore a 19th plaee overall finish Marissa Treece followed among 31 teams. The Irish, and finished 122nd in who came into the race 21:38. S·enior lleidi Hocha ranked No. 27 and had finished 1 29th in 21 :4 2, earned the freshman last bid out Hache! of regionals, Velarde fin­finished sig-ished 155th nificantly in 21:42, and
"On a grade scale, I'd 
highnr than senior Becca expected. give the season a B. ·Bauman fin­Piane, how­ished 184th
And you're always 
ever, played in 22:15.
trying to get A's, right?"
down the sig­Piane said nificance. he will look "Top 20 in Joe Plane for even more the country, improvement
Irish coach 
that's not too in the future, bad," he as most mem­said. "It was bers of his a pretty good team are showing." underclass-
Both Smyth and the Irish men. improved upon their 2007 "On a grade seale, I'd give NCAA Championships per­the season a B," he said. formanen, when Smyth fin­"And you're always trying ished 15th and the team to get A's, right?" finished 21st. 
Sophomore Dan Jackson Contact Laura Myers at finished second among the lmyers2@nd.edu 
NFL 
Saints get big victory over Packers 
coach Mike McCarthy said. passes of 7 yards to Greg
Associated Press 
"Give credit to the Saints and Jennings and 4 yards to 
NEW OHLEANS -Drew th'tl play of their quarterback. Huvell Martin. Hodgers also Brees and Deuce McAllister lie was on fire coming into ran for a 10-yard score. Hyan gave Saints fans what they the game and we didn't cool Grant rushed for 64 yards in longed to see after 43 days him off any." the first half, but the Packers away from the Louisiana Aaron Rodgers' attempt to were forced to throw more as Superdome. keep up with Brees' torrid their deficit grew and Grant 
Brees threw for four scores, passing resulted in three finished with (mly 67 yards. McAllister set a Saints record interceptions, two by Jason Leading 24-21 at the half, with his 54th David and one by the Saints began to seize con­career touch-K e v i n trol with a long touchdown down and Kaesviharn. drive that ended with Brees' New Orleans David returned 16-yard strike to tight end
"We spread the ball 

rolled to a his first pick to Billy Miller. McAllister then 51-29 victory around pretty good." the 3, setting up went in from the 3 and Brees over the McAllister's scor­hit Marques Colston in stride Green Bay ing run, which down the sideline for his sec­
Sean Payton

Packers on broke Dalton ond 70-yard TD pass of the
Saints coach

Monday Hilliard's club game. It was Colston's first night. record set in score of the season after bat­
Brees dis-1993. tling back from a thumb mantled a The sellout injury on opening day. Packers secondary that came crowd erupted after Pierre Thomas rushed for in ranked third in the NFL McAllister's score. The Saints' 87 yards and two touchdown with 176.3 yards passing career rushing leader kept the runs, a 4-yarder in the first allowed per game. lie was 20-ball as he trotted to the side­half and a 31-yard scamper in of-26 for 323 yards as New line, where he was hugged by the fourth quarter that gave Orleans tied a club record for Payton. New Orleans a points scored in a game. Two "Obviously, 51-29 lead. 
a lot of emo­"It was a good run, 
of Brees' touchdowns went to The Saints had Lance Moore, one for 70 tion and we great effort. A typical scored 51 yards. couldn't be points twice
Deuce McAllister run
"We spread the ball around happier for before in their
with a second effort 
pretty good," Saints coach him," Payton four-decade Scan Payton said. "You just said. "His that finished into the history and saw (Brees) being very .com­teammates, easily could
end zone." 
fortable with where he was all the fans have reached going each time and l thought here had a 52 if Payton he was extremely efficient -chance to wit­Julie Schroeder-Biek had elected to and those guys up front did a ness that. It Belles coach kick the extra good job for him as well." was pretty point. 
Brees remained on pace to special. It was However, break DaOn Marino's 1984 a good run, great effort. A Payton called for a 2-point record of 5,084 yards passing typical Deuce McAllister run conversion that failed in an in a season. He has 3,574 with a second effort that fin­attempt to go up by 24 points. yards with five games remain­ished into the end zone." The Packers scored first on ing. He also has the Saints (6-It might have been a 1-yard touchdown leap by 
5) feeling better about their McAllister's final game in the fullback John Kuhn. It was hopes of rally-Superdom{J this the first rushing touchdown ing for a play­season. He has for Kuhn in his three-year
"His teammates, all

off spot now appealed a four­career and only his eighth that they've the fans here had a game suspen­carry. won two sion levied after But that would be Green
chance to witness 

games in a he tested posi­Bay's last lead. Moore's 70­
that. It was pretty

row for the tive for a diuret­yard score came on the first time all special." ic banned by Saints' next play, and New season. the NFL Orleans took the lead on The Packers because it could Thomas' first TD run. Green
Sean Payton

(5-6) dropped be used as a Bay tied it at 14 and again at
Irish coach 

a game behind masking agent 21 before New Orleans took Minnesota and for steroids. It is the lead for good shortly Chicago in the race for first in not clear when the league will before halftime on Garrett the NFC North. rule on McAllister's case. Hartley's 30-yard field goal, 
"We didn't slow them down Hodgers was 23-of-41 for set up by Courtney Hoby's 62­at all tonight," Green Bay 248 yards and touchdown yard kickoff return. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
UConn downs Wisconsin 
10) It's like the O.C. without the ocean. 
them with our pressure and our followed by a thundering dunk 
9) Cathedral ceilings good for late night chicken fights. 
Associated Press 
defense." with 11:52 left in the second half 
8) Washer and dryer in each apartment. 
CHAHLOTTE AMALIE, U.S. Jeff Adrien had 14 points and brought Connecticut's fans to 
Virgin Islands -The second­Kemba Walker added 12 points their feet. ranked Connecticut Huskies will and four steals for the Huskies Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan said 
7) 2 Large bedrooms and no parietals. 
6) 2 Full bathrooms-this means you have your own. 
head back across the Atlantic (5-0), who led 38-28 at halftime. his team made some bad deci­
5) Dishwasher big enough for 20 plastic cups. 
Ocean sporting a champianship Hasheem Thabeet, who fmished sions with the ball down the 
4) Your parents lived in the dorms. 
trophy after with nine points, stretch. sweeping the seven rebounds "Just guys not moving to the
Do you really want to be like your parents? 
Paradise Jam and three blocks, ball, making hard cuts.
3) Walking distance to campus and local bars 
tournament in was the tourna­(Connecticut is) a very difficult
"We squeezed them 
and restaurants. 

the U.S. Virgin mentMVP. team to come from behind Islands. with our pressure "We're here!" against," Hyan said. "Three or Jerome Dyson and our defense." the jubilant 7-3 four turnovers can quickly
2) 1,200± square feet of space that includes a sweet balcony. 
1) FREE WIFI! 

scored 21 points junior center change a game. We're not and Connecticut said as he held immune."
Jim Calhoun 

beat No. 25 the Paradise UConn scored 31 of its points
Huskies coach 

Wisconsin 76-57 Jam trophy, sur-off turnovers. on Monday rounded by his Keaton Nankivil led the night. teammates. Badgers (4-1) with 11 points, and 
"This was a Outside the Marcus Landry, Trevon Hughes, very good win for us because we locker room, Dyson said securing and Lon Leuer had nine apieee. proved we could press. It's just the tournament championship With the Paradisn Jam victory. amazing what our press did was a big boost. UConn claimed iL'i second tropi­against a team as good as "It feels great. We've been eal in-season tournament title in Wisconsin," Huskies coach Jim waiting for this mom!mt a long the last four seasons, having won Calhoun said. "We squeezed time," said Dyson, whose steal the Maui Invitational in 2005. 

• 
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles open season at 
home against Wheaton 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
Coming off a one-point loss in the finals of the Anderson University Tip-Off tournament to Robert Morris, Saint Mary's (1-1) looks to rebound in its home opener against Wheaton College Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
Senior forward Erin Newsom who racked up a game-high 26 points to go along with eight rebounds in the loss to Robert Morris leads the Belles this season. Newsom was named to the All-Tournament team for her performance. 
Junior center Anna Kammrath is off to a hot start as well, recording a double­double against Robert Morris and coming just one point short of another in the first game against Ohio Wesleyan. 
Much of Saint Mary's early success thus far has hinged on its domination under the bas­
Tin1e off 
continued from page 20 
come to the game to see if we've done our job." 
Notre Dame (12-6-2, 7-2-2 Big East) suffered a 2-1 loss to South Florida in the Big East tourna­ment's semifinals on Nov. 14 but still received a first-round bye in NCAA play as a top-16 seed. The Wildcats (13-4-3, 3-3-0 Big 10) edged Loyola Chicago in penalty kicks Friday after the two teams played to a scoreless draw in the tournament's first round. 
"They're a good team. In the NCAA's, there's not many bad teams, so that's kind of a given," Clark said. 'They're well-rounded and well-coached. It'll be a chal­lenge, but it's not one that's beyond us." 
Northwestern is led by sopho­more Matt Eliason, whose 12 goals and 25 points are both team highs. Junior Misha Rosenthal has started all but one of the Wildcats' games in goal and has posted 12 shutouts and a 45 goals-against average, which ranks seventh in the nation. 
"They're similar to ourselves ­a lot of players that are technical­ly good, they connect well as a team and they're well-organized," Clark said. "There's a lot of simi­larities. On the night, you just hope some of your match-ups are a little bit better, but I'm sure they'll be hoping for the same thing." 
Notre Dame has struggled to put the ball in the back of the net of late, failing to score more than once in a game since Oct. 19. The Irish managed a 3-2-1 record over that six-game span but have put a lot of pressure on junior goalkeeper Philip Tuttle, who has stepped up in the place of injured starter Andrew Quinn. 
ket. The Belles have out­rebounded their opponents by 13 through the first two games. 
Freshman forward Maggie Ronan is already beginning to contribute for the Belles hav­ing to step into the starting role in just her first season. In her first career game against Ohio Wesleyan, the freshman scored 15 points on 5-of-7 shooting, 3-of-4 behind the arc. 
Last year's season opening match-up in the Lee Pfund Classic with Wheaton College did not end well for Saint Mary's. The Belles took a small lead into halftime before being outscored_ by 25 points in the second half and falling 75-56. A strong nucleus of returning starters hopes to move past that performance and reverse last year's result. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 
"I think it'd be really nice if we could put some goals in the back of the net, and we haven't done that in awhile," Clark said. "We've been winning games, but by narrow amounts, and it's about time we started [scoring] ... At the beginning of the season we were scoring goals, and it'd be nice ~ we could get back to that form. 
The Irish have offensive fire­power in the form of senior for­ward Bright Dike, who has scored a team-best 12 goals. The team averages two goals per game, tied for 15th nationally, and Notre Dame has scored three or more goals in eight games this season -all Irish victories. 
"What you can control is to keep making chances, I think that's the one thing [you can con­trol]," Clark said. "The key thing is to make chances and I think we've been doing that. If you're not making chances, then you start to worry." 
Notre Dame hopes to take full advantage of playing on its home field, where the Irish have an unbeaten 9-0-1 record. 
"Home field's always nice, but it doesn't win you the game," Clark said. "In fairness, the team has got to win the game." 
Though much of the campus may be headed elsewhere for the Thanksgiving break, Oark said a student presence would be a major help to the team's chances tonight. 
"Tonight's a tough night to get a crowd out, but we'll make a plea to any of the students on cam­pus," Clark said. "If there's any students around, let's make sure it's a home-field advantage. It'll be a cold one, but ifyou like Notre Dame and you want to cheer us on, you'll be very welcome." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hot offense ready for Eagles 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Success breeds inspiration, apparently. Notre Dame's hot start this season has the play­ers raring for more, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
"It's like we can't wait to play another game," McGraw said. 
No. 15 Notre Dame comes back home to play Georgia Southern today at 7 p.m., three days after hitting triple digits against Boston College on the road. 
Notre Dame's offense over the past two games has been scorching. The Irish (3-0) averaged 99 points against Evansville and Boston College. Forward Becca Bruszewski scored at least 18 points in both games, and at least five Irish players hit double figures in both games. 
"I think we try to get even better," McGraw said. "I feel like we are playing with a 
lot of confidence, we are having fun, and everybody's contributing." 
The Eagles (3-1) started their season strong as well. Their only loss came against No. 20 Auburn on Nov. 19. Their defense, like that of Notre Dame, has not allowed many points. Against the Eagles, Brewton-Parker man­aged 44 points, and UNC Asheville scored only 39. Georgia Southern also defeat­ed Florida Atlantic on Nov. 17. 
This season, the Eagles have attempted 83 3-pointers and made 31 of them, an average of 7.8 per game. McGraw said she was happy about the way her team defended the 3-point line against Boston College. 
"I was very pleased with the defense to only hold them to 2-for-6, and one of those was late in the game," she said. 
Eagles guard Ashley Melson leads the Eagles with 14.8 points per game, but the team spreads points around well. Five players average over 6.8 points per game. 
So far for the Irish this year, four players -Bruszewski, Mallory and guards Ashley Barlow and Lindsay Schrader -average in double figures. 
The defense has held up its end of the bargain as well. The Fighting Irish have not allowed more than 61 points this season and have forced 
25.7 turnovers per game. Opponents struggled to score as well -Notre Dame held them to 38 percent shooting from field goal range. 

McGraw said she liked the play of center Erica Williamson, who guarded Boston College center Carolyn Swords during Sunday's game. Swords, who is 6-foot­6, shot 8-for-·14 from the field and had 16 points and seven rebounds against the Irish. 
"She did some good things at BC and showed improve­ment, even from last year," McGraw said. "She took over the game at one point and had a nice stretch of minutes against a very good post play­er." 
Notre Dame has created much of its success off of turnovers. So far, the Irish have forced an average of 
25.7 turnovers per game and parlayed those possessions into fast-break points. Georgia Southern turns the ball over 19.3 times per game, 2.8 fewer than their opponents. 
Guard Brittany Mallory shot 5-for-5 from the floor and 3­for-3 from 3-point range against Boston College on her way to 14 points. The Irish as a team hit 7 -of-8 3-pointers. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
One last match, nothing at stake 
geries after her sophomore andBy SAM WERNER junior years, but was unable to

Sports Writer fully recover. After Notre 
Dame's Oct. 21 loss to Long 

Stremick was also hindered by injury early in the season after partially tearing her ACL last March, but has since 
Even though Notre Dame Beach State came up just short against this year, Croal Louisville in the Big East tour­decided that nament fmal Sunday, the Irish the pain was still have one more regular too great to season match remaining before continue, and packing it in for the offseason. elected to sit 
With an at-large NCAA out the rest of Tournament bid out of the the season. question, the Irish (16-14, 9-5 "This injury Big East) will take the court that she suf­one last time against Xavier fered is just Friday night in what will be the one of those 
'Tm not ready for next season yet. We still have one more match.'' 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
returned to being one of Notre Dame's most consistent players. Despite missing the team's first six matches, Stremick has posted 165 kills, good for a .298 hitting percent­age. 

"Injuries are a part of sports," Brown said. "But it's just great to have her back." 
Against the Musketeers (16­14, 8-5 Atlantic 1 0), the Irish will face a team that is coming off a loss to No. 21 Saint Louis in the Atlantic-10 tournament. Junior outside hitter Kelly Ruth, who has notched 359 kills and a .220 hitting percent­age on the season, leads Xavier. 
Brown said while expecta­tions were high for next sea­son, the team wasn't overlook­ing its final match. 
''I'm not ready for next sea­son yet," she said. "We still have one more match." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
final match for seniors outside hitter Mallorie Croal and mid­dle blocker Justine Stremick. 
"We know it's the last match of the season and we know things you don't understand, but she still gave to the team in any way that she could," Brown said. "She always put the team in front of herself." 
we're just going to make the best of it," coach Debbie Brown said. "We want to go out, obviously, fmishing the year on a high note." 
While Stremick will make her contributions on the court Sunday, Croal will be lim­ited to the side­
"We know its the last match ofthe season and we know we're just going to make the best ofit. " 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
Croal has still attended every practice and has been instrumental, Brown said, in tutor-ing younger play­ers. 
"Because she's such a good leader, even though she wasn't on 

lines. The Villa Park, Calif., the court, she really helped the native suffered a serious ankle team mature and grow injury during the spring of her throughout the year," Brown sophomore year and had sur-said. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
Assists 
continued from page 20 
reeeived for leading the nation in assists last season. After the vietory over the Hoosiers, he again brought up Notre Dame's unselfishness. 
"We can pass the ball, we led the nation in assists," he said. "This group really knows how to lind each other." 

Indiana first-year eoaeh Tom Crean, who frequently coached against Notre Dame while he was with Marquette, said he hopes his young team can eventually adopt a similar style to the one Notre Dame uses. 
"There's no question they're a very together team and they've done a great job build­ing it up," Crean said. "Somewhere down the road, there may be something for us to learn from this game in terms of the togetherness they have." 
The Hoosiers often coneen­trated their defense on Irish forward Luke Hararigody, who did not put up his typieally gaudy statistics. But Brey said the junior's unselfishness helped the Irish cruise to an easy win. 

"We can kinda take advan­tage of what the defense gives us and I thought we did a great job of that," Brey said. "I thought Luke Harangody, they were aware of him, doubling him a little bit. He didn't get 25 [points] and 15 [rebounds] but he set up a lot of these guys, there was just a lot of attention on him." 
In addition to leading scorer Tory Jackson, senior forwards Ryan Ayers and Luke Zeller were two of the players that benefited from Indiana's focus on 1-larangody. Ayers scored 13 points on 5-of-7 shooting while Zeller chipped in 10 points and 11 rebounds. 
"My teammates have really been on me. so has coach, just [to keep] being aggressive, playing my game," Ayers said. 
"My teammates were able to find me, set good screens ... We share the ball so well, its reall~ easy to play in this sys­tem. 
McAlarney, who scored 18 points, said his teammates' screens allowed him to get open shots throughout the game. 
"I think I hit one and then I started feeling pretty good. I gotta credit my teammates a lot. They've been screening much better lately .. .l give them a Iotta credit," he said. 
Notre Dame was also effec­tive playing as a team on the defensive end, limiting Indiana to 50 points on 39.6 percent shooting. 
"I thought our position defense was excellent," Brey said. "You hold them to 50 points and 39 percent field goal shooting, that's something we've been trying to get better at." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Irish guard Kyle McAiarney dribbles during Notre Dame's 88-50 win over Indiana Monday. 
McAiarney had 18 points and hit six 3-polnters In the game. 
Jackson 
continued from page 20 
when they're double-guarded, just got to the open spot and I happened to be open and they fell in. I will not be taking 17 shots !every night!. It just hap­penP.d. I was feeling it today." 
The lloosiP.rs kept it close in the opening minutes, but .Jackson helped spark a 17-6 Notre Dame run midway through the first half that put Notre Dame ahead for good. .Jackson hit two jumpers and assistnd on a Zach llillesland layup that put Notre Dame ahead 20-11 with S:SO to play in the half. 
Then some of .Jackson's team­mates began to catch fire. 
Senior guard Kyle McAlarney, who linishml with 18 points, hit one of his six 3-pointers. Then junior forward Luke llarangody grabbed one of his live steals, passed to MeAJarney, then raced down the floor. McAlarney lobbed it from about mid court to the streaking llarangody, who <:aught it and executed a dillicult layup to put the Irish up 25-13. 
Following another MeAlarney ;{ and a Hyan Aynrs jumper, sen­ior forward Luke Zeller, who had 10 points and 11 rebounds, drained a 3 of his own and the Irish had a 33-16 lead with 5:16 left in the half. 
"I thought we played old today," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We knew who we were, we were pretty mature. We took what the defense gave us and we got back and protected the paint and made them take tough, challenged shots." 
. Even with Harangody out the last four-plus minutes of the first half with two fouls, Notre Dame increased its lead to 44-23 at halftime. Harangody finished with 14 points and five rebounds. 
Notre Dame came out in the second half and steadily put away Indiana. Ayers opened the half with a 3-pointer, Jackson pitched in two layups on drives to the basket and McAlarney downed another 3 to put Notre Dame up 56-29 by the first media timeout at 15:43 left in the game. 
Points came easy for the Irish against the Hoosiers, easier than they did in Notre Dame's 65-54 win at Loyola Marymount Friday. 
"Friday's game in a little gym and crazy atmosphere helped us today," Brey said. "We played in a small gym at Loyola. They played great and we had to fight to get out of there with a win. I think that really helped us." 
During one fast break against the Hoosiers, Jackson dribbled down the floor and kept looking at McAlarney and Harangody, who were positioned at his sides. Indiana defenders were so eon­cerned with Harangody and McAiarney that they forgot to pick up Jackson, who coasted in for a layup unguarded. 
"They laid ofT me," Jackson said. "Some of the shots, I feel like I rushed them and some of the shots, I felt like they were quality shots. Overall, I felt like I had a good game, but I had five turnovers today and that was awful for me." 
Notre Dame will take on Texas Tuesday at 7 p.m. EST on ESPN. The Longhorns ·downed St. Joseph's 68-50 on Monday. 
"They're really talented. That's Big East athletic ability coming at us," Brey said of Texas. "We see that a lot in our league, so you're concerned about you rebound the basketball and get­ting through some big stagger screens. Some of those guys could play for Mack Brown set­ting those screens. But, they're a really good team. I think it's two good teams going at it." 
Note: 
uTuesday night, EA Sports and Xbox360 hosted a tournament to see who the best NCAA Basketball '09 player was among the eight participating teams. Each team had two rep­resentatives to the tournament. For the Irish, Jackson and Harangody participated. 1-Iarangody lost in his first-round matchup to Indiana's Devan Dumes. 
Jackson fared a little better. He won a tight first-round con­test against Indiana's Daniel Moore 20-19 and downed St. Joseph's Edwin Lashley in the seeond round. But in the semifi­nals, Jackson lost to North Carolina's Ty Lawson 26-22. Lawson would go on to lose to fellow teammate Mike Copeland in the finals. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Broncos 
continued from page 24 
each of their last three games. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame demolished a Bowling Green team that entered the home­and-home series with a 4-3-1 conference record. The Irish beat the Falcons 5-1 at home on Friday night before posting a 9-1 blowout win in Bowling Green, Ohio on Saturday. 
"All four of our lines are helping us score, and our power play has been more consistent over the past few weeks than it's been over the last year," said Jackson, whose team is now averaging four goals per game. "Those two things combined have given us the opportunity to be an effective offensive team ... But against a good defensive team, we're going to be chal­lenged and we have to bear down and not take anything for granted." 
Jackson said the defensive­minded Broncos will look to force turnovers by playing their aggressive style. The stats suggest that the style wears on opponents, as the Broncos have scored 12 third­period goals this season, com­pared to six in each of the first two periods. 
"They're an up-tempo team and they pressure the puck very well," Jackson said. "They come after you. They don't sit back and play a trap." 

The series might be a trap in another way -with Thanksgiving break beginning Wednesday, Jackson said playing at home might actual­ly be a disadvantage this weekend. 
"It's easier to play on the road over Thanksgiving break for a number of reasons," Jackson said, citing dietary, family and scheduling distrac­tions. "It gets us out of our normal routine ... We'll have a Thanksgiving dinner for the guys -it's a family holiday, so we want to make sure they have the opportunity to expe­rience that, but not to excess." 
Note: 
uBrett Blatchford and Christian Hanson were named the conference's defensive and offensive players of the week, respectively, the CCHA announced Monday. 
Blatchford, a junior defenseman, took defensive honors for the second consec­utive week. He recorded four assists in the two games against Bowling Green, post­ing a plus-three mark for the weekend. 
Hanson notched two goals and an assist in each game for a six-point weekend. The sen­ior center had never posted a three-point game for the Irish before Friday. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
"The organization of the back four plus the goalkeeper, the coordination and the organiza­tion is huge ... when you zone like we do, it's very important that every player not only do their job but that they're confi­dent in the player next to them," Waldrum said. 
Those four players sit at the base of Notre Dame's 4-3-3 sys­tem, which though similar to the Seminoles 4-4-2, will have to adjust to a team that can defend and attack nearly as well as the Irish. Sophomore forward Sanna Talonen leads Florida State with 16 goals. And like the Irish. the Seminoles play a game of pos­session, not like the physical style of Minnesota seen in round three. Meaning both Florida State and Notre Dame will look to control the ball in their respective offensive halves. 

"I think your going to fmd two teams that will try to play on that field, so certainly you put a priority on keeping the ball and trying to play," Waldrum said. 
The game kicks off at 7 Friday night . 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at d.krasula@nd.edu 

JESS LEErrhe Observer 

Fans braved the single-digit wind chill to support the women's soccer team during Notre Dame's 1-0 win Friday. 
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


JUMBLE 
JJllJOOLIDibrR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FEWRA 
I (J () 
@2007 Tribune Medra Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ROIVS 
j
I I r () 
YENLOP 

(l] 
IJumbles: 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

IMPORTANT TO DO FOR A YOUNG 
CDWBOI. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's BOOTH CRESS AROUSE CORNER Answer: What the teacher took before he entered the demolition race -A "CRASH" COURSE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Katherine Heigl, 30; Damon Evans, 59; Dwight Shultz, 61; Pete Best. 67 
Happy Birthday: The more you relax and enjoy your friends, colleagues and family, the more enriched you will become. This is a great year for you to take a vacation, become more involved in your community and to make moves that will enhance your life profes­sionally, personally and emotionally. Only indecisiveness and negativity will stand in your way. Your numbers are 2, 14. 20.27, 36, 37,44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Play to win and let your shrewd side shine through. Titere is money to be made. so put your fmger on the pulse of what's up and coming and you will see profits.*** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Speak from the heart. Give your honest opinion of what­ever situation you face at home, work or school. A position that you want should come through if you handle an interview or application with strength, knowledge and confi­dence.*** 
GEMI!Ir"'I tMay 21-June 20): It's not always about money--sometimes it has more to do with integrity and what you can live with. Don't be so hard on yourself when you know in your heart what you must do. Surround yourself with a good team. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a bit of a break and do something nice for yourself. Romance is looking good so pick up something for that special person in your life. Draw the line if someone you have to work with is taking over or being a bully.***** 
LEO (July 2.l-Aug. 22): Don't let personal, emotional issues cloud yom vision. Focus on what you can do and who you can convince to take your side. Joining forces with people who think like you will help you get your way. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful how you handle the ones you love. Sudden, un­expected changes in your life and your home are upon ym1. You may have options but. before you go down a road that may cause rumors, evaluate the pros and cons. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make some good decisions regarding your home. family and what to do next. There are opportunities to expand your friendships and your knowledge through tra\·el, courses or a group that offers mental stimulation.*** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 2.l-Nov. 21): There may be trouble with someone with whom you have a secret. Don't underestimate this person's ability to use something against you. Stabilize your personal life by implementing a couple of financial changes. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You don't have to go far to gain approval or to fmd a way to utilize your tale.nts. Get involved in a group or organization that interests you. A serious connection will lead to important professional knowledge.**** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jau. 19): Don't let someone's compliments fool you. He or she wants something and you have to figure out what. Don't gh·e in but do get serious about what you can and cannot do. A deal can be made but it must be on your terms.** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have more to offer than you realize. Use your ser­vices to make proposals and to tum any negative in your life into a positive. Give up what you don't need and budget in what you do.***** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Don't take action when you don't have all the facts. It isn't likely you will win a debate or a challenge by being argumentative. Instead, listen and find out what's really going on before meddling in affairs that shouldn't concern you. 
*** 

Birthday Baby: You are bright. adventurous and exciting to be around. You have plenty of charm and are a gifted speaker. You are a competitive powerhouse. 
Eugmia's Web sites: eugenia/ast.com for confidl'll.tial consultations, myspace .comleugenialast for Eugenia's blog, astroadl'ice .com for fim 
CROSSWORD 
Across Indifferent to pleasure or pain 
6 Close 
10 Jacket 
14 Toyota rival 
151mpulse 
16 ...... of office 
17 Taking back 
one's words in humiliation 19 "Oh. that's what you mean" 20 Excitement 21 -de-sac 22 Receiver of a legal transfer 24 Actress Zellweger 26 Anger 
27 Negotiating in a no-nonsense way 
32 Baby kangaroos 
34 Joel who directed "Raising Arizona" 
35 "These the times that ... " 36 One-named Art Deco designer 37 Vehicles in airplane aisles 39 "Love the air" 40 Big elephant feature 
41 Theater award 42 Prayers' ends 43 Pretending to be 
dead 47 The "et" of et 
cetera 48 Lock of hair 49 Rip off 53 Moo goo .. 
pan 54 Ewe's call 57 Supervising 58 Raising a false 
alarm 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Roman statesman the Elder 
62 Daylight saving, e.g. 63 _ Rae (Sally Field title role) 64 Didn't just guess 65 Locales of mineral waters 
66 Say with one's hand on the Bible 
Down New York stadium 2 Relative of a frog 3 Seeing through 
the deception of 4 Dictator Am in 5 Calls off 6 Cell centers 7 Misplay, e.g. 8 Slack-jawed 9 Edits 
1 0 Neologist 11 Kiln 12 Suit to 13 Biblical pronoun 18 Sticky matter 23 Give for one's money 24 Comedic actress Martha 
25 Put into cipher 27 Four: Prefix 28"_Milk?" 29 Casey with a radio countdown 30 Land o' blarney 31 Achings 32 Army transport 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Andrea Carta Michaels 

33 Spoken 42 Hands out, as duties
37 Leads, as an 

44 Peter of Peter,
orchestra 

Paul &Mary 
38 "Hulk" director 

45 Unrestrained 
Lee 

revelries 39 Don with a big 46 Actor Penn mouth 
49 Marina fixture 41 One of the 50 "_ Almighty," Sinatras 2007 film 
51 Honor with a roast, say 52 What icicles do 54 Drill 55 mater 56 Many miles away 59 Singer Sumac 60 "Man alive!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learninq/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Leis and Iayups 
]ackson scores 21 and gets five boards in win 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

MAUl -I lis fellow players and coaches often refer to him as Notre Dame's heartbeat, and how he performs dictates how the rest of the Irish usually play. 
So on Monday, when junior point guard Tory Jackson seowd 21 points, grabbed five rebounds and had six assists, it was no surprise that Notre Dame defeated Indiana 8H-50 in the first round of the Maui Invitational. 
.Jackson, who led all scorers, was one of five Notre Dame players in double lij,rures. And in a rare occurrence for Jackson, he took thn most shots of any­body on the noor -Jackson shot 10-for-17 from the field goal range. 
"I just took those shots because they carne in the flow of the offense," .Jackson said. "A lot of teams focus on Kyle, a lot of teams focus on Luke llarangody, so most of the time 
see JACKSON/page 18 


Team finds ways to score without stars 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sporrs Editor 
MAUl -Luke Harangody and Kyle McAlarney have grabbed most of the early-sea­son attention for Notre Dame, but the Irish didn't need either player to dominate as they blew out Indiana Monday. 
As Notre Dame built a 21­point lead before halftime, it did not have a single double­digit scorer but had five play­ers drop at least six points. And by the time the final horn sounded, the Irish had five double-digit contributors and eight players with an assist. 
"A lot of unselfishness. Today's indicative, if you look at the scoring, [that] it can come from a lot of different areas with our team," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We have a lot of different guys that can score the ball." 
Brey has repeatedly talked about the importance his team places on the plaque it 
see ASSISTS/page 18 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Se111inoles travel to colder climate to face undefeated ND 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Wri rer 
For the first time in this NCAA Tournament. thP Irish will take on a team not versed in the cold and snow. But No. 6 Florida State is also the highest-ranked oppo­nent Notrn Dame has faced yet. 
And even with a soutlwrn team traveling to Alumni Field to take on the No. 1 Irish Friday, Irish coach Handy Waldrum said he knows the team will be ehal-
HOCKEY 
lengml. 
"llow mueh [home field advan­tage! really factors in I'm not rnally sure." Waldrum said. "But that I think that's why you try to win as many games as you can to secure home field." 
And tlu~re's a reason the Irish earned the No. 1 seed in their braeket and home field advan­tage through Friday's night game -thny're the No. 1 team in the nation with a perfect record. The Irish defense sits at the backbone of that suceess. The Irish have 
Upset-happy Broncos present tough challenge 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
If tlw Irish want to hang on to tlw No. 2 national ranking they IHtrned in this week's polls, thny'll have to take earn of business this weekend against a Westnrn Miehigan squad looking to upset a top-1 0 team on the road for the second straight week. 
The Bronms (2-7-:{, 1-4-3-1 CCII/\) got tlwir first confnrenee win of the y1~ar Friday by beat­ing No. X Michigan 2-1 at the Wolverines' Yost Anma, consid­ered one of the toughest places to play in eollnge hockey. 
"Any team that can go into Yost and beat Michigan has to be doing something right," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "We have to be conseious of that and go into the game under­standing they're a good enough team to beat anybody." 
Notre Damn (9-3-1, 5-2-1-1 CCII/\) has seen its stock risn 10 spots in the polls over the last three weeks on the heels of an eight-game unbeaten streak. The Irish have scored at least thrne goals in ead1 of those games and have tallied four or morn in six of those contests ­including at lnast five goals in 
see BRONCOS/page 17 allowed only two goals in the Tournament, both of which came in their 5-2 win over Toledo in the first round. 
"We've been really good throughout the Tourney defen­sively ... I just think defensively we've really been on the last month," Waldrum said. 
With senior oil'ensive star Kerri Hanks getting all the attlmtion, it's easy to forget the other senior who shares her first name (be it slightly varied): senior Carrie Dew. Dew sits at the center of the 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish four-man zone, directing 
and preventing opponents from 
getting shots on goal. 
"She's just gotten better and better as the year's gone on, her presence, she's taken on now ·more of a leadership role than she did even earlier in the year ... she's jJ.Ist elevated it to another 
level," Waldrum said. 
Coming from a club in San 
Diego that taught her the impor­
tance of a zone defense, Dew 
needed little instruction, but 
Notre Dame wasn't just a place for Dew to play four years before hitting the national scene. 

"When we get kids here as freshman, we hope when they graduate they're not just four y1~ars older, they're four years better," Waldrum said. 
It's that experience and knowl­edge that has built a defense where in addition to Dew, defenders Elise Weber. Julie Scheidler and Jessica Schuveillnr work together in perfect unison. 
see DEFENSE/page 18 

Irish host Wtldcats in NCAAs 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
After an 11-day layoll'. their longest of the season, the No. 12-seed Irish open NCAA tournament play with a home game tonight at 7 against a Northwestern squad that was the No. 2 team in the country earlier this season. 
'That's always a concern," Irish coach Bobby Clark said of the extra time otr. "I think we've handled the time well -we've given them sufficient time off, varied the practices, varied the venues ... We've done a lot of things to get them ready, but you'll have to 
see TIME OFF/page 17 




