
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SBPD~ steps up patrols for disorderly parties 
Police respond to complaints from South Bend residents, neighborhood groups with preventative measures 
campus student houses. parties." residents do have large parties. The increased patrols this week­
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
''I'm talking about truly, truly Most of the complaints, the e­With the increased patrols, Trent end, Trent said, are in response to 
Associate News Editor 
large parties," Trent said, meaning mail said, were about houses on said, the SBPD "are not trying to be the complaints the department has 
parties where the doors of the the city's northeast side. draconian." Trent said he does not been receiving. 
The South Bend Police house are open, 100 people are in Trent told The Observer the bulk think any tickets associated with off "Some of these reports were are Department (SBPD) will conduct the front yard, multiple kegs are of the calls were made regarding campus parties were issued last getting are way beyond the realm "directed patrols targeting disor­being used and people are milling houses on E. Wayne Street, E. weekend. of being a good neighbor,' he said. derly houses" this weekend due to around, using the neighbors' yard Washington Street, St. Louis Street "On game weekends especially, If police do encounter a large numerous complaints over the last as a bathroom. and St. Peter Street. we are very, very busy, and it's not party, where there are "people two weekends about large and "That's what we're targeting," he "The main focus are the large, our objective to go out and do screaming, yelling, singing out loud outdoor parties, Capt. Phil said. outdoor parties that have only mar­enforcement when enforcement doors and in the front and back,'' Trent of the SBPD said. Trent sent an e-mail Tuesday to ginal control over who comes and measures are not specifically war­or "loud music, underage drinking, 
During the first two weekends of The Observer, along with other goes, who's drinking and who is old ranted," he said. Instead, he said, public urination," and littering on the school year, Trent ~;aid, neigh­local media, saying the SBPD had enough to be drinking," Trent said. police have been advising students the ground around the house, borhood groups and South Bend received "numerous complaints" These calls are usually associat­having parties of what is regarded police will first attempt to deter­resident.<; reported, and South Bend about "instances of public intoxica­ed with Notre Dame students, to be improper behavior, rather mine who is responsible for the police observed, large and disor­tion, loud noises and trespassing Trent said, although he added that than immediately writing tickets derly parties taking place at off associated with very large house on some weekends, South Bend and making arrests, he said. see SBPD/page 6 
ELECTION 200lB 


Student groups support presidential candidates 
College Democrats open ND students go to Michigan headquarters in South Bend for McCain campaign rally 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY  By JOSEPH McMAHON  
News Writer  Assistant News Editor  
Notre Dame's College Democrats  While the football team was gearing  
recently collaborated with other local  up for its first game against San Diego  
schools to open a  democratic cam­ State,  the  Notre  Dame  College  
paign headquarters in South Bend,  Republicans headed north to show  
with the goal of helping elect Senator  their support for the presidential ticket  
Obama in the November presidential  of Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and Alaska  
election.  Gov. Sarah Palin at a Sept. 5 political  
"We  want to  help elect Senator  rally in Sterling, Heights, Mich.  
Obama and all the other candidates  "The rally  was absolutely awesome  
we  are  working for,"  Notre Dame's  and inspiring," College Republicans  
College Democrats president Spencer  president Edward Yap said. "The 25  
Howard said. "Anc. in the broader  Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students  
scheme of things, [our goal] is to put  that collectively drove  more than 40  
the country on what we  consider the  hours to see the McCain!Palin rally in  
right track."  Sterling Heights left ready to do any­ 
After  months  of raising  money  thing and everything necessary to elect  
Students get involved in the upcoming presidential election by showing  
see OFFICE/page 4  support for McCain at a rally in Michigan on September 5.  see RALLY/page 4  


SMC career office helps seniors prep for fair 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
With the onset of the Notre Dame Job fair today, the Saint Mary's Center for Career Opportunities (CCO) is preparing for an inf1ux of seniors in their offic·~. 
"Our office has definitely seen an increase in :he num­ber of students seeking assistance with preparing for the upcoming Notre Dame career fair," director of the CCO Stacie Jeffirs said. "Students are asking for as sis tan ce with fi3S umes, interviewing skills, career fair strategies, networking and much more." 
The CCO's new loc:ation in Spes Unica Hall seems to be playing a role in the large number of seniors who are visiting the center. 
"[We're] much more visible to students who are walking by," Jeffirs said. "Also, I think that we have put a considerable amount of effort to get the word out that our office is here to help." 
Often times, advice is unique to each individual who comes in and there are very few tips that can be given across the board, she said. 
"There are some general tips that we give most sen­iors in order to help them 
see CAREER/ page 4 

Prof. examines African Diaspora 
Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecture series sponsors speaker 
ByIRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Studies show that the tra­ditional mappings of the African Diaspora are open to a redrawing said Hortense Spillers, an English professor at Vanderbilt. 
Spillers' work seeks to trace the path of the African Diaspora, the migration of African families to places around the world, such as the Americas, Europe, and the Middle East. 
Spillers, who spoke as part of the Provost's Distinguished Women's 
see PROVOST/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Where to canoodle 
Last wonk our lovely news edi­tor Jenn Mntz wrote an inside col­umn about having the misfortune of living on the dumpster side of Cavanaugh. 
I fen] for 
her. as 1 Jived Laura Myers 
on that side 
last year. Poor 
thing doesn't Sports Writer 
know tho half of it. as snow­plows have not yet graced Cavanaugh Drive with their pres­ence. 
My main goal in room picks last year was not to be on that side of the building, and I was success­ful. My window faces Zahm, and peace and harmony now reign in my Iife. 
That is, until last Thursday night. I climbed into bed around 2 a.m., blissful as could be. It usu­ally takes me about half an hour to fall asleep, and right as I was drifting ol'l', I heard voices. 
Two wandering lovers, having escaped parietals, had settled right under my window and began having an animated conversation, interrupted by breaks of silence that I'd prefer not to think about. 
After at least half an hour of lis­tening to their discussion, of which I heard every word, I climbed out of bed, navigated the dangerous maze ol' ladders in my tiny room, and cranked the win­dows shut. My roommate at this point sits up and says, "Thank (;od. I was about to call NDSP." 
So, in order to protect all of you from my roommate's intention (and I will let lwr do it next time), I have come up with a list. 
I call it Places Near Cavanaugh to Canoodle (That Are Not Underneath My Window). 
+Under the steps at Washington Hall: What better locale to be with your sweetie than a place where drama and passion combine? For what is an ND relationship but lots of drama and some slightly theatrical pas­
. ?
SIOn. 
+The Library: I've always con­sidered Jimmy Buffett to be a wise man, and if he can find "Love in the Library," so can you. 
+Fieldhouse Mall: Franklin Delano Roosevelt once stood there. We should all try to be more like FOR. 
+Stonehenge: Imagine. You two kiss, and a jet of water shoots up behind you towards the full moon. Talk about romantic. 
+The Steps of the Main Building: That's right. If anyone in this situation isn't graduating, it should be you two, not me for sleeping through my 8:30 class. 
+The Cavanaugh 24-hour lounge: Comfy couches. Just keep three feet on the floor. 
And, finally: 
+The Basilica. After all, you two will probably be getting mar­ried there the year after you graduate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, rerugnize rhar we will make mis­takes. IfW<" have made a misrake, please conraa us at 631-4541 so we can correa our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: 
Jenny Zabel 
senior 
Walsh 
"Snakes." 
WHAT SCARES YOU THE MOST? 


Matt Lind  Greg Cunningham  Eric Monzon  
senior off-campus  freshman Dillon  freshman Siegfried  
"Bees.''  "Falling out of  "Sleeping in my  

my loft." 

Man blames spilled beer for erratic driving 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.­A man with four previous drunken driving convictions who was stopped for weav­ing in and out of traffic on Interstate 40 was ready with an excuse for his poor driv­ing: his passenger spilled his beer. 
Not surprisingly, the man was arrested just before midnight Saturday, said state police officer Kurtis Ward, who said he initially thought the driver was jok­ing. 
"He was so matter of fact about it, like it wasn't a big deal," Ward said. 
The 31-year-old man was allegedly too drunk to per­form field sobriety tests and was arrested on aggravated drunken driving charges, court records said. 
Human waste to be con­verted to fuel 
SAN ANTONIO -The U.S. city of San Antonio unveiled a deal on Tuesday that will make it the first U.S. city to harvest methane gas from human waste on a commer­cial scale and turn it into clean-burning fuel. 
San Antonio residents pro­duce about 140,000 tons a year of a substance gently referred to as "biosolids," which can be reprocessed into natural gas, said Steve Clouse, chief operating offi­cer of the city's water system. 
"You may call it something else," Clouse said, but for area utilities, the main byproduct of human waste -methane gas -will soon be converted into natural gas to burn in their power plants. 
The city approved a deal where Massachusetts-based Ameresco Inc will convert the city's biosolids into natu­ral gas, which could generate about 1.5 million cubic feet per day, he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


63 42 

-I 
~ 
(.) 
0 
HIGH 73 HIGH 78 HIGH 72

...J 
LOW 52 LOW 55 LOW 55 
first three classes." 
IN BRIEF 
GreenND will hold an informal meeting today at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Career Center will host the Fall Career Expo today in the Joyce Center from 4:00-8:00 p.m. 
Army ROTC through the American Red Cross will sponsor a Blood Drive today and tomorrow in the Grand Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center from 9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Sign up online at www.givelife.org, sponsor code "irish," to schedule an appointment. Walk-ins are also accepted but those with appointments will be seen first and will take less time. Donors must be at least 17, weigh a minimurn of 110 pounds and be in 
good  general  health.  
Donors  are  asked  to  bring  
their donor cards  or  posi­ 

tive ideo tification when they come to donate. 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance will have their weekly meeting tonight at 6:30 in Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall. This changed meeting time and place will occur once a month to make BOG more accessible to students. 
Michael Novak will be speaking regarding his book "Business As A Calling" on Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, room 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

GAME DAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 73 LOW 58 


Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 



Hurrit:ane threatens Gulf 
Illegal immigrants hesitate to evacuate for fear of border patrol 
Associated Press 
McALLEN, Texas --With Hurricane Ike steaming into the Gulf of Mexico, Texas emer­gency officials Tuesday stood ready to order 1 million people evacuated from the impover­ished Rio Grande Valley and tried to convince tens of thou­sands of illegal immigrants that they have less to fear from the Border Patrol than from the storm. 
Emergency planning nfficials were meeting all day tc decide if and when to announce a mandatory evacuation for coastal counties close to the Mexican border. 
With forecasts showing Ike blowing ashore this weekend, authorities lined up nearly 1,000 buses in case they are needed to move out th·::l many poor and elderly people who have no cars. 
Federal authoritie:; gave assurances they would not check people's immigration sta­tus at evacuation loading zones or.inland checkpoints. But resi­dents were skeptical, and there were worries that many illegal immigrants would refuse to board buses and go to :;helters for fear of getting arrested and deported. 
"People are nervous," said the Rev. Michael Seifert, a Roman Catholic priest and immigrant advocate. "The mes­sage that was given to me was that it's going to be a real prob­!em." 
One reason for the skepti­cism: Back in May, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said the Border Patrol would do nothing to impede an evacuation in the event of a hurricane. But when Hurricane Dolly struck the Rio Grande Valley in late July, no mandato­ry evacuation was ordered, and as a result the Border Patrol kept its checkpoints open. Agents soon caught a van load of illegal immigrants. 
It would be the first mandato­ry large-scale evacuation in South Texas history. State and county officials let people decide for themselves whether to leave a hurricane area until just before Hurricane Rita struck the Gulf Coast in 2005. Now county officials can order people out of harm's way. 
Hidalgo County Judge J.D. Salinas said if an evacuation is ordered this time, county offi­cials will visit immigrant neigh­borhoods and forcefully urge people to clear out. 
After Hurricanes Katrina and Gustav, "there were a lot of immigrants who said, 'I'm not going to go,"' said Salinas, the county's top elected official. "It's going to be hard." 
In Washington, Rear Adm. W. Craig Vanderwagen, assistant 
U.S. health secretary for pre­paredness and response, told reporters: "In storm events, if people are trapped it doesn't particularly matter to those of us in the humanitarian assis­tance world which side of that border they come from. We will do what we need to do to evac­uate the people who need to be evacuated." 
At 8 p.m. EDT, Ike was about 95 miles west of Havana, Cuba, moving west-northwest at 10 mph with sustained winds near 75 mph. It was expected to cross the Gulf of Mexico, strengthening to a Category 3 with winds of up to 130 mph. 
Forecasters said that it could hit on Saturday morning just about anywhere along the Texas coast, with the most like­ly spot close to the Corpus Christi area. 
Areas from Matagorda Bay to Corpus Christi and south to Brownsville -about 250 miles of coastline ...:.._ were told to pre­pare for possible mandatory evacuation. 
On Tuesday, Ike roared across Cuba, ravaging homes, killing at least four people and forcing 1.2 million to evacuate. 
The Rio Grande Valley is still soggy from Dolly, which flooded the region, damaging hundreds of homes but killing no one. Many homes still have blue tarps on their roofs. 
The Rio Grande Valley's resi­dents are among those least equipped to handle hurricane flooding. It is one of the poorest parts of the country, with one­third of all families living below the poverty line, compared with 10 percent nationally. 

Professor discusses climate warming 
By LIZ O'DONNELL. 
News Writer 
Businesses should take a leadership stance in the effort to reduce global warming, professor Patrick Murphy said Tuesday night. 
"If the effects of climate change are to be improved, business will play a large role," Murphy told students, faculty, and members of the South Bend Community during the Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics Tuesday. 
Murphy was the final speak­er of the evening during the discussion on Climate Change: Technical, Business and Ethical Implications. 
"The Berges Lecture Series has a policy of bringing in speakers who have experience dealing with ethical issues in business," Murphy said, "We take a 'role model' approach in that we invite individuals and companies with very good ethical reputations to partici­pate." 
Mark McCready, professor and Chair of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering was the first to address the audi­ence, giving a brief overview of climate change. 
He said levels of carbon dioxide have been increasing substantially due to fossil fuel use. The increased levels in carbon dioxide are to blame for why global warming is occurring, McCready said. 
Gerard Pannekoek. the for­mer President and Chief Operating Officer of the Chicago Climate Exchange said businesses can solve any problem with the environment so long as they commoditize it. He recently worked with 50 companies to design a rule­book for businesses on how to battle global warming in the United States. 
"[The rulebook] was a begin­ning, lets get something up and running, lets see if it moves. You can compare it to the Wright brothers. Let's hope this thing flies," Pannekoek said. 
After about 35 minutesof testimony by the members of the panel, the floor was then opened up to questions of members of the audience, which was mainly comprised of undergraduates in the Mendoza College of Business. 
The next discussion in the Berges Lecture Series will be on Sept. 15 in Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. Robert Nyhus, the Senior Program Manager of Herman Miller, Inc. will give a lecture entitled "Values and Decision Making." 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new. contemporary. furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnistled 

• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 


• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 




luxury apartments
IIIrish 
ROW 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 10, 2008 


College students, faculty give blood 
to do homework and hang Thompson, Howard said. 
out with friends," Howard The primary aim of the col­
Office 
said. laboration of different continued from page 1 The office is located on schools in the office was to Mishawaka pool the 
through various fundraisers Avenue in resources of
"We are trying to make
and donations from South South Bend the different Bend residents, the office because the it so all the schools can colleges in opened Thursday with an group did not come together and the area, open house attended by a want the Dvorac said.
students from multiple
couple hundred interested headquarters " [ E a c h students and members of the to be cen­colleges in the area school] has South Bend community, tered on one can get to know different Howard said. school, strengths and
each other. " 
The Notre Dame College Howard said. weaknesses," Democrats worked with Sean "We are he said. Dvorac and Caitlin Worm of trying to Spencer Howard While many the Indiana University of make it so all College Democrats Notre Dame South (IUSB) Bend College the schools students Democrats to organize the can come come from 
office in town. together and students from different parts of the country, 
"We just met at the South multiple colleges in the area most IUSB students are local, Bend Chocolate Cafe and can get to know each other," Dvorac said. thought it would be cool to he said. "What happens in This creates a strong group organize the College this area affects all of us so of students mixing "local Democrats in the area, so we we might as well come color" with a national stu­did it, .. together." dent body, he said. Howard Volunteers Notre Dame sophomore said. "We want to help elect will use the Andrea Green, a volunteer in 
Howard, office to focus the office, said she is excited
Senator Obama and all
Dvorac and on campaign­to be involved in the cam­
the other candidates we
Worm's col­ing in Saint paign because of previous laboration are working for, and in Joseph County, campaign work she did on became the Howard said. behalf of Hilary Clinton in the
the broader scheme of
Northern The leaders primaries.
things [our goal] is to
Indiana have lined up "[Working on the Clinton College put the country on what students to Campaign] was a great expe­Democrats, make phone rience," she said.
we consider the 
a group calls to South This election is really excit­
right track. '' 
that now Bend homes ing because students are encompass­and go door to becoming more interested in es Saint Spencer Howard door, canvass­the election, Green said. Mary's ing various "We had our first [College
College Democrats 
College, neighbor­Democrats] meeting of the

President
Holy Cross, hoods, he said. year and had the biggest Ivy Tech Along with turnout with 93 people," she and Bethel along with Notre campaigning for Obama, the said. "Students are getting Dame and IUSB, Howard Northern College Indiana more involved in this election said. Democrats also focus on local and trying to become more 
The Northern Indiana democratic candidates such informed about what is going College Democrats wanted an as congressman Joe on." office "so students from Donnelly, who is up for 
schools can campaign as well reelection and gubernatorial Contact Madeline Buckley at as have a college atmosphere candidate Jill Long mbuckley@nd.edu 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Wrirer 
Saint Mary's offered students the chance to save a life during their blood drive in the Student Center Lounge Tuesday. 
Olivia Barzydlo, Assistant Director in the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, helped coordinate the blood drive with Indiana Blood Center. 
"We feel that it's part of one's civic duty to donate if possible," Barzydlo said. 
Saint Mary's has been hosting the blood drive since 2005, Barzydlo said. The College began hosting the blood drives after the need for blood grew after Hurricane Katrina. The South Bend Medical Foundation helps to host the blood drives as well. The College works to host one to two drives a year. However, they are working to three or four drives on campus this year, she said. 
The whole process takes about an hour. When students arrive at the drive they must fill out a confidential screening test and have their blood tested. Once the donor is cleared, then they are able to donate. The actual process of giving blood takes ten minutes. Then, the donor is asked to stay for another 10-15 minutes to rest and have a snack. 
Barzydlo does not want stu­dents who are afraid of needles to be discouraged from dona­tion. 



Career 
continued from page 1 
make the most of their senior year at Saint Mary's College. However, much of what we do in our office is unique to each student since interests and career goals vary," Jeffirs said. 
The center emphasizes the need to start career planning early by looking for intern­ships during a student's sophomore or junior year or building skills in career exploration, goal-setting, resume and cover letter writ­ing, job searching, network­ing, interviewing and gradu­ate school research. 
"As always, our staff is here to serve the needs of each of our students," Jeffirs said. 
The CCO is committed to promoting the continuation of learning and growth in both the personal and professional lives of students and alum­nae, she said. 
Jeff'irs emphasized that the networking is one of the most 

"Although many people are afraid of the needle, me being one of them, it does not hurt as bad as you may think. There is a bit of a sting at first, but it is not too painful," Barzydlo said. 
The drives are generally well attended by faculty and staff, Barzydlo said. Last year's drive had 72 people from the Saint Mary's community in atten­dance. All of the blood donated to these drives is given to the Indiana Blood Center and the South Bend Medical Foundation will be given to Hoosiers in need and remain in Indiana. 
Students donate for many dif­ferent reasons. Some have fami­ly members who have been ben­efitted from blood transfusions and many others just like to be able to help. 
''I'm a nursing major so I just feel like every little bit counts," sophomore Alison Chudzinski said. She has donated twice at Saint Mary's and five times in total. 
Saint Mary's will continue hosting drives through South Bend Medical Foundation and Indiana Blood Center through­out the year, so those of you who did not have a chance to donate will have more opportunities. 
"Believe it or not, there is always a need for blood," Barzydlo said. She said Saint Mary's is hoping to maintain the high number of donors with their upcoming blood drives. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

popular way to find jobs at Saint Mary's because of the strong alumnae network. 
"One of the great resources that Saint Mary's students and soon-to-be graduates have at their fingertips are SMC alumnae," she said. "They are an excellent resource for networking and getting connected to opportu­nities throughout the United States in various professional areas." 
Saint Mary's students have many resources right at their fingertips including the recently completed Junior Jumpstart and Senior Startup programs. The CCO has had nearly 100 students partici­pate in both programs in which they learned more about internships, job searching and networking. 
"We are very pleased that so many students are taking a proactive approach with their career goals and begin­ning the process early," Jeffirs said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Rally 

continued from page 1 
John McCain and Sarah Palin." 
Yap and 24 others drove to the rally despite the Student Activities Office's (SAO) refusal to fund the trip. Originally about 125 students had signed up to go and Yap said the College Republicans 
were willing to pay for the trip with club funds. 
However, SAO denied the group's request, say­ing student funding can­not be used in support of any political candidate and also refused to give group members e x c u s e d 
"What angers me the most is that ifthe College Republicans cannot use money in support ofa candidate, what can we use the money for?" 
Edward Yap College Republicans President 
absences from their classes. 
"What angers me the most is that if the College Republicans cannot use money in support of a candi­date, what can we use the money for?" Yap said. "So in essence the University was telling us that we were essen­tially forbidden from going to the rally as a group. We had to drive our own cars and spend hundreds of dollars on gas to get to the event." 
However, members of the College Hepublicans said the trip was well worth the cost as all 25 students were given special front row seating and were able to shake hands with McCain and Palin. Yap said Palin even signed his Fighting Irish flag. 
''I'll be cherishing that for the rest of my life," he said. "I felt as if they were speak­ing to me and every other person in the room, young and old, and telling us that the future -our future would be well protected in their hands." 
Junior Cynthia Curley said he was able to connect with 
McCain and Palin during their speech­es. 
"You realize that they are real people and in the brief 15 sec­onds that you get to speak with them, they really look you in the eye and really connect with you," she said. 
Curley even 
invited McCain to stay in her dorm room for football games, adding hosting a presidential candidate would be well worth breaking pari­etals. 
"As he was leaving John McCain said he wanted to come to a Notre Dame foot­ball game, and I told him he could sleep in my dorm. It would be worth breaking parietals," she said. 
Education chair Andrew Clark and junior Christine Homero, who also co-chairs NO Votes '08, both said they were most excited to see Palin speak. 
''I'm really excited about 
Governor Palin as the vice presidential candidate," Romero said. "She's an idol of mine and she shows that the liberals don't have a monop­oly on feminism anymore. I love her." 
Clark said while he sup­ported McCain, he wasn't really excited for the upcom­ing election until Palin was picked as the vice presiden­tial candidate. 
"Everyone would just kind of tolerate McCain and sup­port him because he was the Hepublican candidate, but they weren't really excited. I think everyone's excited now," he said. "She brings the same charisma to the Republican ticket that [Barack] Obama brings to the Democratic ticket." 
The members of the College Republicans all said they hoped the ticket would con­sider visiting campus in the months leading up to the election. 
"Indiana right now is becoming a battleground state," Yap said. "According to polling, John McCain is only up by 2 points, so I think lhel would consider coming to campus." 
However, the members questioned the University's hospitality for candidates, cit­ing the fact that in the past 20 years only Joe Lieberman and Bill Clinton have visited campus in the midst of their bids for the White House. 
"It's kind of making Notre Dame fall ofT the map a little bit because we can't attract candidates to campus, Homero said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 






\A{ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, Septembe:r 10, 2008 CoMPILED FROM TI-n: OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ike moves to the Gulf of Mexico 
HAVANA -Hurricane Ike moved into the warm waters of the Gulf and took aim at the 
U.S. and Mexican coas1s Tuesday after bringing down aging buildings in Havana and tearing through western Cuba's tobacco country. 
Forecasters said Ike, which has already killed at least 80 people in the Caribbean, could strengthen into a massive Category 3 storm before slamming into Texas or Mexico this weekend. 
Some 1.2 million people-more than a tenth of Cuba's population -sought refuge from Ike, which killed four people and shredded hundreds ofhomes as it barreled across the island. 
Russia to keep troops in Georgia 
TBILISI -Russia announced Tuesday it would keep 7,600 troops in Abkhazia and South Ossetia for the foreseeable future, asserting power in the breakaway regions even as it began a pullout from positions deeper in Georgia. 
The Kremlin's plans for a heavy military footprint in the enclaves mock Georgia's hopes that a revised peace agreement will lead to a complete Russian withdrawal from the fractured ccuntry at the heart of a bitter fray between l\l:oscow and the West. 
The deal that emerged from a day of frantic French dip. omacy Monday may defuse tension by removing Russian forces from positions they hold in Georgia weeks after last month's war. But it left serious questions unanswered. 
After hours of talks with French President Nicolas Sarkozy, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev promised to withdraw all Russian forces from positions outside Abkhazia and South Ossetia within about a month. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

NYPD transformed since 9I 11 
NEW YORK -Nea.rly seven years after terrorists took down the World Trade Center's twin towers, police officials have embarked on an am:Jitious plan to secure the new development that is finally sprout­ing at ground zero. 
But a repeat of th•l horrors of Sept. 11, 2001 is only one of a long list of worries that have prompted the New York Police Department to spend the last several years reinventing itself a!> an intelligence and homeland security agency. 
The nation's largest police department, with about 37,000 officers, has spent tens of millions of dollars on an array of high-tech security measures designed to thwart threats potentially more daunting than another attack on a downtown skyscraper. 

Meat plant guility of child labor 
DES MOINES -Th•l owner and managers of the nation's large~;t kosher meatpacking plant were charged T11esday with more than 9,000 misdemeanors alleging they hired minors and in some cases had children younger than 16 handle dangerous equip­ment such as circular saws, meat grinders and power shears. 
They are the first criminal charges against operators of the Agriprocessors plant in Postville, where nea.rly 400 illegal immi­grants working at the facility were arrested in May. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Illegal immigration rising in Ind. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lawmakers seeking a clearer direction on what, if anything, to do about illegal immigration in Indiana got conflicting opinions and loose numbers Tuesday during their first study committee meeting on the issue. 
Professors specializing in immigration law gave different answers and advice. And although a member of the Washington, D.C.-based Pew Hispanic Center said there were about 100,000 undocumented resi­dents in Indiana, he said it could range from about 75,000 to 125,000. 
NORTH KOREA 
Possible stroke befalls dictator 
Kim Jong Il's health could jeopardize international talks on nuclear weapons 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -North Korean dictator Kim Jong II may be gravely ill, perhaps the victim of a stroke, U.S. and other Western officials said Tuesday after he failed to appear for a major national parade. If so, it could jeopardize the already troubled international effort to get his nation to abandon nuclear weapons. 
Kim's absence from a mili­tary parade for the coun­try's 60th anniv!Jrsary lent credence to reports that the man North Koreans call the "Dear Leader" had been incapacitated during the past few weeks. 
The 66-year-old Kim, who has been rumored to be in varying degrees of ill health for years, has not been seen since mid-August. Though he appears rarely in public and his voice is seldom broadcast, Kim has shown up for previous landmark celebrations. 
"There is reason to believe Kim Jong II has suf­fered a "serious health set­back, possibly a stroke," one Western intelligence official said. A senior U.S. official said fresh rumors had been circulating about Kim's health and his control over North Korea's highly cen­tralized government. 
A former CIA official with recent access to intelligence on North Korea said that even before Tuesday the agency was confident that reports of a health crisis were accurate. 
The officials spoke anony­mously to summarize sensi­tive intelligence. 
The reclusive Kim took power in 1994 after the death of his father, Kim II Sung. It was communism's first hereditary transfer of power, and both Kims are revered in a personality cult perpetrated by the country's authoritarian government. 
To the outside world Kim is best recognized as a silent, waving figure with a bouffant hairdo and a quasi­military suit reminiscent of communist leaders of an earlier time. Word of his 
ELECTION 2008 


Palin an increasing threat to Obama 
Associated Press 

MICHIGAN -Listening to Barack Obama, it can seem like Republican vice presidential nominee Sarah Palin is the main person standing between him and the White House instead of John McCain. 
Obama is putting as much heat on Palin as he is on the man at the top of the GOP ticket, objecting to the Republican Party's portrayal of her as a reformer who can bring change to Washington. 
AP North Korean soldiers parade through Kim II Sung Square in Pyongyang, North Korea, Tuesday in the absence of their leader, Kim Jong II. 
possible health problems recalled the Soviet era, too, when U.S. analysts pored over photos of military parades for clues to who was up and who was down in the Kremlin. 
Neither the White House nor the State Department would comment publicly on Kim's health, noting that the North Korean government is one of the most opaque and secretive on Earth. 
But U.S. officials said pri­vately they were concerned that Kim's apparently failing health jeopardized six­q.ation talks aimed at rid­di.(lg North Korea of its nuclear weapons. The United States has been a wary partner in those talks, but their success is one of the Bush administration's 
That is supposed to be Obama's distinction, and he's not taking kind­ly to Palin trying to claim it. Especially when it appears the new star on the GOP ticket is helping to boost its standing: McCain has jumped to a dead heat or narrow lead over Obama in the latest nation­al polls since choosing Palin as his running mate. 
Obama said last week's Republican National Convention did a good job of highlighting Palin's biography ­"Mother. governor, moose shooter. 
signature foreign policy goals. 
The talks are now stalled in a dispute over the North's obligation to allow intrusive foreign accounting of its known nuclear stockpile. 
North Korea's powerful military is known to be opposed to the negotiations with China, Japan, South Korea, Russia and the United States. Many ana­lysts believed the process was continuing mainly due to Kim's support and his backing of moderates in the foreign ministry. 
U.S. officials noted that shortly after the health rumors began to circulate in August, North Korea started to adopt a tougher line in nuclear negotiations. The North first suspended dis­
That's cool," he said. But he said Palin really is just another Republican politician, one who is stretching the truth about her record. 
"When John McCain gets up there with Sarah Palin and says, 'We're for change,' ... what are they talking about?" Obama said Monday, arguing that they aren't offering different ideas from President Bush and they are just trying to steal his campaign theme because it seemed to be work­ing. 
ablement of its main nuclear reactor and then threatened to rebuild it, saying the U.S. had not kept a pledge to remove the country from a terrorism blacklist. 
The reactor at Yongbyon was dismantled and its cool­ing tower blown up in June. In exchange, Washington was to strike North Korea from its list of state spon­sors of terrorism but only after Pyongyang agreed to a mechanism to verify that it was abandoning atomic weapons development. The North has yet to agree to the verification scheme. 
Kim's demise could lead to a succession crisis in North Korea. He has three sons by two women but has not des­ignated a successor. 
page 6 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

SBPD 
continued from page 1 

residence, and will roll them to get 
the party under control. 
"All we are asking for is basic cooperation," Trent said. "Most of the time, when we dP.al with stu­denlo.;, we have complete eoopera­tion." 
Student body president Bob Hnish and vice president Grant Schmidt sent an e-mail to the stu­dent body last week asking stu­denl'i to "be considerate to those around us, particularly residenl'i of the South Bend area." 
The news that the SBPD will be stepping up patrols of disorderly houses looks like a "preventative mewmre," Reish said. 
"Ultimately, we share the same goals, and we are glad the police are going to be out there, hopefully also protecting our students," Ht~ish said Tuesday. "I think our studenlo.; will be very cooperative, and I think, at the end of the day, they will realize our students are cooperative when police talk to them." 
The Observer reported Monday that two Notre Dame students were a.o;.~aulwd over the weekend on Notre Dame Ave. near Oub 23, receiving minor injuries. 
The SBPD will "absolutely" also be continuing neighborhood patrols to protect those walking through South Bend at night, Trent said. With ofiicers dedicated to conduct patrols of di'iorderly hous­es, regular beat officers will be free to conduct neighborhood patrols. 
The increase in patrols of disor­derly houses is not an unusual occurrence, Trent said. 
"It usually occurs at some point between the start of the school year and the point at which the football season end<> or it gets too eold to have outside parties," Trent said. "This year, we are going to do it more sooner than later." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Provost 
continued from page 1 
Lecture series Tuesday, said she visited seven of the Diaspora's most representa­tive cities-New York City, Chicago, Detroit, Toronto, Paris, London, and Kingston, Jamaica -to retrace the migration. 
In each location, she toured monuments and representa­tions of Diasporic culture, including a slavery museum in London, the Heidelberg Project in Detroit and an exhi­bition of contemporary African artists at the Pompidou Centre in Paris. Spillers said she utilized the sites to explore a graceful way to express black culture's spa­tial dimensions. 
She said she hopes she can return to all the locations cov­ered in her study but will need to visit more sites for her proj­ect to be as thorough and complete as possible. 
"In order for this project to be definitive you'd have to visit many more cities," she said. "Seven !cities] may be representative but it is hardly By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 

The Council Hepresentatives (COR) dis­cussed revising rules for clubs to appeal to the Collaboration Fund Tuesday, following a closed-door discus­sion of an appeal at last week's meeting. 
Class of 2010 president Kim Kyrouac, who also serves on the Financial Management Board (FMB), which oversees club finances but isn't able to distribute funds, encouraged COR to consider an appeal process similar to that used by FMB. 
"Someone comes in to pres­ent to us at FMB," she said. "If we have any questions, they can answer us." 
Sorin Senator Mike Sayles agreed with Kyrouac. 
"No matter how much !the appeal] is for, it's always better to have someone from the event here because tl:Iey know it better than anybody else," he said. "They'd be able to clearly explain every single dollar they were spending." 
While Sayles is in favor of requiring every club appealing to the Fund to make a presen­tation before COR, some mem­hers said that·a presentation should only be a requirement if the appeal is above a certain amount. 
"If they feel they need the money, they shouldn't have a problem coming into COR," Off-Campus President Billy Lyman said. "It makes it diffi­cult when there's no represen­tative here." 
enough." Students who attended the 
event said they were 

impressed with Spiller's 
extensive knowledge on the 

subject. "I thought that the idea of studying the African Diaspora through the use of art was really interesting," sophomore Abbey Moon said. "Professor Spillers was really knowledge­able about all her subject 
matter and seemed really pas­sionate about her studies." 
There are other events on campus that the University has scheduled to coincide with Spiller's lecture which are taking place now, including the "Afro-Latino/as and the Americas" art exhibition which is on display in McKenna Hall through Oct. 15 and the "Blacks, Arts and the Americas" lecture and gallery walk at the Snite Museum which ends today. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the First Year of Studies depart­ment and the College of Arts and Letters. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izaj icko@nd.edu 


Academy Award Nominated Animated Short Films 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Wednesday, September •· 0, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 11,230.73 -280.01
Jones 
Up: Same: 2,182 88  Down: 1,208  Composite Volume: 3,129,084, 717  
AMEX  
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  .  2 209.81 7~ii~~~f; 1,224.51  -59.95 297A7 -43.28  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) lz;loe~65n .0.00 FTSE 100 (London) SA15.60 -30.70 
COMPANY Dfc,CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
LEHMAN BROS HLD (LEH) -44.95 -6.36 7.79 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -2.97 -3.77 123.22 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) --6.39 -1.45 21.23 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.99 -0.86 42.45 
Treas ries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.88 -0.069 3.596 13-WEEK BILL -1.80 -0.030 1.640 30-YEAR BOND -1.80 -0.077 4.192 5-YEAR NOTE -2.64 -0.078 2.882 
Comm dities UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -3.08 103.26 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -10.50 792.00 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) +1.00 84.65 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 106.8850 
IN BRIEF 
Apple unveils new iPods, shares slip 
SAN FRANCISCO -Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs took the wraps off a revamped line of iPods on Tuesday and trumpeted a truce with NBC Universal that means the TV network will begin selling programs again on iTunes. 
The iPod announcements were largely expected, and investors were less than ener­gized, sending Apple's shares down $6.24, 4 percent, to close at $151.68. 
The iPod upgrades Jobs revealed Tuesday in a theater in San Francisco include two slick new Nano models, oval-shaped devices that Jobs said are the thinnest iPods Apple has ever made. They are leE.s than a quarter-inch thick. 
Eight student lenders adopt new code 
NEW YORK -Eight student loan compa­nies agreed to adopt a code of conduct that bans deceptive marketing practices follow­ing an investigation by the state of New York, the state attorney general said Tuesday. 
Seven direct-to-student lenders agreed to pay a combined $1.4 million to settle the probe, Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said. These companies employed bait-and­switch tactics, pushed higher-interest pri­vate loans and marketed products so they appeared to be federal loans, he said. 
Ford owners warned about recalls 
WASHINGTON -The government is urging owners of 5 million recalled Ford vehicles to bring them to dealerships to repair a cruise control switch system that has been tied to engine fires. 
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration on Tue~.day issued a second consumer advisory to owners of certain unre­paired Ford. Lincoln and Mercury sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks, vans and passenger cars who have not re~.ponded to previous recalls. 
NHTSA said about 12 million vehicles have been part of the recall ar. d nearly 5 million still have not been tixed. A similar warning was issued in February but ollicials said the rate of the vnhicles being repaired has declined. 
Stocks decline after Monday's gain 
Wall Street ends lower on concerns over Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Stocks 
tumbled Tuesday, nearly 
erasing the previous ses­
sion's big gains, after fresh 
concerns about the stability 
of Lehman Brothers 
Holdings Inc. punctured a 
sense of optimism about 
the financial sector. Each 
of the major indexes lost 
more than 2 percent. The 
Dow Jones industrials fell 
nearly 300 points. 

Meanwhile, bond prices jumped as investors sought the safety of government debt. 
Wall Street's pullback 
came one day after the 
biggest single-session rally 
in a month in the Dow so 
some retrenchment was to 
be expected. Investors had 
been hopeful about the 
sector after the Treasury 
Department announced 
Sunday it would seize con­
trol of mortgage finance 
companies Fannie Mae and 
Freddie Mac in an effort to 
help stabilize the troubled 
housing market. 

But worries over the fate 
of Lehman rattled 
investors, and sent the 
shares of the No. 4 U.S. 
investment bank down 
nearly 50 percent. Wall 
Street is concerned that the 
bank is having trouble 
finding new sources of cap­
ital, with a possible invest­
ment from South Korea's 
government-owned Korea said of the government's nology-heavy Nasdaq com­$3.08 to settle at $103.26. 
Development Bank in moves to aid Fannie and posite index added 0.62 The dollar was mixed 
doubt. Freddie. "Just because you percent. against other major cur­
Many financial compa­make some financial Bond prices jumped as rencies, while gold prices 
nies, including Lehman, change doesn't mean all stocks retreated. The yield fell. 
have struggled with sour­the sudden the economy on the benchmark 10-year A weaker-than-expected 
ing mortgage debt on their gets better." Treasury note, which report on pending U.S. 
books and have looked to The Dow fell 280.01, or moves opposite its price, home sales likely added to 
outside sources of funding 2.43 percent, to 11,230.73. fell to 3.57 percent in late Wall Street's downbeat 
to shore up their balance Broader indexes also fell. trading from 3.68 percent mood. The National 
sheets. The Standard & Poor's 500 late Monday. Association of Realtors said 
"We're back to the fun­index declined 43.28, or Oil closed below $104 a its seasonally adjusted 
damentals again," said 3.41 percent, to 1,224.51, barrel for the first time index of pending sales for 
Denis Amato, chief invest­and the Nasdaq composite since early April after existing homes fell 3.2 per­
ment officer at Ancora index fell 59.95, or 2.64 Hurricane Ike appeared to cent to 86.5 from an 
Advisors in Cleveland, percent, to 2,209.81. be headed away from ener­upwardly revised June 
referring to investors' men­The declines ate into gy installations in the Gulf reading of 89.4. The index 
tality a day after sending returns logged Monday Coast. In Vienna, OPEC's was 6.8 percent below 
stocks higher. "These when the Dow jumped 2.6 president signaled the car­year-ago levels, and missed 
financial maneuverings percent, the S&P 500 rose tel wouldn't cut production. projections for a reading of 
don't create prosperity," he 2.1 percent and the tech-Light, sweet crude fell 88.6. 

Democrats look to more drilling 
Associated Press lion in tax breaks and agree to pay bil­waters beyond a 50-mile coastal buffer. 
lions of dollars in back royalties that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid 
WASHINGTON -With public opinion were avoided because of an Interior reiterated Tuesday his intention to take 
shifting toward offshore drilling, Department contracting error in deep­up the drilling measures next week. 
Democrats are looking to defuse the water drilling leases in the late 1990s. Republicans in both the Senate and 
volatile election issue by allowing oil The money would be used to subsidize House, meanwhile, are pushing for 
companies for the first time to explore investments in solar, wind and other broader drilling. 
off the Atlantic and Gulf coasts from renewable energy. House Republican leader John 
VIrginia to Florida -but only if they foot "If you oppose that, what are you say­Boehner of Ohio, called Pelosi's proposal 
the bill for new alternative energy pro­ing. I'm for drilling and I want to subsi­"just more of the same.... It leaves most 
grams. dize Big Oil and I want all of the profits American energy under lock and key 
I louse Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who not to go to Big Oil," said Pelosi. when we should be doing everything long ago staunchly opposed lifting any of Pelosi's proposal mirrors ones being possible to expand energy production." the offshore drilling bans, said Tuesday pushed in the Senate -one by the Off-limits areas of the Outer she now supports an energy package Democratic leadership and another by a Continental Shelf on both coasts arc that would including drilling in federal bipartisan group known as the "Gang of believed to have at least 18 billion bar­waters ofT the southeastern coast. She is Ten" that calls for limited offshore rels of oil, but more than half of the planhing a vote that could come as early drilling from VIrginia to Georgia and ofT reserve is found off the West Coast. as Friday. Florida's Gulf coast, areas that have mainly ofT California, according to the 
"If they (the oil companies) want to been oil' limits to energy companies for Interior Department. Mid-Atlantic 
drill offshore, we'll say OK," Pelosi told decades because of environmental con­waters. however, are believed to have 
reporters. But she said the bill also will cerns. large reserves of natural gas as well as 
require oil companies to give up $13 bil-The proposals would open federal some oil. 
--------------~­

THE OBSERVER 
page 8 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EormR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EmTOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO ElliTOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DE.SIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 

CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63 I -6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free ~xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~stions regarding Observer polici•s should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh-.crvcr (USI'S ~1)9 2-4UOH) is puhlulu:d Monday thruu~h Friday t'X1,:cpc dunng t•xam And v,u,::atiun pcriOiis. A ~uh!>enpri,m 10 ·n1c Observer i6 $1 flO fur unc academic rc.'llr; $55 rur 0111! llc:lll~h:r 
'!he Ob!k:rvt't ~~ pubiL~hcd .ar. POSTMASTER Cl.H South LJiuiflK 1·1.111 Send Jddft'~ corrections m: Nur~ Darnc. IN <16556-on9 ThcOhsc:rvt:r 
Pcriodk;tl pt"uge ~id at Nonc O.unc 1~0. Boxn9 and adduu•n<~l rnatlingoffica. 024 South Dining H.dl 
None Danae:, IN 46S56-0n9 
The 01\.~crvcr is a mcmhcr ulrhc Asl.tiCLJicll Prti,~. All tt'ptuduuiufl tight~ Arc~ rCJC:rved. 
If not Slytherin ... 
Apparently Frosh-0 changed. During the first week of school this year, I read an article about the orientation weekend that described a shift in focus from multi-dorm events to free time and residence hall bonding. I'm not opposed to the change, but I don't think the changes have gone far enough. There's a crucial process we as a Notre Dame com­munity lack that should occur dur­ing Frosh-0 but The Road which would Scholar have lasting echoes into life on cam­pus. The only way I can explain this process is to employ a passage from one of my favorite novels, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. 
Harry enters the Great Hall during his first year, anxiously awaiting his name to be called from the scroll so he can step up and sit under the mystic and infamous Sorting !lat. With trepi­dation he approaches the bewitched cap, which immediately begins to talk to him. Harry, who has just seen his future nemesis Draco Malfoy sent to Slytherin !louse, thinks to himself, "Not Slytherin, not Slytherin, not Slytherin." The Sorting Hat can hear him and debates these utterances while mentioning Harry's natural wiz­arding skill. Ultimately the hat pro­vides Harry (and the reader) with one of the most exciting moments in the entire Potter franchise: "Well if not Slytherin ... better be ... GRYFFIND­OR!" 
Much cheering ensues. 
What did I learn from re-reading this passage recently? We at Notre Dame have great Frosh-0 traditions, but we do nothing to imbue the ran­dom dorm assignments with the import they take on after Frosh-0. There needs to be a sense of dorm camaraderie from the first instant we walk on campus. We need a Sorting Hat Ceremony. And we need one as desperately as Dillon Hall needs a new signature event. We have residence halls with unique and strong identities as well as committed residents of those halls, eagerly awaiting the arrival of freshmen to mold in the ways of the Hall ancestors. We have rectors (Heads of Houses), RAs (pre­fects), and interhall sports (I've been meaning to get quidditch added to the RecSports list). Why can't we just take it one step further and focus on what we really need? 

The way I figure it, it wouldn't even be hard to create a Sorting Ilat Ceremony during the first moments of Frosh-0. All it would take is five steps. 
First Requirement: A Renowned and Historically Important School. 
I don't think that anybody can debate Notre Dame's ability to meet this requirement. Founded in the mid­19th century, a bastion of formative Catholic education, located in the heart of America. Our reputation pre­cedes us: Not only has the school been in the top 20 of US News and World Report undergraduate rankings for several years, but each incoming year it boasts stricter and more academi­cally rigorous admissions standards. 
Second Requirement: A Great Hall. 
There are many proponents of North Dining Hall. When it comes down to it, though, South just offers the classic dining hall feel. Oxford, Yale and many other great academic institutions around the world all employ the Great Hall style, with a head table full of fac­ulty and long corridors full of eager minds. We have the location; let's engineer it correctly. Either of South's eating areas is big enough to fit the assembled Frosh-0 population. 
Third Requirement: A Comically Outlandish Faculty and Staff. 
You can't honestly tell me that you haven't noticed that certain members of our faculty are just like those at Hogwarts. The gentle and reserved President who leads with a firm but loving hand. The burly football coach who watches over the great beast-like men of our beloved team, i.e. the "Game-Keeper." The mysteriously curt Potions master (For those who don't know, there is a Senior-only seminar in Advanced Potions that meets in the Radiation Research building). 
Fourth Hequirement: A Unique Hat. 
I see two possibilities here. We can consider ti1·st what many people view as an iconic image of our university ­the golden football helmets. A large sized helmet would be big enough to fit over anybody's head and everyone looks good in gold. If we want a more academic approach, we could use Notre Dame's doctoral tams. A splen­did piece of academic regalia, I almost want to earn a JD or Ph.D. from Notre Dame just to get the tam. 
Fifth Requirement: Magie. 

This is my fourth year at Notre Dame and I have learned a great many things hem. Yet for all I've learned, there is only one thing I know with certainty. We have magic at Notre Dame and in high supply. If you don't believe me, just listen to that catchy tune that plays during the entirety of the fall semester: "There's a magic in the sound of their name ... " So if we have magic in the name, then every time somebody wears Notre Dame memorabilia. writes the monogram on their notebook, or even utters the syl­lables that compose the words "Notre Dame" we harness the magic and use it to our advantage. 
So what's stopping us from bringing these elements together? I implore you, students and faculty of Notre Dame, to heed my advice and imple­ment a Sorting Hat Ceremony for next year. Though I will no longer be here, I would leave happy knowing that Frosh-0 and the entire Notre Dame experience had been made that much better. 
Andrew Miller is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amille 15@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Matt Gamber 
Should the Dillon Pep Rally beMadeline Buckley Sam Werner rescheduled?
Kelly Davis Michael Blasco 
Graphics Scene Mary Jesse Michelle Fordice Yes "Live forever or die in the attempt. " Viewpoint No 
Joseph Heller

Kara King I don't care 
U.S. novelist 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A thanks to NDSP 
Dear Mr. Chapman, 
In response to the Observer article "Authorities arrest 34 during first home game" (Sept. 9), we, the Notre Dame student body, appreciate bolh your fine police work this weekend (34 arr€sts!) and your friendly promises for more fme police work in the near future: "Be responsible for your con­duct ... underage drir.kers will be arrested on campus and at tailgate parties." 
You should, however, be well aware that threats such as the one you issued in yester­day's Observer aren't even necessary. Any Notre Dame student who has ventured off campus in the last two years has already had ample practice looking over their shoul­ders. 
We completely agree that a Library Parking lot, tailgate Natty (which, thank god, you are successfully combating) is far more dangerous to our well-being than the increasing off campm violence. 
It's comforting to kr.ow that we should both fear local police on game day mornings (when we need them the least), and fear the absence of local police on game day nights (when we need them the most). Obviously we understand NDSP's jurisdiction ends at Main Gate, but since you so proudly catalogue· your successes (34 arrests!) this weekend "working with Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police, and South Bend Police" what's to stop you from collaborating again to better protect us off campus? 
It's heartwarming to realize that NDSP has their priorities straight, and the best inter­ests of this student body in their hearts. 
Bottom Line: Don't kid yourself that trum­peting 34 arrests by local law enforcement on the Observer's front page remotely makes up for local law enforcement's inability to protect us off campus or to apprehend those who are carrying out these violent assaults. It's an absolute joke that the NDSP spends our money buying ridiculous-looking, com­bat-ready ATV's to facilitate the crime fight­ing efforts of its overweight officers, instead of investigating more successful avenues to shore up off campus security for our student body. 
Underage drinking is illegal, but increasing off campus violence against this student body should be of far greater concern. Keep us safe from off campus violence, and until then, stop talking in the Observer. You don't deserve the face time. 
Sincerely, Ted Heilbron 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Sept. 9 

Elections concern more than one issue 
In response to Gregory Barr's letter about Senator Obama's apparent lack of moral credibility ("Dude, where's your proportionality," Sept 9) on the abortion issue: as a Catholic who supports Obama, I've found that his respect for life in relation to the War in Iraq greatly outweighs his stance on abortion. His opposition to the war from the start, and his urgency in returning troops safely home is seldom recognized, yet equally worthy of praise from pro-life groups. 
The next president, whoever it may be, will have much more influence and power to end the violence and bloodshed in Iraq than they will have in ending abortion. If you need evidence, just look at the years since Roe vs. Wade passed through the Supreme Court in 1973: seven presidents (five Republicans, and two Democrats) have been in office and nothing has been overturned. 
Abortion is not the only issue in this election, and for that matter, it is more a judicial issue than a presidential issue. Our country is currently in dire straights because politicians insist on campaigning about issues they know will rile up voters (i.e. abortion} instead of focusing on the issues they have the most legitimate power to positively impact (i.e. the economy, a growing energy crisis and the war). My support of one candidate, for my own personal reasons, does not make me any less Catholic than anyone else, and I'm tired of having to defend my faith, along with my vote, to peo­ple who are too narrow-minded to understand that elections cannot (and should not) be boiled down to one singular issue. 
John Whitty junior Stanford Hall Sept. 9 

Career Fair participants unwelcome 
As concerned students, we write with regard to the upcoming Fall Career Expo, an event organized and endorsed by the University. We are distressed to find that both the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Raytheon Company will be seeking to recruit on our campus at this year's event. Despite the efforts of students in the past three consecutive years, the University has yet to respond to the critique that these two groups -both the CIA. and Raytheon ­represent a clear and very serious disre­gard for the stated mission to our University. 
The mission statement of the University of Notre Dame specifically calls our community w develop a "disci­plined sensibility to the poverty, injus­tice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many." Such a mission hopes to make our Universi-ty a place where "learning becomes service to justice." These admirable goa.s are put into practice in many ways. For example, many faculty membm·s engage the issues of race, poverty, conflict and injustice in their research. Additionally, more than 80 percem of the student body will be involved in some sort of service or communit} work in their time at Notre Dame. 
But when students begin to think about how they can t.:tke their interest for social justice and service that they learned here at Notre Dame, they are presented with a comradictory picture at the Career Expo. Organizations like the CIA and Raytheon serve a narrow conviction that place national self-inter­est and violent military power above the calling -found in our own mission statement-of "human solidarity and concern for the common good." They inherently contradict what we, as a uni­versity community, have placed as our true mission. 
Currently Raytheon is the world's fifth largest weapons manufacturer. In 2007 the company's revenue hovered around $20 billion after seeing an annual increase of a nine percent. Of Raytheon's contracts, 90 percent come from defense contracts while the company also does extensive business under guarded sub­sidiaries. The most celebrated of Raytheon's products is the 5,000-pound "bunker buster" bomb, a weapon most recently used against the people of Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon. As prof­its for Raytheon soar, the people who live where Raytheon's products finally land see only death, destruction and a broken future. 
The arms trade is an undeniably prof­itable business for Raytheon. But in August of 2006, to protest Raytheon's involvement in providing the cluster bombs and missiles used in the cam­paign against the people of Lebanon, nine men from Derry, Northern Ireland occupied a Raytheon office and were detained for trespassing. On June 11, a jury released the entire group in a unan­imous verdict. Eamonn McCann, one of the men detained, stated: "We believe that one day the world will look back on the arms trade as we look back today on the slave trade, and wonder how it came about that such evil could abound in respectable society." 
The Central Intelligence Agency, an organization historically known for exporting violent repression and terror everywhere from Chile to Iran to Laos, continues to subvert human rights in the current War on Terror. Using enhanced interrogation tactics (such as the now controversial water-boarding tactic) the CIA has unleashed a campaign of vio­lence against any and all those it sus­pects of terrorism and seeks to re-define the Geneva Convention. Black sites ­secret prisons away from media and human rights scrutiny -have popped up in the Middle East and Eastern Europe, most recently allegations point to a site in Poland. Now more than 200 CIA flights have passed through Great Britain in the CIA's program of secret rendition, a new name for the agency's age-old tactic of "forced disappear­ances." A report released by leading human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, charges the CIA with the disappearance of thirty-nine individuals. 
This year represents the 60th anniver­sary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948 and stated directly, in Article 5, "No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhu­man or degrading treatment or punish­ment." Secret prisons, forced disappear­ances and torture are the methods of the CIA. However, they are not the way of our University. 
We hope to work with the Career Center and the University Administration to examine more closely who we allow onto our campus to recruit our students. We ask that each company and organization, regardless of their national reputation or alumni con­nection, be judged for their respect and adherence to our University's mission statement. We hope that our University can provide an opportunity where there is no contradiction between our convic­tions and our future employment. We, as concerned students in troubling times, call on the Administration and the Career Center to make a statement and clearly defme the moral position of our University on this issue. 
In hope for a more peaceful future, 

Michael Angulo semor Kristi Haas junior Alicia Quiros junior Catherine McKinney senior Sept. 9 


page 10 
Getting· 
Notre Dame last month. have in the past. While Hollywood stars are cer­. I By CAITLIN FERRARO Modern technology has been an important tainly not politieal experts, their support of one ·
[ n1 aI 
Scene Writer 

medium to reach young voters. Facebook, which eandidate ean be influential on voters, especial-
As November 4th -Election Day -quickly recently hit its 100 million-member mark (a ly young ones. Several months ago, a group of. approaches, both the Democratic and portion of which are over 18). has been one celebrities led by Will.i.am of the Black Eyed Hepublican presidential campaigns are upping such outlet for expression. Barack Obama and Peas ereated a video to Obama's "Yes We Can" · their game. This year's presidential race is mar­John McCain have their own profile pages for speech. These stars included Jesse Dylan, keting to young voters in a new way and many politicians. Did you know that Obama's hobbies Common, Scarlett Johansson, John Legend, outside groups are attempting to get young peo­include "basketball, writing and loafing w/ Kate Walsh, Kareem Abdul Jabbar, Bryan ple to vote. kids," or that McCain's favorite TV shows are Greenberg, Eric Balfour, Aisha Tyler, Nicole 
P 
The Hock the Vote campaign, started 18 years "24" and "Seinfeld"? The pages also provide Seherzinger and Nick Cannon. The video has "'l S S \.a_ ago, is all over this year, encouraging young vot-links to the candidates' official Web sites, infor­over 9.5 million hits on YouTube, and illustrates 
1..1 Y lers to register and head to the polls to have mation about their Vice Presidential running the power music and celebrities can have on their voices heard. This organization represents mates, posts on different topics, photos, a wall reaching an audience. the intersection of young people, pop eulture for member posts and various videos of com­McCain can also eount on the votes and sup­and polities. Roek the Vote works with artists in mercials and speeches. Some have been using port of many celebrities. McCain supporters order to grab people's attention and engage the fact that Obama's 1, 728,780 supporters sur­inelude, Dean Cain, James Caan, Jon Voight, them in political discussion. The first ever Rock pass McCain's 310,541 members on Facebook Adam Carolla, Lacey Chabert, Jon Cryer, the Vote public service announeement featured as evidence that Obama is taking a lead in the Lorenzo Lamas, Kevin Sorbo, Patricia Heaton, Madonna wrapped in an American 11ag encour­campaign. This is, of course, excluding the Robert Duvall, Spencer & Heidi (from The Hills), aging all to vote. It was also the first organiza-numerous Facebook groups dedicated to either and Jerry Bruckheimer. tion to introduce telephone and online registra­campaign or against the opposing party, and the Even eelebrity blogger Perez Hilton constantly 
RCftion. This year's Hock the Vote artists include many of people who aren't even on the network­updates his site with politieal news. He often Jack's MannHquin, Tyler Hilton, Sheryl Crow, ing site, but it may reflect something about the has dips of the ladies of "The View" speaking LupH Fiasco, Christina Aguilera, Common, John voting tendencies of a certain age bracket. about the presidential race, or interviewing LPgend, Katy Perry and Regina Spektor -all of Another innovative tool used to appeal to Miehelle Obama and Cindy McCain. lie also which appeal to young voters across a wide young voters is the all-powerful YouTube. Did loved when Ellen questioned McCain about his 
' ··· 'range of music tastes. you miss Palin's first speech as McCain's VP? Or platform on gay marriage, and when Oprah
i ..._. There an~ rna~~. o.ther yo~th [oe~se~ elec~on Obama's acceptance speech for the Democratic cried at the Democratic National Convention. · \ .. resources 111 a ttwn to oc t e ote t at nomination? They are easily accessible on No matter whether you are supporting , · ..•.. _ • include 18in08. ?Be Counted (a Faeebook appli-YouTube, along with a plethora of other political Obama!Biden or McCain!Palin or what medium 
_ .....· --··..'-...,;leation), Scholastic: Election '08,?PBS Blueprint videos. Since anyone can have an account, any­you use to gain your knowledge, we must make for Civie Engagement, MTV Choose or Lose '08 one can express his or her political views. With an informed vote. To get involved with the eam­and League of First Time Voters. The cast of all of the political chatter on television today paign for presidency here on campus, beeome a · ­ABC Family's hit TV series "Greek" is working from news programs to talk shows, YouTube is a part of ND Votes '08, a group to help educate together with nonpartisan nonprofit group, useful way for voters to navigate through all of students about key issues and promote enthusi­Declare Yourself. by filming eommercials to air the material and select the debates, speeches, asm for the coming election. 
on ABC Family and making their way across the or commentaries they are interested in. country for voter registration drives at college Many celebrities are taking an active interest bookstores. A few members of the cast visited in the presidential eampaign this year, as they 
~~,"~.!(·.(~.
.-..r:r· -,, i;-·~~-.• 
...;;.,~ . · . :&. . , · t .ti .{ ;,.,,
~·~:-'.\!; 1. 1:. '-"!~·~"~·· ~ ,_
. ~-..,.,..· . 
:i.iioi.· .• , •• ·, . . . ·~ ·fl: . 
..,. ,. -~c. •· • . .· ". 
\' . 
.. 

Last Friday I had the unique opportunity to from the University of Michigan. (Don't worry­say it for real, not from a screen, and to be able .meet a man you probably feel very passionate our T-shirts were way cooler). We ended up to look at their eyes surveying the crowd and .. about -John McCain. Love him or hate him, he spread all over the venue ushering people to watch tbeir feet shuffling behind the podium as 
they spoke so passionately about a country you 
could tell they both love deeply. 

After McCain's speech, both he and Palin walked along the front of the crowd and shook hands. I managed to stick my shoulder through the crowd as McCain came along, and when he took my hand I looked him in the eye and said, "My father was in your squadron in 1975." • McCain stopped for a moment and looked down at me, asking, "Oh yeah? What was his name?" Completely caught off guard at his response and even aeknowledgement of my comment, I replied, "Greg DePrez." "Oh sure," he said. "Great guy. How's he doing?" 
Now, I am fully aware of how polities work, and that he probably doesn't even remember my dad, who met him a few times in meetings and pass­ing when McCain was his Executive Officer. But the mere fact that MeCain stopped, looked me in the eye and asked me for my dad's name, well, ladies and gentlemen, that was speeial. That rocked my world a bit. Plus, when he saw our . Notre Dame spirit, as he passed us he put two thumbs up and said, "Go Irish!" 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Contact ."itephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
and Barak Obama are igniting debate and politi­cal exploration all over the 
Stephanie

country, even here on cam­
pus. Being of the McCain DePrez camp, I jumped at the chanee to see him in person Scene & Heard at a rally held near Detroit, 
oining my fellow College Republicans as we went to hear what he had to say the day af'ter his nomination aeceptance speech. Plus, all my Dem friends back in Denver 
to work the Obama convention, and I wanted some political stories of my own. 
We piled into cars early Friday morning, dressed in our ND GOP shirts and pretty mueh ready for anything. We'd been asked to volun­teer, whieh was perfeet because it meant we got into the rally for free. As we began to drive away, I realized my menial knowledge of Midwestern geography left me completely disori­!lllted. I had no idea what direetion we were driving, and the only thing I knew about Detroit was that it's where the Tigers come from. I bad a vague idea it might be in Miehigan, which I had a vague idea might be near Indiana. This was quickly remedied, and I got the geography lesson (eomplete with the hand map, someone pointing to the fingers and explaining where Detroit is). 
Upon arrival, we were given our volunteer passes and told to wait with fellow Hepublicans their seats and making sure no one bothered the press. 
When it came to the main event, we ended up right at the front -literally feet from the podi­um. Thus began the waiting. A series of speak­ers each explained why they think John MeCain is the ideal President for the next four years. As McCain's entrance eame closer, the musie got louder. Then, as the luck of the Irish would have it, the resounding theme from "Rudy" was pumped into the arena and our group of more than 20 eollege kids went erazy. We lifted up our leprechaun flag and began to wave it -kind of hard to miss -in front of the over 8,000 McCain supporters behind us. Thunderous, vietory-ori­ented music is no stranger to politieal eonven­tions these days, but MeCain happened to be using our theme song, our music. It was. need­less to say, a niee toueh. 
He and Sarah Palin entered -along with Cindy MeCain and one of their daughters soon after ­and we were content to stand directly in front of them and cheer along with the rest of the crowd, perhaps a little louder, though, knowing that we could indeed be heard. Palin said all the right things, firing up the crowd and expressing her respeet and admiration of McCain, and McCain managed to hit every mark. A lot of what was said echoed each of their speeches from the pre­vious nights, but it was indeseribable to see them 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 page 11 
-
i ' 
Spin City 

After working with fan favorites such as "Back to the Future" and "Family Ties," in 1996, Michael J. Fox joined up with Heather Locklear, Richard Kind and later Charlie Sheen to create a comedy show about the staffers in the office of a governor who was slightly moronic, arrogant and a complete public relations nightmare. "Spin City'' ran for six seasons, making us look at the lighter side of public office all the while. 
West Wing 

Smart, funny, relevant and inspiring, the "West Wing" is considered one of the best political dramas ever created and, among many, ranks high on the list of best 1V shows in general. The show follows the lives of White House staffers as they try to not only run the country, but push it forward. It may have been a bit ide­alized, there are few that wouldn't wish Jeb Bartlett (a Notre Dame grad, by the way) wasn't our president, but the show addressed political and moral issues that mirrored those in historical reality, and gave us an answer that felt achievable: Though we may not always succeed, with capable and passionate people in government we can brush greatness. 
Saturday Night Live 
Saturday Night live has always been a forum for comedic political discussion in the entertainment world. With political figures from Ralph Nader to AI Gore hosting the sidesplitting sketch comedy show, SNL is consistently hilarious while instilling a sense of political awareness in its young adult viewers. This year, SNL producer Lorne Michaels will release a spin-off, titled "SNL Thursday Night live," which will premiere Oct. 9 at 9:30 p.m. and focus on the 2008 presidential election. 
llJ!~I!!IJ!!\!1'1 Air Force One 
"Get off my plane!" Han Solo never looked this good when he made the Kessel run in less than twelve par­secs. Harrison Ford plays President James Marshall, Commander in Chief, whose nation is put at risk when terrorists (led by Gary Oldman) overtake his famous mode of air transportation."Air Force One" is also in­teresting due to its choice of a female vice president, Glenn Close as Kathryn Bennett 
The American President 
Aaron Sorkin's p_recursor to "The West Wing,• "The American President" showcases Michael Douglass' acting chops as Andrew Shepherd, the idealistic Democrat whose romance with a lobbyist (Annette Bening) ruffles feathers on Capitol Hill. Sorkin occasionally overdoes his political fantasy (Does every Re­publican sit in dark rooms, smoke cigars and plot to rule the world in his or her free time? Really?), but the film deserves viewers from either end of the political spectrum. 
Commander in Chief 
What would our country look like with a woman in the Oval Office? As first female president Mackenzie Allen, Geena Davis posed the question weekly to 1V viewers for one season. "Commander in Chief," which was sometimes criticized for its "imperialist" view of the presidency, was eventually cancelled due to low ratings. Davis, however, won a Golden Globe for her role. 
Fahrenheit 9/7 7 
Arguably Michael Moore's most famous (and infamous) film to date, "Fahrenheit 9/11" was an onscreen forum in which Moore voiced his anger with the Bush administration for its role in engineering and carry­ing out the war in Iraq. While the tone and perspective tend to feel biased, the film raises serious questions 
: about our global political landscape -some of which have still gone unanswered. 
24 

While not focused specifically on political issues, Fox's "24" is inevitably political in its subject matter, deal­ing explicitly with issues of counter-terrorism and international affairs. Come November, the series may have unexpectedly predicted the future in its depiction of a black president at the helm of the nation­actor Dennis Haysbert played President David Palmer for more than three seasons. 
Independence Day 
Yes, we realize that the focus of this film is neither Capitol Hill nor the Oval Office, but rather an invading race of aliens and Will Smith in a fighter jet. Still, "Independence Day" deserves a mention for Bill Pullman's .. feel-good role as President Thomas J. Whitmore. Oh, and the slew of sweet action sequences with the 
1namnD1m m 

aliens. Nothing says national pride like blowing up extra-terrestrials . 
....._ 

........,..."'*"'" All the President's Men -ma­a!rMnii'!IP' Aclassic in the political film genre, this 1976 film is atense, intimate look at the Watergate scandal through 
-~~ 

r: . ;;;;~ the eyes of two Washington Post journalists. The film is based on a 1974 non-fiction book of the same 
&·'1 ,name, written by the journalists themselves, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein. Dustin Hoffman and ~· t 4R~bert Redford anchor the film as the pair of reporters, navigating through the murky waters of a political ~ nightmare. 
-

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
TENNIS 

Si111pson jurors can't 
Blake off Davis Cup team 
put aside OJ's past
-
Associated Press 
MAI>HID, Spain -James Blake was IPI't off the dofnnding ehampion U.S. Davis Cup team because of exhaustion and replaced by Sam Querrny on Tunsday. 
Querrey was chosen ahead of Blake for the best-of-five series against Spain on outdoor elay Sopt. 19-21 in Madrid. 
Andy Hoddick and dou­blns specialists Bob and Mike Bryan round out the 
U.S. team selected by cap­tain Patrick McEnroe. 
"James is just exhausted physically and mentally after a grueling summer," McEnroe said. "He said he needed a break and we rnspect that. This is also a great opportunity for Sam, who has had a solid year, strong results on clay and has been a loyal practice partner for this team." 
Last year, Blake teamed with Hoddick and the Bryans to lead the Americans their record 32nd Davis Cup title. 
Spain captain Emilio Sanchez Vicario selected top-ranked Hafael Nadal, David Ferrer, Fernando Verdasco and Feliciano Lopez. 
Querrey was listed on the official nomination released by the International Tennis Fnderation, but it noted it was still awaiting confir­mation on his eligibility. Querrey, ranked No. 40, has never played in the Davis Cup. 
Last week, McEnroe said Blake would be on the team with Roddick and the Bryan brothers for a record 11th straight time. 
Nicolas Almagro was listed as a reserve for Spain, while 16th-ranked Tommy Hobredo was left off the team. 
Nadal, who lost to Andy Murray in the semifinals of the U.S. Open on Sunday, may get a few days rest before joining the team. 
"lie lost a match, but the tiredness and stress are within the usual limits," Sanchez Vicario said of Nadal, who may not attend practice Saturday. "lie is very enthusiastic about this tie." 
Argentina will host Hussia on outdoor elay in Buenos Aires in the other 


CLASSIFIEDS 
semifinal series. 
Sixth-ranked Nikolay Davydenko of Russia will play alongside Igor Andreev, Dmitry Tursunov and Igor Kunitsyn. Marat Safin was again passed over. 
Argentina will counter with David Nalbandian, Juan Martin Del Potro, Agustin Calleri and Guillermo Canas. 
In the World Group play­offs. U.S. Open champion Roger Federer will lead Switzerland. and Australian Open champion Novak Djokovic will guide Serbia. 
Federer rebounded from losses in the French Open and Wimbledon finals to win his 13th Grand Slam title on Monday at the 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -With other prospective jurors listening, a woman lectured O.J. Simpson on his behavior as a celebrity Tuesday and declared, "I felt he got away with murder." 
Like others questioned for service in Simpson's robbery­kidnap trial, the woman said she would try to be fair. But she became increasingly adamant, disclosing the dis­enchantment of someone familiar with Simpson's tri­umphs and disappointed in his fall from glory. 
''I'm very opinionated," said the woman. "I don't have any problem giving my opinion and sticking to it." 
The exchanges on the sec­ond day of jury selection showed the enduring influ­ence of Simpson's 1995 acquittal on charges of mur­dering his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and friend Ronald Goldman. Since Monday, 20 of 248 prospec­tive jurors have been dis­missed for various reasons. 
The 61-year-old former University of Southern California and pro football star is now accused with co­defendant Clarence "C.J." Stewart, 54, of kidnapping, armed robbery and other crimes for allegedly stealing items from two sports memo­rabilia dealers in a con­frontation in a hotel room last year. They have pleaded not guilty. 
Under questioning by District Attorney David Roger, the prospective juror recalled Simpson's impact on her life. "I have seven brothers," 

Pete Sampras' all-time 
U.S. Open -one shy of 
she said. "Mr. Simpson has record. 
been around my life. He's Federer will play against 
always been there. I don't visiting Belgium on indoor 
know what team he played hardcourts in Lausanne, 
for but I know about the and Murray will help 
Heisman Trophy. I'm from Britain against Austria on 
Southern California. My hus­the grass at Wimbledon. 
band loved him." Murray will team with 
Looking at Simpson, she said she thinks celebrities need to watch their behavior in public. 
"I think he chose to be a celebrity," she said. "lie chose to put himself in the public eye. Everyone is aware of it. lie should be a little more self-conscious of his actions. It's different than it would be for me." 
Asked whether she was going to treat the case differ­ently because of Simpson's past, the woman said, "I think as far as the first trial, I fe~~ he got away with mur­der. 
Roger asked if she could put aside those feelings and judge the current case on its own terms. At first, she said she could. But, questioned by defense attorney Gabriel Grasso, she said, "I can't be 100 percent sure." 
He asked to remove the juror and Clark County District Judge Jackie Glass allowed Roger a few more questions to try to retain the woman. But the judge finally addressed her. 
"You said you hope your personal feelings don't inter­fere," the judge said. "Is there some smidgen in the back of your mind that you think that it might?" 
"There's a smidgen," the woman answered, prompting her dismissal. 
Reactions to Simpson's first trial and celebrity status dominated the day. Some prospects said they thought celebrities generally got pref­erential treatment in court. 
One woman rejected the idea that Simpson had a "special aura" of privilege but recalled once sitting behind him at a football game. Another woman said she had expected a guilty verdict in Simpson's murder trial, but insisted, "His past has nothing to do with this case." She remained in the prospective jury pool. 
brother Jamie Murray, Alex Bogdanovic and Ross Hutchins against Austria's Jurgen Melzer, Alexander Peya, Martin Fischer and Julian Knowle. 
Djokovic, who lost to Federer in the U.S. Open semifinals, will team with Janko Tipsarevic, Viktor Troicki and Nenad Zimonjic on outdoor hard­courts against Slovakia. 
The Davis Cup final be played Nov. 21-23.  will  
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for comenr without issuing refunds.  


WANTED 
Need sitter as needed for our 5 year old son. Need transportation. $10/hr. 574-271-1216. 

SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season · 
The Stanley Clark School, a south side elementary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5·6th grade and 7 · 8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. 
Pay is $35.00 per game to licensed referees. 
If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at phone #574-291·4200. 
FoR RENT 
House for rent. 
Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bed­room, 2 bath home on large lot. 
Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. 
$1000/month +utilities. 
Call (574) 340·3895. 
Home for rent for NO football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. 
Just 2 blocks from NO campus. Contact Rocky at Rock0299@ aol.com. 
Football Weekend B&B close to NO 
(574)243-9279 
TICKETS 
Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy·Sell NO football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 
574·232-0964. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 
574-654·0169 (LOCAL CALL). WANTED: Ml tix. 
Will trade. 574·276·8507. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1· 7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information, visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
-------~ ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


~OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 1Oth, 2008 
Men's INSCAA/ADI.DAS Soccer Rankings . 
team points record 
1 Wake forest 550 3·0·0 2 Akron 497 3·0·1 3 Creighton 483 3·0·0 4 SMU 464 3·0·1 5 NOTRE DAME 430 3·1·0 6 California 422 3·0·1 7 Connecticut 407 2·0·2 8 Maryland 401 3·1·0 9 Boston College 377 2-1-1 10 Ohio Stale 344 3·0·1 11 St. John's 338 3·0·1 12 North Carolinn 324 3·0·1 13 UC Santa Barhara 293 3·0·0 14 Northwestern 211 3·0·1 15 Tulsa 187 2-1-1 16 lllinois·Chica!JO 182 3·0·1 17 Saint louis 176 2·0·2 18 Brown 162 1-1·0 19 Indiana 155 1-1·2 20 Georgetown 103 4·0·0 21 South Florida 86 1-1-1 22 Virginia Tech 64 2-1-1 23 Loyola Maryland 55 3·0·0 24 UCLA 53 1-2·1 25 Dartmouth 48 1·1·0 
Women's NSCAA/ADIDAS So(:cer Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  UClA  782  4·0-fJ  
2  NOTRE DAMI.  763  5-D-fJ  
3  usc  694  4-1;'$  
3  Stanford  694  5·0·0  
5  North Carolina  665  4-1-fJ  
6  Portland  630  4-1-fJ  
1  Flortda State  601  4•1-fJ  
8  Texas  597  5·0-fJ  
9  Virginia  571  3·M  
10  TexasA&M  514  5•1-fJ  
11  Penn Stale  4112  $"1;'$  
12  Duke  391  4-1-fJ  
13  Boston Colleue  367  4-1-0  
13  West Virgini<l  366  <3~1<~'*··  
15  Santa Clara  328  3-2-fJ  
16  Oklahoma Sl<lte  280  4-0-fJ  
17  Florida  265  3411  
18  Illinois  257  4-1-fJ  
19  Wake forest  244  4·1-fJ  
20  California  149  3:4~  
21 21  Kansas Cal State fullerton  132 132  ·:::i::-:·:.  4•0.;8 4-1;'$  
23  Tennessee  121  2·3.0  
24  Wisconsin·M il.  67  6~0.;8  
25  Connecticut  38  2·3-fJ  

MliAA Women's Volleyball Standings 
Team Record 
league overall 
1 Hope 
2 Adrian 
3 Alma 
4 Calvin 
5 Albion 
6 Kalamazoo 
1 Trine 
8 SAINT MARY'S 9 Olivet 
3-0 
t~o 
2·0 1-0 H 1}-1 0-1 
6"2 
8"3 
6~1 
a-2 
H 4-1 5·3 4·5 3-6 4-3 1-6 

around the dial 
MLB 

White Sox at Yankees 
6:05 p.m., CSN 


COMP[LFD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
CYCLING 

Associated Press 
AUSTIN Lance Armstrong is getting back on his bike, determined to win an eighth Tour de France. 
Armstrong's return from cancer to Win the Tour a record seven consecutive times made him a hero to cancer patients worldwide and elevated cycling to an unprecedented level in America. 
The 36-year-old Armstrong told Vanity Fair in an exclusive interview posted on its Web site Tuesday that he was inspired to return after fin­ishing second last month in the Leadville 100, a lung­searing 100-mile mountain bike race through the Colorado Rockies. 
"This kind of obscure bike race, totally kick-started my engine," he told the maga­zine. ''I'm going to try and win an eighth Tour de France." 
The sport and particularly the Tour have missed his star power, even though skeptics refused to believe he could win 7 Tours with­out the help of illegal per­formance-enhancing drugs. 
The 2009 Tour "is the intention," Armstrong's spokesman Mark Higgins told The Associated Press, "but we've got some home-
IN BRIEF Chargers' Merriman's 
season ends after surgery 
SAN DIEGO -Star outside linebacker Shawne Merriman pulled the plug on his 2008 season on Tuffiday when he told the San Diego Omrgers he'll have surgery on the two tom ligaments in his left knee. 
The loss of Merriman, whose hard hits earned him the nirkname 'lights Out," is a big one for a team that has Super Bowl expectations. 
Merriman's decision came two days after he barely resembled the player who had an NR-high 39 sacks in the past three seasons and played in three straight Pro Bowls. 
Merriman didn't immediately return e­mails and telephone r,alls seeking comment 
"Shawne informed me he did not feel right and thought it 00st to shut it down," Omrgers general manager AJ. Smith said in a statement. 'The road to winning the AFC West just got more difficult, but not im~le. Nothing is impa>.<;ible. Shawne is a great player and an inspirational leader. He will be missed. We wish him a successful surgery and a speedy recovery." 
work to do over there." 
Tour director Christian Prudhomme did not return messages seeking comment on Armstrong's decision. His staff said he would not comment before Wednesday morning, if at all. 
Armstrong's close friend and longtime team ctirector, Johan Bruyneel, now with team Astana, sent a text message to an AP reporter in Paris saying he did not want to comment now. 
In a video statement on his foundation's Web site, Armstrong said details ­such as a team and sched­ule -will be announced Sept. 24 at the Clinton 

-
Global Initiative in New York City. 
"I am happy to announce that after talking with my children, my family and my closest friends, I have decid­ed to return to professional cycling in order to raise awareness of the global cancer burden," Armstrong said in a statement released to The Associated Press. "This year alone, nearly eight million people will die of cancer worldwide.... It's now time to address cancer on a global level." 
In the Vanity Fair inter­view, Armstrong told the magazine he's 100 percent sure he's going to compete in the Tour next summer. 
Red Wings re-si~n agingdefenseman Cheiios 
DETROIT -The Detroit Red Wings re-signed 46-year-old defenseman Chris Chelios for one year on Tuesday. 
Chelios enters his 25th NHL season and his 10th with the Red Wings. He began his career with the Montreal Canadiens and also played for the Chicago Blackhawks. Last season, he became the second­oldest player in NHL history to appear in a game behind Gordie Howe. 
Chelios has 948 points in 1,616 regular-season games. 
Detroit also signed defense­man Kyle Quincey to a two­year deal. The 23-year-old appeared in six regular-season games for Detroit last season, alternating with the American Hockey League's Grand Rapids Griffins. 
Struggling Wie enters 
LPGK qualifying school 

LOS ANGELES-Unable to earn her card through sponsor exemp­tions, Michelle Wie has entered the LPGA Tour qualifying school and will play the first stage next week on the California course where she first rose to fame at age 13. 
Her father, B.J. Wie, had said at the U.S. Women's Open that Wie had "no other options" but Q­school if she didn't make enough money to finish the equivalent of 80th of the LPGA Tour money list. 
"Nothing has changed since then," he said Tuesday morning from Palm Desert, Calif. "She will go to Q-school." 

The first stage will be at Mission Hills in Rancho Mirage, Calif., site of the Kraft Nabisco Championship, where Wie played in the final group of the LPGA's lirst major when she was in the eighth grade. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September I 0, 2008 
MLB 
Red-hot Blue Jays
-
sweep twin billing 

Associated Press 
CIIICACO -The Toronto Blue Jays are on such a good run tlwy think they can make
-the playoff's. Marco Scutaro hit a leadoff homer, Scott Holen and Vernon Wells went deep and the Blue Jays beat the Chicago White Sox X-2 to complete a day­night doublehflader sweep Tuesday and extend their win­ning streak to 10. Besides the swPep, the White Sox also got a big scare. Paul Konerko was helped off the field in the top of the fifth inning of the nightcap with what the team called a mildly sprained medial collateral liga­ment in his right knee. Toronto is on its longest win­ning streak since taking a fran­chise-record 11 in a row in from Aug. 27-Sept. 7, 1998, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. The Blue Jays moved within seven games of Boston in the AL wild-card race. Toronto took the opener 3-1 as A.J. Burnett allowed one hit in seven innings -a hard drive ofT his third baseman. Chicago didn't fare any better against .Jesse Litsch (11-8) in the nightcap. The right-hander allowed two runs· and six hits in seven innings, struck out six and walked two after pitching a four-hit shutout against Minnesota last week. Scutaro hit his second career leadoff homer, and Holen's two­run shot highlighted a four-run fifth in which the Blue .Jays took a 5-2 lead and knocked out Clayton Richard (2-4). Holen's drive made it 3-2, and Hichard left after a bunt single by Scutaro that put run­ners on first and second with none out. ILl. Carrasco came in and with one out, Alex llios drove a run-scoring single to right. Konerko cut ofT Jermaine Dye's throw toward the plate and his knnfl buckled as he released a throw toward sec­ond. Hios was eventually taggml out in a rundown, but Konnrko writhPd in pain as he clutclwd his krwn bdore leav­ing tlw liPid. X-rays wPrn 111~gativP. lin's srhnduiPd for an MHI on WPdrwsday. Tlw injury couldn't c.onw at a worse tinw for tlw White Sox. Thny lost MVI' candidate 
Carlos Quentin to a broken 
wrist last week, and now, they 
could be without their emotion­
al leader as they try to hold off 
Minnesota for the AL Central 
title. 
Hichard allowed five runs 

and live hits. 
Wells added a solo homer off 

Lance Broadway in the ninth. 
In the first game, the Blue .Jays' Lyle Overbay hit a two­run, two-out double in the sixth off Javier Vazquez (11­13). and Rod Barajas singled in a run against Mike MacDougal in the ninth. 
Burnett (17-10) allowed one unearned run, struck out seven and walked one, working around three errors and sever­al other defensive lapses. 
His bid for his second career no-hitter ended when Orlando Cabrera drove a hard one-hop­per off Scott Rolen's glove and into left field for a single lead­ing off the sixth. 
"It happens," said Burnett, who has a career-high 208 strikeouts this season and leads the American League. "I wasn't thinking about it. You see no hits up there, but you've got a long way to go even if it's the sixth inning." 
On Aug. 31, Milwaukee was infuriated when the official scorer in Pittsburgh ruled Andy LaRoche's slow fifth-inning grounder off CC Sabathia was a hit rather than an error on the pitcher, who dropped the ball during a barehand attempt. Sabathia wound up with a one­hitter, and Major League Baseball denied the Brewers' appeal asking that the scoring decision be changed to an error. 
As for Cabrera's hit? 

"That ball was hit pretty hard," Gaston said. "Maybe on turf, Rolen probably catches that ball, but it was hit pretty hard. I would say it's.a'hit." 
B.J. Ryan walk;.e'd Konerko and Ken Griffey Jr. leading off the ninth but escaped with his 28th save in 32 chanees. He struck out Alexei Ramirez and Nick Swisher before Juan Uribe grounded out. 
Chicago scored in the sixth aftl~r Cabrera's single when shortstop John McDonald boot­oct Jprrnainn Dye's grounder, Burrwtt threw a wild pitch and Jim Thom(\ hit a saerif'ice fly that drove in A.J. Pierzynski. 
Vazquez allowed two runs and five hits in six innings. 

Tired of getting homework? 
Then give some! 
2009 applications now available at http://ace.nd.edu 

Chairman and CEO, General Electric Co.

JEFF 
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Wells ready to go vs. Southern Cal 

THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
When it's the prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1.,rJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by o~tober 31~ 2008. 

STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
Ifyou have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th and September 14th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.cdu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
-, 
.... 
-
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Ohio State will have its Beanie back for Southern Californi~.. 
Buckeyes tailback Chris "Beanie" Wells has been given the OK to play in the showdown at No. 1 USC on Saturcay night. 
Wells, who rushed for 1,609 yards and 15 touchdowns a year ago, went down with a foot injury in the second half of the fifth-ranked Buckeyes' opener against Youngstown State and did not suit up when Ohio State struggled to beat Ohio University 26-14 last week. 
But coach Jim Tressel said Tuesday that Wells would defi­nitely play against USC. 
"You know, Beanie ran well yesterday," Tressel said. "In fact, he ran betteJ~ than I thought he might." 
The next test for th€ 6-foot-1, 237-pound Wells is how he feels after going through his first workouts in 10 days. 
"The big thing is Tuesday and Wednesday work and will that create soreness," Tressel said. "Not only was he runrring well, then they (trainers) put him on the bike and wore him out, so they're trying to do all the things. He's been in tile under­water treadmill and anything we can do, we're doing (with rehab). I feel good about him." 
Wells would seem to be a 
weapon the Buckeyes (2-0) 
cannot do without against the 
fearsome Trojans (1·0) in the 
first meeting between the two 
old rivals in 18 years. 
Defensive lineman Lawrence Wilson, one of Wells' best friends, said he beli€ves Wells will give the Buckeyes a big lift. 
"Beanie told me he was going to play and when B€ anie says he's going to do something, he does it," Wilson said. "He's a tremendous competitor. I know when he says he's goirrg to play, to play." 
The only catch in Wells' rapid return to action is that he won't really be participating in full­contract workouts until at least Wednesday. Ohio State's train­ers will work with him away from the team on Tu,3sday and then will watch closely when he practices with his teammates a day later. 
"If he steps on the field, he's going to give it his best. And his best is pretty good, you know," offensive tackle Bryant Browning said. "Yesterday I saw him running and he said he felt pretty good. He said he wasn't in much pain at all. He said he would be ready." 
Tressel said Wells told him, ''I'm ready to carry 45 times on Saturday." 
That doesn't mean he'll get the chance, however. 
"He's not going to carry 45 if he's not effective," Tressel said. "He's like every other kid, he wants to play and he's going to do all he can do and his effec­tiveness will be, in large part, based upon what the other guys do. If they block people, he can be effective. If they don't, it will be harder." 
Last year Wells averaged 124 rushing yards on 21 carries per game. Dan Herron (12 carries, 50 yards), Maurice Wells (9 for 
48) and Brandon Saine (5 for 
15) combined for 113 yards on 26 carries against Ohio, which led 14-6 midway through the third quarter and 14-12 head­ing into the fourth. 
"They ran hard. They com­bined for a pretty decent total," wide receiver Brian Hartline said. Hartline said their num­bers might have been even more impressive except for some listless and out-of-sync play by the rest of the offense. 
Wells isn't the only addition to the lineup, either. Starting cornerback Donald Washington and backup Jamario O'Neal both return as well after serv­ing two-game suspensions for an undisclosed violation of team rules. 
They figure to give the Buckeyes a shot of depth and talent in a secondary that has been stretched thin during their absence. 
Asked if Washington would take his accustomed place at field corner, making Chimdi Chekwa, who started the past 
. two games, a backup and nick­el back, Tressel grinned. "Tune in," he said. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
NFL 

Fisher concerned about QB 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Jeff Fisher said Tuesday night the Tennessee Titans didn't have the luxury of waiting to be sure about the safety of their quar­terback Vince Young before calling police for help in finding him. 
That led to four hours' of uncertainty Monday night before Young contacted the Titans and met with Fisher, a psychologist and police crisis negotiators at the team's head­quarters before driving himself home. Combined with Young's rnadion to being heavily booed in Sunday's opener, his mental state has been questioned heav­

...... 
ily the past two days. 
Fisher addressed all those questions on his radio show Tuesday night. 
"We can never be too careful sometimes, and sometimes you can't jump to conclusions. You have to wait on information and be patient," Fisher said. "The information I had didn't afford us any patience." 
The only thing known for sun~? Young has a sprained mndial collateral ligament in his

-
left knee, and Fisher said on his TV show that the quarterback will not play Sunday at Cincinnati. The coach would not give a timetable past that, call­ing thn test results good news and that Young needs to heal up his leg. 
What prompted the call to police? Fisher wasn't saying. 
"I was given some informa­tion from people that were close to him late afternoon, early evening that was quite honestly very concerning to me. 
I'm not going to go into specifics, but it was concerning to me," Fisher said. 
The quarterback was booed by hometown fans in the Titans' opening 17-10 win over Jacksonville for throwing two interceptions. He didn't look like he wanted to go back into the game and then sprained his left knee four plays later. 
His knee was sore enough Monday that Young didn't have an MRI exam as scheduled, a test postponed to Tuesday. Then people close to Young so wor­ried about him after he sped ofT from his home, they called Fisher for help. 
The coach called the Nashville police for help check­ing on Young's "emotional well­being," according to police spokesman Don Aaron. Young was located at a friend's home and agreed to come by the Titans' oflices. Police had used SWAT oflicers in unmarked cars in the search. and those oflicers checked him for weapons when arrived around 11:30 p.m. 
Aaron said Young had an unloaded handgun in the glove­box of his ear. Tennessee law permits unloaded firearms in vehicles as long as no ammuni­tion is present. 
Young talked to oflicers and a psychologist, according to a statement released Tuesday night by Nashville police. Young left about 30 minutes later and drove himself home. 
After talking to Young, Fisher called it a "complete misunder­standing." 
''I'm happy to report he's home. lie's resting. He's com­pleted the MRI. Don't have the results yet, and we're hoping he can get that knee healed up and can get back on the field as soon as he can," Fisher said on his radio show. 

With only veteran Kerry Collins healthy and Kansas City preparing to sign Ingle Martin off the Titans' practice squad, Fisher said they had agreed to terms with Chris Simms after working out Quinn Gray, Joey Harrington and Doug Johnson earlier Tuesday. 
Young's agent said there was no need for concern because the quarterback was at a friend's house watching football and eating chicken wings dur­ing the four hours when no one could fmdYoung. 
"When people were worried about him, I was on the phone talking to him," agent Major Adams said. "I didn't know there was any confusion about where he was as if he was miss­ing or whatever. He just said, 'Hey, I'm over here watching the game.' ... Then I start get­ting all these frantic calls." 
Fisher was asked if he was concerned by Young's sideline demeanor. Fans have been upset thinking Young didn't want to go back onto the field following his second intercep­tion, and the Titans have defended him as an intense competitor. 
"It is an issue, and it is some­thing we're working with him to kind of correct," Fisher said of Young's emotional reactions. "Our game is a very, very emo­tional game. There's going to be ebbs and flows at times, good plays and poor plays and nega­tive things that happen. Different players deal with it differently." 
MLB 

Cardinals not certain 
Pujols needs surgery 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS-Major league batting leader Albert Pujols may be headed to reconstructive elbow surgery that eould sideline him into next season. Or he might not. 
A day after the St. Louis slugger told KSDK television that he was considering having the operation, the Cardinals said it's not clear whether surgery is needed. 
"We are sensitive to Albert's stat­ed concerns," general manager John Mozeliak said in a statement. "At no time would we ever ask Albert to consider anything other then what is best for his career and future health." 
Pujols has been playing with a torn ligament since 2003, but the Cardinals said in a statement on Tuesday that management, Pujols and hi<> representatives agree that the injury "does not appear to be season-threatening nor do they have a clear indication that it will or will not require future surgery." 
Pujols didn't want to di<>CUSS his elbow before Tuesday's game against the Chicago Cubs. 
"I don't need to talk about any­thing," he said. "It's thn same ... as it's been all year." 
Mozeliak said the Cardinals will conduct a follow-up medical exam at the end of the season to deter­mine future decisions. 
Pujol<> discussed the possibility of surgery on Monday with KSDK. 
''I'm thinking about it," he said. ''I'm thinking really hard. I think in the long run the sooner that I get it done, the better it's going to be for me because I'm going to heal quick­er than if I wait two or three years. But it needs to be done." 

Cubs manager Lou Piniella, after learning of Pujols' remarks, said surgery might be the best option. 
"It's unfortunate, but ifit's going to bother him for a long, long time, get it over with and heal it and only miss the first month of the season and go from there," Piniella said "He's a very competitive guy, a very talented guy." 
Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said he and Pujols talk about the injury all the time and recently he asked whether Pujols wanted to have season-ending surgery. The Cardinals started Tuesday 4'? games ofl" the NL wild-card lead with 19 games to play. 
"I said 'Do you want to shut it down?"' La Russa said. "lie said, 'No, I'm good to go."' 
Pujols and the Cardinals have said since last winter that at some point, the former NL MVP might require surgery. Pujols has a .359 average entering play with 32 homers a lPd the NL with a .359 National Leagun batting race and was at or near the top in several other categories. 
He was batting .359, one point ahead of Chipper Jones of the Braves. He led the major leagues with a .649 slugging percentage and 
a .466 on-base percentage. 

"It's not the ftrst time he's done this, done something that's just amazing," La Russa said. "He usual­ly plays in pain." 
The biggest risk to the elbow apparently is cutting loose with a throw. Pujol<> has been instructed to play under control. 
"He does it carefully. He does it to win the game," LaRussa said. "I think from the first day of spring training, he's had to be careful, but he's making all the plays." 
Save the date. Keep it really, really OPEN. join us on Software Freedom Day September 20th. It's your opportunity to show support for all things open source. While you're at it, join a Sun Open Source University Meetup at sun.com/swfreedom. Change {Y)our World. Support Software Freedom Day. +sun microsystems The Network is the Computer TM © 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Sun and the Sun Microsystems logo are registered marks and The Network is the Computer is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.  

Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Rays use two-run ninth to get first Fen way win 
-
Cardinals beat sliding Cubs on walk-off infield single; Delgado hits two homers again as Mets top Nationals 
• 
time this season. Mike Lowell's homer -his first advanced on Marmol's first balk Dempster, who has allowed 
Associated Press 
Johnson, scratched from the at Fenway Park in three of the season, called when the homers in his last two starts 
BOSTON -Pinch-hitter Dan starting lineup because he months. pitcher came set before a fourth after going 69 2-3 innings with­Johnson homered off Jonathan began the day in Triple-A and Kazmir, who hadn't allowed a pickoff attempt. Felipe Lopez out surrendering a long ball, Papelbon in the ninth inning to didn't get to the ballpark in run in his previous two starts, walked after fouling off four recovered with a perfect sev­tie it, and Dioner 1\avarro dou­time, hit one over the Red Sox gave up one in the first on full-count pitches and the run­enth to end his outing. He struck bled in the go-ahead run bullpen in right to tie it. One out Youkilis' double. ners moved up on a sacrifice out six, and walked two -both Tuesday night as the Tampa Bay later, Fernando Perez doubled before Cesar Izturis' soft to Molina -while allowing Rays rallied past the Boston Red and Navarro did the same to Cardinals 4, Cubs 3 grounder to second gave Ryan seven hits. Sox 5-4 to snap a four-game make it 5-4. Albert Pujols homered for the just enough time to beat Mark The Cubs jumped on Kyle skid and extend their lead in the Troy Percival pitched the third straight game and pinch­DeRosa's relay to the plate. Lohse in the first for three AL East. ninth for his 28th save. Wheeler runner Brendan Ryan slid in Marmo! had thrown 6 2-3 straight one-out hits, including 
The Rays had lost six of seven earned the victory despite just ahead of the tag on a ninth­innings this season against the consecutive RBI doubles by games -and the Hed Sox had coughing up the lead, allowing inning grounder against a Cardinals without allowing an Derrek Lee and Ramirez, for a won six of seven, inducting a 3-0 two runs in the eighth inning. drawn-in infield in the St. Louis earned run, including the eighth 2-0 lead. Theriot singled to start victory in the series opener -to The Rays stranded 12 in the Cardinals' victory over the fal­Tuesday, before faltering. that salvo, and he tripled and cut the cushion from 5 1/2 first eight innings, going 0-for-tering Chicago Cubs on Tuesday Chris Perez (3-2) worked scored in the third on Ramirez' games to just a half-game. With 14 with runners in scoring posi­night. around Ron Villone's leadoff single to make it 3-0. a victory Tuesday, the Red Sox tion before Navarro's double in Aramis Ramirez had three walk to Kosuke Fukudome in could have moved into first the ninth. hits and two RBis for the Cubs, the ninth, erasing him on Mets 10, Nationals 8 place for the first time since Scott Kazmir allowed two runs who have lost eight of nine Alfonso Soriano's double-play Carlos Delgado hit two June 28; instead, the Rays are 1 and struck out four before leav­while scoring three runs or ball and getting Theriot on a impressive homers for the sec­1/2 up and assured of leading ing with a 3-2 lead after six. fewer six times. The Cubs came soft infield liner to second. ond straight game, Carlos the division when they leave Daisuke Matsuzaka needed 102 in with a 41/2-game lead on the Pujols' 33rd homer was a Beltran had a go-ahead shot to town Wednesday. pitches to labor through five Brewers in the AL Central. three-run shot off Ryan reach 100 RBis and the New 
Boston holds a six-game lead innings, allowing three runs on The Cardinals started the Dempster that tied it in the York Mets increased their NL in the AL wild-card standings eight hits and four walks while night 4 1/2 games behind sixth. Pujols, who has seven East lead by beating the scrappy over Minnesota, which beat failing to record his 17th win. Milwaukee in the wild-card RBis the last three games and Washington Nationals Tuesday Kansas City. Matsuzaka loaded the bases in race. 98 on the year, hammered a night. 
Tampa Bay took a 3-1 lead in the third on a bunt single and Ryan Theriot, a late addition first-pitch fastball an estimated Ryan Church also homered, the fourth and still led 3-2 with two walks, then hit Cliff Floyd to the Cubs' lineup after report­404 feet over the wall in center. Jose Reyes snapped an 0-for-15 two outs in the eighth when Dan with a pitch to give up the Rays' ing Tuesday with lingering Skip Schumaker doubled to slide with two hits and the Mets Wheeler (4-5) walked Kevin first run. Willy Aybar's sacrifice effects from dizziness and dehy­start the inning and Aaron Miles started a stretch of 12 games -Youkilis and then Jason Bay fly made it 2-1, then Matsuzaka dration that forced him out of bunted for a hit to set up the against the bottom two teams in barely cleared the Green got Eric Hinske on a liner to sec­Sunday's game, had two hits to rally. the division with an offensive Monster to give Boston the lead. ond and Navarro on a grounder begin rallies in the first and The Cardinals missed a display that offset Oliver Perez's Bay, acquired at the trade dead­to first to end the threat. third. chance for more when rough outing. line, homered for the third The Rays made it 3-1 on Yadier Molina singled off Dempster struck out pinch hit­New York moved 2 112 games straight game. Jason Bartlett's double in the Carlos Marmo! (2-4) to start the ter Adam Kennedy with runners ahead of second-place 
But Papelbon (S-4) blew a fourth. Boston cut the lead to bottom of the ninth and was on second and third to end the Philadelphia, which lost 10-8 to save opportunity for the fifth one run in the bottom half on replaced by Ryan, · who inning. Florida. 

./.A.Il returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ./]:four and one-half week study in London ./~vlid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ./l~arn 6 credit hours ./Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Sessions for 2009 & 2010 Programmes 

t I 




11:45 am to 12:30 pm-138 DeBartolo and 
5:00 pm to 6:00 pm -136 DeBartolo 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/-surnlon 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
-
The Irish received two first­place votRs while the other 14 
went to the Huskies. 
The Huskies' loaded roster is led last year's I-Iermann Trophy winner O'Brian White, who tallied 23 goals and notched seven assists during his award winning campaign. To put those numbers in per­spective, former Irish forward Joseph Lapira had 22 goals and six assists during his Hermann Trophy 2006 season. 
White has been placed on this year's Hermann Trophy Watch List, but he has compa­ny. Teammates Akeem Priestly and Toni Stahl, both midfield­ers, join White on the list to give Connecticut a potent offense. All three Huskies have been named to the all-Big East preseason team. 
-
"I would argue that Wake Forest and Connecticut were the two best teams in the country last season, and [Connecticut! returns almost everyone so they would be good you would think," Clark said. "Just because you're a year older doesn't mean you're a year better. but Connecticut is very well-coached. They'll be a force to be reckoned with." 
While it would be tempting 

to assume that, like last year, Notre Dame and Connecticut will be the two primary con­tenders for the Blue Division title, history advises to temper those predictions. 
Last season, the preseason coaches' poll picked DePaul to finish last in the league's Red Division, yet it was the Blue Demons standing at the top of the standings when the season ended. 
"It just shows that our league is so good and that you can't take anyone for grant­ed," Clark said of DePaul's surprising performance last season. 
Early results in 2008 suggest the emergence of a dark-horse in the Blue Division isn't out of the question. 
Seton Hall, picked to finish fifth in the division, is off to a 4-0-0 start and is outscoring opponents 13-3 and outshoot­ing the opposition 87-50. Sophomore forward Sam Petrone accumulated 17 points on eight goals and one assist in his last three games. 
Georgetown has also started 4-0-0 and has yet to allow a goal. The Hoyas, however, have yet to play a ranked opponent. 
All preseason predictions will be replaced by reality starting this week as Big East play gets underway. The Irish start their campaign with a home game tomorrow at 7 
p.m. against Marquette. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Rivalry 
continued from page 20 

significance of a Notre Dame-Michigan game, but that doesn't mean it is lost. 
Offensive coordinator Mike Haywood said his players all understand the opportunity in front of them. 
Haywood -who played defensive back for the Irish in the early 1980s -said he still stays in touch with many old teammates and Michigan guys through coaching, which only builds the rivalry. 
Last spring, at a booster event Weis made a speech ending with, "To hell with Michigan," -a play on leg­endary Michigan coach Bo program, Schembechler who once said the same thing "Well, f'lljust say about Notre 
there's a lot more
Dame. Weis 

said that he respect between 
and Schem­Notre Dame and bechler joked 
Michigan [than Notre 
about the 

Dame and USC],
remark and it was made that's the best way to more in 
say it." 
respect to the coach than to fan any fires. Mike Haywood 
He and Irish offensive coordinator Haywood stressed that, despite the rivalry, they both Notes: 


unlike some of Notre Dame Stadium this their other weekend and will also wel­rivalries. come home the 1988 
When asked National Championship team how this game and its head coach Lou differed from a Holtz. game against No. 1 USC + The Irish have played Haywood said, only three times on Sept. 13 "Well, I'll just in program history. They are say there's a 0-3 with two of those losses lot more coming against Michigan. In respect 2003, between Notre Notre Dame was blanked Dame and 38-0 by the No. 5 Michigan, Wolverines, and in 1986 they that's the best lost a heartbreaker 24-23 in way to say it." the first game of Holtz's Irish 
career. 

have a lot of respect for the + Notre Dame will be Contact Dan Murphy at Michigan football team and going for it's 300th victory in dmurphy6@nd.edu 
opening round in which he collected four bogies, four
Invite 
birdies and a double bogey, continued from page 20 Hock sailed through the final 
two rounds, scattering six ment in 1Oth place in a field of more bogies and three birdies. 15, shooting 37-over par Sophomore Jeff Chen placed (889). 32nd with a 9-over 222 (74­
No. 45 California (861, 9-76-72). Junior Doug Fortner over par) cruised to a first­joined sophomore Connor place finish on the back of a 3-Alan-Lee at 46th place overall, under par second round 281, with each shooting 13-over the lowest 226s (77 -76­round of the 73and 78-74-74, tournament by respectively).
"Our philosophy is to
four strokes. After becoming
play the best teams 
Cal's Michael the first Notre Jensen and on the best courses Dame golfer Colorado's since 1973 to
and there's no finer 
Derek Tolan reach match play
example ofthis than 
shared medal­at the U.S. ist honors, this week." Amateur this each finishing summer, junior 
-
the tourna-Carlos Santos­
Jim Kubinski
ment with Ocampo finished
Irish coach 
even par 21 :~s. last among the 
Colorado fin-Irish with a 63rd ished eight strokes behind Cal place finish. Santos-Ocampo to earn second-place honors, began the tournament with a while No. 27 UAB, which held respectable 4-over 75 but shot socond place comfortably for only one hole under par in his most of the tournament, final two rounds (79-77) to fin­slipped to third after shooting ish with a 231. a 294 in its 11nal round. Kubinski pointed out the 
Xavier placed fourth and No. squad's youth and was still 43 Oregon State and San confident in his inexperienced Diego finished tied for fifth to team's potential. round out the "As with any l11adnrs. sport, you're 
Dnspitn thn not sure exactly poor showing, "! like our young what you have Notre Damn until you begin
group ... They've
coach Jim to compete,"
shown signs already 
Kubinski rnitcr­Kubinski said. atnd the team's ofbeing a special "I like our mission of play­young group,
group.
ing challnnging though. They've opponents and shown signs
Jim Kubinski
courses already of being throughout the Irish coach a special group. season. We're excited to 
"Our philoso-get started and phy is to play the best teams will just try to keep improving on the best courses and throughout the season." thnrn's no f'innr nxample of The Notre Dame B Team will this than this week." Kubinski try its hand this Friday and said. Saturday at the Hutgers 
Sophomorn Tylnr Hock led Invitational at the Rutgers Golf the Irish in scoring, shooting Course in Piscataway, N.J. 72-n-7:~ to end up with a 5­over 21 S, good enough for Contact Michael Blasco at I (lth overall. After an erratic mblasco@nd.edu 
offensive players that have Bock has been a presence been creating goals and it's on the field since she came to
Bock 

important for us to lead the Notre Dame in 2005. She was continued from page 20 team not only in our play, but named a Freshman All­also intensity and finding the American and second team rankings, just behind UCLA. goals, because that's what you Big East and was named sec­But Bock says the goal was need to win," she said. ond team Big East again as a a team effort. But Waldrum knows that sophomore. She played on the "Our whole team collective­when Bock is on the field, U-20 National team and the ly, from our goalie to our back there's some-U-23 National line, all the way up the front thing extra Team. She's a is collective team defense," special to player Bock said. "And we were watch. "She's just key for us. Waldrum pressing and pressing, and we "She just has The thing is she can knows he can have to play to [Carolina's] a presence, put anywhere
do so many things."

game a little just with aggres­she's got such a on the field to siveness." physical pres­get the job 
Garnering recognition for ence. She's so Randy Waldrum done. her aggressive style is nothing dominant in Irish coach Having start­new for Bock. The All­the air, and so ed out in the American forward was the strong on the midfield when Big East Offensive Player of ball, and then she first came the Year in 2007 and is defensively she adds that ball to Notre Dame, she's likely to expected to take that honor winning mentality," Waldrum rotate back and forth between again. But Bock says she's not said. "She's like Kerri Hanks, midfield and forward this sea­the only one leading the Irish in terms of her competitive­son. offense. ness, she's just highly compet­"She's just key for us," 
"I know offensive player of itive, they just don't want to Waldrum said. "The thing is the week is a huge honor, but lose, and I think that's some­she can do so many things." we have Kerri Hanks coming thing that carries over to the back, we have Michelle team and I think our team has Contact Deirdre Krasula at [Weissenhofer], we have many that mindset right now." dkrasula@nd.ed 


Information Session 
Thursday, September 11th 5:00p.m. 
DeBartolo Hall, Room 117 
800.424.8580 Iwww.peacecorps.gov 

Wednesday, September l 0, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLAcK DoG 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
14 Weapons stash For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
.::o vv n~r e yuu r111ym  ;..)0  IUUIIY vuu lUI  
John_, host of "America's  get into hot water?  dinner 60 F.D.R. job­ 
Most Wanted" 6 "Jeopardy!" whiz Jennings 9 "Hey, you!" 13 2600 (classic video game console)  31 Scriaparelli of fashion 34 Cigarette substance 35 Interlocks 37 Bricle's bounty 39 Meadow  creating measure: Abbr. 62 "Famous" cookie maker 63 Gangly guy 65 Fruit from a palm 66 "Don't hurt me!,"  
14 St. Louis  41 Bircl on birth  e.g.  
landmark 15 Voice above a tenor  anrouncement cards 42 Comes about  67 Straight up 68 Laid off, as workers  
16 Appetizer with  44 Wrigley's  69 Wood in archery  
sweet and sour  projuct  bows  
sauce  46 s. ~~ L.  70 Copenhageners,  
18 Gorilla watcher  cor ven iences  e.g.  
Fossey 19 Frightful female 20 Puccini heroine  47 All U.S. senators unt 11922 48 Mo1otonous voir:e  Down 1 Do the laundry 2 Even, on the  
21 Cheerful 22 Take turns  51 Birds flying in V's  leaderboard 3 Slow, in  
24 Dangler on a suitcase  53 Ha:; confidence in  symphonies 4 Lanka  Puzzle by Lynn Lempel  
26 Deadly long­56 Be1rerly Sills and tailed fish others ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  5 Merely suggest 6 Ray who created the McDonald's empire 7 Custardy dessert 8 Rink org. 9 City where Galileo taught 10 Goliath's undoing 11 Baseball's  29 Straight-to-curly transformation, informally 30 Poses questions 31 Dutch city with a cheese market 32 Oral tradition 33 Make-or-break election bloc 36 Does' mates 38 Sf and oui  40 Home of the von Trapp family 43 Bro's sibling 45 Lamebrain 49 Get cozy 50 Prodded gently 52 Lessened, as pain 54 11-or 12-year­old 55 Rocket's realm  56 1920s art movement 57 Giant-screen theater 59 Backstage bunch 61 Tiny tunnelers 63 Mala Hari, for one 64 Top half of a bikini  
Musial  
12 Broadway award  

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
17 "Oh, I see" 
Annual subscrip~ions are available for the best of Sunday 
21 Eyelid nuisances 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 23 Romanov rulers 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 25 River blocker past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 27 One of the Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Allman Brothers solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
~MJ13)11E.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HIRMT 
j
I [I II 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
r;fil (] 


-·
RUVESS j 
DISTINGUISHE:D
I rJ r I I 
www.jumble.com GE:NTLE:MAN C..ONTE:ST IT WAS A--­
tANIZIN 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I) I I I suggested by the above cartoon. 
Printanswerhere:[ I I)rI I I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's IJumbles: FLAME ANNUL MODEST CHEERY Answer: This helps construction workers bond ­CEMENT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Michelle Williams, 28; Adam Sandler, 42; Hugh Grant, 48; Angela Cartwright, 56 
Happy Birthday: Look on the bright side. Forget about what you cannot change and concentrate on what shows the most potential. Get serious about laughing and enjoying every moment, not worrying and fretting. It's attitude that will make your year ahead the best. Your numbers are 5, 13, 15, 22, 27, 31,48 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Throw a little sunshine into the mix and keep things light even if you do feel pressured by someone or something. Simplicity, honor and fair play are all that's required. 2 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take things one step further. Don't be afraid to be a little different. This is a perfect time for you to visit a place that you may con­sider living some day. Reevaluate and set your game plan in motion. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't let your emotions lead you astray or cause you to jump too quickly from one thing to another. You have to stabilize your life not create more chaos. Older and younger family members may be a burden but you will eventually benefit. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): Rely heavily on your trusted allies. You mustn't let anyone take advantage of you or play you for a fool. Show your strengths by staying one step ahead and making unlikely changes when least expected. The el­ement of surprise will help you stay on top. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do what you can but don't take on someone else's re­sponsibilities. Protect your heart and your money from people who are looking for a free ride. Look for equality in all your relationships. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get involved in something you deem worthy and expand your mind, talents and skills. Take on a challenge and you will excel, leadinl;J to a change in your outlook and your future. Someone from your past is still thinking about you. 5 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't !let caught in someone else's melodrama. Avoid arguments, especially those involvmg home, family and living conditions. Don't let anyone talk you into something you don't agree with. 2 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You have plenty to offer and even more to get back by showing off a little today. Someone will have a change of l'lans once you reveal your intentions. A money opportunity is heading your direction. 4 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can mesmerize some but you cannot get those with experience to come on board if you aren't prepared. You'll be caught in your own game, so back off until you are sure of your plan and its execution. Focus on love and taking care of personal matters. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will tend to get caught in an emotional di­

-
lemma and relationship worries. Hold off or you are likely to make a massive mistake that will have lasting results. Observe and keep a positive attitude. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't bank on others to do what you want. In­stead, do what needs doing. Wasting time will not help your situation. Get your point out in the open and yon will make an impression on someone who can help you out financially. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take on a challenge and you will meet the demand. You have a chance to prove what yon can do, so pull out all the stops and pull in all the favors you can muster. Before you know it, a new beginning will start to unfold. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, serious and determined take action. You are not one to procrastinate. You want to encourage change while striving for perfec­tion. You are a class act. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Weis: 'To hell vvith Michigan', but no disrespect to rival 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Euitor 
For the second time in the storied rivalry's history, an unranked Notre Dame team will face off against unranked Michigan this Saturday. 
The 11rst time it happened? Try last year. 
The rivalry between the blue and gold and the blue and maize may not have the 

national implications it nor­mally does, but that doesn't mean it's any less important for those involved. 
"It's not just the tradition of the schools," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "It's locale. It's recruiting. There's a whole number of factors that are involved in it besides just the winning and the losing." 
The Wolverines have hung 38 points on the Irish in each the past two years -both in dominating vic.tories. Both Weis and his players held to their season mantra, saying that the past is in the past and last year's debacle was no extra motivation this week in practice. 
"It's Michigan and Notre Dame," sophomore guard Chris Stewart said. "I mean you don't really need too much more than that." 
Stewart said the game would definitely be physical, but beyond that, the Irish weren't taking a much differ­ent approach than they did in last week's win over San Diego State. 
"Last season is last season," sophomore running back Robert Hughes said. "We just try to come out and do our jobs each week." 
Several players played down the rivalry by saying it was the most important game on the schedule only because 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Back for more 
Senior Brittany Bock returns from injury to defend Player ofthe Year honors, lead Irish title run 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Wrirer 
Watch any practice or any game and you're sure to hear Brittany Bock yelling on the field, but she's not arguing with anyone. 
She's encouraging her team­mates to fight their tiredness and keep up their aggression -and that's why she's one of the leading offensive players for the Irish. and why she was named co-captain along with fellow senior Carrie Dew. 
And after scoring the only goal against then-No. 2 North Carolina, Hock was named the Big East Offensive player of the week. It was the first time Irish coach Randy Waldrum gave her the minutes she was accustomed to playing last season. 
Bock suffered a high ankle

-
injury during the preseason and had been resting up for the Carolina Classic -and it was worth the wait. After defeating the Tar Heels, the Irish now stand at No. 2 in the 
see BOCK/page 18 it was the next game on the schedule. 


"''ll be a little bit nervous before I come out of the tun­nel, but once the game starts I'm just trying to beat the guy lined up across from me, no matter where he is from," sophomore wide receiver Golden Tate said. 
Younger players may over­look some of the historical 
see RIVALRY/page 18 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles still vvinless in conference 
Observer Staff Repon 

Despite nine kills and nine digs from junior Lorna Slupczynski, the Belles (4-3, 0­2 MIAA) were swept in three games by No. 17 Hope, 25-18, 25-21, 25-12. 
Sophomore Meg Rose led Saint Mary's with 10 digs while freshman Danie Brink spread around 21 assists in the Belles loss. 
The win was the sixth in a row for the Flying Dutch (6-1, 3-0 MIAA), who jumped up six spots from No. 23 in Tuesday's Division III poll. 
Junior setter Andrea Helminiak, the reigning con­ference player of the week, tallied 38 assists, nine digs and six kills for the Flying Dutch. 
Senior outside hitter Nora Slenk and junior outside hitter Teresa Borst each finished with double-digit kills, totaling 11 and 10, respectively. 
Saint Mary's will attempt to earn its first conference victo­ry when it faces MIAA foe Olivet at 6 p.m. Thursday. 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Big East schedule will provide plenty of tests 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sporrs Wri rer 
South Florida was picked by the league's coaches to win the Big East's Hed Division. No. 5 Notre J>anw beat USF 5-0 this 
past  weekend  in  the  Mike  
Berticelli  Memorial  
Tournament.  

What dons that say about the Irish's chances this year in the Big East Blue Division? Not much. says Irish coach Bobby Clark. 
"!The game! says we played well Sunday and South Florida didn't," Clark said. "These things happen. If we played South Florida tomorrow it would be a tough game. These are one-off games, and for whatever reason they weren't ready." 
That's not to say that both Clark and the preseason pun­dits don't have high expecta­tions for this year's Notre Dame squad in Big East play. In a preseason poll, the Irish were picked to finish second behind No. 3 Comwetieut in the eight-team Blue division. 
see BIG EAST/page 18 
MEN'S GOLF 

ND struggles in first meet 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Wrirer 

After solid summer sea­sons from several of its golfers and a roaring tour through Ireland early last month, Notre Dame had high hopes for its fall sea­son opener at the USF Olympic Intercollegiate Invitational at the Olympic Club in Daly City, Calif., just outside San Francisco. 
The Irish were unable to recover from two mediocre opening rounds, however, and finished the tourna­
see INVITE/page 18 


ER NSIDER 
O
THE Wednesday, September 10, 2008 BSERVER Fall Career Expo 2008 


WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 4:00-8:00 PM JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
EVERY COLLEGE I EVERY MAJOR INTERNSHIPS I FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
rg~ U N IV E R S I T Y 0 F 
~~NOTRE DAME . The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRB DAME 
-···-·· 

Mendoza College of Business standout. 
page 2 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Wednesday, September 10, 2008 

Compose a resume that markets your background and skills 
• 
Visit The Career Center in 248 Flanner Hall dur­ing walk-in hours from 1-4:45 pm daily for a 15 minute resume review 

• 
Stop by "Resumes on the Run" -check http:/I careercenter.nd.edu/events for dates, times, and locations 


Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Determine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list of participants and their position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports, and products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking skills 

• 
Develop your 'Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, I'm... (introduce yourself, your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is... (demonstrate knowl­edge of company) 

• 
I'm interested because... (explain your inter­est in company) 

• 
I can... (match your skills with their needs) 




What to do the day of the fair 
• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies of your resume in a portfolio/folder 

• 
Scan your ID when you enter 

• 
Review the map of employer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experi­enced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your 'Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview (i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the position, I am interested in speaking with you or one of your colleagues further. How can I obtain a slot on your inter­view schedule at The Career Center?") 


• Obtain the representative's business card 
4. Following the fair 
• Within 3 days of the fair, send an email thank­you to the recruiters from which you collected business cards 

Business Formal Attire 
Men: 

• 
Wear a suit-Jacket and trousers are neces­sary. Dark, solid colors are best (black, navy, dark gray). 

• 
Wear a pressed white or blue collared shirt. 

• 
Be sure your shoes are polished. Avoid wearing gym shoes. 

• 
.Choose a tie that compliments your suit. Be fairly conservative with the pattern. 

• 
It is key to have your clothing pressed! 

• 
Avoid wearing white socks. Choose dark col­ors to match your suit. 

• 
Have your hair well-groomed, trimmed, and brushed. 

• 
Try to not go too heavy on the cologne. 


Women: 
• 
Wear a suit with a jacket and skirt or pants. Try to wear conservative colors. It is important to not stand out for the wrong reasons (i.e. a skirt too short or an inappropriate color such as fuchsia). 

• 
Choose a collared shirt or top with a modest neckline. Avoid tank tops or camisoles. 

• 
Be sure your shoes are polished. 

• 
Light perfume is a nice touch (the key word being light). 

• 
Wear a hairstyle that is neat and well­groomed. Avoid fly aways or hair blocking your eyes. 


FYI: 

• 
Know the industry your targeting and the ex­pected dress within that industry. Some indus­tries expect business formal. 

• 
Younger students and those targeting other industries may not need to wear a suit, but should be wearing business casual attire. 

• 
What is business casual attire? 

• 
Dress/casual slacks 

• 
Skirts or tailored dresses 

• 
Collared or polo-styled shirts 

• 
Sweaters/sweater sets 

• 
Polished dress shoes 




The Career 
Center 
IIIIII' IoiliI ft' IIIII' !llnTI.II DUll!.

Let u.s kelf, Visit u.s tokj: 
careercenter.nd.edu (574) 631-5200 ndcps@nd.edu
1 1 
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 3 
If ou obtain an interview the day following the fair, are you prepared? 
oilow these steps and you are well on your way to landing that job or internship. 
+ • +~., • ++ + ++ + +++ +++++++++ + + Review potential interview questions and come up 
+ use the STAR technique + with possible answers using examples 
Why are you interested in our organization?
: to help you answer behavioral interview questions : ~: 
What work experience has been the most valuable to you 
+ 
SITut.riON -Class project, student activity, volunteer + and why? 

+ 
experience, job + 3. Give an example of a problem you have solved and the 

process you used. 4 Describe a situation in which you had a conflict with another

+ 
!AsK · Goal, problem to be solved, improvement to be made + " individual and how you dealt with it. 


• • 5. What idea have you developed and implemented that was particularly creative or innovative?
+ AcTION-Planning & implementing to reach goal, problem + 
6 How did you choose to attend Notre Dame and how did you : solving used : · 
select your major(s) in ? 7 How do you think you have changed personally in the past : ResULT • The outcome, influences, changes : . (5) years? 
8. Tell me about a team project of which you are particularly proud and your contribution. 
9. What types of situations put you under pressure and how do Begi111 by reviewing your resume you deal with the pressure? 
10. Describe a leadership role you have held and tell me why
• Think about the skills you want to highlight and 
you committed your time to it.
how you developed them. Be specific. Explain 
11. What challenges are you looking for in a position? 
a problem you encountered, how the problem 
12. What three trends do you see in the future for our industry? was solved and describe the results. 
13. 
Tell me about yourself. 

14. 
Why do you want to work in (career field)? 


Research the organization and the position 15, What is your greatest strength/weakness and how will it af­fect your performance in this program?
• R·~view the companies & position descriptions on 
16. Describe a team-oriented accomplishment in which you par­
Go IRISH 

ticipated as a member of the team. What did you find to be the most difficult issue or process in becoming a successfulTo view all companies that are attending the fair: team?
1. Login to Go IRISH 17. Have you ever received a grade lower than you expected?
2. Click on Events Tab If so, what did you do about it?
3. Click on Notre Dame Fall Career Expo to view 18. Describe one of the toughest competitive situations youparticipating employers and general posting 
have faced and how you handled it.
information 
19. 
What are some of the most creative things you have done? 

20. 
What has been one of your greatest disappointments and


To view job postings: 
how did you respond?
1. Login to Go IRISH 21. Describe a time when you added value to an existing work
2. 
Click on Go IRISH Jobs 


process.

3. 
In the "Keywords" search, enter FCE08 

22. What characteristics do you think are important for this posi­tion?
• Vsit company websites and review mission state­23. Describe a situation in which you were criticized and how ments, annual reports, and new products or ser­
you responded. vices 24. How has your education at Notre Dame prepared you for this position? 
25. Why should I hire you? 
• Utilize online resources available to you via The Career Center, the Business Information Center, 
Always prepare questions to ask the interviewer 
a'ld the University Library 
1. To what extent will I determine my work objectives? The Vault Online Career Library 2. Describe the rotational training program associated with this 
https://careercenter2.nd.edu/cslibrary.php position/internship. What career paths have others generally followed after completing the program?
Contains insider company information, ad­
3. As an intern, what kind of projects will I receive?
vice, and career management services. In­
4. What characteristics best describe individuals who are suc­
cludes an extensive selection of career, indus­
cessful in this position? 
try, and employer guides and articles. 
5. Where could a person advance who is successful in this posi­tion? Within what time frame? 
C:areerSearch 

6. In what ways has this organization been most successful in https://careercenter2.nd.edu/cslibrary.php terms of products/services over the past several years? Provides access to a networking database of 7. How is job performance evaluated? over 2 million companies nationwide. Search 8. What has been the professional growth track for other stu­
dents who have been recruited by your company over the
for information on a particular company, in­past 3-5 years? 
dustry, or location using a variety of search 
9. How would you describe the culture of your organization?
options. 

10. If I work hard and prove my value to the company, where might I find myself in five years? 
Market Insight 

11. What is a typical work week for a (position) in your com­http://www.library.nd.edu 
pany?Click on M and Select Market Insight 12. Does your organization encourage its employees to pursue Once within Market Insight, select Industry additional education? from the top toolbar 13. Describe the three top challenges that I'll face in this job. From the pull down menu, click appropriate 14. What are the key deliverables and outcomes that this posi­
tion must achieve?
industry and select Go! 
15. Describe the top three initiatives for your company/ department and how this position is linked to these initiatives. 
Let us kel-p, Visit us torJ.o.J: 
careercenteLnd.edu I (574} 631-5200 I ndcps@nd.edu 

Wednesday, September 1 0, 2008 
page 4 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 
WTA S LLC 
WTAS LLC is one of the largest national professional services firms focused on providing comprehensive tax, valuation, accounting, financial advisory and other related consulting services to our clients. The practice of WTAS consists of more than 450 employees located in 14 major cities throughout the United States. At WTAS, our employees have the opportuni­ty for career challenge, professional advancement and the prospect to enhance their technical knowledge and skills. We foster an environment based on learning and strong mentoring relationships. If you want to be a part of a growing and exciting organization, consider your opportunities with WTAS. 

WTAS 
LLC 
ALDI 

One year. That's what it takes to prepare our District Managers for success. More than training, it's an exclusive hands-on experience complete with salary. A learn.­ing opportunity that immerses you in our day-to-day operations, and teaches you our business inside and out. At ALDI our investment in you begins with ensuring you're heading in the right direction. The responsibility. The success. And the rewards. 
Discover more at ALDI.us/careers 
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
DELOITTE 
We can help our clients see more. The subsidiaries of Deloitte offer clients a broad range of audit and enterprise risk, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services. The breadth and depth of our disci­plines are unmatched by any other professional services organiza­tion. Together, with a culture of collaboration, we have the capabili­ties to discover insights others might miss. 
Deloitte's multi-disciplined perspective, deep industry experience, and access to the resources of the member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu help create powerful business solutions for clients operating anywhere in the world. Learn more about a career with Deloitte at www.deloitte.com/us/careers. 
STOUT RISIUS ROSS 
( SRR) 
Stout Risius Ross (SRR) is a 175 person financial advisory firm specializing in investment bank­ing, valuation & financial opinionst and dispute advi­sory &forensic services. 
www.srr.com 

Please stop by our booth to discuss financial analyst opportunities in our Valuation & Financial Opinions group. Visit www.srr.com for more information about our firm. Also look for our on campus interview schedule on October 15th and 16th. The last day to submit your resume on Go IRISH is October 2nd! 

STOUT I RISIUS IR 0 S S 
Financial Advisory Services 
www.srr.com 
Broker-dealer services provided through Stout Risius Ross Advisors, LLC, member FINRA. All other services provided through Stout Risius Ross, Inc_ 
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 5 page 6 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Wednesday, September 10, 2008 











DON'T JUST READ THE HEADLINES, 
BE A PART OF THEM. 

T 

JOIN FTI, THE COMPANY BEHIND THE HEADLINES. 
If you read the business headlines today, you know that the global business landscape has never been more complex. That's why the world's leaders turn to FTI to help address their most difficult challenges. Our more than 3,000 professionals across the globe are entrenched in many of the critical engagements that make headlines, move markets and create business history. Don't just read the headlines-join FTI and be a part of them. 
For the opportunity to influence some of the world1 smajor business events, consider acareer at FTI. Visit www.fticonsulting.com/campus. 

NYSE: FCN ©2008 FTI Consulting, Inc. All rights reserved. 

You won't find vegg1e burgers at this Morningstar-except maybe in our cafe We're a leading independent investment research company based in Chicago's Loop with offices in more than 2D countries We hire smart, driven individuals united by a common passion-helping Investors make informed decisions to reach their financial goals 
We need the best minds to create our growing I i ne of software, Web sites, consulting services, and publications Many of our most valuable employees start in the Morningstar Development Program, which advances your talents through training, global opportunities, and more So if your career pla(ls don't involve soy patties, find out how you can make a difference when we visit your campus. 
2008 Campus Visits 
Fall Career Expo: September 10 Application deadline is September 22 
Engineering Industry Day: September 18 Application deadline is September 28 
Get more info at mdp morningstar.com 
BusinessWeek named Morningstar a Hot Growth Company in 2008 
MnRNINGSTAR® 
Morningstar is an equal opportunity employer. 
Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 
CANCER TREATMENT CENTERS 
The Management Fellows Program at Cancer Treatment Centers of America is designed to give recent college graduates an opportunity for accelerat~ddevelopmentin the healthcare industry. The Fellowship Program is not an internship butis a two-year experiential development program that accelerates managerial growth allowing FeUows to enter high-impact positions upon comple­tion of the program. Over the course oftwo years, Management Fellows· undertake 3-4 month rota,. tional assignments in finance, talent development, marketing, new business development, and hos­pital operations. For more information on CTCAand the program, please see visit our website at www.cancercenter.com or contact gary.sHnkus@ctca-hope.com 
STRYKER 
Stryker is a global leader in the fast growing medical technology industry. Driven by a passion to 
innovate and help improve people's lives, our engaged workforce produces exceptional results by 
advancing meaningful innovationJn orthopaedicimplants; surgical and medical devices, patient 
handling equipmEmt, medical communications and imaging systems. 
Stryker has a lon~J history of success and exceptional<growth-· growth driven by the diverse view­
points and backgrounds of a workforce that enjoys accountability, clear expectations and the free­
dom to exceed them. As a company that embraces individual strengths, we care about what you 
can do, not just what you have done. 



A career at Stryker is exceptional because our business is exceptionally important. 
As a global leader in medical technology, Stryker advances meaningfL I innovation in orthopaedic implants, surgical and medical devices, patient handling equipment, medical communications and imaging systems. 
We hire pElople who have a driving passion to make Positions available k; suit a difference. People who thrive when given clear . I
aII majors. 

expectations and the freedom to exceed them. 
Visit us ,it the Fall Cqreer Expo
If you're lcoking for a career experience that is truly 
Joyce Center Field House
exceptional, look no further than Stryker. You will discover, strengthen and apply your unique talents Sept. 10, 'JC.J8 while help1ng people around the world live more active, satisfying lives. 
-------------, 
page 7  
B:D 0  
SEIDMAN  
BOO Seidman, LLP  
is a national profes­ 
sional services firm  
providing assurance,  
tax, financial advisory  
and consulting serv­ 
ices to a wide range  
of publicly traded and  
privately held compa­ 
nies. BDO Seidman  
serves clients  
through 37 offices  
and more than 300  
independent alliance  
firm locations nation­ 
wide. As a Member  
Firm of BDO  
International, BDO  
Seidman, LLP serves  
multi~national clients  
by leveraging a glob­ 
al network of  
resources comprised  
of 626 Member Firm offices in 11 0 coun­ - 
tries. BDO  
International is a  
worldwide network of  
public accounting  
firms, called BDO  
Member Firms, serv­ 
ing international  
dients. Each BDO  
Member Firm is an  
independent legal  
entity in its own  
country.  
AON  
Aon Corporation is  
the leading global  
provider of risk  
management serv­ 
ices, insurance and  
reinsurance broker­ 
age, and human  
capital consulting.  
Through its 36,000  
professionals world­ 
wide, Aon readily  
delivers distinctive  
client value via  
innovative and  
effective risk man­ 
agement and work­ 
force productivity  
soJutions. Ou(  
industry-leading global resources,  - 11  
technical expertise  
and industry knowl­ 
edge are delivered  
locally through  
more than 500  
offices in more than  
120 countries.  

page 8 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Wednesday, September 10, 2008 
trusted advisor entrenched in many of the game-changing 
FTI CONSULTING 
events that make headlines, move markets and create busi­FTI exists to help companies and their stakeholders protect ness history. Strategically located across the globe in 6 con­and enhance enterprise value in an increasingly complex tinents and 19 countries, FTI serves clients wherever chal­economic, legal and regulatory environment We are the lenges·arise. 
MORNINGSTAR 
We're Morningstar-one of BusinessWeek's Hot Growth Companies of 2008 and a lead­ing provider of independent investment research. We're an established, fast ..paced company with an exciting, start-up feel, and we're looking for creative individuals to help us deliver the innovative technology aQgreli­able information that investors need. Since 1985, we've increased revenue more than 45°/o a year. And, short or tall, we foC~§On helping all our employees grow with u$: Interested? Then check out the Morningstar Development Program, a career program designed to make the most of your tal~ots with specialized training, opportunities to work internationally, and more. 
-
ACE 

ACE is a two-year service program offering college graduates the opportunity to serve as full-time teachers in underresourced Catholic schools. Because we believe that good teachers need excellent formation, ACt; pre­pares its teachers in an innovative Master of Education program at Notre Dame. ACE teachers represent a diverse set of und~r,.. graduate disciplines, backgrounds, arid expe­riences. While teaching, participants live in small communities of 4-7 members and share the challenges and rewards of begin­ning teaching. ACE participants are encour­aged to develop their own personal spirituali­ty in the context of community and to share the journey of becoming committed Catholic school teachers. 
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH 
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. is comprised of five lifestyle brands: Abercrombie & Fitch, aber­crombie (kids), Hollister Co., RUEHL, and Gilly Hicks. Last year, Abercrombie & Fitch Co.'s earnings approached $4 Billion and will 
. 
. ~ 
• 
continue to grow in the U.S. and abroad. The 
. 
A&F Corporate Training Programs arf3.~~m.t 
petitive leadership initiatives at our Home''~"·~:;. 
Office that are unique for their entrepreneur­
ial structure and exposure to senior man~ge­
ment. On-campus interviews for 
Merchandising and Finance & Busi 
Operations are on Sep. 30 and Oct. t. tst 
year compensation starts at.$51 ,000­
$53,000. Offer also includes full relocati n 
expenses, use of the A&F gym, and dis­
counts at all of our brands. 
Where will you be in 5 years? 
l t ~]i:~ij~-j ·.. "~. '4'%vv'J,.a..A ··t""e r ·· • ..·. &·t·.· ~· ....
.,.... ,.,., '·/f,· · <.. . ; ·~···· ..t ..
"lw 

vVhen you advance your career at Deloitte, you'll be working with some of the rnost talented people and best known companies in the W(XId. We otfer opportunities tor growth in assurance, financial advisory, tax, and consulting services. It's your future. How far will you take it? 
Discover more opportunities. v;sit www.deloitte.com/us/careers 
As used m this document, "Deloitte" means Deloitte LLP and its subsidiaries. Please see wwv.t.deloitte com/us/about for a detailed description ot the legal structure of Delo:tte LLP and its subsid:ar;es 
DeloitteCopyright@ 2008 Deloitte Development t.LC Ali rights reserved 
ACE is proud to be a part ofthe Career Center's Career and Internship Fair 
Come talk to some ACI: teachers about their experiencesI 
Visit our website at http:jjace.nd.edu 

Wednesday, September l 0, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 9 







EXACT

OPTIVI~R 
TRUE PARTNERS 
Optiver is currEmtly recruiting full-time entry 
TARGET

CONSULTING
level traders for our Chicago, IL office. True Partners Consulting is one of the ExactTarget is a
fastest-growing tax companies in the U.S. 
As a member of the Optiver team J traders leading provider of and the leading, next-generation tax-con­
will price and trade financial options, build on-demand ail
sulting services firm for good reason: weand maintain positions in derivatives and 
mar~~Hng s re

value talent, independence and opportuni­equities, improve models, and participate solutions, and isty. We pride ourselves on hiringJ trainingin risk management and trading methods. 
one E)f Indiana's

and retaining intelligent problem solvers. Optiver offers a comprehensive training 
fast~$t gro~ing

Our Tax Consultants work collaboratively program which includes extensive training companies.
with both senior-level talent and clients and mentoring. New traders are taught 
while gaining exposure to a variety of tax about derivatives pricing and markets, mpany's
practices. Our setting is also more casual one~to-oneposition mana~Jement, and arbitrage 
than some of the largest firms-and a bit mar ing af)plica~strategies. Thl~Y are also extensively 
more fun. We offer competitive compensa­trained in relevant software, including 
tions.• ~nables position mana~~ement and information tion and benefits, including overtime pay clients to seno
for all hours worked, along with outstand­systems. SubjHcts are explained in the busijess""critilal
ing career advancement potential. Learri classroom and applied in exercises and 
and ~¥~nttriggered simulations. 
more at www.tpctax.com 
communications to increase sales, optimize marketing 
investments and strengthen cus­tomer relation­ships[ 

Gracluating Notre Dame Uni-versit:y Students 
ExactTarget offers two programs designed specifi­
callyfbrcolf~g~

Think you ha'Ve vvhat it takes? 
Start the applicatic:>n prc:>cess tc:>clay at: 
students. 

http://c:>pti""Ver.ennect.cc:>m/a ""Vents/ nc:>treclame 
To learn more about Optiver, please stop by our booth on September 10 at tl""le Fall Career E:x:po 2008. 
Cat~p-ult-·Js a li:'l dyn~tnic rotational pro ing colle ates the opportuf)ity to rotate throlgh


optiver.A. 
three positiorli 

Optiver·, a le~cJding int.ernat.ional pn:>rnie·tar·y ·tr·acjing fiq~n locat.ti'.ld in Chicago. I L is recruiting tr~aders. Ideal candidates vvill con-.e from an analytically related field of 
befor~being ·._.

study such as Cngineer~ing. Finance, Mather-rLa·tics. and the Cor--npu·te·r Sciences gracluati r'!g t.:>ef<".>re August, 2009. Cb__...,,.ti<>hs? E1nn.aoil UScalnnpusr.ecruits@e>ptiv..,r..c<:>m 
~lacjd ip a p(:1rma­"'e nt:liposition ,ii and Slingshot is a three-to~ fi~e month paid intern­


ship~;! 
Exalral 
T>

consultinn. Through its 36,000 professionals worldwide, Aon rea dily 
entre pre 

delivers distinctive client value v ia innovative and effective risk 

org 111tll!ftlll'ir~

managerr1ent and workforce productivity solutions. Our industry-leading global resources, technical expertise and i ndustry knowledge ar e 

the delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 
-nds. countries .. 
r-.,
f ,·;,;:;-.r-·:·.·\' 
And\()~ we're

We are excited to present opportunities to Notr e Dame st udents 
looking for the 

interested in our full-time, Early Career Development Program for the following tracks: Actuarial, Aon Consu lting, Corporate Strategy, and 
brightest. Finance ~~Accounting. 
For morE~ information about Aon Corporation, visit our websi te at www.aon.com. 
Resume drops should be made on GO IRISH· by 11 :59p.m. Sunday, Septembt3r 28th. All majors welcome to apply. 
page 10 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Wednesday, September l 0, 2008 
-
'" The£~,~.!?.~;,."_:;::::.. lltmdoat. 2008 Fall Career Expo Employer List Organization  G) E ';;::; ..!.. :; LL  Cll .E­.c Cll E G) ~ c  Cll G) 1ii :::s 'C «<... e> G) 'C c :::::1  f.! G) 1i) «< ::E  <Ill ::E  ci .c 0...  >111 "C •'X g ~ CIG) ·= .c: ~-;;; ·­:::1 ~ a. .S! E c: ~  
AAR Corp  X  X  X  X  X  
Abbott  X  X  X  X  
Abercrombie & Fitch  X  X  X  
Accenture  X  X  
Acquity Group  X  X  X  
Aerotek  X  X  
ALDI  X  X  X  X  
Alliance for Catholic Education  X  X  
Allstate Insurance  X  X  X  X  X  X  
Americaneagle.com  X  X  X  
Apartments.com  X  X  
Aon Corporation  X  X  
AT&T Mobility  X  X  X  X  X  
Bain & Company  X  X  X  
Baxter Healthcare  X  X  X  X  X  
BDO Seidman  X  X  X  X  X  
Bearing Point  X  X  X  X  
Better World Books  X  X  X  X  X  
BKD  X  X  X  X  
Bosch  X  X  X  X  X  
Boston Consulting Group  X  X  
California Franchise Tax Board  X  X  X  X  
Gancer 1 reatmem Genters or Amenca  X  X  
Central Intelligence Agency  X  X  X  X  X  X  
CHEP  X  X  X  
Chevron Corporation  X  X  X  
Children's Museum of Indianapolis  X  X  X  X  X  
Cincinnati Children's Research Foundation  X  X  X  X  
Citadel Solutions  X  X  X  
Clarity Consulting  X  X  
Corporate Executive Board  X  X  X  
COUNTRY Financial  X  X  X  X  X  X  
Co vance  X  X  X  X  X  
CRA International  X  X  
Credit Suisse  X  X  X  
Crowe Chizek  X  X  X  X  
Cummins  X  X  X  X  X  X  
Deloitte USA Firms  X  X  X  X  X  
DeVry University  X  X  X  X  
Discover Financial Services  X  X  X  
E&J Gallo Winery  X  X  
Echo  X  X  
Egan Zehnder International  X  X  X  X  X  
Eli Lilly and Company  X  X  X  
eloyalty  X  X  X  
Enterprise Rent A Car  X  X  X  X  
Epic Systems Corporation  X  X  X  X  X  
Ernst & Young  X  X  X  X  X  
ExactT arget  X  X  X  
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  X  X  X  X  
Federated Media  X  X  X  
Fidelity Investments .  X  X  
Fifth Third Bank  X  X  X  
Follett Higher Education Group  X  X  X  X  X  
Ford Motor Com _gan_y  X  X  X  X  X  
Fox-Pitt Kelton Cochran Caronia Waller  X  X  X  
FTI Consulting  X  X  X  X  
General Electric  X  X  X  X  X  
General Mills  X  X  X  
Governor Bob Orr Indiana Entrepreneurial Fellowship  X  X  
Grant Thornton  X  X  X  X  X  
Grosvenor Capital Management  X  X  X  X  
Heraeus Kulzer  X  X  X  X  
Hewitt Associates  X  X  X  X  X  
Hewlett Packard  X  X  X  X  X  
Hillstone Restaurant Group  X  X  X  X  x  X  
Houlihan Lokey .  X  X  
HSBC  X  X  
Huron Consulting Group  X  X  X  X  
Indiana State Government  X  X  X  X  X  
Intel Corporation  X  X  X  X  X  
Japan Exchange & Teaching (JET) Program  X  X  X  X  
Johnson & Johnson  X  X  X  
Kentucky Data Link  X  X  X  
KeyBank  X  X  

Wednesday, September 10, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 11 
-i 
The Career Center Ufi:IYIUUU1'1' Df 1iln'U IM81: -.lout. 2(t08 Fall Career Expo Employer List Organization  G) e +:; ~  .:~ g g =  ~ "Iii :I "C f! ~ Q) "C c ::::)  .!  i  .. ~.  i e:~ 0 c ~! n  
KPMG  X  X  X  X  
Land O'Lake~  X  X  X  X  
Lane Berry Investment Banking  X  X  X  
LaSalle Investment Management  X  X  
Liberty Mutual  X  X  X  
Lincojtl_ International  X  X  X  
M&T Bank  X  X  ~  
, McGiadrey & Pullen  X  X  X  X  X  
[Metavante  X  X  X  X  
I Morn_ir}gstar  X  X  
[MSA  X  X  X  X  X  
INat•u••vv•ut::  X  X  X  X  
INavigant Consulting  X  X  
[Nestle USA  X  X  X  
[NetApp  X  X  X  .><.  
[NIBCO  X  X  X  
[Nissan North America  X  X  X  X  X  
1ucean Tomo  X  X  X  
IOffice Depot  X  X  X  X  
[Office Max  X  X  X  X  
[Optiver US  X  X  X  X  
[P&M Colf.Ju•cuc Finance  X  X  X  
IPeace Corps  X  X  X  X  
[PNC Financial Services  X  X  X  
[Press Ganey  X  X  X  X  X  
IPriccV\fctlt::llluuseCoopers  X  X  X  X  X  
[Procter & Gamble  X  X  X  X  X  
[Proliance Energy  X  X  X  X  
[PROS_Revenue Management  X  X  X  X  X  X  
[Protiviti  X  X  X  X  X  
[Quantitative Services Group  X  X  X  X  X  
[Raytheon  X  X  X  X  X  
IRopen_W. Baird  X  X  X  X  
I Rolls-Roy<;:e  X  X  X  X  X  
IRothstein Kass  X  X  X  X  ~  X  
[Sears Holdings Cor...,uoauu•  X  X  X  X  
[Silver _point Capital  X  X  X  
[Site EnhancHment St!r'VIL;c~  X  X  X  
[SMART Business Advisory and Consulting  X  X  X  X  X  
[Spot Trading  X  X  X  X  
ISPX Co1 f.JUicLuu"  X  X  X  
I Starcom Wot,uvv•ut::  X  X  X  X  
S1 I!=:F!  X  X  X  X  X  
Stout Risius Ross  X  X  X  
Strykc• CorJJu• c:uc  X  X  X  X  X  
Talking Stick Communications  X  X  X  
Target Corporation  X  X  X  
Teach For America  X  X  X  X  
Tc~,;'"'u1uyy :Seo v '"'o::::" Group  X  X  X  X  
The Bucuoy Company  X  X  X  X  
The Bradfo, d Group  X  X  X  X  
The Hershe~r Company  X  X  X  X  
!The HON Company  X  X  X  X  X  
[The_!S_r"_oger Company  X  X  X  X  X  X  
[The MATCH S~,;,,uu•  X  X  
[The Neilsen Company  X  X  X  X  
:Thermo Fisher Scientific  X  X  X  X  
'T,avt::Jt::l~  X  X  X  
True Partners Consulting  X  X  X  X  X  
UHY Advisors  X  X  X  X  X  X  
Uline  X  X  X  X  
United Airlines  X  X  X  X  
University of Notre Dame Investment Office  X  X  X  
US De_part111~n~ e>!...§.tate  X  X  X  X  X  X  
US Marine Corps Officer Programs  X  X  X  X  X  X  
[VangLJard  X  X  X  X  
[Vera Bradley Designs  ~  X  X  X  
:Virchow Krause  X  X  X  X  X  
Walgreens  X  X  X  X  X  X  
Whirlpool  _X  _X  X  X  X  
_WT_A§_  X  X  X  X  X  
Zimmer  X  X  X  X  

Listing as of9/4;08  


Wednesday, September 10, 2008 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 12, 2008 
COMMENTARY 

Legendary Holtz 'ND man' always 
For those of you who haven't heard yet, we an~ in the midst of what should be ~ailed "Lou Holtz Weekend" at Notre Dame. The former head ~oaeh and eun'ent 
ESPN collnge football ana­lyst will speak at Friday's pnp rally, have a statue dedicatnd for him Saturday morning and 

tlum be hon-Jay Fitzpatrick ornd again at halftimo 
Sports Writer 
of' the game Saturday. And why not? 
The most obvious reason is that he is in the Mount Hushmore of Notre Dame foot­ball alongside Knute Hoekne, Ara Parseghian and Frank l.eahy. lloltz !ell Notre Dame with 100 wins, se~ond to only Hoekne's 105, and a national championship. 
But alongside his coaching rncord at the University, Holtz is the ultimate "Notre Dame Man." 

I'm sorry for inventing a term just now, allow me to explain. 
Many of you have likely heard the term "Michigan Man," gen­erally applied someone who went to Michigan or coached Dame community (or as many call it, Family), his belief in the traditions and history of Notre Dame were strengthened more 
than anything. 
Unlike the old saying "Records are made to be broken," Holtz understands that some just aren't. When he left Notre Dame, he said it was for a wide variety of reasons, and although it was­n't the deciding factor, Rockne's all-time wins record played into his retirement. 
"To be called the winningest coach in Notre Dame history would not have been fair. I had enough time, if we hadn't missed some extra points or field goals, maybe it might have been differ­ent," Holtz said. ''There are cer­tain records that should stand; I felt I didn't deserve to break it." 
Nowadays, Holtz continues to be the ultimate Notre Dame Man, this time on television instead of the sideline. Sitting next to the equally biased Mark May, Holtz is the "voice of rea­son" at ESPN. defending Notre Dame against all-comers. But Lou doesn't try to hide his bias; rather, he accepts it as part of his love for this school. 
"Even though on television you're supposed to be unbiased, you're supposed to be fair and honest, and I'm none of those 
things when it 
comes to Notre 

Michigan. This is "Even though on Dame. But that's usually where the way I feel,"
television you're 
the definition of he said in an
supposed to be
this term ends. interview with But a "Notre unbiased, you're The Observer. Dame Man" can supposed to be fair But for Holtz, be someone that Notre Dame's 
and honest, and I'm
has nothing to do importance 
with the none ofthose things ·stretches far University as a when it comes to beyond the student or coach Staditnn; it is
Notre Dame." 
or professor or instead an expe­administrator. rience that will Instead, a Notre Lou Holtz touch everyone 
Dame Man only Former Irish coach who was lucky 
needs to be 
someone who supports and respects Notre 
Dame and what it repn1sents. 

Everyone knows someone like lloltz, who grew up rooting lor Notre Dame for no other reason than they were Catholic and liked football. Holtz is no excep­tion. 
"I think you're a Notre Dame man growing up. I was Notre Dame from the time I could make the sign of the cross, so to speak. Whereas you're a Michigan man when you get there," Holtz said. 
Holtz added that the late Bo Schembechler, who could be called the quintessential "Michigan Man" because of his success with the Wolverines. could not have been so before­hand because he was an assis­tant under former Buckeyes leg­end Woody Hayes. 
"I guarantee you Bo Schembechler wasn't a Michigan Man before he went there. You don't coach at Ohio State and be a Michigan Man," Holtz said. 
For Holtz, college was almost an allerthought he would not have pursued if not lor his high school football coach. lie didn't even make it to the University in an otncial capacity until 1986. But his entire life, he was, to varying degrees, a "Notre Dame Man." 
When Holtz finally did become an ollicial part of the Notre enough to be a 
part of it. 
"Notre Dame is not just foot­ball. It's such a special place to be able to go to the Grotto, to Sacred Heart. You're excited to walk that campus and see the students. It's magical. There's no other place in America like it," he said. 
But just as Holtz's fandom stretehed from his youth, he said that every person in the Notre Dame community "will fall in love with it even more so" after they leave. 
"When they found out the tremendous respect that every­body has for Notre Dame, then you really come to appreciate what makes Notre Dame great," Holtz said. 
But what really makes Notre Dame great isn't the places or events or traditions. It's the peo­ple, people like Holtz, who did their best in whatever capacity for the University. 
So throw out all the wins, the big games, the records, every­thing football related. 
So now why does Lou Holtz deserve a statue? Beeause he is Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those q{The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at.ifitz­pa5@nd.edu. 

2008 Irish opponents 

Last week  This week  
L, 21-13, ND  at San Jose St.  
W, 16-6, Miami  at Notre Dame  
W, 42-10, E. Mich.  vs. FAU  
W, 41-10, No. Colo.  vs.OREGON  
L, 41-17, Ariz. St.  atTCU  
Idle  at Rutgers  
L, 28-27, BYU  vs. Oklahoma  
W, 27-16, Buffalo  Idle  
L,19-16,Ga.Tech  Idle  
L, 35-23, Ball St.  at Duke  
L, 42-28, Akron  vs. PennSt.  
Idle  vs. Ohio St.  


FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 
10:00 am -4:00 pm Irish Legends Autograph Show. For more information, visit www. irishlockerroom.com 
12:00 pm Washington High School Marching Band Performs at the Hall 
6:00pm -10:00 pm Football Fridays Block Party featuring StiiiShot 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 

7:00am Salmon Chase Fall Classic: Runners, walkers and kids are invited to take SK Run, 1OK Run, SK Walk and the Guppy Run (ages 2-7) from the Hall of Fame. 
NO-MICHIGAN RIVALRY DAY 
First 200 fans who wear NO or Michigan sportswear on Friday, September 12 receive a FREE pom-pom! 
\ 


Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Walking tall 
Former walk-on Anello earns scholarship, playing time and respect 
little bit taller or weighed a also found that wrestlers
By DAN MURPHY few more pounds he could get often make good football play­
Sports Editor 
some playing time. ers. 
After a frustrating year, "The few [wrestlers I that 
Less than a month ago, Mike Anello quit the team to focus I've had, their track record is Anello walked into Notre on wrestling. By his senior good," Weis said. "You have to Dame Stadium and was told year, the coaches realized be a sicko to wrestle anyway by an employee he had to their mistake and I think leave. The area was J'or play­and convinced that it kind of ers only. Anello to join helps in your
'That was really tough, 
"I walked down and they the team development told me to stop," Anello said. again. doing all that [hard as a football "I think they confused me for "I missed it a work] and not even player." a student manager." lot," Anello 
knowing that you 
At a press conference earli­said. "My jun­Move over er this week Anello found ior year I just would make the team. Rudy himself surrounded by felt like some­They were only about l-Ie's an reporters jamming micro­thing was undersized,
30 minutes long, but
phones and cameras in his missing, I don't Midwestern face. They all knew exactly like to have too man, sometimes you special teams who he was. much free walk-on, and
would leave those 
Last week the former walk­time." he even wore
workouts crawling out 
on was just another name on Anello was No. 45 1·ast the depth chart. But after four named a week­the door." season. big special teams tackles ly captain eight Anyone who against San Diego State, the times and has ever heard
Mike Anello 
secret is out. helped lead the of Irish foot-
Irish defensive back 
The 5-foot-1 0, 170-pound team to the ball before former walk-on playf; gunner state quarterfi-could make on the Irish punt team and is nals that year. the connection also on the kickoff team. He was all set to head to the with Notre Dame's most Anello made his debt,t on the University of Illinois the fol­famous player, Rudy. field last year in Notre Dame's lowing fall, where he had After last year's Michigan 38-0 loss to Michigart in the been accepted into an exclu­game, when Anello went to Big House. sive business program. But pick up his jersey, No. 45 was 
"I remember I hac1 a good after a trip to South Bend and sitting there waiting for him week on the scout team the some sound advice from an for the first time. week before," he said. old coach, he knew Notre "I saw it and turned to our "During practice, Coach Dame was the place for him. equipment manager and said [Charlie] Weis started yelling Anello decided almost 'You've got to be kidding me,"' 'Where's Anello?' I tlwught I immediately to give football a he said. The equipment man­had done something wrong." try. ager asked what he was talk­
Weis told "I figured at ing about and Anello said, him that he the very least I "Come on, 45, that's Rudy's had cracked would stay in number." the depth "I walked down and shape for anoth­Anello said he didn't mind chart and er nine months," the comparisons and just kind
they told me to stop. I 
would be he said. of laughed about them now.
think they confused 
going to Ann Being compared to anyone Arbor that me for a student Wrestling who got the chance to run out weekend. Background of the tunnel and take a snap
manager.

Anello waited Anello's top on the field is fine with him. all week for sport throughout This year, Anello wears No. the coaches to Mike Anello all of high school 37 on game days but said the pull him out Irish defensive back and his child­change in number had noth­of the spot, hood was ing to do with creating his but it never wrestling. He own image or getting rid of happened. On had the opportu­the Rudy stigma. his second trip down the field nity to wrestle in college but "Coach Weis just came up to he got to the ball and record­decided against it because of me when we were getting our ed his first collegiate tackle. the wear and tear on his body. jersey and told me I wasn't 
"It was kind of a surreal "I've seen the guys who wearing Rudy's number again experience, if you had told me wrestle in college and it just this year, he pointed to 37 and a few years ago that I would doesn't seem like fun. I didn't that was fine with me," Anello even be on the Notre Dame want to spend four years said. team I would've probably doing that and worrying about Anello actually knew Rudy laughed at you," Anello said. cutting weight all of the time," before he stormed down the 
The road to where he is now Anello said. sidelines with No. 45 on his was not an easy one. But all of that work in the back. He and Rudy's son, 
As a 120-pound sophomore ring wasn't lost. Anello said Danny Jr., wrestled against at Carl Sandburg High School that a lot of his work ethic one another several times as outside of Chicago, he didn't and ability to train as hard as they were growing up and got see the field once. His coaches he does comes from wrestling. to know each other pretty told him that if only he was a Weis and the coaching staff well. 
I 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Irish senior defensive back Mike Anello does a chin-up during a mid­week workout to prepare for the Michigan game. 
Anello said he called Rudy after a full day's work. after the Michigan game last "That was probably the year to tell him about the new toughest part, working that number and the Irish legend hard and then having to go congratulated him on the work out afterwards. There game. were plenty of days when I 
didn't want to be there," he Nothing comes easy said. 
Anello's ascent from unrec­Despite the challenges, ognizable to a fan favorite Anello never once thought of may seem like it happened giving up. The thrill of throw­fast, but it was the result of ing on the gold helmet every years of tireless work. day was enough to keep him 
The process started four going. years ago when Anello first started training for walk-on Hard work pays off tryouts. Every day he forced Those sunrise workouts and himself to run sprints and lift 100-hour weeks paid off in a for hours on top of his classes big way this August when and the other work he had. Weis announced Anello was After a long, lonely few given a full scholarship for his months, things only got contributions to the team. tougher. "I didn't give the kid a 
When he returned to cam­scholarship because of his pus for spring semester fresh­appearance. I gave it to him man year he started working because he earned it," Weis out with the said. other walk-ons. Anello's par­The group got ents were in
'7 didn't give this kid 
together at 5:30 town to watch 
a scholarship because 
a.m. to run the practice and sprints and get ofhis appearance. I witnessed the ready for try­moment.
gave it to him 
outs. "I was the last
because he earned 
"That was one he called so really tough, it. , I was getting a doing all that little bit nerv­and not even ous," Anello
Charlie Weis 
knowing that said. "But when 
Irish coach 
you would make coach started the team," he saying 'This said. "They next guy is 5­were only about 30 minutes foot-2, about 12 pounds,' I long, but man, sometimes you knew who he was talking would leave those workouts about." crawling out the door." Weis continues to remind 
Anello made the team that Anello how undersized he is spring, but as so often hap­on almost a daily basis. pens, his reward for hard "At first I was 5-4, then 5-2, work was more hard work. He now I think I'm under five feet continued to train hard to according to him. For some move up the depth chart and reason, I keep on shrinking," make himself and the team he said. better. Anello might be shrinking in 
After his sophomore season, Weis's eyes, but to the rest of Anello got an internship at an the Notre Dame football investment banking firm that world, he can't get much big­had him logging upwards of ger. 80 hours per week, but still he 

Irish senior defensiVE! back Mike Anello works on his wheels after practice. Anello, a former found time to get up early and Contact Dan Murphy at walk-on, earned a spot on the travel squad last year and is now a scholarship player. go for a run or hit the gym dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 12, 2008 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT
Record: 1-0 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 
Sept. 6  SDSU-W  
Sept. 13  MICillGAN  
Sept. 20  at MICH. ST.  
Sept. 27  PURDUE.  
Oct. 4  STANFORD  
Oct. 11  atUNC  
Oct. 25  at WASH.  
Nov.1  PITT  
Nov. 8  atBC  
Nov.15  NAVY  
Nov. 22  SYRACUSE  
Nov. 29  at USC  

No. 

1 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 10 11 12 12 13 14 15 15 16 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 24 25 26 27 28 29 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 35 36 36 37 37 38 38 39 40 41 41 42 42 43 43 44 45 45 46 47 47 48 49 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 61 Martin Quintana LB 242 JR 62 Bill Flavin c 6-3 252 so 63 Jeff Tisak OT 6-3 306 SR 
64 Tom Burke LB 5-10 242 JR 65 Mike Hernandez OL 6-2 275 FR 67 Tom Bemenderfer c 6-5 300 SR 69 Carl Brophy OL 6-4 278 FR 70 Matt Romine OT 6-5 292 so 71 Dennis Mahoney OL 6·6 290 FR 72 Paul Duncan OT 6-7 308 SR 74 Sam Young OT 6-8 330 JR 75 Taylor Dever OT 6-5 308 so 75 Lane Clelland OT 6-5 281 FR 76 Andrew Nuss DE 6-5 304 so 77 Mike Turkovich OG 6-6 305 SR 78 Trevor Robinson OG 6-5 301 FR 79 Halis Williams DE 6-2 302 FR 81 John Goodman WR 6-3 197 FR 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 210 JR 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 265 so 85 Sam Vas WR 5-10 199 JR 86 Paul Kuppich TE 6-3 232 SR 87 Joseph Fauna TE 6-7 245 FR 89 Kapron Lewis-Moore DE 6-4 257 FR 90 John Ryan LB 6-5 264 JR 91 Emeka Nwankwo DE 6-4 295 so 93 Paddy Mullen NT 6-3 300 JR 94 Justin Brown DE 6-3 277 SR 95 ian Williams NT 6-2 310 so 96 Pat Kuntz DE 6-3 283 SR 97 Kallen Wade LB 6-5 255 JR 98 Sean Cwynar DE 6-4 283 FR 99 Brandon Newman NT 6-0 310 FR 


Too tough to pick a 
clear winner here. Both 
coaches have very 
resumes but 
~~~b 
te<ffh 
focused will most likely come away with a win. 
The players remember last year's loss to Michigan, they will play up to their level. The Irish will pass the ball effectively, but inter­ceptions will kill drives and prevent scoring opportuni­ties. Neither Allen or Hughes will have a 




Irish experts 



stellar game and the Michigan run will  and Tenuta's blitz-crazy defense. The Irish  who was better, Notre Dame or vaunted Cal  
be tough to stop. The game won't be too  win, and look better then they did last  Poly. Ouch. Michigan has struggle too, but  
ugly but it will take a big play on defense  week.  should be able to put up a few more points  
or special teams for a Notre Dame win.  than the Irish and win in a relative blowout.  
FINAL SCORE: Michigan 31  FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28  FINAL SCORE: Michigan 20  
Notre Dame 14  Michigan 14  Notre Dame 10  


Michigan and Notre Dame both have not looked good so far this season. The dif­ference? Michigan has played twice and still looks like it has some rust on. The offensive transition to Rodriguez's spread continues to lag, espe­cially against Brown Make sure you take a nap before this one because they're won't be too much to keep you awake. Notre Dame woke up in the fourth quarter last week, but the first three were all too reminiscent of 2007. SDSU coach Chuck Long couldn't decide 

Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

WOLVERINE RUSHING WOLVERINE PASSING 
With McCarthy and Bruton surging up the middle of the field the Irish pass defense looked impressive despite the lack of pressure on Ryan Lindley last week. Veteran Terrail Lambert adds experience at the corner position.  
A trio of new, young quarterbacks and a new offense have given Michigan a slow start through the air. Threet looked much improved against Miami of Ohio last week but the entire team needs a few more games before they look like West Virginia.  

The defensive line did­n't prove to be too intim­idating against San Diego State, but it didn't get too many chances to prove what it could do. The line should show it's new beef this weekend against a run-oriented attack.  
Michigan is one of the few teams who is as deep as Notre Dame in the hack­field. Threet also looked good carrying the ball. The big uglies are much stronger than the Aztecs and the Rich Rodriguez offense is only going to get better as the weeks go on.  

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Former walk-on Mike Anello adds a spark of pride to the Irish special teams. The kicking game still needs plenty of work with one missed and one botched field goal last week. Maust looked good on punts, and he will have plenty more practice Saturday. 
Michigan kick return­ers are averaging 22.3 yards per return and have plenty of big play potential. Lopata shanked a PAT against Utah, but is 2-for-3 on field goals in the Wolverines' first two 
games. 
San Diego St. 2008 Schedule 
Aug. 30  UTAH-L  
Sept. 6  MIAMI-W  
Sept. 13  atND  
Sept. 27  WISCONSIN  
Oct. 4  ILLINOIS  
Oct. 11  10LEDO  
Oct. 18  at PENNSfAlE  
Oct. 25  MICH.SfATE  
Nov.l  at PURDUE  
Nov. 8  at MINNF1iOTA  
Nov. 15  NW'ERN  
Nov. 22  atOillOSfAlE  

INTANGIBLES 
Lou Holtz's famous pep talks should give the team a little bit of fire. Add that to the fact that they still have a lot to prove in front of their home fans after last week's win and the Irish should be ready to roll Saturday afternoon. 
The Wolverines are still looking for a big win and although it's a down year, a win in South Bend is always important. Rodriguez will have his troops armed and ready for his first trip to the house that Rock built. 
z 
0 
-t 
::a 
ITI 
c 
>
s: 
ITI 
-
n 
::1:
-
G') 
> 
z 


Clausen is much 
improved, their 
defense is much, 
much better. They're 
schedule, combined 
with the improved 
football team, with the 
leadership and Charlie 
Weis is why I think 

Lou Holtz they can still go 11-1. I 
Former coach think Michigan is 
going to be a defensive struggle, but the Irish come out on top. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21 Michigan 13 

Clausen will contin­ua to improve with two more TD passes, b Lit will spend too much time on his back to make a big impact. Michigan will teach the Irish what pound­ing the ball really means as they grind it out in a yawner. The Irish will rush for less 
than 50 yards against a tough Wolverine 
defensive front and miss an extra point, 
which should give fan~. a legitimate reason 
to complain this time amund. 
FINAL SCORE: Michigan 17 Notre Dame 13 
is an ESPN college football 
•atuLI<v"'· and a well known Irish support­coached Notre Dame trom 1986 He led the Irish to a national 1an1Pilmship in 1988 with a perfect 12­record. He also coached at Arkansas, innesota and South Carolina before 
and joining Mark May in front 
Michigan 
Wolvennes 
Record: 1-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Rich Rodriguez 1st season at Michigan career record: 60-26 against Notre Dame: 0-0 
Rich Rodriguez head coach 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
2  Sam McGuffie  RB  5·11  185  FR  
3  Justin Feagin  QB  6·0  190  FR  
3  Stevie Brown  s  6·0  209  JR  
4  Drandon Minor  RB  6·1  214  JR  
Carson Butler  TE  6·5  250  JR  
5  Charles Stewart  s  6·2  206  SR  
6  Donovan Warren  CB  6-0  180  so  
7  Terrence Robinson  WR  5·9  170  FR  
8  Jonas Mouton  LB  6·2  230  so  
Nick Sheridan  QB  6·1  212  so  
Marell Evans  LB  6·3  231  so  
Martavious Odoms  WR  5·9  171  FR  
10  Steven Threet  QB  6·6  230  FR  
12  David Cone  QB  6·7  214  so  
12  J.T. Floyd  CB  6·0  190  FR  
13  Greg Mathews  WR  6·3  207  JR  
14  Morgan Trent  CB  6·1  188  SR  
15  Michael Cox  RB  6·0  206  FR  
16  Roy Roundtree  WR  6·0  154  FR  
17  Toney Clemons  WR  6·3  201  so  
17  Tony Anderson  CB  5·11  181  FA  
18  James Rogers  WR  6-1  180  so  
19  Zach Johnson  CB  6·2  197  FR  
20  Michael Shaw  WR  6·0  185  FR  
21  Jordan Reilly  s  5·10  185  FR  
21  Junior Hemingway  WR  6·1  214  so  
22  Bobby Centlivre  CB  6·0  180  so  
22  Darryl Stonum  WR  6·2  190  FA  
23  Carlos Brown  RB  6·0  213  JR  
23  Royd Simmons  s  5-10  185  FR  
24  Kevin Grady  RB  5·9  228  JR  
25  Doug Rogan  s  6·1  185  FR  
25  Kenny Demens  LB  6·1  226  FA  
26  Nick Koenigsknecht  s  5-10  178  so  
26  Zion Babb  WR  6·1  189  so  
27  Brandon Harrison  s  5-9  206  SR  
28  Brandon Smith  s  6-3  210  FR  
29  Troy Woolfolk  CB  6·0  195  so  
30  Chris Berry  p  6·3  205  so  
30  Shakir Edwards  s  6·0  2f0  SA  
31  Ryan Meyers  WR  6·3  197  FR  
32  Karl Tech  s  5·10  191  FR  
32  Vince Helmuth  FB  6·1  261  so  
33  Boubacar Cissoko  CB  5·9  175  FR  
34  Avery Hom  RB  5·10  185  FR  
34  Jason Gingell  K  5·9  194  SR  
35  Dough Dutch  CB  5·11  204  SR  
35  Jimmy Potempa  RB  5·7  175  FR  
36  Taylor Hill  LB  6·2  205  FR  
37  Ricky Reyes  WR  5·11  170  so  
38  Artis Chambers  s  6·0  202  so  
38  Mike Milano  RB  5-7  193  JR  
39  Will Heininger  DE  6·6  239  FR  
40  Michael Williams  s  5·11  185  FR  
41  Zoltan Mesko  p  6·5  235  JR  
42  J.B. Fitzgerald  LB  6-3  230  FR  
43  Bryan Wright  K  6·1  219  so  
43  John McColgan  FB  6·1  220  FA  
44  Mark Moundros  FB  6·1  232  so  
45  Obi Ezeh  LB  6-2  247  so  
46  Brandon Logan  LB  6-1  208  SR  
46  Jon Bills  TE  6·3  225  FA  
49  John Thompson  LB  6·1  239  SA  
50  David Molk  OL  6·2  282  FR  
50  Ohene Opong-Owusu  LB  6-2  233  JR  
51  Mike Fish  LB  6·0  201  so  
52  Kevin Leach  LB  6-1  202  FR  
52  Stephen Schilling  OL  6·5  295  so  
53  Ryan Van Bergen  DE  6·6  265  FR  
54  Austin Panter  LB  6-3  231  SA  
55  Brandon Graham  DE  6·2  270  JR  
56  Ricky Barnum  OL  6-2  265  FR  
57  Elliott Mealer  OL  6·6  280  FR  
58  Brandon Herron  LB  6-2  218  FR  
59  Paul Gyarrnati  LB  6·2  225  FR  
59  Sean Griffin  LS  6·2  243  SA  
60  David Moosman  OL  6-5  292  JR  
61  ZacCiullo  OL  6·1  268  FR  
62  Tim McAvoy  OL  6-6  288  JR  
63  Rocke Khoury  OL  6-5  280  FR  
64  Kurt Warmers  OL  6·5  260  FR  
65  Patrick Omameh  OL  6·4  260  FR  
67  Terrance Taylor  DT  6·0  319  SA  
68  Mike Martin  DT  6·2  285  FA  
69  Michael Ramirez  OL  6·3  288  so  
70  Bryant Nowicki  OL  6·9  326  so  
71  Mark Ortmann  OL  6·7  294  JR  
72  Mark Huyge  OL  6·6  292  FR  
73  George Morales  LS  6.0  268  FR  
74  John Ferrara  OL  6·4  274  so  
75  Cory Zirbel  OL  6·5  292  JR  
78  Dann O'Neill  OL  6·7  295  FR  
79  Perry Dorrestein  OL  6·1  308  so  
80  Martell Webb  TE  6·4  249  so  
81  Steve Watson  TE  6·4  242  FR  
82  LaTerryat Savoy  WR  6-3  210  JR  
83  Mike Massey  TE  6·5  225  SR  
84  K.C. Lopata  K  6-2  233  SR  
86  Kevin Koger  TE  6-4  220  FR  
88  Andre Criswell  DE  6-2  264  JR  
88  Brandon Moore  TE  6-6  221  FR  
89  Jon Conover  WR  6·3  199  JR  
89  nm North  DE  6·1  260  so  
90  nm Jamison  DE  6·3  263  SA  
91  Tom Pomarico  OL  6·4  248  FR  
92  Greg Banks  DE  6·4  258  so  
92  Jason Olesnavage  K  6·5  214  JR  
93  Jason Kates  DT  6·2  339  so  
95  Renaldo Sagesse  DT  6·4  308  so  
96  Mike Therrnan  TE  6·4  236  so  :~.  
97  Scott Schrimscher  K  5-10  186  FA  
97  Will Johnson  DT  6-5  285  SR  
99  Adam Patterson  DE  6-3  259  JR  

Irish 
experts 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 12, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
NO points scored UM points scored NO points allowed UM points allowed ~5 

ND rush yards UM rush yards ~­
NO rushing allowed UM rushing allowed 
ND pass yards UM pass yards 
NO passing allowed UM passing allowed 





Friday, September 12, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Tate makes transition from athlete to receiver 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Against San Diego State, sophomore wideout Golden Tate caught six passes for 93 yards, including the go-ahead touchdown. 
Not bad for someone who a year ago was "a chicken with his head cut off," according to offensive coordinator Mike Haywood. 
"He was just out there run­ning," Haywood said. " ... But he's done a good job, he works really hard. He's one of the guys that I like to joke with at practice because he's a funny guy, but he's really conscientious about getting better every day." 
Last season, Tate primarily knew how to do one thing as a receiver -run the go­route. Slants? Outs? Comebacks? Forget it. They'd have to wait. But now with a season and many post-prac­tice sessions with wide receivers coach Rob Ianello under his belt, Tate does more than just run as fast as he can down the field. 
"I feel like a more complete receiver," Tate said. "I feel like I know what I'm doing and I feel like the team and coaches have confidence in me." 
Tate made a splash on Sept. 29 last season when the Irish played Purdue, catching three passes for 104 yards and a touchdown. Each catch came on a go-route. 
"I wasn't in the game plan a sport I never played that much. I was just on the before," he said. sideline and coach is like Tate realizes now that he '23,"' Tate said. "I heard it had to earn the coaches' trust echo a few times and he was in order to get on the field. just like, 'Run straight.' And I "Last year it was tough just didn't even run it correctly because last year I didn't 
but I came up with the ball."  understand  - I can catch the  
After  the  ball, run certain  
game, Tate,  a  routes, why  am  
native  of  I  not  on  the  
Hendersonville,  'Tou really don't  field?"  Tate  
Tenn., became somewhat of a cult hero, a bright spot in  have plays to spare and as a head coach, you don't want to sit  said. "But now as a sophomore, being more mature, you  
an otherwise dim season for Notre Dame.  on the sideline and wonder, 'What is this  understand that the coaches did­n't have confi­ 
Facebook  guy going to do?' I  dence that I was  
groups named after him appeared and  understand it now, last year I didn't."  going to do the right thing. You really don't  
T-shirts  were  have  plays  to  
made in honor  Golden Tate  spare and  as  a  
of the "Golden- Irish wide receiver  head coach, you  
Go."  don't want to sit  
T  h  e  on  the sideline  
response  and  wonder,  

caught me by surprise and I 'What is this guy going to was like, 'Wow, I didn't know do?' I understand it now, last this was possible.' I just tried year I didn't.'' not to let it get to my head," But in 2008, Tate has gone Tate said. "I was calling my from someone who could pro­family and telling them. It vide an occasional spark to was so new to me. I can't an integral part of Notre believe this in college that the Dame's receiving corps. whole world is looking at me When Notre Dame went like this.'' with a no-huddle offense 
Even though his popularity against San Diego State, Tate with the fans grew, he still caught three passes for 63 didn't get on the field as yards. He caught a couple of much as he'd like. But he slant passes, but he hasn't understood why. forgotten how to run the go 
"Last year the game was route. His 38-yard reception just moving way too fast. It from sophomore quarterback was almost like I was playing Jimmy Clausen put Notre Dame ahead for good. 

But Tate said even that go­route wouldn't have hap­pened a year ago. He and Clausen surveyed the cover­age and decided to adjust Tate's route before the snap. 
"Last year, I would've run the original route," Tate said. 

-
"And he would've thrown it and it might've been picked off and I would've been like, 'Wait, what's going on?"' 
Luckily for Notre Dame, this isn't last year. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Ga. Tech transfer Threet gets starting nod 

By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Rich Rodriguez had it all planned out. 
He would lure coveted quarter­back recruit Terrelle Pryor away from West Virginia, where he ran a high-scoring version of the spread offense with quarterback Pat White, and bring him to his new job at Michigan. Pryor, with his speed, athleticism and strong arm, was the poster child for spread offense quarterbacks. He would help usher in the new offense. 
But Pryor bailed, instead head­ing to play for Jim Tressel and enemy Ohio State, and Rodriguez was forced to make do. Steven Threet, a redshirt freshman transfer from Georgia Tech, and junior Nick Sheridan now have the responsibility of learning and running Rodriguez' offense. 
"You've got to be patient because they're young guys and we have to make progress each week," Rodriguez said after the Wolverines' 16-6 win over Miami (OH) Saturday. "They will defi­nitely get more confidence as the season goes on." 
The idea behind the spread is to get as many skill position ath­letes (running backs and wide receivers) in the game as possi­ble and spread them across the field. This keeps the defense from congregating in the box and forces them to play one-on­one more often. The defense is stretched thin from sideline to sideline and has less help mak­ing tackles, so a missed tackle can easily result in a big play. 
It's common to see reverses, direct snaps to running backs or quarterback runs because the idea is to get the ball in the hands of speedy players. The play of the spread centers on the quarterback's ability to work through his progressions well. 
"I made some of the right reads this week," Threet said after Saturday's game. "I had some difficulty seeing things next week, but I saw them this week." 
Neither quarterback has been great. In Michigan's 25-23 loss to Utah, Threet completed eight-of­19 passes for 98 yards and a touchdown. and Sheridan com­pleted 11-of-19 with a touch­down and an interception. Against Miami (OH), Threet was 6-of-13 for 63 yards and Sheridan was 4-of-5 for just 40 yards. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said he expects to see both Sheridan and Threet, and possibly Carlos Brown, at quarterback. Brown is a multi-position player who is more of a threat on the ground than Sheridan and Threet but missed time because of a shoul­der injury. 
"I think they'll have a Carlos Brown package that we'll have to practice," Weis said in his press conference Tuesday. "I think we'll see [Brown] a little bit at quarterback in this game now that he's healthy, because the other two guys are more of throwers and this kid is a run­ning back that has played some quarterback." 
A defense has enough trouble covering the spread, but what adds to the confusion is the no­huddle offense the Wolverines use. They approach the line of scrimmage to see what defensive personnel and alignment they are facing, then call a play based on what they see. In this way, they can create mismatches with their skill position players. 
Weis met with Rodriguez before the beginning of last sea­son to discuss aspects of the spread offense and said the no­huddle offense intrigued him. 
"I thought it was really inter­esting how [Rodriguez] calls almost every play at the line of scrimmage," Weis said. 
At West Virginia last season, Rodriguez' offense averaged 39.6 points per game and gained 
456.2 total yards per game. Because they had White and running backs Steve Slaton, who now plays for the Houston Texans, and freshman speedster Noel Devine, most of those yards came on the ground. 
The Wolverine offense may be similar; so far, no receiver has caught more than eight passes or 64 yards in the first two games combined. Freshman running back Sam McGuffie found his stride against Miami (OH), rush­ing for 7 4 yards on 17 carries, but the Wolverines have only averaged 107 yards rushing in their first two games -some­what low for a spread offense. 
Rodriguez has shown no signs of deviating from the Threet­Sheridan rotation. 

-
"We may start off the same way we did last week with Steve and Nick, Steve going first," he said. "If one guy would emerge and play to the point where it's just him and he's playing at that level, that would be good. Our concern is that whoever is doing the ~naps can execute the sys­tem. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 12, 2008 
-
-Visit the NEW website for the Office of Vocations 
SOMETIMES 
at vocation.nd.edu to Learn more about the 
discernment isn't so easy Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Who knows...you may be called. 






