
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 55 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2008 

MBA program jumps six spots in rankings 
BusinessWeek Rankings 
I. Booth School of Business 2006-1 
University ofChicago 
2. Harvard Business School 2006-4 
Harvard University 
3. Kellogg Graduate School ofManagement 2006-3 
Northwestern University 
4. The Wharton School 2006-2 
University ofPennsylvania 
5. Ross School of Business 2006-5 
University ofMichigan 
f.//1 
20. Mendoza College ofBusiness 2006-26 
University ofNotre Dame Graphic Crcdic Mary Cedlia ~li!>ch 
By ELLYN MICHALAK News Writer 
The MBA program in Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business advanced six spots in BusinessWeek magazine's bien­nial survey of MBA programs nationwide, from a No. 26 ranking in 2006 to No. 20 in 2008. 
The survey ranks the top 30 MBA programs and the top 10 rion-U.S. MBA programs. The University of Chicago's Booth School of Business earned the No. 1 spot, followed by Harvard Business School, Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. 
Two year MBA candidate Mirjam Wit said she was pleased to see Notre Dame move up in the rankings. 
"It definitely feels good to pay money and have my degree get more value as I continue my education here," she said. 
BusinessWeek Magazine uses surveys of students and corpo­rate recruiters as well as an intellectual capital rating to determine its rankings. The 45-question student survey is 
see MBA/ page 4 



ND Votes pushes for sustained discussion 
Campaign wraps up activities and hopes that 'interest will extend beyond the election' 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Although ND Votes '08 will cease to exist following Election 2008, the organizers of the Center for Social Concerns-based initiative hope that political dis­cussion will continue on campus. 
"ND Votes may not have any official events, but our main goal was to facilitate political inter­est," ND Votes student co-chair Mallory Laurel said. "We hope that that interest will extend beyond the election." 
The short-term goal of ND Votes was to increase student participation in the 2008 elec­tion, and the organizers hope that the initiative has "stirred up the kind of political and civic participation that can be contin­ued seven days a week, 365 days a year," Laurel said. 
ND Votes was organized out of the Justice Education division of the Center for Social Concerns. Laurel said this justice division, which "is in some ways an exten­sion of the interests ofND Votes," will continue to be active in pro­moting political discussion on campus. 
"The student justice part of the esc will have some sort of events that remind students that although we have enacted our right to vote, we must hold can-
see VOTES/ page 4 

NDSMCOI)SERVER.COM 
Teaching progran1 recruits students 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
Teach for America recruit­ment director Patrick Herre! told Notre Dame students Monday night that they can become involved both before and after graduation to solve "America's greatest injustice." 
Teach for America recruits college undergraduates across the nation to spend two years on its teaching corps in public schools in 29 regions across the United States. Notre Dame, with 75 graduates currently teaching in the program, is one of the top 10 universities with the highest participation in the program, Herre! said. 
Herre!, who taught in Charlotte, N.C. with Teach for America before he became a recruiter, spoke to a group of over 30 students at the infor­mation session targeted at sophomores and juniors. He said he was excited because it was the first time that the organization had hosted an event at Notre Dame specifical­ly for underclassmen. 
He said Teach for America is important because it allows recent college graduates not only to teach for two years, but also to commit themselves to 
see TFA/page 4 


Recital features world dance, song 
Saint Mary's students perform international pieces at annual event 
By MEGAN LONEY News Writer 
For the fourth year in a row, the Little Theatre was filled with the sounds of music from all over the world, as students performed a variety of international songs and dances as part of the Modern Language Recital. 
"This showcase began as an end-of-semester assign­ment for my students to present to their class," said Saint Mary's professor Marianne Hahn, the founder of the recital. "One year, I had three sopranos in my class, and I thought that they should perform for an audi­ence and not just for the other students in the class." 
Hahn had her students per­form as part of the recital that year and has continued it ever since. 

But she did not have any students connected with the music department this year, so she contacted the depart­ment to see if any of the stu­dents would be willing to perform as part of the Modern Language recital this year. 
Senior McKayela Collins, a music major with a focus on vocal performance, was interested and organized the entire music portion of the recital and sang a German piece by composer Clara Schumann. Collins is familiar with singing in other lan­guages, as her major requires her to be proficient in singing in Italian, French and German. She sometimes does pieces in Spanish or Russian. 
"I chose this song because I wanted it to benefit students taking [German], "Collins said. "I thought it would be good for them to hear it and challenge themselves to understand the lyrics." 
This piece is one of the songs Collins will perform in her February recital of all­female composers. 
The first part of the recital, organized by Collins, consist­ed of music sung and played by Saint Mary's students. These students were recom­mended to Collins from vari­ous professors in the music department. 
Nine students enrolled in Chinese 101 sang "You and Me," the theme from the 2008 Bejing Olympic games. 
see RECITAL/page 6 



RHA recognizes 
residence leaders 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
The Saint Mary's National Residence Hall Honorary (NRHH) has been accepting nominations for induction into the organiza­tion for the second year since the beginning of November. 
The NRHH, which is part of the College's Residence Hall Association (RHA) is an organiza­tion that acknowledges the peo­ple that make residence halls a great place to live, senior and NRHH president Shannon Egan said. 
RHA first discovered the NRHH at the Great Lakes Association of Colleges and University Residence Halls (GLACURH) last year, RHA president Maura Clougherty said. Since RHA is part of a national organization they attend yearly conferences like the GLACURH to learn ideas and develop programs they can bring back to the College. RHA decided that the NRHH is a good program because of the unique­ness of the residence halls. 
"By bringing an NRHH chapter to our campus, we are able to formally acknowledge those peo­ple that make our residence halls a wonderful environment, and home, to our students," she said. "We extended our reach as RHA, so that on-campus students can directly recognize the people they see making an impact in their day-to-day lives." 
see NRHH/page 4 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Clothed in 

class 
In the past three and a half years, I 
have not taken any classes that included 
nudity as a requirement. 
This morning, I registered for classes 
for the last time in my college career and 
I'm fairly certain that I'll be keeping my 
clothes on next 
semester. I haven't 
Kaltlynn Rlely 
seen the syllabi, but 
I'm pretty sure that 
nudity is not a Associate News 
requirement in Editor 
classes like 
"Advanced Fiction 
Writing" or "American Political Parties." 
My sister, Kelly, has not been so lucky. 
She's a sophomore at a college in 
Pennsylvania, studying nursing. 
She walked into one of her nursing classes in August and her professor told her to pick a partner she'd be comfort­able with and make sure she wears clothes to class that are easy to take off and put on. 
So while I was reading Moby Dick and writing a paper about the Democratic and Hepublican conventions, Kelly was giving, and receiving, a breast exam from her classmate, as the professor walked around the elassroom to make sure everyone was performing them correctly. 
Next semester, when I'm reading about political parties and tho writings of 20th century American women writers, she'll be giving her classmate a sponge bath, and then getting a sponge bath from this same elassmate. (The professor says they can wear bathing suits for this one, but still. The elosest I've ever come to per­forming sponge baths in class is .... no, I've never come close.) 
In my three and a half years at college, I've had some fairly tough assignments. I've written long papers, taken difficult tests and given some class presentations. 
But the whole time, I was wearing clothes. School has seemed a lot easier and less stressful this semester since I realized I could be in the buff in DeBartolo. 
I'm usually chilly enough in those class­rooms as it is. 
The nearest I've come to combining nudity and schoolwork at Notre Dame have been the unfortunate occasions when I was studying for final exams in the library and the bun runners of Alumni Hall ran by. 
But I'm using Kelly's classroom experi­ences of undress as a motivating agent for the rest of my semester. And as we move into the end of the term and the beginning of the biannual college tradi­tion of competing in complaining about who has it worse, consider thinking about my sister and her naked class­mates. 
You have two 20-page papers due on the same day? Did you have to write them in a hospital dressing gown? 
You have three tests in one week? Do any of the tests involve feeling under your classmate's clothes? 
I'm pretty sure they don't. 
So when you head off to class the next few weeks, tackling your end of the semester work, bundle up. Wear multiple layers. Dress yourselves in a complicated array of clothes that can't be taken off or put on easily. 
And enjoy not seeing your classmates in their birthday suits. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica!ion and strives for the highest standards of jounalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO FOR THE SOUTH BEND SNOWFALL? 

Allan Jones 
freshman Keenan 
"Snowball fight.,, 
\ \ 

Harrison Chilton 
senior Siegfried 

"J took a snow­board offthe roofofthe Siegfried Mansion.,, 

Collin McCabe 
junior Carroll 
I went ice-fishing for compliments. 
Jenni Ross 
senior off-campus 
"I created a life-sized replica ofmy roommate, Jess Lee, out ofsnow 
-mostly coal. ,, 

IN BRIEF 
Zhigang Suo, professor of engineering and applied sci­ences at Harvard University, will present a seminar on the thermodynamics of large deformation in soft active materials today at 3:30 p.m. The topic has applications in medical devices, robotics, energy harvesting, micro­fuidics, and oil wells. 
G.F. Michelsen will read from his latest novel, "Mettle," at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore tonight at 7:30 p.m. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program and is open to the public. 
Estampas Portenas, a tango group from Argentina, will dance at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tomorrow at 7 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students and can be purchased online or at the Ticket Office. 
This month's Evenings of Prayer from Around the World will feature Muslim prayer. The service will be held at 7 p.m. tomorrow in 330 Coleman-Morse. Students of all faith traditions are wel­come to the Campus Ministry­sponsored event. 
The Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show the film "Boy A" at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 
p.m. Thursday. In the film, a man who committed a terrible crime as a child is released from jail as an adult into a world he has never been part of. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY GAME DAY 
e. 
e.
*·. * 

**• * HIGH 34 HIGH 40 LOW 24 LOW 31 OFFBEAT 
Man loses 140 pounds to join military 
LEWISTON, Maine ­Army and Navy recruiters took one look at 330-pound Ulysses Milana and told him to forget about joining. "You've got to lose weight," Milan a remem­hers them saying. But Marine recruiters were willing to work with him as he began his weight­loss journey in December 2007. 
Now, 11 months later, Milana is 140 pounds lighter as he leaves Monday for Parris Island, S.C., to begin boot camp. 
TODAY 
D:: 
1.&.1 
:::E: 
~ 
1.&.1 
0.
...J 
cc 
3: 
(,) ***.* *
* * 
0 
HIGH 32
..... 
LOW 18 
It wasn't easy, Milan a said, but he managed to slim down through exer­cise, healthier eating habits and forgoing an occasional beer after work. The 23-year-old said he even refused a beer at his going-away party Saturday night. 
Hand model sues Martha Stewart, Kmart 
DES MOINES, Iowa ­A hand model, magician and actor blames a Martha Stewart-branded lounge chair for snipping off a bit of his livelihood. 
In a lawsuit filed Monday against Kmart 

Corp.  and  Martha  
Stewart  Living  
Omnimedia,  Patrick  

Albanese said he was moving the Martha Stewart Everyday lounge chair on a deck in June when the front tubular legs collapsed, crushing his right index finger between one of the chair legs and a tubular bar on the base of the chair. 
The lawsuit said the fingertip fell beneath the deck but was later retrieved by a relative. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0. 
0.

**** *.
* * 
***.

* * * * HIGH 30 HIGH 37 HIGH 34 LOW 20 LOW 27 LOW 23 

K. Sawyer Negro 
senior offcampus 
"What snow?" 

Atlanta 51 I 28 Boston 39 I 30 Chicago 36 I 28 Denver 72 I 40 Houston 71 I 43 Los Angeles 84 I 55 Minneapolis 31 128 New York 40 I 29 Philadelphia 41 I 29 Phoenix 85 I 55 Seattle 52 I 44 St. Louis 44 I 32 Tampa 70 I 42 Washington 40 130 
Tuesday, November 18,2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



ND development director wins Emmy award 
George Keegan honoredfor work as co-creator ofanimated television series, "The Adventures ofthe Young Thomas Edison" 
Special to The Observer 
George Keegan, the University of Notre Dame's director of foundation relations, has an interesting connection to the famous inventor and business-
m a n 
Thomas Edison, and that con­nection, as well as a simi I a r entrepre­neurial 


s P i r i t , Keeganrecently earned Keegan, of all things, an Emmy Award, the highest honor of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. Keegan is co-creator of the animated television series "The Adventures of the Young Thomas Edison," which won the 2008 Mid-Atlantic Emmy Award for Children!Youthffeen Program or Special after airing on New Jersey Network Public Television. The show teaches creativity and innovation through the scientific method. "I kept hearing about how science and math standards had been dropping," Keegan said. "And then I read a report that said if you don't 
capture students' interest in math and science by fifth grade, you've lost them for life. I wanted to make an impact by inspiring kids to ask questions and think differently. The series is something that parents have been looking for because it's completely different." 
Keegan, accepted his "dream job" at Notre Dame in February, leaving behind a career that many people might consider the same thing. He served as the executive director of the Edison Innovation Foundation in Newark, N.J., which is committed to educat­ing the next generation of great innovators through Edison and his Invention Factory. Keegan worked alongside his father John, chairman and president of the Charles Edison Fund, from which the foundation was created, and remains a trustee of both the foundation and the fund. 
The connection to the Edisons began with Keegan's father. A 1961 Notre Dame graduate, John Keegan was one of the attorneys who oversaw the estate of Edison's son Charles, who assisted his father in run­ning the business, as well as serving as secretary of the Navy and governor of New Jersey. He didn't have any 
children, so he left all of his Keegan's idea for the chil­money to his estate for histori­dren's series and, consequently, cal preservation, medical its Emmy, has given the mar­research and higher education. keting campaign a huge boost, Currently valued at around and he says the concept took $200 million, the fund, inciden­root years before. tally, has a long history of sup­"When I was in business port for science and engineer­school I had a concentration in ing at Notre Dame. entrepreneurship and innova­
A 1995 Notre Dame graduate, tion, and that's when I really Keegan earned a master's started talking to my father degree through about Edison the University's and what he 
Alliance for "It's surreal. did," Keegan Catholic Education Everyone is kind of said. "Besides (ACE) program, as wanting to
shocked that a pipe
well as an MBA combine my
dream ofone of their
from the two master's University of employees could be degrees in Florida. After education and
Emmy-worthy."
serving as the business, assistant fiscal that's when manager for Jhe George Keegan the light bulb Diocese of St. director of really went on Augustine in for me. "(No
foundation relations 
Jacksonville, Fla., pun intended) Keegan joined the Keegan part­Edison Innovation Foundation. nered with Randall Rossilli Jr., 
"Back in 1998, the board of producer and founder of the Charles Edison Fund felt Nightstand Creations, and in Thomas Edison's legacy was 2006 his idea blossomed into a not being preserved the way it pilot. The pilot was produced should be," Keegan explained. in only nine months, which is "So, they set up the foundation unheard of in children's anima­to concentrate directly on his tion, and, as Keegan admits, life and legacy and began a "especially for two guys who marketing campaign that have never had any producing would license Edison's name experience." around the world." Now, eight months after a "great opportunity presented itself' at Notre Dame, Keegan remains protective of "Young Thomas Edison." He still reviews all creative content for the show, which is committed to air next fall on participating PBS stations. The pilots already have airing committ­ments in New York, Mississippi and Florida, as well as New Jersey, and there are DVDs of each show, story books and ani­mated music videos. 
"It's surreal," Keegan said. "Everyone is kind of shocked that a pipe dream of one of their employees could be Emmy-worthy. It's a nice recognition, but, to me, what really needs to be done is to reintroduce Edison to the next generation of kids to allow them to think the way he thought." 
Although he has "discussed the series with a lot of folks in Hollywood," Keegan doesn't want to sell out to someone who won't look after the initial purpose of the show, and he intends to stay at Notre Dame. 
"The Emmy is simply a vali­dation of a concept that· I thought would work," he said. ''I'm not planning to be the next Walt Disney. My skill set is more conducive to helping raise monies for Notre Dame." 



Notr D 


Event 
When? Tuesday, November 18th 
7.00 pm 

Where? Mendoza College of Business L014B 
Why? We will be hearing speakers from: News America Stone War' Advertising Vibes Advertising Comcast 


Pop and Politics events were not into the classroom and expect 
designed to reflect Catholic 
the same from their stu­
Votes 
TFA 



NRHH 

dents." continued from page I "We tried to keep the approach 
Social Teaching solely. 
continued from page 1 Herrel said that the "punch­
continued from page 1 
to the topics just political," she 

line" for Teach for America is didates we elected accountable," said. 
solving education inequity in whether or not its teachers 

The people that are nomi­she said. However, she cited the discus­
other careers after their are making a difference for 

nated are people who often­The future CSC events will help sion on social and moral issues 
teaching experience. their students. 

times aren't recognized on a inform students of different ways as an event that was "devoted to 
Katy Janik, a senior political He cited studies, such as the 

daily basis as contributing to that they can hold their elected the negotiation of the issues and 
science major and campus Teach for America National 

the residence hall environ­official accountable, and will a Catholic identity." 
campaign coordinator for Principal survey, which found 

ment, like residents, resident "show studenl<> that they can still "That would be the event that 
Teach for America, also spoke that 61 percent of principals 

advisors and staff members at be participants in the political we really tried to incorporate the 
and described ways that said Teach for America's 

Saint Mary's, Clougherty said. arena in an off year," Laurel Catholic Social Teaching that 
Notre Dame students can teachers were more effective 

Last year. the first year the said. gel<> discussed so much on cam­
become involved with Teach than other beginning teachers 

organization was on campus, Laurel, who co-chaired NO pus," Laurel said. 
for America as undergradu­in their impact on student 

Egan thinks there were over Votes along with Christine Laurel said that the voter reg­
ates. achievement. He credited the 

100 nominations and she said Romero, hailed the Pizza, Pop istration drives NO Votes con­
"What we really want to do program's success with the 

the NRHH will probably and Politics roundtable series as ducted on campus were success­
is get the word out to as many community of support that it 

receive about as many this ND Votes' most successful event. ful. That success was "mainly 
people as possible," she said. creates for its teachers. 

year. The series featured unbiased, because of our interaction with 
She encouraged students to "When you inevitably fail 

Being nominated is only non-partisan discussions of dif­NO Votes dorm commissioners, 
sign up to help post flyers, and struggle and it's stressful 

half the honor though, fenmt policy issues of relevance who were really helpful register­
plan events, give presenta­and difficult, you've got a sup­

because the NRHH then in the election. Topics of conver­ing students within their dorm, 
tions to classes and student port system," he said. 

reviews the nominations and sation included energy, social in addition to our own register­
organizations, and document Je'Rell Rogers, a member of 

decides who to induct into the issues, thn economy and foreign ing we would do at events," 
information about prospective the class of 2008 is in his first 

organization, Egan said. policy and national security. Laurel said. 
corps members. Janik has year with Teach for America 

"Last year, we had 14 stu­"I think we chose really rele­ND Votes also sponsored lec­
given over 50 presentations to He teaches eighth grade 

dent inductees and three vant topics that many students tures featuring guest speakers 
Notre Dame students about . English Language Arts in 

building services inductees, wen; interested in," Laurel said. who come from the world of poli­
Teach for ~merica, which Houston and testified to both 

for a total of 17 honorees," "We managed to garnish a large tics. The speakers included 
Herrel said is more than any the challenge and the support 

she said. number of students to engage in Indiana Sen. Richard Lugar, a 
other campus campaign coor­in the program. 

Egan said this year's conversation and participate in Republican who is currently 
dinator. She said she became "Everyone will tell you how 

inductees will be informed of discussion." rumored to be under considera­
involved with Teach for rough it is but you cannot 

the honor and invited to a "Facilitating interest was the tion for a post in President-Elect 
America because she is pas­possibly imagine how rough 

banquet honoring them on main goal" of the discussion Barack Obama's cabinet; 
sionate about education poli­until you have stepped inside 

Dec. 5. roundtable series, she said. Matthew Dalek, a former 
cy, and she also hopes to join the classroom," he said. "It is 

Inductees from last year Panelists at Pizza, Pop, and speechwriter for former House 
the teaching corps. easy to lose your focus and 

will also be invited to the ban­Polities events were generally Minority Leader Richard 
Teach for America received sometimes motivation. 

quet, she said. professors at the University. Gephardt; and Michael Gerson, 
200 applications from the Thankfully, Teach for America 

The NHIIII is accepting Choosing Notre Dame professors former speechwriter to George 
Notre Dame class of 2008, of provides you with a lot of 

nominations at lunch and din­for the panel helped in keeping W. Bush and a columnist for The 
which approximately 50 were resources and tries to make 

ner in the Student Center th1~ discussions non-partisan, Washington Post. 
accepted, Herrel said. things as nice as possible. It is 

atrium at a marked table, as aeeording to Laurel. The initiative was also respon­
"We are looking for incredi­not an easy job, but there is a 

well as at nomination boxes "Most professors, espedally sible for the Popcorn and Politics 
bly high-achieving individu­dire need, and in the end, I 

at the front of each residence political seience professors, film series, which featured films 
als," which he said can be am confident that I will see 

hall and at aren't op1m about partisanship," such as "Dr. Strangeglove or: 
apparent through multiple the fruits of my labor." 
rh~@saintmarys.edu. 
she said. "We encouraged them How I Learned to Stop Worrying 

areas of involvement. "We to addn~ss thn issues of both can­and Love the Bomb" and "Mr. 
Contact Liz Harter at didates." Smith Goes to Washington." 
know incredibly high achiev­Contact Laura McCrystal at 
eharteO1@saintrnarys.edu 
Although NI> Votes was organ­izml out of" the CnntPr f"or Social Contact John Tierney at CoJH~!wns, LaurPl said the Pizza, jtierne1@nd.edu 
ers take that achievement 1mccryst@nd.edu 
l!~r p1mnits students to enroll in one-week courses to broaden lield expertise. During fall and continued from page 1 spring break wneks, the pro­
gram offers inter-term studies conducted onlinP via e-mail, in China and Europe. and in 200S BusinnssWnek sur­Wit graduated from Boston veyed 7,264 studPnts. College with a dngren in mar­

The survey asks students to knting and a minor in rate tlw teaching quality, lntnrnational Politics through ean~or sorvices. alumni net­Boston College's Faith, Peace work and recruiting dTorts of and Justice program. She their MBA program. servnd in the Peaec Corps and BusinnssWeek averagns all of tlwn decided to return to busi­the answers and ealeulates a ness and enroll in an MBA pro­student survey scorn for nach gram. She said she looked at school. Students also gnt the "tho rankings before selecting chance to give personal opin­Notrn Dame for business ions on their school's program. school. 
BusinnssWeek post1Hl the "I looked at a combination of anonymous responses of some ranking and supplemented that of the survey-takers on its Web with the Wnb site site: BeyondGrnyPinstripes.org that 
"Tiw MBA program Iat Notre ranks schools according to how I>amel and school as a whole the incorporate social and envi­has a very deep sensn of com­ronmental values into their munity and purpose," one sur­program. Because of their vey respondent wrote. "The scores in both these aspects, quality of the nducation and Notre Dame was one of the dasses are vnry good, and the schools I selected to apply to." program's focus on problem Wit said. "I ended up look at solving and social responsibility mostly higher ranked schools are a gnmt mix. Finally, the sm~h as Michigan, Darden [The alumni are incredibly support­University of Virginia's ivn." Graduate School of Business 

BusinnssWeek gave the Administration I and Duke. Mendoza College of Business' Notre Dame's financial aid MBA program an "A" for its package ultimately persuaded career services, and an "A+" in me to come here." the teaching category. BusinessWeek announced the 
Notn~ Dame curn~ntly otTers rankings last Thursday. The list both a one-year and a two-year will be featured in the maga­MBA program. The one-year zine's Nov. 24 edition. program otTers a year-round In BusinessWeek 's March curriculum and requires 200S survey, Notre Dame's undergraduate prerequisite undergraduate program in the ~~ourse hours in mathematics. Mendoza College of Business accounting, 1~conomies, finance, ranked No. 3 behind Wharton 
marketing and management. and the Mcintire School of The two-year program consists Commerce at the University of of four smnesters of dassns and Virginia. a sumnwr internship bntween the first and second year study. Contact Ellyn Michalak at 
An inter-t11rm in every S!1mes-emichala@nd.edu 
MBA 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 18, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Somali pirates hijack Saudi tanker 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -In a dra­matic escalation of high seas crime, Somali pirates hijacked a Saudi supertanker loaded with crude hundreds of miles off the coast of East Africa -defeating the security web of warships trying to protect vital shipping lanes. 
The takeover demonstrates the bandits' heightened ambitions and capabilities: Never before have they seized such a giant ship so far out to sea. Maritime experts warned the broad daylight attack, reported by the U.S. Navy on Monday, was an alarming sign of the dilliculty of patrolling a vast stretch of ocean key to oil and other cargo traffic. 
The MV Sirius Star, a brand new tanker with a 25-member crew, was seized at about 10 a.m. Saturday more than 450 nautical miles southeast of Mombasa, Kenya, the Navy said. The area lies far south of the zone where warships have increased their patrols this year in the Gulf of Aden, one of the busiest channels in the world. leading to and from the Suez Canal, and the scene of most past attacks. 
Taliban reject Afghan peace talks 
KANDAHAR -Taliban militants reject­ed an offer of peace talks with Afghan President Hamid Karzai, saying Monday there would be no negotiations until for­eign troops leave Afghanistan. 
Karzai offered Sunday to provide securi­ty for reclusive Taliban leader Mullah Omar if he enters negotiations and said the U.S. and other Western nations could leave Afghanistan or oust him if they dis­agree. 
But Zabiullah Mujahid, a Taliban spokesman, said there could be no talks while foreign troops are in the country. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Astronauts hitch crate to space station 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Astronauts hitched a giant shipping crate full of home improvement "goodies" to the internation­al space station on Monday, a critical step for boosting the population in orbit. 
It was the first major job for the crews of the linked space station and space shuttle Endeavour, and highlighted their first full day together. 
"We're here to work," the space sta­tion's skipper, Mike Fincke, called down. "This is the can-do crew." 
Schwarzenegger hosts global summit 
LOS ANGELES -Scientists, environ­mentalists and government and industry officials from around the world meet this week for a summit on greenhouse gas emissions that their host, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, hopes will highlight the economic benefits of pursuing green tech­nologies. 
The conference, which begins Tuesday in Beverly Hills with some 700 partici­pants expected, is an attempt by the Hepublican governor to influence a U.N. gathering in Poland next month. Schwarzenegger has said he wants the summit to inform negotiations over a new global climate treaty, which the U.N. hopes to finish by December 2009. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana keeps 'God' license plates 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Court of Appeals upheld the constitutionality of the state's "In God We Trust" license plate Monday, reject­ing a claim that people who buy the plates should have to pay a $15 administrative fee charged for other specialty plates. 
In its 12-page ruling, the appeals court found that state lawmakers acted correctly in creating a license plate classification system that exempts people who purchase the "In God We Trust" plate from paying the administrative fee. 
Residents return to ruined homes 
Nearly 500 homes destroyed, 120 saved in affluent mobile home park 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Stacks of charred bricks, blackened shells of cars and burned tree trunks were all that remained Monday in much of the community some resi­dents once called the "Beverly Hills of mobile home parks." 
The mostly retired resi­dents returned to see what was left of their homes at Oakridge Mobile Home Park, where winds with hurricane intensity blew a wall of fire through nearly 500 manufactured homes and set them ablaze so quickly that even firefighters had to drop their hoses and run. 
"It looks like a war zone -no trees, no buildings," said Michele Warneck, 54, who burst into tears after returning from the park. She had watched her two­bedroom house burn on the television news. "Everything that was porcelain just blew up." 
Once considered a para­dise with swimming pools and tennis courts, the park was now roamed by cadav­er-sniffing dogs in search of anyone who didn't escape. 

The inferno destroyed 484 homes in the park Saturday. Firefighters were able to save about 120 homes, but many were badly damaged. dip in a jacuzzi and played er medication and other which has been turned into 
The fire was one of three Mah-Johng and poker. essentials. a Red Cross shelter for evac­that have destroyed about Those whose homes were "My house was in great uees. hugging each other 1,000 homes and apart­destroyed were shuttled shape. All it was was dirty," and comparing notes about ments and burned 41,000 through the neighborhood said Betty Glassman, 78. "I what they saw and what acres, or 64 square miles, in a black van. Police were feel like I'm in a dream. they were able to salvage. forcing thousands to flee. still investigating the fire, so Pinch me." "It's a disaster. It looks like 
Most evacuation orders people weren't allowed to Cadaver dogs have been Hiroshima," said Joan were lifted by Monday, when get out and sift through the searching the burned units, Costa, carrying plastic bags clear skies and calm winds ashes for scraps of their but so far have only found filled with makeup and allowed firefighters to make belongings. the cremated remains of a medicines she had pulled some gains, but officials "It's gone," said Ed man who died several years from her home. warned of another bad air Hurdle, 82, after taking one ago. Elsewhere, the largest of day and classes were can­of the first park tours. "The Animal control recovered the fires has burned more celed at dozens of schools car is gone. The house is several dead animals and than 28,000 acres in near fire zones in Orange gone. It's twisted metal. It's three live cats. Los Angeles Orange, Riverside, San County. totally charred there. County Assistant Coroner Bernardino and Los Angeles 
In Sylmar, scores of resi­There's no hope at all. Chief Ed Winter said the counties and has destroyed dents stood in line outside a Nothing. Nothing. Nothing." cats could have been hiding more than 250 homes and high school gymnasium for A separate set of white under one of the units that apartment units. San tours of the charred mobile police vans ferried residents wasn't damaged. Bernadino became the home park where retirees whose homes were still Neighbors huddled togeth­fourth county declared a once played tennis, took a standing so they could gath-er inside the gymnasium, state of emergency. 




ELECTION 2008 

Obama, McCain vow to cooperate 
Associated Press mer rivals. On Friday, he quietly met Congress or elsewhere, though they 
here with Sen. Hillary Rodham exchanged harsh words with him not 
CHICAGO -No longer foes but not Clinton, his toughest rival for the long ago. yet allies, President-elect Barack Democratic nomination and now a For Obama, cordial ties to two of the Obama and John McCain buried their possible choice for secretary of state. nation's most famous and successful bitter campaign in public smiles and McCain's meeting with Obama was politicians might smooth the launch of searched for common ground in pri­less furtive, and aides to both men an administration confronting an eco­vate on Monday, discussing possible said no Cabinet post is envisioned for nomic crisis and two wars. collaboration on climate change, the Arizona senator. Obama has said Before Monday's meeting, Obama immigration, Guantanamo Bay and he plans to invite at least one said he and McCain would talk about more. Republican to join his Cabinet. "how we can do some work together 
The 40-minute session at Obama's Like Clinton, McCain knows that to fix up the country." He thanked transition headquarters, their first returning to the 100-member Senate McCain "for the outstanding service meeting since Nov. 4 when Obama will impose limits and frustrations he's already rendered." handily defeated McCain, was just the after the heady two years of the presi­In a joint statement after the meet­latest effort by the president-elect to dential campaign. For both, a friendly ing, they vowed to work together to heal wounds from the long and bitter relationship with the new president reform government and promote campaign and seek help from his for-might open new opportunities in bipartisanship in Washington. 
Recital 
continued from page 1 
Thnsn students lnarnnd the song during thnir Chinnsn lan­guagn dass. 
"Wn lmtrnnd tlw song in the first coupln of Wl'nks in elass," freshman Maria Spyhalski said. "After our professor told us 
extra credit for her language class, but enjoyed herself. 
"I came to get extra credit for Italian class, but it was an enriching experience," Wilson said. "My favorite part was the Chinese musical instru­nwnt. I had never heard any­thing like it before." 
The second portion of the reeital featured l"ive dance 
numbers from 
around the 

about thn show­"My favorite part was world: Mexico, case, some of us 
the Chinese musical C h i n a . 

voluntnered to Myanmar and
instrument. I had 

p n r for 111 tl11~ S p a i n . song. never heard anything Sophomore 
Spyhalski like it before. " Jingqiu Guan 
lwgan studying organized this Chinnse this part of the
Molly Wilson 

year was nxeitnd recital and to sing in the Saint Mary's freshman performed a 
language. 
"I lovc~ the spotlight," shn said. "And I love Chinese. I know that nobody probably understood what we were singing, but it was a vc~ry exhilarating nxpe­rience. I will absolutely par­ticipatn rwxt year." 
Thnn~ were a total of seven songs sung in Chinese, Frend1, Italian and Gnrman and CHJP traditional Chinese song played by sophomore Chen Chen on the guzheng, a Chinese musical instrument. 
Freshman Molly Wilson attended the recital to receive 
Chinese classi­cal dance titled "The Color of Beauty." 
Guan, who has been danc­ing since the age of three, said she thought cultural events such as this one are important. 
"I think the most important thing is to broaden the audi­ence's mind," Guan said. "It is important to the people who are learning languages because culture is a major part of the language." 
Contact Megan Loney mloneyO I @saintmarys.edu 


Woman charged -with leaving corpse in hon1e 
AP Tammy D. Lewis makes an appearance in Juneau County Circuit Court, In Mauston, Wise. Monday, Nov. 17. 

MAUSTON. Wis. -A mem­ber of a religious sect plnaded no contest to a misdernnanor Monday aftnr !wing accused of lnaving anotlwr member's corpso in lwr bathroom so the group could collect lwr Social Sncurity dwcks. 
Tammy Lnwis, :{h, was lirwd $350 f'or obstructing an ol"lker, whiln prosecution was dnf'nrrnd on tlw morn snrious charges against lwr. Shn'll rnceivn nwn­tal lwalth trc~atnwnt and tnstif'y against snct IPader Alan Buslwy at his trial in April. District Attornny Scott Southworth said. 
l'rosocutors aer.usn Lnwis and Bushny of (Paving 90-ynar­old Magdcdirw Middlesworth's body on the toilnt in Lnwis' horne aftnr slw diPd tlwrn in Marc:h. 
A criminal eornplainl says Buslwy lnd tlw Ordnr of thn Divine Will snet and told Lnwis that God would rovive Middlnsworth. The dncaying body was found in May after Middlc~sworth's family nxprnssnd concnrn. 
l'roscwutors say they bnlinve Bushey and Lewis wanted to go on collecting Middlesworth's Sodal Security payments. 
The other charges against Lnwis, including felonies of hiding a corpse and causing mental harm to a child, will be dismissed in two years if she cooperates and follows other court orders involving her chil­dren, Southworth said. 
"We view hc~r as a victim as well of Alan Bushey," Southworth said. "We also understand the power, the mental power, that Alan Bushey was exercising over her, the C()(~reion he was exert­ing over her." 
Lnwis' attorney, Dan Berkos, said his client turned to Bushey and the sect for support about throe years ago, after shn sepa­ratnd from her husband. 
Thn attornny said Lewis is "very relifwnd" her ease has been resolved. "She has made some really great progress emotionally and even physical­ly. Shn is looking forward. She is no longer looking backward at how things should have been di!Ternnt." 



Liebertnan likely to hold chair 
Senator under pressure by Democrats after supporting McCain 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -Sen. Joe Lieberman appears increasing­ly likely to hold onto his prized chairmanship of the Senate Homeland Security Committee as he meets Tuesday with Democratic colleagues unhap­py over his vocal support for GOP nominee John McCain during this year's presidential campaign. 
Not long ago, Lieberman's hold on his chairmanship seemed to be slipping as Democrats sought to punish him f'or boosting McCain and criticizing President-elect Barack Obama during the long campaign. 
Now, according to several Democratic aides who demand­ed anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, it appears that Lieberman will receive a lesser sanction, such as losing a subcommittee chair­manship on the Environment and Public Works Committee. 
Anger toward Lieberman seems to have softened since Election Day and there's strengthening sentiment that taking away his chairmanship might drive him from the Democratic caucus and send the wrong signals as Obama takes oflice on a pledge to unite the eountry. Lieberman has sig­naled it would be unacceptable for him to lose his chairman­ship. • 
Lieberman, who was Democratic presidential nomi­nee AI Gore's running mate in 2000, was re-elected in 2006 as an independent after losing his state's Demoeratic primary. He remains a registered Democrat and aligns with the party inside the Senate. 
Lieberman faces a vote of his Democratic colleagues on a secret ballot Tuesday al"ter making his case at a elosnd­door caucus. While he appnars likely to emerge without harsh sanetion, his presentation and the reaetion of colleagues could all'eet the outcome. 


Obama has reportedly told Senate Majority Leader Harry Heid of Nevada it would hurt the message of unity that he wants for his new administra-· tion if Lieberman leaves the Democratic caucus. Heid met with Lieberman last week and was initially inclined to strip him of the Homeland Security Committee chairmanship, according to a Senate Democratic aide. 
"I was coneerned and was upset about what happened earlier this year," Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., said on "Fox News Sunday." "But you know what? We turn the page." 
On the other side are sena­tors who feel that one of' the requiremnnts to be installed in a leadership position is party loyalty. 

"To reward Senator Lieb1~rman with a major com­mittee chairmanship would bn a slap in thn faee of millions of Americans who worked tire­lessly for Baraek Obama and who want to see real change in our country," Sen. Bernie Sanders, 1-Vt., said in a state­ment on Friday. "Appointing someone to a major post who led the opposition to everything we are fighting for is not 'change we can believe in."' 
Heid has been working to find a compromise with Democratic supporters of Lieberman, including Sen. Chris Dodd of' Connecticut, chairman of tho Senate Banking Committee. Dodd and Sen. Evan Bayh, D-lnd., have said it would be a mistake if any punishment by the party causes Lieberman to bolt to the Hepubliean side. 



Tuesday, November 18, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,273.58 -223.73 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
899 73 2,769 1,241,429, 521 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 850.75 -22.54 NIKKEI (Tokyo)i,i1::1 !:~!~llilfl.lll1]l:ll!':i!!lllll1.11 FTSE 100 (London) 4,132.16 -100.81 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.33 -1.15 85.47 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.10 -0.61 28.37 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -6.36 -0.81 11.92 CITIGROUP INC (C) -6.62 -0.63 8.89 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.76 -0.066 3.684 13-WEEK BILL -30.77 -0.04 0.09 30-YEAR BOND -0.57 -0.024 4.206 5-YEAR NOTE -1.79 -0.042 2.305 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.09 54.95 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.50 742.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.60 84.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 96.4250 EURO 0.7930 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2317 BRITISH POUND 0.6684 


IN BRIEF 
Mark Cuban charged with inside trading 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators on Monday charged Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban with insider trading for allegedly using confidential information on a stock sale to avoid more than $750,000 in losses. 
Cuban disputed the Securities and Exchange Commission's allegations and said he would con­test them. 
In a civil lawsuit filed in federal court in Dallas, the SEC alleged that in June 2004, Cuban was invited to get in on the coming stock offering by Mamma.com Inc. after he agreed to keep the information private. 
Cuban owned 6.3 percent of Mamma.com's stock at that time and was the largest known shareholder in the search engine company, according to the SEC. The agency said Cuban knew the shares would be sold below the current market price, and a few hours after receiving the information, he told his broker to sell all 600,000 shares before the public announcement of the offering. 
Indusbial output rebounds in October 
WASHINGTON -Industrial output posted a bigger-than-expected rebound in October after plunging in September by the largest amount in over 60 years. 
The Federal Reserve said Monday that indus­trial output rose 1.3 percent last month, reflect­ing a return to more normal operations follow­ing hurricanes and a strike at aircraft manufac­turer Boeing Co. the previous month. 
Those disruptions along with the weak econo­my caused industrial production to fall by 3.7 percent in September, the biggest one-month drop since a 5 percent plunge in February 1946. 
The 1.3 percent increase in October was big­ger than the 0.2 percent rise that economists expected, but the September decline was worse than the 2.8 percent drop originally reported. The government attributed the steeper fall to revised data showing that Hurricanes Gustav and Ike had a bigger impact on the chemical industry than initially thought.of the way 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Citigroup makes severe job cuts 
53,000 jobs cut as Citigroup prepares for leaner future, gets back to basics 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Citigroup, widely seen as the sickest Wall Street bank, will make some of the most severe cuts in the history of U.S. busi­ness -53,000 jobs -as it tries to slash costs and get back to basics before it's too late. 
The cuts, which will leave Citi about 20 percent small­er, are the latest step in a stunning remaking of the American banking land­scape since the financial meltdown, an upheaval that has included the demise of storied investment houses and the conversion of others into commercial banks. 
Citigroup CEO Vikram Pandit met with employees Monday and laid out the bank's strategy in stark terms: "We are a bank. What does a bank do? A bank takes deposits and puts them to work by invest­ing and making loans." 
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc., which has tracked downsizing since 1993, said Citi's cuts are the second-most on record. IBM announced in July it was cutting 60,000. 
At its peak in 2007, Citi had 375,000 employees. 
About half the cuts are expected to come from sell­ing off parts of the business. The bank has already said it 

would sell Citi Global another $33.6 billion to 21 from complex structured­banking businesses are now Services and its German banks in a second round of finance products based on so slow they can't support retail banking businesses, payments from the pro­risky debt, like subprime thousands of employees. and it plans to unload more, gram. mortgages. As Pinkowitz said, the a spokesman said. The rest Still, the Bush administra­Now those revenues have financial crisis took "what of the cuts are expected to tion has told lawmakers it all but dried up, and Citi is was muscle at one point and come from layoffs and attri­does not plan to use at least trying to extract itself from created fat." tion. half of the $700 billion exotic debt instruments. Citigroup, which built up 
As investors digested that bailout fund, congressional "The shocking thing is that through rapid acquisitions news, financial stocks had a officials said. That would the Wall Street business over the past two decades, bad day. Citigroup stock fell leave President-elect Barack model, prior to September, has long been criticized as 63 cents, or more than 6 Obama to decide how to use is effectively gone. We don't too sprawling and difficult to percent, to $8.89. The Dow the money when he takes have any more independent manage. Jones industrials, nearing office in January. The investment banks," said Lee "Why the heck do they their lowest close since the Treasury Department said Pinkowitz, an associate need 350,000 people to start financial meltdown began in no decision had been made finance professor at with?" said Robert Howell, a September, lost nearly 224 on whether to spend the rest Georgetown University finance professor at points to close at 8,273.58. of the money before Bush Business School. Dartmouth's Tuck School of 
The government invested leaves office. Pandit told workers the Business. "It's always been $25 billion in Citigroup as For Citi, the simple, leaner bank was not giving up on way overstaffed. They part of the financial rescue plan is a noticeable change investment banking, citing should've woken up to that package. On Monday, the from earlier in the decade, emerging markets as a place fact a year ago when they Treasury Department when banks were making a that can deliver growth. But had way too many people to announced it had given huge chunk of their profits the riskiest investment begin with." 


Chances of aid slim for autc)makers 
Associated Press and on Capitol Hill, where many in who rely on the companies for retire­
both parties have spent the past few ment and health care benefits. 
WASHINGTON Prospects weeks being berated by constituents Still, not only has President George dimmed on Monday for the $25 bil­for agreeing to the $700 billion Wall W. Bush made it clear he doesn't lion bailout that U.S. automakers say Street rescue. want to dole out any new aid for the they desperately need to get through The new debate comes as the automakers, congressional officials a bleak and dangerous December. financial situation for General say his administration has privately 
Though all sides agree that Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and informed top Democrats it won't Detroit's Big Three carmakers are in Chrysler LLC grows more precarious. even use at least half of that huge peril, battered by the economic melt­GM has said it could run out of cash rescue fund approved last month to down that has choked their sales and by year's end without government aid the financial industry. frozen loans, the White House and aid. The Senate Democrats' measure congressional Democrats are headed A Senate auto bailout bill unveiled would carve out a portion of the Wall for stalemate over how much gov­Monday noted that 355,000 U.S. Street bailout money to pay for loans ernment money should go toward workers are directly employed by the to U.S. automakers and their domes­helping them. auto industry, and an additional 4.5 tic suppliers, but aides in both par­
Behind the logjam is a troubling million work in related industries. ties and lobbyists tracking the plan reality for the car companies: Bailout That doesn't count the 1 million privately acknowledge they are far fatigue has set in at the White House retirees, spouses and dependents short of the votes to pass it. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 18, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Capital punishment still an issue 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Firzpatrick John Donovan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: jenn Metz 

VI~WI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary jesse 
CoNTROLLER! Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS AllMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL lNFO 
(574) 631-747! 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(57 4) 6.1 1-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63 I-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('>74) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
l'HE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Tbe Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned cdiwrials represent the opinion of rlll' majority of the Edito'l' in Chief, Managing Editor, A"'istant Managing Editors and deparrmem editors. Commentaries, lcrrers and columns presenr the views of the authors and nor necessarily rhosc ofThe ()bservcr. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The !Tee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lc:rters m the Editor must be signed and must include contact infilrmation. 
Questions regarding Observtrpolicies should be directed to !:ditor in G!JitfC'hris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tin:· (lhanvn (Wii'S 'i1}9 2.-<11100} 1.11 puhlulu:tl Mund.ty 1hroul(h fmlay 0:~111 during l:llo\11\ .nul VII~.UIIIII ~JCrivJt. A 1UI-.:riptiuu U! '11\c llh-.crvrr •• $1 nu !Or tmc aco~dcmk yc,u;$'j,, rmunc~~enJ~Icr. 
The: llhtervrr i1 publi.t.cd at POSTMASTER 
Ol.South Dmml'tl.1ll Send addn·•~ corrcc::tions ~o: 
Nurre: Do~mc, IN 16,S6-0n9 Tht'Oivrver 
l~nudi~.:al pu".attr p.uJ ,u Nntrc D.unc 1~0 Box nt) 
olUd "ddlunnJiuuiling ~·ffi'" ON Suurh Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, lN 46';';6-0n9 

TI1c l)htcf'\'rl ll.t member o( the Auoc.:l.&t..-d Pn:ss. All rcprod.uc110n ri~hlli arc 
f"C:II:tvtd. 
When former President Jimmy Carter and Bob Barr, the 2008 Libertarian candidate for President, agree on any­thing, we should take notice. Both recently urged the Georgia Board of Pardons and Parole to reverse its decision to deny clemency to Troy Anthony Davis, sentenced to death for the 1989 murder of police orticer Mark MacPhail. 
Davis was charged with two counts of aggra­vated assault, one for shooting Michael Cooper at a party, and the other for striking, two hours later, a homeless man. Larry Young, on the head with a pistol. Davis was charged with murder for shooting Officer MacPhail, moonlighting as a security guard at a bus station. As charged, MacPhail chased Davis after the assault on Young. Davis fired at MacPhail who was shot in the face and fnll. Davis, it was charged, walked over to MacPhail and shot him twice again. The pistol was never found, but shell casings at the scenes showed that the same pistol was used to shoot Cooper and MacPhail. The jury convicted Davis on all counts. 
Davis has sought a new trial on the grounds that he is innocent, that seven of the nine witnesses who testitied against him have recanted their testi­mony and that evidence implicates another person as the killer. The Georgia Supreme Court, in a 4-3 ruling in April, 2008, denied Davis a new trial. The Supreme Court of the United States denied review. Further proceed­ings are pending. 
Courts properly give less weight to a recantation, whether sworn or unsworn, than to the witness' testimo­ny before the judge and jury at the trial. The Georgia Supreme Court majority last April found the recanta­tions insufficient to overturn the jury's verdict because they lacked materiality as to innocence or failed to show the witness' testimony at trial to have been the "purest fabrication." The three dis­senters said the majority's approach "is overly rigid and fails to allow an adequate inquiry" into the question of whether an innocent person might 


have been convicted and might be put 
to death. 

An innocent person should not be imprisoned for a day, let alone execut­ed. The finality of execution adds urgency to any claim that a person sentenced to death is innocent. On the entire facts, Davis' entitlement to a new trial is far from a sure thing. It is doubtful at best. But whatever the out­come of his claim, it should prompt us to ask: Does it make sense to impose the death penalty even for an aggra­vated murder such as this? Thirty-six states, plus the United States govern­ment, have the death penalty, with 1,129 executions since 1976. As of Jan. 1, 2008, 3,350 persons were on death row in the United States. The passage of two decades and more between the crime and the execution is not unusu­al. Numerous studies show that the imposition of the death penalty costs taxpayers far more than it would to imprison the defendant for life without parole. 
Since 1973, at least 130 persons have been released from death row with evidence of their innocence of the crime for which the death sentence was imposed. The death penalty, how­ever, should be reconsidered for rea­sons more basic than the possibility of executing the innocent. The clearest exposition of those reasons is in the recent teaching of the Catholic Church. 
No one, including the state, ever has authority intentionally to kill the inno­cent. The state, because it ultimately derives its authority from God, has authority to kill intentionally in two cases, the just war and the death penalty. 
The "primary aim" of punishing a criminal is retribution, "redressing the disorder introduced by the offense." Catechism, no. 2266. The other pur­poses of punishment are rehabilitation of the offender and deterrence of the offender and of others. 
In Evangelium Vitae (EV) and the Catechism (CCC), John Paul II reaf­firmed the authority of the state to impose the death penalty. But he gave us a new criterion for the use of that penalty. Neither retribution, nor any other purpose, will justify the use of the death penalty unless it "is the only possible way of ... defending human lives against the unjust aggressor." In other words, it has to be the only way to keep this criminal from killing again. The faet that the death penalty may deter others from killing is not enough. Nor does the horrific nature of the crime justify execution. 
This restriction arises from the importance of the conversion of the criminal. St. Augustine and St. Thomas agree "for a just man to be made from a sinner is greater than to create heav­en and earth." S.T. 1,11, Q. 113, art. 9. 
"INJon-lethal means," said John Paul, "are more in keeping with ... the com­mon good and ... the dignity of the human person. Today, ... as a conse­quence of the possibilities which the state has for ... rendering one who has committed an otl'ense incapable of doing harm _without definitively tak­ing away from him the possibility of redeeming himself-the cases in which ... execution.. .is an absolute necessity 'are very rare, if not practi­cally non-existent."' Catechism, no. 2267, quoting EV, no. 56. 
Whether execution is an "absolute necessity" depends on a prudential judgment as to tiH~ ability of the prison system to confine this prisoner secure­ly. But the Church's limitation on the use of the death penalty is a universal, and not a prudential criterion. It applies everywhere and in all states. Use of the death penalty could be per­mitted under this criterion in some eases, for example, if a life inmate, already in maximum security, murders another inmate or a guard; or if.the state is unable to coniine inmates securely. 
In our culture the intentional inflic­tion of death has become an optional problem solving technique. The ulti­mate perversity is seen in those who oppose the death penalty for criminals and support it for the innocent unborn child. As John Paul said, "IIJn the name of God, respect, protect, love and serve life, every human life!" EV, no. 5. 
If Troy Anthony Davis is innocent of murder, he should not be executed or imprisoned for that crime. For the more basic reasons advanced by the Vicar of Christ, he should not be exe­cuted even if he did murder Officer MacPhail. 
Charles E. Rice is professor emeritus at the Law .'jchool. 1/e may be reached at rice.l@nd.edu or574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Hiely Dan Murphy Aaron Steiner Matt Gamber What are your plans 
Sarah Mervosh Doug Farmer for Thanksgiving? 
"Always remember others may_ hate
Graphics Scene 
you but those who hate lfOU iion 't 
Mary Cecilia Jess Shaffer Stay on campus 
win unless you hate theni. And then 
Mitsch Stay home and have relatives over you aestroy yourself"Viewpoint Visit family 
Richard M. Nixon

Lauren 
former U.S. president
Brauweiler Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 18, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Going green? 

I'm writing this letter as I sit next to my heater with the window wide open. You may be asking yourself why I'm doing this, but it's actually quite simple: it's because most of the heaters in Dillon (and I'm assuming in most of the other older dorms) don't operate correctly. In my room, we have no control over the heater. Depending on whether the main valve is turned on, the heater is either turned to full blast or is not turned on at all. And because we have no control, we are forced to open the window to counteract all of the heat. Just yesterday, I was given three new fluo­rescent light bulbs to conserve energy -which I think is a great idea. However, shouldn't we be tackling the bigger issues such as the heaters? I don't know how much it would cost, but if the Notre Dame community wishes to conserve our energy, then we should be less focused on fluores­cent bulbs and more focused on all the energy that is being wasted DAILY. 
Ryan Renacci sophomore Dillon Nov. 17 

English is the issue 
While issues with the movie, "Tropic Thunder", and the repeated use of a cer­tain r-word, which literally means slow, have dominated the Viewpoint pages these past few days, the issue itself is not the movie. Popular culture has made dif­ferences bad, with everything from the negative connotations of the word "retard­ed" to the use of"gay" as an insult. The message to me of this Viewpoint skirmish is not the problem with the movie, "Tropic Thunder" itself, but a problem with ourselves. I wage a battle with myself relatively regularly, as gay and lesbian jokes come up among my friends, or the antiquated idea of a problem with learning dis­abilities surface in jokes and media. (Yes, by the way, based on traditional defini­tions, people with common learning disabilities such as forms of dyslexia qualify as "retards," myself included). The challenge I come away with is one to become more accepting in my language and reactions, checking for offensive language and expressions. I challenge my fellow students to do the same. 
Justine Debelius 
junior 
LeMans 
Nov. 17 


Acceptance should apply to all 
Yesterday, I was shocked and saddened by Liz Froehlke's gross mis­judgement ("Lack of acceptance an issue of ignorance," Nov 17) of what is considered an acceptable subject to "poke fun at." I have not seen a more patronizing or mean-spirited article in the time since I arrived here at Notre Dame. The first paragraph (half of the whole article) seems exclu­sively devoted to doing what you claim to most deplore, and attacking someone else for no good reason. If, as seems readily apparent, she can­not air her views without resorting to numerous ad hominem attacks on the person, morals, age and intelligence of Colin Keeler, then I implore her to not air them at all. I don't want to hear her personally attack a person who is new to this school and, in her own words "just a fresh­man." I am also "just a freshman" but I can certainly understand and be extremely indignant when she patronizes one of my classmates. This is doubly true when it is someone I both know and respect for his intelli­gence. If she thinks this little of him, I dare not ask what she thinks of me. 
Obviously, Ms. Froehlke disagrees very strongly with Colin. It just so happens that I come down in the middle of this issue, by and large. There is a place for satire, especially when the target is Hollywood, but I still object to the method Stiller chose to use. The fact is, Hollywood exploits all manner of disabilities in its quest for profit and acclaim. However, the end does not justify the means. Stiller resorted to tactics even more bla­tant and deplorable than the Hollywood norm, in an effort to discredit the Hollywood norm. Though Hollywood deserved to be discredited, I believe Stiller could certainly have made an attempt to find a more reasonable method. Satire, on some issues, is just too harsh. 
The same argument applies just as easily to Ms. Froehlke's letter, how­ever. Her argument is something that I largely agree with, after the first paragraph is through. However, in that first paragraph, she chooses to insult Colin Keeler simply because he disagrees with her, and to insult all freshmen, simply because Colin Keeler is one. I found it very difficult to sit down and read the remainder of her letter, or acknowledge that it has merit, because of the sheer hypocrisy with which it began. She is a senior in college, and clearly believes herself more intelligent and mature than Colin, and presumably than myself. She should prove it. 
David Loughery freshman Keough Nov. 17 


Weis accountable 
Although we have long been skeptical of Charlie Weis' ability to be a successful college head coach, my roommate and I have tried to remain quiet as others attempted to identify specifically what the problem has been. This latest debacle of a football game against Navy has proven to finally break our silence. So why is our football team performing so poorly? The bottom line is that our head coach makes horrible decisions at horrible times. Let's recap some of these decisions, specifical­ly those Coach Weis made during this weekend's stroke-inducing victory over Navy. 
In no particular order, there was the QB-read sneak on 3rd & 4 (note that even if successful, this play usually goes for 2-3 yards, still short of the first down); run­ning the Wildcat offense for the first time this year on a 3rd & 5 with Golden Tate taking the snap (who, as much as we love his playmaking ability, has never been a passing threat); putting in our second string players with 9 minutes left and only a 20 point lead (a 5-4 team should never be that confident); and finally going for it on 4th & 3 from Navy's 48-yard line (with said second string players still in the game) giving Navy a shorter field to drive down and score than if we had punted. It was also painfully obvious during all three of Navy's onside kick attempts that our team has not practiced the proper way to defend against such a kick. Our players stood still, waiting to get run over instead of charging the ball and jumping to meet it at its highest point. 
How about some other notable decisions from the past four years: a pass on 4th and 1 (from midfield) in a tie game against Pittsburgh with 50 seconds left; the fake punt against LSU in the Sugar Bowl on 4th and 13 from our own 30 yard line on the first drive of the game; not attempting a 43-yard field goal against Navy last year; and last, but not least, he once even started Demetrius Jones. Furthermore, there is the noticeable lack of discipline our team displays each week -arguably the only thing a head coach truly has control of. We watch dumbfounded each Saturday, as our team commits mental mistakes ("False start, number 74 offense," anyone?) and personal fouls (Toryan Smith's endzone dive, or perhaps Harrison Smith's late-hit against Pitt after a 3rd down stand, a huge momentum swing). What's worse is that these infractions go unpunished. The players get their 10-sec­ond lecture then they're on their merry way and back playing in the next series. Charlie Weis has simply lacked the ability to coach, which in the barest sense of the word is the ability to teach others about the game of football. 
Yes, his recruiting classes have been spectacular. Unfortunately, that doesn't mat­ter if you can't develop that talent into something useful. We thought he had this ability when Brady Quinn's 50 percent completion percentage his sophomore year turned into a 65 percent rate his first year under Weis. However that just means maybe he would be an amazing quarterbacks coach. As far as head coaching goes, he just doesn't have what Notre Dame is looking for. Three years later Charlie's sig­nature game is still a 31-28 loss to USC. 
Stephen Iacovo 
senior 
Stanford Kevin Sullivan 
senior 
Stanford Nov. 17 


The Catholic vote 
In his perceptive commentary on the Catholic vote, Professor Rice asks why so many Catholics voted for Obama. The answer, I suggest, is that they simply do not accept the Church's teaching respecting the personhood of the fetus. Oh, they may say that they do and go on about "balancing" other "life" issues and the like. Some may even believe they do. But, demonstrably, they do not. Consider this analogy: The Supreme Court rules that a mother has a Constitutional right, under the priva­cy rubric, to direct the humane killing of her child within 24 hours of birth if a doc­tor determines that the infant suffers from a major disability. A Presidential candi­date declares support for this ruling, opposition to any efforts to limit or undo it and endorsement of federal funding to underwrite these infanticides. Obama is that candidate unless that infant's claim to life is stronger than a fetus's. 
Obama and most, if not almost all, of his supporters assert that it is. But a Catholic voter cannot make that distinction and at the same time proclaim adher­ence to the Church's teaching respecting the sanctity of life in the womb. The elab­orate calibrations of prominent pro-abortion Catholics who purported to follow the bishops' guidelines were, accordingly, transparently infirm. A Catholic who gen­uinely accepts the Church's central teaching as to the moral personhood of the fetus cannot in conscience vote for an Obama any more than he or she could sup­port the infanticide candidate of the hypothetical. It matters not whether the candi­date's program might somehow result in a reduction of abortions or infanticides in the future. The deliberate taking of innocent lives today cannot be "balanced" by the saving of other lives tomorrow, whatever the numbers. Not, at least, in any Catholic moral equation. This, of course, does not mean that a Catholic should have voted for McCain. That is a different question. 
William Dempsey alum class of 1952 Nov. 13 



Will Hide Myself Away" and "Honestly" were 
just a few of the many songs the quintet was 
able to fit into their hour long set. The band 
The complementing styles of Cartel and also performed a cover of Oasis's Citizen Cope provoked contra..'iting opinions "Wonderwall." from a large crowd at the Stepan Center last After a wait of nearly an hour, Citizen Friday night. Cope finally took the stage, opening with his 
The concert, arranged by the Student hit "Hurricane Waters." Cope's musical Union Board, was a dual ambience encouraged plenty headlining show. Cartel ofdancing and head nodding. promptly opened tho show at Many students, Cope was also able to per­9 p.m. to a curiously small especially those form many of his hits, includ­crowd for such a high profile who were ing "Bullet and a Target" and concert. ,r, l "Penitentiary," before closing 
It was for this reason, per-unJami iar with the concert with "Son's Gonna haps, that the band Initially Citizen Cope, Rise" and "Sideways." seemed somewhat distracted. reveled in the Cope's mixture of blues, folk 
Will Pugh, Cartel's lead music and hip-hopmade for a singer <md guitarist, had little performer's genre very unique show. His backing to say as the band took the defying style. band featurl~d dual pianos a.<> stage for the first time. Part well as a bass guitar and of the responsibility of a performer is to con-drums, which provided the smooth driving nect with the audience, not just during the melody to Cope's slack-jawf!d vocals. music, but also between songs. The band Many students, espeeially those who were did this on but few occasions early in the unfamiliar with Citizen Cope, reveled in the night. Some felt at performf!r's genre times that the band As more students trickled in, defying style. 
did not realize that Cartel seemed to find their niche, "I didn't know mueh thertl was an audienee delivering a solid musical about Citizen Cope at 
in front of them. , the beginning of the "I came here as a performance. The bands energy night, but now I'm def-huge Cartel fan, and seemed to build as well, inciting initely a fan," wa~. a little disappoi?t· mosh pits and crowd surfing that Matheson said. 
ed, sophomore Mtke . Others were some-Matheson said. "I love was qruckly supressed by what disappointed in their recorded music, security, to the chagrin of Cope's performance, "I but something seemed many students didn't think that Citizen like it was missing · Cope performed to 
from their performance." their potential," Brown said. 
Fortunately, as more students trickled in, All students, however, approved of the Cartel seemed to tmd their niche, delivnring new seating format in the Stepan Center. a solid musical performance. The band's Unlike previous shows at Stepan, Friday's energy seemed to build as well, inciting concert featuring general admission stand­mosh pits and crowd surtmg that wa..c; quick-ing areas in front of the stage and seating on ly suppressed by security, to the chagrin of the sides. · · many students. "I thought it was better that we didn't 
Nevertheless, students sang along and have chairs. The performers were able to pumped their fists to Cartel's pop-punk engage the audience and the crowd was songs. The band lineup included three gui· able to get closer to the stage," Brown said. tars, a ba..<>sist and a very lively drummer. Despite mixed reactions, the performanc­
"1 really like Cartel," sophomore Robin es drew a large crowd and introduced stu-Brown said. "They did a good job." dents to a concert format that was received 
Cartel was able to include many singles enthusia...;tically. from both of their albums: Chroma (2005) and Cartel (2007}. "Say Anything (Else)", "I Contact Patrick Griffin at pgrifFt3@nd.edu. 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH! Observer Graphic 
I 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, November 18, 2008 
Imagine, ifyou will, a scene that's often typical for minus a philosophical disagreement with the use ofthe let­Domers ofa certain age on weekend nights. The setting? ter "N" as a substitution for an actual word in the title, was The elegant Linebacker Inn, a Analise Lipari that it just wasn't good. It's one thing, he said, to be able to haven for both sophisticated "dance" to a song-a word that, we both agree, is used 
Scene Editor 

types and their low-brow loosely with whatever the heck it is our generation does on brethren. The beverage? Some the dance floor. It's another thing entirely for a song to variation on the typical American brew. The company? actually be good. Locals and students alike. I'll also never claim to be a dance expert ofany kind. 
On this particular night not too long ago, a good friend But I know a good dance tune when I hear one. Whether and I have visited the deejay's booth two or three times to it's some classic Kanye, a solid 80s hit (hem, Duran request a particular song. He rotates through various hip­Duran) or Britney Spears' "Womanizer," dance music is hop standards, classic pop tunes and even the occasional dance music. All you need is a catchy tune (or, in Kanye 's Christmas song (This is Catholic Disneyland, after all, and case, a catchy sample) and some semi-repetitive lyrics and the sooner we can get to Christmas, the better). Finally, you've got a hit that's bound for the dance floor. mere minutes before we, feeling defeated by his cruelty, I could try to argue that these songs hold artistic merit, were planning to leave, he indulges our request. Suddenly, and variably, they do. "I Wanna Dance With Somebody" is a voice rings out above the crowded dance floor. a chance for Whitney Houston to dazzle listeners with her 
"Cause you're hot, then you're cold! You're yes, then outrageous vocal range, and the benefits of"Livin' on a you're no!" Prayer" need no elaboration. 
Needless to say, we were pretty excited. Our dance tune Even current pop dance hits have their merit. Take "Hot o' the month, Katy Perry's "Hot N Cold," was finally get­N Cold," for example. Sure, the melody just goes up and ting some air time. The song is a pitch-perfect blend of down, up and down, but to me, the song is an educational frothy pop, catchy lyrics and that intangible quality known exercise: Katy Perry Teaches You Opposites. Hot and cold; as "danceability." In short, it's a fun song-and you can yes and no; in and out; up and down -the girl could have dance to it. I'll be the last person to claim that Katy Perry her own segment on Sesame Street. is a practitioner ofhigh art in any sense, or that "Hot N In the end, I can't help hedging my bets on the side of Cold" will still be in steady rotation on my iPod (or its ridiculous dance tunes. Sure, it's not all award-winning, futuristic equivalent) when I'm raising my own band of but who says it should be? All I know is that ifa song's got rugrats. But for right now, it's a great dance tune, and I like a good beat, I'm there. Especially ifit's playing at the it. No shame in that. Or is it? Backer. 
I recently relayed this story to a friend, a guy friend 

The views expressed in this column are those of the (which might have influenced his opinion) who groaned at author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
the mention ofKaty Perry. His objection to "Hot N Cold," Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
prisingly varied set of songs. One minute they human nature, their message is overwhelming-! . 
When The Hold Steady and the Drive-By would be playing a mellow country jam, and ly hopeful. The name of the band and the title\t;li Truckers played at the Riviera Theater in then in a flash they were bringing the lights of their last album -"Stay Positive" -are[(£! Chicago last Friday night, the Windy City down with a hard guitar rocker. The guitar clear enough. t¥ seemed anything but tired. The two bands solos hearkened back to a day when music was Finn, the lyrical genius behind the band, comprised the "Rock and Roll Means Well" heartfully performed, not just synthesized. writes with a poetic preciseness about gritty tour, and they proved that rock music is still As fun as the Drive-By Truckers were, places and beat-down people. His scope alive and kicking. though, the show was stolen by The Hold encompasses the often overlooked, uglier sides 
The crowd may have seemed a bit heavy Steady and their vibrant front man, Craig Finn. of both the city and the suburbs. He recognizes with paunchy, 30-something men, but there The Hold Steady plowed through a set that both the joy and the pain that can come from was no lack of youthful energy in this small consisted mainly of their most powerful rock alcohol and drugs. Overall, his songs resonate concert venue. All the high school and college anthems, only relenting for a few brief songs. with the uncanny feeling of truth. 
aged kids were up in the front, pounding their Although short and somewhat nerdy looking in The Hold Steady's vision is not one of ·. fisl'i in the air and shouting along to the cho­his black-rimmed glasses, Craig Finn spat out destruction and impending disaster, but instead .. ruses, while the more reserved older crowd his lyrics in his usual gruff drawl, a voice that one of unification and rapport, especially .• stayed back closer to the bar but seemed to didn't seem to match his body. He was con­among the youth. Finn's message speaks 
enjoy themselves no less. The crowd's diversity stantly dancing and moving around, doing directly to young people everywhere, and he was a testament to the widespread appeal of funny little tap dance numbers on the stage earnestly believes that rock music can bring us these two bands. Their straightforward rock when he had nothing else to do. More than all together and inspire us towards the path of and roll styles and truthful lyrics cross the gaps anything, he never seemed to stop smiling. He positive progress. of generation, race, and gender. was obviously having the time of his life, which He reminds us that the direction that music 
The Drive-By Truckers, who played first, he attested to at the end of the show, yelling, takes, and the direction that we take at the have a southern-tinged rock sound, but their "There is so much joy in what we do!" start of this new millennium, is up to us. songs transcend the usual subjects of girls, This kind of exuberance is perhaps what sets booze and tractors. They kept the crowd on its the Hold Steady apart from and above most Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu. 


NFL 
Reid takes blame for overtime rule confusion 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Tie? What tiB? 
Thanks to Donovan McNabb, playBrs around the league now must know there doesn't have to be a winner or loser in every regular-season game. Yes, there arc ties in the NFL. They just don't happen too often. 
A day after the Philadelphia Eagles and Cincinnati Bengals played a 13-13 tie-the league's first since 2002 -the focus wasn't on how poorly the teams performed on the field. Instead, everyone wanted to know how it's possible some professional football players, espBcially a 1{)-year veteran such as McNabb, don't know simple rules about overtimes games. 
''I'm sure there are plenty of rules that. guys don't under­stand, but I don't think that has any factor whatsoever to do with the outcome of this game and how they played in the overtime," Eagles coach Andy Reid said Monday. "I think that's absurd. You play to win in that time, whether you think you have another over­time period or you don't. And you play your heart out to win it in that time, and that's how we approached it and that's 
how the players approached 
it." 
Reid ignored the point. Whether the players' igno­rance about the overtime rule affected the outcome is debat­able. It's inconceivable and embarrassing that some of them didn't know a game can end in a tie. 
"''ll take the responsibility for that," Reid said. 
Reid deserves plenty of blame for the Eagles' struggles this season and their inability to beat the lowly Bengals (1-8­1), but coaches shouldn't have to walk up and down the side­line telling players that over­time is do-or-die. 
The Eagles (5-4-1) now have played 12 OT games, including one in the playoffs, since McNabb joined the team in 1999. Yet, the five-time Pro Bowl quarterback didn't know ties were possible until his des­peration pass fell incomplete at the end of the fifth quarter. 
''I've never been a part of a tie. I never even knew that was in the rule book," McNabb said after the game. "It's part of the rules, and we have to go with it. I was looking forward to getting the opportunity to get out there and try to drive to win the game. But unfortu­nately, with the rules, we set­tled with a tie." 

The overtime rule isn't an obscure one. It was adopted fully by the NFL in 1974 and 17 games have since ended tied. The Eagles have been involved in four of those games. 
"I guess we're aware of it now," McNabb said. "In col­lege, there are multiple over­times, and in high school and Pop Warner. I never knew in the professional ranks it would end that way. I hate to see what would happen in the Super Bowl and in the play­offs." 
Uh, they keep playing if it's tied in the playoff's or Super Bowl. But McNabb apparently didn't know that, either. 
In his defense, McNabb was­n't the only one oblivious to the rules. Several of his teammates were just as clueless. 
"Me and Greg Lewis were discussing it on the sideline, so we asked one of our trainers and he told us it ends in a tie," running back Correll Buckhalter said. 
"I found out while we were in OT," rookie wideout DeSean Jackson said. 
"I thought we kept playing," linebacker Omar Gaither said. 
McNabb was unavailable to reporters on Monday. A spokesman for the QB said McNabb told him he wished he knew the rule and wasn't going to make any excuses for not knowing it. 

McNabb's comments took some of the heat off a miser­able performance. He tied a career high with three inter­ceptions, lost a fumble and completed fewer than half his passes (28-for-58). 
Still, the Eagles remain in the NFC's playoff picture, though they hardly look like a team worthy of playing in January. Philadelphia is a half­game behind Washington, Dallas and Atlanta for the final wild-card spot with games against the Redskins and Cowboys the last two weeks. 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No.6 Pittsburgh starts second half strong, cruises to win 
Miami {1-2) five nights before. Pitt took a 9-0 lead in the which shot 59.3 percent (32-of-attracted 639 to Fitzgerald
Associated Press 
Miami led by five points late opening 4 1/2 minutes, saw its 54) -64.3 percent (18-of-28) FieldHouse. Now, Pitt draws 
PITTSBURGH -Pitt's players before losing 64-59. lead trimmed to as few as three in the second half-to Miami's nearly 20 times that for home sported Band-Aids on their Coles was asked which Top points late in the first half, then 31 percent (18-of-58). games. non-shooting arms following an 10 team he liked better, UCLA opened up a 51-32 lead when Kenny Hayes scored 18 points Bramos, averaging 17.5 unexpectedly easy victory over or Pitt. He wouldn't say initially, Dixon finished off the second­and Tyler Dierkers had 12 for points and coming off a 22­Miami (Ohio), the result of then changed his mind the half run with a steal and drive. Miami, which is playing its first point game against UCLA, some post-game flu shots. longer he talked. Dixon hit a 3-pointer that start­six games on the road. missed all six shots and didn't 
The way Miami coach Charlie "Dixon, boy, did he have a ed the half and another that Coles was hoping the famil­score until making two free Coles was talking, the wrong game? That's what we weren't made it 45-32. iarity between the UCLA and throws for his only points with team got patched up after his counting on," Coles said. "That "I know they need me to Pitt would help -much of 11:36 remaining and Pitt up by Hedllawks played a physical hurt us. The front line? Whoa. knock down shots," said Howland's defensive system 20. opponent that did most of the Pitt, Pitt, Pitt. It would appear Jermaine Dixon, who some­was retained by Jamie Dixon -Despite the presence of Ben pushing around. Pitt is a little bit better. They're times returns to the Petersen but the RedHawks never solved Roethlisberger, the former 
.Jermaine Dixon hit two 3-a Top 10 team and I don't know Events Center late at night to Pitt's smothering man-to-man. Miami quarterback who now pointcrs while scoring eight who would be a whole lot bet­work on his outside shooting. "I was thinking, if we could plays for the Steelers. Pitt won points during No. 6 Pittsburgh's ter. They're strong and physical "I've got to come out and play just get a basket when it was a school-record 30th consecu­16-2 run to start the second -they're not dirty -but defense, but I also need to 35-32," said Coles, who was 1-tive non-conference home half and the Panthers went on they're physical and they enjoy knock down shots." 1 against Pitt as a player with game and its 79th in its last 80. to beat Miami 82-53 on Monday playing together. And they're Dixon, a 6-foot-3 junior col­Miami. "We took a shot that Pitt had lost its last five to night. good." lege transfer and the brother of wasn't what we wanted. Then Miami, but all those games 
l.evance Fields had 12 points Pitt coach Jamie Dixon said former Maryland star Juan they went crazy, they went were played in the 1960s. and a career-high 12 assists playing the RedHawks is "like Dixon, is starting because small wild. We never got it back." The RedHawks' frustration and Sam Young and Dixon two hours in a dentist's chair," forward Gilbert Brown is side­With Pitt shutting down lead­became evident early in the scored 14 points each as because they grind out relative­lined with a stress fracture in ing scorer Michael Bramos, the second half when they began Pittsburgh (2-0) avoided the ly low-scoring games, but this his foot. RedHawks couldn't mount a rushing shots, with Bramos tight game that former one proved to be a painless, in­DeJuan Blair had 10 points run to get back into their first once throwing up an off-bal­Panthers coach Ben Howland's and-out visit. Except for the flu and nine rebounds and Tyrell game against Pitt since a 66-42 ance 3-pointer that missed by No. 4 UCLA Bruins had against shots. Biggs added 10 points for Pitt, Miami victory 40 years ago that several feet. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
A 3-bedroom fully furnished house If you or someone you care about for rent from mid December 2008 has been sexually assaulted, visit 
WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT through July 2009. PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 

3-bdrrn,2.5 bath Condo. Two bathrooms + renovated base-Babysitter needed lor Notre Dame HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-1 0 men! (potential additional bed-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Two teachers ready to adopt new-family. Close to ND, SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS room). 10 minute walk from not go it alone born and provide a wonderful life for 
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER University of Notre Dame. $1000 him/her. Confidential. Expenses Occasional afternoons from 3-6 Master bdrrn on main floor w/bth. PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR not including utilities. Call 574-233-If you or someone you love needs paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or 
p.m. KRAMERHOUSES.COM 2618or631-8213 confidential support or assistance, call us toll free 1-888-760­
Catwalk between bdrm upstairs. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at BABYADOPTION-Should have own car. Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living Student rentals 2009/2010. St. (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­
1896 sq. ft. room, kitchen, dining room, full Peter/S.B. Ave. homes. $1300-631-2685. More like ... Purdon't. Get it? Like, Pay: bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $1960/mo. 5-7 bdrms Purdue, but instead of "do" it's like tell us what works for you. 1330 Bridgewater Way, $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call 605-For more information, visit our "don't". Because Purdue sucks. And 
Mishawaka. $179,900. Call574-397-8135 or 574-234-3007 or 574-1st & 2nd floors. Contact Bruce website at: http:l/osa.nd.edu/depart-so do shirts with that slogan on it. 913-426-3838. 247-1567. 261-4444. Gordon 574-876-3537. ments/pregnant.shtml Go Johnny. 
------------------------------------, 




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 18, 2008 COMPfLED FROM THE ()BSERVErfS Wl RE SERVICES page 13 

MLB 

1 
2 3 
4 
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team points previous 

North Carolina 1800 1 Connecticut 1674 2 louisville 1635 3 UCLA 1475 4 Michigan State 1362 6 Pittsburgh 1355 5 Texas 1304 7 NOTRE DAME 1243 9 Gonzaga 1185 10 Duke 1176 8 Purdue 1116 11 Oklahoma 1028 12 Memphis 968 13 Tennessee 941 14 Arizona State 653 15 Marquette 653 16 Miami 591 17 Florida 460 19 usc 398 18 Wake Forest 349 21 Davidson 339 20 Georgetown 265 22 Villanova 261 23 Kansas 207 24 Wisconsin 187 25 
NCAA Men's Ice Hockey 
USA Today Rankings 

team  points  
1  Minnesota  510  
2  Boston University  463  
3  Colorado College  430  
4  Boston College  394  
5  Northeastern  318  
6  NOTRE DAME  309  
7  Miami (Ohio)  276  
8  Princeton  250  
9  Michigan  241  
10  Denver  222  
11  Minnesota State  147  
12  Air Force  193  
13  New Hampshire  138  
14  Cornell  118  
15  North Dakota  19  
16  UMass  17  
17  Harvard  16  
18  Nebraska-Omaha  16  
19  Maine  13  
20  Vermont  13  
21  Yale  13  
22  UMass-lowell  6  
23  Dartmouth  3  
24  Ferris State  3  
25  St. Cloud State  3  

record 
6-0-4 7-2·0 H-3 6·3·1 H·2 H·1 6-3-3 5+0 8-4-0 6-4-1 5-3·2 10·0·0 4-4·3 2·0·2 4-6·0 5·3·1 4-2·0 7-2·1 6-2-2 5·3-2 4-3-1 5-2·1 4-1-2 4-4-2 5·3·0 

NCAA Cross Country  
USTFCCCA Rankings  
Men  Women  
1  Oregon  Washington  
2  Oklahoma State  Oregon  
3  Stanford  Florida State  
4  Portland  Princeton  
5  Alabama  Villanova  
6  Wisconsin  West Virginia  
7  Northern Arizona  Minnesota  
8  lona  Wisconsin  
9  Michigan  Texas Tech  
10  Geogetown  Michigan State  

around the dial 
NHL 
Penguins at Red Wings 
7:00 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Albert Pujols views MVP voting a little differently these days. 
"You have to consider everything. You have to put all the numbers together," the St. Louis star said Monday after powering past Philadelphia slugger Ryan Howard to win the award for the second time. 
Pujols won despite the Cardinals finishing in fourth place, the lowest spot for an NL MVP win­ner since Andre Dawson and Chicago Cubs wound up sixth in 1987. Howard led the majors in home runs and RBis for the World Series champs. 

The result surely will renew a debate that Pujols once raised him­self: What qualifies as "most valuable"? 
In 2006, a month after leading the Cardinals to the World Series crown, Pujols carped when Howard -whose Phillies missed the playoffs ­captured the coveted award. 
"I see it this way: Someone who doesn't take his team to the playoffs doesn't deserve to win the MVP," Pujols said at that time. 
Shortly thereafter, Pujols clarified his 
remarks and said Howard certainly was worthy of the award. 
"I think the writers made the right choice in 2006," Pujols reiterated Monday. "He did deserve it." 
Just as Pujols believed he earned it this year. "I wasn't surprised at all," he said. 
Pujols hit .357 with 37 home runs and 116 RBis while playing with a sore right elbow that required surgery. Howard hit 48 homers with 146 RBis for the Phillies. 
Voting was completed before the playoffs began. 'Tm happy I didn't have to make that decision," 
Pujols said on a confer­ence call from his St. Louis home. "What you do for your team. The play­ers who take their teams to the playoffs should have some consideration." 
Los Angeles outfielder Manny Ramirez and Milwaukee pitcher CC Sabathia, who both led postseason pushes after being traded by AL teams in July, also drew strong support. 
Pujols got 18 of the 32 first-place votes in ballot­ing by the Baseball Writers' Association of America and had 369 points. Howard drew 12 first-place votes and 308 points. 
IN BRIEF NBA disciplines Garnett,
Shaq for separate incidents 
NEW YORK-Boston Celtics star Kevin Garnett has been suspended for one game and Phoenix center Shaquille O'Neal has been fined $25,000 for separate incidents over the weekend. 
The NBA announced on Monday that Garnett will be suspended for hitting Milwaukee Bucks center Andrew Bogut in the face on Saturday. 
Bogut didn't get off, however, with the league also upgrading the foul he committed that started the altercation to a Flagrant 1. 
The incident happened late in the fourth quarter of the Celtics' 102-97 overtime win in Milwaukee. 
Garnett will sit out Tuesday's game against the New York Knicks in Boston. 
O'Neal was fmed for verbally abus­ing an offical and failing to leave the court quickly after being ejected Sunday night against Detroit. 

Hall of Fame basketball 
coach Newell dies at 93 
BERKELY, Calif. -Pete Newell, the Hall of Fame basketball coach who won an NCAA championship and Olympic gold medal and later tutored some of the game's greatest big men, died Monday. He was 93. 
His death was confirmed by the University of California, the school Newell coached to a national title in 1959. Newell, who had been living near San Diego, had a serious lung operation in 2005. 
Newell coached for 14 years at San Francisco, Michigan State and California before doctors advised him to give it up because of the emotional toll. His final coaching job came in the 1960 Olympics, when he took a U.S. team led by Oscar Robertson, Jerry West and Jerry Lucas to a gold medal in Rome. 
Newell later returned to promi­nence with his famous "big men" camps. 
AL champion Rays will 
raise tickel prices next year 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -It will cost more to see the Tampa Bay Rays next year. 
Coming oil" their first winning season, the AL champion Rays announced Monday that single-game tickets will rise anywhere from $1 to $5, depending on location at Tropicana Field, where prices range from $10 to $210 for most home dates in 2009. 
Prices range from $16 to $270 for 21 dates designated as "prime" games, including the home opener against the New York Yankees and three games in June against the Philadelphia Phillies, who defeated Tampa Bay in the World Series. 
The Rays, who had never won more than 70 games in a season before win­ning 97 and making the playofiS for the first time this year, also are introducing what the team is calling "marquee" games -11 Saturday dates that will include a postgame concert or "premi­um" giveaway promotion. 
NHL 

Rangers edge Senators in shootout for home win 
Bruins hand Leafs home loss; Red Wings dominate Oilers with shutout; Islanders sneak by Canucks in shootout 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Nikolai 
Zherdev scored the only goal 
in a shootout and IIenrik 
I.undqvist denied all three 
Ottawa shooters, giving the 
New York Rangers a 2-1 victo­
ry Monday night over the 
Senators. 
The Hangers opted to shoot 
first and Zherdev beat Alex 
Auld between the pads. That 
left it up to Lundqvist to stop 
.Jason Spezza, Jarko Huutu 
and Antoine Vermette for his 
NIIL-leading 12th win. 
Fredrik Sjostrom scored for 
the Hangers in regulation as 
the Eastern Conferenee lead­
ers stretched their winning 
streak to three. 
Daniel Alfredsson had thA 
lonP. goal for the Senators, 
who lost their fifth straight. 
They've scored only live goals 
during that span. 
The Senators had a 9-8 shot 
advantage in an evenly 
played. scoreless first period. 
Thanks to a pair of power plays, thn Senators dominated tlw l'irst half of thn sneond p n riod , but eou I d not bn~ a k through against l.undqvist. i\.lfrPdsson had tho best chance on the first power play, unloading a hard shot from the left dot. Dany IIeatley had a solid ehanee at the side of the net on the sec­ond. 
Ottawa had eight of the first nine shots in the period. The persistence paid ofT with 3:47 remaining when Alfredsson got his first goal in 11 games. The Senators captain picked up the puck in the left corner and wheeled into the slot to beat Lundqvist with a wrist shot. 
In the third, Lundqvist made a blocker stop on Vermette's short-handed breakaway in the opening minutes to pre­vent Ottawa from expanding its lead. 
The save was a turning point, and the Hangers evened the score on Sjostrom's tally at 7:17. Mare Stall unloaded a hard shot from the point and Sjostrom knocked in the rebound for his seeond goal. 
That set the stage for over­time. 
New York's Michal Hozsival had the only shot in overtime, a sharp-angle bid in the final seconds. The Senators outshot the Rangers 28-27 heading into the shootout. 
Bruins 3, Maple Leafs 2 
Michael Ryder, Phil Kessel and Matt llunwick scored, leading the Boston Bruins to a victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Monday night. 
Marc Savard and Milan Lucie each added two assists 
for the Northeast Division­
leading Bruins, who handed 
Toronto a loss in its return 
from a weeklong road trip. 
Jason Blake and Mikhail 
Grabovski scored for the 
Maple Leafs, who have only 
two wins in their last eight 
games. 
The Leafs returned home 
from a swing through Western 
Canada about 24 hours before 
the game and it showed dur­
ing a sluggish start. 
They dido 't get much help 
from goalie Vesa Toskala, 
either. He was particularly 
shaky during the first period, 
letting a soft shot from Kessel 
go through his legs at 9:40 
and giving up a big rebound to 
llunwick before he scored his 
first NIIL goal at 13:18. 
Suddenly, Boston had a 2-0 
lead and the game appeared 
headed f'or a blowout. 
But !Hake gave the Maple 
Leafs some momentum late in 
the opening period. He took a 
nifty bank pass off the end 
boards from Ian White and 
fired a shot over Tim Thomas 
at17:51. 
Toronto had several chances to tic it during the second period. The Maple Leafs were given three straight power plays -including 21 seconds with a 5-on-3 advantage ­but couldn't get another shot past Thomas, who made saves while flopping all over his crease. 
A nice individual rush by Hyder restored Boston's two­goal lead. The former Montreal Canadiens sniper dragged the puck around Leafs defenseman Pavel Kubina and beat Toskala high at14:11. 
Toronto found its legs in the third period after Grabovski scored his ninth goal of the season at 8:53 to make it 3-2. Niklas Hagman made a nice move to beat a defender and the puck found its way to a wide-open Grabovski at the side of the net. 
Bruins defenseman Aaron Ward took a late penalty and the Maple Leafs pulled Toskala, but Thomas stood tall during a late flurry. 
Red Wings 4, Oilers 0 
Ty Conklin made 20 saves for his fifth career shutout, Jiri Hudler and Niklas Kronwall each had a goal and an assist and the Detroit Red Wings beat the Edmonton Oilers on Monday night. 
Mikael Samuelsson and Johan Franzen also scored for Detroit, which has won five of its last six. Henrik Zetterberg added two assists for the defending Stanley Cup cham­pions. 
Dwayne Roloson stopped 37 shots for Edmonton. 


Kronwall had a power-play goal in the first and Detroit added two more in the second. Samuelsson tipped in Brett Lebda's pass out of the corner for his fourth of the season and Hudler's pass from the right circle deflected in off the leg of Edmonton defenseman Sheldon Souray at 14:18. 
Franzen added his ninth goal with 9:56 left in the game. He has scored in each of the last four games after missing five contests with a knee injury. 
Detroit's offense was more than enough for Conklin, who played for the Oilers for three seasons. 
Islanders 2, Canucks 1 (SO) 

Roberto Luongo made 34 saves against the team that let him get away, but couldn't stop Frans Nielsen in a shootout as the New York Islanders beat the Vancouver Canucks Monday night for their soason-best third straight victory. 
Nielsen seored on the !'irst shot of the tiebreaker, and Joey MacDonald turned aside all three Vancouver shooters -ending the game with a poke check against Alex Burrows. MaeDonald stopped 31 shots through overtime. 
Luongo, the Canueks cap­tain, could've been the Islanders' prized possession after he was taken with the No. 4 pick in the 1997 draft. He appeared in 24 games with New York during the 1999­2000 season, but was traded 
when the team made goalie 
Riek DiPietro the face of the 
franchise. 

Luongo kicked off 
Vancouver's four-game road 
trip with his 13th straight 
start and 17th in 18 contests. 
Pavol Demitra gave the Canucks a 1-0 lead in the opening minute, and it stood up until Doug Weight tied it with a power-play goal in the second period. 
Luongo is on an amazing run, one that recently fea­tured a team-record shutout streak of 242 minutes, 36 sec­onds. During the just-complet­ed homestand, Luongo went 4-1-1 and allowed only six goals -five on power plays. 
Tim Jackman, who had three prime scoring chances on Luongo in the second peri­od, drew the penalty the Islanders turned into their goal. Jackman stole the puek from Mason Raymond while New York was short-handed and skated in alone. Raymond slashed him from behind just before he got off a drive. 
On the power play, Weight moved the puek from the left point down to captain Bill Guerin, who returned it. Weight let go a hard drive that appeared to hit the stick blade of defenseman Shane O'Brien before finding its way past Luongo with 5:25 left. 
It was the first goal Luongo allowed before the third peri­od in six games, dating to his previous regulation loss Nov. 2 against Detroit. Luongo rebounded from that defeat with three straight shutouts and two outings in which he allowed a total of three goals before Monday. He lost a 2-1 shootout to Colorado last Wednesday. 
The Islanders outshot the Canucks 10-0 early in the middle period, in which they enjoyed three power plays, and 18-10 overall in the frame. For a while, it seemed as though New York might become Luongo's latest shutout victim. 
Less than five minutes into the second, Luongo flashed his left pad to kick out a good shot by Sean Bergenheim, and then denied Jackman seconds later after the forward was set up on the doorstep. 
MacDonald was sharp on the other end, too, as he gets more comfortable in the start­ing role in plaee of injured regular DiPietro -the man the Islanders drafted No. 1 overall in 2000 on the day they traded Luongo to Florida. 
MacDonald made his sev­enth straight start and 1Oth in the past 11 games. Just 12 seconds in, ho turned aside VaneouvfJr's 2-on-1 and had to avoid teammate Andy Hilbert, who crashed into the net and then had the cage fall on top and trap him inside by the end boards. 
The Canucks kept coming and grabbed a l-0 lead at 49 seconds when Demitra took a return pass in the right circle from Daniel Sedin and fired in his third goal. Demitra played in only his eighth game of the season, after missing nine due to a rib injury. 

Irish Studies at Notre Dame 
Dance -Film -History -Language -Literature 
Beginning Irish I Irish & American Tap Tara MacLeod Dance IRST 10101:01 
James McKennaMWF 10:40-11:30 
IRST 21601:01 
T 9:30-10:20 MW 4:30-5:45 
Beginning Irish I Irish Folk Custom & 
Tara MacLeod 
Belief
IRST 10101:02 
Diarmuid (> Giollain
MWF 11:45-121:35 IRST 30105:01T 11:00-11:50 

TR 12:30-1:45 Beginning Irish II 
Migration & Identity

Mary O'Callaghan IRST 10102:01 in the New Ireland MWF 11:45-12:35 Sean O'Brien R 9:30-10:20 IRST 30109:01 TR 11:00-12:15 Beginning Irish II Mary O'Callaghan Violence in Late IRST 10102:02 Medieval & MWF 10:40-11 :30 
Renaissance Europe
T 11:00-11:50 Rory Rapple IRST 30274:01
Intermediate Irish 
TR 3:30-4:45 
Anne Corbett IRST 20103:01 
Introduction to Irish

MWF 10:40-11:30 Writers Celtic Heroic Brian 0 Conchubhair IRST 30372:01
Literature 
MWF 11:45-12:35
Hugh Fogarty IRST 20109:01 
British History,

TR 9:30-10:45 1660-1800 
Advanced Readings in James Smyth IRST 30413:01
Irish Culture 
MWF 9:35-10:25

Brian 0 Conchubhair IRST 20203:01 
Early Modern Ireland
MWF 9:35-10:20 Rory Rapple IRST 30434:01

British & Irish Gothic 
TR 12:30-1:45 
Heather Edwards IRST 20539:01 TR 3:30-4:45 

Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies-422 Flanner Hall 
Irish-American History Patrick Griffin IRST 30610:01 MW 11:45-12:35 
Folklore, Literature & Irish National Culture Diarmuid 0 Giolhlin IRST 40316:01 TR 9:30-10:45 
Contemporary British 
& Irish Fiction Mary Smyth IRST 40515:01 MW II :45-1:00 
Film, Literature & 
Irish Culture Luke Gibbons IRST 40605:01 TR 11:00-12:15 
Folklore, Literature & 
Irish National Culture Diarmuid (> Giollain IRST50316 TR 9:30-10:45 
The Feminine in Irish Literary & Orai­Vernacuia r Tradition 
Gear6id 0 Crualaoich IRST 50318:01 TR 3:30-4:45 

The Minor in Irish Studies helps students develop their understanding of Irish society, culture and politics: students complete three semesters of Irish Language. four classes in other fields such as English. History or Anthropology and a senior-year capstone essay. 
-631-3555 -iri.~h~ty@rJd..~!.l.Y 
Tuesday, November 18, 2008 The Obser-ver+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Rockets win game, lose All-Star McGrady 
ing right now," McGrady said.

Associated Press 
The two-time NBA scoring 

OKLAHOMA CITY -Tracy champion came in averaging McGrady feels like he's back only 16.7 points and left after to square one with a trouble­scoring eight points in the some left knee that gave out first half. Even without him, on him again. At least his the Hockets were still able ·to Houston Hockets seem able to mount a 14-3 run powered by pick up the slack if he's going Scola and Yao to start the to be sidelined. second half. 
Luis Scola scored 23 points, Artest extended the lead to Yao Ming added 19 points and 77-58 when he stepped 12 rebounds. and Houston behind Kevin Durant's back to made a second-half surge knock the ball away and set without its injured seven-time himself up for a right-handed 
All-Star to  beat  dunk.  
the Oklahoma City Thundnr 100-89 on  "We have guys that we trust and guys  All McGrady could do was watch from the  
Monday night. Offseason pickup Hon Artcst also had  that really can play. They went out there and we all played  bench, where he draped a towel across his shoulders.  
an injury scare, but the Hockets still had enough firepower to hand the tum­bling Thunder  together, kept fighting hard and sustained a lead and came away with the victory.,,  He planned to have an MRI on Tuesday. "I want to play, man. want to play.  
their eighth straight loss. "We have  Rafer Alston Rockets guard  Just to get off to this start, for me personally  

depth. We have guys that we trust and guys that really can play. They went out there and we all played together, kept fighting hard and sustained a lead and came away with the victory," point guard Hafer Alston said. 
McGrady left the game in the opening minute of the second half after aggravating his left knee, which was oper­ated on this offseason to have loose bodies removed. He did­n't return. 
"Tonight I went back to square one, even before sur­gery, is how my knee is feel-
this is a bad 
start," McGrady said. "To have to play your way through an injury that I've never had before and a surgery that was my first surgery is very frus­trating. My game is really based on athleticism, and that's something that I don't have right now." 
Yao and Artest both thought they'd be OK after joining McGrady on the bench late in the game. Artest was hurt on a drive to the basket in the final minute, and he ended up clutching his right ankle in a group of photographers on the baseline. 


He remained in the training room for a while after the game before limping heavily on his way to his locker. 
"People sprain their ankles all the time," said Artest, who had 17 points and 11 rebounds. "It's not broke." 
Yao left with 3:29 to play after a hook shot that gave Houston a 94-78 lead. 
The injury song sounds all too familiar to Rockets faith­ful, who've watched Yao miss 


Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the beli~fs andpractices ofthe world's greatfaith traditions: 
Sponsored b;y: Campus Ministry JSSA, GSU, FOG graduate residences, University Village & Muslim Student Association 
CM 

a year's worth of games over the last three seasons because of various injuries and McGrady get dinged up, too. 
"We don't need all of them hurt. Sometimes teams with three players like that, you may deal with one maybe having an injury because injuries are part of the game," Alston said. "But to have three of them down? We need these guys to be healthy." 
The Rockets still were able to withstand a 14-3 run by Oklahoma City that closed the deficit to 82-74 on Russell Westbrook's basket inside with 10:42 to play. Yao start­ed a six-point spurt with a hook shot in the lane, and the lead was back to 16 when he hit another one before leav­ing. 
Durant had 29 points to lead the Thunder, Jeff Green scored 16 and Westbrook added 14 points. Oklahoma City has lost eight in a row for only the 1Oth time in fran­chise history. That includes an 0-8 start and a 14-game losing streak later last season in Seattle. They're now 1-10 this season. 
"We just have to put two halves together. Tonight we 
played a great first half and not a very good second half," Green said. 
McGrady said before the season that the knee was healing slower than he had hoped, and that it would like­ly be a month into the season before he was back at full speed. He was still about two weeks shy of that point when it failed him again. 
"I've never. had any relief because I've just been trying to work my way into playing shape and strengthen my leg. I've never been 100 percent," McGrady said. "I've just been trying to play, hoping that playing on it will take me over the edge and I don't have any more pain. It hasn't worked in my favor." 
McGrady said he was told he'd be pulled right back out of the game if he was seen limping, and he didn't think he'd he able to play without doing that. 
"It's sharp pain," McGrady said. "It almost just seems like I never had surgery. I'm feeling the same pain." 
Yao was able to find a silver lining to all the injuries from the past few years. 
"I have experience in this," Yao said. "I know how to take care of my body." 

CLUB SPORTS 

Rowers finish fall season at Frostbite Regatta 
Volleyball team wins silver medal in Mich. 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame traveled to Grand Hapids, Mich. Saturday for its final event of the fall season, the Grand Frostbite Hegatta. 
Hosted by Midwest rival. Grand Valley State University, the regatta was a success for the Irish, yet it also lived up to its namesake with blustery eon­ditions and scattered snow showers. The Irish proved their toughness earning second, firth, sixth. eighth. eleventh and thir­teenth overall in a field of six­teen crews from Notre I>ame, (;rand Valley State and Michigan Statn. The day's radng consisted of a 1,500-meter upstream head race, followed by two downstream sprints· of 1,500 and 1,000 meters, con­eluded by a 500-meter upstream sprint. The final places were decidP.d by each boat's total time ovP.r the coursP. of the four events. 
Notre Dame's top boat used a unique "bucket rigged" lineup consisting of coxswain Michael Lehmann. stroke seat Michael Maggart, Nick Springer, Greg Flood, Andrew Haynes, Chuck Talley, Sean Gibbons, Michael WagnP.r and Liam Leyden. The crew's 14:27.3 time was less than ten seconds behind the total score of GVSU's top boat. The two teams fought hard throughout all four races, but the Irish came up short despite winning the final 5(l0-meter sprint. 
The combination of coxswain Melissa Welch, stroke seat Patrick Collard, Tim Parks, Hobert Hay, Graham Boechler, Zach Stackhouse, Charlie Hunter, Peter Feist and David Loughery finished fifth overall with an overall time of 15:24.6. 
Five seconds behind them were Kevin Quigley, Phil Brunner, Cliff Roberts, Karol Grzesiak, Rob Bowen, Matt Dobbertien, Stick Cumberworth, Tomas Castillo and coxswains Bryce Chung, Lisa Folkerth and Paige Norris in sixth place. 

This regatta marks the close of the 2008 fall season, and the oarsmen of Notre Dame will now head indoors for their win­ter training. Between now and spring break, the Fighting Irish will be hard at work on the erg porch in Loftus Field house six days a week. 
Men's Volleyball 

The Irish competed this week­end in the biggest fall tourna­ment in NIRSA, the Back to the Hardwood Classic at Michigan State. 
The Irish came in as the third seed in their pool, and opened the tournament against the No. 2 team in the tournament, Ohio State. 
Notre Dame came out strong despite poor serving, with sen­ior Ryan Doherty blocking Ohio State's best player multiple times. ND finished the game with a 25-22 win. The Buckeyes came back and dominated the second and third sets to take the· win. 
Next up for Notre Dame was College of Dupage, a young but 
NFL 


Lynch hangs up his cleats 
Associated Press 
TAMPA. Fla. -No more 
bone-jarring tackles for John 
Lynch. 
The hard-hitting, nine-time Pro Bowl safety rP.tired Monday, saying it was time to begin a new phase of life after 11 sea­sons with the Tampa Bay Buceaneers and four more with the Denver Broncos. 
He felt so strongly about the relationships he built with both clubs that he decided against stepping down in the eolors of either team. 
Nevertheless, returning to Tampa for the announcement spoke volumes. 
"I played 11 years here. We won a Super Bowl. But much more important was the jour­ney and the way we did things," Lynch said. 
''I'm proud to be a part of this organization, just likP. the Broncos. I'm proud of the way I played my career. You don't give yourself a pat on the baek too much. But at the end of the day, I'm lilled with pride and thankfulness." 
A third-round draft piek of the Bues in 1993, Lyneh was part of a eore of young play­ers-along with Derrick Brooks, Warren Sapp, Mike Alstott, Warriek Dunn and Honde Barber-who hnlpP.d transform Tampa Bay from a laughingstock into a champi­onship team. 
The :n-year-old made five trips to the Pro Bowl as a Buccaneer and four as a Bronco after Tampa Bay released him following the 2003 season in what generally was viewed as a cost-cutting move, even though Lynch was willing to take less money to stay. 
Ito left Denver on more pleas­ant terms in July after being bumped from his starting role and signed with New England during training camp. The Patriots cut him two weeks later, and Lynch had been pon­dering retirement ever since. 
"I knew in my heart I was done when I walked out of there," he said during a news conference attended by several former teammates, including Brooks, Dunn, Barber and Alstott, who announced his retirement earlier this year. 
Lynch finished with 1,277 tackles, 100 pass breakups and 26 interceptions in 224 regular­season games. 
"I remember a core group of players, eoaches and owners here believing we could change a culture of losing. We were the 'Yueks.' We were the worst franchise in football," Lynch said. "But having a belief and looking each other in the eye and saying we can change this thing, and we're going to change this thing, it made it so sweet when we eventually did." 
In addition to thanking the Bucs and Broncos, who sent a representative to Tampa for the occasion, Lynch paid homage to the four coaches-Sam Wyche, Tony Dungy, Jon Gruden and Mike Shanahan-he played for in the NFL. 
He also mentioned four for­mer Tampa Bay assistants­Herman Edwards, Mike Tomlin, Rod Marinelli and Lovie Smith-who are currently head coaches and talked about Bill Belichick granting his wish to play all of New England's pre­season finale. 


strong team. The Irish started the match slowly, and could not fight back in the first game, los­ing 19-25. 
This seemed to light a fire under the Irish, and they came back blasting, with junior mid­dle hitter Mike Nejedly slam­ming home kill after kill. Behind valiant hitting and 
superb blocking, the Irish dominated the second set and got the win,25-20. 
In the third set neither team took a clear lead and the score went back and forth. Dupage eventually outlasted the Irish for a 15-13 win. 
The Irish finished pool play with a defeat of Western Michigan 25-12, 25-19 behind brilliant setting from freshman Josh Rehberg. 
The Irish needed a win against Wisconsin-Milwaukee to make it into Sunday's Gold Bracket. 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee jumped out to an early lead and held on for a 25-15 win in the first game. Notre Dame bounced back strong, taking game two with authority, 25-7. The Irish rode their momentum into the rubber match and opened up a 12-7 lead. The game went to eight extra points in the win-by­two rules, but eventually the Irish fell 23-21. 

The Irish were forced to play in a one-and-done bracket Sunday. They started strong with a win over Central Michigan 16-25, 25-23, 15-10. Notre Dame's next opponent, Air Force, left and forfeited. So the Irish advanced to the Silver Championship. 
The team came out l'lat against Miami of Ohio. Freshman Josh Hehberg again tried to save the match with excellent setting, and even despite a great show of oiTensive 
play from freshman Kevin Padden and junior Jason Gott, the Irish fell 22-25, 21-25. 
The finish put the Irish in 18th overall. They are next in action on Nov. 24 in the Loyola Tournament, where they will play not only club teams, but varsity level teams in preseason action. 
NFL 

Vikings linen1en face suspensions this vveek 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -As three Minnesota defensive line­men travel to New York this week to meet with the NFL, they could be bringing the Vikings' playoff fate with them. 

Jared Allen, Pat Williams and Kevin Williams all will meet with league officials in hopes of avoiding suspensions that would gut the team's biggest strength. 
The Williams Wall will appear to discuss testing positive for a weight-loss diuretic that is on the list of substances banned by the league. They face four-game suspensions for violating the NFCs substance abuse policy. 
Allen will be there to talk about a hit on Green Bay quar­terback Aaron Rodgers two weeks ago that could leave him vulnerable to a suspension because it came two days after he was fined $50,000 for hits on Houston's Matt Schaub. 
Losing three of their biggest­literally and figuratively-stars would be a devastating blow for a team currently tied with Chicago and Green Bay atop the muddled NFC North. Allen leads the team with eight sacks and Kevin Williams is second with seven. All three play a pivotal role in the team's second­ranked run defense as well. 
All three players were unavailable for comment Monday following a 19-13 loss at Tampa Bay on Sunday. 
Kevin and Pat Williams declined comment after the game against the Bucs. When Allen was asked by reporters what he will discuss with league officials, he replied, "I have no clue. I'll find out when I get there." 
Coach Brad Childress was asked about the situation Monday. 
"I understand the question and I wish I could give you some insight, but those things are going to be between the league and who the league deals with," he said. "So it's difficult for me to comment on that." 
On top of it all, starting end Hay Edwards could face a fine for a late hit on Tampa quarter­back Jeff Garcia in the second quarter. 
Allen has said all season he never intentionally tries to hurt another player. 
"We play a violent sport. We know that and we willingly sign up for it," Allen said earlier this season when talking about the fines being issued by the league. "We don't ever purposely go· out to hurt anybody, ever. 
"I know for myself, I have the utmost respect for everybody who plays this sport. But at the same time, it's like you can't make rules to tame it down. This is what we do. We're grown men. We make the deci­sion to do what we do." 
Proprietors 
Warren & L ir.d.a 


Y(occo:S
Restaurant 
:Jrrsl Ongi:na/:7iz.za in 7oam / 
Since 195r 

Specializing in IMiian Entrees 
Tues. -Thurs.: S:00 PM • t1 :00 ?M Fri. -5.lt.: 5:00 PM -1:00AM 537 North St.. louis • Sout'l Bend, IN 574-.Z:B-2464 


---------------------------------------------------------, Tuesday, November 18, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Tourney 
continued from page 24 
game winning streak. 
"It helps that we just played them," Brown said. "It would be different if we played them ear­lier in the year, but we know exactly what to expect." 
The Huskies come into the tournament very hot, the loss to the Irish being the only real stumbling block towards the end of the season. The loss to Notre Dame was only the sec­ond loss Connecticut has suf­fered since Oct. 18. 
The key to defeating the Huskies again will be to bring back the strong offensive play to complement the good defense. 
"We need to be much more efficient with our hitting," Brown said. "I think the key to us being able to win will be to get our offense in a better place where we have more options." 
In the event that the Irish defeat Connecticut, they would play the winner of No. 1 St. John's and No. 8 South Florida. 
Assuming that the Red Storm avoid the upset, the Irish would once again play a team that they faced this past weekend in round two. Notre Dame played on of their best games of the year against St. John's despite the loss, according to Brown, and she expects another strong outing in the event of the teams meeting down the road. 
Although the attitude is differ­ent in the locker room because it is officially tournament time, the Irish still must hold on to an approach that emphasizes one game at a time. 
"We can only take it one game at a time if we want to win," Brown said. 
Despite this, there is some­thing special in the attitude for the team when it gets to be Big East Championship season. 
"It's win or go home time," Brown said. "We know that this is it, and none of us want to go home." 
The Big East Championship begins this Friday in Pittsburgh and a champ will be decided by Sunday night. 
ContactJaredJedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Notre Dame's Justine Stremick, right, and Serenity Phillips both 
play big roles in the quickly improving Irish defense. 
Tl ILE=1~f!5..C::lEC:I 
rl'he Sacran1entalitv ofNature: A Poetic ()tiest to lJndersrand the (;ospd 

Poetry Reading by Jerome L. McElroy Wednesday, November 19 Student Lounge .in the Stud.ent Center 
7:00P.M. Convene for refreshments 
7:30P.M. Reading and commentary on the writing process 

Nominated for the 2009 Book of the Year Award, Conference on Christianity and Literature 
Books available lur sale at this event 

CENTER fOR SPIRITUALITY SAINf MARY'S COllEGE saintmarys.edu/ spirituality (574) 284-4636 Supported by the Si!int Mary's College Endowed fall Lecture Series and the John Templeton Foundation 
Free and open to the public 
.J •. · 



Ram.biers 
continued from page 20 
ahead, 7-0, and giving the Ramblers a lead that they were able to keep for the remainder of the game. 
A few minutes after, Morrissey was able to counter the touchdown with one of its own. Senior quarterback Joe McBrayer passed to wide receiver Carl Anderson for the score, but the Siegfried defense was able to block the extra-point. 
"Our offense played well for most of the game," Morrissey junior middle linebacker Phillip Yuhas said. "But Siegfried flied around and forced some takeaways, which really swung the momentum their way at some crucial points." 
The game carried on in a 7­6 stalemate to halftime, but after several second-half interceptions, Siegfried was able to carry out a win in an exciting finish. Senior running back Marcus Young added an insurance touchdown to bring the game to a final score of 14-6. 
Morrissey's season is over, but they are still looking to what future classes can bring them in seasons to come. 
"We have a good foundation for next year, and our defense is still intact," Morrissey's freshman center Peter Teneriello said. 

Siegfried will have one more week of practice to prepare for its long-awaited champi­onship game appearance. 
"We have a bunch of guys who have given their time and became committed emotional­ly," Rambler offensive coordi­nator Rob Kelly said. "It's elat­ing to them to finally make it this far." 
Keenan 14, Stanford 8 
The rematch of The Battle for the Chapel resulted in a win for Keenan and an oppor­tunity to play Siegfried in Notre Dame Stadium next Sunday for the interhall cham­pionship. 
The game started out well for the Knights, who scored on a long opening drive with a sweep running play to the left to running back Alex Gonzalez. However, for the remainder of the game, the Stanford defense did an excel­lent job shutting down the Keenan offense, particularly through pass defense. 
"We had a little trouble passing the ball and the weather was really cold," Keenan captain Barton Dear said. "We made some mis­takes". 
The Stanford defense capi­talized on some of those mis­takes, giving the offense plenty of opportunities to put points on the board. Unfortunately, they were unable to do so, thanks in part to four inter­ceptions thrown by Stanford. The Griffins' only points came from a blocked punt that was returned for a touchdown. Stanford then completed a two-point conversion to give them an 8-7 lead. 
Much later in the game, Keenan took the lead with a pass to Jim Zenker, making the score 14-8. 
Stanford got the ball back with little time remaining, but pulled off a great hook-and­ladder play that put them near Keenan's forty-yard line. Unfortunately, time ran out on Stanford, giving Keenan the win and eliminating the Griffins from the playoffs. 
Keenan has one more week of practice to prepare for the top-seeded Ramblers. 
"Obviously Siegfried is a good team. They're undefeat­ed, so we're going to have to come out and play a good game," Dear said. 
Although Keenan will play for the interhall championship in their game against Siegfried, their win over Stanford was a significant win for them. 
"It was great everyone was really excited after the game," Dear said. "We've played a lot of games with them over the last few years and it was nice to get a win." 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu and Ryan O'Connell at rocconne3@nd.edu 
NBA 




Cuban investigated by SEC 
He bought the Mavericks in 
Associated Press 

2000 and spent heavily to 
WASHINGTON .:._ Federal improve the roster. regulators on Monday charged He is the best known figure Dallas Mavericks owner Mark to be accused by the SEC of Cuban with insider trading for illegal insider trading since its allegedly using confidential case against Martha Stewart in information on a stock sale to 2002 for allegedly using avoid more than $750,000 in advance knowledge of negative losses. news for a company to sell her 
Cuban disputed the shares and avoid $45,673 in Securities and Exchange losses. The homemaking diva Commission's paid about allegations $195,000 and said he and agreed
"It is fundamentally 
would con­not to serve test them. unfair for someone to use as the direc­
In a civil access to non-public infor­tor of a pub­
lawsuit filed lic company
mation to improperly gain 
in federal for five court in an edge on the market. " years under Dallas, the a 2006 set­SEC alleged tlement with
Scott Friestad
that in June the SEC.
SEC Deputy Enforcement 
2004, Cuban Cuban's was invited Director fury at refer­
to get in on the coming stock offering by Mamma.com Inc. after he agreed to keep the information private. 
Cuban owned 6.3 percent of Mamma.com's stock at that time and was the largest known shareholder in the search engine company, according to the SEC. The agency said Cuban knew the shares would be sold below the current market price, and a few hours after receiving the information, he told his broker to sell all 600,000 shares before the public announce­ment of the offering. 
By selling when he did, Cuban avoided losses exceed­ing $750,000, the SEC said in its lawsuit. 
Cuban, 50 and a multibillion­aire, is a tech entrepreneur who sold his Broadcast.com to Yahoo Inc. in 1999 at the height of the dot-com boom. 
ee calls on the basket­ball court is 

legendary, and his verbal out­bursts at referees, National Basketball Association officials and sports reporters have raised his profile. He has been fined more than $1 million by the league for a series of episodes dating back to 2000 and suspended from a few games. 
"It is fundamentally unfair for someone to use access to non-public information to improperly gain an edge on the market," Scott Friestad, the SEC's deputy enforcement director, said in a statement. The agency alleged that Cuban acted with "scienter," a legal term indicating knowledge of wrongdoing. 
The SEC is seeking a court judgment against Cuban find­
• ing that he violated the antifraud provisions of the fed­eral securities laws. an injunc­tion against future violations, an unspecified civil penalty and restitution of the losses Cuban allegedly avoided. 
While the stock offering in question occurred more than four years ago. the SEC didn't learn about the specifics of the case until early 2007, accord­ing to agency attorneys. 
Cuban's lawyer said in a statement that the SEC's case "has no merit and is a product of gross abuse of prosecutorial discretion." 
"Mr. Cuban intends to con­test the allegations and to demonstrate that the (SEC's) clain1s are infected by the mis­conduct of the staff of its enforcement division," Ralph Ferrara wrote in a note posted on Cuban's blog. 
Cuban, in his own statement, said. "I am disappointed that the (SEC) chose to bring this case based upon its enforce­ment staff's win-at-any-cost ambitions. The staff's process was result-oriented, facts be damned. The government's claims are false and they will be proven to be so." 
Maureen Coyle, an NBA spokeswoman, said the league does not comment on such matters. 
Cuban is one of the richest people in the world, according to Forbes magazine, which pegged his net worth at $2.3 billion as of March 2007. Besides the Mavericks, he owns Landmark Theaters, a large national chain dedicated to independent films, and the HDNet cable television chan­nel. 
Cuban also runs a Web site called Sharesleuth.com, which bills itself as providing "inde­pendent Web-based reporting aimed at exposing securities fraud and corporate chi­canery." 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
carne in with an idea of really putting a block of eight players back and keeping them tight and compaet and then hoping to counter-attack," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said aftor the ganw. 
But. like every prnvious Notre I>anH' opponent this season, the Spartans eanw up short. The Irish det'1msn 
was even more "Randy /Waldrum} from other tal­impenetrable ented players.
probably said this to

than Michigan "She's chasing
everyone millions of

State's and every loose ball sophomore Bose time: 'Good teams and even when Augustin was she doesn't have
find a way to win ... " 

eventually able a real shot at to punch one in getting it, she's during the sec­Kerri Hanks chasing and put­ond half. Irish senior ting pressure all of the game,'" Irish forward Kcrri llanks said. 
Itanks epitomized the detnr­mination that eventually gave Notre Dame the edge Sunday. Before setting up Augustin's game-winner, she threw off the leg brace she had been wearing on her injured knee. · 
"She ditched the brace," Waldrum said with a laugh. ''I'm gonna be hearing that one from the doctors, I'm sure." 
Waldrum praised llanks' 
doggedness, say­
ing it is what 
sets her apart 

The eonditions at Alumni Field were sloppy and proved to be yet anothor obsta­de for the Irish on a day one of their most physical players­forward Brittany Bock -was sidolirwd due to an injury. 
But in the end. Notre Dame discovernd anothnr way to win whnn that no longer semned possible. During tlwir current 2:~-game winning streak. the Irish have comn from bnhind. blown tmuns out and won with defens•~. On Sunday, they showed they could triumph in sub-par eonditions against a gritty Big Ten opponent. 
"Bandy !Waldrum I probably said this to evnryone millions of t.imns: 'Cood teams lind a way to win. whntlwr it's in the first livn minutes or the last second the way to the 
90th minute," he 
said "That's why she's the player that she is." 
The Irish took their cues from 
Hanks Sunday, lighting until 
the final whistle -which 
sounded infinitely more pleas­
ant to fans than the car alarm 
had earlier. 
Now Notre Dame prepares to take on Minnesota and asks the question. will the dream season eontinue? 
There might be an even bet­ter question. !low will the Irish lind a new way to win this one? 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at jiolan@nd. edu. 


Welsh 
continued from page 20 

score, and Davies added the extra point with a run of her own. 
After Welsh's subsequent failed drive, it looked as though the Purple Weasels would go into halftime up 7-0. But with 38 seconds left in the half, Whirlwind quarterback and captain Jenni Gargula made three long passes over the mid­dle, with the third landing in the hands of receiver Meghan Mulhern for a game-tying touchdown. 
Late in the second half, the Whirlwinds added seven more on a touchdown pass to Caroline Shakour. 
The Purple 

on
"Even though we got
Weasels needed four of six pass­a score on their down early, we es for 40 yards, next drive, and stayed composed. " including a 
as they marched five-yard methodically touchdown 
Jenni Gargula 
down the field, pass to hope was high Whirlwind quarterback Hobertson. The 
early, we stayed composed,'' Gargula said. "We didn't get down on ourselves and we knew we would win the game." 
The Whirlwinds will play for the championship next Sunday against McGlinn. 
McGlinn 12, Farley 7 

No. 2 McGlinn held ofr No. 3 Farley 12-7 Sunday afternoon, becoming the first Shamrocks' team to ever reach the champi­onship game. 
Farley looked sloppy out of the gates, as quarterback Emily Murphy's first pass of the day was intercepted by Casey Robertson, giving McGlinn prime field position. 
The Shamrocks capitalized on the turnover as team cap­
tain and quar­
terback Sarah 
deGroot quickly 
connected 

on the Pasquerilla West. sideline. A pass interference call pro­longed the drive and gave the Purple Weasels first and goal from the five-yard line. However, Welsh Family defend­er Katie Rehberger shut the door on the Purple Weasels' comeback with an interception in the endzone. 
With only seconds left, the Whirlwinds could take a knee and start their celebration as they had once again reached the Stadium. 
"Even though we got down 
extra-point 
attempt was 
unsuccessful, and McGlinn led 6-0. 
On the ensuing possession, Farley threatened, led by Murphy, who broke down the Shamrocks defense on the ground, running twice for 41 yards. 
Faced with a fourth-and-four, Murphy threw an incomplete pass, but the Finest got new life when defensive pass interfer­ence was called. Murphy took advantage, capping ofT the drive with a 3-yard touchdown pass. The extra point attempt was successful, and Farley surged ahead for a 7-6 lead. 
MeGlinn fought right back, as deGroot conneeted on back-to­hack deep throws, a 31-yard pass to Kathleen Stanley and a 36-yard touchdown pass to Lauren Miller. Again, the Shamrocks couldn't convert the extra point, but reclaimed the lead, 12-7. 
On its n1~xt possession, Farley quickly turned the ball over as Murphy's first pass was picked ofT again by Robertson, who had an outstanding overall per­formance for the Shamrocks. 
"Everyone was really proud of her," McGlinn captain Sarah deGroot said. "She has been really cluteh for the team the whole year." 
The first half ended with McGlinn still clinging to a five­point lead. 

~arley's defense valiantly kept the Finest within striking distance in the second half, but their offense was unable to muster a second half rally. 
Desperate to score, Farley resorted to using all lour downs on their final three possessions, but the Finest were eonstantly thwarted by the stellar play of the Shamrocks' defense, and McGlinn held on for the 12-7 victory. 
With their victory, the Shamrocks now move on to the biggest stage -Notre Dame Stadium to light for the cham­pionship, where they will face No. 1 seed Welsh Fam. 
"We're all pumped to go to the Stadium,'' deGroot said. "We couldn't be morn excited." 
Contact Chris Michalski at jmichal2@nd.edu and Kyle Smith at ksmith31 @nd.edu 

Getting Started in. Undergraduate Research 
A series ofworking sessions for Business and Arts & Letters students 
"Working Session. I 
~~What is Undergraduate Research and Scholarship in Business and Arts & Letters?" 
Tuesday, November :t..S, 5:30-7 p.J:D. 
Hospitality Room, South Dining Hall (across from Reekers) 
Featured Faculty Panel: 
Prof. Elizabeth Moore, Dept. of Marketing Prof. Jeff Bergstrand, Dept. of Finance Prof. Susan Ohmer, Dept. of Film, Television, and Theater Prof. Jim Sullivan, Dept. of Economics and Econometrics 
What do you want to know about undergraduate research and the research process, but are afraid to ask? In this session, students "Will learn about the diverse research and scholarship that takes place in business and arts & letters disciplines. Faculty"Will talk about how they became interested in research, and how they go about developing ideas and framing questions. 
Bring your ideas and your questions! 
For more information, contact: 
Cecilia Lucero Asst. Director for Undergraduate Research Office of Fellowships clucero@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 18, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE



BLAcK DoG 
MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion


JruJ!MliD)1IR

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Open all Can we get 
the windows a hotel room?
to form four ordinary words. 
I 
.?7 
HOWSY ± 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 




l;~f;flxJ 

FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 
VALWEE 
WHAT THE FAMil-Y HAD TO 00 UNTil­


1 THE AIR C.ONDI­www.jumbte.com TlONER WAS FIXED. 
rJ 


YUGLIT 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ 
1 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: rI I I n IT rI I J 
(Answers Monday) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: BRAVO RODEO CANKER OPIATE Answer: What the beachgoer did when the storm approached -TOOK "COVER" 



CROSSWORD 
Across 36 "Survivor" shelter
Witty sorts 37 Some red wines
5 Make sense 38 Obey the 
1 0 Choice word coxswain 
14 Think tank 39 Cheroot residuenugget 40Wings it15 On the lam 41 Place for a16 Gerund, e.g. 
hoedown 

17 Bond villain 42 Classic blues 
19 Saw red? 
musician 20 Ph.D. thesis: 
441ntuit 

Abbr. 
45 The "35" in John 21 Gets corroded 
11:35 22 Bemoan 46 Prodded 25 "Beats me" 47 Woods or Irons 
gesture 
50 Flair 28 Rub out 51 Laugh heartily 29 Certain trout 
52 Patriarchal 33 Basis of a suit gorilla 34 Endless, 58 Pond organism 
poetically 59 Primp 35 Fraternity P 60 Natural soother 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
61 Lounge in the sun 62 Feel nostalgia, e.g. 63 Crips or Bloods 
Down 
Faux 'fro? 2 Brouhaha 3 Goo in a do 4 Most mournful 5 Most-wanted 
group for a party 6 Puts on 7 Follow 
everywhere 8 Put to work 9 Part of r.p.m. 
10 "Stop!" 11 Wall Street minimums 12 Fatty treat for birds 
13 Pulls the plug on 18 Ticket cost? 21 Game sheet 
22 Deadly 23 Work up 24 First first lady 
25 Germ-free 26 As a result of this 27 Patronizes U­
Haul, e.g. 29 Plays for time 30 Gofer's job 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puule by Steve Kahn  
31 When repeated, cry by Shakespeare's Richard Ill 32 Consumed heartily 34 Octogenarian, for one  41 Nontraditional chair style 43 Czech composer Antonin 44 Go up, up, up 46 Filmdom's Close 47 Omani, e.g.  50 "... after'' 52 U-2 pilot. e.g. 53 Ill temper 54 Grazing ground 55 Carte start 56 Bamboozle  
37 Pole tossed by Scots  48 Fast-food drink 49 Makes "if'  57 Fraternity party setup  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Isaac Hanson, 28; Daisy Fuentes, 42; RuPaul, 48; Danny DeVito, 64 Happy Birthday: There will be plenty happening this year with regard to your earning and fmancial power. You must avoid conflict but don't give in or get involved in things you don't agree with. Look at the possibilities and do not fear the outcome. Instead, work diligently, live in the moment and do your best and the result will surprise even you. Your numbers are 5, 12, 19, 21, 32, 35,46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Rely on yourself if you want to get things done. Someone you love will have a hard time understanding what you want, so be patient. Put more time and effort into your fmancial situation -set a budget and stay within it. ** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make the adjustments at home that will make your life easier. Don't put up with anyone who opposes your plans. Being stubborn isn't always a bad thing if it saves you from something that may cost you too much.** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make an impact on someone with your clever play on words and ability to convince others to do things your way. Your style, high energy and sensitivity toward others will all contribute to your success. Use your imagination. 
**** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You need to do something different. An interesting part­nership is likely to develop through someone you already know. Someone you've been re­sponsible for will pay you back. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Prepare to compete for what you want. Don't allow your emo­tions to play tricks on you. Get all the facts before you make any sort of plea for help. The more conservative your approach, the further you will go. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can count on getting the backup you require ifyou ask for help. Look past the obvious and you will recognize exactly what's required to fix a problem. Love and romance will lead to some surprising personal decisions.**** 
LmRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't be fooled by someone who is complaining. Make an at­tempt to raise your profile and to advance. If you don't see a bright future where you are, look for a position that has growth potential. Overspending will lead to problems at month's end. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's up to you to find unique ways to jump-start your ob­jectives. Conservative advice will pay off. Surprise everyone with your position on some­thing that can shape your future. Love is on the rise. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your emotions cost you fmancially. Some­one you want to impress may be demanding. Going over budget on a project you are working on will result in complaints. Don't let anyone hold you responsible for some­thing that isn't completely your fault. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything will open up for you if you are patient. A positive, professional change appears to be coming down the pipeline. Show compassion and you will win favors. Good fortune is in the stars.*** 
AQUARlUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on learning, picking up additional skills or making a move that will enhance your ability to earn more money. A change of scenery will spark new ideas. Contact someone from your past who is on your mind. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put your thoughts out there for all to hear and you will get some interesting responses. Love is in the picture and a serious partnership will have new meaning and influence the way you do things. A social gathering with your peers will help you see things more clearly. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, nurturing and a serious friend and companion. You are full of good ideas and are an open-minded crusader. You are destined to be a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations, myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor fun 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Tuesday, November 18, 2008 
page 20 
INTERHALL FooTBALL 
Heading to Rock's house 
Keenan and Siegfried set to play in Stadium 
By MOLLY SAMMON and 
RYAN O"CONNELL 
Sports Writer 
Siegfried 14, Morrissey 6 
Siogfried is moving on to the championship game with high spirits. as Sunday's 14-6 victo­ry over Morrissey gives the Hamblers a shot at glory in the Stadium. 
"It was tough and cold out, and these am two really physi­cal teams," Siegfried coach P.J. Zimmer said. "But fortunately, we were able to execute when we nee dod to." 
The Hamblers were tho first to put points on the board, as senior quarterback Max Young ran the ball in early in the first quarter, putting Siegfried 
see RAMBLERS/page 17 


Welsh Fam one win from defending title 
By CHRIS MICHALSKI and 
KYLE SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Welsh Fam 14, Pasquerilla West 7 
Same scenario, same result. 
On another cold November Sunday, top-seeded Welsh Family eliminated fourth-seeded Pasquerilla West from the play­offs, just like they did last year. 
This game, though, was much closer than last year's, and came down to the last drive to decide the winner. 
The Purple Weasels came out tough, scoring on their first offensive drive. Quarterback and captain Cara Davies found receiver Cynthia Curley in the left corner of the endzone for a 
see WELSH/page 18 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish on top of their game as post-season gets started 
"I think we have a really good East), Pittsburgh (16-13; 8-6 Big whole new outlook right now." be attributed to the improvedBy JARED JEDICK chance at winning the tourna­East) and South Florida (17-12; The offense has been the defensive play of the team. 
Sports Writer 
ment," Irish coach Debbie 7-7 Big East). strong suit for the Irish this "I was very pleased with how Brown said. "We have been The team is maturing and year, led by a bevy of strong out­the defense played against It is win or go home time for doing some things very well coming together at the right side hitters. Junior outside hit­Connecticut," Brown said. "We the Irish. lately and I am very optimistic." time of the year, according to ter Christina Kaelin leads the held them ~? a very low hitting 
With their win over Earning the top seed in the Brown, who has seen the team Irish with a 3. 2 kills per set percentage. Connecticut on Sunday, the Irish tournament was St. John's (21-improve as the year went on. ratio, followed by freshman out­In earning the fifth seed, the (14-13: 9-5 Big East) secured 8; 12-2 Big East), followed by "Over the last couple weeks, side hitter Kristen Dealy (2.68 Irish will get a second crack in the fifth seed in the Big East Cincinnati (25-5; 12-2 Big East}, we have been doing some very kills/set), sophomore outside hit­the opening round at the Championship, putting them in Louisville (15-1 0; 11-3 Big East}, good things," Brown said. "We ter Kellie Sciacca (2.4 kills/set) Connecticut team that they decnnt position to make a run at and Connecticut (21-8; 10-4 Big played a very good game against and junior outside hitter Serinity defeated last weekend in five winning the Big East title and East). Hounding out the tourna­St. John's and managed to find a Phlllips (2.52 kills/set). sets to end the Huskies' seven qualifying for the NCAA tourna­ment qualifiers behind the Irish way to win against Connecticut Brown said the key to the ment. were Syracuse (17 -14; 8-6 Big this past weekend. We have a team's late season success can see TOURNEY/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Finding ways to win games 
Throughout much of Uw sec­ond half of Notre Dame's 1-0 win over Michigan State Sunday, a car alarm blared just outside Alumni Field. The noise -eoupled with the bitter-cold tempera­ture-cer­tainly annoyed the fans in attendance. But not nearly as mueh as Michigan State irri­tated the Irish. 
By paek­ing eight playf"lrs into thf"l defensive half of the field for much of the eontest, the pesky Spartans gavf"l the Irish offense one of the best tests it has seen all st~ason. 
"I thought Michigan State 
see DEFENSE/page 18 


Fran Tolan 
Sports Writer 
MEN's SoccER 

Team picks up No. 12 seed in NCAA tourney 


ND earns first round bye and home game 
Observer Staff Report 
For the eighth year in a row Notre Dame is headed to the NCAA Tournament. 
Head coach Bobby Clark has brought his troops to the tour­nament every year since taking over in 2000. 
The Irish learned Monday that they would be the No. 12 seed this year. Notre Dame fin­ished the regular season ranked ninth in the country, but slipped slightly because of a 2-1 loss to South Florida in the Big East semi-finals on Sunday. 
The 16 tops teams in the 48­team tournament all reeeive first round byes. This is the lifth time that the Irish have sat out the first round. 
Last year Notre Dame was the No. 10 seed and advanced to the quarterfinal round before a 1-0 overtime loss to eventual champion Wake Forest. 
The first round bye also insures at least one home game for the Irish in the tournament. Notre Dame will take on the winner of the Northwestern­Loyola (III.) game to be played this weekend. 
The winner of that game will travel to Alumni Field next Tuesday night. Notre Dame is undefeated at home this year with a 9-0-1 record. They cur­rently have a 13-game unbeat­en streak on their own turf. that dates back to a 3-2 loss to Indiana on Oet. 17, 2007. 
Four other Big East teams will join Notre Dame in the tournament this year. 
St John's was awarded the No. 3 spot and South Florida was given the eighth seed. 
Wake Forest once again led the way this year picking up the No.1 seed. 




