
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 50 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 11,2008 

Duncan wins construction award 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Duncan llall was honored with an award of merit in Midwest Construction's "Best of 2008" com­petition in the residential/hospitali­ty category, the University announced Friday. 
Midwest Construction is a monthly magazine focused on the construction industry in Illinois, Indiana, Wisconsin and Eastern Missouri. It is one of 10 regional magazines published by McGraw­llill Construction. 
The University did not submit Duncan Hall for consideration for the award, according to University Vice President of Business Operations Jim Lyphout. 
"I and the University Architect [Doug Marsh] were pleasantly sur­prised to learn of the award," Lyphout said in an e-mail to The Observer Monday. 
"We are extremely pleased with Duncan Hall," Lyphout said. 
Duncan I fall shares the award of merit honor from Midwest Construction with Dana Hotel and Spa, which is located in Chicago. The project of the year distinction in the residential/hospitality catego­ry was awarded to One Museum Park East, the tallest residential structure in Chicago. 
An independent jury of experts judged the 128 considered projects on criteria including quality, project management, team work, and 
see DUNCAN/page 4 

Freshman Oass Council holds election 
Phelan, Kenney chosen by peers to serve as president, vice president for academic year 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Freshman Class Council (FCC) elected its officers last Thursday and is already working on its plans for the com­ing year. Malcolm Phelan, who was voted president, said the Council's main goals are to repre­sent the Class of 2012 and to build a sense of community with­in the class. 
"As we go forward we want us to be the class that people talk about years later, the class that just clicked," said Phelan. "We want to build that sense of family that keeps people coming back for years ... to build the incredibly 
sense of community that is so characteristic to Notre Dame He said the FCC was responsi­ble for the 

Halloween dance last month and has plans to sell t-shirts and make peanut but­ter and jelly sandwiches 
Phelan for home­
less shel­ters in the area. There is also talk of a possible dance in the spring and giving out free hot chocolate on the quad, said Phelan. 
Phelan was elected FCC presi­dent. Jay Kenney was voted vice president, Shannon Crotty treas­urer and Michael Ryan secretary. 
The election took place later than in past years because it took longer than usual to get repre­sentatives from each dorm, Sophomore Class Council vice president and advisor to FCC Kate Clitheroe said. 
Student government received special permission to extend the deadline of the election for this reason, she said. 
The officers were elected by their fellow FCC members, which consist of one representative from each dorm, Kenney said. Each candidate gave a short speech, and following the speeches, those running left the room and those not running voted, he said. 
Students support hotel workers 
Coalition for Economic Justice hosts HEI employees at LaFortune 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

Socially-conscious stu­dents concerned about where the University's endowment is being invest­ed gathered in LaFortune Monday to support the Hotel Workers Hising movement, which is attempting to form a union for workers in HEl Hotels. 
"Rising in the sense that there's a poverty level and we're trying to bring all the hotel workers up," Coalition for Economic Justice member Thanh Le said. 
HEI Hotels is a large chain that receives much of 
see HOTELS/page 4 

While there were many people running for each position, Clitheroe said that this election 
was not as 


competitive as last year's contest. 
" T h e freshmen are really more enthu­siastic than competitive. 
Kenney They really 

weren't cut­throat about it. They're all pretty good friends by now," Clitheroe said. 
''I've never seen such gung-ho 
see FCC/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group talks modifying Transfer-0 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
The Campus Life Council (CLC) discussed their ideas and sug­gestions for modifying the Transfer-0 Program at Notre Dame during their meeting Monday, with a task force chair stating the orientation needs to give more attention to student life, in addition to academic life. 
Meg MacCaughey, SUB repre­sentative and chair of the Task Force on New Student Introduction to Notre Dame, said her group has met with Catherine Linn, an admissions counselor who works with Transfer-0. 
Currently, the Office of Admissions runs Transfer-0, and the program reflects an academ­ic focus. 
"Admissions really accentuates the academic transition, and it doesn't give that much attention to student life," MacCaughey said. While Frosh-0 emphasizes the transition to dorm life and introduces students to clubs and events on campus, Transfer-0, under the umbrella of admis­sions, lacks that perspective. 
In addition, MacCaughey said the committee of students that organizes Transfer-0 is com­posed only of students who have transferred to the University in the past. 
"There are no dorm represen­
see CLC/page 4 



College notified of Sisters' passings 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's students were sent an e-mail Thursday, informing them that a Sister of the Holy Cross, who had 

been residing in the  on-cam­ 
pus  Convent,  had  passed  
away on Nov. 4.  

The e-mail, sent by Michelle Vasquez, secretary to Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice presi­dent for Missions, invited stu­dents to attend the funeral Mass and burial on Friday and included a link to a biog­raphy of Sister Margaret Mary Duggan available on the Mission Web site. 
The Mission section of the Saint Mary's Web site has a list of biographies of deceased Sisters of the Holy Cross beginning with Sister Agnes Eileen Walshe who passed away on Jan. 7, 2007. 
The list, entitled "In Memoriam," began in 2007, but the department of Missions has been keeping these records long before then, Sister Schultz said. 
The Department began mass e-mailing students as a result of several people com­ing to Sister Schultz and ask­ing why they weren't being informed of the Sisters' deaths, she said. 
The information can go on 
see SISTERS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 11, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Don't knock 

YouTube 
Are you guys fans of viral video? Are you snasonnd YouTube aficionados? SeekBrs of the next big thing in that pop­ular gBnrn known as "the ridiculous video of the w«wk that everyone and tJwir mom arn watehing?' 
As tho Sennn Editor of this fine paper, I 
like to engagn with  
you, fdlow fans of  Analise Lipari  
Internet phenome­ 
na. with our quasi- 
weekly  YouTube  Scene Editor  
features  that  we  
post in the Scene  

spread. We'll put together an amalga­mation of quirky. ridiculous or punny videos fi1r your benefit (and, to be hon­est, ours). The content can vary depend­ing on whkh member of my staff is edit­ing that night. Some of my favorites have bBen "Biz's Beat of the Day," a clip from tim kids' show "Yo Gabba Gabba" in whkh Biz Markie instructs your chil­d ron on tho finn art of beat boxing; "Snorlax Owns," a curse-laden discus­sion of the nwril'i of various Pokemon, particularly of the chubby and sleepy varinty; and thn well-known and oll­quotml "My Nnw llaireut." 
SornBtimes thll YouTube f(mtures arn influenced by working in the Observer Ollice iL'ielf. For example, if I'm working with our lovnly Managing Editor, Jay Fitzpatrick, my video choices tend to lean towards the more absurd side of life. You can thank Mr. Fitzpatrick for our indusion of "Barack Holl," by the way. For those unfortunate souls who still haven't seen this little gem. "Barack l!oll" is an exercise in video splicing taken to tho point of 1-don't-know-what. Clips of Barack Obama's speeches are cut to preeisely fit the lyrics of Rick i\st.lny's "Never Gonna Give You Up," otliJctively allowing the president-elect to Hiek-Holl the nation via Youtube. Note: There's also a response video in which Senator McCain, speaking at the Hepublican National Convention and cm1ing a video, gets Barack Rolled by the aetual "Barack Holl'' vidoo. 
Intelligent stuff. I know. But, to all you intellectual snobs out there, those who think Youtube video viewing is a pedes­trian past time -don't knock it till you've triPd it. 
It's easy to think that someone like me or you, young, college-going people who enjoy a fa~~ade of intellectualism, would spend their time with high art and museums. And granted, I like those things, as I'm sure you do, too. (Don't worry, I won't tell anyone about the hours you spend watching "Rock of Love: Charm School" on Vhl. Oh, wait. Oops.) 
But whPn it comes to easy entertain­ment, I'm loving the democratization of video that you find on the internet. Where olso ean that Star Wars Kid from Canada find instant fame? Or what eould amount to marathon viewings of that "Charlie bit me!" video with those British kids? Classic. 
Sure, there's a danger in spending all of' your time on a laptop, instead of' engaging with thP outside world. But if staying inside one more time means I get to wateh a dip of Joel McHale's ver­sion of Britney Spears' "Womanizer" on repeat. I'm on it. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publicmion and strivos for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, plca.<e conracr us at 631-4 541 so we can correc£ our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MUSICAL ARTIST WOULD YOU BE HAPPY TO NEVER HEAR FROM AGAIN? 




Casey Martin  Daniel Nolan  Leora Wallace  Jay Wade  Chris Godla  Kara Coyle  
junior Stanford  senior off-campus  senior McGlinn  junior off-campus  senior off-campus  junior P.W.  
"Celine Dion, I hate everything she has ever done in life. "  "Jessica Simpson, because she's an expert at  "Akon, because he has a whiny high-pitched voice.  "Nickleback. because they are all that's wrong with  "Rihanna, ' cause some­body's got to stop the music. ..  ''Aaron Carter, because I have doubts that he actually beat  

destroying music. And music (but an they're acceptable Canadian. .. country singer)." 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Senior Joe Berndt dives to keep the ball from senior Robbie Bernardin in the opening night of the co-ree broomball season. 
OFFBEAT 
Big purse stops bullet from hitting student 
MURFREESBORO, Tenn. -Don't knock those trendy, oversized purses ­they could save your life, as one college student found out. Police say the contents in an oversized purse saved Elizabeth Pittenger, a 22-year-old Middle Tennessee State University student, by stop­ping a bullet during an attempted robbery. 
Pittenger was walking to her car on campus Thursday evening when a man confronted her and demanded her purse, cell phone and laptop, universi­ty Police Chief Buddy Peaster said. She fought the man off, but he fired a gunshot before fleeing. 
The bullet was found inside the purse, along with a calculator, umbrella and small case that had been punctured. Pittenger was not injured. 
Councilman tells teens to hoist saggy pants 
DALLAS  Dallas  
Councilman  Dwaine  
Caraway is on a  mission:  

He wants those wearing low-hanging, baggy pants to pull them up. 
As part of his ongoing campaign against saggy, 
underwear-exposing pants, the mayor pro tern held a summit Saturday. More than 100 adults, children, students, ministers, law enforcement officers and representatives from local organizations attended the hours-long derriere affair. 
Local youth counselor Calvin Glover even brought a contingent of saggy bot­tom teens. The group piled into two elevators and made its way to the council chamber. Saggy britches, big belt buckles and untucked T-shirts were in abundance. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
0:: 
u.l 
:::1: 
~ 
u.l 

3: 
e.
e. 
e
ct ~ 

**• *
**• * 
CJ 
0 

HIGH 47 HIGH 42 HIGH 47 HIGH 53
...I 
LOW 32 LOW 32 LOW 35 LOW 37 
Shaq." 
IN BRIEF 

The Tri-Military Heserve Officer Training Corps (HOTC) will hold their annual Veteran's Day Ceremony today at 5 p.m. at the Clarke Memorial Fountain. President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. will be the guest speaker. In case of inclement weather, the cere­mony will be held in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library. 
St. Edward's llall is hosting "NO's Got Talent!" today at 8 
p.m. in Washington Hall. There are going to be first, second and third place prizes and it's to support lloly Cross schools in Uganda. Any ques­tions can contact Michael Eardley a tmeardley@nd.edu. 
Student Government is host­ing the first installment in the Last Lecture Series Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. Professor of Anthropology James McKenna will deliver the lecture. 
"Faith, Democracy and Values: The Challenge of Moral Formation in Families, Schools and Societies" is part of the Association for Moral Education's (/\MEl 34th annu­al conference. The conference aims to examine moral educa­tion and the ways it informs and, in turn is informed by, faith and political perspectives in a diverse and complex glob­al community. The event is to be held all day Thursday in McKenna Hall and is spon­sored by the Center for Ethical Education (CEE). 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser11er. e-mailed detailed information about an e11ent to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0.

e 
* * * * HIGH 47 HIGH 40 LOW 32 LOW 28 
***. 

Atlanta 52 I 33 Boston 51 I 37 Chicago 45 I 26 Denver 52 I 26 Houston 81 I 68 Los Angeles 68 I 53 Minneapolis 45 I 21 New York 51 I 38 Philadelphia 52 I 37 Phoenix 75 I 53 Seattle 54 I 44 St. Louis 47 I 37 Tampa 79 I 54 Washington 54 1 36 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Saint Mary's to cotntnetnorate Kristallnacht anniversary 
Event organizers seek to remember the Holocaust and speak out against human rights abuses in Daifur, Burma, and the Congo 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
This week. Saint Mary's chapter of the White Rose Society is commemorating the 70th anniversary of Kristal1nacht, when over 20,000 men were sent to concentration camps. Kristallnacht, or the Night of Broken Glass, is known as the event that marked the beginning of the Holocaust. 
The Saint Mary's White Rose Society is the second chapter of this group in the United States -the first is at the University of Texas­Austin. Senior Sarah Testa, president of the White Rose Society chapter at Saint Mary's, discovered the group in a class her junior year. 
"I took a class on the Second World War where the White Hose was briefly men­tioned in conjunction with other resistance groups," Testa said. "The name struck me so I looked it up and I found out there was an incredible story few knew about." 
After learning that the University of Texas-Austin had a student-run White Rose Society, Testa contacted them to receive information about the group. Although Testa worked on the idea her junior year, the chapter was 
not formally recognized until the beginning of this school year, said Testa. 
"Currently, there are 60 official members in the chap­ter," Testa said, "but people are always expressing inter­est in joining. There are a lot of first years and sopho­mores involved in the chap-t e r , which 
Testa worked closely facul­ty members involved in the planning of last year's Kristallnacht Commemor­ation. She said she feels it is important to mark the anniversary of the start of the Holocaust and to make sure that the memory of the Holocaust does not die. 
"It's easy to 
say that the 
hopefully me an s that it  "J took a class on the Second World War where  world will not forget the Holocaust,"  
can con­tinue on past this year."  the White Rose was briefly mentioned in conjunction with other resistance  Testa said, "but it's actual­ly more of an issue than  
T h e modern  groups  many realize. In our life­ 
White R o s e  Sarah Testa  times, those personally  
Society  White Rose Society  affected by the  
h a s applied the ideas  Saint Mary's Chapter president  Holocaust will perish. In addition, peo­ 
of  the  ple are actually  
original  denying  that  

White Rose Society, but inte­the Holocaust ever existed. grated them with issues that These things are such dan­are prevalent today. gers to Holocaust remem­
"The Saint Mary's White brance that now, more than Rose Society seeks to honor ever before, we need to com­to actions of the original memorate and remember." White Rose, remember the Events to mark the Holocaust and speak out anniversary of the start of against current human rights the Holocaust began Sunday abuses," Testa said. "Right with a viewing of "Sophie now we have a marriage of Scholl: The Final Days," a Holocaust remembrance and documentary about one of activism for Darfur, Burma the original members of the and the Congo." White Rose Society, college student Sophie Scholl. Scholl Monday evening in Vander stood up to the Nazis and Vennet Theater, David was executed for her involve­Stefancic, an associate pro­ment with the Society along fessor of history, introduced with two other members. "Cabaret," a film set in 
The com-Berlin in memoration 1931. After continued showing the Monday with m o v i e ,
"It's easy to say that the 
showing of Stefancic led
world will never forget the
Testa's per­a discussion sonal inter­Holocaust, but it's actually about the view with subjects pre­
more of an issue than 
Holocaust sented in the 
many realize."
survivor film. J a c o b T h e 
Hennenberg, Sarah Testa Kristallnacht shown dur­commemora­
White Rose Society 
ing lunch at tion ends
Saint Mary's Chapter 
the Student Tuesday
president
Lounge. She night with a said she first viewing of m e t "Hotel Hennenberg Rwanda" at when she was 13. 7p.m. in Vander Vennet 
"When I was 13, I wanted a Theater. Edith Miguda, assis­Holocaust survivor to come tant professor of history, will speak at my grade school," introduce the movie and lead she said. "I contacted a syn­a discussion after the view­agogue and met Jacob ing. Hennenberg. Mr. Hennen­For the commemoration, berg came to speak, and we the White Rose Society will remained in contact with one be giving away white roses to another throughout my high remind people of the impor­school career." tance of the anniversary. 
This past summer, Allied Cut Flowers, a compa­Hennenberg agreed to pre­ny in Cleveland, donated the serve his personal story on 500 roses that will be given tape for the White Rose away. Society. This personal inter­view will also be shown Tuesday, same place and Contact Megan Loney at time. mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


A Special Information Session for Mendoza College of Business Students 
(Others are welcome to attend) 
Leave May 13th 2009 Return June 14th 2009 
,/All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible 
,/Four and one-half week study in London 
,/Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, Spain, or Amsterdam 
,/Earn 6 credit hours 
,/Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Session for 2009 & 2010 Programmes Wednesday 12T" November 2008 
5:00 pm to 6:00 JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/,.,.,sumlon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 11, 2008 


Duncan 
continued from page 1 
service, according to a Midwest Construction pross relea ..'in. 
Luc<L<; Oil Stadium, the nnw sta­dium built for the Indianapolis Colts, was dnsignated as the Overall Pn(jnet of the Year. 
Tho 12H submitted projoets worn divided into categories to allow tho juries to better judge the merits of comparable proj­ects, act~ording to Midwest Construction. 
Duncan Hall currently houses 232 male undergraduates and opmmd in August 2008. The resi­dence hall features single, double, tripln and quad rooms, in addition to some doubles and quads that otli1r private bathrooms. 

The dorm also features a sec­ond-floor chapel with a vaulted ceiling. 
The hall was named after 1952 alumnus and donor Haymond Duncan. 
Hesidents recently decided upon the "Highlanders" as the West Quad dorm's official mascot. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
CLC 

continued from page 1 
tatives, or any kind of general Notre Dame students who came in as freshmen," she said. 
MacCaughey said that her task force would be looking into ways of adapting the Transfer­aformat and possibly involving the Office of Student Affairs to increase emphasis on student life at Notre Dame. She said that involving rectors and com­missioners from each dorm would be beneficial. 
"We really feel we can make this happen ... and give [trans­fers] a better sense of what Notre Dame is," she said. 
Fr. Jim Lewis, rector of Carroll Hall, said that the work of CLC would be to help "enhance what already exists." "We're not looking to usurp anything from admissions or the Provost's Office," Lewis said. 
In other CLC news: 

+ Nicole O'Connor, student government Parliamentarian and chair of the Task Force on Student Safety said her task force has developed plans to launch a Web site for student living off campus. 
The Web site will feature 
information taken from student government's guide to living off campus, and the task force is in the process of gathering eon­tent related to attractions, retailers, activities and other information about life in the community. 
O'Connor said the planned launch date is in March, 2009, so that students moving off campus at that time can utilize the information. 
+ Student body vice president Grant Schmidt, chair of the Task Force on Technology and Study Spaces in Dorms. said his group is continuing discussions about the use of Google calen­dars on campus, and recently discussed their use with the Hall Presidents Council. Schmidt said that the Hall Presidents Council will continue to consider using Google calen­dars. 
+Schmidt also detailed a res­olution his task force is com­pleting. The resolution deals with installing Pharos printers in all dorms, and Schmidt said while the printers may not be seen as a need, they are always convenient. 
"I think we've come up with enough issues" to get the reso­lution passed, Schmidt said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
FCC 
continued from page 1 

people," she said of the members of the FCC. 
Phelan agreed and described his fellow FCC members as "incrodi­ble and full of ambitions and ideas and energy." 
Phelan told The Observer that the FCC's advisor called their ideas "ambitious," which he thinks is an accurate description of what this year's class council will be. 
"It may be ambitious but I think with the group that we have, we actually can get stufl' done," said Phelan. 
He said the FCC plans to send surveys out to the freshman dass to get input from students and that dorm representatives are going to make themselves avail­able to their fellow freshmen. 
"We're going to need !the stu­dents] help in doing this. We can do nothing without the support of the freshman class. It is our job, not to lead them, but to support them," Phelan said. 
He told The Observer the mem­bers of the FCC want "to do our absolute best to make ... what the kids would like do ... a reality." 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

In his response, Jenkins However, the University said he spent years toiling for school would want to be praised the University's social remains invested in HEI, HEI Hotels. known as a hotel that treats

Hotels 

investment policy and suggest­prompting the Coalition for "I was a rank and file for its workers unjustly," he said. continued from page 1 ed the students begin meeting Economic Justice to invite the many years, meaning I was a Estrada said one of the 
with Notre H o t e I worker myself in the hotel workers major demands was its contributed capital from Dame's Chief Workers industry," he said. for card check neutrality university endowments, from Investment "They shared their Rising move­Ancheta said it was impor­agreement in all negotiations. schools such as Harvard, Officer Scott ment and tant for students support the "A card check neutrality
stories ofhow the 
Brown, Michigan and Notre Malpass. four actual workers because without that agreement is an agreement Dame. IIEl touts Notre Dame "Our posi­workload has increased workers from support, the where the as one of its top investors. tion regarding under HE/ and how H E I s movement would workers ask The Coalition for Economic these types of Meridian likely fail. the company to
they've cut back on the
Justice had previously raised issues is well Hotel in San sign a state­
"We came to "The workers can't do 
concerns over Notre Dame's known and staffworking there, Francisco -talk to you guys ment saying stake in !lEI when tlwy deliv­unambiguous: basically increasing the Hi chard so basically we it alone." there will be a ered a personal lettnr to A situation in Quan, Vincent can work togeth­fair process so
work for everyone else." 
University President Fr. John which we find Mac, Eliza er," he said. "We that everything
Michael Ancheta 
J nnkins. that the legal­Chang and just want to let will be neu­
HEI hotels employee
"I think the big thing, and ly protected Tatiana Estrada Michael you guys know tral," she said. this is how wo said it when we rights of Coalition member Ancheta-to their help is "There won't sent tho letter to Fr. Jenkins, workers are campus. greatly appreci-be any intimi­is that we want Notre Dame to infringed " T h e y ated because dation tactics, bo a stellar university that upon is unacceptable," shared their stories of how the their support is definitely sig­and instead of going through m akfls a stand on the issue of Jenkins said in his letter. workload has increased under nificant in our campaign. The the secret ballot election labor rights," Coalition for Angulo said he has met with HEI and how they've cut back workers can't do it alone." process, workers can just sign Economic Justice membflr Malpass and felt that his con­on the staff working there, Ancheta said he agreed with onto cards and lwhen there's Michanl Angulo said. "That is cerns were taken seriously. basically increasing the work the Coalition's call for divest­enough signatures! the union what tho Catholic Church has "He's very open, has done a for everyone else," Coalition ment from HE! Hotels until is established." done, that's what people of lot of good research, and has member Tatiana Estrada said. they enact fair labor prac­Le said the problems actual­good conscience in this coun­been very supportive," Angulo Quan, a former hotel worker tices. ly run much deeper, ineluding try have always done." said. who is now a union organizer, "I don't think that this major violations of privacy. 
know no boundaries 

World Vlew lf-1 w. ••••t•at1vn ftom th(i Oftlce of the PreatdHitl to f."lromote conatruGtiVe ~UNIVBR.SITYOP 
"-DEBARTOLO 

c:hfllog11o about lf'lliHlfl!i'l ot J<u;e, ditSH, filtiH••ctty. rehuion, and gendt"tl thruuHh th(,) arts. ~NOTRE DAME ~ PEIU'OI!:MNGARTSCENTER Qffi~F;C~ ofthe Prwldent 
"They actually clock the time for how long they spend at the restrooms." he said. "There are serious privacy issues." 
Le also told The Observer that IIEI hires an outside com­pany to hold captive audience meetings, where workers are forced to listen to anti-union rhetoric. 
"The main reason the rights are being violated is, just like freedom of speech, we have the right to not listen to what you say," he said. 
Sophomore David Hivera, who attended the event. said he supported the Hotel Workers Hising movement, adding Notre Dame has a responsibility as a Catholic university to avoid unethical businesses. 
"I had heard about the IIEI campaign that had already been going on, and for a school that has a $7 billion endowment that has a lot of major influence, especially a Catholic university, I beliPve there is a major obligation to do something about this," Hivera said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 






ORLD' & NATION 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 CoMPiLED FROM THE ()nsERvr.rrs wmr SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq suffers deadliest attack in weeks 
BAGHDAD -A suicide bomber Monday struck a crowd rushing to help schoolgirls trapped in a bus by an earlier bombing. The Interior Ministry said at least 31 people were killed -the deadliest in a string of blasts that raise doubts about Iraqi security forces as the 
U.S. preparos to reduce troops. 
The ministry said another 71 people were wounded in the twin blast'i, the deadliest attack in Baghdad in six weeks. A third bomb exploded about 130 yards (meters) from the scene in the mostly Shiite Kasrah section of north Baghdad but eaused no casualties, police said. 
No group daimed responsibility for the attacks during the morning rush hour. But suspicion fell on al-Qaida in Iraq, which has made suicide bombings against Shiite civilians its signature attack. 
In rneent weeks. there has been an uptick in small-seale bombings in Baghdad. An Associated Pmss tally showed at least 19 bombings in the city this month as of Sunday, compared with 28 for all of Oetober and 22 in September. 
2,000 year old ring found in Israel 
JEHUSALEM -A luxurious gold, pearl and emerald narring provides a new visual clue about the life of the elite in Jerusalem some 2,000 ynars ago. 
And it'i diseovery was a true eureka moment for excavators. 
The piece was found beneath a parking lot next to the walls of Jerusalem's Old City. It datos to the Homan period just after the time of Jesus, said Doron Ben-Ami, who directed the dig. 
The earring was uncovered in a destroyed Byzantine structure built centuries after the piece was made, showing it was likely passed down through generations, he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Inauguration tickets not to be scalped 
WASHINGTON -The senator overseeing Barack Obama's swearing-in ceremony said Monday she's writing to Internet sites like eBay asking them not to sell scalped inauguration ticket'i. 
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., also said she's era!Ung a bill that would make a federal crime of selling tiekel'i to the historic event Jan. 20. 
Feinstnin. who chairs the Joint Congressional Committee on lnauhrural Ceremonies, said she foresees overwhelming demand for the 240,000 available tickets and has heard reports they may be sold for as much as $40,000 online. 
The tiekel'i are supposed to be free to the pub­lic and distributed through congressional offices. 
Priest agrees to pay sex-abuse victims 
SPOKANE. Wash. -A former priest accused in many of the child sex-abuse claims that bankrupted the Spokane, Wash., Catholic diocese has agreed to pay $5 million to victims, who'll likely never be paid. 
Even though Patrick O'Donnell doesn't have the money he agreed to pay, a lawyer for some two dozen victims says getting the former priest to own up to his actions will help them put the abuse behind them. 
"I think we achieved our goal, which was to get a judgment and hopefully we can deprive him of as many assets as we can," the victims' lawyer. Timothy Kosnoff, said Monday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Boy left in Nebraska returned 
INDIANAPOLIS -The South Bend Tribune rnports an R-year-old Wabash County boy left at an Omaha hospital under Nebraska's safe haven law has been returned to authorities in Indiana. 
A court hearing is scheduled for Friday in Wabash County to determine what happens to the boy next. 
Officials with Nebraska's Department of Health and Human Services Division of Children and Family Services said the boy was lnl't by his mother Thursday morning at Bergan Mercy llospital. 
ELECTION 2008 

Obama vists Bush in White House 
Obama, Bush and their wives take part in traditional tour, begin transfer ofpower 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-All smiles and compliments, President­elect Obama and his wife, Michelle, called on President Bush and first lady Laura Bush Monday in a White House visit that was part political ritual, part practical introduction and a striking symbol of the historic trans­fer of power to come. 
The president and Obama talked war and financial cri­sis. Laura Bush and Michelle Obama talked about raising daughters in the nation's most famous house. 
Then Obama flew back to Chicago to work on setting up the new administration that will take over on Jan. 20. 
Mrs. Obama went out hunt­ing a new school for the kids, visiting two of the capital city's best-known private schools. 
If flrst impressions matter, Obama and his wife dis­played one similarity to the super-punctual Bushes, pulling up to the White Ilouse's South Portico 11 minutes early. The couples traded warm and easy greet­ings in the crisp autumn sun­shine, with the wives exchanging pleasantries about the fall hues each wore -Mrs. Bush in a brown dress and Mrs. Obama in a red one. 

While Obama and Bush, in business suits, proceeded waving and smiling down the omce, with no handlers or White House press secre­sition of government in light White House Colonnade for staff. It was Obama's first tary Dana Perino said that of the nation's many critical nearly two hours of private time in the storied work­Bush described the meeting economic and security chal­talks, Mrs. Obama and Mrs. space, even though he had as "constructive, relaxed and lenges," she said. Bush had their own agenda: been to the White House pre­friendly," covering problems Such White House meet­talk of raising children in viously for events. at home and abroad, and ings have a history going most unusual circumstances. Neither the Bushes nor the that he personally pledged a back decades. They are dis­Mrs. Bush conducted a tour Obamas spoke to reporters, smooth transition. Bush gave cussions that can range of the living quarters of the and details about their meet­Obama a sneak peek at wherever the two men historic mansion and made ings were few. White House highlights, such choose, whether focused on introductions to the army or The president and presi­as the Lincoln Bedroom and specific issues, how best to residence staff who look after dent-elect talked about an the president's office in the make decisions. the extraor­first families. automotive industry now in residence, after their hour­dinary resources that accom­
Michelle Obama had toured deep crisis, mortgages and plus in the Oval Office. pany any American presi­the White House before with the prospect of a second eco­Obama transition spokes­dent, the special weight of the daughters Malia, who is 10, nomic stimulus package, woman Stephanie Cutter said office or even the secrets and Sasha, who is 7. But the according to two officials the president-elect thanked about the building that few two women had never met. familiar with their conversa­Bush for both his hospitality people are privy to. It's also a 
The 43rd president and the tion. The officials wanted and transition help. "They chance to establish personal man who will be the 44th -anonymity so they could had a broad discussion about rapport between near­and first black -commander speak candidly about a pri­the importance of working strangers, though that is by in chief met alone in the Oval vate conversation. together throughout the tran-no means guaranteed. 

ELECTION 2008 


Obama plans to close Guantanamo 
Associated Press fill his pledge of shutting down team has been championed by legal 
Guantanamo, the plan could require scholars from both political parties. But 
WASHINGTON -President-elect the creation of a new legal system to as details surfaced Monday, it drew Obama's advisers are crafting plans to handle the classified information inher­criticism from Democrats who oppose close the Guantanamo Bay prison and ent in some of the most sensitive cases. creating a new legal system and from prosecute terrorism suspects in the Many of the about 250 Guantanamo Hepublicans who oppose bringing ter­U.S., a plan the Bush administration detainees are cleared for release, but rorism suspects to the U.S. mainland. said Monday was easier said than done. the Bush administration has not able Obama foreign policy adviser Denis 
Under the plan being crafted inside been to flnd a country willing to take McDonough said the president-elect Obama's camp, some detainees would them. wants Guantanamo closed. but no deci­be released and others would be Advisers participating directly in the sion has been made "about how and charged in U.S. courts, where they planning spoke on condition of where to try the detainees, and there is would receive constitutional rights and anonymity because the plans aren't no process in place to make that deci­open trials. But, underscoring the difli­final. sion until his national security and legal cult decisions Obama must make to ful-The plan being developed by Obama's teams are assembled." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November II, 2008 
Harvard considering cuttting spending 
Economy hurting University's endowment 

Associated Press 

BOSTON II arvard University is considnring s p n n d i n g 1: u ts bn c au s c th e <H~ o n o m i <: s Io wd o wn m a y n~duen fndnral grants and thn school's substantial endow­mont, l'residnnt l>rtlW Faust said Monday. 
Harvard's nndowment post­nd an H.h percent return and grnw to $:H,.9 billion in tho fiscal ynar that nndnd June :w. Thn school, howevnr, lost 
12.7 pnre1mt on its U.S. stock portfolio and 12.I percnnt on its fornign nquity portfolio d u r i n g l h a l ti nHL Fa u s t 's spoknsman on Monday dnclinnd to say much the nndowmPnt has lost during thn cuJTnnt neonomie turmoil. 
Still. Faust warnod in an o­mail to faculty, staff and stu­dnnts that "wn must recog­nize that Harvard is not invulnnrable to tho seismic linaneial shocks in the larger world. Our own economic landscape has been signil'i­eanlly allll red." 
"Wn need to b<l prepared to absorb unprecedented nndowrnnnt losses and plan for a period of greater linan­eial restraint," she said. 
Harvard's is the nation's largest university endowment and provides about a third of thn annual operating budget. Faust said the school is look­ing at ways to cut spending and will review compensation costs, which account for near­ly half of the budget. 
Harvard also is reviewing its ambitious nxpansion pro­gram. including plans announced early last year to nxpand across thn Charlns Hiver from its Cambridge cam pus into Alison, she said. 
"WP will Iwnd to plan and act in ways that reflect that rnality, lo assurn that we con­linucl lo advance our priori­lies for tnaching, rnsnarch and sPrvi<:c~ ... slw said. 
The school intends to imple­ment initiatives to make edu­cation affordable to students from low-and middle-income families, and will ensure that those with incomo below $60,000 will pay nothing to send children to Harvard College. Those earning up to $180,000 can expect to pay no more than about 10 per­cent of their income, she said. 
Graduatn and professional schools will keep financial aid budgets at current levels. 
Harvard's efforts to address tlw economic downturn mir­ror what is happening else­where in the country, includ­ing other Ivy League schools. Whiln wnalthy schools can fare better in a downturn, they are also seen as vulnera­ble to prolonged market slumps because they tend to fund a greater portion of their budget from their endowment. 
Dartmouth College has announcnd that it will cut spending after its endow­ment, which also makes up about a third of its budget, lost $220 million. That school's trustees blamed the loss on poor returns on stocks and bonds because of the Wall Street meltdown. 
Last week, Brown University announced a hiring freeze through January, and said it would review its capi­tal budget to determine which projects could be delayed. Cornell University also recently announced a 90-day halt of construction projects and a pause on hiring staff members from outside the university through the end of March. 
"Virtually every college and university, their budgets are undnr strain, stress, for a variety of reasons." said Matthnw Hamill, a vice presi­dent of the National Association of College and Business University Officers. 
dents who were involved with the program and had their

Sisters 
friend pass away have been continued from page 1 involved in the funerals and 
attended their wakes, Sister the Web site, but if students Schultz said. don't know it's there, they One student involved in the would have no way of finding program, junior Brooke out about this, she said. Druktenis developed a 
It's "just communicating," friendship with Sister Sister Shultz said. "Students Margery Mitternight, who don't have to open the e­passed away on Sept. 16, she mails if they don't want to," said. 
she said.  "I had been  
The idea is to  visiting Sister  
keep  students  Margery  for  
involved with their founders, Sister Schultz  "Without the Sisters. we wouldn't exist. •·  12 months (even over the summer  
said.  since  I  was  
"Here's the group who are our sponsoring  Liz Brown SMC sophomore  working here in South Bend). She  

body, they've served through out the world," and they deserve to be remembered, she said. 
The on-campus Convent, which happens to be the "Motherhouse of the congre­gation," according to Sister Schultz, is a vital part of the Saint Mary's eommunity. Keeping students informed and involved with the Sisters is important, she said. 
"Because Saint Mary's is so closely [tied to the Sisters], this has more meaning for students here," she said. 
One program that has helped ·With building student relationships with the Sisters is the Friends With Sisters program, organized by Sister Louisita Welsh. Many stu­
was bed­
bound, so it 
was easy to lind time in her schedule for me to come visit, which is not always true since the Sisters of the Holy Cross are so activo for the most part," Druktenis said in an e-mail. 
She was informed of her friends' death and was in attendance at the funeral, she said. 
"Sister Margery's funeral was the l'irst funeral I had ever been to so it was tough for me since she was tho 11rst person I have ever had to grieve and celebrate tho life of'. The Sisters of the Holy Cross' funerals are truly a celebration of life and I was surprised at how upbeat the funeral was," she said. 
Sophomore Liz Brown had a similar experiencfl with her friendship with Sister Marie Bernadette Hogers, who passed away on Oct. 15. 
"I went once a week every week all last year," she said, "and then this year I kept meaning to got over there and then she passed away before I could sec hnr." 
She was sent a personal e­mail from Sister Welsh before the rest of the school was informed, she said. 
"I went to the Mass and I processed to the gravesite and was there for the burial and had lunch with the Sisters afterwards," she said. 
"Tho Sisters were amaz­ing," in helping her feel bet­ter, she said. 
"She had gotten to the point where she was not remembering people," and which Brown said hnlped her assuage some of her guilt for not being able to see her before she passed away. 
Brown says that she still goes to visit Sister Hogers' grave once a week. 
"It still kind of gnts me now and then. the faet that I can't physically sec her," she said. 
Brown said she approves of the new e-mails that inform students of the passing of Sisters. because it lets stu­dents bn morn involved as a community with the Sisters. 
" W i t h o u t t 111~ Si s t e r s we wouldn't nxist," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

WHY CHOOSE A MINOR OR A SUPPLEMENTARY MAJOR IN LATINO STUDIES AT ND? 
Changes in American demography make it imperative for professionals and leaders, in all fields, to understand the politics, economics, and cultures of the US Latino/Hispanic community. Health professionals, for example, are already implementing programs tailored to the needs ofUS Latinos/Hispanics; the private sector is recognizing their growing purchasing power; and policymakers and political leaders have come to realize that Latinos/Hispanics may play a decisive role in the US electoral vote. 
The minor or the supplementary major in Latino studies will deepen stu­dents' knowledge ofthe cultures, art, history, literature, religious life, politi­cal expression, and public policy issues ofnearly 40 million Latinos/Hispanics in the United States. 
The programs encourage research into new issues such as changing immigra­tion patterns, remittances, emerging transnational communities, and cultural flows between Latinos/Hispanics in the United States and their families' countries oforigin. 
While the emphasis is on domestic communities, consideration ofglobaliza­tion, immigration, and border issues introduces an international dimension. 
For more information contact Yolanda Lizardi Marino, Director ofAcademic Affairs, Institute for Latino Studies, 230 McKenna Hall; (574) 631-0940; or at ymarino@nd.edu. 
INSTITUTE for 



Latino studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,870.54 -73.27 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,155 81 2,372 375,835,819 
AffiX· 

NASDAQ 1,616.74 -30.66 
ti:IIG·l·ai~!!H!·•·•·• .!iiii&J•I~I~~~IIIi~il•i!illill~llll 
S&P 500 919.21 -11.78 
NIKKEI (Tokyo):ltS1zwil%1J81'~~-iiil•il!lll.:j 
FTSE 100 (London) 4,403.92 +38.96 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -1.31  -1.23  92.63  
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG)  +8.06  +0.17  2.28  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -1.35  -0.42  30.77  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -2.95  -0.42  13.80  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.53  -0.020  3.760  
13-WEEK BILL  -31.03  -0.090  0.200  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.10  -0.047  4.214  
5-YEAR NOTE  -2.11  -0.054  2.504  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.37  62.41  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +12.30  476.50  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  -1.90  84.20  
Exchange Rates  

YEN 97.8050 EURO 0.7871 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1988 BRITISH POUND 0.6413 
IN BRIEF 
DHL cuts 9,500 American jobs 
ATLANTA -Delivery company DHL, hit by heavy losses and fierce competition, is signifi­cantly reducing its air and ground operations in the U.S. and cutting 9,500 American jobs, leaving rivals like FedEx, UPS and the U.S. Postal Service to fight over the customers it will stop serving. 
The decision announced Monday could lead to higher shipping prices and greatly scale back a possible venture between UPS and DHL, the fourth-largest shipper of packages in the U.S. 
Deutsche Post AG, the German parent of DHL, said it will no longer offer U.S. domestic­only air and ground services as of Jan. 30, though it said international shipping to and from the U.S. would continue. 
DHL has tried to be a major player in the 
U.S. since it bought Airborne Inc.'s ground delivery network for $1.05 billion in 2003, but it has lagged in the air and ground mar­kets combined, analysts said. 
Club for ultra-rich files bankruptcy 
BILLINGS, Mont. -The Yellowstone Club, an exclusive mountain retreat for the ultra­rich, said it filed for bankruptcy Monday after failing to secure new financing ­underscoring that even the elite can't escape the country's current economic trou­bles. 
Spokesman Bill Keegan said the club filed for Chapter 11 protection in federal bank­ruptcy court in Montana. The move came just two months after the club announced an ambitious expansion plan through a part­nership with the Arizona-based Discovery Land Company. 
The gated, millionaires-only club on 13,400 acres in Montana's Gallatin Mountains boasts a private ski hill and golf course. Opened in 1999, it counts former Vice President Dan Quayle and Microsoft co­founder Bill Gates among its 340 members. 
In a statement to The Associated Press, the club said it had been unable to secure financing arrangements with its creditors and bondholders. It plans to reorganize its finances and emerge from bankruptcy "as soon as possible," the statement said. 

Peds' bailout for AIG grows to $150B 
Insurance company loan reaches record high for private company 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -When the government offered an emergency loan to insurer American International Group in September, eyebrows shot up at the $85 billion price tag. Now it looks like pocket change. 
The size of the AIG lifeline swelled to more than $150 billion on Monday, a record for a private company. But the head of the broader financial rescue package was cool to other compa­nies reaching for a piece of the bailout pie. 
The new AIG package includes a $40 billion chunk of the $700 billion financial bailout. It's the first time money from the big rescue bill has gone to any company other than a bank. 
General Motors, Ford and Chrysler, burning through cash and bleed­ing jobs, are prodding the government for more help. The leaders of the House and Senate have urged Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to get some of the $700 billion to the Big Three. 
The automakers, cov­ering all their options, are also pushing to get help as part of a new, multibillion-dollar stim­ulus package for the help retool auto plants to of credit card company to AIG was $85 billion, economy if Democrats build more fuel-efficient American Express Co. to and the Fed added a $38 push it through Congress vehicles. become a bank holding billion loan in October. when a lame-duck ses­Nee! Kashkari, the company. But that has not been sion convenes next interim head of the $700 Although the new sta­enough to firm up the week. billion bailout program, tus will subject the com­company, which is so big 
President-elect Barack was cool to the idea of pany to greater regulato­and interconnected to Obama has said his tran­funneling the money to ry scrutiny, American other firms that its fail­sition team would companies beyond banks Express will also gain ure would devastate the explore options to pro­and AIG. access to the Fed's emer­economy. vide relief to the auto "This morning's action gency lending program. Under the new plan, industry, and President with AIG was a one-off The company, which last the Fed will provide $60 Bush's press secretary event necessary for month announced plans billion in loans. The said Monday the White financial stability. It is to slash its global work Treasury will provide House would "listen to" not the establishment of force, has been hard hit $40 billion to buy up Congress if they try to a new program," he said by the credit crisis as preferred stock. And the help automakers. at a financial conference even the more affluent government will spend 
Any money would be in New York. consumers the company close to $53 billion to on top of the $25 billion In a separate develop­caters to struggle to pay buy up mortgage-backed in loans that Congress ment late Monday, the off their debts. assets and other AIG passed in September to Fed granted the request The original Fed loan contracts on debt. 

Circuit City files for bankruptcy 
Associated Press 

RICHMOND, Va. -Facing pres­sure from vendors and consumers who aren't spending, Circuit City Stores Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection Monday as it heads into the busy holiday season with hopes that the move will help it survive. 
Under Chapter 11 protection, the nation's second-biggest electronics retailer can keep operating while it develops a reorganization plan. Its Canadian operations also filed for similar protection. 
The company also said it cut 700 more jobs at its Richmond, Va., headquarters, after announcing a week ago that it would close 20 percent of its stores and lay off thousands of workers. 
In court documents, Chief 
Financial Officer Bruce H. Besanko cited three factors: erosion of ven­dor confidence, decreased liquidity and the global economic crisis. 
"Without immediate relief, the company is concerned that it will not receive goods for Black Friday and the upcoming holiday season, which could cause irreparable harm to the company and its stakeholders," Besanko said in the filing. 
Its shares fell 14 cents, or about 56 percent, to 11 cents on Monday before being halted. 
Circuit City, which has had only one profitable quarter in the past year, has faced significant declines in traffic and heightened competi­tion from rival Best Buy Co. and others. The company laid off about 3,400 retail employees last year and replaced them with lower-paid workers, a move analysts said could backfire, hurting morale and driving away customers. 
While the retail industry overall is facing what's expected to be the weakest holiday season in decades, Circuit City's struggles have intensified as nervous con­sumers spend less and credit has become tighter. 
At a hearing in Richmond, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Huennekens granted Circuit City interim approval to secure $1.1 billion in debtor-in-possession loans while it is in bankruptcy pro­tection. Those funds, needed to stock merchandise and pay employees, replace a $1.3 billion asset-backed loan the company had been using. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November II, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
The elusive mandate 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H.lll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ElllTOR IN CmEI' Chris Hinc 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Nl\WS EDITOR: Jcnn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE Eonort: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz llartcr 
PHOTO EI>ITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary jesse 
CONTROLU~R: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAI'OR: Mik<· Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-li927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 olm·rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6j1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5313 obsncws.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
1574) 6.31-530.3 viewpoinr.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454.3 .,pons.l@lnd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) li3l-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
!'HE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independcnr, daily newspaper puhlishcd in prim and online by the studen~' of the University ofNorrc Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial comenr, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advcrtisenwms based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsign<·d editorials rt·prcst•nt the opinion of the m;tjoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A"'istanr Managing Editors and department editors. ( :ornmcnmri<·s. Jeerers and columns prt'SC/l£ the views of tht· authors and nm necessarily those ofThe ()hscrver. 
Viewpoint space is available w all readers. The tree expression of all opinions through lcrters is encouraged. l.t•ttcrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contacr information. 
QurstiotiS "?,arding Obsm,rr policies should br dirt'cted to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OIM~Ct'Yct {l/~1''\ ';•J•ll-~llhtl) IJ pubh~•cd Mmulay thfiiUI(h fmlay nccpt dmu'S o:.um .md V.ll.mun }ll:fl<..h. A \IJ~IIf'lllllllil'l1•c O!J...c"tvrr ••$l!Kl tin ulk .1nde1nk yt".&t.S'S5rlllnnr.cmc:,tc-r. 
'llu:Ohsttvcti•putllill•o:d.at l'O~TMA,I)Tf.R 
OH !\(MIIh [limn!( H.. Jl Send >kidrn~ currccuunato: Nmrc{J.&mr.IN411'S'S6-0779 ThcCl!.crver l't-nmhl.al pt•••.&.:r p.ll•l.u Sm~ DJmr l'.<l llm:nt'J o111d ~ddiuun.d mJihng nlf~ea 11.!4 Suuch Outing 11.111 
Nunc: D.ttnt", IN o1f,~'i6-0n'J 
·n1c Ol...crve"r •~ .1 uu·mhc:r of rhc A-~e.IJtnll'rr:» All rcpttJ~.Iu<.llon n,Wn" JU 
roc~!. 
With hyper-liberal Senator Barack Obama ascending to the presidency, in conjunction with a ncar filibuster-proof majority in the Senate and a dear majori­ty in the House, Democrats can now rel­ish in a vietory that affirms the princi­ples they hold most dear: bigger gov­ernment, spineless foreign policy, and increased spending on inell'ective soeial programs. 
In the deeply pro­found words of Bob the Builder, "Yes we can!" 
Or can they'? 

In the back of their collective mind, there rnmains the stub­born fad that Obama managed to dinch the election on November 4th largely by riding a wave of personal popularity and widespread rnsentment toward the previ­ous administration. lie campaigned, not as a Dmno1:rat, but as a symbol of a new, bipartisan era that transcends the petty political bickering of the past. And although his electoral and popular vote victories were decisive, thn question of what his election means for the dimetion of his prnsidnncy has yet to be answered. 
If we attempt to look to Obama's cam­paign for some dues, we are left just as mystified. His call to arms can be summed up in a single word: change. But let's face it, when vying for the presidency wlwn the approval rating of the outgoing incumbent from the opposite party has flat-lined around 28 percent, the cam­paign script was practically written lor him. All any Democratic nominee had to do was avoid any fatal missteps and the election would be h>if't-wrapped and deliv­ered directly into his or her hands. 
Add a touch of inspirational narrative, a pinch of promisns to transcend partisan bieknring, and a dash of moving rhetoric about hope, and you've got a reeipe for a messianic leader, complete with a loyal 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
following of hero-worshippers and a press that caters to his every whim. 
But the term "change" does not imply any concrete policy initiatives or solutions to the problems our nation now faces. When Obama declares, "the change we need is coming," what he has in mind may not coincide with what many in this country bnlieve should be done. His cam­pai~:,rn was built upon a message that res­onated with voters precisely because it was so vague. 
The truth remains that the majority of Americans arn not on the same page as Obama when it comes to governing phi­losophy. This fact becomes evident when one looks back to some of his own cam­paign rhetoric, whieh seems at times to embrace much of the traditional Hepublican Party platform. For example. instnad of standing behind his preferred Marxist aspirations of "spreading the wealth around," he chose to market his income redistribution program as a "tax cut." Don't believe me? Then try explain­ing how he plans to cut taxes for 95% of working families when a third of them don't pay income taxes, yet will receive a government check if his plan is imple­mented. 
lie also insists that he will go through the federal budget "line by line" and eliminate every inefl'ective program to cut sponding (considering the fact that appro­priations bills contain tens of thousands of pages. this would be an enormous feat in and of itsell). Balanced budgets have traditionally been associated with fiscal conservatism, a philosophy that Obama, who sponsored or cosponsored 144 bills that would have increased federal spend­ing by $75 billion annually and proposed $292.954 billion in new spending during the campaign, hardly favors. Unless he deems national defense, the only policy area in which Obama seems to support spending cuts. an ineffective program that should be abolished, he is going to have a very ditlicult time achieving the "net spending cuts" he promised to achieve during the third debate. 
Now I understand that Obama is no conservative; in fact, according to the National Journal's 27th annual vote rat­ings, Obama was hands-down the most liberal member of thn Senate in 2007. But the language he has used to pander to voters indicates the necessity of appealing to their center-right tenden­cies. 
Perhaps in addition to acquiring more votes, Obama was hoping to gain favor with conservatives so that they will go along with his leftist agnnda as president. lie has already begun to set the biparti­san tone for his administration during his victory speech by insisting that we "resist the tnmptation to fall back on the same partisanship and pettiness and immaturi­ty that has poisoned our politics for so long." Just days later, he appointed Hahm Emanuel; former Clinton advisor, Freddie Mae board member lrom 2000 to 2001, and notoriously foul-mouthed partisan hack; to the position of chief of staff. 
A wide gap exists betwflen Obama's claims to champion bipartisanship and his actions. Unfortunately, he has con­vinced most Americans that he will lead in a manm1r that transcends the partisan divide, which dons not give him the authority to implement thn radkal agen­da he managed to de-emphasize during the campaign. It snems that his definition of bipartisan involves building support for libnral polides among moderates instead of trying to compromise with the oppos­ing party by presenting his plans with a deceptive twist. 
I Iistory has not been kind to presidenl'i who overstep their authority. If Obama interprets his win as an overwhelming mandate for liberalism and aggressively attempts to reconstruct the govnrnment in this manner, he risks losing much of his popular support, along with any chance to make the change he promised a reality. 
Christie Pesavento is a Political Science major, and can be reached at cpesaven@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports 

Jenn Metz Lorenzo Reyes When did you stop watching John Tierney Jared Jedick 

the game? 
Sarah Mervosh Miehael Blasco 

sJbrnita'<Letter 
Graphics Scene Interception return for touchdown Andrea Archer Jess ShafTer 
Halftime 
Viewpoint 

Fumbled punt 
Lauren 

Watched the whole thing 
.com
Brauweiler Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"My home is not a place. it is 
people." 

Lois McMaster Bujold author 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tropic Thunder: not so funny 
The summer before my freshman year here at Notre Dame, I volunteered at the Special Olympics Games. I helped in the skills division of tennis. One particular athlete, Ben, was vnry excited to go first. He came out on the court, and I asked him if he needed any practice rounds. Ben confidently replied, "No, I'm ready!" Ben completed his challenges and was pro tty good at all of them. I complimented him on his skill and he proudly responded, " I know I'm good, I'm PERFECT!" Truer words have never been spoken. Ben had Down syn­drome. 
This past week SUB movies hosted the film, Tropic Thunder. This film repeatedly degrades 
'those with disabilities. Men and women with disabilities are the greatest gift God has given to our world. They are full of pure, unconditional, perfect love. My sister, Marita, has physi­cal and mental handicaps. While some students here at Notre Dame struggle with trying to make the division one sports team. Marita struggles with walking. While students here struggle with Aristotle's philosophy, Marita struggles with learning how to read. While stu­dents hen~ struggle with relationships and learning how to love one another-well Marita's got that one covered. Marita never gives up-not only can she walk, but she can run and play sports too. Not only can she read, but she writes her own stories and spells a whole lot better than I do. Not only does she love, but she loves unconditionally, unselfishly, and unre­servedly. She sees people for who they are, not for what they look like or what they wear or how smart or athletic they are. She simply loves the person. Marita never makes fun of any­one -but each day when I walk around campus, I hear people using the word "retarded" with a negative connotation. 
I see our beloved Notre Dame sponsoring a film, Tropic Thunder, that openly degrades those with disabilities. If a movie openly made fun of Jewish people or black people or women we wouldn't show it--it would be deemed as offensive. So why, when a movie openly makes fun of those with disabilities, is it deemed as funny? It's not funny-it's hurtful. It's degrading a group of people who should be praised and commended by society-not made fun of. This is a Catholic university named after our Blessed Mother-and right now, I'm pretty sure she is ashamed of us. 
Mary Forr sophomore Pasquerilla West Nov. 9 

Drunken revelry justified by 1 Change and Hope' 
Last week seemed to be the pinnacle of my existence as an American when I learned from thousands of miles away that Barack Obama was to become my future president. I became overwhelmed and on the verge of tears while observing the millions of people cheering for our nation's soon to be first African-American president. Although I was watching from a computer all the way from Yanji, a small Chinese city conveniently sand­wiched between Russia and North Korea, and had only two other Americans to share this historical occasion with, my overwhelming happiness could not escape me for several days. 
Unfortunately, my elation came to a screeching halt upon learning of the view­point article titled "Drunken Revelry Inappropriate." Does this student realize what had just happen in our beloved nation last Tuesday? A smart, intelligent man who happens to be black was able to obtain arguably the most powerful position in the world only several decades after African­Americans were not even allowed to vote. Amidst this. all Mr. Miller can do is worry about his studies?! 
Yes it is unfortunate that people's bikes were thrown on trees just as they are throughout the school year, and that the elec­tion celebration distracted the handful of focused students just as dorm parties distract the dozens of students who choose to sleep or study on a Friday or Saturday night. I am sure every football weekend, students "run amuck and shout banter" at the top of their lungs in a "drunken frenzy" throughout cam­pus when our football team claims victory. Furthermore, it is tradition for NO male stu­dents to gallivant their nude bodies around campus before finals in anticipation of the end of the semester which I am sure causes small riots here and there amongst excited young ladies. 
Thus, may I remind Mr. Miller that a presi­dential election happens only every four years and never before has a person of color in our country accomplished such a feat. I have to admit that I once was an uptight pre­med student who would occasionally get annoyed at the random distractions and out­bursts that would echo the walls of the CoMo lounge. But I knew when to soften up and allow chaos to disrupt my studies such as when the first huge snowfall of the school year occurs or during March Madness when the huge big screen TVs cause havoc among the hardcore college basketball fans amidst the clueless, studious students. 
Maybe Mr. Miller was a stringent McCain supporter, or maybe a hardcore conservative, wealthy Republican, or simply does not know how to have fun and loosen up when neces­sary. Maybe he should have gone back to his home off-campus to focus on his studies which seems to be way more important than this historic election. Although, I am sure the people of South Bend took to the streets as well, like the rest of the world did. Who knows? But in the words of Obama, I can only HOPE that his uptight ways CHANGE in order for him to realize the joy of being a col­lege student and a proud American under the future guidance of Barack Obama. 
Eric Sales alum class of '08 Nov. 9 



Take a step back 
We all know that Thanksgiving is just around the corner. I love this day. What are the first thoughts that this holiday brings to mind? Food, obviously. Gathering with family, playing football with the cousins, cooking classic dishes, and discussing religion and politics are just a few of the day's activities. At some point, however, I do sit back and thank God for all He has given me (and I should be doing this more often). Family, friends, faith, freedom; education, health, and the list goes on and on. But there is one especially prized gift that God has given my family: two incredible people with special needs. 
My brother Patrick has Asberger's Syndrome, a high functioning form of Autism. My sister Meg has Acondroplasia, a form of dwarfism. These two people may be the greatest blessings in my life. And that's why it hurts so much when I hear daily the words "retarded" and "midget" thrown around. It hurts because I have lived through the suffering they have endured from this reckless or malicious use of language. I suspect that we all react similarly when someone mocks or demeans one of our siblings-for any reason. I think that most, if not all, of us immediately become defensive and want to support our siblings. At least that's how I respond every time I hear those words used in disparaging or nega­tive contexts. 
I am so grateful for Pat and Meg in my life . .I wish everyone could have the gift of someone with special needs in their family life. Those with special needs have a deep, genuine love of life. They may lark intellectual or physical capabilities, but their abilities to love and to forgive are admirable. They are much younger than I am. but I sincere­ly look up to each of them. So, I invite all of us to take a step back, thank God for all He has given us and reflect upon ways we may misuse words and submit to stereotypes that really do inflict great harm to those with special needs and to their Creator. Thanks Pat and Meg for being who you two are. 
Mary Conroy 
senior 
Pasquerilla West Nov. 9 


The real Atnerican spirit 
After living through an exhausting presidential campaign and all the good and the ugly connected with it, I just wanted to comment on a bright spot. As an "old grad" who loves Notre Dame and is interested in the current state of the union and opinions on campus, I must say that Nicole Burson's letter on "America the Beautiful" in the November 10 "The Observer Email Edition" re-affirms my hope and shows the real spirit of America shining through. This country was founded upon a deep faith in God and trust in His guidance and blessings. Congratulation, Nicole, as you have beautifully expressed the greatness of our democracy and the responsibility of all Americans to continue in a positive way to support our country, affirm the sacredness of human life, and pray for the well-being of this great nation. 
Wyn Norris alum class of'65 Nov. 10 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
so far this year played both the first lady and an aspiring porn star, plays Danny's frustrated girlfriend. Scene Wrirer The film's dialogue, particularly lines delivered by 
Thn latest in a seemingly endless stream of R-rated Hudd and Thompson, also gives the public many comedies is "Hole Models". Starring Paul Hudd, Sean quotable moments such as the "whispering eye." William Scott and Christopher Mintz-Plasse, "Hole Though the story starts with the four characters at Models" provides viewers with an Apatowian humor odds with each other, it culminates in a sentimental and sentimentality hybrid that has been a box office fashion where they gain mutual respect and resolve success since 2005's "The 40-year-old Virgin". their problems successfully. The whole film, scattered 
It's the story of two eo-workers who are forced to with humor throughout, finally reaches it's pinnade volunteer their time in a Big Brother Big Sister type moment in a scene that can simply be agency to avoid jail time, after an cner-The interactions described as epic. It's as though every ~-,ry-drink-lillnd aeddent on the job. between these four moment in the film _built up to ~his last 
Danny (Huddl, a bitter cynic, and scene and the payoff Is grand pullmg from Whnnlnr (Scott), a careless party boy, characters are the the entire story to create a truly memo­arc thnn stuck with two of the ·most dif-core of the film: rable finale. 
lieult prospncts tho Sturdy Wings pro-each characters This film is quite the stepping stone ~or gram has to oll"er. Augie (Mintz-Plasse), . all the actors involved. It was truly surpns­a tnenagnr who is obsnssnd with live humor relevant to ing to see Paul Rudd and Sean William al"tion roiP playing, and Hunnie (Bobb'e their personality. Scott, usually accomplices in other films, Thompson), a foul mouthed _little boy . . . earry the entirety of this story successfully. who is obsessed with a certam charaetenst1c of the It is hard to imagine any other actors finding so much female anatomy. success in these roles. Their winning performances in 
The interactions bPtwenn these four characters an~ "Hole Models" will perhaps lead to more films for the eorn of the film: each eharaeters hum?r releva~t them in leading roles. to thnir personality. Even the support1~g cast_Is Christopher Mintz-Plasse also excels in the role ~e mnmorahle. Jane Lynch plays an ex-coeame addict was born to play. lie is the porfnct pale, scrawny kid 
PERFECT 
CAST
I 
-In-
PERFECT 



ROLES 
who founded Sturdy Wings and gives tho two leads a lot of troubln while rnasserting her dominance through absurd dialogue. Elizabeth Banks, who has 
Role Models 
Director: David Wain Starring: Paul Rudd, Sean William Scott, and Christopher Mintz-Plasse 
with a lisp. and his acting is top notch. Honnie (Thompson) no doubt has a future in comedy. His slapping and cursing at immature man-children 
would be delightful in a reprise of Honnie in a future feature. 
The film is neither directed nor produced by the comedy guru Judd Apatow, but it resembles his tech­nique quite significantly. The casting reflects strongly on the direction of the film and each actor plays an all too familiar role but that's what makes "Hole Models" work so well. The jokes are fresh, the references charming, and the payoff is grand. The actors may play the characters that they have always be~n known for, but they do it successfully and entertam­ingly. With a strong supporting east and an stronger chemistry bntween the four main the film works. It works, and it's funny, and the final 

~ CHRISTOPHER
TIDBITS 0 
I MINTZ-PLASSE
SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Wrirer 

llis debut was in the llis second film role is lie is doing
In 2009 he will be a supporting
extremelypopular in the recently released voiceover work
cast member of two potential
"Superbad." where he "Hole Models" where he for "How to Train
blockbusters. "Year One," a
played thn awkward nerdy plays a geeky youth that Your Dragon", an
Python-esque eomedy taking place 
friend of the two main ehar­is obsessed with animated l"ilm
in biblical times, has Mintz-Plasse 
aeters. lie attondod an audi­L.A.l.H.E., Live Action based on the
playing the role of lsaae alongside
tion with his two high­lnteraetive Holeplaying novel. Mintz­
Michael Cera, Jack Black, Hank
school friends, where, Explorers. lie is fond of a Plasse will be thn
J\zaria as Abraham. David Cross
despite the lack of a head­roleplaying "goddess" but voice of the char­
as Cain, and Paul Hudd as Abel.
shot and any true acting is too afraid to talk to her. actor Fishlegs.
The second lilm will be "Kick­
classos, ho was east. Bntrayed and kicked out 
Ass", a film version of a self-paro­
Though his characters of L.A.I.H.E. he makes a 
dying comie book in which Mintz­Contact Szymon 
name was Fogell, he will no dramatie comeback in 
Plasse will fill the role of Kiek-Ass' Ryzner at 
doubt be forever known as another memorable 
nemesis The Hed Mist. sryzner@gmail.com
the Hawaiian organ donor Mintz-Plasse role. 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
page 11 

Best of You 
Penguin Slip 
Yes Dance 





KAITLYN CONWAY 

Scene Writer Opening with the edgy, steady guitar rhythm of "The Resistance," alternative rock band Anberlin's newest album, "New Surrender" is a fresh affirmation of the band's talent. Anberlin has released five albums (if you include their CD of B-sides, demos, and acoustics, "Lost Songs," in the count) since their conception in 2002. and each one has offered something new to their sound. And each album has been tout­ed as better than the last. "New Surrender" is the first album by the band to be released with a major record company. But this did not con­cern fans. Anberlin has consis­tently stayed within their genre while noticeably altering their sound. The band is not afraid of experimenting, and does so with skill. In faet, each track on "New Surrender" displays a different aspect of their sound, while maintaining some of their clas­sic touches. The end track, "Miserabile Visu (Ex Malo Bonum)" is in the vein of their other ending tracks, like "(*Fin)," which concluded their last CD. "Cities." As with the band's past final tracks, "Miserabile Visu (Ex Malo Bonum)" is the longest track on the album and adds a nice sense of closure to the work as a whole. Additionally, the pop bal­lad "Breathe" is similar to their well-known track "Dismantle. llepair." llowever, the track has its own new sound as well. Whiln the CD opens with force with "Tlw Hesistance," Anberlin quickly displays their diversity with a ballad. "Breaking," which asserts that "You make breaking hearts look so easy," a repetitive line that you will find yourself humming as you walk down the hall. This is part of the beauty of Anberlin. No matter what their songs are about, they 
are catchy and easy to follow. "Blame Me! Blame Me!" is a sad yet impossible to hate song on the album. Immediately after listening to it, it will be impossi­ble not to chime in: "Blame me! Blame me!" Another song which is bound to hit the airwaves is "Haight Street," which fulfills the album's need for a song about leaving it all behind and doing something different and new. 
The songs on the album aren't just your usual drivel of heart­break and freedom, though. The band has specifically written the songs about humanitarian effort<; they have participated in. asserting the fact in "Burn Out Brighter (Northern Lights)" that "This life's not about me" and "I want to die for something." Anberlin is using their music to advocate for something larger ·•·· than the little problems of life.·. There's more out there than the everyday problems, and "New Surrender" is Anberlin's way of telling that to the world. 
Another notable track is."Feel Good Drag," a rewrite from their second CD "Never Take Friendship Personal" (released in 2005). The mellow rock song alternates in intensity, starting soft and intensifYing in the cho­rus. Alone in this one song. Anberlin displays their array of talent, both in terms of vocals and musicianship. 
"New Surrender" can be called nothing but a success. Anberlin has once again created an amazing, diverse album that anyone can enjoy. This band is talented, and they're not afraid to show it. Stephen Christian has the vocals to carry the songs, and is backed up strongly instrumentally by band mates Deon Rexroat, Joseph Milligan, Nathan Young, and Christian McAlhaney. This band talent only continues to please fans in their most recent release. 
Contact Kaitlyn Conway at 
kconway2@nd.edu. 

New Surrender 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 




Celtics edge Raptors on back of Pierce's strong finish 
Wade has big fourth quarter to lift Heat over Nets; Roy leads Blazers past Magic; Ford has double-double 
sible oarly against the Celtics. 
Assodated Press 

Tlw Raptors pushed their 
BOSTON -Paul l'i1m:e scored advantage to 16 points twice in 
22 of his 36 points in the fourth tlw second quarter. the second 
quartnr to IPad tlw Boston Celties wlwn O'Neal edipsed his previous 
to a IJ4-X7 ronwbark win ovor the soason-high with two freo throws 
Toronto Haptors on Monday night. to mak~1 it 46-30 lato in th11 half. 
Kovin Ganwtt addPd 21 points 

and 10 mbounds, and Hay Allen Miami 99, New Jersey 94 
had 19 poinLs for tbn Cdties (7-1). f>wyane Wade scornd liJ of his 
Boston seon~d SX points in tlw :n points in the fourth quarter. 
snmnd half afwr gntting just 36 in and the Miami lleat rallied from a 
thn opPning 24 minutns. I 0-point deficit midway through 
.lnrmairw 0' Nnal rncoV11!'Pd thn linal quartnr to beat the New from a rough night in Sunday's .Jnrsny NeLs on Monday night. win ovnr Charlottn. loading tho Michael Beasley scored 19 Haptors (4-:{J with 2:{ points and points and Danquan Cook addnd I I rPbounds. Anthony Parknr 15 f(n· the llnat, who are 3-0 at scornd 15 and Jason Kapono 14 home fi1r tlw first limn since the f(n· Toronto. 191JIJ-2000 season -and had to 
With tho S!'OI'P lind X4-all. dig deep to get thorn, after the Boston !:PnlPr Knndrirk Pnrkins. Nnts seemed to have the game who had troubln 1:ontaining eomplntely und11r control for O'Nmtf most tlw game, blocknd a mueh of' the second half. turnaround and Pinn:n hit a Yi .Jianlian madn a career-best jumpnr on tlw otlwr ond, giving fivn :{-point11rs and finished with tl11• Cnlties an X(,-X4 IPad with 24 points and I 0 rebounds for the 1::{X IPfL Nets, who got 22 points from 
On tho Pnsuing possnssio11, Vince Carter. New .Jersey Jed by O'Noal lost tlw ball out of bou11ds. 10 after Carter conneetml on a 3­Pinrc11 thnn hit a 17-fiJOtnr to givo pointl~r-one of 13 by the Nets­Boston a four-point mlgo before with 5:48 left. but got outscored putting tlw gamo away with a 2(,-11 the rest of tim way. spinning, driving scoop shot that Carter's layup with 32.5 sec­madn it CJO-X4 with 34.4 soconds onds left drew New Jersey within IPil. one, but Wade calmly made a 15­
Boston, which trailed by 15 fi)()ter from the right side 9 sec­points early in the third quart11r onds later, and the lleat held on this one swished -later, and the 2-1. assisL-; to help the Indiana Pacnrs and by six entnring the fourth. from there. Heat were at 85-84 with 3:09 Trailing 73-72 entering the final beat the Oklahoma City Thunder 
usnd a scrappy, trapping halfi:ourt Down by three, New Jersey had remaining. period, Portland scored the first on Monday night. def'ensn to bottle up the Haptors' one more chance, but Carter was After being on the other end of 11 points of the fourth quarter, Ford seored 11 points in the ofl'nnsn while going on a 9-2 run called from traveling with 6.7 sec­the llack-a-Shaq for so long when fueled by two 3-pointers by Hudy final period as Indiana (3-3) to elose the score to 71-70 on onds left -the Nets' 19th Shaquille O'Neal was with Miami, Fernandez. He finished with 16 pulled away. Danny Granger l'ierco's jumper with X: 19 to play. turnover -and the outcome was the Heat went to the Hack-a­point<>. added 20 points and s11ven 
The toams tradnd 3-pointers -sealed. Chris Quinn went 6-for-6 Boone and sent the Nets' notori­The Trail Blazers held a 91-79 rebounds lor the Pacers, who won with Pierce getting both for from the line in the final seconds ously bad foul-shooting Josh lead with 3:55 left before their second straight. Boston -before Eddie House for Miami. Boone to the line with 3:03 left, Turkoglu did his best to keep Kevin Durant led the Thunder nailod a 3 from the right corner to Former Heat guard Keyon shortly after Boone airballed one Orlando dose, scoring 11 of their (1-6) with 37 points and eight give tlw Celtics their first lead Dooling scored 18 points for New from the stripe. next 13 points. His 3-pointer eut it rebounds, but no other Oklahoma since tim game's opnning minutes, .Jersey, which also got 12 from He made one of two, and when to 98-92 with 50 seconds left, but City player scored more than 14 79-77, with 4:45 to go. Jarvis Hayes and 11 from Bobby Cook drove the lane for a layup the Blazers were 8-for-10 from point<; in the team's fourth consee­
Toronto had opened a 57-42 Simmons. with 2:05 left, the game was tied the foul line after that to seal the utive loss. 
ndge on Jose Calderon's jumper Vi's 3-point barrage had to have at 86. victory. Ford took over when Granger, 3112 minutns into the third quar­caught Miami by surprise. Wade made a pair of free Howard, who has struggled at the Pacers' leading scorer this tnr bnforn Boston started its Entering Monday, in his first 71 throws with 1:07 left, giving the line this season shooting just season, got into foul trouble. comnback. Carnntt scored six NBA appearances, Yi had never Miami its first lead since the open­48 percent (15-for-33) was IJ-for-Indiana led 96-95 in the limrth 
points and Pierce five during a made more than two 3-pointers in ing seconds of the second half, 12 in the first half before missing quarter, but Oklahoma City had a 15-4 run as the Celties dosed the a game. and the Heat never trail11d again. four of six tries in the fourth quar­chance to take the lead when gap to three bnfi1rn Jason Kapono lie then made three in a 3112-ter as the Magic tried to cut into Indiana's Jeff Foster took a hit a 3-pointer to give the Haptors minute span of the third quarter Portland 106, Orlando 99 Portland's lead. charge from Hussell Westbrook. a 65-59 lnad aller thme. alone. Brandon Roy scored 27 points Greg Oden, the No. 1 pick who Indiana's Marquis Daniels made a 
O'Nnal, innll'ectivn in a season­Yi's newly found long-range to lead the Portland Trail Blazers sat out all of last season after layup to make it 98-95, then low 19Vl minutns of aetion with game fueled a quiek 16-5 burst by to their first road win with a victo­knee microfracture surgery, another turnover by the Thunder only liv1~ fren throws in Sunday's the Nets, who saw a one-point ry over the Orlando Magic on missed the game with a right foot led to a running bank shot by R9-79 win against the Charlotte lead transformed into a 64-52 Monday night. injury sustained in the season­Foster that gave the Pacers a 100­BobcaLo;, took control inside early advantage with 3:31 left in the Dwight Howard had 29 points opener. Joel Pryzbilla, who's aver­95 lead. in the game. lie scored 10 of the period. And after Carter connect­and a season-high 18 rebounds aging 4.5 points and 9.7 Ford drained a 3-pointer with Haptors' first 14 points as they ed on -what else? -another 3-and lledo Turkoglu added 35 rebounds, continues to start in his 1:14 to go, then made a layup opened a 23-1 H ndge after one. pointer over Wade's ouL<>tretched points for the Magic, who fmished place. with 37 seconds left to make it 
Toronto, whieh outplayed arm with 5:48 left, the Nets had their homestand 4-1. Pryzbilla did not score in the 105-99 and put the Pacers in con­Boston in the paint and held the what seemed like a perfectly com­Point guard Steve Blake and first half and finished with two trol for good. Cnltics to 32 porcent shooting, led fortable 83-73lead. reserve Travis Outlaw had 20 points. There were nine lead changes 4X-36 at halftime. O'Neal had 19 Someone forgot to tell Wade it apiece as Portland's bench The Magic embark on a three­and three ties in the fourth quar­points on 7-of-12 shooting in was over. outscored Orlando's 40-12. game road swing, including a ter. opnning half. I le scored eight straight points Portland has played six of its first Friday stop in Dallas. Portland Oklahoma City shot 52 percent 
Thn Haptors, who entered the in a 79-second span, starting with seven games against teams that stays on the road for three more in the first quarter to take a 34-24 night as tlw NBi\'s sncond best a 3-pointer that banknd in ofT the won at least 52 games last season games before returning home. lead. The Thunder led 39-24 tnam shooting from bnyond the 3-glass and left him shaking his and is 3-3 against them. Orlando before the Pacers went on an 11­point linn, snPnwd determined to head in disbelief. A pair of free has played only three 2007-08 Indiana 107, Oklahoma City 99 0 run to climb back into the gnt thn ball inside as much as pos-throws and another 3-pointer -playoll' teams this season, and is T.J. Ford had 24 points and 10 game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe homes, close to NO. fireplace. cathedral ceilings, skylights. 2-car garage, 10x20 deck. Much more. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683­5038. From $1 ,700/mo. 
Historic gem, beautifully furnished, 5 min. to NO. 2-3 bedrooms. $850 per month, students welcome. 269­782-9921 HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 


WANTED 
Babysitter needed for Notre Dame family. Occasional afternoons from 3-6 
p.m. Should have own car. Pay: tell us what works for you. 913-426­3838. 
FoR SALE 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. CRESSY EVERETT PAM DECOLA 574-532-0204 
Manny Ramirez Price: A lot Promises to work hard until he does not want to anymore 


PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/csap/ 
Two teachers ready to adopt new­born and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential. Expenses paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574·631·2685. For more information, visit our website at: http ://osa. nd. edu/departments/pr egnant.shtml 
Say a prayer for Robert Endrai, who passed away yesterday after a year-long bout with cancer. 
"The rock is gonna fall on us." He told the magistrates "I believe that we can stop it but the time is getting late You see I've done all the research my plans are all complete." He was showing them contingencies when they showed him to the street 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 COMPlLED FROM THE ()BSERVHt'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB 

NSCAA/adidas Men's Soccer Rankings 
team  points  record  
1  Wake Forest (23)  575  15-0-1  
2  Akron  535  13+2  
3  Creighton  510  10-1-1  
4  St. Johns  497  12-1-3  
5  Maryland  495  13-3-0  
6  Northwestern  455  11-1-2  
7  Loyola (Md.)  451  14-0-1  
8  California  399  7-2-4  
9  Tulsa  383  11-3-1  
10  UC Davis  359  12-2-3  
11  South Florida  341  10-3-2  
12  North Carolina  317  11-3-1  
13  Illinois-Chicago  274  10-2-4  
14  UC Santa Barbara  265  9·4-2  
15  Connecticut  247  8-3-5  
16  Saint Louis  223  7-2-5  
17  Indiana  184  9·4-2  
18  Michigan  183  10-4-2  
19  NOTRE DAME  152  9·5-2  
20  UC Irvine  133  8-1-6  
21  Louisville  95  9-5-2  
22  Dayton  76  11-2-2  
23  Pennsylvania  65  9·2-3  
24  Drake  50  11-3-0  
25  Michigan State  44  9-5-1  
NSCAA/ adidas  

Women's Soccer Rankings 
team points record 
1 NOTRE DAME (34) 850 18-0-0 2 North Carolina 799 15+1 3 Portland 764 15+0 4 UCLA 763 14-0·2 5 Stanford 733 16-0-1 6 Florida State 677 13-2-1 7 Florida 639 15-2-1 8 Virginia 607 12-3-1 9 Oklahoma State 525 15-1-2 10 usc 505 12-3-1 11 Duke 464 12-3-2 12 Texas 461 12-2-3 13 Boston College 457 11-4-2 14 Texas A&M 449 14-3·1 15 Colorado 367 13-3-3 16 San Diego 364 13-3-2 17 West Virginia 301 12-2-5 18 Wisconsin-Mil. 244 15-2-2 19 Wake Forest 243 10-6-0 20 Missouri 162 12-5-0 21 Penn State 153 13-6-0 22 Washington State 130 8-5-4 23 Georgetown 101 13-3-2 24 Rutgers 66 12-5-1 25 Minnesota 59.5 17-2-0 
NCAA Cross Country 
USTFCCCA Rankings 
Men Women 
1 Oregon Washington 2 Oklahoma State Oregon 3 Stanford Florida State 4 Portland Princeton 5 Alabama Villanova 6 Wisconsin West Virginia 7 Northern Arizona Minnesota 8 luna Wisconsin 9 Michigan Texas Tech 10 Geogetown Michigan Slate 
around the dial 
NHL 

Penguins at Red Wings 
7:00 p.m., Versus 


Associated Press 

SAOlAMENTO, Cali£ -Star outfielder Matt Holliday appears headed 1n the Oakland A1hle1irs in a surprising move for a fran­chi<;e known more for shedding s1ars than adding them. 
Two people finniliar with the proprn'.CI deal said Monday the 1\.s and the Colorado Rockies have reached a tentative agree­ment. Both people spoke on condition of anonymily because the trade had not been finalized and details were still in the works. 
It was unclear whom Colorado would get for the two­time All-Star. One of the people said reliever Huston Street, letcy starter Greg Smith and outfield­er Carlos Gowlllez were among the players who had been dis­cussed in recent days. 
Holliday, MVP of the 2007 NL championship series, is due to make $13.5 million next season and then will be eligible to become a free agent 
He was scheduled to have a physir,al Tursday, one of the peo­ple said The big-hitting left field­er unexpectedly dropped in on the geneml managers' meetings last week in Dana Point, Cali£ 
The tentative trade was earli­er reported by Sl.com and ESPN.com. 
''Talks are continuing. They're very fluid and at this point, everything's speculation," Rockies spokesman Jay Alves said, speaking on behalf of gen­eral manager Dan O'Dowd. 
Oakland owner Lew Wolff, attending a regional luncheon of Associated Press Sports Editors, wouldn't confirm or deny a trade but said he had already spoken with general manager Billy Beane three times on Monday. 
"Billy's doing different things right now," Wolffsaid. 
'llm A's are known for making big trades, cu11ing payroll dtning a rebuilding prock$ that Beane is committed to a1 all levels in the organization. Gonzalez and Smith were among the six play­ers Oakland acquired last winter when it trdrlcd ace and All-Star Dan Haren to Arizona 
Back in January 2001, the A's ar,quircd Johnny Damon from the Kansas City Royals in a three-team, nine-player deal ­and this might be the club's cl«:E­e.t thing since then to the mag­nitude ofthai blockbuster move. 
Oakland has watched Damon, Jason Giambi, Migunl Tejada and the Big Three pitch­ers of Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder and Barry Zito depart for big money elsewhere. Yet there i'> thought GiambL now a free agent, could be back in Oakland this of!Season. 
The 28-year-old Holliday, playing half his games a1 Coors Field, ha'> 128 homers and 483 RBl'> in five big league seasons. His best year was 2007, when he won the NL batting title with 
a .340 average and had 36 homers and a league-best 137 RBis in helping the Rockies reach the World Series. He WdS runner-up to Philadelphia short­stop Jrrnmy Rollins for NL MVP. 
IN BRIEF Pats' Thomas P.Ossibly out 
for season with broken arm 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Adalius Thomas is the latest Patriots starter who might miss time after the line­backer suffered what could be a long­term arm injury. 
Thomas didn't return after leaving the Patriots 20-10 win over the Buffalo Bills midway through the second quar­ter Sunday. The Patriots said only that he hurt his arm, but ESPN.com, quot­ing unnamed sources, reported Thomas broke his left forearm and "likely" will miss the rest of the season. 
Team spokesman Stacey James said Monday the next injury update would come after Tuesday's practice. A spokesman for Thomas' agent, James "Bus" Cook Jr., said the player had not returned a phone call to Cook. 
"I think it'll be difficult" to replace Thoma'>, said Mike Vrabel, the team's other starting outside linebacker. "He was a leader. He was a veteran guy that played well and we'll just have to find guys to step up." 
Woman files lawsuit against 
Chiefs' Johnson over bar spat 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -A Kansas woman filed a lawsuit Monday against Chiefs running back Larry Johnson a month after claiming he spit a drink in her face at a bar and threatened to kill her and her boyfriend. 
The lawsuit, filed by 24-year-old A'ihley 
N. Stewart, accuses the two-time Pro Bowler of negligence, a'>Sault and battery, intentional infliction of emotional di<;tress and negligent infliction of emotional dis­tress. 
Kevin E.J. Regan, an attorney for Johnson, called the allegations "prepos­terous." 
"Tilis appears to be a cla'i'iic incident of someone trying to use the court system to get something for nothing," Regan said. 
The lawsuit, filed in Jackson County Circuit Court, seeks punitive damages, attorney fees and any other amount a jury deems to be fair. Johnson was eharged last month with simple assault for the incident that occurred Oct. 10 at Kansas City's Oub Blonde. 
Judf;!e orders NFLPA to pay
neafly $30m to ex-players 
SAN FRANCISCO, Calif. -A federal jury on Monday ordered the NFL Players As.<;OCiation to pay $28.1 million to retired players after fmding the union failed to properly market their images. 
The figure includes $21 million in puni­tive damages, just short ofthe $21.9 mil­lion award the players' lawyer had a<;ked of the jury to reflect roughly 10 pereent of the union's net worth at the start of the year. 
A union lawyer had urged the jury to award a far lesser amount so as not to damage the union's ability to represent its members. 
Hall of Fame cornerback Herb Adderley filed the lawsuit last year on behalf of 2,056 retired players who con­tend the union failed to actively pursue marketing deals on their behalf with video games, trading cards and others sports product<;. 
Adderley. 69, played cornerback for the Green Bay Packers and Dallas Cowboys and appeared in four Super Bowls. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 2008 
MLB 

Longoria, Soto win Rookie of Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The rookie races were all but over by July, when Evan Longoria and Geovany Soto gave an All­Star glimpse of things to eo mo. 
Longoria won the American League Hookie of tho Year award in a unanimous vote and Soto ran away with the NJ. honor Monday, capping impressive seasons that ineluded All-Star appear­ances for both players at Yankee Stadium. 
Pretty rare stuff for a pair of first-timers -but these were no ordinary freshmen. 
"I had a great year, bar none," Longoria said. "I know I have the ability to do more." 
Following a season of brnakthroughs for the AI. champion Hays, Longoria became the first Tampa Bay player to win a national award from the Baseball Writers' Association of America. The power-hitting third baseman roceived all 28 

The Hays were so sure Longoria would become a big star that they gave him a $17.5 million, six-year con­tract after only six major league games. The deal could be worth up to $44.5 million over nine seasons. 
So far. he's delivered. 

Tampa Bay started play in 1998 and had never won more than 70 games until Longoria helped lead the Hays to 97 wins this year and the AL East title. lie also hit a tying double with two outs in the eighth inning during the July 15 All-Star game in New York. 
Soto became the first National League rookie catch­er to start an All-Star game. In addition to his productive hitting all season, he did a nice job handling a Cubs pitching staff that com piled a 
3.87 EHA, third-best in the NL. He even caught a no-hit­ter by Carlos Zambrano. 
Soto credited backup catch­er Henry Blanco and other veteran teammates for 
first-place votes. making him the league's first  "I had a great year. bar none. I know I have the ability to do  giving him advice and pep talks that guid­ed him through  
unanimous rookie winner  more.  a "roller coast­er" year.  
since  Nomar  "That's what  
Careiaparra in  Evan Longoria  helped me have  
1997.  Rays third baseman  a strong season  

Soto, the 
steady catcher 
with pop who 
helped the Cubs 
win the NL Central, got 31 of 
32 first-place votes. The 
other went to Cincinnati's 
Joey Votto. 
"It's kind of surreal. It real­
ly hasn't sunk in yet," Soto 
said on a conference call 
from Puerto Hico. 
Called up from the minors in April, Longoria batted .272 with 27 homers and 85 HBis despite missing five weeks after breaking his right wrist Aug. 7. Confident at the plate and splendid on defense, he was a big reason for the Hays' stunning surge to tho World Serios after 10 straight losing seasons. 

"I definitely felt some awe most of the time during the season. I kept that to myself," Longoria said on a conference call from his California home. "I didn't start the year in the big loagues. I strugglod all tlw way through high school hall and college ball. The journny that I went through as a baseball player -to be sitting here means a lot." 
Chicago White Sox second basnman Alexoi Hamirez was the runner-up after roceiving 18 se1:ond-place votes. Boston outfinlder Jacoby Ellsbury l'inished third. 
Soto hit .285 with 23 homl~rs, 35 doubles and 86 HBis. lie bocame thn first eatehnr to win Hookio of the Year in either lnague since Mike Piazza of the Los Angelos Dodgers in I 91H. 
The previous winner from the Cubs was piteher Kerry Wood l 0 years ago. 
"I just didn't want to put extra pressure on myself'. I just wanted to do my job as the team required," Soto said. 
all the way 
around," Soto 
said. "I did try 
to act very sure 
about myself, very secure. 
But I had doubts." 

After his injury, Longoria, who turned 23 last month, returned in time for Tampa Bay's playoff run. He home­red in his first two postseason at-bats against the White Sox, then connected four times against Boston in the AL championship series to set a rookie record with six homers in one postseason. 
But his offensive tear ended in the World Series, when Longoria went 1-for-20 with nine strikeouts and two HBis as the Philadelphia Phillies beat Tampa Bay in five games. 
"Obviously, I would have loved to play well and help the team," Longoria said. "I was still pretty content that we had a great year." 
The 25-year-old Soto had a disappointing October after his team compiled the best regular-season record in the National League. Bothered by a nagging hand injury, he went 2-for-11 (.182) with no HBis as Chicago was swept in the first round by the Dodgers, leaving the Cubs without a World Series title since 1908. 
Balloting for BBWAA awards is conducted before the postseason. Votto gar­nered 21 second-place votes and 76 points to Soto's 158. Atlanta pitcher Jair Jurrjens came in third. 
"I worked really, really hard in past years," Soto said. "I feel very, very special right now. It's a very good moment in my life." 
The NL Cy Young Award will be announced Tuesday. 
NFL 

Poor rush worries Tomlinson 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Lal>ainian 
Tomlinson is worried, which 
is never a good sign for the 
San Diego Chargers. 

A day after the Chargers 
barely held off the last-place 
Kansas City Chiefs, the star 
running back expressed con­
cern about the team's incon­
sistent season and the lack of 
a productive running game, 
hinting there are issues the 
team is attempting to work 
through. 

Tomlinson was held to 78 
yards on 22 carries in San 
Diego's 20-19 win over the 
Chiefs and failed to score a 
rushing touchdown for the 
fifth straight game. 

Although he was slowed for much of the season's first half by a sore big toe, Tomlinson went into the KC game saying he was the healthiest he's been all season. For the fifth straight game, he failed to score a rushing touchdown. 
Tomlinson, the two-time defending NFL rushing cham­pion who's also the most bru­tally honest member of the Chargers' organization, clearly is dissatisfied with the running game. 
Asked at his regular Monday news conference why the Chargers can't run better, Tomlinson said: "That's tough to handle. I honestly believe certain things, when you start to discuss things like this, stay in house, that we discuss them among each other. There's reasons, but I'm not willing to talk about it to the media. That's something that has to be dealt with internally within the organization; play­ers, coaches, you know, that has to be dealt with between 
us." 

Tomlinson averaged 3.5 yards per carry against the Chiefs, who not only missing several starters but were allowing 5.4 yards per carry coming in. 
While San Diego's passing game is flourishing behind Philip Rivers, its running game is ranked 25th in the NFL with only 96.1 yards per game. The Chargers are 22nd with a per-carry average of 3.9 yards. Up next is Sunday's you know, but, I mean, the game at Pittsburgh, which proof is in the pudding, is the has the NFL's stingiest old saying." defense overall -allowing Said coach Norv Turner: "I only 240.3 yards per game, think we all want to run the including just 69.2 rushing ball better." yards. The line doesn't seem to be 
Tomlinson downplayed the the dominant force it once loss to free agency of his was. backup, Michael Turner, and "We're trying to give them fullback Lorenzo Neal. every opportunity to be that Turner is physical force. Atlanta's fea-Teams are tured back and doing every­is third in the "I think in order to thing they can NFL with 890 really be successful to keep us from 
yards. being able to
and to do what you
"That's not do that. That's 
the problem," want to dou you have why you're get­
s a i d to be able to run the ting the extra Tomlinson, guys up in
football. " 
who is tied for there. People lOth with 629 have made a yards. "To me, LaDainian Tomlinson concerted there's certain Chargers running back effort in saying, 
times in the game you have to understand the momentum of when a team is kind of down and when you need to beat up on them and run the football a little bit versus maybe when you throw over the top of them. So that's always some­thing that needs to be felt with the coaches and some­times, I don't know. things don't got done in that fashion just because of the way the gamo may play out or it has played out most parts of the season." 
Tomlinson is two years removed from his NFL MVP season, during which he set league records with 31 total touchdowns, 28 rushing TDs and won his lirst rushing title with 1,815 yards. 
"I guess I'm really con­cerned about it because foot­ball to me is simple," he said. "I think in order to really be successful and to do what you want to do you have to be able to run the football. That's the way it's always been. Football is a running game. Not to say that you can't pass the ball but you have to be successful in run­ning the football. I'm always concerned with that. Of course I'm a little biased, because being a running back and loving to run the football, 
'We're not 
going to let 
L.T., we're not 
going to let this offensive line control the game,"' Turnnr said. 
"We definitely could be run­ning the ball better," left tackle Marcus McNeill said. "We definitely want to run the ball better." 
The Chargers (4-5) remain a game behind the Denver Broncos in the anemic AFC West. 
"We've been so up and down this season, obviously that can drain you mentally." Tomlinson said. "We're just trying to lind ways to contin­ue to get better at this time of' the year with this now start­ing to come down to the wire. We need wins." 
The Chargers were booed often in falling behind 13-6 at halftime. They didn't clinch the win until strong safety Clinton llart jumped to bat down Tyler Thigpen's 2-point conversion pass to tight end Tony Gonzalez with 23 sec­onds left. 
"I think what happened, the first half guys were a little mellow, there was a little chill around the locker room and when we went back in we realized that hey, 'Look, we can actually lose this game if we don't get it togeth­er,"' Hart said. 


Tuesday, November 11, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Hon1e streak has Falcons flying 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Suddenly, it seems Matt Hyan and the Atlanta Falcons can't lose. 
At least not at home. 
Their 34-20 win over New Orleans on Sunday was the first of three straight home games for the Falcons, who are 4-0 at the Georgia Dome this season. Atlanta never trailed and led the Saints by 21 in the fourth quarter while improving to 6-3. 
The Falcons have won four of their last five and are tied with Tampa Bay for second place in the NFC South, one game behind Carolina. Atlanta will play host to Denver next Sunday. 
Evidence of the Falcons' ris­ing respect around the league came Monday, when the kick­off for·their Nov. 23 home game against Carolina was moved from to 4:15 p.m. to accommodate a national TV audience. 
"It's confirmation that we're doing things right," Falcons coach Mike Smith said. 
Atlanta fans who have only seen the Falcons at home may start to wonder if Hyan, the rookie quarterback. will ever make a mistake. 
In four home wins. Hyan has completed 59 of 84 passes for 902 yards with five touch­downs and no interceptions. 
Hyan has been especially impressive early in games. One week aftm leading the Falcons to scores in their first four pos­sessions in a 24-0 shutout of the Oakland Raiders, Ryan completed 10 of 13 passes for 145 yards and a touchdown in the first half as the Falcons built a 17-6 lead over the Saints. 
"It was big for us to get off to a good start," Ryan said. "The Saints' offense is so powerful and has the ability to score on any drive. It was important for us to put some points on the board and support the defense as much as possible." 
Overall, Ryan was 16-of-23 passing for 248 yards and no touchdowns against New Orleans. 
The Saints couldn't believe they were watching a rookie lead the Falcons' offense. 
"He's a good quarterback," said Saints linebacker Scott Fujita. "lie's a good manager on the offense. He does a good job of working the clock as he comes to the line and he does a good job in the hurry-up mode. 
''I'm not trying to compare anybody to Peyton Manning, but for somebody to do this that early in their career and have that much maturity and that much control of the offense and be able to dictate to us the things that they wanted to do, I was impressed with him -and frustrated and (ticked) off at the same time." 
The Falcons delivered the knockout in the third quarter. They settled for a 27 -yard field goal by Jason Elam, but the real damage in the 13-play drive came in the way they held the ball for 8 minutes and 30 seconds -their longest drive of the season. 
Michael Turner, who had 27 carries for 96 yards and a touchdown, had 10 carries for 33 yards in the third quarter. 
"I thought it was a very dom­inant performance by our offense," Smith said. 
The Raiders were left with only eight plays and 22 yards in the quarter while holding the ball for only 3:24. 
Hyan had the benefit of 
another strong game by his offensive line, which did not allow a sack for the fourth time this season. 
By contrast, John Abraham and the Falcons' defensive front constantly harassed Saints quarterback Drew Brees, who threw a season­high three interceptions. The Falcons deflected 15 of Brees' 58 passes. 
Abraham had a sack, four quarterback hurries and a pass deflection. 
"We weren't able to affect the passer, certainly we weren't able to affect the pass­er as well as they were," Saints coach Sean Payton said. "I thought they did a good job of getting a push on Brees. He was awfully hurried. We weren't able to do that with (Ryan). 
"If you just look at that one particular aspect of the game and said who impacted the quarterbacks most, you have to credit Atlanta. They were able to do that and we weren't." 
Hyan added a 6 7 -yard touch­down pass to Jerious Norwood on the second play of the fourth quarter for a 27-6 lead. 
The Saints, who had only 215 yards and 24 pass attempts through three quar­ters, had 34 passes by Brees and 306 yards in the fourth quarter, when they scored two touchdowns. 
The Saints' final quarter left the Falcons with some ugly defensive statistics. 
"We were on course to have a very solid game statistically," Smith said. "Statistics can be deceiving. Our number one goal on defense is to limit points and we did that. We gave up only six points in the first three quarters." 
NFL 
Lavv returns to Jets' defense 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PAHK, N.J. -Ty Law is back with the New York Jets -just in time to play against the New England Patriots. 
The five-time Pro Bowl cor­nerback agreed to terms on a one-year deal with the Jets on Monday after sitting out the first 10 weeks of the season as a free agent. 
"Things appear to be headed in that direction," a person familiar with the signing told The Associated Press. 
The NFL Network first reported the signing on its Web site Monday night. The Jets wouldn't confirm the deal because it had not yet been completed, likely pending a physical. 
The 34-year-old Law, who 
has 52 career interceptions, played for the Jets in 2005 before spending the last two seasons with Kansas City. He garnered interest from New York and New England, where he played the first 10 years of his NFL career. 
Law jumps back into one of the league's biggest rivalries as the Jets play at New England on Thursday night, with the winner taking sole possession of first place in the AFC East. 
"This is going to be different playing Thursday night against the Patriots, matching up against my former team and the players I'm used to practic­ing against," Law told the NFL Network. "I know they're going to throw at me, but I welcome the challenge." 
Law and Jets coach Eric 
Mangini are very familiar with each other, dating to Mangini's five seasons as New England's defensive backs coach. 
Law told the NFL Network that the Jets plan to use him at both cornerback and safety. Cornerback Darrelle Revis, who has started every game in his first two NFL seasons, looked up to Law while grow­ing up in the same hometown of Aliquippa, Pa., and even wears Law's No. 24. 
"That's my little boy," Law told NFL Network. "I've watched him grow up and to be able to help him now, it'll be a good deal." 
Law, no longer the shutdown corner he once was, also might play opposite Revis at times. Rookie Dwight Lowery has started all nine games, but has looked shaky recently. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Alabama looks to finish year strong 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. -No. 1 Alabama's road to a perfect regular season seems paved in crimson and white. 
The next two opponents are Auburn and Mississippi State, after all, two teams mired in disappointing seasons who are a combined 3-8 in Southeastern Conference games. Time to start gearing up for that matchup with No. 3 Florida in the league title game, right? 
Not for a team that has lost two straight to Mississippi State, Saturday's opponent, and an excruciating six in a row to chief rival Auburn. 
"If somebody were to say that to me, I'd believe they haven't seen them," Crimson Tide offensive tackle Drew Davis said. "Because it doesn't matter what 
your game.
"'t doesn't matter
record is right happened the now; every­what your record is year before body's going to right now; when I wasn't play you tough, even here and I
everybody's going to
especially can't even 
Mississippi State play you tough. " remember and especially where I was at Auburn." Drew Davis really won't 
If there was 
Alabama offensive tackle have any
any chance of 
Alabama (10-0, 
6-0) getting 
ahead of itself. 
recent history would suggest 
that's premature. 
The Tide secured a spot in 
the SEC championship game 
with Saturday's overtime win 
at LSU, ending a five-year los­
ing streak to one Western 
Division rival. Now, what 
defensive end Brandon 
Deaderick jokingly calls 
Alabama's "revenge tour" 
resumes. 
"We know that they've beat 
us the past two years, and it 
makes us mad, OK?" quarter­
back John Parker Wilson said. 
"We want to go out there and 
win the game to keep doing 
what we've done this season. 
We've just kind of had a bad 
taste in our mouth the last 
couple of years, them and 
Auburn." 
LSU, too. But that's old news 
now. 
Mississippi State beat the 
Tide 17-12 in the last meeting, 
part of a four-game skid to end 
the regular season. Two years 
ago, the Bulldogs handed 
Alabama an even more painful 
loss. They snapped a 23-game 
SEC losing streak on the road 
and didn't exactly help soon­
to-be-fired coach Mike Shula's 
job security. 
"They came out and fought · their tails off and beat us fair 
and square," Deaderick said. 
"When somebody does that to 
you, especially when you can 
see so many places you could 
win the game, it's really a dag­ger to the heart. You go out there wanting to make up for last year and the year before that, just finish this season the way. it should be finished." 
The coaches hung a poster featuring last year's final score from the Mississippi State game in the football complex as a reminder. Alabama could­n't even manage a touchdown in the game. 
Tide coach Nick Saban does­n't think his players need any reminders about the recent history against the Bulldogs. 
"I think they know it, and I think that they have respect for the team that we're play­ing," Saban said. "It's impor­tant that we play well. I think the emphasis is that we play well and that we execute. What happened in last year's game will have no impact on this ye.ar's What 
impact on this 
game either." 
If Saban can 

keep the Tide focused through all the talk and attention surrounding his return visit to LSU, the next two games might not be so problematic, anyway. 
The Tigers and Bulldogs cer­tainly would love nothing more than an attention-getting, morale-boosting win over Alabama. 
But for a team that has spent the past seven weeks as either No. 1 or No. 2 nationally, Saban doesn't think that's any­thing new. 
"I think we've been the tar­get for a while now," he said. "Everybody's bringing their A­game to play us. That's some­thing our players need to understand. There's a differ­ence between playing to win and to play to keep from get­ting beat. We certainly don't want to get into that mode." 
Saban isn't taking the team's focus for granted, even though it hasn't sustained many big lapses all season. He likens it to having teenage children, which he does, and worrying about them when they're out at night -even though he trusts them. 
"That's how I feel about our guys," he said. "I love them, I trust them. They've done a good job all year. They haven't gotten in trouble but until they show up and ·do it ... when they walk in the door at night, then I'm fine." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 2008 
WTA
NFL 
Poor QB play a concern for Steelers 
Nadal to sit out 
A..sociated Press 
I'ITTSBUHGII -Mayhn it's tlw acr.umulatnd wt~ar and tear l'rom all tho sacks. Maybe it's his slightly separated shouldnr, tlw bad thumb, his rnducnd practi(~O time or tho spotty of'f'nnsive linn protedion. l'nrhaps it's all the abovn. 
Whau~vnr tlw rnason. Ben Hont.hlishnrgnr 
interceptions were the major with the Steelers trying to sit on reason they lost to the Giants a 1()-point lead and led to a 
Davis Cup final 
21-14 in another game they led game-changing score by the 
latn.  Colts  with  six  seconds left  
H.oethlisbergcr's lower-grade shoulder separation has been  before halftime. The second set up Indianapolis' go-ahead  Associated Press  
an  ongoing problem since he  touchdown late in the fourth  BAHCELONA  - Rafael  
was hurt in the Sept. 7 opener,  quarter. The third, thrown into  Nadal will miss Spain's Davis  
but not enough to prevent him  the Colts' end zone, ended the  Cup final against Argentina  
from lnading the Steelers to  a  game.  because of a knee injury.  
5-1 start. lie also  "When you feel like it's your  The top-ranked Nadal said  
has  a  damaged  fault,  it really hurts," said  Monday he  was still strug­ 
ligament in his  Roethlisbcrger, who said his  gling with tendinitis in his  

is n 't t lw quar­"!am not concerned left little linger. discomfort was more emotional 
right knee following a woek 
tnrback lw was The achy than physical. 
of treatment.
about his confidence. 
last snasor1, or shoulder has None of his teammates would 
"The knee said no," the 
(WOn a l'nw lie is our quarterback twice kept him guess afterward how much the 
22-year-old said. 
wonks ago. lin's because he is. " from practieing bad shoulder is affecting 
Spain team doctor Angel 
cnrtainly not until Friday of a Roethlisberger's play. The 
Huiz-Cotorro said Nadal 
llw quarterback game week, Steelers were coming off a 
would need three to six
Mike Tomlin
t.hn Pittsburgh meaning he dominating 23-6 win at 
weeks to recover. 
Stnnlnrs nxpnet­Steelers head coach missed the two Washington six days before, but 
"These are very difficult 
nd whnn tlwy chos(~ to pay him noarly $2H million in salary and a signing bonus this season. 
Honthlislwrgnr's problem is ono morn bnfitting a rookie than a f'ivn-ynar veteran who has won a Supnr Bowl: lin konps throwing tho ball to tho guys in thn other shirts. 
!lis mistakPs-night intor­enptions in 10 quartnrs -have eost tho Pittsburgh Stnnlnrs ( 6­
3) their last two homo gam(~s. their onen-eoml'ortabl(~ AFC North lead over Baltimore (6-3) and maybe a bit ol' eonfidnnen. 
Sonwthing's wrong with Big Bnn, but Iwithnr thn quarter­back nor his team is saying nxaetly what it is. Thn numbors arn tnlling, however: one touch­down pass and night intercep­tions in his last throe games, (:o 111 pa rod to nino T Ds and thrnfl interceptions in his first six ganws. 
"I am not coneerm~d about his r.onfidoncn," coach Mike Tomlin said aftnr HoPt.hlisbnrger's throe interceptions proved pivotal in a 24-20 loss to Indianapolis on Sunday. "lin is our quarterback bncauso he is. II' you play that position in this loagun, you have to remain unwavnred." 
Maybe unwavored isn't a word, but the Stonlers arn hav­ing trouble finding tho right ones to dnseribn what is wrong with their l'ranehise quarter­back. Two weeks ago, his fuur 
most important Byron Leftwich not 
moments, but I have done all 
practices each Hoethlisberger -directed the 
that I could to be ready for 
week. · two key TD drives in that sec­
the final," he said. "It was a 
"I don't think it's that big of ond half. 
huge objective, and I'm used 
an issue," Hoethlisberger said With only three days off 
to playing with pain, but this 
or the reduced practice time. between their next two games, 
is a distinct, new pain that I 
"I'm taking mental notes and the Steelers won't have much 
couldn't control." 
I'm seeing everything that is recovery time given their fast­
Nadal's absence deals a 
going on, so it's not as tough as growing injury list that indudes 
big blow to Spain's bid for a 
it may seem." running back Willie Parker 
third Davis Cup title since 
The f'alloff' in Hoethlisberger's (shoulder), linebacker LaMarr 
2000. Spain eaptain Emilio 
play is a worry, especially with the Steelers readying to play 

two home games "When you feel like 
in l'ive days, on 

it's your fault, it
Sunday against the Chargers (4-5) really hurts. " and a week from Thursday against 
Ben Roethlisberger 
the Bengals (1-8). 

Steelers quarterback
Hoethlisberger 's slippage is evi­dent. Ile has been sacked the third-most times of any Woodley (calf), 

Sanehez Vicario has until 
cornerbacks 

Tuesday to name his team. 
o. e s h e a 

Spain plays Argentina on 
Townsend 

indoor hard court at Mar del 
(hamstring) 

Plata from Nov. 21-23. 
and Bryant 

"We're sorry for him, but 
McFadden 

it's good news. Spain is one 
(broken fore­

thing with Nadal, and anoth­
arm), left tack­

er thing without him," 
le Marvel Smith 

Argentine captain Alberto 
(back) and, yes, 

Mancini told Buenos Aires­
Roethlisberger. 

based radio station 
Parker's 

Continental. 
shoulder injury 

Nadal was a key player 
appears to be 

when Spain beat the United 
worse than 

States 4-1 in the semifinals, 
NFL quarterback (28) and he is originally thought -the 
winning both his singles 
tied for second with 11 inter­Steelers aren't saying if he has 
matches. 
ceptions, or as many as he had a torn labrum -but Tomlin 
Sanchez Vicario most like­
last season. His 76.1 passer rat­said he could play against San 
ly will replace Nadal with 
ing ranks only 25th -he trails Diego. 
Tommy Robredo, clay-court 
Dan Orlovsky and Tyler A bigger concern now might 
specialist Nicolas Almagro 
Thigpen, among others -and be how Roethlisberger will play. 
or Marcel Granollers. David 
is far below his 104.1 of last "It's frustrating because you 
Ferrer, Feliciano Lopez and 
season. feel like you played well, and 
Fernando Verdasco are 
There was nothing wrong there's a turnover at the end of 
expected to be back on the 
with his 71.4 percent throwing the half and the turnover at the 
team. 
accuracy against Indianapolis, end," he said. "I take it on 
Nadal this year won a 
but what ruined his day was his myself. I let the guys down, 
fourth straight French Open 
7.1 completion percentage to offense and defense, but the 
and his first Wimbledon title. 
the Colts. good thing is it's not the end of 
He withdrew from the Paris 
!lis first interception came the season. We'll come back." 
Masters last month with an 
NFL 
Notre Dame ROTC 
Vet:era.n."s Day
Lawsuit filed against RB Johnson 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY -A Kansas woman filed a lawsuit Monday against Chiefs running back Larry Johnson a month after claiming he spit a drink in her face at a bar and threatened to killlwr and hnr boyfriend. 
Tlw lawsuit. fiiPCI by 24-year­old Ashley N. Stewart, accuses tho two-time Pro-Bowler of negli­goncn, assault and battery, inton­tional inflirtion of emotional dis­tross and negligont inflietion of enwtional distrnss. 
Kevin I·:.J. Itngan, an attorney f'or Johnson, called the aiiPga­tions "prnpostnrous." 
The lawsuit, fiiNI in Jackson County Circuit Court, seeks puni­tive damages, attorney f'ees and any otlwr amount a jury deems to lw fair . .Johnson was charged last month with simple assault for tlw incident that oceurrnd Oct. 10 at Kansas City's Club 
Blond(~. 
"This is not about money," said Kirra N. Jones, Stewart's attor­nfly. "My elient has worked her way through school. She's in the Air Force, National Guard. She's · a hardworking student and this really came as an unfortunate incident in her life. But you know what? She's a lightP.r. She's will­ing to be thP. person who finally makes Larry Johnson answer for his rnpnat(~d bad behavior." 
But Hogan said an investigation performed on his client's behalf determined that Johnson didn't threaten anyone and that Stewart thrnw a drink at Johnson earlier in the evening. Hogan said he would move to strike the lawsuit, whkh he described as "amateur­ishly written," and might file a counterclaim. 
"This appears to be a classie incident ol' someone trying to use the court syst(~m to get something filr nothing," Hegan said. 
Johnson was baek with the tmun on Monday aftnr serving a one-game suspension imposed by the NFL for violating the league's personal conduct policy. He also missed the previous three games after being deactivated by the team. 

According to the lawsuit, Johnson ofl'ered to buy Stewart a shot of' alcohol on Oct. 3, but she dedined. A week later, she alleged, Johnson became bel­ligerent toward her and said, "All I wanted to tell you is I'm going to kill your boyfriend." 
Stewart claims Johnson also said, ''I'm gonna kill you, too. First I'm gonna kill your boyfriend, then I'm going to kill you and that's a promise." 
She says that as she was back­ing away from him, Johnson took a drink from his glass and spit it in her face, then his two body­guards taekled her. 
The suit elaims that Johnson tried thme more tiqHlS to spit on Stnwart as he was walking to his ear with his bodyguards. 
injury to the same knee al'ter 
losing the first set of his 
quarterf'inal against Nikolai 
Davydenko. lin then pulled 
out of this week's season­
ending Masters Cup in 
Shanghai, China. 
Nadal also won the 
Olympic gold modal in a year 
when he supplanted Hoger 
Federer at No. 1. 
"I don't know if the injury (rnsulted) from my f'ight to be No. 1 bocausn in reality, I didn't play in any extra tour­naments, I only played what I had to for the ranking and I don't think you can reproach me for that," Nadal said. "I didn't do anything crazy to be No. 1." 
Huiz-Cotorro said the injury was not career threat­ening, but that it was "total­ly impossible" for Nadal to be ready in time for the final. 
"Hafa comes in off a very tough year and his body has been warning him for weeks. It's an acute injury that needs time to recuperate," Huiz-Cotorro said. "If he played in Argentina, it could becomP. worse." 
Hobredo helped Spain to a 5-0 rout of Peru in a first­round match in February, but has reached the quarter­finals of only one of nine tournaments since winning at Bastad in July. The 21st­ranked Hobredo has been a Spain regular since 2004. 
Tho 19th-ranked Almagro made his debut against Peru, winning both singles matches, while 56th-ranked Granollers has never been selected. 
"Spain has top-level play­ers capable of achieving vie­tory," said Nadal, who didn't rule out traveling to South America to support his teammates. 
Agustin Calleri and Jose Acasuso will join David Nalbandian and Juan Martin Del Potro for the Argentine team. 

Ceremora.y 
Tuesday... 11 November SPM 
Clarke Memorial Fountain. (Stonehenge) 
Guest: Speaker Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh_..CSC 
The ceren~on.y will follow a 24-l'lou.r vigiL All are i:nvit:ed to at:tend. 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
"Our defense has been our seventh seed, but when it came and should have about twenty er Sean O'Brien, who had strong point all year," senior down to on-field performance, guys returning." Nester said. "I numerous tough catches,
Interhall 
captain Joe McBrayer said. Keenan was vastly superior. expect us to get better." Alumni moved the chains fre­continued from page 20 "They can take control of a Keenan running back Alex Keenan moves on to play quently. Unfortunately, when a 
game when we need them to." Gonzalez scored three touch­Stanford in the semifinals next big play was needed, the the first round of the playoffs Sorin's defense, which had downs and quarterback Terry weekend in a rematch of last Ramblers tightened the clamps, for the second consecutive sea­previously allowed only one Mahoney threw for another year's championship game. either by a turnover or big hit. son, Stanford will face rival touchdown all season, was score as the Knights stunned "Offensively, I thought it was Keenan next week for a berth nearly as stifling. The Otters second-seeded St. Edwards 26-Siegfried 20, Alumni 0 our best showing all year," in the Stadium. forced a fumble, which was 0. Gonzalez scored on the Despite frigid temperatures Alumni coach Rodegar Santos 
recovered by defensive lineman Knights opening possession on and constant snow flurries, the said. "We ran the ball really Morrissey 7, Sorin 0 Matt Gamber, and cornerback a one-yard run to put Keenan Siegfried Ramblers rolled to a well and we executed pass 
Battling through rain, hail, Jeremy Bruck, known to his up 7-0. Then, with a minute 20-point victory over the plays pretty well. On the other and snow, Morrissey outlasted teammates as "All-I-Do-ls­and a half left in the first half, underdog Alumni Dawgs. hand, we had a few mental Sorin 7-0 on the frozen Riehle Make-Plays," intercepted a Mahoney connected on a short Without star running back lapses on both sides of the ball Field to advance to the semifi­pass late in the game. touchdown pass to put the Marcus Young for three quar­at times and it cost us the nals. But Sorin had difficulty stop­Knights ahead 13-0. ters, Siegfried took advantage game." 
Inclement weather and ping a multifaceted Morrissey After the Knights intercepted of two very costly Alumni mis­Down 13, and with their exceptional defense prevented running game that broke tack­St. Ed's quarterback Matt takes early on which allowed backs against the wall, the either team from breaking out les left and right. Led by Abeling on the first possession them to not only utilize more floodgates finally opened offensively. McBrayer at quarterback and of the second half, Alex conservative play calling, but against the Dawgs in the fourth 
Sarin, whose undefeated sea­running back David Ulery, the Gonzalez put on a show, rush­more importantly, put the game quarter when Siegfried running son ended on Sunday, came out Manorites accumulated nearly ing 45 yards for a Knight into the hands of a defensive back Marcus Young finally with intensity as they began the 100 yards of rushing. touchdown. But Gonzalez's day unit that still has not allowed a entered the game. Not wasting first half with a 16-play drive Two plays after converting on wasn't finished. On the next touchdown this season. any time, Young drove the that took up the entire first a key fourth down situation, Knight possession, Gonzalez To say the game did not begin Ramblers down to the Alumni quarter. Morrissey took a 6-point lead rushed for a 50-yard touch­well for Alumni would be an 1-yard line where fullback Dex 
Junior running back Rob early in the second half when down, sealing the game for the understatement. On their first Cure finished off the drive, Gallic led the Otters down the Ulery powered the ball up the Knights. offensive series of the game, plunging across the goal line to field as he darted through the middle. The PAT made the "He's unbelievable," Mahoney quarterback Pat Rushford was give the Ramblers a 20 point holes up the middle and eluded score 7-0. said. "That's all I can say." flushed from the pocket and lead. multiple tackles. Sorin bal­"The cold weather made us The Gentlemen couldn't get threw an errant pass right into "Overall, it was a tough game anced the attack with effective change our game plan," their passing game clicking in the outstretched arms of with bad weather conditions running along the perimeters McBrayer said. "We had to rely the first half, going three and Rambler captain Kevin Kelly and a good opponent," and quick passes. on our power running game, out three times. who took the interception 50 Ramblers coach P.J. Zimmer 
However, the drive culminat­which worked out great." "Keenan's a good team." St. yards for the touchdown said. "Alumni played very well ed in an interception to Morrissey will have a chance Ed's captain Andy Nester said. On Siegfried's next posses­and had a great season. We Morrissey cornerback John to redeem itself next week "They were the best team sion, in what must have looked stuck to fundamentals and the Soltis, who picked the ball off at against Siegfried, who handed we've played so far." like deja vu to the Dawgs, Kelly basics and just tried to execute the Morrissey 12-yard line. the Manorites their only loss of The only offense the received a perfect strike from to the best of our ability on 
"We really punched them in the season. Although Sorin goes Gentlemen were able to muster quarterback Max Young on a both sides of the ball. Next the mouth on offense in the home empty-handed, the Otters was a 60-yard pass from corner route and scampered 80 week, we play Morissey, a team first half," Gallic said. "We just are still optimistic. Abeling to receiver Derry more yards along the same that poses a huge challenge for couldn't convert points deep in "This has been one of our Herlihy, who was tackled at the sideline -making the game us. We played them in the regu­their territory." best seasons in a long time," 6-yard line. The Gentlemmen 13-0 by the end of the first lar season and it was a very 
The Morrissey defense played Sorin coach Matt Young said. "I were unable to convert the big quarter. tough game; they are a very outstanding in the second half, guarantee this team had the play into points, though, and However, despite the rough good team." forcing two turnovers and lim­most fun all year." turned the ball over on downs. start, Alumni refused to quit iting Sorin's scoring chances. Although St. Ed's didn't end and played Siegfried to a stand­Contact Douglas Farmer at Great pressure from the defen­Keenan 26, St. Edward's 0 the season they way they still for most of the contest. Led dfacmerl@nd.edu, Chris sive line led to an interception On paper, St. Edwards was expected, Nester still has hope by running back Barrick Massoud at cmassoud@nd.edu, by Carl Anderson and a fumble unbeaten heading into the play­for next year. Bollman, who ran extremely Alex West at awest@hcc-nd.edu recovered by Mike Fletcher. offs and Keenan snuck in as a "We lose only three seniors hard all game, and wide receiv-and Tim Lang at tlang1@nd.edu 
No.1 
continued from page 20 
Irish a top seed. 
The team was glad, then, as high­lights of Sunday's Big East Championship win over Connecticut played on the auditorium's big screen at the beginning of the selec­tion show. Ac; the show aired a clip of Irish freshman Melissa Henderson's game-clinehing goal that eliminated the Huskies, one Notre Dame player erupted with a playful, "See ya!" 
As long ac; the Irish can keep win­ning like they have all season, they will have home-field advantage until the College Cup semifinals in Cary, N.C. 
Irish senior eaptain Brittany Bock said the team wac; expecting a No. 1 seed and was happy it secured one. 
"I think we were definitely expect­ing it and we were hoping," she said. "You know, sometimes things don't always work out how you want them to. But to go undefeated-21­0 the whole season ... we were expecting the one-seed and I think it's gmld to be on top there." 
Notre Dame will take on Toledo in the NCAA First Round at Alumni Field Friday. If the Irish defeat the No. 16-seeded Rockets. they will play either Michigan State or the University of WLc;rDnsin-Milwaukee. Big East rival Marquette also earned a spot on Notre Dame's side of the bracket. 
No. 2-seeded Florida State, who defeated Notre Dame in last seac;on's College Cup Semifinals, would face the Irish in the fourth round at Numni Field if both teams were to advanec that far. 
Despite the possible juicy matchups in later rounds of play, Waldrum said the Irish will concen­trate solely on Toledo during prac­tice this week. 
"You've literally now gotta make sure you're really focused on Toledo Friday night ... We know we're at home as long as we take care of business," the coach said. 
Still, Waldrum said his team would not need extra motivation ifit did again meet Florida State. 
"We just have to make sure we come out, you know, on our end and then whoever winds up in that round, we'll play them," he said. "And ifit's Florida State, then I don't think there'll have to be a whole lot said during that week to get ready for them." 
Irish assistant coach Ken Nuber's pair of toddlers, who were dressed as a leprechaun and a cheerleader, entertained several of the players before the selection show. But the Irish became business-like when the telecast began. Senior forward Kerri Hanks took notes as the brackets were displayed and the room quiet­ed as seedings were announced. Bock said the team could not be more ready to play heading into the Tournament. 
"It's full-speed ahead," she said. " ... Now we just take it one game at a time. We're going to play Toledo on Friday so we'll just look to have a good week of practice and get ready for that game." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
D • D The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
•o• and
0.0 The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Ethical Leadership: The Cornerstone to Sustained Business Success" 
Joe Loughrey President and Chief Operating Officer Cummins, Inc. 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 7:00p_m_ Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 11, 2008 
Helgeson 
continued from page 20 
reached the quarters against a vnry strong lield, losing to a red-hot German player from Wisconsin. lie demonstrated poise beyond what he had shown a year ago and is lind­ing more ways to get to the nnt and put pressure on his opponent. l believe that he ean bn one of the big surpris­es in college tennis this year. lin and Stephen IIavnns have fared well in doubles, losing in the quarters to the eventual winners." 
The rest of the Irish squad traveled to the William & Mary Invitational. The team combined a 32-7 record in singles and doubles play being led by senior captain Sean Tan. 
Sophomores Dan Stahl and Stephnn llavnns combined for 1 0 wins on the weekend. 
"My expectations for this tnam am that we continue to improve," Bayliss said. "With a schndule like ours in which the majority of our opponents will bn among the nation's top 25 teams, we know that we had better meet that level quickly or bn left behind try­ing to get thn number of the truck that just hit us. Certainly we will take some losses and our destiny will be 
Weis 
continued from page 20 
The defense, however, played well, limiting Boston College to I 0 offensive points (safflty Paul Anderson ran an interception back for the Eagles' first touchdown). Eag1!1s quarterback Chris Cran11 passed for only 79 yards. Weis said he may focus more on the ofTense because he feels comfortable with where the defense stands. 

"We've gone the last game and a half without produc­tion on offense, and I think that l feel very confident with where we are on defense right now, and this allows me at this time ­look it, I'm trying to do this head coach thing where you kind of delegate," Weis said. "But I think that when them's a problem and it's an area where you believe that you can be part of the answer, I think you'd better go help." 
Weis said the defense played well enough to win, but the offense and speeial teams failed to hold up their end of things. 
"Def'nnsivnly, they actually played as well as they've !wen playing," We is said. "That was a pretty gutty per­formance by the defense." 
Weis had not yet decided exactly what his role in the offense would be. lie said he would discuss the matter with his coaching staff to shaped by how we respond to these challenges." 
After losing Sheeva Parbhu and Andrew Hoth from last season's starting lineup the Irish will look to Havens, and Stahl, among others to lead the Irish behind Helgeson. 
Freshmen Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald also have stepped up and earned some big victories already for the Irish. 
"Our freshmen have been quite good, if somewhat inconsistent," Bayliss said. "Sometimes the best thing about freshmen is that they become sophomores, but this group can be really good if they buy in. Casey Watt is a real shotmaker, who needs only to improve his volleys and become more consistent. lie needs to learn that tennis is not like gymnastics in that there is no extra reward for the degree of difficulty in each shot attempted. Niall Fitzgerald needs to believe in himself more a crunch time and firm up his backhand." 
Bayliss stressed that the Irish will have to rely on the underclassmen heavily to bal­ance out the rest of the line­up. 
The Irish will have time to heal and mature until they host Pepperdine on Jan. 16. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaraO l @saintmacys.edu 
finalize his role before the team game -planned on Tuesday. 
Weis said he wanted to spend more time with the special teams, which had a multitude of problems on Saturday. Golden Tate fum­bled a punt return and gave the ball to Boston College, which set up a touchdown. Punter Eric Maust had a punt blocked and only aver­aged 26.1 net yards per punt. The Irish also commit­ted penalties during returns that cost them yards. 
"Take that one in combina­tion to what I just talked about with the offense, and that's two-thirds of the team who really didn't play very well yesterday," Weis said. 
Note: 
+Weis pulled the defense aside near the end of the game to assure them that they had played well. 

"I let them know that I thought that they should def­initely keep their heads up because they were the rea­son w~y we ~ere even in the game, he said. 
+Clausen was not feeling well before the game. Weis sent him to bed early Friday night, but he said he looked better Saturday. 
"I think as the game went on he probably wasn't feel­ing too well, both physically and how the game was going," Weis said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
StreiDick 
continued from page 20 

Magazine Academic All-District V second team. 
"We're really good about working on the road, on the buses and in the airport," she said. "You just have to be able to study in non-optimal study envi­ronments." 
Stremick has excelled on the volleyball court as well as the classroom. Her freshman year, she was used mostly as a substi­tute to add depth to the Irish frontline, notching 15 blocks in only 23 matches. Stremick said that her favorite moment during her four years at Notre Dame was the team's trip to the UTSA Dome Hally in the Alamodome that season in San Antonio, where the Irish took down No. 8 USC and No. 6 Florida, pro­pelling them to No. 8 in the AVCA National Poll. 
"We beat them both in three and won the tournament," Stremick said. "I had a lot of fun, being on the road with the team for the first time." 
Her sophomore year, Stremick stepped in as a full-time starter for the Irish, playing in all 114 games. She led the team in hit­ting percentage (.304) and blocks (156). 
Stremiek asserted herself as a dominant player in the Big East her junior year, ranking fourth in the league in both hitting per­centage (.369) and blocks per game (1.58). 
So far this year, Stremick leads the Irish with 1.06 blocks/game, despite missing the first six matches recovering from injury. Last March, Stremick tore her anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and meniscus. She completed her rehab a month earlier than doctors expected, but still had to sit out Notre Dame's first two early-season tournaments. 
"It sucks to just sit out and watch," she said. "So I really appreciate being able to play more than I did before." 
Stremick said that despite all the individual accolades she has achieved with the Irish, she said she wished the team could have more success during her four years. 
"I didn't want my freshman season to be my best season, as far as the team goes," she said. "I had a lot of fun, the team has been a lot of fun. As a player I've learned a lot. It would have been nice to see more win's the last couple of years, though." 
Stremick will have a chance to achieve some of that success this postseason, starting with key matches this weekend against conference leader St. John's and fourth-place Connncticut, fol­lowed by the Big East conference tournament. 
"Obviously this weekend is going to be important," she said. "I think the attitude I'm taking is just to finish strong. We know that we have a good team." 
As the only senior middle blocker on Notre Dame's roster, Stremick said it's her job to use her experience to teach and direct the younger players. 
"I just really bring my confi­dence to the front line when we're serving and blocking and let everyone know what's coming and where the hitters arH," she said. "I just really take control of the net when I'm in the front row." 
Stremiek said she fully expects the younger players will be ready to step in and lill her role after she graduates. She said when she was injured at the beginning of the year, she got to run some drills in practice and was struck by how quickly the younger players developed. 
"I thin_k ~?ey're d:fi~!tel~ ready to step m, she smd. We ve got some good younger players." 
Leaving Notre Dame volleyball in good hands, it's time for Stremick to move on to other things, like saving lives. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


J u s T Get your journalism master's degree in 1year at Indiana University 


Enhance your liberal arts degree. Research shows that students with a master's degree 
in journalism typically obtain better, higher­
paying jobs than students with only a 
bachelor's degree. 
Our master's degree program offers both a 
professional and research track. Students 
work with internationally renowned journalists 
and mass communication scholars. 
log at

Check out 

Tuesday, November 11, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

PAT GARLAND

THE FoRBIDDEN DouGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJIJJWJID)1JR
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VOIPT 
(IJ (] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. · 
KAHIK 
j
rJ r (] 
CEADAR 
CIJ b
www.jumble.com
tLINGES t 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
J I I IJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A:(I I III]"[ I I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: CLOTH PUDGY VANISH BEAUTY Answer: When she played the role of a secretary, the starlet was -''TYPE" CAST 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
Across 40 Many pizza 73 Sounds of 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eve, 30; Brittany Murphy, 31; Mackenzie Phillips, 49; Sinbad, 52 
slices. disapproval
Telly watcher geometrically Happy Birthday: This is no time to relax or to coast along. Effort, imagination, struc­
5 Companion of 
ture and hard work will all be required to finish what you started. Success is just around 
42 Hear about Down
Snow White the corner if you pay the price of dedication and time. Face the future with courage and 44 Large in scale 1 Upscale autos the will to achieve-and you will. Your numbers are 9, 13, 18, 25, 29, 38,46
1 0 Cry out loud 45 Ashe Stadium 
2 Photocopier tray 
14 PC pop-up ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Emotions will get the better of you if you can't separate 
capacity, maybe org. 
what's really important from what will pass with time. Focus more on home and family 
15 "Bolero" 3 Google users 
and a little less on what outsiders think. You can get back on track financially. ***
4 7 Volcano in 

composer seek it
Verne's "Journey 

4 Massachusetts TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Hidden agendas will surface when you least expect. Too 
16 One of 
to the Center of much of anything will work against you. A partnership will cost you if you are trying to
university
Pittsburgh's the Earth" impress with a cash donation or paying for someone's way.***
5 Rap's Dr._
three rivers 48 Community of 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do what you can to make your home more convenient
6 W.W. 11-era
17 Ice cream holder 
Web journals and comfortable. Don't waffle regarding issues or concerns that others have. Be direct 
female in 
and, if it doesn't work for you, take a pass. This is not the time to spend money you do 
19 Pull hard 51 Old J.F.K. lander uniform 
not have.**** 
20 Whacked, in the 52 Chow_ 7 Guacamole base 
Bible CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't second-guess what you know in your heart you 
53 End of an iffy 8 Gambling mecca 
should be doing. Get on with your plans, even if you aren't totally ready. You will gain 21 Monk's hood statement 9 Passed quickly momentum and, although it will be hectic, the results will be good.** 
23 ''You can't mean 55 Ring hit 10 Part of EGBDF 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let things get you down at home or regarding some of
me!?" 
57 Theater mogul 11 Occasions to cry your partnerships. You need to put a little excitement back into your life. Plan an outing 24 Lion in "The Lion Marcus 
"Eureka!" with friends or take a mini trip. It's good to reward yourself once in a while. ***** 12 "Brown bagger"
King" 59 Bother 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Spend on your surroundings, not on frivolous items that 27 Classic clown persistently you don't really need. It's time to finn up on a deal or to get your papers in order before 
13 Mischievous Norse god year's end. Talk to someone who can contribute solutions to a problem you are facing.
63 The works29 ''Then what 

18 Explorer Ericson *** happened?" 65 Six-colored 22 Doone 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't be fooled into thinking that something is a done deal 
puzzle

32 Diagram of cookies 
when you haven't signed on the dotted line. Protect your interests so you don't end up nutritional needs 68 Langston 25 _ court (law Puzzle by Kevin G. Der with nothing. Emotional matters will escalate if you make a poor decision. *** 36 Responses to Hughes poem school exercise) 31 Short-lived 43 Get through 56 Lead-in to a 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can get more for your money if you are shrewd in bad calls 69 Actress 26 Rises suddenly, economic hard worl< congratulatory your dealings. Negotiations will go well as long as you stay in control and refuse to 
38 Cousin of a expansion of the 46 Movies, TV,
Christensen of as a buoy cry settle. Use your knowledge and expertise as leverage and you will get what you want. "Traffic" 28 Where Ali Broadway, etc. 58100 cents *** 
bassoon late 1990s
dethroned 49 Sawed logs, so 60 Wise one
70 Isle of poetry ·SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make changes on the home front and don't look back. Accept a challenge and resolve it so you can move on. Problems with authority or 
39 Actress Emma Foreman 33 Snowball hurler to speak 61 Kind of 
71 Weak

Roberts, to Julia 50 How long it 
29 Focus of the 34 Desktop images 62 Sawbucks someone who wants something from you will prevail. *** 
Roberts 72 Baker's 13 takes canyons to
Manhattan 35 Trim, as meat form 64 Playwright Akins 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An oversight on your part could be costly. Make sure 
Project, briefly 
37 Looie's underling 54 "Be silent," in 66 Former White you double-check your facts and figures. A change in your professional direction or re­ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 30 For dieters music House moniker garding your status will pay off. A big splash will get you a higher return. **
41 Cause of a 

blown engine, 55 One corner on a 67 Bob Dole's state: 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your charm to get ahead. Now is not the time to 
maybe Monopoly board Abbr. 
give in. Love is in the stars and will develop if you engage in a cause or you join a club or group that interests you. You need to interact with more people.**** 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Start thinking about your future. Procrastinating and lis­credit card, 1-800-814-5554. tening to idle promises will stop you from making a move. Make the changes that will encourage your success. ***
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You are determined, relentless and courageous. You are quick to react Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 and are not afraid to ask for what you want. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young myspace.com/eugenialastfor Eugenia's blog, astroadvice.comfor fun solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
-.. 
j 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, November II, 2008 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
View from the top 
Irish pick up top-seeded ranking in NCAA Tournament; games to be played at Alumni Field 
By FRAN TOLAN Associ;lre Sporrs Ediror 

Them was no question top­ranked Notre Dmne li~lt it desnrvnd a No. I seed for the NCAA Tournament. The Irish were just happy tlwy didn't havn to wait long to sen their optimi'>m validal.l~d. 
On the NCAA Tournament Snlection show Monday night on J(SPNI(WS, tltP Irish ean11~d tlw t11p overall sm~d in tlw Tounuunent and the "Notrn Dmne Hegion." Tho l.l~<un watched the tPI1~east in the Joyce Clmter auditorium <md cheered as il'> send W<L'> the first one displayed. 
"For it 1.11 mmn up right away a<; tlm No. l se1~. tlmt's liml<L<;tie," lri'>h roach Hmuly Waldrum said. "I tllink il's tlln right dmi'>ion b<L'>ed on tlle yPar we've had.'' 
But thP t11p overall sm~d W<L'> not <L'> much ol' a sum thing a'> it might have S(~nmed liw undeli!aWd Notm Dame. Waldrum warned his l.lmm bdim~ the show that since il'i HPJ wa'i ju'>t (, tllrough Nov. 2, tlte selm~­tion cornrnitl.l*~ might not award tlle 
see NO. 1/page 17 


F001BAU. 
After loss, Weis' role to increase 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's stagnant offense against Boston College has f'oreed coach Charlie Weis to revisit his role in the offense, Weis said during his press conference Sunday. He said he would confer with the other coaches and announce his specific role during his press conference today. 
"I just told them that I was going to be taking a more active role and I'll define that more for them !Sunday]." Weis said. 
Notre Dame !'ailed to score during Saturday's 17-0 loss to the Eagles in Chestnut llill, Mass. Quarterback Jimmy Clausen threw four intercep­tions and the Irish only rushed for 66 yards during the game. 
see WEIS/page 18 

MEN'S INTERHALL 
Blocked extra point sends Stanford past Dillon 
game, four of which ended in In the first half, Stanford jun­running back out for the game, field goal unit barely got ontoBy DOUGLAS FARMER, 
punts. Only the second drive ior defensive back Chris Gill the Big Red put the ball in the field before the snap,
CHRIS MASSOUD, ALEX garnered points, culminating in had both an interception and a Garigliano's hands. Stanford's JoshWEST and TIM LANG 
a 20-yard touchdown connec­fumble recovery deep within "After turning the ball over VanSchaumburg blocked Joey
Sporrs Wrirers 
tion from senior quarterback Stanford's own territory. This twice in the first half' inside Leary's kick. Brian Salvi to receiver Tony defensive strength compensated Stanford territory, we needed to 'The most disappointing part 
Often times, what a team fails Rizzo. for Stanford's inconsistent keep our drives simple and of the game today was my fail­to do ean define its season. On "Everyone stayed focused and offense. methodical," junior captain ure to call the timeout on the Sunday, Dillon failed to make made the plays they needed to When the second half began, Chris Cugliari said. PAT," Cugliari said. "But give an extra point, and lost to in order for us to win," senior a mixture of rain and hail was Garigliano rushed for over 55 credit to Stanford, they made Stanford 7-6 in the first round captain John Burke said. "Tony pelting the field horizontally. yards on the opening drive of one more play than we did." of the playoffs. Rizzo really stepped up in fight­Dillon junior quarterback Joe the second half, and scored on After knocking Dillon out of 
The Stanford offense had a ing for the last few yards in the Garigliano seemed to relish the a three-yard run up the middle. total of live possessions in the score." conditions. With their starting Then, as the 11th man of' the see INTERHALLI page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Senior looking towards med school after college 
Justine Stremick undergoing application process 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
NotrP. I>amt~ still has at lmtst three games n~maining in its 200S season. hopefully more with postseason tournaments, but forgiw senior middle blocker .lustinn Stn~miek for already thinking about the next phase of twr life. 
Stn~mick was in Atlanta Monday, interviewing at Emory University Mndkal School, which slw hopes to attend al'ter gradu­ating in May. 
"I'm nither going to go straight out of college or I'm thinking about taking a year off and 
doing service," she said. "But I'm doing all my interviews now." 
After posting live blocks in a 3­0 win over Hutgers Sunday, Stremick l'lew straight to Atlanta, and didn't return to Notre Dame until last night. 
"I really liked Emory," she said. "I feel like that about every school, but I really think I liked this one more." 
Doing work while traveling is sonwthing Stremick has become accustomed to. The Langdon, 
N.D. native posted a :t76 grade point average last year, and was named ·to the ESPN The 
see STREMICK/page 18 
TENNIS 

Helgeson leads maturation 
Senior is helping pave the way for Irish improvement this season 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Brett Helgeson proved he deserved his preseason ranking of No. 25 in the nation. 
Leading up his Hound of 16 showing at the ITA National Indoors this past weekend, Helgeson had a quarterfinal finish at the Midwest Regional event. 
llelgeson also made a run to the round of 16 of the All-American Championships. 
"I think Brett had a very strong showing at Hegionals," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "lie 
see HELGESON/page 18 







