
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 72 THURSDAY, JANUARY 24,2008 
1,150 applicants admitted early to ND 
Total applications dmvn three percentfrom last year; University boosts international recruiting efforts 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
In mid-December. the Office of Undergraduate Admissions completed eval­uating more than 4,288 applications submitted by prospective students world­wide for seats in the Class of 2012. Of those, approxi­mately 1, 150, or 35 percent of the applicant pool, were offered early admission to the University and have until May 1 to accept or decline the offer. 
The average SAT score 
STUDENT SENATE 
was a 1452 on a 1,600-point scale and the average ACT score was a 33 on a 36 point scale. The average class ranking was within the top three percent of the stu­dents' graduating class, making the academic selec­tion criteria competitive. 
"We did finish unbeliev­ably strong with [early action admissions] and it tailed off so that with regu­lar action admissions, we will finish slightly down from last year's all-time high," Dan Saracino, assis­
see EARLY/page 6 




Brown delivers final Senate address 
Student body president notes quick response to issues, looks ahead to final two months of term 
and the environment and the forum on immigration. 
"We've had a handle-it-as-it-comes attitude, and a lot of that was helpful in dealing with the ordinance," she said. 
The unexpected issues have at times prevented Brown and student body vice president Maris Braun from purs­ing their campaign agenda. Brown said. Still, Brown has plan.'> in place for her final two months in office. 
Brown said next year's academic forum will focus on energy and the environment. Her administration has helped organize a 10-week contest in which dorms will compete to see which residence hall can gather the 
see SENATE/page 4 


By JOE McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

Student body president Liz Brown delivered her llnal State of the Student Union address to the Student Senate Wednesday. In her speech, Brown commended student government's response to unexpected. hot button issues. 
"Writing down my remarks would make this appear it was rehearsed," said Brown, who gave her speech without any formal notes. "And noth­ing this year was rehearsed." 
Brown said she was pleased with her administration's work on the party permit ordinance, rising course packet ptices, issues surrounding energy use 
Students volunteer on Gulf Coast 
Service trip sponsored by ACE, focuses on local Catholic schools 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Nearly two and a half years after Hurricane Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast, residents are still work­ing to rebuild. During winter break, 12 Notre Dame students traveled south to aid their cause. 
The weeklong trip, which was sponsored and organized by the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), focused on restoration of Catholic schools in the area. 
ACE places Masters students in underprivileged Catholic schools throughout the country where they teach while earning graduate cred­it. ACE sent the 12 undergraduate 
see ACE/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
15 student fihnsdebut at festival 
Introductory classes allowed to participate 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Fifteen students will have their Notre Dame cinematic debut as the 19th annual Notre Dame Film Festival begins tonight in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The films will be screened for University and general audiences. 
Film, Television and Theatre (FIT) professor Ted Mandell said this year's selection of films is an especially creative and entertain­ing group. 
One new feature of this year's festival is the addition of films from students in the Introductory Film class. 
"Many years we don't have the opf)ortunity to screen projects from the Intro class because of time constraints due·to the num­ber and length of advanced proj­ects," Mandell said. "This vear we were able to get a few of those in there. 
"They add a unique energy to the festival. It's great for students just starting out to have their work shown to a large audience." 
The three-day festival will fea­ture films created entirely by stu­dents in their FTT courses. Most of the films are produced in groups of two to three students and are the result of a semester's worth of work, Mandell said. 
This year, the festival will screen 15 films -two more than last year -due to the short length of sever-
see FILM/ page 4 

Actors fro111 London visit ND for the week 
Members will perfonn 'The Taming ofthe Shrew' 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
After 33 years touring nation­wide, the Actors From the London Stage will be returning to Notre Dame this week to perform "The Taming of the Shrew." The company, which is based in London, tours American colleges and univer­sities through the patronage of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The University initially established the part­ne·rship in 2000, company 
_ manager Amy Atkinson said. "The University administers the program throughout the United States, serving as the company's American home and 

the touch point for the actors as they move around the U.S.," Atkinson said. 
The AFTLS performs two dif­ferent Shakespearean plays each year -one in the fall and another in the spring semester. Past performances have includ­ed "Romeo and Juliet," "Hamlet" and "The Merchant of Venice." 
In addition to the perform­ances, the actors present work­shops throughout their week spent at the University. 
"Faculty members request actors to come into their class­rooms and the actors then determine who among them is best suited for each class. They 
see LONDON/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 24, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Sexy slip 

The fiJilowing passage can be found in duLac, Notre Dame's student handbook, on page 105: "Because a genuine and com­plete nxpmssion of love through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in 
Bill Brink 
marriage, the 
University 

Sports Production
believes that sex­
Editor
ual union should 
occur only in 
marriage. 

Student..<> found in violation of this policy 
shall be subject to disciplinary suspension 
or permanent dismissal." 

In 2008, thi<> may seem slightly comical, but because we attend a Catholic institu­tion, the rules mirror Catholic tradition. 
An attention-grabbing contradiction has since become apparent. 
Inside my history notebook, which I pur­chased at the Notre Dame bookstore, I found an advertisement oflering to save me up to 93 percent on magazine subscrip­tions. The first magazine adverti<>ed is Cosmopolitan. On the cover, next to Grey's Anatomy's Kathnrine llnigl, are the head­lines: "Naughty Sex: 8 Hot New Positions We've Never Published Befim!" and "The Sexiest Thinhrs To Do Afu~r Sex." Below that, Glamour magazinn. with a headline nmding "30 Things Every Woman Should Know About Sex By Ago 30." 
Interesting. 

By no means am I against naughty sex, nor do I partieularly care whether maga­zinfls describing it am advertis"i1d in my notebook or not. But it made me think about the filet tlmt a university that bans sex on it<> campus would allow these adver­tisement..'i in notebooks bearing it<> mune. Hmnmnber, tl1is i'i the university that ordered P<mgbom !!all to change a sign because it "took the Christ out of Chri'itmas." 
Maybe I'm reading too much into this. An i<>sue of Entertainment Weekly, with a picture of the Sopnmo fiunily, is also adver­tised. I don't think the University means to advocate the acceptability of organized crime. Maybe the University figured it would gain morn money from the adver­tisement than it would lose in donations from radical Catholic donors who took offense. 
Maybe the University never saw the adverti'iement before it went in the note­book. Maybe the University just doesn't care what Cosmo thinks about apres-sex antics. 
But it got me thinking. 

I don't tl1ink this will cause the University to unveil a vigorous anti-sex campaign, nor do I think it will repeal parietals and edit duLac. I don't want it to either. Does the University care? Should I care? (If you're wondering, I don'U'm all for Cosmo and it's feminine secrets. Its an invaluable resource for all men; its like Michael Strahan stumbled across Bill Belichick's playbook. Guys can learn what girls really think.) 
I don't know what to tl1ink about it. I don't know whether it never reached the desk of any university official because it's so inconsequential and insignificant and my imagination is blowing it out of propor­tion, or if a fierce battle raged inside a busi­ne&<> manager's head as to whether to allow the ad and whether the revenue was worth the risk. 
It made me think twice, but as of now, I've gotten nowhere productive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
not  necessarily  those  of  The  
Observer.  
Contact  Bill  Brink  at  
wbrink@nd. edu  

CORRECTION 

Due to a reporting error in the Jan. 23 article, "SMC panel announces election day," Saint Mary's Student Body President elections were stated as being held on Tuesday. They will be Monday. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MOVIE/ACTOR SHOULD HAVE BEEN NOMINATED FOR AN OSCAR? 






in everything. ,, 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Post Office will offer a Passport Fair today from 7:30a.m to 4:30p.m. On this day only, no appointment will be necesary to apply for a passport. Applicants should bring proof of U.S. citizenship, proof of identity and two recent photos. 
Actors From The London Stage will present "The Taming of the Shrew" tonight. Friday and Saturday at 7::W 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Permorming Arts Center. Student tickets are available for $12. 
Prints from the Snite Museum of Art's collection that focus on artistic subjects from the 17th century will be dis­played Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. The exhibit, "Rembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the golden age of Dutch art, depic­tions of landscapes, portraits of animals and individuals in non­aristocratic social and economic classes, and scenes of their everyday life. 
There will be a men's and women's indoor track invita­
tional  Friday  at  5  p.m.  in  
Loftus  Sports  Center.  
Admission is free.  

The Harlem Globetrotters will be playing Friday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. For tickets, call631-7356. 
Men's hockey will play Bowling Green Friday at 7:35 
p.m. at the Joyce Center ice rink. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
Jv{)Y""l 
r;,_.£~'tV~'j

~ ct~ 
P' cl 
e ~ 

~(\~ -~ 
~t:~
(}..,f

<JMJ.._j 
HIGH 32 HIGH 35 LOW 22 LOW 28 
Christie Mistrucci Kerry Hutton Mary Alldred Nella McOsker Ryan Simmons 
freshman junior senior sophomore junior BP offcampus McGlinn PE Keough 
"For Best "For Best Picture: "For Best "For Best Actor: "For Best Supporting A late entry from Feature Length Heath Ledger in Supporting Actor: Actress: Julia 'P.S. I Love You,, Documentary: that one movie Christopher 
,,,

Roberts in because Denny Transformers. where he kills Walken in 'Charlie from 'Greys himself... what, 'Hairspray, , Wilson ,s War, [AnatomyT isn ,t too soon?, because he is good 
because she,s in it.,, Julia Roberts.,, 

ABIGAIL WILKINSffhe Observer Society of Women Engineers ( SWE) officers speak at the annual pizza chat for first-year female engineering majors. SWE is a nationally recognized professional, educational, non-profit service organization. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman takes 55,000 pennies to the bank 
SHREVEPORT, La. ­Vicki Armstrong has been saving her pennies for almost 19 years and she was making 'plans this week to cash them in at a bank ­all 55,000 of them. 
She knows the $550 won't make her rich, but says the symbolism reinforced frugal spending habits. "It helped me be a little bit more con­servative in my lifestyle," said Armstrong, who is planning to retire at the end of the year from Christus Schumpert Highland Hospital, where she works as a maternity technician. 
TODAY 

c:: 
Armstrong has been stor­ing pennies in vases, bowls and the occasional shoebox. In 1993, The (Shreveport, La.) Times reported she had squirreled away 14,000 pennies. Armstrong resisted the temptation of cashing them in and kept saving. 
Unsuccessful robber shoots self in foot 
CHERRYVILLE, N.C. ­Authorities said an unsuc­cessful robber shot himself in the foot ... by shooting himself in the foot. Police said Kelvin Ethelbert Roberts, 28, botched his plans to rob a Cherryville convenience store by acci­dentally shooting his right foot. 
According to an arrest warrant, Roberts dropped a .45-caliber handgun in front of Gasland USA on Sunday. The gun hit the ground and went off, a bul­let striking Roberts in the foot. 
Roberts faces several charges that include attempted robbery with a dangerous weapon and pos­session of a weapon of mass destruction. Police said the handgun had been altered to fire .410 shotgun shells. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
1.&.1  
:::1: ~ 1.&.1 3: ..... c(  -""-\\::J ' "'­.­~ ... '~if< t~~~. ~ 1;\J'  ~-vcr8,AstS ' 7."'­. . ~ cl ~ t'.;s""" ~­ c:~vrr~J_ ,. . :)P' ~ 4/'UGY. (A  ,..rv;~:rt.,crtJ J tfJ~. f<?/> ,.. ~~~~~-(_ ' ~''A.)· .  
CJ  
0 ..J  HIGH  17  HIGH  7  HIGH  22  HIGH  33  
LOW  0  LOW  -3  LOW  15  LOW  27  
Atlanta 46 I 33 Boston 38 I 29 Chicago 22 I 10 Denver 34 I 20 Houston 68 I 42 Los Angeles 60 I 43 Minneapolis 10 I -5 New York 39 I 31 Philadelphia 39 I 30 Phoenix 66 I 37 Seattle 44 I 26 St. Louis 29 I 17 Tampa 74 I 59 Washington 41 I 32 


Thursday, January 24, 2008 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Gaining club status n1ade easier 
Club Coordination Council moves to Internet-based applications 
student activities fees to the 223 undergradu­ate clubs at t h e University, is undergoing changes to make gaining club status easier, CCC president Paul Robbins said. 
"In the past, clubs have had to fill out lengthy budget forms 
"In the past, clubs have had to fill out lengthy budget forms on paper, have them signed by their club advisor and handed in before spring break. This year, the group will use an online budget form.,, 
Paul Robbins CCC president 
having t h e i r advisors able to 'sign' t h e i r budget request online,' Robbins s a i d . "This is all in an effort to m a k e things easier and more efficient f o r clubs." 
three different funds that are available for unplanned club expens­es." 
Funds under the umbrella of the CCC include the Contingency Fund, for a single club seeking additional funds; Club Collaboration Fund, for two or more clubs seeking funding for an event; and the Council of Representatives Collaboration Fund, for a club and another student body organization also seeking funding, Robbins said. 
Clubs are grouped into subdivisions: academic, athletic, cultural, per­forming arts, social serv­ice and special interest, Robbins said. Each divi­sion can have up to four representatives elected from clubs within their division. 
Elections for division representatives are occurring next week. Robbins said it is "impor­tant that students active in clubs join the council so that each division may be properly represent­ed." Allocations for next year will be made in March. 
Contact Becca LaLonde at rlalonde@hcc-nd.edu 

Cardinal George to speak at conference 
Special to The Observer 
A theological conference specifically designed for undergraduate students will bring Cardinal Francis George of Chicago and other speakers to Notre Dame on March 31. 
The conference, "Christ is Risen! So Now What?" has been organized by the Center for liturgy and the Notre Dame Vocation Initiative (NDVision), which held a similar conference on vocations for undergraduates last year. 
"We thought it important to assist and encourage theological discussion of issues of personal concern to undergrad­uates," said David W Fagerberg, direc­tor of the Center for liturgy and one of the conference organizers. "In this con­ference, which will take place a few days after Easter, we want to address what appears to be a false dichotomy between those who pray and those who act-that is, between the student drawn to a con­templative retreat and the student more inclined toward service and pursuing justice. We wish to show that both these demands of Christian discipleship have their source in the empty tomb." 
The conference will consist of three presentations, all in the ballroom of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Joan Neal, executive vice president of 
U.S. operations for Catholic Relief Services (CRS), will speak on "A Life of Service" at 4 p.m. A graduate of Loyola University in Chicago, Neal holds a mas­ter's degree in pastoral studies and a certificate in biblical spirituality from Catholic Theological Union. She directs CRS domestic programs and advocacy, overseeing six regional offices across the country and working in partnership with dioceses, parishes, colleges, universities and other Catholic organizations. Before joining CRS in 2002, she was president of her own management con­sulting firm whose clients included Catholic agencies, dioceses, organiza­tions and parishes in the Midwest. 
Rev. Cyprian Consiglio will speak on "A Life of Prayer" at 7:30 p.m. Father Consiglio is a musician, composer, author, teacher and monk of the Camaldolese Congregation. For 10 years, he lived at New Camaldoli Hermitage near Big Sur, Calif., serving as liturgist, choir director and teacher. Deeply interested in comparative reli­gion, he frequently visits India to study and teach. He divides his time evenly between his home in Santa Cruz, Calif., and travel for performing, teaching and leading retreats. 
Cardinal George will speak on "Easter: The Font of Prayer and Service" at 9:30 
p.m. A native of Chicago, he oversees the second largest Catholic archdiocese, after Los Angeles, in the nation. Recently elected president of the American bish­ops conference, Cardinal George has taught in several seminaries and served as vicar general of the Oblates of Mary Immaculate, the religious order to which he belongs. He holds master's degrees in philosophy and theology from Catholic University of America and the University of Ottawa, respectively, a doctorate in American philosophy from Tulane University and a doctorate in sacred the­ology from the Pontifical Urban University in Rome. 
By BECCA LaLONDE 
News Writer 
Money not only makes the world go around, but it also makes the club world turn at Notre Dame. 
The Club Coordination Council (CCC). which oversees the allocation of 
process in several ways: reducing paperwork, allowing for better and more efficient alloca­tions, and providing clubs with an electronic copy of their budget to help guide their spending through the year. 
"In the 'future we will be able to make things even easier for clubs by 
on paper, have them signed by their club advi­sor and handed in before spring break," Robbins said. This year, the group will use an online budget form. 
The switch to online is designed to streamline the fund allocation 
The role of the CCC is often overlooked, Robbins said. 
"We hard-lined 33 per­cent of the activities fees last year; that turned out to be about $300,000," Robbins said. "Throughout the year we also review appeals to 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 24, 2008 

London 
continued from page 1 
then go into a variety Notre Damn and Saint Mary's elass­rooms to explore not only Shakespeare, but language as a whole," Atkinson said. 
She explained that these edu­cational residencies arc geared to help students convey the meaning of words -whieh can range anywhere from analyzing a text in an English elass or developing publie-speaking skills in a business dass. 
The troupe's wide range of experience isn't just limited to theatre performances. This week, they will also meet with students interested in film and television for an informal diseus­sion 1i.bout these industries. 
"We can't send students to 


Fil01 
continued from page 1 
a! of the lilms. The total running time fiJr all 15 tilms is 110 min­utes. 
In choosing what films to screen, FIT faculty looked at the combination of writing, shooting, editing and acting-all the ele­ment'> that make up a strong pro­duction, Mandell said. 
"We spend a lot of time in class discussing ideas, working on script<;, analyzing rough euts, and polishing rn-edit<>," he said. "The final film is the result of both ere­ative collaboration among stu­dent<; as well as the battle to beat the deadline, which lurks at the end of every semester. Filmmaking takes mueh more time and labor than most people think." 
Junior Bill DiPiero, who eo­direeted the film "LuvPod" with sophomore Michael Hohman, lbund production fbr his film took 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
voluntflnrs to schools that both sustained major damage from the hurricane and currently employ ACE teachers. 
"ACE wanted to serve the Catholic schools still affected by Katrina and give an oppor­tunity to open students' eyes to what happened," said Greg Hobinson, a sophomore who works for the ACE program and participated in the trip. 
The students first traveled to Jackson, Miss., and went to dif­ferent Catholie schools to help out in any way they could while meeting tnachers and students who lived through the catastro­phe. 
"We would wake up, have a quick brnakfast, and then went to thn grade school where we would do jobs for them. They had a shed that rw!~ded to be elearnd out for storage. They didn't have the manpower to do it thnmsnlves," Hobinson said. 
Latnr in the day, the students intnradnd with the childrnn. 
"We helped them with their math timnd tests, and taught them cursive," hr. said. "The kids were so happy to have the big kids thnre. They are excited to show you how good they are at. subtrading with big nuril­bnrs. Wn also played games of tag, and thny dragged us into a gamn of touch football." 
Thn day-to-day routine con­tinued as tho students traveled New York, L.A., and London ­the centers of film and television -and it's difficult for students to be able to get in touch to those kinds of places, so bring­ing them here is invaluable," said film and television profes­sor Christine Becker. 

"This gets students in direct eontact with professionals who are doing what our students are interested in [pursuingJ." 
AFTLS tours 10 universities in the fall and eight universities during the spring. Besides Notre Dame, the eurrent tour of "The Taming of the Shrew" will travel to Massachusetts, Texas, California and Mississippi, Atkinson said. 
Many of the actors in the troupe have been trained at prominent companies such as the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal National Theatre of Great Britain and 
a great deal of time. 
"The filming process was a bit tedious because we did multiple takes of eaeh shot," DiPiero said. "We actually had to shoot the film twice in its entirety after the first take had some lighting issues and was not up to our standards.'' 
DiPiero and Rohman's film is the comedic story of a stolen iPod that leads to a not-so-chance encounter between a boy and girl looking for love. 
Junior Mark Weber, who co­directed the film "The White Tree" with senior Julian Owyong, said the greatest challenge in making his film was the aetual filming proeess beeause their script required a large cast. 
"With a large east, we had to eomplete most of the shooting in one day in only a few short hours," Weber said. "We had to be very efficient with both our actors and our crew to get every­thing shot." 
'The White Tree" is based on real events that occurred at Jena High School in September 2006 
along the Gulf Coast. 
"We did odd jobs. We painted benehes, eleaned a lot of win­dows, and again, in the after­noon we were working with the kids," Robinson said. 
The volunteers traveled as inexpensively as possible, Robinson said. The $100 fee per person eovered the van fare and basic food. 
"We didn't use a lot of expenses," Robinson said. "We got three vans to drive down, and ate a lot of peanut butter and bread. Throughout the trip we would stay in high school gyms, which I imagine didn't cost money. The ACE program has good relations with sehools in the area. Parents would give us dinner everywhere we went. They were very hospitable." 
An important part of the service trip was learning about the disaster and its aftermath. Various survivors spoke to the students about their experi­enees. 
"We heard from some ACE teachers, and a couple who had their house destroyed in New Orleans," Hobinson said. "We heard from a teaeher who is living in a trailer on her front yard, whieh is what most peo­ple are still doing down there. It's a huge deal to have gotten into your house. People are still waiting after two and a half years." 
AftPr working in the schools, the volunteers traveled into the heart of New Orleans. 
"It was a really powerful day," Hobinson said. "Seeing how mueh devastation there Shakespeare's Globe Theater. 
"While we do not tour interna­tionally, AFTLS actors present two performances in London fol­lowing their time in the United States," Atkinson said. "These shows are held at the presti­gious Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts and enable the actors' colleagues and eountry­men to see their work." 
The actors are cast in Britain where they rehearse for several weeks before coming to the United States, Atkinson said. 
The AFTLS makes minimal use of props, lighting or sets in its productions. 
The Actors From the London Stage will perform "The Taming of the Shrew" tonight and Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan@nd.edu 
where racial tensions erupted in the Louisiana high school. 
"The events at Jena High framed a powerful story which I thought the students at Notre Dame, black and white, eould learn from," Weber said. 
Weber said he hopes students who see the film will understand "that racial tension is still an issue we faee in our society today, and it is up to us youth to change that." 
The festival's other films come 
· from several genres ineluding documentary, eomedy, horror and drama. 
Tiekets for the festival are $3 for students, $5 for Notre Dame faeulty and staff, and $6 for the general public and ean be pur­ehased in advance at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts or online at per­formingarts.nd.edu. 
The festival will run twice each night for three nights at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
still is, and how much has not been touehed. We saw a couple of houses that still have the red X and marks with the date the house was searehed and the number of bodies found." 
While the trip lasted only a week, the students plan to eon­tinue aiding the cause back at Notre Dame. 
"We are trying to figure out how to keep the trip alive," Robinson said. "We are giving a presentation around Mardi Gras to spread awareness, and looking back on how much the kids loved it, we are trying to arrange a pen pal program. 
'"I am so thankful for what I still have' was probably the biggest message we got from the trip." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
most recyclables. 
"One thing we've seen a lot of energy on campus about is energy and environmental issues," she said. 
In addition, there will be a fol­low-up student forum sometime within the next few months to fur­ther diseuss the "eontroversial" issue of immigra­tion, she said. 
Brown said she 

"This is an example
recently submitted a +The Student proposal to Vice ofhow we've Senate unani­President of Student mously passed a
responded to student 
Affairs Father Mark resolution ree­
needs on campus. " 
Poorman requesting ommending that more money for res­two new print­idence hall workout Liz Brown ers be added to facilities. the computer
student body president
"This is an exam­ple of how we've responded to stu­dent needs on eampus," she said. Lastly, in order to help improve relations with the surrounding community, Brown said there will be an educational session for stu­dents moving off campus. The meeting will inform future off­eampus students of the expecta­tions of their neighbors. 
"In August and September, we realized there was a gap between the expeetations of living in the dorm and living off campus," Brown said. 
In other Senate news: 
+The Senate listened to a pres­entation by Executive Chef Donald Miller from Notre Dame Food Services on the importanee of using locally grown food. 
In a 15-minute PowerPoint pres­entation, Miller said using locally grown foods reduees the carbon emissions caused by transporting them. Also, he said, locally grown foods have more nutrients. 

"Sustainable food is a way of producing and eonsuming food that ultimately promotes the eon­tinuous well-being of our selves and our planet," he said. 
Miller said 85 pereent of Notre Dame's dairy products are pro­duced locally. Moreover, he said, loeally grown foods are more fla­
vorful and free 
of pestieides and 
preservatives. 
duster in 
DeBartolo. The 

move would help reduce the pressure on print­ers that has been caused by more teachers putting readings on-line rather than foreing students to pay for eostly course paekets. 
+Alumni Hall rector Father George Rozum. was honored Wednesday with an official Senate resolution thanking him for his 30 years of service. 
Since beeoming reetor in 1978, Rozum has seen a great deal of change. "When I came to Alumni 30 years ago, they didn't have indi­vidual thermostats and there was only one light in the room over the sink," he said. "There was cold and hot water, but it was never joined." 
Contact Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


~~ ~ --~-­





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 24, 2008 CoMPILED FRObA THI OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Congo leaders sign peace agreement 
GOMA, Congo -Years of fighting in Congo's restive east ended -on paper at least -Wednesday as warlords and militia fighters signed a long-awaited peace accord with the government of this huge Central African country. 
The deal commits all sides to an immedi­ate cease-fire, followed by a pullback of fighters from key areas that will become a U.N.-patrolled buffer zone, said Vital Kamerhe, a government spokesman for the talks. 
Observers praised the deal but said fulfill­ing it would be long and difficult work, with many details yet undecided. 
At least 17 dead in Iraqi bombing 
BAGHDAD -A thunderous blast tore through a vacant apartment building in northern Iraq on Wednesday, killing at least 17 civilians and wounding more than 130 in adjacent houses just minutes after the Iraqi army arrived to investigate tips about a weapons cache. 
Hescue crews searched under toppled walls, collapsed ceilings and piles of debris tossed by the explosion that blew apart the empty building, which Iraqi authorities said was used by insurgents to stash weapons and bombs. 
The hunt through the wreckage stretched for hours, raising the possibility the final casualty toll could climb. The huge blast went off just after the troops arrived, and no soldier was reported killed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Drought may shut down power plants 
lAKE NORMAN, N.C. -Nuclear reactors across the Southeast could be forced to throttle back or temporarily shut down later this year because drought is drying up the rivers and lakes that supply power plants with the awesome amount.c; of cooling water they need to operate. 
Utility officials say such shutdowns probably wouldn't result in blackouts. But they could lead to shockingly higher electric bills for millions of Southerners, because the region's utilities may be f(Jrced to buy expensive replacement power from other energy companies. 
Already, there has been one brief, drought-related shutdown, at a reactor in Alabama over the summer. 

Mexican cop found guilty in drug case 
McALLEN. Texas -A former Mexican police commander was convicted Wednesday of helping run the notorious Gulf cartel's drug smuggling oper­ation. 
Carlos Landin Martinez was found guilty of nine eounlc; including drug trafficking, conspiracy and money laundering over alleged cartel activities from 2005 to 2007. 
Prosecutors said Landin oversaw an operation in which traffickers wanting to use lucrative smuggling routes across the border into South Texas had to pay Landin a "piso," or tax, to move drugs in cartel terri­tory. Landin was the Gulf cartel's second-in-com­mand in Reynosa, a Mexican dty south of McAllen, prosecutors say. 
Drugs came across on people, on rafts and through a tunnel that opened up through a manhole in IIidalgo, Texas, among other means, according to investigators. The proceeds from drug sales all over the United States were then smuggled back into Mexico, authorities said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Governor requests aid for ftood damage 
INDIANAPOLIS -Governor Mitch Daniels is requesting federal assistance for people affect­ed by llooding earlier this month in northern Indiana. 
Daniels declared a disaster emergency in the area on Wednesday and sent a letter to President Bush asking for federal aid. 
Three people, including two children, died in the llooding that began January 7. 
The letter says more than 800 homes were damaged, with as many as 400 destroyed or having major damage. Nearly 1,000 people have been displaced, it said. 
The letter seeks assistance including disaster housing, unemployment assistance and U.S. Small Business Administration disaster loans. 
SWITZERLAND 


Afghan president warns of terror 
Karzai delivers bleak message at World Economic Forum amid fears ofglobal recession 
Associated Press 
DAVOS-Afghanistan's president warned Wednesday that the whole world could suffer from the "wildfire" of terrorism engulfing his region, a grim message for a meeting of political and busi­ness leaders already fretting over the threat of global recession. 
Formally opening the World Economic Forum, Hamid Karzai gave a sober­ing rundown of recent attacks attributed to Islamic extremists -among them the assassination of Benazir Bhutto and bombings in Afghanistan and Pakistan that have killed hundreds, including many children. 
With militant violence still on the rise in the two nations six years after the ouster of the Taliban, "it seems like the mutant of extremism is dan­gerously unleashed across the region," Karzai said. The trend "bodes terribly badly for the whole world," he said. 
In an apparent allusion to Pakistan -whose president, Pervez Musharraf, originally supported the Taliban -Karzai called terrorism "a venomous snake that some among us tried to nurture and befriend at the expense of others, which I hope we realize now was a mistake." 

Musharraf, now a U.S. ally in the war on extremist with Rice "went very well," nomic anxiety, told an audi­many seemed to share a groups, has often been saying there was "total con­ence of chief executives, glum mood that the world accused by Karzai of not sonance and unanimity of politicians and others that the could be sliding into reces­doing enough to shut down views" on joint efforts to fight U.S. economy is resilient and sion. sanctuaries for Taliban fight­terrorism. will remain an "engine of "We're in Round 1 or 2. ers in Pakistan's tribal region How to stem terrorism is growth." This is a 15-round fight," said along the border with one of the themes at this She urged the world to Guillermo Ortiz, governor of Afghanistan. year's World Economic "have confidence in the the Central Bank of Mexico, 
The Pakistani president is Forum, along with dealing underlying strength of the suggesting the worst might attending the conference in with climate change, imple­global economy -and act yet be coming. Davos as well, as part of a menting a workable peace with confidence on the basis Billionaire George Soros European tour seeking to process in the Middle East of the principles that lead to called for a radical cure ­reassure the West that he is and discussing how technolo­success in today's world." the imposition of heavy regu­in control of his country after gy is ushering in a new age of But many leading partici­lation and oversight over months of political instability social networking that knows pants shared the view that financial markelc; whose par­and increased attacks by no borders. the world cannot escape the ticipants he accused of using Islamic militants. Still, with many partici­effects of America's economic "excessive" freedom to create 
Both leaders held separate pants watching stock mar­slowdown, marked by the "not a normal crisis but the talks Wednesday with kets slump and sharing the subprime mortgage crisis, end of an era." Secretary of State realization that economic loss of business confidence, "Authorities ought to go in Condoleezza Rice, but there downturn can breed political poor corporate profits and a and examine the books" of was no indication they would turmoil, the main focus sharp drop in stock prices. financial institutions, and meet with each other. Wednesday was on the A year ago, Davos atten­provide assurance that "they 
Musharraf spokesman chances for worldwide reces­dees predicted the global will rescue and even take Rashid Qureshi told The sion. economy would move ahead over banks that become Associated Press the meeting Rice, in a nod to the eco-with confidence. But now insolvent," Soros said. 

Nevv technique improves organ transplants 
Massachusetts General Hospital in had no role in the work. 
Associated Press Boston, who led the research published "It still needs some fine-tuning so that in Thursday's New England Journal of everyone who gets treated gets the LOS ANGELES -In what's being Medicine. same consistent outcome ... It's not the called a major advance in organ trans­Since the world's first transplant holy grail of tolerance yet," she cau­plants, doctors say they have developed more than 50 years ago, scientists have tioned. a technique that could free many searched for ways to trick the body to The results do not mean that it is safe patients from having to take anti-rejec­accept a foreign organ as its own. for current transplant patients to go off tion drugs for the rest of their lives. Immune-suppressing drugs that pre­their medicines. Doing so could lead to The treatment involved weakening vent organ rejection came into wide use organ rejection and even death, doctors the patient's immune system, then giv­in the 1980s. But they raise the risk of warn. And Sachs said the treatment ing the recipient bone marrow from the cancer, kidney failure and many other will not solve the country's organ short­person who donated the organ. In one problems. And they have unpleasant age. experiment, four of five kidney recipi­side effects such as excessive hair In the 1990s, Sachs showed the treat­ents were off immune-suppressing growth, bloating and tremors. ment could work in a kidney recipient medicines up to five years later. Eliminating the need for anti-rejec­who was a good genetic match. The "There's reason to hope these tion drugs is "a huge advance," said Dr. woman, who had an organ and marrow patients will be off drugs for the rest of Suzanne lldstad, a University of transplant in 1998, has not needed their lives," said Dr. David Sachs of Louisville immunology specialist who anti-rejection drugs for a decade. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 24, 2008 

Early 
continued from page 1 
tan t provost for 
Undergraduate Admissions 
said, adding that overall 
applications submitted for 
consideration is down three 
pnrcent to 14,000 from last 
year's total count of 14,500. 
"In terms of numbers, 
though we are down, the total 
pool in academic and ethnic 
diversity will be greater than 
ever before," he said. "And 
we're excited about the 
opportunity that these 
changes present to us." 
A favored system 
The University has long­
endorsed a non-binding, non­
restrictive Early Action pro­
gram which allows applicants 
to submit an application for 
consideration on Nov. 1, an 
earlier date than the Dee. 31 
regular admission deadline 
that the majority of appli­
cants choose to meet. 
Under the Early Action pro­
gram, candidates are notified 
by mid-December of an 
admissions decision of either 
admit, defer or deny. 
Deferred applicants have 
their files re-evaluated in the 
regular decision admissions 
process and are notil'ied 
along with the regular deci­
sion applicants at the end of 
March. Students denied 
under any admission program 
may not reapply within the 
same academic year. 
Notre Dame's Early Action is unique from other schools in that it is designed to give prospeetivn applicants a clear admissions decision in time for the student to have many options to make the right col­legn selection. Saracino said high school counselors have always "praised" the admis­sions proeed u re the University offers. 
Prospective high school stu­dents also favor this compo­nent of the admissions process at Notre Dame because it helps them pre­pare well for the havoc of col­logo applications in general. llnnry llodes. an narly-aetion admit from Hoekhurst lligh School in Kansas City, Mo., said Notre Damn's early admissions process made applying to colleges, "a lot nasier." 
"The college admissions process is so crazy and com­plex. and we are always being advertised with e-mails and notifications," he said. "Notre Dame is very clear on when to apply even when it's lyour] number one choice, the online application is very friendly and easier to usc." 
llodns also said hn liked the non-binding nature of Early Action, which allowed him to consider his acceptances at peer institutions sueh as Boston Collogn and (ieorgetown just in case he felt his needs could bn satis­fied at those univnrsities. 
"Still. I've known that Notre Dame has always bnnn my number llllP choke," hn said. "While lthoso schools! have muc·h to offer. I have rnaliznd that NotrP DamP fits my rweds tlw bf'st; academically, soc:ially, and spiritually." 
Reaching out 
Tho University is rc~arhing out further than over to prospective studPnts in order to c·ompiln a divnrsn and tal­nn t!'d c:lass, Saracino said. 
"We have undl'rgraduates 
c: a II i n g an d ~~-m a i Ii n g stu ­dents. deans from various colleges contacting students, 27-30 and April 10-13 for the Admissions. "It is a direct as well as setting up chat most academically-talented result of enhanced recruit­rooms and chat times for students. There will also be ment strategies and the admissions and First Year of one science and engineering establishment of scholarship Studies representatives to program Feb. 7-8. funds by the international give information about things This year, however, admis­Alumni Clubs, and 20 stu­like FYS and financial aid," sions established a program dents will be invited to visit he said. that allows international stu­Notre Dame, all expenses 

All admitted students and dents to parents are invited to Open House pro­
grams, which "In this day and age will be held on ofglobalization, it is 
Feb. 21, as well 
imperative that we

asApril10,17 and 24. 
create world leaders 

In addition, that will make a select students 
positive impact when 

will be invited 
to attend special they return to their programs to home countries." learn more about the 
Ruben Medina 

University. One 
assistant director of

well-known pro­
gram is the Undergraduate Spring Admissions Visitation Programs for ethnic minority 
students. There will be three ated in honor of Father Spring Visitation Weekends." offered this year from Feb. Hesburgh's longtime commit­The Hesburgh International 21-24, April 3-6, and April ment to the internationaliza­Scholars Experience April 6-9 17-20. tion of Notre Dame," said this year. Invitees will have 
Two Reilly Visitation Ruben Medina, assistant an opportunity to experience Weekends will be held March director of Undergraduate being a Notre Dame student 
explore the paid, to acquaint them with University to a one another and with Notre greater degree. Dame's unique character." The program, Medina said the University known as the chose to offer the program llesburgh only to the Latin American International market this year due to the Scholars pro­long-standing connection gram, was a with Notre Dame and the recommenda­nation's Catholic identity. tion of the Once a more solid program is Notre Dame established, then it will be Alumni opened to other groups. Association's "The experience has been International designed to bring in the most Committee last academically-qualified top spring and will international students," invite students Medina said. "Those invited from Latin will be the 'cream of the America to crop' and in the near future, visit campus. we estimate to increase the 
"The pro-number to near that of our gram was cre­very successful Reilly and 
for two full academic days and will be hosted by current international students living on campus. They will also have the chance to meet with various members of the Notre Dame community directly involved with international students, development and recruitment efforts. 
The admissions team feels strongly that the program will increase the yield of interna­tional admitted students. Also, it will help with the recognition of Notre Dame outside of the United States. 
"In this day and age of glob­alization, it is imperative that we create world leaders that will make a positive impact when they return to their home countries," Medina said. "One of the University's admissions priorities is diver­sity, encompassing cultural, ethnic and socio-economic in order to provide our students with a rich and deeply-rooted Catholic experience. I can think of no better place to prepare these young men and women than the University of Notre Dame." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

.;£:·3f~·.:; of~ '>'4af.V-<"I 
Th~ Staff of the Sandpiper Beacon Beach Resort would love to come up ROCK STAR SPRING BREAK 
PANAMA CITY BEACH 
TOUR BUS ... 
BlJI 11'5 Jll51 100 r•%# COlD \JP 1HE See Ya, in Sunny Florida-..... Love Y a, 
800-488-8828 

www.sandpiperbeacon.com 

~A ~~~v~~ ~~~ [L~ [f> TMJ~~v 
an exhibition about male adolescence at an all-women's college 
JANUARY 25-FEBRUARY 22, 2008 
Moreau Art Galleries, Saint Mary's College 
featuring artists: Jason Lahr, Scott Stulen, Gavin Bunner, Steve Seeley, Rudy Shepherd, and Eric Prykowski 
OPENING RECEPTION: FRIDAY, JAN. 25, S-7PM all events free and open to the public 
t 

"blah, blah, blah, bleep" by Scott Stu/en (2005) 
Buy the Exhibition Soundtrack on iTunes! 
Slayer, Run-DMC, Suffocation, ODB, The Scotland Yard Gospel, Corrosion of Conformity, The Rapture, and more! 
visit www.moreauartgalleries.com for more information 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, January 24, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 12,270.17 +298.98
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 


S&P 500 1,338.76 +28.10 NIKt<El•..(Tokyqi):: : ;;~i~(lij:ti!J~~() i2~6ij;ttl FTSE 100 (London) 5.609.30 -130.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +2.40 +3.14 133.86 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.36 -0.16 44.02 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +7.10 +1.85 27.90 CITIGROUP INC (C) +8.03 +1.96 26.36 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.66 -0.058 3.426 13-WEEK BILL -5.38 -0.120 2.110 30-YEAR BOND -1.23 -0.052 4.175 5-YEAR NOTE -2.17 -0.057 2.566 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.22 86.99 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -7.20 883.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.15 83.80 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 106.6850 EURO 0.6841 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0243 BRffiSH POUND 0.5116 
IN BRIEF 
eBay CEO to step down in March 
SAN FRANCISCO -Meg Whitman will soon step down as chief executive of eBay Inc., the online auction company that went from wobbly startup to multibillion-dollar household name in her 10-year tenure. 
Whitman, 51, had been reported to be plotting the move and handing the job to John Donahoe, 47, who has been heading eBay's core auction and e-commerce busi­nesses. She confirmed her March 31 depar­ture as eBay reported fourth-quarter earn­ings Wednesday. 
Whitman will remain on eBay's board of directors. 
"With humor, smarts and unflappable determination, Meg took a small, barely known online auction site and helped it become an integral part of our lives," said Pierre Omidyar, eBay's founder and chair­man. "We're all enormously grateful that Meg dedicated herself to stewarding eBay through its 10 most formative years." 

GM and Toyota even in global sales 
DETROIT -General Motors, a symbol of American industrial might and the world's top seller of motor vehicles since Herbert Hoover was president, has finally been caught by a foreign rival. 
GM conceded Wednesday that Toyota Motor Corp. pulled even last year, each of them selling about 9.37 million vehicles, in another sign that the balance of corporate power is shifting from West to East. 
It's the first time GM has been anything other than the exclusive global sales leader since 1931. 
The figure of 9,369,524 vehicles sold around the world was a 3 percent increase from 2006 for GM. But Toyota's strong sales growth in the United States in recent years -and declining sales for GM in its own backyard -finally closed the gap. 
Earlier this month, Toyota reported global sales of about 9.37 million vehicles for 2007. The Japanese automaker said Wednesday it would not release more pre­cise figures, so who's No. 1 remains unclear. 

Wall Street pulls off comeback 
Potentially massive decline avoided by largest turnaround in over 5 years 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street pulled off a stunning come­back Wednesday, surging higher in late trading and wiping out what looked to be yet another massive decline. The Dow Jones industrials, down more than 323 points in earlier trad­ing, ended the day with an advance of just under 300 points. 
Such volatility has become a hallmark of Wall Street's performance in recent months amid the ongoing housing and credit crisis and growing fears of reces­sion. And, after five straight days of pullbacks, a rebound was to be expect­ed. But analysts saw some positive signs in the day's trading. 
The Federal Reserve's decision Tuesday to lower its benchmark federal funds rate by 0.75 percentage point to 3.5 percent, while met with some skepticism, did give intrepid investors a reason to buy Wednesday. 

"You might say this is a belated reaction to what the Fed did this week, com­pounded by hopes for the Fed to do more next week," said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners. Traders who bet on the Fed's target fed funds investments. Those compa­with liquidity and eventually 12,270.17, having fallen as rate were pricing in on nies -including Citigroup we should see some traction much as 323.29 earlier. Wednesday a 100 percent Inc., Washington Mutual in the economy. And stocks Before Wednesday's ses­chance of a 0.50 percent­Inc. and Merrill Lynch -tend to respond first." sion, the Dow had fallen age-point cut by the central were the big winners Still, analysts were mind­nearly 10 percent since the bank when it meets next Wednesday. ful that in the past months, start of the year, and it was Tuesday and Wednesday. "The early leaders in a Wall Street has been known down more than 15 percent 
Rate cuts are designed to market recovery tend to be to soar one day and suc­since its record close of stimulate borrowing and, in banks, REITs (real estate cumb the next, and that 14,164.53 on Oct. 9. turn, business activity and investment trusts) and ,there are still many eco­Wednesday's swing from the overall economy. They homebuilders, as these are nomic unknowns for the negative to positive territory also will eventually boost the groups that typically market to weather. And, of 631.86 points is the profit margins for banks would benefit first from a given that stocks are so largest point swing since and other lenders, which turnaround. And those have badly beaten down, bargain July 24, 2002, according to have been working to lower been the market leaders hunting played a part in Dow Jones Indexes. The costs and raise cash levels this week," said Steve Wednesday's turnaround. largest intraday point through layoffs and stock Goldman, chief market According to preliminary swing, a metric that Dow sales after having lost bil­strategist at Weeden & Co. calculations, the Dow Jones started calculating in July lions of dollars to bad mort­"What has happened is the industrial average rose 1995, was a 721-point gages and mortgage-related Fed is flooding the system 298.98, or 2.50 percent, to swing on April 14, 2000. 

EGYPT 

High oil prices concern energy secretary 
Associated Press $1.84 on concerns that a slowing U.S. and growing anxiety at home stirred 
economy would reduce energy demand. lawmakers and the administration 
Bodman noted, hqwever, that a new toward swift action, possibly within a 
CAIRO -U.S. Energy Secretary U.S. stimulus package, as well as few weeks. Wall Street plummeted as Samuel Bodman warned Wednesday Tuesday's sharp Federal Reserve rate Tuesday began, following Asian stocks, that high oil prices can harm the U.S. cut, could send oil prices back up in the then warily eased its sell-off after the economy when they reach $100 a bar­short term. Fed ordered the biggest cut on record in rel. "The goal of those would be to stimu­a key interest rate. 
"The economy has been able to with­late the U.S. economy and to encourage Stocks pulled back again Wednesday. stand thisbig run-up in price," Bodman economic growth to occur. If that Investors are worried about the health said. "But I believe the $100 price of oil occurs, that would have, I expect, a of the economy after reports from big is going to have an impact." He spoke at moderate increase in the price of ener­corporate names like Apple Inc. and a luncheon held by the American gy," he said at the end of an eight day Motorola Inc. dashed any notion that Chamber of Commerce in Egypt attend­trip that has taken him to Jordan, Saudi the Fed's surprise rate cut could swiftly ed by reporters. Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and mend the economy 
He noted that while the current U.S. Qatar. In the course of his trip, Bodman said economic woes are largely due to the Jolted by global recession fears, the he asked major oil producing countries subprime mortgage crisis, "the price of Fed slashed interest rates Tuesday and to raise output because of the harm oil as an immediate factor has been a President Bush and leaders of Congress prices were doing to world economies. contributor to our problems." joined in a rare show of cooperation in "Higher oil prices are having a signifi­
After briefly topping $100, oil has promising urgent action to pump up the cant effect on the U.S. economy, but been falling in recent weeks. The front­economy with more than $150 billion in they are having an even more profound month Nymex contract traded tax cuts and government spending. effect on the developing nations," he Wednesday morning at $87.37, down Market meltdowns around the globe said. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, January 24, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Little to like in Hillary or Mitt 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily ASS1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NF.ws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris KJ10rey Chris !-line SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PUOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu ViEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLIN£ www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Vi<wpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and musr include contact in!cJTmation. 
Qtwtions rrgarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11u~ 0~\C'rvN (USPS W9 2-41)(H)) i• puhiiJhctl Mnnd.1~· 1hwugh Friday exccp1 {lurm~ ('l(;tm omd Y.lt.'alicm pcriuilio. A5llhKnptiun !o'l1lc ot~crver is $100 fur one :u;:ulcmk yc;tr; $';5 fi1r unc Kmau~r. 
The Oh~Crvcr U. puhiWu~d n: POSTMASTER 024 Sutuh Dining H.:tll Send address corrcctiom w: Nutrc D.unc, IN 46S'%-0779 The Observer l'c:mxiic;a! flU51tAgC p;ud .u Norn: Do~mc P.O. Boxn9 .tud ~iri,,nal mo~.iliog offi~. 024 Somh Dining H.1.Jl 
Notre: Dame, IN 46S%-On9 
Tlu: O~rVer il.a member uf chc Associ.ued Pres.~. All revruJuaiou ttglm arc: 
""'"''" 

If llillary had left Bill when he didn't have sexual relations with that woman, I could have suggested a pretty good hus­band. 
Back in 1998, he was 51 years young, wealthy, and good­looking. lie was a politically ambi­tious liberal. lie and Hillary would have made great bodfi1llows. 
Who is contest­ant number one? Willard Mitt Homney. 
Of course, sinefJ 1998, a few things have changed. 
Today, Ilillary and Mitt couldn't be mueh farther apart. While I Iillary whines about the "Hnpublican attack machine," Homney invokes "llillaryCare" as shorthand fi1r the big-government uni­versal health earn plan that he loathes. But-at loast. in political terms­Homney and Clinton would still look pretty good together. 
After all, both would do just about any­thing to bocorne president of the United States. And both arn fighting back chal­lenges from maverick, anti-nstablishment candidates with tnrrifyingly similar, dis­honest taetical maneuvering. 
It's pretty easy to get the impression that Mitt just continues to trot out whatever message he believesis most politically expedient at the time. 
In Miehigan, Homney sounded almost Edwards-ian as he asserted, ''I'm going to fight for every single job. I'm going to rebuild the industry. I'm going to take bur­dens off the back of the auto industry." 
Please. As Romney asserted that he would "fight for every single job,'' he blamed only higher emissions standards for the decrease in jobs rather than acknowledge that the free trade he so ardently supports might play a role. 
In Florida, meanwhile, Romney is run­ning an ad in Spanish, which includes a laughable "Soy Mitt Romney, y apruebo este mensaje." Romney's efforts to appeal to the Latino community would be admirable-if he hadn't also repPatedly appealed to the anti-illegal immigration wing of the Republican party by emphasiz­ing his desire to establish the United Statns as an English-only country. 

Most prominently, Mitt has become a member of the Christian Coalition. 1990s­Mitt was-to use his words-"ell'nctivPiy pro-choice." 2008-Mitt bemoans his de facto pro-choiceness as "the biggest mis­take" he's "ever made." While 1990s-Mitt asserted that "as we seek to establish full equality for America's gays and lesbian citizens, I will provide more effective lead­ership than" Sen. Ted Kennedy, 2008-Mitt spends little time talking about the impor­tance of gay right.:;. Except. of course, when he's spPaking of the importance of limiting them to protect "traditional" mar­riage. 
Does anybody doubt that Mitt would say anything and twist any rhetoric to be pres­ident of the United States? 
But Mitt's not alone. Consider the llillary campaign's maneuvering in the last month: While apologizing for the invoca­tion of "teenage drug use" by Barack Obama, HiJlary Clinton's chief strategist Mark Penn managed to up the ante by reminding voters that the drug in question was cocaine. 
Earlier tllis month, meanwhile, Clintim called Barack Obama's opposition to the Iraq war a "fairy tale"-even though a popular YouTube video from 2002 shows the then-state senator warning the coun­try not to give the president a "carte blanche" and trumpeting increased inspections instead of war. 
Even her emotions seem disingenuous and calculated. She's become notorious (thanks, of course, to Jon Stewart and YouTube) for an overdone laugh that she uses to get out of tough questions. And some -though not all -insist that her near-crying earlier this month was a calculated maneuver to appear more human. The very fact that that so many assumed she was being disingen­uous suggests that she's gained a repu­tation for embracing Romney-like cal­culative-ness. 

Does anybody doubt that llillary would do anything to be president of the United States? 
In thnir rhntorie, llillary stands fin· noth­ing and Mitt stands f()f nvorything. The Clinton campaign is like a high school cheerleader, somning to rove! in the tacti­cal nastiness of a campaign -she called it "the fun part" at a dnbatn narlier this year. If llillary's thP ehnerleader, Mitt is the inse­euro kid who'll do anything to seem cool. lie rnvels in b1~ing liked, no mattnr what he needs to say. 
Tognther, they reflect the worst in American politics. 
On Tuesday, Sen. Obama observed, "If you get the kind of looseness with the facl.:; that Senator Clinton's displayed and you're willing to say anything to get a political or tactical advantagn-that erodes people's trust in government. 
"It makes thmn cynical. It's part of the pnrpetual campaign that is how WashinhTf.on all too often opnrates these days and it kneps us from solving prob­lems." 
Thnrein lies the problem with a Clinton candidacy. Pnopln arn alrnady conscious of' I lillary as a do-or-say-anything tactician ­her ideas arn, by and large, dismissed with vitriolie personal vilification. Tho eon­tentious primary has again rnvnaled the Clinton pnnchant fi1r shameless twisting of' fact<; and phrasns. It's not, as some would have you believe, hnr nxperience that keeps her from bning an eflective candi­date. It's her rnputation-long recognized by Hepublieans, and increasingly by Democral.:;. She hardly stands a chance. 
Unless, of course, her opponent is Mitt Homney. Then we all lose. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. He drank an entire two-liter bottle of Diet Pepsi -straight -to prepare to write this column. He encourages you to contact him at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Domer dating: 'Man up' 
Man up! While reading Aristotle in La Fun the other day (the only place lively enough to keep me awake to power through the Politics). I could­n't help but overhearing a single girl talking to her best guy friend about her frustration with Domer dating (or lack there oD. I am so tired of hearing students complain about how screwed up gender relations are at Notre Dame. 
This is not to say that gender rela­tions are normal; they're not. It's true that there is a lack of dating culture at Notre Dame, but this defi­cieney is self-inflicted. People like to blame our abnormal gender rela­tions on everything from the Notre Dame "family" mentality"to the cold weather keeping everyone in hiber­
nation for winter. Girls always com­plain that guys never ask them out on dates but are far too suspicious of any guy who may try to strike up a conversation (especially if he is less than attractive). Guys, on the other hand, insist that all the cute girls already have boyfriends and that Notre Dame simply doesn't attract the same "talent" other schools do. 
Since I am a guy, I'll speak to the guys. Guys, there are far more girls here than guys (especially if you include the all-girls school across the street). There are many single, cute girls just dying for a genuine guy to simply take them out on a date. Stop giving excuses, man up, and ask a girl out for coffee, lunch, or even dinner. She might say no, 

but she might say yes. You might go on a second date, or you might not. You might end up with a girlfriend, or you might end up with a new friend. 
As much as people complain about dating here, it's a lot harder out in the real world. Don't go your entire college career never having gone on out on a date. Man up, fellas. This girl wasn't looking for a long-term boyfriend that would come through with the ring-by-spring at the end of senior year. All she wanted was a date. I hope she gets one. 
Mark Weber junior Keough Hall Jan. 23 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Katie Kohler Francis Tolan Who will win the Republican Mandi Shrone Ellyn Michalak 
nomination? 
Gene Noone Jared Jedick 

Mitt Romney John McCain 
Madeline Buckley Scene "There is nobody so irritating as 
Graphics Cassie. Belek · Mike Huckabee Fred Thompson somebody with less intell(qence and 
Matt Hudson Viewpoint Ron Paul Rudy Giuliani more sense than we fiave. " Jordan Gamble 
Don Herold English writer and Illustrator
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
L________________________________________________________________________________________ __ 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 24, 2008 page 9 
SYR Seeing Your Roommate 
"You're becoming a priest?!" 
I still remember dropping the phone as my college roommate told me he was entering the priest­hood. He was a poll­
Father Lou

sci major. I was PLS. I 

DelFra

was supposed to be the one with all the vocation. Plus, he was Faithpoint a varsity tennis play­er, and took Regis Philbin's daughter to an SYR -neither of which: granted, elimi­nates anyone from the priesthood. It just didn't seem to fit. But what contributed to my surprise more than anything was the certain fact that we hadn't ever-ever­had we? -no, absolutely not, in four years in Alumni Hall, talked about a voca­tion to the priesthood. What, in God's name, was happening? He told me later. 
•He had been reading the Gospels. 
The Gospels are not about keeping the status quo. We acknowledge this frequent­ly enough. But perhaps we fail to acknowl­edge how difficult a reality this is. Most of us reasonably crave stability and pre­dictability, including and especially in our relationships. 
But the first pages of the Gospels serve as fair disclosure that all bets about pre­dictable outcomes are off. In them we hear the story of the baptism of Jesus, during which John hesitantly pours water from the Jordan River upon Jesus, only to have the skies open, the Spirit descend upon Jesus in the form of a dove, and a voice thunder from the heavens, "This is my Beloved Son." And the Church calls this the beginning of "Ordinary Time?'' (Yeah, and my walk outside this morning felt a lot like "Spring Semester.") John enjoyed upsetting the norm as much as anyone. Yet even he seems, well, stunned, as the full­ness of the Gospel breaks into the world in the person of Jesus. 
If we read these early Gospels carefully, we might detect a hint of startle in this rebel's voice -as if John is beginning to glimpse the full reality of who Jesus is, but can't quite absorb it all at once. In fact, we catch John saying about Jesus: "I did not know him." "I saw the Spirit come down like a dove upon him. And I did not know him." 
What is John talking about? How can he possibly say he does not know Jesus? Of course John knew him. In fact, outside of Mary and Joseph, maybe nobody knew Jesus, and all that Jesus was to become, better than his cousin, John the Baptist. For this reason John was born: to prepare the way of the Lord. It was John who jumped in Elizabeth's womb when Mary arrived pregnant with Jesus. (So John knew Jesus before Jesus knew Jesus!) It was John who pointed to his disciples, while Jesus was but a silhouette in the morning horizon, "There is the one we have been waiting for!" Yet, still, the erup­tion of the awesome power ofthe Gospel into John's life leaves even John occasion­ally overcome: "I did not really know him." 
Think about any significant relationship you are in, or have been in. The deeper the relationship, the better. Think about how the relationship first began. The other person was interesting to you in some way. And so you began to spend time together -all the while coming to know the other person more fully. If it is your best friend, you perhaps come close to being able to say: "I know you. I've come to know who you are." You come to know their family. Their most deeply held convictions. What they think about God. Where their wounds and sorrows are. It's one of the most beau­tiful things we experience as humans -to come to know another person like this. 
And then, one day -it happens. The person you know, almost inexplicably, does something, says something, implies something, and you stop dead in your tracks, and say, "Where did that come from?" Sometimes, it's a good change the person surprises us with. Sometimes, it's a hurtful change. Sometimes, it's a sudden change. Sometimes, the change has been developing for months or even years, and finally one day, it becomes manifest. And sometimes, the person you are watching all this happen to is -you. 
Such moments, we must admit, are often threatening, for we prefer security and comfort and the familiar. And when a per­son changes, our security and comfort are often threatened, especially if that person is our self or a close friend. The problem is the Gospel often evokes just such changes in those it reaches. There is hardly a Gospel story in which the person who encounters Jesus does not change in some remarkable way. 
So, here is one great lesson from these first days of "Ordinary" time. Once John recognizes the work of grace in his friend's life -even though the grace was reveal­ing in Jesus realities beyond even John's untamed imagination-John does not hinder this new reality, but chooses to spend his life empowering Jesus to become who he is called to be. 

I suppose the point is this. When people in our life -including ourselves -begin to grow in unanticipated ways, this can stir up all kinds of things in us-fear, insecu­rity, jealousy, over-protectiveness. All of these feelings are normal, and even some­times justified. ButJohn challenges us, as people of faith, to realize that grace is con­stantly transforming each one of us ­including our best friends, our roommates, the people we encounter so frequently that it becomes hard to see them anew-into new creations. 
Each one of us lives under a sky that is continually opening above us, trying to persuade us of our deepest identity: "You are my beloved child." This is no small calling: It has the power to carry us down paths of freedom and challenge that we have not imagined. So be generous­with yourself and others. Who knows where Jesus is leading you and them? 
Father Lou DelFra is the director of Campus Ministry Bible Studies, which meets Wednesdays at 7:00p.m. in the ACE Office. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Contraception doesn't equal abortion 

First, I'd like to say that the Catholic Church promotes using fami­ly planning as a method of birth control acknowledging that a couple is still open to life. How is that any different from other forms of birth control? I'm not saying it justifies abortion, but what I am say­ing is that currently, people do decide when to create life and when not to. By being abstinent, you are deciding not to create life, and even having sex while using any form of contraception, the possibili­ty of life is always there. So to say, "If you claim the right to decide when life begins you will predictably claim the right to decide when it ends, as in abortion and euthanasia," is still just "predictably." It doesn't mean someone is right to make such a jump, but we also live in a world where we mix pro-life with anti-abortion. Pro-life is pro­helping foster children, anti-death penalty, pro-improving the adop­tion system, pro-economic justice, and pro-social justice. 
The truth is that our world is becoming increasingly small due to improvements in health care and technology. The result is that you can not tell everyone to just pop out kids all the time because then we'll all have huge families, the world will get overpopulated, and we will all fight over resources. Wait, we already do that. Not that huge families are bad, but years ago, having many kids was part of a necessity for survival. We are surviving, far longer than ever in human history, and we do not need to have a litter of kids because most of them will live to reach adulthood. So, let's try this, every married person: Abstain from sex for two weeks out of each month, then you'll only have kids five percent of the time. That, however, deprives us of our sexual being, and in fact, simplifying sexuality down to sex down to reproduction deprives us of our sexual being. 
Did God not create the clitoris? Does sex not feel great? Is there not pleasure involved? Well, there is, and to deny that the impor­tance of pleasure in building a relationship with another person and God is to deny a piece of us that is God-given. Contraception only impedes, but doesn't do away with, the possibility for life. Now, abortion, that clearly ends life, and I am anti-abortion due to abor­tion being done not out of love for our neighbors as Jesus loves our neighbors. The point I'm trying to make is that the Catholic Church could do a world of good if it considered just for a moment that con­traception doesn't equal abortion. Their form of contraception, fami­ly planning, has the same results as others -that it prevents preg­nancy from occurring most of the time -but people can still get pregnant. 
1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1%3 

1964 1965 1966 1967 1968 1%9 1970 1971 1972 1973 

1974  1975  1976  
1984  1985  1986  
1994  1995  -1996  


11\l ~i-ft...IST. LOUIS ro~lDlSP."TCH
~N~~ caglccartoiJUS.e<»n 
8£JQD!3~ 


1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 

1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 

1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 


Robert McKeon graduate student Fischer Graduate Residence Jan. 23 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Thursday, January 24, 2008 
PREVIEW: FILM FESTIVAL KICKS OFF 
to the student<>, but the pro­By CASSIE BELEK 
fessors are there to guide Assistant Scene Editor 
them through to their final 
product. 

Notre Dame students who "We know everything in labored in film production the film and how it got from dasses for an entire smnes­point A to point Z," he said. ter will be able to see their The films range from the finished product<> in front of humorous to the dramatic, audiences of hundreds start­and some have sparked con­ing tonight. For some of troversy throughout the these aspiring filmmakers, years. Mandell remembers they may reach their largest one such controversial film, audience ever thi<> weekend, entitled "Tho Woma~1's Guide but for others, the 19th to tl1e Penis," whkh featmed annual film festival may be a significant amount of male just a starting point in their nudity. The lilm was smartly illustrious filmmaking made, he said, but not every­careers. one in the audience wa~med 
The film ((~stival's roots c:cm to tl1e eontcnt. be traced back to the 1980s The film festival usually when film production stu­featmes a few Notre Da~ne­dents would screen their themed films that reflect on lilms for their parents on various aspects of life at graduation weekend. With Notre Dame. the help of Notre Da1m1 pro­"If it's a good film and it fessor Ted Mandell, that has an ND flavor, it makes it screening led to the creation fun for the students," of an official fibn ((~stival with Mandell said. contributions from students This year's Notre Dame­of all years. The~ first lilm fes­related films focus on the tival took place in the base­"Ring by Spring" tradition, ment of McKenna Hall. an obsessed fan's date with Students compiled the libns Tom Zbikowski and over­to be shown, and Mandell pricing at the bookstore. said one of tho first problems Mandell begins the festival the festival encountered was screening each year with a a long running time. funny film that has in the 
The students "threw past featured campus cwerything in there," he said. celebrities such as Mike Today's !ibn fi~stival is lim­Brey, Tyrone Willingham and 
ited to 120 minutes, and with Brady Quinn. He's keeping the construction of the this year's intro a surprise, DeBartolo Performing Arts but says that it will be a good Center, it has found a perma­one. 
nent home in the Browning Several of this year's !ibn­Cinema. That location makes makers graduated last May the fibn festival "more acces­and have moved on to start sible to a larger audiflnce," careers in the film and televi­Mandell said. Additionally, sion industry. it's an opportunity for the 'This is how you get yow­
lilmmakers to see their own foot in the door. You make a work in a real movie theater film, you create a reel," in front of an audience. Mandell said. 
In this year's film festival, Tickets arc still available 
four films came from the for all screenings and may introductory film production be purchased online at per­course, six came from the formingarts.nd.edu or by intermediate course and five calling 574-631-2800. came from the advanced digital course. Mandnll said Contact Cassie Belek at the content of the films is up cbelek@nd.edu 
2008 fiLM FESTIVAL LINE-UP 
"Pope Michael" Corman would have been (Adam Fairholm, Emily proud of this low-budget Gorski, George Heidkamp) thriller about a guy, a girl and 
Typing away on his comput­a horse. er in the basement or a small farmhouse in Delia, Kan .. "The Bookstore Is Too stands Pope Michanl, winner Expensive" of tho papal election of a (llank Vogel handful of "true" Catholics Textbook sticker shock who believe the papacy was ovcweomes an undnq.,'Tad dur­vacated with Vatican ll. ing his semiannual tn•k to the 
bookstore. 

"A Convenient Truth" (Dan Moore, Hama "In Memoriam" Gottumukkala, Corny Baggdt) !Maria Iuppa, KatiP Parrott) 
Stuck in the Midwest, and A young woman searches inspired by the work of AI !iJr the key to bringing baek Gore, a Notre Dame under­her dear friend. grad tries to take advantagn of tho global warming trend, and "LuvPod" make frigid South Bend, Ind., (Bill DiPiero, Michael a warmer place for everyone. Hohman) 
A stolen il'od leads to a "Dancin' Uncle Sam" wacky not-so-chance (Mike Peterson, Jessic:a nnotmter. Guanajuato) 
The tax season brings out "The White Tree" some odd marketing gim­(Mark Weber, Julian micks, including a likeable, Owyong) street corner dancer dressnd A racist high school clique like Unde Sam, whose lrinnd­eonfronts the nnw kid in town. ly wave and infectious smile turns a mundane job into a "Banana Who?" daily public performance. (.Justin Mack, Jake 
Griswold) "Ring By Spring'' Orange you glad this guy's (Jean Milan, Tammy not your roommate? Gillings, Katie Johnson) 
Notre Dame undergrads "WakeUp" share the moments smround­(Matt Degnan, Brian ing their recent engagement<>. Doxtader) "lUng by Spring" refers to the A cup of com~e and a myste­Domer race to find a spousP rious femme fatale launch a before graduation, and hopes noirish nightmare for a tin~d of leaving campus with both a businessman. dass ring and a wedding ring. 
"The Deaf" 

"My Dinner With Zibby" (Hank Vogn) (Nieh DeCapio, John Lowe) A rubber deal goes foul in With a wink to the 1981 this quick-witted shortie. 
Louis Malle film, a dream date for an obsessed fan turns into "The Reimann Hypothesis" a candid glimpse inside the (Dan Milan, Josh Talley) everyday life of a famous A troubled high school Notrn Dame athlete, and how teacher geL<> a surprise from a he handles the hassles of star­not-so-prized pupil. dom. 
"The Smoke of Tonnent" "The Killing Pastures" (ian Cooney, Jon Piarulli) (Jerry McKeever. Marty Apparitions and revelations Schroeder) haunt a young man during his B-horror master Hoger daily trip to school. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, January 24, 2008 
page 11 
FILM FESTIVAL SPOTLIGHT 
much more about the char­"Wake Up," Brian Doxtader By TAE ANDREWS acter and his journey," and Matt Degnan Scene Editor Moore said. "It became more Appropriately enough, 
about a personality than the Brian Doxtader and Matt "A Convenient Truth," Rama issue of global warming, Degnan's stark and dark film Gottumukkala and Dan really. But obviously I don't noir, "Wake Up," revolves Moore endorse the behavior of the around a cup of coffee. That, 
Why document when you character in the film. I really and a plot including a femme can "mockument?" just wanted to make a funny fatale and black-and-white 
"'A Convenient Truth' was story for people to laugh at f:tlm -two staple features of actually not our first attempt without taking any strong the genre. at a documentary," Hama side in the global warming Degnan brewed up the Gottumukkala said. issue. The idea was fun." original idea for "Wake Up." 
Working alongside his Although Moore hasn't "He had the basic premise friend and fellow 1ilmmaker seen AI Gore's original film in mind and we sort of took Dan Moon~. Gottumukkala -to date, he nonetheless it from there," said Doxtader, a former Observer assistant maintains that he has a a former Observer Scene edi­managing editor -and "green tor. "I've company had originally streak" always planned on shooting an "art a n d Notre Dame Student loved film imitating art" project cen­admon­noir as a
Film Festival 
tered on the work of local ishes chil­genre and
Browning Cinema 
South Bend filmmakers, both d r e n was really amateur and professional. every­Today, Friday and enthused When that idea fell through, where to about the
Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m.
the Gott Moore? duo began "recycle possibility
Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff
scrambling for a replace­your cans, of making ment. kids!" and $3 students o n e , 
In a polar opposite to AI T h e which was Gore's "An Inconvenient p a i r , c o m ­Truth," a sobering documen­which wrote, directed and pounded by the fact that we tary about the damaging edited the film, also collabo­shot black and white." effects of global warming, "A rated on another Notre Degnan and Doxtader col­Convenient Truth" takes Dame student film festival laborated on the script, quite a different angle. entry, last year's "Unseen." which consists almost entire­
"Another classmate The two struck up a friend­ly of action given that "Wake pitched the basic idea for a ship during their first film Up" is silent film. Degnan movie about someone who class at Notre Dame, and then created a storyboard thought global warming was concluded their careers in from Doxtader's shot list. a good idea," Moore said, FTT in the Advanced Digital One of the most defining "and then we took it and ran Production class, in which features of film noir as a with it." they shot and pieced togeth­genre is its distinctive look. 
"What really sold us on the er "Truth." To this end, Doxtader idea was this great opportu­"It was wonderful to work watched several old film nity to create a character, with Dan again, one of my noirs in order to better grasp along with our lead actor closest friends at Notre an understanding of the and friend Chris Cimino, who Dame," Gottumukkala said. genre's aesthetic. any warm-blooded human "Our sensibilities and pas­"More than most genres, being could root for," sions in film -as well as our film noir emphasizes the Gottumukkala said, "or at style of humor -are quite lighting using a technique least pity, despite his out­similar, so it was easy to that is colloquially known as landish actions." merge the two while produc­'pools 'Of light,"' Doxtader 
In the end, the production ing this fllm." said. "The high-contrast decided to scrap its original If nothing else, lighting and use of shadows idea of a straight-up docu­Gottumukkala said the team and darkness was a big fac­mentary in favor of a hybrid had a lot of fun making the tor in how we approached "mockumentary" -a narra­film. "What greater, more the film, especially in one of tive based on a ridiculous satisfying feeling can you ask the key scenes in the middle character. but told through for than that one?" he said. of the movie." interview and shot in the It would appear that Gott Doxtader said that shoot­documentary film style. Moore? got it right the sec­ing with a limited amount of 
"We decided to make it ond time around. film and on a tight budget presented the production with the challenge of making adjustments on the fly in order to create a complete product on time. 
"A big element of filmmak­ing is improvisation," he said. "What's funny is that you are only provided a cer­tain amount of film and when it's out, it's gone. baby, gone. So you plan and plan and make sure you have shots and lighting and etcetera, perfectly set up and then you get to the set and things don't go like you'd hoped." 
So much for best laid plans. On one day, a miscom­munication resulted in a missing actress on the set, and the production was forced to substitute a mem­ber of the crew for the absent actress in order to complete the day of shooting. On another day, the crew accidentally took some shots with a gradient filter on the lens, resulting in unusable film and a reshoot on a dif­ferent day. 
Doxtader said the experi­ence of planning, budgeting and shooting a film helped shed some light on the chal­lenges of the film industry, for good and for bad. 
"You are essentially your own writer, director, cine­matographer and editor, and that allowed us to fully con­trol every aspect of the process," he said, although he also noted that assistance from classmates helped him com.plete his film. 
"One thing that's really great about the FTT depart­ment's approach to produc­tion is that it is extremely hands-on and collaborative. Everyone worked on every­one else's picture, which allowed us to really get a feel for filmmaking. The other members of the class were really helpful and creative." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 24, 2008 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles come up short to conference rival Calvin 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Wri rcr 
Despite another solid night from their starters, thn Bnllns' recent luck in dosf~ games finally ran out as they li1ll on the road to Calvin 66-62. 
Saint Mary's (S-H. 4-4 Mii\A) eame into Wednesday night's game in Grand Hapids riding a two-gmnP conlimmce winning streak. In both games. the Bdles trailPd for a sig­nilicant period but managed to come away with a three-point victo­ry in eaeh eontest. 
Wednesday's gmne seemed to run on the same seript. The Belles trailed the Knights for the entin~ lirst haJJ ai1d despite being down by 1 0 points with 7:4H left in thP peri­od, the squad m<lllagt•d to pull with­in one point before heading to the foeker room. 
The second half was more of the same: a baek-<llld-fi>rth contest in which Calvin pushPd the lead to nleven with 13:07 to go in the game, only to see that lead dis.•;olve as the Belles went on <lll 11-1 run to cut the lead to one with six minutes remaining. 

Saint Mary's senior guard Alison Kessler capped off a 20-point night by hitting two freP-throws with 1:11 left to dose the deficit to 63-62. It looked like Saint Mary's might pull out yet another close win. 
But Calvin junior guard Marcia llarris had other plans. I-larri<;' two free-throws with lour seconds left iced the game for Calvin <llld pro­longed the Belles' eleven-year drought against the Knight'>. 
Saint Mary's squandered stand­out performances by Kessler, soph­omore forward Anna Kammrath, who finished with 16 points and nine rebounds, and junior guard Katie Hashid, who added 14 point'>. 
The Belles' defense also had arel­atively successful night. Harris, who finished with 23 points, was the only Knight to score in double fig­ures. 
Saint Mary's will look to rebound from the loss when they host Hope Saturday afternoon at the Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

NFL 

Struggling Falcons select rookie Stnith as head coach 
Associated Press  "I've played against his defense more than anybody in  termind of the defense. Jaguars defensive  end  how seriously he took his job." Smith and Del Rio did not  the Falcons' first pick, as high as No. 3 overall, in April's NFL  
ATLANTA  - The  Atlanta  the world," Leftwich said. "I did  Marcellus Wiley confirmed that  return  phone  messages  on  draft.  
Falcons have picked a  rookie  it every day in practice for four  opinion when he said on ESPN  Wednesday.  The Falcons tried three start­ 
head coach to lead a struggling  years. I think he's a great guy  Wednesday "Jack Del Rio was  The Falcons were mostly woe­ ing quarterbacks in 2007, but  
team that next might have to  for the job.  the defensive coordinator, and if  ful in their 4-12 season, but  Leftwich, Joey Harrington and  
draft a  rookie replacement for  "A lot of people might not  it wasn't him, it was (linebacker)  most of the few bright spots  Chris Redman are not seen as  
Michael Vick.  know his name,  Mike Peterson."  were on defense, where Smith  long-term answers at the posi­ 
Jacksonville defensive coordi­ but I've seen  the  Wiley  said  will find several established or  tion.  
nator Mike Smith was offered  work he puts in  Smith "was just  rising stars: John Abraham, Rod  The loss of Vick was too much  
the job by general manager Tom Dimitroff, another rookie, and owner Arthur Blank, a person familiar with the search said  every game, how guys were so pre­pared on Sundays that they knew  "/ think [Mike Smith is] a great guy for the job.,,  a guy who stood at the front of the room when Jack Del Rio  Coleman, Keith Brooking, DeAngelo Hall, Lawyer Milloy and Michael Boley. Even before hiring Dimitroff,  for first-year coach Bobby Petrino to overcome. Petrino quit with a 3-10 record to take a job at Arkansas, leaving second­ 
Wednesday.  exactly  what  was leading the  Blank's  search  focused  on  ary coach Emmitt Thomas to  
The person requested anonymity because contract talks between the Falcons and  teams were going to do." Smith, a former  Byron Leftwich Falcons quarterback  defense." Wiley said the Falcons "really  defensive coaches. The Falcons may try to build a strong defense around those estab­ finish out the 4-12 season as the interim head coach. Smith will be Atlanta's sixth  
Smith had not been completed  defensive assis­ went down low  lished players while rebuilding  coach since December 2003.  
as of late Wednesday afternoon.  tant  with  on  the  totem  an offense devastated by the exit  Before Petrino quit, Dan Reeves  
Smith's hire is expected to be  Baltimore,  had  pole."  of Vick, the star quarterback  and Jim Mora were fired. Wade  
announced on Thursday.  the league's No. 12 defense with  Leftwich said he was aware of  who was the face of the fran­ Phillips and Thomas worked  
Smith, the Jaguars' defensive  Jacksonville this season after  the Wiley's comments but said  chise before his guilty plea to  three games each as interim  
coordinator since 2003, had his  ranking second in 2006 and  of Smith: "I was with him for  federal dogfighting charges.  replacements.  
second interview with the team  sixth in 2005.  four years. Somebody had to be  Vick is serving a  23-month  Smith first interviewed with  
Friday. He has  never been an  Leftwich said Smith would  calling  those  plays  in  sentence. He also is under an  Blank before the Jaguars lost to  
NFL head coach, but Falcons  never receive enough credit in  Jacksonville. It was him.  indefinite suspension by NFL  the New England Patriots in a  
quarterback Byron Leftwich,  Jacksonville  because  many  "We always said Smitty would  commissioner Roger Goodell.  divisional playoff game. His sec­ 
who  was  with  Smith  in  assumed Jaguars coach Jack  be a great head coach because  A key early decision by Smith  ond meeting with the team was  
Jacksonville for four years, says  Del Rio,  a  former defensive  the time he put in and the way  and Dimitroff will be whether to  his first opportunity to meet  
Atlanta made the right choice.  coordinator, was the real mas- he interacted with players and  chose a new quarterback with  Dimitroff.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

705 NDAve. Need a job to gain experience? UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
WANTED FoR RENT 3 Bedroom PERSONAL Need experience to gain a job? Do not go it alone. 
CYO CAMP Rancho Framasa 3-4 bdrm, $1,000.00. PREGNANT Entry-level position in Admissions If you or someone you love needs SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS -3 bath home OR and Alumni Affairs available January confidential support or assistance, HIRING NOW! Secure your summer close to campus, 273-4889 2008 at a private jobl Camp Rancho Framasa is an safe, cathedral ceilings, KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? boarding/day school located 30 min-please call inclusive, residential camp, located fireplace. 2-car garage, Available 08/09 You do not have to be alone. utes from the University of Notre in south central Indiana, operated 10x20 deck, Dame. Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, by the Catholic Youth Organization deluxe appl. Avail. Nice Rental Home We want to help. since 1946. Serving campers aged for Aug. 2008. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline Lalumiere School is looking for an at 7 to 16 in various programs. We Call574-232-4527 within a block energetic and dedicated person offer a welcoming staff community or ofND at who likes to work with high school 1-7819. in a beautiful outdoor setting. 269-683-5038 & students. General Staff, Counselor Manager, or Med School. 1-800-No Abort For more information, Inclusive Programming, Ropes 574-340-1844. or Some coaching and dorm visit our website Course, Adventure and Health posi-718 Napoleon, visit our web site at supervision may be available as lions available. All positions start at Large house available for 2009-www.lifecall.org well. at: $240/week. Training is 2010. 3bdrm, provided;start date May 31, 2008. Full renovations attached If you or someone you care about Please http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Apply online www.campranchofra-completed 2007. garage,basement,large lot,new has been sexually assaulted, email kennedy nant.shtml masa.org Questions? contact Angi Close to campus. 4,000+ upgrades/appliances. visit @ lalumiere.org or at 888-988-2839, x25 or email square feet,S bathrooms. http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. for see our bi-weekly ad angi @campranchoframasa.org MacSwain@ gmail.com 574-339-0275. shtml further information. in The Observer . 
.­
------~------~­
---------------------------------------------., 



OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Thursday, January 24, 2008 
page 13 

Women's AP College Basketball Poll 
team points preui(Jus 
1 Connecticut 1250 1 2 Tennessee 1192 2 3 North caroIIna 1131 3 4 Maryland 1103 4 5 Rutgers 1065 5 6 Baylor 968 6 7 Stanford 953 ''"7 8 California 894 8 9 LSU 882 
"'9
10 Duke 746 10 11 Oklahoma 656 11 12 West Virginia 627 .14 13 Old Dominion 594 15 14 Oklahoma State 573 18 15 Ohio State 541 16 16 NOTRE DAME 529 17 17 Georgia 49.4 12 18 Wyoming 375 20 19 Pittsburgh 357 22 20 George Washington 356 13 21 Texas A&M 216 19 22 Kansas State 161 27 23 Georgia Tech 119 28 24 Syracuse 106 29 25 Auburn 75 21 
USFCA College Fencing Coaches' Poll 
Men's Women's 
teamteam 

1  Penn State  NOTRE DAME  1  
2  Ohio State  Ohio State  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  Columbia·Barnatd  3  
4 5  St. John's{N.Y.) Columbia  Penn State Harvard  4 5  
6 7 8 9 10  Pennsylvania Harvard Princeton Brandeis Stanford  Northwestern St. John's (N.Y.) Pennsylvania Temple Princeton  6 7 8 9 10  

around the dial 
NBA 
Spurs at Heat 8 p.m., TNT ~ 
Nets at Warriors 
10:30 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 
MELBOURNE -It's fine for Roger Federer to talk about the tension and nerves players feel before a Grand Slam semifinal. He is about to play in his 15th in a row, after all. 
But while it might reas­sure Novak Djokovic to hear that the man he'll be facing in his first Australian Open semifinal experiences some nerves too, he'd better be wary of the rhetoric. 
"I remember when I made my first Grand Slam semifinals or my finals, I was so nervous," Federer said in an almost confiding tone, after beating James Blake 7-5, 7-6 (5), 6-4 on Wednesday. "Now it's been so many that it's almost become some sort of a rou­tine. That's helped me a great deal being able to cope with those moments." 
Federer has a brilliant conversion rate, reaching the last 10 Grand Slam finals and winning 12 of the last 18 dating to his first at Wimbledon in 2003. 
The momentum and experience gives Federer the edge, he says: "Maybe they blink a little bit in those important moments, whereas maybe usually they wouldn't." 
At 26, Federer is the old­est of the men's semifinal­ists, and will meet the youngest in 20-year-old Djokovic on Friday. The third-ranked Djokovic beat No. 5 David Ferrer of Spain 6-0, 6-3, 7-5 to complete a run to the semifinals at all four majors. 

Rafael Nadal, who will play unseeded Frenchman Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the other semifinal, is the longest-serving No. 2 in ten­nis history, and he's only 21. Nadal knows something about catching Federer on a bad day in a Grand Slam, though, after beating the Swiss star in the last two French Open fmals. 
Still, Federer prefers to see the No. 2 and No. 3 players as potential rivals at the end of each major. 
"It's great that Rafa made it through, as well, with Novak. It's good for tennis," he said. "It's not just one guy, but it's a few guys now who have been playing very consistently. 
"It's going to be interest­ing to see. I'm excited play­ing against Novak, no doubt." 
Djokovic has two fellow Serbians in the women's semifinals. 
No. 3 Jelena Jankovic ousted defending champion Serena Williams, and No. 4 Ana lvanovic beat Venus Williams 7-6 (3), 6-4. 
It's the second time in four majors that the Serbian trio has made it to the semis, repeating their run at the last French Open, and gives the end of the women's draw a dis­tinctly eastern European accent. 

IN BRIEF 
Ravens hire Cam Cameron as 
new offensive coordinator 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. -Cam Cameron, coming off a 1-15 season as head coach of the Dolphins, was hired Wednesday as offensive coordi­nator of the Baltimore Havens. 
Cameron, 46, was fired by Miami earlier this month. His only victory came against the Ravens. He's the first assistant hired by new Ravens coach John Harbaugh. 
Cameron was the San Diego Chargers' offensive coordinator for five seasons before his one-year stint in Miami. In 2006, the Chargers led the NFL in scoring with 492 points. 
The Dolphins finished near the bot­tom of the league in yards and points last season, and Cameron was fired Jan. 3 by new Dolphins executives Bill Parcells and Jeff Ireland. 
The Ravens went through several offensive coordinators under former coach Brian Billick, who was fired Dec. 31. 
Rockies give SS Tulowitzki 
six-year, $31 million deal 
DENVER -Troy Tulowitzki went into spring training last season just hoping to secure a spot on the Colorado Hockies' roster. 
That won't be a concern this sea­son. Tulowitzki and the NL champi­ons finalized a $31 million, six·year contract on Wednesday that includes a club option for the 2014 season. 
"It's surreal," Tulowitzki said. "It's awesome." 
The 23-year-old slick-fielding shortstop showed up for his news conference wearing a black suit, white shirt and purple tie, and was flanked by teammates Matt Holliday and Garrett Atkins. 
Tulowitzki said he's just getting over the sting of being swept by the Boston Red Sox in the World Series. 
However, the team's success played a big role in committing to a long-term deal. 

Subpoena of former All-Star 
Knoblauch still not served 
WASHINGTON -Former major lea­guer Chuck Knoblauch had not been tracked down as of early Wednesday evening by federal marshals trying to serve him a subpoena from a House panel investigating steroids in baseball, a committee staffer told The Associated Press. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity because staffers were not authorized to make public comments on the matter. 
Knoblauch, a four-time All-Star who played for the Yankees, Twins and Royals from 1991·02, originally was asked to appear Thursday for what was supposed to be the first of five dep­ositions or transcribed interviews scheduled by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. 
Those sessions are in preparation for a hearing Feb. 13, when the witnesses are scheduled to include seven-time Cy Young Award winner Roger Clemens. 
page 14 The Observer. + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 24, 2008 

BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT (AVAILABLE FOR RENT STARTING JUNE 1, 2009) 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING ON LIVING IN A HOUSE OFF CAMPUS AND YOU DO NOT CONTACT US FIRST, YOU'RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO BE A NOTRE DAME STUDENT! 
WHY LIVE IN AN OLD, SMALL AND WORN-DOWN HOUSE WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT ONLY CONTAINS NEW, SPACIOUS HOUSES SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS? WHY LIVE IN AN APARTMENT WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A HOUSE WITH A BIG YARD? WHY PAY DEPOSITS 15-17 MONTHS IN ADVANCE? 
New 2,400 square feet (4 Bedrooms, 2 1/z Bathrooms) and 3,000 square feet (6 Bedrooms, 3 lfz Bathrooms) brick homes close to campus with Dens, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Mud Room and Back Porch/Patio. Each home has the following main features: 
1. 
Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots/ pans, plates, cooking utensils, and dinnerware; 

2. 
Dining Room; 


3. 
Family Room with fireplace; 

4. 
Mud Room with laundry center, including a washer and dryer; 

5. 
Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Mud Room); 

6. 
Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design features: 

* 
Fully carpeted 


* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror 

* 
Walk-in closet 


* 
Wired for cable television and internet service 



7. 
Each two students will share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a steam shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring; 

8. 
Gas barbeque grill on Back Porch/Patio; 

9. 
Wireless internet service ready; 

10. 
Fire/Security Alarm System and locks with deadbolts for all exterior doors and all doors from staircase to bedroom areas; 

11. 
Top-of-the-line heating, air conditioning and other mechanical systems (the "Mechanical Systems"); 

12. 
The floors, ceilings and walls surrounding each bedroom and bathroom are completely insulated to reduce noise; 

13. 
Reduced utility costs because of the Mechanical Systems and the fact the homes are extremely well-insulated; 

14. 
Spacious yards; and 


15. 
Substantial parking available. 



For more inf()rmation, contact Robert L. Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or (630) 886-7715. 
HURRY AND RESERVE YOUR-HOUSE BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE! 
Thursday, January 24, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
Bulls 
continued from page 20 

opponent's home venue. The result often is a contest against a lower­echelon team, commonly called a "body-bag game." 
Notre Dame will have to schedule several "one-off' games to fulfill Athletic Director Kevin White's goal of seven home games, four road games and one neutral site game each season. 
"This is part of our commitment to play more games in South Bend," Heisler said. 
This time, at least, Notre Dame found a way to play an extra home game against a solid team on an upward trajectory. 
In fact, it appears South Florida jumped at the chance to play in South Bend. 
"Our football program and fans deserve this type [of] matchup," South Florida Athletic Director Doug Woolard said in a statement. "It fea­tures one of the most storied pro­grams in college football history against a young program that has risen to prominence at a record pace." 
Besides South Florida's strong showing in the 2007 season, the Bulls have a major recruiting advantage that should help them build future competitive teams. Central and south Florida are hotbeds of high school talent, and the opportunity to play and live in the temperate climate of Tampa can woo players averse to colder weath­er. 
The agreement between the two schools appears to have been in place for some time, but South Florida and Notre Dame only openly acknowledged it after the Tampa Tribune's report. On Wednesday, Heisler could not confirm the date of the game because his files on Notre Dame's future schedules were "in boxes" stored away. 
Still, neither side is rushing to sign an official contract, which would include all financial and broadcast terms ofthe deal. 
"We frankly have not been wor­ried about signing contracts for a game down the road to a great extent because so many of the media things and language in the contract become [obsolete]," Heisler said. "For instance, the creation of the Big Ten Network and the Big Ten's latest agreement with ABC, ESPN and the Big Ten Network cre­ates a whole new set ofrules related to footage, Web sites [and] coaches' shows." 
Heisler said the use of video on new media platforms, which are changing rapidly, creates a particu­lar problem when trying to sign a contract three years before a game. 
"All that's just gotten way more complicated. Web sites in particular are a huge item in use of footage," Heisler said. "Part of this is getting NBC involved on any of these rela­tionships so that there's a complete understanding of when an institu­tion comes to South Bend what can they do." 
NBC owns the broadcast rights to all Notre Dame home football games. 
As for the Big East, Heisler said Notre Dame has yet to plan exactly how it will fullill i1s goal of playing three teams each year. 
"All that ha'> not completely been put in place," he said. " ... I don't know that there's a school in the conference that we haven't had con­versations with." 
Notre Dame will have some 
return games against Big East 
opponent.'>, but tlmre are likely to be 
more home-only games announcPd 
in the future. 
"We'll end up with some home­
and-home situations, but we can't 
do that with everyone in the league 
probably," Heisler said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 
Thursday, January 24, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 16 
Rejoice! Mass 

January 27, 9p.m. 
Chapel of Notre Dame Our Mother Coleman Morse Center 
Mass in the African-American Tradition 
, 
C-M 
Casnpus Minjs.:t.ry 
For information, contact Judy Madden 631-8508 or jmadden2@nd.edu 
Opener 
continued from page 20 
goals and 25 assists. 

Joining Yeatman on the attack will be junior Ryan HolT, who netted a team-high 40 goals for the Irish last year. Even more impressive than Hoff's scoring might have been his accuracy -he posted a .500 shooting per­centage on the season. 
While the Irish graduated only three starters from last year's squad, midfielders Lucius Polk and Brian Hubschmann will be key loss­es. Hubschmann, an honor­able mention selection to the All-America team. was among the top three for the Fighting Irish in points, goals and assists. 
Polk was also a solid offen­sive contributor for the Irish. tallying 18 goals and seven assists. 
"We've definitely lost the most in our midfield," Corrigan said. "We have to solidify and prove ourselves in the midfield this season." 
Pacing the midl'ielders will be senior Michael Podgajny, who has 70 points in his career at Notre Dame. Playing alongside him will be senior Taylor Clagett, a face­off' specialist, who has a .595 winning percentage in his career. 
The Irish face a tough schedule that includes three NCAA Tournament teams from last season -Loyola, Albany and North Carolina. In addition. the Irish will partici­pate in the inaugural GWLL Tournament at the conclusion of the regular season. 
"It should be fun, and a great environment to play in," Corrigan said. "It's a great way to end the regular season and experience tournament pressure without the one and done of thn NCAA Tournament." 
Notre Dame begins its sea­son Sunday with an exhibition at home against Hobert Morris. Thn Irish will open the regular season Feb. 16 at Loyola. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Thursday, January 24
\~fi:IJNI:SI)J\\', ,JJ\NIJJ\11\' 2:illl), 5:110 ·&::ill 1,~~1 
/'/:30 P.M., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Traditional dance and 
music play a very 
important role in the. 

Oil (
.I.IIIJIISIJJ\\', ,JJ\t~IJJ\11\' 24III, 4::iiJ •6:110 1,~~1 
lives of Rwandans. Berwa, 
meaning "be proud," is 
a Rwandan dance group 
comprised of rnosdy 
first-generation Americans 
of Rwandan decent that 
strives to promote their 
culture by providing moral, 
spiritual, and physical 
supp(lrt to its mt:'mbers. 

Thursday, January 24, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

UNt:AN 
ALL 


Information Meeting 
for men interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Duncan Hall 
Thursday, January 24 · 7:00 PM 
DeBartolo Hall I Room 102 
Applications Available January 28 -February 7 homeunderthedome. nd. edu 
Learn more about Notre Dame's newest living optio 
orlh.nd.edu OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
or & Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
5lliiJm ACTIYffiEI

lAD 
SAO.ND.EDU 
PLUS FREE PIZZA FOR THE FIRST 50 AND FREE QUARTER DOGS AT MIDNIGHT FOR THE FIRST 300 

Eire 
continued from page 20 
trip to include an educational aspect. 
"One of the things I'd like to do is get our guys in a course this summer on Ireland so they have some feel for it," Brey said. 
This idea did not sit well with sophomore guard Tory Jackson, who said he wanted to spend his spare time doing "anything fun." According to Jackson, taking a class about Ireland does not qualifY as "fun." 
"I may skip out on the trip," Jackson said. "Don't tell anybody, but I might skip out." 
Despite Jackson's strong objec­tions, Brey said he'll force the guard to join the trip anyway and pondered changing his name to suit the Irish population. 
"Oh, he's going," Brey said. "His name may be Tory McJackson for the two weeks we're over there." 
The team will hardly be alone. Anthony Travel is currently organizing travel options for oth­ers wishing to make the trip. 
"I just think it's just so natural," Brey said. "And we'll have a Jot of fans tagging along on some golf trips, some excursions going over there." 

Brey said the trip will be a good learning experience for his team, especially this year's freshmen, who have seen limited minutes all season. 
"It's going to be great for our basketball program because we'll get ten days of practice which we'll start at the end of summer school," Brey said. "For our freshmen who aren't playing, think about it for them, their sea­son starts Aug. 1, not Oct. 15, and we can get them in games there because those games aren't counting for the NCAA Tournament. We can look at dif­ferent lineups and experiment. It's just a great head start for next season." 
Note: 
+Brey said McAlarney sat out Wednesday's practice because of an injured hip, but the injury shouldn't interfere with his play­ing time Saturday against Villanova. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
and Band 
Friday, February 1st"' 7p.m. St. Paul Catholic Church,Valparaiso Adults: $20, Youth: $10 (Family discounts available) 
make our mission trip Jamaica possible! 
soup &bread dinner, before the concert, from 5:00-6:30p.m. for only ~5 more! 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 24, 2008 
talking and taking pictures with President" written on them that him. they smuggled past the turnstile
Fan 

"To have a fan that's as dedi­attendants and ushers. continued from page 20 cated as we are to this team is When he llashed the sign to 
incredible," VeNard said. " ... It's Walsh at the end of the game, before I got back. he used to nice that we put on a good show the third-string goalie gave him stand up in the bathtub," for him, and for the few hours in his stick. The stick still hangs on Appleby said. "Watching him the middle of the night over [in a wall of his apartment, next to grow up in pictures sucked more Iraqi. that he r.an just rest and Brown's stick and other Notre than anything. There were days have no worries about what else Dame memorabilia that hockey when we had mail calls, and I is going on." and baseball players have given used to hate it." him or autographed for him. His 
lie talked to Betsy on the Discovering hockey son Keating's name was taken phone as ol'tfm as he could, and Appleby didn't know that from the middle name of Irish she put up pictures of their son Notre Dame had a hockey team relief pitcher Jess Stewart, who on MySpace for him to see. He until a little more than two years he met at a baseball dinner dur­also found a better way to keep ago. ing his weekend home from Iraq trar.k of his beloved Notre Dame He grew up with a love of last year. hockey team than just watr.hing everything Notre Dame in his Appleby said he chose to make the Gametracker that he said hometown of New Castle, Ind., a sign for Walsh because no one "suckf~d. it was so slow." about 50 miles east of knew who he was, which started 
Appleby had conversations Indianapolis, but never had a a tradition, now in its third year, with Irish players Dave Brown, r.hance to visit campus. He for Appleby and his wife to Dan VeNard. Christian Hanson attended Vincennes University honor one player a season. and more on AOL Instant after high school and met his The year after, when he was in Messenger. VeNard said over the future wife, Betsy, who was a Iraq, Appleby said he decided to summer Appleby asked him how student at Indiana University­choose Brown because he want­their lifts and training were South Bend. ed to stick with a goalie. This going. "I told ]Betsy] that if she ever year, however, Appleby finished 
''I'd ask him about, nut neces­took me to see Notre Dame, I'd his tour in Iraq and made it baek sarily the details, but getting an marry her," Appleby said. to Indiana on Sept. 26, a few understanding of what he's Betsy Appleby took Kory to weeks before the hockey season doing over there," VeNard said. visit campus in December 2005 started. "We talked a lot about when and Kory was true to his word. he'd come home and stull'. look­I le discovered another important 'VeNard Nation' ing forward to the futuro and part of his life that day, however. With his player-selecting tradi­stull'. The couple was visiting the tion, Appleby wanted to go back 
"It was a nice relationship WI~ merchandise store attached to to its roots and choose a lesser­developed." the hockey dome when Kory known player. He picked senior 
Hanson said he didn't know heard the banging sticks and defenseman and alternate cap­Appleby bnfore he shipped to pucks of the practice going on tain VeNard, who has moved in Iraq, but one day Appleby sent nearby. Intrigued by what was and out of the lineup with him a message explaining who going on, he stayed for practir.e injuries over his career. he was, that hn was in Iraq and and talked to backup goalie Rory To honor VeNard, Appleby that he was a huge Irish hockey Walsh. It was all he needed to made navy blue hooded fan. The two talked about the get hooked on hockey. sweaters for himself and his wife pretty funny." and he and his wife have already season in general every week or "It's a sport that you can actu­that say "VeNard Nation" on the Appleby gave the sweater to planned out the sweater they so. ally get into as a fan," Appleby front with a monogram ND. The VeNard during the season kickoll' will make. 
"It takes guts for him to go said. "I know ]Irish coach] Jeff back read, "He'll puck you up." dinner. When he did, Hanson Back from Iraq, with no over and do what he did," Jackson encourages fans to hit Betsy Appleby came up with the joked that maybe people did love chance of ever being sent back. llanson said. "lie left a wife and the glass if an opponent gets slogan, and the two wear them VeNard after all. Appleby will be at every game in a newborn to go over and serve smashed into it. That makes it in their season ticket seats along Appleby and his wife wait after the Joyce Center from now on our country. and that takes kind of fun, the atmosphere of it. the glass to the right of the Irish home games this year to talk to with his wife and son, pounding guts." The guys, whether they lost by bench. They have also given the VeNard, his parents and all the on the glass and yelling encour­
Appleby oven scheduled his four or five goals or whatever, sweaters to VeNard and his other Irish players. When he was agement at players. rest and relaxation trip back to they're still going to come out mother and father, who wear in Iraq, the players would "We're just out here playing a the U.S. to coincide with the sen­and talk to you and sign auto­them to games sometimes. approach his wife after the game and having fun in college, ior game last February against graphs." "I think it's hilarious, it is a games to ask how Appleby was and this guy's over there fighting Ferris State. He brought a By the middle of that 2005-06 riot," VeNard said. "The whole doing in Iraq and how she was a war in Iraq, risking his life for MasterCard-style sign that read season, he and his wife were thing is a joke because you could holding up at home. ours," Hanson said. "It means "Watching Dave Brown play season ticket holders and have do a sweatshirt of Mark [Van "lie's a great guy," VeNard something." hockey ... priceless." After the been since. They brought signs Guilder] or Brock [Sheahan], the said. game, Brown saw the sign and to the senior game at the end of little more high-profile guys. Appleby already knows which Contact Kyle Cassily at gave his stick to Appleby before that season with "Rory for Doing a plug like myself, it's player he will pick next season, kcassily@nd.edu 


Thursday, January 24, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
AE-StHYLV.S 'WAS n!E PLAYW!I:16-f.IT I CAN'T BELIEVE IT. UM ... I 6-<>T LOC.K.EI> OUT Tu I)SE A SE.Cor-1!> Ac.Tog_ Oi'JSTM·E, A RE.[)UC.E..l> Tu TEAC.I-1/IJ&­MY ROOM. IS IT CooL IF 
li'J A DD£f'IITOR.Y LOUIJ(rE.
C-ltUC-lAL PE\IfLoPMENT IN TI-lL .. VH. ·· c..HILL WITH YOIJ {rU'fS 'TIL 
I'M A fi:.Hol>ES .$C.Hol-A THE. RA G-ETS MCI< 7 AT LEMT IT CAN'r 
MUC.H WORSE. 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDYSPANGLER
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THA! SCRAMBLED WORD GAME ~W Honr. A<%>1t i!M Mliow A1'Qirio:m
~ 
Unscramble th&..e lo<~x Jumbles, one letter to eacn SGtJBf'\3, 

This 111 a big to 1orm four orct~ nary '"''On!$ 
place, Homer I
IFFYT 
ANY YVAY 'OU LOOK
] I I 
AT IT: THIS ~T'AJNS 
TO A C.JrY.
tTINIVE 


Now arrange the cird~ letters] :[] w lorm lho surptise an~r. as 
. 

II 
suggeated by the abtwe cartoon. 

Print answer here: (IIIIJ 
I 
(Anmvers !omott&.'O) Ye tert"M 's .fumbl\im: FROZE tUSTY JIGGLF TEACUP 
. .a " ay' Ar·,Wim: Whal tho buss did wtte;<1 !'1(1 1V£>nt to ood lacit"'Of) a tlig decision -"SLEPT'' ON IT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tiffani Thiessen, 34; Mariska Hargitay, 44; Princess Caroline of Monaco, 51; Richard Dean Anderson, 58 
Happy Birthday: Things will start to fall into place and you will begin to realize what you want to pursue. Everything is starting to make sense this year. Love can now move forward and the hold-ups of the past can be put to rest. You can turn past mistakes into future gains. Your numbers are 8, 15, 21, 26, 29, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Go after whatever you can in order to spice up your life. Love is on the rise and travel, entertainment and trying new things should all be put into play. An emotional issue can be dealt with before it be­comes unbearable or impossible. 5 stars 
-
TAURUS (Apri120~May 20): Think before you do or say something you will regret in the future. It won't be worth it to Jet your emotions lead the way. In time everything will become clear but don't try to manipulate the situation. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): This is your day to accomplish no matter whether it is at home, work or school, so pick up the slack and get ahead. In the end you will feel better, do better and position yourself for praise. 4 stars 
CROSSWORD 
Across Solicits in bulk 
Detail in a Geotyia O'Kooffe pa1ntlny 
Plat book unit 
"Golla nm'" · ·uncoln Hetghls· 
actress Hubbard S Sat doWfl 
"Oetting to 
(bes:t ~ll~r 
about 
negotiating} Zogby· p~l partner 
29 Gave annthet 
hand 3?.. Otle way to get a wilness 35 s~tti!l\J ior !he setting of el sol 39 End o1 some 
addr€$$fi!S 42 Rolled the dice 43 Renaissance 
Faite enter!alner 44 Some widows 
47. Wwneooa:( 
(Jane fonda !lim) 48 ........... Journal (legal periodkal} 51!1's "just a number" 52 Small hi! 55 End o1 some addre...<>$fi!S 
51 Device for rota!lng one's !ires? 
62 Unbelievable 63 Advars.ary 
64 Fire 
65 Datting 

66 Auto in a Beach Boys song 67 Exchange 
wmds'? 68 Curling targets 69 "Gotta nm!" 
Down 
~-sheet 

2 Jacopo_, composer of !he eartiest surviving 
opera 3 SquatbbliOiJ 4 "Miiracl$ on 34th 
Stroor naroo 5 :Engage in a bit ol swordplay 
6 Chipolla, e.g. 

7 "......... In gloves catches no mice~ 8 The Dolphins ro!itoo his 1112 9 "OM Camr 
sk19~t, 1959 
tO Pwvfood 
unbeatable 
service? 11 Swank. 12 Douglas or Smith ot the W.N.B.A. 

13 Afternoc)O fare 
21 Timewom 
22 Hose 
26 Not mint 

27 Powerful !elino 
28 Ccms!ructioo 

beam 30 'Timeeop" star Van ........ 31 11om packed by a mountain climber 
WILLSHORTZ 


P~ l!v Jctm ~sr~mr 
33 BaJ\er's dczen. 45 Exclamafion at 56 Prii:et~h!ing maybe an epiphany priza 
34 One singing 46 "Justine" novelist 57 B!acklham fmil 
"lllooe Wem tho 
58 Jazz singe;rDays'''? 48 Riveted 

Anderson ~ "CSI" woman 49 Like a sidebar 
59 Grant lor a

37 Feds 
50 Runner-up to Ike fllrnmaker? 
;:,lS Sli!h&ry 
&lPiimpton

53 "Da.mr
40 Koops l*oopers 
portrayer In 41 'To wrap up ...~ 54 Kith and kin 'Paper Linn• 
For aflSwers~ ca.ll 1-900-285-5656, $1 A9 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual svbsctiptit>ns are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 yfi\ars: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscdp!ions: Today's puzzie and more than 2,000 
past punle<s, nyt!mes.como'crosswords ($39-95 a year'). Share tips: nytimes.comlpuzzletorum. Crosswords for young so~vers: nyumes.oom/leaming/xwords. 
CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): Stick to what you know not what others want you to do. You have to be true to yourself if you are going to do a good job. You may like things to remain the same but sometimes it's good to spice things up. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aog. 22): Passion, Jove and romance should be your intent, not trying to trick or fool someone into something. Consider what's best for every~ one. You are in control but you don't want to hurt anyone. 3 stars 
vmGO (Aug. 23-Sept_ 22): Secrets are being kept but that doesn't mean you should go on a rampage because you think you are being left out. Do your own thing until the information is revealed to you. To push someone will only set you back. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0el. 22): Try something new or get involved in someth'ing un~ usual. A chance meeting with someone will take you out of your normal routine but be careful that you aren't being lead astray. Creative pursuits will open your mind. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take anything or anyone for granted. A fi­nancial gain can be made but only if you take care of your own money transac~ lions. Nothing is likely to get done if you don't do it yourself. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Zl): You will come up with some interesting con­cepts that are surely going to draw attention. You will be positioned well for making money or putting your plans into play. Your masterful way of doing things will lead to your success. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec.. 22-Jan. 19): Don't give in because you don't want to hurt someone's feelings. Do what's best. Focus on taking charge, moving forward fast and putting whatever needs to be done behind you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional matters will rise to the surface, so deal with them head~on. This can be a particnlarly passionate time for you if you address pressing issues and build a sohd and secure life-long partnership. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep your plans to yourself. Someone will try to talk you out of doing what you feel is necessary. Don't let your emotions come between you and a good decision, especially regarding work, education or health matters. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are persistent, dynamic and engaging and can manipulate any situation you face. You are ahead of the times and highly intuitive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, January 24, 2008 
page 20 
FooTBALL 

Teatn adds Big East's South Florida to 2011 schedule 
The Tmnpa Tribune first reported South Florida, a member of the sarily part of Notre Dame's plan to are what you work so hard for; theyBy KEN FOWLER the agreement between the two Big East Conference, stunned college play three Big East temns each year. help further the image of thi'i pro­
Sports Writer 

school<>. saying they would play on football observers this season with a There will be no return trip to gram and they present a great Nov. 19, 2011. South Florida con­strong start to the season, including Tampa, but South Florida officials opportunity for our fans and play­The Bull"i will run in South Bend firmf~d that date in a news release wins over Auburn and West expressed great pleasure in having ers." in 2011. Wednesday, although John Heisler, VIrginia. The Bulls, who ran a run­the opportunity to play at Notre Traditional powerhouse teams 
Notre Dame and South Florida Notre Dame's senior associate ath­first spread offense, climbed as high Dame Stadium. often have trouble scheduling home have agre1~d to play a game at Notre letic director in charge of football as No. 2 in the Associated Press poll ''I'm humbled and excited about games against quality opponents Dame Stadium that sea<;<m, an addi­scheduling, said a conflict might before finishing the season 9-4 with adding Notre Dame to our sched­without agreeing to a game at the tion that will hdp Notrn Damn fill it<> force the schools to move the game a loss to Oregon in the Sun Bowl. ule," South Florida coach Jim Leavitt goal of s.wnn hom(~ gamns. from that date. Heisler said the game is not neces-said in a statement. "Games like this see BULLS/page 15 
HocKEY 

From half a world away 
National Guardsman supported team while posted in Ramadi, Iraq 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Kory Appleby woke up before dawn in thn desnrt around Hamadi. Iraq, almost every Saturday and Sunday last win­ter. 
The 21-ynar-old .50-caliber machinn gunnnr in the Indiana National Cuard sacriliend rest in between long days in the trou­bled !'.apital of the Al-Anbar provincP to power up his 1:om­putnr at 4 a.m. In only a few hours, Appleby would have to gnt back to fighting a war, but sitting in front of the computer, lw could forgPt about Iraq and tlw pain or having to lnaw his wife and nnwborn son. 
Appleby followed every Notre Damn hockey game except one last season live on the play-by­play Gametracker, not caring about the eight-hour time differ­ence between Ramadi and South Bend. He called his wife, Betsy, who sat in the front row next to the Irish bench every game, for the starting lineups before he settled in to watch the game sta­tisties flash onto his computer screen. 
"It gave you a break. You do your job everyday, you see stuff that is just ridiculous," Appleby said. "You sec II umvees being blown up and parts of Humvees that have been blown up. That was your time to get away." 
Shipping off 
Appleby shipped to Iraq on Oct. I, 2006 for a one-year tour of duty. llis son, Keating, was born on the same day, but his military duty prevented him from bning there. 
"I missed the birth of my little boy. lie started taking his steps 
see FAN/page 18 

MEN'S lACROSSE 

Squad looks to build on last season's success 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Heturning most of the starters on a powerful offense and the toughest defense in program history, Notre Dame will try to use its mix or talent and experience to make another championship run this season. 
The Irish return seven starters from last year's 11-4 campaign. After losing three of its first five games to strong non-conference oppo­nents, Notre Dame reeled off eight straight wins to elosc tlw regular season. 
The streak included a per­feet 5-0 record in Great Western Lacrosse League competition, earning the Irish their lOth GWLL title. The Irish advaneod to the NCAA Tournament with a No. 8 ranking, but fell in overtime to eventual national champi­on Johns Hopkins in the first round. 
Notre Dame enters the sea­son with high expectations, 
ranked fifth in the Lacrosse Magazine preseason poll. 
"Our guys have very high aspirations," Irish coaeh Kevin Corrigan said. "We return a lot of experience op. a strong offense and defense." 
Heturning in net for the Irish is senior captain Joey Kemp, a preseason All­American selection and the 2007 GWLL player of the year. A four-year starter for Notre Dame, Kemp has a 26­11 record and 7.43 goals­
against  average  for  his  
career.  
Senior  Sean  Dougherty,  
another  preseason  All­ 

American, anchors an Irish defense that gave up a pro­gram-best 6.66 goals per game last season. 
Two-sport athlete Wi II Yeatman, the 2007 LaxPower rookie of the year, will return as the leader of a strong Irish attack. Yeatman, who also plays tight end on the football team, led Notre Dame in points as a freshman with 21 
see OPENER/page 16 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish set to tap their roots 
Hoopsters lo.aking forward to Ireland trip this summer 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Part of being an athlete at Notre Dame_ means sacrificing the possibility of spending a semester abroad, but this August, coach Mike Brey will give his squad a taste of over­seas travel when it heads to Ireland to participate in the Inaugural Emerald Hoops Program. 
The Irish will compete in a tournament Aug. 13-25 against the national teams from Ireland and Poland while the coaching staff' will take part in clinics set up by the Basketball Federation of Ireland, which developed the program. Under NCAA rules, each program is permitted to take one foreign trip every four years. 
"We were in the rotation for a foreign tour and we said, 'Where do we want to go'?"' Brey said. "To me, always, the Fighting Irish and Ireland was a 
I 

Junior forward Kyle McAiarney shields the ball during Notre Dame's 108-62 win over Northern Illinois Dec. 8, 2007. 
natural fit and it just so hap­pened the Basketball Federation was looking to kick off a few things with this event." 
For some on the team, like junior forward Zach Hillesland, the trip represents the first opportunity in their lives to leave the United States. 
"Coach Brey was like, 'You guys are probably going to be like rock stars over there,' and I think we'll get a lot of that with (junior guardJ Kyle [McAlarney] with that Irish name, and over­all it should be a good experi­ence," llillesland said. 
McAlarney, who felt the need to clarify that he is of Irish descent, said he was excited to explore Ireland in his spare time. 
"I just want to walk around, enjoy the sights. I heard it's. beautiful over there," McAlarney said. "Eat some Irish food, visit some Catholic church­es, and take the time out to just enjoy it." 
Brey said he also wants the 
see EIRE/page 17 
, '· .t-'·' J ~ f ; "''\ 






