
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 107 THURSDAY, MARCH 27, 2008 

'Monologues' return to campus amid controversy 
Eve Ensler's much debated play sees walkout protest after first act at DeBartolo 
ByJOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
"The Vagina Monologues," Eve Ensler's controversial play exploring female sexu­ality, returned to campus last night in DeBartolo 101 despite cries of protest from students, alumni and local bishop John D'Arcy. The per­formance was followed by a panel discussion featuring three U ni ve rsity professors, a representative of D'Arcy's office and a surprise appear­ance by president of the Alumni Association Richard Nussbaum. 
The play, which was per­formed by Notre Dame stu-




Clinton, Astin advocate for senator 
Presidential candidate's daughter and "Rudy" actor speak to students about election 
dents and sponsored by the University's departments of anthropology, political sci-. ence and sociology, protests violence against women and argues that a woman's vagi­na is not dirty but rather an inherent part of her identity. 
"We were worried about vaginas," producer Lisa Raub said in her introduction. "Violence against women is a common day occurrence." 
Several Notre Dame stu­dents, however, saw the play as an affront to the Church's teachings on sexuality, which they believe has no place at a Catholic University. 
After the first monologue, 
Stephanie Elise Newsome performs in Wednesday's Vagina see PROTEST/page 8 Monologues performance. 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

With the Indiana Democratic primary approaching on May 6, each of the presidential candi­dates have been focusing their efforts on winning as many of the states dele­gates as possible and have made several recent trips to Indiana to do so. 
Representing Hillary Clinton, Chelsea Clinton supported her mother and fielded the questions of stu­dents and faculty from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross College, the 
Indiana University of South Bend, Bethel College and Ivy Tech as part of a ques­tion and answer session sponsored by the Northern Indiana Student Democrats Wednesday at Legends. 
"I passionately believe in my mom as a young woman, a young voter and a young Democrat," she said. 
Clinton was accompanied by actor Sean Astin, best known for his roles as the title character in "Rudy" and as Samwise Gamgee in "The Lord of the Rings" tril­ogy. 
see CLINTON/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Lyons Hall sees theft of property 
By KEN FOWLER Senior News Writer 
A suspect stole a total of three laptop computers and one wal­let from two unlocked rooms in Lyons Hall Wednesday, police said. 
Dave Chapman, assistant director of Notre Dame Security/Police, said the burgla­ries occurred between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. 
Chapman did not know how much money was in the wallet and could not provide a descrip­tion of the wallet or the laptops. 
Police did not have a descrip­tion of a suspect but encouraged residents who may have seen suspicious activity to call NDSP's general phone line with infor­mation. 
Chapman said police are working under the belief that the crimes are connected. Two of the laptops were taken from the same room, and the other stolen laptop was in the other room. 
"That's one reason we're ask­ing for help," Chapman said. "They !the suspect] had to be carrying them in a bag." 
Students should lock their rooms whenever they leave, "no matter how long they're going to be gone for," Chapman said. 
Chapman said police received no reports of other, similar crimes on campus Wednesday, and the two burglaries were the only ones in residence halls in recent days. 

Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu .. 

Donnelly expands pro-life definition 
By BILL BRINK 
News Editor 
Congressman Joe Donnelly expanded on the meaning of "pro-life" to include support­ing post-birth care -such as health care, insurance and school lunch programs -in his address to the Notre Dame Law School WPdnesday. 
Donnelly, the Democratic representative of Indiana's second district said despite peoplp's impressions of the Democratic Party, the party is not inherently pro-choice. 
He told a story of a question he received during a candi­date night in his 2006 cam­paign. A woman asked why it was his business if she and her pregnant daughter decid­ed an abortion was the best option for the child and fami­ly. 
Donnelly responded that the issue became one of what is necessary to define human life. Since he defines an unborn baby as a human, he said, he is constitutionally required to protect it. 
''That was the end of ques­tioning on that subject for the night," he said. "The point is to protect that child." 
A "working majority" of Congress, Donnelly said, is 
see DONNELLY/page 6 
SMC webmail to be revamped 
IT blueprint addresses Zimbra issues, among other major electronic issues 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 

Saint Mary's students have recently been unable to log­in or send and receive e­mails with Zimbra, the College's e-mail system, and also have noticed the system shutting down unexpectedly. 
"It's really inconvenient because I have a lot of pro­fessors who e-mail assign­ments in and it's really hard to get those when it's down a lot of the time," sophomore Michele Peterson said. 
Many have been getting frustrated with the inconsis­tency and how much the sys­tem's problems appears to interfere with their everyday 
life. 
"It's just really frustrating 
since everything around here 
revolves around e-mail ... 
and then family and things 
like that," sophomore Tracy 
Chuckas said. "It can be bad 
when you need to e-mail your 
professor a paper and it's 
down again." 

Other students have set their e-mail to forward mes­sages to other programs so when Zimbra does go down, they are still able to access ·their e-mail through other 
avenues. 
"It seems like it goes down 
at 2 a.m. and it's usually 
right when you're finishing 
something," said sophomore Rachel Eisterhold, who set up a forwarding program with the help of her father so that she can always get her mail regardless of when Zimbra is down. "I set it up right before coming back this semester." 
Dough McKeown, Systems and Networks Administrator for the Department of Information Technology (IT), said Zimbra was applied to the Saint Mary's network about a year ago. 
It was chosen specifically to replace Aegis Webmail which was "dying," he said. At the time. they had not budgeted to change the e-mail system, so Zimbra was chosen mainly 
see WEBMAIL/page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Spring Fever 
Are you like me, linding yourself looking out the windows of DeBartolo wishing the snow would melt and the temperature rise? Have you been waiting one too many weeks for the bitter cold, wind, and constant pre­cipitation to subside? Are you ready to put away your sweaters and win­ter coats; eager to break out the short-sleeves and flip-flops? 
If you can't resist putting off home­work to toss a football around on the quad the moment 
Blair Chemidlln 
it reaches lifty degrees, longing for the days when 
Graphic 
you can walk 
designer
from your dorm to LaFortune without a hat and gloves, you may have a ease of Spring Fever. 
You are not alone. 
I feel the only cure for this malady, no matter what your age, is to go outside and play. It seemed a lot of studfmts on Notre Dame's campus were feeling the same way that lirst really warm day. a week ago last Friday. As soon as dasses were fin­ished I grabbed my roommatP and lacrosse stick and headml out to South Quad. 
Much like the lirst snow had brought masses of students out onto the quads. tlw warm weatlwr enticed guys and girls from evp,ry dorm out­side to play football, frisbee, la!TOSSP, baseball, even some golf on the grassy quads whiiP the sidewalks on campus and around the lakes werP busy with people running, walking. riding bikes. and feeding tlw ducks. 
We all must have known it wouldn't hang around f'or long because so many of us took advantage of the beautiful wmttlwr while it lasted. Who could blame us af'tnr such a long. snowy winter in South Bend? 
And what is it about the spring we love so much; why does this particu­lar season make us feel the way we do? Poets have been writing about the phenomenon for years but now scientists can explain the symptoms of Spring Fever with scientific evi­dence about our brain's chemical reactions to the light, warmth, and
t 
scents of' the spring season. 
I 
t .Just as decreased sunlight can put people into a depression during the winter. (now ealled Seasonal AfTnctive Disorder-SAD), the inerp,ased sunlight that comes with 
springtimn leads to more release of
• 
serotonin, making us happier. The chemical ingredients of sexual attraction are engaged with a special intensity in the springtime thanks to warmer weather, less clothing, and the flowery aromas of the season, giving us a greater desire to socialize and even, perhaps. fall in love. 
Seems we were right to seize that sunny day beeause unfortunately that one and the other few nice days surrounding it tricked us with a "false spring" that quickly vanished with the arrival of more cold. wet weather. The 20th was technically tho first day of' spring if you go by the calendar. but it looks like we'II still have to wait a little while before the last traces of winter fade away. 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Contact Blair Chemidlin at bchemidl@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Viewpoint letter "Boycott Beijing" on March 26 stated that Beijing was awarded rhe 2008 Wimer Olympics. Beijing was awarded the 2008 Summer Olympics. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 27, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MUSICAL ARTIST WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE COME TO NOTRE DAME AND WHY? 



Natalie Stitt Lindsay Williams Morgan Cullen Jennifer Henzler 
sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Lyons  junior McGlinn  
"Jason Mraz, because he's all about the word play."  "Kenny Chesney, because I think everyone is ready for 'Summertime.'"  "Spice Girls, because they add spice to my life."  

freshman Welsh Family 
''The Police, because Stephanie DePrez told me so. 


OFFBEAT 
Rancher who sold snake vodka bottles arrested 
SANTO, Texas -A rat­tlesnake rancher who calls himself Bayou Bob found a new way to make money: Stick a rattler inside a bottle of vodka and market the coneoe­tion as an "ancient Asian elixir." But Bayou Bob Popplewell's bright idea appears to have landed him on the wrong side of the law, because he has no liquor license. 
Popplewell. who has raised rattlesnakes and turtles at Bayou Bob's Brazos River Rattlesnake Haneh for more than two decades, surrendered to authorities Monday. He spent about 10 minutes in jail after the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission obtained arrest warrants on misde­meanor charges of selling alcohol without a license and possessing alcohol with intent to sell. 
Drunk driver found with marijuana, pants off 
YONKEHS, N.Y. Suburban New York police say a drunken driv­er had a suspended license and had marijua­na in her ear. Oh, they also say she didn't have any pants on. 
Yonkers police say 22­year-old Long Island resi­dent Angelica Buchanan was found Saturday standing bottomless in a street near her car. They say she was so drunk she had to be hospitalized. 
Police say she claimed she wasn't wearing pants because she needed to use the bathroom. They've charged her with driving while intoxicated, unli­censed operation of a vehicle and marijuana possession. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0: 
U.l 
:I: 
!c;: 
U.l 
3: 
...... 
~ 

44 
37 


37 
30 


HIGH LOW 

(,) 
0 
HIGH 42
-I 
LOW 28 

Jenny Lewis Lauren Buck 
junior junior Badin Pasquerilla West 
''That French "Miley Cyrus, guy who played because she has the musicfor to redeem 'Pride and herselfafter Prejudice' ... so the last time 
nice!" she freaked out." 
IN BRIEF 

"The Vagina Monologues" will be performed Thursday and Friday in 101 DeBartolo at 7 p.m. A panel discussion will follow the performance. 
BCAC is looking for volun­teers to help with BCAC Fashion Show 2008. Tlw show takes plac1~ April 5 at 8 
p.m. Please Pmail BCAC@nd.edu if you are interested. 
Amanda Anderson. Caroline Donovan Professor of English Literature at Johns Hopkins University. will speak at the 2008 Annual Ward­Phillips Lecture Series. Her lecture is titled "Bleak Liberalism" and will continue through Fl'iday at 5 p.m. in 100 McKenna Hall. A recep­tion follows the lecture. 
The Student Union Board .will show the movie 
"Atonement" in 101 
DeBartolo at 10 p.m 
Thursday, 8 and 10 p.m. 
Friday and 8 and 10:30 p.m. 
Saturday. Tickets are $3. 

Siegfried Hall will host the Rambler Scrambler, a minia­ture golf tournament, Saturday at Stepan Center at 8 p.m. Fren pizza, pop and .Jimmy John's will be avail­able. The event benefits l.ou Gherig's Disease resp,arch. and iPods, cameras and iTunes gift eards will be raf­fled off. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Cincinnati Friday at 5:05 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

51 36 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 73 I 47 Boston 50 I 36 Chicago 40 I 30 Denver 54 I 33 Houston 82 I 64 Los Angeles 71 I 52 Minneapolis 36 I 25 New York 49 I 33 Philadelphia 48 I 41 Phoenix 85 I 59 Seattle 48 I 34 St. Louis 63 I 46 Tampa 81 I 58 Washington 63 I 46 
Thursday, March 27, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Senate passes resolutions, proposes technology conunittee 
New organization would allow for increased communication between Student Senate and the student body 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
In the last meeting of the current administration's term, the Student Senate passed three resolutions and dis­cussed the possibility of creat­ing a Committee on Campus Technologies. 
Senators Carol Hendrickson and Ryan Brellenthin of the Committee on Academic Affairs proposed the addition of this committee in response to the number of technologi­cal issues that Academic Affairs addressed this year, such as e-r~serves and stu­dent print quotas. Brellenthin added that these issues have also affected other areas of the Senate. 
"While there are certain committees that do tend to have technological issues come up in them, it really cuts across boundaries," he said. "It has the benefit of being 
something that is really pres­ent in the everyday life of stu­dents here." 
This committee would also allow Senate to increase com­munication between students and the Office of Information and Technology (OIT), Brellenthin said. He explained that currently, one student, the University Council on Academic Technology Representative, communicates with OIT. 
"It's very difficult for one person to be proactive for the entire student body," he said. 
Hendrickson said having a committee solely devoted to technology would allow sena­tors the time to initiate inno­vative ideas, instead of just addressing issues as they arise. 
"It would be innovative in terms of coming up with tech­nology that other committees might not be brainstorming about," she said. 
Despite the potential bene­
fits of a committee on technol­ogy, student body President Liz Brown expressed concern that the Senate may be "stretched" with a new com­mittee, since members would be spread over more commit­tees. 
Additionally, student body vice president-elect Grant Schmidt said the new admin­istration may create another committee, the Student Outreach committee. This committee would get campus feedback through a census surveying the student body once a semester on issues that student government is addressing. 
"We're going to get feedback -concrete numbers -for students to be able to see and for us to be able to see what's bothering students," he said. 
Besides discussing tentative committees, the Senate passed the resolution support­ing the addition of sexual ori­entation to Notre Dame's non-
Brand new, furnished townhomes for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester.
·,.. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also inclu,de a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser. closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 

• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 
Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
discrimination clause, which was debated at last week's meeting. Also, senators dis­cussed the outcome of the stu­dent survey, town hall meet­ing and dorm sessions con­cerning the hiring of Catholic faculty. 
The student government report stated that "the majori­ty of students seems to value academic credentials more than religious affiliation when hiring faculty but do care about maintaining Notre Dame's Catholic character." Hendrickson said the report will be sent to the Office of the Provost and the Faculty Senate, and the Student Senate passed a resolution asking the faculty and admin­istration to keep students informed about the issue and involved in dialogue. 
"Basically what this resolu­tion does it emphasize the importance to communicate about issues [like this] ... and take seriously our efforts to 
j 
j 
)! 
Vaness'>!. 
5Jj).A~\kitk 
fiokli 
have a dialogue," Hendrickson said. 
In other senate news: 
+ 
The Senate passed a reso­lution from the Committee on Academic Affairs with sugges­tions for future in-dorm study spaces. Farley Senator Victoria Perez, who drafted the resolution, said as new dorms are built, rooms that were originally study spaces will be converted back. Suggestions include white boards, more outlets and more lighting. 

+ 
Judicial Council President Ashley Weiss said the Student Union Ethics Committee selected Bridget Keating, the senior class president, for the Michael J. Palumbo Award. The award honors an under­graduate student for "out­standing dedication and serv­ice to the Notre Dame Student Union." 


Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
.. 
i 
~ 
t 
';; I 
.:~_,. 






page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
Clinton 
continued from page 1 
Astin said he was endorsing 
the elder Clinton based on his 
own life experiences. 
"I like her and I think she'll 
do the best job," he said. 
Clinton said that she was 
proud of' her mother's plat­
form, which she described as 
"the most progressive agen­
da." 
Thn questions were focused 
mostly on her mother's vari­
ous policies, with health care 
reform being a major issue 
for some students. In particu­
lar. students were interested 
in how Clinton's new plan 
would differ from the unsuc­
cessful "llillary Care" that 
she propos1~d during her term 
as First Lady in the early 
IIJIJOs. 
"I think my mother's posi­tion is consistnnt in that she has bnen lighting for univer­sal health care since tho early liJIJOs," she said. "What she is proposing now is infornwd by the lessons she learned Ithen]." 
Senator Clinton's current health care proposal would allow uninsured Americans to buy into the federal gov­flrnment employee's health care plan, which she claims will increase the size of the pool and thus lower premi­ums. Americans that cannot afford that would be covered my Medicare. 
"Average premium cost would be 50 to 55 percent cheaper because of' the larger pools," Chelsea Clinton said. "You're more likely to die in America if' you don't have health care. I think that's immoral." 
She also said government­sponsored health care can help make some American companies, such as automo­bile manufactures, more com pnti tivc by allowing them to cut thnir costs. 
"You can never have a true unleashing of' America's com­petitive power with these health care costs," she said. 
In addition. Clinton said her mother would support scien­tific research, rather than stifling it like the current ad min is tration. 
"One thing that unfortu­nately has happened under the current administration is the cut of certain scientific research." she said. 
The next question posed asked how the decision mak­ing process would work in the Clinton White House, and what role former president Bill Clinton would play. 
Clinton said while her father would be willing to serve whomever the next president is, he is currently content doing his charity work. 
"I'm proud of my father's administration and I'm proud of the work that he does today, and that's what he wants to keep doing," she said. "llowever, he'd be will­ing to snrvn whoevnr the next president is." 
The audienen also asked about Senator Clinton's cur­rent plan to deal with the housing crisis. Tho burst of' tho housing bubble could see one to two million families lose their homes to l'orcdo­s u res this yPar. 
"My mother has been talk­ing about the housing crisis for more than a year, before any of' tlw other candidates and before the current administration," she said. "We need to do the morally right thing to help keep peo­ple in their homes." 
Senator Clinton's plan would include a possible bailout of homeowners, simi­lar to the ones used to rescue Wall Street l'inancial firms over the past several years. 
Clinton answered questions on her mother's foreign poli­cy stance, in particular on the Iraq War. While she does­n't support troop withdrawal, Clinton said her mother has been a· leading figure in demanding accountability from the Pentagon. 
"I'm proud that my mom was one of' the first Senators to ask the Pentagon what its plans to end the war in Iraq were," she said. 
Clinton said it is necessary to remember the safety of' Iraqi civilians, but at the same time the country must start making its own politieal decisions. 
"We have a moral obliga­tion to the men and women who have helped keep our troops safe," she said. "But we need to send a message to the Iraqis that they need to make political ehoicos for themselves." 
Moreover, Clinton said her mother would focus on strengthening diplomatic ties with the Middle East, includ­ing engaging countries that the Bush administration has refused tQ talk to. 
"My mother was the first person to say that she would open diplomatic relations with every country in the region," she said. 
Although she is often pegged as a divisive figure, Clinton said her mother had a strong record of bipartisan­ship. She cited her mother's work with conservative Hepublican Senator Lindsay Graham and former Speaker of the House and long-time 
Clinton  nemesis  Newt  
Gingrich.  
When  asked  what her  

mother's appeal to younger voters was, who tend to be attracted to Barack Obama, Clinton said her mother's plans for making eollege more affordable should make her the premier choiee for young voters. 
"One area where my mom is more progressive is college and graduate school afford­ability," she said. 
ller plans include expand­ing Pell Grants, federal high­er education grands funded by the Department of Education, and the reinstitu­tion of low-interest direct federal lending. Senator Clinton also plans to estab­lish a national publie service academy similar to the mili­tary academies. 
Although Clinton said she strongly believed her mother is the best candidate, she concluded by stressing the need for a Democrat in the White House and urged the audience to support whomev­er the party nominates. 
"I hope that you 'II vote for whoever the Democratic nominee is," she said. "I believe that we need a Democratic administration." 
In his introduction. Astin said he is supporting Senator Clinton for three reasons: her commitment to the issues, the poignancy of the issues that she has ineludcd in her platform, and her wealth of experience. 
"First lady of the United States is a sacred position." he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

N1 I L E S 
fii.<H~ '( Hll: 
SIDELINE 
Monday, March 31 7:00 P.M.-9:00 P.M. McKenna Hall University of Notre Dame 
(across from the Morris Inn) 
• 
Introduction by Charlie Weis 

• 
On-stage conversation between Maura Weis and WN D U's Maureen McFadden 

• 
Book-signing and reception 


All of the author's royalties will benefit 

Miles from the Sideline 
A Mother's Journey with HerSpecial Needs Daughter 
With Jessica Trobaugh Temple HANNA fRIENDS 
A$,;w.c ......~ ,f. C::-<>-'Y"""'.>ti.:Y~ 

Foreword by Charlie Weis In this powerful and honest book, Maura We is, wife of Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis, shares the challenges and blessings of raising their special needs daughter, Hannah. ISBN: 9781933495033 I $18.95 
.,.6;SORIN BOOKS" 
Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or at bookstores everywhere J:2!l Notre Da~m, IN 
www.sorinbook.a.com 



------~--­

ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 27, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THr OBsERVER's wuu SERV[CEs page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. patience wears thin with N. Korea 
WASHINGTON -The United States and South Korea said Wednesday that patience is wearing thin among international negotiators pressing North Korea to hand over a promised declaration of nuclear weapon efforts. 
A spat over the North's declaration, which was due by the end of last year, has dead­locked six-nation nuclear talks. Disarmament negotiators insist that it address claims of a secret uranium enrichment program and alle­gations that the North transferred nuclear technology to Syria. 
"Time and patience is running out," South Korean Foreign Minister Yu Myung-hwan said at a news conference with U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
Rice, after a private lunch meeting with Yu, told reporters that "it is really time now for there to be movement on the declaration." 
Fireworks warehouse blast kills two 
DUBAI. United Arab Emirates -A massive explosion at a fireworks warehouse sparked a raging lire that raced through an industrial zone in Dubai on Wednesday, killing at least two people. 
When the fire first erupted, ambulances and fire engines struggled to the scene through the city's dense morning rush hour, while helicop­ters hovered above the ruined warehouse in Dubai's al-Qouz Industrial Zone. 
Heavy winds spread the flames quickly, engull1ng at least 20 other warehouses and raising a pall of smoke visible for miles. 
Five hours later, Dennis Boll, training man­ager for Quick Intervention Firefighting units, said "the lire was getting worse." After night­fall, the fire was still raging. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Clouds delay space shuttle's return 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Clouds moved in at virtually the last minute and thwarted NASA's effort to bring the space shuttle Endeavour and its crew of seven back to Earth early Wednesday evening. 
Mission Control instructed the astronauts to take another swing around the planet and aim for a later, nighttime landing, in hopes that the sky would clear. It will be NASA's second and last shot of the day at bringing Endeavour home. 
"Unfortunately, the weather trend did not improve as we had hoped," Mission Control radioed. "We're looking for some improve­ment," it added. 
Arkansas sees historic flood levels 
CLARENDON, Ark.-Arkansans sandbagged their front doors and pumped out their flooded basements Wednesday as a historic crest on the White River moved downstream, and a flooding expert said the state will have to deal with high water for weeks. 
Residents and county officials along the river's path in east-central Arkansas worried that the river flows would hit an already swollen Mississippi River on the state's eastern border and flow back into their cotton and wheat fields. 
"I don't think anybody knows how much higher it's going to get," said Monroe County resident Marlin Reeves as overcast skies threatened rain. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Job issue heats up in governor's race 
INDIANAPOLIS -The major party candi­dates for governor have left no doubt that jobs and the state's economy will be top issues in their campaigns. 
Democratic hopeful Jim Schellinger announced a jobs plan Wednesday that focuses on work force training, supporting small busi­ness and creating jobs tied to new environ­mental technologies. The announcement came on the same day that Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels began airing a new television commer­cial touting economic gains during his first term. 
The other major-party candidate in the race, Democrat Jill Long Thompson, had earlier announced a plan that focuses on such propos­als as expanding tax incentives to businesses, helping more of them provide health insurance to their employees and updating Indiana's technology infrastructure. 
ENGLAND 

Sarkozy pledges to deploy troops 
French President promises Britain more soldiers to fight Taliban in Afghanistan 
Associated Press 
LONDON French President Nicolas Sarkozy and his supermodel wife swept into Britain on Wednesday, mixing elabo­rate pomp with his impas­sioned warning that the West must beat the Taliban in Afghanistan no matter the cost. 
Sarkozy played the states­man as he began his state visit -the first by a French president to Britain in 12 years. Gone were his trade­mark shades and ubiquitous cell phone as he greeted Queen Elizabeth II and inspected rows of cavalry­men. 
After a round of ceremo­nial duties, Sarkozy gave a fiery speech to a joint sitting of the House of Commons and House of Lords. He fol­low€d a powerful tribute to Britain's role in countering the threat of fascism in Europe with a promise to stand by London as it fights the Taliban. 
"We cannot~ afford to lose Afghanistan," Sarkozy said, speaking in French. "Whatever the cost, whatev­er the expense, we cannot afford it." 

Without specifying num­bers, he pledged more French troops for NATO's mission in Afghanistan if Afghans also get more mate change. the model-turned-singer for in 1993. The original responsibility and there is "Who better than its clos­Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, who print is to be auctioned in better coordination of non­est, sincerest friends to curtsied to the queen and New York by Christie's auc­military efforts. remind the U.S. of its chatted animatedly with her tion house. 
The pledge underscores responsibilities?" he said. at Windsor Castle. The queen has bestowed his determination to revital­The pomp -and the Bruni-Sarkozy, in a demur Sarkozy with the Order of ize relations with Britain opportunity to appear digni­belted gray Christian Dior the Bath, a ceremonial and the United States and fied -are important to coat and pillbox hat, smiled British honor, and given him put aside differences over Sarkozy amid a sagging as Prince Charles kissed her a framed book of British the Iraq war. approval rating at home and gloved hand in greeting as stamps, her office said. In 
Canada has warned that it questions about his attitude. he met the visitors at return, the French leader will pull its 2,500 soldiers British Prime Minister London's Heathrow Airport. offered her a copy of out of Afghanistan if other Gordon Brown plans lengthy "It was like a French "Perfect Knowledge Of allies do not offer more discussions Thursday with Catholic schoolgirl meets Horses," a book published in help. It wants 1,000 more Sarkozy on Afghanistan, a Jackie 0," said Lucy France in 17 43. soldiers for anti-Taliban possible joint nuclear ener­Yeomans, editor of Harper's On previous foreign trips, efforts. gy project, climate change Bazaar, likening Bruni­Sarkozy casually checked 
Sarkozy won a standing and the international Sarkozy's outfit to the his cell phone for SMS mes­ovation for his 45-minute response to unrest in Tibet. famously stylish Jacqueline sages and was last month speech, in which he called But Wednesday's schedule Kennedy. caught making an undigni­for Britain and France to focused mainly on Britain's tabloids, howev­fied outburst at a French cooperate more closely in pageantry -and the pub­er, greeted Bruni-Sarkozy in agriculture fair, chastising a Europe and to work togeth­lic's gaze was fixed on typical style -printing a member of the crowd with er to press the U.S. on eli-Sarkozy's glamorous wife, nude photograph she posed expletives. 

Retrial begins in Mia111i terroris111 case 
Associated Press inside the United States. They are The second trial came after a jury 
going to try to take over the United in December could not agree on ver­
MIAMI -War with the U.S. gov­States." dicts for the six men. The first jury ernment was at the heart of a terror­Batiste's attorney, Ana M. Jhones, did acquit one of the original seven, ist plot to destroy Chicago's Sears accused the Bush administration and but immigration officials are seeking Tower and bomb FBI offices, a pros­FBI of looking to "set people up" on to deport him to Haiti anyway ecutor said Wednesday during clos­overblown charges in their zeal to because of the terrorism allegations. ing arguments in the retrial for six make a high-profile terrorism case. Gregorie said Batiste and the oth­Miami men accused of conspiring She said Batiste faked interest in ter­ers would have pursued a terrorism with al-Qaida. rorism to con a government inform­attack no matter what, noting that 
Alleged ringleader Narseal Batiste ant posing as an al-Qaida operative they were captured on FBI video­and the others in the "Liberty City out of $50,000. tapes taking an oath to al-Qaida in Seven" conspired with an FBI His lawyers also claim he was March 2006. informant who pretended he was entrapped by two FBI informants "All you have to say is no -walk from al-Qaida with the hope of start­who orchestrated the entire plot. away, don't do it," Gregorie told ing an anti-government war, "Money was at the heart of Mr. jurors. Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard Batiste's intent here," Jhones told Jhones countered that Batiste is Gregorie said. jurors. "It wasn't about explosives. It overheard repeat'edly on the FBI 
"It's really not a complicated case," wasn't about weapons. It wasn't tapes saying his men knew nothing Gregorie said. "These are terrorists about going to Chicago." about the terrorism talk. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
Web01ail 
continued from page 1 
for cost, he said. Former Chief Information Officer, Keith Fowlkes, chose Zimbra, McKeown said. 
One major issue is that the program was operating in umwcessary areas, which was slowing it down, McKeown said. 
"It was trying to do stuff that is built into the product that had nothing to do with mail that's purely statistics and things like that. We've since disabled that," he said. 
It was disabled ovnr the weekond of February 22-24. he said. 
Another problem has to do with a bug built into the sys­tem when they purchased it, he said. 
"It doesn't matter, we have a buggy e-mail system currently. It works," McKeown said. 
through." 
lie added that every timP. the e-mail goes down he gets a message and hn is being constantly updated on the problmns with Zimbra. 
In order to f'ix the entire problem, new CIO Janice Thomasson is prP.senting an IT blueprint to the Cabinet, 
which includes the college Zimbra goes down, she said. 
president and vice presidents, today, she said. 
"E-mail and many other technology items will be approved lin the blueprint! and vetted to the entire Saint Mary's commu­nity," she said. 
Soon after it is approved it will be made avail­able for the stu­dents to read on the IT website. 
Zimbra is being addressed in the blueprint, but the main problem might not be Zimbra 
"It doesn't matter, we have a buggy e-mail system currently. It works. I have yet to see mail get lost. Zimbra may lock up when you're typing mail and you lose it, that's one thing, but sending and receiv­ing, it all eventually goes through. " 
Dough McKeown systems and network administrator 

itsell', Thomasson said. "Zimbra often gets a black 
eye with the Saint Mary's com­munity and it may not be 
"I have yet to ''Zimbra often gets a Zimbra," she 
see mail get lost. said.
black eye with the 
Zimbra may lock The main up whnn you're Saint Mary's commu­problem is with 
typing mail and nity and it may not the amount of 
you lose it, that's "all user" e­
be Zimbra." 
one thing, but mails that are sending and sent out to the receiving, it all Janice Thomasson students, she 
eventually goes Chief Information Officer said. 
"Anybody on 

campus can send out an e-mail to every­body. If just one of us does that, it dogs the network," she said. 
The number of e-mails that the entire campus receives every day contributes dramati­cally to the amount of time 
"I've had peo­ple confess to me that they don't even read any of those ... They've said 'if I see so-and-so's name I just delete it'... I know those peo­ple don't want their messages deleted," she said. 
Though it isn't in her blueprint, Thomasson plans to discuss with the admin­istration the possibility of limiting how many groups and individuals on campus are 
able to send mass e-mails to the entire campus community. 
"Is it fair to let just anybody send out anything to all of us?" she said. 
Something that brought this problem to her attention was the accidental false tornado warning that was sent out to Saint Mary's last week, she said. 
"It just surfaced since we had the tornado e-mail and Doug IMcKeown] ... he came to me and said, 'you know yes­terday Zimbra really took a beating.' It was an immense load on the network ... when you see something like that you immediately address it. You don't take five years to address it," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Donnelly 
continued from page 1 
pro-life. That contingent is committed, he said, to more than just preventing abor­tion. Health care, education and nutrition also require attention. 
He cited a bill that provid­ed tom porary assistance for needy families which helped pregnant women get the help they need during preg­nancy. He also said he sup­ported a bill which prohibit­ed tax dollars from assisting institutions in foreign coun­tries that perform or sup­port abortions. 
Stem cell research is another area where pro-life supporters can have an influence, he said. 
"Stem cells are tough because everybody wants good outcomes," he said. 
He said pro-life supporters need to convince families who have children with dia­betes, and other diseases which may be helped by stem cells, that there are other options available. 
"We need to show them how we can achieve the same goal without going down that road," he said, referring to stem cell research. 
He called for increased funding for placental, chord and embryonic cell research as well as skin cell research. He made an anal­ogy to fishing; the Democrats can throw 10 lines, or treatments, in the water, but they cannot east the stem cell line. 

Another of Donnelly's post-birth facets of pro-life ideology ineluded improving school lunches. Some stu­dents in the district, he said, had no stable home life and sometimes the only solid meals they cat comes from school. At Brown School in South Bend, he said, 85 per­cent of students wern on a federal lunch program. 
The best way to improve family life, Donnelly said, was to create jobs. Jobs provide income and allow people to spend time with their families, pay their mortgages and foster a good home environment, he said. Donnelly was optimistic about jobs in the area. 
"We think we're creating unbelievable job opportuni­ties," he said. 
Healthcare is an issue for Donnelly himself, he said. llis daughter has rheuma­toid arthritis, which is treat­ed by a drug that costs $1,800 a month. lie can afford it because his wife, who works for Notre Dame, falls under the University's insurance policy, but many others without insurance policies cannot. 
"We have to come up with how a child in the red house can get the same insurance and health care as the child in the green house," he said. 
Donnelly graduated from Notre Dame in 1977 and the Notre Dame Law School in 1981. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Train Man Densha otoko (2005) Japanese language w1th English subtitles Thursday, 3127 at 7:00p.m. 
Followed by Keynote Address: Dr. Steven Ridgely (University of Wisconsin, Madison), "Internet and Video in Japanese Film and Anime" 
Center for Asian Studies, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, East Asian Languages &Cultures, and the Provost Office's Asia Initiatives Present: 
Love at First Sight: Romance and Relationships in Asian and Asian American Cinema 
MARCH 27-29, 2008 BROWNING CINEMA 
DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER University of Notre Dame 
Featured Films: 
The Trouble with Romance  My Sassy Girl  Omkara (2006)  
(2007)  Yeopgijeogin geunyeo (2001)  Hindi andAssamese languages  
Friday, 3128 at 7:00p.m.  Korean language  with English subtitles  
Introduction and O&A  with English subtitles  Saturday, 3129 at 10:00 p.m.  
following the film by Emily Liu,  Saturday, 3/29 at 7:00p.m.  
Notre Dame alumna and the  
film's producer and actress  

Tickets on sale at the OPAC ticket office. Please call (574) 631-2800 for ticket information. 
~, L~J·-'1 • • ;/ 0\ A 'UNIVERSITY OF
~ -;r, ._, Korean Cultural Center D E B R T 0 L 0 NOTRE DAME 
1,,. Angde• PERfORMING AR~ CENTER 
•~••c••• co••"'"'"'..f!•"• O• ~td S 
"'~~:':' 

Thursday, March 27, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 12,422.86 -109.74
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,413 107 1,928 4,065,461,184 
AMEX 

NASDAQ . ?,.~24.36 -16.69 NYSE Jli•· • 8,881.55 rt i~~llii S&P 500 1,341.13 -11.86 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,706.69.0illb:()Q;,; FTSE 100 (London) 5.660.40 -28.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.22 -1.65 133.20 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -3.61 -0.96 25.62 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.29 -0.13 44.70 CITIGROUP INC (C) -5.85 -1.37 22.05 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.06 +0.002 3.494 13-WEEK BILL +1.20 +0.015 1.270 30-YEAR BOND +0.72 +0.031 4.330 5-YEAR NOTE -1.93 -0.050 2.543 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.58 105.80 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +14.20 952.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 73.40 
· Exchange Rates YEN 99.0500 EURO 0.6311 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0178 BRITISH POUND 0.4980 
IN BRIEF 
SmalllV stations fear switch to digital 
WASHINGTON -The low-power television industry is facing a "death sentence" because of a flaw in the government's plan to force broad­casters to shift to digital broadcasting and have asked a federal judge for a reprieve. 
The Community Broadcasters Association, which represents owners of small television sta­tions, wants the Federal Communications Commission to ban all digital set top converter boxes that are not equipped to receive an analog signal, a request that has the potential to derail the biggest broadcasting transition since color television. 
As of Feb. 18, 2009, all full-power television stations in the U.S. are required to stop broad­casting an analog signal. Anyone who gets pro­gramming through an antenna and does not have a newer-model digital TV set will need to buy a box that converts the digital signal to ana­log. The government is providing two $40 coupons per household that can be used to buy these boxes. 
Stocks retreat with report prediction 
NEW YORK -Wall Street pulled back Wednesday after a drop in February's durable goods orders injected more pessimism about the economy into the stock market. The Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 110 points. 
Investors who have been worried about the financial health of U.S. companies and individu­als were disappointed to see a 1.7 percent dip in last month's orders of durable goods, or big-tick­et items that range from refrigerators to cars to computers. The Commerce Department's durable goods report is indicative of business spending and consumer demand, so two straight months of declines were worrisome to Wall Street. 
Meanwhile, investors found another reason to be cautious after the Commerce Department said sales of new homes slumped in February. The 
1.8 percent decline was a bit narrower than economists surveyed by Thomson Financial/IFR had anticipated. but it still dragged down sales for the fourth consecutive month to a 13-year low. 
Considering that the Dow has added more than 425 points in the past three sessions, a pullback does not come as a surprise. 

--------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
Eli Lilly settles in Alaskan lawsuit 
Drugmaker pays $15 million settlement in state's case over Zyprexa drug 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE -The drugmaker Eli Lilly and Co. and Alaska announced a $15 million settlement Wednesday in the state's lawsuit over the use of the drug Zyprexa in its Medieaid program. 
The deal ensures that Alaska will be treated as well as any other state that may settle with Lilly over similar claims involving the drug, which is used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. 
The state sued for hun­dreds of millions of dollars to cover costs to Medicaid for treating what it says are Zyprexa-related health problems. Attorneys for the state said Lilly failed to warn doctors and patients adequately that using the prescription drug could lead to severe obesity, elevated blood sugar and diabetes because company officials worried that consumers would pick an alternative. 
"We believe this is a good result for the state of Alaska and the Department of Health and Human Services," Alaska Attorney General Talis Colberg said in a prepared statement. 

The agreement included no admission of wrongdoing by Lilly, which is based in defense it had presented so its case over eight days and determine damages and Indianapolis. far, Gussack said, and the Superior Court Judge Mark inevitable appeals, he said. 
Nina Gussack, who head­state likely recognized the Rindner last week denied Analysts say the settle­ed the Lilly trial team, value of Zyprexa and how it lilly's request for an imme­ment will not grab a lot of called the settlement a continues to be prescribed. diate favorable verdict. attention on Wall Street. "very positive resolution." "I think against that back­Without lawsuits like the Lilly shares rose 2 cents to 
"It certainly, in light of the ground, resolving cases for one Alaska brought against $50.19 in trading state's initial views about relatively modest amounts, Lilly, claims that drugs Wednesday. what this case was valued given the history here, is cause health problems "It's not going to raise at, represents an extraordi­always a good thing for liti­"might well go unad­anybody's eyebrow,' said nary resolution for Lilly," gants," she said. dressed," Rindner said last Tony Butler, who covers Gussack said. Alaska sued Lilly two week, when jurors when Lilly for Lehman Brothers. 
Court-ordered mediation years ago. Lilly officials say out of the room. "I wouldn't call it a positive, had been begun before the drug helps tame the As Rindner dismissed but I would say I think the jurors heard opening state­most serious mental illness­jurors Wednesday, he average person on Wall ments March 6 and culmi­es by eliminating hallucina­praised the settlement for Street says, 'Well, good nated with the settlement tions and allowing patients bringing certainty to both thing they settled. Could Tuesday night. The compa­to function in society. sides. It spares the expense have certainly been much ny was confident in the The state had presented of a possible second trial to larger."' 

India'sTatabuysJaguar and landRover 
Chrysler's entanglement with enough to rescue Ford's finances, but
Associated Press 

Mitsubishi, came when cash was the sale will allow the company to 
DETROIT -After spending billions rolling in at the U.S. automakers as focus on restructuring its core of dollars on Jaguar and Land Rover, drivers snapped up cars and pricey brands, Merkle said. Ford does not Ford Motor Co. gave up on the sto­pickup trucks and sport utility vehi­break out financial results for its ried British automakers Wednesday cles. individual brands, but Merkle said and unloaded them to India's Tata But Ford's fortunes have changed, Jaguar has never made a profit in Motors Ltd. for a mere third of the with slumping U.S. sales and billions the nine years Ford has owned it. original purchase price. in losses. The fire-sale price comes 'They were a long time coming to 
The deal is another sign of the as the Dearborn, Mich.-based the realization that this thing wasn't growing economic muscle of India automaker concentrates on its main working," said Burnham Securities and something of an economic role brands. analyst David Healy. reversal, with two icons of British "You have to cut your losses at Tata said Ford will continue to sup­industrial might expanding the global some point," said Erich Merkle, vice ply engines, transmissions and other reach of a premier conglomerate in president of auto industry forecasting components for five to nine years. the former British colony. for the consulting firm IRN Inc. in The Indian company said it expects 
Ford nets about $1.7 billion, a far Grand Rapids. "It's been draining no significant changes for Jaguar cry from what it paid for the proper­them of cash and resources." and Land Rover's 16,000 workers, ties-$2.5 billion for Jaguar in 1989 Tata is India's oldest and largest and its statements said it would pre­and $2.7 billion for Land Rover in conglomerate, with holdings in steel, serve the heritage of the brands. 2000. Counting losses and product information technology and autos. It Indeed, British Labour Party law­development, analysts figure Ford should have the cash to save Jaguar maker Richard Burden said Tata spent more than $10 billion on the and Land Rover and develop new appeared to recognize the impor­brands. products to better compete with lux­tance of "retaining the essential 
Those acquisitions, like General ury automakers. Merkle said. Britishness of the Jaguar and Land Motors' purchase of Saab and The proceeds of the deal aren't Rover brands." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
to know how some people part of the play entitled "The place on the University's churches have incredible feel about vaginas, just look Little Coochie Snorcher That campus. resources," she said. "If sur­
Protest 
at New Orleans after the Could" where a girl is raped "A Catholic university vivors can put their healing 
continued from page 1 storm," performer Naomi by a man as a 10-year-old should not stand for anything in a divine plan, they are 
Mlynski said. and then indulges in lesbian that desecrates the dignity of much more likely to be 
"!lair," ended, 20 to 30 stu­The play also poked fun at sex as a 16-year-old with a women and promotes the healed." dents rose from their seats Notre Dame's discomfort. 24-year-old woman. culture of shamelessness," At the end of the panel dis­and exited the room, creating Producer Jordy Brooks held Instead, she said. "Even cussion, Nussbaum praised a slight disturbance. In their a sign reading "V*gina" when Astell said Ensler's play has University president Fr. .John empty seats they left letters explaining how many at shame is an "A Catholic university made a signifi­.Jenkins for his judgment, but explaining their decision. Notre Dame feel about that important cant contribution said he was worried about
should not stand for 
"We have chosen to attend, part of the female anatomy. part of sexu­to the culture of the divide between the dio­
anything that 
and immediately depart Performer Maureen Mullen, ality, "which shamelessness." cese and the University and from, this performance of who played a lesbian domi­calls us all to desecrates the Everett said that "The Vagina 'The Vagina Monologues' in natrix in the segment, enti­responsibili­"The Vagina Monologues" prevented the
dignity ofwomen and 
order to protest its perform­tled "The Woman Who Makes ty for our­Monologues" por­play from accomplishing its
promotes the culture 
anco on eampus for seventh Vaginas Happy," also added selves and trayal women goal of raising awareness of out of' the past eight years the "Notre Dame moan" and others." ofshamelessness." indulging in sexu­violence against women. (sic)," thn lllttllr explained. the "Notre Dame moan (after Astell was al escapades was "I thought some of the "Upon leaving the play, we parietals)" to her skit. followed by more shameful things were totally inappro­
Lisa Everett 
arn headed as a group to the 1-'ollowing the play, theolo­D'Angelo,· that its portrayal priate if the end goal is stop­
Belles co-director for the
Grotto, where we will pray gy professors Ann Astell and who said of raped women. ping violence against for the students, faculty, and Mary Hose D'Angelo, peace "The Vagina Offices of Family Life "The desecra­women," he said. administration of the studies professor Susan Monologues" Diocese of tion that we Nussbaum, however, recog­University of Notre Dame, StVille, and co-director for are rooted in freely choose vio­nized that sexual abuse is a
Ft. Wayne-South Bend 
and particularly that our the Offices of Family Life in 1970's femi­lates our dignity huge problem and related his institutional partieipation in the diocese of Fort Wayne­nism and are much more than experiences as a prosecutor such a demeaning cultural South Bend Lisa Everett not intended the desecration specializing in sexual abuse fad will eome to an end. As offered their opinions on as an attack on Roman that is forced upon us," she cases. loyal sons and daughters of "The Vagina Monologues" Catholic sexual doctrine. said. "When we desecrate "It's a huge problem, and if Our Lady, we are confident and fielded questions from According to D'Angelo, the ourselves, that damages the people don't think it's a prob­that she will hear our the audience. play explores the different soul much more deeply." lem, then they have their prayer." Astell began by relating the ways women consent to sex StVille provided the per­head in the sand," he said. 
Nussbaum said he dis-story of author Virginia and how that consent is used spective of someone who has Nussbaum asked the panel agreed with many elements Woolf's sexual abuse and in society. counseled a number of sexu­what he should tell the mem­of' the play and argued that '"The Monologues' offer an al abuse victims over the bers of the Alumni the protesters the sexual exercise in listening," she years. Association. were not wrong nature of the said. "It is not a perfect play, but StVille, who is herself a
"New Orleans is the 
for walking out, play drowns D'Angelo criticized the tim­it is an important vehicle," University alumnus, said but still made him vagina ofAmerica, its message ing of the play, however, she said. "A woman who is simply removing the play uncomfortable. and ifyou want to of stopping arguing that it should be violated sexually from the cam­The organizers violence held during V-Day in April so experiences her-pus would not
know how some
of the monologues against that the University could self be-ing radi­help create did not protest people feel about women. protest violence against cally silenced." "It is not a perfect any aware­this departure, vaginas, just look at "The over­women with the entire world. StVille was ness about
play, but it is an

and instead wel­all, too sim­"I really find it disturbing critical of the sexual vio­
New Orleans after the 
comed audience ple message that the University permits style of the play, important vehicle. A lence.
storm."
members in the seems to be 'The Monologues' but at the and said Ensler, woman who is "The issue back to fill the this: the cost of disassociating them who was herself of whether or
violated sexually 

empty seats up Naomi Mlynski physical vio­with V-Day," she said. a sexual abuse not to have front. lence that Everett, who did not attend victim, lost some experiences herself this at a
performer
The play includ­women suf-Wednesday's performance important ele­being radically Catholic ed several new fer at the but was present for ments of the University
silenced."

additions, includ-hands of Tuesday's dress rehearsal, feminine experi­has taken ing monologues about women men can be remedied adopted a much more con­ence when she attention in Iraq, Pakistan. Mexico and through women's enjoyment servative stance, saying the took over 200 Susan StVIIIe away from New Orleans. of their own and each other's play was in complete viola­interviews and peace studies professor sexual vio­
"New Orleans is the vagina bodies, pleasure healing tion of Catholic sexual and rewrote them as lence," she of' America, and if' you want pain," she said, referring to a moral teachings and had no monologues. said. "I would 
"[The mono-disagree that logue style) gives them the the way to reach them is to ability to evoke empathy," stop doing the play, because she said. "But something is all that will do is give stu­lost when you encapsulate an dents the message that we interview in monologue are not going to talk about form." this here. And no matter 
Moreover, StVille said sexu­what else would substitute, al abuse victims are often you're not going to get over more successful in healing that affront to the women their wounds when they who have been raped." make it a religious experi­ence. Contact joseph McMahon at 
"Catholicism and other jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

If youor so..eone you love needs help or informatii'>n, please call. 
Con/idenUal support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7 407 

• 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 ­

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steihe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-4365 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


t our website at: .......u.cu'u' departments/pregnant.sbtml 


Thursday, March 27, 2008 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
State Dept. etnployees view-fatnous passports 
Workers examined Anna Nicole Smith's records 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON State Department workers viewed passport applications contain­ing personal information about high-profile Americans, including the late Playboy playmate Anna Nicole Smith, at least 20 times since January 2007, The Associated Press has learned. 
That total is far more than disclosed last week with the news that presidential candi­dates Hillary Rodham Clinton, John McCain and Barack Obama had been victims of improper snooping. 
An internal department review has found the addi­tional instances of depart­ment employees or contrac­tors looking at computerized passport files of politicians and celebrities, according to preliminary results. 
It has not been determined if the new cases also involved improper peeking, officials familiar with the review said Wednesday. Smith's case, however, seems legitimate, the officials said. The review is not complete and the exact number of cases was not yet clear. 
They spoke on condition of anonymity because the review is going on at the same time as the department's own watchdog investigates pass­port record security related to the breaches involving the White House candidates. 
Smith, 39, died in February 2007 death from an acciden­tal overdose in Florida and was buried in the Bahamas, where she had moved in 2006. The review of her pass­port file appears to have come after a legitimate request from the U.S. Embassy in the Bahamas for information needed to com­plete her death certificate, the officials said. 
Supervisors recorded each instance a file was viewed because the applications in question belonged to mem­bers of a select group of sev­eral hundred citizens whose passport files were "flagged" for extra protection due to their visibility, the officials said. Among these people are government leaders, movie stars and athletes, the offi­cials said. 
The list maintained by Bureau of Consular Affairs has included as many as 500 people at any one time, they said. The list is kept secret partly to deter workers from making unauthorized inquiries into high-profile records. Although there are no formal criteria for inclu­sion, people on the list are deemed to warrant special consideration because of their public status, the officials said. 
The investigation begun by the department's inspector general after last week's dis­closure covers some of the same ground as the internal review but also will examine whether the searches of the candidates' records were politically motivated. Thus far, officials say they believe that snooping resulted from "imprudent curiosity." 
Two contractors were fired 
and a third disciplined for breaching Obama's records three times and McCain's records once. A department employee who looked at Clinton's file as part of a training exercise was repri­manded. 
The companies that provid­ed the contractors -Stanley Inc., of Arlington, Va., and The Analysis Corp., or TAC, of McLean, Va. -have said their employees' actions were unauthorized and not consis­tent with company policies. 
Accessing any of the flagged files triggers an automatic notification that the record has been viewed. That allows supervisors to check whether it was done for a legitimate reason, such as an official request for verification of information contained in an actual passport. 
The review being conducted by Patrick Kennedy, under­secretary of state for manage­ment, is expected to result in increased security measures for the passport files of flagged individuals, the offi­cials said. 
The most likely step would mean special security for those records, making them accessible to passport employees only after they get permission to view them from a supervisor, the officials said. 
That restriction now applies to the files of the three candi­dates. Kennedy hopes to have it cover all high-profile records before the inspector general's report is completed and ahead of congressional hearings on passport security, the officials said. 
In addition, Kennedy wants to expand the list to more than 500 individuals, they said. 
But that is unlikely to pre­empt calls for a separate Justice Department investiga­tion into whether the breach­es of the candidates' files vio­lated federal laws. Nor would it address concerns that the files of millions of people not considered high-profile enough for the extra protec­tion may also have been improperly accessed. 
It is unclear what the con­tractors might have seen in the candidates' records. Passport applications typical­ly contain only basic personal information such as name, citizenship, age, Social Security number and place of birth. The files generally would not list countries the person has traveled to. 
But Passport Services main­tain other records that can include information such as marriages overseas, court orders, arrest warrants and medical and financial reports. Further, outside "users" ­including other government agencies and foreign govern­ments -may be given certain information. 
But the department says extraneous information would be included in passport appli­cation files only under rare circumstances, such as sus­pected fraud. Also, foreign governments are not given access to the U.S. electronic system that contains the files, it said. 
Leaders call for more reports 
Joint Chiefs fear troop levels in Iraq hurt abilities to handle other crises 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Behind the Pentagon's closed doors, U.S. military leaders told President Bush Wednesday they are wor­ried about the Iraq war's mounting strain on troops and their families. But they indicat­ed they'd go along with a brief halt in pulling out troops this summer. 
The Joint Chiefs of Staff did say senior commanders in Iraq should make more frequent assessments of security condi­tions, an idea that appeared aimed at increasing pressure for more rapid troop reduc­tions. 
The chiefs' concern is that 
U.S. forces are being worn thin, compromising the Pentagon's ability to handle crises else­where in the world. 
In the war zone itself, two more American soldiers were killed Wednesday in separate attacks in Baghdad, raising the 
U.S. death toll to at least 4,003, according to an Associated Press count. Volleys of rockets also slammed into Baghdad's Green Zone for the third day this week, and the U.S. Embassy said three Americans were seriously wounded. At least eight Iraqis were killed elsewhere in the capital by rounds that apparently fell short. 
Wednesday's 90-minute Pentagon session, held in a secure conference room known as "the Tank," was arranged by Defense Secretary Robert Gates to provide Bush an additional set of military views as he pre­pares to decide how to proceed in Iraq once his troop buildup, which began in 2007, runs its course by July. 
"Armed with all that, the president must now decide the way ahead in Iraq," said Pentagon press secretary Geoff Morrell. The discussion covered not only Iraq but Afghanistan, where violence has spiked, and broader military matters, said Morrell, who briefed reporters without giving details of the discussion. Some specifics were provided by defense officials, commenting on condition of anonymity in order to speak more freely. 
The Joint Chiefs are particu­larly concerned about Afghanistan and an increasing­ly active Taliban insurgency. 
The United States has about 31,000 troops in Afghanistan and 156,000 in Iraq. 
U.S. forces in Iraq peaked at 20 brigades last year and are to be cut to 15 brigades, with a total of about 140,000 combat and support troops, by the end of July. A key question facing Bush is whether security condi­tions will have improved suffi­ciently by then to justify more reductions. 
One of the leading advocates of Bush's troop buildup last year, military historian Frederick Kagan of the American Enterprise Institute, said in an interview Wednesday that security conditions in Iraq, while better, are not good enough to justify any commit­ment to troop reductions beyond July. 
"The military reality is that it's virtually inconceivable that it will make sense to draw down below 15 brigades this year," Kagan said. 
Gates has said he would like to see the total drop to 10 brigades by the end of this year, but that now looks unlikely. 
Gen. David Petraeus, the top 
U.S. commander in Iraq, has proposed what is commonly called a "pause" to assess the impact of having withdrawn five combat brigades since December. He has argued that it would be reckless to shrink the American force so rapidly that the gains achieved over the past year are compromised or lost entirely. 
Bush is expected to endorse Petraeus' approach. If, as expected, Petraeus is given until August or September to weigh the effects of the current round of reductions, then it is unlikely that the force would get much below 15 brigades by the time Bush leaves office in January. 
Bush is unlikely to announce his decision until after Petraeus and the top U.S. diplomat in Baghdad, Ryan Crocker, return to Washington next month to report to Congress. 
The Joint Chiefs, who do not command troops but are legally responsible for ensuring the fit­ness of the forces they provide to commanders, have grown increasingly concerned that the weight of five-plus years of war in Iraq could create severe, long-term problems, particular­ly for the Army and Marine Corps. 
In their session with Bush, the chiefs laid out their con­cerns about the health of the 
U.S. force, several defense offi­cials said. Bush was accompa­nied by his chief of staff, Joshua Bolten; his national security adviser, Stephen Hadley, and Vice President Dick ShShir. 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page I 0 Thursday, March 27, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
It's good to be male 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining II all, Notre Dame, IN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle Wesr 
A~ST. MANAGING EOJTOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EmTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
N1ws EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: 'Ete Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz llarter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63 I -6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsrne@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.H-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 6.11-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit·wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE 0ESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily nt'Wspaper puhlishcd in print and online by the studenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial conrcnt, including advertisements, is not governed by policit'S ofrht• administration ofeirhcr institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofrhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily rhose ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free t•xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t·rrers to the Editor mliSt be signed and mliSt include contact intorrnatinn. 
Qumiom ~arding Obsnwr policies should be directed to Editor in CbiefChn's Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·n,c t >l~M"r'Yl'f (li~PS Iii')&) 2·4UUU) ~ publl~hccl MnmL.y d1ruugh Frid.iy ou.tpt cluuntt cum ;wnd v:u;;UJUII pcriuJ,. A •uhacriptinnto ·me Observer i1 $100 furunc auckmk yc.&r: S1'.i flu one tcmorcr 
·n1c Ohlcrvcr i~ publiJhcd .n POSTMASTER 024 Smuh IJimnK Hall Send JddrCJoS corrections ro: Nurre Dame. IN <i65SG-On9 TI1c Observer l'totiudkal pomge p;ud .u Nom D.unc P.O. BO)c779 and.~tldiri••rl.lllnJilingulli(es, 014 Snurh Dining Hall 
Nmrc D;~me,JN 46';56..0779 
The Ob.crvcr IS .a mcmhcr of the AurK.wC'd l'n:l.\. All rt>pmtiuc•ion ri~Ui arc rnervcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Bill Brink Fran Tolan Mandi Stironc Jared Jedick Gene Noone Meghan Graphics McMahon Blair Chcmidlin Scene Viewpoint Tae Andrews .John Dailey 
At a luneh on Monday, a mother of four told me why her oldest daughter didn't go to Notre Dame. A teacher at her prestigious all-girls Connecticut prep school told her, with some cer­tainty, that Notre Dame was "sexist." 
The mother con­tinued: the teacher's state­ment was outra­geous, evidence of her non-Catholic, East Coast bias and her narrow­minded belief that Notre Dame is a football team first and a school sec­ond. 
The mother was probably right. Still today, most New York suburbs­particularly wealthy, WASPy New York suburbs-don't view Notre Dame the same way most Chicago suburbs do. 
But as the mother dismissed the assertion of sexism as mere ignorance, I cringed and kept my mouth shut, only nodding and smirking and shoving enough snap peas in my mouth that I wouldn't have to respond. 
Because, in at least one sense, the teacher was right too. There is an embarrassing gap between the treat­ment of women and men at Notre Dame even today. Admitting women, adding a gender studies program and showing the Vagina Monologues on campus shouldn't be trumpeted as signs that we're a place that treats male and female students equally. We don't. 
In many ways, we're still a boys club. 
The evidence seems almost too obvi­ous, too often whined about among students around campus, to merit a column. Among students, this observa­tion is tired. But we don't talk about it publicly, we never demand a change. 
There are different standards in men's and women's dorms. Sure, the DuLac in Farley is the same as the DuLac in Fisher, but students know the 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
"Vagina Monologues" 
Yes No 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
rules aren't the same in practice. 
Any male dorm -and, yes, that indudes Morrissey-is far less harsh than is any female dorm on campus. While it varies case-by-case and indi­vidual-by-individual-there are lenient HAs and Hectors in women's halls, there's the occasional jerk in men's (you know who you are)-the experience of getting caught vomiting in Alumni is less serious than the expe­rience of getting caught in PE. And this can't be dismissed as necessary dorm autonomy. There is a consistent differ­ence in treatment and discipline between male and female dorms. 
I don't know why the difference exists. There is something of a boys­will-be-boys side to it, I'm sure. There's also a practical concern: as a general rule, men taking shots aren't as quick to become a liability (though there are plenty of lightweighted exceptions). Most importantly, there's also still a sense of paternalism to it. A Frosh-0 sign half-joking reassures freshman parents that a particular women's dorm has been "protecting your daughters from Zahm" since its inception. 
Walk through campus on a Friday night at 10 and you'll see the perverse effects of this protect-the-girls sensibil­ity. The harshness of women's' halls forces girls to go off-campus or to men's' halls for parties. And while I don't have any hard data to back this up, it sure seems like this causes some girls to drink more (male-purchased) alcohol and discourages them from returning (plastered) after parties. 
This is a bad thing. And not just because it costs me more money. To vastly over-generalize something that too many Notre Dame students know from experience, pushing freshmen girls to Turtle Creek never ends well. 
Put simply, women's dorms don't actually protect their residents by being harsher on alcohol and parties. Instead, they push them to more dan­gerous situations over which hall staff has less control. The means undermine the end. The halls take worse care of 
to the Editor at 
.:;;;:,::. 

www.ndsmcobserver~com 
their residents prneisely because they 
try to take better earn of them. 

Our women's halls ought to treat our 
women the same way our men's halls 

treat our men. (Treating the men as we 
now treat women isn't an option -it 
would just force more kids to go off­
campus and compound the probleml. 

It's not a change in policy, per se. It is a 
change in culture and attitude. 
It means less draconian punishment 
in women's halls. It means the willful 
ignorance towards underage drinking 
that pervades men's halls. It means 
hiring the sort of hall staff' who can 
enforce rules without bning judgmen­
tal, who care more about the overall 
person than the rule they break, and, 
most importantly, who demonstrate 
that care by staying lenient when pos­
sible and understanding that female 

Notre Dame studnnts are best served if 
they are treated similarly to male 
Notre Dame students. 
And for students, it means actually 
publicizing the double standard. 
Everybody knows it, yes. But we never 

hear about it in a public forum. Hather 
than only whining bnhind the scenns 

when they get in trouble, students need 
to proactively makn an issue of it. 

Until then, though, the high school teacher's analysis of Notre Dame as a sexist place seems embarrassingly accurate. No doubt, this sexism mani­fests itself in ways I can't see; ways that are apparent only to a female eye. But I don't need to be a girl to watch, and experience, the double standard our men and women face. 
We're thirty-five years into our co-ed experiment and at Notre Dame, it's still a good thing to be a male. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. This weekend, his five-year-old sister told him that she was "cheering for Obama for President" because he could "bring more rainbows. "lie can be reached at anesi@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
rights are respected, where the peo­
p-le are fed, and where individuals 
and nations are free. " 
Tenzin Gyatso 14th Dalai Lama 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 27, 2008 page 11 
Have you ever had "the thought"? 
One of my sons has a recurring problem with what he calls "the thought." Every so often, usually as he tries to fall asleep at night, "the thought" comes to him and absolutely 
terrifies him. He  
comes to find me  Kate Barrett  
and knows that all  
he needs to say is, ''I'm having the  Faithpoint  
thought." And  
what is it? Simply  

the understanding, with painful clari­ty, that someday he will die. This has been happening to him for years; at least for as long as he's been able to articulate it to me aloud -not too often, thankfully, but about every month or two. 
Ironically, this happened most recently on the night of Easter. While I was reading in bed, I could hear him start gasping in his room; and sure enough, he came pounding in a few seconds later and jumped up next to me. I tried to tease him a little: "You're having the thought on Easter night? This is the day of all days you'r.e not supposed to be afraid of death!" 
Maybe that wasn't fair-after all, the Gospels tell us again and again that most of Jesus' disciples (whom he had repeatedly told that he would rise from the dead) were still slow to believe he had risen even when pre­sented with physical evidence or the testimony of angels. Even this week, as we continue to celebrate Easter day, we hear that Mary Magdalene looked right at Jesus, thought he was the gardener, and asked him to return the "stolen" body of the Lord -and this after she had peered into the empty tomb and seen angels sitting in the place of Jesus' body. 
We hear the story of the disciples who walked from Jerusalem to Emmaus with Jesus and didn't recog­nize him until he took charge at their dinner table. Those same disciples then jumped up and ran the seven miles back to Jerusalem to tell the others, only to find that they didn't believe it either. Jesus even arrives on the scene, but they think he's a ghost until he offers his hands and feet as proof, and lets them watch him eat to show that he's really alive. Jesus' clos­est friends and followers feared death so deeply that they didn't understand that he had overcome it. 
So who am I to think my son should­n't have his "thought" on Easter night -at least he's in good company. What he shares with Jesus' disciples is not just fear and uncertainty, but more importantly, a belief-even through that fear -in a living, merciful Lord who's always willing to give us a fresh start, a new beginning. For watch how Jesus responds to all his confused, bewildered, yet beloved friends. He reaches out to them: He shares meals; He walks with them; He offers them his peace; He invites them to touch his hands and his side; He even entrusts them with his mission. "Go into the whole world," He will say in Saturday's Gospel, "and proclaim the Gospel to every creature." 
Jesus' resurrection gives us a new chance, too. He mercifully offers each of us the opportunity, again and again, to say, as we will hear "doubting" Thomas cry this Sunday, "My Lord and my God!" To say, as we will hear Cleopas and the other disciple say after Emmaus, "The Lord has truly been raised!" To say, as we will hear Peter cry out, "Yes, Lord, you know I love you!" 
We can't "beat" death, or somehow conquer the inevitability of its pres­ence in our lives. I can't reassure my son, "Nothing to worry about, sweets. You're never going to die." Rather, we may be able to reduce our fear of death by taking Jesus up on his offers to come to him over and over again for mercy, for understanding, for for­giveness. We may not be able to touch him or watch him eat, but we surely can receive him in the sacraments, tangible and certain signs that bespeak and bring God's presence into the world. We can also offer mercy as Jesus did, trying to live with an atti­tude of forgiveness, even when our ability to forgive is tested more than we think we can endure. 
In one of the most stunningly beauti­ful Easter hymns ever written, we sing: "And you most kind and gentle death/Waiting to hush our final breath/0 praise him! Alleluia! You lead to heav'n the child of God/Where Christ our Lord the way has trod/0 praise him! 0 praise him! Alleluia, alleluia, alleluia!" Perhaps we can take the most comfort in knowing that Christ has trod the way of death before us, and now waits in heaven for each and every child of God. 
Kate Barrett is the director of Resources and Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Celebrity influence ineffective 
Last month, Steven Spielberg stepped the Chinese government into timely seems unlikely that the Chinese govern­ble competitions for the athletes. down as the artistic advisor for the action with Sudan. Mr. Clooney is a ment would back away from any given Despite the fact that even Rogge has Beijing Olympics in protest of China's spokesman for Omega Watches, a long­position just because a film actor and been unsuccessful in swaying the continuing inaction over the genocide time Olympic sponsor, and is attempt­director take issue with it. In fact, Chinese government, there is one man inthe Darfur region of Sudan. While ing to pressure the Chinese government when it comes down to it Mr. Clooney whose involvement with this year's Chinese officials through the watch company. While his and Mr. Spielberg have no real influ­Olympic Games is crucial to their per­insisted that the 
efforts have not yielded any action by ence on the practices of the Beijing ceived success in the United States (and Darfur conflict and the Chinese government, Omega execu­Olympic organizing committee, let perhaps around the world). He is quite the Olympics are tives claim they are working to help alone the policies of the Chinese gov­possibly the most exceptional athlete of completely unrelat­solve the crisis. ernment. our generation, and is currently ed, they continue to While Mr. Spielberg and Mr. Clooney I am certain that organizers can find preparing to ignite the world stage. I support Sudan's are using their celebrity clout to no another artistic advisor for the games, believe that Michael Phelps might be government with avail, the plight continues in Darfur. and I even believe that they would be the one man in the world who can use economic, military, Last month, a fresh Sudanese offensive able to find another timing sponsor in the Olympics to sway the actions of the and diplomatic ties. aimed at suppressing Darfur rebels the unlikely event that Omega somehow Chinese government, but he is also one 
Because Mr. Bob Kessler sent even more refugees into neighbor­pulls out their involvement. who can not risk action. Spielberg's ing Chad. Since 2003 more than 2.5 Furthermore, the International attempts to use his million people have fled Darfur, and Olympic Committee president himself Bob Kessler is a junior majoring in position to sway House ofStix over 200,000 people have been killed. has said he is using silent diplomacy to political science and economics. He real­the Chinese gov-The Chinese have seemingly supported help resolve issues about Darfur as well ly enjoys the Easter SweetTarts that ernment, specifical-the massacre by selling weapons to the as the current crisis in Tibet. Jaques come in the shape ofbunnies and chicks. ly President Hu Jintao, had proved less Sudanese government, and buying oil Rogge (president of the IOC) maintains, You can read more ofhis work at saltys­than fruitful, he felt he could no longer from them. however, that the purpose of the tix.com. Contact him at rkessler@nd.edu continue to assist Olympic organizers. But why are these celebrities using Olympic Games is not to solve political The views expressed in this column 
Similarly, George Clooney is also the Olympic Games in an attempt to problems in China, but to bring the are those ofthe author and not using his Olympic resources to pressure pressure Chinese political policy? It world together and have the best possi-necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Attend the Grotto Rosary 
I would like to thank Professor Charles Rice for his superb Mar. 26 Viewpoint column ("Adoration is the answer") stressing the impor­tance of Eucharistic Adoration . Although not on par with adoring Our Lord Himself, the Holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary is also an excellent and fruitful devotion which has given aid and succor to countless men and women over the centuries as they have followed Our Lord in hopes of finding everlasting joy. Everyday, the Rosary is prayed at the Grotto at 
6:45 p.m. Today, the following special intentions will be offered before this Rosary: 
1) For chastity, purity, and modesty among all, especially those associated with the University; 
2) For the end of violence against women in all forms; 
3) For a truly Catholic Identity here at Our Lady's University; 
4) For the health, well being, and intentions of Fr. Jenkins and all priests on this campus; and 
5) For the health, well being, and intentions of His Excellency, Bishop John M. D'Arcy and all of the clergy. 
I would like to invite the entire university community (students, faculty and stafD to attend this Rosary tonight to pray for these most worthy intentions. These intentions will also be remembered during Eucharistic Adoration in the Coleman-Morse Chapel from 7 to 9 p.m. Let's put Professor Rice's sound advice into action: "spend some time with the person who himself really is Truth. And Love." 
Jonathan Kaltenbach junior Morrissey Hall March 26 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, March 27, 2008 

By CASSIE BELEK Assisram Scene Editor 
It's a shame we had to wait so long for Judy Greer to have her own starring role, but "Miss Guided" on ABC is finally giving her the chance to show off her leading lady skills. While many remember Greer for her hysterical role as Kitty Sanchez on ''Arrested Development," she is per­haps most recognizable for her roles as the sar­castic best friend in far too many romantic come­dies ("The Wedding Planner," "13 Going on 30" and "27 Dresses"). But ABC's mid-season replace­ment "Miss Guided" shows us that Greer can han­dle the lead role. She may not look like Jennifer Lopez or Katherine Heigl, but she has all the wit and charm to sparkle on screen and make us love any character she plays. 
Greer stars as Becky Freely, a young woman who has returned to her former high school to be a guidance counselor. Becky's stint as a counselor gives her the opportunity to do over high school -a not so happy experience for the nerdy girl who once started a Milli Vanilli fan club. She's ditched the head gear for a sunny smile and cheery wardrobe, but she hasn't ditched home­coming queen Lisa Germain (Brook Burns) who returns in the pilot as the new English teacher. Lisa causes Becky's high school insecurities to comn flooding back to her, nspeeially when Lisa starts vying for the affection of Spanish teacher Tim (Kristoffer Polaha), who Becky has a serious crush on. Meanwhile Becky is constantly butting heads with assistant principal Bruce, brilliantly played by "SNL" alum Chris Parnell -another underappreciated comedic actor who is finally getting a major role. 
Miss Guided 

Network: ABC Staning: Judy Greer, Brooke Burns, Kristoffer Polaha ard Chris Pamell 
Yet another comedy about high school could get old fast, but "Miss Guided" is careful to keep its humor fresh and its situations real. There is a reason that so many movies and television shows focus on high school -it's one of the defining time periods of our lives. In high school there are winners and losers (mostly losers), but it's the los­ers who go on to run the world. Becky Freely is a loser trying to reinvent herself and help kids who need a little guidance from someone who wasn't Lisa Germain in high school. 
ABC has already aired three episodes with two airing back to back for the next two weeks before "Ugly Betty" reclaims its time slot with new npisodes. Little information is available about the future of the series. The first episode caught the eye of 10 million viewers while the second two episodes dropped down to about 6.3 million view­ers each. 
Critical reception has been generally positive. with several comparisons to "30 Roek" and "Arrested Development." "Miss Guided" is a sin­gle camera comedy, which gives the series morn freedom to feature characters directly addressing the camera and to cut away to embarrassing high school flashbacks. 
The comedy also follows a recent trend of female characters taking the lead in single cam­era sitcoms. Becky Freely is in good company with Liz Lemon (Tina Fey) on "30 Hoek" and Samantha Newly (Christina Applegate) on "Samantha Who?" These characters are modorn­day Lucy Hicardos, Mary Hichards's and Murphy Browns. 
Becky is a character who made it after all, but her personal journey isn't complete because in high school, an emotional breakdown is always right around the corner. Becky has to deal with 
everything from resisting the advances of the 
substitute Spanish teacher (played by executive 
producer Ashton Kutcher) who is after Tim's job 
to being jealous that she isn't higher on the 
"most doable teachers" list. 
"Miss Guided" is quirky and consistently 
funny. Most characters are multi-dimensional 
and feature possibilities for growth. If the series 
gets picked up for more episodes, we'll possibly 
see the one-joke characters get something 
meatier and funnier. In the meantime, "Miss 
Guided" can draw on the high school experi­
ences that we all identify with while Becky 
shows us what a winner she has become. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, March 27, 2008 page 13 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Ediror 
It has been discussed, deliberated and debated, hyped and hated, criti­cized, condemned, lambasted and laud­ed. Controversy over "The Vagina Monologues" has raged from the pages of this newspaper to the quads of Notre Dame's campus to the streets sur­rounding her borders. In the months prior to this week, the only thing miss­ing from the controversy embroiling this campus surrounding was the actu­al performance itself. 
Now, finally, "The Vagina Monologues" takes cen­ter stage at Notre Dame. 
three years involved with the show in one capacity or another. "These are women who are passionate about respect for the genders and stopping violence. 
"I have also seen the play positively impact the emotional lives of my friends who are survivors of sexual assault and I have seen the play spark interest in individuals to take action to stop violence against women, Steinmetz said. "For many students at Notre Dame, it becomes more than just a play, it becomes an inspiration and for some the beginning of a movement. 
"The stories in the play are real, we would like to share them with the 
University and we 
hope this will spark 

At the show's heart discussion and
At the show's heart lies a 
lies a core of committed action regarding
core ofcommitted young 
young women dedicated awareness of our­to putting on the per­women dedicated to put­selves as sexual formance even in light ting on the performance beings and aware­
of having to place them­ness of the sexual
even in light ofhaving to
selves at the center of violence that is the controversy. This place themselves at the inflicted upon indi­
group of organizers center ofthe controversy. viduals every day." 
includes seniors Jordy Brooks, Lisa Rauh. Cathy Steinmetz, Sarah Muscarella and sophomore Miriam Olsen. 
What ties each of these young women together is her determination to share a story of sexual violence, whether it be her own or a friend's. 
"Beyond my own experiences dealing with close friends who have been the victims of sexual violence, I was inspired to join primarily for the empowering and positive environment I believe the 'Vagina Monologues' cre­ates." Hauh said. "In addition, I real­ized that in considering myself 'lucky' for having escaped such victimization, I was only accepting that there was a problem. The Monologues offered a vrmue to address this epidemic of vio­lence against women." 
Director and sophomore Stephanie Newsome agreed. say­ing, "I have had very personal experiences 
It has been a long, 

arduous trip for the Monologues organizers in taking Eve Ensler's vision from script to stage. This week's three performances of the show represent the culmination of sev­eral months' worth of work. Back in September 2007, .the organizers approached several departments they believed would have academic reasons to sponsor the event. After receiving conditional approval from two depart­ments, the group held auditions in late December. 
At the beginning of this semester, Rauh and company set to work on establishing the dates of the tentative event with the University. Having agreed upon dates, the group submit­ted a final proposal to the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, who signed off on the proposal around the time of spring break: The organizers' responsi­bilities included 
with sexual assault, meeting with aca­
What ties each ofthese
which have forced me demic departments
young women together is 
to speak out in any way to discuss sponsor­I can to stop this vi o­her determination to ship, soliciting pro­lence. fessors to be on the
share a story ofsexual 
"It is a lot harder to panel and attending
violence, whether it be her 
dismiss something organizers meetings when we do not have a own or afriend's. one to two times a 
vested interest in it, but as soon as it becomes personal, then we can­not remain ignorant or quiet. These stories are personal, and that is why we must tell them." 
"What has inspired my continued involvement are all of the wonderfully kindhearted. accepting and motivated women I have met through !being involved with the performance]," Steinmetz said. She has spent the past week. 
In terms of the pro­

duction itself, Newsome said that the nature of the script afforded her a large degree of creative freedom in putting on the show. 
"One of the great things about direct­ing this script is that it is so minimal­ist," she said. "The script does not call for a set, or specific lighting, or even a stage. For this production, there is no 
Photo courtesy of Lisa Rauh The controversy surrounding "The Vagina Monologues" comes to a head tonightand tomorrow night with performances in DeBartolo Hall. 
line between the audience and the actors. And by 'breaking the fourth wall,' I hope we can engage our audi­ence and spark conversation." 
The structure of the show also pro­vides for some flexibility in its presen­tation. In addition to 'core' monologues which recur every year, the production ensemble decided to add other mono­logues of Ensler's and a "Spotlight" monologue designed to keep the show relevant. This year's Spotlight mono­logue focuses on women living in New Orleans and in the Gulf South amidst 
the rebuilding period post-Hurricane Katrina. 
"Directing this show has only been a challenge because there is so much controversy circulating around it," Newsome said. "But I suppose that is what makes it the most rewarding, because we overcame so many obsta­cles to be here. After months of antici­pation and struggle, here we stand, more beautiful than ever." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
MLB 
A's ride pitching to split with Red Sox in Japan Series 
Harden strikes out nine on 95 pitches; Brown's three-run homer the difference in third inning; Ortiz goes 0-2 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Split two games, get back on a plane. 
Hich Harden struck out nine over six innings and Emil Brown hit a three-run homer, leading the Oakland Athletics to a 5-1 victory over the Boston Hed Sox on Wednesday night in the finale of their sea­son-opening series in Japan. 
"Last night we lost a heart­breaker. We won tonight. Now nvnryone 's looking forward to getting back to the Bay Area and recovering," Oakland manager Bob Geren said. 
Boston began its World Series title defnnse by winning Tuesday's opener 6-5 in 10 innings after rallying in the ninth. The Hed Sox headed to Los Angeles aftnr Wednesday's game for three more exhibi­tions against the Dodgers, ineluding one at the Los Angeles Coliseum on Saturday. 
"We'll take a step back tomorrow and have an option­al workout," manager Terry Franeona said. "We tried to do our homework on what to expect from travel. We're not going to talk ourselves into bning tired, and we'll do what we need to do to get ready for the next start in Oakland." 
After the New York Yankees went to Japan to start the 2004 season against Tampa Bay, several players said they had trouble adjusting when they got home. 
The Hed Sox and A's resume their regular seasons with a two-game series starting Tuesday in Oakland. 
No team has ever swept a season-opening series in .Japan. The Chieago Cubs and New York Mets split their two­game Japanese series in 2000, as did the New York Yankees and Tampa Bay Devil Hays in 2004. 
Since the tmuns arrived last week, the focus was on the Hed Sox, coming off their sec­ond title in four seasons, and Oakland was almost an al'ter­
-
thought. 
Indeed, late in the game, an Oakland flag above the score­board in center fell and land­ed on the warning track between innings. A groundskeeper went out and retrieved it. 
With Japanese stars Daisuke Matsuzaka and llideki Okajima, the Red Sox were clearly the fan favorites. 

"We were received so warm­ly," Francona said. "Having Daisuke and Hideki added to that and hopefully we gained some fans." 
Harden (1-0) helped the A's gain something from the trip. lie is coming back from three injury-plagued seasons, and he made just four starts last year-none after July 7. This time, the right-hander allowed three hits and three walks, throwing 95 pitches. 
"I had some bad luck the past couple of years," Harden said. "But hopefully, I can put that behind me and do what I need to do to help the ballclub this season." 
Harden said he tried to stay focused for Wednesday's game and not let the unique sur­roundings at Tokyo Dome affect him. 
"You want to be consistent with how you approach your starts," he said. "It did feel a bit different out there, almost like a playoff game, but you just try to treat it like any other game." 
Oakland built a 4-0 lead against Jon Lester (0-1) while Harden shut down the Red Sox. He allowed his only run in the sixth on a homer by Manny Ramirez, who struck out in his first two at-bats. 
David Ortiz was 0-for-2 with a strikeout and a walk against Harden. Coming in, Ortiz was 4-for-5 against Harden, and Ramirez was 2-for-3, each homering twice. 
"Rich showed tonight against the world champions how good he is and how much we need him," Geren said. "His entire spring training went well with no health issues. We're hoping to get 30­
plus more starts like that." 
Oakland went ahead in the 
second inning of this one 
when Bobby Crosby doubled 
and scored on Chris Denorfia's 
single. Brown made it 4-0 with 
a three-run homer in the 
third. 
"It's a great opportunity for me," said Brown, who made up for a costly baserunning mistake in Tuesday's loss. "We didn't play too bad last night, I made a mistake and it cost us. I was glad I could help the 
.team today, so that we can head home with a win." 
Oakland added a run in the eighth ofT Bryan Corey on Jeff Fiorentino's RBI single after a double by Kurt Suzuki, a native of Hawaii with Japanese grandparents. 
Ramirez struck out three times after hitting a pair of two-run doubles Tuesday. He stood at the plate admiring his 10th-inning drive in the open­er, thinking it was a three-run homer, and had to hustle to reach second. 

lie could afford to stand and watch his shot Wednesday, a sure home run deep into the left-field seats that moved him within nine of joining the 500­homer club. 
Santiago Casilla, Keith Foulke and Alan Embree fol­lowed Harden with one score­less inning apiece, completing a five-hitter. Oakland rebound­ed from its fourth straight opening-day loss. Foulke threw a called third strike past Ramirez to end the eighth with a runner on second. 
Lester gave up four runs, five hits and three walks in four innings. 
"Emil got one pitch just a lit­tle bit over the plate and he hit it over the wall." Lester said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible. no experience needed. customer sales/service. conditions apply, ages 18+,574273­3835 www.workforstudents.com 
Notre Dame Staff member seeks house sitting/furmshed rental through July 31 while home is being built. Call574-360-6919. 
Dependable person to do yard work and minor fixups. Call Sue at 
233-7719. 
Child Care: Occasional evenings and weekends for our twin daugh­ters, age 7. Looking for someone who is responsible, energetic and enjoys kids. Good pay. Contact Paul at weithman.1 @ nd.edu or Maura at ryan.61 @nd.edu 
Housemate sought. Private room. Call631-7897. $400 monthly. 
All our knowledge begins with the senses. proceeds t hen to the understanding, and ends with reason. There is nothing higher than reason. Immanuel Kant 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09.09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS­ES.COM 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com 

3-4 bdnn, 3 bath home close to cam­pus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace. 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call 574-232-4527 or 26~5038 or 574-340­1844.Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home for rent walking distance to col­lege. Call847-507-7444. 
For rent Two story house ready for imme­diate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bed­rooms, central station monttored security system. six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances, large IMng room, free trash removal. Garage available for car-€xtra. Call2894071. 
Large house available for 2009-2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet. 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@gmail.com 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour con­fidenbal hotiine at 1-800-No Abort or visrt our web stte at www.lifecall.org 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, at 1-7819. For more information. visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-·veekly ad in The Observer. 

Summer In Maine:Males and females. Meet new friends! Travell Teach your favorite activity. •Tennis•canoe•water Ski·Swim"Saii"Kayak•Theatre·Vide o•Ropes•office•Pottery•English Riding•Landsports and more. June to August. Residential. Enjoy our website. Apply on-line. TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1-800-997­4347, www.tripplakecamp.com 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 27, 2008 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Top20 
rank  team  record  points  
1  Virginia  9·0  360  
2  (tie) Duke  8·1  325  
2  (lie) Syracuse  5·1  325  
4  Maryland  6·2  273  
5  Georgetown  4·2  260  
6  Johns Hopkins  3·3  255  
7  NOTRE DAME  5·1  253  
8  Cornell  5·1  245  
9  Navy  8·1  236  
10  North Carolina  6·2  222  
11  Drexel  7·1  161  
12  UMBC  4·3  140  
13  Army  5·2  133  
14  Delaware  6·2  113  
15  Hofstra  3·2  98  
16  Princeton  2·3  88  
17  Bucknell  5·2  82  
18  Loyola Maryland  4-3  46  
19  Ohio State  4·3  32  
20  Pennsylvania  4·2  27  

NCAA Women's Lacrosse Top20 
rank team record points 
1 Northwestern 7-0 200 2 Princeton 6·0 186 3 Maryland 8·1 181 4 Virginia 6·2 163 5 Duke 7·2 155 6 Syracuse 7·1 152 7 North Carolina 7·2 138 8 Pennsylvania 6·1 134 9 Georgetown 7·1 131 10 Stanford 6·3 84 11 Boston University 6·2 81 12 George Mason 6·1 80 13 NOTRE DAME 6·3 69 14 Oregon 7·3 63 15 Yale 5·3 60 16 New Hampshire 7·2 45 17 Johns Hopkins 3·4 42 18 Vanderbilt 7-3 32 19 Denver 6·3 29 20 Dartmouth 4-3 26 
GWLL Men's Lacrosse Conference Standings 
team league overall 
Quinnipiac 0·0 
6·0 
NOTRE DAME 
0·0 6·1 
Bellarmlne 
0·0 6·2 
Ohio State 
0·0 4-3 
Denver 
0·0 5·4 
Air Force 
0·0 2-4 
MIAA Women's Softball Conference Standings 
team league overall 
Georgetown 
2·0 7-1 Syracuse 2·0 
7-2 
NOTRE DAME 
1-1 ].3 Rutgers 1-1 
3-6 Loyola Maryland 1-3 3·6 Connecticut 
0-2 0-8 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
West Virginia vs. Xavier 
7:10 p.m., CBS 
Washington State vs. North Carolina 
7:27 p.m., CBS 
Western Kentucky vs. UCLA 9 p.m., CBS 
Louisville vs. Tennessee 9 p.m., CBS 
CoMPI LFD FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVlCES page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
BERKELEY -California fired basketball coach Ben Braun on Wednesday fol­lowing another. disappoint­ing season in which the Golden Bears missed the NCAA tournament. 
Braun spent 12 years at Cal and made the tourna­ment five times. But the Bears only went to the NCAA tournament once in his final five seasons, lead­ing to the decision by ath­letic director Sandy Barbour. 
"This was an extremely difficult decision that was undertaken with great care and diligence," Barbour said. "However, in the final analysis, I have determined that it is time for Cal to seek new leadership in our men's basketball program. Competing for conference championships and a place in the NCAA tournament are goals and expectations that are embraced at Cal. Unfortunately, we have not been able to consistently meet those expectations in our men's basketball pro­gram." 

Cal finished in ninth place in the Pac-1 0 this season, going 17-16 overall and just 6-12 in the conference despite having a talented roster that included likely future NBA players in Ryan Anderson, DeVon Hardin and Patrick Christopher. 
The Bears made the NIT, where they were knocked out in the second round by Ohio State on Monday night. 
Braun leaves Cal with a 21-9-154 record at the school. His most successful season was his first after taking over after former coach Todd Bozeman was found to have paid $30,000 to the father of a former player. The Bears went 23­9 in 1996-97 and went to the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
Cal won the NIT in 1999 and made three straight trips to the NCAA tourna­ment from 2001-03, before struggling in recent years as other conference pro­grams have improved. The Bears have placed eighth or' ninth in the Pac-1 0 in three of the last four years. 
Barbour said a search for a new coach will begin immediately, aided by the firm of Eastman & Beaudine, Inc. Associate head coach Louis Reynaud will direct the program until a new head coach is named. 
Names that have already surfaced as possible replacements include TV analyst and former UCLA coach Steve Lavin. former Golden State Warriors and Sacramento Kings coach Eric Musselman and Saint Mary's coach Randy Bennett. 

IN BRIEF  
Pacers' CEO Walsh to stepdown at season's close INDIANAPOLIS -Donnie Walsh called  Beckham receives yellow card in IOOth international game SAINT-DENIS, France -David  A-Rod, Yankees not concerned with steroid allegations CLEARWATER, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez  
the shots, and Reggie Miller made  Beckham got a yellow card in his 100th  refused to address allegations by Jose  
them.  international game for England and was  Canseco, who claims he introduced the  
In nearly two decades together, Walsh  taken off in the 62nd minute of his  three-time MVP to a steroids dealer.  
and Miller changed the Indiana Pacers  team's 1-0 loss at France.  "It's over as far as I'm concerned,"  
from NBA also-rans to title contenders.  Despite speculation the Los Angeles  Rodriguez said Wednesday after his New  
Miller retired in 2005, and when Walsh  Galaxy midfielder would be on the  York Yankees lost 4-0 to the Philadelphia  
said Monday he'd step down as Pacers  bench, England coach Fabio Capello  Phillies. "No further comment on the  
CEO at the end of this season, it sig­ placed him in the starting lineup for  matter. I'm just excited to be playing  
naled the end of an era.  Wednesday's exhibition match at the  baseball."  
Though the franchise has been rid­ Stade de France.  In the book, "Vindicated: Big Names,  
dled with off-the-court problems and  "I was happy to start the game, but it  Big Liars, and The Battle to Save  
losing in recent years, Miller, a five-time  was more about getting on the pitch,  Baseball," Canseco claimed he intro­ 
All-Star and revered clutch shooter,  getting that 100th cap," said Beckham,  duced Rodriguez to a steroids dealer  
prefers to remember the glory days.  who didn't have a shot on goal, made lit­ named "Max."  
Together, the Walsh-Miller combination  tle impression with his trademark long  Canseco wrote that Rodriguez  
reached the Eastern Conference finals  . passes and spent much of his time cov­ approached him years ago and asked  
six times, won the Central Division four  ering for right back Wes Brown.  where "one" might acquire steroids.  
times and made the NBA Finals in  He was shown a yellow card in the  During an interview to be broadcast  
2000.  38th minute for pulling Frank Ribery's  Thursday by ABC's "Nightline," Canseco  
There are reports that Walsh has  shirt and hauling him down as the  said he won't produce evidence to back  
agreed to take control of the New York  Frenchman, who had given his side the  his claim.  
Knicks, though the Pacers say Walsh  lead from the penalty spot, tried to run  Yankees officials aren't concerned  
hasn't made a decision about his future.  past him.  about a potential distraction.  

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
NBA 
Webber tnakes retiretnent official after 15 NBA seasons 
Former star struggled to return from knee injury; comeback attempt with Warriors cut short after only nine games 
Associated Press  short his comeback attempt with the Golden State  not been around the team of late.  these guys, they're on a roll. I feel like they're going to win  flashes and could play a role down the stretch.  key  
OAKLAND  - Chris Webber  Warriors and his rapproche­ The Warriors are in eighth  and have a great chance to go  Warriors  executive  vice  
burst on  the basketball scene  ment with coach Don Nelson.  place  in  the  Western  very far in the playoffs. I just  president Chris Mullin said it  
nearly two decades ago  as a  "It definitely didn't work out  Conference,  a  half-game  felt it  was  time  to  let the  was too late to get any help  
precocious freshman with his  the  way  that  I  planned,"  ahead of Denver for the final  game go and to be able to be  from the outside.  
baggy shorts and black shoes  Webber said. "Life is what  playoff spot. Even if Webber  happy  about  "Brandan  
as  part of Michigan's  Fab  happens while you're making  had been healthy enough to  what I  accom­ does different  
Five. His basketball career came to a much quieter finish when  plans. I'm happy. I'm happy I got a chance to come back here and be reunited with  return, it would have been hard to work his way back into the rotation.  plished without trying to keep coming back."  'Tm happy. I'm happy I got a chance  things than Chris does," teammate Matt  
hn made official what seemed  Coach."  "I  really  didn't  want  to  Webber  and  to come back here  Barnes  said.  
inevitable as he struggled to recover from another knee injury in recent weeks.  Webber played nine games with the Warriors before being sidelined by a bum left  rehab and come back this season because I don't think that was possible," Webber  the Warriors hoped that a return to the  and be reunited with Coach"  "Brandan is an explosive young player  
Webber  announced  his  knee that's hampered him in  said. "Plus, because the way  spot at which he  and he's defi­ 
retirement after 15 NBA  sea­ recent  years.  He  has  not  the team is playing, the chem­ started his NBA  Chris Webber  nitely helping  
sons on  Wednesday, cutting  played since March 2 and had  istry is already great with  career  would  our  team  out 

Former NBA player 


Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 
$ 99 
Free DeliveryONLY On Campus 

Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other 
offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 


Pizza .574-243-1122 
Visit us on the Web at 'NWW.marcos.com 02007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724ND-1007 
help both par­right now. lie's ties. Webber's right in the first stint with middle of the the team ended after one sea­rotation, doing a great job." son with a feud with Nelson, a Webber once was that type public trade demand and of explosive player. He finally a deal to Washington. teamed with Jalen Hose, 
Nelson and Webber made Juwan Howard, Jimmy King up this time around and and Ray Jackson in college to spoke well of each other. help lead Michigan to the 
However,  the  NCAA champi­ 
signing  ended  onship  game  
up having little  his  only  two  
impact team. "I'm  on the really  "I just felt it was time to let the game go  years lege. But  in  col­the  
happy we brought him in," Nelson said. "It  and to be able to be happy about what I  Wolverines lost both times, to Duke in 1992  
was good to get  accomplished without  and  North  
to know him again. He didn't have a lot left in  trying to keep coming back."  Carolina the following year. Webber was  
the  tank  here  most  remem­ 
and the injury  Chris Webber  bered for call­ 
pretty well ended it. It was  Former NBA player  ing a timeout when Michigan  
good  to  have  had  none  
him.  It  was  a  remaining  in  

good try on our part and it the final minute of the 1993 didn't work out. I wish him loss to the Tar Heels. the best. I enjoyed coaching l-Ie left school and became him." the first pick in the draft, get­
Slowed by the knee injuries, ting dealt from Orlando to Webber struggled to keep up Golden State in a draft-day with the fast-pace Warriors trade. He was rookie of the and averaged only 3.9 points year with the Warriors before per game in his brief stint. being dealt to Washington. 
At the time of the signing, llis greatest success came Nelson said he thought he with the Kings, a team he needed another big man in helped revive during his time order to make the playoffs. there. But Sacramento was Since Webber got hurt, rookie unable to make it to the NBA Brandan Wright has shown finals, losing in a seven-game 
HICKEY FREEMAN 
Factory Outlet Store 6132 Broadway, Merrillville (1-65 At 61st Ave.) Mon-Sat: 9:30 am -5:00 pm Sun: 11:00 am -5:00 pm 219-884-8444 
series in the eonferenen finals to the Los Angeles Lakers in 2002. 
Webber's earner began a downward slide aftnr he underwent microfracture sur­gery on his knee the following year. lie was dealt to Philadelphia in 2005 and spent the second half of last season in Detroit with his hometown Pistons. 
Webber was a five-time All­Star, who endnd his earner averaging 20.7 points, 9.8 rebounds and 4.2 assists a game. 
"If you ask me, he was one of best players of his era," Mullin said. "When he was in Sacramento, they were right there among the top teams. l-Ie was in the center of' all of that. lie was the guy who made it all go. II e had a tremendous career. I had the pleasure of watching him come in as a 20-year-old rookie and watched his career all along the way." · 
Webber said he wanted to stay involved in basketball, first as a television commen­tator and then in perhaps a bigger role with a team. lie is scheduled to be in the studio for TNT on Thursday. 
Thursday, March 27, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Giants open against 'Skins 
Associated Press 
The NFL's Thursday night season opener will match the Super Bowl-champion New York Giants and the Washington Redskins, with the game possibly starting an hour­and-a-half earlier to avoid clashing with the Republican National Convention. 
The game is now scheduled for 8:30 p.m. EDT on Sept. 4 ­the concluding night of the Republican convention -and will be televised by NBC. League spokesman Greg Aiello said Wednesday that the NFL is talking with the network about changing the game's starting time to 7 p.m. 
The Super Bowl winner tra­ditionally hosts the game. The Redskins' participation was confirmed by a person familiar with the NFL schedule who spoke on condition of anonymi­ty because the league has not announced it. 
The highlight games of the NFL's first weekend will be an·nounced Monday during league meetings in Palm Beach, Fla. The rest of the schedule will be announced later next month. 

the fastest selling community in Michiana 
March 21h 2008 5:00pm to 8:00pm 
Beer & Wine will be served Hors d'oeuvres provided by ~~:::~~~E,illp"~~'~'~'~' 
RSVP appreciated 
RSVP by March 12 to be entered in the drawing 
for a $50 Gift Card jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 stonebridgecondos. net 
an £penn Community 
STONEBRIDGE VILLAS 
at Edison lakes 
Ranch Villas starting in the S190s 


OLYMPICS 
A111erican cyclist looks to qualify for Beijing 

Associated Press 
MANCHESTER, England ­Cycling runs in Taylor Phinney's family. 
Just six months after mak­ing his track debut, the 17­year-old prodigy from an American cycling dynasty is likely off to the Beijing Olympics. 
The son of American road star Davis Phinney and 1984 Olympic gold medalist Connie Carpenter-Phinney was quick to express his disappointment after clocking 4:22.358 in the individual pursuit at the world track championships on Wednesday. 
Still, that time would be good enough to get Phinney into the Olympics -if USA Cycling, as expected, official­ly secures a starting spot in the pursuit. Even after he fin­ished eighth Wednesday, USA Cycling officials believe Phinney's ranking in the world standings will be good enough to get him into the Beijing field. 
''I'm somewhat happy with the time -it's a personal record for me -but it's still not what I wanted to do," Phinney told The Associated Press. "It's a bit disappointing not finishing where I wanted to, but I didn't expect to rise so quickly. I just have to keep in check that eighth place out of the 17 in the world cham­pionships is not that bad." 
Especially considering that Phinney would only have been found on a soccer pitch two years ago. 
That changed with an inspi­rational trip in 2005 to the Tour de France, where his father became the first American to win a stage in 1986. Within his first year of competitive cycling, he won 23 races. And despite only pedaling in a velodrome for the first time in September, he has already set the sport alight. · 
Taylor feels a virus hin­dered his performance, but vows to be in peak shape after returning to Colorado before participating in junior races in Europe. Then, more than likely, it's off to China, where he is determined to return with a medal and like his mom. 
"I go to races to win," said Phinney, who turns 18 a month before the games. "I have a pretty high expecta­tion of myself and I think I can do that with the right legs. For me, it'll be cool to be part of the Olympic experi­ence -the opening ceremony and all that." 
He doesn't want his oppor­tunity taken away by a possi­ble boycott over China's human rights record and its crackdown in Tibet. 
"If it comes to a boycott sit­uation that will be really dis­appointing," he said. "I hope it doesn't, it is just unneces­sary to involve Olympics with political problems, because the Olympics is about the joining together of greatest athletes in the world." 
Reaching Beijing will also be a challenge for his father, who undergoes brain surgery on April 4 -eight years after being diagnosed with Parkinson's d-isease. 
"This disease is definitely a challenge, but it's made much easier by being able to use the distraction of Taylor and his results," Davis said. "He recognizes what I've lost with this disease and it gives him a great appreciation for what he's got and he doesn't want to fritter it away. 
"He wants to flex his mus­cle -and that shows me and everyone else he doesn't take it for granted." 
Davis Phinney sees the day 
· when his son is an Olympic and Tour de France champion -combining the feats of his parents. "You have to be careful about imposing your dreams on wishes on your kids," Davis said. "But I know that's what he would like and he's going to surpass my footsteps -or wheel marks -and in many cases he already has. ''I'm biased but what's phe­nomenal about the kid is his range, he can ride anywhere from 200 meters in a velo­drome to 100 miles on the road with equal ease, strength and aplomb." 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
NHL 
Minnesota defense rallies to defeat Edtnonton insecond ga111e 
Radivojevic and Hill score twice in first four shots; goalie Backstrom makes 32 saves and allows only one goal 

Associated Press 
ST. PAUL -Two nights after getting routed in Edmonton. the Minnesota Wild were the aggressors from tlw start in a 3-1 victory over tlw Oilrrs on Wednesday night. 
Sean llill, Branko HadivojPvic and Brian Holston scored and Mikko Koivu added three assists for the Wild, who started a four­gamP honwstand with a victo­ry to !Pap-frog Calgary into rirst place in tho Northwest Division. 
Niklas Backstrom made 32 saves. and got some help from a ddense that left him exposed in a 5-3 loss to the Oilers on Monday night. 
Tlw younger, fastnr Oilers rippod right through the porous Minnesota zone on Monday night, scoring three goals on their first four shots. 
The Wild had the fast start in this one. scoring two goals on their rirst four shots to make things tougher on Edmonton, which had won 12 of its last 15 games to vault back into playoff contention. 
FernaiHio Pisani scon~d for the OiiPrs, who began the night trailing Vancouver by three points for the eighth and rinal playoff spot in the West. 
Getting in won't be easy. The Oilers started a three­game road trip and play four of their last five away from raucous Hexall Place, all of them against Northwest f<H~s. 
Marian Gaborik and Hadivojcvie broke free on a two-on-one less than three minutes into the game, and everyone in the building expected Gaborik, the Wild's leading scorer, to take the shot. 
But he waited and waited, 
slipping a  backhanded pass  
across  the  crease at the last  
possible  second  and  

Hadivojevie finished it ofT. 
Just over four minutes later, II ill took ·a brilliant blind feed from Koivu on a power play and sneaked the puck past Dwayne Holoson on the short side for a 2-0 advantage. 
Notes: Veteran move: Early in the seeond period, Holoson wound up caught out of posi­tion as he lunged to make a save during a serum in front of the net. lie lay motionless on the ice to get a stoppage and received "medical atten­tion" from tho trainer, but managed to stay in the game. ... Holston's short-handed goal was the l'irst by tho Wild since Gaborik got one on Jan. :~. 
r------~--·­
·~: ,.oiUlliiJg 

Edmonton's Andrew Cogliano scores on Minnesota goalie Niklas Backstrom during the first period of a game in Edmonton, Alberta. The Oilers won the game yesterday 3-1. 
CLUB DEVELOPMENT WEEK 
March 31st -April 4th 
MONDAY, 3/31 5:30PM ... Officer Transitions 6:30PM ... Marketing Campus Events 
TUESDAY, 4/1 5:00PM ... SAOnline User Traini:t;tg . 
6:00 PM ... Programming and Bramstonmng 
WEDNESDAY, 4/2 5:00PM ... Recruitment and Retention 
6:00 PM ... Website Development 
THURSDAY, 4/3 5:00PM ... Fundraising & Treasurer Training 
All interested student leaders are invited to join us for these instructive sessions to start your club off on the right foot with new officers, new members and new ideas. 
Unless otherwise noted, aU sessions will be held in the Montgomery Auditorium, LaFortune Student Center. 
FRIDAY,4/4 
9:00 AM -5:00PM . Individual Club Consultations 315 LaFortune Student Center 

Thursday, March 27, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS 


South Bend Symphony Duke Ellington Orchestra Saturday, April 5 
South Bend 
Symphony 
1'Russian Saga'' 
Saturday, Apri112 
The Temptations Mannheim &The Four Tops ; Steamroller 
Motown Legend$1. q "FreshAire Concert'' 
Thursday, Apriltt::: --Friday, April18 
UPt:()mine ~li()W~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites No1n inations for the 
Sheedy Awar 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies I 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 

page 19 
NBA 
West nails shot to beat Lebron's Cavs 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Along with countless assists, Chris Paul has given teammate David West a rather unique nickname. 
"I call David West the 17 -foot assassin," Paul said. 
The Cavaliers now know why. 
West calmly dropped a 17 -foot jumper -coming on Paul's 20th and most impressive assist -with 
0.6 seconds remaining to give the New Orleans Hornets their fifth straight win, 100-99 over Cleveland on Wednesday night. 
LeBron James' driving layup had given the Cavaliers a 99-98 lead with 7.7 seconds left before Paul and West, the Hornets' All­Star duo, teamed up for the game­winner. 
With the 6-foot-8 James guard­ing him up top, Paul, who had just one turnover in 42 minutes, took an inbounds pass and drove left, picking up a screen near the foul line. Paul then drove deep in the lane, drawing three defenders before spinning and whipping a pass back to West. 
West then knocked down his shot on the exact play Hornets coach Byron Scott had drawn up during the team's previous time­out. 
"We knew we were going to have a chance to get the ball to Chris Paul and let him create," Scott said. "We knew we were going to get a good look at it. If we got the shot, we didn't want to leave a lot of time on the clock. It was .6 when David nailed it. 
"It worked to perfection." 
Cleveland got the ball to James, whose 75-foot heave at the horn rattled off the 24-seeond clock at the other end. James, who barked in frustration at teammates earli­er in the fourth quarter, punched his hand in his fist and com­plained to assistant coach Mike Malone before heading to the locker room. 
Following a postgame ice bath, James had cooled way down. 
"If we get a stop, we win the ballgame," he said. "We played pretty good defense. We bottled him {Paul) up, but with eyes in the back of his head, he found David West." 
Peja Stojakovic scored 25 points -18 on 3-pointers-West added 20 points and Paul 15 for the Hornets, who came in with the Western Conference's best record and improved to 2-0 on a six­game road trip against Eastern Conference teams. 
New Orleans, playing the sec­ond game of a back-to-hack, snapped Cleveland's nine-game home winning streak and improved to 22-11 on the road. 
"We're battle-tested," Paul said. "We have a lot of veterans on the team. When we put our starting five out there, I'm the youngest guy on the court. If I'm the one with the least experience, we're in a good situation." 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored a season-high 29 points with 15 rebounds. James had 21 points and eight assists, but wasn't able to get a defensive stop in the clos­ing seconds against Paul, one of his closest friends. Anderson Varejao added 15 rebounds for the Cavaliers. 
Two free throws by James brought Cleveland within 96-95, but the Cavs couldn't get a rebound at the other end and Tyson Chandler's putback dunk put the Hornets ahead by three with 4 7 seconds remaining. 
Following a timeout, James missed a left-handed layup but Ilgauskas tipped it in to make it 98-97. On the Hornets' next trip, Jannero Pargo was left wide open in the corner on another bad defensive rotation by Cleveland but missed a 3-pointer. 
James then drove past Stojakovic for a layup with 7.7 seconds left to give Cleveland a 99-98 lead. But the Cavaliers couldn't prevent the ultra-quick Paul from getting deep penetra­tion on the Hornets' last posses­sion, leaving West with enough room to get off his shot. 
"When we're in that situation, if he makes it, that's great, we win," Paul said. "If he misses, we still got a great shot." 
The Cavaliers had expected to have back guard Daniel Gibson, who has been sidelined since Feb. 20 with a badly sprained left ankle. However, with a favorable break in the schedule ­Cleveland doesn't play again until Saturday -the Cavs decided to give him and center Ben Wallace, nursing a sore back, more rest. 
Cleveland could have used someone to slow Paul, who fin­ished one assist shy of his season high and has 29 in two games against the Cavs this season. 
"That's why he's the best point guard in the league," James said. "He gives them a confidence." 
With the MVP candidate orches­trating everything for New Orleans' offense and Pargo mak­ing three 3-pointers while playing the entire second quarter, the Hornets, one of the league's best perimeter shooting teams, opened a 56-50 lead at halftime. 

!_______________________ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 27, 2008 
Swagger 
continued from page 24 
and it happened because he started making plays," Weis said. "The minute you start making plays, you start getting some con­fidence, now it's taken some time but now he's got swagger." 
Bruton defined swagger as the mindset you have when you know you can beat anyone. 
"You just go out there and feel conlident. You don't go out there thinking someone is going to beat you or someone is better than you." Bruton said. "You go out with that chip on your shoulder, that pep in your step, that little limp. You go ahead and handle your business." 
Irish deff~nsive eoordinator Corwin Brown said swagger is the belie!" a player has that hfl can l"rnquently make plays to greatly impact a game. 
"A'> a player, when you step out thern, when you walk that line, if nobody evnr rears you ot· if you havn no afl'eet on tim game, then there's a problem," Brown said. "Thnrn's a problnm with you as a person or maybn with how you play. You always need to impact thfl ganw sonwhow." 
Hitting the weights 
Some Irish players weighed in for spring camp significantly heavier than at the end of the fall. The most notabln gains wern by quarterbaek Jimmy Clausen (from 194 pounds to 212 pounds), right tackle Sam Young (from 287 to 330) and eenter Dan Wenger (from 282 to 300). 
Wnis said the team is mueh bet­ter eonditioned for spring than they were in the fall. 
"I think we arc in very good eondition as far as running goes, because coming ofT of !strength and conditioning coordinator! Huben !Mendoza's! program, it was a pretty grueling off season," he said. 
Baseball 
Three Irish players will miss parts of practice due to commit­ments to the Irish baseball team. Infielder/quarterback Evan Sharpley, who was recently named Big East baseball player of the week, outfielder/receiver Golden Tate and pitcher/punter Eric Maust are all excused from football practice as long as they are integral parts of the baseball team. 
The baseball squad takes baek­to-baek road trips starting on April 10 and Weis said he and baseball coach Dave Schrage will reevaluate the dual athletes' roles on the baseball team then. 
"But what I'm not going to do is, I'm not going to hurt the base­ball team, and take them ofT the baseball field if it makes a dill'er­ence with [the baseball team I winning and losing," Weis said. 
Banged up 
Two Irish players will not par­ticipate in spring practices due to injuries. Defensive end John Hyan had two surgeries during the on·­season. one on his shoulder immediately after the season ended and one more recently on a sports hernia. Walk-on receiver Kris Patterson had knee surgery and is also out for the spring. 
Wide receiver Hobby Parris and guard Mike Turkovitch also had surgeries f()f a sports hernia and appendectomy, respectively, but arc active for spring camp. 
A kinder, gentler Wels 
Weis has tried to step back from the taskmaster role he played in his first three seasons at Notre Dame by opening up more to players. He started talking to them more outside of practice and even invited some to his house for dinner. 
Irish safety David Bruton attended one dinner at the Weis home, where he said the Irish coaeh cooked lasagna. 
"The man can cook," he said of Weis. Bruton added that off the field, Weis is very much a family man. 
"He's all about his son and daughter, his wife. He is very fam­ily-oriented," he said. 
Power vacuum 

Weis said he will name and announce the team captains by the Blue and Gold game on April 19, but he will wait for the fresh­men to arrive this summer before he forms the leadership commit­teo for next season. 
Weis said he did not know how many captains he will have from each unit because that is based on player votes. 
"We don't know where all of the leadership is going to eome from, and I think that we havn to wait and see how that goes. The rea­son why we have had more than one captain on oll'ense or defense is because the vote was too dose to eall;" he said. 
Blasts from the past 
Weis announced that the hon­orary coaches for the Blue and Gold game will represent the last six decades of Notre Dame foot­ball. 
Representing the 1950s is for­mer running back Jim Morse (1954-56), the Irish captain in 1956. Terry Hanratty (1966-68), quarterback for the 1966 champi­onship team, will represent his decade. 
Weis had a more personal choice for the 1970s in running back Terry Eurick (1974-77), who captained the 1977 championship team. Eurick was one of Weis' suitemates during his freshman year at Notre Dame. 
Former all-time leading rusher Allen Pickett (1983-85) represents the next decade. Bryant Young (1991-93) is the only defensive player on the honorary coaching staff. Representing the current decade is Green Bay Packers run­ning back Ryan Grant (2001-04). 
"He's a perfect example of 


somebody who can rise from rel­ativn obscurity and through hard work and ell"ort, all of a sudden his time came," Weis said of Grant. "And this year his time came and he became a household name when last year, very few people even knew who the guy was." 
Weis contacted New York Giants defensive end Justin Tuck, but the former Irish lineman is in the process of planning his wed­ding and declined the ofler. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 


The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute presents 
The 2008 Natural Law Lecture 
The (S-uper?) H-uman 
Roots of Law and  J-ustice:  
Lessons from the  Book of  
Genesis  

Leon Kass 

Addie ylf"":rk Harding ProCessor 1ll t:he Comrtl.it:t:ee on. Social Thought: University o£ Chicago 
Hert:og Pelldw, Ame'Hca:n Enterprise Inst:it:ut:e 
··~:: 'm%-UJ.:~%%.fmx::;w:-=·· 
'I 'H~rsday., March 27~ 2008 
4 p-m-Notre l)atTle I Ja"\JV School c-_:::ourtrootTl. 
Thursday, March 27, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS 

Become a part qj'a 
Notre Dame Tradition! 
To Be Eligible You Must Be: 
Returning to Notre Dame for Fall 2008 A minimun:1 of 6' 2'' in height In good standing acaden'lically 
INTERESTED? 
Attend either Information Session 
w-ednesday, JJ.farch 26, 7:00p.m. 
or 
Thursday, JJ.farch 27, 7:00p.m. 
Questions? Cal/631-7136 
Meetings to be held in the Band Building: Middle Rehearsal Room 
for a permanent solution to remove unwanted hair?  
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble, offers safe, comfortable and affordable laser hair removal, using state-of-the-art FDA-Approved equipment.  
Each hair removal procedure is tailored to your individual skin and hair type, allowing us to offer the most effective solution for hair reduction from the face and body.  
Find out which laser hair removal protocol your needs. Visit Peggy today for a free, personalized laser hair removal consultation.  
your 1st laser service when you mention this ad/ (up to $200) ·  Our South Bend location is justminutes from campus on North Michigan Street. Call PetlfiY Today/ 574-282-2020  

-·----~----, 
page 21 

Sharpley 
continued from page 24 
scored. Pollock had three singles, a triple and a stolen base as well as two diving catches in right field. 
Panthers starter Jordan Herbert could not last through the first inning against the Irish, recording just two outs before getting sent to the showers. While Herbert did not give up a hit, the righty gave up three walks and hit a batter. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 3-0 lead in the first inning despite its only hit remaining in the infield. After loading the bases on walks, senior Ross Brezovsky picked up an RBI after getting hit by a pitch. Sophomore Billy Boockford brought home another run with a walk and freshman Cameron McConnell drove in the last run with an infield single. 
The Irish pushed their lead to 5-0 after Jeremy Barnes hit a two-run single in the sec­ond. The game then turned into a route with Notre Dame putting up six runs in the bot-
Blowout 
continued from page 24 
off the scoring for Irish with a one-out double in the first inning. She then tagged up to third base and scored on a passed ball. Smith again reached base in the third inning, beating out the throw on an attempted sacrifice bunt. 
Irish senior Katie Laing continued her recent offen­sive surge, smashing a two­run triple in the bottom of the third, scoring Smith and freshman Sadie Pitzenberger. 
Laing  scored  on  another  
passed ball.  
"Laing was  solid  as  usual  

with runners on base," Gumpf said. "She knocked in some key HBis." 
Pitzenberger knocked in two runs in the fourth inning on a double, driving in Lux and junior Linda Kohan. 
Some of Notre Dame's impressive freshmen helped put the finishing touches on IUPUI. The final run was driv­tom of the fifth inning. 
Coach Dave Schrage used the blowout to give younger players playing time. Notre Dame played 23 different position players on the night, and five different players made their season debuts. Freshmen Matt Katich and Andrew Wiand made their first career appearances in an Irish uniform. 
Junior Casey Martin was 2­for-2 off the bench with an RBI and a run scored, and McConnell and Barnes each went 2-for-3. Lilley also scored three runs despite not recording a hit. 
Irish freshman Evan Danieli gave up a run in two innings of work after replacing Sharpley in the sixth. Sophomore Steven Mazur pitched a scoreless eighth inning, and junior Sam Elam gave up two runs in the ninth. 
The Irish resume play Friday with a three-game home series against Big East foe Cincinnati. Notre Dame is 3-0 in conference play after sweeping a series against Georgetown last weekend. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
en in by freshman Kelly Shannon on an RBI double after classmate Katie Fleury got into scoring position by stealing second base. 
The Irish defense was once again solid, with freshman Brianna Jorgensborg making a spectacular catch in right field. 
"Jody [Valdivia] set the tone of the game," Gumpf said. "But the defense played a big role behind her." 
The goal for the Irish is to build momentum going into Big East play this weekend. If the Irish win the Big East, they are all but assured a spot in the NCAA tournament. 
"We work to win the Big East all year long," Gumpf said. "l expect us to be very competitive." 
The Irish will be back in aetion tonight at 5 p.m. against Illinios-Chicago in Chicago. The Irish then begin Big East play against DePaul Sunday with an afternoon double-header. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Tenuta 
continued from page 24 
nel at Notre Dame are per­feet for what 111~ and Brown want to do defensively. 
"I think we have the people to do what I like to do, what Corwin IBrown! likes to do," Tenuta said. "So I think you just take that and build on 

that  from  there.  I  think  
we'rc going to be a  pressure  
package team."  
Brown  said  
he  was  excited  

erwd by Tenuta's hiring, and from now, fifteen years from instead considers Tenuta's now, the better I'll be." experience something that Tenuta also said the transi­will most benefit the team as tion of working alongside a wholl~. Brown added that Brown. as well as other Irish the team's success is his defensive coaches like Jappy most important goal. Oliver, has gone well. 
"It's not about whose ideas "So over the course of how it is. or who's doing this, many weeks I've been here, who's doing that. It's about, the numerous conversations when w1~ go out on the field that we've had about my phi­on Saturday, do we win, losophy, his philosophy, what because that's the only way l know that worked well for you feel good on Sunday," me. what he knows that Brown said. "And when you worked well for him, mesh add a r.oach like Coach them together, put our play­Tenuta who has the experi­ers in a position to be suc­~~nce like he has, he's been cessful." Tenuta said. there. lw's a football guy, all that matters to him is how Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at well we play and lifl we win. jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
I want to be around guys like that." 
Brown also mentioned a sign Tenuta has on his desk that reads, "There's no limit to what a man can accom­plish as long as he doesn't care who gets the credit." Brown said he has always tried to live by that philoso­phy as both a player and a coach. 
"My ego is not that big where I'm not going to listen to a guy that's been working 
when he "/ think we're going learned Weis 
to be a pressure
had hired Tenuta because package team." ho feels the new coach is 
John Tenuta 
"one of the bet­
Irish assistant coach
ter football minds" in col­lege football. Brown also said he did not feel threat­off each 
for 2 5 years and had the success that he's had. I'm a bigger person than that," Brown said. "Because in the end, the more I'm around him and the more he talks and the more we bounce ideas other, ten years 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) 
Contact Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Thursday, March 27, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by David J. Kahn  
29 Takes in  41 Courted  56 Middle of the  
30Wet  46 Native-born  country  
33 Coast Guard  Israeli  58 Genuine  
officer: Abbr.  48 Crazies  60 Tolkien race  
35 General on a  50 2007 Eddie  62_ Stanley  
menu  Murphy comedy  Gardner  
37 Asian domestic  52 It has a big  63 Low digit  
38 Author Janowitz  mouth  64 Fortify  
39 Alabama  53 Reached in total  ·65 Family gathering  
nickname  54 Typical lead-in?  places  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.corn/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Keira Knightley, 23; Kenny Chesney, 40; 
Martin Short, 58; Diana Ross, 64 
Happy Birthday: You know your limitations this year all too well, so instead of wasting time on something you know you cannot do, put your effort into what you can accomplish. This can be a year of fruitful gains if you are honest about your capabilities and you stick to what's truly important to you. Your numbers are 2, 16, 23, 26, 33, 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Getting involved in other people's business will lead to <;lisaster. You can make some money if you check your investments and move things around. Accept an offer being made or you may lose out by holding out. 3 stars • 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Precision, detail, strategy and action will be required to get results. Everything will depend on the infonnation you pick up so you can bypass the red tape issues. Follow your game plan and you will stay ahead of schedule. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There is money to be made if you do something nice for someone who cannot do for him-or herself. An opportunity will come to you through s~meone from your past who owes you a favor.· Offer what you can and move on. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): The seriousness that you portray will help you attract peers who are just as adamant as you are to get things done. An experienced individual will offer a helpful suggestion. A change in your vocation will be beneficial financially and mentally. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This is a great day for love, romance and making an intimate connection with someone new or your current lover. A need to spend on unnecessary items will set you back. Keep things simple and honest. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't put up with anyone's trying to pull a fast one or using emotional blackmail. You have lots going for you today so focus on trying new things, getting involved in interesting organizations and meeting people who are on the same page. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep things in perspective. If you stretch your budget or take on too much, you can expect to fall flat on your face. Caution must be taken: Avoiding disputes is imperative if you want to reach any conclusions. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make plans to do something with someone you love or want to get to know better. Don't let your work bog you down or stop you from paying proper attention to the people you care about. Now is not the time to neglect your personal responsibilities. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keep whatever you know and cherish a secret. If you spill the beans or gossip, you can expect opposition and questioning. Stick close to home and take care of your personal responsibilities if you want to avoid arguments. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A change in plans will work out to your advantage, so don't complain. A partnership will benefit you financially. You can ask for favors that will help you put a unique spin on one of your plans or projects. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't take chances while traveling or communicating with people who can influence your future. Avoid taking what's going on around you the wrong way. A serious look at your relationships will help you decide who can benefit you and who can't. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You should venture into unfamiliar territory whether it is a travel destination or trying something you've never done before. Peace of mind, possible love and renewed enthusiasm regarding something you used to enjoy doing can all be yours if you take the right action 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are engaging, enthusiastic and totally unpredictable. You are intelligent, manipulative and can easily out maneuver the competition. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

--.,. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Words ending 
many riddles 4 of Darkness 8 Montmartre : 
Paris:: Arbat: 
14 favor 15 Mind 16 Place for combs 17 On a lounge 
chair, maybe 19 It's under an eyeglass frame 20 O'Toole of "Cat People" 21 "Shut your 
mouth!" 22 Brave one 23 Running around 25 Palm reader's 
reading 28 Furnish 29 ''The Canterbury 
Tales" pilgrim 31 "Well, Did You _?"(Cole Porter song) 
32 Uncle of "Seinfeld" 34 "Vamoose!" 36 Australian ranch pest 37 Intrinsically 40 "Listen up!" 42 Ending with soft or light 43 Great Leap Forward figure 44_-eyed 
45 There are eight of these before "baby" in Elvis's "A Big Hunk o' Love" 
47 Like car radios 
49 Bub 
51 "Sesame Streer 
subject 55 Was sympathetic 57 That, to Tomas 58 Exam 
measurement unit 59 Sat around 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
61 Fix up tor a museum. maybe 63 Revenue worker 65 Jilter 66 Familiarize (oneself) 67 Rise 68 Bastille Day season 69 Changes 70 "Don't change" 71 Piglet's pal 
Down 
Dismay 2 Cult figure 3 Like some T-
shirt designs 4 Gave up 5 Life lines? 6 Inflammatory 
ailment 7 Cyanine, e.g. 8 Hari 9 Symbol of' 
generosity 10 Fresh as a daisy, e.g. 11 Michael Redgrave war movie, with ''The" 12 Magic on a scoreboard? 13 _Accords, 1998 Israeli­Palestinian agreement 18 Three-time U.S. Open champ 21 Alternative to 
first-class 24 Depresses 26 Handle 27 Israel's Olmert 
or Barak 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, March 27, 2008 page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Spring 'swagger' 
We is urges team to adopt new confidence 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writl'r 
i\f'tnr onn of' thn worst snasons in Notrn Damn history, Irish coach Charlin Wnis said his tmun nl'nds to f'ind its swaggnr if it wants to gnt bnttnr. 
Wnis did not giw a dear dnfini­tion of "swaggPr," but said the koy is to make big plays. 
"It starts with making plays. Swaggnr is sonwthing that you IWOIVP to. Conlidnnee is some­thing that. comns af'tnr you start making plays," lw said. 
.Just as important as creating plays is to finish them, Weis said. 
"What good dons it do if' you havo a hot linl'backer sitting tlwre in the hold that just 
-.. whoopnd tlw off'onsive lineman and evnrybody is cheering that hn whoopnd thn offpnsive line­man and then in the back [a defonder I makes a miss?" Weis said. "You still have to finish the play, okay, but the first thing's f'irs1. Put tlwm in position to make plays. That's why tho first wnok wo don't do anything too exotie thn lirst thrnP days, and nach wonk wn'll pick up more and mom." Wnis said that whiln sonw play­nrs such as safPty David Bruton already have a swagger about t.hnm. thn tnam as a whole 1wnds to lnarn it. ";\ guy likP David Bruton who usPd to just bn a special tnams gunnnr and o1w of tlw bottor ones. at that, now is onn of our lwst playl'rs on our team, okay. 
see SWAGGER/page 20 

Brown and Tenuta look to revamp defense 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 

After improving Notre Dame's defense tremendously in his first year as defensive eoordi­nator, Corwin Brown looks to tako anothor step forward this season by making the team more aggressive. 
"We're going to he flying a lot more. That's how we'll look," he said in a news conference Wednesday. 
One main reason tho Irish defense is going to be more aggressive is the nnw coaehing personnel. After l'ormer assis­tant coach Bill Lewis retired from coaching in Dneembnr due to health reasons, Irish head coach Charlie Weis hired Jon Tenuta, the former defensive coordinator from Georgia Tech known !'or his near-constant blitzes. 
Tenuta also said he wants to make Notre Dame's defense more aggressive -something he asserts is a basie part or his eoaching philosophy. 
"It's going to be an aggressive ball-hawking defense," Tenuta said. "I always want to be aggressive. I don't like. offenses dictating to me, I want to try to dictate to them, if possible." 
Tenuta added that the goal for the defense on evnry play should bt> to ronf'usn the of'fen­sivo linemen and make sure the quarterbaek never has limn to set his feet to throw. 
Tenuta also said the person-
see TENUTA/page 22 
NO SOFTBALL 
ND slaughters IUPUI, 
Valdivia gets victory 
By JARED )EDICK Sports Writer 
Notre I>anw f1pxed its mus­l'les yesterday in its home opmwr, blowing out IUI'UI X-0 at Ivy l;ield. Thn umpires railed the ganw in tlw bottom of tlw l'if'th inning when tlw Irish had tlw virtory in hand. 
"It's always good to win that l'irst one at home," Irish l'oarh I>Panna Cumpf said. "We played pretty well in tlw 
'. early part of our season, and now we just want to ri(IP our monwntum into tlw Big l·:ast." Freshman .Jody Valdivia pitl'.lwd live scorPinss innings, striking out Pight and allow­ing only threP hits. Valdivia pitclwd lwr way out of a jam in the third inning, striking out the side with two runners on base. "If you had asknd .Jody IValdivia!. she would say it wasn't h1~r best game," Gumpf' 
said. "But even still she had gn~at movement on her ball, and the opposing hitters did­n't know what to expeet." 
Tlw hats also came alive for tho Irish, especially with two outs. Curnpf' said clutch hit­ting has been a point of' emphasis for her team. 
"I was really impressed with our two-out hitting," Gumpl' said. "The last few WPnks our hitting has really conw on, and that is really dutch." 
Sophomore Christine Lux stole tlw show for the oiTPnse, hitting a towering solo home run ovor the scoreboard in dePp ennter field. She went 2­for-2 on the night with the homer, a single and two runs. 
"I Lux I hit thP ball so hard," Cumpf said. "She has just a lwauliful swing and it was so pretty to watch." 
Senior Sarah Smith started 
see BLOWOUT/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Sharpley picks up first win 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Freshman Ryan Sharpley pitched five shutout innings Tuesday to lead the Irish to a 14-3 route of Wisconsin­Milwaukee, the team's fifth win in a row. 
Sharpley, making just his second career start, allowed just one hit for Notre Dame en route to his first victory. Thn right-hander struek out thnw and walked three, low­ering his ERA from 5.40 to 
2. 
70 with the performance. 

Over the eurrent winning streak, the Irish have thor­oughly dominated opponents both on the mound and at the plate. Notre Damn has outsr.ornd its opponents 58-9 in the past five games, while improving its reeord to 12-7­
l. 

The Irish offense was led by sophomore A.J. l'ollock, who went 4-5 with l'ive runs 
see SHARPLEY/page 21 

• 





