
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Women's 'Bouts' benefits charity 
Baraka Bouts held Friday; program grows in participation, funds raised 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
News Writer 
After. two grueling months of training and preparation, the lady Irish squared off in the ring Friday night in the annual Baraka Bouts boxing competition. 
Senior captain Lauren Cummings believes 'this year's event will be setting precedents for years to come. 
"We had more girls, more fundraising and more passion than ever," Cummings said. "It's a testament to the success of the program." 
Baraka Bouts, the female ver­sion of Bengal Bouts, raises money annually for the Holy Cross 
see BOUTS/page 3 


Students disheartened by Irish loss 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 

As all teams know. winning and los­ing is part of the game, but it's never easy to watch your favorite team lose and never easy for Notre Dame stu­dents to suffer through a loss in foot­ball 
And many students expressed their disappointment after Saturday night's 17-0 loss to Boston College. 
"I was depressed because I had higher expectations going into the game and I felt like we just played really poorly as a team," sophomore Mackenzie Keller said. 
Fereshman Bobby Abdo traveled to Boston for the game and to visit some friends. He was upset because Notre Dame did not have a ticket lottery, and he was forced to pretend he was a Boston College student, purchase a $150 ticket from a student, and sit in their student section. 
For him, the game was especially frustrating. 
"Having to sit in the student section was a rough experience. I was sur­rounded by 8,000 students and they weren't happy about having me there," he said. 
He also commented on the behavior of the students around him. 
"They ripped off of some of our cheers, like they ripped off of the push-ups ... They were generally say­ing [chants] like 'Notre Dame sucks,' 'Clausen sucks,' chants like that," he said. "Its bad enough the team was losing, but to experience it at Boston 
see GAME/page 4 

LeMans stean1 not dangerous 
_By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 

Students living in and walking through LeMans the past few weeks have probably noticed a cloud of steam being released from a vent intermittently nea~ the west entrance of LeMans Hall. 
Junior Mary Ellen Toth, who saw the steam for the first time about a month ago when walking 
see STEAM/page 4 
Ecuador visit provides medical aid 
Notre Dame students travel to country with Timmy Foundation over break 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Instead of using fall break to catch up on sleep, 11 students spent their break in Ecuador giving medical treatment to people without access to affordable health care. 
Senior Megan Rybarczyk organ­ized the trip through the Timmy Foundation. a medical service organization. The trip was unaffiliat­ed with the University this year because the Foundation does not have a Notre Dame chapter, Rybarczyk said. 
"I am trying to start a chapter here because the Foundation mainly 
see ECUADOR/page 4 




My neighbor, the president 
By CHRIS HINE News Writer 
Sophomore Tom Kopko, a guard on Notre Dame's bas­ketball team, can still remem­ber the day his mother came home from a campaign fundraiser for the guy down the block who was running for the Illinois State Senate. 
Kopko, a native of Hyde Park, Ill., said that his mom, Mary Beth, came away unim­pressed by the young politi­cian. 
"She came back and said, 'There's this young guy, a lot of people like him, but a lot of us didn't think he spoke that well,"' Kopko said. 
But Mary Beth's opinion of her neighbor would soon change and so would life in Kopko's neighborhood. 
A few years later, in 2004, that guy down the block, Barack Obama, became a U.S. Senator and last Tuesday was 
elected  president  of  the  
United States.  
"I  saw  him  around  the  

neighborhood, just like any other neighbor, when he was an up and coming politician," Kopko said. "No one ever gave any thought that he would ever be president. It's really crazy." 
Kopko said he can remem­ber Obama walking his dog down the street and playing pick up basketball at the 
see OBAMNpage 3 


McKenna to give first 'Last Lecture' 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Professor James McKenna will be the first in a series of four Notre Dame professors to deliver a "Last Lecture," in which he shares the most important lessons he has learned. 
McKenna, the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Chair of Anthropology, will deliver a lec­ture on Wednesday at 8:00 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
He taught at both Ponoma College in California and the University of California at Berkeley prior to teaching at Notre Dame, according to a University press release from 2001, when he was awarded the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C... Chair of Anthropology. 

·McKenna was also a recipient of the Thomas Madden Teaching Award for outstanding instruction of first-year students in 2000, according to the press release. 
According to the website of the Office of the Provost, "It is pre­sented annually to that member of the faculty who, in the opinion of a committee of former Madden Award winners, contributed most to the teaching of first-year stu­
see LECTURE/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Evervvood 
•


IIleiilories 
I rnado an amazing diseovnry yester­day. 
I am probably one of the tnn people in this country who dneply larnnnted the cancellation of Thn WB's dramadey l~vnrwood about three years ago. Television is probably the oxtraeurricu­

lar activity I dovote  
the most of my time  Jenn Metz  
to, which is a little  
sad for me, but very  
good liw the box set  News Editor  
industry.  
My box set collec­ 

tion rnmains incomplete, however. 
I havn Everwood season one, which came out shortly after the first season finale in 2003. The other three seasons have yet to appnar on l>VD, and could not be fiiUnd online. Unill ynswrday. that is. 
TheWb.com now has full episodes of its old. cancnled shows -Everwood, Cilmore Cirls, Jack and Bobby, Friends and morn -and makes for a great way to spend an hour, or three. 
Unfilrtunately lilr me, there are only fivn episodes of Evnrwood, the critically­acdaimnd tale of Dr. Andrew Brown and his misinformnd parnnting and freP med­ical practkn in a small mountain town in Colorado, up on tho Web sito as of now. 
I am so nxeitnd that more episodes are availabln online for my viewing pleasure. Bm:ausn Everwood tops my list of series that wore nmeellnd far too early, but now, thanks to technology, can be watchnd right anytime, right on my lap­top. 
Otlmr wondnrful Web sites to book­mark: I lulu.com. Sidereel.com (which may or may not dirnet you to a screen almost nntirnly filled with yellow Chinese subtitles) and thn trusty IMI>b.eom, which now ofl'ers full episodes of some shows. 
So, if you're looking li1r a study break, dwck out these two shows: 

1. 
Evnrwood -This is one show my rrilmds in high school always made run of me for watehing. Ephram Brown might be one or the most angst-ridden teenagnrs to 1wer grace primctime net­work television. It's very well acted, and the story lines, though a little ofT the wall sometimns. arc really very heartwarm­ing. It fimtured the woman who posthu­mously narrates Desperate llouscwives, again playing a dead woman. Thf1 show made me loVfl mountains, increase my afli1ction for Ferris wheel<; and love the name Ephram, which according to baby­narnes.mm, isn't really a name at all. 


2. 
Arrested Development-this is probably a give-in. but Arrnsted Dnvelopment is the funniest show you never watched on television. iTunes now carries the complete series, which, fortu­natdy, is also available in box set fi1rm. 1\aeh episode is 20-or so minutes of absurdity, highly quotable and extremely enjoyable. Not to be missed: The Mrs. Featherbottom episodes ("'t was the exaet same plot a'i Mrs. Doubtftre..."). Thn doznns of other Arrested fans out th11re (dozensn no doubt have their other favoritn moments. 


Maybe a later column will describe other great shows you can watch for free online. That all depends on how much adual work I dedde to accomplish. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and Slrives lor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. if we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, November I 0, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DOG SHOULD PRESIDENT-ELECT 0BAMA CHOOSE AND WHY? 



Jorge Romero  Andy Masak  Caitlin Hildebrand  Shannon Brown  M.C. O'Donnell  
junior Duncan  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  freshman McGlinn  freshman McGlinn  
"Golden Retriever because he  "SnoopDogg 'cause he's the one and only 'D'  "Wishbone because he's good at solving  ':4 Husky 'cause they're the bomb."  "He shouldn"t get a dog."  




OFFBEAT 
Pilot blinded by stroke lands safely 
LONDON -A British pilot who was suddenly blinded by a stroke during a solo flight was talked safely down by a military pilot, the Royal Air Force said Friday. 
Jim O'Neill asked for help after he was went blind 40 minutes into a flight from Scotland to southeastern England last week. The BBC reported that O'Neill. flying a small Cessna aircraft, lost his sight 5,500 feet in the air. 
"It was terrifying," O'Neill said. "Suddenly, I couldn't see the dials in 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
D:: LIJ 
::1: 
!ci: 
LIJ 


0,,,,,,,
,,,,,,,
==
..... 
,,,,,,,
~ 

e
<( 
(.) 

..... 0 HIGH 40 HIGH 34 HIGH 49 HIGH 48 LOW 35 LOW 28 LOW 34 LOW 44 
Atlanta 63 I 38 Boston 52 I 32 Chicago 44 I 30 Denver 44 I 36 Houston 77 I 66 Los Angeles 69 I 51 Minneapolis 36 I 25 New York 51 I 34 Philadelphia 51 I 31 Phoenix 71 I 52 Seattle 51 I 45 St. Louis 50 I 39 Tampa 76 I 54 Washington 53 I 35 
front of me." 
The air force said in a news release that O'Neill initially believed he'd been "dazzled" by bright sun­light, and made an emer­gency call for help. He then realized that something more serious was happen­ing, and said, "I want to land, ASAP." 
'First dog' bites reporter outside of White House 
WASHINGTON -Talk about a biting critique of the press. 
It seems President Bush's dog Barney wasn't much in the mood for friendly attention during his walk outside the White House on Thursday. So when Reuters reporter Jon Decker reached down to pet the Scottish terrier, the seemingly docile dog snapped at him and bit Decker's right index finger. 
Reporter April Ryan of American Urban Radio Networks happened to capture the moment on video. 
And, naturally, it soon wound up on YouTube. The video comes to an end with a freeze frame on Barney's fangs. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
A lecture entitled "Economic Inequality & Attitudes toward Homosexuality" featuring Tina Fetner, assistant profes­sor of sociology, McMaster University, will be given tomorrow from 4:15 p.m. to 
5:45 p.m.. It will be held in room Cl o:~ of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. This event is free and open to the public and is sponsored by the Kroc Institute f'or International Peace Studies, Center for the Study of' Soda( Movements and Social Change, Gender Studies and the Department of Sociology. 
St. Edward's llall is hosting "NO's Got Talent!" Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. There are going to be first, second and third place prizes and it's to support Holy Cross schools in Uganda. Any ques­tions can contact Michael Eardley a tmeardley@nd.edu 

"Faith, Democracy and Values: The Challenge of Moral Formation in Families, Schools and Societies" is part of the Association for Moral Education's (AME) 34th annual conference. The conference aims to examine moral education and the ways it informs and, in turn is informed by, faith and political perspectives in a diverse and complex global community. The event is to be held all day Thursday in McKenna Hall and is spon­sored by the Center for Ethical Education (CEE). 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



0,,,,,,, 
0,,,,,,,

,,,,,,, 
,,,,,,, 

HIGH 52 HIGH 49 LOW 42 LOW 35 
could totally be ·a·-double problems. " 
~G:Jn
the first dog. " 

COLLINSfThe Observer 
Junior Kristin Burke defeated sophomore Chelsi Gallegos during Baraka Bouts Friday night. Last year, the program raised $9,000 to build a boy's donnatory in Uganda. 

Monday, November I 0, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Judge to speak on prosecution 
Lecture to address human rights during and after Chile dictatorship 
Special to The Observer 
Juan Guzman Tapia, the Chilean judge known around the world for indicting Augusto Pinochet, will pres­ent a lecture titled "Human Rights During and After Chile's Dictatorship" Thursday at 4:15 p.m. in the auditorium of the llesburgh Center at Notre Dame. 
Co-sponsored by Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for International Studies and Center for Civil and Human Rights, the lecture is free and open to the public. 
Currently director of the Center for Human Rights at the Universidad Central de Chile, Guzman will speak about his prosecution of Pinochet after he was appointed in 1998 to investi­gate charges against the for­mer dictator and his mur­derous regime. 
A film on the confrontation between Guzman and Pinochet will set the stage for Guzman's lecture. "The Judge and the General," which follows the twists and turns of the efforts of Guzman and others to over­comP_ Pinochet's immunity and claims to be too ill to stand trial, will be shown Nov. 12 at 7:30p.m.. also in the llesburgh Center audito­rium. 
The screening is free and open to the public. 
Produced and directed by Elizabeth Farnsworth and Patricio Lanfranco, the film explores whether Chile can find truth and reconciliation through a legal accounting of its recent violent past. 
Photo Courtesy ot NEWS I 
Juan Guzman Tapia, shown above, will speak Thursday at the 

Hesburgh Center. 
For Guzman, a man who says that his investigations "opened the eyes of [his] soul," there is one clear choice: "A wounded country needs to know the truth." 
The screening is a collabo­ration with the award-win­ning PBS documentary series P.O.V., the Kellogg Institute and the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
On Sept. 11, 1973, Pinochet seized power from Chile's democratically elect­ed president, Salvador Allende. Thousands of Chileans were tortured, killed or disappeared in the coup's aftermath; the Pinochet regime lasted 17 years. 
A conservative judge, Guzman -who had sup­ported the coup -took his job as investigator seriously, pressing ahead with the 

case despite intense social and political pressure to desist. Guzman's memoir has been a bestseller in Chile, which continues to vigorously debate the peri­od. 
"The Judge and the General" follows two of Guzman's investigations. One is the killing of a young sociology professor during the "caravan of death," when Pinochet's right-hand man, General Sergio Arrellano Stark, flew in a helicopter from town to town, listing the names of those to be executed. 
The second involves a law student and political activist who disappeared, whose mother was forced to lead Pinochet's secret police to her daughter's hiding place in order to save her grand­daughter's life. 

Oba01a 
continued from page 1 

University of Chicago, where Kopko liked to go and work out. 
But Kopko never joined in on those basketball games. 

"I don't usually play pickup there because it's more 30 or 40-year olds playing pickup and just having fun," Kopko said. "But he's played there and I remember seeing him in there playing. He's got a really nice jump shot. He's known to have a good jump shot and is a decent player." 
The night Obama won his 

U.S. Senate seat in 2004, gar­nering 70 percent of the vote, Kopko said the neighborhood became a frenzy with people trying to catch a glimpse of Obama, who was eating dinner at his house that night. 
"The night he got elected, she said there was chaos in the neighborhood, all trying to get as close as they could but with all the security, they couldn't get within a block," Kopko said. 
Kopko added: "When he won by such a landslide for Senate, they were saying he had such momentum and that he could possibly in four years be run­ning for president, but nobody gave it too much serious thought," Kopko said. "It's poli­tics and it could pass you by." 
Kopko said it was hard to believe Obama could actually become president, but he said it started to hit home for him after Obama won his first pri­mary in Iowa. 

Bouts 
continued from page 1 

Educational Missions in East Africa, she said. Last year, over $9,000 in proceeds from the competition were used to build a boys' dormitory in Jinja, Uganda, said Cummings. The year before, $4,500 was raised to build a girl's dormitory, she said. 
Baraka Bouts derives its name from the Swahili word for "blessing," a constant reminder of the program's mis­sion for the lady boxers, Cummings said. 
"Our motivation is really hard to put into words," boxer Kia Johnson said. "It's so much more than just personal satis­faction, it's a responsibility." 
The 60 competitors began a punishing workout routine in September, and have been training for three hours a day, six days a week since, junior captain Kristin Burke said. 
"During a typical routine we alternate between jumping jacks, sit-ups, and pushups for the first hour," Burke said. "The second hour we work on the fundamentals of boxing and the third hour we spar." 
Baraka Bouts has a special meaning for Burke, whose father was a three-time Bengal Bouts champion back in the 1970s. 
"I knew I had to continue the boxing legacy when I came to 
As Obama's prospects of becoming president increased, so did the security in Kopko's neighborhood. 
"When he was starting to get momentum against Hillary Clinton. you couldn't get near his house without roadblocks," Kopko said. "There are road­blocks all over the place now. It's ridiculous. You can't walk through his street without an ID claiming that you're a resi­dent on that block. You can't drive through ... 
"When he first started run­ning in the primaries, Secret Service told us, 'Don't be shocked. There will be people on the corners standing or Chevy Suburbans sitting, parked somewhere with guys in it.'" 
The level security differs with who is home at the time, Kopko said. 
"You could always tell when he was there because when his kids were there, there'd be just one Suburban out, one guy out­side, just kind of pacing, walk­ing around. If his wife was there, there'd be three or four Suburbans on either end of the block, but when he was there, city cops got involved, Secret Service was very influential," Kopko said. 
The security can be a hassle at times, Kopko said. but he doesn't mind it too much. 

"It's a burden," Kopko said. "But at the same time, it's kind of cool because you could say, 'The president is a neighbor of yours."' 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
ND," she said. "Boxing was the first sport I really loved." 

The competitors have also formed a unique bond with the men of Bengal Bouts during training sessions. Both groups train in the basement of the Joyce Center and work to help each other improve. 
"It's really a symbiotic rela­tionship," Johnson said. "We feed off each other's knowledge and skills." 
Regardless of how they did after the final bell rang Friday, the boxers have gained invalu­able life skills from their expe­riences in Baraka Bouts. 
"I joined the program as a freshman because I was look­ing for a way to work out and meet new people," Cummings said. "I never thought I'd actu­ally fall in love with boxing." 
Strapping on the gloves for the last time this Friday, senior captain K.C. Hunt owes a lot to the women's boxing club. 

"We all find a way of clearing our heads," Hunt said. "Some people listen to rap, some peo­ple enjoy Zen, I like to box." 
Some of the boxers said that after being in the ring, many of life's little challenges are easier to take on. 
"If you freak out in life you can usually get right back up," Johnson said. "If you freak out in the ring, you find yourself on your back in front of hun­dreds." 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 1 0, 2008 
ing us bowl eligible. I think getting to a bowl is a welcome

Ga01e 

Ecuador
improvement to last year's dis­continued from page 1 appointing season." 
continued from page 1 
According to some students, s u r r o u rHI e d by d r u n k e n , winning one more game 
has college chapters," she said. ruckus BC fans didn't really should be possible for the 
"The student chapters have make the experi1mce any bet­team, especially since this 
three tasks, to advocate, ter." week, the team prepares to 
fundraise and serve." Sophomore Kevin Danchisko play Navy. 
The campus chapters are also said the game "was "It's time to start a new tra­
given a partner organization, extremnly sad." dition," said sophomore Erin 
and the students involved in the " I k rw w a p e r s o n a t t h e MeDonnel, referring to Notre 
club educate their peers about game who just left right after Dame's previous record of 43 
the community they are serving, and couldn't even talk to any­consecutive wins against Navy, 
fundraise for the eommunity and one," hn said. the longest all-time consecu­
then travel to the country to do a llownvnr. Danchisko said. tive winning streak between 
service project, Hybarczyk said. "At least wn bnat !Boston two teams in college football, 
"The major thing is to educate Collngnl in hockey," rnforring which was broken last year. 
people so they hold educational to Notrn Damn's 4-1 ov1~r the Some students declined com­
events about the language, cul­l·:agles Friday night. ment because they felt that 
ture and needs of the people in Much of tlw post ganw dis­their opinions would anger 
the community they are serv­cussion focused on the ability their fellow students. Others 
ing ... and foster a global perspec­of' Notre Dame to play in a said they were too speechless 
tive about things, especially with howl game. or embarrassed to comment. 
health care in other countries," Freshman Kelly Nolan said, 
she said. ''I'm confident that we will win Contact Nora Kenney 
Hybarczyk said the trip was a get the medicine they need, she opportunity to partake in several at least onn morn game, mak-hkenney@nd.edu 
"test run" for the prospective said. cultural evenl<>. 
club. She said she found interest­"The people there are "We had multiple discussions 
ed students, and they had infor­absolutely incredible," called charlas with community 
mal meetings and paid for the Hybarczyk said. "I have worked members and leaders of difl'er­
relieving itself." 

service trip themselves. a..<; a medical assistant here in the ent neighborhoods," she said. The steam is coming from 
If SAO approves the chapter, U.S. and patients wait lor live or "We talked about their everyday 

SteaDl 
tho residence hall's heating 

the group would be able to edu­ten minutes and they are upset, life, politics, a lot of things." continued from page 1 system relief valves, he said. 
cate and raise money on campus but in Ecuador, we had people The group also saw an Andean llambling said the relief 
for a yearly trip to serve the who would get there early, wait ballet and went on a tour of thn out of' the building, said it valve is functioning as it 
University's partner organiza­for along time and never com­colonial center in Quito, the looked likn a snowstorm from should, but it needs to be con­
tion, she said. plain." Capital, she said. insidn. stantly monitored and adjusted 
"We probably wouldn't be able Rybarczyk said the students Hybarczyk said the service trip "There was a lot of steam as the weather conditions out­
to have all the trips paid for by were able to get hands-on expe­draws mostly pre-med students eoming from the pipes," Toth side change from warm to cold 
Notre Dame, but we would be rience working in a medical set­because it is a good way to gain said. "From a distancn lout­rapidly because the tempera­
able to use facilities to have ting and learning about a diller­experience in the !ield without side( it probably looked like ture affects the heating 
fundraisers, and we could have ent country. having to live in another country the building was on lirfl." demands from LeMans. 
access to some of the grants and "We were involved in all for a summer or semnster._ The white steam, which "We are monitoring it daily 
things Notre Dame offers for aspects," she said. "We had peo­"I know a lot of people can't reappeared on Saturday, Nov. and rest assured no one is in 
travels like this," Hybarczyk said. ple translating, taking vital signs take the whole summer...this 1 and continued throughout any danger," he said. 
On the service trip, the stu­and patient histories. We had way you get to be involved all the day, is accompanied with a flambling also said there 
dents set up medical brigades people playing with kids, admin­year round with education and loud sound whieh can be heard have been steam issues with 
where people were treated for istering fluoride to kids and help­then go for a week and experi­both in Heinbeaux Lounge, just the Central Utility Plant at the 
health problems in four barrios ing out in the pharmacy." ence it," she said. inside the residence hall's College that have been recti­
in Ecuador, Hybarczyk said. The The group also helped start a Hybarczyk said the students lobby, and outside the building. lied as well. 
brigade consisted of a triage sec­program to move from using a who participated in the trip will Saint Mary's Direetor of David Coleman, the College's 
tion where the patient history paper form of patient records to talk about their experienees Facilities Bill llambling told heating, ventilation and air 
and vital signs are taken, a con­electronic charts, Hybarczyk Thursday in the Lyons Hall The Observer that while the conditioning mechanic, will be 
sultation center where the said. chapel. steam is a "noisy, loud and periodically checking the 
patients meet with a medical Rybarczyk said a major goal of scary sounding thing" it is not valves at LeMans to make sure 
professional for a diagnosis and the Timmy Foundation is educa­Contact Madeline Buckley at dangerous. they are continuing to work 
a pharmacy where the patients tion so the students had the mbuckley@nd.edu 
"Tiw steam that is releasing properly, llambling said. is not a danger to anyone," he said. "In fact. it is a good thing Contact Liz Harter at that the steam prnssure is eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 
Schmidt said. "It's an informal way of talking about his earner,


Lecture 

discussing relationships." continued from page 1 Thesn lectures will be present­
ed in a similar manner as cflmL<>. Nominations am submitted Pausch 's leeturn was. by first-year students and first­"It's his last opportunity to real­year counselors." ly convey one message to stu­
In 2000. McKPnmt was also denL<>," Schmidt said. awarded tlw Karwb Teaehing Tlw lneturns will bn more casu­Award /(w c~xc<'ptional tnadring of al and conversational than a dass undnrgraduates, according to the lecture, he said. Univnrsity pn~ss n~leasn. "It's more oll'-the eufl'," Schmidt 
I lis lnc~tun~ will bl' dnlivnn~d in said. "It's a personal, interaetive, the styln of l'rof'nssor Handy lin~side lecturn." l'auseh of Carrwgie Mellon The series will continue Univnrsity. throughout the school year. 
Wlwn l'ausch discovered he "Wn'IJ probably do about four of was dying of panc:rnatie cancer, thnse," Schmidt said. hn ddiwn~d a "last hwturn:" Heish's and Schmidt's Web site, 
The lneturc~. also publishnd as a bobandgrant.com, includes a hook. hnc~anu• a worldwidn sensa­description of the Last Lecture tion and gc•rwratnd interest in the series as they envisioned it while "last lerturc•" practk1•. running for ollice. 
Tlw Last Lecture series is not "Think of your favorite profes­nnw to NotrP I>anw. Notre Dame sor or those professors your f(~aturc~d a pr1wious Last Ledurc~ friends constantly elaim are scwins in 2002. amazing. Think of those profes­
Thn l'lll'J'IHlt SPries was part or sors whose dassns arn extrnmnly tlw campaign platform for stu­Pntnrtaining and you're only dPnt body prnsidPnt Bob Hnish lul'ky to get into if you have a and studPnl body vin• prnsident great DAHT time," the Web site Cranl Schmidt. said. "Now imagine getting these 
"We partly modPind our snrins tnadwrs into a dassroom and ofT of tlw 2002 sPriPs," Sl'hmidt telling them tlwy only have one said. "A lot of JWopiP know tlw morn lncturn. What would thc~y story of Handy l'ausch. and ttw say'? This is the exaet pn~misn of mrw.npt of a last lecture was rnal­our proposed Last Lncture Series ly intf'rPsting." -bringing prominent ND pro/(~s­
Tlw Last Lectures will go sors into the classroom to talk lwyond sharing a tlu•ory or idna. about whatewr they would say if lw said. it worn their last lecturP." 
"This is a wry uniquP IPcturn. fl.'s mon• of a professor's vision. It Contact Tess Civantos at earrins a dnnJWr nwaning," tcivanto@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 10, 2008 CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVERs wm.t sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Paloma destroys homes in Cuba 
CAMAGUEY, Cuba -Crashing waves and a powerful sea surge from Hurricane Paloma destroyed hundreds of homes along Cuba's southern coast, but the storm rapidly weak­ened into a tropical depression Sunday as it moved over the island. 
Early damage reports were limited, but state media said the late-season storm top­pled a major communications tower, inter­rupted electricity and phone service and sent sea water almost a mile (11/2 kilometers) inland, ravaging a coastal community near where it made landfall. 
No storm-related deaths were immediately reported. 
Eight killed after bombing in Iraq 
BAGHDAD -Bombs killed at least eight people Sunday across Iraq and wounded dozens of others. officials said. Syria's president blamed the U.S. military pres­ence for Iraq's instability and called on 
U.S. troops to leave. 
In the northern city of Mosul, a roadside bomb ripped through an Iraqi army patrol soon after sundown, killing three soldiers and wounding four others, police said 
U.S. and Iraqi troops have been fighting for months to clear al-Qaida in Iraq and about a dozen other Sunni insurgent groups from Mosul, Iraq's third largest city. 
To the south, a bomb attached to a bike wrapped in a trash bag exploded outside a cafe in Khalis, 50 miles (80 kilometers) north of Baghdad, killing at least two peo­ple and wounding 13, including the city mayor, police said. 
The cafe is located in a market area that ineludes a public health clinic and the pre­eise target was unclear. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Contractor finds $182 Kin home 
CLEAVELAND -A contractor who found $182,000 in Depression-era currency hidden in a bathroom wall has ended up with only a few thousand dollars, but he feels some vin­dication. 
The windfall discovery amounted to little more than grief for contractor Bob Kitts, who couldn't agree on how to split the money with homeowner Amanda Reece. 
It didn't help Reece much, either. She testi­fied in a deposition that she was considering bankruptcy and that a bank recently fore­closed on one of her properties. 
And 21 descendants of Patrick Dunne ­the wealthy businessman who stashed the money that was minted in a time of bank col­lapses and joblessness -will each get a mere fraction of the find. 
Vitamins C, Eno help for heart disease 
NEW ORLEANS -Vitamins C and E ­pills taken by millions of Americans -do nothing to prevent heart disease in men, one of the largest and longest studies of these supplements has found. 
Vitamin E even appeared to raise the risk of bleeding strokes, a danger seen in at least one earlier study. 
Besides questioning whether vitamins help, "we have to worry about potential harm," said Barbara Howard, a nutrition scientist at MedStar Research Institute of Hyattsville, Md. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Immunization rate on the rise 
MUNCIE, Ind.-Despite some parents' con­cerns that health officials want their children to get too many vaccine shots too soon, Indiana's immunization rate is on the rise. 
According to the state Department of Health, 94 percent of public schools and 68 percent of private schools reported complete immunization data for the 2006-07 school year -an increase from the previous year. 
Sue Goebel, a nurse with the Delaware County I Iealth Department, said a growing number of childrnn are getting the department's free shots during it.c; Shots for Tots clinic. 
ELECTION 2008 


New England votes challenge GOP 
Two Republican senators remain from the New England States after 2008 elections 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. -A generation ago the Republican Party was the dominant political force in New England, populating the region's congressional delegations with moderates like Connecticut's Lowell P. Weicker Jr. and Rhode Island's John Chafee. 
But today's GOP, led by a more socially conservative wing of the party, is finding votes harder to come by. 
Voters on Tuesday cast out Connecticut's veteran Rep. Chris Shays, the last New England Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives. Sen. John Sununu was voted out in New Hampshire, leaving that state's .Judd Gregg and Maine's Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe as the only Republicans among the region's 12 senators. 
Shays' loss to former Goldman Sachs executive Jim Himes marks the first time since 1969 that south­western Connecticut will be represented by a Democrat in the House. 
"I felt that we were going to win this, I really did," Shays told supporters. "I felt that people were so good to me, they were so nice to me. But they were deciding they were going to go the other way." 

New England's decision to "go the other way" in By the late 1940s, socially conservative wing Simmons of Connecticut recent elections is a dra­Republicans held 21 of 28 of the party. also were defeated by matic transformation for a of New England's seats in "The eastern establish­Democrats, buoyed by anti­region considered a the House of ment got weaker and Iraq-war and anti­Republican stronghold a Representatives. But the weaker," Rose said. President Bush sentiment. generation ago. turning point came in "Today, there's really no "There is no longer, to 
The Republican Party 1964, when the eastern establishment to speak of, a moderate voice and New England have a Republicans nominated speak of." within the party," Rose long history together. conservative Barry Chafee's son, Lincoln, said. "It's a party that's 
At their first presidential Goldwater for president, was appointed to the becoming more narrow convention, in 1856, said Gary Rose, a political Senate in 1999 after his and there's really no sense Republicans nominated science professor at Sacred father's death and was of compromise within the John C. Fremont on a plat­Heart University in elected in 2000 to a six­party." Jennifer Donahue, form of abolishing slavery Fairfield, Conn. year term. A moderate like political director of the in the territories -a wide­Known for being fiscally his father, Chafee was the New Hampshire Institute of ly held view in the North. conservative but more only Republican in the Politics at St. Anselm While Fremont lost, he car­socially liberal, Northeast Senate to vote against College, said she believes ried 11 Northern states. moderates -dubbed the authorizing the use of force the GOP can still come Later, Abraham Lincoln Rockefeller Republicans in Iraq. But he was defeat­back, at least in independ­captured the presidency by after the former New York ed by a Democrat in 2006. ent-minded New winning 18 Northern governor -started to be That same year, Reps. Hampshire where the state states. eclipsed by the more Nancy Johnson and Rob motto is "Live Free or Die." 
RussiA 


20 killed, 21 injured in submarine 
Associated Press tion danger, the navy said. "A submarine is the most vulnera­
Yet it was Russia's worst naval acci­ble during trials. With both navy and 
MOSCOW -The fire safety system dent since torpedo explosions sank civilian personnel on board, it's very on a brand-new Russian nuclear sub­another nuclear-powered submarine, dificult to keep such a large number marine accidentally turned on as the the Kursk, in the Barents Sea in of people organized," Gennady sub was being tested in the Sea of 2000, killing all118 seamen aboard. Illarionov, a retired submarine offi­Japan, spewing a gas that suffocated Overcrowding may have been a sig­cer, told the RIA Novosti news 20 people and sent 21 others to the nificant factor on Saturday. agency. hospital, officials said Sunday. The submarine being tested had The victims suffocated after the 
The Russian Navy said the subma­208 people aboard, including 81 sea­submarine's fire-extinguishing sys­rine itself was not Llamaged in men, according to Russian navy tem released Freon gas, said Saturday's accident and returned to spokesman Capt. Igor Dygalo. Yet Vladimir Markin, an official with its base on Russia's Pacific coast Russian news agencies said a sub of Russia's top investigative agency. He under its own power Sunday. The this type normally carries only a crew said forensic tests found Freon in the accident also did not pose any radia-of 73. victims' lungs. 

page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 1 0, 2008 
Nation of Islam leader praises president-elect 


-+ Now Hiring ._ 

Louis Farrakhan, leader of the Nation of Islam, congratulates President-elect Barack Obama during a sermon at the Mosque Maryam in Chicago, Sunday. 
stayed quiet about his support
Associated Press 

for Obama during the past few 
CIIICAGO -Nation of Islam months out of fear his words Minister Louis Farrakhan said would harm the Illinois sena­in an address Sunday celebrat­tor's bid for the White House. ing Barack Obama that the In February, Farrakhan new president-elect has a God­praised Obama, calling him given capacity to handle any "the hope of the entire world burdens he 'II faee as the that America will change and nation's lead11r. be made better" at a Saviours' 
Farrakhan added that Obama Day event in Chicago. will be able to make positive But Obama quickly distanced changes only with help from himself from Farrakhan, "God and people of goodwill," denouncing the minister's sup­


2009-2010 


Resident Assistants 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE AT: 
ORLHeNDeEDU 
APPLY BEFORE fRIDAY, JANUARY 16,2009 
and he urged followers of the Chicago-based blaek national­ist movement to do their part. 
"President-elect Obama has energized all segments of the dnpressnd, downtrodden, rejected and despised," hn said in a IJO-minute speeeh at Mosque Maryam on the city's South Side. "Now it is up to us to take the new energy that he has given us ... and channel that energy into making our­selves better." 
Dressed in intricately deco­rated red and gold robes and a matching fez, the once-ailing 75-year-old leader spoke to more than 1,000 followers in an address called "America's New Beginning: President-elect Barack Obama." 
Farrakhan, who said Obama draws a "oneness of spirit" from all people, admitted he 

port during a presidential debate with then-Democratic rival Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Obama said he object­Pel to Farrakhan's past state­ments about Judaism, which many have considered anti­Semitic. Nation of Islam offi­cials have said Farrakhan's comments are often taken out of context. 
On Sunday, Farrakhan said Obama faced unfair scrutiny for his associations with the Rev. Jeremiah Wright, Obama's former pastor, who was shown making fiery statements about the U.S. government in widely circulated video clips. Obama was also criticized because of the Hev. Michael Pfleger, a Chicago priest who mocked Clinton at Wright and Obama's former church, Trinity United Church of Christ. 

Palin: Anonymous critics are 'cowards' 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E·Mall: orlh@nd.edu 
The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Ethical Leadership: The Cornerstone to Sustained Business Success" 
Joe Loughrey President and Chief Operating Officer Cummins, Inc. 
Tuesday, November 11, 2008 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Associated Press 
ANCIIOHAGE, Alaska -Gov. Sarah Palin denounced anony­mous criticisms leveled at her by former John McCain aides as lies, including allegations that Hepublican lawyers were trav­eling to Alaska to reelaim her high-prieed wardrobe and that slw didn't know Africa was a eontinent. 
"Those accounts are not true," the former Hepublican vice prnsidential eandidato said in her first public comments on. the matter sinee the elnction Tuesday. 
Palin returnnd Friday to hnr Anchorage governor's ofl'ice and said she had no immediate plans to build on her newfound national nanHl-reeognition and popularity with the Hepublican base for a possible 2012 presi­dontial run. 
Instead, Palin said, she want­ed only to gnt baek to the gover­nor's desk to advance a pro­posed pipeline tapping Alaska's vast North Slope natural gas reserves and to prepare Alaska's proposed 2010 budget. 

As for the vice presidential campaign, Palin denounced criticism from unidentified McCain campaign aides as "cowardly." She said she found it frustrating trying to respond to false allegations when she didn't know who was making them. 
"It's ridiculous," she told reporters. "You guys report based on anonymous sources, so it's hard to have a defense." 
One report said she and her family went on a shopping spree, spending more than the $150,000 in clothing that the Hepublican National Committee had earlier reported. 
"The RNC purchased clothes," Palin said. 
"Those are the HNC's clothes. They're not my clothes. I never forced anybody to buy anything. I never asked for anything more than maybe a Diet Dr Pepper once in a while." 

Monday, November 10, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
ND SWIMMING 



Women win, men fall against Purdue 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's teams experienced mixed results on Saturday when they faced Purdue. While the women were able to defeat their in-state rivals, the men could not pull off the upset against the Boilermakers. 
The No. 24 women's team remained perfect at home with a 189-111 win at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish won all but three events in the meet, as Notre Dame lost its first event in its home pool when Purdue's Allie Smith took first place in the 100-yard back­stroke. 
"We were tired after our hardest week of training at this point of the season," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "The purpose of this meet was to race tough, and we did it." 
Irish sophomore Samantha Maxwell and freshman Gwen Blythe got the Irish a combined 26 points with their sweeps of the 100 and 200-breaststroke. Sophomores Amywren Miller and Katie Casey both contributed sweeps of their own as Miller won both the 50 and 100-freestyle and Casey won the 100 and 200-but­terfly. Senior Casey Wagner earned nine points for the Irish with her win in the 1000-freestyle. 
On the other side, the Notre Dame men came up short against the No. 16 Boilermakers with a 187-108 loss. Purdue freshman Olympian David Boudia headlined the Boilermakers win as he set two pool records with his wins in the 3-meter and 1-meter diving events. 

Despite the loss, Irish coach Tim Welsh still saw positives from the Notre Dame loss. 
"Congratulations to Purdue. They've been on the road for two days and swam great [Friday at Northwestern] and again [Saturday]. They're a very good team and they earned it," Welsh said. "Our improvements are hard to see from the stands, but during this serious training phase we're going through we're seeing signs that our best swims still lie ahead." 
Irish sophomore Michael Sullivan took first place finishes in the 200-backstroke and 400-ind.i­vidual medley. Sullivan took the 200-back with a time of 1:52.79. Sullivan narrowly edged Irish jun­ior Andrew Deters in the 400-IM, win.rllng by a half-second. 
The Notre Dame women will not compete for nearly a month until they head to the Ohio State Invitational from Dec. 5-7. The men return to action Saturday in a tri-meet at Cleveland State against the Vikings and Miami (Ohio). 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 
Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. The CIA's. National Clandes~ine Service seeks qualified applicants to serve our country's mission abroad. Our careers offer rewarding. fast-paced. and high tmpact c~allenr:es 1n lntell~gence collectio~ on 1ssues of critical importance tO US rtational security. Applicants should possess a ~ligh degree ~f personal tn~egnty, strong Interpersonal sk•lls. and good written and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from vanous academtc and profes:s1onal backgrounds. Do you want to make a difference for your country/ Are you ready for a challenge/ 
All applicants for National Clandestine Service positions must successfully undergo several personal interviews, m~dical and psychological ~~"· aptiwde testing. a polygraph interview, and a background investigation. Follow10g entry on duty, candtdues wtll undergo extellsrve trammg. US citizenship required. An equal opportunity employer and a drug-fi"ee work force. 
For more information and to apply, visit www.cia.gov 
THE WORK OF A NATION. 
J u s T 







YEAR 

Get your journalism master's degree in 1year at Indiana University 
Enhance your liberal arts degree. Research shows that students with a master's degree in journalism typically obtain better, higher­paying jobs than students with only a bachelor's degree. 
Our master's degree program offers both a professional and research track. Students work with internationally renowned journalists and mass communication scholars. 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles earn first MIAA victory against Alma 
vidual performances by the
By ERIC PRISTER 
Belles, they also were solid as 
Sports Writer 
a team, attaining the top three spots in two different events. Saint Mary's underclassmen In the 1,000-yard freestyle, put on an impressive perform­Cavadini finished first with a ance Saturday as the Belles time of 11:15.50, followed bydefeated Alma College 167-freshman Barbara Beidler and 104, their first conference win sophomore Anna Frantz, who of this young season. finished with times of A trio of Belles ended the 12:12.14 and day with three 14:13.22, first-place finish-respectively. es -sophomore Then, in the Maggie Williams, "All in all, I'm 200-yard freshman Audrey pleased with the freestyle, Saint Dalrymple and Mary's went 1­
team's performance.,, 
freshman Eva 2-3 again, with Cavadini. first-placeCavadini's three Ryan Dombkowski going to fresh­victories came in Belles coach man Megan individual Price with a 
events, including time of the 1000-yard 2:07.05, sec­freestyle, the 200-yard butter­ond to junior Lindsey Nelis in fly and the 500-yard freestyle. 2:08.14, and third to junior Williams and Dalrymple both Sara Niemann with a time of were members of the first­2:09.05. 
place 200-yard medley relay "All in all, I'm pleased with team and also finished first in the team's performance," two individual events each. Dombkowski said. "I am look­
"I was especially pleased ing forward to a few goodwith the performances of weeks of practice before our [Dalrymple] and [Cavidini]", December invitational." 
Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski said. Contact Eric Prister at Along with the stellar indi-eprister@nd.edu 
AW.. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 1 0, 2008 
went to work, opening with an During the third round, focused the second time. aimed for Norton's stomach to onslaught upon Hunt's body Burke simply insured her vic­Initially, a left jab spun Ford, ease up on Norton's outstand­and then her head. Hunt tried . tory with a few more left-right but by the end of the sequence ing ability to block her face. to recover, but Koors claimed combinations. Gallegos never the referee had sent Mullee to The round concluded with an the round as undeniably her truly fought back. a neutral corner so he eould intense right hook from own with a series of adept jabs Burke won in a unanimous check on Ford after a well­Norton. right before the bell. decision. placed right jab. Norton was able to force 
Hunt knew she needed points Ford entered the third round Libardi onto the ropes offering in the third round, and did Deborah "The O'nihilator" needing to make up points, a series of combos. Libardi had what she could to get them, Olmstead def. Alicia "Crazy and she left herself openly vul­one final chanee, but swung but when a big right hook Legs" Guarracino nerable as she attacked. and missed which helped the missed Koors eQtirely, the end The fashion highlight of the Mullee quickly used a right judges make a split-decision seemed inevitable. night, Guarracino traded blows hook to help Ford meet the call of Norton's victory. 
Koors won by split decision. with Olmstead while wearing canvas. 
knee-high, neon, rainbow Mullee won in a unanimous Maureen "The Mongrel" "Mighty" Michelle socks. Alas, the choice of decision. Koegel def. Saida "I'm a pro, Notardonato def. Jessica stocking wear did not help You're a" Khan "Black" Olivas Guarracino's flailing style, Erica "Boxer #21" Harmon This match-up was demon­
The eighth tight of the Bouts which left her open to many def. Vivian "Bulls Got Yo strative of excellent blocking was the first to feature a true body shots from Olmstead, a Hands Full" Kim from both boxers. Few hits body-bruising performance. Welsh Fam sophomore, in the Harmon, a Lyons senior, took were successfully delivered in From the start, Notardonato first round. the glory in the first round of the first round. attacked Olivas' body. Having Olmstead continued to work her matchup. Harmon was By the second round, the finally eseaped the body blow, Guarracino's body in the sec­able to chase Kim against the girls both sacrificed their Olivas threw a roundhouse ond round, as the two lighters ropes, as Kim was unable to blocking abilities and the tight right hook seeonds before the battled in close proximity the throw any partieularly damag­got more intense. Koegel, a bell, but Notardonato ducked entire round. ing punches. sophmore from Pasquerilla the punch and went back to Guarracino, a graduate stu­Kim, a sophomore in East threw a strong right Olivas' body. dent, found a rhythm in the Pangborn, brought a much power that caused Khan's lip 
In the seeond round, final round. She countered more aggressive strategy, but to start bleeding profusely. Notardonato again ducked an many of Olmstead's attacks, suffered from Harmon's criti­In tho third round, Koegel Olivas right hook. However, the effectively slowing Olmstead. cal left hook to end the second stood ou.t as the most agile round was largely marred by Nonetheless, Olmstead had round. counterpart as Khan looked inactivity as both competitors been convincing for a majority In the third round, Kim dazed. Koegel went back for appeared to save energy for of the contest. showed good stamina by still the mouth just before the bell the final round. Olmstead triumphed in a remaining in the fight, but concluded the fight. Koegel 
Olivas performed well in the split decision. Harmon's strong blows to the won by unanimous deeision. final round. She landed several chin led the judges to their blows to Notardonato's head, Kim ''Code Red" Bugos def. unanimous decision in Laura "Rain Maka" Szejka whiln Notardonato continued Elyse "Leave No Doubt" Harmon's favor. def. Ashley "Shakespeare's to work Olivas' body as she did Hoffman Mistress" Ahn the whole fight. Despite the To begin the first round, Lauren "Strong Island" Szejka throw the l'irst hard several quality punches, Olivas Hoffman, a junior from Lewis Cummings def. Kayla "The hit of the fight with a left hook continually failed to capitalize llall, started strong against Texan Terror" Bishop across Ahn's cheek, which Ahn on Notardonato's vulnerability Bugos, a Walsh sophomore, Hight from the beginning, was later able to reciprocate when Notardonato attacked with a combo throw that took off-campus senior Cummings with a combo hit, hitting her body. Instead of punehing Bugos right to the ropes. showed quick reflexes by Szejka at the back of the head. Notardonato ofT, Olivas would The second round was a rel­dodging all of Howard sopho­Early in the second round push her orr. and fail to garner atively even fight, as both box­more Bishop's throws. Ahn, a senior from McGlinn, points. ers were able to keep up, but As Bishop grew tired in the was unable to maintain her 
Notardonato was victorious neither really stood out. second round, Cummings balance and fell as Szejka, a in a unanimous decision. From the beginning of the began throwing, showing both MeGlinn sophomore, aggres­
third round, the underdog, left and right hooks, which sively charged her into the Kristin "The Little One" Bugos came out throwing. caused substantial damage to ropes. Ahn got her second Burke def. Chelsi "Chain Hegardless of a bloody nose, Bishop, damage she was wind in the latter half of the Breaker" Gallegos she became a whole new fight­unable to overcome. second round, but was unable 
Burke opened this fight with er this time around, and cor­Before the final bell, to keep it throughout the third a hurry, landing innumerable nered Hoffman to secure her Cummings combined three round as Szejka really stood jabs within the first round. split-decision victory. punches that gave her a win by out with a series of damaging Eventually, Gallegos began unanimous decision. left hooks. blocking the punches, but she Erinn "Judgment Day" Mullee Szejka was proclaimed the did not attempt a counter, so def. Caitlin "Built Tough" Cara "Boomer" Norton def. winner by a unanimous deci­Burke simply eontinued. Ford Amy "The Leading Lady" sion. 
In the second round, Ford began the fight well, Libardi Gallegos began throwing a few opening with a four-punch Libardi, a sophomore from Juliana Hoffelder def. Laura punches, at her coach's urgent combination that had Mullee Welsh Family, began by consis­"The Invisible Hand" Smith behest, but none managed to reeling. She ended the first tently throwing punches and lloffelder, a junior from faze Burke. Before long, round strong as well. She never stopping her arms to Cavanaugh, had the obvious Gallegos had resorted back to dropped Mullee to the canvas intimidate Norton, a upper-hand throughout the the defensive, and inflicting with a forceful right hook as Cavanaugh sophomore. first round on most of her pain upon Burke was far from the bell rang. In the second round, Libardi her mind. Mullee left her corner more changed her strategy up and see BARAKA/page l 7 
Solidarity Sunday 
November 16,2008 
The Spirit cifInclusion ••• 
"Stran.gcrs an11.J Sojourners no Jonger" (Ephesians 2:19) 
"We value gay and lesbian rnembers of tf1is community as we value all members of" this community"~ "We consciously create an environment ofmutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish", "We prize tile uniqueness of all 
persons as God's creatures.". 
-adopted by the Officers ofthe University mJ Au11ust 27, 1997 
Please join the Notre Dame family in our annual vveekend-long prayer and vvelcome 
Copies ofthe t.~ntire statement ofthe Spirit ofInclusion vvill be available follo·wing all Masses on November 15-16, 2008. 


Bouts 
continued from page 20 
moved as she attacked, while 
MeKenna stood 11at-footed, too 
exhausted to defend the 
punehes. 
Carlson won in a unanimous 
deeision. 
Tanya "B-girl Reppln"' 
Barrios def. Kla "The Hurt" 
Johnson 
In an aetive fight. both 
Barrios, a sophomore, and 
.Johnson, a junior, came out 
swinging. Three times within 
the first 90 snconds, the two 
met and procoeded to produce 
a confounding flurry of lists. 
The second round was not as 
nxhilarating as the first, but 
Barrios still managed to land 
numerous punches, induding a 
fnw powerful hooks. 
Entering the third round in 
an even right, it seemed dear 
that Barrios dosired the win at 
any cost. Slw bullied .Johnson 
around tho ring for the majori­
ty of tho round, but .Johnson 
was nonnthnlnss able to land 
nnough punrlws to kenp it 
inllm~sting. 
In a tnw monwnt of sports­manship, tho two compntitors embraced in tlw middln of the ring bnfore tho refer«H~ had 1wnn eollnded thn seorncards. 
Barrios won by split dncision. 
Emily "ATM" Kotbus def. 
Kelly "Fearsome" Pierson 
Whon thnsn two sophomores 
IPI"t tlwir eorrwrs for the start 
of thn fight, only ono was 
oager to start. Kolbus doliv­
erod four punthos through two 
1:ombinations before Pierson 
snnmod to stir, and this early 
lead earri1~d through to the 
end. 
At tho start of the socond round. again, l'inrson was eaught without her guard ­sho had simply forgotten her mouthpioce -and tho l'ight soon rosumed. It was an even round. onding with Kolbus working Pierson's ribcage at the bell. 
By the third round, Kolbus was out of gas, but Pierson was too far behind. Despite a eonvineing third round, Pierson was unable to score nnough points to keep Kolbus from claiming a split-deeision vidory. 
Jackie "The Delinquent 
Devyshka" Sheridan def. Kyle 
"The Hostile Crocodile" Hagelskamp 
Friday's sixth light was truly a elash of styles. Sheridan's length held off llagelskamp's strength in the first round. Sheridan was able to deliver numerous blows to llagelskamp's head while llagelskamp could not reach her. 
In the second round, Ilagelskamp took to sacrificing position to try to tire Sheridan. llagelskamp dropped her own head, and charged Sheridan, suecessfully attacking her body. 
Early in the third round, Sheridan sent llagelskamp to the canvas with a left hook, the first knoekdown of the ontire night. Ilagelskamp responded by bloodying Sheridan's nose. 
In the end, Sheridan won via unanimous decision. 
Nicole "The Silver Bullet" Koors def. K.C. "The Hunt is On" Hunt 
It took 90 seeonds for these two ofT-campus seniors to get rolling, as tlw first round con­sisted of few, ineiTeetive punches. 
In the second round, Koors 


Monday, November 10, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
Jones 8,943.81 +248.02 
Up: 2,175  Same: 90  Down: 968  Composite Volume: 639,383,955  
AMEX  1~:t~~I2S~BS''''' ~~~~~$!i'!  
NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500  1,647.40 +38.70 ;;;5;87t!~8'~111'2~~,~~~i! 930.99 +26.11  

NIKKEI (Tokyo)~~ 9.,o4a.o3i!lrl,46o1oa!;! FTSE 100 (London) 4,364.96 +92.55 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.30 +3.00 93.86 WELLS FARGO & CO (WFC) +2.54 +0.73 29.50 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.06 +0.63 31.19 !SHARES MSCI E.M.l.F. (EEM) +8.12 +1.85 24.64 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.97 +0.070 3.780 13-WEEK BILL -7.94 -0.030 0.290 30-YEAR BOND +1.45 +0.061 4.261 5-YEAR NOTE +2.85 +0.071 2.558 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.27 61.04 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.00 734.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.30 86.10 
Exchange Rates YEN 99.1000 EURO 0.7771 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.1806 BRillSH POUND 0.6307 

IN BRIEF 
'Madagascar' pulls $63.5 million 
LOS ANGELES -Families herded into movie theaters for another tnik with strand­ed zoo animals as the animated sequel "Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa" led the week­end with a $63.5 million debut, according to studio estimates Sunday. 
Tlw haul for the DreamWorks Animation comedy far surpassed the $4 7.2 million debut for "Madagascar" over Memorial Day week­end in 2005. Its three-day total also beat the $61 million gross the first movie took in over that full four-day holiday weekend. 
"It just shows people seem happy to escape to the movies and have a good laugh," said Anne Globe, head of marketing for I>reamWorks Animation. 
While parents with children were the bulk of the audience, "Madagascar" also drew teens and adults on their own, who made up half the audience on Friday and one-third on Saturday, Globe said. 
Premiering in second-place with $19.3 mil­lion was the Universal Pictures comedy "Role Models," starring Seann William Scott and Paul Rudd as immature adults sentenced to community service as mentors for two misfit youths. 
Bush asked to provide more aid 
WASIIINGTON -Democratic leaders in Congress asked the Bush administration on Saturday to provide more aid to the struggling auto industry, which is bleeding cash and jobs. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader I larry Reid said in a letter to Treasury Secretary llenry Paulson that the administration should consider expanding the $700 billion bailout to include car companies. 
"A healthy automobile manufacturing sector is ess11ntial to the restoration of financial mar­ket stability, the overall health of our econo­my, and the livelihood of the automobile sec­tor's work force," they wrote. "The economic downturn and the crisis in our financial mar­kets further imperiled our domestic automo­bile industry and its work force." 
The administration did not offer direct com­ment on thn request to broaden the $700 bil­lion financial industry bailout so automakers could get a share. 

----------, 
Tl..iE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

China announces stimulus package 
$586 billion spent in an attempt to remedy financial crisis 
Associated Press 
BEIJING China announced a $586 bil­lion stimulus package Sunday in its biggest move to stop the global financial crisis from hit­ting the world's fourth­largest economy. 
A statement on the government's Web site said China's Cabinet had approved a plan to invest the amount in infrastructure and social welfare by the end of 2010. 
Some of the money will come from the pri­vate sector. The state­ment did not say how much of the spending is on new projects and how much is for ven­tures already in the pipeline that will be speeded up. 
China's export-driven economy is starting to feel the impact of the economic slowdown in the United States and Europe, and the govern­ment has already cut key interest rates three times in less than two months in a bid to spur economic expansion. 
Economic growth slowed to 9 percent in the third quarter, the lowest level in five years and a sharp decline from last year's 11.9 percent. That is consid­Jiabao, had "decided to well as on environmen­mercia! banks will also ered dangerously slow adopt active fiscal policy tal protection and high be removed to channel for a government that and moderately easy technology. more lending to priority needs to create jobs for monetary policies." It Spending on rebuild­projects and rural devel­millions of new workers did not give details. ing disaster areas, such opment, it said. who enter the economy The statement said the as Sichuan province As well, reform of the every year and to satisfy spending would focus on where 70.000 people value-added tax system a public that has come 10 areas. They included were killed and millions will cut taxes by $17.5 to expect steadily rising picking up the pace of left homeless by a mas­billion for enterprises, incomes. spending on low-cost sive earthquake in May, the statement said. 
Exports have been housing -an urgent will also be sped up. The plan was growing at an annual need in many parts of That includes $2.93 bil­announced before rate of more than 20 the country -as well as lion planned for next President Hu Jintao goes percent but analysts increased spending on year that will be moved to Washington to push expect that may fall as rural infrastructure. up to the fourth quarter Western leaders to give low as zero in coming Money will also be of this year. poorer countries a big­months as global poured into new rail­The statement, with­ger role in global finan­demand weakens. ways, roads and air­out giving details, said cial institutions at a Nov. 
The statement said the ports. Spending on rural and urban incomes 15 summit of the Group Cabinet, at a meeting health and education would be increased. of 20 major economies chaired by Premier Wen will be increased. as Credit limits for com-on the financial crisis. 

North Dakota town may hold oil 
While it is the namesake of the they thought it would be too spicy," said
Associated Press Parshall oil field, which sits in the Shad Green, 39, who came to the area PARSHALL, N.D. -In this tiny reser­(TUde-rich Bakken shale formation, a last spring from Texas to work the oil vation town a hundred miles from the quarter of Parshall's residents live in wells for $32 an hour. Canadian border where temperatures poverty. After a eo-worker was killed on an oil once hit 60-below zero, a Southern No one is sure how much oil might lie rig where he worked, Green quit the twang is sometimes heard over the din beneath the town, but with the wells business and bought the Redwood. at the local diner and there is talk of spreading south toward Parshall near Green. his wife and her mother, sister Texas tea beneath the streets. the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, and 18-year-old niece are there, and his Roughnecks from Texas and things have begun to change. son and daughter-in-Jaw expect to move Oklahoma have traveled here on hopes "We're seeing an influx of youth that there in about a month, to help work in that they now share with the town's we didn't have before," Hotlinan said. the restaurant. he said. 1,000 or so inhabitants -that there is At Parshall's only restaurant, the Strong Southern drawls like Green's oil in Parshall. Redwood, there is now Tex-Mex food on are becoming more prevalent in town. About 400 people own mineral rights the menu, though locals were leery of it "People are getting more familiar with under homes, businesses. churches. at first. the accent," Green said. nursing homes or tribal land. All of it Business at the Redwood Restaurant, But it is no longer the ease that you has been leased, town officials said. like other establishments in town, is know most of the people you see in "We were dying," said Loren brisk. The hamburger smothered with Parshall. Hoffman, a local farmer and the city gravy is still a big seller. ''I've lived here all my life and I don't auditor. "Our town was slipping back­"We put breakfast burritos on the recognize most of the people in the local ward, but now we're on the upswing." menu and no one would try them -cafe," Hoffman said. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, November 1 0, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Post-election hope 
1~0. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dinin!( fhll, Norrc Dame, IN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler ASST. MANAGIN<; EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: jenn Mctz 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DE.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 

CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (571) 6.11-7171 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('571) 6.31-6900 obst·rvadG:llnd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ('574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR ('574) 63!-4541 ohsme<i~nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.J @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
('574) 631-'5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! (illnd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK ('574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and onlim· by tht· smdenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial cont~nr. including adverrist·ments, is 1101 governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of dw majority of the Editor in Chit{ Managing Editor, A.ssistalll Managing Editors and department editors. Commcnraries, letters and columns present the views of til(' authors and nor necessarily those ofThe ( >hscrver. 
Vitwpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression oLrll opinions through letwrs is encouraged. !.etters ro the F.ditor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Obsavrr policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l'lu:: (liJ.Ii('r'Yn (l/-'P'i 599 l.-400U) Ul puhlu:~ltcd Mond;~y through Frid.IY cxl;c:pl dmi~ c-.1111 .md V~ltUII rl('riud~. A1U,JM'rlp111111 tn 'I1ll;: Ob..c:rvct itl $100 tOr oncauJcmk y~:.u; $'iS rurtutl'•c:-mt:'ltcr. 
\'he Observer h publi!!lud .u: POSTMASTER 
024 Sourh DinutK H.1.ll Send .1ddrc:t~ corr.:c:tirms to: 
Notre \l.imt, IN -'46556-0779 Tht:OO.c:rvcr 
Pcriodm~ol pmugc paid iH Nmrt f.};lmc P.O. Box 779 
and ,u\ditimulmJtlHll( olli.ca. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, tN 46'iS6-0779 

The Ob!i¢rvcr u." mcmhc.r of rht ~'UC.l.&l.:d P~. All rcpt·lxi.ucuon righLS: llfC n::Rrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Mandi Stirone Sports Aaron Steiner Matt Gamber 
Alicia Smith Sam Werner Graphics Doug Farmer Andrea Areher Insider Viewpoint Dan Murphy Lianna Scene Brauweiler Analise Lipari 
And here we are. Our first'full cam­painless week in two years. The rheto­ric of change from both campaigns and the crisis we now find ourselves in as a nation and as a world now rest heavily upon our shoulders; there's no national com­petition to distract us any longer. Welcome to Heality. Gray and sobering. 
This immediate shift kind of both­ers me. Not the call to accept real­ity itself, but rather the tone of it. "It's not what you say, it's how you say it!" (Thanks, Dad), or the Austrian, "Der Ton macht die Musik" (the tone makes the music). I am unfortunately not in America to see the reaction first hand, so I've been mlying on word of mouth and online newspapers. Thank goodness for the Internet. What I have found here, in any case, is that everyone felt the hope and optimism that Barack Obama seemed to radiate during the election. And I mean radiated-I don't know why we're concerned about using nuclear energy when we get so much radiation from our presi­dential candidates. But anyways, now that the anticipation is over and Europe is no longer praying for our eternal souls, it has become fashion­able here -in the course of not days, but hours -to question the capability of anyone to turn America around, and to resort to a pessimism that this election did so much to combat. 
Once again, maybe the feelings are different at home. But there seems to be a similar despair, a rhetorically-

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 

inspired "this is the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression." By no means am I trying to repudiate this statement. To describe our situation in the oh-so-graceful formation of words in American English that no other lan­guage can quite duplicate, this really sucks. 
It does. But as the rhetoric during the election reminded us, we have so much for which to hope, to be thank­ful. While other nations are facing starvation, epidemics and wars in the face of the food crisis, the oil crisis, the financial crisis, the global warm­ing crisis, we are in dire straits because we are now forced to reexam­ine our excessive lifestyles. We literal­ly have the breathing room to revise our way of life instead of facing the endangerment of life itsell'. 
Our sheer amount of natural resources has historically catapulted us to our current prominence and will continue to do so. We aren't even dose to worrying whether we will havn enough food to feed our population for the next five, 10, 20 years. Hather, we are worried about how much money the government gives out to farmers (who don't make any money becaus!~ we as a "free market" decided that food is not as important a product as, say, entertainment technology), or whether or-not we use our food supply for energy that only indirectly sup­ports human life. 
We import food from thousands of miles away because it tastes good and it fulfills our wants. Despite this, we have some of the best farmland in the world, upon which we prefer to build subdivisions. Our nation is so large that if global warming begins to dev­astatingly disrupt climate patterns, the climate changes will shift agricultural zones, rather than annihilating them. 
We look past the essentials to that which we feel we can achieve by earn­
ing. According to the American 
Dream. homeownership is a direct 
result of hard work and good values. 
Does that mean that families who live 
in apartments have somehow failed? 
Homeownership in Austria is slightly 
over 50 pereent and in Germany 
around 40 percent, while in America it 
hovers just below 70 pereent. EuropP. 
is a first world country with an incred­
ibly stable economic system. More 
than that, people here are still happy. 
Families live in apartments their 
entire lives, children grow up playing 
at the park instead of the backyard. If 
that's really what we have bp,fore us to 
"l'ear," can't we just as well make our 
dreams less rigid to eope with 
changes? 
The financial crisis is undoubtedly hitting us hard. Our dreams aro blur­ry, many families are scraping by and the giant businesses that stabilize our economy are going down in reeord numbers. Ilowever, we are all still here. We have our lives. We have our families, our medicinal and teehnolog­ical advancements, comforts that so many people in the world will nnver know. Before resorting to seeing our situation pessimistically, think about the room we have to maneuver. The turns might be sharp, the drop-ofT steep, but the mad we are on contin­ues, paved and accommodating. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior German and 1/istory Major and is cur­rently studying abroad in lnnsbruck, Austria. She hopes one of/Jarack Obama 's first actions in office (or on the court) will be taking the advice of the most famous Austrian-American and doing something about those "skinny legs. " .'ihe can be contacted at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
When did you stop watching the game? 
Interception return for touchdown 

"The pure and simple truth is 
Halftime rarely pure and never simple." Fwnbled punt 
Oscar Wilde 

Watched the whole thing 
author 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, November 10, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
No m.ore fear, union welcom.e 
For the past three years I have talked with Notre Dame workers about their jobs, their lives and their hopes for the future. Stories of family, friends and community often turn into a discussion on paychecks, benefits and respect in the workplace. The workers on our cam­pus arc some of the most dedicated, loving people I have ever met. But they are too often denied a voice at our University and they fear that speaking out will result in punishment. 
Al'ter years of organizing with workers through the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP), I have come to see that wages are only one of many concerns for workers at our University. The lack of respect, the feeling of isolation in a place that prides itself on community and a culture of fear in the workplace are all concerns I consistently hear from workers. 
CLAP has recently begun a campaign to support Notre Dame workers by supporting their right to organize a union. Our federal law, the principles of Catholic Social Teaching and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights all sanction the right to unionize. As the United States Council of Catholic Bishops wrote, the basic rights of all workers includes specifically "the organization and joining of unions." 
A worker here at Notre Dame, a friend now for over three years, has told me the story of what happened when an airline he worked with tried to form a union. My friend remembers how the corporate management pressured workers to oppose the union and when it looked like the union might win, workers supporting the union were fired systematically. In a recent letter sent by President John Jenkins to students concerned with the issues of labor rights. he said: "A situation in which we find that the legally protected rights of workers are infringed upon is unacceptable to the University." We. as the University community, must hold our administrators to their words. We must allow for a free, fair and open dialogue about the rights of workers to organize a union on campus. 
As a member of CLAP, I ask all the members of the Notre Dame community to support our University workers. Our community must be a place free from fear where all members are able to speak up. You can support workers by signing a Union Support Card which recog­nizes and respects the right of Notre Dame workers to form a union. Cards can be found by contacting any CLAP member. Together we can show that Notre Dame will not be a place of fear and that a union is welcome here. 
Michael Angulo 
senior 
off-campus Nov. 7 

'Pro-life' not only for abortion 
Being truly "pro-life" involves far more than simply opposing abortion. Consider the case of former Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu. To increase the Homanian population, he banned abortion, but his despotic regime quickly became infamous for its egregious human rights abuses. Ceausescu's secret police force dealt brutally with suspected political dis­sidents and his lavish lifestyle belied the sheer destitution which afflicted most of his country's citizens. I can't imagine that any person would argue that Ceausescu's opposition to abortion offset the crimes of his tyrannical regime or that he ruled in accordance with Catholic moral precepts. 
Clearly. a leader's antipathy for abortion does not necessarily override the consid­eration ol' other issues. During the 2004 presidential election, George Bush received the pro-life vote simply because his party traditionally condemns abortion. Although Bush claimed to be "pro-life," he continued to fight an unnecessary, bloody war in Iraq which has been criticized as illegal by former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and as unjust by the Vatican. The war in Iraq has killed thousands of American troops and, according to a range of estimates, between one hundred thousand and one million innocent Iraqi civilians. The Bush administration has also been guilty of numerous human rights violations, such as the torture of suspected terrorists at Guantanamo Bay, extraordinary rendition and the use of secret CIA prisons. Bush has also been a strong supporter of the death penalty and has even argued that he possesses the authority to indefinitely and arbitrarily detain "enemy combatants" and to deny them access to courts and lawyers. These policies, which have seri­ously corroded American moral legitima­cy, are not those of a politician who is seri­ous about preserving the sanctity of life and they are staunchly antithetical to core Catholic ideals. 
Many anti-abortion advocates claim that abortion is the singular issue in the elec­tion because the number of abortions since Roe v. Wade far exceeds the cumula­tive death toll of all other social injustices, including the war in Iraq. One could apply this argument to communist Romania and argue that the Ceausescu regime's strong opposition to abortion compensated for its dismal of human rights simply because Ceausescu probably prevented at least several hundred thousand abortions. However, not many people would concur with that defense of Ceausescu. Additionally, that line of reasoning would free the Republican party from nearly all accountability on its other policies and positions, even those which directly con­tradict Church teachings. 
The innocents who suffer and die in unjust conflicts share a fundamental, inef­fable human dignity which must be respected, even if that means voting for a candidate who does not oppose abortion. A presidential candidate's position on abortion does merit careful contemplation by Catholic voters. It does not, however, automatically supersede all other moral concerns in a campaign. 
Colin Littlefield sophomore St. Edward's Hall Nov. 5 



Housing policy a failure 
We all know that the University would like to have as many students as pos­sible live on campus as long as possible. The administration is building the new dorms to alleviate the housing overcrowding and offer attractive new rooms to students. Being stuffed into tiny rooms, though, is just one problem that students have with living on campus. Draconian rules -like parietals ­and overzealous enforcement thereof are what drive undergraduates to look for other options for housing. Building new dorms is obviously not going to solve these problems. The flrst thing the University needs to do is relax its reg­ulations. It should bring an end to parietals and the restriction on hard liquor immediately and hall staff should allow social gatherings to continue without the overbearing interference with which it now regulates them. Many students are tired of looking over their shoulders for RAs and rectors constantly. 
The second thing the University should do is build on-campus apartments where there would not be any rules or hall staff. In these apartments, students could live without the restrictions of Res Life rules and hall staff. At the same time, they would still be subject to police enforcement of laws, Like other apart­ments. Unfortunately, with all the additional buildings being put up on cam­pus, it may be too late for this option. If the University cared about ensuring the safety of students by keeping them on campus, it would change its policies drastically. From the stories I hear from alumni of the previous generation, I can understand why it was an attractive option to stay on campus all four years then. Instead, students are forced to flee the oppression of ResLife rules and the tyranny of prying hall staff. 
James McCaughan junior Siegfried Hall Nov. 7 

Am.erica the beautiful 
Election night 2008 has drawn to a close. I know that for many of us, the results were not as we might have hoped. In trying to define what I think of this pivotal moment in American history, I've written a few reflections that I'd like to share with you. 
One of the greatest things about our country is that for the past 220 years, we have had peaceful exchange of power -something practically unprecedented in the history of civilization: I am proud to say without a doubt that we will have a peaceful exchange of power once more next Jan. 20, when Barack Obama becomes America's 44th president. For the brave men and women serving in our armed forces and for those of us preparing to join their ranks, we have committed ourselves to defend the Constitution of the United States and to support the Commander in Chief and all those appointed over us in their lawful orders. And so we will. 
For all of us as citizens, to draw from what I can only describe as one of the most honorable concession speeches in the history· of politics: come Jan. 20, we will all continue to be, as we have always been, united as Americans. We will all continue, I hope, to believe in this great nation. America is bigger than any one man and than any one party. As we enter into what I believe will be a new chapter in American government, we must all hold fast to the great ideals on which this country was founded two cen­turies ago. I also know that for many of us, this election was not only about political ideologies or economic values. We cast our votes in large part based on our belief in the sacredness of every human life. We stand by this conviction and we must continue to fight for the right of each innocent per­son to enjoy the freedoms that our government exists to protect. We must also pray, harder than ever before that God may guide our country and all our leaders. Red or blue, the votes have been cast. America continues and so do we. God bless America. 
Nicole Burson freshman Lewis Hall Nov. 5 

Obam.a's radical endorsem.en t 
The mainstream media has done rather poorly reporting on an issue with the president-elect Barack Obama that everyone at Notre Dame should consider sig­nificant. Obama has been formally endorsed by a man who stands in direct oppo­sition to something every Notre Dame student holds dear, who terrorizes the very system in which he thrives and who is unrepentant for all that he has done. 
I'm talking, of course, about Pete Carroll. As coach at USC, he has stood in unflinching, direct and unrepentant opposition to Notre Dame for years. He has done damage to the very fabric of college football with his nonstop whining when­ever his team is not selected to play in the national championship. Furthermore, he does not reject what he does and will continue to do it until we send a clear message (preferably this year) that we will not stand for it any longer. 
Though the media may not be reporting it, this association (which Obama has not rejected) should infuriate all at Our Lady's University. I therefore encourage all students to send letters to the president-elect, Congress, news stations, news­papers and distant relatives demanding explanation for this "Obamination." 
Matt Gore junior Stanford Hall Nov.6 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Monday, November 10, 2008 

A personal favorite is "Some Might
ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
Say," a song with ingenious guitar Scene Writer 
chords and simple yet insightful lyrics, 
Many havn writtm1 Oasis off' as simply "Some might say that sunshine follows a Bnatlns rip-ofT, whiln others have thunder/ Go and tell it to the man who called tlw Manchestnr-based group the cannot shine/ Some might say that we quintnssential Britpop band. Their sec­should never ponder on our thoughts ond studio album "(What's the Story) today 'cause they will sway over time." Morning (;lory'?" certainly helped to Another favorite is "Don't Look Back nstablish tlwm as not only a best-selling in Anger," a song that can very easily be band but also iconic l'ig-mistaken for a Beatles hit urns at the l'ornfront of tho with its adept sense of tim­sncond coming or the !Oasis's] I995 ing and loud vocals. British invasion. Tlw 1995 album "(What's the According to Pops and album provml to listeners Scratches, a music news
Story) Morning 

that the Callaglwr broth­site, even Noel, the elder
Glory?" not only 

ers' music 1:ould bf~ clear brother Gallagher, princi­and l'oeused al'ter their helped to bring pal songwriter, lead gui­dnbut album "Dnl'initely tarist, backing vocalist,
Oasis to widerfame 
Maybn," which had more and lead vocalist on "Don't
but also established 
swaggering ehords and a Look Back in Anger," mtu:h rawer sound. a new genre called admitted in his Manchester "(What's the Story) snarl, "[It] reminds me of a
Britpop, which 

Morning (;lory'?" was a cross between "All the
would influence 

huge and enduring suc­Young Dudes" and summat cnss, selling morn than 18 later British groups, the Beatles might've million 1:opins worldwide including Coldplay done." and charting as the third The CD's closing track, biggest-selling album in "Champagne Supernova" 
U.K. history, after Qunen's "(;reatest endured as a No. 1 radio hit in spite of Hits" and Thn Beatlns' "Sgt. Pepper's many believing i1 was too long at seven Lorwly llearts Club Band." and a hall' minutes. The mellow indie 
Much sucenss is owed to tho band's anthem spent live weeks as Billboard single, "Wondnrwall," which can best be Modern Hock Tracks' number-one sin­dnscribed as a bitterswnet gle. hybrid bntween a bnauti­The 1995 album The lyrics ("How many f'ul Bnatles lovn song and special people change?
proved to listeners 
a pop hit tailored to thn Ilow many lives are living angst of thn 1990s music that the Gallagher strange"). the soft drum industry. brothers' music could beat and sound effects of Of'tnn c.haraetnriznd by water flowing all evoke
be clear andfocused.
avid fans as the ardwtyp­feelings of nostalgia and al Oasis song, the 90s bal-fear of change in a world lad has nxquisitnly-written lyrics where people quickly lose their inno­("Bneausn maylw you'rp gonna bn the cence and base their interactions with onn that savns mn, and aftnr all, you're one another on social elass. my wondnrwall") accompanied by The song is about a simple desire for nwlancholy violin, soft guitar chords, unity and forgiveness, and a hope to and well-placnd cymbal crashns. maintain friendships that might be lost 
The British group's most popular song as people's values change. brought back tlw concept or a simple The quality or Oasis' music was often lovn song, supphmwnting it with the overshadowed by disputes between the poignancy or the dncade, and listening brothers Gallagher, Liam and Noel, and to it brings back memories or the frequent comparisons to the Beatles, Britpop nra. but their 1995 album "(What's the 
Thn Cl>'s classic pop-inspired lyrics Story) Morning Glory?" not only helped arn not always that denp and hardly to bring Oasis to wider fame but also subtln (fingnrs point toward "She's nstablished a new genre called Britpop, l·:lnetric," which has somnwhat nonsnn­which would influence later British sical lyrir.s but a popular appeal), but groups, including Coldplay. comparPd to modnrn pop's vapid lyrics. they'rn wPII written for tlwir genre and Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at often dnsirably to the point. akilpatr@nd.edu 
"DIG OuT YouR SouL" INVITES NEw INFLUENCES 
"(Get Off Your) High llorse Lady" has ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK 
the dap and stomp of the Beatles' "Give Scene Writer 
Peace a Chance," and Noel's "Falling 
Oasis' newest album, "Dig Out Your Down" has the same noisy sonil: sound as 
Soul," released in early October, helps to 'The Shoek of the Lightning." Guitarist 
transform the band into more of a democ­Gem Archer surprises with air excellent 
racy rather than a monarchy ruled by the mix of psychedelic rock and Indian raga 
Gallagher Brothers, Noel and Liam. Each hypnotism in "To Bn When~ There's Life," 
member of the Britpop band contributed while Andy Bell writes a classic rock-like 
to the songwriting: Noel, previously piece, "The Nature of Heality," which 
always the principal songwriter, wrote six takes influences from Jimi llendrix in the 
songs, while brother Liam wrote a few guitar ehords. 
and lesser-known members Gem Archer Liam 's linal two contributions, "Aint 
and Andy Bell each contributed a song. Got Nothing" and "Soldier On," are both 
The Manchester-based band has always well-written and take influences from 
been blatantly influenced by the Beatles, classie rock. "Soldier On" has the same 
to the extent that Oasis has actually stolen psychedelic rock sound of Gem's "To Be 
lyrics from the Liverpool-based 1960s pop Whern There's Life" without the hypnot­
rock band. In "Dig Out Your Soul," how­ic eiTect, while "Aint Got Nothin'" takes 
ever, Oasis broadens its horizons and its noisy sound from fp,llow British band 
takes influences from several classic rock The Who. 
bands, from Led Zeppelin and Pink Floyd While previous albums had delicately 
to the Doors and the Who. crafted pieces such as "Champagne 
The CD opens with Noel's "Bag It Up," Supernova" that took the loud-sort 
a song with a bluesy sound yet lyrics that dynamic range into account, Oasis dnlib­
prompt the much-needed question, erately sacrifices dynamics in "Dig Out 
"'Hee-bee-jee-bees?' H.eally?" The album Your Soul" with a loud, overwhelming and 
quickly moves on to two other Noel numbing efl'ect for the listener. 
Gallagher pieces, "The Turning" and This decision is seemingly backwards, 
"Waiting for the Rapture." These songs as most bands mature from using blatant 
both have strong Doors influences, made noise to overwhelm the listeners to pro­
apparent with the eerie keyboard in 'The ducing the same effect by using a wider 
Turning" from the Doors' "Hiders on the dynamic range but a sorter sound. 
Storm" and the dirty guitar in "Waiting However, Oasis pulls off the loud, over­
~o~ the Hapt~re," taken from the Doors' whelming method with maturity and cre-
Frve to One. ativity. 
Noel's "The Shock of Oasis' new outlook Oasis has enrtainly become 
the Lightning," the first morn opnn-mindnd over the
allows them to drop
single off the album, has past decade and a half, shar­a sonic feel and excellent their Britpop sound ing tiH1 song-writing duties lyrics ("Love is a time and create a this time around and learn­machine, up on the silver ing that the Beatles, while
completely different 
screen"), but the song is excellent and definitely in!lu­
much too over-hyped. sound on "Dig Out ential, are not the only band 
The real treat is Liam's Your Soul." from whom they can take 
'Tm Outta Time," an, of their in!luences. 
course, Lennon-like bal-According to NME 
lad led by piano and rellective lyrics ("Can Magazine, Hyan Adams elaimed that the 
give myself some piece of mind ...you new CD has the same effect as 
know it's getting hard to fly") and slightly Hadiohead's "Kid A," saying "the first time 
psychedelic sound effects akin to the best I heard 'Kid !\ I went 'OK, I have no ... 
of Pink F.loyd toward the end. idea what kind of music this is but it's 
moving me. It sounds like a 
revelation.' That's what the

Dig Out Your Soul 
new Oasis stull' sounds like, it sounds likn they have entered
Oasis 
into some strange uncanny spiritual crazy door and havn

Released by: Wamer Brothers 
just lost themselves completely

Recommended Tracks: "To Be Where 
to it and it is marvelous." Oasis' new outlook allows

Life" and "I'm Outta lime" 
them to drop their Britpop sound and create a completely different sound on "Dig Out Your Soul." 

Contact Alexandra Kilpatrick at .___ ___::________::::._______::__________. akilpatr@nd.edu 
Image courtesy of wikimedia.com Image courtesy of Manchestereveningnews.co.uk Oasis founders Noel and Liam Gallagher perform in concert. The band has often "Dig Out Your Soul" offers fans a departure from their previous albums. Musician been credited for establishing the Britpop genre. Ryan Adams recently told NME that their new sound was "marvelous." 
------------------------------------------, 
NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, November 10, 2008 BSERVER Boston College 17, Notre Dame 0 

Goose Egg 
Boston College shuts out Notre Dame's offense to take home sixth consecutive win in rivalry 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 
BOSTON During his Wednesday press conference, Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said he wanted to go to Boston College and "kick their teeth in." 
But after Satul'day's 17-0 loss to Boston College, the Irish may want to make an appointment with their dentist. 
The loss marked Notre Dame's first shutout since USC blanked the Irish 38-0 at Notre Dame Stadium on Oct. 20, 2007. It also marked a step backward for a Notre Dame offense that had all but erased memories of such ugly losses from last season. 
Notre Dame sophomore quar­terback Jimmy Clausen threw for 226 yards and four inter­ceptions, including one that was returned 76 yards for a touchdown by Eagles defensive back Paul Anderson, as Notre Dame's mistake-prone offense failed to mount a significant threat against Boston College's defense. Never once did Notre Dame snap the ball inside the red zone. Notre Dame had just 66 yards rushing, with sopho­more running back Armando Allen leading the way with just 24 yards on six carries. 
Weis attributed the offense's ineffectiveness to trying to do much once Notre Dame fell behind. 
"I think everyone was trying to make plays that weren't there to be made and we start­ed forcing the issue and that quarterback Chris Crane to block, and had to punt. But for as bad as Notre inside Boston College territory led to an inconsistent night just 79 yards through the air "Early in the first quarter, Dame played offensively in the late in the third quarter. On across the board," Weis said. on 9-for-22 passing. But we put ourselves into some first half, the Irish were still fourth-and-six from the 41­
Notre Dame did not make Boston College running back very bad down and distance only down 10-0 going into the yard line, Clausen found Allen Clausen available for comment Monte! Harris had 120 yards situations with some penalties locker room. Three times dur­on a swing pass, but Allen was after the game. and 23 carries, 74 of those in the first quarter," Weis said. ing the half, Boston College tackled before he could reach 
The Irish committed five coming in the second half "When they called a chop began drives inside Notre the first down marker. turnovers in all. The fifth came when Boston College seemed block, we got into no ebb and Dame territory and on each of Clausen's third interception when Golden Tate muffed a content to run the ball and not flow in the first quarter." those drives, the Eagles did came early in the fourth quar­punt early in the third quarter. risk a turnover through the air. The rest of the half didn't go not score. One drive ended ter with Notre Dame driving The fumble was recovered by Crane finished with nine car­much better for Notre Dame. with a missed 34-yard field again. On first-and-10 from Boston College lineman Brad ries for 43 yards. Clausen threw two intercep­goal from kicker Steve the Boston College 27 -yard Newman to set up a Boston "The defense put out a win­tions, and the unit had just Aponavicius that hit the left line, Clausen overthrew tight College touchdown -a nine­ning performance," Weis said. 121 total yards. The offensive upright. The others ended in end Kyle Rudolph in the end yard pass from Eagles quarter­"Unfortunately that's only one­line had a chop block, false punts. zone and was intercepted by back Chris Crane to wide third of the composition of the start, and two holding penal­Notre Dame's defense Eagles safety Paul Anderson. receiver Brandon Robinson -a team." ties called against it. Notre allowed just three points in the After that interception, the turn of events from which Crane added: "If we needed Dame's best chance to score half, a 27-yard field goal from game was in little doubt. Notre Dame couldn't recover. to step on the accelerator we was on its final drive of the Aponavicius late in the first ''I'm not taking anything 
"There was a deflating point would have, but that point half. quarter. away from BC's defense and in the game and that was early never really presented itself With time winding down, "Fortunately, while we're in [Boston College defensive coor­in the thirs quarter where we because we always had good Clausen drove the Irish to no ebb and flow on offense, dinator] Frank Spaziani is a fumbled a punt after going field position and we didn't Boston College's 25-yard line. the defense is gutting it out, good coach and they played three-and-out and you could want to put the defense in a A holding penalty on Dan which they really did through­well and I commend them for feel the air being punched out bad hole." Wenger drove the Irish back out the entire night," Weis that," Weis said. "But still at of a balloon, let out of a their Notre Dame's opening drive 10 yards and the Clausen, try­said. the end of the day, to pitch a sails at that time," Weis said. was an omen of things to come ing to get the ball to receiver But Notre Dame cold never goose egg is unacceptable." 
Notre Dame actually out­for the Irish in the first half. Golden Tate down the side­mount a sustained drive in the gained Boston College 292 The Irish were penalized lines, threw his second inter­second half. Notre Dame failed Contact Chris Hine at yards to 246 and held Eagles twice, one for a 15-yard chop ception. to convert on fourth down chine@nd.edu 

player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Montel Harris Eagles runningback  5  Paul Anderson's 76-yard intercep­tion return for a touchdown  "But still at the end ofthe day, to pitch a goose egg is unacceptable. "  
Harris ran for r 20 yards on 23 carries and was a workhorse for the  Turnovers for the Notre Dame offense. Four of which were interceptions from Clausen.  The impressive runback from the seinor safety gave the Eagles a IO­ Charlie Weis Irish coach  
Eagles down the stretch.  o lead and they never looked back.  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 10, 2008 
report card 

D 
C+ 8 
D 
8 
8 
8 D D 
quarterbacks: (]ausnn had fbur intercep­
tions ru1d looked like h11 had regressed a full ynar. Mentally, he dido't show up. 1Ii'> 31 rushing yard'> kept him from failing. 
running backs: Four backs combined f(>r a !-,Tfand total of 6 7 yards rushing on 21 attmnpl'i. Allen made a big impaet on the pw;sing game with IJ catches out of the backfield. 
receivers: The rngular cast of receivers per­/(JmJed well. Floyd made a few big plays a'> usual. but U1e offimse a'> a whole struggled on Saturday. 
offensive line: Defnnsive tadde B.J. Haji had his way up front and the Eagles were able to get decent prnssurn even when rushing only thn~ players. Big penalties al'i<J killed several drives. 
defensive line: The line did a relatively good job of containing the Eagles back­Held. flarris ran for 120 yards but only because he beeamn their offensn in the f(Jurth quarter. 
linebackers: It's hard to say anything bad about the defense. The Eagles only ofl'ensive touchdown was due in a big way to a special teams snafu. 
defensive backs: Chris Crane wa'> held to 79 yard'> and completed less than hall'ofhis 
paS.'><*> in the gilllle. Bruton and McCarthy 
al'ill ~1cpptrl up in the run game as usual. 
special teams: Speda.l teilllls had a big 
holding call, a blocked punt, a shanked 
punt and a fumble punt return. All of 
U11~m ended up hurting the team in the 
long run. 
coaching: The team was flat all game and the oflfmse struggled to move the ball at all. In a loss this bad, the blame inevitably falls on the guys in charge. 

2.03 overall: The Irish need to figure out a way to show up f(>r big games. Until then, they will be wavering on the edge of aca­demic probation. 
adding up the numbers 

Career receptions for Armando Allen. He had nine against Boston College to move 
55 

into sixth all-time at Notre Dame. 
The number of times Boston College started6 drives in Notre Dame territory in its first ten possessions. 
Rushing yards for true freshman Monte! Harris. The fifth back this season to 
120

rush for over 100 against the Irish. 
21 Consecutive wins against non-conference oppo­nents. The longest current streak in the country. 
Incomplete passes in the game. Clausen 
33 

threw 20 and Crane added 13 more. 
12 
Games since Notre Dame was last shutout. The team's last shutout was a 38-0 loss to 
USC on Oct. 20, 2007. 

The time It took for the Irish oftense to cross midfield. Their first play in BC 
23:30 

territory was intercepted. 
Receiving yards for freshman Michael Floyd 
this season, which breaks Tony Hunter's record (690) for freshmen. 

702 

CASEY CARNEY/The Observer 

Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen gets rid of the ball as he is pulled down by a Boston College defender during Notre Dame's 17-0 loss to the Eagles Saturday night. Clausen threw four interceptions in the game. 
Clausen takes big step back 
With just over 10 minutes left in the third quarter, Chris Crane threw his best pass of the game to put the Eagles up 17-0. 
Statistically, Notre Dame was still very much in 
the game at that point. They had 25 minutes to make a big play and turn things around. Mentally, Weis and his boys were already in 


the locker room. 
Dan Murphy
It looked like Crane had just shot the team Sports Editor puppy. The entire sideline was dead and they stayed that way for the remainder of the game. 
Weis said after the game that the drive, which was prolonged by a muffed punt, was "deflating" 
"You could feel like the air being punched out of the balloon at that time," Weis said. 
The drive was clearly a dagger, but the balloon was popped a long time before the second half started. 
Maybe it was the tough loss to Pittsburgh, or a long week of hard practices or the memory of five 
straight depressing losses to the Eagles, but for whatever rea­son the Irish were flat. from the opening kickoff. 
Leading the way for the Sulkin' Irish was quarterback Jimmy Clausen. 
Clausen's body lan­guage was negative all night. long and it dearly hurt his per­formance. 
No. 7 looked much 
more like the true freshman who took the field against Michigan last year than the developing field gen­eral who threw for three straight. 300-plus yard games earlier this season. 
Things went sour early, starting on the second drive of the game. Clausen was hit late and the penalty resulted in a first down at the 42­yard line. 

The next three plays were mis­takes. On first down, he fired a low bullet over the field that was tipped twice by Eagle defenders. On second down he tried to hit freshman Michael Floyd on a 10-yard come­back route. The pass was fine, but Floyd ran a fade. Then on third down, Clausen overlooked an open 
Kyle Rudolph and threw an incomplete deep ball. 
A few minutes later, he tried twice in a row to force the ball to Rudolph despite having other open options. The first time it fell incomplete, the sec­ond time he wasn't so lucky. The throw sailed high and Paul Anderson took it 76 yards in the opposite direction in what 
turned out to be the biggest play of the game. 
No. 7 went on to throw three more picks, including twice when the Irish were threatening to score. 
Four interceptions-a career high for the sophomore -was bad, but. it 
"You could feel the air being punched out ofthe balloon at that 
time.,, 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 
It looked like Crane hadjust shot the team puppy. The entire sideline was dead and they stayed that way for the remainder ofthe game. 
didn't stop there. 
The chemistry that seemed to be build­ing between the quarterback and his young stud receivers was non-existent in Boston. There were at least four occa­sions when a receiver ran one route and Clausen made a throw that looked like he was expecting something different. 
Those passes are 

usually pre-snap reads depending on what the defense lines up in, so it's tough to tell exactly who was at. fault. each time unless you can find out what was going on in the play. 
In Weis' postgame press confer­ence he said that Boston College was running a fairly simple soft zone defense throughout most. of the game. 
In Clausen's postgame press con­ference, he said absolutely nothing. Unfortunately, for the first time this year, Jimmy wasn't available after the game. 
At this stage Clausen has as much experience as most quarterbacks playing college football. He has had two years as a starter and is old enough to face the music. 
We hear a lot about Jimmy's maturation process and learning to take the bad with the good is as much of a part. of that. process as anything else. 
Last year Clausen was protected after poor performances beeuase of a Notre Dame rule that does not. allow freshman to speak to the media. This time around there is no 

good excuse for his absence. The more he has to face his problems head on, the more he will be able to improve and move beyond them. It's tough to say exactly who was behind that decision, but it. was another bad one to add to the list. 
Overall, this game should serve as a wake-up call that Clausen still has plenty of room to grow. 
There will be plenty of fans shout­ing for Weis's head on a platter. I'm sure there will be some pleas for Evan Sharpley or true freshman Dayne Crist to take over at the helm. 
Clausen has earned his place as a starter on the team and is definitely the future of Notre Dame's success as a football team, but he still has some growing to do. 
Clausen has the skills to do the job , but. it was very clear against the Eagles that he needs to learn to keep his emotions in cheek and mature mentally before he joins the ranks of Notre Dame gr11at.s. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu. 
Monday, November 10, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Crucial penalties sink Notre Dame 
By DAN MURPHY . Sports Editor 
BOSTON -It took only two plays 
from scrimmage before Notre Dame 
made its first mistake. The Irish were 
called for a 15-yard chop block penalty, 
which started a trend of big penalties 
killing drives before they got started. 
The chop block negated a 13-yard 
reception by freshman receiver Michael 
Floyd and pushed the offense back to a 
second-and-20 situation from the 17­
yard line. 
Two plays later, the Irish were hit 
with and illegal procedure penalty and 
were eventually forced to punt the ball 
from the 16. 
"Early in the first quarter we put our­
selves in some very bad down and dis­
tance situations with some penalties," 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "We got 
in to no ebb and flow in the first quar­
ter." 
Referees hit the Irish with four penal­
ties in the first quarter for a total of 38 
yards. Notre Dame's offense racked up 
only 28 yards on its 11 plays in the 
quarter. 
The third Notre Dame penalty also 
put the Irish in a hole they needed to 
dig themselves out of early. Golden Tate 
had almost half of his 22-yard kick 
return negated because of a holding 
call with just under two minutes 
remaining in the quarter. The hold set 
the starting point back to the 14-yard 
line. 
"[The penalties] were a big factor it 
put us in a lot of long yard situations 
and a couple times stopped those 
drives," Irish tackle Sam Young said. Notre Dame appeared to be moving favor of the Eagles. The very next play 
On the very next play Notre Dame lost down field en route to at least tying the Clausen tried to force a pass into cover­
another solid run when game. On age and Boston College 
freshman Kyle Rudolph a first-safety Paul Anderson 
was called for a hold. and-10 picked it off. 
Three plays later the "We got in to no ebb from the "Jt,s frustrating. I had "I felt that the team on 
Irish punted again. 25-yard offense was just pressing
andflow in the first two ofthem and it,s
"It's frustrating, I had I i n e to try to make a play two of them and it's just quarter.,, Armando just inexcusable.,, most of the rest of the inexcusable. I take A l I e n night," Weis said. responsibility for that caught a The Irish were only
Charlie Weis Sam Young
and we just have to pass out flagged once in the
Irish coach Irish junior 
learn and get better," of the entire second half, but 
Young said. backfield by that time the damage 
Both drives gave and scam­had been done. 
Boston College the ball pered 17 Penalties were an indi­
inside Notre Dame territory to start its yards before being shoved out of cator of the mental mistakes that cost 
drive. Neither drive resulted in points bounds. Notre Dame the game. 
for the Eagles, but eventually the It wouldn't stand. Irish center Dan 
penalties caught up to them. Wenger was called for holding on the Contact Dan Murphy at 
With time running out in the first half play causing another 27 yard swing in dmurphy6@nd.edu 

•

scoring SUITIInary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total BC 3 7 7 0 17 ND 0 0 0 0 0 
First quarter 
Boston College 3, Pittburgh 0 
Steve Aponavicius 27-yard field goal with 1:46 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 73 yards, 6:01 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Boston College 10, Notre Dame 0 
Paul Anderson 76-yard interception return with 
6:19 remaining. Drive: 1 play, 76 yards 
Third quarter 
Boston College 17, Notre Dame 0 
Chris Crane 9-yard pass to Brandon Robinson with 10:27 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 48 yards, 3:07 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 

Jagodzinski uses spite to motivate team 
allows 19 points or fewer, 5-was pressure coming from for that."



By CHRIS HINE 14 when it allows an oppo­that side as well," Weis said. 
Sports Editor 
passing for 100 yards, 7-10 when who, he didn't blow the pro­Weis started to do damage 
nent's running back to rush "Tonight, there was a guy Mending the offense 
Clausen 26-46-4 Crane 9-22-0
During Boston College's coming off of a loss and 4-15 tection, he just got run right control even before the first team meeting to discuss when trailing at halftime. by. So therefore, you blow game was over on Saturday. 
rushingNotre Dame last week, the protection and turn one Late in the game, Weis Boston College coach Jeff Getting blocked free." gathered his defense around 

Allen 6-24 Harris 23-120 
Jagodzinski had a question For the second week in a and accentuated the positive 
Clausen 6-19 Crane 9-43 for his players: row, punter Eric Maust had Raindrops were falling on with them and said he would 
Hughes 3-18 Haden 6-14 "I asked how many guys one of his punts blocked. their heads need to focus most of his 
Aldridge 5-3 
Schwapp 1-2
were recruited, visited and This time During efforts on the offensive side 
offered by Notre Dame. Boston Saturday's of the ball this week in prac­receiving
There were no hands that College "I told these guys they game, there tice. went up," Jagodzinski said. sophomore were on and "There's two minutes to go
may not be good · 
Allen 9-47 Gunnell 4-34
"I told these guys that they Ifeanyi off rain show­in the game and the first 
Tate 6-66 Robinson 2-26 
may not be good enough to Momah got enough to be recruited ers, including defense is out and I brought 
Floyd 5-69 Purvis 2-13 
be recruited by Notre Dame his hand on by Notre Dame but some heavy the first defense over and I 
Rudolph 4-29 Jarvis 1-6 
but they're sure damn good a Maust rainfall just said, 'Hey, fellas, unless you 
Schwapp 1-10
they ,re sure damn
enough to play at Boston punt on before kick­pitched a shutout tonight, Kamara 1-5 College." N o t r e good enough to play at off. we're losing this game.' So I returns
Dame's first Boston College.,, But Weis just went over all the posi­Coming up empty-handed possession said that tive elements they played on 
Tate 7-133 Gunnell 2-22
The Irish failed to score on after the that the defense," Weis said. ''I'm
Jeff Jagodzinski Momah 1-14
the first drive of the game Irish fell weather had going to devote a lot more of 
Smith, J. 1-14

Irish coach 
for the first time in their last behind 17-0. nothing to do my energy not to the whole four games. Boston College "The punt with the team this week. I have to tackles scored first, making Weis 9-last week we struggles that devote a lot more of my 13 in his career at Notre almost unfairly were jump­Notre Dame had on offense. energy to the offense and Smith, H. 9 Herzlich 11 Dame when a team scores ing all over the punter for "It was pretty nice out there special teams this week." Smith, B. 8 Mclaughlin 9 first. Other records of the not kicking away from the tonight," Weis said. "The McCarthy 8 Davis 8 
Kuntz 5 Francois
Weis era: Notre Dame is now pressure, but if he would've weather wasn't a factor. Contact Crhis Hine at 8 
Richardson 3 Fletcher 6
16-1 under Weis when it stepped the other way, there There was really no excuse chine@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 10, 2008 


Another Boston Massacre 
Not much went right f(lf Notre Dame, as the IrL<>h lost their sixth straight game 
to Boston Colh~ge m1d wern shut out by the Eagles for the first time in the rivalry's history. The Irish moved the ball early but were unable to score, and the Eagles struck first on a field goal late in the first quarter. Notre Dame was driving again midway through the seeond quarter, but Boston College's Paul Anderson turned the gmne around, intercepting Irish quarterback Jimmy Oausen and returning it 76 yards lbr a seom <md a 10-0 lead. Sophomore wide receiver Golden Tate fin­ished with 1CJ<J yards of total offense, including 133 on returns, but his muffed punt lod to the game's only offensive touchdown-a nine-yard strike from ChrL<> Crane to Brm1don Hobinson early in the third quarter. The offense could never mount a comeback despite outgaining Boston College 292-246, as Oausen was picked f(mr times and tim offense committed six penalties for 58 yard<>. Eagles frnshnum running back Montelllarris nm for 120 yards, becoming the fifth play­er to gain at toast 100 yards against the Irish thL<> season. 


Clockwise from top, Mike Anello chases after a Boston College return man; Trevor Robinson gets ready for an offensive snap; Robert Hughes tries to shed a tackler; Maurice Crum eyes the offense from his linebacker position; Pat Kuntz battles for position on the defensive line. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, November 10, 2008 
torTOTS& TW~E 
"It's the first video game you can play with your butt!" 
Or so rabid cartoon bun­nies told me. I was greeted Jess Shaffer with this 
advertise­ment for Assistant 
the Wii Scene Editor release. "Hayman Having Habbids TV 
Party," at my most recent trip to the theater. My first response was shock; my next awo. My final reaction was a nearly endless peal of laughter. 
Though I'm genetically inclinod to nmbellish, even I lack the sick genius it takes to makn up something like this. furthermore, in case you were skeptical after my introduction, I do not have any mental deficiencies to speak of. Therefore, I can only eonclude that this demonie cartoon ad does indeed exist. And, unfortu­nately, I also must accept, with gasps of simultaneous laughter and disgust, its claim that it is possible to play video games with your butt. 
After recovering from such an immediate shock to my conscience. I come back to tlw phrase. "Oh God, won't somebody please think of the children?" (Old school "Simpsons" references, any­one?). BHcause apparently som(\Ono needs to. Those "raving rabbids" aren't, and I guess the current toy industry isn't so concerned with ch.ildren's psyehological or social well-being. 
Seriously, what is this video game priming kids to do? First, they start playing video games with their butts more than they interact with other kids. Then what? Will those same little kids grow up to be alarmingly comfort­able with their butts? Or will they grow up with a com­plete lack of social aware­ness, which has its own mixed bag of trauma and drama? 
It's not just this video game, though. Think seri­ously about the toys, chil­dren's movies, and even children's clothing that are painfully common. Bratz dolls, for one, basically have unnaturally (and unhealth­ily) skinny bodies, with grossly oversized heads. Their eyes rival those of car­toon aliens. 
I'm not 100 percent sure what the message to chil­dren is here. I guess it's try­ing to damage body image as early as possi­ized "rocker" have become the new childhood heroes. 
Cinderella, Robin Hood, Captain Planet, The Simpsons and Sesame Street were my heroes. The princess regained her inde­pendence from her horrid stepfamily and won her prince. The medieval foxy hero (the Disney version, of course) robbed the rich to feed the poor. That blue guy with green hair brought together environmentally friendly children to save mother earth. And Big Bird chatted me up about kinder­garten social skills, gram­mar, and math. 
And while all these films and shows have their own bag of psychologically scar­ing material, and maybe I'm 
idealizing them 

ble, as if movies I'm not Ioo because they and magazines were part of my 
percent sure
won't accomplish childhood, I do 
what the
that goal soon firmly believe enough. message to that any of the Or perhaps the children is here. aforementioned 
makers of Bratz are obsessive supporters of unnecessarily big hair, and the only way to represent this in their prod­uct is to triple the size of a proportionately sized head. Either way, these factors don't seem to add up to a healthy, well-adjusted image for children that assuredly \-Viii only get worse with time. 
And as far as children's movies go, I have to specu­late that they've run out of cute, endearing human sto­ries. They may have even run out of cute, endearing animals-with-human-attrib­utes stories. Now it seems that aliens, robots, mon­sters, vegetables, and some species that is 80 percent android, 10 percent preteen, and 10 percent commercial-childhood heroes 
could totally kick Hannah Montana, Wall-E, Veggie Tales, Stitch, etc. butt. Cinderella, Robin Hood, Captain Planet and Big Bird could probably defeat those crazy, rabid cartoon bunnies. I would even venture to say that in a throw down where the com­petition was to play a video game with your butt, my favorite old-school charac­ters would still win. 
Even if they did fmd it to be a tasteless and socially awkward display. 
The views expressed iii Scene and Heard are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd. edu 


Interested in all things entertainment? 
WRITE FOR SCENE. 
Nintendo Wii has marketed "Rayman Raving Rabbids TV Party" for kids' ability to use 
Contact Analise at alipari@nd.edu
their backsides to play the game, raising its fair share of eyebrows. 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 10, 2008 
NFL 

Jets earn biggest win in team history vs. Rams 
Collins throws two TD passes as Titans stay undefeated; Colts keep playoff hopes alive against Steelers 
down the sideline untouched for 
the score. 

Hams coach Jim Haslett chal­
lenged that it was a fumble, but 
officials upheld it after a short 
video review. 

"Somebody was looking down on me today because if it had taken another bounce, I might've kicked it out of bounds," Pace said. "I had enough burst to fmish and get into the end zone." 
The Jets extended their lead to 
24-0 less than 3 minutes into the 
second quarter on Jones' second 
score, a 2-yard rumble. 
Feely's 49-yard field goal made it 27-0, and kicked a 46-yarder a few plays later after Kerry Rhodes recovered a fumble by Derek Stanley. 
New York took advantage of another turnover when Hhodes picked off Bulger's pass for Donnie Avery and returned it 50 yards to the Rams 18. Four plays later, Favre found Keller in the end zone for a 1-yard touchdown to make it 37-0. 
Instead of kneeling on the ball, the Rams chose to run -and paid for it. Kenneth Darby, starting for the injured Steven Jackson, had the ball knocked out and Eric Barton recovered it. Feely kicked his 55-yarder two plays later, tying Pat Leahy and John Hall for the longest in team history. 
TH:ans 21, Bears 14 
LenDale White and Chris Johnson were on their way to his­tory -the wrong kind, because they were running in reverse. 
Even though they kept losing yards, the Tennessee Titans refused to lose the game. Now, they're 9-0 despite one of the worst rushing performances in franchise history: just 20 yards on the ground. 
Kerry Collins threw for a sea­son-high 289 yards and two touchdowns in a win Sunday over the Chicago Bears. 
"It's nice to win a ballgame and not play well," eoach Jeff Fisher said. 
Particularly as they struggled when they weren't throwing the ball. 
The 20 yards rushing were just one above their franchise low and they had minus-5 in the first half. It was a stunning performance for a team that was third in the league entering the game. 
Even so, the Titans set a club record with their 12th straight regular-season win thanks to Collins and a defense that shut down Hex Grossman and the Bears. 
Collins completed 12 straight passes at one point and was 30-of­41 without an interception. Brandon Jones caught eight pass­es for 82 yards, and Bo Scaife had 10 for 78 with a touchdown. 
That was enough to make up for a miserable performance by the running back<>. 
White managed 14 yards on 10 attempts, although he had a touchdown in the fourth quarter. And Johnson carried 14 times for 8 yards. 
"Did you look and see how many guys they put in the box?" Johnson said. "Eight, sometimes nine. They really wanted us to beat them throwing the ball." 
Cotts 24, Steelers 20 

Ben Roethlisberger is a Super Bowl-winning quarterback in his fifth season. That doesn't mean he still can't learn a valuable lesson from Peyton Manning: Sometimes, inaccuracy beats impatience. 
Manning took advantage of Hoethlisberger's fourth quarter interception to find Dominic Rhodes out of the backfield on a 17 -yard touchdown pass with 3:04 remaining for Indianapolis' only lead, and the Colts rallied in a vir­tual must-win game to beat the Steelers on Sunday. 
Manning also hit Heggie Wayne on a 65-yard touchdown pass play on a tipped ball that wasn't well thrown and Dallas Clark on a 2­yard scoring pass six seconds before halftime following an unnecessary interception by Roethlisberger, helping end the Colts' 40-year losing streak in Pittsburgh. 
"Coach (Mike) Tomlin told us all week they are a team that likes to score before the half and at the end of the game," Steelers line­backer James Farrior said. "That's 
Associated Press 
EAST IWTIIEHFOHD, N.J. -Brott Favre hung out on the New York Jets' sidelinn aftnr calling it an early day, relishing a rout that was unlike any other in franchise history. 
"It's proof positivn of what this tnam is capabln of boing," Favro said. 
Thn dominant Jots took advan­tage of evnry mistake by the St. Louis Hams, making lhnir 47-3 rout Sunday look more like a scrimmage than an NFL game. Thny planned to celebratn for at loast a fnw hours before they startnd prnparing for tlwir big matc·hup at New England on Thursday night. 
''f'vn only had about 5 minutes to really think about it," coach l~rie Mangini said. "It's New England. It's a tough gamn, a eon­li~rom~o opporwnt and it's always a tough environment up thero." 
Thn .Ids (6-3) certainly made things tough filr the Hams (2-7) at thn Mnadowlands. Thomas Jones had throo touchdown runs, Jay Fnnly kicked four field goals ­induding a franchiso record-tying !i!i-yardnr -and the JeL<> eonvnrt­ocl fivo turnovers into 27 points. Thoir prnvious biggost win was 45-3 ovor llouston in 1 988. 
"It's awesomn to bo in a game liko that," a grinning Favro said. That is. as long as you'rn on the winning sido. 
"It was nmbarrassing," Hams interim coach Jim llaslett said. "That was bad football all the way around. I can't even describe it." 
Tho Jots have won three straight and live of six. with the only blemish a 16-13 overtime loss at Oakland thrne weeks ago. New York is tied with New England at the top of' thn AFC East, making Thursday's matchup bntwmm the rivals oven morn intriguing. 

'They've been the nemesis for the whole league, not just this franchise," fullback Tony Richardson said. 
Jones had 26 carries for 149 yards, and Favre was 14-of-19 for 167 yards and a touchdown to Dustin Keller before being replaced by Kellen Clemens in the fourth quarter. It was the Jets' first win over the Hams since 1983. 
"It definitely feels good to be at this point right now," Favre said. "A game like this does a lot for you, but I don't think this team will be overconfident." 
New York had two interceptions and three fumble recoveries, including Calvin Pace's 50-yard touchdown return. Things were so bad for the Rams that Trent Green, who replaced the ineffec­tive Marc llulger at halftime, hit umpire Bill Schuster in the head with a pass. 
The Jets scored on all seven of their first-half possessions, jump­ing out to a 40-0 lead, their sec­ond-most poinl<> in an opening two quarters. 
"The Hams got taken to the woodshod today," St. Louis guard Richie Incognito said. "It was ter­rible to be out there on the field." 
Jones, who entered second in the AFC in rushing, capped the JeL<>' opening drive with a 13-yard touchdown run. Ile took a couple steps to his left, shillnd to his right and juked Oshiomogho Atogwe, then got a nice block downfield from Laveranues Coles as he scampered into the end zone. 
"Bunning the ball, you physical­ly have to dominate the other team," Jones said. "And I think that's what we were able to do." 
Pace's fumble recovery gave the Jets a 17-0 lead. Ilit by blitzing safety Abram Elam as Bulger tried to throw, the ball was jarred loose. Pace picked it up and took off 
AP 


what happened to us." 
The Colts (5-4) had dropped their last 12 in Pittsburgh eount­ing the posL<>eason, dating to a 41­7 win in 1968 when the Steelers played at now-demolished Pitt Stadium. 
"They certainly are tough to get here in Pittsburgh," Colts eoach Tony Dungy said. 
Except by teams quarterbaeked by Mannings. 
Pittsburgh (6-3) lost to a Manning-led team at home filr the second time in three weeks despite leading 20-17 on Jeff Reed's 24-yard field goal midway through the fourth quarter. They were beaten by Eli Manning's Giants 21-14 on Oct. 26, again aft1~r a fourth-quarter eomeback. 
The Steelers had a chanee to win at the end, but Roethlisberger's pass into the end zone on the final play-with Nat!~ Washington open briefly -was intercepted by Melvin Bullitt. 
The first matchup between the AFC teams since PitL<>burgh's stun­ning 21-18 win over the top-seed­ed CoiL<> in tho AFC divisional play­off's in January 2006 Indianapolis was a big favorite to win the Super Bowl -followed the pattern of that game as the Steelers opened an early double digit lead, then tried to hold on. 
In this one, a lucky tip and Hoethlisberger's haste to try to get points when Pittsburgh wasn't in position to score late in the first half helped get the Colts back into the game after PitL<>burgh led 7-0 and 17-7. All three of Roethlisberger's interceptions were pivotal. 


Titans running back LenDale White reaches across the goal line for a touchdown in the fourth quarter of Tennessee's 21-14 win. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3 p.m. A1 dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Historic gem, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple beautifully furnished, 5 min. to ND. looking to adopt a baby (babies), WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT 2-3 bedrooms. $850 per month, Do not go it alone. If you or some-please call Marie and James one you love needs confidential (301 )977-5069 or (866) 202-1424 Babysitter needed for Notre Dame HOUSE FOR SALE HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 tudents welcome. support or assistance, please call PIN 5448. family. SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at {574)631­AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER 269-782-9921 7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. They're bringing in Mahoney! 1/2 MILE FROM ND. PROPERTIES 74-234-2436 OR For more information, visit our web-Occasional afternoons from 3-6 KRAMERHOUSES.COM site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-Girl, youre my angel, youre my dar­
p.m. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL BATHS. ments/pregnant.shtml ling angel 3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe PERSONAL Closer than my peeps you are to Should have own car. homes, close to ND, fireplace, Two teachers ready to adopt new-me, baby CRESSY EVERETI PAM DECOLA cathedral ceilings, skylights, 2-car If you or someone you care about bom and provide a wonderful life for Shorty, youre my angel, youre my 
Pay: tell us what works for you. garage, 1Ox20 deck. Much more. has been sexually assaulted, visit him/her. Confidential. Expenses darling angel Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap paid. Stephenandliz@aol.com or Girl, youre my friend when lm in 
913-426-3838. 574-532-0204 5038. From $1 ,700/mo. I call us toll free 1-888-760-BABY need, lady 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 10, 2008 COMPfLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRF. SERVICES page 13 
NBA 
NCAA BCS Football Rankings 

team  ave .  previous  
1  Alabama  .9814  1  
2  Texas Tech  .9715  2  
3  Texas  .8798  4  
4  Florida  .8640  5  
5  Oklahoma  .8444  6  
6  usc  .7896  7  
7  Otah  .7692  8  
8  Penn State  .6839  3  
9  Boise State  .6783  10  
10  Georgia  .6156  13  
11  Ohio State  .5910  11  
12  Missouri  .5584  14  
13  Oklahoma State  .5340  9  
14  Ball State  .4163  17  
15  Michigan State  .3888  18  
16  North Carolina  .3817  19  
17  BYU  .3746  15  
18  TCU  .3512  12  
19  Florida State  .2593  22  
20  LSU  .2403  16  
21  Pitt  .1799  NR  
22  Cincinatti  .1487  NR  
23  Tulsa  .0715  NR  
24  Wake Forest  .0611  NR  
25  South Carolina  .0577  NR  
Associated Press  
NCAA Football Top 25  
team  points  record  
1  Alabama (44)  1604  10-0  
2  Texas Tech (21)  1574  10·0  
2  Florida  1467  8-1  
4  Texas  1437  9-1  
5  Oklahoma  1375  9·1  
6  usc  1311  8-1  
7  Penn State  1161  9-1  
8  Utah  1157  10·0  
9  Boise State  1110  9-0  
10  Ohio State  1009  8·2  
11  Oklahoma Stale  963  8-2  
12  Missouri  913  8-2  
13 14  Georgia Ball State  880 6n  8~2 9-0  
15  TCU  623  9-2  
16  Brigham Young  602  9-1  
17  North Carolina  597  H  
18  Michigan State  584  9-2  
19  LSU  552  6-3  
20  Florida Stale  380  7-2  
21  Pittsburgh  318  7-2  
22  Cincinatti  529  H  
23  Oregon Slate  124  6·3  
24  South Carolina  117  7-3  
25  Tulsa  84  8·1  
CCHA Men's  
Hockey Standings  
Team  Record  
league  points  
1  Miami  4-2-2  11  
2  Ferris State  3-1-2  8  
3  lake Superior  3·2-1  8  
4  Michigan  4-2-0  8  
5  Michigan Slate  2·2-2  8  
6  Ohio State  3·4-1  a  
7  Nebraska-Omaha  2·1-1  6  
8  Alaska  3-3-0  6  
9  Bowling Green  2-3-1  5  
1 0  NOTRE DAME  2-2-0  4  
11  Western Michigan  0-3-3  4  
12  Northern Michigan  1-4-1  3  

around the dial 
NFL 
49ers at Cardinals 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -The Boston Celtics showed the Detroit Pistons that Allen Iverson may not be the answer for them. 
Tony Allen scored 12 of his 23 points in the pivotal second quarter, lifting Boston to an 88-76 win over Detroit on Sunday night. 
Iverson was given a standing ovation when he was introduced for the first time as a Piston at The Palace, the frenzied fans so loud the public­address announcer could-n't be heard. 
A sold-out crowd stayed in the game during a closely contested first quarter before being qui­eted in the second, when Boston used four reserves to outscore Detroit 30-10. 
The defending champi­ons didn't have any trou­ble keeping their big cushion in a rematch of the Eastern Conference fmals. 
Iverson finished his third home debut with 10 points on 4-of-11 shoot­ing, with four assists and four turnovers. 
Detroit acquired the for­mer league MVP, Denver 
IN BRIEF Jimmy Johnson nearly
clinches NASCAR title 
AVONDALE, Ariz. -Just when Carl Edwards seemed to have Jimmie Johnson on the ropes, the two-time defending NASCAR champion deliv­ered the knockout punch. 
Johnson moved inches away from his record-tying third consecutive Cup championship with a dominating vic­tory Sunday at Phoenix International Raceway, where he led a race-high 217 of the 313 laps to deflate Edwards' title hopes. 
Johnson heads into next week's season finale up 141 points over Edwards and needs only to finish 36th or better to join Cale Yarborough (1976-78) as the only drivers in NASCAR history to win three straight Cup titles. 
"This is what I've worked my whole life for," Johnson said in Victory Lane. 
The win was his third straight at Phoenix, and had Edwards on the edge of conceding after his own fourth-place finish. 
Nugget and Philadelphia 76er last week for All-Star point guard Chauncey Billups, key reserve Antonio McDyess and throw-in Cheikh Samb. McDyess will be bought out of his contract, according to his agent Andy Miller, and the Pistons would welcome the power forward back. 
The Celtics had enough to eliminate Detroit in Game 6 of the conference finals on its home court and clearly seemed to be the better team again. 
Boston didn't even need all of its stars to shine in the easy win. 
Ray Allen had 17 points, Kevin Garnett scored eight on 4-of-15 shooting and Paul Pierce added seven on 3-of-10 shooting. Rajon Rondo scored 13 points and Eddie House had eight points as one of four reserves with at least six points for the Celtics. 
Detroit's Tayshaun Prince had 23 points and eight rebounds. Rasheed Wallace had 10 points on 4-of-17 shooting and 11 rebounds. Reserve Will Bynum added 11 points. 
Richard Hamilton, who was 0-for-8, scored just three points on free throws. 

Tony Parker out for a 
month due to ankle 
SAN ANTONIO -Tony Parker will be out about four weeks with a sprained left ankle, a critical blow to the San Antonio Spurs, who are off to their worst start in 12 years. 
An MRI taken Saturday confirmed the injury to the Spurs' star guard, who was hurt during a 99-83 loss to the Miami Heat on Friday-two nights after scoring a career-high 55 points against the Minnesota Tnnberwolves. 
Parker was driving for a layup when he rolled his ankle. 
The 26-year-old Parker was using crutches and wearing a protective boot while watching Sunday's practice. He was second in the league in scoring behind LeBron James at 27.4 points per game. 
The Spurs are 1-4 and play at home against the New York Knicks on Tuesday. In 1996, they opened the season 1-5. 
Parker will be replaced by either rookie George I-fill or 12th-year veteran Jacque Vaughn. Hill took Parker's place against the Heat. 
Venus Williams wins 
tournament in Qatar 
DOHA, Qatar -Venus Williams ral­
lied to win the WTA's Sony Ericsson 
Championships for the first time, 
defeating Vera Zvonareva 6-7 (5), 6-0, 
6-2 Sunday at the season-ending 
event. 
The Wimbledon champion took 
command in the last two sets with 
powerful serving, smashes and 
aggressive groundstrokes against her 
Russian opponent. 
''I'm so excited," Williams said. 
"That was a hard-fought match, every 
point, right down to the end." 
Williams won $1.34 million at the event, which for the first time offered the same prize money as the men at ·the ATP's season-ending Masters Cup. 
The first lady of Qatar, a conserva­
tive Muslim sheikdom, presented the 
trophy to Williams, shaking her hand 
and kissing her on both cheeks. 
Sheika Mozah hint Nasser al-Missned 
wore a traditional black head scarf 
and robe. 

page 14 Monday, November I 0, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 

NO VoLLEYBALL 

Irish dominate in win over Rutgers 
LNThe Jamel Nicholas and Kellie Sciacca go up for a block during Notre Dame's Nov. 2 loss to Marquette. 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Writl'r 
Notre Dame narrwd its biggest win of tlw 25-point era Sunday, bPating Hutgers 25-R in tlw final game to dose out a :Hl (25-n. 25-16, 25-R) vkto­ry Sunday. 
Tlw :~R-point total margin or victory was tho largest ror tho Irish (I :~-12. H-4 Big EasU this sPason. besting a 32-point margin owr West Virginia on Oct. I I . 
Tlw win mowd the Irish to firth in the Big East with only two ganws mmaining on their Sl' hed ule. Notre Danw wi II take on r.onrPrenee leader St. John's and fourth-placo Connecticut rwxt weokend at the Joyce CPnter in a series that will be crucial to Notre Danw's Big East tournanwnt snPding. 
Earlinr in tlw week. Irish coach DebbiP Brown said she wantPd her team to hold oppo­rwnts to lower hitting percent­ages, and NotrP Damn did just that Sunday. Tho Scarlet Knights postPd a paltry -.079 peri~Pntago, tho lowest by an Irish opporll'nt since NotrP Danw lwld DPPaul to a -.1 I 0 dip in 2005. 
On llw ollwr side or the net. 

the Irish recnived a balanced orrort, with four players tally­ing six or more kills. Sophomore middle blocker Kellin Sciacca and junior out­side hitter Serenity Phillips had seven each, and junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin and senior middle blocker Justine Strernick chipped in with six apieco. 
Junior setter Jamel Nicholas added 27 assists. Stremiek led thn Irish with a .500 hitting percentage, with Notre Dame hitting .287 as a team. 
Hutgers appeared to be ready to give the Irish a light early in the match, cutting a 5-0 Notre Dame lead to 11-8 bnfore the Irish rippnd ofT a 7­0 run to put the game away. 
The second game was also dose early, but junior outside hitter Megan Fest delivernd an ace and. later. the final kill of the set to give Notre Dame the win. 
The Scarlet Knights won the lirst point of the linal set but didn't get much after that. The Irish reeled oil' runs of' 4-0, 7-0 and 5-0 to earn th1~ blowout win. The Irish made no errors and posted a .414 hitting per­eentagn in the final set. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Helgeson falls in second round 
Watt, also playing at No. 4 
By KATE GRABAREK 
singles, earned a pair of wins Spons Writer 
as well. 

Freshman Niall Fitzgerald After winning his opening earned a victory over Ilja Orre round match in three sets at of William and Mary at No. 5 
the ITA National Indoors, senior Brett Helgeson fell to East Tennessee's Enrique Olivares, 7-5, 7-5. 
"The best thing about his appearance there is the opportunity to play some of the country's best players," 

coach Bobby Bayliss said, "Thus securing a strong national ranking and increas~ ing his NCAA status." 
While Helgeson was at the ITA National Indoors, th~1 rest of the team was participating in the William and Mary Invitational, rounding out the fall season. 
Sophomores Stephen llavens and Dan Stahl flip­llopped, as each played at No. 1 and No. 2 singles over the weekend. The pair combined ror 10 singles wins this wnek­end, and along with freshman Casny Watt, made the all­tournament team. 
Sop homo re Tyler Davis played at No. 3 singles, earn­ing a singles win over William and Mary's Sebastien Vidal 6­3, 6-2, but dropping a match to College of Charleston's Mickael Boyer. 
At No. 4 singles, David Anderson beat Joe Nicalazzi of the College of Charleston. 
"The best thing about his appearance there is the opportunity to play some ofthe country's best players." 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
bles match while Havens and Johnson round­ed out the dou­bles action ror the day with an 
8-2 victory. Davis earned a victory over  "/ expect great things from this core group  Invitational. In f'light six, both Fitzgorald and  
Maryland's Boris  as they mature. "  Tan earned vic­ 
Febroyt  by  a  tories.  
seore of 6-3, 6­3. Anderson  Bobby Bayliss  Montoya and .Johnson com­ 
picked up  a  vic­ Irish coach  bined  ror  a  

tory in flight four over anoth­er player from Maryland. 

"I expect great things from this core group as they mature," Bayliss said. "Tho key for this year is how fast that maturation takes place and how resilient they will be to a brutally difficult sched­ule. We are getting great young leadership from guys like Tyler Davis and Dan Stahl, who has come on very well so far. David Anderson 
singles. Fitzgerald and sophomore Matt Johnson round­ed out singles action of day one with victo­ries in night six. 
At No. 1 dou­bles, Davis and Watt lost on day one to William and Mary 8-6. Anderson teamed with Sean Tan to lose their No. 2 dou­has grown into a stronger role this year as he has learned to assume more responsibility." 
Watt picked up a victory in flight five over Alex Aksanov of Maryland. Fitzgerald rounded out singles action with a victory over Hoshan Potarazau. 
Davis also went 1-1 in flight one doubles on day two team­ing up with Watt ror tho loss and Havens for ttw vietory. Tho Irish earned two doubles victories in flight two with the teams of Tan and Anderson, and senior Santiago Montoya and .Johnson. 
Tlw Irish earned two more victories in f'light three with the teams of Johnson and Havens, and Fitzgnrald and Tan. 
Davis pieked up another sin­
gles victory in 
flight thnw on 
day three of 
the Tribe 
doubles victory. Watt and Fitzgerald combined for 
another doubles win. while Tan and Anderson rounded out tlw Irish's fall action with a win. 
The Irish finished with a record of 32-7 record at the Invitational. Next the Irish will host Pepperdine on Jan. 16. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaOI @saintmarys.edu 

Notre Dame ROTC Vet:era..r.'s Day Ceremor.y 
Tuesday... 11 November S PM 
Clarl<e Memorial F o 1..1 n.tai r1 (Stonehenge) 
Guest: Speaker Rev. l'heodore M. Hesb1..trgh... CSC 
Tl-.e cererrtony will f-ollow a 2 4-1-"IoLtr vigil~ 
All are ir•vit:ed to a t:te1•rl­
Monday, November I 0, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Barak a 
continued from page 17 
throws, which continued into the second round as well. Her opponent, Smith, a McGlinn sophomore, proved she had long lasting reflexes in the second round. as she improved on dodging Iloffelder's throws. 
But the third round became conclusive as Hoffelder was still able to tirelessly follow through on all her shots, but faced losing as the referee called her for kicking. Smith looked dazed towards the end, but was still able to throw a few before the bell. Hoffelder won the match by unanimous decision. 
Brooke "Bananarama" 
Bonnette def. Colleen "The 
Hurricane" Hum! 
Bonnette came out fighting with a pair of intense right power punches directly to Huml's face. Hum, was able to touch Bonnette's chin a few times, but the inability to fully follow through, caused little damage to Bonnette. 
In the second round, Hum! came out far more aggressive than the first time, and she had a few lasting right-hand­ed shots that might have tipped the fight in her favor. But a final lasting blow from Bonnette shifted the judge's opinion, as they declared Bonnette the unanimous vic­tor. 
Jenny "The Dahminator" 
Dahm def. Mary "Ice Box" 
Jenkins 
At the sound of the opening bell, Dahm came out strong, throwing combination punch­es right and left. Jenkins was forced on the defensive but recovered in the last 20 sec­onds of the first round with a few quick jabs. 
Dahm and Jenkins both focused on punches to the head in the second, with a few solid jabs to the body by Jenkins. Dahm, forcing Jenkins on the defensive once again, set the tone in the third with a great uppercut. In the end, Jenkins was declared the winner in a unanimous deci­sion. 
Chrissy "Magic Two" Nypaver def. Kerry "California Wildfire" Olinger 
Sophomore Chrissy Nypaver's two quick jabs to Kerry Olinger's face in the first round gave Olinger a bloody nose that just would not stop bleeding. However, Olinger stuck it out, taking a few hard hits and even deliv­ering a strong uppercut into Nypaver's stomach. 
The fight was called after the second round due to the nosebleed, and Nypaver was given the victory. 
Sara "The Terra ... Riza" Farias def. Sarah "My Real Name is Lii'Wayne" Layne 
In a physical fight, Farias defeated Layne by unanimous decision in a battle of sen­iors. 
"Training hard, getting strong and fighting with your heart is what I will always remember and take from this experience," Farias said. 
This fight was one that was played out with a lot of heart from both members of the senior class. 
The fight opened with Farias on the ropes, taking multiple jabs to the head from Layne. Farias moved on to the offensive quickly from that point, causing Layne to lose her balance twice. 
Both girls threw strong punches in the second round, with an uppercut to Farias' stomach by Layne, and a left hook to Layne's head from Farias. In the third, Farias and Layne continued to hit hard with punches to the head. 
"Baraka Bouts is by far the most physically intense sport I have ever participated in," Farias said, "To take it all in and fight in the end regard­less of the result, is an amaz­ing, worthwhile experience that not everyone can say they have had." 
Erin "Bratwurst" McNeill def. Natalie "K.O." Kratz 
McNeill took this bout by unanimous decision, setting the tone from the opening bell with an uppercut to Kratz's face. Kratz returned with a right hook to McNeill's head to end the first round. 
The second round put McNeill on the defensive with three quick jabs to the face from Kratz. However, with two consecutive face jabs and a right hook to end the third round, McNeill was able to take the fight. 
Lauren "Live Responsibly" Corona def. Kylynn "Make it Rain" Fontaine 
Corona made good use of the combination from the start of the first round, and her controlled fighting tech­nique allowed her to make solid punches. Fontaine staid strong through the second with some great jabs to Corona's head. 
But Corona came out with continuous punches straight to the head in the third round, putting Fontaine on the defensive. 
Corona took the fight by unanimous decision. "By the end of the third round, I was ridiculously exhausted, the last 30 sec-
Bibliophiles Rejoice! Bargain Books Galore 
November 5th -November 16th 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 

BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 

phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndmtalog.com 

070~KB1 Oll20AA 
onds were the longest I have ever had, but having my hand raised at the end by the ref was so cool," Farias said. 
Holly "Hacksaw" Hinz def. Kim "Quick Feet" Hickey 
Hinz, a sophomore, set the tone for this bout with a right hook to sophomore Hickey's face immediately after the opening bell. Hickey returned with a strong uppercut, but was soon forced against the ropes in the second round. 
The third yielded a strong left hook from Hinz, and con­secutive jabs to the stomach from Hickey. 
Ilinz was declared the vic­tor by a unanimous decision. 
"Being my first year of fighting, I was pretty nerv­ous, but once I was in the ring and the adrenaline got going, the fight went by really fast and I had so much fun," Hinz said, "It was great being able to win my fight with all my friends cheering me on." 
Meghan "Hard Rock" Ryan def. Deirdre "Meatball" Murdy 
Ryan dominated the first round, pushing sophomore Murdy up against the ropes. 
Ryan delivered once again in the second with three straight jabs to the head, but Murdy was able to hold on with a great right hook. 
Ryan gave a hard jab to the face to begin the third, and Murdy returned with the 1-2­1 punching rhythm. 
Ryan took the bout by unanimous decision. 
"Bloody" Mary Beauclair def. Joanna "La Dona" Martinez 
From the opening bell, jun­ior Beauclair came out strong, with continuous face jabs, forcing junior Martinez on the defensive. 
In the second round, Martinez knocked down Beauclair in the last two sec­onds, but Beauclair came back in the third with some strong cross punches. 
The decision was unani­mous in favor of Beauclair. 
Liz "I Should Have Been a 
Cheeleader" Pike def. 
Angela "Bring it" Rossi 
Pike, a senior, came out tough with some great jabs to the body, and junior Rossi gave Pike a strong left hook to the face in the first round. 
Pike returned with a 1-2 punching rhythm in the sec­ond, receiving some hard jabs to her torso from Rossi. 
The third yielded a left hook from Pike and continu­ous jabs from Rossi. 
However, it was Pike's hand that was raised in the end, and she took the bout by split decision. 
Anna "Thunda Punch" 
Dwyer def. Molly "The 
Peachbruiser" McCarthy 
Sophomore Dwyer took the last bout of the evening victo­rious, by unanimous decision. 
Dwyer began the first round forced up against the ropes by McCarthy, a junior, but came back in the second dealing continuous jabs to McCarthy's face. 
In the third, McCarthy returned with a great left hook, but Dwyer had some solid hits to the head and body, eventually giving her the win. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu, Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu and Liza Navarro at lnavarro@nd.edu 
Road wins 
continued from page 20 
several big stops from Irish goalie Jordan Pearce, Boston College senior Brock Bradford found a way to sneak one by him on a one-timer six min­utes into the second stanza. 
"I think once you get into a rhythm you start to see the puck and the feel the pucks coming off you," Pearce said. "You always-try to play your best in the biggest games and this obv!ously was a big game for us." 
The senior from Anchorage, Alaska finished the game with 27 saves on 28 shots against one of the most powerful offenses in the country. Prior to Friday night, the Eagles were averaging four goals per game. 
"I thought he played his A­game. It was important for him to play against a team of this caliber and play well," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "He was the difference-maker tonight." 
Just over a .minute after Bradford's goal the Irish went on the power-play and regained the lead for good. Defenseman Brett Blatchford started the play with a blast from the point and junior Dan Kissel got a stick on the rebound. Senior Christian Hanson finally slid it past the goal line and then turned to the Boston College student section to celebrate. 
"They were having fun with all night, chanting obscenities. So to score that goal and have a little fun with them was nice," Hanson said. 
The goal was Notre Dame's 11th special teams tally on the season. The Irish were 1-for-7 overall on the power-play against the Eagles. More importantly, they held a very dangerous Boston College power-play scoreless on eight attempts. 
"Penalty killing is an art for some guys and we have some good guys who kill for us," Jackson said. "Coaches can take credit for a lot of things but the players still have to go out and do stuff." 
Freshman Billy Maday picked up his fourth collegiate goal when his shot from the top of the faceoff circle trick­led past Boston goalie John Muse, hit an Eagle defender and found the back of the net. 
Kevin Deeth added an empty netter to finish off Notre Dame's third straight win on the road and its third straight in Boston. 
Immediately following their win in Boston, the Irish hopped on a bus for the 45­minute ride to Providence College. 
The game started slowly, but once again Regan led the way and broke the scoreless tie with three minutes left in the first. White started the play by digging a loose puck out of the corner and finding Regan in the slot. 
The Regan-White combo struck for the third and final time halfway through the sec­ond period to give Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. Sophomore Calle Ridderwall and junior Ryan Thang both added goals in the final period and Notre Dame skated to another 4-1 win. 
After two successful week­ends on the road, the Irish return to home next weekend to take on CCHA opponent Lake Superior State. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 10, 2008 
for a little while was we tried it's just as you're thinking Hanks and Brittany Bock 
keepnr likn Labbe, but stars Kerri to kick the ball into the wind," what's he going to do that he
TourneyCha01ps 
Clark said. "We had to get the hits a shot and makes a goal," llanks strained her MCL in Notre 
remained sidelined with injuries. 
continued from page 20 ball down and play. Once we Clark said of Dike. "And that's
continued from page 20 

got down and still played, we the big thing for a striknr. The great, and there were a lot of' the Big East quarterfinals, and 
Dame's 5-0 win over Cincinnati in 
for a goal kick, but fellow looked as though we could big man's always on to score a limns where you would go in and Bock hurt her knee in a 2-0 win 
defender Matt Besler managed make chances." goal, and in a big game in a try to stand somebody up, or go in over Marquette in the semifinals 
to head the ball back across The Irish did create multiple tournament, that's what it's all ((,r a tackle and you're losing your Friday. Both are likely to recover 
the six-yard box. Morrow was chances on the ground, but about." liloling and there was a lot more in time for NCAA competition. 
there to deliver a stinging half­ironically enough, their loan The Irish went into defensive contact because of that," Irish "You don't ever want to play 
volley, but Cardinals keeper goal came off a ball into the mode for the final 10 minutes, roach Handy Waldrum said. · without two players who are 
Andre Boudreaux deflected the teeth of the win. and they managed to largely But the weather conditions probably arguably two of the best 
shot out for a corner kick. With 10 minutes remaining, neutralize the Cardinals attack. weren't the only thing that turned players in the country, so it cer­
The Irish held a 7-4 advan­freshman defender Aaron With under a minutn to play, tho game into a physieal contest. tainly hurts not having them on 
tage in shots and a 3-0 edge in Maund clipped a high floating however, Louisville received a A'> the No. 1 loam in tho country, the field," Waldrum said. "But I 
corners in the first half, but the ball from midfield towards the free kick 30 yards from goal. the Irish have no worries about think the one thing that we've 
teams entered the locker room 18-yard box. Sophomore for­The ensuing play brought the NCAA tournament, but that always talked about this year, 
deadlocked at zero. ward Jeb Brovsky managed to shades of' a hoekey team wasn't the case fi1r Conneetieut. even with the team, is depth, 
The second half saw Notre nick the ball into fellow striker pulling their goalie as A win in the Big East ehampi­we've done nothing but speak 
Dame confronting the same Bright Dike's path. The senior Boudreaux sprinted up the onship would have guaranteed about our depth. I just felt like try­
wind that had blown back controlled the bouncing ball field to support his team's last lluskies a tournament berth, and ing to put them out there when 
many potential Cardinals' and made no mistake sending attack, but Notre Dame man­it was dear they weren't going they're not 100 percent is not fair 
counterattacks in the first half. a thunderous strike past aged to clear the cross to close down without a fight. to them and their health." 
Clark said the wind affected his Boudreaux from the top of the out the game. "We ran into a Connecticut temn And the Irish showed their 
team's play early in the second box. that really had to win, and win thP dnpth throughout the tournament. 
half. "To be fair, the big fella had Contact Greg Arbogast at tournament to get into the NCAA," Weissenhofer and Taylor Knaack 
"The only mistake we made had a pretty average game, but garbogas@nd.edu Waldrum said. "They're throwing tallied the two goals in the win everything out there, they're on over Marquette, and even without their last leg -it was their last Bock and Hanks, Henderson was hope. We ran into a te<UU that had able to give the Irish the golden 
offensively and make some shots Following a media timeout an awl'ullot of fight in them." goal they needed to secure the 
and move the ball a little bit bet­with 14:16 left, the Irish steadily 
Exhibition 
ter." pulled away over the nnxt 10 ruining Notre Dame's many Now it..o:; on to the NCAA tourna­
Labbn lod the Huskies light by championship. 

Irish forward and preseason minutes, outscoring Stonehill 22­
continued from page 20 
All-American Luke Harangody 10 in that time frame. The senior keeper had her mim~d later today. 
attempts to take the early load. ment, as seedings will be deter­
the shots began to fall for had 21 points and 10 rebounds "I feel like we played well strongest season for Connecticut 
Notre Dame, as they normally while Jackson added 15 points, defensively and that's really eoming oil' a summer as a reserve Notes: 
do. seven rebounds, two assist.<; and what we really wanted to focus for the Canadian Olympic team. +In an awards ceremony 
The Irish shot 20-for-35 in the no turnovers. on," Jackson said. "And the sec­And that experience helpod lead Thursday night, Kerri I lanks was 
second half. The Irish came out in the sec­ond half, our oll'ense, it came." hor team all the way the Big East named Big East offensive player of 
"I thought we did a better job ond half and quickly put the Notre Dame oflieially begins finals. tim year. Carrie Dew was named 
from the Briar Cliff g<Une, to this game away. Notre Dame went on regular-season play against USC "I Labbe is! a big reason why Big East defensive player of tho 
game of not being frustrated an 18-7 run that featured a little Upstate Sunday at 7:30 p.m. at Connecticut made it all the way year and Melissa Henderson was 
when the offense wasn't going bit of everything-a jumper and the Joyce Centnr. Wednesday is through to the final," Waldrum named Big East rookie of the year. 
well," Irish coach Mike Brey said layup from Jackson and 3-point­national signing· day, when Brey said. "She had a really good tour­Irish coach Randy Waldrum was 
after the game, referring to ers from senior guard Kyle is expected to sign four recruit.<; nament, a great game against also n<Uned Big East coach of the 
Notre Dame's first exhibition McAlarney, who finished with -guard Joey Brooks and for­West Virginia and she was very year. 
win, a 103-64 win over Briar nine points, and senior [orward wards Jack Cooley, Tom Knight good against us." 
Cliff. "And I think that's why we Luke Zeller, who finished with 10 And teams usually turn to their Contact Deirdre Krasula at 
were able to start the second point..o:; and eight rebounds. The Contact Chris Hine at strongest goal scorers to tost a dkrasula@nd.edu 
half in a pretty good rhythm run put Notre Dame up 47-31. chine@nd.edu 
A Special Information Session for Mendoza College of Business Students 
(Others are welcome to attend) 

Leave May 13th 2009 Return Jnne 14th 2009 
-/All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible 
-/Four and one-half week study in London 
-/Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, Spain, or Amsterdam 
-/ Earn 6 credit hours 
-/Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Session for 2009 & 2010 Programmes Wednesday 12™ November 2008 
5:00 pm to 6:00 JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/~sumlon 

Monday, November 10, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLACK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE DOME PIECE 
The Cleveland Browns announced that rookie QB Brady Quinn will be starting for their game against the Bills next Monday. 
DAVID CAVADINI 
In related news, you just got an erection. 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
Jl(JJMIDibd!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
STEAE ± 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ODTII 
± 
REJUIN j 
NO MATTE:R WHE:RE: IN rne: WORLD,

rJ r tJ 
MARRIAGE:S ALWAYS 
www.jumble.com 
BE:C.OME:--­
tSEECIX ± 


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

J I r J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: THE .. 

rr r I I I J' rr r I I rJ 
(Answers Monday) Yesterday's I Jumbles: PIVOT KHAKI ARCADE SINGLE Answer: The revelers shunned the teetotaler because he -LACKED "SPIRIT" 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

•uzzle by Patrick Bllndauer 41 Mornings, briefly 5 Dragon's 19 I.B.M. competitor 40 "Tippecanoe and (early video­_too"
Across 24 Body parts that 44 Water of Oise 20 Spanish pronoun
game)
Blood type, may be pierced 45 Emergency PC 22 "Bed-in" 42 Nearsighted 
6 Ballpark fig. "Mr."
briefly 26 8-Across issuer key articipant with 5 " Miz" 29 Neither's partner 471t led to a 1773 7 Uncompromising Een non 43 Where dos are 
done
30 Tear Boston "party" 8 Tyrant 25 Beirut's land: tender wor s 1n 31 German 48 "That hurts!" 9 Opposite of safe Abbr. 44 Breakfast brand this puzzle. direction 51 "That feels so-o­10 N.Y.C. landing 27 Archa~ological for a toaster 14 "The Sopranos" 32 Flow back, as o good!" site operation 45 List-ending abbr. airer the tide 53 Symbol of 26-11 Tennis umpire's 28 The Buckeyes, 46 bithua,nia or 17 The "Z" of DMZ 33 Retired flier Across found on cry for short ~5lfr~la, once: ~1 Slow-cooked 35 Motto of 26-the 8-Across 12 'Wheel of 33 Clear kitchen 
8 Source of ~I t,he 49 Praiseful poementree Across found on 57 Sage Fortune" buy wrap 50 Join with a
~3 Oregon city the 8-Across 58 Symbol of 26-13 Club Med, for 34 "Guys and Dolls" blowtorchAcross found on one song 
52 Roll call the 8-Across 14 Weights 35 Mountaineer's response

~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PU_z"Tz....,L....E:-r--, 61 What gave the tool 54 Doc bloc 
15 Word repeated
Hulk h1s powers before "black 36 Decimal 55 Affirmative at """-!~-'-!~ 62 Stunt legend sheep" sy8tem sea Knievel 56 Psychedelic 
16 "Coffee, Tea 37 Forgo, as one's drug-"-t-=t':+::-t-:+7-t-::-iliilllilll 63 Fort Knox ?" (1960s righls 
-feature 58 "Be Prepared"
oest seller) 38 Three-legged org.64 Ryan of "Love 17 ''The Greek" of support 59 Had a meal-=-t-=+-:7+-=+=+~ Story" film 
39 Immune system 60 "Witho11t further
-~-=::-1-=-t-::-t-::-t 65 Marked, as a 18 _-Wan Kenobi lymphocyte
box 66 Holler 67 _ Lingus For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 68 Lorna of fiction credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayDown crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-8B8-7-ACROSS. 
1 Choose (to) Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000

2 Yokohama drama 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 3 Somme summer Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 4 Lowly soldier solvers: nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Sisqo, 30: Nick Lachey. 35; Chris Jericho, 38; Lou Ferrigno, 57 
Happy Birthday: Don't wait for others to do things first when you know you have an original idea. Stop questioning everything you do--make your move. Commit to your craft. hobby or talent and turn a skill into a service. Commit to doing more together in the future with those you truly care ahout. Life is short, so make it sweet and 0\'oid re­grets. Your numbers are 7, 1~. 21. 25. 26, 30, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't let the little things bug you so much. Relax and enjoy doing the things you fmd challenging and productive. Don't spend foolishly to compensate for emotional upset. Set up a new budget instead. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Don't let love cost yon or spend money on products that promise to change your world. Stand up to anyone trying to get you to take part in something that doesn't interest you. Focus on your future and ho\v you see yourself pro­gressing. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get involved in something you believe in. Volunteer your services and you will make an impression that \villlead to future business. Someone who owes you will give back more than you expect for your patience. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotional assmnptions will lead to unnecessary trouble. Focus on ha,·ing fun, getting involved in activities that will help you grow men­tally and in enhancing your relationships with others. New beginnings will lead to greater prosperity, friendship and potential for advancement. 1 stars 
LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Don't be fooled by emotional deception. Children may be an issue you ·have to consider before moving forward. Refrain from making too many deci­sions, alterations or lifestyle changes at home or "~thin your relationships. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will see what's going on around you and be able to twist things in your favor. A partnership will explode with all sorts of new potential and oppottunities. Open your mind to new ideas and concepts. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Develop something you love to do and you will ease any stress you've been experiencing. Once relaxed, you will realize that all you have to do is make a few changes and you will gain the freedom you need to be happy again. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Go after whatever you want and you will get it but do so with honesty, integrity and good will. Standing behind your beliefs will bring others to your side. Someone from your past will inspire you. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let love and emotional issues with family ruin your plans. Look past the squabbling and blaming and consider what you can do to improve the situation. lt may mean backing away. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will come up with an interesting strategy that can make your life ea•ier. There is strong potential for something you can otTer or do for others. A past partner will have something to contribute. -1 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Now is not the time to sort through the uncertainties or the things that are bothering you. An unwanted change will develop if you get into a heated discussion with someone who is stubborn or unwilling to compromise. Avoid such situations. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Emotional issues will surface if someone you love is asking for too much or taking advantage of you financially. Think ahead and don't feel bad if someone doesn't get what you are trying to accomplish. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, competitive and willful. You are powerful, precise and unpredictable. You are encouraging and popular and can influence others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: eugeaialast.com for confidential consultations, myspace .comleugenialast for Eugenia's blog, astroadvicr .com for fim 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, November 1 0, 2008 
page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Nearing perfection 
Henderson's goal gives top-ranked Notre Dame Big East championship, keeps undefeated hopes alive 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
It was a slick battle, and far l'rom the dnan. smooth, familiar game of Irish soecer. But 1wen in thn snow and rain, fn~shman Mnlissa Ilnnderson was abln to elinch tho 1-0 win over Connecticut and the Big E<L<>t title in the first period of overtime. 
With under four minutns lel't in thn first ovnrtinw period of a scorel1~ss draw, junior Miehelle Weissnnhofnr drilled a shot at Iluskins goalkeeper Stephanie Labbe. bur LabbP was unable to win control and Ilnnderson put t.he mbound away. 
Labbe's inability to grab onto thn slirk shot wa<> indicative of the whoh~ game. Between the snow and rain, players on both sides had trouble eontrolling th1~ir first toueh and even hanging on to their footing. 
"Tiw field eonditions wnren't. 
see CHAMPS/page 18 


HOCKEY 
Tealll gets revenge on No.2 B.C. 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
It had been 21 games since senior forward Garrett Hegan had found the back of the net. lie changed that in a big way this weekend with three goals in a pair of 4-1 wins over No. 2 Boston College and Providenee College. 
Hegan got started right away for No. 12 Notre Dame by drawing lirst blood against the Eagles Friday night. Linemate Justin White ehipped a pass forward to Hegan who got behind the Boston Collegn defender and fired a shot into the top glove­side corner. 
The Eagles rallied with some heavy pressure and fired up a sold-out Knlley B.ink. After 
see ROAD WINS/Page 17 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Nearly 60 participate in annual vvolllen's boxing event 
lions. Neither lighter attempt­decision. The two fighters went punch­action compelled one fan to By DOUGLAS FARMER, ed any attack on the body in for-punch in the third and final yell, "Hit her in the face!" 
MOLLY SAMMON and LIZA 

the first round. Jen "Psych" Coe def. Katie round. Coe's fans surroundod Throughout thn second 
NAVARRO 

Tho second round saw the "Cheese Wiz" Meunier two out of the four sides of the round, Carlson, a third-year
Sports Writers 

light slow down quite a bit, as As soon as the bell sounded, ring, and they all seemed to law student, delivered repeat­
neither fighter was able to Coe's advantage in length was rise for the conelusion. ed left-handed punches. As the Sarah "The VP of Pain" Angle land a punch without being apparent. Meunier needed to Coe was victorious by unani­round neared an end, the ref­def. Kathleen "The Lean countered with an equal one. endure multiple punches mous decision. eree paused the fight to check Mean Green Jumping Jelly In the third round, Angle, a before actually being within on McKenna after aparticular­Bean Fighting Machine" sophomore from Howard, striking range. Lauren "The Count of Monte ly tough, one-sided series. Stanley landnd multiple punches on The second round began Flsto" Carlson def. Kelly "The The toll of the second round 
Angle opened the match Stanley without any retalia­with a very aggressive Marauder" McKenna on McKenna, a junior from much stronger than Stanley, tion. Toward the end of the Meunier, a sophomore, but The third fight of the night Farley, became obvious in the putting thn sophomorn from f'ight, the two battlers traded after an initial shock, Coe, a opened with over a minute of final round. Carlson's feet still MeGiinn on her heels from the punch-for-exhausted-punch. freshmen, managnd to keep McKenna trying to work start with a few nice eombina-Angle prevailed in a split Meunier somewhat distant. Carlson's body. This slow see BOUTS/page 16 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish run away with victory 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Irish guard Tory Jaekson said it W<L'> just "one of those halves" when nothing seemed to go in lilr Notn~ Dame in il<> 79-47 exhi­bition win over Stonehill Sunday. 

The Irish missed multiple layups and endPd the half 12-filr­32 shooting from tlw floor and only lwld a live-point halftime lead. 
But the Irish had the right rmnmly for lhl'ir problem -a little laughter. 
"We got to the basket. it just didn't go in, like a lid was on top of the basket," .Jackson said. "It W<L'> kind of funny to us. We kind ofjust laughed it oil'." 
And in thn second half. the lid was raised from the basket and 
see LIGHTNING/page 22 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Dike's golden goal lifts 
ND in Big East tourney 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
The conditions Saturday night signaled much more than the impending winter weather. Thny highlighted that NCAA tourna­ment play is just around the corner, and No. 11 Notre Dame appears to be rounding into form at just the right time. 
Amidst brutal conditions, the Irish knocked off No. 23 Louisville 1-0 Saturday night at Alumni Field to advance to tho Big East tournament semifinals. 
After a midseason swoon in which Notre Dame went 3-4-1, the Irish have righted the ship with consecutive victories over Georgetown, West Virginia and now Louisville. 
"It's very important," Irish coach Bobby Clark said of the t~mm's most recent win. "Every win we can get eould help with the INCAAI seeding, so that's hugely important." 
As Saturday's game pro­gressed, it looked less likely that the Irish would find the break­through goal they needed. With a stiff wind blowing south to north, Notre Dame played thn first half with thn wind to its backs and spent most of the first 45 minutes in Louisville's half of the field. 
Junior midfielder Justin Morrow had tho best opportuni­ty in the 14th minute. Senior defender Jack Traynor over-hit a free kick that was headed out 
see TOURNEY/page 18 






