
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 6 WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 3, 2008 
ND ranked 18th in the country 

U.S. News and World report named Harvard, Princeton, Yale Universities at top of list 
By ELLYN MICHALAK News Writer 
Notre Dame moved up one spot to No. 18 on this year's 
U.S. News and World Report's ranking of the nation's best col­leges. 
The report put Harvard, Princeton, and Yale in the top three spots on the list, and placed Notre Dame in a three­way tie with Emory University and Vanderbilt University. 
The 2009 list marks the sec­ond consecutive year that the University has moved up one number in the annual ranking. 
In 2007 Notre Dame held the No. 19 spot alongside Vanderbilt, and in 2006 the University was ranked 20th in the country. 
University administrators do not believe anything different was done this year to cause the rise in ranking. 
"When you're already a well established university and well recognized, you're not going to change in any dramatic way based on rankings," assistant provost and chief of admissions Dan Saracino said. "All it is is an affirmation for what most 
see RANKINGS/page 4 


AMERICA'S BEST COllEGES 
2009 
RANK 
1. 
Harvard University 

2. 
Princeton University 

3. 
Yale University · 

4. 
Massachusetts tnstitute of Technology 


4. Stanford Univerisfty. 
18. Emory University 
18. University ()f Notre Dame 
18. Vanderbilt University 

SCORE 
100 99 98 
94 
94 
79 79 79 

infofmm f).S._ Nrm;_ and IM:Irld Rsporl 
MARY CECELIA MITSCHfThe Observer 

SMC Dance Marathon recieves award 
Children's Miracle Network 2008 Deance Marathon Leadership Conference honors College 


By MANDl STIRONI Assistant News Editor 
This past summer, Saint Mary's College Dance Marathon received the "Incentive Award" from Children's Miracle Network 
at the Children's Miracle
-~ 
~ 
Network 2008 Dance

\ -·:.:.·. 
'c Marathon Leadership
\ 1
!I, Conference held in Orlando 
._, 
in July.
,, 
The Incentive Award is the highest national award which can be given to a Dance Marathon, according to a College press release. 


Photo courtesy of Taryn Pabst "The Incentive Award is SMC Dance Marathon executives pose at the Children's Miracle to recognize exceptional Network Dance Marathon leadership conference 2008. Dance Marathons that have 
broken the mold," said Zac Johnson, national director of Dance Marathon in the press release. "Saint Mary's College students have set the bar very high for cam­puses just starting the pro­gram. These young women re-imagined what can be accomplished in such a short time and serve as an example to other campus­es." 
SMC-DM, a 12-hour marathon during which participants stay on their feet to raise money for Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis, was first held at Saint Mary's in 
see DANCE/page 6 
NDSMC BSERVER.COM 

Stu(ients 
•


recognize labor rights 
Anniversary examines local workers' status 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The scene at Fieldhouse Mall Tuesday aftemoon felt altemately like the city of London's Speaker's Corner and a church revival. Students, professors, campus employees and area residents gathered to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to criticize the status of workers' rights at Notre Dame and in South Bend and the nation at large. 
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1948. The professors who spoke called the audience's attention specifically to the declaration's Article 23, which stipulates that "everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favorable conditions of work and to protection of work." The document also enumerates "equal pay for equal work," '1ust and favorable remuneration" that provides an "existence worthy of human dignity," and advocates the "right to form and to join trade unions." 
"The idea for this event . . . is to create an awareness of labor issues and put them in the context of the situation on campus," said senior Nick Krafft, one of the organizers of the event. 
The point, he said, is not to 
see LABOR/page 4 


Clubs attract new members at event 
More than 4,000 ND students visited SAO sponsored activities night 
By DAVIS RHORER JR. 
News Writer 
Hoping to find new mem­bers and interested fresh­men, more 250 clubs and organizations set up tables at the Notre Dame activities night sponsored by the Student Activities Office (SAO) Tuesday night. 
"The clubs were great and out in full force," said SAO director of activities night, Mary Kate Havlik. "We were very successful." 
Havlik said while SAO pro­vides the outlet for clubs and organizations to recruit new students by hosting the event, the ambition of individual organizations in getting peo­pie to come out to the event is what caused more than 4,000 students to attend. 
The large number of stu­dents is part of the reason many clubs experienced a rise in interest when com­pared with previous years. 
"We had double the number of new recruits," said Gabby Montero, a member of the Management Club of Notre Dame. 
Montero said many fresh­man and sophomores unsure about their majors find opportunities to experience business related events and activities in the club even though the club is smaller in size. 
The Center for Social Concerns (CSC) also saw an increase in the number of students who signed up as interested. 
"We are always very busy," said Rosie McDowell, the director of student outreach for the CSC. "Our students are really good ambassa­dors." 
She said the "energy and enthusiasm for service" among the freshman class is more of a reason the esc saw a higher turnout rather than any amount of advertisement for the organization or the night. 
Junior Tessa Riester, a member of the service club Circle K, agreed that adver­tising did not play much of a 
see CLUBS/page6 

Mentor program recieves nat'l grant 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College was one of two independent Indiana high­er education institutions to receive grants from JPMorgan Chase Foundation as part of the "Overcoming Barriers and Challenges to Education in Indiana" initiative over the sum­mer. 
The College requested $6,500 and was granted $7,000 to pilot Peer/Team (PT) Mentoring, a mentoring program for College freshmen and local high school students who are from low­income, underrepresented and under served minority back­grounds. 
"We were very excited to hear JPMorgan Chase extended this grant to Saint Mary's College and our office to launch this pilot mentoring program," said the Saint Mary's director of multicul­tural affairs, Larisa Olin Ortiz who will facilitate the program. 
While the money was granted to Saint Mary's during summer break, Ortiz has been discussing plans for the grant for the past year with Ed Ackerley, the direc­tor of business and foundations relations. 
"Our hope is that this mentor­ing program will help students develop positive relationship 
see MENTOR/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Reekers cut the cheese 
Upon returning to Notre Dame, there were several specific things I was looking forward to. Football season, quartnr dogs, and, yes, even The Observer, were reasons that when the cal­
Sam Werner
endar turned 
to August, all I 
could do is Sports 
count down Production 
until it was Editor 
time to eome 
back to South Bend. 
But one of, if not thn most antici­
pated aspects of my glorious return 
was the simple pleasure of sitting 
down at Heckers at 2 a.m. on a 
Friday or Saturday night, and dig­
ging in to a heaping portion of 
French fries with a helping of nacho 
cheese on the side for dipping pur­
poses. 
So you can imagine my surprise 
when I ambled into Heckers on 
Friday night after a festive night of 
revelry and deelared my order of 
"large cheese fries" to the cashier. 
only to hear, "Sorry, we don't have 
nacho cheese anymore." 
I thought I must have been mistak­en, perhaps the cheese machine was broken. or they were simply out of stock tonight. Nope. No more cheese fries. Ever. 
No cheese fries? One of the main­stays of my freshman year of college just thrown out the window, cast aside without second thought? Cheese fries not only satisfied my late-night weekend ·cravings. but also got me through some very, very late nights in The Obsorvcr office. 
I wish I could have been present at the meeting when the decision was handed down to take my beloved dwese frins ofT the menu. I would love to hear the University's ration­ale for this one. I'm all fur eating healthy and promoting a good diet. but spinach vegetable wraps don't quite do it for me at 3 in the morn­ing. At that point, I want something that lets me feel my arteries harden­ing. 
It's not just the cheese, or just the fries, which make Heckers cheese fries so special. It's the way the two navors intermingle on your palette to create a satisfaction that hits a spot other snacks just can't. 
A large part of Heckers' appeal is the fact that it's open 24 hours, and cheese fries are the ultimate 24-hour food. Let's be honest. do cheese fries ever sound appealing before mid­night'? Not really. It's nine o'clock right now. and even though I'm writ­ing this ode to the cheese fry, I don't really feel a strong desire to actually eat any. Talk to me in 4 or 5 hours though, and I'll undoubtedly be crav­ing some. 
It's not too late for Heckers to rec­tify this problem. I know for a fact that there are numerous other sources of nacho cheese on this cam­pus. Transport some of that over and just keep a supply on hand. They could even just take what's left over from the dining halls after dinner. 
Please. Heckers. don't do this to us. It's just not fair. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Sept. 1edition ofThe Observer the name ofSister R<~~e Anne Schultz was misspelled and her ride ofVice President for Mission at Saint Mary's was not stared due ro a reporting error. In rhe Sept. 2 edition ofThe Observer the name ofSaim Mary's Director ofSrudem Involvement Patrick Daniel's name was misspdled due to a reporting error. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE DILLON PEP RALLY CANCELLATION? 







Joey Leary  Ann Kelley  Nick LaPlante  Meghan Johnson  John Callahan  
senior off-campus  senior Cavanaugh  sophomore Keough  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  
"I think Notre Dame has lost  "Indifferent."  "It got cancelled?"  'Tve never been to it."  "Now climbing Mt. Everest can  

it's sense of humor and it's tragic." 

JESSICA LEE!The Observer Ellen Gunn, a South Bend resident and office worker in Sieigfrled Hall sang "This Little Light of Mine" on the Fieldhouse Mall for Labor Awareness Issues. 
OFFBEAT 
Cat survives 70-mile trip on car's tire 
GILBERT, Ariz. -A cat survived a 2 1/2-hour trip on a spare tire under her owner's truck. Gil Smith recently drove from his Gilbert home 70 miles away for a business meeting in Kearny. When he got out of the truck, he heard a cat in distress and realized it was his. 
Smith said the cat, Bella, was hysterical. shaky and tired, but was smart enough to know not to jump off the tire as the truck was moving. 
Smith and his wife have adopted three indoor 
TODAY 

a:: 
cats, three goats and three chickens. But Smith said Bella, an out­door cat the couple adopted years ago, has a special place in his wife's heart. 
Smith said he canceled his meeting with a state Department of Economic Security official who had driven 50 miles to get to Kearny so he could get Bella home. 
It was either that, or, he jokes, get a divorce. 
Man accused of offering sandwich as a bribe 
IOWA CITY, Iowa ­Iowa City police said a 
man  who  was  driving  
drunk tried  to  bribe  a  
police officer  - with  a  

sandwich. Police said a 25-year-old man was charged with drunken driving early Sunday morning after an officer saw him driving with his headlights off and pulled him over. 
Police said the man was riding with a police offi­cer in a squad car when he offered the officer free sub sandwiches if he could go home. The officer declined. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
. 

..... 
··~
..
(

< 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 87 HIGH 77 HIGH 80 HIGH 80
.... 
LOW 72 LOW 62 LOW 63 LOW 60 
take priority in my life once again. 
IN BRIEF 
The colloquium: "Making Scientific Datasets Universally Acceptable" will take place today from 4 to 5 p.m. in the Nieuwland Hall of Science. 
Saint Mary's 1\vilight Tailgate will take place tonight starting at 4:30. Dinner will be served until-7 and the movie "Made of Honor" featuring Patrick Dempsey will be shown at 9 
p.m. on Ubrary Green. Caramel apples. popcorn and cotton candy will be available during the movin. 
The Student Activities Office will host "Rock the Quad" tonight at 9 on South Quad, fea­turing Wii Sports and Hock Band. Free food will be provid­ed. 
A screening ofTom McCarthy's 2008 lilm "The Visitor" will take place at 9:30 p.m. on Thursday at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are available in the box oflice. 
The frrst pep raUy of the sea­son is Friday from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will have a "Kickoff Concert" at 8 p.m. Friday at the Leighton Concemt Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $5 for general admission. The event is sponsored by the Department of Music. 
Michael Novak will be speak­ing regarding his book "Business As A Calling" on Sept. 11 at 7 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium room 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 82 HIGH 77 LOW 62 LOW 52 

Atlanta 87 I 67 Boston 89 I 60 Chicago 78 I 71 Denver 75 I 46 Houston 89 I 76 Los Angeles 84 I 63 Minneapolis 71 I 53 New York 85 I 67 Philadelphia 89 I 69 Phoenix 103 I 78 Seattle 69 I 52 St. Louis 81 I 72 Tampa 92 I 75 Washington 91 I 68 
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COR 
Council approves nevv positions 
Unanimous decisions appointed new academic delagate, SUB art director 
By John Tierney 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved the appointment of senior Joe Venturini as Academic Delegate and of senior Laura Zuzolo as SUB Art Director in unanimous decisions at their meeting Tuesday. 
Venturini, a Program of Liberal Studies and Arts and Letters Pre Professional major, formerly of Morrissey Manor, will serve as a student liaison to thP Faculty Senate and will sit on thP Academic Council, student body president Bob Heish said. 
Venturini was not aware of his new position's responsibilities until Heish approached him about becoming the academic overseeing the design of posters delegate, but is eager to assume and advertisement<; for SUB. a new challenge. Following the confirmation of 
"I love Notre Dame and I want Venturini and Zuzolo, Reish to !-,rive a little back," he said. began a closed-door portion of 
Zuzolo, who was nominated at the meeting during which COR the COB meeting by SUB discussed funding issues that Manager Pat Gartland, is a remained confidential upon the Graphics Design major from reopening of the meeting. Walsh Hall. She previously After the meeting was worked as a graphic designer for reopened to the public, Reish SUB during the 2007-2008 discussed changing the proce­school yp,ar and continued her dure for discussing COR work with SUB over the summer, Collaboration Fund Appeals. He working with the Director of encouraged members to think Publicity while serving as a sum­about whether or not "we should mer n~sidence hall manager. set higher standards if Ian 
"ller past leadership and appeal to the fundi is over a cer­dPsign experience will aid the tain amount." organization greatly, and her Reish also suggested requiring philosophies of hard work and that a representative from a club fun exemplify the central mis­attend the COR meeting, but said sion of SUB," Gartland wrote in he would not allow the repre­his letter addressed to COR, sentative to remain in the meet­nominating Zuzolo for the posi­ing during financial delibera­tion. tions. 
Zuzolo said that responsibili­The representative would, ties as art director would include however, be available to answer 
Alumni Association to present 4 awards 

questions "about the planning process," Reish said. 
Reish did not delve into further specifics about financial matters after reopening the meeting. "We can't go into too much detail with The Observer here," he said. 
COR voted to postpone the dis­cussion of the Student Census until next week's meeting. The census, according to Reish, is a "survey to the entire student body" that will allow students to "rank student government proj­ects," in an attempt to "bridge the gap." 
Students will be able to respond to the survey online, at the dining halls, and at LaFortune Student Center. Sarah Rodts, who is responsible for community outreach in student government, will address COR about the survey next week. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1 @nd.edu 

Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Alumni Association will present four awards during ceremonies on campus this fall. 
The Hev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Award honoring distin­guished public service will be presented tomorrow to Percy A. Pierre, a 1961 Notre Dame graduate, University Trustee and former Michigan State University vice president. 
Pierre, who earned his mas­ter's degree from Notre Dame and doctorate from Johns Hopkins University, is recog­nized as the first African­American to earn a doctoral degree in electrical engineering. 
In 1969, Pierre began a series of administrative posts in gov­ernment and higher education. He was the principal architect of the national minority engi­neering effort after he co­chaired the 1973 National Academy of Engineering (NAE) Symposium. He also served as the program officer at the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation for minority engineering for which he developed and funded many organizations, including the National Consortium for Graduate Degrees for Minorities in Engineering and Science Inc. (GEM program), which was housed for 30 years at Notre Dame. 
Pierre left academia in 1977 to become an assistant secre­tary for research, development and acquisition in the U.S. Department of the Army. He managed some $10 billion annually for the research, development and production of weapons systems for the Gulf War. He returned to academic service in 1983 as president of Prairie View A&M University and served as vice president of research and graduate studies at Michigan State from 1990 to 1995. 
Currently a consultant and board member in the areas of management and education. Pierre also is director of CMS Energy Inc., the White House Fellows Foundation and Association, and Traclabs Inc. 
Carolyn Manning, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate and founder of the Welcome to America project in Phoenix, will receive the Family Exemplar Award recognizing distin­guished community service Sept. 4. 
The Welcome to America project is a response of solidari­ty following the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which claimed the life of Manning's brother-in­law. Acknowledging the con­nection the U.S. felt with those suffering throughout the world, she started the project as a way to reach out through a bridge of understanding between newly arriving refugees and her vol­unteer corps. Since 2001, Welcome to America has deliv­ered furniture and household items totaling some $500,000 to 500 refugee families. 
Manning earned a master's degree in public administration from Seattle University in 1992 and, since 1987, has served her community as a crisis worker, case manager and manager. Her strong belief in the good­ness of humanity has aided her determination to make every individual feel welcome in soci­ety. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
Rankings 
continued from page 1 

people already know. Hankings are nice though, because they're an objective third party indication that we're doing something right." 
The University's 24.5 percent acceptance rate in 2007 aided in the denotation of Notre Dame as a tier one school. 
Each year, the U.S. News and World Hnport surveys 1476 col­leges nationwide and uses sev­eral categories to judge their overall academic quality, induding assessment by admin­istrators at peer institutions, retention of students, faculty resources, financial resources, student selectivity, alumni giv­ing rate, and graduation rate. 
Aceording to Saracino, Notre Damn typically scorns low on the peer assessment part of the report, which allows other sdwols' Provost. President and Chief of Admissions to judge the academic ex1:ellencn of similar universities through a survey. This category allots for 25 per­cent of the school's total and reasons for the low scores are undear, he said. 
"I think that it's probably that they lind it hard to believe that an institution that has a proud sports traditions can bn equally excellent academically and overall," Saracino said. "Also the fact that we have a smaller graduate program. !The fact that! only 2,000 of 10,000 stu­dents are graduate students might be a reason. When you son a school like Stanford gnt recognized, you sen that they have a large numhnr of gradu­ate students and an outstanding graduate program." 
The report dons not take into 
Labor 
continued from page 1 
make dnmands of the University, but to oxplain the work situation on cam pus and the ideals put f<1rth by the "Human Highl'i" dnc­lamtion. 
"IIopnfully this will create eondi­tions for actual change on this campus," lw said. 
Krafrt is a nwmber of the Campus Labor Action Project (CI AI'), but was not at tlw 1went in that capacity. 
Profnssors from Notrn Dame and Indiana University South Bnnd. a labor group rnprnsnnta­tivn and Notre Dame workers spoke about the meaning of the document's 60th anniversary and tho work eonditions at Notre Danw. Ellen Gunn. a mmnber of the eust11dial stan· in Singfrind flail. nndnd the event by leading the crowd of approximatoly 100 peo­ple in song. 
Prudence Dorsey, who works f(Jr building services in the llesburgh Center and in the Early Childhood Development Center, told the crowd she works 1 0-12 hours a day and took a loan from Notre Damn but is still one payment away from facing foredosurn on her house. 
Dorsey admittnd it was gnnerous of Notn~ Dame to provide hnr with a loan so slw could make her hous1~ payments but said she would not have neednd the loan in the first place if shP. reenivnd a liv­ingwage. 
"Thny talk about family, but they rwnd to stop using that word," she said. "Because it's become nothing but a mrporation." 
Colnen lloover, an administra­tive assistant f(>r the University's Creative Writing Program, called for a worker's right to self-deter­account other aspects of aca­demic quality such as endow­ment funds, academic profiling of students and bond ratings. Notre Dame is one of 12 Universities that has a AAA bond rating. 
"(llaving a AAA bond rating] says, from a business perspec­tive, that Notre Dame is 
extremely well  run  and well  
positioned  for  the  future,"  
Saracino said.  

He also said that the rankings do not affect the number or quality of applicants from year to year. 
In fact, the 2008 admits hold an average SAT score of 1405 in critical reading/writing, a 20 point jump up from last year's average and the highP.st aver­age score of any year, he said. 
"While we recognize that the 
U.S. News survey serves a use­ful function for prospective stu­dents and their parents, we are on record for more than 15 years as having reservations about the methodology used in all of the various college and university rankings," university spokesman and assistant vice president Dennis Brown said. "That said, by any measure, we belilwe Notre Dame belongs in the top 20 of any survey of undergraduate institutions." 
Despite the rankings, fresh­man Carli Fernandez said her decision was made based on several other factors. 
"I Notre Darnel was the per­feet size for me," she said. "When I visited campus the atmosphere seemed different than any other college ... the rankings didn't really matter to me. Even if Notre Oame wasn't in the top 20, I would have still wanted to come here." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
mination. "We should be able to represent ourselves," she said. 
At Notre Dame, Kram said, "it's unelear how mueh of a voice workers really have." Krafft and senior Michael Angulo, a membnr of the Progressive Student Alliance, organized the event, whieh Angulo said was to be a "celebration of labor righl<>." 
"Doing things like this is very important," he said. 
,hu:kie Smith, a sociology profes­sor and a faculty member for Notre Dame's Center for the Study of Soda) Movements and Social Change, said there are gaps between the ideals of the Univnrsal Declaration of lluman Highl<> and the realities on eampus and across the United States. 
"Hights are never granted by people in authority," Smith said. "Workers never get their rights respected unless they organize, build alliances and demand their righl<> be respeeted." 
But workers may sometimes be afraid to protnst thnir situation, for fear of being fired, said Paul Mishler, a history professor at Indiana Univnrsity South Bend. 
"What we are doing here to honor Labor Day, and to honor the rights of workers at Notre Dame and throughout the community, is to say that this document is uni­versal," he said. 
The rights enumerated in the declaration, said Notre Dame Law Sehool professor Barbara Fiek, "form the basb for ensuring digni­ty in the workplace." 
Angulo said he thought the event went well. 
"Anytime you can bring together Notre Dame and South Bend and talk about the issues of soeial jus­tice. that is great," he said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Japan readies to hold elections 
TOKYO -A former foreign minister and ruling party stalwart emerged quickly Tuesday as the front-runner to replace Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda, whose sud­den resignation has thrown Japan's politi­cal scene into confusion and opened the door to early nationwide elections. 
Fukuda. in office less than one year, said Monday he was stepping down because he was unable to break a deadlock with the emboldened Democratic Party of Japan over virtually all of his major policy objec­tives. 
The opposition immediately derided Fukuda for quitting, and called for elec­tions to test the ruling party's seemingly crumbling mandate with the voters. 
Humanitarian aid flight crashes 
KINSI IASA. Congo -A humanitarian aid flight carrying 17 people crashed while try­ing to land during a storm in remote eastern Congo and all aboard were feared dead Tuesday. officials said. 
U.N. helicopters found the crash site ­about nine miles from the plane's destination near the Rwanda border -but rugged ter­rain and fog prevented peacekeepers from landing on Tuesday to learn the fate of those on board. officials said. 
Air Serv International. the Warrenton. Va.­based aid group that runs the twice-weekly aid delivery between Kisangani and Bukavu, said helicopter surveys suggested everyone on board was killed. 
"According to the information in our pos­session, there were no survivors," Amy Cathey. a manager for Air Serv in the region­al capital, Goma. told Congo's U.N.-funded radio station. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
I dead, 200 sick from E. coli outbreak 
OKLAHOMA CITY -An E. coli outbreak linked to a restaurant in northeastern Oklahoma has sickened more than 200 people and killed at least one person, state health offi­cials said Tuesday. 
The Country Cottage restaurant in Locust Grove has been closed for more than a week, but an exact source of the contamination has not been pinpointed, said state epidemiologist Dr. Kristy Bradley. 
"The complexity of this outbreak and the necessity to be extremely thorough in our inves­tigation means we still have more questions than answers." she said. 
The state is testing food preparation and serv­ing surfaces at the restaurant and interviewing those who became ill. Bradley said. 
Students protest school system 
NORTHFIELD. Ill. -Hundreds of Chicago public school children are spending the first day of class­es lined up outside a wealthy suburban school to protest district funding disparities. 
The students rode buses Tuesday from Chicago's South Side to New Trier High School's campus in Northfield. Students are trying to enroll in more affiuent schools to draw attention to problems in Chicago's system. 
Many of the protesters are wearing orange T­shirts that read "Save Our Schools Now." 
State Sen. James Meeks is organizing the boycott and says he expects the protest to run at least until Friday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man pleads guilty to 1979 murder 
CHOWN POINT -A Maine man pleaded guilty Thesday in the 1979 torture slaying of an 8-year-old Gary boy. 
David Bowen. 44. of Portland. Maine, pleaded guilty to the murder of Kenneth "Butch" Conriek as part of a plea agreement. Lake County proser.utors dropped a second charge of murder in the perpetra­tion of child molesting in return for the ~-,ruilty plea and agreed that the maximum sentence Bowen could receive is 50 years in prison. 
The boy was mported missing on Oct. 15, 1979. Ilis nude body was f(mnd 13 days later in a wooded area near his family's Gary home, authorities said. 
Bush grateful for minimal damage 
President says Gustav's damage is much less than that of Hurricane Katrina 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush said Tuesday he was grateful that Hurricane Gustav was nowhere near as destructive as Hurricane Katrina. He used Gustav's glancing blow on U.S. energy infrastructure off the Gulf Coast to prod Congress to OK more domestic oil production. 
"We are thankful that the damage in New Orleans and across the Gulf Coast was less than many had feared." Bush said in remarks prepared for delivery Tuesday via satellite to the Republican National Convention in St. Paul. Minn. 
"I commend the governors of Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas for their sure-handed response and seamless coordination with the federal government," said Bush, who is traveling to Louisiana on Wednesday to survey damage. "I thank all of the wonderful volunteers who stepped forward to help their brothers and sisters in need." 
The White House released excerpts of Bush's speech in advance Tuesday. 
Earlier in the day, Bush said that while it's too early to assess damage to the nation's energy infrastructure from Gustav, Congress needs to lift the ban on drilling for oil and natural gas on the Outer Continental Shelf. 
"When Congress comes soaring prices and greater payer subsidies to Big Oil," to resume operations. The full back, they've got to under­dependence on foreign oil or a said Pelosi, D-Calif. impact should be known in stand that we need more comprehensive, bipartisan Bush is keeping a hands-on the next couple of days. domestic energy, not less," the strategy that develops new profile in the aftermath of The price of oil, meanwhile. president said. "One place to and traditional sources of Hurricane Gustav, in contrast tumbled more than $8 a bar­find it is offshore America -energy," she said. to the government's poor rel in electronic trading lands that have been taken off Polls have shown, however, response to Hurricane Katrina Tuesday on the New York the books, so to speak, by con­that as fuel prices have three years ago. On Monday, Mercantile Exchange, sug­gressional law -and now climbed, voters have grown he visited two emergency gesting traders were confident they need to give us a chance more supportive of more response centers in Texas just that the energy complex suf­to find more oil and gas here domestic oil production. Pelosi after the storm struck the Gulf fered only a glancing blow. at home. recently signaled her willing­Coast. Early Tuesday he was Gustav roared ashore early 
"I know that the Congress ness to consider opening up in the Roosevelt Room dis­Monday and eight deaths has been on recess for a more coastal areas to oil and cussing the storm's impact on were attributed to the storm while, but this issue hasn't natural gas exploration. She the oil industry with Vice in the U.S. after it killed at gone away," he said in a said it would be a part of President Dick Cheney and least 94 people across the nudge to lawmakers who energy legislation that House about 20 advisers, including Caribbean. It was downgrad­return from recess on Sept. 8. Democrats intend to put for­the secretaries of Interior, ed to a tropical depression 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ward in the coming weeks to Transportation and Energy. Tuesday, and mandatory said the administration's address oil dependence and Oil companies, rig and evacuation orders were lifted interest in drilling more high gasoline prices. pipeline owners and refiners for three Southeast Texas domestically reflects demands Lawmakers will be able to spread out across the region counties. Though New from the oil industry. consider opening portions of to look for damage from Orleans was largely spared, "America faces a choice: a the Outer Continental Shelf Monday's storm, and some there still was damage, and continuation of the Bush­for drilling, with appropriate already were putting equip­anxious evacuees were told Cheney-McCain legacy of safeguards and without "tax-ment and people back in place not to come home yet. 

ELECTION 2008 
GOP defends running mate choice 
her and her family," former Sen. Fred delivery Tuesday night, reprised national
Associated Press 
Thompson said in convention remarks security themes that propelled him to re­
ST. PAUL -President Bush, relegated to released in advance. election in 2004. a minor role at the Republican National He said McCain's decision to place her on "We live in a dangerous world," he said, Convention, praised John McCain Tuesday · the ticket "has the other side and their "And we need a president who under­night as "ready to lead this nation," a friends in the media in a state of panic." In stands the lessons of Sept. 11, 2001: that to courageous candidate who supported the the days since her selection, Palin has dis­protect America. we must stay on the war in Iraq despite risks to. his campaign closed that her 17 -year-old unmarried offense, stop attacks before they happen for the White House. daughter is pregnant, and that a lawyer and not wait to be hit again." 
··As Bush addressed too conventiqn from has been retained to represent her in an Bush's brief cameo was highly unusual the White House -his speech was to last unfolding investigation in Alaska into the for a two-term president addressing his less than eight minutes -Republicans in dismissal of a state employee. own party's convention as he prepared to St. Paul defended McCain's vice presiden­"We need a president who doesn't think leave office. His aides suggested the tial running mate, Sarah Palin. The gover­that the protection of the unborn or a sequence of events flowed naturally from nor of Alaska is "from a small town, with newly born baby is above his pay grade," his decision to trave I to Louisiana on small town values, but that's not good Thompson added. Wednesday to see the damage caused by enough for those folks who are attacking Bush's remarks, also as prepared for Hurricane Gustav. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS 
Dance 
continued from page l 

April 2006. The event raised $6S.OOO in its first lwo years eombined. Last year. SMC-I>M raised $ S 5. 29 (J. :n for Hi In y llospital. 
It was nanwd "Best Nnw Marathon" during the 2006 Children's Miracle Network Dance Marathon Lnadership Conferenct~ held in Cincinnati, an accolade which tlw SMC-DM received bncause it was nominated by someone at thn College or a pnnr institution. 
Colleges and universities cannot nominate them­solves or another campus for thn lneentive Award, though. lnstnad. both the local stale hospital the marathon serves and Childrnn's Miraeln Nntwork nnndnd lo nominate Saint Mary's, said senior Francnsca .Johnson, who founded and eo-chaired SMC-I>M with ftdlow senior Pauline Kistka from 2006­200S. 
The Collnge is sharing the award with the University of Florida, whieh has held l>ancn Marathons for 14 years and raises about $400.000 a ynar. tlw prnss rtdease said. 
Winning the Incentive Award "means that Saint Mary's is now the national spokes modPI for Dance Marathon." .Johnson said. 
Whnn Zac .Johnson prn­SI'ntnd tlw award to Saint Mary's al the end of tho conferencn, Johnson deseribPd it as "a phnnonw­
nal momc~nt." 
This year, Johnson and Kistka stopped down as eo­presidnnts to take on their new positions of overall fundraising chair and over­all community chair, respectively. 
Senior Sarah Voss took over the prnsidency. Voss said she has created a new system of organization. The nnw system spreads the work it takes to put togeth­Pr SMC-DM ovnr sevnral more eommittees than it did in thn past. 

Mentor 
continued from page I 

with current students and pro­vidn the tools, information and a support system that will lwlp them succeed," Ortiz said. 
She said upperclassmen were chosen as mentors based on their experience mentoring oth­ers in the past. A-; far as choos­ing the freshman who will be nwntored, she explained that other campus departments worked with the Office of Multicultural Affairs to l'ind freshman that may lind the pro­gram useful. 
Ortiz hopes the program will allow the freshman and upper­classmen to make eonnections with each other. 
"We hopo the mentees will be able to build meaningful rela­tionships that will faeilitatn their transition to college and into adulthood. Our hopn is that the exchange that takes place is mutual," she said. 
The progra:m wants to make sure that the mentors instill 
Clubs 
continued from page 1 

role in recruiting new mem­bers. 
She said positive "word of mouth" and freshman being involved in similar high school organizations helped the group recruit heavily at the event. 
Service elubs such like Circle K and tht> Center for Social Concerns typically receive large numbnrs of interested students, members 
qualities sueh as nrnpathy, com­mitment, authenticity and empowerment to the women they will be mentoring, Ortiz said. Thnsn qualitins have proven to help overcome self-esteem and isolation issues in thn peopiP who are collngn-aged. 
The program will also give fn~shman somnonn to lean on when things got overwhnlming. "We hopn the mnntors will listen, understand, and affirm lhn knowlndge and expnrienco 
of the first year students and are abln to providB guidance to these young women as thny navi­gate an unfamiliar environ­ment," Ortiz said. 
Program participants will engage in a variety of mentoring and personal development activi­ties during the 200S-2009 aca­demic ynar, induding !wiping to put on the fourth Diverse Students' Leadership Conference. a three-day eonfnr­tmce for thn Miehiana communi­ty that dnlvns into minority and diversity issues. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO I @nd.edu 
said, but politically motivated dubs also experinnced a great deal of intnrest. 
"We had twiee as many new people," said senior Sponcer lloward, co-prosidfmt of the College Democrats of Notre Dame. 
Junior Ed Yap, a member of the College Republicans said his group also nxperienced a higher turnout and many members want to actively campaign during this election year. 
Contact Davis Rhoer at jtierne1@nd.edu 

Kistka described it as a "ripple effect." 
There is the cabinet which includes Voss, Johnson, and Kistka, along with Kelly Deranek, Overall Ileac! of Public Helations. and Brittany Harrell, Overall Ileac! of the Night of Committees, Voss said. 
There will also be more room for younger commit­tee members to work their way up. she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


THE 2009 DOME YEARBOOK 
wants you on our staff. 
Open meetings this week. No experience necessary. 
Sports, Organizations, or Design 
Thursday, Sept. 4th 7:30-8:00 p.m. Dome office (Basement of SOH) 
Photography 
Thursday, Sept. 4th 7:30-8:00 p.m. Dome office 
~-----~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  11,516.92  -26.63  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,790  83  1,601  551,855,810  
AMEX  2,026.44  ~~~.98  

NASDAQ 2,349.24 -18.28 NYSE 8,296.9h; -~?.Ui S&P 500 1,277.57 -5.26 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,609.47 o.oo FTSE 100 (London) 5,620.70 17.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.62 -8.80 127.99 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.40 +0.30 21.72 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) . -1.24 -0.57 45.55 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) +14.86 +0.67 5.18 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.76 -0.067 3.746 13-WEEK BILL --2.37 -0.04 1.65 30-YEAR BOND -1.13 -0.05 4.362 5-YEAR NOTE -3.01 -0.093 2.996 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -5.75 109.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -24.70 810.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.20 92.75 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 108.4650 EURO 0.6886 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0697 BRITISH POUND 0.5604 
IN BRIEF 
Pfizer runs ads for Lipitor again 
TRENTON, N.J. --Television ads for the 
world's top-selling drug, cholesterol fighter 
Lipitor, are back, six months after Pfizer Inc. 
pulled them amid charges its use of a celebrity 
doctor endorser who's never practiced medi­
cine misled the public. 
This time, Pfizer is leaving out the celebrity. 
In the new ads, the endorser is a talent agent 
from the San Francisco Bay area who tells 
viewnrs he started taking Pfizer's Lipitor after 
surviving a heart attack last year. 
Manufacturing numbers fall in August 
NEW YOHK--For the nation's lumber compa­
nies, automakers. home builders and other man­
ufacturers, the final half of 2008 may be as slug­
gish as the first. 
Slow consumer spending and high gas prices 
have stalled manufacturing, and even some 
bright spol'i are expected to dim. Exports, which 
have propped up the sector, may slide as 
economies overseas slow. Meanwhile, construc­
tion spending is at a seven-year low that has 
spread from housing to nonresidential projects. 
The Institute for Supply Management said 
Tuesday its reading for the nation's manufactur­
ers fell to 49.9 in August from 50 in July, match­
ing economists' expectations, according to 
Thomson!IFH. A reading below 50 signals con­
traction, while a reading above 50 signals 
growth. 
Alcatel-Lucent names Camus as CEO · PAHIS -Alcatel-Lucent on Tunsday named two executiv11s from tho aerospace and telecommunications industries as its new CEO and chairman. hoping to turn around the 
monny-losing technolohry giant. 
Tlw world's largest manufacturer of fixed­
linn tPlccommunieations gear appointed Ben 
VPrwaayen. a former r.hinf executive of BT 
(;roup. as its chief executive, and former 
EADS eo-CEO PhilippP Camus as its new 
chairman. 
Oil prices fall after threat passes 
Hurricane Gustav downgraded in severity; brings lowest fuel cost in five months 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Oil prices 
plunged to the lowest level 
in five months Tuesday, 
falling to within sight of 
$100 a barrel on signs 
that Hurricane Gustav 
only grazed U.S. energy 
infrastructure in the Gulf 
of Mexico. 
Light, sweet crude for 
October delivery fell $5.75 
to settle at $109.71 a bar­
rel on the New York 
Mercantile Exchange, 
after earlier dropping as 
low as $105.46. It was the 
lowest trading level since 
April 4, just before oil 
began an unprecedented 
march above $147 per 
barrel. 
Virtually all oil and nat­
ural gas production 
remained shut down in 
the Gulf' of Mexico as 
energy companies began 
assessing damage to off­
shore platforms. rigs and 
pipelines, according to the 
U.S. Minerals Management Service. It was too soon to say when output might resume, though some oil compa­nies were preparing to redeploy evacuated per­sonnel as early as Wednesday. 
Without serious dam­
age, oil and natural gas weighed heavily on com­dampened even in rapidly dollar versus the euro. A 
facilities could start up modities across the board. expanding China and rising greenback encour­
again in a day or two, Natural gas futures fell India. ages selling from investors 
while coastal refineries 68.2 cents, or 8.5 percent, "The magnitude of this who bought oil as a hedge 
could take two to four to settle at $7.261 a gal­pullback suggests the against inflation. 
days to resume produc­lon, their lowest closing market is fully focused on However, crude prices 
tion, depending up their price since late December. demand destruction," could recover if the dollar 
size. In 2005, Hurricanes On Friday, crude prices Ritterbusch said. "The weakens again or if oil­
Katrina and Rita knocked settled at $115.46 a barrel speculators, hedge funds producing countries cut 
out the region's offshore as Gustav approached the and other investors are back on output to keep 
energy infrastructure for Gulf Coast region, home to getting out of this market prices hligh, as some ana­
several weeks. a quarter of US. crude on a major scale." lyst have speculated. 
"Unlike three years ago, production and 40 percent Meanwhile, at the The Organization of the 
it looks like they're going of refining capacity. But pump, a gallon regular Petroleum Exporting 
to get in there fairly traders grew less jittery gasoline fell less than half Countries is scheduled to 
quickly and get things when Gustav weakened as a penny to a new national meet Sept. 9 in Vienna 
ramped up again," said it neared the offshore oil average of $3.684, and has indicated it may 
Jim Ritterbusch, president rigs and Louisiana according to auto club take action to defend the 
of energy consultancy refineries. AAA, the Oil Price $100 a barrel level. 
Ritterbusch and After the storm was Information Service and Ahead of Gustav, about 
Associates in Galena, Ill. downgraded to a tropical Wright Express. That's 2.4 million barrels of 
"You don't have these depression early Tuesday, more than 10 percent relining capacity was halt­
platforms bobbing in the oil market traders quickly lower than the all-time ed, roughly 15 percent of 
Gulf of Mexico like fishing turned their attention to record of $4.114 a gallon the U.S. total, according to 
corks. They're pretty slowing global economic set July 17. figures from Platts, the 
much intact." growth, speculating that Also weighing on oil energy information arm of 
The drop in oil prices demand for crude will be Tuesday was a stronger McGraw-Hill Cos. 

Coogle Inc. launches new Web brtowser 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Google Inc.'s new Web browser, called Chrome, does much of what a browser needs to do these days: It presents a sleek appearance, groups pages into easy­to-manage "tabs" and offers several ways for people to control their Internet privacy settings. 
Yet my initial tests reveal that this "beta," or preliminary release, falls short of Google 's goals, and is out­done in an important measure by the latest version of Microsoft Corp.'s Internet Explorer. 
Chrome is a challenge to Microsoft's browser. used by about three-quarters of Web surfers. But it could equally be called a challenge to Microsoft's Office software suite, because what Google really wants to do is to make the browser a stable and flexible platform that can do practically everything we want to do with a computer, from word pro­cessing and e-mail to photo editing. 
To strengthen that effort, Chrome was designed to improve on the way other browsers handle JavaScript, one of the technologies used to make Web pages more interactive and more like desktop software applications. Google 's online word processing and spreadsheet pro­grams use this technology. but it's also very widely deployed on Web pages to do less sophisticated things, like drop-down menus. 
At first blush, Coogle's focus on JavaScript makes sense. JavaScript can eat up computer processor power, and if poorly used by a Web site, can bring down the browser. One of the things Chrome promises is that if one browser tab crashes, it won't take down the whole pro­gram. 
Chrome also has some cosmetic differences from Internet Explorer and Firefox. like putting the tabs at the very top of the window. That's a nice move, but it's the browser's performance that really matters to me. And this is where Chrome's attention to JavaScript might miss the point. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

200 

How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a Resume that Markets Your Background and Skills 
• Visit The Career Center Monday-Friday from 1 :00 to 
4:45 pm for a 15-minute resume review or stop by "Resumes on the Run" in LaFortune or O'Shag (visit careercenter.nd.edu for dates and times) 
2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Attend a "Prepare for the Career Fair" workshop 

• 
Determine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list of companies attending the fair and position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports, and products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking skills 

• 
Develop your ''Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, l'm ...(introduce yourself, your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is... ( demonstrate knowledge of company) 

• 
I'm interested because... (explain your interest in company) 

• 
I can...(match your skills with their needs) 




3. At the Fair 
• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies of your resume in a portfolio 

• 
Review the map of employer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your ''Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview (i.e. "After reviewing your company ·information and the position, I am interested in speaking with you further. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule at The Career Center?" 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the Fair 
• 
Send an email thank-you to the recruiters with companies of interest within 3 days of the fair 

• 
If you obtain an interview: 

• 
Prepare by researching the company, industry, competitors, and the job or internship description on Go IRISH 

• 
Review The Career Cen.ter's Interview Guide and practice sample interview questions 

• 
If you have a web cam, practice interviewing using the online "Interview Stream" at http:/I careercenter.nd.edu/for-undergrads/resumes­cover-letters-interview 




Let us lel-p, v;s;t us toks: 
careercenter.nd.edu 1 (574) 631-5200 1 ndcps@nd.edu 
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Residents prep for hurricane 
People warned to be ready for evacuation iftropical storm Hanna hits 
Associated Press 
SAVANNAH -Nervous resi­dents rushed to buy plywood and generators while emer­gency officials in Georgia, Florida and the Carolinas weighed possible evacuations Tuesday as Tropical Storm IIanna was expected to shift toward a tough-to-predict land­fall along the southern Atlantic coast by the end of the week. 
Florida Gov. Charlie Crist declared a state of emergency as IIanna, downgraded from hurricane status Tuesday but with ample time to regain strength, was forecast to turn to the northwest from the Bahamas. Emergency officials in Georgia and South Carolina went into 24-hour alert mode. 
In Savannah, which hasn't seen a direct hit from a major hurricane in more than a cen­tury, Janey Miley took her 15­year-old daughter to Ilome Depot at lunchtime Tuesday for an impromptu lesson in hurri­cane preparedness. 
They waited in a busy check­out line with a 5-gallon gas can, a circular saw and 10 sheets of plywood in case they needed to board up the win­dows of their home on nearby Tybee Island. A steady flow of customers pushed carts stocked with everything from batteries to 5,000-watt genera­tors. 
"We've never really bought plywood, but it seemed like maybe we'd better do it this time," said Miley, 43, who had also booked hotel reservations in Columbia, S.C., in case her family needed to evacuate. 
The National Hurricane Center predicted Hanna would most likely come ashore as a hurricane between Friday and Saturday somewhere between the east coast of Florida and the North Carolina coast. Forecasts Tuesday showed the storm making landfall near the Georgia-South Carolina border. 
Hanna was packing winds of 65 mph Tuesday evening as it drifted over the Bahamas. But the Hurricane Center said it could intensify back to hurri­cane strength Wednesday, when the storm was expected to turn to the northwest. 
Local emergency officials for Savannah and surrounding Chatham County urged resi­dents to have an evacuation plan ready. But no decisions on voluntary or mandatory evacu­ations were expected before Wednesday. 
Ken Davis, spokesman for the Georgia Emergency Management Agency, said Hanna's unpredictable path made it "a pretty difficult storm" for planners to gauge whether to order evacuations with just a day or two left to decide. 
"We're getting closer and closer to the point where deci­sions have to be made," Davis said. "It's a fine line between calling an evacuation and cry­ing wolf." 

THAILAND 
Prin1e Minister ~;an1ak sets state of emergency 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK -Thailand's embattled leader struggled to keep the peace and his grip on power Tuesday after declaring a state of emergency that was openly flouted by thousands of anti-government protesters in the capital. 
While Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej sought to tamp down newly violent unrest pitting pro­and anti-government protesters, he also was hit by an electoral commission finding that could disband his party and bar him from politics. 
Samak said he had no choice but to impose emergency rule in Bangkok after a week of political tensions exploded into overnight rioting and street fighting between the largely prosperous urban protesters and govern-

Wednesday, September 3 
The Switch Is On 
Beginning at 6:00a.m. on September 3, all Notre Dame 
G gle
upperclassmen will begin using Notre Dame Gmail instead of Notre Dame's regular e-mail service. Note that First Year students are already signed up for and have been using ND Gmail as part of the admissions process. 
Here's what you need to do to make the switch to Gmail: 
Step 1 
Change your password as soon as possible before September 3 on the Notre Dame Change Password page at password.nd.edu. This will synchronize your ND password with Google's authentication framework. 
Step2 
On or after September 3, decide whether you want to bring your old mail over to Notre Dame Gmail, and then do so by following the instructions at oit.nd.edu/google. You will have until January 3, 2009 to move your legacy mailbox or abandon it for eventual removal. 
Step 3 (optional) 
If you previously configured your Notre Dame e-mail to forward messages to a third-party e-mail address-name@yahoo.com, for example-and you wish to continue to do so after September 3rd, you will need to reestablish mail forwarding within ND Gmail.lf you previously forwarded and now wish to use ND Gmail, no action is needed. Instructions on how to perform this task can be found at oit.nd.edu/google. 
You'll find a variety of information, including Notre Dame Gmail how-tos, frequently asked questions, and other information at oit.nd.edu/google. 
Beginning September 3, go to gmail.nd.edu and log in using your NetiD and password, and you've successfully made the switch. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 

Office of Information Technologies 
ment supporters, mainly from the country's impoverished rural majority. The fighting left one person dead and dozens injured. 
His decree gives the military the right to restore order, allows authorities to suspend civil liber­ties, bans public gatherings of more than five people and bars the media from reporting news that "causes panic." 
Samak and the army chief, Gen. Anupong Paochinda, both said authorities viewed emer­gency rule as a last resort and stressed they wanted to avoid violence. 
"I did it to solve the problems of the country." Samak said in a televised news conference at a military headquarters in Bangkok. "I had no other choice. The softest means available was an emergency decree to end the situation using the law." 
At a separate news confer­ence, Anupong said troops in Bangkok's streets will be armed only with riot shields and batons. 
"If the military has to get involved, it will not use force and will be on the people's side," Anupong said. He dismissed speculation the army was posi­tioning itsell' to seize power again, less than two years after a 2006 coup. 
"If the military uses force to stage a coup, it will create a lot more problems," the general said. 
Tensions remained high as thousands of protesters who are demanding Samak's resignation defied the ban on assembly by staying camped out at the prime minister's official compound, known as Government House, which they seized seven days earlier. 
As a precaution, City Hall ordered 435 public schools closed for three days, while some international private schools opted to shut for a week. The U.S. and other nations warned their citizens of the dan­ger of violence in the capital. 
By nightfall, there was no sign of renewed clashes or any attempt to evict the protesters. But the festive atmosphere of recent days had evaporated. Families and children were mostly gone and helmet-clad protesters armed with sticks patrolled the grounds. 
"It's a temporary lull and a new storm is gathering," said Thitinan Pongsidhirak, a politi­cal scientist at Bangkok's Chulalongkorn University. 
Samak's "back is against the wall," Thitinan said. "If he •• enforces the emergency decree, there will be violence because the (protesters) are not budging. i 
I

But if he doesn't enforce it, there I is a sense of anarchy rule. It's a lose-lose situation for Samak." 
Some anti-government groups taunted authorities by threaten­ing to switch off water and elec­tricity at police stations and other government offices Wednesday. 
A labor federation for state employees said 200,000 of its members would go on strike to support the protesters. Their walkout could disrupt train, bus and air service and cut electrici­ty and water to some govern­ment buildings, said Sawit Kaewwan, secretary-general of the State Enterprise Workers Relations Confederation, which comprises 43 unions for state employees. 

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining f-1:11. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
ASS1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AsST. MANA<;ING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jcnn Mctz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kant King 

SI'ORTS EDITORS: llan Murphy Bill Brink ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz lh1rtcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVEilTISING MANAGER: Maddie Royer 
An Df.~IGN MANAG!m: Mary Jesse CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mikt• Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (S74) 631~900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (S74) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4)41 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 6.31-)323 obsnews.J@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-).303 viewpoint.] @nd.cdu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs. 1@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 

PHOTO DESK (574) 6.31-8767 obsphoro@)nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indcpendt•nt, daily newspaper published in print and onlim· by the students ofthe University of Notre Oamc duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repre-sent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid~ Mamging Editor, Assistant Managing 1:'-ditors and department editors. ( :omnwntarics, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThc Obserwr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of••11 opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t•rten to rhc Editor musr be signed and must include comaCl inlormation. 
Qumiow rrgrzrding Obs~TIIa policits should b~ diruud to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
111~ (}hwrv('r CllSPS '11)1} 2-4/UHJJ •• pu"li•l•c:d Mnml.cy rlrruugh hid..y a~.:qn clurmg l'k:tm ami v,l\.oldnu pcru1d!!. A tulxc:nption w Thr (lh*!rvcr tJ $1110 fur unc :J("J<.Icrni..: y~-.m S'55 tirt U/IC ~~~;:me~tcr 
!11c Obro<rvcr ~ puhh~hcd .u POSTMASTER nH S.r1uh Dirung Ho~ll ScnJ .uldrc:~o.~ oorrcctiuns to: Nmrr D.tmc, IN 465')6-0779 '11tc0hM!'rvtr l'criod~<.o~l p011u~c P"h.l ;u Nnuc D~mc I~l.l l\mcn9 .md addi11on.~.l nuili11g utli~ 024 Souch Dinm~ H.all 
Nuttt Dame, IN 46~'S{•.fln9 
Thr OIWrVt'r ""' rnrmhct nl rhc: Au.IIK!.&Ic-d Pro.,, Allrcprndu.:uon u~lm •tc: rrM:tvcd. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
The view from the plane, or: Why the byline 
In a few days I leave for Dublin. Chances are you couldn't care less. 
And why should you? So some chick you've never met is studying abroad. So she's spending her last few days in the States. in Target looking for 
Katherine wall decals and in Khorey Nordstrom's Hack stocking up on 
Both Sides 

last year's 
Now 

sweaters. So she 
worries about her 
iPod blowing up one(~ she plugs it into another country's outlet So she's not sure if she'll be able to complete her 
minor. So she's memorizing maps of a city she's tHwer set foot in before now. because if she gets lost there she could 
really get in trouble. 
But chances arc you couldn't care less. 
You do care, however, that you're well into the process of settling in at Notre Dame. Hight now you're skim­ming over the Viewpoint section in North, waiting for Greg to come back to the table with his pepperoni and chick­en pizza or Angela with her bowl of peanut butter and a Granny Smith, so you can go over Latin verbs for the first quiz, or whatever stuff it is that makes Orgo so hard so soon. Or maybe you're huddled over your Observer at South. alone at one of the four-seaters, linger­ing over your sweet potato fries, preparing yourself to walk in the last of the summer sunshine outside, where the ringing Basilica bells at midday will make even the walk to Earth Science feel like a major personal epiphany. Your room is, for the most part, now organized and unpacked (your iPod rests safe and unscathed near the edge of your desk}, you have at least passing familiarity with local public transporta­tion (a word from the wise: $12 to 
Grape Hoad is way too big a cab fare), 
and you even have some idea what 
classes you're taking this semester. 
As for the girl you couldn't care less about, who's leaving this weekend­well, in all of these respects, you're milos ahoad of her and in a different place. And I can tell you most assuredly that she docs care about that, and you. 
Or rather, to drop the third person conceit: I care. 
I can1 because even though I'm not there. I still appreciate and feel all the things you're going through now at Notre Dame now, and for as many great things as may await us future expatriates in the coming year, what I know I'm missing makes me sad. 
Still. I did make the decision to go abroad for the year, and hope for your sake as well as mine that all my rea­sons for doing so will be vindicated; if nothing else I hope Trinity College will do enough for the style and content of my writing that you'll get a decent col­umn to go with your sweet potato fries every other Wednesday. 
And hopefully this column will con­nect two faraway places. This Saturday, for instance, I'll be sitting on an airplane reading VC Andrews and wishing I could sleep. But I'll imagine crossing South Quad in the morning as the smoke of grilled brats fills the air and toddlers in oversized jerseys catch footballs from their beer-cooler clutch­ing alum dads, and wonder idly about standing on a splintery bench in the sun, surrounded by thousands of cheering blue shirts (or maybe even actually tracking with the game this year). 
I can imagine your experiencing both this first football Saturday and every­thing that'll come later. I can share with you both the frustration of waiting in hours long security lines and the more interesting experiences that'll come out on the other side. 
lienee thP byline "Both Sidns Now," which some of you will recognize from the Judy Collins song (or .Joni Mitdwll. if that's your preference). IIere, as in the song, it's meant to evoke one's see­ing, and learning from seeing. two per­spectives. 
This doesn't mean you're in for con­stant and predictable comparisons between your current seUing and mine (really'? A sprawling Catholic university in a small Midwest dty is dilTerent than a walled ancient one in a capital city in another contiJl(mt? Heally'!l As much as I'd like you to see Dublin with me, it should be far from thn only topic cov­ered. Also, there are much more intnr­esting subjects to read about than whether or not someone who, once again, you've never met and couldn't care less about, is allowed to enjoy a Guinness in public or entertain male guests in her room af'tnr midnight. 
But it does mean, hopefully, you'll get to read a biweekly piece that both iden­tilins with your own experiences and offers you something new at the same time. That you'll get the view from here and there, on all kinds of things, at once. 
The view from both sides, now. Soon, I'll be abroad. I know you couldn't care less. But I hope you enjoy the view any way. 
Katherine Khorey is a junior English major. She can be contacted at kkhorey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen1er. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

\'1-\tS tS /Nf>...DEQUA..TE 
t.~PE'?-IENCE. 
'f'OR \1/Gt 
?RESlOE~T 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sporis Liz llartP.r Bill Brink 
How many wins will Notre Dame Madelinn Buckley Alex Barker football have this season? 
Graphics Pat Stynes Mary Cecilia Scene Mitsch Michelle Fordice 10+ 8-9
Viewpoint Kara King 6-7 
5 or fewer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nearly all men can stand 

adversity, but ifyou want to test a 
man's character, give him power. " 
Abraham Lincoln former U.S. president 

The Observer Spqrts blog. 
-~------------­

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 page II 
21st century prohibition 
The 18th amendment is one of the more infamous sections of the United States Constitution. Ratified in 1919, the law prohibited the production and sale of alcohol throughout the U.S. Its authors' intentions were pure: feder­Ben Linskey ally mandated uni­versal sobriety, 
Guest

which they 
Columnist
assumed, would erase a plethora of social ills and lead to a more enlight­ened, harmonious society. Violence and poverty would disappear if only the wise archons of the U.S. government were given the power to supervise the leisure activities of American citizens and ensure that they did not partake in the dangerous and intemperate con­sumption of intoxicating beverages. 
The actual results, of course, were not quite as expected. For one thing, it quickly became apparent that a signifi­cant number of Americans didn't really care whether the federal government approved of their partaking in a glass of wine or a mug of beer. The now-leg­endary "speakeasies" of the 1920s quickly sprouted up, providing people with a private location where they could relax as they saw fit without fear of the prying eyes of government agents. Furthermore, prohibition did not lead to a drop in violence and social unrest; rather, by creating a black mar­ket for a good in high demand, the gov­ernment ensured that organized crime would have the opportunity to flourish in America. With the friendly neighbor­hood liquor store shut down by govern­ment fiat, thirsty citizens were forced to turn to illicit purveyors in order to acquire alcohol. The results, needless to say, were not pleasant. Rather than stemming crime, prohibition led to the emergence of a new, more vicious strain of illegal behavior. 
Wisely, after more than a decade of attempting to enforce the ill-conceived law, the federal government recognized that prohibition was a massive failure. The 21st amendment, ratified in 1933, ended the failed experiment and restored Americans' legal right to imbibe whatever they would like. Prohibition should have taught legisla­tors a number of important lessons about attempting to regulate personal behavior. Banning a highly desired good such as alcohol neither reduces demand nor prevents consumers from obtaining the good. It simply drives the business underground, replacing peaceful, honest business with the criminality and danger of the black market. Furthermore, the United States' failed experiment with alcohol prohibition should have prompted Americans to reevaluate the role of government in their lives. Do the police exist to protect our rights, or to protect us from ourselves? Not only was prohi­bition a practical failure, but it violated Americans' precious right to simply be left alone and behave as they wished. 
Sadly, over seven decades since the end of prohibition, the federal govern­ment still believes it can regulate the personal habits of American citizens. The 1984 National Minimum Drinking Age Act imposed a federal mandate on states, threatening them with a reduc­tion in highway funding if they did not ban the purchase and consumption of alcohol by persons under the age of 21. Since then, the effects of the 1920s pro­hibition have repeated themselves: underage drinking is widespread, as any high school senior will tell you, and those under the legal drinking age have little difficulty acquiring alcohol. Fake IDs abound, and a general disregard for the law prevails. Rather than make our society safer, the 21-year-old drink­ing age has encouraged risky behavior and helped to create a dysfunctional culture wherein alcohol is treated as a forbidden fruit and abused rather than consumed responsibly in a mature fash­ion. 
Even if we ignore all of the practical consequences of the 21-year-old drink­ing age, it's difficult to explain why a person who is considered a legal adult and can vote, join the armed forces, operate a car, sign a contract, and pur­chase a gun cannot be entrusted with a bottle of beer. The drinking age arbi­trarily discriminates against a group of people who are otherwise considered full legal members of society. 
With these considerations in mind, a group of over 100 college presidents and chancellors (the exact total stands at 129 at the time of this writing) have come together to call for a public debate over the drinking age. These college administrators have witnessed the ill effects of the current laws and concluded that they accomplish no practical good and serve only to encourage dangerous behavior amongst their students. Their organization, the Amethyst Initiative, urges' an "informed and dispassionate public debate over the effects of the 21 year-old drinking age." Such a debate is long overdue. 
The current signatories to the Amethyst Initiative span a variety of colleges throughout the nation, ranging from small colleges to prestigious uni­versities such as Dartmouth and Duke. Father Jenkins, however, has yet to add Notre Dame to the lis.t. It's safe to say that few members of our university's student body and administration are under the illusion that the drinking age is effective or serves a salutary purpose on our campus. By signing the Amethyst Initiative, Father Jenkins would add Notre Dame to the growing number of academic institutions which are standing up for the rights and health of their students. It's time for our society to recognize, at long last, that prohibition simply does not work. Let's join the chorus of voices calling for open debate and sensible drinking laws in the United States. 
Contact Ben Linskey at blinskey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Contraception not to bla111e 
When I made the decision to transfer to Notre Dame I knew that it would be a fairly conservative environment. However given that this is one of the top universities in the nation I was not expecting the spiritual traditions of the university to corrode science, health and com­mon sense for that matter. 
Yesterday's Viewpoint column ("An anniver­sary worth remembering") by Prof. Emeritus Rice did exactly that. In short, Professor Rice chose to lump together the majority of Americans who make the responsible decision to practice safe sex by labeling them as "insane" and hedonistic. Professor Hice cites the ill conceived and outdated arguments of Paul VI. that contraceptives would lead to the "general lowering of morality," the objectifica­tion of women and then, in an incredible leap from any logical foundation, attempts to equate contraception with abortion. 
But fear not! For those married couples who choose to express their love for one another without the burden of raising a family of 15 or so children, the Professor offers the superb counsel of Paul VI: "take into account the natu­ral rhythms [of a woman's reproductive cycle] to regulate birth without offending the moral principles." That's some top notch advice from someone who obviously is not a medical pro­fessional. 
Professor Rice makes a common fallacy among those of older generations that modern society has run amok in immorality and crude­ness. Quite the opposite is true as can be observed by humanity's continued progress, specifically over the last few generations, and most evidently in our nation. Poverty, racism and discrimination of all forms have declined over the years. I would argue this makes our generation of young Americans the most moral to date. 
Though, there seems to be an obsession among the more pious among us to equate sex­uality with morality. The simple truth of the matter is that we -are all human, and our sexu­ality is an important part of who we are. Premarital sex, agree with it or not, is not some new idea resulting from improved con­traception methods. In fact, one study suggests that 30 percent of all first births in colonial New England were conceived before marriage. Even the Puritans were getting it on! 
What has changed over time is the socially accepted age for marriage which overall has continually increased. Today more men and women are continuing their education, and have the additional burden of competing in an increasingly competitive (and sagging) job market. Thus, young Americans are left with more time for our natural sexual desires to kick in as we are busy trying to create a level of financial stability before settling down to raise a family. 
Surely the professor can't be serious that the birth control pill is responsible for the objectifi­cation of women? The sad truth is that women have been objectified by men for as long as society has been dominated by men. However, in our current era women enjoy the most free­dom and respect they have ever had. 
Furthermore, the tremendous advances women have achieved in recent decades can be partially attributed to the success of contracep­tion. Now that women are able to choose when they want to have children, more opportunities are available for women to prolong their edu­cations, and advance further in their careers. 
The closing paragraphs of Rice's argument are a dishonest discussion of abortion, in a manner which is framed to cause the reader to interpret contraception and abortion to be one in the same. They are not. Contraception pre­vents pregnancy; abortion terminates it. Each of the two topics deserve their own discussion. 
My fellow Notre Dame students, the decision of whether or not to have sex is one you must make according to your own beliefs. For those of you who choose to do so, please be smart about it and protect yourself and your partner from the risk of STDs or having to face the dif­ficult challenge of dealing with an unplanned pregnancy by using condoms and/or other forms of readily available contraceptives. For more information visit www.smartersex.org or www.contracept.org 
Brendan McPhillips junior off campus Sept. 2 


page 12 
Til 

By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Assisrant Scene Ediwr 
• 

This week 90210 will try to once again b11come synonymous with teen drama. But did it ever really leave? "Beverly Hills, 9021 0" led the pack of shows, along with the likes of "21 Jump Street" and "Saved by the Bell." that would develop into their own genre: that of teen TV. 
Few of these shows would be great works of PntPrtainment. The networks they fueled, wlwther it was the UPN or the WB offered some suecHsses but mostly hemorrhaged the profits of their umbrella eompanies, and the current version. the CW, is facing similar dif­ficulties. Yet, the shows of this genre are some of the most memorable. When we gath­er for our high school n~unions these are the shows over which we'll reminisce with lung­ing. 
There is a clear path from the "Beverly IIills, 9021 0" of 1990 to tiHl "9021 0" of today. The early teen shows laid the foundations for hits such as "Party of Five," and more cult classics like "My So Called Life," of the mid-90s. Then came the bread and butter of teen drama in the late-90's as "Dawson's Creek," "Felicity," and "7th Heaven," hit the airways. These shows proved that is was possible for a TV show aimed at teenagers to carry a net­work, as "Dawson's Creek" did for the WB, and when combined with the flood of movies being aimed at the PG-13 crowd, fashioned an industry preoccupied with courting teens. This era of teen drama was strong enough to make headway into other genres, dipping into tho supernatural with "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," testing the water with more off the wall shows such as "That 70s Show" and "Freaks and Geeks," and even teen-ifying Superman with "Smallville." Finally we reach the current age of teen TV, with shows such as "Gilmore Girls," "The O.C.," and "Gossip Girl." that, while shiny and new, hold to the same teen formulas. 

What unifies teen TV? Foremost there is the drama. Oh the drama. The handful of teenagers in each of these shows will face more crises (real and imagined) in a single season than most of us will even brush by in our entire adult lives. That will of course be interspersed with needed comic relief. Next, with few exceptions, the cast will be gorgeous and well dressed. And often, in good 90210 fashion, the actors will all be significantly older than the high school students they play. Sadly, these shows will almost certainly take place in white-America and minorities will be of the token variety. That has slowly lwgun to change in the more recent renditions of teen TV as they begin to attempt a true represen­tation of US demographics, but a quick glance at the east photo of "90210" or "Gossip Girl" will emphasize the lethargy. 
But for some reason all this unites to create shows that, no matter the absurdity, make you come back for more every week. There could be an argument that we had no taste when we were in high school, but really there is something delicious about all that teen angst and excitement. Teen TV is about being on the cusp of growing up and still being shocked by the hurdles life sends us. It's a state of being that we'd never want to live through again, but are eager to visit once a week. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 




By ANALISE LIPARI 
Sc~n~ Ediwr 

Brenda. Brandon, Dylan, Donna, Steve and Kelly are back. Well, sort of. This week, the CW is finally airing the long-awaited pilot episode of its brand new version of the clas­sic teen TV series, "Beverly Hills, 90210." Those humble digits were once synonymous with the eoolest teens on the small screen, and now Generation Y is making their mark on the second time around. 
The premise of the original "90210" was standard television fare: fresh faced Midwestern twins Brandon (Jason Priestly) and Brenda (Shannen Doherty) Walsh and their fairly conventional parents, Cindy and Jim (Carol Potter and James Eckhouse) move to hip, happening Beverly Hills, 90210. The show also focused on popular girl Kelly Taylor (Jennie Garth). moody heartthrob Dylan McKay (Luke Perry), and their friends Steve Sanders (Ian Ziering) and Donna Martin (Tori Spelling) during their years at Beverly Hills High. 
What made the original "90210" so popular was how effectively it acted as a show for teens and about teens. Dylan was that myste~ rious, cryptic crush that every girl couldn't stop thinking about. Kelly may have been the token high school beauty, but she had her fair share of difficulties in life. Helationships began and ended, friends eame and went, and life went ori in Beverly Hills. "90210" also visibly worked to represent the issues that 90s teens would faee in their everyday lives. Pregnancy scares, sexual assault and even the scary prospect of college were all part of the character's lives. Their lives weren't entirely idealized, either -even Brenda had a boyfriend, Dylan, cheat on her with Kelly, one of her best friends. 
It would be a considerable sin, however, to ignore some of the faults of "90210." It's vir­tually impossible for audiences not to catch wind of the fact that actors in their mid­twenties are trying to play high school teens. Also, if the show's demographics are to be believed, the Beverly Hills population would solely consist of white people -an idea that was just as unrealistic in the 90s as it is today. And any TV show that overly focuses on 'this problem' or 'that issue' risks becom­ing a weekly PSA, to which the disgruntled audience of "7th Heaven" can testify. 
With years of teen TV history preceding it, the brand new version of "90210" has a lot to live up to. Like that pesky little sister who can finally start her freshman year, the CW's "90210" has a brand new look and a talented cast of actors to make sure its season goes right. This time, the new kid in town is Annie Wilson (Shenae Grimes), a Kansas City native who finds herself at the center of a new social circle when students discover a con­nection between her and high school heart­throb Ethan Ward (Dustin Milligan). Their friendship drives his girlfriend, popular girl Naomi Clark (AnnaLynne McCord). up the wall. Joining Annie at West Beverly High is her adopted brother Dixon (Tristan Wilds of IIBO's "The Wire"), who immediately con­nects with local bad girl Erin Silver (Jessica Stroup). Dixon also strikes up an early friendship with Navid Shirazi (Michael Steger), editor of the high school paper. The Wilson's photographer mom, Debbie, is played by "Full House" alum Lori Laughlin ­time will tell if the actress can hold her own without Uncle Jesse by her side. In a twist on the original premise, West Beverly's new principle is the Wilson patriarch, Harry (Hob Estes). Jessica Walter of "Arrested Development" will play Tabitha Wilson, the family's feisty grandmother who is literally upstaged as director of their high school musical by none other than Brenda Walsh (a surprising return by Doherty). Jennie Garth is also scheduled to appear as Kelly Taylor, now the high school guidance counselor. 
It's likely that viewers will compare the new "90210" to its legendary predecessor. With several original aetresses and settings -yes, they're even going back to the Peach Pit -in place, comparison seems inevitable. Of course, the show's target teen audience may have little, if any, knowledge of the orig­inal show other than pop culture lore and "I love the 90's" episodes. The question of whether or not old fans might return to this reincarnated version also has yet to be answered. Jenny Garth recently told Entertainment Weekly that when she heard the CW was reformulating "90210," "I thought: No! Like something sacred was being disrupted. Some part of who I was and a piece of my history was being messed with. It took me a while to settle into that idea." Whether or not they were high-quality enter­tainment, shows like "90210" will always have a place in the teen years of a generation of Americans. The CW has hit it big in recent years with shows like "Gossip Girl," "Reaper," and the final seasons of "Gilmore Girls" after the merger of the WB and UPN, which gives the network some much-desired wiggle room. Time will tell if Annie, Dixon and company feel at home in West Beverly Hills, and if fans feel comfortable with giving "90210" another go. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
TOP '10 

TV 
10. "The Hills" -A very popular mainstream pseudo reality show on MTV, "The Hills" actors have become celebrities outside of that medium. 
9. "Laguna Beach"-The show attracted a large audience seeking to live vicariously through the residents of Laguna Beach, California and indulge themselves in the drama of the day-to-day experiences of this set of teens. 
8. "Gossip Girl" -It hasn't shown it's true colors quite yet, but with a new season full of potential premiering this week, "Gossip Girl" could rise in popularity. And as should be ex­pected, there are a lot of attractive people and gossip. 
7. "One Tree Hill" -Rather than actually suffer through the high school years like most teen dramas do, "One Tree Hill" fast forwards to the characters 20s. It still contains all the same drama, just with bigger bank accounts and children. 
6. "Gilmore Girls" -It started focusing on a mother's bond with her daughter, but "Gilm­ore Girls" soon introduced various memorable characters and quick witty dialogue that enraptured it's audience. 
5. "Dawson's Creek"-The Parents Television Council called it the worst show on televi­sion for two years in a row. Ultimately this probably led to the success it enjoyed. 
4. "Party of Five"-Orphans, a baby, love, loss, college, homosexuality, alcoholism. Those poor kids tackled some tough subject matters. 
3. "Buffy The Vampire Slayer"-Those with a taste for the supernatural were quickly drawn to Joss Whedon's Buffy. A strong female lead with a stake in hand, Buffy fought the vampires off for seven seasons, all while dealing with the usual high school angst, even once while singing. 
2. "The OC"-Same formula, new decade. With an entertaining soundtrack and excit­ing plotlines, Notre Dames' quads were quiet and empty when "The OC" was on. 
1. "Beverly Hills, 9021 0" started it all. Thirty year olds played high school students, o gen­eration of heartthrobs was born for us to fawn over (and another is coming soon with "9021 0"), and most importantly it introduced America to the idea of focusing on the diffi­cult and often painful lives of teenagers. 
__ ; 
-


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
NFL 

Jaguars' Collier shot outside apartment 
Offensive lineman in critical condition after being shot multiple times early Tuesday morning while waiting in his car 
hospital, it's very, very seri­
Associated Press 
ous. And that's what this is." 
.JACKSONVILLE. Fla. -The motive behind the 
.Jacksonville Jaguars offensive attack was unknown, and the 
tackle Hichard Collier was sheriff's office was investigat­
shot and critically wounded ing. Pettway, who was 
outside an apartment building released in final cuts 
early Tuesday as he and a Saturday, was not injured. 
former teammate waited for The shooting happened 
two women they had met at a around 2:45 a.m. in a middle­
nightclub, police said. to upper middle-class neigh­
Collier, 26, and former borhood just west of down­.Jaguars defensive end town Jacksonville and blocks Kenneth Pettway were wait­from the St. Johns Hiver. The ing in a Cadillac Escalade players had gone to the apart­when a gunman fired into the ment complex so the women vehicle. said Jacksonville could drop off their car, Sheriff's Office spokesman authorities said. Ken .Jefferson. Collier was The women, who appeared ­shot several times, but it was­to be in their 20s, declined n't clear where he was hit. comment when they were 
Collier was in critical condi­escorted by police back to the tion at Shands Jacksonville complex midmorning Tuesday. Medical Center. a nursing One was wearing a short, sil­supervisor said narly Tuesday. ver dress and the other was Later, spokesman Chris wearing a short, black one. Turner said the hospital was Collier is the third NFL no longer giving updates on player to be shot in the past Collier's condition. Jaguars 18 months. Washington coach .lack Del Hio said Hedskins star Sean Taylor Collier's family had requested was fatally shot during what privacy. police said was a botched 
Sevnral Jaguars, including burglary attempt at his running back Maurice Jones­Miami-area home in Drew, offensive tackle Khalil' November. Denver Broncos Barnes and linebackers Mike cornerback Darrent Williams l'etnrson and Clint Ingram. was killed when his rented gathen~d at the hospital. limousine was sprayed with Others convened at bullets minutes after leaving .laekson vi lie Municipal a New Year's party at a club Stadium. in 2007. 
"Tho guys are in shock," The shooting also was the Pro Bowl running back Fred latest in a long list of off-the­Taylor said. "You see this kind field troubles for the Jaguars. of thing happen all the time Taylor was charged with dis­on TV. but you never expect it orderly conduct over the in your own backyard. He's a weekend. Heceiver Matt Jones good dude. I just pray for him is facing a felony drug charge and his family and wish the in Arkansas. In all, the team who are out there lumping alcohol level of .096, accord­showed up weighing 390 best for them. I'm sure he'll has had 11 players arrested together and trying to make ing to police. In Florida, it is pounds, having not lifted a pull through." in the last two years. this an issue of team disci­illegal to drive with a blood­weight since high school. 
Del Hio said the entire But Del Hio said he dis­pline. This is a disciplined alcohol level of .08 or higher. Collier quickly got his organization paused Tuesday, agreed with anyone wanting football team. This is a big Collier was suspended two grades -and body -in taking a break from game to lump Collier's shooting in blow, but let's not put the games and fined. shape and worked his way planning for the season open­with some of the team's other blame on the wrong person or His attorney disputed the into the starting lineup. He nr at Tnnnessen and focusing recent troubles. the wrong situation. The per­police report and recom­transferred to Valdosta State on what he called "a very "He was out last night, son that pulled the trigger is mended that his client go to in 2004 and helped the unfortunate incident, really. enjoying himself, having a the person that's wrong." trial, but Collier didn't want Blazers win the Division II really a shame." good time, being responsible," Collier, entering his third the team to have to deal with national championship that 
"Hight now. he's battling for the coach said. "I take offense season, made the team as an the negative attention it season. lie earned All­his lifn." lh~l Hio said on his to people that insinuate and undrafted rookie free agent in would have generated. So he America honors as a senior in weekly radio show Tuesday call that a lack of discipline 2006. He competed for the pleaded no contest and 2005, yet still failed to night. "All we can do right or a lack of responsibility. starting job at left tackle this accepted six months of proba­impress many· NFL scouts. now is pray for healing. We There arP. no rules about preseason but was beaten out tion and a suspension of his The Jaguars were the only have no 1:ontrol over that situ­being out on a Monday night by Barnes. driver's license. team to bring Collier in for a ation otlwr than saying some before your day off the follow­Still. the Jaguars believe Coming out of high school in workout befor!l the draft, so prayers." ing day. Collier could be a future Shreveport, La., Collier didn't signing with Jacksonville as 
Del Hio addnd that the t11am "Listen, a person got shot. starter. They signed him to a have the grades or test scores an undrafted rookie was an would "be fine." The guy who shot the gun is contract extension earlier this to attend most colleges, so he easy decision. IIis only other 
"Wn're going to play foot­the problem, not the guy who year despite· an arrest last stayed home with his mother choice, he thought, was to go ball," he said. "But this is not got shot. lie's the victim. He season. and got a job in the produce back to the produce section. about football. This is about was victimized. You ought to The 6-foot-7, 345-pound department at Wal-Mart. "It took me to lose every­life. This is about a man right be able to go out and have a linemen was arrested Nov. 3 He worked there for two thing to recognize how much I now de<tling with his body good tirn!l and go back home after officers found him years before deciding to give had," Collier said during his bning put to tlw test. whether and not be worried about asleep behind the wheel at a football another chance. He rookie season. "It was a or not hn can overcome these being killed or being put in McDonald's drive-thru win­enrolled at Tyler Junior blessing, really. I found out types of things. When you're the hospital with bullet holes. dow. Collier failed field sobri­College in Texas, about 90 how it would be if I didn't in critical condition in the "I take offense to people ety tests and had a blood-miles west of Shreveport. He work hard and apply myself. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego· liable. Call574·276·8299. 
Need sitter as needed for our 5 year old son.Need transportation. $10/hr. 
574·271-1216. 
General help needed for tailgate 10/4, ND vs. Stanford. $12/hr + gra­tuity. 9 hours minimum. Can attend game. Call 415-898·1875 or email Arlene@ warrencapital.com 
FoR RENT 
3·4 bdrm, 2 full bath house. New construction. 1 mile to ND. Laundry, C/A, and more. $1 ,000/mo. Call Joe 574·514-0900. 
1-bdrm apt. All utilities except elec­tric. Close to ND. $550/mo. 
Call Joe 574-514·0900. Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bedroom home also available. 
Call574·532-1408. 
Football Weekend B&B safe close to ND (574)243·9279 
TICKETS 

Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232· 0964. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574­654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs con­fidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more information, visit NDs Pregnancy Resources web· site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
If you cir someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
Paid internship available irnrnedi­ately. We need you to take photos of local events, including tailgating, nightlife and campus activities.You play we pay. Contact Jenny Sibert at sibert@uhaps.com or 513-344­3569. 


-----------~----~------------------------------------------. 
OUND THE NATION 
CoMPlLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 page 15 
Women's Volleyball NCAA Coaches poll 
team points previous 
1 Penn State 1498 1 2 Stanford 1431 2 3 Texas 1360 6 4 usc 1229. 3 5 California 1214 4 6 UCLA 1188 7 7 Nebraska 1161 5 
for-41) with four home out five. "He's even laying off
Associated Press runs and six RBI in his last Matt Capps pitched a strikes -pitches that
8 Florida 1025 8 
9 Washington 944 10 
CINCINNATI -It's too 11 games. "It's hard perfect ninth for his 18th aren't good hitting pitches
10 Cal Poly 849 11 
early to say if Pittsburgh's enough playing baseball save in 23 opportunities. -and that's helping him
11 Oregon 797 9 
three-way deal at the and winning games with­Chris Dicke.rson gave center the ball. Andy's
12 Hawaii 781 18 
trade deadline is paying out pressing. It's a roller­Cincinnati a 1-0 lead in the comilllg along as well."
13 Wisconsin 765 14 
14 Kansas State off, but the Pirates can coaster with ups and first inning with his fifth The home runs were the
665 16 
15 Middle Tenn. State dream, can't they? downs, and we've been on homer of the season and 30th and 31st homers
479 15 
16 Minnesota 446 NR Rookies Brandon Moss a prolonged down." second leading off a game allowed by Cincinnati 17 Colorado Slate 363 NR and Andy LaRoche, two of Moss and LaRoche were for the Reds. starter Aaron Harang, who 18 Iowa State 348 17 the players acquired by both acquired in a three­Moss, sent to the Pirates trails only Houston's 19 Clemson 303 22 Pittsburgh in a six-player way trade on July 31 that from the Red Sox, hit his Brandon Backe in the 20 BYU 292 12 deal on July 31, hit back­sent left fielder Manny sixth home run since join­National League. Harang 21 LSU 276 NR to-hack home runs to help Ramirez from the Red Sox ing the Pirates in the sec­missed almost a month 22 San Diego 271 25 the last-place Pirates snap to the Dodgers and left ond, and LaRoche followed with a strained right fore­23 New Mexico Stale 229 21 a 10-game losing streak fielder Jason Bay from the with his fifth overall to arm. 24 Long Beach State 220 23 with a 3-2 win over the Pirates to Boston. give Pittsburgh a 2-1 lead. "His velocity's still not 25 Purdue 190 NR Cincinnati Reds on The homers helped "Brandon's made a lot of quite where you want it to 
Tuesday night. right-hander Ian Snell win strides, I think," Pirates be," manager Dusty Baker "Basically, we've been for the second time in manager John Hussell said. "He's given up a few pressing the last few three starts. Snell (6-1 0) said, adding that hitting of those home runs, but MIAA Women's Volleyball games," said Moss, who lasted six innings, giving coach Don Long has been when they're solo like had a career-high three up seven hits and two runs working with him on not that, they usually don't
Standings hits and is hitting .366 (15--one earned. He struck chasing pitches. hurt you." 

Team  
1  Adrian  
2  Albion  
3  Alma  
4  Calvin  
5  Hope  
6  Kalamazoo  
7  Olivet  
8  Trine  
9  SAINT MARY'S  

Record 
W-L IN BRIEF 
3-2 3·1 
2·2 McCarthy, Hamilton lead Bird's 21 help Storm Rodriguez and Nad)' hit 
3-1 Rangers over Mariners defeat Atlanta Dream homers in Yankees win AHLINGTON, Texas -Brandon ATLANTA-Sue Bird scored 21 ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -Mike
H 
McCarthy pitched six strong innings points and had nine assists to lead Mussina earned his 17th win, and the
H 
for his first win in more than 13 the Seattle Storm to a 83-69 victory New York Yankees got home runs
H 3-1 months, Josh Hamilton drove in three over the woeful Atlanta Dream on from Alex Hodriguez and Xavier H runs and the Texas Rangers beat the Tuesday night. Nady in a 7-2 victory over the Tampa Seattle Mariners 6-4 on Tuesday night. Camille Little, who was traded from Bay Rays on Tuesday night. McCarthy (1-0) allowed two runs Atlanta to Seattle in June, scored 16 Joba Chamberlain came off the dis­and four hits in his third start of the points and grabbed seven rebounds abled list for New York and pitched 1 season. He struck out four without a to help the Storm (19-10) move into a 1-3 scoreless innings out of the walk in a 104-pitch outing. first-place tie with San Antonio in the bullpen. Tampa Bay's lead in the AL 
McCarthy, whose last victory was on West. Yolanda Griffith also had 16 East was trimmed to four games over July 31, 2007, at Cleveland, went on points and Tanisha Wright added 11. Boston, which beat Baltimore 14-2. 
around the dial 
the 60-day disabled list on March 30 In the games Little has played in Seeking his first 20-win season, the with right forearm inflammation after since being acquired, the Storm have 39-year-old Mussina (17 -7) allowed pitching an inning in a spring training had a 10-3 record. With reigning two runs and 10 hits in six-plus game. He didn't begin throwing in the MVP Lauren Jackson out for the innings. He ma,tched a season high
MLB 

bullpen until June 21. remainder of the season due to an with eight strikeouts, improving to 3­Frank Francisco struck out the side ankle surgery, coach Brian Agler has 0 against the Hays. He also beat the
White Sox at Indians 
in the ninth for his third save in nine applauded Little's presence while in AL East leaders on April 7 and May
12:05 p.m., WGN chances. Texas had lost 10 of its previ­Jackson's place. 14, and his 19 career wins tie him ous 12 at home and four of five over­"Her athleticism has been great," with Tim Wakefield for the most by all. said Agler of Little. any pitcher against Tampa Bay. 
,.....----------------~~--­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Trojans jump to top spot in polls 
A..sociated Press 
NEW YOHK -By staying 
away from the cupcakes, 
Southern California earned 
itself' a slim rww ranking. 
No. 1 always seems to f'i1 
usc. 
' 

Southern California 
jumpod two spots to No. 1 in 
The Assoeiatl~d Press Top 25 
on Tuesday, rowardnd by 
voters for opening thP sea­
son with a dominant pnr­
forrnancn on the road 
against a BCS conference 
opporwnt. 
Georgia and Ohio State, the 
proseason Nos. 1 and 2, 
respor.tivoly, startnd their 
soasons with glorified scrim­
mages at honw against FCS 
(formPrly 1-AAl teams. USC, 
hownver. lravPied across 
country to fan~ Virginia I 
and could not have bonn 
morn impressive in a 52-7 
vktory. 
(;norgia foil to No. 2 and 
Ohio State to No :L 
"Wn realizl' that rankings 
so early in a sPason arP cPr­
t.ainly fluid. But rankings do 
h nIp e s l a hI ish a p o 1: king 
ordnr for things later in tlw 
sPason," USC coach PPlP 
Carroll said in a statnmPnL 
"As for moving into tlw No. I 
spot, it's nicP to know that 
pnopln think highly of' our 
tPam." 
Since roaching No. I on Dec. 7, 2003, thP final-n~gu­lar season AP poll of that soason. USC has been No. I in :!9 polls, by far tlw most of any team during that ti Ill(). 
"Some hav1~ said thn voters aru taking our schedule into 1:onsideration." Carroll said. "Our philosophy has always been to sclwduiP outstanding opponnnts. W1• nued to play challenging ganws likl~ we just did, travPiing ar.ross the 1:ountry to open the snason at Virginia. Ganws likn that bring out our lwst and make us stronger as a t1~am." 
The latest voting was close. USC recPivPd 21 first­placo votos and 1,5:~9 points from tho 65-nwmber nwdia panel. Georgia had 20 first­placo votPs and 1.506 points. Ohio State got 15 first-place votns and 1,497 points. 
"I'd say we've nvolved as pollsters," said Stewart Mandel of SI.com, who movml USC up to No. 1. "In thn past, voters just kind of automatically moved teams up and kept teams where tlwy were if tlwy won." 
(;eorgia beat Georgia Southern 45-21 on Saturday and Ohio State opened with a 43-0 win over Youngstown State. 
"Them's a bit of a growing backlash for the amount of teams that open with 1-AA cupcakes," said Mandel, wiHIS!l book "Bowl, Polls and Tattnrnd Souls" ehroniel!ls college football's eontrover­sins. "To see a team (USC) go on the road and play a New Year's Day bowl team from last season. and not only play thtHn but destroy them, how r.ould you not reward that team?" 
USC also jumped past Georgia to No. I in the USA Today coadws' poll. which 
has the same top five as the 
AP poll. 
"It's definitely a privilege 
to be No. 1. But it's not 
heartbreaking to me if we 
drop," Georgia offensive 
lineman Chris Davis said. "rt 
doesn't matter right now 
what we're ranked. What 
matters is our next game 
and right now, that's Central 
Michigan. The only time the 
polls matter is in December. 
Th~,t's when the polls mat­
ter. 
While the Bulldogs' opened 
easy, their schedule ulti­
mately should be as difficult 
as any team's. Georgia's big 
nonconference test is at No. 
15 Arizona Statfl on Sept. 20. 
The Bulldogs also face six 
Southeastern Conference 
rivals that have been ranked 
in tlw first two polls. 
As for Ohio State, the 
Buekeyns play at USC on 
Sept. 1:~ bPfore getting into 
the Big Ten schedule. 
Bu t o f' t lw t n a m s in t h i s 
wenk's top I 0. USC and 
Texas are the only onl's that 
don't play an FCS opporwnt, 
and tlw Trojans an~ thP only 
ltHLill that doesn't play a 
team from a non-BCS confor­
nncP. 
ThP last team to drop from 
No. I after a victory was USC 
last season. LSU jumped 
f'rom No. 2 to No. 1 when it 
beat Tulane 34-9, the same 
wonk the Trojans edged 
Washington on the road, 27­
24. 
The last preseason No. 1 team to losn the top spot aftnr winning its opening game was Florida in 2001. Tlw Gators beat Marshall 49-14, but preseason No. 2 Miami opened with a 33-7 victory over Penn State and thn llurrieanes jumped to No. 1 with Florida slipping to second. 
The next four teams in the new Top 25 stayed the same: No. 4 Oklahoma (two first­plaen votes). No. 5 Florida (five first-plaen votes). No. 6 Missouri (one first-place votes), No. 7 LSU (one first­plaetl votes) and No. 8 West Virginia. 
No. I) Auburn and No. 10 Texas naeh moved up a spot, taking advantage of Clemson's big drop. Clemson, ninth in the preseason, fell out after losing 34-10 to Alabama on Saturday. 
Also falling out after losses were Virginia Tech, Pittsburgh and Tennessee. 
Moving into the rankings were No. 21 Fresno State, No. 22 Utah, No. 23 UCLA and No. 24 South Carolina. 
Alabama moved up 11 spots after its big victory over Clemson. 
The second 10 started with No. 11 Wisconsin, followed by Texas Tech, Alabama, Kansas and BYU and Arizona State were tied for 15th. Hivals BYU and Utah are both ranked for the first timn since 1996. 
South Florida was No. 17, ahead of Oregon, Penn State, and Wake Forest at No. 20. 
The final five were all the teams to move into the rank­ing, nxcept for Illinois. which droppnd four spots and tied South Carolina for No. 24. 

The Interrace Forum: Political Picnir-~ 
Theme: Interrace Forum: Political Picnic· McCain, Obama, Barr and You Date: Sept. 10, Wednesday . "".f.~ . ,.. Time: 5:30 p.m. -7:00 p.m. Dinner provided '"-~ )'r Location: CoMo Student Lounge --..........J RSVP by Sept 5th: MSPS 631-6841 or msps@nd.edu
r;w., 
~ 

Tile Interrace Forum is a group ofNotre Dame students andfaculty interested in issues having to do with the conceptof"race" and "race"-relations. Tile group meets monthlyfor discussion over dinner. An advisory board consisting ofstudents and administrators sets an agenda for eacll panel. 

-----~~---------­
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Superdome to be ready· for Saints' opener 
After being forced to flee by Hurricane Gustav, New Orleans will return home for its regular season opener 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS The Louisiana Superdome will be ready for some football Sunday, and the Saints say they're look­ing forward to celebrating the end of a stressful week with their storm-weary fans. 
Forced to flee to Indianapolis ahead of Hurricane Gustav, the Saints will be able to open their regular season at home as scheduled against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, the team announced Tuesday. 
"We will once again showcase to a national audience that the city of New Orleans is made up of resilient people and that we are ready ,to stand our city back up as quickly as possible, put this storm behind us and move on with our lives," Saints owner Tom Benson said. 
The Saints had announced Monday night, soon after Gustav had passed over the city, that their hope was to keep their season-opening home date as a means to uplift the spirits of a fan base that had been rid­den with anxiety that all the rebuilding done in the three years since Hurricane Katrina could be wiped out. 
Gustav, however, weakened and stayed far enough west of New Orleans to spare the frag­of life in their historic city to ile community from catastroph­give up on it. 
ic damage. Louisiana and team officials hoped the dome, a poignant sym­bol of suffering during Katrina, and a symbol of rebirth after being rebuilt in 2006, would now be a sym­bol of strength 

N e w Orleans city"We want to be one ofthe councilman A r n i e
first ones back because we 
Fielkow said
want to play that game 
the Saints' and lift the spirits ofour impending 
city after what's been a return "is 
just tremen­
tough week.,, 
dously uplifting Mickey Loomis news, not 
Saints' General Manager only for the residents of New Orl­
in a place where residents care eans but for residents of the too much about the unique way entire gulf coast. ... I would 

JIMMY TO GO® CATERING 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include adelivery charge of 25C per item (•f-Ile). 
FREEBIE$ (SUBS ' 

CLUBS ONLVJ 
Onion. lenuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato. mayo, sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar. and oregano. 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
1290 E:. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  54570 N.IRONWOOO DR.  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.277.8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOIIN'S!"® © 

fully anticipate the Superdome is going to be rocking and rolling." 
The Superdome was not used as a refuge during Gustav as it was during Katrina. It did not sustain any structural or interi­or damage and never lost power. 
Doug Thornton, vice president of SMG, the company that runs the state-owned Superdome, said that there had been only minor damage -exterior signs ripped with downed fences and light poles blown over. 
Still, Thornton said he had to coordinate with city officials to make sure evacuation orders would be lifted so he could count on the staff of roughly 2,500 people, including police officers on security detail, need­ed to host an NFL·game. 
Thornton said another matter was whether suppliers could get in to stock concession stands, suites and lounges with food and dtink. 
"It takes significant resources to run the dome for a Saints game and we are very pleased that our employees, subcon­tractors and suppliers will all be available when the doors open on Sunday," said Thornton, who spearheaded the ambitious $200 million, eight­month renovation of the Superdome following Katrina. 
Thornton remained in the sta­dium with a handful of staff during the storm Sunday night and Monday. 
A mandatory evacuation had yet to be lifted by New Orleans and several suburban parishes as of Tuesday afternoon, but officials said residents should expect to be allowed home before the end of the week. 
Saints officials said they had been working closely with state, local and Superdome officials as they planned their return to be sure the stadium was avail­able, safe and ready to host and staff the game, which is sched­uled for noon local time. The team also sought assurances that residents -their fans ­will have been allowed to return to their homes before the game. 
The game could have been switched to Tampa, Fla., because the Saints and Buccaneers both play in the NFC South and meet twice. The Saints are diue to visit Tampa on Nov. 30. 
Saints general manager Mickey Loomis, in Indianapolis with the team, said Monday that everyone with the club thought it was important to play in New Orleans this weekend if at all possible. 
"We want to be one of the first ones back because we want to play that game and lift the spirits of our city after what's been a tough week," he told reporters at a news confer­ence at an Indianapolis hotel. 
Loomis said players, coaches and staff have reported no injuries among family mem­bers, but for practical purposes intended to stick to their cur­rent schedule of staying in Indianapolis until Friday. A number of players live in areas that lost power during Gustav. 
"We're going to continue to practice hnre and stay in the routine we're in until Friday and then return to New Orleans on Friday," Loomis said. 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
u.s. OPEN 
Federer pushed to limit at U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-llis strokes awry. his nmotions laid barn for all to sne, Hognr Federer figured out a way to stay in tiro U.S. Open. 
Fndnrnr found himself locknd in a five-set struggle against the sort of playnr the world is <u:eustomed to see­ing him dismiss with easn, and it was only down the strnteh that thP four-time def1~nding eharnpion at Flushing Mnadows looked th1~ parl. 
Avoiding as big an upset as tnnnis has snen in a while, Fncll~r•H eanw back to beat 2:~rd-sn1Hlnd Igor Andnwv of Hussia 6-7 l!'i), 7-6 (5), 6-3, 3­(>. 6-:~ Tuesday night to reach tlw quartm·finals at the year's last Crall(! Slam tournament. 
Whnn Fndnrnr finished the 
NFL 
match with a fon~hand win­ner, he shook his fists violent­ly and yelled. then a flashed a grin toward his girlfrinnd and others in the player guest box. 
liard to recall the last time this guy was so pleased by a mere fourth-round victory. This is, aftnr all, a man who owns 12 Grand Slam titles, two shy of Pnte Sampras' earner mark. A man who has won 31 consecutive matehes at tlw U.S. Open. A man who is trying to nxtend his reeord strnak of 17 straight appear­anees in major semil"inals. 
And yet. beeausn of how tough this was, Federer couldn't stop smiling at the end of thn three-hour tnsl. 
"I was just trying to stay in the matl:h," he told the sup­portive crowd at Arthur Ashe Stadium. 

Tickvts on solv now at thv Morris Box Officv. chorgv by phone 574/235-9190. or online www.morriscvnter.org. filso at all Tickvtmostvr locations. Charger by phone 574/272-7979 or www.tickvtmostvr.com. $25.00 odvoncvf$30.00 day of show tlo lawn choirs or coolers -o blanket. This is o no smok show. 
Ex-Bengal Johnson acquired by Detroit 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PAHK, Mich. -Hudi Johnson didn't nend long to lind a new honw. 
Johnson, who was waived by thn Cineinnati Bengals on Saturday, officially signed with the Detroit Lions on Tuesday. Johnson will join rookie Kevin Smith as the featured backs in Detroit's new run-oriented oiTnnse. 
"As soon as I finish talking to you guys, I'm going to bury 
mysnlf in the 
"/ want to be able to 
playbook," of Calvin Johnson .Johnson said contribute to this team and Hoy Williams after menting as soon as possible. " will do the same with the media thing. Tunsday. "I ''I'm excited 
RudiJohnson
want to be about playing able to eon­Lions' runningback with two great 
tribute to this 
team as soon 
as possible." 
.Johnson has missed much of training eamp and the presea­son with the same hamstring problem that caused him to miss livn games last season, but said that he'd be ready for Detroit's season opener Sunday in Atlanta. 
"I'm good -I just have to take earn of my hamstring eaeh and every day and stay on top of' it," hn said. "My main thing during eamp was to make sure I was ready for WePk 1." 
.Johnson rushnd for over I,400 yards in both 2005 and 2006, but was limited to 497 last year. This season, the Bongals will bP going with Chris Perry and Knnny Watson as their top runners. 
"Tho word got out last month that tlw BPngals wPre trying to trade me. so I knew this was corning," lw said. "I had a gn~at run in Cincinnati, but now I have to nwve on." 
.Johnson will b1~ n•united with Jon Kitna, who play•~d for Cincinnati bPI"oro eoming to llPtroit in 2006, and also hits a tight bond with one of the play­ers who will be blocking for him. 
"I talked to Jon -he and I are friends from when we were together with the Bengals, and I talked to (Lions guard) George Foster, who is a very good friend of mine," he said. 
In Cincinnati, the Bengals' star wide receivers, Chad Johnson and T.J. Houshmandzadeh, opened defenses up for the running game, and Johnson hopes that Detroit's duo 
guys on the out­
side in Roy and 
Calvin," he said. ''I'm looking forward to that." 
While considering Detroit's offer, Johnson got some advice from an unlikely source ­Tatum Bell, the player he replaced on the Lions roster. 
"When we talked, he didn't know it was going to be him that was going, but Tatum knows this is a business," Johnson said. "lie told me all about the city, the players, the coaching staff and even details like practice times and how things are run here." 
With Bell gone, Johnson will be battling for carries with Smith, Detroit's third-round pick. lin thinks he is still capa­ble of putting up the same numbers that he did in Cineinnati, but isn't worrind about eraeking the starting lineup quite yet. 
"Hight now, I've got to get through this playbook," he said. "Arter that, it is up to the eoaehns. I know I ean eon­tribute and help this team. The eoadws will ligurn out how to bnst use mo." 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services· will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th and September 14th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 63I-6467 
cle The Observer. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 2008 

MLB 
Martinez's first HR of year seals Indians' vvin 
De La Rosa, Roc~ies get shutout win over Giants 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Victor Martinez hugged teammates and danend in the dugout as if he had just won the World Series. 
It was a speeial moment for Cleveland's switch-hitter. who hit his first honw run in near­ly a year to help the Indians beat the Chicago White Sox 9­3 on Tuesday night. 
"It l'elt great to sell one finally go out," Martinez said. 
Tlw Whitn Sox remaint~d tied with Minnesota l'or thn AI. Central lead dnspitn losing for the firth time in six games. Chicago will try to avoid a thrnn-game swtwp Wndnesday. 
"Somdhing's missing," White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. "It seems like we arn tin~d. It snems like we are dead. Tlwrn arn a lot ol' things that we are missing right now." 
"M aylw hecaust~ we're not sroring many runs. Maybn bncausn ttw starting pitching throws l'our innings and that's it. Maylw wn'rp not coaching right. Maylw I'm making the wrong deeisions." 
"We have to find out right away because if we continun to play likn that, it's going to be real tough to compete." 
Fausto Carmona (8-5) pitched 5 2-3 innings to win his third straight start and Asdrubal Cabrera broke out of a 1-l'or-19 slump with three hits l'or the Indians, winners of 12 of 15. 
Chicago's Nick Swisher snapped his 0-l'or-19 slide with an eighth-inning double. 
Martinez put Cleveland ahead 2-0 in the second inning against .John Danks ( 10-X) . 
.lhonny Peralta walked and Martinez, activated Friday al'tnr having right elbow sur­gery in mid-June, hit thn first pitch he saw over the wall in ldt. It was his first homer in 57 games and 203 at-bats since Sept. 25. 
"Nobody has more fun play­ing this game than Victor," said backup catcher Sal Fasano, who greeted Martinez with a bearhug in the dugout. "It was a lot of fun to see him do that." 
Martinez said he was teased by teammates and enjoyed every minute of it. 
"''d be lying if I said I wasn't thinking about (his drought)," Martinez said. "This game is all about having fun and the guys made some fun ol' me. It was a great feeling." 
Franklin (;utierrez's two-run double made it 4-0 in the fifth. 
Carmona failed to get out or the sixth when Chicago scored threo runs, helped by the right-hander's wildness. .lnrrnainn Dyn walktHI and s cor~~ d on a w i I d pi t e h . Another run scored on a sae­ril'ien fly by Swisher. Then Carmona hit Alnxei Hamirez in tlw hand with a pitch and pinc:h-hit.tnr Josn Uribe fol­lownd with a two-out HBI dou­
hln ofT tlw lnl't-f'iPid  wall  to  
make it 4-:~.  
"I  trind  to  makP  a  perrnct  

pitch and it sank too much," Carmona said of his wild pitch 
in the dirt that skipped past 
catcher Kelly Shoppach. 
Rafael Betancourt came on 
to strike out Jerry Owens with 
runners on second and third 
to preserve the one-run lead. 
"Betancourt did a good job 
to protect that lead right 
there." Indians manager Eric 
Wedge said. "That was huge." 
Carmona allowed three runs 
and fivfl hits. lie walked two 
and struck out two. 
Danks gave up four runs and eight hits over four innings in his third straight loss. 
Peralta had an RBI single off 
D.J. Carrasco in Cleveland's five-run sPventh. Boone Logan then issued a bases-loaded walk to pinch-hitter Shin-Soo Choo before giving up a two­run single to Cabrera and Grady Sizemore's run-scoring single to make it 9-3. 
Chicago leads the majors with 199 home runs, but did not hit any for the second con­secutive game after hitting 21 in its previous 12 games. 
Rockies 4, Giants 0 
A month ago Jorge De La Hosa was pitching his way into thfl Colorado Rockies bullpen. Monday he showed he could be valuable if the Hockies are going to make another September run. 
De La Hosa pitched seven shutout innings and had an RBI single, Willy Taveras stole three bases and scored twice and Colorado beat the San Francisco Giants on Monday. 
De La Rosa (8-7) was sharp for the fifth straight start, allowing four hits, striking out six and walking one. He didn't allow a runner past first base and twicfl erased leadoff sin­gles by inducing double plays. 
"He continues to take steps forward." Rockies manager Clint Hurdle said. "He's got momentum going for him and confidence." 
Thfl defending NL champion Hockies began September six games behind the Diamondbacks in the NL West. They are hoping for another spm:tacular finish. after going 20-8 last September. Colorado has won 14 of their last 15 September games overall. 
"We're not out of it," Hurdle said. "As long as we stayed focused on our own game, that what gives me hope." 
Outings like De La Rosa's on Monday help fuel that hope. Following Benji Molina's two­out single in the fourth, De La Hosa didn't allow a hit and retired 10 of the last 11 bat­ters he faced, including strik­ing out four of the last five. He was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the seventh. 
"lie threw strikes and pitched well, but offensively we're struggling," Giant man­ager Bruen Bochy said. "We're not getting the big hit to keep a rally going." 
Since giving up seven earned runs in one and two­thirds innings against Florida on July 31, De La Hosa has gone at least six innings in each or his five starts and has not allowed more than three runs in any outing. lie has a 
1.78 EHA during that stretch. 



Master something a little easier, like your personal finances. 
Wells Fargo knows that college can be a challenging time. That's why we have a wide range of tools to help you along the way, from checking and savings to a College Combo® specifically designed to help you be financially successful. And best ofall, you'll getsomeone to answer your questions and help you make sense ofit all. Why wait for someday?5M Stop by Wells Fargo, visit wellsfargo.com/student or calll-800-WFB-OPEN (1-800-932-6736) today. 


Wednesday, September 3, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NHL 
Panthers, Maple Leafs exchange defensemen 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Tressel noncomittal on Wells 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Coach Jim Tressel has some reassur­ing words for all those fretful Ohio State fans who have had trouble sleeping since tailback Chris "Beanie" Wells hit the deck with a right foot injury on Saturday. 
"Tell them to worry about Gustav and Rita and those kinds of things," Tressel said Tuesday. "Beanie's going to be fine." 
Wells was in obvious pain in the moments after he fell to the turf in the third quarter of Saturday's 43-0 victory over Youngstown State. He was almost dragging the foot, encased in an immobilizing boot, when he slowly returned to the sideline to watch the last few minutes of the blowout. 
Yet Tressel didn't slam the door on the possibility that Wells might still play in Saturday's game against Ohio University. Wells' status will be evaluated later in the week, Tressel said. The Bobcats are a five-touchdown underdog against the Buckeyes, who dropped a spot to No. 3 in this week's AP Top 25. 
"I have the third vote. The first vote is the young person .... Then the medical people have a major vote," Tressel said. "How you practice has a little bit to do with it especially as you get into the back end of the week. But when you have a veteran who's had a lot of snaps and so forth, it's not quite as critical. I'll have that third and deciding vote, I guess." 
That's good news for Ohio State's uneasy faithful. A crowd of more than 105,000 was reduced to silence when Wells, wlio rushed for more than 1,600 yards last season, fell backward on a handoff near the goal line. After he was checked out by doctors and trainers, he was helped off the field and taken to the locker room on a cart. 
Ohio coach Frank Solich said whether Wells is or isn't in the lineup really doesn't have a big impact on what his team has to do. 
"Not really. As great a back as he is, the other guys that are stepping on the field can hurt you," he said. "So it's not like they're going to abandon the running game. It's not like they're going to stop running the power play at you because he's not in there." 
Wells, who has not practiced with the Buckeyes this week, was seen walking in his stock­ing feet out of a meeting at the team's training facility on Tuesday night. He was carrying the boot. He appeared to be walking gingerly, trying not to put his full weight on his right foot. 
Buckeyes fans aren't con­cerned about Wells' availability against the Mid-American Conference's Bobcats so much as this week's new No. 1 team, Southern California, whom the Buckeyes travel to play Sept. 13. 
Linebacker Marcus Freeman got a handle on just how con­cerned they were. 
Over the weekend, he was recognized as he paid for his food at a fast-food Mexican restaurant. 
"And they're like, 'How's Beanie?"' Freeman said, laugh-ing. "They didn't ask anything about me. They're just like, 'How's Beanie doing?'" 
Wells was not permitted to speak with reporters. Tressel said he would probably be "in the whirlpool." 
Immediately after the game, in his only public statement so far, Wells said through Ohio State spokeswoman Shelly Poe that he may have heard some­thing "pop" in his foot. 
"I may have rolled it or plant­ed wrong a play or two before," he said. "Something just didn't feel right. Then I think I felt a pop. But the X-rays are OK, so we'll see how it feels in a day or two." 
Tressel said team medical personnel had labeled Wells doubtful for the home game against Ohio, but then he saw him in the training room. 
"He said he felt great," said Tressel, who declined to dis­close anything about the injury, its severity, or what part of Wells' foot was injured. 
About the only light Tressel has shed on the injury came in his postgame remarks when he said that team doctors and trainers never described the injury as "turf toe." 
Wells has been going through extensive daily treatments on his foot. 
He had rushed for 111 yards on 13 carries against Youngstown State, opening the scoring on an untouched, 43­yard burst. 
If he is held out of Saturday's game, redshirt freshman Dan "Boom" Herron, sophomore Brandon Saine and senior Maurice Wells (no relation) would fill in. 
NFL 

Lavvyer says Simpson ready for jury ~election 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -O.J. Simpson's lawyer on Tuesday declared the former football star all set for jury selection to begin next week in his trial on allegations of robbing two sports memora­bilia dealers at gunpoint almost a year ago. 
"Ready for trial, judge," Simpson lawyer Gabriel Grasso said during the last scheduled pretrial hearing. 
But Robert Lucherini, lawyer for Simpson's only remaining co-defendant, Clarence "C.J." Stewart, made yet another pitch to sever or postpone the trial, a request Clark County District Judge Jackie Glass denied. He told the judge he would ask the Nevada Supreme Court to reconsider its denial of his request for a separate or delayed trial. 
Glass said a pool of 500 would-be jurors was reduced to about 250 after defense lawyers and prosecutors spent several hours behind closed doors Aug. 25 reviewing answers provided on 26-page questionnaires. 
"We did excuse most of the people, if not all of the people, who expressed extreme opin­ions about the parties, in an effort to have a very efficient jury selection process," Glass said. 
Jury selection is to begin Monday, and the judge said she expected to complete it within a week. The trial is expected to last as long as five weeks. 
Clark County District Attorney David Roger, who earlier sub­mitted a list of almost 80 wit­nesses, said Tuesday that he expects to call about 25. 
Grasso said he and fellow defense attorney Yale Galanter planned to call those witnesses, plus perhaps three more. 
Lucherini said he would prob­ably call six or seven witnesses on Stewart's behalf. 
Simpson and Stewart have pleaded not guilty to 12 charges, including felony kid­napping, armed robbery and assault with a deadly weapon in a September 2007 confronta­tion with two sports memorabil­ia dealers in a Las Vegas casino hotel. 
A kidnapping conviction could get them life in prison with the possibility of parole. A robbery conviction would mean manda­tory prison time. 
Four other men who accom­panied Simpson and Stewart have accepted plea deals, pleaded ~:uilty to felony charges and agreed to testify for the prosecution. 
A state high court panel last week turned down Lucherini's appeal of Glass' earlier refusals to delay or sever Stewart's trial from Simpson's. 
Lucherini argues it will be impossible for Stewart to get a fair trial sitting at the defen­dant's table with Simpson, a former NFL star, film actor and advertising pitchman. Simpson was acquitted in the 1995 slay­ings in Los Angeles of his ex­wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ron Goldman but later found liable in a civil case. 

Associated Press 
MIAMI -Bryan McCabe already has a new home in South Florida. where his 3­year-old daughter started pre­kindergarten classes in a new school Tuesday and he spent part of the day unpacking mov­ing boxes. 
The only thing he didn't have was a new team -that is, until the Florida Panthers and Toronto Maple Leafs finally completed a long-expected deal. 
The Maple Leafs traded the veteran defenseman and a fourth-round draft pick to the Panthers on Tuesday for defenseman Mike Van Ryn. rid­ding Toronto of its biggest con­tractual obligation and finally giving McCabe closure in the sense that he now knows where he'll be when camp opens later this month. 
"It's always nice to have this part of it done," McCabe said. "It's not fun being in limbo when you have two kids and a wife. We're really excited to get down here." 
McCabe waived his no-trade clause to allow the deal to go through. McCabe's willingness to be traded was a change in philosophy as it was earlier stated that the Maple Leafs would have to buy out his con­tract to get rid of him. 
The 33-year-old McCabe had been one of the longest-serving Maple Leafs after being acquired from the Chicago Blackhawks on Oct. 2, 2000. He developed in Toronto after bouncing from the New York Islanders to the Vancouver Canucks to the Blackhawks. He recently became a scapegoat for fans who thought his perform­ance dipped after he signed a five-year, $28.75-million con­tract in 2005-06. 
"It's a tough place to play, especially when you're losing," McCabe said of Toronto. "But when you're winning, it's one of the best places to play. It comes with the territory. I've got a big contract." 
His annual salary cap hit for the next three seasons will be $5.75 million even though the Panthers will only have to pay him $4.15 million per season on the front-heavy deal. The Maple Leafs are on the hook for a $2 million bonus that was due Monday, and that money was one of the issues that held up completion of the deal. 
"It gives us some more offense from our back end," Panthers general manager Jacques Martin said. "Bryan brings experience. When you look back at his time in Toronto, his ability to play on the power play, his shot, and in the dress­ing room he brings some lead­ership skill to help a lot of our younger defensemen." 
Van Ryn has two years remaining on his contract and will earn $3.35 million each season. His cap hit is only $2.9 million, allowing the Leafs to free up $11.45 million over the next three years. 
Maple Leafs general manager Cliff Fletcher has been busy in remaking a team that hasn't reached the playoffs since before the 2004-05 lockout. Earlier this summer, Fletcher bought out the contracts of for­ward Darcy Tucker and backup goalie Andrew Raycroft, and waived center Kyle Wellwood. 
"It's part of what we're trying to do moving forward here," Fletcher said. "We wish him well." 
It also appears that the Leafs will start a season without Mats Sundin in the lineup for the first time since 1993. 
The Panthers, who haven't made the playoffs since 2000 and haven't won a postseason series since reaching the Stanley Cup finals in 1996, have been equally busy. Among the notable moves, captain Olli Jokinen was traded to Phoenix for defensemen Keith Ballard and Nick Boynton, two-time Stanley Cup champion forward Cory Stillman was added in free agency, Jay Bouwmeester was re-signed for another season and now Martin got the bluelin­er he may have coveted most. 
"I've been here for three years now, and over the three years I've felt our defense need­ed to improve," Martin said. "With the addition of Ballard 
_, 
AP 

The Toronto Maple Leafs traded defenseman Bryan McCabe to the Florida Panthers Tuesday for defenseman Mike Van Ryn. 
and Boynton and now Bryan, McCabe missed almost two we've looked at the better months last season due to a teams in the league, we felt that broken hand. He played in 54 was an area we needed to games, scoring five goals and improve and I'm definitely 23 points, and said he hopes he excited about this team. I think can be part of the core that we have more pieces of the puz-pushes filorida back into the zle in the right places." postseason. 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
the Elite Eight primarily from 
to dry on that one," Weis said. Notes: the beneh. 
Weis added that he and the +Haywood and assistant
Quinn Weis 
Although Quinn may not have 
offensive ·staff will know head coach/defense Jon Tenuta continued from page 24 seen as much field time as he 
continued from page 24 ahead of time which situations will sit in the press box for would have liked over the past 
to attempt a fourth-down con­Saturday's game against San tlw to am's summer trip to three years, he said he feels 
This expediting will not be version so they can call an Diego State. Weis said Tenuta Brazil. that he has become a much bet­
limited to the ofl'ense, and Weis appropriate third-down play. prefers to be in the press box Quinn's solid performance tnr keeper during his time in 
said he will also help make "Normally you wouldn't to see the game better. during that stretch turned South Bend. 
sure the defense is running throw the ball on third and "What he's going to be able Cahill's stranglehold on the "I think I've come pretty far 
smoothly through defensive one unless you already had to see and pass on to Corwin, I position into an open competi­since my freshman year," Quinn 
coordinator Corwin Brown. the backing from the boss that think, will be absolutely invalu­tion heading into the 2006 sea­said. "Physically, I've put on 
But Weis will not be in the you were going to go for it on able," Weis said. son. Cahill and Quinn split pre­some musde, lost weight, and 
dark about his team's decision­fourth and one," Weis said. Weis added that Brown season games as well as the gotten quicker. 
making -on either side of the "Or if you didn't, don't worry prefers to be on the field dur­opening six games of the season "My biggest challenge has 
ball. · about it, we're going to just ing games. bnl'orn Clark deeided to give the been mentally. That was one 
''I'm going to have one of my punt in that situation." "lie has that bubbly enthusi­job back to Cahill. thing that gave Cahill an edge 
guys hold onto a call sheet both Weis said that, in addition to asm. lie likes to chest bump "It was artnr thn Louisville ovHr me. lie was much more 
offensively and defensively so not calling plays during the and all that other stuff right ganw that the Boss !Clark] calm and maybe more confi­
that if there's a lull in the game, he will not help script there," Weis said of Brown. came up to me and told me he dent. We have a sports psychol­
aetion, I want to go look at it, the opening drives of games +Weis said Notre Dame will was going with Cahill," Quinn ogist, and I've talked with him. 
I'll have something available to as he did when he was the have only two players sit out of said. "I respected the Boss's lie's ]wiped me relax and 
me," he said. offensive play-caller. But this Saturday's game: tight end decision. lie was honest with beeome more calm and consis­
Moreover, Weis will still is not to say that he will have Mike Hagone and safety nw all the way through. I just tent in the goal." 
make the big strategy decisions no input as to the opening Jashaad Gaines. Ragone is out kept my head down and worked Those changes are a big rea­
during the game to avoid put­drive; rather, he will review (or the season because of a hard knowing I would get my son why Quinn's opportunity 
ting pressure on his assistants. the offensive coaches' script torn ACL and Gaines was opportunity." has finally arrived. Even after 
Weis said it is always the head Friday morning. allowed to miss the opener due Quinn's initial opportunity Cahill left, Clark told Quinn that 
coach's call on whether to "And if there's something I to a family illness. eanw earlier than expected the starting job would be an 
attempt il fourth-down conver­would say 'Why would you do Gaines was not listed on the when an injury to Cahill in opfm eompetition between him 
sion. that,' we'll just eliminate it. two-deep, but was expected to Notrn Dame's Sweet 16 contest and Tuttle. With that competi­
"That is always the job of the Or if it's something that can contribute on special teams, against Maryland forced Quinn tion now settled, Quinn can 
head coach to have to make we run this, too. So might where he played in four games into aetion. lie played the finally focus on helping Notre 
that decision, because right or there be a play or two that last season. majority of the mntest. prnserv­Dame achieve and surpass the 
wrong, you're going to have to either gets eliminated or ing a 2-0 Irish win. Quinn also success of the past few seasons. 
live with that decision. And you added? Yes. But I'm not Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at played the second half of Notre "I think this team is just as 
don't hang your assistants out [scripting) that." jfitzpaS@nd.edu Dame's :~-2 loss in the Elite good if not better than the other Eight to Virginia. teams since I've been here," 
Quinn's main opportunity Quinn said. "From my end, I've would have to wait, however, as been here four years, and I've 
talent may seem young or even If the BP.IIes can find their Cahill returrwd in 2007 for his been here long enough to know 
inexperienced, I have no con­ofl'ense early on in the season,
Hinton 

lil'th season and rndaimed the what Coach Clark expects from 
cern about our ability to put they will put themselves in a starting goalie job once again. us. I need to step into a leader­
continued from page 24 the ball in the net," Crabbe favorable position when they Although injuries to Cahill ship role and make sure we're 
told the website. begin MIAA conference play in allowed Quinn a few spot as organized as possible." 
Saint Mary's career and has Freshman Taylor Paton has a few weeks. appearanens throughout the 
already recorded an assist this already began to shine for the season, Quinn once again Contact Greg Arbogast at 
season. Belles, scoring in just her sec­Contact Alex Barker at watehed Notre Damn's run to garbogas@nd.edu 
"While some of our scoring ond career game. abarkerl @nd.edu 

MLB 
Hamels pitches eight innings in Phillies win 
"Coming out of' a game is dis­on a stretcher and carted oil' the appointing in a sense, because field. lie was replaced by Wil whenever you start one you Nieves. want to finish,'' said llamels, "His eleat just got stuck in who pitched 7 1-3 innings front of home plat!~ and that's Tuesday. "But the bullpen, all why his ankle wouldn't give in. year I've had the confidence in but we didn't think it was a dirty them and they were able to get play," Aeta said. the job done -and did fabu­Utley said he was just trying to lous." generate some ofl'ensn. He knnw 
John Lannan (8-13) took the Lannan has a slow move to lirst, loss, giving up two runs and five and once he reaehed third lw hits in six innings. l-Ie walked was planning to go home on a two and struck out four. pickoff' attempt. When Lannan 
"It's delinitnly a tough lineup," made the move, UtiPy went. Lannan said. "That's why they're "I felt likn I got a good jump, battling for first place with the Belliard made a quick throw Mets right now. They're tough home, and thnre you have it,'' from top to bottom. You don't Utley said. "I thought the only really get any breaks." option I had at that point to lw 
Nationals catcher Jesus Flon~s safe was to try and knock the was earted ofT the field in the ball loosP.... My intention was third inning after Philad1~lphia's dnf1nitP.Iy not to hurt him, my Chase Utley barreled into him on intention was to knock the ball a play at the plate. Joost~." 
"When I saw him in the type of' Phillies manager CharliP pain that he was, I was very Manuel said he supported the worried,'' Washington manager decision to break for homn, and Manny Acta said. "I felt really had no problem with how Utley bad for the kid. but X-rays were finished tho play. negative and it just looks like an "It's not old sehool, it's good ankle sprain right now. We'll school," Manunl said. have an MHI tomorrow and we'll The collision was the second find out morn about it. but the play at the platn for Flores on good news is that the X-rays did­Tuesday. n't show anything." Earlinr in thn third inning, 
Associated Press lianwls (12-8) has pitclwd at or two runs and he can work The collision came as Utlny Hollins singiPd home Carlos Huiz lnast s1wnn innings 23 times -with it." was attempting to steal homo from second. The throw from 
WASIIINGI'ON-Almost evnry thn most in the majors. lin has a Hollins gave llamels most of with two outs. With runnnrs on left tieldnr Willie llarris was in time Cole llanu~ls has taken the :u11 ImA in 203 innings. what hn had to work with with first and third, Lannan made a time but slightly to the right of mound this sPason, thn "lin gets a quality start pn1tty two HBI-singles and a walk. pickoff' throw to lirst and Utley Florns, who missnd the ball as l'hiladPiphia PhilliPs haw lmen much evnry time out." Phillies The l'hillies remained two brokn for home. he tried for a sweep tag on Buiz. abiP to count on him to pitch shortstop Jimmy Hollins said. games behind first-place New Utley arrived at the plate just Hollins, who went to second on dnPp into tlw ganll'. "lin givns you a chanen to win. York in NL East. after the throw from first base­the throw, scored on Utley's sin­
Tlw ldt-handnr did it again II is rPrord doesn't Iweessarily Washington's winning streak man Bonnie Belliard and gle. Tuesday night against tlw indicate that. but his lmA docs. was its longest since a 10-game crashnd hard into Flores. Aftnr The Phillins tacked on two Washington Nationals, pitching Sonwtimes good pitchnrs run run in 2005, but it nndnd as J.C. he tagged out Utley, Flores more runs in the sevnnth. thP into t.lw Pight.h inning and allow­into bad luek. Them have bonn Honwro, Chad Durbin and Brad stayed on the ground near homn first on another HBI single by ing live hits in a 4-0 victory that games we have blown, games Lidge finished thn six-hitter. The platn for several minutes as his Hollins. Huiz th11n scored as nndnd tlw Nationals' sevnn­that we just haven't scornd, and Nationals have been shut out 20 left leg was attended to by train­Hollins was caught in a rundown gamP winning strPak . ..,. then tlu·re arc games like times, seven more than any ers and medical pnrsonnel. between first and second during 
In 29 starts this sPason, tonight, whcn1 all it takes is one other major league team. Eventually, Flores was placed an inning-ending double play. 
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLAcK DoG 

page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Arg rion and Jeff Knurek

Jm1MJIDILrn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SCOUF jI I r I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
ff~f'l1 

I 
RULBET 
WHAT YOU C. AN DO

[ J I b 
AT FIRST, IF YOU'RE: 
www.jumble.com 
THE: BOSS' SON 
WEDDEG 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

CIJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Print answer here: [ 
I J I J: I J J 
!Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: WHINE OLDER PEPTIC UNSEAT Answer: Why the play didn't have a long run ­IT WAS "PEDESTRIAN" 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Identical to 62 Put a hex on Toast to one's 33 Twisted, as 63 Fish basket health humor 6 Whooping ·--34 Source of Down disruption to
11 Belle of the ball Pepper's partner satellites
14 Humiliate 2 "Peek-_ 
36 "My man!"

15 Ship from the 3 Jerry Lewis Mideast 39 Disobeys telethon time 40 Letter-shaped 4 Andrew
16 Commercial 
skyscraper

cousin of crazy Carnegie corp. 
support

eights 5 Investigator: 42 Sleeveless shirts Abbr.
17 Traps off the coast of Maine 45 Strained 6 Reef material 19 Get-up-and-go 7 Steals, with "off"
relations? 46 Bakery fixtures 

8 Skin cream 47Goad ingredient 20 Horn sound 
21 Urns 48 Moist, as 9 New Jersey 
22 Nozzle site 
morning grass hoopsters
23 Southerner in 
49 Los Angeles's 1 0 Places to see
the Civil War 
San _Bay M.D.'s in a hurry
25 "_ you asked 52 Mayberry lad 11 Company behind 55 Santa winds 
nylon and Teflon 
26 Part of a TV 
12 Georges who 
56 Gotham tabloid 

catchphrase 
composed
58 Yank 

from Howie 
"Romanian
Mandel 59 Kennel club 
Rhapsodies"
28 Ball catcher classification 
13 "Little" 
behind a catcher 60 Guy 
shepherdess of 31 Thesis defenses 61 Wide shoe spec children's verse 
18 Daredevil ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Knievel 22 Serpentine sound 24 Droopy-eared hounds 25 Rink activity 26 This instant 27 Bobby _, the only N.H.L.'er to win the Hart, Norris, Ross and Smythe trophies in the same year 28 Points on a diamond? 29 Roadies' loads 30 Corporate V.I.P. 
THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

32 Salon sound 43 Street 51 Turns red, 35 Roswell sighting 
perhaps
44 Music genre for 
53 "Survivor" 36 Tall, skinny guy Enya setting,37 Like vegetables 45 Aviation pioneer sometimesin salads 

Sikorsky 

54 And others, 38 Mantra syllables briefly
47 Wash away, as

39 Designer letters 
soil 56 Peacock 41 Knee-slapping network 49 Andean land
goof 
57 Col. Sanders's 42 Thus far 50 Pitcher chain 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TlliS DAY: Salma Hayek, 42; Lennox Lewis, 43; Keanu Reeves, 44; Terry Bradshaw, 60 Happy Birthday: There is plenty on the line and the boundaries are limited. You will have to calculate your every move, making sure you don't waffle or give in too soon. Bal­ance will be the key to getting what you want in the end. Take it slow and make each move strategically. Your numbers are 4, 12, 20, 26, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You'll feel emotionally up and down due to what you are told and how you are treated. Nothing will be as bad as you think, so don't react. A con­nection you have to someone who motivates you may be qu1estionable. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a break. You need some time to put things in order and decide what you want to do with the rest of your life. New places will intrigue you and a job you never considered in the past will interest you. 3 stars 
GEMlNl (May 21-June 20): A unique proposal based on your qualifications and ability to multi task will interest you. Don't be too slow to accept an opportunity or you'll have regrets. Love is in the stars and a social event will be geared toward romance. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stick close to the people you trust and respect. The older and more experienced people will give you good advice and stand behind your every move. Your personal relationships, however, will give you mixed messages leading to misunderstandings and breakups. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Doing things that are unique will give you connections with in­teresting people who are inspirational and can add a spark to your ideas. Love is growing with someone who wants to spend more time with you. Try to accommodate this person. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There will be a lot riding on how much you do. The expec­tations will be high and the willingness on your part to add detail and precision will seal a deal. A partnership with someone very different from yourself will form if you aren't ada­mant about working alone. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get into a fight with someone. It won't be worth your time and the backlash you face will be hard to rectify. You may want to rethink your rela­tionships and consider whether or not some of them are good for you. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't rely on others. You can get some good advice on a job you want to do at home but do the actual work yourself, if possible. Hiring someone to do something you can do yourself will be a waste of money and the job won't be done to your satisfaction. 3 stars 
SAGnJARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can position yourself professionally in such a way that the demand for your talents will skyrocket. Offer a new innovative idea, concept or service. Some of the older people will fight the change but you will surpass any inter­ference. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't underestimate the power of communication. Someone can and will twist your words around. Explain your ideas concisely. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Personally and fmancially you are coming into an inter­esting and unusual development that will make your life easier. A commitment or prom­ise will help you achieve your dreams, hopes and wishes. Love is on the rise. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't get labeled passe because you are using old, out­dated methods. Look to someone younger who is a little ahead of his or her time to in­spire you to move in the right direction. It may be time to tlke on a younger partner. 3 stars 
Birthday aaby: You have a sophisticated appeal and are Cl'eative and clever. You can be demanding, uncompromising, persuasive, charming and controlling. 
Eugenia1s Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name ______________________________________ _ 
....

Address __________________________________ _ City _______________ State ____ Zip________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 3, 2008 
page 24 
.· 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Worth the wait 
Senior keeper Andrew Quinn gets his chance to start after three years on the bench 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
This past weekend in the Adidas IU Credit Union Classie, senior goalie Andrew Quinn played all 90 minutes in both of Notre Dame's games. Finally. 
After three years of hard work and waiting, this past weekend served as confirma­tion for Quinn that the moment he's been preparing for has arrived. The starting keoper job is now solely his. 
Quinn and junior keeper Phillip Tuttle split time in goal last spring as well as this pre­season, but Irish coach Bobby Clark made the decision to go with the veteran before this past weekend's tournament. 
"I think Andrew deserves it," Clark said after last Sunday's game. "lie's been knocking at the door for three years now, and we're going to give him a little run." 
Clark's decision serves as vin­dication for all the hard work and patience that Quinn has shown over the past three sea­sons. As a freshman, Quinn 
·was redshirted behind incum­bent junior Chris Cahill, but opportunity soon came knock­ing. Cahill decided to study abroad during the spring and summer terms, leaving Quinn as the primary goalkeeper dur­ing both the spring season and 
Observer file photo 

Irish senior keeper Andrew Quinn handles the ball in a game against South Florida on Sept. 8, see QUINN/page 22 2006. Quinn battled Chris Cahill for two years before earning the starting spot this season. 

SMC SOCCER Winless SMCfaces Spartans 
Team hopes to follow Hinton at Manchester 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a not-so-success­ful opening season tournament last weekend, Saint Mary's looks to channel its offensive prowess from last season and capture its first win of the 2008 campaign when it travels to face the Manchester College Spartans today. 
Under first-year head coach Ryan Crabbe, the Belles strug­gled to score against the com­petition at the Case Western Invitational, dropping their first two matches of the season. 
Against the Spartans, Saint Mary's looks to start anew and find its offense behind senior leadership like that of senior forward Lauren Hinton, the Belles' leading scorer last sea­son. 
"Lauren is one of the top offensive players in the entire league," Crabbe told the Saint Mary's athletic Web site. "She will definitely be looked upon for a scoring puneh this sea­son." 
Hinton has 28 goals in her 
see HINTON/page 22 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop first MIAA n1atch in straight sets 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's Coll1~ge (3-2, 0-1 MIAAl dropped its first confer­ence mateh of the season Tuesday night against Adrian College (3-2, 1-0 MIAAJ at the Angela Athletic Faeility. The Bulldogs swept the Belles in straight sets (25-15, 25-22, 25­
181. 
Senior Kania I leHman led Saint Mary's oflimsively and def(msive­ly with 10 kills and 11 digs, but put up a mediocre .167 hitting perenntage on the night. Also mntributing on the def(msivn end were junior Lorna Slupczynski with 11 digs and sophomore Mnghann Hose with 13 digs. Freshman Danielle Brink and 
junior Liana Hohr eontributed 16 assists and 12 assislo.;, rnspeetive­ly..Junior Kathleen Mills also had a solid match, making throe kills in seven attmnplo.; with no errors for a .429 hitting percentage. 
OlTensive inconsistency and frustration marked the night for the Belles. who only had two players (llellman and Millsl post a hitting percentage above .1 00, and the team finished with 30 errors to Adrian's 15. Defensively, the Bulldogs added 10 blocks on top of Saint Mary's three, while senior Samantha Mercy con­tributed 22 digs. 
The Belles came out flatfooted in the first set and were quickly down 21-9. Bolstered by a series of Adrian errors, Saint Mary's mountnd a late rally to draw the score within 6 points, but eventu­ally were defeated 25-15. 
After beginning the seeond set in similar fashion to the first, the Belles again rallied, evening the scorn at 9-9 from a 5-1 disadvan­tage. Saint Mary's kept up with Adrian step-for-step until the set's final minutes, but fell late after several critical errors. With the score tied at 22-22, Slupczynski-who was named to the All-Tournament Team at the Thomas More Invitational last weekend -made three straight attaek errors to give the Bulldogs the game, 25-22. 
Things were looking up for the Belles in the third set, who at one point held an 11-8 advantage. Onee again, a series of errors stalled the Saint Mary's attack, and Adrian was able to pull away, closing the set 25-1 R. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Weis embraces new role 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis decided at the end of last season that he would relinquish play-calling duties. And so far, he has stayed committed to that. 
Weis said in a press con­ference Tuesday that he would wear a headset during Saturday's opener against San Diego State to communi­cate with the other coaches, but he would not hold a call sheet. 
"A call sheet would be just like asking for trouble," he said. 
Weis said the main reason behind his wearing a head­set would not be to influence offensive coordinator Michael Haywood's play selection, but rather to give the first-time play-caller some assistance. 
"Like one of the things I probably feel that I'm going to have to say to Michael [IIaywood] early in the game is get him used to the timing of the 40 second clock. I'll say, okay, let's go personnel," he said. 
see WEIS/page 22 




