---~---------------------------, 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 127 THURSDAY. APRIL 24,2008 

Students voice concerns, Security listens 
By LIZ HARTER and 
MANDl STIRONE 
News Writers 
This is the second article in a two-part series exploring the policies ofSaint Mary's Security. 
When Saint Mary's student 
body president Mickey Gruscinski and vice president Sarah Falvey campaigned for office, they saw a need to work with Security to make the cam­pus safer and increase student's faith in the department. 
They met with Director of Security and Assistant director of Security Dave· Gariepy and Stan Klimczak shortly after win­ning the election to express their concerns about the reliability of the escort policy, but Gariepy and Klimczak brought up other issues as well. 
"[They talked about] sexual assault and informing students how to stay safe," Falvey said. "Dave also highlighted some of 

Site's 'juicy,' anonym_ous gossip prom.pts concern 
Juicycampus.com attracts users with explicit, unsigned discussions of students' personal lives 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students have been taking advantage of a new Web site forum -juicy­campus.com -to share gos­sip and spread rumors about their fellow classmates. 
According to freshman Scott Mcintosh, while the Web site can be humorous at times. the anonymity juicycampus.com provides allows students to post what­ever they want without fear of repercussion. 
"I think it provides a way for students to vent about 
campus life in general but it leaves it open to hurt others under the veil of anonymity," he said. "I think that if mem­bers had to post their names under each post they would definitely weigh their words more and take things more seriously." 
While some topics are harmless, such as discussion of upcoming social events, others are lewd and slander­ous, littered with sexist and racist remarks. 
One of the more offensive posts included statements about African-American stu­dents that were full of racial slurs. 
Freshman Khai Thomas, 
Hesburgh walk to benefit local schools 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
Former University President Father Theodore llesburgh played an integral role in advancing social jus­tice in the 1960s, and as a tribute to his work in educa­tion, Upward Bound will host its inaugural Father Ted's Fun Hun and Walk this Sunday. 
All proceeds will benefit Upward Bound at Notre Dame, a program that serves South Bend high school stu­dents who are the first in their family to attend college. 
Punded by the Department of Education, Upward Bound has seen its funds dwindling in recent years because of budget cuts, said Kristine Yuen, a sophomore and grad­uate of the Upward Bound program. 
"The fundraiser we are doing for Upward Bound is an attempt to create an inde­pendent source of funding in case the U.S. Department of Education were to decide to cut the program in its entire­ty," Yuen said. 
The program helps its stu­dent participants graduate high school by providing a number of services, from tutoring to college visitations to SAT preparation, Coates and Yuen said. 
"[The program is] for first generation college students and students from lower socioeconomic backgrounds," Yuen said. 
see RUN/page 3 
the positive things that he had done including [creating] the lost and found." 
With the questions surround­ing the trespasser who escaped custody after making his way onto the roof of Regina Hall April 5, and seemingly slow response to the incident from Saint Mary's Security detailed in the first part of this series, many College students have concerns about the effectiveness of Saint Mary's Security. 
Falvey, however, does not think Security is ineffective. 
"I think they take [our safety] very seriously," she said. "[! feel] they would try their hardest [to fix any problems students have] because they're really commit­ted to it." 

who created one post asking black freshmen what they thought of the Web site, said words like these show racism is still a problem at Notre Dame. 
"This shows the true senti­ments that [some students] hold deep inside," he said. "They'll say stuff like this blindly online where they know there are no repercus­sions for their actions." 
One popular trend on juicy­campus.com is to post gossip, usually having to do with sex, about one specific student. 
Saint Mary's freshman Sarah Craig has five different topics about her on the Web posters have called her, among other degrading terms, a "stripper" and a "fat troll." 
"I feel it is completely immature that people really abuse the Web site," Craig said. "It really sucks to go on there and see your name posted up not knowing who it's from and that everyone in the world can just go on there, type in your name and read about you." 
Craig chose to respond to her faceless critics by writing back and signing her name under the posts. 
"I decided that if people 

site, where anonymous see WEB SITE/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Proftospeak to White House,Bush 
ACE founder to talk aboutfaith-based schools 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Political sdence professor Father Timothy Scully will speak at Washington today about the clos­ing of almost 1,200 faith-based, inner-city schools between 2000 and 2006, as part of the White House Summit on Inner-City Children and Faith-Based Schools. 
Scully's speech, entitled "Higher Education: Signs of Hope" will draw from his work as the co­founder of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), which trains col­lege graduates to work in inner­city Catholic schools. Scully, who is a former Executive Vice President of the University, is also the found­ing director of the University's Institute for Educational Initiatives. 
"In terms of the providers of faith-based educators, the ACE program is the largest and the most well-known in the country, so I suppose we were natural part­ners for them to turn to in terms of inviting us to be involved in the suminit," he said. 
Scully received an invitation directly from the White House for the summit, which President George W. Bush convened to dis­cuss ways to bolster education for inner-city schools. 
In a White House press release, Bush said the suminit will address low-income urban students' need for more educational options and 
see SCULLY/page 6 


TCEs to switch from print to online 
Upgraded methodfor evaluating courses will also help students pick classes 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 

The Student Senate passed Wednesday a resolution to sup­port the implementation of online teacher and course evalu­ations to replace the paper eval­uations that are currently used in classrooms. 
The move to online evaluations is an effort of the Offices of Institutional Research and Information Technology and the Advisory Committee to the Provost of Evaluation of Teaching, Academic Affairs chair Ryan Brellenthin said. 
The teacher evaluations will be restructured online as Course 
see SENATE/page 3 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 24, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


What is Surinain? 

Harnly does a day go by without at least a baj illion honeys asking me to recount my latest brush with glory and fame on Jeopardy. J1wpardy is a swaggering temple of gcekiness. .Jeopardy is a pedestal on Brian McKenzie which any triv­ia-minded per-News l#re Editor son can scream to the world that "I know th1~ capital of' Burkina Faso and I demand money." Ineidentally, it is tho only place in the world where information learned in a typical arts and letter eourse can earn a paycheck. 
Unfortunately, my brush with immortality died pretty soon after I logged in to takn the applicants' tf)St. II' I had to offer you a short version of thn tragedy that l'ollownd, it would be "stay in school, political science majors." If' I had to oiTnr a slightly longnr vnrsion. it would be "stay in school, and please slap any Surinamians you meet." 
Thorn an~ many things you do not know about me. I was eloctnd "Most I.iknly to bn an Abnrcrombie and Fitch Centl~rf'old." I am three nations doser to world conqunst (four if' you count West Sahara). And my zeal f'or trivia is generally ranknd bntwenn "amusing" and "alarming." But there are, unfortunately, things I do not know about you -and by you, I mean you accursed Surinamolese. 
Which brings us to Suriname. 

According to the Jeopardy test, thnre is (aiiPgPdly) a country in South Amnrica that has Dutch as an ortieial language. Wnll, if' you've read this f'ar, you can probably guess that it isn't Brazil. 
"What is Suriname?" No, Suriname is not a country that has Dutch as an orticial languag(~. In f<u:t, if' I had to answer "what is Suriname," I would say that Suriname is a lie. 
To be fair, I only had to correctly answer 35 questions out of 50 to make the audition. So the sinister Surinamnrican plot was only respon­sible for a miniscule fraction or my failure. That is an acceptable excuso, if you think that there is any conceivable way that anyone could idontil'y Ulysses from its first line or the 11H7 poet laurnate. A friend who to<ik tlw same test described it as "the trivia equivalent of a slap in tho f'aeo." No. It was the trivia equiva­lent of' a kick down the stairs. I've had dental examinations that were morn enjoyable. 
Thorn is, Iwwnv(~r. good news. Apparenlly a Notre Damn alumnus with a degree in soeiology (whieh is essentially political seience minus the swagger and easy charm) got a game-show of his own. So I am not 
· without hope. (My editor just infornwd nw that Hegis Philbin hasn't hosted Who Wants to be a Millionaire'! in years.) Uhh, dang... dang... 
Well. Thern's always lso youl 'Think You're Smarter than a Fif'th­Cradnr"!, right? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact !Jrian McKenzie at bnwkenzi@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and srrives lor the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT REINSTATED TV SHOW WERE/ARE YOU EXCITED TO HAVE BACK? 



Kristine Murphy  Megan Lee  Nick Ward  Julie Quan  Jen Padgett  
junior McGlinn  junior McGlinn  junior Sarin  junior McGlinn  junior McGlinn  
"Gossip Girl  "Gossip Girl  "Gossip Girl ­ "Gossip Girl - "Gossip Girl  
because Nate is  because I get to  OMFG!"  you know you  because of the  
dreamy_"  watch it with Nick  love it! XOXO!"  sexy  



and Kristine. " 


from Ankeny, Iowa, who owns Buddy with his wife, Cindy. "Just in the last 10, 15 days we've done some walk­ing. We've been getting in shape for this." 
The DuBois' 3-year-old dog was among 50 bulldogs from mostly Midwestern states who came to eompete. The beauty contest honors Drake University's mascot and one of the events leading up to the Drake Rnlays, one of the nation's oldest and most prestigious track and field competitions. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Snack packs cover highway in Jell-0 truck accident 
JACKSONVILLE -A driv­er is being treated at a Saint Johns County hospital after his truek overturned, spilling Jell-0 snaek paeks all over 1­95. 
Police say the driver's truck flipped over this morn­ing after it slammed into another truck. Individual paeks of Jell-0 splattered all over the highway, whieh caused a major trallicjam. 
The driver was trapped inside tho mangled truck, but was quickly rescued by police. 
lie was airlifted to the hos­
pital and is being treated for non-life threatening injuries. Police say no one else was hurt in the crash. 
Alleged drug dealer calls police to report robbery 
DES MOINES -Buddy is a sleeping beauty: Reddish brown, he's usually asleep on his baek, snoring loudly with his large tongue lolling out. 
He was wide-awake Monday, though, when he was crowned winner of a "Beautiful Bulldog" contest. 
"He doesn't have a good stamina to him ... he's been laying around all winter,"said George DuBois 

commercial. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will host a lecture today entitled 
"Sharpening Sanctions' Effectiveness" at 12::10 in the Hesburgh Center. 
The d<Ulce -a -thon, Antost.al: Bailamos! will bn held on North Qmul tonight from 5 p.m. to mid­night to help raise money li.>r St. Margaret's llouse. There will bP free f(md and ra111n prizes. 
Badin Hall will be hosting Antostal: Badin Breakdown , a kamoke contest tonight from 6 to 9 p.m. on South Quad. 1st. 2nd, and 3rd places recieve a cash prizP. Students must register at North or South Dining flail. 
"Noche des ninos -a night for Panamanian children," a benefit event, will be held from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Student Lounge. Tickets are $5 at the LaFortune Box O!Iiee and $7 at the door. 
Women's Laerosse: Big East Semifinals will be held Friday at 
7:45 p.m. against Georgetown in the Notre Dame Football Stadium. 
The band "The Starting Line" will perform Friday at Legends at 10 p.m. as part of the Student Union Board's AnTostallestivities. 
The Mendoza College of Business is will host a lecture Friday "Terrorism: Looking Ahead Patterns ol' the Past" at 
10:40 a.m. in Jordan Auditorium. 
The Notre Dame Battle of the Bands will be at Legends Saturday at 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


59 39 


TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 0::: 
LLI ::J: 
~ 
LLI 
==
....I 
<t 
(.) 

., 0 
..... HIGH 62 HIGH 75 LOW 59 LOW 34 LOW 44 


60 
44 

Atlanta 77 I 52 Boston 71 I 45 Chicago 75 I 59 Denver 68 I 36 Houston 85 I 69 Los Angeles 70 I 53 Minneapolis 50 I 40 New York 73 I 51 Philadelphia 80 I 51 Phoenix 88 I 63 Seattle 53 I 41 St. Louis 78 I 62 Tampa 86 I 65 Washington 84 1 57 
Thursday, April 24, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Business major Hamm_ack nam.ed 2008 valedictorian 
Special to The Observer 
Joshua Hammack, an account­ancy major from Huntington, W.Va., has been nam~d valedic­torian of the 2008 Notre Dame graduating class and will present the valedictory address during Commencement exercises May 18 at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center arena. 
Hammack earned a 3.99 grade point average and was a mem­ber of the Dean's List each semester. He also is a member of the Beta Gamma Sigma hon­orary business society and was a Robert C. Byrd Scholarship recipient each of his four years at Notre Dame. 
An active participant in intra­mural sports, Hammack played basketball and soccer for Zahm Hall and participated in Notre Dame's Boxing Club and Bengal Bouts. He served as a student mentor and math tutor for South Bend-area high school students and volunteered at Nazareth House in Huntington. 
The Commencement invoca­tion will be offered by Patrick Reidy, a political science major from Greenwood Village, Colo., who will graduate with a 3. 93 grade point average. 
Run 

continued from page 1 
Yuen said Notre Dame's pro­gram boasts a 100 percent high school graduation rate and a 90 percent college attendance rate for its stu­dents. 
Yuen said the program has promoted the event on cam­pus through sending e-mails to hall rectors, creating a Facebook group and handing out table advertisements at North and South Dining Halls. 
The event will take place at 
3:30 p.m. and is $10 for stu­dents. A $30 family fee is available to participants who wish to register a group of up to five people 
The race will take runners 
3.. 1 miles around campus, starting near the A-10 parking lot by the Lyons basketball courts and looping the perimeter of campus. The walk follows a similar but slightly shorter route around campus. 
The race will be started by both University Executive Vice President John Affleck Graves and South Bend Community School Corporation 
Superintendent Robert Zimmerman. 
Following the race will be a reception featuring Fr. Hesburgh, who will present awards to top finishers, said Alyssia Coates, director for the Upward Bound Program at Notre Dame. 
Race organizers hope for a sizable turnout come race day. ''I'm predicting at least 
300," Coates said. 
Coates hopes to not only encourage other Upward Bound graduates to become involved in the program at Notre Dame, but also spread awareness about the pro­gram's effort through this weekend's event 
"Because we are here on campus, people don't know how involved we are in the [South Bend] community," Coates said. 
Coates said the program is also reaching out to students at Indiana University South Bend (IUSB), Saint Mary's College, Ivy Tech, Bethel and Holy Cross College, since Upward Bound sends students to those schools as well. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edn 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
Information Forms (CIF), and graphical representation of stu­dent's ratings of course content and teaching style will be avail­able in a joint system, Informing Course Selection (ICS), Brellenthin said. 
The evaluation forms will be e­mailed to students and the stu­dents will have two weeks to submit the forms before study days, he said. After submitting the CIF, they will be free to access the ICS, which will give them information from evalua­tions to aid them in choosing courses for the next semester. 
Brellenthin said there several advantages to the new system, such as a longer time to fill out the CIF and more privacy while doing so. 
"Many students don't take the time to fill out [the current paper evaluations]," he said. "They don't put in much effort and then they leave class early." 
Many students feel the pres­sure to rush through the evalua­tions or are hampered by a lack of privacy, Brellenthin said. 
"The data being collected isn't that great," he said. "And the online forms will enable students to take more time to carefully fill out the forms." 
The ICS is another benefit to the online system, as it allows students to access the evaluation results, Brellenthin said. 
"The ICS will have information on the type of text books used, the workload, whether the class is mostly lectures or discussions and so on," he said. 
The current Teacher Course Evaluations seem to get lost in a black hole, he said. The online system will allow students to actually see the information gathered from the evaluations. 
Although the resolution passed, many senators voiced concerns on the switch from the paper form to an online form. 
Sorin Senator Michael Sayles questioned whether students would be motivated to fill out the forms outside of class. 
"Students may have a really hard time going online and find­ing the time to evaluate flve classes," he said. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said students will not be. able to access the ICS information when darting if they did not fill out the CIF. 
"There is the incentive about 
having objective information 
about classes," he said. 

Several senators also raised 
the objection that the ICS will 
motivate students to seek out 
"easy classes" with fewer papers 
and lighter reading loads. 

"These evaluations are not in 
the spirit of higher education," 
Gender Issues chair Patrick 
Tighe said. "If you want to know 
about course, talk to the profes­
sor or an advisor. [Education] is 
not about making decisions 
about courses based on num­
bers." 

While the switch to online ·course evaluations will occur, the 
committees in charge of the tran­
sition will consider the issues 
raised by senators and continue 
to consult with student govern­ment to improve the system, Academic Affairs chair Brellenthin said. 
In other senate news: 

+ 
Chief Executive Assistant Karen Koski discussed the possi­bility of a fall festival taking place the Friday before the Michigan game. Different clubs on campus will sponsor fDod and games directed toward Alumni and their families to showcase uni­versity life, she said. 

+ 
Community Relations chair Gus Gari announced the Taste of South Bend will take place on Fieldhouse Mall Wednesday April 



30. Local restaurants will give away free food, he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


The Department of American Studies would like to recognize our senior award winners: 
The Hugh 0 1Donnell Awardfor outstanding academic achievement: 
Steven Tortorello 
The J. Sinnot Meyer Awardfor outstanding service to the community: 

Mary Feighery 
The James E. and Barbara Murphy Awardfor exceptional journalism: 

Robert Costa 

The Paul Neville Awardfor excellence in journalism: 

Maddie Hanna 
The Profes$or James Withey Awardfor notable achievement in writing: 

Elizabeth Stewart 
The R. \1. Ley Awardfor achievement and promise in journalism: 

Kenneth Fowler 
**Congratulations on your outstanding achievements!** 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 24, 2008 
"How sad and insecure do harassment, which the Notre that insult specific individuals, like about it is that there are you have Dame Office of could be some posts on



Web site 
to sit H u m a n considered there that are
"/ decided that ifpeople really "How sad and insecure do
around Hesources Web sexual from potential
continued from page 1 
and ver-wanted to attack me and site describes harassment. you have to sit around and students post­really wanted to attack me b a I I y issues in my persona/life then as "unwelcome Sophomore verbally attack people on ing things like and issues in my personal life attack sexual Brittany 'I was really
I might as well open up and be this Web site? You people
then I might as well open up people on advances, Wagner said excited to come and bn completely honest with this Web completely honest with them. " requests for the worst really must have no lives. " but now I saw thmn," she said. "I don't want site?" one sexual favors aspect of the all the horrible everyone reading it and get­poster Sarah Craig and other ver­Web site was Anonymous post things about ting the wrong opinions." s a i d . bal or physical the image of the school
Saint Mary's freshman

While Craig is unique in "You peo­conduct of a Notre Dame ,, thank~ to juicy­signing her name, plenty of ple really sexual and Saint Mary's it projects to campus.com, she said. other posters are critical of must have no lives." nature." the outside world and prospec­their fellow students behavior Moreover, many of the posts Under this definition, many tive students. Contact Joseph McMahon at on the Web site. could be considered sexual graphic posts, especially those "The thing that I really don't jmcmaho06@nd.edu 
Wantto write ' the next great·.'. expose abouF Notre Dame or Saint Marfs? 
Join the New&­team today. 
Call Bill Brink 

or Liz Harter 
at 631-5323*0Pt 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 24, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mugabe proposes national tmity gov't 
HARAHE -Zimbabwe's ruling party floated a proposal Wednesday for forming a government of national unity led by President Robert Mugabe as a way out of a political crisis that has dragged on lor weeks. 
The overture, given a prominent place in the state-owned Herald newspaper, could create room for discussion and diplomacy -but the opposition's leader rejected any role for Mugabe in a coalition administration for this struggling southern African country. 
"There is no possibility of a government of national unity," Morgan Tsvangirai, head of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, said while visiting neighboring Mozambique seeking to drum up regional support against Mugabe. 
Abbas appeals to Bush for support 
WASIIINGTON -Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas appealed to the Bush adminis­tration Wednesday for more support in peace talks with lsrael that have bogged down live months aftor both sides pledged to reach a deal by January. 
In a meeting with Secretary of State Condolnezza Hice ahead .of talks with President Bush on Thursday, Abbas said time was running out if that target laid out at the Annapolis Conference in November was to be met and that more pressure must be exerted on Israel to stop thn expansion of Jewish settlements in the West Bank. 
"Five months after Annapolis, the gap is still wide bntween the Palestinians and the Israelis," ehief Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat quoted Abbas as telling Hice in the hour-and-a-half meet­ing. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Democrats to fight for legislation 
WA'i!IINGTON -Senate Republicans killed leg­islation Wednesday aimed at removing limits on how long workers can wait before suing their employers for pay discrimination. 
Democrats, speaking to key constituencies of women, minorities and swing voters this election year, said . they weren't finished trying to pass the bill. 
"Women of America: Put your lipstick on, square your shoulders, suit up" and get ready to fight, Sen. Barbara Mikulski, D-Md., said moments after the bill's opponents denied supporters the 60 votes needed to proceed to full debate and a vote on passage. "The revolution starts tonight." 

Petraeus to head Central Command 
WASHINGTON -President Bush is promoting his top Iraq commander, Army Gen. David Petraeus, and replacing him with the general's recent deputy, keeping the U.S. on its war course and handing the next president a pair of combat­tested commanders who have relentlessly defend­ed Bush's strategies. 
Bush will nominate Petraeus to replace Navy Adm. William J. Fallon as chief of U.S. Central Command, Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced Wednesday. The command's area of responsibility features some of the most vexing military and foreign policy problems facing this administration and its successor. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gov. cripples American Indian affairs 
BLOOMINGTON -Five members of the state's American Indian affairs panel who resigned from the group last week say Gov. Mitch Daniels' administration hobbled the panel's ability to tackle important issues. 
In a statement released with last Thursday's resignations. the five said Daniels and his administration broke "many, many promises" madn to the 15-member Native American Indian A!Tairs Commission. 
Among other things, they said the panel was left gridlocked and powerless by the adminis­tration's failure to fill all the vacancies on the commission. The members also said the group never received computers or the Web site it was promised by the state. 
"In good conscience, we decline to be asso­ciatnd with Governor Daniels and his adminis­tration any longer," they said in their state­ment. 
AUSTRALIA 

Olympic torch reaches Australia 
Runner greeted by thousands ofprotesters, some in support ofChina, some against 
Associated Press 

CANBERRA, Australia ­The Australian leg of the Olympic torch relay began Thursday, shortly after minor protests erupted among supporters and detractors of China's gov­ernment that left two peo­ple detained. 
Thousands of people lined the planned relay route on the cool but sunny autumn day as police manned crowd-con­trol barriers and vowed that nothing would stop the torch from completing its trip through Australia's capital. 
The relay began without major inCident as a half­dozen police officers -in running pants, T-shirts and baseball caps ­formed a loose cordon around the runner. 
Overhead, an airplane sky writer wrote the words "Free Tibet" in giant white letters. 
Organizers of Australia's portion of the relay wor­ried that chaotic demon­strations that marred the event elsewhere could be repeated. 
Protests of China's human rights record and its crackdown on anti-gov­ernment activists in Tibet have turned the relay into a contentious issue for the blue-colored flags repre­deployed is far fewer than have assurances that it Olympic movement. Many senting the China's the thousands who guard­will be done peacefully." countries have changed Muslim minority Uighurs. ed the flame in India and The Canberra route was routes and boosted securi­Minor scuffling broke out Indonesia. shortened out of security ty along the flame's six­as officials sought to sepa­Pro-Tibet groups said concerns, but it still continent journey to the rate the two groups. they expected about 500 threads along a 10-mile Aug. 8-24 games in Police said at least one people in Canberra for path past Parliament Beijing. person was arrested. peaceful protests. In House and within 200 
Among the viewers were Soon afterward, as the response, Chinese student yards of the Chinese hundreds carrying official program began groups organized bus trips Embassy. Chinese flags. They with an Aboriginal wel­from Sydney and other "We are determined that appeared to strongly out­coming ceremony, Tibetan cities for those wanting to this torch will run its full number those carrying activists set alight a support the relay. route," Police Chief Mike Tibetan flags or placards Chinese flag. Police led "We didn't expect this Phelan told reporters. supporting independence away one person. reaction from the Chinese Three-foot-tall crowd­for the territory or criti­Security to guard the 80 community which is obvi­control barriers have been cizing Beijing's human torchbearers for the ously a well-coordinated set up along the route, rights record. three-hour relay has been plan to take the day by and federal police will jog 
Before the start of the boosted -officials say the weight of numbers," Ted beside the torchbearers, relay, television footage expense doubled in recent Quinlan, the chief organiz­Phelan said. More would showed dozens of China weeks to $1.9 million -er of the Australia relay, be on hand if needed, supporters facing off although the several hun­told the Australian although he declined to against a group carrying dred poli~e expected to be Broadcasting Corp. "We give the number. 

Polyga111y children 111oved to foster care 
Associated. Press life. men. State child-welfare authorities 
The state Child Protective Services said there was evidence of physical 
SAN ANGELO -Many of the chil­program said it chose foster homes and sexual abuse at the ranch. dren have seen little or no television. where the youngsters can be kept The youngsters are being moved out They have been essentially home­apart from other children for now. of the crowded San Angelo Coliseum schooled all their lives. Most were "We recognize it's critical that these and will be placed in 16 temporary raised on garden-grown vegetables children not be exposed to main­facilities around Texas -some as far and twice-daily prayers with family. stream culture too quickly or other away as Houston, 500 miles off­They frolic in long dresses and but­things that would hinder their suc­until individual custody hearings can toned-up shirts from another century. cess," agency spokeswoman Shari be held. They are unfailingly polite. Pulliam said. "We just want to protect Those hearings could result in a 
The 437 children taken from the them from abuse and neglect. We're number of possibilities: Some children polygamist compound in West Texas not trying to change them." could be placed in permanent foster are being scattered to group homes The children were swept up in a care; some parents who have left the and boys' and girls' ranches across raid earlier this month on the sect may win custody; some young­the state, plunged into a culture radi­Yearning for Zion Ranch run by the sters may be allowed to return to the cally different from the community Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ ranch in Eldorado; and some may where they and their families shunned of Latter Day Saints, a renegade turn 18 before the case is complete the outside world as a hostile, contam­Mormon splinter group that believes and will be allowed to choose their inating influence on their godly way of in marrying off underage girls to older own fates. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 24, 2008 

Security 
continued from page 1 
Whiln Falvny may think this, not all mPmbnrs of tho Saint Mary's campus fnPI as though Security is rommillPd to boeom­ing morn PlliriPnl. 
More Discrepancies 
On Feb. 27. Sr . .Jean Klmw, an l·:nglish profnssor at Saint Mary's colleg«~. faintPd about 10 minutes into her "Shakespere: Pago, Stage, and Scn~nn" elass, stu­donts Morgan (;ay and Erica Dnters said. 
"I saw Sistnr .Jean pass out and I started running through tho hallway as others were calling sncurity and 911." said Gay, who is a student in Kiene's class. "We eouldn't find a teacher because they worn on their lunch break." 

Dolors. another student in the class. also made an attempt to find a professor, when she wturnnd. Security had still not arrived, she said. 
When Security did arrive, a Notre Dame fire unit and an ambulanco arrived shortly after them, Garinpy said lie said three officers responded to the situa­tion. 
"Although Saint Mary's Security was not the first called, we worn the first to arrive." he said. 
Aftor their arrival, the security guards lirst reaction was to have the ambulance leave, Gay said. 
"We heard them say to send the ambulance back because he thought she tripped," Gay said. 
Deters also heard the ambu­lance being asked to leave, she said. 
"I was rather shocked about it. I wiould expect that when some­one randomly passes out they would be rushed to the hospital and have medical attention immediately," she said. 
After students begged Kiene to do so, the ambulance returned and she was taken to be exam­ined, Gay said. 
Gariepy said that when Sgt Gene Nevins, the first to arrive, got to the Hegina Hall classroom, he found a conscious Kiene with several stud<mts and that she "was convenced to go to the hos­pital for an examination." 
He and Klimczak arrived short­ly after Nevins, Gariepy said. 
Students in the class were repremanded by security officers for how they handled the situa­tion, Gay said. 
"Security came up to us and asked why we called 911 and not 
just Security," she said. Gariepy said that no repre­mand was made. 
"Students in the classroom were not repremanded for call­ing 911 before calling us, they were thanked for their assistance and congratulated on a job well done," he said. 
Students are also advised to call 911 on the Saint Mary's Web site. 
Regina Response 
Security has rnsponded to con­cerns voiced by students con­cerning the trespasser on the roof of Hegina llall on April 5, which was detailed in the first parto of The Observer's examina­tion of Saint Mary's Security 
In an e-mail sent to Hegina res­idents by llall Director Toyin Adeyemi, security staff will be holding a meeting to hear stu­dents' "issues or concerns." 
"There is an ongoing investiga­tion about the incident that occurred on April 5 late at night ... More infiJrmation is needed in order to lind out what happened on that particular day," thn e­mail said. 
Hesidents who were involved are also encouraged to contact Adeyemi, the e-mail said 
All residents arn encouraged to attend the mnnting. to be !wid tonight at 7 p.m. in the North Lounge of Hegina llall, to "lind out what se1~urity had done regarding thn case and what steps have bnen taken to make sure that it does not happen again," the e-mail said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.ed u 

Scully 
continued from page 1 
gathnr mlucators. philanthropisL'i, business lnadors and the clergy to promote "rnasonable le~-,•islation out of Congrnss <md practical solutions to savn tlwse school'> -and more importantly, to save tim ehildnm." 
Scully said th1l summit L'i timed to eormspond with Popn Benedict XVI's visit. But of the expected 3(X) attendees at thP summit. there will bn both proponnnL'i of supporting faith-b<t.o.;nd. imwr-dty schools and 1·ritks of this practke. he said. 
Ac1~ording to tho White I louse prnss rnlnasn, topics will include how faith-based schools have served tlw "eornmon good" of dis­advantaged studenLo.;, a'> well a'> tlw linandal challnngns these schools -which operate on families' and donors' contributions -face, among other related topics. 

Scully's speech will dL<>cuss higher education's potential role in strengthening !~lith-based schools. lie will draw from his 10-year experience with ACE and other Catholic universities around the nation that have since begun simi­lar programs. 
"Th~1 organizers of the summit a'iknd ACE to think about ... what am the ways in which higher edu­cation can partner with other insti­tutions in order to play a role in stren~-,rthnning and sustaining inner­eity faith-based schools," Scully said. "Ttw talk that I'm f.,riving really draws deeply upon the experience of ACE at Notre Dame but goes beyond it to invite other institutions of higher learning to eonsider some of tim sanw strate1-,ries." 
Scully said the issues faith-based schooL<> face have changed in three major areas since ACE began in 1994: leadership needs, financial stewardship and demographics. 
While ACE was originally found­ed to provide teachers. Scully said the schooL.:; the program serves are in a "crL<>L'> ofleadership" and need administrative leaders to replace retirees. They have increasingly relied on lay people to fill these posL<> and the ACE Leadership pro­gram was initiated to train future principal<>. 
Other issues in question, Scully said, are the expectancy for more transparency within institutions and more lay participation in school boards. 
"[Wei have to train local schools to form boards and to w1derstand Jay governments and to have appropriate accounting practices that are transparent and auditable," he said. 
Another change is that despite a growing Latino population across the U.S., only three percent of Latino families send their children to Catholie schooL<>, Scully said. 
"If we can't attract and include more aggressively Latino fan1ilies in our schools, we will not be able to provide the kind of ... experience that we have to," he said. 
Despite the program's challenge to address thL'i new agenda, Scully said he sees hope for the future of faith-based education, both in the institutions' ability to respond to problems they face and in the gov­ernment's cooperation with faith­based initiatives. 
"Crises have an important role to play in the life of institutions and organizations, if they'm rnsponded to," Scully said. "It mally is true that crises can provide opportunities for organizations who otherwise might not have responded to the changing environment." · 
From a historical perspective, Scully said this interaetion bntween Catholicism and the U.S. govern­ment, a<> shown in thn summit and papal visit, is pivotal <t.'i a change from anti-Catholic attitudes in American hL'itory. 
"This L'i a school system that wa'i viciously attacked in tim 19th cen­tury by the publk arona," he said. "It seems that those who are responsible fi>r Ameriea's common good -eleeted ollidalo.; -are mal­ly willing to engage tlw importancn in the contribution these schools oll'er, and that, to me, speaks of hope." 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 24, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  12,763.22  +42.99  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,756  116  1,551  4,105,295,549  
AMEX  .,ti~M~il!!ii!i,·'~*~~~;,  

NASDAQ 2,405.21 +28.27 NYSE 9,2aAjJ::ili:,~419::a~ S&P 500 1,379.93 +3.99 NIKKEI (TokyoJ ·~ljlll~llilllllilli~l~!ll:: FTSE 100 (London) 6.083.60 +48.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.16 -0.22 137.72 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.10 +0.51 46.85 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +3.97 +1.20 31.45 FORD MOTOR CO (F) -1.70 -0.13 7.52 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.27 +0.010 3.730 13-WEEK BILL -4.38 -0.055 1.200 30-YEAR BOND +0.22 +0.010 4.485 5-YEAR NOTE -0.07 -0.002 2.955 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.23 118.30 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -16.20 909.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.70 75.25 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 103.6250 EURO 0.6307 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0183 BRITISH POUND 0.5050 


IN BRIEF Company sued over water pollution 
PROVIDENCE -An energy company has agreed to pay residents of a polluted water­front neighborhood and to clean up the mas­sive contamination that turned the soil under their homes blue, lawyers for the neighbors said Wednesday, though the company said a deal had not been reached. 
Attorneys Robert McConnell and Mark Roberts, who represent nearly 100 property owners, told The Associated Press they reached a tentative settlement with Southern Union Co., but said the terms were sealed so they would not discuss details. 
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Houston-based Southern Union, said the case had not been resolved. The company has denied wrongdoing. 
Jury selection was to have begun Wednesday. 
Hoberts said the neighbors had approved the settlement; many contacted Wednesday said they had been advised by their attorneys not to comment. 
"We've met with our clients and Southern Union, and we're all optimistic that this is going to be resolved," Hoberts said. 
Bad spelling, grammar good for some 
NEW YORK -"I can haz dream Job? My rezumez! let me showz u thm" 
That's the subject line of a cover letter sent by a job applicant to I Can Has Cheezburger, one of the premier sites for so-called Lolcat pictures. 
Don't think the letter will be rejected out of hand -bad spelling is no obstacle to a job in Lolcat world. It may even be an asset. 
Lolcats became an Internet craze last year. A typical example shows a picture of a fat and hopeful cat accompanied by a caption in a baby-talk-like dialect known as Lolspeak: "I CAN HAS CHEEZBURGER?" 
Apparently, looking at Lolcats all day is an appealing job. Ben Huh, founder of the site and chief executive of Seattle-based Pet Holdings Inc., has received 250 applications since the job was posted on Monday under the headline "Kittehs Want Moar Workerhumans." 


THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Ailing air companies plan merger 
High gas prices, value decreases cause Delta and Northwest's desire to unite 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Delta and Northwest, seeking to com­bine to create the world's largest airline, posted loss­es Wednesday totaling $10.5 billion for the first three months of the year due to exorbitant fuel prices and write-downs of their companies' value. 
Southwest's chief execu­tive, meanwhile, indicated that the carrier wasn't interested in a merger and said the very thought of it was daunting. 
The figures from Delta and Northwest follow large losses at other carriers, such as United Airlines par­ent UAL Corp., which earli­er this week reported a $537 million first-quarter loss on higher fuel costs, and likely rank among the industry's largest quarterly losses ever. 
That red ink puts into focus the enormity of the challenge the industry faces to become profitable again amid $120-a-barrel oil­even with the benefits that consolidation can bring. 

"All airlines are in the same boat," said Calyon Securities analyst Ray Neidl. ''The industry cannot make money at the current ticket fare levels. Seats have to come out of the non-cash charge relating to charge and losses from in, this will be one of the market. To cover higher the drop in Delta's market some fuel hedges, worst quarters for the fuel costs, air fares have to value due to sustained Northwest said it would industry in its history," he go up." record fuel prices -the have lost $191 million in said. 
Atlanta-based Delta Air airline lost $27 4 million in the quarter. The airline industry's Lines Inc., the nation's the first quarter. A spokes­In a memo to Delta biggest annual loss came in third-largest carrier, said woman said Delta would employees Wednesday, Ed 2002, in the wake of the its loss widened in the first have recorded the charge Bastian, Delta's president Sept. 11 attacks, when car­quarter to a whopping regardless of the tie-up and chief financial officer, riers reported a combined $6.39 billion. A few hours with Northwest. said the airline expects loss of $11 billion, accord­later, Eagan, Minn.-based Northwest took a $3.9 bil­some of its peers to record ing to the ATA. Northwest Airlines Corp. lion charge of its own relat­similar accounting adjust­More recently, airlines reported a $4.1 billion loss ed to its market value ments. have been hampered by the for the period. decline. Its loss came John Heimlich, chief steep rise in fuel prices. 
Delta's results badly despite a 9 percent economist fo-r the Air Delta recorded a $585 mil­missed Wall Street expecta­increase in sales, and Transport Association, said lion year-over-year increase tions, despite a 12 percent Northwest, too, missed ana­the industry is now likely to in the cost of fuel in the first increase in sales. lysts' earnings expecta­report a "multibillion loss" quarter, while Northwest's 
Excluding special items tions. this year. fuel costs increased $445 -primarily a $6.1 billion Excluding the accounting "When all the results are million from a year earlier. 

KENYA 

Piracy deemed profitable by some 
Associated Press (piracy) seriously," said Cmdr. Lydia tries' waters and nab pirates. The push 
Robertson, a spokeswoman for the U.S. comes after French commandos freed 

NAIROBI -The spoils of a career as Navy. hostages on a French tourist yacht a pirate ofT Somalia's high seas were The United States has been leading seized earlier this month off the coast of simply too good for Abdi Muse to pass international patrols to combat piracy Somalia, and then chased the pirates on up. He bought two Land Cruisers and a along Somalia's unruly 1,880-mile land and arrested them. new home, then married two women in coast, the longest in Africa and near key ''The international community must one passionate week. shipping routes. Now, the U.S. and respond and set up a rotating mecha­
"I was giving away money to everyone France are drafting a U.N. resolution nism to control and keep watch with I met," said Muse, 38, who said he that would allow countries to chase and our naval forces so as to guarantee the made $90,000 hijacking ships. "After arrest pirates after a spate of recent security and protection of all those who two months, I had no money left. Can attacks, including a Spanish tuna boat fish or sail through that zone," Spanish you believe it?'' hijacked this week by pirates firing Foreign Minister Miguel Angel 
For years, Somali pirates like Muse rocket-propelled grenades and a Dubai­Moratinos said as his country awaited have found lucrative work stalking the flagged cargo ship seized while carrying word on its hijacked tuna boat. country's lawless coast, seizing boats food to the desperately poor country. Many Somali pirates are trained fight­and negotiating ransoms. But these The cargo ship was rescued Tuesday ers linked to politically powerful clans brazen a<;sailants could soon face more by Somali forces, who arrested seven that have carved the country into armed force as the United States and France pirates, but the Spanish boat and its fiefdoms; others are young thugs enlist­muster international support for taking crew remain in the hands of hijackers. ed to do the dirty work for older, more them on. French officials say they are pushing powerful criminals, who turn a profit by 
''This is a very important and serious for a resolution that would make it easi­taking a cut of the ransom money and signal that the nations of the world take er for armies to swoop into other coun-selling the ship's cargo. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, April 24, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
The best school in the country 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining f-1.11. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris I line 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay fitzpatrick Kyle West 

A'i.~T. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A~SI~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NI-.WS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VII-.WI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine 
SCENF. EDITOR: "I:te Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz IIa ncr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGF.I(: Jessica Cortez 
AD DF-~IGN MANAGER: Kelly (;ronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63 I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6':100 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) (>.~l-4~42 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(~74) 63 I -4541 ohsme<~.i>nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5.~13 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews. I @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obst·rver is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and onlint· by the studcnrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on comem. 
The news is rt·porred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of tht· majority of the Editor in Chit{ Managing Editor. Assistant Mana~ing Editors and department editors. Comrncmaries, lcncrs and columns present the views of th<· authors and nor necessarily those ofTht· Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free t•xprt·ssion ofall opinion> through k·ncrs is encouraged. l.t·tters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intormation. 
Qrmtions rry;11rding Obsm'erpolicies sbo11/d be directed to Editor in ChiefC'hris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tilt'< li~~Wr (liSP\ '>tJ•f..! 4tKKI) tJ: put.lt•h~-tl Munday chrou~h 1-rtday ruC'pltlurmp. ··um Jntl V.K.uuur pC"rul\1,. A •ul-.rtp!t•••• cu 'l11t {)hwrvcr tJ $ltKI tltr••nc at.ukmk. yc.u, S~'i fur uuc 'K'IIII:3tc:t. 
rhc ( lll\('rvt'f ,, pubh,J~etl ..u PO~TMASlf.ll 
011 !>outh Pmin!( Ito~ II ~ncl AdJrc" corn:e~iun"' co: 
Nuuc n.uuc. IN "li5'>b.Oi711 'I he <lhH:rvcr 
l~undllod J'l()ll.l~'t' p:ud ;u Nmrc DJmc 1'.0 l\m:77t> .wd .ttlthuutul rn.ullllgotfl(ts. 0.!4 Suuth Dmiug ll.tll 
Nouc D.unc, IN 4(i';';(Hl77') 

f11c ( }how:rvcr t• ,, mcmhcr uf chc ~>u.unl rrn.,. All tcpruJucllt>ll ri~ll· .He r~rwo:1l. 
Event Name: .c.,·ex Toys 101 Tagline: This Valentine's Day. give the gift that never goes limp! 
A Safer Sex Week Event co-sponsored by Alice!, c:olumbia Queer Alliance and Greek Life! 
What: An interac­
tilJe presentation 
with Babeland. 
NYC's favorite sex 
toy store. Sex Tr1ys 
101 will address the joys {and tribula­tions) ofsex toys. Babe/and educators will explain various sex toys and how toys ofall kinds can enhance the sex lives r~f Columbia students. 1bpics dis­cussed will include l'ihrators. dildos and harnesses. anal toys. sensation toys, porn. and erotica. 
When: Sunday. February 11th, 8:00-9:30 pm 
Where: John Jay Lounge 
See you there! 
Yes. that Faeebook invitation from a high school frinnd welcomed me back to campus after Christmas break l'rnshman year. 
Unfortunately, I couldn't make it to Sex Toys 101. For one, a joke birthday present has more than satisfied my interest in the nuances of dildo and harness technology. For two-and I'm sorry you have to read this, Mom -I'm pretty sure I can imagine the "tribulations" of anal toys without an interaetive public event (yes, it made me uncomfortable to read that line, too). For three, and most importantly, the event was at ColUI11bia in northwest Manhattan. Sex Toys 101 didn't end til 9:30. I'd never get back for dorm mass at 10. 
I'm trying to picture the reaction to a proposed similar conference at Notre Dame. Imagine it now: "The College of Arts and Letters and Zahm Hall present 'Sex under the Dome. Uterally."' 
The reaction would be swift and pre-


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
dictable. An a!UI11nus who cares too much 
writes a letter to The Observer defending 
the Catholic character of' the University. 
Someone else -probably a member of 
the Sodety of' Women Engineers-would 
lire back about the importance of engag­
ing ideas difl'erent from our own. about 
the paternalistic anti-sex attitude of Notre 
Dame. the importance of sexual self-actu­
alization. 
It would be the typical Notre Dame dis­cu.ssion, but on steroids. Each side ques­tions tho legitimacy of thn other side-not just their arhruments, but their entire exis­tence. The debates are pnrsonal and polarizing. 
Thesn conversations arn easy to mock. In faet, the anti-conversation viewpoint has become a popular viewpoint of its own. An entire Viewpoint-page subculture (nanoculturn?) has emnrgnd. It's as dismis­sive towards polarizing cultural conversa­tions as the sides of those conversations are to nach other. 
But if nducation is about preparing us to confhmt the world, it is our mockable con­versations-parietals, adding sexual ori­entation to thfl non-discrimination elause, The Vagina Monologues. recognizing a gay-straight student alliance, etc-that make Notrn Dame the best school in the country. 
The way we talk about issues at Notre Dame more closely resembles the way people outside of college bubbles talk about things. We discuss whether we should embrace sex on campus. not how many sex toy clinics we should put on. Much as it pains many of us, our conversa­tions question the morality of homosexual­ity, not invite us -to usc another Columbia-based Facebook event-to a "Gender Holes in the Bedroom" confer­ence for Queer Awareness Month. We ask how much diversity can exist within our Catholic identity, rather than assume diversity is an end in itself. 
Our conversations. sometimes laughably, pit certainty against certainty. They pit traditional religion against liberalism. They pit liberals against conservatives, not more liberals against fewer libnrals. 
The vitriolic reaction to lif'nstyles and choices on campus mirrors the vitriolic reaction that, for bnttnr or worse, typifies conversations in this country. On the othnr side. the dismissivn rmu:tion of traditional­ism as ignorance -whorn wn vilify reli­gious-based viewpoinL'>-reflecl'i the typos of conversations wn'll have aftnr graduation. From a cultural and political standpoint, in many ways. wn debatn unlike any other school -but wn dnbatP liko the country dons and a university should. 
Wlmrever you fall on the idoological spectrum, you should mnbracn tho sorl'i of conversations we hav1~ at Notn~ Dame. bneause these arn the convorsations in which we'll bn askml to participatn wlwn we leavn South Bond. 
Of course, our convnrsation is imperfect, still. While our valw~s dnbato reflecl'i our society at large, other as poets of our debatn are shaped by our relative homognny: our wealth and our whitnness. And sometimes wn swing too far right. and our d1~bate is too rnstrictivn. We don't­and can't-always hear voices that we ought to hear. 
We don't have the bnst intellnctual fire­power in the country. We don't have the most money to throw at rnsearch or schol­arship. We don't have the best cultural opportunities outside our campus borders. 
But when our seniors graduate in tlm~c weeks, they will bn uniquely prepared to engage the world around them. They'll leave here with an edueation more valu­able and practieal than even an Ivy League vibrator conference could produce. 
Andrew Nesi is a junior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. You're all invited to a party in Morrissey room 206 this weekend. When you get there. ask for Joshua "Z­dawg" Entz. He's in charge. Andrew can be reached at anesi@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Mandi Stironf! Ellyn Michalak What is your favorite Marcela Berrios Meaghan VP-selik 
Antostal Event? 
Graphics Meghan 

Blair Clu~midlin Mr.Mahon 
Krispy Krnmes on the Quad 
Viewpoint Scene 
Quartnr dog eating contest 
John Dailey Cassie Belek 
Tie-dye shirl'i Other 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
STILL STANDING 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Truth often suffers more by the heat ofits defenqf!rs than frorr~;, the arguments of lls opposers. 
William Penn Founder of Pennsylvania 

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
·· www~ndsrncobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 24, 2008 page 9 
On a summer of paying attention 
I will admit to you, in this last Faithpoint column of the year, that I have a bit of iPod envy. Now it's not that I don't own one (in fact I don't, but my husband is generous in sharing his). My difficulty is this: I cannot get Kate Barrett those little car buds to stay in my ears. The proper Faithpoint parts of my cars must not be appro­priately "bud-shaped." When I walk across campus, then, and I see so many of you coming out of your halls just casually shoving those little guys into place with about two seconds of unconscious effort, I do feel a bit jeal­ous. If I want to listen to a book on tape while I clean the house, I have to twist the cords around my ears in a way that my children find quite hilari­ous (of course, if I ever went out this way they would find it quite mortify­ing). And exercise? Forget it. Three steps into a run those buds would be llopping uselessly down around my shoulders -or dangerously down around my feet. 
Living in this iPod-challenged way has, however. given me some impor­tant insights that I would like to pass on to you as summer approaches. So this is it. Take 'em out. Remove those alluring little silver and white circles you so easily slip into your ears with­out even thinking about it-or at least do think twice before popping them in. 
Though you may doubt the sincerity of my motivations, I do not say this out of jealousy, but only because I have gained a few insights through my struggles with the buds. When I do manage actually to listen to an iPod successfully, I immediately pay consid­erably less attention to anyone else around me, or to my surroundings in general. And there's something a little weird about greeting someone who's listening to their iPod. Do you exchange silent nods? Stop to say hello and actually talk, which would entail a quick fumble with the click-wheel or hasty earbud removal? Should you feel offended if you rate the removal of only one bud? Prideful if your approach on the quad prompts both ears to be freed up for conversation? 
If you need your iPod to get through this last week of class and the approach of finals, fine. Perhaps this particularly lovely time of the semester isn't when you should try to change your listening habits. However, think about all you have to look forward to after these next two weeks of caffeine­fueled, sleep-deprived, stress-filled overdrive. You will be saying goodbye to great friends, perhaps some for quite a while. You will reunite with your family and friends from home; start a summer job, internship or serv­ice project; travel to new places; live with new roommates. 
Let this be a summer of attentive­ness. Why not aim for full awareness of the people and the environment that surrounds us? 
Catholic Christians have a uniquely sacramental faith: We believe in God's presence all around us and in every­thing. That means that while we know God particularly wants to find us through the seven sacraments of the Church, he also desperately hopes you'll notice the fact that he's right there in your friendships; in the love of your parents; in the poor you will serve through your Summer Service Projects; in that spot in your backyard you can't wait to get home to and in that spot on campus you'll be heart­broken to leave; in your residence hall chapel on campus and in the church you'll go home to in a few weeks. Look for God this summer; seek out the Lord in people, the ones you know and those you'll meet; look for him espe­cially in your prayer; know of his pres­ence when you hear the Scriptures proclaimed at Mass and when you receive the Eucharist. 
If you tuck that iPod (and that cell phone, by the way) away in your pock­et a little more frequently this summer you'll still have many chances to listen, but your listening will change. In these next few months, become more aware of and present to your friends, to your mentors, to your employers. Don't for­get to really listen to your parents ­you will be amazed by how much they've learned while you have been away at school. 
Have a wonderful summer -and don't forget to pay attention! 
Kate Barrett is the director of Resources and Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
You knovv what really floats 111y boat? 
After a combined six years of observation, wonder, and silent contemplation, and in thanks to the many contributions of close friends (either by idea or example). we present to you a Tim Loftus-inspired rendition of .. . "You Know What Really Floats My Boat?" .. . when bagpipe music drifts across the quad .. . hot dogs for a quarter ... impromptu campus­wide snowball fight ... body-painted students at every football game (no matter the tempera­ture) ... when professors give those much­needed paper extensions ... the silence of the grotto in the middle of the night ... DPAC con­certs for cheap ... Legends concerts for free ... celebrating an away win in the Stonehenge fountain with 300 of your closest friends ... Coach O'Sullivan-"God love ya!" ... driving up the tree-lined Notre Dame Ave. for the first time after spending a summer away ... when campus is invaded by seemingly-directionless ducks .. . popcorn and soft drinks in CoMo ... guaranteed season tickets to the football games ... random smiles from strangers (or did I meet them at Frosh-0?) ... people who recy­cle ... the 150-plus Masses celebrated every week on campus ... crazy SYR themes (and dates) that start out awkward and end up being a great time ... students who think they can make a difference in the world, and actu­ally do ... Officer Tim McCarthy ... when some­one holds the door for you in DeBartolo ... Alumni Hall quad dancing on football Fridays ... singing the Our Father at dorm Mass ... the first snowfall of the year ... the last snowfall of the year ... closing down Club Hesburgh at 2 
a.m.... all-you-can-eat ice cream in the dining halls every day ... post-touchdown celebration pushups ... the words "Notre Dame" on cloth­ing (for that matter, the word "Irish" as well) ... seeing your friends perform live at Acoustic Cafe ... the first warm day of spring when everyone is out on the quad ... when the grah­n-go ladies slip you that extra pastry .. . Viewpoint debates that last for weeks ... pas­sion ... having the chance to be a part of a unique, lifelong community ... "Love thee Notre Dame!'' ... And that, ahem, is what really floats our boat. 
Heather Keane 
senior 
Welsh Family Hall Aaron Pierre sophomore O'Neill Hall April23 
In response to this semester's constant stream of Viewpoints discussing the Vagina Monologues, alco­hol consumption on campus, parietals, and of course, what really grinds Tim Loftus' gears, I have only one answer: shut up. After almost four years of observation, wonder, and silent appreciation, and in thanks to the many contributions of my close friends Bill and Brogan (without whom this article would not have been possible). I present to you an Eleanor Bradley-inspired rendition of ... "You Know What Really Floats My Boat?" Because, quite frankly, I am sick of everyone here ripping on Notre Dame and each other. So here it is -what really floats my boat about Notre Dame: 
The fact that students can declare they hate peo­ple with an unnecessary sense of entitlement, yet feel entitled to publish a diatribe about what they hate about the fake-tanning, Rock of Love-loving common folk who populate our campus ... the white chocolate chip cookies at North Dining Hall ... the Crucifix that hangs in every classroom ... the Academic Forum held this year ... the concept that at home my friends ask if I am even going to be graduating on time, and my friends here assume that I am, and then ask what I will be doing next year ... that excellence is common here, and I have friends whose future plans I can brag about (ACE, Teach for America, Google, and Georgetown Med School to name only a few) ... that I can get a 32 oz. Beer in South Bend for $4 instead of the $5 domes­tic bottles you find in a city ... that I have a friend who is involved in the Vagina Monologues AND spent time serving in Africa ... that we have squir­rels the size of my little brother on this campus ... broomball ... Bookstore Basketball ... Health Services, where I once heard a nurse asking a male with a broken foot if there was any chance he had mono or was pregnant ... the Grotto ... the musical stylings of one DJ Sticky Boots ... that 55 degree weather is celebrated (North Quad Beach anyone?) ... games such as Murder ball, Beer Die, and Civil War Pong ... that a Moral Problems class inspired the most conservative Southerner I know to attend the Vagina Monologues ... pushups at football games ... Reekers being open 24/7 ... Wednesday night bowling league ... that I have friends who, even when studying abroad, still volunteered at soup kitchens ... the Alumni support and enthusiasm ... that last year my mom had a 30-year reunion with her abroad friends from ND and 80 percent of them came ... that we allow controversial plays such as the Vagina Monologues on campus, yet still mark every major world and University event with a Mass ... new and old traditions: Pigtostal, movies on the quad, and the Fisher Regatta for starters ... Fish · bowls at Rum Runners ... an Accounting professor who casually quoted both Thomas Merton and C.S. Lewis in class this week ... Jordan Hall of Science, most incredible building I have ever seen at a col­lege ... professors who don't bring their politics to class, but rather donuts for my 22nd birthday (yeah, it happened, thanks again, Prof. Glowacki!) ... watching my best friend present an incredible thesis at a National Conference only two days after tearing up the dance floor with me at Finnegan's ... friends who support each other in any activity ... legendary professors like Prof. Ackermann, McKenna, and Venter, in addition to others ... the Golden Dome, the Basilica, and the lakes ... and the fact that most outsiders hate our school because, honestly, they're just jealous. 
So my advice to everyone before I leave this beloved University is the following: Have some respect for others, and some pride in yourself and your school. Stop whining, stop complaining, stop trashing each other, and call your parents. Thank them for the $40,000 they shell out every year to give you an invaluable education, amazing friends, and an experience that will undoubtedly influence the rest of your life. 
Eleanor Bradley semor offcampus April23 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 10 
Thursday, April 24, 2008 
WIN 
By JAMES COSTA 
Scene Writer 
Lnslin Feist is doing prntty well. After years of singing with Broken Soda! Senne and a rather successful first solo record "Let It Die." it's clear that life is treating her pretty kindly. With her newnst album "The Hmninder," Feist has achieved com­mercial success. Unlike on the standout track of "Let It Die," "Mushaboom," when Feist sang, "It may bl1 years until the day my drnams will match up with my pay," the need for morn cash is surely no longer pressing on her mind. 
I lownver, to her likely dismay and the lis­tener's delight, her life still seems rife with the influences of heartbreak, solitude and the desire to both hold onto and let go of rapidly fading but still darkly penntrating memories. 
With most of the tracks bning written on the road between gigs all around the world, there is a distinct feeling of move­ment and displacement running through the album. 
Without a place to hold onto and without a love to return to in the evening, Feist sings of a world that she finds much beau­ty in, except that it is a tragic and often tor­mented beauty. 
In an interview on Pitchfork, she states, "You just never set roots; you take pleasure in simple conversations, because you know you're not going to have much more than that." Her words provide 
Photo courtesy of pitchforkmedia.com 
Feist gained notoriety when "1234" was used in an iPod commercial. 
borders on brilliant. 
The track that pnrhaps summarizns and explains "The Hmninder" best is "The Park." With Feist's voice set against a sim­ple acoustic guitar and the oeeasionallliek­er of a piano, the song eneompass~1s the feelings of lom1liness. heartbreak and regret that make "The Hnminder" so won­derfully good. Feist sings of a woman lanwnting 
a strong sense With most ofthe tracks being the loss of a man, "It's 
of the emotions not him who comes
written on the road between 
that come across the sea to surprise across on "The gigs all around the world, there you I Not him who'd 
Reminder." is a distinct feeling ofmovement know where in London After touring to lind you I The sadness
and displacement running 
for over a so real that it populates decade with By through the album. the eity and leaves you 
Divine Right and Broken Social Scene, Feist seems poised to wel­come more than the transparent and shal­lowly comfortable simple conversations. 
As lilf the actual music, there an1 really no bad tracks on the record. Each one pulses in its own unique nature, whether it be with the hopping and excited nature of "I Feel It All" to the simple and sad reflec­tions heard on "The Park" to the dark con­fessional of "This Is !low My Heart Behaves," each song has a lovely spirit that buoys even the saddest and potentially most depressing lyrics with a musical resiliency to keep the b11at going that often 
The Reminder 
Feist Released by: Cherry Tree 
Recommended Tracks: 'The Park," "How My Heart Behaves" and "Intuition" 
homeless again." More 
lament than pop song, the listener is brought into a world that feels at onee light and ungodly heavy with sad feelings and loss. Ending the song with a stirring use of her vocal abilities, Feist sings at the level or beautiful seream "Why did you think the boy could become I The man who would makn you surn he wa..<.; the one I My one." With this last linn, Fl~ist shows herself to be the woman feeling the sorrow, making the experienen at once more stirring and profound. 
More than most other aets these days, Leslil~ Feist truly communicates the li1eling that she understands the heartbrnak of 
love. I lowevnr. her always strong voice also commu­nicates that she under­stands the n1ality of lifl'; that the past is the past. and all nwmories of tlw past 1wentually pass. Yet a..<; for finding bnauty in the subtln passagn of time, emotion and love is a wholly dil'f'nrnnt task and one that inspirns her to tlw m usie she shares on her timnlnssly stunning "Tlw Heminder." 
Contact James Costa at jcostal @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Thursday, April 24, 2008 
page 11 

HctHle turns out to be so rightly deserves. half the witch that "Ugly Betty" Henry told Betty that he Wilhelmina is, then "Ugly Thursday, 8 p.m. doesn't want her to be Betty" will improve 10-around Gio anymore. Henry,
ABC

fold. But the immediate I would take your side if you 
Oh Betty, you have been gone for too long! 
It has been exactly three months since the last episode of "Ugly Betty" aired. but it returns Thursday at 8 
p.m. on ABC in the episode entitled "24 Candles." In case Cassie Beiek you've forgotten what happened Assistant three months ago, Scene Editor here's where "Ugly BPity" left off. 
Daniel started dating Wilhelmina's sister. Hence (Gabrielle Union). In my personal opinion, the more Slaters on the show, the better. If 
focus is on how long her relationship with Daniel will last. And according to Wilhelmina, Henee has a secret to hide -one that Daniel might not like. 
Christina moved into Wilhelmina's apartment to carry the spawn of 
Wilhelmina and the deceased Bradford Meade. That's right. Wilhelmina extracted sperm from Bradford's dead body in order to give birth to an heir and finally claim her piece of the Meade empire. It may be the lowest Wilhelmina has ever gone to get what she wants, but 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

alone. Add the revelation of "Hot Flash" to my long list of laugh out loud moments on "Ugly Betty." But let's hope that Claire's article includes more than articles about menopause and ads for Boniva. 
Amanda found out that her father with the Tweety Bird tattoo on his butt is KISS rocker Gene Simmons. I could­n't be happier that Amanda finally knows who her birth father is, espe­cially since her search for him led her to write and perform the song "Gene Simmons is My Daddy." Let's hope that Amanda embraces her inner-rocker and gains the respect that being the 
daughter of two celebrities 
weren't the father of Charlie's baby. But it's quite possible that you'll go back to your baby mama to raise your child, leaving Betty sad and alone. Plus, Henry and Betty have become rather boring. Gio is new and exciting, a little short, but an excellent 
Let's hope that Amanda embraces her inner­rocker and gains the respect that being the daughter oftwo celebri­ties so rightly deserves. 
then again, there's quite a bit we don't know about her past (including her life as lowly assistant Wanda). What will happen when the world finds out there is another Meade child? We know Claire won't be too happy about it. 
Claire announced that she's going to launch a new magazine for women over 50, called "Hot Flash." Her chil­dren may be skeptical about their mother's ability to launch a magazine, but I have total confidence in Claire based on the title of her magazine dancer. He dares Betty to try new things, and that's what she needs in her life. 
Tonight's episode might bring some new "Betty" revela­tions, but in the 

meantime, Betty is turning 24 and wants the perfect birthday complete with her perfect boyfriend, Henry. Too bad super pregnant Charlie comes to town, forcing Gio to step in and give Betty a birthday to remember. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Cassie BeZek at cbelek@nd. edu 
Best of You Car Ban ers-Kids in the Hall 



..­
Anew sketch from The Kids in the Hall. Enough said. 
WWE Raw 4.21.08-Clinton vs Obama 

Be My Boby 

-
A pregnant Charlie, right, returns from Tuscan to spoil Betty's birthday in tonight's episode, "24 Candles." 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 24, 2008 
NFL 


Titans, Cowboys agree to trade for 'Pacman' Jones 
Jones barred from working out on Tennessee's property in February; told he was free to talk to other teams weeks ago 
up in the trade. Specifics like-teams, and in fact Dallas has 
Associated Press 

ly will be announced to sell tickets, the knowledge 
IHVING, Texas The Thursday or Friday, their fan base has a point of Tennnssne Titans finally Dalrymple said. view. washed their hands of sus­ESI'N .com reported the deal "With all that in mind, pended cornerback Adam involved a fourth-round draft we've said from Day 1 we're "Paernan" .Jones on pick this weekend and anoth­willing to rework our con­Wednesday, agreeing in prin­er in 2009 if .Jones plays this tract. Once the trade gets eiplo to trade him to the season. The Titans would pay completed or official, we'll be Dallas Cowboys. back that selection in 2009 if ready to do our part because 
Cowboys spokesman Hich Jones is not reinstated for this we want to play for Dallas. I Dalrymplo confirmed thn season. don't have any hesitation say­teams had an agreement, but Agent Manny Arora said ing we can get this done and no terms had been l'iled with Wednesday night that they get it done quickly." thn NFL of'fiee. which already had not been told of the trade Jones was scheduled for a had dosed for the day. by either team, but were cau­base salary of $1.74 million in 
The Titans also confirmed tiously optimistic. Jones has 2008 and had been under the dna!. adding that terms talked often of his desire to contract through 2009 before had to be finalized. The team play for the Cowboys in his suspension. had no further comment recent weeks, even appearing He was the first defensive beyond a two-sentence e­on Michael Irvin's radio show player drafted in 2005, sixth mail. in Texas. overall out of West Virginia, 
Dalrymple declined to dis­"We recognize the fact of and easily was Tennessee's cuss specifies of the trade. where we are with regards to best defender in 2005 and 
"What I can eonlirm is that the league," Arora said. "We '06. His four career intercep­we have agreed in principle recognize the fact he's got a tions came in 2006 as he with tho Tennessee Titans on guaranteed contract with helped the Titans to an 8-8 a trade that will bring Adam Tennessee, and we recognize record. He also led the NFL in .Iones to the Cowboys," the fact there's risks involved punt-return average in 2006 Dalryrnpln said. at this point. We also recog­with 12.9 yards per return 
lin declined to say who or nize there's significant public and three touchdowns. 
what the Cowboys might give relations implications for the But six arrests and 12 inci­dents where police were called since being drafted led to his suspension by NFL commissioner Hoger Goodell in April 2007 for the season. Goodell declined to ease that punishment when .Jones appealed to return after sit­ting out 10 games and now will only say that he'll recon­sider reinstating the corner­back before training camps open. 
The Titans gave Jones per­mission to talk to other teams weeks ago, and the corner­and a dynamic kick returner paid money to a 29-year-old back had been barred from who can fill some of the man arrested for a Las Vegas working out on their property Cowboys' biggest weaknesses. strip elub shooting in in February. The Titans and Jones also has been very February 2007 that left a elub Cowboys nearly had a deal at successful lately offering sec­employee paralyzed. the NFL owners' meetings last ond, and third, chances to A police report said that in month, but talks stalled over players like receiver Terrell the weeks after the shooting, the issue of compensation for Owens. The latest reclamation Jones paid $15,000 to the someone who hadn't played project was Tank Johnson, man, who threatened to hurt since December 2006. who signed during the 2007 the cornerback, his daughter 
Dallas owner .Jerry .Jones season while he was still sus­and his mother. .Jones picked said twice in the past week, pended. the man out of a police lineup including Tuesday, that the The Titans might have been last Friday, helping fulfill part trade was stuck in neutral. more eager to trade .Jones of the plea deal he agreed to But Pacman Jones, baggage after news surfaced Monday last December when reducing and all, is a top cornerback night that the cornerback had two felony counts of coercion 


- CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame ofilce, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
WANTED DIRECTOR OF MUSIC AND WOR­SHIP St. Mary Catholic Church, Defiance, Ohio, a welcoming com­munity of worship and service, dedi­cated to the faith formation of all its members, seeks a Director of Music and Worship. As a member of Pastoral staff. the applicant must desire to work in a model of collab­orative leadership and provide direction of an active and well formed parish liturgical ministry commission. The applicant must be self-motivated, flexible. knowledge­able of Catholic Liturgy, skilled in organ and keyboard accompani­men! and able to provide direction to choirs, cantors. musicians and liturgical ministry teams. Salary competitive and commensurate with education/experience. Position open beginning July 1, 2008. Send Resume and 3 References to: Rev. Timothy M. Kummerer 715 Jefferson Ave., Defiance. OH 43512 Phone: 419-782-2776 Fax: 419­782-1958 email: tmkstmary@defnet.com Web Page: www.stmarydefiance.org  SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE­APPT. flexible, no exp. nee, cus­tamer sales/service, cond. apply, ages 17+, positions available throughout US & Canada, www. workforstudents.com New student needs good laptop. 574-993-8733. FoR SALE Condo For Sale. Close to NO. Quiet community-beautifully cared for. Contact Paul @ 574-993-5858. Subaru 99 Forester/great condi­tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6,500. 234-2104. FOR RENT Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com  For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighborhood, central air, new appliances, very nice. 289-4071. 1 OR 2 Bdrm apt. in historic neigh­borhood. One mile to NO. Laundry & securi­ty. $510/mo. Call574-532-8718. 54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house near NO, behind Nicks Patio. Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage, $725/mo. $250 security deposit. jimc343@yahoo.com 3 bdrm homes & 1 bdrm apts. Close to NO. Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email: greatlakespg@ gmail.com  Staying in South Bend this sum­mer? Need a place to live? 1017 E. Washington St. (cross street Eddy St.) Great Location -Less than 5 mins from campus. 6 spacious rooms available & 2.5 bathrooms. Contact Shannon at straeger@nd.edu for details on subleasing. 8 bdrm, 3 full bath house for 08-09. Great area. Close to campus. $250 per student. 574-250-7653. OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Nice house for rent 1/2 mile from NO. 2 or 3 bedrooms and 2 full baths, 1­car garage, washer/dryer, and fenced yard. Rent includes water, trash, and yard care. Call Darin at 574-631-2721.  3 bdrm 1 bath home, garage, new appliances. Close to NO. $800/mo plus utilities. Call 286-4063. Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet. 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com PERSONAL PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org If you or someone you care about has been sexua!ly assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departm_ents/rape. shtml  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. Reason No. 39 why it's better to be a tall guy rather than a short guy: Let's just say they don't call it short, dark, and handsome. Though I'm rather blind Love is a fate redesigned Memories mar my mind Love is a fate resigned Over futile odds And laughed at by the gods And now the final frame Love is a losing game  



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, Apr1l 24, 2008 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Inside Lacrosse Top 20 

rank  team  record  points  
1  Duke  13-1  371  
2  Syracuse  11-1  370  
2  Virginia  11-2  342  
4  Georgetown  8-3  307  
5  Maryland  8-4  273  
6  Johns Hopkins  5-5  272  
7  UMBC  9-3  260  
8  Cornell  9-3  229  
9  Ohio State  9-3  189  
10  North Carolina  8-4  189  
11  Princeton  7-4  180  
12  NOTRE DAME  9-2  177  
13  Army  9-4  175  
14  Loyola Maryland  7-4  152  
15  Brown  10-2  148  
16  Navy  9-4  142  
17  Drexel  11-3  100  
18  Denver  9-5  33  
19  Hofstra  6-5  29  
20  Bucknell  9-4  25  

NCAA Women's Lacrosse Bounce/Inside Lacrosse Top 20 
rank team record points 
1 Northwestern 15-0 200 2 Maryland 10-2 189 2 Syracuse 13-2 173 4 Virginia 12-3 172 5 Pennsylvania 12-1 163 6 Princeton 10-2 145 7 Vanderbilt 12-4 134 8 Boston University 13-2 130 9 NOTRE DAME 11-5 115 10 Georgetown 10-5 110 11 North Carolina 11-5 104 12 Duke 9-6 98 13 Cornell 9-4 67 14 New Hampshire 12-4 61 15 Yale 11-5 58 16 George Mason 11-4 48 17 Towson 11-5 42 18 Denver 10-5 33 19 Dartmouth 7-6 15 20 William & Mary 8-8 11 
GWLL Men's Lacrosse 
Conference Standings 

team conference operall 
Ohio State 
4-0 9·3 

Denver 
3-1 9·5 

NOTRE DAME 
2·1 9·2 

Air Force 
1·2 3·7 

Quinnlpiac 
1·3 7-4 

Bellarmlne 
0-4 7-6 

Big East Women's Lacrosse Conference Standings 
team conference overall 
Syracuse 5-0 
14·2 

NOTRE DAME 
4·1 11-5 

Georgetown 
3·2 10·5 Rutgers 2·3 7·9 Loyola Maryland 1-4 6·9 Connecticut 
0·5 1-15 

around the dial 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Cleveland at Washington 
8 p.m., TNT 
Houston at Utah 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB BASEBALL 
Yankees at White Sox 
8:11p.m., WGN 

CoMrn.ED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 

ChiefS one of the major play­A pass-rushing defensive all day to throw against a

Associated Press 
ers in this weekend's NFL end became the team's top weak pass rush. 

EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -draft and the VIkings a seri­priority this season after The Chiefs designated Four years ago this week, ous contender in the NFC Kenechi Udeze was diag­Allen their franchise player, Jared Allen was an unknown "I have chills right now," nosed with leukemia, and but Allen made it clear he defensive lineman at Division Allen said after signing a six­with fellow former first­wanted no part of the team's I-AA Idaho State projected to year deal that includes $31 rounder Erasmus James massive rebuilding plan. be little more than a long million in guaranteed money coming off a third major The bounty of picks snapper in the NFL. and could be worth more knee surgery. The Vikings obtained in the trade, and 
On Wednesday, the former than $7 4 million if he reach­weren't sure a gifted pass the cap space created by fourth-round draft pick es certain incentives. rusher such as Florida's Allen's departure, could help became the richest defensive Kansas City gets Derrick Harvey would be expedite that process. The player in the league, and is Minnesota's first-rmmd pick, around at pick No. 17, so Chiefs now have their own viewed as one of the missing No. 17 overall, and both of they went after a player who fifth overall selection to go pieces that could propel the the Vikings' third-round domrnated them last season. with Minnesota's No. 17, six Minnesota Vikings into the selections. The teams also The relentless rusher fills of the first 82 picks and 13 NFC's elite. swapped sixth-rounders in perhaps the lone weakness altogether in this weekend's 
Allen, the All-Pro defensive the deal announced on a proud veteran defense. draft. end who led the league in Wednesday. Minnesota ranked No. 1 In making the splashy sacks last season with 15.5, Coming off an 8-8 season, against the run last year, but move to cap a busy offseason was traded from Kansas City the Vikings are paying a last against the pass primari­in free agency, the VIkings to Minnesota in a block­hefty price to address a huge ly because opposing offenses are telling their fans that buster deal, making the hole. abandoned the run and had their time is now. 
IN BRIEF Memphis' entire starting Boudreau's contract extended Longhorns' Augustin and 
five declare for NBA draft after breakthrough season Abrams declare for draft 
MEMPHIS -The Memphis Tigers' ARLINGTON -Coach Bruce AUSTIN -D.J. Augustin is declaring entire starting lineup last season has Boudreau has been given a contract for the NBA draft, and Texas teammate declared for the NBA draft now that to stay with the Washington AJ. Abrams is headed with him. juniors Antonio Anderson and Capitals, a reward for leading the The Longhorns lost their All-America Robert Dozier have become the last team from last in the NHL to a point guard Wednesday when Augustin from the 2008 NCAA runner-up to Southeast Division title. announced he would skip his final two announce. Capitals general manager George seasons at Texas and enter the draft, 
The school announced Wednesday McPhee said Wednesday: "He's our where he is widely considered a a first­that neither Anderson and Dozier is coach. He's under contract ... for a round pick. expected to sign with an agent, leav­long time." Augustin, who averaged 19.2 points ing the possibility of returning for McPhee says it's his policy not to and 5.8 assists as a sophomore, has not their senior season open. discuss details of coaches' contracts. hired an agent. That leaves him the 
They joined Derrick Rose and Chris Boudreau, a career minor league option to change his mind before the Douglas-Roberts as early entries coach, was promoted from the AI-n;s June 26 draft, though there is no appar­along with senior center Joey Dorsey. Hershey Bears to replace the fired ent indication that he would do so. 
With a deep pool of underclassmen Glen Hanlon in late November, when Abrams, a junior, also declared him­entering the draft, Anderson and the Capitals were a league-worst 6-self eligible Wednesday for the draft. Dozier are unlikely to get drafted 14-1. They went 37-17-7 under The 5-foot-11 guard hac; also not hlred with their teammates. But Memphis Boudreau to make the playoffs for an agent. coach John Calipari says Anderson the first time since 2003. Augustin is projected as a first-round and Dozier will be able to work out The Capitals lost to Philadelphia pick, but Memphis freshman Derrick for NBA teams, participate in pre­3-2 in overtime in Game 7 of their Rose, who outplayed Augustin in the draft camp and get feedback from Eastern Conference quarterfinal regional final in Houston, is considered scouts. Tuesday night. the top point guard available. 
__,. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 24, 2008 
planned to call it quits after venue to bring so mueh joy to given what we'd just done," hoped to direct all the atten­last year's championship loss. Patricia. Being the administra­Liebscher said. "By the same tion toward "P-Mac,"
P-Mac 

"And it was Jill's idea to do it tors' team, we usually have continued from page 20 as a fundraiser and tie it to such few fans, but [Monday] 
points." the stands were full. It was ing vehicle lost control and Before the tournament really all people there for struck McAdams' car, she was began, Bodensteiner and Patricia and cheering her on, thrown over the guardrail and Liebscher began solic-and we're onto the embankment below. iting pledges based on so proud 
McAdams sustained severe the number of points of what injuries to both her legs, Team Anthony Travel "Jtjust brings tears to they did which were later amputated. scored in this year's my eyes" and how She expects to be released Bookstore tourna-great it from South Bend's St. Joseph­ment. To win the tour­was for 
Katie Anthony 

Medical Center tomorrow and nament, the team Patricia." has "gone above and beyond would need to seore Bookstore Basketball Though 
in her recovery," said her 21 points in each of nieee. Kathleen MeAdams. six games, or 126 ller road to recovery, howev­points total. 
er, remains a uncertain one. Team Anthony Travel carne in. 
"As Jill I Bodensteiner, 
assoeiatt~  viee  
president  and  
eounsel  for  

Notre l>amel and I w•~re driv­ing baek from Fort Wayne that night, I said, 'You know what this means ­

difficult and  And  they  did just  
That's where  that, raising  over $34,000 to  
date  for  the  
Patricia 

"You know what this 
MeAdams 

means-we've got to He habilitation come out of Foundation. 
"It just brings

retirement and play." 
tears to my eyes, said Sara Liebscher Katie Anthony 
Director of Athletics of Anthony Travel, whieh
Advancement 
first sponsored 

Liebscher's we've got to Bookstore Basketball team 
come out of retirement and when she was a student in play,"' said Liebseh1ir. who had 1993. "They used sueh a great 
sponsor  the tour­nament's  
ending  
was  str•­ 
rybook,  its  beginning  was  

nearly disaster for Team Anthony Travel. The team, sporting "Playing for P-Mac" across its white jerseys, fell behind early and eventually trailed 17-12 in the cold, wind and rain. But team battled back for a 21-18 victory in "a comeback that certainly reflected Patricia's spirit," as Bodensteiner wrote in an e­mail sent to all those who made pledges. 
"It was a scare at the time, and I was thinking, 'Oh my God, we can't lose this game,' token, it might have been the McAdams herself won't have best thing that happened to any of it. Called a "private, no­because it was an early wake­frills person" l1y her niece, up call. From that point on, McAdams wanted to focus on there was much more focus Team Anthony Travel's knowing that we've got to achievements with the basket­make this happen." ball, not the checkbook. 

The team won its next two "She was happy to be pres­games 21-2 and 21-12, respec­ent to see her team win their tively, before meeting a bit fourth championship," more resistance in the quar­Kathleen McAdams said. "One terfinals and the semifinals. of the best parts was to see all 
But Team Anthony  the  support  
Travel regained its  received from  
dominating form with McAdams eagerly looking on, winning the cham­ "We're allfairly competitive people to start with, so it's not  the fans. It was great for her to see all these people  
pionship game 21­ like we wouldn't have  the  other  
14. "We're all fairly competitive people  put our best efforts forward."  night, and while it's true that a lot of  
to  start with,  so  them  did  
it's  not  like  we  Sara Liebscher  come out for  
wouldn't have put our best efforts forth," Liebscher  Director of Athletics Advancement  Patricia, she was just thrilled to see  

said. "But it cer­tainly added a whole extra layer of motiva­tion to know that what we were doing had a chance to make a really big impact and help a friend need." 
As much as the team had 


You maybe 
_... 
..............
"""""',.=...,
.........=--­


sharing more than _,.. 
,..~ ....
-...~:= 
--.,..IIMI:;;;::"' 
-·II'~


you bargained for. 
-
·-­
-



Midterm p 
A 
B 
.:·~ ' 
/! ··.··\
5 A­

~ 
l'-1idterm Final 



securefl~ 

. • • • .. 0..... • . • • 0 0 • • • • • • •• 0 ..... 0.. • • • • • • • • • • . • .. ••••••• '0 •••
i 
secure.nd.edu 

them sup­porting the team." 
And with this year's tourna­ment in the books, McAdams might have just one more question -will she get to cheer on her team for one more year? 
"It's like the whole Miehael Jordan [retirement] thing, isn't it?" Liebscher said with a laugh. "I really enjoyed mysel!', and if we had the same group or similar people that would be willing to do it, I'd be happy to do it again. And if they need us to do another fundraiser for P-Mac or someone else, then yeah, we're definitely _on board." 
Note: 

Donations are still welcome, and those interested may learn more by contacting Sherry DePoy at sdepoy@nd.edu, or by access­ing oit.nd.edu!patricia. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

IPFW 
continued from page 20 

David Mills moved Lilley to second on a sacrifice bunt before Pollock knocked him in with a hard single to left­field. Junior second baseman Jeremy Barnes and Boockford added RBis in the inning. 
But Sharpley did not need much insurance. After walk­ing three IPFW batters in the first three frames, the fresh­man cruised for the remain­der of his outing to run his record to 3-1. 
Irish lel'tfielder Hoss Brezovsky singled in the first inning to extend his career­best 18-game hitting streak. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Do you want t.o boost 
your resurne with sorne marketable skills? 
7"'/•~, C.l,lllf7111£,r Apf;~li.c..•czli~,,,_..._ l.,rogru111 
("C'A P'IJ) 
www.rl:d.~du/~capp 

Thursday, April 24, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Cincinnati fires GM, hires Jocketty 
Associated Press 
With Walt Jocketty, the question wa<;when. 
When would the Cincinnati Reds decide to switch general managers and give Jocketty the chance to turn them into winners? 
The answer: 21 games into the season. 
Off to their worst start in five years, the Reds fired Wayne Krivsky on Wednesday and replaced him with Jocketty, who built consistent winners during 10 seasons running the Oakland Athletics and 13 with the St. Louis Cardinals. 
"We've just come to a point where we're not going to lose any­more," Reds owner Bob Castellini said emphatically. 
Jocketty is the fourth general manager in six years for a team that has gone through seven straight losing seasons. The Reds have been through four managers (plus an interim manager) and two owners since 2003, when they moved into Great American Ball Park. It's their deepest slump in a half-century. 
l'ndergnuluate Female of the '\"car Caroline Nallv ···· PE Mcgrm fkscht'r -Pangborn Cynthia Curley ··· PW 
Grad!Fac/Staff h•rmth' uf lht• Year Jenny Bo-rg Cheryl Ramsey' Jacqudine Pimentel-Gannon 
Jocketty's job is to provide direc­tion. He'll likely get more of a chance than Krivsky, who walked into Castellini's office on Wednesday morning anticipating a regular baseball meeting. 
He was shocked when told he was fired. 
"I fought for an hour to keep my job," Krivsky said. "I did not see this coming at all. I still think it's a gold mine. That's what hurts so much, not to see the job through to the end and bring that winner to Cincinnati. I've had visions of being in the clubhouse with champagne being poured all over everybody." 
Cmkrgn~tiuate '\lak of the \'ear Ryan Bove ···· Sonn tv1att !Iamd -Keenan Max Yoimg --·Siegfried 
Grad!Fac/Staff Mak of the Year 
Sean Wabh 
Dav1d Standa Rob Schenkcnfdder 

South Bend 
52803 U.S. 33 North S 4852 Western Avenue S 2171 South Bend Avenue S 121 W LaSalle Avenue S 11131reland Road S' 3403 Portage Avenue 
Mishawaka 
S 5809 Grape Road S 530 W McKinley Ave. ~ 2801 Lincoln Way East 
Goshen 
~ 1709 Elkhart Road ~ 1911 Lincoln Way East 4014 Elkhart Road 
Plymouth 
S' 2021 North Michigan 2037 U.S. 31 
La Porte 
1434 East Lincoln Way 
1012 State Rd. #2 West 
Southwest Michigan
S' 2035 S. M-139, Benton Harbor 
S 1945 Pipestone Road, Benton Harbor 
903 Spruce Street, Dowagiac 
1250 South 11th Street, Niles 
2701 South 11th Street, Niles 
752 LaGrange, South Haven 
4626 Red Arrow Hwy., Stevensville S 2051 Washington Ave., St. Joseph 
3733 North M-140, Watervliet 
Elkhart 
1440 Nappanee Street 2715 Cassopolis Road 834 E. Beardsley Street 3413 South Main Street 
Other Area Locations 
1436 West Plymouth Street, Bremen 12757 State Road #23, Granger 
S 806 South Heaton St., Knox 
~ 3956 S. Franklin, Michigan City 1205 East Market Street, Nappanee 608 West Talmer Ave., North Judson 5202 East1200 North, Syracuse 10013 West U.S. Hwy. 30, Wanatah ~ 2920 Frontage Road, Warsaw 

Gamf' of tile Year Siegfried vs. h:ccnan (!H \1cn's Soccer Champinnship) $81.000 Cash vs. Law Lh'>vgs (GFS Hag Foothall Charnpionshipj Dillon vs. Stanford (I H Football Playolls) 

ream of the Year Morriss.::y Baskethall /<.~Inn ke Hockey 
Cavanaugh Fontball 

Fans of the Vcnr Alumni Hockey i'WHa!! 
Keenan Foorball 
DRIVE-THRU OPEN 24 HOURS AT THESE LOCATIONS 

--"" 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 24, 2008 
...... 

CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources} Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Melanie (Mel) Bautista, Baustista.5@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
_http://corecouncil. nd .edu/ 

LETS PLAY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 

LEARN ITALIAN AT NOTRE DAME THIS SUMMER 
ROIT 10115 -INTENSIVE BEGINNING ITALIAN 
is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 17th until July 31 s MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
It is like a double shot of espresso in the morning !II 
NFL 
Commissioner to meet with Walsh 
Associated Press 
Matt Walsh will get his day with the eommissioner. What he has to offer is anyone's guess. 
The former Patriots assistant will meet with NFL eommission­er Roger Goodell on May 13 about New England's videotap­ing of opposing teams. It took a eouple of months, but the league reached an agreement with Walsh on Wednesday. 
"Commissioner Goodell will meet with Mr. Walsh ... on May 13, the earliest date that Mr. Walsh, who lives in Hawaii, will bP available on the East Coast." the NFL statement said. "The agreement also requires Mr. Walsh to return any tapes and other items in his possession that belong to the Patriots. In return, the NFL and the Patriots have promised not to sue Mr. Walsh. They also will indemnify him for any expensPs, including legal fees that he incurs in con­nection with the interview." 
During Super Bowl week, and 
Do you want to lean1 about Web page pt·ogratTlTTling and developr11ent'! 
Web Deve/oJ>ntenr.· ~VHT/kfL & .Ja\'aScrijJI 
Surntner.. 2008 
Store Your Stun 
over the S,&Jmmerl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2169 
6482 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd. & US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 
•
ton£', Yoice~ anb 'Pirtue~ 
®prt·a for t{Jr ~oul 
®rbo 'Virtuttun 
Hildegard von Bingen 
:euor ~ngehca 
Giacomo Puccini 

nearly five months after the­Patriots were sanctioned for ille­gal taping of the New York Jets in the season opener _ a $500,000 fine for coach Bill Belichick, a $250,000 fine for the organization, and the loss of a first-round draft pick on Saturday ... there were mports of possible other videotaping by the Patriots. Those reports cen­ten~d on Walsh, who shot videos for the Patriots during his six­year stint with the organization. 
Since the Super Bowl, Goodell's staff' has sought a meeting with Walsh. 
"Today, Mr. Walsh and the National Football League reached an agreement under which the NFL will provide legal indemnifkation and a release of claims against Mr. Walsh relat­ing to his employment by the Patriots and the Patriots' video­taping operations," said Walsh's lawyer, Miehael L1wy of McKee Nelson LLP. "I am pleased that we now have an agreement that provides Mr. Walsh with appro­priate legal protections. Mr. Walsh is looking forward to pro­viding the NFL with the materi­als he has and telling the NFL what hn knows." 
So what might Walsh have and what does hn know'? The Patriots say he has nothing. 

page 17 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 24, 2008 

Large Pizza 
Cheese & 2 Toppings 
$ 99 
Free DeliveryONLY On Campus 

Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other 
offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

Pizza 574-243-1122
® 

Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com @2007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724ND-1007 
ATTENTION CLASS OF 2010 
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson 
forJPW 2009 

Apply by April 25th for either position by visiting the JPW website: http://www.nd.edu/"'jpw 
The JPW Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson are chiefly responsible for assembling and managing a committee of students to organize the events of Junior Parents Weekend. Other committee positions will be filled in the Fall semsester. 
Questions? Contact the Student Activities Office at 631-7308 or drop by 315 LaFortune Student Center. 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
tom of the third inning and four more in the bottom of the fifth to win 9-1 in a game shortened by the mercy rule. 
Junior Calli Davison pitched complete games in both contests, improving her record to 11-7. Senior McKenna Corrigan, who usually pitches the second game of a with a home run in the sec­ond. Her 51 hits are two shy of the College's record for hits in a single season. 
The Belles are now looking ahead to a doubleheader against conference co-leader Tri-State. A sweep of Tri­State, combined with two losses by co-leader Alma, would give Saint Mary's the regular-season title. 
Sullivan said the team will do all it can to claim the title, but will not 
Belles double­"All we are focusing on is w o r r y header, was about what
winning two on
needed to they -can­
Saturday."
cover a crucial not con-infield posi­trol. tion. Erin Sullivan "All we 
" C a l I i are focus­
Belles coach 
[Davidson] had a great first game, and our third baseman w h e n McKenna pitches was unable to play today," she said. "It was also great to get Calli two wins." 
Sophomore Ashley Peterson had another pro­ductive day, going 3-for-4 in the first game and 3-for-3 ing on is winning two on Saturday," she said. 
The MlAA tournament, to which the top four teams are invited, begins on May 1 and is held at the campus of the conference leader. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

1V.Io"Vi.e o:n.. "the Qu..a.d 


Thursday, April 24, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS page 18 
Loyola 
continued from page 20 
''I'm not too worried about our hitting right now because we havP befm more hot than eold lately," Gumpf said. 
.Junior third baseman Linda Kohan has provided a much­needed spark for the Irish this season in clutch situa­tions. Kohan week to help the Hamblers to a 4-2 record. Solava (11-8) has a save, a 2. 70 ERA and 91 strikeouts on the season. 

Senior utility player Katerina Krause leads the Hamblers' offense. Krause won U.S. Army Horizon League Scholar-Athlete of the Week honors this week after hitting for a .300 average with three runs, two doubles, a home run and three 
came through "We have eight RB!s in six once again for games for
conference games left 
the Irish when Loyola last
and we need to take
they needed it w e e k . most with an them one at a time.,, Krause holds HBI in the first the Loyola inning of the career
Deanna Gumpf

second game of record with 
Irish coach

the Purdue 32 home 
doubleheader, 
the first Irish 
run of the day. 
The Ham biers (15-17; 9-4 II ori z on l are coming off a three-game sweep of Wright State (22-22) last weekend. Loyola University Chicago has won six of its last eight games. 
"The Hamblers have been having a very good year," Gumpf said. "They've taken down some good teams this year like Cal State Fullerton. They are scrappy and their pitehnrs keep them in games." 
Loyola University Chicago sophomore Solava was named llorizon league pitch­er of the week on Monday after an impressive stretch. Solava went :~-0 with a 1.45 EHA and 17 strihouts last 
runs, and 
with a game­
winning dou­
ble at Wright 

State on April 20, moved into a tie for the school's all-time RBI mark (89). 
Gumpf refuses to worry about what happens down the road right now and prefers to focus on what is immediately in front of her team. 
"We have eight conference games left, and we need to take them one at a time," Gum pi' said. 
Tonight's double-header against Loyola University Chicago will begin at 5 p.m. with a fireworks show to fol­low after the game. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
~ou love needs help 
pliase call. 
Conf;dentf~/ support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 1-7 407 OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 
"'"'"'""'j"' Counselin~ Center, 1-4365 Healtl1 Services, 1-8286 
'sCare Center: 234-0363 Charities: 2 34-3111 
departments/pregnant.sl1bnl 
·:·~.;::t!: 

The 1st Annual Notre Dame 
Undergraduate Scholars Conference 
Friday, May 2, 2008 12-4 p.m. 
DeBartolo Hall Snite Museum of Art Jordan Hall of Science 

Schedule and Information now available at www.undergradresearch.nd.edu 
Thursday, April 24, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 


BLAcK DoG 
LOLLERSKATES 
All 
Practically haYing sex. 
-
I 
One of these guys is stealing your wallet or 
urse. 
XX

x ICreepy dudes watching you dance I 
X X X< X X X X XX X 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 

CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Loudness unit Factory 
36 Biblical patriarchseconds: Abbr. 
whose name 5 Sights 
means "he will 9 Support laugh" 13 "Cool!" 
37"What a !"
-

15 Starting fare, 39 Catch 
often 41 Radical Hoffman
16 Shield border 17 "Scram!" 
42 Low-grade?: 18 Practice area, of 
Abbr. a sort 44 Hipsters 20 Get out of a 
45 Abridged, for 

bind? 
short: Abbr. 22 Way to the top 
46 Northeast, on a23_ Snider, map

frontman for rock's Twisted 48 Ditto Sister 
50 Delhi wrap 24 Once-in-a­
51 Here, in Toledo

lifetime traveler 54 Silk fabric for 
27 Figure usu. in hundreds or 
scarves thousands of 
57 Onetime feet 
Missouri natives 28 "Black rat" as 
59 Directories

opposed to "Rattus rattus" 62 Bygone women's magazine
30 Org. established by Nixon 63 Sharp 33 Sorry sort 64 Humdinger 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
65 Parade honoree, familiarly 
66 Himmel und (traditional German potato dish) 
67 Lawless role 68 Sun. del.iveries 
Down About to bloom 2 Catch up with old classmates 3 Half of a showy 
display? 4 Covered walkway 
5 Symbol of power, to the 
pharaohs 6 Cash substitute 7 Kennelclub 
rejects 8 Railroad track 
workers 9 Overwhelm 10 Reaches 11 Lee Van 
(spaghetti western actor) 12 Cigarette brand 
that sponsored "The Dick Van Dyke Show" 
14 Like some oil 
rigs 19 Egyptian lifeline 21 Eponym of a 
classic Minnesota­brewed beer 
25 Bump 26 time 28 Grammy winner 
Winans 29 Shortage of punch 31 TV's Jack and kin 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DIDIER LEWIS 
II they miss getting farted on at the Backer. 
Guy attempting to be funny 

I
IJealous girlfriend J 
x> XX 
X 
SARAH MUSCARELLA & LIZ MURPHY 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld  
32 Point of no  40 Splits  55 Less  
return?  43 Misses the mark  conventional  
33 Robot in "Forbidden Planet"  46 Amherst campus, briefly  56 Blackmore heroine  
34 Without protection  47 Miracle­-49 Coeur d'  58 Stops on a sales rep's rte.  
36 ........ the finish  51 Visibly stunned  
37 Job for Hercule  52 Last place  60 Knowledge  
Poi rot  53 Seconds: Abbr.  61 Mme., across  
38 Spice holder  54 Impostor  the Pyrenees  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Melina Kanakaredes, 41; Valerie Berti­nelli, 48; Craig Sheffer, 48; Jan Hooks, 51 
Happy Birthday: Com.Paring yourself or being too critical will hold you back when you should be domg your best to get ahead. Contracts can be signed, settle­ments enforced and old conditions reformed or put to rest. Take the initiative to go after what you want. An impossible situation will not be as bad as you think. Your numbers are 3, II, 24, 27, 39, 46 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll 19): Your ideas will be right on the mark and should be taken seriously. Money is coming your way but not from where you expect. Talk to someone who owes you or who has experience. Love is on the rise. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Watch your back and don't be too eager to help someone out imancially. A sudden loss is apparent. Don't take chances with 
money, your health or a pending legal matter. You must be stable at this point. 3 stars 
GEMINI (Mar 21-Junc 20): Mesmerize, socialize and, most of all, use your imaginative mind to create situations that will enhance love and challenge others to rise to the standards you set. A Jot is happening and a lot can be achieved. 3 stars 
CANCER (Jnne 21-July 22): You'll have to take the good with the bad. Don't be the one who didn't make a quick enough decision to take advantage of a good thing. The one waffling will Jose out. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aog. 22): You'll have Jove on your mind and plans to put into place. Everythinl! you give to others will come back twofold. Your big heart and caring chansmat1c way will take you wherever you want to go. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. Z2): You've got control, so don't Jet anyone take over. Expect underhanded tactics to be used. Stand your ground and choose what's best for you and the ones you love. Talks will bring results. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct.. 22): Keep things workable and you will do fine but, take on too much or overdo it in any way and you will be"in for a disappointment. Love is looking good but things could easily turn from passion to pushing and shoving if you can't agree on things. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov, 21): There is money to be made if you follow through with your plans. Be confident and everyone with whom you discuss what you are doing will be eager to help you out. Dive in with both feet. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't Jet your emotions run wild because of hearsay or what someone else wants to do. A change in plans may leave you in the lurch but, if you are quick to pick up and readjust your plans, you will end up having a better tune. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have to keep a close eye on what every­one around you is doing today. Something may be going on behind your back that could influence your everyday routine. Question what's going on if you are un­certain and before it's too late. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Half the battle will be gettinl! others to realize your true potential. But, once you do, you can reach new heights that will ensure a brighter, more stimulating future. Love is hot so leave time for someone spe­cial. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Someone you think you can trust willie! you down. Do the work yourself or someone will try to take credit for what you do. Be open about the way you feel and what your plans are if you want to be the one who receives praise for your hard work. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a charmer. You are adaptable, lovable and admired by most. You have spunk and presence and are strong and stubborn. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, April 24, 2008 
page 20 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 

Playing for P-Mac 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Ediror 

For years, she was often Team Anthony Travel's only fan. wall:hing from the sideline as the tnam won thrne straight Women's Bookstorn Basketball titles before falling in the finals last year. 
But at Monday night's championship game, Patricia McAdams was the center of attention. 
"Siw was orw of the first ones there, and right from tlw limn she got there, the uslwr knew her and went right up to her." said Sara Liebseher, 
'· Notre I>anw's din~c:tor of athleties advancement and a nwmber of Anthony Travel. "The greet­ings startPd right then and went all the way through the game with people coming up to her. it. was just. nice to snn how far she's come ... shn's doing great, and she's tlw same old P­Mae." MrAdams. a longtime university computer support tPchnieian and women's basketball nnthusiast. was snvPrely injured in a car acci­dent near Fort Wavnn, Ind., on Jan. 13. McAdams was returnii1g home from a women's baskPt.ball game at West Virginia when she pulled ovnr and exited her VPhirle to help anoth­er along Interstate 69's guardrail. When a pass-
Team Anthony Travel players, from left, Angie Potthoff, Sara Liebscher, Maja Hansen, Kathryn Lam and Alison seeP-MAC/page 14 Kessler pose with Patricia "P-Mac" McAdams after winning the Bookstore championship Tuesday. 

NO SOFTBALL 

Irish look to defeat Ramblers in doubleheader 
for third in the Big East with couple outings, allowing only hits with six strikeouts and .rShe went right at batters,By JARED )EDICK DePaul. two runs in their double­two walks. Bargar has been and that is when she is most
Spons Writer 

"We are focusing on playing header against Purdue. the stopper for the Irish this effective," Gumpf said. 
consistent ball," coach "They are both doing very year, logging crucial innings The Irish bats have cooled 
After breaking a three­Deanna Gumpf said. "We well," Gumpf said. "They seemingly in every game. off since a 12-run explosion game losing streak with a need to develop a swagger, only gave up two runs in two Valdivia went 4 and 2/3 against Louisville on victory against Purdue, Notre play our game, and get to games and have been doing a innings in the late game in Saturday. The last game Dame will look to add anoth­work." great job of keeping runners the Purdue double-header, against Purdue, however, er pair of wins to its 9-5 Big Irish pitchers junior off the bases." allowing only one run on four offered some hope that the East record against Loyola Brittney Bargar (22-10) and Bargar pitched 8 and 2/3 hits with only two walks and Irish bats may be awakening. University Chicago. freshman Jody Valdivia (8-6) innings in the doubleheader, four strikeouts. Valdivia also 
The Irish are currently tied have been strong in their last allowing only one run on five kept her pitch count down. see LOYOLA/page 18 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles clinch MIAA tourney spot 
By LAURA MYERS SportS Writer 

Saint Mary's clinched a spot in the postseason tour­nament and assured at least a third-place finish with two wins over Kalamazoo Wednesday. 
The Belles (22-7 overall, I 1-3 MIAA) rnadn the eonfer­ence tournamnnt for the third straight year. 
Coach Erin Sullivan said the Belles met both of their season goals with the wins. Those goals were to win 20 games and to make tlw tour­nanwn t. 
Tlw Belles won game one of thP doubleheader by a scorn of 8-2. TIJP llornets postn d tlw fi r s t run of the day in thn bottom of the first inning, hut Saint Mary's answnn~d with four morn in t.hn top of th1~ seeond. 
In ganw two, Saint Mary's scored f'ive runs in the bot-
see BELLES/page 17 


BASEBALL 
Squad, Sharpley trump Mastodons 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
Seems like the same old story. With another solid effort from both the offense and pitching staff, No. 24 Notre Dame cruised to a 5-0 win over IPFW Wednesday at Memorial Stadium in Fort Wayne, Ind. The Irish have now won 14 of their last 15 games while running their record to 27-10-1. 
Freshman starter Hyan Sharplfly threw six scoreless innings and struck out six, allowing just two hits and three walks. 
And Sharpley got plenty of help. Sophomore right l'ielder Billy Boockford led the charge for the offense, pounding out a earner-high four hits while knocking in three of Notre Dame's runs. Sophomore eenterl'ielder A.J. Polloek did a little bit of everything, notching two hits, two stolen bases, a run scored and an HBI. 
The Irish relief pitching also picked up Sharpley as sophomore right-hander Steven Mazur, senior righty Tony Langford and junior righty Brent Graffy ead1 tossed a scoreless inning of relief'. 
Notn~ Dame jumped out to the early lead, staking Sharpley to a three-run lead before he even toed the rub­ber. In the top of the first, Irish senior shortsop Brett Lilley led off by getting hit by a pitch, the lOist beaning of his Notre Dame career. Sophomore designated hitter 
see IPFW/page 14 








