
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 69 MONDAY, JANUARY 21,2008 
Events honor Martin Luther King Day 
With classes in session, letter-writing campaign, prayer service remember leader's legacy 
By LIZ HARTER Assistanr News Editor 
The legacy of Martin Luther King, Jr. is nationally recognized once a year with many employ­ers canceling work and televi­sion stations broadcasting King's famous "I have a dream" speech. Today, classes at Notre Dame continue, but activities through­out the week will celebrate the activist's life 40 years after his assassination. 
While there have been Martin Luther King, Jr. Day activities in the past, events are more visible on campus this year. 
"I don't think that there are more or less events this year for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day," said Lai-nin Wan, chair of the Student Senate Multicultural Affairs Committee. "I think they're simply just a lot better advertised." 
Wan said her committee is actively working to advertise the events they planned for today. The committee chose community service as a way to do something for the South Bend community in the name of King, Wan said. 
"[KingJ in many ways symbol­ized togetherness and empha­sized the importance of growing together as a community," she said. 
Events range from a letter writing campaign for the troops overseas through the A Million Thanks organization and termi­nally ill children through the Make a Child Smile organization to setting up Valentine's Day dec­orations and playing Bingo with residents at the Healthwin Specialized Care Center in down­town South Bend. 
The community centers that will be receiving aid from stu­dents are those that expressed an interest in working with the committee. 
"This is the first year we're going to have this day of service, but it has been received really well, so I'm hoping that the chair next year will carry on this new tradition," Wan said. 
There will also be an all-cam­pus prayer service in the rotun­da of the Main Building at 12:30 p.rrr. at which University President Father John Jenkins and Hugh Page, dean of the University First Year of Studies, will offer prayers and reflections on the life of King. 
"The prayer service is some­thing we've brought back," Wan said. "This is something we used to do back in the 90s, but haven't 
see MLK/page 4 


Cardinal cotntnetnorates first Moreau feast 
Former Washington, D.C. archbishop headlines conference on Holy Cross Congregation founder 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, former archbish­op of Washington, D.C., headlined Saturday's confer­ence "A Great Cloud of Witnesses: Saints in the Catholic Tradition" with a glowing speech on the life of Father Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
The conference was held in honor of the first celebration of Moreau's feast day Sunday. 
Moreau is a man that the cardinal "would have loved to have known," McCarrick said. "He has become a friend of mine. I hope that you too will become a friend of Basil." 

McCarrick described 
Moreau as "a very extraordi­
nary man and a great man 
for our times." He credited 
Moreau with helping to save 
the church in France follow­
ing the anti-establishment 
movements of the French 
Revolution. 
Moreau's life from 1799­
1873 should be viewed in 
context of the turmoil that 
then enveloped his native 
France, McCarrick said. 
"France was a very inter­esting and confusing place," McCarrick said. The revolu­tionaries "wanted to get rid .of the Church and its power so that it could never come 
back." 
Despite the anti-Church 
movements of the early 19th 
century, Moreau's family 
see MCCARRICK/page 6 



NAACP chapter puts on pageant 
'Mr. and Ms. Ebony' crowned in third-annual event in Washington Hall 
By AMBER TRAVIS News Writer 
A small group of Notre Dame students gathered for the third annual Mr. and Ms. Ebony ND Pageant on Saturday in Washington Hall. 
The pageant is sponsored by the Notre Dame Chapter of the NAACP. 
The winners of this year's pag­eant were senior Milo Dodson and freshman Rachael Banks, who were each one of three males and three females competing for the title. 
The pageant was founded by seniors Usi Abugo and Brittany Canty, who is also the current president of NAACP, in 2006 after 
see PAGEANT/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Student assaulted on Bulla 
Undergrad reported attacker hit, kicked her 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
An undergraduate student reported being assaulted Thursday evening in a parking lot at Fischer Graduate Residences along Bulla Road, Notre Dame Security/Police said. 
The student told NDSP she was struck in the face and then kicked by a man who approached her after walking behind her, NDSP Director Phillip Johnson said in a campus-wide e-mail Thursday night. The man asked the woman questions before grabbing her arm and hitting her in the face, he said. When she then fell to the ground, the man kicked her, she told NDSP. 
Johnson had "no information to share about" the nature of those questions, he said Sunday. He did not know if the woman sought medical attention, he said. 
The man then fled in a vehicle, possibly accompanied by two other people, NDSP said. The sus­pect in the assault was described to NDSP as a 5-foot-10 to 6-foot­tall black male of stocky build. He appeared to be between 20 and 25 years of age and was wearing a black Puma jacket, NDSP said. 
Nothing was stolen from the woman, and no reason for the assault has surfaced, Johnson said. 
"It's not clear what the motive was," he said. The incident is considered an 
see ASSAULT/page 4 


SMC hosts weeklong 
heritage celebration 
By KATIE KOHLER Sainr Mary's Editor 
Students, faculty and staff will commemorate the College's heritage through a week-long series of movies, speeches and a closing dinner on Friday. 
The College's third Heritage Week kicked off Sunday with a Beatification Mass at the Church of Loretto. 
"Heritage Week is one of the most salient events hosted by [Board of Governance] because it continues the tradi­tions of the college as well as communicates the history to the student body," Hodges said. "In an effort to keep the spirit of who we are alive, the knowledge of who we are now and who we have been must be linked." 
Student Body president Kim Hodges, along with the rest of BOG, has changed the events for the week to encourage more student participation, she said. Rather than the book signing and speakers included in last year's week, this week's celebrations will include a dance performance and ice cream social. 
The Heritage Dinner at the end of the week and a few minor events, however, remain unchanged. 
"The entire week should be jam packed," she said. "We are optimistic that there will 
see HERITAGE/page 6 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Culture shock 
Whnn I got ofl' of the airplane tired and hungry during one of several lay­overs I had on the trek back from my snmostnr in Home, I suddenly knew that I was in America with the first two din­ing options I saw: Domino's Emma Driscoll Pizza and TCBY (The Country's Best Yogurt). A<> News Wzre Editor I stood there, looking back and forth between the two, alii could think was that Dominos was fake pizza and that the best this country had to ofl'er was noth­ing like Old Bridge gelato. This experi­ence was only the beginning of culture shock. 
And things got even more shocking last week, my first back at Notre Dame since May. 
The computer cluster on the second floor of the library seems to have disap­peared. I keep forgetting to enter my net ID and password to print at the dustors, and then I end up thinking that the printers aro broken. Construction blocks my normal route to DeBartolo. A new dorm is being built. I can never dodde if acquaintances will remembor me from last spring. People look youngor. Thn dining halls have Coke Znro -but no Coca-Cola light-and apple slices. The CSC is right by my dorm. Campus snoms like a small world bncause nveryone's paths seem to bn (TOSSing. 
I rnalizn that norHl of this is now to the majority of students, but that just makes thoso changes weirder. While I was in Homo, Notre Dame continued on as usual -and in some ways, it even improved. lnnvnr expected anything difl'ornnt, but this was humbling all the samo. 
Fortunately, I was relieved to find that somll of my fhvoritn things about cam­pus havn not changed at all. The dining hall still makP.s s'mores. The candles in the Grotto arc still lit. The Starbucks in I .aFortune is still great. The lions still guard Pangborn. ()'Shag still has char­actor. God Quad is still just so pretty. Thll Obsorver still prints horoscopes. 
Them arn a lot of things that I miss about Home. I loved the independence of walking around the Eternal City­whether or not I knew where I was going. I loved the city at night. I loved fileling so insignifkant-but also so incrndibly blessP.d-standing in Sa)nt Peter's Square. I loved the automated announcemP.nl<> on the Metro and the fad that it does not take you to major parts of the city. I loved dodging ping­pong balls in the erroneously named Lemon Trne Courtyard with the other Notrn Dame kids. I loved the color, the architecture, the history, the food, the wino, the paee and how everything­f'rom trying to get glasses fixed to a haircut to an innocent misreading of military time -became an adventure and a story. 
Still, it is great to be baek at Notre Dame. Sf)oing the familiar Golden Dome over the trees as I was arriving just felt right. Junior yt~ar seems to be one of unexpected transitions and changes for overyone, but I am glad that the best of Notrn Dame has stayed pretty much the same -give or take a few apples. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at 
edriscof@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-454! so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PLACE TO EAT OFF CAMPUS? 



Mark Hincapie  Andrea Torres-Hermoza  
sophomore Stanford  junior Pasquerilla West  
"Carabba 's  "Outback  
because I like  because I go  
Italian cuisine. "  there with  
friends at the  
beginning and  
end ofevery  
,semester.  




Amanda Clark  Andrew Wright  Monsy Corbera  
sophomore Breen-Phillips  junior Siegfried  sophomore McGlinn  
"Bonefish because I'm  "Han a-Yori because it's  "Chipotle because it's the  

,

classy. where I take all closest to my dates. , Mexican here in 
South Bend." 


CASEY CARNEYfThe Observer 

Andrea Dreyfuss, left, Emily Lopez, front, and Aryelle Emison Rerform at Friday's call back audition for the Latin Expressions performance this spring. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

There will be a prayer service today at 12:15 p.m. to honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The prayer service will be held in the rotunda of the Main Buliding. Prayers will be offered by University President Father John Jfmkins and Hugh Page, Dean of' First Year of Studies. 
The entire HncSports fitness class selwdule is available for free during the "Try It, You 'II Like H!" week today through Sunday. Show up at Rolfs HecSports Center to try various classns. Spaee is first come, first serve. Class registration begins Thursday at 7:30a.m. online. 
Visiting scholar Stephen Ndegwa will deliver a lecture entitled "Kenya: Beyond the Post-Election Crisis" today at 
12:45 p.m in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture is presented by the Africa Working Group of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
The Notre Dame Post Office will offer a Passport Fair Thursday from 7:30a.m to 4:30 
p.m. On this day only, no appointment will be necesary to apply for a passport. Applicants should bring proof of U.S. citi­zenship, proof of identity and two recent photos. 
Actors From The London Stage will present The Taming of the Shrew Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the DeBartolo Permorming Arts Center. Student tickets are available for $12. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 13 HIGH 24 LOW 8 LOW 22 
Mystery man continues annual visit to Poe's grave 
BALTIMORE Undeterred by controver­sy, a mysterious visitor paid his annual tribute at the grave of Edgar Allan Poe early Saturday, plac­ing three red roses and a half-11lled bottle of cognac before stealing away into the darkness. 
Nearly 150 people had gathered outside the cemetery of Westminster Presbyterian Church, but the man known as the "Poe toaster" was, as usual, able to avoid being spotted by the crowd, said Jeff Jerome, curator of the 
TODAY 
a: 

Poe House and Museum. 
The tribute takes place every Jan. 19 -the anniversary of Poe's birth. The visitor did not leave a note, Jerome said, elect­ing not to respond to questions raised in the past year about the histo­ry and authenticity of the tribute. 
Candidate photoshops picture in campaign mailing 
HOUSTON -A mailer from a congressional candi­date's campaign contains a photo of his head attached to an image of a different body that makes him look thinner. 
The photo is presented as a true image of Dean Hrbacek, a Republican for­mer mayor of Sugar Land. In reality, it is a computer­ized composite of Hrbaeek's face and someone else's slimmer figure, in suit and tie, from neck to knee. 
Hrbacek, a tax lawyer and accountant, did not immediately return a call to his campaign headquarters Friday by The Associated Press. He is seeking the nomination to run against Democratic U.S. Rep. Nick Lampson. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI :::z::: 
!;( 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
<C 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 27 HIGH 23 HIGH 22 HIGH 21
..J 

LOW 23 LOW 21 LOW 11 LOW 7 
Atlanta 44 I 30 Boston 23 I 17 Chicago 29 I 18 Denver 21 I 11 Houston 63 I 57 Los Angeles 56 I 42 Minneapolis 9 1 -4 New York 30 I 21 Philadelphia 31 I 20 Phoenix 64 I 42 Seattle 42 I 26 St. Louis 40 I 29 Tampa 70 I 58 Washington 35 126 
r---------------------------------·---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, January 21, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Catnpuses celebrate Moreau's first FeastDay 
By GENE NOONE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's celebrated the first Feast Day of Blessed Basil Moreau with Sunday Masses that honored the life and legacy of the Holy Cross founder. 
Sunday marked the 135th anniversary of Moreau's death and was the first time official prayers designated for his Feast Day were used in the Eucharistic Liturgy. 
Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, archbishop emeritus of Washington, D.C., presided at the 10 a.m. Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. McCarrick pre­viously presided over a Mass of Thanksgiving for Moreau's beati­fication last September in Le Mans, France. 
The Mass contained special prayers and readings as well as a brass ensemble that accompa­nied the Liturgical Choir. 
Father Peter Rocca, rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, said the feast day is an opportu­nity for people to learn from Moreau's life. 
"Hopefully by celebrating his fea._<;t, people will come away with a much greater appreciation of this great man of faith, and learn something of the congregation of priests, brothers and sisters which he founded," he said. 
Junior Peter Privon, who attended the Mass, said he was impressed by Moreau's accom­plishments. 
"It was interesting to hear about the history of Father Moreau and his legacy at the Mass," he said. "I never knew what a large impact he had on so many people at such a young age." 
Saint Mary's celebrated an all­school Mass Sunday evening in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. The Mass was led by campus minister, Father John Pearson. 
The Saint Mary's Women's Choir, the Liturgical Choir and the Hand Bell Choir sang for the Mass while the Liturgical Dancers interpreted the readings. 
The Mass launched Saint Mary's third annual Heritage Week, which celebrates more than 150 years of school history. Saint Mary's will celebrate its heritage throughout the week with a series of lectures and per­formances. 
Sister Rose Anne Schultz, vice president for mission, said that with Moreau's feast day and Heritage Week, she hopes each person associated with the College will grow in appreciation for the heritage that shapes the school's mission today. 
Moreau was beatified by Pope Benedict XVI on Sept. 15, 2007 in Le Mans, France. When the Pope beatified Moreau, he established Jan. 20 as his Liturgical Feast Day. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
Finance professor recognized 
Bergstrand named by RePEc as one oftop experts in international trade 
one of the most prolific flows, which ultimately
Special to The Observer 
authors in the field of foster economic growth 
Jeffrey H. Bergstrand, international trade, but and raise standards of liv­professor of finance at the also indicates the influ­ing. University of Notre Dame, ence of his work. In addition to his work has been recognized by Bergstrand's research in international trade, the Research Papers in focuses on international Bergstrand focuses on Economics trade between countries, international finance and project 
which includes more exchange rates, macroeco­(RePEc) as broadly the topics of free nomics and the U.S. econ­one of the trade agreements and omy. He is the author of world's other trade policies, for­more than two dozen jour­foremost eign direct investment and nal articles and of "Going experts in multinational enterprises, Global: 25 Keys to interna­and immigration. International Operations," tional "My research has a book published in 1999 trade. focused on improving our for The New York Times 
RePEc is Bergstrand understanding of what Pocket MBA Series. He is a a public factors actually explain co-editor of the book "The access database that pro­interna-Changing motes scholarly communi­tional Distribution 
cation in economics and trade, for-"My research has focused of Income related disciplines and is eign direct on improving our in an Open composed of more than invest­understanding ofwhat u s 280,000 pieces of informa­ment, and Economy."
factors actually explain 
tion related to the field, m ig·r a tion A member including journal articles, flows, and international trade, of the Notre working papers, books and how they foreign direct investment, Dame facul­software programs. are relat­ty since
and migration flows and
In an announcement last e d , 1 9 8 6 ' 
month, RePEc ranked Bergstrand how they are related. ,, Bergstrand Bergstrand lOth on the said. "With previously list of some 580 a more served as
Jeffrey Bergstrand 
researchers worldwide in precise an econo­

professor of finance 
the field of international under­mist with trade. RePEc used 32 cri­standing of the Federal teria to calculate the t.hese issues, we have Reserve Bank of Boston. ranking, including the developed a clearer He earned his bachelor's number of papers pub­understanding of how degree in economics and lished, the quality of jour­much international eco­political science from nals, and the quantity and nomic policies -such as Northwestern University impact of papers' cita­free trade agreements, and his master's and doc­tions. bilateral investment toral degrees in economics 
The ranking distinguish­treaties, and the like -from the University of es Bergstrand not only as actually impact these Wisconsin. 

Applicants sliGtild submit a resume and 12-15 page application to The Observer1s. South Dining Hall office by Tuesday,Januafo/22 at5p.m. Please contact .Mad.die,..,Hanna at 631--4542 ormhannal@nd.edu with 

MLK 
continued from page 1 

donn in a while." The University will also honor King on Wndrwsday and Saturday. 
Pastors and other local faith leadnrs will participate in an hour-long ecumenical service inducting scripture nmdings, a sermon. prayers for unity and a JHlrformance by tlw Voices of Faith Cospel Choir and the Cdnbration Choir Wednesday at 
Pageant 
continued from page 1 

they attendnd the Mr. ND Pageant. 
"We figured that we should do a pageant that showcased the African-Anmricans on campus in a difTerent light otlwr than aca­dmnic or athletic and show that they an~ nloqw~nt, graceful and have morn ta!Pnt than people thought," Canty said. 
She also said tlwre was a limit­ed pwsnn<·e of' minorities in th<~ ot.hnr campus pageant<> and want­ml to raise awarmwss of this pag­eant in tlw future. 
As pagmmt wimwrs. Dodson and Banks n~cnivnd $!i0 gift cnr­tifi<:ates, a <:rown and a sash along with a year's worth of bragging right<>. 
"I w<L'> rnally appmdative of the NAACP and nvnryone involved. and it really feds good to know that all of my hard work paid ofT." Dodson said who participated in the pageant once bnforn. 
Banks became the first fresh­man to win the title of Ms. Ebony ND. 
7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A reception hosted by Campus Ministry will follow the prayer service in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
The Multicultural Affairs Committee is planning a day of community service Saturday to ceiebrate the day because so many people will be in elasses during the events taking place today. 
Everyone who participates in that event will receive a free T­shirt and be invited to attend a reception with University 
''I'm glad that I won," she said. "I got a crown which was pretty awesome." 
She also said she liked the fact that a freshman won the title but felt that it may have also been nice if one of the upperclassmen had won since one of the other contestant<> wa<> a senior. 
The six contestants wero judged by three individuals based on evening wear, pflrsonality, talent and a final question which toudwd on a variety of topics that included global warming and this year's presidential elnctions. 
Dodson's talent competition included reading a poein and playing a song on his saxophone. Banks delivered a monologue before the judges. 
The show began with a dance routine choreographed by Notre Dame senior Franchella llolland. 
"I wanted something new that reflected royalty since it's a pag­eant," said Holland, whose choice of song and choreography was inspirnd by a scene from the pop­ular film "Coming to America." 
All of the contestants were pleased with the new edition of the pageant. 
President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
"We're excited about making [this event] successful so it can happen again in the future," Wan said. 
A'> of Sunday, 68 students had signed up for the events that Wan and her committee organized off campus. Anyone can participate in the letter writing campaigns taking place from 12 p.m. to 4 in the Sorin Hoom in LaFortune. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

"When I did the pageant my sophomore year, we didn't have the opening number with all of the contestants dancing," Dodson said. "That really showed how the pageant is progressing as far as creativity." 
Sinee the first Mr. and Ms. Ebony ND Pagnant, organizers have strived to create an authen­tic atmosphere by judging com­petitors on real talents, Canty said. 
Organizers and audience mem­bers noted they would like to see a larger audience in the future. 
"It was a fair amount of pnople, but we would have liked to see all of the seats of Washington Hall filled on the same level as other cultural events so that everyone can support each other," Dodson said. ''I'm not just talking about the black community but the Notre Dame eommunity as a whole since we are all peers." 
Canty asked the winners to wear their sashes to dasses today as a way of promoting the pag­eant in the future. 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 

NDSP investigators met with the woman and will contact
Assault 

other law enforcement agencies continued from page 1 to see if any similar crimes have 
been committed in the area. on-campus offense. Violent Johnson said. assaults on campus are "very NDSP a<>ks anyone with infor­infrequent," Johnson said. mation about the ease to contact 
After the assault occurred, the the investigations section at 574­woman went to a friend's apart­631-R340. ment and then to a residence hall, where NDSP was contact­Contact Karen Langley at ed. klanglel @nd.edu 
Life Teen is proud to present 


and Band 
Friday, February 1st"' 7p.m. St. Paul Catholic Church, Valparaiso 
Adults: )20, Youth: )10 
(Family discounts available) 

Help make our mission trip to Kingston, Jamaica possible! 
us for asoup &bread dinner, before the concert, from 5:00-6:30p.m. for only ~5 more! 
Matt Maher is is amusic minister/artist-in-residence at St. Timothy Church in Mesa, Arizona, the birthplace of nationally-acclaimed Life Teen youth ministry program. has recorded three albums, winning aUnity Award ijlbum of the year for his 2006 release, Ovrrjlow. 

----------------. 
ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 21, 2008 CoMPilED FROivt TilE OBSERVER'S W1RE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Boy confesses to role in Bhutto murder 
ISLAMABAD-A 15-year-old detained near the Afghan border has confessed to joining a team of assassins sent to kill Benazir Bhutto, officials said Saturday, announcing the first arrests in the case since the attack that killed the opposition leader. 
Police also announced they had foiled new suicide attacks against the country's Shiite minority. 
Interior Secretary Kamal Shah confirmed the arrest of two people in the town of Dera Ismail Khan in North West Frontier province, and said one -a teenage boy -had confessed involvement in the Dec. 27 attack that killed Bhutto. He said interrogators were trying to get corroborating testimony from the other detainee before accepting the confession. 
Communist Party dominates election 
HAVANA-Cubans ratified a slate of parlia­mentary candidates on Sunday including Fidel Castro, the ailing 81-year-old leader who has not been seen in public for nearly 18 months. 
Only one choice appeared for each post in districts across the country and there was no campaigning. The Communist Party is the only party allowed, but the government says membership is not a prerequisite for the par­liament that rubber stamps official party poli­cy. 
Still, Cubans lined before dawn to cast their ballots. Some 8.4 million voters were being asked to back 614 top Communists, career politicians, musicians and athletes for posts in the legislature, known as the National AssemBly. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Border Patrol agent killed by vehicle 
PHOENIX -A Border Patrol agent killed by a suspected smuggler's vehicle he was trying to stop near the border was identified Sunday as a 32-year-old father of two. 
Senior Patrol Agent Luis Aguilar was struck on Interstate 8 in the Imperial Sand Dunes Recreation Area about 20 miles west of Yuma on Saturday, said Agent Michael Bernacke, a spokesman for the agency's Yuma sector. 
Bernacke said Aguilar was trying to place spike strips in the path of two vehicles believed to have illegally entered the country from Mexico when one of the vehicles hit him. 
Both vehicles drove back across the border into Mexico. 
2 die in Los Angeles-area shootings 
LONG BEACH, Calif. -Groups of gunmen attacked two separate parties during the night in the Los Angeles area, killing two teenagers and wounding at least nine other people, authorities said Sunday. 
There were no immediate arrests in either shooting, police said. 
The first shooting happened late Saturday at a Long Beach Masonic temple, where several gang members apparently crashed a birthday party and started a fight, police Sgt. Dina Zapalski said. 
A 17 -year-old boy and a 15-year-old girl died of gunshot wounds, Zapalski said. Another 17 -year­old boy sullered injuries that were not life-threat­ening. 
Hundreds of partygoers were taken by bus to a nearby elementary school, where police ques­tioned them. Zapalski said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Baby found with alcohol in system 
MUNCIE -A woman and her fiancee face neglect charges as authorities say tests showed the woman's 11-month-old son had alcohol in his system after passing out. 
The boy's father noticed his son was not responsive when he picked him up for a visit on Wednesday, police Lt. AI Williams said. A blood draw taken at an Anderson hospital measured the boy's blood-alcohol content at 0.118 percent, which is higher than the state legal limit to drive of 0.08 percent. 
The boy's mother, 19-year-old Amanda Elbert, and her fiancee, Edward L. Williams, 29, were being held Sunday in the Delaware County Jail. 
GAZA STRIP 

Fuel blockage causes blackout 
U.N. agencies, human rights groups condemn Israel after country cut power to Gaza City 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY -Gaza City was plunged into darkness Sunday after Israel blocked the shipment of fuel that powers its only electrical plant in retaliation for per­sistent rocket attacks by Gaza militants. 
The power cut sent already beleaguered Gazans to stock up on food and bat­teries in anticipation of dark, cold days ahead. Gaza officials warned the move would cause a health catas­trophe while a U.N. agency and human rights groups condemned Israel. 
"We have the choice to either cut electricity on babies in the maternity ward or heart surgery patients or stop operating rooms," Gaza Health Ministry official Dr. Moaiya Hassanain said. 
Four hours after the blackout, Hamas claimed that five patients died because of the cutoff of elec­tricity in hospitals. The claim could not be con­firmed. 
Late Sunday, Israel car­ried out two airstrikes in Gaza City, Palestinian secu­rity officials said. The Israeli military confirmed both attacks in which a militant linked to Islamic Jihad was killed. 
Israel justified the fuel forces from Gaza last June. reporters were invited to cease because of the sanc­cutoff because of continuous The exiled leader of witness the shutdown. tions. rocket attacks by Gaza mili­Hainas appealed to Abbas Minutes later, residents "We will not raise the tants. Israeli Foreign and Arab leaders, asking started a candlelight march white flag, and we will not Ministry spokesman Arye them to forget their differ­as a protest. Live Associated surrender," Hamas Meckel said the Gaza Strip ences and help the belea­Press TV pictures showed spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri continues to receive 70 per­guered Gazans. dots of light moving slowly said Sunday. cent of its electricity supply "All Arab leaders, exercise up a darkened main street. The regular fuel shipment directly from Israel, which real pressure to stop this Israel has blockaded Gaza from Israel did not arrive would not be affected, and Zionist crime ... take up for seven months, since the Sunday because the fuel ter­another 5 percent from your role and responsibili­Islamic militant Hamas minal was closed, and the Egypt. ty," Khaled Mashaal told Al­overran the territory, allow­power plant has almost no 
The blackout "is a Harnas Jazeera satellite TV in a live ing up until now only basic reserves, said Rafik Maliha, ploy to pretend there is interview from Syria, where food items and humanitari­director of the power plant. some kind of crisis to attract he lives in exile. "We are not an supplies into Gaza. The U.N. organization in international sympathy," asking you to wage a mili­That changed Thursday charge of Palestinian Meckel told The Associated tary war against Israel ... when Defense Minister refugees warned the block­Press. but just stand with us in Ehud Barak ordered all ade would drastically affect 
Late Sunday, Palestinian pride and honor." crossings into Gaza closed hospitals, sewage treatment President Mahmoud Abbas Officials from the ruling because of a spike in rocket and water facilities. appealed to Israel to lift the Islamic militant group barrages, cutting off fuel "The logic of this defies blockade, said Abbas Hamas shut down the plant supplies. Several weeks ago, basic humanitarian stan­spokesman Nabil Abu just before 8 p.m. and Gaza Israel reduced the fuel sup­dards," said Christopher Rdeneh. Abbas effectively City went dark, Gaza Energy ply as a pressure tactic. Gunness, spokesman for the rules only the West Bank Authority head Kanan Obeid A defiant Harnas said its U.N. Relief and Works after Harnas expelled his said. TV crews and attacks on Israel would not Agency, or UNRWA. 

Man offers inform_ation of body part theft 
The companies that processed the tis­"Mastromarino can certainly tell us
Associated Press sue already face hundreds of civil law­things that may lead us in directions we suits. But they claim they never knew haven't been able to go before," said a NEW YORK -The man accused of the body parts weren't legitimately law enforcement official who spoke on scheming to plunder bodies for parts obtained and insist the former oral sur­condition of anonymity because the per­used in thousands of tissue transplants geon's plea deal, expected to be son wasn't authorized to speak publicly. is poised to plead guilty, and authorities announced Tuesday, doesn't change Mastromarino started BTS in 2001 and victims' relatives say his testimony anything. and made plenty off the pilfered could roil the billion-dollar industry. The scandal broke two years when corpses. It wasn't a complicated busi­In an effort to escape a lengthy jail Mastromarino, then owner of ness. sentence in cases in Philadelphia and Biomedical Tissue Services, was The bodies carne from funeral homes New York, Michael Mastromarino has accused of furtively hacking up corpses in New York, Pennsylvania and New agreed to talk to investigators about the from funeral homes in the Northeast. Jersey. BTS shipped the bone, skin and companies that bought the stolen tissue, The body parts were sent to the proces­tendons to Regeneration Technologies said his lawyer, Mario Gallucci. sors, fetching as much as $7,000 Inc., LifeCell Corp. and Tutogen Medical "Let's just say that he is going to assist apiece. Inc., all publicly traded companies, them and give any information he has Mastromarino, 44, was in a position along with two nonprofits, Lost about the processors and their role," to know exactly how the business oper­Mountain Tissue Bank and the Blood Gallucci said. ated and who knew what. and Tissue Center of Central Texas. 
-------------------------~-------------------­
McCarrick 
continued from page 1 

remained extrenwly Catholic. Tho idea of a vocation in the Church was presented to Basil at a young age. 
When Moreau entered the seminary at the age of 12 or 13 years. his father walked him 60 kilometers from their home. Whf~n tlwy arrived at tho seminary, his father kissf~d him and then turned around and walked the 60 kilometers home. "This is a great story of family," McCarrick said. 
Family would prove to be extremely important in the religious order that Moreau 
would go on  to  found,· he  
addp,d.  
After  his  ordination,  

Moreau went on to study per­sonal spirituality in Paris and teaeh philosophy, theology and Seripture at the semi­nary for 13 years. llowever, at age 35, Moreau realized that "his call was a special Moreau was the first person one," McCarrick said. "He to articulate it at that time, realized he was called for the McCarrick said. re-evangelization of France." Moreau was characterized 
Moreau by his intense was appoint­desire to "put ed superior things in
"Moreau was a founder, 
of the Sisters order,"
an apostle, a spiritual
of the Good McCarrick Shepherd giant, a workaholic and said. "He had and formed a a willingness
a sometimes crank. But 
group of aux­to change, but
he had a vision that
iliary priests he loved to see to preach was so captivating that things in 
missions hundreds and hundreds order." 
from town to Moreau's
of men and women
town. 1-1 e priests, broth­
later became joined his congregation. ers and sisters 
superior for He had a vision of numbered 278 a group of members by
family, of caring and of
brothers. 1847, but his Moreau eom­bishop refused
total service." 
bined the sis-to support ters, priests, papal recogni­
Cardinal Theodore 
and brothers tion of the
McCarrick
into one reli­congregation gious family. because of a 
"Basil had prior feud dat­a vision of religious life as a ing from the bishop's time as family," McCarrick said. rector of the seminary. 
While that idea may not However, the triple congrega­seem revolutionary in 2008, tion gained renown for their 
Heritage

Academy plans to host 
continued from page 1 

be a greater participation
Oscars despite strike 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Film fans finally will soon learn who's com­peting for this sea'ion 's Academy Awards. Now all we need to know is whether any nominees will turn up lbr the big show amid a writers strike that has thrown the awards season into tunnoil. 
The list of Oscar nominees Tuesday is expected to include sueh luminaries as Cate Blanchett, George Clooney, Daniel Day-Lewis and Angelina Jolie. 
That smattering of ta.lfmt alone would ensure that a lot of people at home would tune in to the Feb. 24 ceremony. But without the cooperation of the striking Writers Cuild of America, celebrities might honor tlw union's picket !inns and stay away from the Oscars, leaving the show's planners to either scrap the telecast or eome up with some now form of Oscar ceremony unlike anything audiences have seen befbrn. 
The word around llollywood is that the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Seiences has a backup plan to put on the show without tl1e blessing of writers and stars, but they declined to disclose detaiL'>. 
Cil Cat11s, producer of the Oscar telecast. hm; vowed the show will (~ome oil" no matter what, hinting tlw program eould be padded with dips froni HO years of Oscar hi'>to­ry ifwriters and stars do not coop­erate. 
Ollidally, the academy says it is moving ahead with the red carpet and awards ceremony a'> usual. 
"We are planning to have our show on Feb. 24 at the Kodak Theatre with an audience of 3,300 people and a television audience significantly larger than that," said academy spokeswoman Leslie Unger. 
Next to the Super Bowl, the Oscars are the most-watched annual broadcast in the United States. Last year, 40.2 million Americans tuned in to the Oscars. 
The writers strike already took down Hollywood's second-biggest film honors, the Golden Globes. With the guild planning pickets outside and declining to let writers work on the show, stars fell in line and refused to attend. 
The swanky, televised Globe banquet was scrapped and replaced with a news conference 
rate than last year." This year's theme is "An to announce winners. No one 
Affair to Hem ember." The showed up to accept awards in 
beatification of Basil Moreau person. 
is also emphasized, Hodges If the Oscars were forced to go 
said. ahead with a show boycotted by 
"The beatification of Father nominees, a winner's name may 
Moreau is of great importance not be preceded with the tradition­
within the context of this al phra'ie, "And the Oscar goes to 
Heritage Week because he ...",but something more like, "And 
was an innovative and inspira­we'll be sending over a courier to 
tional leader of the college," leave the Oscar on the doorstep of 
she said. "So, with the cele­bration mass, the scavenger Academy executives and ABC, 
hunt and presentations his which airs the Oscars, hold out 
spirit will live on through the hope the strike might be over 
students of the College." before the awards. If not, guild 
leader Patrie Verrone has said the 
union also will not allow writers to 
work on the Oscars. 
Writers walked ofT the job Nov. 5 over their share of potential profits from programming on the Internet and other new media. Awards shows have become key ammuni­tion for the guild to try to bring producers back to the table after negotiations broke down Dec. 7. ·ntlks could reswne as early a'i this week. 
Yet the Academy Awards are a big step above the Golden Globes and other honors jeopardized by the writers strike, so some in Hollywood think the guild might relent and let the Oscars go on as planned if the strike lingers until then. 
"It would be in the writers' best interests to come to some kind of resolution, if only temporary, so the awards could go on," said Richard Zanuck, producer of Oscar best-picture winner "Driving Miss Daisy" and the recent Golden Globe winner for musical or come­dy, "Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street." 
"Canceling the Academy Awards is something almost too big to con­template. Any sympathy toward them in my estimation would evaporate." 
Potential Oscar nominees include "Sweeney Todd" stars Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter, along with the film's direc­tor, Tim Burton. 
Among others in the running are Clooney for the legal drama "Miehael Clayton," Day-Lewis for the oil-boom epic 'There Will Be Blood," Jolie for the terrorism saga "A Mighty Heart" and Blanchett for the Bob Dylan tale ''I'm Not There" and possibly the historical pageant "Elizabeth: The Golden 
Age." 
specialty in education of "the heart, the mind, and the whole person," McCarrick said. 
Moreau later sent members of his congregation on mis­sions to Algiers, Algeria and Vincennes, Ind. In exchange for receiving papal recogni­tion as a missionary congre­gation, Moreau also sent members to Bengal. 
Despite his congregation's success, Moreau became embedded in crisis when financial problems arose. When a fire at Notre Dame caused Father Edward Sorin to rebuild the campus with­out waiting for permission from Moreau coincided with a massive debt in the Paris operations, the pope blamed Moreau for the problems. However, when Moreau offered his resignation as superior general of his order in 1860, the pope refused the offer. 
Even before the financial problems arose, members of Moreau's order had begun a 
campaign to remove him because of his autocratic rul­ing style. This movement gained traction as the debts mounted, and the pope even­tually a(~cepted Moreau's res­ignation in 1866. Moreau was effectively forced out of his own congregation. 
Without his congregation. Moreau went to live at his blood sister's home and n1sumed his work as a mis­sionary auxiliary priest attempting to rn-evangelize France. 
McCarrick credits Moreau's vision for Holy Cross's suc­cess over the years. 
"Moreau was a founder, an apostle, a spiritual giant, a workaholic and a sometimes crank," he said. "But he had a vision that was so captivat­ing that hundreds and hun­dreds of men and women joined his congregation. lie had a vision of family, of car­ing and of total service." 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne@nd.edu 

On Monday, there will be a student population," Hodges college scavenger hunt, a dis­~aid. ~ play in the Student Center Hodges is optimistic about 
Atrium and a F r e n c h ­

"In an effort to keep
themed din­

ner. On the spirit ofwho we are 
Tuesday, alive, the knowledge of there will be a 
who we are now and
lecture and 

who we have been must
discussion on major histori­be linked." cal events and their relation 
Kim Hodges 
to the College. 

student body president 
The week will culminate 

the week's events and hopes l'or increased stu­dent participa­tion. 
"I hope lleritage Week is a week-long or meaningful and joyous events that will get many stu­dents involved 
with the annual Heritage in the past and current occur­Diner in Stapleton Lounge. rences of the college," she 
"Celebrating and embracing said. the essence of who we have been since 1844 until now will Contact Katie Kohler at keep the vivaciousness in the kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

UN[AN 
ALL 
t~ e,~~~ ,~I ~ 

...,~=:~~%::wt==,:= 

Information Meeting 
for men interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Duncan Hall 
Thursday, January 24 • 7:00PM 
DeBartolo Hall Room 102
1 

Applications Available January 28 -February 7 homeunderthedome. nd .edu 
Learn more about Notre Dame's newest Jiving optio 
orlh.nd.edu 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building 1 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
or 
& 

Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, January 21, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,099.30  -59.91  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,152  64  2,045  1,680,918,110  
AMEX  2~239.09  

NASDAQ 2,340.02 -6.88 NYSE 8;794.86 c;z4;09 S&P 500 1,325.19 -8.06 NIKKEI (Tok)io) 1a~39:90'! ~~;;ii~~~ FTSE 100 (London) 5,901.70 -0.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.03 -1.37 132.06 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.13 -0.06 46.35 CITIGROUP INC (C) -2.04 -0.51 24.45 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.71 -0.33 19.00 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.22 +0.008 3.648 13-WEEK BILL -6.38 -0.190 2.790 30-YEAR BOND +1.03 +0.044 4.297 5-YEAR NOTE -1.79 -0.052 2.850 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.44 90.57 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.10 881.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.00 84.20 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.91 EURO 0.6879 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0283 BRITISH POUND 0.5124 
IN BRIEF Gold falls in Europe, dollar mixed 
LONDON-The U.S. dollar was mixed against other major currencies in late European trading Friday. Gold fell. 
The euro traded at $1.4627, down from $1.4673 late Thursday in New York. Later, in .xnidday trading in New York, the euro fetched $1.4623. 
Other dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Thursday, included 107.00 Japanese yen, unchanged from late Thursday; 1.1005 Swiss francs, up from 1.1 003; and 1.0258 Canadian dollars. down from 1.0299. 
The British pound was quoted at $1.9555, down from $1.9713. In midday New York trading, the dollar bought 
106.76 yen and 1.0992 Swiss francs, while the pound was worth $1.9546. 
Gold traded in London at $878.18 per troy ounce, down from $886.10 late Thursday. In Zurich, gold traded at $879.95 per troy ounce, down from $885.45. 
Stock market falls as investors pull out 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a painful week with another decline Friday as skittish investors unable to hold on to much optimism about the economy drew little comfort from President Bush's stimulus plan. 
The day's trading reflected how fractious Wall Street has been in the new year. Investors pulled back from a big early advance, with the major indexes trading mixed as Bush began to speak. By the time the president fmished announcing a plan for about $145 billion worth of tax relief, the indexes were well into negative territory. 
"It's disappointed in the size of the economic growth package. Wall Street's showing its dis­pleasure," said Kim Caughey, equity research analyst at Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh. "Honestly, I think the institutional investors understand the limits to the government's ability to enact economic change." 
Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Co., contends Wall Street remains concerned about whether other economic trou­bles are lurking. 
"It's a culmination of factors that have been in existence for a while -it's the unknown," he .said. 
Leaders look to rescue economy 
Bush, House discuss growth package to prevent a recession as stock market declines 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -It didn't take long for President Bush to find a symbol for his desire to prime the sagging economy. 
At a factory in Frederick, Md., Bush eyed a huge, yel­low standup lawnmower and declared: "Crank this sucker up." 
Once the engine was roar­ing, he jumped aboard, grabbed the controls and playfully gave it a spin. 
Bush's cheerfullawnmow­er ride followed his much more sober remarks earlier Friday at the White House, where he called for up to $150 billion in tax relief for consumers and business to stave off the first national recession since 2001. 
With economic fears rising and the stock market tum­bling, Bush said there was no time to waste. 
His urgent remarks gave fresh impetus to congres­sional leaders already hard at work on an economic res­cue package that would include extra money for food stamps and jobless benefits in addition to tax rebates of hundreds of dol­lars each for millions of Americans. The hope is that 
Traders at the Chicago Board of Trade look on as Bush delivers his economic message
people would immediately 
Friday, acknowledging the chance of recession and offering a tax rebate as a solution.
spend those rebates and give the economy a badly Wright Manufacturing plant Democratic leaders pledged the economy quickly. The needed boost. that if Congress passes a to cooperate with Bush and president has included one; 
"I believe we can come quick federal relief package, congressional Republicans. he also needs the other to together on a growth pack­"We're gonna be just fine." Senate Majority Leader quickly improve our econo­age very quickly, and we're At the White House, Bush Harry Reid, D-Nev., had crit­my," said Charles Schumer, going to need to," Bush said. avoided the word "reces­icized Bush on Thursday for D-N.Y. 
Wall Street remained sion" but acknowledged the deciding to speak publicly Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, skeptical. The Dow Jones economy was severely on the package before a D-Mass., said that "we can­industrial average dropped strained by the long housing deal had been struck, but not forget that any effective 
59.91 points after plummet­slump and high oil prices. Reid said Friday he was stimulus plan must start and ing 306 points a day earlier. "There is a risk of a down­encouraged by the presi­end with America's working 
Bush said the rescue effort turn," he said. dent's remarks. families. The people who should be both quick and For a stimulus package to Some Demo~rats, though, are struggling every day to temporary, a one-time boost have much impact, he said it said they were disappointed pay their bills, heat their for a national economy that would need to represent that Bush had focused only homes, and pay their mort­is in danger of sliding into roughly 1 percent of the on taxes. gages need our help now, recession if it hasn't already gross domestic product, or "We want a balanced and helping them is the best edged across that line. about $140 billion to $150 package of tax rebates for way to be certain that any 
Despite darkening eco­billion. the middle class and spend­stimulus goes directly into nomic reports, he said at the On Capitol Hill, ing stimuli that jump-start the economy." 

Amtrak reaches deal favoring unions 
Amtrak President and CEO Alex there appears to be a "pretty universal
Associated Press 

Kummant said in a news release. feeling" that the agreement will be rati­
Details of the agreement will not be fied. 
WASHINGTON-Facing a possible released until it is ratified by affected Michael Troy, an Amtrak communica­strike that could have stranded hun­union members in the next several tions and signal maintainer and union dreds of thousands of commuters, weeks, according to a statement from representative in Downingtown, Pa., Amtrak reached a preliminary deal Amtrak. said workers have faced increasing eco­Friday that apparently heavily favors People familiar with the labor agree­nomic hardships. the railroad's nine unions, who have ment, some speaking on condition of "Every Christmas got harder and worked for years without a contract. anonymity because the details had not harder for the workers," he said, with 
The tentative contract includes back been formally announced, said it adopts some forced to work overtime or take pay totaling more than three times what the recommendations of a presidential on second jobs to make house and car Amtrak was offering and none of the emergency board report issued Dec. 30. payments. concessions on work rules that Amtrak The board's report, which recommend­"Finally you can feel the morale," had been seeking, said Joel Parker, a ed that Amtrak grant back wages to its Troy said. "There seems to be some spokesman for the Transportation workers, triggered a 30-day countdown hope here." Communications International Union until a strike became legal. IfAmtrak workers had walked out for and a lead negotiator. Included in the deal are wage increas­the first time in the railroad's 36-year 
While the month's-end strike was con­es that average 35.2 percent over the history, the 71,000 people who use the sidered unlikely, the mere prospect of it life of the agreement from January service every day would not have been had regional rail services across the 2000 through Dec. 31, 2009-or about the only ones affected. Hundreds of Eastern Seaboard scrambling in recent 3.1 percent per year, said W. Dan thousands of people who ride commuter days to put backup plans in place. Pickett, head of the Passenger Rail trains al<>o would have suffered because 
"We have averted a possible strike Labor Coalition, who was involved in many such services depend on Amtrak that could have had a crippling effect on the deal. employees or infrastructure, particular­the lives of millions of Americans," Amtrak spokesman Cliff Black said ly in the Northeast. 
KENYA 

Fighting erupts as election is disputed 
Associated Press 
NAlHOBI -Several people 

were beaten and hacked to 
death with machetes in a 
Nairobi slum Sunday in 
renewed ethnic fighting over 
Kenya's disputed election, resi­
denL<> said. 
Elsewhere, police managed to 

quell more than two days of 
fieree lighting around a Catholic 
monastery that killed 22 people 
and left 200 homes burned in 
the Hif't Valley, 190 miles north­
west of the eapital Nairobi, ofli­
dals said. 
The re-election of President 

Mwai Kibaki has tapped into a 
well of rnsentments that resur­
faces regularly at election time 
in Kenya. But never before has 
it been so prolonged or taken so 
many livns. 
A govnrnment commission 

says more than 600 people have 
been killed in violence that 
erupted after the Dee. 27 elec­
tion. which opposition leader 
Haifa Odinga accused Kibaki of 
stealing. 
As Kibaki's power becomes 

more 1mtrenched each day, the 
opposition's best hope may rest 
in wrangling a power-sharing 
agreement that might make 
Odinga prime minister or vice 
president. International media­
tion has so far failed to broker 
such a deal. 
Odinga has called for another "peitceful protest" on Thursday, saying, "let them bring their guns and we will face them." The protest will take place in del'iancn of a ban and despite the deaths of at least 24 people in three days of protests last week -most of them blamed on police. 
Sunday's bloodshed in Nairobi's Mathare slum. like much of' the lighting sincn the vote, was betwnen the Kikuyu and Luo ethnie groups, said res­ident Boniface Shikami. President Kibaki is a Kikuyu and Odinga is a Luo. 
Shikami said Luos in his strnnt had rnePivnd noti1:es warning tlwm to leave by nightfall or risk attack. 
One man staggernd past with blood streaming from the stump of' his arm. which had been eut ofT with a maclwte. The arm was taken by a group of youths and placed on top of a pile of' stones barrieading an allnyway. 
The maimed man, Peter Kyalo, arrived latnr at Kenyatta llospital. lie said hn was warnnd on Saturday night by Luo friends he might be target­nd bncause he is a Kamba, the sanw tribn as the vice president, a f'ormor prosidential candidate who joinod Kibaki's government this month. 
In a separate incident, around 50 people attacked welder Dominic Owour, a 23-ynar-old l.uo. and tried to cut ofT both his hands at the forearm, Owour said. 
Both nwn said police watehing tho attacks did not intervene. 
Dr. Njoroge Waithaka said 13 pnopln had lwen admitted to Konyat.ta llospital from the area around Matharn. mostly with ax and madwtn ruts on thn upper limbs and head. Filipe Heboiro of' aid group l>oetors Without Bordnrs said his organization had troatnd I 0 IH~ople for ma•~hotn and ax wounds on Sunday morning alone. 
Joshua Omukolong, the area 

police chief, confirmed at least 
two people died from overnight 
fighting. 
Resident Moses Ogolla said he 
saw four bodies loaded into a 
police vehicle Sunday morning 
with deep machete cuts. 
"! think it was a gang who 
attacked them because some 
bodies, the head had six, seven, 
eight cuts on it," he said. Ogolla 
said that he believed the victims 
were Luo because he heard rel­
atives conversing in the Luo lan­
guage. "The Luo guys say they 
are going to avenge this." 
In the Rift Valley, around the Catholic Kipkelion Monastery, fighting since Friday has pitted Kalenjin people native to the area against Kisii and Kikuyus who settled there in the 1960s and 1970s. 
Police appeared to have quelled the violence by early Sunday afternoon but still were recovering bodies. 
A local reporter at the seene eounted 14 people dead from machete wounds, three bodies stuck with arrows and five peo­ple shot dead by police. 
The death toll also was con­firmed by district administrator Aden Alhake, who said some 200 homes have been burned down in three days of clashes. 
Land always has been a tool of Kenyan politicians, who dis­tribute it as favors to their own and allied tribes, and use it as a weapon, settling their support­ers in hostile areas in order to win votes at election time. 
In the Hif't Valley, Kalenjin people who feel they have bnen wrongly stripped of their land generally support the opposi­tion. 
Edward Ndirangu, who said two of his houses were razed, was searching for his wife and thrne children. 
"I am not sure about their safety.... We fled as they were looting and torched my homes," he said. 
lie said the Kalenjin were the aggressors. Alhake said 2,500 people taking refuge at three schools and the monastery all worn Kikuyu and Kisii. 
IRAQ 

Shiite holy festival held peacefully 
Muslims begin heading home after celebrating formerly banned ritual 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Hundreds of 
thousands of Shiite Muslims 
clambered aboard buses or 
began trekking homeward on 
foot Saturday at the end of 
Ashoura, a 10-day ritual to _cleanse the spirit and scourge the body in honor of their founding saint. 
The high holy days in Karbala 
passed absent the slaughter of 
pilgrims witnessed in the years 
since the U.S.-led invasion 
nearly half a decade ago, but 
militants did assault gatherings 
of Ashoura worshippers else­
where. 

Fearing a spectacular attack on the masses of self-flagellat­ing faithful who marched on the shrines in Karbala, Iraqi authorities flooded the city with 30,000 police and soldiers. Soviet-made tanks guarded approach roads. 
A relatively uneventful pas­sage of Ashoura had been seen by U.S. and Iraqi officials as a rigorous test of the decline in violence in the country since Washington sent in 30,000 additional troops last year and many Sunni insurgents sudden­ly joined American forces in the fight against al-Qaida in Iraq. 
On Saturday, a rocket slammed into a busy market in the northern city of Tal Afar, killing at least seven people who had completed the ritual and gathered there afterward, according to Najim Abdullah, the mayor. 
Two bombs hidden under trash blasted an Ashoura pro­eession in Kirkuk, killing at least two, said police Brig. Gen. Burhan Tayeb Taha. Kirkuk, 180 miles north of Baghdad, has seen a rise in violence as militants have fled crackdowns elsewhere. 
And earlier in the week 20 people were killed in two sui­cide bombings against groups assembled for Ashoura in Diyala province, the still-violent and religiously mixed territory north of Baghdad. 
But in Karbala, provincial Gov. Aqil al-Khazali said 2 mil­lion Ashoura pilgrims passed 
peacefully through the holy city, 
home to the golden domed 
mosques of Imam Hussein and 
his half brother Imam Abbas. 

The festival, largely banned by Saddam Hussein and his minority Sunni Muslim regime, recalls the death of Hussein, grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, in a seventh cen­tury battle near Karbala. The combat defined the split between Islam's Sunni and Shiite sects. 
Men wearing black or white robes danced in circles and chanted as they swayed in uni­son. 
They pounded their chests, slashed their heads and beat their bloodied foreheads with the flat sides of swords and knives. 
Abbas Mohammed, wearing a black shirt and pants to sym­bolize his grief over Hussein's death, traveled from Baghdad to Karbala. 
"I came ... in defiance of ter­rorists and difliculties," the 41­year-old health ministry employee said. 
Naseer Mohammed, a 35­year-old Karbala resident, spoke with his faee bloodied after he cut his forehead with a sword as part of the rituals. 
"I do not feel any pain despite the blood. The security measures were little bit exces­sive and they ereate delays and difficulties for us, yet they make us feel safer," he said. 
While there was no cata­strophic attack during Ashoura, Sunni and Shiite mili­tants kept up the steady, although diminished, level of violence Saturday in regions to the north. Bombs, suicide assaults, rockets and death squad murder left behind the corpses of at least 21 more Iraqis, including those killed in Kirkuk and Tal Afar. 
In Basra and Nasiriyah, south of Karbala, authorities put the final death toll at 72 when fighting ended Saturday after security forces stormed a mosque and ousted holdout members of the Soldiers of Heaven eult. 
The militants, some of whom reportedly have a number tat­tooed in blue ink on the baek of their necks, seek to invoke chaos as a means of inspiring the return of the "Hidden Imam" -also known as the Mahdi -a descendant of Muhammad who disappeared as a child in the ninth century. Shiites believe he will return one day to bring justice to the world. 
Basra police chief Maj. Gen. Abdul-Jalil Khalaf said at least 44 people were killed in Iraq's second-largest city -seven officers, two civilians and 35 gunmen -while dozens more were wounded and 100 gun­men were arrested. 

Uvcr in This Moment Tour SUnday March 9 • 7:00PM Morris Pvrformlng_ Arts Cvntctr 
OH SfiLE HOW! 
GROOP SfiLES: 574/Z35-9190 



Monday, January 21, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

wc.tv/©[h)lJ
Newbies now playing on www.pwc.tv/ch1 
*connectedthinking 
© 2008 PrlcewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PrlcewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limtted liabiltty partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent l!>gal entity. •connectedthinking is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 21, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Flush that pride away 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyl~ Cassily 

AssT. MANAGING EmTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris !-line 
ScF.Nf. ElliTOR: 'f:te Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

All DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Cronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAfOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX ('i74) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 63 I -5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@)nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 63 I -4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.J @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrtisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vi~-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. L.<.'ttcrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions r~garding ObsfflJer po/ici(S should be directed to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l'hc l lb,crvt:t (liSPS ~9ll 2-4()00) b publi~l~nl MmLday thro11gh frido~y exccpt Juring rum ;uLd Val.'ation Jlcrinili. Allllh'ol.rlptillll ({) 'lltc Ohlll.·rvcr i• $1 no fi.,r unc o~t:adcmic year: S'i'; f11r one acnu:ner 
The: Ohterver i-10 publisht<.~ .u: PO~TMASTER. 

11.24 ...,,mh Dining f1111 St-nd add~ss corrections to: Nntrc Damr, IN 46'5')(,..0779 Tht' Obkrvtr Pctiuc.lkalJklllt.tgc pilid .n Ntltrt' Dame: 1~0. Box 779 "ncl .&ddirlon.~J m.liling Ltfiie«. O.Zi St•urh Dining l !JIJ 
None Dame, IN 4MS6.077tJ 
The ( )\~r h 11 memhct of the: Auocuu:fl PrO!>. All rcpruductiun nWm arc rcscrved. 
"If it's yellow, let it mellow; if it's brown, 11ush it down." Dustin Hoffman immortalized these words in Meet the Fockers as a hippie dad whose wife teaehes sex moves to retirees. Jackie 
So, imagine my 
Mirando! a 
surprise when I 
Mullen
come home for 
Thanksgiving, to 
Guest 
my white-trim, 
Columnist
suburban Atlanta 
home, and the first 

motherly instruction I receive starts, 
"If it's yellow, let it mellow ... " 
Did my family go off the deep end since I've been gone'? Have my par­ents suddenly lost respect for the con­cept of eleanliness? Am I going to have to refer to my mother as Humming Starshine from now on? 
None of the above. I'm from Georgia. Heiterate: Georgia. Deep South, Bible Belt, Dixie. You Midwesterners don't know red until you've ventured farther than a state past tho Mason-Dixon Line. If you hear lhe word "hippie" down there, it's probably preceded by "damn." People aetually started buying larger trueks as a response to the oil short­age seare after Katrina, just to prove that we're Ameriean and will do whatever the hell we want. 
And yet, now, it's in my home state, that same Georgia, where people are starting to take rationing and conser­vation seriously. For those of you unfamiliar with Georgia's current water situation, it's not good. Metro Atlanta draws most of its drinking water from Lake Lanier, a 38,000­acre man-made lake that came into being when the Army Corps of Engineers dammed up the Chattahoochee River in 1956. Georgia gets a decent amount of rain, but the recent frequency of precipitation has been splotchy at best. This summer and fall have been abnormally dry, and the record low water level set this fall, and still lingering, is 19 feet 
below the full lake levels. 
So, because of the scarcity, many households are shifting to the policy of decreased 11ushes. Gradually, yes, but in ways that would invariably earn one "wuss" status even last year. At the University of Georgia, there were designated "flushers" at their last few home games. Saved a bunch of water -in fact, Athons (location of UGA) has decreased its water usage by 10 percent already. Shorter show­ers have become not just a time-saver, but a type of community outreach. 
Dry years happen anywhere, they should be expected. Even the new record low is only half a foot below the previous record low, set in 1981. Why does it seem so much worse this time, then? 
Because Atlanta is the epitome of a boom town. Okay, maybe we can call it a boom city. Back in 1960, metro Atlanta's population was just over a million people. By 1980, we were at 
2.2 million, 4.1 million in 2000, and in 2008, metro Atlanta now has an esti­mated population of 5.3 million peo­ple. 
This kind of growth can not be planned for, no matter how driven or innovative the leadership. Ecosystems cannot sustain such an immense and sudden strain on resources. The same population explosions arc happening in China, India and Africa to much greater degrees and to infrastructures that are much less equipped to handle shortages than our seemingly helpless southern states. We all see, through famine, pollution problems and dis­ease, how impossible it's proving for these foreign, developing regions to respond to stresses of overpopulation. 
The willful ignorance happening in the South -the roommate who feels his showers are a natural right, the household that thinks its toilet needs to be flushed every time to maintain societal respectability -is the invol­untary ignorance plaguing third world countries. They don't have supplies to combat famine or the means to con­trol their population. Our trap is self­inflicted; buying a low-11ow shower­head is economically feasible for most American families. In some communi­ties, plumbers are even installing sim­ilar water-savers for free. 
The point is, we have the resources to counteract our enormous and unsustainable use of natural resources. Other countries don't. But when we take no action, why is it? Because acting, changing, is incon­venient. 
Yet, in places like northern Georgia. the attitude of wasteful pride is start­ing to change. Maybe-okay, defi­nitely-just because we're being forced into it; within four months, Lake Lanier's water lovols may be too low for it to supply northern Georgia with drinking water. But, if one prob­lem can so significantly change the mindsets of an entire subculture in mere months, can't tho rest of us with financial and material possibilities at our fingertips trim down our wasteful lifestyles, just a little'! The next time you go home, are you going to be able to shower the way you're used to? A lot of us won't. A lot of us will be let­ting the toilet mellow. And that may seem gross-with good reason. But it's reality, it's no longer a 11ower­child saying that the rest of society giggles at. And there's something truly humbling in not only accepting that, but also picking up the unfamil­iar yoke and actually carrying it your­self. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a sopho­more history and German major who thinks you should recycle this paper after you read it. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Karen Langley Jay Fitzpatrick Who will win the Republican Marcela Berrios Lorenzo Reyes 
nomination? 
Madeline Buckley Laura Myers 
Mitt Romney John McCain "Ifyou hate a person. you hate 
Graphics Scene 
something in him that zs part of
Mike Huckabee Fred Thompson 
Jared Wafer Tae Andrews 
yourself What isn't part of 

Viewpoint Ron Paul Rudy Giuliani ourselves doesn't disturb us." Lianna 
Hermann Hesse
Brauweiler 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at German poet www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, January 21, 2008 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Saints found all over campus 
U-WIRE 
Students should explore life without TV 
Like the Church, the Center for Social Concerns is more than a building. The Center is defined primarily by the people who have been making it an active reality for the last 25 years. This year is no difTerent. Although the location is different -behind the Rockne Memorial-the llesh and blood of the Center is every bit as lively as usual. Students are carrying on with regular service locally, nationally and internationally through immer­sion trips, experiential learning, lectures (like the upcoming presentation by William Joyce Wilson Jan. 27 on poverty and inequality), community work, or coursework toward a Catholic Social Teaching minor. The new site is already abuzz with students registering for spring courses, conferences, spring break trips and other service and educational opportunities. 
It is fitting, too, that the diverse community that makes the Center for Social Concerns a flesh and blood reality should be christening the new transitional site just as the Holy Cross community (also known as CSC) celebrated the first feast day for its founder, the recently beatified Basil Moreau, on Sunday. The recent conference at McKenna Hall on saints in the Christian tradition paid great tribute to this essential teaching of the Church. 
The Catholic Church has traditionally understood itself as a community of saints, some who are listed in the canon because of their martyrdom, miracles and lives of exemplary Christian service and faith. Most saints in this Catholic tradition, however, are less well­known. Certainly it is good to recognize how people like Basil Moreau demonstrate how to live out the loving example of Christ in service and faith, but it is also good to recog­nize the saints next door, those who show us the love of Christ by taking out our trash, by recycling, by offering a warm greeting on that cold January morning when we need it most, by calling to see if we need a little more money to pay for textbooks this semester. 
It is this long tradition of serving together, praying together and acting in loving soli­darity of our neighbor near and far that provides the flesh and blood of the living Church on earth. You don't have to go to the Center for Social Concerns to fmd saints in our midst. If you do come to the new Center site, however, you will likely bump into some extraordinary people. 
Mary Tracy graduate srudent offcampus Jan. 18 

Once upon a time, people would go out almost every night of the week, whether over to the neighbors' place for dinner or out to a club for dinner and dancing or sim­ply over to the local theater for a movie and newsreel. This was before the entertainment leviathan that is tele­vision appeared. 
Before TV changed the way we 
Chris Elsner 
relax, radio was the only option for entertainment and before radio, all people had was -get 
Northern 
this-books. 
Illinois 
As a result I think people were 
University's
generally more inclined to seek 
Northern Star 
out others for entertainment; com­munities were closer because, on some level, people had nothing better to do. 
Not all television is bad; it has helped us learn more about our world. We have access to 24-hour news, round-the-clock weather reports, how-to shows for virtu­ally any project you can imagine, documentaries on any number of things from past, present and future, and some truly quality programming. 
Stick to the grease 
A Big Mac from McDonald's alone has 590 calories and accounts for 52 percent of a person's total fat intake based on a 2000-calorie-a-day diet. 
The numbers behind the beefY mono­lith suggest that M"k
1

the sandwich be e viewed as a once-Wunderlich in-a-while type of 
University of
meal, surely not 
South 

one to be made 
Carolina's

into a regular sta­
Daily

ple ofthe everyday American diet. Gamecock 
That being said, the fact of the matter is that McDonald's puts out a greasy, meaty, salty and unde­niably savory product, one that ifcon­sumed often, will spur an increase in one's daily caloric intake and may lead to other health problems related with dra­matic weight gain. 
The standard unit of the McDonald's operation, the value meal, generally con­sists of a sandwich, a collection offries and a soft drink, but when did a yoga DVD sneak into the bag? 
I recently found a collection of McDonald's fitness DVDs lying around my house during winter break and became confused. 
Suspecting a joke, I questioned my mom on the actual contents of the discs and was reaffirmed that these were, in fact, 15-minute fitness oriented videos that could be obtained at the same place Ronald McDonald hangs out. 
While all the emphasis on becoming more fit and leading a healthier and more active lifestyle is certainly a positive thing, is McDonald's really the right place to turn to for advice regarding fitness? 
Comedian Lewis Black often refers to IHOP as his health club, but they're not enlisting the service offitness experts and providing a series of DVDs with focus on aerobic fitness and flexibility. 
It seems McDonald's is combating the growing problem ofobesity in America by providing such discs, and such nutri­tional information as well as promoting a more active lifestyle, but why can't Ijust have my extra-large value meal in all its glory? 
When I walk into McDonald's, I'm not there for the fitness tips or the yoga DVDs. I don't want to be hassled by Ronald to get active. I want my Quarter Pounder with cheese and no pickles, a large fry and a large Coke. 
Burger joints like McDonald's are try­ing to recreate themselves to seem more fitness oriented in order to remain popu­lar among consumer Americans, but there's got to be a line drawn on just how far they're going. 
McDonald's should stop wasting money trying to appeal to the obsessive nutri­tionist and just worry about doing what they do best, serving up the grease. 
Once in a while, it couldn't hurt to grab a Big Mac. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edition ofThe Daily Gamecock, the daily newspaper at the University of South Carolina. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
TV is an easy way for society to gain access to and dis­seminate information. It has become an ingrained part of our society, and I doubt that it's going away any time soon. 
However, there are some truly abysmal things on TV, and I'm convinced that some shows are actually making people dumber and actively contributing to our deterio­rating sense of community. 
Content aside, however, it seems that TV has usurped a place in our society that people used to fill. They've been replaced by televised stand-ins. I think that, in the end, we are worse off because of it. No longer does there seem to be a strong level ofinvolvement in our communities. 
We have our distinct social circles in which we are active; we share our experiences with our close personal friends and family. But how many of you can truly claim to be a part of your community -or even your school's community? 
Instead of going out to meet people, taking part in activities or socializing with others, I think we often sit and watch TV. It's easier and a lot less work, but you also 
get less out of it. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~ '51~ \JJH~ ~D YaJ CARE A&ur YOUR 
This is part of a larger trend in American culture toward privacy and personal space. When we no longer rely on each other for entertainment, we lose something in our appreciation of others. 
And this phenomenon is destroying, or at the very least changing, what community means to America. 
I am not sure much can be done to change this phe­nomenon in our society, but you can take a stand in your personal life. 
You're probably not ready to give up TV altogether (although I assure you can, in fact, live very well without it), so instead be cognizant ofjust how much time you spend in front of the idiot box. 
Take note of what else you could be doing instead of watching TV, and think about what you're missing out on. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edition ofThe Northern Star, the daily newspaper at Northern Illinois University 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, January 21, 2008 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

Notre Dame graduate-turned­rapper Napoleon Suarez cites two sources of inspiration for his second album, "American Scholar:" actor Denzel Washington and rapper Jay-Z. The pair recently collaborated on the critically acclaimed blockbuster film "American Gangster," with Washington providing the on-screen bril­liance and Jay-Z supplying an album by the same name. The film depicts the rise to fame, fortune and ultimate fall of Frank Lucas, a heroin kingpin in Harlem during the late 1960s and early 1970s. 
"I am a huge Jay-Z fan and I appreciated the album for what it was," Suarez said. "I felt it was a glamorization of the life of a gangster. His lyrics offered genuine insight into the life of a hustler who rose from noth­
ing to something. He touched along a different path," h on the drugs, the money, the said. "School was my hustle women, and 'the life.' Jay Instead of being in the stre 
painted such  a  hustling  
beautiful pic­ I  was  i  
ture of an American gangster that it seemed almost  As a 2000 graduate ofNotre Dame, Suarez mentioned how his college education here in  the clas r o o studyin I alw  
like a hustler's American dream." Much like Denzel Washington's portrayal of  South Bend separates him from many other rappers, who attended the school ofhard knocks while living on the mean streets ofAmeri_ca's ghettos.  dreamt h a vi n the fin things in life, but I had a dif­ferent  


Lucas, Suarez's dream of rising from nothing to something has pushed him throughout his career, although he has taken a differ­ent channel to success than the back alleys Lucas took in his rise to prominence. 
As a 2000 graduate of Notre Dame, Suarez mentioned how his college education here in South Bend separates him from many other rappers, who 
American Scholar 
Napoleon Suarez Label: None Recommended Tracks: "East Side High" and "All Around Da World'' 

attended the school of hard knocks while living on the mean streets of America's ghettos. 
"Along with millions of other peo­ple such as myself, I felt that I could­n't relate because my life went 
way to get them. So I wanted to glam­orize the life of a scholar. I wanted young kids to look up to me the same way the young, kids looked up to Frank Lucas in the movie. Just as Jay Z did in his album by speaking on the heaven and hell of his lifestyle, I tried to do the same in my album. 
"I speak on the good: having money, being respected, having benefits, and freed om/stabiii ty. But I also speak on the bad: being in cubicle all day, working long hours, and just basically hav­ing to grow up and be respon­sible. I wanted a complete pic­ture to be painted and I think I did a good job of that." 

Although he describes his 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, January 21, 2008 
page 13 
first album, "Napoleon Dynamite," as "more personal" than his second CD, Suarez notes that "American Scholar" marks his progress as a cre­ative artist. 
"[The first album] was me and only me. I had my whole life to create it," he said. "The 
. second album is my best work by far. My lyrics are so much ·· more complex. 
"I had to step outside the box and not just speak about my life as an American scholar, 
:but incorporate the life of other scholars as well. I want­ed it to be a collage of different 

. ; points of views and events. It is definitely edgier. I took a lot more chances on the album as well. I wanted to put an album 
not care. if people would like it or not." 
Suarez also collab­orates with a few dif­ferent artists on 

ofhaving "Scholar," including his friend
t Wf:!Y to 
and fellow performer Lawrence Santiago, also of for­mer Notre Dame fame due to his involve­ment with the band Bajawalla. Santiago puts in an appearance on "Scholar," singing on one of the songs on the album. "It came out incredible," Suarez 
said. 
Napoleon Suarez also said that he plans on spending less time worrying this year and more time working on his craft. 
"I really stressed myself in '07 worrying about getting a record deal and getting my foot in the door," he said. "I felt like I wasn't a good artist because I wasn't signed. I now know that I don't need a deal to prove my talent." Suarez said that positive feedback from friends and fans alike continues to spur his efforts on. 
"That type of feedback is what drives me and makes me want to be in the studio until two in the morning when I have to wake up at six for work," he said. "Having a deal would be nice, but I know I'm good at what I do." 
Suarez also said that he has a few new projects in the works, including collaborating with both Notre Dame's own "Da Natural" Jeffery Stephens and some acts from his hometown. "You are going to hear a lot of music from me this year," he said, "but more from the pro­duction side." 
Suarez says that "Eastside High" is his favorite single from "American Scholar," although he finds that his per­sonal favorites often do not align with his fans' favorites. "When I make music, my favorite song is always every­one's least favorite," he said, "even when I produce beats for 
'The second album is my best work by far. My lyrics are so much more complex. [ ... ]I wanted it to be a collage ofdifferent points of views and events. It is definitely edgier. I took a lot more chances on the album as well. I wanted to put an album out and not care if people would like it or not.,, 

Napoleon Suarez 

other artists. It's funny how that works out sometimes." 
Suarez is currently in the midst of a college tour, intend­ed as a gesture of appreciation for his fans. Part of that tour included a stop at Legends November 15 of last year. "My alma mater has always been my biggest supporter," he said. "The people are why we do the music in the first place. I guess you can call it a thank you for everyone showing us support." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 
PARENTAL 

EXPLICIT LYRICS 
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 


.• 
NFL 

Patriots stay perfect, one win away from history 
After missing two late field goals, Tynes comes through with game-winner to place Giants in Super Bowl 
Patriots moved on to a Feb. 3 
Associated Press 

matchup in Glendale, Ariz., FOXBOHOUGII. Mass. -"Now against the New York Giants. we 1:an look ahead." The Giant..'i beat Green Bay 23­
Bill Bnlichick. a coach of fp,w 20 in overtin1e for the NFC cham­words, said it all with that sen­pionship. New England closed out tnnen after his Nnw England its regular season by beating the Patriol'i daimed the AFC ehampi­Ciants in a 38-35 thriller. onship trophy. Yet liJr all the Brady Bunch has 
I ,ooking ahnad mnans only one accomplished -they're the only thing: A trip to thn Super Bowl, team in NFL history to start out and a dmnee to give their pp,rfect with 18 straight victories -the rnconl a whole nnw meaning. Patriot..'> are well aware they must 
Dnspitn a shaky Tom Brady, the win that tina! game to avoid being Patriots were still too much for relegated to a footnote. the banged-up San DiP-go "We'll try to elflvate our game Chargers, pulling out a 21-12 vic­for one last performance," said tory Sunday that sent them back Brady, MVP in two of the three to the NFL title game for the Super Bowls he's won. filllrth time in seven seasons. Brady, coming ofT a record-set­
"Thern was history on the line," ting 50 TO passes, threw for two Patriot..'> linebaeker Tndy Bruschi scores. He also tossed a season­said. "We recognize it, we high three interceptions. acknowlndge it." No matter, New England took 
Brady made several stunningly care of the nuts and Bolts on a poor throws that fluttnred in the most chilly day. The sellout crowd wind. Randy Moss was a non-fac­at Gillette Stadium chanted tor li1r the second straight game "Super Bowl! Super Bowl!" in the and the highest-scoring team in closing minutes, anticipating the NFL history sputtered all after­Pats' first appearance in the big noon. Instead, the l'atriots (18-0) game since the 2004 season. relifHI on Laurence Maroney's Belichick's team eclipsed the spins, cuts and helmet-rattling 17-0 mark of the champion 1972 said. "We'll certainly enjoy this for in the playoffs, however, and his which led the Patriots by 12 runs. Miami Dolphins, and he'll soon try a few days." calm leadership keyed New York's points in the third quarter before 
With injured Chargers star for his fourth NFL title. turnaround. falling 38-35 on Dec. 29. LaDainian Tomlinson reduced to "I think there will be a tinle to Giants 23, Packers 20 Manning shook off below-zero The Giants have won at Tampa mostly watching in a parka, the sit back and rellect," Belichick Eli Manning has arrived, just in temperatures and a wind chill and Dallas since, and now at 
time to take his New York Giants that would make a Siberian husky Lambeau Field, where they shut on an improbable trip to the shiver. He repeatedly put the down Brett Favre nearly all game. Super Bowl. Giants (13-6) in position to win in Favre, seeking a return to the 
A suddenly matured Manning the third-coldest championship Super Bowl after a decade's guided the Giants to their 10th game ever -and certainly the absence, strugglnd in the minus-3 straight road win Sunday, a frost­most frigid of his young career. degree temperature and wind­bitten 23-20 overtime victory over And then he saw Tynes make chills that reached minus-24. He the Green Bay Packers for the his first game-winning field goal wound up 19-for-35 for 236 yards NFC championship. of the season in the first OT title and two interceptions. The sec­
Now comes Mission Impossible game in nine years. ond, by Corey Webster in over­for Manning and the Giants, who It was the second NFC title time, set up Tynes' winner. will play the unbeaten New game to go to overtime. Atlanta When Tynes missed a 43-yard England Patriots in two weeks for beat Minnesota 30-27 in 1999. field goal with 6:49 remaining, it the NFL title. One year after older brother was just a temporary setback. 
After Lawrence Tynes missed a Peyton fmally won a Super Bowl, And when he flopped on the kick 36-yard field goal at the end of earning MVP honors to boot, here that ended regulation, Tynes regulation following a bad snap, comes Eli. could only ask for one more try. he got a reprieve in overtime fol­Just a month ago, Eli's moxie Webster gave it to him, and he lowing Corey Webster's intercep­was being questioned as the sent the Giants into the Super tion of a struggling Brett Favre. Giant..<> struggled to clinch a wild­Bowl. lie nailed a 47-yarder on his third card berth. He responded with New York was aided greatly by attempt to win it, then sprinted the best work of his four-year four penalties against the Packers directly to the locker room as the career, induding four touchdown during the Giant..'i' seven-minute, rest of his frozen teammates cele­passes in the season finale against 69-yard march to bngin the sec­brated on the field. the Patriots. ond half. Brandon Jacobs bolted 
"I screwed it up twice," Tynes lie and the Giants are getting in from about an inch out after said. "Thank God we got another another shot at New England, the successive offside calls just opportunity." first team to go 18-0. The Patriot..'> moments after his third-down 
The Giants grabbed their first will be after their fourth Super fumble was recovered by tight NFC championship in seven Bowl title in seven years on Feb. 3 end Kevin Boss. But the biggest years, capping a monthlong surge at Glendale, Ariz., as well as the miscue was Nick Collins' 15-yard that reversed a trend of medioc­first completely perfect season roughing-the-passer penalty on rity built around Manning's incon­since Miami went 17-0 in 1972. Manning, whose throw was sistency. He has been a revelation But don't discount New York, blocked on a third-down play. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CYO CAMP Rancho Framasa 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS ­HIRING NOW! Secure your summer jobl Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, residential camp, located in south central Indiana. operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a welcoming staff community in a beautiful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes Course, Adventure and Health posi­lions available. All positions start at $240/week. Training is provided;start date May 31, 2008. Apply online www.campranchofra­masa.org Questions? contact Angi at 888-988-2839, x25 or emait angi@ campranchoframasa.org 

FoR RENT 
3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
4 bedroom, ·2 bath, 1900 sq. ft. tri­level house, 2 car garage, kitchen appliances, smoke and security sys-tern. Three miles to NO, move in clean condition. $1600/mo during the school year + utilities. 57 4-272­5453. 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Executive House available for out­of-town guests of wedding, special events,and graduation. Walking dis-lance to campus. 4 bedrooms 4 baths. Sleeps 10-14 easily. Irish pub/basement with pool table,bar,pub table, and game tables. High-end home. Gourmet kitchen with granite counters. Very tasteful house. All brick exterior. Built 1935. See website: www.irish­hearthmanor.com 
705 NO Ave. 3 Bedroom $1 ,000.00. 273-4889 Available 08/09 Gently used loveseat + chair. Taupe w/ muted pinstripes; wood trim -Broyhill-$150 674-6150 
Nice Rental Home within a block of NO & Med School. 718 Napoleon,3bdrrn,attached garage,basement,large lot,new upgrades/appliances. 574-339­0275. 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about 
has been sexually assaulted, visit .http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
shtml Need a job to gain experience? Need experience to gain a job? Entry-level position in Admissions and Alumni Affairs available January 2008 at a private boarding/day school I ocated 30 minutes from the University of Notre Dame. LaLumiere School is looking for an energetic and dedicated person who likes to work with high school students. Some coaching and dorm supervision may be available as well. Please email kennedy@ lalumiere.org for further information. 

"California ... knows how to party California ... knows how to party In the citaaay, of L.A. In the citaaay, of good ol' Watts In the citaaay, city of Compton We keep it rockinl We keep it rockin!" 
''There is nothing that is wrong In wanting you to stay here with me. I know youve got somewhere to go, But wont you make yourself at home and stay with me? And doni you ever leave. Lay down, sally, and rest you in my arms. Doni you think you want someone to talk to? Lay down, sally, no need to leave so soon. lve been trying all night long just to talk to you. The sun aint nearly on the rise And we still got the moon and stars above. Underneath the velvet skies. Love is all that matters. wont you stay with me? And doni you ever leave. I long to see the morning light Coloring your face so dreamily. So doni you go and say goodbye, You can lay your worries down and stay with me. And doni you ever leave." 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------~ 
OUND THE NATION 


Monday, January 21, 2008 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Division I 
Poll  
team  record  last poll  
1  Michigan  20-2·0  1  
2  Miami  2.1·3~0  2  
3  Colorado College  16•6~0  4  
4  Denver  1H•O  3  
5  New Hampshire  13-6·1  8  
6  North Dakota  12.-IM  8  
7  Michigan State  14-5-4  10  
8  NOTRE DAME  18-7·1  6  
9  Northeastern  11-5-2  7  
10  Massachusetts  9-5·5  5  
11  Boston College  10-5·5  12  
12  Clarkson  12-7-1  11  
13  St. Cloud State  11-10·  14  
14  Quinnipiac  3  16  
15  Mass.·Lowell  13-5-3  . 13  
16  Minnesota-Duluth  10·5·4  19  
17  Wisconsin  8-7-5  17  
18  Minnesota  9·10·3  15  
19  Princeton  11-10­ NR  
20  Minnesota Stale  3  20  

NBA Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  perc.  last 10  GB  
Boston  32·6  .842  7-3  
Toronto  22·19  .537  6·4  11.5  
New Jersey  18·21  .462  5·5  14.5  
Philadelphia  16·25  .390  2·8  17.5  
New York  13·27  .325  5·5  20  

Eastern Conference, Centff)JDivision 
team record perc, .. last 10 GB 
Detroit 29-12 .707 5·5 Cleveland 21-18 .538 8·2 7 Indiana 18·23 .439 3·7 11 Chicago 16·23 .410 5,5 12 Milwaukee 16·24 .400 5-5 12.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record perc. last10 GB 
Orlando 25·17 .595 4"6 Washington 2H7 .553 H 2 AUanla 18-19 .486 3-7 u 
Charlotte 11·24 ...., ..... 5·5 8 Miami 8·32 ;200 .. Q;1ff 16 Western Conference, Northwest DiVision 
team record perc. last.10 GB 
Denver 24-15 ~615 6-4 Portland 24-16 .600 6•4 .5 Utah 23-18 .561 1-3 2 Seattle 9-31 .225 0•10 15.5 Minnesota 5·34 .128 1-9 19 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record perc; last 10 GB 
Phoenix 28-12 .700 7-3 LA Lakers 26·12 .684 8-2 1 Golden Slate 25·17 .595 6·4 4 Sacramento 17·22 .436 fic4 10.5 LA Clippers 12·24 .333 3•7 14 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Dallas 27·12 .692 8-2 New Orleans 27·12 .692 8-2 San Antonio 
25·13 .658 5-5 1.5
Houston 21-19 .525 6·4 
6.5
Memphis 11-29 .275 3-7 16.5 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Syracuse vs. Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN 
Texas vs. Oklahoma State 9 p.m., ESPN 
CnrvtPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
USFSA 


Associated Press 

ST. PAUL, Minn. -The more Evan Lysacek tries to downplay his rivalry with Johnny Weir, the bigger it gets. 
They're the two best male skaters the United States has, and two of the best in the world. They're chasing the same medals and the same titles, glories that can't be shared. And at a time when the United States is searching for new stars, their back-and-forth on the podium is the best thing going. 
But getting one of them to acknowledge it, Lysacek in particular, is tougher than a quadruple jump. 
"(Coach Frank Carroll) 
says, 'Mind your own busi­ness in every respect of word,"' Lysacek said. "Don't think about any­body else. The less energy I spend thinking about somebody else is more energy I can put into my own skating, and that's where I want my energy to be. 
"The media can say what they want," he added. "That's their freedom, they can say anything they want. About me, about Johnny Weir, about any other competitor. My focus is on me." 
Sorry, Evan. Ignore it all you want, but at this week's U.S. Figure Skating Championships, the latest installment of "Ice Wars: 
Johnny vs. Evan" is the main event. 
Competition begins Wednesday with compul­sory dance and the pairs short program. The men's short program is Friday, and the final is Jan. 27. The women begin Thursday. 
"We have a great rivalry developing here in the men in both Evan and Johnny," said David Raith, executive director of U.S . Figure Skating. "I think that's very exciting." 
Figure ·skating is oh, so pretty, as much art as ath­leticism, and fans love gracefur, lyrical skaters like Michelle Kwan and Sasha Cohen. But for those folks who don't know a lutz from a loop, it's rival­ries that get their atten­tion. That Tonya-Nancy dustup may have taken things to the extreme, but get a couple of skaters pushing each other for those precious spots on the podium, and you've got yourself a show. 
The 1988 Olympics had the "Battle of the Brians" and "dueling Carmens." Kwan was at her best when Tara Lipinski and Cohen were nipping at her skates. And Alexei Yagudin's competition with fellow Russian Evgeni Plushenko made for great theater -on and off the ice. 
Now there's Lysacek and Weir. 
IN BRIEF 

Boxer bies to make comeback 
in ymmg man's sport 
NEW YORK-Back when Roy Jones Jr. was the best boxer in the world, most people thought his sport was dying. Now that boxing is back on the rise with one big fight after another, Jones is aching for a comeback of his own. 
But even after Jones danced around Felix Trinidad to win a unanimous deci­sion at Madison Square Garden on Saturday night, the 39-year-old will have to wait for the big-money matchups he's craving. 
After all, he didn't take those lights when he first had the chance. The 1990s' best pound-for-pound fighter was well-known for playing defense both inside and outside the ring, and now he's dropped well down the list of boxing's biggest names. 
He'll have to get in line for fighters who once would have loved to meet hlm -but don't tell that to Jones, who still sees himself as the biggest name in any room. 
Frenchman sails around 
globe in 57 days, beats record 
BREST, France -Francis Joyon had no heat, no companions and little sleep for nearly two months as he sailed around the globe. Now he has a stunning world record. 
The 51-year-old Frenchman cir­cled the planet alone in 57 days, 13 hours, 34 minutes, 6 seconds in a trimaran, shattering the record set by Ellen MacArthur by two weeks and beating his own expectations. 
"It's a bit of a shock" to be among so many people again, Joyon said after hitting land on France's Atlantic coast Sunday morning. He crossed an imaginary finish line in the water overnight, and said it was like "landing on the moon'' when he reached shore. 
Joyon skirted the southern reaches of the globe in his 95-foot, 9-ton trimaran IDEC, a craft he built with parts gathered from other boats. 
Miller wins title, becomes 
most successful U.S. skier 
KITZBUEHEL, Austria -Bode Miller finally had something to cheer about Sunday at the traditional Hahnenkamm World Cup races. 
Earlier this week, he accused organiz­ers of making the famous Streif downhill course much bumpier and dangerous than it already was. He also criticized organizers for disrespecting the 68-year­old history of the event by changing the slalom course. 
But on Sunday, Miller won the com­bined title for the slalom and Saturday's downhill, which means he is now the most successful American skier ever with 28 World Cup wins, overtaking Phil Mahre. 
"It's a nice record, something you 
-
dream about as a kid," the 30-year-old Miller said. "As a professional skier, you're more focused on winning each individual race. Before the season, it was my target to break that record, and it's a really good feeling ifyou reach your goals." 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UConn upsets Marquette behind hot shooting 
Freshman sensation Gordon scores 25 points to propel Hoosiers past Penn State to win their 27th-straight home game 

over the game's final minutes. shooting.
Associated Press 

Connecticut came into the "lie's tough, he's not asking 
STOHHS, Conn. -Jim game sixth in the nation in out, but he's just not 100 per­Calhoun needed a way to get field goal percentage defense cent," Crean said of James, his team's attention after a (36.8) and led the country in who injured his right wrist bad home loss. lie simply blocked shots (9.2). The four games ago when he was wrote down the rest of the Huskies finished with 10 fouled hard. "He hurt it again schedule. It worked like a blocks Sunday with Thabeet, against Louisville. We'll just charm. who was 3-for-3 from the field have to see how he feels." 
Connecticut. coming off a and 9-for-13 from the free The Huskies were 33-for-39 12-point home loss to throw line, leading the way. from the free throw line while Providence, rebounded with "I felt Hasheem owned the the Golden Eagles were 11­its first win over a ranked middle," Calhoun said. "We for-18. opponent in almost two years, decided to take advantage of Connecticut took a 12-4 lead 89-73 over No. 13 Marquette our size right away by going as Marquette missed 10 of its on Sunday. inside on offense and that's first 11 shots from the field. 
"I just wrote who we had to what allowed us to be 5-for-11 The Huskies stretched the lead still play on one side and then on 3s." to 39-24 at halftime by holding I put the Big East standings on Marquette shot a season­the Golden Eagles to 27.6 per­the other," Calhoun said of worst 30.4 percent in the loss cent (8-for-29), while hitting what he did before Friday's to Louisville which included 51.7 percent (15-for-29). practice. "I showed them who missing all 12 of its 3-point The offensive struggles con­we had left and how hard it attempts. On Sunday, the tinued for Marquette at the was going to be but also point­Golden Eagles were 1 0-for-21 start of the second half as the ed out that we still had a from beyond the arc. Golden Eagles missed seven of chance to be one of the better ''I'm more concerned we're their first nine shots as the teams in the conference. They not making stops defensively." Huskies opened a 51-29 lead knew Marquette was a quality Marquette coach Tom Crean on a three-point play by team and these are the teams said when asked about his Jerome Dyson with 13:49 to we'll be playing." team's recent shooting woes. play. 
Point guard A.J. Price, who "Hopefully we'll get something The biggest lead was 67-38 had 17 points and eight from the way we played the on a foul line jumper by assists, said the schedule on last 10, 12 minutes. We have Thabeet with 9:30 to go. the blackboard was a very to play with our hair on fire to The losing streak against good idea. be good." ranked opponents was the 
"It helped us greatly, espe­Connecticut's last win over a Huskies' longest since it cially arter we played so bad ranked team was over then­dropped 10 straight to Top 25 against Providence," he said. No. 17 Washington in the teams in Calhoun's first two "When we saw the standings regional semifinals of the 2006 seasons at Connecticut. we realized we were in the NCAA tournament, the game hunt and that if we could get before the Huskies lost to Hoosiers 81, Nittany Lions on a winning streak we could George Mason for the right to 65 be in the top four." advance to the Final Four. Indiana found a combination 
It also helped that 7-foot-3 Calhoun said the players that worked and stayed with sophomore llasheem Thabeet "didn't have a clue" about the it. had one of his best games at losing streak against ranked Eric Gordon scored 25 Connecticut. He had 15 points, teams. points, D.J. White added 22 seven rebounds and six "Probably at the end you and the No. 9 Hoosiers, keep­blocked shots as the Huskies saw me a bit frustrated," he ing the same lineup the entire (12-5, 3-3) lived up to their said of Marquette's scoring second half, wore down Penn defensive statistics while also over the final 10 minutes. "I State on Sunday. coming up with one their best just wanted a totally dominat­"It was a slow-paced game. offensive showings of the sea­ing experience, because we They were zoning us," Indiana son. haven't had that against a coach Kelvin Sampson said. 
"We're getting better every team obviously like "Usually you make a substitu­day and we always play Marquette." tion for fatigue or for foul defense," Thabeet said. "We Jeff Adrien and Craig trouble. But I liked the way had poise today." Austrie both had 15 points for they were playing, so I saw no 
It was the second straight the Huskies, who had lost two reason to make a substitu­big loss for Marquette (13-4, straight and three of four. tion." 3-3), which lost 71-51 to Lazar Hayward had 14 The Hoosiers (16-1, 5-0 Big Louisville on Thursday. The points for the Golden Eagles, Ten) won their 27th straight Golden Eagles had their third who had won two of three, home game and stretched poor shooting game in their and Wesley Matthews added their winning streak this sea­last four, finishing at 40 per­13. Dominic James, son to 12 games, their longest cent (26-for-65), a number Marquette's leading scorer in 15 years. which they improved signifi­with a 14.1 average, finished "Once we got to halftime, the cantly with a scoring flurry with riine points on 4-for-1 0 quality of shots, the ball move­
r----------------------------=~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-
AP 
Indiana forward D.J. White puts up a shot over Penn State forward Jamelle Cornley in a 81-65 Hoosier victory Sunday. White scored 22 points and picked up seven rebounds in the game. 
ment, was as good as we've played all year in the second half," Sampson said. "We had maybe two turnovers. That's just a high level of play.... The second half was outstanding at both ends." 
Penn State (1 0-7, 2-3), which lost leading scorer and rebounder Geary Claxton with a season-ending knee injury against Wisconsin on Tuesday, came out strong, stayed with the Hoosiers most of the game and led 52-51 before a 3­pointer by Gordon started a 14-4 run that put Indiana in control. White had Indiana's next five points and assisted on another basket by Jamarcus Ellis, and the Hoosiers began pulling away for good. 
"It was a stretch where we needed to pick it up," White said. "We needed somebody to step up and the guards did a good job finding me open at the right time. 
"There's always a lot of work to be done. That's what prac­tices are for, to get better each game." 
White, Gordon, Ellis, Armon Bassett and Lance Stemler played all 20 minutes in the second half. 
"It all started with our defense," Ellis said. "Even in the second half, we came out a little lackadaisical but we started to pick it up the last 7­8 minutes. We knew they were going to play hard without Claxton." 
Two free throws by Talor Battle were the only points by the Nittany Lions in the next 4 minutes after White's scoring burst, and two free throws by Gordon, a 3-pointer by Bassett and a layup by Gordon pushed Indiana's lead to 72-58. Penn State, which has never won in 15 games at Assembly Hall, never came closer than 12 points the rest of the way, and Indiana took its biggest lead at 81-60 in the closing seconds. 
"We were trying to keep them away from the basket. We got a little sort with our zone," Penn State coach Ed DeChellis said. "We hit that lit­tle stretch there where we 
weren't really active.... We were OK for 30 minutes; unfortunately, this is a 40­minute game." 
Bassett added 1 7 points and Ellis finished with 12 for the Hoosiers. Battle, a freshman, had a career-high 20 points and Jamelle Comley added 19 for Penn State. Freshman Jeff Brooks, who started in place of Claxton, had six points. 
"This is the first time out without him," DeChellis said of the loss of Claxton. "Talor played well, Jamelle played well. We just need to find another guy who can score." 
Despite the loss of Claxton, who was second in the Big Ten in scoring and rebounding, the Nittany Lions stayed with Indiana in the first half, even after a 10-0 run gave the Hoosiers an early 12-6 lead. 
Four of Penn State's first five field goals were 3-pointers, then a basket and two free throws by Carnley and a 3­pointer by Stanley Pringle tied the game for the first time at 
22. After a turnover by Indiana, Pringle was fouled on a layup and converted the three.-point play with a free throw for a 25-22 lead. 
There were two more ties and three lead changes over the final 5 minutes of the first half. 
Gordon's fourth 3-pointer tied the game at 32, then Ellis stole the ball, was fouled and hit both free throws to put the Hoosiers back in front. After a turnover by Penn State, Lance Stemler hit a 3-pointer for the Hoosiers before Battle's basket in the final seconds made it 37-34 at the break. 
A 3-pointer by Battle gave Penn State its final lead at 52­51, and a basket by Cornley tied it for the final time at 54 before two straight baskets by White put Indiana ahead to stay. 
"Unfortunately, they hit some pretty deep 3s and pene­trated the zone, whieh allowed them to get some easy bas­kets," Carnley said. "Hight now, we're trying to figure out who's going to step up. We're searching right now." 
~--------­
Monday, January 21, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT 
(AVAILABLE FOR RENT STARTING JUNE 1, 2009) 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING ON LIVING IN A HOUSE OFF CAMPUS AND YOU DO NOT CONTACT US FIRST, YOU'RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO BE A NOTRE DAME STUDENT! 
WHY LIVE IN AN OLD, SMALL AND WORN~DOWN HOUSE WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT ONLY CONTAINS NEW, SPACIOUS HOUSES SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS? WHY LIVE IN AN APARTMENT WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A HOUSE WITH A BIG YARD? WHY PAY DEPOSITS 15~17 MONTHS IN ADVANCE? 
New 2,400 square feet (4 Bedrooms, 2 Vz Bathrootns) and 3,000 square feet (6 Bedromus, 3 Vz Bathrooms) brick hmnes close to campus with Dens, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Mud Room and Back Porch/Patio. Each home has the following main features: 
1. 
Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots/ pans, plates, cooking utensils, and dinnerware; 

2. 
Dining Room; 


3. 
Family Roon1 with fireplace; 

4. 
Mud Room with laundry center, including a washer and dryer; 

5. 
Hardwood ·flooring on entire main floor (except Mud Room); 

6. 
Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design features: 

* 
Fully carpeted 


* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror 


* Walk~in closet 

* Wired for cable television and internet service 

7. 
Each two students will share a porcelain~tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a steam shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring; 

8. 
Gas barbeque grill on Back Porch/Patio; 

9. 
Wireless internet service ready; 

10. 
Fire/Security Alarm System and locks with deadbolts for all exterior doors and all doors from staircase to bedroom areas; 

11. 
Top-of-th~line heating, air conditioning and other mechanical systems (the "Mechanical Systems"); 

12. 
The floors, ceilings and walls surrounding each bedroom and bathroom are completely insulated to reduce noise; 

13. 
Reduced utility costs because of the Mechanical Systems and the fact the homes are extremely well~insulated; 

14. 
Spacious yards; and 

15. 
Substantial parking available. 



For more information, contact Robert L. Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or (630) 88&7715. 
HURRY AND RESERVE YOUR HOUSE BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE! 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Pair of -weekend losses eclipse ilnproved titnes 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 

Notre IJame cam11 into the sea­
son with high expeetations but so 
f'ar has railed to produce msults, 
falling twice this weekend in dual 
meel'i. 

I•:ntnring llw weekend with a 3­4 record. tho No. 24 Irish strug­gled at home against Louisville. Arter tho 166-1 34 loss to the Cardinals f'or the first time in live years, the Irish headed to Evanston, Ill., to face No. 17 Northwestern. Notm Dame's per­. lilrmanco Iilli short. and the Irish 
lost to the Wildcal'i, 189-111. 

Dt1spitn the losses, Irish coach 
Tim Welsh said the weekend 
showed improvement in his 
ttmm. 

"We swam a lot faster this 
weekend," Welsh said. "If you 
think of the season as a proeess 
or getting fastnr, then we got bet­
ter and swam well this weekend. 
If you look at the season and 
gauge your progress only based 
on wins and losses, then we did­
n't improve this weekend. 

"We look at the entire season 
as a process of improving and 
sinee it is getting dose to champi­
onship time, our main goal is to 
bncome faster swimmers." 

Despite Friday's home loss, 
Irish junior Michael Bulfin broke 
a school diving previously set by 
Andy Maggio in 2002 with a 
scorn or 387.45 in the 3-meter boards. 
The Irish were quick, taking second place in most events, but Louisville swam faster. The only events the Irish dominated were the 1-meter and 3-meter board. The Irish took the top four spots in both events: Bulfin led, senior Sam Stoner took second, and freshman Eric Lex and senior Steven Crowe followed in third and fourth place in each event. 
After less than 24 hours of rest, the Irish swimmers hit the road to compete against Northwestern. The results were comparable to those of Friday's meet. 
Sophomore John Lytle led the Irish, grasping first place in both the 50-yard and 1 00-yard free. Bulfin, again, took lirst in the 3­meter boards, while freshman Nathan Geary and Stoner fin­ished in third and fourth place, rnspectively. 
This weekend, the Irish will host the Shamrock dual meet, where they will face defending Big East champion West Virginia. 
"This weekend is a major event for us," Welsh said. "It's our last home meet, it's our last dual meet and for seniors, it's their last meet in their home pool." 
The Irish will compete against unranked West Virginia at both 9 
a.m. and 4 p.m. Saturday at Rolf.<; Aquatic Center. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Dominant weekend for Irish 
Resounding victories against Penn State, Toledo highlight start of2008 
point. Junior Brett Helgeson and senior Sheeva Parbhu dominated Adam Slagter and Eddie Bouehier at the one doubles spot. 
"They return as well as any­body," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 

"Havens has played great for us. He has great timing and shot making, he will learn to play with more discipline." 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
Roth finished the top three singles sweep with a win over Bouchier 7-5,6-2. 
The four and five singles for the Irish both fell in tough matches. Havens fell 6­3, 6-2 to Lynch. David Anderson fell 
"They have made great improvements this season." 
Senior Andrew Hath and Stephen Havens defeated Michael James and James Dwyer, 8-4, in the first com­pleted doubles match. Santiago Montoya and Tyler Davis fell to Brendan Lynch and Hyan Gormley for the only Irish doubles loss. 
"Davis has made great adjustments, and flattened out his forehand, and battles well," Bayliss said. "Montoya in three sets to Hyan Gormley, 6-4, 3-6, 1-0 (10­
8). 

"llavens has played great for us," Bayliss said. "He has great timing and shot mak­ing, he will learn to play with more discipline. Anderson is learning to play net to complement his great groundstrokes." 
Daniel Stahl was able to pull out a tight match over Dwyer, 3-6, 7-6 (7-3), 1-0. 
The Irish defeated the Nittany Lions 5-2 in the early match. 
The Irish faced Toledo in the late match on Sunday. This was the 24th match between the two schools, and the Irish have dominat­ed the contests 22-2 all-time over the Hockets. The Irish defeated Toledo 7-0 last sea­son and continued their dominance in the nightcap. 
The Irish doubles teams dominated Toledo dropping only one match. 
Helgeson and Parbhu beat Chris Clark and Wade Ward 8-1 in the first match l'in­ished. Roth and Havens fell at number two doubles to Jared Miller and Knut Likitkumchorn 8-6. Davis and Montoya clinched the doubles point for the Irish with a 8-4 win over Sven Burus and Gursher Harika. 
In singles play, Bayliss flip­flopped Parbhu and Helgeson. The change was successful for the Irish and Parbhu won 6-2, 6-3 over Miller. Helgeson won at two singles 6-3, 6-4. 
Anderson, Havens, Stahl and Davis rounded out the Irish sweep of the Hockets. 
The Irish will stay home Sunday to take on Virginia at the Eck Tennis Pavilion starting at noon. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
ND nears conference meet 
Notre Dame takes down Big East rival Louisville, falls to Toledo 
By JARED JEDICK 
Spom Writer 
The Irish swimmers picked up a split this weekend, drubbing Big East rival Louisville on Friday, 187­113, before traveling to Toledo the next day for a dose-fought loss to the 
Hockets, 158.5-141.5. 
The swim­mers extended their all-time record against the Cardinals to a perfect 3­0 in a Big East match that the Irish hope is a sign of how things will be in the Big East championship in a month. 
"It is always great to beat an in-confer­

"It is always great to 
Hutchinson beat an in-conference won the 1,000-yard
team. This gave us a 
freestyle

look at some ofthe 
and the competition we will see 200-yard 
in the Big East, and butterfly. 
Freshman

that is always 
Lauren 

important" Parisi won the 100 and 200-yard
Joel White b a c k ­Irish coach 
ence team," assistant head coach Joel White said. "This gave us a look at some of the competition we will see in the Big East, and that is always important." 

·-.Junior Christa Higgins stole the show for the Irish against Louisville and is qui­etly putting together her best year. Higgins won four events, including the 200­yard freestyle, the 100-yard freestyle, the 200-yard freestyle-relay and the 200­yard medley relay. 
"Christa has been more consistent than ever before, and she would be the first to tell you that," White said. "She is much more in con­trol of her racing and that has us really fired up." 
The Irish were able to pull 
out the victory in many of the races. Junior C l a i r e 
strokes, 
freshman 

S a m Maxwell won the 50, 100 and 200-yard breaststrokes, freshman Amywren Miller won the 50-yard freestyle. .Junior Casey Wagner won the 500-yard freestyle. 
Despite their blowout of the Cardinals, the Irish know that the Big East championship will not be quite so easy. 
"We know that we are going to have our work cut out for us in a month," 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame had its first double-header of the 2008 season, sweeping Penn State and Toledo by 5-2 and 7-0 scores, respectively, on Sunday. 
The Irish opened the eon­test against the Nittany Lions by winning the doubles 
traveled with us last year, and has made great strides this season as well." 
Helgeson came back and dominated again in singles play, defeating Michael .James 6-1, 7-5, in a battle of big hitters. James is ranked No. 51 in the nation, while Helgeson is ranked No. 12. 
Parbhu also came up with a big singles win over Slagter, winning 6-4, 6-4. 
White said. "We are going to have to be at our peak." 
The Irish unexpectedly fell at the hands of Toledo the next day. 
"Toledo swam very well, much better than they've been all year, and they sur­prised us in that," White said. 
The Rockets evened up the all-time dual-meet record between the two schools at 1-1 and snapped Notre Dame's two-meet win streak. 
"We messed around with the line-up a little, tried some other people out in dif­ferent relays to see what they could do," White said. 
Lexi Shue was able to win the 1,000-yard freestyle and set a new pool-record in Toledo. Her time of 10:05.09 broke the previous record of 10:08.62, and was also a season best for Shue. 
Sam Maxwell continued to impress in the breaststroke, winning both the 100 and 200-yard breaststrokes once again. 
The Irish come home for their next meet against West Virginia in the Shamrock Invitational on Saturday. This will be Notre Dame's final regular season compe­tition before the Big East championship. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
fENCING 

Nelip a budding superstar epeeist 
women's epee squad in the 
By KEN FOWLER 

NCAA, was one of three Notre 
Spom Writer 

Dame fencers to medal. .Junior Karol Kostka captured the Notre Dame has a superstar bronze in the 250-competitor in epee. men's epee open competition, At least, that's the opinion of and freshman Hayley Heese the fencer's coach. took second in the junior Irish freshman Ewa Nelip (under-20) division of women's 
won the open division of the 

"[Winning] twice 
women's epee competition of means she is the North 
dominant and a 
American Cup in 

superstar. . . . We have
Atlanta this 

weekend, her a superstar now. " second straight NAC victory. 
Gia Kvaratskhelia 
"Winning one 

Irish assistant coach 
time, someone can be an acci­dent or just a good day," Irish assistant coach Gia Kvaratskhelia said from Atlanta. "But twice means she is dominant and a superstar.... We have a superstar now." 
Nelip won the last NAC event in Richmond, Va., in December. This win, however, solidifies her spot as a premier epeeist. 
The Cup included fencers from the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, all seeking to earn points to qualify for national team competitions and this season's World Championships. 
Nelip, who along with sopho­more Kelley Hurley appears set to become part of the top foil. 
"At this moment we have a great result because we get three medals in a big continental competition," Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski said from his 
Granger home Sunday night. 
Bednarski called the three podium finishes "great results" and added that he was happy with the performances of the other 11 members of his team competing, including that of freshman Avery Zuck. Zuck, who makes up a talented first­year men's sabre duo with Barron Nydam, was a finalist in the junior division of the sabre competition . 
The competition will con­clude today, with several weapons and divisions yet to finish. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Monday, January 21, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


12 prn -2:30 prn 
diversity reception 
How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a resume that markets your background and skills 
• 
Visit The Career Center in 248 Planner Hall during walk-in hours from I -4:45 pm daily for a 15 minutes resume review 

• 
Stop by "Resumes on the Run" January 22nd, 24th and 29th from I I :30 am-1:30 pm in LaFortune 


2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Attend a "Preparing for the Career Fair" workshop 

• 
Determine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list ofcompanies attending the fair on Go IRISH and compile your "Top 10" list ofcompanies to visit 

• 
Review the position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports, and new products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking, relationship-building skills 

• 
Develop your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, I'm ..(introduce yourself, your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is..(demonstrate knowledge ofcompany) 

• 
I'm interested because..(explain your interest in company) 

• 
1can..(match your skills with their needs) 




3. What to do the day of the fair 
• At the fair: 

• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies ofyour resume in a portfolio/folder to Gate 3 ofthe Joyce Center 

• 
Scan your 10 when you enter 

• 
Review the map ofemployer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview 

(i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the position, I am interested in speaking with you or one of your colleagues further. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule at The Career Center?") 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the fair 
• 
Ifyou obtain an interview: 

• 
Prepare by researching the company, it's indus­try, it's competitors, and the job or internship description on Go IRISH 

• 
Review The Career Center's Interview Guide and be sure to practice sample interviewing questions available online 

• 
Ifyou have a web cam, practice interviewing using "Interview Stream" at http:// careercenter.nd.edu/for-undergrads/resumes­cover-letters-interview 



• 
Within 3 days ofthe fair, send an email thank-you to the 



recruiters with companies of interest from which you reparing for an interview, and much more: collected business cards 
http://careercenter.nd.edu 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Bellesbest Tri-State in tight tnatchup 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sporrs Writer 

Despite first-half struggles, the Belles came together in the sec­ond half to defeat Tri-State 7 4­71 Saturday at Angela Athletic Facility. 
The win, the Belles' second in a row by three points, pulled them to 8-7 overall and 4-3 in the MIAA. This was also Saint Mary's second victory over Tri­State this year, -the first came when they won 82-68 at Tri­State on Dec. 8. 
Tho Thunder began the game on a 7-0 run, led by guard Sarah Howe and forward Kristnn .Julian. Tri-State led for tho entire first half. The Belles narrowed the gap to four, end­ing the half down 36-32, but didn't lc~ad until sophomore Anna Kammrath seored 3:57 into tho second half, to go up 
:~<J-38. 

In thn second half, Saint Mary's looked to increase the tempo of' the game through numerous fast breaks initiated by junior Meghan Conaty, who finislwd with six assists. The junior point guard fed the ball lo her post players, most notably junior forward Erin Newsom, who finishnd with 15 points. 
Newsom not only displayed her ability to seore in the paint, but also showed ofT an accurate mid-rangn jumper that kept the Belles in the game. 
After the Kammrath lay-up, the game became a back-and­forth contest, with the two 
ND INDOOR TRACK 

Irish earn spots at Opener 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO and 
ANDY ZICCARELLI and 
ANDY BARKER 
Sports Wrilers 

Notre Dame sent a clear message that it didn't let up its intensity over winter break by earning Big East qualifica­tions in sprint, distance and field events this weekend at the Notre Dame Indoor Opener. 
The short and middle sprints gave a boost to the Irish. Freshman Miklos Szebeny in the 60-meter meter dash. sophomore Jeff Farnell in the 200-meter dash and freshman Austin Wechter in the 500­rneter dash all finished in the top thrnn with Big liast cham­pions h i p q u a I i fy i n g times . S1~nior Jose Genao and fresh­man Matt Moore also qualified for thn Big East med in the 60-mntnr hurdles. 
Thn Irish also ran wnll in the distance raens. Junior Daniel Clark and freshman Spnncer Carter ran strong mile times, finishing first and fourth rnspnelively. Sophomore Balazs Molnar. junior Billy Buzaid and sophomore Jack lloward made a dean sweep in the 800-meter dash, coming out first, sneond and third, respectively. Senior Jamal Afridi and sophomore Jim Notwnll also impressed com­petitors by c:oming out on top in the 1000-meter run. 
Field events also played a part in sealing the team's suc­cess at the meet. With impres­sive jumps, sophomore Eric Quick qualified for the Big East in both the triple and long jump, improving his per­sonal record. Also, freshmen throwers Denes Veres and Greg Davis qualified for the Big East and dominated the shot put and weight throw respectively. 
Notre Dame hasn't competed in six weeks, but it didn't show this weekend as the Irish took first in multiple events at the Notre Dame Indoor Opener. 
"We wanted to use Friday night's competition to see where we are after the long break," said Notre Dame coach Tim Connelly. 
With the return of senior Sunni Olding and freshman Marissa Treece, the women's mile was once again a strong event for the Irish. Treeee ran the best time of the season for tho Irish, 5:01.96. good for seeond place in the event. 
Amy Kohlmeier and ()[ding finished just seconds behind Treece to claim third and fourth, respectively. All three runners qualified for the Big East championships in February with their times. 
Thrower Anna Weber also gave a strong performance for Notre Dame with wins in the weight throw with a toss of 58-3 and the shot put with a throw of 44-11?. Weber had already qualified for the Big East championships, but these marks improved her standing among the competition. 
The Irish also dominated the 
KELL 1 Belles point guard Meghan Conaty guards a Tri-State defender dur­ing a 74-71 Saint Mary's win Sunday. 
teams exchanging leads five limes before the Belles finally look a 74-71lead on a 3-pointer by junior guard Katie Hashid with 1:18 left. 
After dodging the Thunder's last-second attempt to tie, Saint Mary's celebrated their first at home since Dec. 28 against Kenyon. 
Senior guard Alison Kessler followed up her school-reeord 41-point performance against Kalamazoo with 16 points against the Thunder. Rashid netted 11 of her own to round out the Belles' leading seorers. 
Many second-ehance points 
and fast breaks sprung forth from superb rebounding from Belles forwards Newsom and Kammrath, who combined for 25 boards. 
Becky Newsom came off the bench to deliver 12 points and five rebounds in a perfeet shoot­ing performance, going three-. for-three from the lield and con­verting all six of her free throws. 
Saint Marys' next game will be Wednesday at Calvin, where they will try to avenge a 67-52 loss earlier in the season. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

long jump. The top three jumpers in the event were all from Notre Dame, led by Jaime Minor and her jump of 16-10 ?. Right behind her was Mary Saxer and Jasmine Williams. Saxer also won the pole vault event with a mark of 3.4 meters. 
The Irish sprinters also found great success in Friday's meet. In the 400­meter race, Joanna Schultz and Cora Dayan claimed the top two spots for the Irish. Schultz finished with a time of 
56.87 seconds with teammate Dayan just a step behind her. Schultz also took second in the 200-meter later in the meet. 
Kelly Langhans took first in 
the 800-meter  - her first  
event of the year ­ and quali­ 
fied  her  for  the  Big  East  

championship. Teammate Natalie Johnson also ran well for the Irish claiming third in the event. 
In the 1,000-meter run, Jacqueline Carter clocked in at 2:57.41, which was good for third place and a spot in the Big East championships. 
With the return of Carter, Kohlmeier, Treece and Olding from injuries and illnesses, the Irish should be ready and at full strength for their next meet, Friday's Notre Dame Invitational. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu and Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu and Andy Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 

Olivet, Hillsdale inch pastSaintMary'sinpool 
Despite the losses, there
By PETE REISENAUER 

were strong performances by
Sports Writer 

individuals in both matches this weekend. On Friday night, Saint Mary's was a few relays Casey Niezer was able to win and a couple of inches short of the 1 00-yard race and was just 
two victories over the week­end. 

"Two close losses 
The tables 

might leave us
turned against the Belles in the hungry enough to match against 
become a far better 
Olivet on Friday 

program than a
night when the Belles' record win-loss record 
setting 200-could ever reflect., 
yard medley relay was ealled 

Ryan Dombkowski
back due to an early handoff. Belles coach In the match Saturday, Saint 
Thursday, January 24 
7:30 P\.M., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tiaditional dance and 
music play a very 
imponam role in the 
lives ofRwamlans. Berwa, 
ml"aning "bt~ proud," is 
a Rwandan dance group 
comprised ofmostly 
first-generation Americans 
ofRwandan decem rhar 
strives to promote [heir 
culture by providing moral, 
spiritual, and physical 
support to its members. 


beaten out in the 200. Caroline Arness and Jen Lebidez both had season best times and per­formed well in the 200-yard !ly. 
Dombkowski said freshman Molly Schall had a lifetime best swim in the 500-yard freestyle. 
On Saturday night, junior captain Melissa Gerbeth, who was victorious in both the 1650 and 500-yard freestyle. led St. Mary's. Hillsdale was able to win night of the 13 events but the race came down to the last half second. 
The relay team was .41 sec­onds behind the Hillsdale team, leading to a loss for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's next match is on Friday night against Calvin College who is currently ranked No. 4 in NCAA Division III. 
Mary's came within six points of beating rival Hillsdale, but fell short in a few critieal raees. 
Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski hopes the losses will help bring his team togeth­er and that they can learn what it takes to become a great program. 
"We know now that we are right on the cusp of becoming a great program, now we just have to be willing to put in that extra efl"ort to push us over the top," Dombkowski said. "Two close losses might leave us hungry enough to become a far better program than a win-loss record could ever reflect." 
Contact Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

Monday, January 21, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, January 21, 2008 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
Saturday the two teams faced off in The Palace at Auburn Hills in what was teehnically an Irish home game. It was the sixth time Notre Dame has played at The Palace, five times against Michigan, and all resulted in losses. 
In the first game on Friday, Notre Dame jumped out to a 2­0 lead in the first period on goals from forwards Kevin Deeth and Justin White. Deeth scored 3:33 into the game when his wrist shot deflected ofT a defenseman's stick and over Michigan goaltender Billy Sauer. White's goal came two minutes later on a two-on-one when Irish winger Ryan Guentzel drew the defender toward him, opening White up for the pass and goal. 
They were the last goals the Irish would score as the Wolverines netted two in the second from Kevin Porter and Matt Hust to tie the game 2-2. 

"We have to start doing more battling in the front of the net," .Jackson said. "We've been playing against very good goal­tenders.... We can try to work on those things in practice, but it's going to boil down to guys getting gritty in front of the 
Road woes 

continued from page 24 
that bad of a game," sopho­more point guard Tory .Jackson said. "Wn missed a lot of open shots. The game would have benn a lot closer if we had knocked down shots." 
Despite shooting poorly, the Irish kept the contest dose early, taking the lead 17-16 on a three pointer by sopho­more guard .Jonathan Peoples with IJ:50 left in the llrst half. 
Georgetown (14-2, 4-1 Big 1\ast) took the lead back on the next possession and then scored tlw next 13 points to net." 
With 20 seconds left in the game. Michigan forward Louie Caporusso banged home a rebound past Irish goalie Jordan Pearce (25 saves) to give the Wolverines the 3-2 win. 
"We lost the draw and lost coverage," Jackson said. "It was just an uncharacteristic thing that happened, we just lost sight of the guy we were covering." 
Jackson replaced Pearce in net with 17 -year-old freshman Brad Phillips for Saturday's 5-1 loss in the Palace, starting only his fifth game of the season behind the junior Pearce. Phillips lasted two periods, allowing four goals on 19 shots, before Pearce was put back in net for the third. Pearce allowed no goals on 10 shots in the third. 
"I had to put the young kid in to see how he would do in that environment," Jackson said. "I basically know what I'm going to get from Jordan Pearce. I need Jordan to elevate his game another level. I needed to see if Phillips could handle it, and he probably put a lot of pressure on himself." 
Michigan scored two goals in the first and two more in the second to get a 4-1 lead going into the third. The Wolverines added the fifth on an empty-net goal. 
The lone Notre Dame goal of the night was scored at 14:38 of the first period by freshman Ben Hyan, who got an open pass in front of the net from sophomore Dan Kissel to tie the game at 1-1. 
One large part of Notre Dame's lack of offense has been its inability to convert on power play chances. In Friday's 3-2 loss, the Irish were given a five­minute man advantage just two minutes into the third period when Michigan defenseman Chris Summers was whistled for checking from behind. 
The major penalty came when the game was deadlocked 2-2. but the Irish couldn't get one shot on net during the power play. 
"We have to start doing more away from the puck," Jackson said. "Defensively, we've been good, we haven't given up a lot. The problem is until last night, if we score one power play goal a game. we'd probably be 7-1 [since break]. 
"[The power play is] in our minds. Everybody's talking about it, everybody's making a big issue on it. Eventually one is going to go in off a skate or off our butt and we're going to start being productive again." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

break the game open. out of the paint and away Notre Dame was unable to from Hibbert. The Hoyas stop the Georgetown post responded by shooting from 
offense. Led by 7 -foot-2 center Hoy Hibbert, who "We missed a lot of 
scored 13 open shots. The game 
points in the 
would have been a lot
l"irst half and l"inished with closer if we had 
2 1 , knocked down shots. " 
Georgetown seored 30 
Tory Jackson 
points in the paint before Irish guard halftime and took a 38­
the outside ­and making six of their nine 3-point attempts after the break. Notre Dame never got clos­er than 12 points in the second half. 
In addition to Hibbert, three other Georgetown 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 

than we usually have, we got a lot of layups." 
At the 12:50 mark in the second half, freshman Brittany Mallory hit a 3­pointer off a fast break that started the Irish on a 24-10 rush over the Hoyas. Mallory led the Irish in scoring, 
going for 14 points in what McGraw called "her career night." The freshman guard hails f r o m Baltimore and drew home support at Saturday's game. 
"We had a really big crowd with 

"Ashley Barlow was game, giving 
really outstanding. the Hoyas the opportunity to
She was our leading 
go 17-for-25 
scorer, and she 
from the line. really shot the ball But going 6~ percent from
extremely well 
the line wasn't
offensively. " 
enough to k e e p Muffet McGraw Georgetown in the game as
Irish coach 
Brittany being from here and Devereaux Peters having a lot of family," McGraw said. "The Notre Dame Club [of Washington, D.C.] really turned out for us too, so we probably had more fans then [Georgetown] did, which was nice. That really helped us." 
The game wasn't all about big numbers from the Irish. I-Ioya Kieraah Marlow had a career-high 34 points and finished with 13 rebounds. Kristin Heidloff and Meredith Cox also aided in Georgetown's drive, posting double figures with 14 and 10 points, respectively. Marlow's performance demonstrated a need for 
Louisville 
continued from page 24 

Notre Dame picked up two more straight-set wins at the hands of junior Katie Potts and Hielley. Potts defeated Van Aerde 7-5, 6-1, bringing her record to 8-1 
improvement in the Irish defense. 
"We've got a lot of work to do defensively," McGraw said. "Marlow had a career night for Georgetown tonight." 
One key defensive area for the Irish is limiting the num­ber of fouls they commit. Peters fouled out with 4:46 left in the second half and Ashley Barlow finished the game with four. Notre Dame allowed· 22 fouls on the 
Notre Dame 
already lead 91-73 when Peters fouled out. Despite reaching four fouls, Barlow, shone on offense as she lead the Irish with 21 points. 
"Ashley Barlow was really outstanding," McGraw said. "She was our leading scorer, and she really shot the ball extremely well offensively." 
Erica Williamson, Lindsay Schrader, Melissa Lechlitner and Becca Bruszewski rounded out the seven Irish players to reach double fig­ures, combining to give Notre Dame a huge offensive win. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Throughout the course of the season we'll have some of the girls pick up nagging injuries and the fact that we're healthy and in good shape has a great deal to do with our success." 
Despite the resounding victory, the Irish are already looking ahead. "We're feel­25 lead into the locker room. 
At halftime, Irish coach Mike Brey switched to a 2-:~ zone to try to keep the ball players scored in double fig­ures. Guard DeJuan Summers put in 17, while forwards Austin Freeman and Jessie Sapp added 16 and 14 respectively. 
The lloyas shot 53 percent from the field. 
The Irish were led by soph­omore forward Luke Ilarangody, who scored 13 points but shot only 3-of-13 from the field. llarangody was hold well below his sea­son average of 18.9 points by Hibbert and the other Georgetown big men. 
Guards Kyle McAiarney and Peoples also scored in double figures. Peoples' 12 points were a career-high. 
With the win, Georgetown sits alone in first place in the Big East at 4-1 in eonl"erm1ce play. The Irish fell into a six­way tie for third at 3-2. Two teams -Cincinnati and DePaul -sit half a game back of the Hoyas in second place at 4-2. 
"Wp're not going to put our heads down," Jackson said. "It's a long season. Wn still have a shot at being number one in the Big East." 
The Irish will have another chance to redeem themselves on the road in their next game, Saturday against No. 21 Villanova in Philadelphia. The Wildcats are 13-:1 overall this season and are one of the five teams tied with Notre Dame at 3-2 in the confer­ence. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


this season. "We need to take Hielley took 
responsibility for 
on Gorbea 6-2. 

our inconsistencies
7-5 to !"inish orr the day, as lately." she improved her standing 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
to 7-3 on the 

Belles coach 
year. Louderback attributes the 

ing positive about the win today," Louderbaek said. 
"Next WPPk we go to Vanderbilt and thny'n• 
·six t n en t h  in  
the nation  so  
we  h a V(~  to  

stay focusnd 
on what we nnnd to do." 

The Irish will return to action Saturday against No. 16 Vandnrbilt at the Currny Tennis Center in Nashville, Tenn. 
solid performance against Louisville to his players' conditioning. 
"I think the main thing is that our girls wont into Christmas break and played good tennis to stay in shape," he said. "And all our playt~rs are healthy. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALLARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES
'?!/ 

-¥ 
Sell Trips, Earn Cash ;,;:::L 70'~~~ 
&Travel Free ·:.! i<:J ~#r.'lrs 
1-800-648-4849 
www.dstrnvel.c:om 

Monday, January 21, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
A850t-UTei,...Y. THeN AFTel2 THAT YOU :SHOUL-D GeT A TtMe MACHINe ANt:> GO SACK TO THe 90'5---WHeN TI218At.. 8ANt:>5 We12e COOl..--­

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one 
• letter to each square, 
to form four ordiAary words. 
FROOL 
I [ J [] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
JETEC 
[ J I 
SIPHOL 
WHAT HAPPE:NE:D WHE:N SHE: WE:NT OUT WITH THe: AIR­
[l] [] 
www.jumble.com 
C.ONDITIONING SAl-E:SMAN.
tDILFED I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
J rJ rJ 
A: 

HE rI I I JrI I J.. rI I I J.. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: CHIME DIZZY EMBALM MANAGESaturday's 
Answer: When the little Indians got lost, the cornfield became a-MAIZE MAZE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRiTIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Questlove, 37; Gary Barlow, 37; Bill Maher, 52; David Lynch, 62 
Happy Birthday: You can make some interesting business and personal partnership changes. You will be sensitive to the needs of others and what will and won't work for everyone involved in your life. This is a year to reevaluate what you have done and to recognize what you can do in the future. The hard work you put in this year will pay off. Your numbers are 2, 6, 24, 27, 40,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't take a chance when it comes to family and friends. If someone is looking for a fight, back off and put your energy into something produc­tive or fun. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone will surprise you. Join in and have some fun, even if it isn't something you bargained for. In the end, the benefits will far outweigh anything else. An unusual opening or offer is heading your way. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone you meet will influence your way of thinking or doing things. Make sure you aren't a copycat and are following through because you feel it's best for you. Be sure your motives are valid. 3 stars 
WILLSHORTZ
CROSSWORD 
Across 28 Where you might 58 Young cod for get into hot dinner
John _,host of "America's 
water? 60 F.D.R. job­Most Wanted'' 31 Schiaparelli of creating fashion 
measure: Abbr. 
6 "Jeopardy!" whiz 62 "Famous" cookie 
Jennings 34 Cigarette maker
substance9 "Hey, you!" 

63 Gangly guy35 Interlocks 13 2600 65 Fruit from a37 Bride's bounty (classic video palm
game console) 39 Meadow 
66 "Don't hurt rne!." 14 St. Louis 41 Bird on birth e.g. landmark announcement 
67 Straight up 15 Voice above a 
cards 68 Laid off. as 

tenor 42 Comes about workers 
16 Appetizer with 44 Wrigley's 69 Wood in archery sweet and sour product bows sauce 46 S. & L. 
70 Copenhageners, e.g.
conveniences Fossey 47 All U.S. senators 
18 Gorilla watcher Downuntil192219 Frightful female Do the laundry48 Monotonous 20 Puccini heroine 2 Even, on the
voice 21 Cheerful leaderboard
51 Birds flying in 3 Slow, in
22 Take turns V's symphonies
24 Dangler on a 53 Has confidence 4 Lanka Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 
in 5 Merely suggest 
suitcase 
26 Deadly long-56 Beverly Sills and 29 Straight-to-curly 40 Home of the von 56 1920s art tailed fish others transformation, Trapp family movement
6 Ray who created the McDonald's informally 43 Bra's sibling 57 Giant-screen 
empire theater
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 30 Poses questions 45 Lamebrain 
7 Custardy dessert 59 Backstage 
31 Dutch city with a 49 Get cozy 

8 Rink org. cheese market bunch 50 Prodded gently 
9 City where 32 Oral tradition 61 Tiny tunnelers 52 Lessened, as
Galileo taught 33 Make-or-break 63 Mata Hari, for
pain

10 Goliath's election bloc one 
5411-or 12-year­

undoing 36 Does' mates 64 Top half of a
old 11 Baseball's 

38 Sf and oui 55 Rocket's realm bikini Musial 
12 Broadway award For answers. call 1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a
14 Weapons stash credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
17 "Oh, I see" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday21 Eyelid nuisances 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 23 Romanov rulers 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 25 River blocker past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 27 One of the Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Allman Brothers solvers: nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional matters will surface and someone you have to deal with will overreact. Try your best to listen before you say something you may live to regret. Someone you respect may be able to shed light on your situation. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A rather sudden change in your financial situation may lead to unrealistic spending. Double check your balance before you hit the stores. Being gen­erous is a nice gesture but not if it will cause you unnecessary worry. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make some fabulous changes to your living quar­ters today by using your expertise, your eye for a good deal and all the help you can muster up from friends and relatives. Change is good when the end result gives you a new lease on life. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Talk, travel and learning something new should all be pen­ciled in. Your creative insight and enthusiasm will result in an interesting idea and pos­sibly a profitable proposal. Don't let emotional issues spoil your plans. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If you really want to do something, go it alone but do follow through. You don't have to rely on others as much as you think you do. It's up to you, not anyone else to make things happen and move along. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be looking for action and anyone who slows you down had better watch out. You will be in a fighting mood not likely to budge. Make sure you've covered all the bases before you forge ahead. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Set a new budget or financial game plan that will help you get all the little extras you want in your life. You deserve to be pampered for a change. Now is the time to start to plan for your future. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make some very interesting observations that will lead to decisions that will shape your future. Your personal life can take a tum for the better if you reassess your happiness and decide what's required to satisfy your needs. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't let love confuse you or anyone talk you into doing things you don't want to do. Trust your own heart. Not everyone will like the choices you make but it's you who has to live with them. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional and sensitive, a great friend and a warm compan­ion. You can differentiate between what you want and wh;lt you need. You are great at finding solutions. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astrOadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, January 21, 2008 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

ND loses twice to UM; fifth loss in eight games 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The No. 8 Irish were arguably one of the hottest teams in the nation entering the Christmas break, but since the return from the holidays Notre Dame has been anything but. 

The Irish (18-9-1, 11-6-1 CCIIA) have gone 2-5-1 in that stretch, including 3-2 and 5-1 losses this weekend on the road to No. 1 Michigan. The ofl'ense has scored only 14 goals in eight games, and the power play unit was unable to convert on its nine chances against the Wolverines (22-2, 15-1 CCIIA), extending its futile streak to eight games and 39 chances. 
''I've been concerned about this since last week," Notre Dame eoach Jell' Jackson said. "It's not an issue of us playing brutal. We're playing fairly well, we're just not getting enough ofl'ensive oomph in our game." 
Notre Dame and Michigan played Friday's game in Yost Arena in Ann Arbor, but on 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 

Cold as ice 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Irish forward Calle Ridderwall evades defenders during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Bowling Green on Nov. 20 at the Joyce Center. The Irish lost twice this weekend to No. 1 Michigan. 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish dUlllp 104 points onHoyas 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 

As the halftime buzzer sounded, senior Charel Allen hit a 3-pointer to give Notre Dame the 48-42 lead and the momentum to pull off a 104­86 win over Georgetown Saturday in Washington, D.C. 
Allen, who finished with 14 points, was one of seven Irish players to score double digits and help the Irish break 100 points on the road for the first time in school history. 
Notre Dame emerged from the locker room in the second half with a six-point lead and never looked back. The Irish shot 72 percent from the field in the second half en route to their victory over the Hoyas. The game gave the Irish a chance to do what they do best-run the ball. 
"We were trying to run, we like to run, push the ball and transition," Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said. "We just had a lot more opportunities 
see HOYAS/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Road woes trail team still 
Georgetawn dominates in post to seal victory 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
The road has not been kind 

to Notre Dame. 
The Irish (13-4, 3-2 Big East) fell to 2-4 on the sea­son away from the Joyee C11nter with an 84-65 loss to No. 6 Georgntown Saturday at thn Verizon Center in Washington, D.C. 
The loss eame just one week after a similarly dis­hnartening road defeat, 92­66 at the hands of Marquette in Milwaukee. Notre Dame is 11-0 at home this season, but has yet to capture that same swagger in other ven­ues. 
Senior captain Hob Kurz said he bnlieves the Irish have it in tlwm to win on the road. 
"We're going to get this right," lw said. "We've got seven more road games." 
But first thny'll have to 11x their shooting. Against the lloyas, Notre Dame made just :n percent or its shots from tlHl f'ield, including going 7-for-25 from behind the 3-point arc. 
"I feel like we didn't play 
see ROAD WOES/page 22 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 9 Notre Dame tops Cardinals 6-1 on road 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Looking to build on their success this fall, No. 9 Notre Dame kicked off the 2008 dual match season Sunday with a solid 6-1 victory over Louisville at the Bass-Rudd Tennis Center in Louisville, Ky. 
"It was a great start," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "It was good to go on the road into unfamiliar environment and come out on top. Louisville is much better than they were last year. They have much better depth, and to beat them on the road was big for us." 
Notre Dame started off in doubles play, picking up the point in convincing fashion. 
Improving to 12-2 on the year, the duo of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft defeated Cardinals junior Bianca Gorbea and sopho­more Natalia Baez 8-4. 
The No. 50 pair of sopho­mores Kali Krisik and Colleen Rielley improved to 5-1 on the season, besting Louisville sophomore Lauren Imre and junior Lindsey Jones 8-5. 
Although the doubles point had been secured, the tag­team of sophomore Cosmina 
Ciobanu and freshman Kristen Hafael also improved to 5-1 on the season, and made it a clean sweep for the Irish in doubles play with their 8-7 triumph over sopho­more Jo-Ann Van Aerde and senior Hobyn White. 
Heading into singles play with a 1-0 lead, the Irish did­n't hold back and continued their aggressive approach, picking up five more points on the path to victory. 
Krisik disposed of freshman Katherina Tomalak in straight sets, 6-3, 6-2. The sophomore made it 2-0 for Notre Dame, while improving her record to 10-2 on the year. 
Kelcy Tefft kept the Irish momentum rolling with a 6-0, 6-2 straight-set victory over Baez. Tefft is now 5-3 on the year and, more importantly, gave her team another valu­able point. 
With Louisville's chances of' winning then unlikely, Ciobanu put an end to the notion of a Cardinals come­back. The sophomore clinched the match with her 6-2, 6-3 straight-set victory over lmre to improve her standing to 12-4 on the sen­
SOIL 

After clinching the match, 
see LOUISVILLE/page 22 




