,~~~-~-----------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 43: ISSUE 25 . MONDAY. SEPTEMBER29, 2008 
New research park breaks ground 
Facilities will support high-level research; first building to be finished in 2009 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame joined forces with the South Bend community Friday to break ground on the construction of Innovation Park at Notre Dame, a technology park focused on transform­ing high-level research from theory to practical application, University Provost Thomas Burish said at the groundbreaking ceremony. 
The aim of the park is to "facilitate the transformation of innovative ideas into viable marketplace ventures," according. to the company's mission statement. · 
Innovation Park will foster research in areas such as aerospace, the envi­ronment, nanoelectronics, life sciences and more, Burish said. 
It will be a learning environment for students and will hopefully make South Bend more economically vibrant, he said. 
see PARK/page 6 


SaffitMary's professor writes body image book 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Ask any woman about her per­sonal feelings towards her body and odds are that she is discon­tented about something. Body dis­satisfaction is most commonly associated with eating disorders, but it encompasses much more, Bettina Spencer, associate profes-­sor of psychology said. Terri Russ, an associate professor at Saint Mary's College set out to prove just that, she said. 
Russ's book "Bi***n' Bodies; Young Women Talk About Body Dissatisfaction" started as a semi­nar essay for a elass on friend­ship in the fall of 2000, she said. Thinking she would find a myriad of information about friendship and body dissatisfaction, she was surprised at the lack of available information, Huss said. 
"There was information about ways the media affects how women view themselves and about eating disorders," Russ said. "But there was nothing about how women live with body dissatisfaction. how they talk about it." 
Eight years later, her research has developed into hor first solo publication, she said. 
see BOOK/page 4 


Duncan reveals 'Highlander' mascot 
By ROBERT SINGER 
Sports Writer 
A band of highlanders from Duncan Hall breached the gates of the Joyce Center on Friday evening to help host the pep rally. The other host dorms were Lyons Hall, St. Edward's Hall, Walsh Hall, Lewis Hall and Badin Hall. 
Though the name "Highlander" was announced a week ago, it marked the first time that the Duncan mascot has been displayed to the pub­lic. 
Many Duncan Hall residents in attendance sported T-shirts bearing the official design, a silhouette of the Scottish war­rior. Others heeded the battle cry, donning kilts and war paint and arming themselves with plastic swords and shields. 
They were pleased with their mascot, emphasizing its toughness. 
"It's intimidating; it's Braveheart meets Notre Dame," senior Graham Austin said. 
Other Duncan residents at the pep rally commented that the choice was a good fit for their dorm's Scottish heritage. 
see DUNCAN/page 6 


Gryffindor defeats Slytherin on Stepan Fields 
ND students organize, play Quidditch game 
by magic," junior Tamuto Takakura, of Gryffindor, said. 
Takakura, and nine other Notre Dame students suited up in their Quidditch robes ­meaning regular atluetic apparel and capes of either scarlet or forest green-to play the magi­cal sport, adapted, of course, for Muggles. 
Junior Tim Latham, who played for Slytherin, told The Observer how one plays the game -typically played on fly­ing broomsticks -on land. 
"Exactly the way you would if you were a wizard," he said. "Except you put a broom between your legs and run 
see QUIDDITCH/page 4 

ByJENN METZ News Editor 
If you paid attention to the scoreboard during Saturday's Irish victory over the Boilermakers of Purdue, you would have seen something strange appear between the results of other football games across the nation: Gryffindor: 170, Slytherin 60. 
No, you weren't dreaming. 
The score of a land Quidditch match, based on the immensely popular game for wizards, was displayed Saturday, much to the surprise of the members of the rival House teams. 
"I guess the score got up there 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
First election debate dravvs ND viewers 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

The Coleman-Morse Lounge is usually deserted weekend nights, except for the presence perhaps of a few stalwart studiers, but last Friday the lounge was packed with Notre Dame students and some parents for the first presidential debate. 
Similar scenes played out across campus in lounges and dorm rooms and throughout South Bend in apartments and houses, as students started off their weekends by tun­ing into the first matchup between Democratic candidate Sen. Barack Obama and Republican Sen. John McCain. 
Jim Lehrer, PBS news anchor, moderated the debate. The first of three scheduled debates between the two candidates focused on foreign policy and national secu­rity -as well as questions about the finan­
see DEBATE/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 29, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ethan: 'Lost' and found 
l·:tlmn. I tl10ught you wern out of my life fimwer. 
I.<L'it year. over Chri<;tma'i break, I had my torL<;il<; removed <Uid a dBviated septum fix•~ in my ni>Sfl. For a few weeks, I could­n't do much except eat soft food, pop Percocet like it wa'i 
c<mdy and watch "Lost." 
I never got into "Lost" when it first premiered, but when I was stuck at home in the recliner, I decided it would be a good time to check 


it out. Chris Hine 
Like milliorL'i of 
others (no pun 

mum · •· ded), I be Editor-in-Chief
.crune 
in.,t.<mtly hook1~. 
<md stay<~ up late at 
night watching the DVDs. 

For thosn ofyou who aren't fans ofthe show, Etlmn was an "other," or someone who wa'i on the islcmd belom the plane r.m<;hed in tlw first epL'iode. 
lie gave me nightmares. lie tried to alxluct. Clain~. a prq.,'Il<Ult woman on the ishmd. then, he tried to kill another charac­l.l~r. ( :harlie. 
But what really got to me wa'i hi<; face. 

I !than just had this lam that scared the crap out me. And when you're watching 'IV at 2. a.m.. all tl1n lighl<; are oil' ;md ew~ryone's <L<;]Bep, sneing Etlum's laen, full ofmysterioll'ily bad intentions, is enough 1.11 smut •:hills up your spine. 
Whon I wa'i younger, I hal.l~d the dark. I dnmded having 1.11 tum oil'aU t11o lighl'i and walk up our stairs by myself, completely in the dark. I never felt that way lbr years­tlwn I saw Ethan. For about a week. as I walked up the steps, I W<L<; aJraid that Etlmn, hi<; c:rnepily 1-,rrinning lace illuminat­ed by the glow ofa night.light, wa'i waiting to kill me at tlm top oftlm stairca'in. 
Then, (spoiler alert) a.ltnr a fi~w more episodes and few nighl<; ofwaking up in a mid sweat, Charlie killnd Eili<UI. Now, Even when Etlmn shows up in a fh.,hback, I don't care hl~cause I know he gets killed. So no more worries -until now. 
Etl1an L<; still alive. I low do I know? I saw him getting lunch in South Dining I Ia.ll on Friday. 
I wa'i walking out ofilie Dl I wiili two frinnds, h11ili ofwhom aro also "Lost" fans, whnn we spotted him n~a.king his way around tho station'>. I have troubln wiili lams, but not hi'i. Tlw second I saw it I knew it wa<; him and so did my friends. But why would he hi~ at Notre Dame'? 
It tum'> out Ethan L'i played by an actor mun1~ William Mapothnr, who, according 
1.11 his ollidal website, graduated from Notrn Dcune in 1987 with a degree in English Ul.l~rature. Dm1 Murphy, an Obsorver sporl'i ~~itor, told me Mr. Mapother spoke to one ofhL'i classes last week, and I'm sure he stayed for the foot­ball game. 
I rngrnt this now, but I didn't approach Mr. Mapoilier to say "hi" or l.l~ll him ahlmt all tlw nightmares he gave me a few monilis ago. Plus, I'm surn he's probably tirnd of people saying "I ley, arn you l•:ilian." I'm sure he'll hi~ hearing enough of that the rnst of hL'i !iff~. 
Th<mk.liJlly, I've slept ilin pa'it two nighl<> without any problems. but my mind will never hi~ completely at ea'iC. 
Even if he is a Domer, Eilian is still out there. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and mives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU GOT TO MEET SARAH PALIN IN PERSON, WHAT WOULD YOU SAY? 






Jennl Ross  David Onuscheck  Tim Scallen  Jared McBrady  Matt Thomas  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  junior Knott  junior Knott  
"/can see  "/ think global  '"Hot for  "Will you marry  "Will you marry  
Canada from  warming is God  teacher.' by  me?"  him?"  

my house." hugging us VanHalen. " 
closer too. " 
Woman finds bat In coffee filter after drinking 
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa-It wasn't just the caffeine that gave an Iowa woman an extra jolt after she had her morning coffee. It was also the bat she found in the fil­ter. 
The Iowa Department of Public Health says the woman reported a bat in her house but wasn't too worried about it. She turned on her automatic coffee maker before bedtime and drank her coffee the next morning. 
She discovered the bat in the filter when she went to clean it that night. The 
TODAY 
a: 

and trespassing. 
The 4 7 -year-old Higgins was arrested Wednesday morning after a security guard found him walking on the field in a Dodgers uni­form and holding a glove with two balls. Higgins allegedly identified himself as a Dodgers player, but the guard recognized him from an earlier incident and called police. 
Prosecutors say Higgins' clothes were later found in the bat boys' locker room. It was not immediately clear where he got the uniform. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
woman has undergone treatment for possible rabies. 
Health officials say that the bat was sent to a lab but that its brain was too cooked by the hot water to determine whether it had rabies. 
Man steals uniform, poses as Dodger 
LOS ANGELES -A man faces criminal charges for allegedly stealing a uniform from Dodger Stadium and posing as one of the team's players. 
Ronald Higgins pleaded not guilty to several charges Friday, including burglary 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
L&.l :::1: 
~ 
L&.l 
3: 
0,,,,,,,_, 
,,,,,,,
c( 
ee
(,) 0 
HIGH 71 HIGH. 56 HIGH 61 HIGH 64
..... 
LOW 55 LOW 52 LOW 48 LOW 43 
IN BRIEF 

A lecture entitled, "Women & Conflict: Does Transitional Justice Have a Gender?" on Monday from 12 to 1:30 p.m. wil be given by Nabla Valji, of the Transitional Justice Programme, Centre for the Study of Violence and Heconciliation, Cape Town, South Africa. This event is free, open to the publk, and located in C-1 03 llesburgh Center It is sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The Journal of' Law, Ethics & Public Policy, in conjunction with the llispanic Law Students Association, is spon­soring "Yearning to Breathe Free: Immigrants and the Amerkan Dream," a sympo­sium on immigration,on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Law School courtroom. 
Haiti experts from campus and abroad will be leading Round Table Discussions on Tuesday, from 7-9 p.m. in McKenna Hall entitled 'Why Haiti?' 
The film, 'The Fog of War' a documentary about the life of former U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara will be shown on Tuesday at 
6:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. The film, directed by Errol Morris, follows McNamara's life from WWII through the Vietnam War. It won the 2004 Academy Award 
·for Best Documentary Feature and the Independent Spirit Award for Best Documentary Feature. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 57 HIGH 

64 
LOW 40 LOW 

43 
Atlanta 85 I 60 Boston 70 I 54 Chicago 71 I 52 Denver 73 I 52 Houston 88 I 61 Los Angeles 83 I 53 Minneapolis 65 1 45 New York 75 I 59 Philadelphia 77 I 57 Phoenix 102 I 78 Seattle 79 I 57 St. Louis 78 I 53 Tampa 86 173 Washington 86 1 73 
r------------------­
~ 

Monday, September 29, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Charity vvalk_attracts over 75 dogs 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 
Yesterday afternoon, the Notre Dame and South Bend area community came together in front of the Rockne Memorial to partici­pate in the 3rd Annual Domer Doggy Walk. 
The dog walk's proceeds go to the St. Joseph County Spay Neuter Assistance Program, or SJC-SNAP, a program that helps overpop­ulation in the St. Joseph County area, according to the pamphlet handed out to participants. 
Around 75 dogs and their owners showed up to partici­pate, said head coordinator, senior Meghan O'Donoghue. 
The walk and correspon­ding charity were founded three years ago by the Animal Welfare and the Human Animal Bond class taught by Professors Michelle Whaley and Kay Stewart, said Whaley. 
"The charity that the walk is supporting is important ... The Saint Joseph County Spay Neuter Assistance Program, Inc., a not for prof­it organization, will assist low income pet owners with spay or neuter surgeries and educate the community on pet overpopulation, the value of pet sterilization, and responsible pet ownership," Whaley said. 
O'Donoghue is also presi­dent of the Pre-vet club, which organized the event with the Biology club and the Animal Welfare class, Whaley said. 
"I love this event because it gives everyone a chance to meet other dog lovers," Meghan O'Donoghue said. "I especially like seeing profes­sors and other employees at Notre Dame in this aspect, because it shows a complete­ly different side of their lives. It's just a fun day to get together, take your dog for a walk, and raise money for a good cause." 

Registration started at noon in front of the Rockne Memorial, and the blessing of the animals took place at 1 p.m. 
Other events scheduled were the one and two-mile walks around the lakes, spray-on doggy tattoos, and contests, according to the pamphlet. 
Before the walk began, Father Michael Driscoll gave the blessing of the animals. A dog owner himself, Father Driscoll was ask_ed by the Biology department to give the blessing at last year's and this year's event said Driscoll. Father Driscoll read the blessing from the steps 
of the Rockne Memorial. The dogs and owners were blessed as they made their · ways to the walk. 
Walkers brought their pets and feelings towards the issue at hand. 
Chris, from Mishawaka, and Hershey, her miniature schnauzer, came out to sup­port the program's charity. 
"Overpopulation is sad," Chris said. "That's why I'm excited about the charity." 
Volunteers from local shel­ters, like The Humane Society and Pet Refuge, were also in attendance. 
Abby, from Clay Township and a volunteer at Pet Refuge, brought Nemo, her own dog, and Chloe, a dog that she is fostering, to the Walk. 
"It's nice, just coming out, seeing other dogs, and hav­ing fun," she said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


Century-old statue protects College 
St. Michael statue on Saint Mary's campus has history of watching over students, Sisters 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
In front of Augusta Hall on Saint Mary's College campus stands a statue of Saint Michael the Archangel. 
"It's a very impressive stat­
ue,"  said  Saint  Mary's  
Archive  Director  John  
Kovach.  

· According to a 1906 narra­
tive written by the Sisters of 
the Holy Cross, St. Michael 
was placed on its pedestal in 
that year. 
Kovach said that the statue was built on May 5, 1906. This date marked the fifty­year anniversary of Saint Mary's at its present site, he said. The statue still stands in its original location watching over the Sisters of the Holy Cross and Holy Cross Hall, he said. 
The statue appeared in the June 1906 edition of the Saint Mary's Chimes. According to Chimes, the statue is "of Italian workmanship, is of white marble, and is nine feet high; the massive pedestal on which it rests is of granite." 
According to a monetary record from the sisters' nar­rative, the statue was first thought of after "Exhibition Hall known as St. Michael's Chapel" was set on fire. After the fire, a statue was prom­ised to St. Michael with all of the buildings placed under his care, the narrative said. 
According to the Chimes, "The Great Archangel is one of St. Mary's special patrons and his protection is invoked against fire and pestilence." Funds were collected for the statue as early as 1880, according to a monetary record from the sisters' nar­rative. 
The present statue is sur­rounded by lights, which read, "Who is like unto God." The "crimson lights" were first lit on September 14, 1906, the narrative said. According to Kovach, the lights were lit during the blessing. 
"The light on St. Michael had always been on since the statue was dedicated. At 
• some point in time there were some financial difficulties for either the college or the con­gregation, so the decision was made to turn the lights off," Kovach said. "The very first night that the lights were off there was this fire in a barn [on campus]. Once that happened, the decision was made that whatever hap­pens, the lights above St. Michael need to always be 
on." 
Saint Mary's junior Mia Cipperoni said, "I think there's truth in the story. I think when you try to take away from what God is trying to let you see and what you learn everyday, he will punish you in a way." 
Since that point in time the lights above the statue have always remained lit, kovech. "It's a very beautiful statue, and the story is very interest­ing to know and share with future generations," said 


The St. Michael statue stands near Holy Cross Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's freshman Jordan Bartrom. 
According to a document written by Sister M. Campion Kuhn provided by Sister Kathryn Callahan, Records Director with the Congregation, "There were other nearly miraculous occa­sions." 
Each occasion serves to prove that St. Michael watch­es over the sisters and stu­dents of Saint Mary's and continues to protect them from fire incidents, according to the document. The docu­ment serves to explain the sisters' devotion to St. Michael. 
During the summer of 1961, Sister Redempta smelled a burning scent in the kitchen of Saint Mary's Convent. Both the Notre Dame Fire Department and the South Bend Fire Department responded. 
After searching:no source of fire was found. The Notre Dame Fire Department con­tinued searching and found that the beams above the stoves were blackened and charred. The ceiling would have collapsed and fallen on the floor where the Sisters lived had this not been dis­covered. 
Another occasion was on April 2, 1953. Flames and smoke were seen in the chemistry lab in Holy Cross Hall. Miraculously, the fire did not spread beyond the chemistry room, although there was noticeable smoke damage throughout the build­ing. 
In 1995 smoke was found in the south half of Augusta Hall. All of the Sisters were safely evacuated and fire was prevented. 
The statue remains stand­ing today to protect Saint Mary's students, as well as the Sisters of the Holy Cross, the document said. 
"The fact that it has such a long standing tie to St. Mary's College, and to see that there's still interest in the statue I think is pretty neat," said Kovach. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 29, 2008 
Book 
continued from page 1 
Huss' book made its debut Thursday night at Saint Mary's Student Center as the closing event of "Love Your Body Week," put on by the campus' Women's Hesource Center. Feminists United and the Women's Studies Program. 
Saint Mary's Women's Studies Program and Communications, Dance and Theatre Department also collaborated to put together the event. The event was free and open to the public. 
The night's events included a book reading and signing by the author and a student inter­pretive dance performance 1mtitlnd "Because of Barbies and other Dumb Broads." Members of th1~ Saint Mary's Dance Company performed the dance, choreographed by Saint Mary's alumna Jaclyn Thompson. Tlw dance illustrat­ed how intPnsn pressures can load to body dissatisfaction and how this can b1H~onw a compe­tition betweon wonwn -even to thn point of downright fight­ing. llannah Fisclwr, one of tlw J>Prformers, knows that the dance was not simply for entertainment; it shared an important nwssag1~ of body dis­satisfaction that hits home for women of all ages. 
"The dan<:n was not designod and then handPd to us," Fisdwr said. "It was created to rl!prnsent our own nxpPri­Pncns. It's sonwthing that every woman goes through and can rl'latl' to." 
Bi***n' Bodi('s is a combina­tion of Huss' voicl) with tlw voices of the women she inter­viewed for her research. she said. Each chapter opens with one women's story and all chapter titles are direct quotes from the women interviewed. Huss chose to publish her research in this format because she wanted to be able to share it with women of all backgrounds, not just those who are familiar with an aca­demic tone. 
The two teams who played Saturday were  Peter Mushenhelm junior  Since Muggles are at a disad­vantage, owing  
made up of 10  to  the lack  of  
residents  of  magical devices,  

"I wanted to extend the reach of academic research to make it accessible for a varied audi­ence," she said. "That's why I've taken the voice that I have. I want to share information with them, not talk at them." 
Both the topic and the style in which the book is written appealed to students present at the book release. Lauren Toth, one of Russ' students, is excit­ed to read the book. 
"I think that the coolest parf about it is the stories at the beginning of all the chapters," Toth said. "That's why I want to read it. I likf~ the kind of sto­ries that make me feel like I'm not the only one who feels this way." 
The book is available at Saint Mary's Bookstore. Russ has a blog by the samo name as the book that deals with the same issues and has opportunities for discussion, she said. In addition to the blog, Huss is currently working on a comple­nwnt to her first publication, a book titled "B***n' Back," an anthology of essays, stories, artwork, and poems about per­sonal body dissatisfactions composed by men and women of all ages, she said. 
Contact Megan Loney mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

St Marcellus Day Celebration 
Thursday October 30, 2008 •7:00pm " · Basilica of the Sacred Heart · University of Notre Dame Cost: Free to the public 
'~A New Consciousness for Peacemaking" talk and discussion with Fr. Richard Rohr, OFM 
Prayer, music and the story of St. Marcellus. Free and open to the public. 
Sponsored by, University of Notre Dame~ 
Theology Department; 
tnstitute for Church life, and the Center for Sodal Concerns 

Center for Action 
struction of the three hoops at each end of the match was to use Hula hoops, but due to their high continued from page I cost, Mushenheim and company decided to "improvise and make around like a fool." goals out of cardboard, which For those unfamiliar with the were suspended from the cross­traditional rules, each Quidditch bars of the soccer goals," he said. team normally consists of seven Latham, the Slytherin Beater, players: three Chasers, two had the job of attacking pegging Beaters, one Chasers in pos­Keeper and one session of the Seeker. Full Quaffie with the explanation of "At the very least, we Bludger -a vol­the rules can be leyball painted 
Quidditch 
plan on playing
found in "Harry yellow with a
before every home 
Potter and the smiley face "for
,
Sorcerer's game. a touch of irony," Stone." he said. 
Knott and Pasquerilla West Halls. One Chaser and one Beater were removed from each roster. 
Peter Mushenheim, who did not know that much about Quidditch prior to playing, was one of the organizers of the match. To get people involved, he scheduled an event on Facebook. 
The only preparation for the match was a group watching of "Wizard People, Dear Rnader: An Unauthorized Retelling of Harry Potter." by Brad Neely, he said. 
Mushenheim and his room­mates bought brooms and fabric for capes for the match. 
"Luckily, there were many nov­elty brooms available due to the current proximity to Halloween," he said. 
His roommate, Michael Croteau, worked on the capes. 
"Peter and I magicked the capes out of red and grnen fabric wn bought at Walmart," Croteau said. 
The original plan for the con-
the Snitch, a hard-to-see golden 
ball that awards its finder with 
150 additional points, is played 
by a human, who is completely 
visible. 
John Fullard, the Snitch on 
Saturday, wore yellow, Latham 
said. lie began the game by 
throwing up the Quallle -a vol­
leyball -and was given a grace 
pnriod to exit the pitch before the 
Seekers on each team could 
attempt to catch him, or rather, 
catch the sock attached to the 
back of his panl'i. 
The human Snitch is allowed to run all round the pitch, and can leave the pitch whenever he .wants "just like the real Snitch 
could," Latham said. 
Fullard ran, "taunting the com­
bating teams whilst evading cap­
ture," Mushenheim said. 
Fullard was responsible for bringing the magical sport to campus. After seeing a clip on YouTube of CBS sport.'> personali­ty Greg Gumbel covering a Quidditch match between Princeton and Middlebury, he decided he and his friends should start playing. 

Mushenheim said the group decided they needed "a tradition for before home football games," like the North Quad croquet play­ers. 
"We decided that Quidditch would be our signature event," he said. 
To the best of Mushenheim's knowledge, last Saturday's match was the first time a game of organized Quidditch was played at Notre Dame. 
He said he feels "that this ha.'i the potential to grow on campus. If there is enough interest, we may consider applying for club [or]lnterhall activity status in the future." 
"At the very least, we plan on playing before every home game," he said. 
On Saturday, Croteau and Keaton VanBevoren each scored one goal for Gryflindor. Lauren Demeter caught the Snitch, win­ning the game tiw hnr team. 
For Slythnrin: Mushenhnim scored five goals and Felix Salazar, called "the heir to Slytherin" by Mushenhnim, scored one goal. 
The match was held at Stnpan Fields. Attendance at the game included "family, tailgaiters, and a suspicious looking helicopter," Mushenhnim said. 
As far as a possible tourna­ment, Mushonheim is open to challengers. "We only have sup­plies for two teams," he said. "So if others want to take up the other two houses ad cornpete with us ... thny should show up on Saturday." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

....... 
I 
I 
I 
I !
ORLD & NATION I I 
Monday, September 29, 2008 COMPilED FROA,1 TIH OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Alleged tampering in Belarus election 
MINSK, Belarus -Belarusians voted Sunday in parliamentary elections that opposition lead­ers insisted were already rigged, despite prom­ises by the country's authoritarian leader that international voting standards were followed. 
President Alexander Lukashenko welcomed more than 400 election monitors from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to prove his country is embracing dem­ocratic reforms. In national elections four years ago, the opposition wasn't even allowed to run. 
"It will be very difficult for the observers not to recognize these elections," Lukashenko said after casting his ballot Sunday. 
A total of 263 candidates. including 70 from the opposition, were competing in Sunday's elections for 11 0 parliamentary seats. 
China's spacewalk team returns home 
BEIJING -Three Chinese astronauts emerged from their capsule Sunday after a milestone mission to carry out the country's first space­walk, showing off China's technological know­how and cementing its status as a space power and future competitor to the United States. 
A senior space official said the mission ­China's most ambitious yet -took the country one step closer in its plan to build a space sta­tion and then to land a man on the moon. 
Wang Zhaoyao, deputy director of manned space flight. said the program is looking to launch a new orbiting vehicle and set up a sim­ple space lab by 2011. There are also hopes of sending unmanned and manned space vehicles to perform docking activities with the target vehicle. 
By 2020, China wants to launch a manned mission to experiment with technologies that will enable astronauts to take care of spacecraft for longer periods of time, Wang told reporters. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Maryland helicopter crash kills four 
DISTHICT HEIGHTS, Md. -A medevac helicop­ter taking accident victims to a trauma center crashed in suburban Washington early Sunday, killing four of the five people aboard, authorities said. 
The accident killed two police officers on board, one of them the pilot. Also killed were an Emerg!mcy Medical Services staffer and one of the accident victims, said Mark Brady, a spokesman for the Prince George's County Fire/EMS Department. 
A seeond accident victim survived the crash, which happened near Andrews AFB. 
Ollieials lost radio contact with the craft, known a'> Trooper 2, around 12:30 a.m. as it was headed to the ba'ie, aeeording to a press release from the Maryland State Police. The crew had radioed in that it needed to land due to weather conditions. After an intensive search, public safety officials found the downed helicopter on a park trail. 
UCLA group finds new prime number 
LOS ANGELES -Mathematicians at UCLA have discovered a 13 million-digit prime num­ber. a long-sought milestone that makes them eligible for a $100.000 prize. 
The group found the 46th known Mersenne prime last month on a network of 75 comput­ers running Windows XP. The number was verified by a difl'erent computer system run­ning a different algorithm. 
"We're delighted," said UCLA's Edson Smith, the leader of the effort. "Now we're looking for the next one. despite the odds." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Principal faces two years in prison 
FOHT WAYNE. Ind. -A former high school assistant principal who admitted that he had a sexual relationship with a student has been sen­tem~ed to two years in prison. 
Kristopher J. Sennett, 36, was sentenced Friday aftnr pleading guilty in July to two counts of child seduction for his sexual relationship with the girl, a 17 -year-old Wayne High School student. 
Sennett wept as an Allen County judge sen­tenced him to two years in prison and a year on probation. As deputies led him away in hand­cuffs, Sennett's wife, Tami, called out "!love you." 
Maine under tropical storm warning 
Residents brace for severe weather, power outages as Hurricane Kyle approaches 
Associated Press 
MACHIAS, Maine Fishermen moved boats to shel­ter from a rare burst of tropical weather along Maine's rugged eastern coast Sunday as a weakening Hurricane Kyle spun past on its way to Canada, threatening a glancing blow equivalent to a classic nor'east­er. 
A hurricane watch for Maine was discontinued Sunday, but a tropical storm warning remained in effect from Stonington, at the mouth of Penobscot Bay, to Eastport on the Canadian border, the Nationa! Hurricane Center said. The Canadian Hurricane Centre issued a hurricane warning for parts of southwestern Nova Scotia, with tropical storm warnings for parts of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. 
The Category 1 storm's track was expected to bring its center ashore in southwestern Nova Scotia late Sunday, but by then it is expected to have less than hurricane strength, said Peter Bowyer of the Canadian center in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. 
There were no immediate plans for evacuations in Maine, although residents were warned of potential power out­ages and interruptions in ferry services to islands. 

Heavy rain lashed the state Sunday for a third straight day. As much as 5.5 inches had already fallen along coastal rough weather, but it most often· with 50 to 60 mph winds every and wharves that offer shelter. areas. Flood watches were in comes in the winter when winter. Those storms can At 5 p.m. EDT Sunday. Kyle effect for the southern two­nor'easters howl along the become ferocious," said was centered about 180 miles thirds of New Hampshire and coast. Maine hasn't had any­Washington County Emergency southwest of Halifax, Nova southern Maine through thing like a hurricane since Bob Management Agency Director Scotia, the National Hurricane Sunday evening. was downgraded as it moved Michael Hinerman. Down East Center said. It was moving 
Maine emergency responders into the state in 1991 after is the rugged, sparsely populat­toward the north-northeast at had been bracing for wind causing problems in southern ed area from about Bar Harbor nearly 25 mph and was expect­gusts as high as 60 mph and New England. to the Canadian border. ed to continue that track for the waves up to 20 feet, but as the While residents took precau­Many lobstermen moved next day or so. storm pushed toward the tions, many weren't impressed their boats to sheltered coves, Kyle's maximum sustained Canadian Maritime Provinces, it by Kyle. said Dwight Carver, a lobster­wind was blowing at nearly 75 became clear that the state was "It probably won't be much man on Beal<; Island. Some also mph, or just barely hurricane escaping a direct hit. different than a Nor'easter moved lobster traps from shal­strength. The storm was 
Officials still expect strong except we don't have to deal low water. expected to lose its tropical winds and "the attendant with the snow," said Jesse Davis ''I'm sure we'll have a lot of characteristics late Sunday or power outages," Lynette Miller, of Marshfield, who planned to snarls, a lot of mess, to take early Monday. spokeswoman for the Maine ride out the wind and rain at care of when it's done," Carver Emergency Measures officials Emergency Management home with his wife and 2-said. "It'll take us a few days to in New Brunswick were con­Agency, said Sunday evening. month-old daughter. He gassed straighten things out." cerned that people living inland "We're cautiously optimistic up his vehicles and generator, In Lubec, the easternmost were not taking the storm that things will not be as bad as took in his deck furniture and town in the U.S., town workers warnings seriously enough. we originally feared." filled up water jugs, but said pulled up docks and fishermen "We're talking to people on 
Residents of the area, which that's what he does for any big moved boats across the harbor the street and they're shrugging New Englanders refer to as storm. into Campobello Island, New this off," said spokesman Ernie Down East, are accustomed to "Down East we get storms Brunswick, which has coves MacGillvray. 
SOMALIA 


Pirates demand $20 million ransom 
Pirates seized the Ukrainian-operated cerned" over the fate of the ship's 21­
Associated Press 
ship Faina off the coast of Somalia on member crew and cargo. 

MOGADISHU, Somalia -As a heavily Thursday as it headed to Kenya carry­In a rare gesture of cooperation, the armed U.S. destroyer patrolled nearby ing 33 Russian-built T-72 tanks and a Americans appeared to be keeping an and planes flew overhead Sunday, a substantial amount of ammunition and eye on the Faina until the Russian mis­Somali pirate spokesman told The spare parts. The ordnance was ordered sile frigate Neustrashimy, or Intrepid, Associated Press his group was by the Kenyan government. reaches the area. The Russian ship was demanding a $20 million ransom to The guided missile destroyer USS still in the Atlantic on Sunday, the release a cargo ship loaded with Howard was stationed off the Somali Russian navy reported. Hussian tanks. coast on Sunday, making sure that the Pirate spokesman Sugule Ali said he 
The spokesman also warned that the pirates did not remove the tanks, was speaking Sunday from the deck of pirates would fight to the death if any ammunition and other heavy weapons the Faina via a satellite phone -and country tried military action to regain from the ship, which was anchored off verified his location by handing the the ship, and a man who said he was the coast. phone over to the ship's captain, who the ship's captain reported that one A spokesman for the U.S. 5th fleet also spoke with the AP. It was not possi­crew member had died. said the Navy remained "deeply con-ble to further confirm their identities. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 29, 2005 
Debate 
continued from page I 
dal crisis on Wall Strent -and took place at the University of Mississippi in Oxford, Miss. 
Ldmw asknd the candidates to describe where they stood on the proposod linaneial recovery plan. wlwthnr tlwrn were l'undamPntal dilliwmwes bntween the two can­didatns' approaches to relinving the linandal cri­sis and what 
spnnding cuts tlw 

"The local news 
noxt prosident 

actually showed up, 
will he for<:ed to make as a result and were trying to of tho proposnd 
find a McCain 
bailout. 

supporter and
Tlw qunstions thon turrwd to couldn't find an foreign poliey. 
interview." 
with Lohrnr ask­ing l.lw eandi­

Spencer Howard 
dat.I\S what tlwy bnlinved the les­College Democrats sons of Iraq co-president 
worn, whethnr morn troops should be sent to Afghanistan, what threat Iran poses, thnir thoughts on Hussia and what thn eandidatns believP<I wnrn the chanens of another Sept. 11-typP attack on Anwrkan soil. 
Nl> Vot.ns '08. a non-partisan campaign or the CPnter lilr Social Concnrns. hosted llw debate watd1 in Coleman-Morse. 
Snnior Mallory l.aurnl. a eo­chair for Nl> Voti\S '08. said 

shn was "pleas­"/McCain/ showed antly surprised" 
how strong he is on
hy how many stu­

foreign policy and
(llmts took part in the group's how he would be the debate wateb. 
leader that leads us 
l.aun~I said slw 

through this current
thought Lehrer did a good job war in Iraq, the war 
moderating the in Afghanistan and 
dnbate. 

brings lasting peace 
"I likNI him. I think hn lets the to America." candidates speak," shn said. 
Edward Yap
"lie isn't too 

College Republicans 
pushy of a mod­erator." president 
There was only slight vocal reae­

. lion from tlw group in Coleman­Morse to the eandidates' answnrs. but many peopln lauglwd eaeh time Lehrnr tried to eneourage the candidates to hanter back and forth and addrPss each other, rather than tlw modnrator, in their answers. 
Frnshman Nicole Burson, a McCain supportnr. watelwd thn dnhates at Colnman-Morso. Allt>rwards. she said both candi­dates did a good job answering thn questions, but that McCain did a bettPr job. 

"I felt McCain's parts were more substantial," she said. 
A few buildings away from the Coleman-Morse debate watch, the Notre Dame College Democrats rooted for Obama in the first floor television lounge of LaFortune, club co-president Spencer Howard said. Howard said the first floor of LaFortune was overwhelmed with Obama supporters. 
"The local news actually showed up," he said, "and were 
trying to l'ind a McCain support­er and couldn't find an inter­view." 
Howard said he thought Obama won the debate. 
"lie really han­dled himsnlf well, especially on the economy," he said. ...II e de fi­nitely held his own on foreign policy, which was supposed to bo 

Son. McCain's strong point." 
The Notre Dame College Hepublicans had their own debate watch at dub president Ed Yap's apartment. 
"I think !McCain] won this debate." Yap said. "lie shownd how strong he is on foreign poli­cy and how he would bn tho lead1~r that leads us through this !:urrent war in Iraq, the war in 
Afghanistan and brings lasting peace to America." 
Yap said his apartment was crowded with McCain support­ers, and also a few undecided voters. The crowd was enthusiastic, Yap said -they ran out of McCain-Palin stickers. 
Two more presidential debates are scheduled, on Oct. 7 and Oct. 15. 

ND Votes 'OS will host a debate watch for the vice presidential debate between Republican can­didate Gov. Sarah Palin and Dmnocratic candidate Sen. Joe Bielen on Thursday at 9 p.m. in the Colmnan-Morse Lounge. 
The Notrn Dame Debate Team will provide post-debate com­nwntary in the lounge at 10:30 
p.m.. according to an e-mail from ND Vot11s '08. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Duncan 
continued from page I 
"The Duncan family is Scottish, and Highlanders are Scotts, so we can at least do a tribute to them," freshman Nico Volsky said. 
"Duncan is a Scottish name and we're right near the golf course. so we asked ourselves how we can build on the Scottish heritage?" senior Josh Uninwski said. 
The Duncan family. the main benefactors or the hall. has ancestral roots in Seotland and will bn visiting next week li>r the dorm's inauguration. 
"We're trying to give a Seott.ish heart to our dorm which has a Scottish name," senior Chip Brady said. "Wn want to get the 
Park 
continued from page I 
"I Innovation Park I will make Notre Dame a morn complete university," Burish said. 
President and CEO of Innovation Park at ND David Bn~nner said thn park is a transformational spaee that will connect innovative ideas with experts who can carry them out. The park will act as a vehiele to aeeelerate viability and growth pot.nntial. he said. 
"The growth potential goes well beyond the immediate footprint of these 12 acres," Brenner said, noting the possi­bility of spin offs for major corporations and opportuni­ties to bring business to South Bend. 
Brenner said that Notre Dame students will be able to benefit from Innovation Park as well. 
"This, for the students, is going to be one of the greatest opportunities to see their 
campus excited because the Duncan family is here next week." 
The dorm colors are based on the age-old Duncan tartan: a crisscrossing kilt pattern of royal blue and Kelly green, according to Austin, that symbolizes the family's Scottish legacy. 
The design artist, senior Jlugh Monahan, took many of these ideas into consideration with his portrayal of the I Iighlander. 
"With the design itself, we wanted something that. was intimidating and Scottish," he said. "We wanted something tough but also iconic." 
The unveiling of thn Duncan I Iighlander was just one of many highlights Friday evening. Also featured were p1~rformances by llarmonia, the all-women a cap­pella group of 16, and a DLC­Dorm League Competition ­
ideas come to life," he said. 
The company will hirn stu­dent interns to takn part in research and turn their grnat ideas into rnality, Brnnnnr said. 
"Students will have tho opportunity to take what tlwy have learned and turn it into something useful to society," he said. 
South Bend mayor Steplwn Luecke spoke at the event, emphasizing the importan!:e of Innovation Park to South Bend as well as Notre Dame. 
"Innovation Park will bn a vital economie driver for this region," he said. "We will stimulate nnw jobs and invest­ments throughout South Bend.'' 
The city of South Bend is proud to join with Notre Dame in the endeavor, Luecke said. 
"Innovation Park at Notre Dame is the new conneetor between Town and Gown," he said. 
The South Bend community is excited about the rnsearch that will happen, but is more fought among tho six host dorms of the pep rally. 

The lions, gentlemen, high­landers, wild women, chicks, and bullfrogs battled it out in a single elimination tournament that featured musical chairs, a fill in the lyrics "singing be11," a paper airplane toss, crab walk, and hotdog nating eon test. 
St. Ed's senior Paul Maeias anchored the f'inal leg of the competition. bringing his dorm to victory over Lnwis llall by b1\ing the first to finish two hot dogs. Macias credited his sue­cess to his 6'2," 240 pound physique. 
"The girl was very f'it and I was not." hn said. "But as Chuck Lennon said, I have the bnst stu­doni. body in the nation.'" 
Contact Robert Singer at rsinger@nd.edu 

excited to s1w Uw research tlirn into commercial projeets that will be an econornie driv­nr in tho region, Luneke said. 
"Together we havn an out­standing team that ean do and will do make sucenssns," hn said. "This iclea will suceeed." 
Indiana's Lieutenant Governor Beeky Skillman said Innovation Park will help pro­vide a bright future for tho state as a whole as well as the eommunity. 
"We eouldn 't bn morn ph~ased to havn this teeh park located hero... Notre Dame is a great economic engine," Skillman .said. 
Indiana is becoming thn location of choice for business around the Midwest and this is economic development at its finest, she said. 
The park's first building is slated for completion in fall of 2009. It will fill 12 acres of land and house resnarch labs, offices and conference rooms. 
Contact Madeline Buckely at mbuckley@nd.edu 

ATHENS, GREECE 

INFORMATION MEETING 
*************************************************** 
Monday, September 29, 2008 
5:30PM 
125 DeBartolo Hall •··••••······••·•••••••································•········•••••••••······ 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Fall 2008, Spring 2009, and Academic Year 2008-09 Applications available online: www.nd.edu/-ois/ 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Monday, September 29, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  11,143.13  +121.07  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,063  71  2,148  1,092,468,736  
AMEX  11916.44  ;.(6.4:3  

NASDAQ 2,183.34 -3.23 NYSE 7,890.37 ~37.50 S&P 500 1,213.01 +3.83 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 11,893.16 •·;n·o.oo FTSE 100 (London) 5,088.47 -108.55 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WACHOVIA CP (WB) -27.01 -3.70 10.00 NATL CITY CP (NCC) -25.65 -1.28 3.71 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +0.05 +0.06 120.85 SELECT SECTOR SPDR (XLF) +2.74 +0.57 21.39 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.91 +0.091 0.710 13-WEEK BILL +16.90 +0.270 4.414 30-YEAR BOND -1.29 +0.036 3.042 5-YEAR NOTE -0.72 +0.153 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.13 106.89 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.50 888.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.55 99.68 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.3950 EURO 0.6886 
IN BRIEF 
Freight train brakeman sues railroad 
LOS ANGELES -The brakeman on the freight train involved in a deadly collision with a commuter train tilP.d a lawsuit Friday against the commuter railroad and the companies that provide its engi­neers. 
The lawsuit, nled by Dominick Fravola and his wife, blames the defendants for not properly screening, supervising and training the Metrolink engineer who ran his commuter train past a red signal on Sept. 12 and collided with a Union Pacific freight train. Twenty-five people died in the crash, the nation's deadliest train accident since 1993. 
"Basically the guy was asleep at the switch and not paying attention to what was going on around him," Fravola's attorney, Barry Novack, said of the Metrolink engineer, who was killed in the crash. 
The lawsuit also names Veolia Transportation and its subsidiary, Connex Railroad, which employs the Metrolink engineers. It seeks an unspecified amount in damages, medical and psychological expenses and loss of income. Fravola's wife also seeks damages for loss of consortium. 
The trains collided at a curve in the track near where a tunnel separates the Chatsworth area of Los Angeles from Simi Valley and Moorpark in Ventura County. Federal investigators have said the engineers had only seconds to brake before the other train came into view. 
Farmers open 'green' restaurant 
WASHINGTON -North Dakota farmers have spent $6 million to open a pair of Washington restaurants, one just blocks from the White House, to showcase food from family farms. The newer eatery aims to be "Washington's greenest restaurant." 
"We believe we are doing the right thing, doing it the right way, and the profit will come," says Hal ph De Hose, general manager of Founding Farmers. a modern space with an environmentally friendly design. 
The North Dakota Farmers Union, which has 42.000 members, has made the invest­ment despite the economic downturn, high food prices and risks inherent in running a restaurant. With Founding Farmers, which opened this month. the group is betting on the success of a growing trend in the busi­ness: food straight from the farm, in a place with a groen focus. 
Agreement reached for rescue deal 
The White House and Congressional leaders agree on terms for $700 million bailout 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­Congressional leaders and the White House agreed Sunday to a $700 billion res­cue of the ailing financial industry after lawmakers insisted on sharing spending controls with the Bush administration. The biggest 
U.S. bailout in history won the tentative support of both presidential candidates and goes to the House for a vote Monday. 
The plan, bollixed up for 
days by election-year politics, 
would give the administration 
broad power to use taxpay­
ers' money to purchase bil­
lions upon billions of home 
mortgage-related assets held 
by cash-starved financial 
firms. 
President Bush called the 
vote a difficult one for law­
makers but said he is confi­
dent Congress will pass it. 
"Without this rescue plan, the 
costs to the American econo­
my could be disastrous," 
Bush said in a written state­
ment released by the White 
House. He was to speak pub­
licly about the plan early 
Monday morning. before U.S. 
markets open. 
Flexing its political muscle, 
Congress insisted on a 
stronger hand in controlling 
the money than the White 
House had wanted. 
Lawmakers had to navigate 
between angry voters with lit­
tle regard for Wall Street and 

administration officials who my around," said House Committee. But, he added, large congressional majorities 
warned that inaction would Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D­'The center of gravity is here to stop it. 

cause the economy to seize Calif. temporarily.... God forbid it's As Bush's team stepped up 
up and spiral into recession. The largest government here any longer than it takes its efforts to corral reluctant 
A deal in hand, Capitol Hill intervention in financial mar­to get credit moving again." Republicans. the White House 
leaders scrambled to sell it to kets since the Great The plan would let released a letter from his 
colleagues in both parties and Depression casts Congress block half the budget chief, Jim Nussle, to 
acknowledged they were not Washington's long shadow money and force the presi­Republicans saying the meas­
certain it would pass. "Now over Wall Street. The govern­dent to jump through some ure would cost taxpayers 
we have to get the votes," ment would take over huge hoops before using it all. The "considerably less" than its 
said Sen. Harry Reid, D-Nev., amounts of devalued assets government could get at $250 eye-popping $700 billion 
the majority leader. from beleaguered financial billion immediately, $100 bil­total. 

The final legislation was companies in hopes of lion more if the president cer­Lawmakers in both parties 
released Sunday evening. unlocking frozen credit. tified it was necessary, and were poring over the 110­
House Republicans and "I don't know of anyone the last $350 billion with a page bill; many wee uncer­
Democrats met privately to here who wants the center of separate certification -and tain about how they would 
review it and decide how they the economic universe to be subject to a congressional vote. Democratic leaders 
would vote. Washington," said a top nego­resolution of disapproval. have made it dear they will 
'This isn't about a bailout tiator, Sen. Chris Dodd, chair­Still, the resolution could be not support the rescue unless of Wall Street, it's a buy-in, so man of the Senate Banking, vetoed by the president, a substantial number of that we can tum our econo-Housing and Urban Affairs meaning it would take extra-Republicans join them. 

Child pornographybill sent to President 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Congress is send­ing President Bush several bills that would tighten laws on child pornog­raphers' use of the Internet. 
The House on Friday passed by 418-0 a measure clarifying that images obtained over the Internet were subject to federal interstate commerce laws. The bill was in response to a federal court ruling that prosecutors must show that images kept on a computer had crossed state lines. 
"This legislation closes the jurisdic­tional loophole that allowed a guilty man to escape punishment," said Rep. Nancy Boyda, D-Kan., the bill's sponsor. 
The same legislation contained another bill sponsored by Hep. Christopher Carney, D-Pa., that would allow prosecutors to include 
money laundering as a tool in child pornography eases. That would fix another loophole that has allowed Internet users to evade child pornog­raphy laws by not downloading or saving the images. 
The House was also scheduled to take up legislation, passed by the Senate on Thursday, that would pro­vide federal funds to create a nation­wide network of trained law enforce­ment experts to address the problem of child exploitation. 
The legislation, sponsored by Sen. Joe Biden, D-Del., requires the Justice Department to develop a national strategy to fight child exploitation. It also requires t}J.e attorney general to set up a grant program to ensure that local agen­cies have the resources needed to create robust cyber units with highly trained investigators. 

The bill contains a proposal by Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., to require more electronic service providers to report online child pornography and make failure to report known child pornography a federal crime. 
Currently, Internet service providers are required to report child pornography to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. The legislation would expand those companies with reporting obligations to include search engines such as Google and Yahoo!, social networking sites such as Faeebook and MySpace, domain name registrars and wireless phone carriers. 
These companies would not be required to monitor Web sites, but the legislation would triple fines for knowing failure to report child pornography. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 8 Monday, September 29, 2008 
----·=·================================================================================ 
THE OBSERVER 
I~O. Box n9. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !Iall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 
EI>ITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A.'iST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasu]a 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EI>ITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink ScENE EmroR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
I'IIOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS ElliTOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAI;ER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROI.I.ER: Stacey Gill 
SVSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
('i74) 631-6900 ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofme administration ofeimer institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverriscmems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom rrgarding Observer policies should be direct«/ to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

111c <llw.crwt (USI•S 599 .Z.-4000} 11 ~hhsl•cd Monday 1hruugh Frido~y a..:ept dunng C'Uill .md V014'ai1UII pcrkldt. A ~ml..:nptiun 111 The Oltlilt:r""t'"f iJ $100 tor unc acadcmk yt:ar. sc;s furnne.c:malcr. 
n1e O~ervcr i• publi5hc:(J,.,. POHMASTER 
02<4 Sourh Dinins Hall Send addrc:u corm:riora ro: 
Nom D.unc, IN i6SS6-0779 ThcOhle!"Yer 
~riudical po'ltigt P"i'i .u Nocrc Dune P.O. Bax 779 
and .Kldiuon.al m•ilmK offic.cs. Ol-1 S41u1h Dining Hall 
No1rr D11mc, IN 465'56-0779 
The Ohserwr ''"member df 1t.c A.uc.t.&lcd Pre~~. Alltc:pmductlhn righu arc 
"""'"· 
As an op-ed writer, it's easy to fall into a solipsistic mindset about your small corner of the paper. After all, every week you have to convince yourself that your opinions are good mwugh to be out there for public consumption, and that you are writing on some­thing worthy of comment. Which is why, in a situ­ation familiar to anyone who has had to write a term paper at the last minute, IWPry two weeks I stare at a blank computer screen in a desperate attempt to find anything worthwhile to say before my deadline passes, and even though something always ends up in the pages of this paper, it's probably far too self-congratulatory to hope that all -or even most -of what ends up here has been decent, let alone intelligent. 
There are two main reasons I write this column, which I suspect are true for everyone else who contributes to this paper. Obviously, there is plain and simple egoism-the knowledge that several thousand pairs of eyes at least slide past your writing before going on to the sports page (especial­ly on a Monday), and the hope that 

Why I write 
some of them even stop to read it. 
Deep down, writers are all quite self­
ish: They desire to be read, under­
stood, talked about and, if they get 
particularly lucky, to be seen as at 
least clever, if not intelligent. 
But during the course of these bi­
monthly ego trips, I also try to make 
everyone who reads this column think 
just a little harder about the topics on 
which I write: education in general 
and Notre Dame in particular. Notre 
Dame boasts nearly 12,000 students, 
5,000 faculty and staff and 120,000 
or more alumni -and just as many 
opinions. Just last week, Viewpoint 
featured articles and letters about 
sustainability, parietals, football, 
underage drinking and politics, 
among others. Yet every single person 
who reads this paper has (or has had) 
a personal stake in educational issues 
and in Notre Dame's intellectual life 
there is as much reason for our con­
cern for educational issues to stop 
once we leave the classroom as there 
is for our concern for Notre Dame to 
stop once we set foot off campus. 
Still, there is also the risk that 
Viewpoint writers come off not like 
thoughtful, nuanced commentators 
but like gadflies and nitpickers, eter­
nal malcontents who prefer to brow­
beat their audiences rather than to 
offer anything constructive. Between 
deadlines and word limits, op-ed 
pieces have pretty strict constraints 
and they are almost always half­
baked. But for all their shortcomings, they all serve a political purpose, not in the sense that each has an ideolog­ical axe to grind, but in the broad and very crude sense that they try and push people in a particular direction or to get them to realize that they should uphold a particular cause. 

And at a time when politics and ide­ology are used interchangeably, when verisimilitude ("truthiness") is more important than truth itself, when some people think that political cam­paigns arc a more trustworthy source of information than the media, and when it's easier to find a blog, a eom­mPntator, or a politieian to think for you instead of doing the intellectual heavy lifting yourself. I really do believe that education and all its attendant side effects-critical and analytical thought, healthy measures both of skepticism and curiosity and thn realization that there is more to the world than our own limited per­sonal experience-is as important now as ever. I havP strong opinions on the things that I write about sim­ply because I care about them. If I didn't, then this column would proba­bly be nothing more than artistic expression, and I'm not much of an artist. 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. student in history. lie can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Viewpoint Mandi Stirone Lianna Aaron Steiner Brauweiler 
Who won the political debate? 

Irena Zajickova Sports Graphics Matt Gamber 
McCain "Secrets are things we give

Andrea Archer Laura Myers 
Obama to others to keep for us. " 
Scene I didn't watch 

Analise Lipari Elbert Hubbard author
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


TH_E OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Monday, September 29, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't vote 

Show solidarity, keep Char lie 
Michael Burdell's Sept. 26 piece titled "Time for Weis to go," while articulate, is uninformed and unnecessary. First, we need to take a look at Notre Dame during and after Ty. Ty couldn't win with his and Davie guys. Davie was a good recruiter who recruited McKnight, Stovall, etc. Then, Ty has one class (Quinn's), but leaves the cupboard bare with the following two classes. In his 2004 class, six players stayed with the Irish out of 16 that Ty recruited. Ty followed that class with a 15-man class, of which 13 are still with us. Corso and other talking heads like to credit this last class (Kuntz's class) as Charlie's, but anyone who knows recruiting knows it takes more than a year to recruit these guys, not two weeks. Additionally, Ty gets credit for Stovall and McKnight's class, even though, again, it takes more than a year to recruit these kids; so that is Davie's class. 
Adding up the numbers, Ty had Brady's class, then proceeded to recruit 31 players for 50 available spots, retaining 19 players for those 50 spots. There is a lack of numbers in the senior class and fifth-year class from a pure mentorship perspective. There aren't enough bodies. A player's junior year is a magic year, when the player tends to mature. Charlie's first class is maturing this year. Wait until next year when Jimmy's class does the same. This talk of "fire Charlie" is ridiculous and shows a lack of fortitude. I ask The Observer to stay above the regular media irre­sponsibility by refusing to publish articles like "Time for Weis to go," especially when Shaq Evans is on campus. 
Also, we don't run bubble screens. Burdell was uninformed about a number of issues. 

. Derek Horner alum class of 2003 Sept. 26 
Why not vote? Unfortunately, voting does not make you free and voting in this election will not make you any freer. The liberty and freedom this country was founded on, con­sistently paid lip service by politicians and citizens alike, have consistently eroded (when not denied altogether) since that foundation. Even if each voter had the unilateral ability with his or her vote to elect Obama or McCain, that will not end the inflation ol"the dollar, the theft through taxation of nearly half your day's work, the intervention abroad and the regulation and government entities that destroy our economy and wreak havoc.socially. 
Yes, many around the world and thr"O'ughout history have sufl"ered terrible injustices at the hands of even more oppressive governments than our own. However, that does not justify the propagation of this government and its con­tinued infringement of our freedom, economically, socially and personally. 
While many will be voting for change in this election, the change I believe in cannot be attained at the voting booth. Stop telling me then why I should register and go to the polls in November, because morally I cannot support and practically I cannot stop the repression and the growth of 
power of the government through my vote.  
..  John Plonka senwr Zahm Hall Sept. 26  


Notre Dam.e needs off-cam.pus _all-student neighborhood 
Say what you will about Notre Dame's relationship with SBPD and the Excise police, but as long as we lack a true student neighborhood, we will continue to debate a never-ending issue. Let's face it, college students just don't mix with families. What baflles me is not the enf(lrcement of the drinking laws, the response to neighbor complaints or the numerous busts I've seen in my fiJUr years here. The real issue is that nobody is attacking the root of the problem: we have no real student neighborhood or college town and nothing is in development. The Eddy Commons do not count because they lack student housing and bars -in an alleged college town! Sadly, despite all the developments around campus, nothing is working to give us students a decent place to be on· campus. We have the Eddy Commons, Irish Crossings, Wexford Place, Dublin Village and the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization, among others, and they are all specifically targeted at non-students. I cannot blame developers, but certainly the University is at fault here. 
Notrn Dame has the money, the influence and the available land {as shown by all the new stuff being built) to work to develop a student neighborhood off campus. In a student neighborhood, we would no longer live in dangerous areas of South Bend, we would have no neighbors to disturb and NDSP could even aid in the policing of the· area. As much as Notre Dame tries to keep us in the bubble, students will always live off campus (I'm in year two and despite these problems, it's made college so much better that I wish I had done it earlier). We need to do so, not just for the sake of our social lives, but also for preventing dorm over­crowding. It's high time that the administration recognizes that and steps up to the plate. Until that happens, we will continue to be spread across the city, living in dangerous neighborhoods, and causing ill community relations because ... well, we're college students and we will always have parties on the weekends. 
DaveVenker 
seruor 
off-campus Sept. 26 
SBPD has gone too far 

The multi-agency "raid" on an off-campus house Sept. 21, in which 37 Notre Dame students were arrested for underage drinking, must be one of the most colossal wastes of resources in St. Joseph's County history. According to reports, members of SUDS, St. Joseph's County Police, Indiana Excise Police and the Indiana State Police joined forces -not to break up-a crack ring, but to arrest University of Notre Dame students who were drinking (gasp!) beer out of a keg. Yes, underage drinking is illegal, and yes, authori­ties are there to enforce the law. Nevertheless. instead of writing a few eitations and breaking up the party, a patrolling officer felt it necessary to call in pretty much everyone but Patton's First Infantry Division. 
What makes this particularly disturbing is that police resources are said to be in short supply. I recently read an article from the South Bend Tribune from Sept. 24 entitled "Police: Violent Crime Up in South Bend," detailing the rise of violent crime in South Bend, with the Chief of the South Bend Police Department describ­ing some of the murders as "scary." It goes on to explain that the Mayor and the Chief of Police believe that budget cuts will make it diflicult to reduce crime in the city. I find it fascinating that while violent crime escalates, there are still plenty of resources available to persecute the dangerous lot of Notre Dame students. 
Stop the chop 
Notre Dame Student Body: Please, please, please do not do the chop after a first down. We are not Florida State University; not only do our athletes and students actually graduate, but we have more class. Freshmen. don't start it; it's really not that cool. And sophomores, you should know better. The chop looks horrible and it's definitely not Notre Dame. 
Kevin Kimberly sophomore O'Neill Hall Sept. 27 
I attended the University of Notre Dame, graduating in 2001, and often felt the police went out of their way to lmst students for relatively harmless offenses. Though I do not spend as much time in South Bend now, I have frequently been carded or otherwise harassed while tailgating before football games (I am 29 years old). Students are now banned from tailgating and apparently are not even allowed to have parties in their own off-campus houses when the primary resi­dents are of legal age. Since when was Carrie Nation appointed Chief of Police in South Bend? As a refresher for those who don't know, which doubtlessly includes every single member of the South Bend Police Department, Carrie Nation was a member of the tem­perance movement in the early 20th century who would make her point by entering bars and smashing the kegs and bottles of alcohol with a hatchet. The idea that Notre Dame is the only place in the country where college students drink before legal age is laughable. While drinking and driving and other more serious crimes should never be tolerated, having a quiet ofl" campus party that results in a SWAT team raid is not only absurd, it's negligent. To think there were other more serious crimes going on Saturday night at the exact moment the police were myopically focused on a few inebriated students with SAT scores in the 99th percentile should make everyone question the priorities of local law enforcement. Aren't the police paid to serve and protect the public? 

This story makes it sound like South Bend police are far more concerned with telling Notre Dame students "just who's boss." The residence in question received no noise complaints and the police claimed that an ofli­cer driving by "noticed underage drinking" going on. To describe this oflicialline of the SBPD as preposter­ous is being generous; it is obvious the students were targeted by the police department. This is from the article I referenced above: "According to statistics released by the South Bend Police Department, there have been 10 murders in South Bend, 54 rapes and 235 aggravated assaults so far this year. Those num­bers compared with the same time frame since 2005, and this year the numbers are higher in every catego­ry." I hope the residents of South Bend will have enough sense _to demand that their valuable police resources be spent on combating violent crime instead of repressing common college student behavior. 
Ellis Carson alum class of 200 I Sept. 26 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 
Monday, September 29, 2008 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Edi10r 

Television's longest-running ani­mated series is at it again, and for the twentieth time. Homer, Marge, Bart. Lisa, Maggie and the rest of the Springfield crew have entered our TV screens once more, with no sign of quitting while they're ahead. 
The show's lifespan is an impressive one, given the brief shelf lives of most series on any of the major networks, let alone those on Fox. It's a testament to the ability of "The Simpsons" to continually stay relevant, not to mention funny, through two decades of programming. Even a jump to the silver screen in the series' full-length film last year didn't put a stop to the residents of Springfield. If anything, the film. which grossed over $500 million at the box oflice, strength­ened the power of the show. The best of Fox's "Animation Domination" Sunday night lineup, "The Simpsons" can't be missed. 
The season premiere of "The Simpsons" spins a Homeric yarn much like those of the nineteen 
seasons before it. Marge and Homer both embark on "business ventures," with Homer joining forces with an unexpected ally, Ned "Diddly-o" Flanders, in a lucrative bounty-hunting scheme. "Good Neighbors Bounty Hunters," indeed. Marge finds herself working for an Irishman, baking in a certain type of bakery for a particular clientele. Matt Groening and his creative crew refrain from showing most of the baked goods, leav­ing the viewers' imaginations to pic­ture the pastries on 
their own. 
The episode also 
opens with an unexpected holiday celebration, a booze-free Saint Patrick's Day parade and festival. With both Northern and Southern Irishmen in attendance, only Lisa's peace­keeping abilities can stay the fighting for more than five min­utes. The leprechaun battle is particularly funny. 
If the premiere suffers from anything, it might be a lack of invention. The episode doesn't feel like a huge departure from the preceding season; if anything, it tits so well into the grain of the show that viewers would need to be told it was a season premiere. 
This is a small criticism, however, of a show that's been as consis­tently witty and creative as "The Simpsons." 
Much has been made of a debate between "Family Guy" and "The Simpsons," and often the teasing and interplay are explicitly done on both shows. When it comes to a discussion of superiority, however, "The Simpsons" will likely be remem­bered as the better of the two. If the premiere is any indication, it's virtually impossible that this sea­son will be its last. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
The standard in TV animation, "The Simpsons" is nearly legal and not looking back. After nine­teen seasons, you'd think that a show might start to lose some steam, feel tired, or end in a blaze of glory. Homer, Marge and Co. have shown no signs of slowing down, and the twentieth season is off to a strong start. Time will tell as to how long "The Simpsons" will last, but why not enjoy the skateboard ride in the meantime?


The Simpsons Sundays at 8 p.m. on Fox 

ANIMATION 

_,..,... 


By SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Writer 

The seventh season of "Family Guy" looks like the six before it. With consistent spontaneity and enough pop eulture references to stump Ken Jennings, fans can expect to g«~t much more of the same. 
The first episode of the season didn't start on a particu­larly strong note; in fact, it focused on thn family's dog Brian, and his search for a Jove life. Though the narrative was straightfor­ward and mostly uninteresting, references to older episodes are readily available. 
The show feels tired after its six-year run, its gags looking for more absurd and more diflicult­to-eatch references while the remam1ng characters are trapped rehashing old jokes. Quagmire is still a womanizer, Stewie is still evil and dependent on Brian, and the rest of the eharaeters are shoved aside for this particularly uninteresting story. 
Cleveland Brown, one of Peter Griflin's friends, has even man­aged to get a spin-otT show of his own. "The Cleveland Show," as it will be called, will start airing in 2009 and will undoubtedly have the same charm as other MacFarlane shows. 
In fact, Cleveland will have a daughter and two sons, one of whieh appears to be a toddler, 
not to forget the 
potential antics of 
his neighbors, the 
anthropomorphic 
bears and a family 
of rednecks. 
Hilarity will undoubtedly ensue in this com­pletely original and unique spin­
otT. 
"The Simpsons" has managed to stay relatively fresh with its material, tackling almost every topic under the sun. Perhaps this is because they do not have a single joke premise th-at is reused endlessly like the "Family Guy" writers do. Perhaps it's a lack of creativity or effort, but "Family Guy" seems like a one trick pony. 
How does a cartoon stay on the air for 20 years? 
Maybe humor, gags and allu­sions are part of it, but sincerity and sentimentality provide the viewer with a stronger bond to these animated characters. 
It may be too late for the "Family Guy" cast to create some chemistry, but there will no doubt be some hilarious quips. Despite a weak season premiere, the fact remains that if there's one show that can be so absurd it will make you laugh out loud, then "Family Guy" is still that show. 
Contact Symon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 
If your sense of humor is of the reference-random-seven­ties-shows-and-obscure-pop­culture-figures variety, then "Family Guy" is the animated series for you. Few characters will till your need for the unex­pected quite like Peter Griffin and the rest of his clan. Creator Seth McFarlane has fashioned a twenty-first century sitcom fam­ily from Quahog, Rhode Island, complete with the token matri­cidal, British-accented baby. 


Family Guy Sundays at 9 p.m. on Fox 

NSIDER 
~HE 

Monday, September 29, 2008 VJjSERVER Notre Dame 38, Purdue 21 
Off to the races 
Notre Dame put up 21 points in the third quarter on their way to a 38-21 win 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
Third quarter? No problem. 
Prior to Saturday's game Notre Dame had failed to put up a sin­gle point in the third quarter this season. This time around was a little bit different. 
The Irish (3-1) busted out of the locker room after a 14-14 halftime deadlock and put 21 third quarter points on Purdue (2-2) to seal a 38-21 win the team needed to prove their men­tal toughness. 
"It's 14-14 at halftime, and basically I told these guys it's the n•<~st important drive of the entir" season," head coach Charlie Wci<; said. "It put us with the momenturn in our favor and it carried it throu~;h right into the fourth quarter." 
Sophomore quarterh~ck Jimmy Clausen attributed thto victory to being prepared to play this week. 
''We came out, executed the game-plan, and got a victory, and that's all we really want to do," Clausen said. 
The Irish have bounced back nicely from their 23-7 loss to Michigan State, showing a resilience that was lacking last season. 
"The line of scrimmage was moving the wrong direction last 
week," Weis said. "[The offensive Freshman cornerback ~obert Blanton r_aces towaro.. t~e end zone after intercepting Curtis Painter's pass in the second quarter. Blanton returned the p1ck 47 yards to t1e the game at 1-"l with 9:56 remaining in the half. 
line] took it personal, and they did something about it." The game started with both ballgame. It really settled every­before Allen rushed three times 
"'-ere to make a few of these made it a three possession game, teams exchanging punts until body down.'' for 8, 21, and 16 yards. The fmal runl>." 
so that was the most important
Purdue fifth-year senior wide Blanton's interception changed rush was good for the Irish's first The r':"-•lrgence of the running part," Walker said. "It boosted receiver Desmond Tardy gave the team's perception of how the touchdown and points this year game fman,J gave Clausen a 
my confidence, the coaches' con­
Purdue good field position at game was going. in the third quarter. chance to excel. 
fidence, and the players' confi­their own 41 yard-line. "It·was huge," junior line­"It feels great," Allen said. "We Clausen threw a 5-J'~rd touch­dence in me, so it was a relief." 
Purdue fifth-year senior quar­backer John Ryan said. "At the went out there and showed peo­down pass to freshman tl!'ht end The Irish defense shut Purdue 
terback Curtis Painter drove the time we were down, and they ple that we really can run the Kyle Rudolph and another 'Ul­out for the entire fourth quarter, Boilermakers down the field for almost made it a two score ball. We always hear that we yarder to senior wide receiver 
sealing the win. The 
the score, culminating in a 22-game. Blanton's interception put can't run the ball, so to go out David Grimes in the Irish's next b.,;lermakers struggled to move 
yard TO rush on the misdirec­us right back into the ballgame." there and run the ball effectively two possessions to complete a the b<J] after losing Sheets to a tion by fifth-year senior running Purdue answered right back, is great." prolific third quarter and stretch shouldet injury in the fourth back Kory Sheets. however, driving the ball from Allen rushed for a career high the lead to a 35-21 Irish lead. quarter. 
The Boilermakers had a their own 22 all the way down to 136 yards on 17 carries and a "I thought he improved a lot," "He's had his ''-'boulder that chance to score again in their the goal-line where Painter con­TD to carry the Irish running Grimes said. "He was coming up slips on him every nu.v and then. next possession, but Purdue jun­nected with senior wide receiver game, taking pressure off to the line of scrimmage and It did that," Purdue heQ..,J coach ior placekicker Chris Summers Aaron Valentin for a 3-yard TO. Clausen and the wide receivers. calling plays just like Brady Joe Tiller said. "He's in the "ck­pulled the ball wide left on a 28-The question then became "That was awesome," junior [Quinn] used to do. I think he er room and he's improving nov._ yard field goal attempt. could the Irish answer right back guard Eric Olsen said. "Any time grew up a lot today. I'm proud of He'll be sore this week, but 
"Thankfully they ended up and seize back the momentum you can get a big run like that, it him." hopefully he'll be back." missing that field goal," Weis going into halftime. makes everybody feel great. Painter spoiled a perfect Irish The win marks Notre Dame's said. "It could've made the score The answer was yes, as Sometimes there are games third quarter by connecting with fourth straight win at home 10-0 early." Clausen connected with fresh­when you just have to throw the Tardy for a 54 yard TD pass stretching back to a 28-7 win 
Sophomore placekicker man wide receiver Michael Floyd ball the whole time and the down the right sideline. over Duke last season. Brandon Walker also missed a on a circus catch over a Purdue defense can just tee off on you, The fourth quarter saw just "We feel for the first time in a field goal to start up the second defender to set up a 6-yard so any time you can run the ball one scoring play for either team, while we're starting to feel com­quarter, but the Notre Dame touchdown pass to sophomore it's great." but it was a significant one for fortable here," Weis said. "We're stole the momentum when fresh­wide receiver Golden Tate, knot-­Weis was happy to see some­the Irish, as Walker successfully kind of feeding off our crowd." man cornerback Robert Blanton ting things up at 14-14 going one step up in the running game converted his first field goal of The Irish will have the home intercepted a Painter pass and into the half. and fill that void in the offense. the year. field advantage once again next returned it 47 yards for a touch­In the second half Clausen and "I think [Allen] had a big day," "I said look, you are going to weekend when they face down through Boilermaker tack­sophomore running back Weis said. "We say, where you have to make a kick here in this Stanford at 2:30 p.m. lers to tie the game. Armando Allen took over. been? You could have been tak­game, and it's just like kicking 
"That was a huge play," Weis Clausen threw for two quick ing a little pressure off us in the an extra point," Weis said. Contact Jared Jedick at said. "That play gets it to a tie first downs to open things up running game a little earlier "For the game specifically it jjedick@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Armando Allen 

Allen had a breakout game with I34 yards on the ground and a I6-yard touchdown to open up the second half and give the Irish a 2 I-I 4 lead. 
stat of the game 
201 
Irish rushing yards, I39 ofwhich came during the second half as Notre Dame dQminated the line. 
play of the game 
Robert Blanton's 47-yard interception return for a TD 
The freshman burst on to the scene with a game-changing play and an impressive run back. 
quote of the game 

"I think Armando had a big day. We were getting on him pretty good ... I said, Mere you been?" 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 29, 2008 

report card 
A­
A 
A­
A 
B 
B+ 
8+ A 

I>Pan's I i'it lhr the lin-;t time since 2<X>6. It's tough to find anything to
3.71 

Ill~ upset with alter Saturday's vic­tory. 
adding up the nulllbei·s 
Notre Dame's total yards ir<~te_thi~d quarter 188 against San Diego ~.t:~te, M1ch1gan and Michigan State cp..llfned. 
Notre Dame's total yards against Purdue in the third quarter.
..
~04 
Irish defender who had five or more tackles Saturday. Bruton, Kuntz and 
6
Crum had six each to lead the way. 

7 5 
Percent success rate on fourth down conver­sions for Notre Dame. They went 3-for-4 including a 30-yard touchdown pass. 
Consecutive starts for linebacker Maurice 
41 

Crum, Jr. That streak places him seventh among active college football players. 
12-0 
Irish record under Coach Weis when out­rushing an opponent. Notre Dame out­rushed the Boilermakers 201-103. 
Yards Irish running back Armando Allen averaged per carry against Purdue. 
7.9 

367 
Yards receiving for Golden Tate through 4 games. The highest total at this point since Tom Gatewood in 1970. 
quarterbacks: Clauson threw a few per­fed passPs for touehdowns and was virtually mistake free. lie did get away with two eould-be INTs whieh keeps him from tho perfect seorn. 
running backs: Allen had a earner day with 136 yards on tho ground. Hughes and Aldridge also did well filling their 
roles and pic:king up yardage in key situations. 
receivers: Grimes looked good in his 
n~turn to thn field and Floyd took advantag~~ of tho extra attention on Coldm1 Tatn. The only hiccup was a single drop from Kamara. 
offensive line: Allen had massive holes to run through and Clausen walked into tho one sack allowed on the aflernoon. Tho Irish won the war in 
the trenches hands down. 
defensive line: The line ellcctively dogged up tho Purdue running game, but failed to get to Painter all day nxcept for one intentional grounding call. 
linebackers: !Iarrison Smith was all over the linld and Brian Smith and Crum con­tinund to play solid up the middle. Purdtw barnly got ovo 1(X) yards rushing. 
defensive backs: Blanton's pick and a TD­saving tackle in the first quarter from McCarthy went a long way in making up fi1r the :{5lJ yards passing that Painter put up. 
special teams: Kickoll" coverage shut 
down two dangerous returners and 
Walker finally broke his slump with a 
41-yarder in the fourth quarter. 
coaching: Weis used the pass to set up the run instnad of the other way around. lie also lirnd up the team heading into the third quarter and they took it from there. 
overall: Tho Irish cracked the 
At halftime on Saturday, Irish head coach Charlie Weis told his team that the most important drive of the game -and the season ­was the open­ing one of the second half. He said it would define the team's sea­son after an uneven first half and a l1.,,; the week beforc'­
·That game could obvi­
ously have Managing Editor gone either way at that point. For us to be able to take the ball right down the field and score, it kind of put us, you know, with the momen­tum in our favor and carried it through right into the fourth quar­ter," he said. 
And fortunately for Weis, his team responded. 
The Irish scored just over two minutes into the half off a 16-yard touchdown run 

"That game could obviously 
by sophomore tailback have gone either way at 
Armando Allen that point. For us to be able 
-the team's 
to take ball right down the
first touchdown 
in the third quar­field and score, it kind of ter this season. put us, you know with the 
But Notre 
momentum in our favor 
Dame did not 
stop there. The and carried it through the 
Irish scored right into the fourth twice more in the 
quarter."
quarter to push their lead to 35­21 going into the Charlie Weis final 15 minutes. Irish coach 
This is how you can be confident that this team is nowhere near last year. 
Notre Dame had only eight first downs in the first half and only car­ried the ball 14 times for 62 yards, but understood that the offense needed to jump start the Irish going into the second half. 
"It was definiteb· an important drive [to start the third quarter]." Irish guarcl t:ric Olsen said. "We needed to get points on the board. 
If """' came out and sputtered, it .vould have given them the ball right away, and with 

their high-powered " We just turned into a the defense is offense, anything going to start tee­
different team. We felt 

can happen." i n g off on you . I t 
we could throw the ball 

Sophomore wide really starts getting receiver Golden and run the ball at any the running game Tate put it best going first because
time.'' 

when he described then you get the the Irish team that defense trying to played the third Golden Tate get up in the box quarter as a differ­Irish sophomore and get as many 
ent one completely from the rest of the season. 
"We just turned into a different team. We felt we could throw the ball at any time and run the ball at any time. We just went out there and did it," he said. 
Going into the matchup with Purdue, Notre Dame still left lin­gering questions with much of the 
fan base. The team looked slop­py against San Diego State through three quarters. Notre Dame beat Michigan, but largely thanks to six Wolverine turnovers. Weis' "pound it" strate­gy never got off the ground in East Lansing and the Irish made crucial mistakes to lose to Michigan State. 
But all of that was answered 
with that one drive. 
The Irish looked solid running the ball -in part because it compli­mented quarterback Jimmy Clausen's passing game. · 
Clausen played arguably the best game of his Notre Dame career on 

Saturday (20-of-35 passing, three touchdowns, no picks), which enabled running back Armando Allen to have his best game, too 
(136 yards  on  17 carries and  a  
touchdown).  
"Obviously, any  
time you're throw­ 
ing the ball well  

guys as they can to stop the run and that helps with the 
passing game," Olsen said. 

This offensive efficiency was helped by Notre Dame's strong defensive performance in the sec­
ond  half,  allowing only  seven  
points.  
Unlike  the  turnover-filled  

Michigan game, the defense played smart, and the only takeaway was freshman Robert Blanton's pick-six in the second quarter. 
But beyond the team's improve­ments from the other games this year, Notre Dame was also to take another step away from last sea­son's debacle. 
"But I think the promising thing was how they carne out in the sec­ond half and the game could go either way. Hemember now, it wasn't in the too distant pass that we would go in the tank," Weis said in his post-game news conference. 
What didn't happen Saturday is just as important as what did: The team was down, but not out, losing but not lost. But the biggest differ­ence? A third win instead of a sec­ond loss. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 

Monday, September 29, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Allen back at full speed Saturday 


By MATT GAMBER 
Associate Sports Editor 
It's been more than two years, he said, but sophomore running back Armando Allen is back. 
Allen totaled a career-best 247 all­purpose yards Saturday, including 134 rushing on 17 carries, in his most explosive performance since a left ankle injury robbed him of,his senior high school season. 
"This off-season I really worked on strengthening my ankle," Allen said, who was bothered by the injury for parts of his freshman season. "I came into spring ball feeling very confident ... but now that I feel better. I think I can produce." 
Allen looked so little like the player who ran for just 71 yards in the sea­son's first three games that Irish coach Charlie Weis could only ask on .the sideline, "Where you been'?" 
"We talk about it all the time," Allen said. "I practice hard and sometimes in games it doosn't go as well as we planned. but today everything was going well." 
Not just for Allen. but for an offen­sive line that "took it personal" when the Irish mustered only 16 yards on the ground last week at Michigan State, Weis said. 
"The line of scrimmage was moving the wrong way last week ... but they did something _about it," Weis said. 
.Junior right tackle Sam Young said the unit agreed to "passionately find a way" to make strides in the running game, and 201 team rushing yards later, it 
"Anytime you get the run game going, it's positive for the offensive line," Young said. "It's a fun game, and it's meant to be played with emotion." 
Notre Dame came out of the halftime intermission with that mindset, and after sophomore quarterback Jimmy 
Clausen completed a pair of long passes to the Purdue 45 yard-line, it was three straight gives to Allen, capped by a 16-yard burst through a gaping hole on the right side that got the Irish into the end zone for a 21-14 lead. 
"Brilliant," Young said. "Our job is to make Armando's job easy. lie found the touchdowns. 
Allen's-35-yard return in the second quarter set the Irish up at the 35 yard­line following a Boilermakers touch­down that put Notre Dame down 14-7. 

"Our job is to make Armando'sjob easy. He found the holes and just skated right through them. " 
Sam Young Irish junior 
holes and just skated right through them." 
Allen showed the big-play capability that netted him a scholarship to Notre Dame in the fir-st place, both out of the backfield and on kick returns. 
He returned four kick-offs -for a total of 105 yards, including two he nearly took to the house following Purdue His 36-yard scamper to the 46 yard-line put his team in good position to extend its 28-21 lead in the third. 
"We take pride in our special teams," Allen said. "We haven't had a kickoff return in a long time, so I think that's one of our goals this year. Each week we're getting closer and closer, so now we're just waiting for 
that big one." 
Before Saturday, the same could have been said about Allen as a run­ning back -his longest career rush was 15 yards. But he shredded a Boilermakers defense decimated by injuries at linebacker for four runs of at least that distance. 
"That was awesome," junior guard Eric Olsen said. "Any time you can get a big run it makes everybody feel great. Sometimes there are games when you just have to throw the ball the whole time and the defense can just tee off on you, so any time you can run the ball it's great." 
And it wasn't just Allen who enjoyed the fruits of the offensive line's labors. Junior James Aldridge (8 carries, 34 yards) and sophomore Robert Hughes (9 carries, 26 yards) each ran with infinitely more success than they did a week ago against the Spartans. 
"Our backfield is full of talent, so no matter who's in the game you're going to get the same production," Allen said. 
It was his day, though, as the Irish spread the field and allowed Allen to find space on a heavy diet of stretch plays that called for him to get outside the tackle box and use his speed. 
"We went out there today, with the offense a little more spread out, and it really felt comfortable," Allen said. "It really gave me the opportunity to go out there and do what I can do best." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
scoring sum_m_ary 

1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  14  21  3  38  
Purdue  7  7  7  0  21  

First quarter Purdue 7, Notre Dame 0 
Kory Sheets 22-yard run with 9:04 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 59 yards, 4:16 elapsed 
Second quarter Purdue 7, Notre Dame 7 

Robert Blanton 47-yard interception return with 
9:56 remaining. Drive: 0 plays, 47 yards 
Purdue 14, Notre Dame 7 
Aaron Valentin 3-yard pass from Curtis Painter with 4:46 remaining . Drive: 14 plays, 78 yards, 5:10 elapsed 
Purdue 14, Notre Dame 14 
Golden Tate 6-yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 2:35 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 65 yards, 2:11 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 21, Purdue 14 
Armando Allen 16-yard run with 12:56 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 81 yards, 2:04 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 14 
Kyle Rudolph 5-yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 6:37 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 78 yards, 4:56 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Purdue 21 
Desmond Tardy 54-yard pass from Curtis Painter with 5:24 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 64 yards, 1:13 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Purdue 21 
David Grimes 30-yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 1:24 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 54 yards, 4:00 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 38, Purdue 21 

Brandon Walker 41-yard field goal with 10:26 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 64 yards, 3:55 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
PURDUE 462 

rushing yards 

passing yards PURDUE 359 
NO 275 
return yards 

time of possession 

Notre Dame running on all cylinders 
than 200 yards, and the 5.0 unit limit the nation's second­touchdown of the season and 
By MATT GAMBER 
yards per carry average ties best return team to 13.9 yards the fourth of his career. Tate Associate Sports Editor 
for the sixth-best since Weis per return (compared to the also caught a touchdown pass took the helm in 2005. Boilermakers' gaudy 31.8 yard against Purdue last season. 
After rushing for just 16 average coming in), but they He finished with five recep­yards as a team in last week­Pick-six kept Desmond Tardy, the tions for 64 yards, giving him end's loss to Michigan State, Freshman defensive back nation's leader with a 40.3 20 catches for 367 through Notre Dame improved by 185 Robert Blanton's 4 7 -yard yard return average, from reg­four games. He leads the Irish passing yards to total 201 as a team. interception return for a istering a single kick return. in receptions, yards, touch­Clausen 35·20-0 Painter 55-29-1 
Sophomore running back touchdown made him the fifth Notre Dame entered the downs and yards per catch Armando Allen led the rejuve­Irish freshman to return a pick game allowing an average of (18.4). rushing nated ground game with a for a touchdown. 14.0 yards per return, good for Allen 17-136 Sheets 13-89 
Aldridge 8-35 Siller 2-6
career-high 134 yards. Junior Vontez Duff was the last third in the country. Adios, Coach 
Hughes 9-26 Smith

James Aldridge (8 carries, 34 Notre Dame player to return Senior Mike Anello made his Purdue coach Joe Tiller, who yards). sophomore Robert an interception for a touch­team-leading eighth special earlier this year announced receiving Hughes (9-26) and sophomore down against Purdue. Duff's teams tackle on the opening this season would be his last, 
Floyd 6-100 Tardy 10-175 
quarterback Jimmy Clausen was one of three Irish defen­kick-off. Seven of his eight finished his career 5-7 against 
Tate 5-64 Orton 9-90 (5-8) contributed to the team sive touchdowns on Sept. 7, tackles were solo. the Irish, including 1-5 on the Grimes 4-65 Sheets 5-56 
totals. 2002. road. 
tackling

Saturday marked the ninth The 'Golden' Boy time a Charlie Weis-led Notre Coverage dominance Sophomore wide receiver Contact Matt Gamber at Bruton 6 Heygood 11 Damp, team rushed for more Not only did the Irish kick-off Golden Tate caught his third mgamber@nd.edu Kuntz 6 Holland 11 



page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 29, 2008 


'If;" 7 
r, '.\cJ 

and Armando Allen both had career days. Allen with 134 yards rushing on 17 attmnpL<> and Clausen with three touchdown passes and no inter­eeptions. Their classmate Golden Tate also added his third touchdown reeeption or the year. Freshmen Kyle Hudolph and Robert Blanton also added big touchdowns as the Irish rolled to a 38-21 victory over the Boilermakers. Michael Floyd also added 100 yards receiving for the l"rnshrmm class. The game remained closed through two quarters. But Notm Dame emerged from the locker room after half time as a team pos­sessed. They put together three third quarter scoring drives which but tho game out of reach. and placekicker Brandon Walker put an exclama­tion point on the decisive win with a 41-yard field goal in the third 
quarter. 

Clockwise from top left: The Purdue offensive line picks up a Notre Dame blitz. Golden Tate pulls in a circus catch over a Purdue defender. Kory Sheets is tripped up at the line of scrimmage by an Irish defender. Brandon Walker lines up his 31-yard missed field goal attempt. Kyle McCarthy leads a pack of Irish tacklers containing Sheets. 
.------------------~---­
~ 

---~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, September 29, 2008 
page 11 
Whether or not you're actually from Texas, it's easy to find humor on "King of the Hill." Hank Hill and his crew are your easygoing drinking buddies, hanging out on a weekday after­noon and not doing anything in particular. Hank's good-natured personality and Peggy's brand of quirkiness are the basis of this animated nuclear family. Often overlooked by fans of Fox's other animated series, "King of the Hill" deserves a second look. 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene. Editor 
"Slow and steady" might be the best way to describe Fox's "King of the Hill." The show has been part of the network's animated lineup since 1997, yet has a lower profile image than "The Simpsons" and less obvious humor than "Family Guy." A cre­ation of Mike Judge, the brain­child behind MTV's "Beavis and Butthead," "King of the Hill" tells the story of Texan Hank Hill (Mike Judge), his wife Peggy (Kathy Najimy), their son Bobby (Pamela Adlon) and their older niece Luanne Platter (Brittany 


. 
Murphy). Hank's drinking bud­dies also make regular appear­ances on "King of the Hill," as do Bobby's school friends. 
"King of the Hill" returns to the Animation Domination lineup with "Dia-BILL-ic Shock," its pre­miere episode for the show's eleventh season. Airing just after "The Simpsons" is a prime time slot, and "King of the Hill" undoubtedly bene­fits from the resid­ual audience. In the premiere, Hank's friend Bill, a snacker with a passion for sweets, collapses at the local carnival after showing Bobby and Hank how to ask for a lollipop wrapped in cotton candy. 
His cantankerous doctor tells him that he is showing signs of adult onset diabetes, prompting Bill to start using a wheelchair. Funnily enough, the chair intro­duces him to a paraplegic rugby player named Thunder, who shows Bill the bright side -or, perhaps, the crazier side -of life on two wheels. In one memorable scene, Bill and Thunder visit a local bar and spy several good­looking women on the dance floor. Thunder, all bravado and self-confidence, tells Bill that, " ... women find men in chairs non-threatening .... Suckers!" 
King ofthe Hill Sundays at 8:30p.m. on Fox 
The show's funniest subplot involves Peg taking a similar health-conscious approach to life that Bill is forced to take by doc­tor's orders. Bobby's snacks go from candy bars to seaweed bars, a:nd the fallout is pretty funny. At one point, Bobby's friend Junior gives his friend a chocolate bar out of concern. Bobby, however, finds that his taste buds have been altered by the onslaught of health food, and can't bring himself to eat unhealthy snacks anymore. 
"It's too sweet!" he says after a bite of chocolate. "It's making my teeth itch!" 
The episode is as low-key as its protagonist, Hank Hill. Hank, unlike his neighbor in Springfield, is, surprisingly enough, not an idiot sitcom dad. He cares about his friends and family, even ifthat caring is stilted and humorous more often than not. When Bill thinks he'll be in a wheelchair for life, Hank and his friends remodel Bill's house, lowering all of the countertops by two feet and painting a handicap symbol on the driveway. Plus, the Texas drawl is hard to resist. 
Contact Szymon Rymer at sryz.ner@nd.edu 


·..:: 
-""i.: 
·.·.~=r-· 

"American Dad" finds itself in the funny position of trying to play second act to "Family Guy," one of Fox's most popular shows. Also a creation of Seth McFarlane, "American Dad" can't help but draw compar­isons to its lead-in. Granted, Stewie isn't exaclty a German goldfish, but the similarities are there, Still, whether or not "Family Guy" fans stick around, "American Dad" is trying to forge its own cartoon identity. 
,_.i: ... 
· . By SZ¥MON RYZNER 
Scene Writer 
To many, "American Dad" has become "that show that airs after 'Family Guy."' The story of C.I.A. agent Stan Smith and his family is very reminiscent of Peter Griffin and his, though the humor of "American Dad" seems to play on taboos and a complete disregard for political correctness. 
The shock value of "American Dad" seems to be the only goal of its jokes, and the characters are set up for it perfectly. The nerdy son, Steve, is experiencing puber­ty, an awkward time for most; the daughter of the conservative Stan, Hayley, is an extreme liberal; the family is also blessed with the presence of an extremeJy flam­boyant alien named Roger and a German goldfish named Klaus. Exploiting all of these stereotypi­cal characters is at the heart of "American Dad," as is satirizing politics and .the media. 
The season pre­miere deals with Roger and his upcoming 1,600th birthday, a very important day in the life of his particular alien species, and the start of Steve's puberty, a phase that the Smiths would rather a void entirely. These two 'premises comprise the entirety of the storyline, with Roger being constantly ignored due to Steve's puberty and the forced changes his parents induce to avoid the raging hormones and oily skin. 
Though ripe for a parody of MTV's "My Super Sweet Sixteen," and various famous teen high school films, it only really achieves minimal allusion by end­ing with a "Sixteen Candles" ref­erence. Ultimately, it feels like the writers missed more opportuni­ties for wittiness than they achieved, and thus showed why 
American Dad Sundays at 9:30p.m. on Fox 
the show is second to "Family Guy" and more of a place to dis­play their second rate jokes. 
This second show from Seth MacFarlane has never really achieved strong footing with view­ers. Though it follows the ever­popular "Family Guy" and pos­sesses a similar humor, almost half the viewers choose to change the channel when it comes on. Its rat­ings, though, have been stable, and it 
does about as well as the much longer running "King of the Hill," a popular show among critics. 
As it appears to be with "Family Guy," "American Dad" simply needs to achieve a strong connec­tion. with it's fans, the family itself needs more character and unity, and the premises and jokes need to be thought out and properly placed. 
A show that is ripe for dishing out satire and "un-pc" jabs should do a better job of establishing this identity and sticking to it. The show will undoubtedly have many humorous episodes with strong wit; but overall this season pre­miere was underwhelming. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 


All images courtesy of hulu.com 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 29, 2008 
NFL 

Injured Favre has career day in vvin over Cardinals 
Browns' quarterback Anderson keeps. starting job with fourth-quarter surge; Chiefs end 12-game losing streak 
I05 yards after campaigning
Associated Press 
to the coaches for more play's 

EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. earlier in the week. 
Sore ankln and all, Broadway "I think it was a little bit of 
Brett joined Broadway Joe in me bning a brat." he said. 
tlw .lots' record book. "Sometimes you want to be 
Brett Favre set a earner high involved a little bit more, not and tied Jon Namath's Jets in a selfish way. I feel if given mark with six touehdown pass­an opportunity, I can help the es, including thrnn to tnam win some ballgames. I l.avnranues Coles. and New went and voiced that to the York took ad van tagn of' a eoaches and they heard me." snrins of' mistakes by Arizona Warner tried to bring the in a big second quart1~r bnf'orn Cardinals (2-21 back in the holding on to beat the seemHI half as Arizona scored Cardinals !16-35 on Sunday. 35 points. Warner, 40-of-57 for 
"Throwing six tourhdown 4 72 yards, threw a 14-yard TD passes was awesonw," Favre pass to Jerheme Urban with said. "That had nothing to do 4:49 left, but lost the ball with how I f'elt I played. It was again on a fumble with less one of' thosp games. More than 3 minutes left. importantly. I fPit th1~ overall "It's a game, you know?" game itself'. I rnannged it well." said Warner, dearly shaknn up 
Favre. showing no signs of' a by Boldin's injury. "I didn't lnf't ankle injury that hobbled play well. I'll bounce back and him during tlw wed, linished play bettnr next week." 24-f'or-:~4 f'or 2H<J yards and an Favre hit Dustin Keller for a inton~eption f'or tlw Jets (2-2). 24-yard touchdown and a 2­
"I askPd him if hP had tiPCl a point conversion with 1:54 r.arnor high and lw said. 'I've remaining to seal it for the IWVI'r thrown six. said Jets, wearing their navy and .lerricho CotdJPry, who had gold Nnw York Titans throw­two TD catdws. "That was like back uniforms. tlw end of' tlw conversation "It's just one gamn," Favre lweausn I'm srralrhing my said. "Don't expect six touch­!wad. like. 'HPally'? lin's never downs every week, but we, as thrown six tourhdown passes an off'ensive unit, should see lwf'orn'!' lin played groat and expect a lot of ourselves." today. 
"lin was just dialing it up Cleveland 20, Cincinnati 12 and telling everybody, 'I loy, get Three quarters, three points. ready. Tlw ball is coming." Cleveland's offense was having 
Arizona wide reeeiver another meltdown day, and penalty wiped out a potential scrambles, underscoring the 12-game losing streak. Anquan Boldin was carted off Derek Anderson was running interception on the drive. Bengals' futility. They're 0-4 "It's like getting the whole tho field after a scary helrnot­out of chances to keep his job. Anderson wore a green T­for the first time since 2002, world off your back," said to-helnwt collision with New The quarterback's one good shirt, tan cargo shorts, brown when they went a franchise­rookie cornerback Brandon York safety Eric Smith in the moment was enough to save flip-flops and a big grin to his worst 2-12 that got coach Dick Flowers, whose 37-yard fum­end zone with 27 seconds his job-and the Browns' sea­postgame news conference. He LeBeau fired. ble return set up Johnson's 1­remaining. Boldin was moving son, too. cut off the first mention of los­"We desperately needed this yard TO run. "Twelve games, all his extremities on the field With Brady Quinn on the ing his job. one," Fitzpatrick said. "This that's real tough." and was talking to his team­sideline ready to take over at "Nope, don't go there," said was a devastating loss for us The Chiefs had not won since mates. but was immobilized any time Sunday, the embat­Anderson, who went 15-of-24 in terms of dropping to 0-4 Oct. 21, 2007. Until Nick and taken to Mount Sinai tled Anderson threw a touch­for 138 yards with an inter­and going to Dallas next Novak kicked the first of his Hospital in New York for pre­down pass and rallied the ception. "I stayed in the game. week." three field goals in the first cautionary reasons. Browns to a victory over a You're not going to score every quarter, they hadn't even held 
"lin's alert," Cardinals coach winless Cincinnati Bengals single down." Kansas City 33, Denver 19 a lead since halftime against Ken Whisenhunt said. "lie team missing its starting quar­lie had help from the down­It did not seem like 11 Tennessee on Dec. 16-a span asked to get up and the doe­terback. and-out Bengals. months to Brian Waters since of 22 quarters. tors wouldn't let him." "I decided to give him anoth­Carson Palmer rested a sore Kansas City's last victory. "It was ridiculous," safety 
New York's defense rattled er chance," said coach Homen passing elbow that forced him "rt seemed like 10 years," Jarrad Page said. "Coming in Kurt Warner and forced thrne Cren·nel. who considered to miss a game for the first said the veteran left guard. here after that game was one fumbles and two interceptions replacing Anderson. "He went time since 2004, a huge set­grinning ear-to-ear. "It's a sigh of the best feelings I've had in in thn first half. and the Jets ahead and took advantage of it back for a struggling offense. of relief to be able to have a the NFL.". set a f'ranehise reeord by scor­and linished on a good note." Cincinnati couldn't do much little bit of joy in your life." The Broncos (3-1) put up ing :!4 points in the seeond Anderson threw a 4-yard behind Ryan Fitzpatrick, who Larry Johnson, two weeks numbers befitting the highest­quarter. touchdown pass to Braylon hadn't completed a pass in a after complaining that he was scoring team in the league. Jay 
"That's morn likn it," safnty Edwards that put the Browns regular-season game in three being phased out, ran for 198 Cutler threw for 361 yards, Kerry Hhodes said. "We came (1-3) ahead to stay in the years. yards and two touchdowns to including a 16-yard touchdown after them with some looks fourth quarter, his best play on Fitzpatrick threw three lead the previously winless to Brandon Marshall. But he and wrinklns they hadn't an afternoon that had few of interceptions and finished the Chiefs past the previously also was intercepted twice, seen." them. Even that moment came game as Cincinnati's leading unbeaten Broncos Sunday, and the Broncos gave up two 
Coles had eight eatehes for with an asterisk: A Bengals rusher with 41 yards on four snapping a franchise-record fumbles. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for conrem withour issuing refunds.  
Life is better at the beach! Stop in  2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage.  HOUSES FOR LEASE 09·10  Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn  
WANTED  and preview these new construction 2B,2B Lakeview Condominiums of  FoR RENT  Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274· 2829.  SCHOOL YEAR. 2·10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER  Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts.  
East Edge in Miller Beach, IN. This  PROPERTIES 574·234-2436 OR  
intimate 12 unit sustainable  House near NO. 574-310·3663.  $700/3br. Why sleep in a hotel  KRAMERHOUSES.COM  Best Prices Guaranteed! Best  
STUDENT WORK. $14.25 base- designed building is nestled in the  room, rent this charming Irish cot·  Parties!  
appt., flexible schedules.no experi· ence needed, customer sales/serv·  Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, 45 minutes from downtown Chicago  Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths,  tage!  TICKETS  Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco,  
ice, conditions apply, ages 18+,  and just steps to the pristine beach.  washer dryer, dishwasher, new  Just 4 miles from the Stadium, this  Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida.  
574·273·3835,  Building features an elevator,  stainless steel appliances, 3 car  beautiful extra clean home is avail- Wanted: ND football tix for family.  Information/Reservations  
garage parking, bamboo floors  garage, central air, beautiful light  able for you. A 3 bedroom (2 full  574·251·1570.  
www.workforstudents.com  throughout and all Energy Star  fixtures, deck and front porch.  beds, 2 twins) 3 bath home has  1·800·648·4849 or  
appliances to name a few features.  Marble entryway.  plenty of room for 6·8 people. A 42·  VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND  www.ststravel.com  
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI  Pre contruction pricing starts from  inch flat screen TV is perfect for  football tickets.  
plus 2.5 Pts. 100% secured w/real  $189,000. RESERVE YOURS  All new. 2 miles to ND. Available  watching the other games in a spa·  www.victorytickets.com. 574-232·  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
estate. 35 Yrs. Experience.  BEFORE 10/31/08 AND WE WILL  immediately, fourth month free or  cious family room. Two other TVs in  0964.  not go it alone.  
References. Call574·360·8707 or  SEND YOU ON A WINTER WEEK·  flat screen TV installed. $1180 per  the home. Dining room seats 8·10  If you or someone you love needs  
Email: 2heavn@comcast.net  END GETAWAY TO MIAMI! I Open houses are every Sunday from 1­ month.  people. This is not a bed and break· fast but a family home and it is  PERSONAL  confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at  
FoR SALE  5pm at Oak Ave and County Line Rd in Miller Beach, Indiana through·  Call Harold 574·315·7781. · Home Game Rentals Beautiful,  yours for the Friday/Saturday visit! $500 security deposit is 100%  If you or someone you care about  (574)631·7819 or Ann Firth at 574· 631·2685.  
out the Fall. For more sales infor·  Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully  refundable after inspection of prop·  has been sexually assaulted.  
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO  mation call Sharon at 610·574·2064  furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4  arty. Back yard is great for enter·  For more information, visit our web·  
ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @  or email Sharon Jackson@realliv­ miles from Campus. $500 thurs·  taining. Gas grilf available. Contact  visit http://osa.nd.edu/depart·  site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart·  
574-233·6191 MSL #231736  inghelios.com  sun. Call Joyce 574·339·9241.  Sharon at 610·574·2064.  ments/csap/  ments/pregnant.sntml  

..-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 29, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER's WJRE SERVICEs-page 13 

MLB 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 

team  points  record  
1  Oklahoma (43)  1,599  4-0  
2  Alabama (21)  1,565  5-0  
3  LSU  1,466  4·0  
4  Missouri (1)  1,453  4-0  
5  Texas  1,362  4-0  
6  Penn State  1,252  5·0  
7  TexasTech  1,105  4-0  
8  Brigham Young  1,098  4-0  
9  usc  1,087  2-1  
10  South Florida  1,035  5·0  
11  Georgia  1,018  4-1  
12  Florida  914  3-1  
13  Auburn  860  4-1  
14  Ohio State  829  4-1  
15  Utah  713  5·0  
16  Kansas  650  3-1  
17  Boise State  549  3-0  
18  Wisconsin  520  3-1  
19  Vanderbilt  459  4-0  
20  Virginia Tech  290  4-1  
21  Oklahoma State  277  4-0  
22  Fresno State  232  3-1  
23  Oregon  199  4·1  
24  Connecticut  126  5·0  
25  Wake Forest  107  3-1  
NCAA Footb all  
USA Today  Coaches' Poll  
team  points  record  
1  Oklahoma (57)  1,520  4·0  
2  LSU(1)  1,399  4-0  
3  Missouri  1,398  4-G  
3  Alabama (2)  1,350  5·0  
5  Texas (1)  1,310  4.:0  
6  Penn Stale  1,146  5t0  
7  Brigham Young  1,054  4.:0  
8  Texas Tech  1,047  >,+.0  
9  usc  99G  N  
10  Georgia  888  44  
10  South Florida  888  5.:0  
12  Ohio State  854  4-1  
13  Florida  832  34  
14  Auburn  776  4-1  
15  Utah  684  5-0  
16  Kansas  555  34  
17  Wisconsin  521  3·1  
18  Boise State  446  3•0  
19  Vanderbilt  351  4~0  
20  Oregon  286  4c1  
21  Fresno State  280  3~1  
22  Oklahoma State  229  4-0  
23  Connecticut  180  5·0  
24  Virigina Tech  161  4-1  
25  Wake Forest  148  3·1  
MIAA Wome n's  
Volleyball Standings  
Team  Record  
league ouerall  
1  Hope  7-0  16·3  
2  Alma  5·1  13·5  
3  Calvin  5~2  11*4  
4  SAINT MARY'S  4·3  11-5  
5  Albion  4·3  11"7  
6  Adrian  3·5  ],g  
7  Trine  2-5  5·10  
8  Kalamazoo  2-6  5-13  
9  Olivet  0·7  4-13  

around the dial 
NFL 
Ravens at Steelers 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Chipper Jones walked in his only at-bat against Houston on Sunday and earned his first National League batting title, edging St. Louis' Albert Pujols. 
Jones finished with a career-high .364 aver­age; Pujols went 1-for-2 on Sunday to finish at .357. Jones' average was the highest for an NL batting champ since Barry Bonds won with a .370 average in 2002. 
"It's a tremendous feather in the cap, from an individual stand­point," Jones said. "It's one of those things that 
brings instant credibili­ty. Hopefully, I already had it around the league. But once you have the label of batting champion, you're respected and recog­nized by that." 
Jones drew a pinch-hit walk against Jose Valverde in the ninth inning Sunday and fell just shy of Mickey Mantle's season record for a switch hitter. Mantle batted .365 in 1957. 
"When I was growing up, there were two guys that I wanted to be men­tioned with, when I was done playing-Mickey Mantle and Eddie 
IN BRIEF Bryant kicks three field 
goals a day after burying son TAMPA, Fla. -Matt Bryant choked back tears. 
A day after burying his 3-month­old son in Texas, the Tampa Bay kicker booted three field goals to help the Buccaneers beat the Green Bay Packers 30-21 on Sunday. 
"I don't know what I ne'eded today," Bryant said. "It worked out OK. Could've been better, but given the circumstances it turned out OK." 
Bryant's youngest son, Matthew Tryson, was found dead at home in Tampa on Wednesday. It will be sev­eral weeks before the kicker and his wife learn the cause of death. 
Bryant did not practice all week, and coach Jon Gruden left it up to him to decide if he would play. 
"The biggest thing for me, I want­ed to honor Tryson's name," Bryant said. "I mean, I don't think it was very fair for his life to end so short. This is the best way I believe I could get out and honor him." 
Murray," Jones said. ''I'm starting to reach that kind of company now and I'm honored and humbled to be there." 
The 36-year-old Jones is the oldest switch-hit­ting batting champion in history. Bill Mueller was 32 when he won the AL crown with Boston in 2003. Mueller was also the last switch hitter to win a batting title, though Jones is the first switch hitter to take the NL title since Terry Pendleton won in 1991 with Atlanta. Pendleton is now the Braves' hit­ting coach. 
"Obviously, I would trade a batting title for being in the playoffs," Jones said. "But being in the batting race the last couple of years has given me a lot of motiva­tion to play the season out." 

The Braves also fin­ished last season in Houston and Jones went 0-for-3 in the final game to lose the batting title to Colorado's Matt Holliday. Jones finished with a career-best .337 average, but Holliday hit .340. 
Jones said he didn't think about the batting title as much this season and hit better as a result. 
Tigers fire two coaches 
after disappointing season 
DETROIT -The Detroit Tigers fired pitching coach Chuck Hernandez and bullpen coach Jeff Jones on Sunday. 
Although the season is not yet over for the Tigers, who will play a make-up game against the Chicago White Sox on Monday, the club dismissed the two coach­es immediately following Sunday's 8-7 loss to the Tampa Bay Rays. 
"The two glaring problems with us this season was the pitching and the defense," Detroit manag­er Jim Leyland said. "Somebody had to pay the price." 
Hernandez was first hired as the team's pitching coach after the 2005 season and has served in the position for the last three seasons. However, the Tigers' pitching staff struggled all year and entered Sunday with the fourth-worst team ERA in the majors at 4.87. 

Hochuli involved in 
another questionable call 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Referee Ed Hochuli was at the center of another questionable call Sunday, flagging Julius Peppers for a roughing-the-passer penalty that wiped out Carolina's inter­ception return for a touchdown in the first quarter against Atlanta. 
After Matt Ryan's pass was intercepted by Richard Marshall, Hochuli threw a flag and announced Peppers made a hel­met-to-helmet hit on Ryan. It erased the touchdown and gave the Falcons a first down on a drive that ended with a punt. 
Replays showed Peppers made contact as Ryan released the ball, and appeared to hit him first with his shoulder. 
"Ed came over and explained to me, he said that I hit him with my helmet," Peppers said. "He said I hit him with my helmet in his head and that's what he called. It wasn't really roughing, late hit. It was just my helmet hit his helmet, so it was just one of those calls that, you know, player safety is what that was about." 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 29, 2008 
SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 

Squad finishes fifth at home race 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Host Saint Mary's took fifth plaee at Friday's nine-team MIAA Jamborf~e as junior Megan MeCiowry led a tightly­grouped Belles unit that had all its runnnrs finish within 20 seconds of eaeh other. 
This was the first horne meet for tho Bnllns sinee the 2002­2()(!:{ season. and the Belles took it as an opportunity to show ofT the program's progress in rm:ent ynars. 
"Tho Saint Mary's eross eountry tnam is sueh a great group of wonwn," senior eo­captain Caitlin Brodmcrkel said. "We have a difficult time getting people to seP thai. sinee we always eompotn so far from campus. I am so glad that we with McClowry and Arianne finally got to show our friends, Hodriguez," Belles coaeh elassmates and faculty what Jackie Bauters said before the 
our hours of hard  m  e  e  t  
work has enabled us to do."  "/ am so glad that we  "Arianne ha~: been sick and  
McClowry  fin­ finally got to show  we're hoping:  
ishml the race in 20:43, with Brodmerkel  our friends, classmates and  to sPe her feeling better and have an  
(20:55) and fresh­ faculty what our  outstanding  
man  Joannn  hours ofhard work  day at home.  
Almond (20:58) also finishing in under 21 minutes.  has enabled us to ,d0.  The Calvin team is ranked see- 
Freshman  ond  in  the  
Aria nne Hodriguez (21 :01) and sophomore  Caitlin Brodmerkel Belles·'captain  nation and will undeni­ably lead the  
Catie  Salyer  entire field,  

(21:03) also provided eounting hut I would like to see our times for thP BPlles. ladies stick up there with some 
"Wn an~ looking for our pack of the young talent from to continue to close the gap llope." 
Calvin won the meet while Jlope took second. Kalamazoo finished third while Adrian lin­ished just ahead of the Belles. 
"My goal for our team is to continue to improve through­out the season, as we have been," Brodmerkel said. "I would love to finish fourth or better in the MIAA conference again, which we did last year for the first time in our history. Personally, my goals are to bo a good senior captain for my teammates and to improve my race times at each meet." 
The Belles will compete in the Adrian Invitational on Oct. 3 and then head to Kalamazoo for the MIAA Championships on Nov. 1. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Tea111's 111orning loss fuels aftern<?On victory 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's split its week­end matches against a pair of confornnco opponents, falling to No. 16 Calvin in straight sots Saturday morning (25­14, 25-13, 25-12) before rebounding against Adrian (25-22, 25-23, 29-27) that afternoon. 
Tho Belles ( 11-5, 4-3 MIAAl remain in fourth place in the conferenee after the MIAA mini-tournament at Calvin's II uizenga Center in Grand Hapids, Mieh. 
After the blowout loss in thn morning, Saint Mary's rallied to scrapn out three tough sets in the latn match, playing ofT the emotion and teamwork that Belles coach .Julin Schroeder-Biek has emphasized throughout the season. 
"More than anything else I want this team to believe in themselves," Sehroeder-Biek 
said. "They have a lot of abil­the Joss. ity. If they can come together The Belles bounced baek in 
as  a  team  and  the afternoon  
play  as  one  m  a  t  e  h  
cohesive unit, we will be in posi­tion to be a top  "If they can come together as a team  against the Bulldogs, who had  
team  in  the  and play as one  dropped  
league stand­ings." In the 11 a.m.  cohesive unit, we will be in position to be a  Saint Mary's in straight sets in a  
mateh,  the  top team in the  meeting ear­ 
Knights (11-4, 5­2 MIAA) romped  league standings .. "  lier this sea­son.  
over  the  Belles  The Belles  
in straight sets,  Julie Schroeder-Biek  ground  out  
relying  on  Belles coach  the win with  
smothering  a  workman­ 
defense to keep  like  effort,  
Saint Mary's in  posting  a  

eheck. Calvin posted six .215 attacking percentage bloeks on the match while while holding Adrian to .1 79 holding the Belles to a .071 in a defensive struggle. attacking percentage. Slupczynski lead the squad 
Junior hitter Lorna with 20 kills, while Slupczynski and senior hitter Huelsmann spearheaded the Kaela Hellmann both had defensive effort with 20 digs. seven kills to lead Saint Hellmann contributed with Mary's. Sophomore defensive eight kills and 14 digs of her specialist Ellen Huelsmann own, while sophomore setter had a team-high 13 digs in Dani Brink turned in a solid 
all-around game with four kills in 11 attempts, 38 assists, eight digs and two service aces. 
The weekend marked another set of solid games by Slupezynski, who leads the team with three kills per game while adding 2.91 digs per game, third on the squad. She has also collected All­Tournament honors at both of the tournaments in which she has competed. 
"Lorna is putting together a fine career at Saint Mary's," Schroeder-Biek said. "Her teammates really feed off her energy and on-eourt play from the outside hitter posi­tion. The opponents know she is one of our stronger players and Lorna is going to have to continue to raise her game." 
The Belles will host Trine University on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAIVlE 

R 
G-RAM 
INFORMA~1 10N SESSIOr~ 
Monday, September 29, 2008 125 Hayes-Healy, 5:00 p.m. 
With special guest Dan Lt~Duc, Deputy Editor, ll/ashington '[>oJ·t and Washington Program Faculty 
SMC SoccER 

Belles fall after eleven day layoff 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's droppnd its first 
confernnee match of the season 
to Olivet Collnge 3-1 on 
Saturday. 

The match was the Belles' (1­
5-1, 0-1 MIAA) first sinc:e Sept. 
17, when they lost a heart­
brr~aker to llope 2-1. Coaeh 
Hyan Crabbe thought the long 
layoff may have afTeeted his 
squad. 

"Certainly a tough loss," he said. "We startnd the game still looking like we were asleep on the bus. By the time we fnll behind two goals, it was a large deficit to overcome seeing as we haven't been able to seore goals in bunehes." 
Olivet (5-4-1, 1-0 MIAAl freshman Lizzy Julian eapital­ized on the Bnlles' slow start and scored baek-to-baek goals in the 28th and 32nd minutns to give the Comets a 2-0 lead heading into the half. 
The Comets seored first in the seeond half as well, as senior Cori Barrera seornd in the 75th minute to widen Olivet's lead to 3-0. 
The Belles linally got on the board with freshman Katelyn Tondo-Steele's first eareer goal in the 81st min~te. Junior cap­tain Bridget Ronayne got the assist. 
Saint Mary's was outshot for the second straight game, this time by a 27-16 margin. Against Hope, the Belles were outshot 20-8. 
Junior goalkeeper Patty Duffy played all 90 minutes in goal and recorded 11 sav{~S despite giving up three goals. 
The Belles return to action at home against Illinois Wesleyan on Wednesday before a rematch at I Iopn on Saturday. 
"Hopefully getting into a more normal playing rhythm this week with two games we ean get on track," Crabbe said. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Deadline to apply for Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 is November 15, 2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors '.Velcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@,nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, W'W'V.nd.edu/-wp 
1.: 
I 
I 
NFL 
The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 29, 2008 
Redskins top Cowboys, shake up NFC East 
Bills beat struggling Rams to improve to 4-0; Tomlinson scores 2 late TDs to lead Chargers comeback at Raiders 
Hedskins in a different light
Associated Press 
now," running back Ladell Betts 
liNING, Texas -Jim Zorn will said. "This is a great team. We go down in history as the only can beat anybody. We can play Washington Hedskins coach with with anybody. We proved that a pnrfed r11gular-season record right now." at Texas Stadium. Campbell was 20-of-31 for 231 
Better yet. the Hedskins are yards, Santana Moss caught going into October as a legiti­eight passes for 145 yards and matn conttmder in the NFC East. the Hedskins made it four 
Jason Campbell threw two straight games without a touchdown passns and Clinton turnover on offense. Shaun Portis ran for 121 yards. l11ading Suisham was 4-for-4 on field Washington to a 26-24 vietory goals. none longer than 33 Sunday that gave the Dallas yards. . Cowboys thnir f'irst loss and Washington's defense held made the t.oughnst division in what had been the NFL's most­thn NFI. nvnn morn interesting. explosive offense to its fewest 
The Hedskins came in with yards and points of the season. eonseeutivn wins since a lousy Marion Barber ran for only 26 performance in the opener. but yards on night carries and thnre wtwf1 still questions about Owens had seven catches for 71 how good they w11re. Going on yards, but none longer than 18. the road to !mat one of the most lie did have a 10-yard touch­talPnted teams in football cer­down catch that tied it at 17 tainly improv11s their p11rcnption. early in the third quarter. For now, at l11ast. Washington "It's no secret. when I get has turned the NFC East into a involved, we move the chains. four-tPam rae11. When I don't, we're more stag­
"It f"nels good watching our nant in our offense," Owens playprs takn thPSil strides," Zorn said. said. "The football team believes Campbell turned a 7-0 deficit in what wp're doing and that into a 17-7 lead by picking on fi1els good." Dallas cornerback Terence 
A few wePks ago, there was Newman for a 3-yard touch­doubt whether Zorn was the down pass to James Thrash, a 2­right guy to replace Joe Gibbs. yard touchdown to Antwaan Now, lw's ofT to a great start. Handle El and a 53-yard strike including being 1-0 against to Moss that led to a field goal Washington's biggest rival and after Moss landed out of bounds ending a 1-for-12 skid at Texas on a third-down fade. Stadium. With Dallas moving to After Dallas tied it, a new stadium next season, the Washington scored two touch­Donnie Avery scoring on a 3 7-rushing game the Bills have Darren Sproles' long kickoff only way he'll coach here again downs on its next series -yes, yard pitch and a defense led by allowed any team this season, return set up Nate Kaeding's go­is if it's in the playo!Ts. two -and neither counted revived Leonard Little sacking and five catches for 78 yards. ahead 4 7 -yard field goal with 
"''ve always said this is going because of penalties, both on Trent Edwards four times in the Jackson's 29-yard scoring run 1:51 to play and Tomlinson to be a process," he said. "We center Casey Rabach. The first half. Linehan wouldn't com­early in the second quarter was sealed the 28-18 victory Sunday have to maintain our composure Redskins wound up with another mit to another start for Green, at the high point for the Rams, put­with his second fourth-quarter after this win. too. We're not field goal, then Romo threw an Washington on Oct. 12 in the ting them ahead 14-6. llis exu­touchdown that gave him yet going,to the Super Bowl next interception, leading to yet first game after the bye. berance got the best of him another 1 00-yard game. wenk. another Washington field goal "I think we wanted to come when he climbed into the stands "Every year is different. 
The Cowboys of course and a 23-17 lead. out and be aggressive," Linehan and then took his helmet off in They're a better team," saitl weren't either if' they had won, Aiming for a go-ahead touch­said. "What did we have to lose? the end zone to draw an Tomlinson, who had 75 of his but with a soft October schedule, down. Romo instead threw three Come out, freewheel and go for unsportsmanlike conduet penal­106 yards in the fourth quarter. fans saw this as a gateway to an straight incompletions to Owens it. I liked how that went in the ty. "We pride ourselves on now 8-0 start and an early November on the next drive. Then Dallas' first half." Jackson had criticized matter how we start, finishing showdown with the New York defense made a big third-down The Bills' first defensive score Linehan's decision to bench the game strong. It didn't matter Giants. Now. Dallas has to fix a stop, but it didn't count because of the year -also Greer's first Bulger during his weekly radio that it was against the Raiders." running game held to 44 yards, there were 12 men on the field. career touchdown -came off show. Closing a game out was in1por­a passing game·that worked The Hedskins again got a field an overthrown pass on second­Linehan, 11-25 in his third tant for the Chargers (2-2), who hard to get big plays out or goal, the one that put the lead and-12. It signaled an end to the season, last week was put on lost their first two games of the Terrell Owens and a defense out of reach. Rams' fun and games while notice to make immediate season in the final minute. But that had too many players on the "It's a reality check," Dallas handing St. Louis (0-4) its 1.7th improvements by owner Chip those games weren't against the field during a critical play mid­cornerback Adam "Pacman" loss in the last 20 games. . Rosenbloom and he pulled out Raiders (1-3), who showed they way through the fourth quarter. Jones said. "Truly, I think we "It was crucial," Greer said. "I all the stops. The Rams took can blow a lead against the 
"The reality of it is, you have needed it as a team.... It will all was excited I was able to make a their first lead of the season on Chargers as easily as they can the opportunity to go 16-0 every work out at the end of the year." play that could give us the Avery's 37-yard run off a pitch get blown out. ynar in the regular season. but momentum." from Green, his first carry of the "Obviously when you've won that's not realistic," said quar­Bills 31, Rams 14 Green blamed miscommunica­year. that many in a row, you've got a tnrback Tony Romo, 1-3 against The Buffalo Bills are 4-0 for tion between he and Torry Holt, In the first half alone, the grasp on how to beat them," Washington and 22-6 against the first time in 16 years. Unlike the intended receiver on the Rams also called an end-around said quarterback Philip Rivers, everyone else. "We're a confi­the previous two weeks, there play. Holt is the Rams' only wide and an option pass. both by who went 14-for-25 for 180 dent bunch. I think we'll come was no need for late-game hero­receiver Green has not thrown Dante Hall to some success. yards, a touchdown and two back next week with a lot to ics to keep them unbeaten. to much. They also went for it on fourth­interceptions. provo." Jabari Greer's 33-yard inter­"Unfortunately, that came and-3 from the BufTalo 42 late in "We just kept fighting. It was­
Homo was 28-of-47 for 300 ception return on the first play back to bite me," Green said. the half, but had an incomplete n't our prettiest win, but our yards with three touchdowns, of the fourth quarter was the go­"Unfortunately, that kind of pass. defense gave us a chance. There but wasn't able to move Dallas ahead score in an 18-point snowballed things in the fourth Linehan said he wasn't con­was no panic." (3-1) as well as the stats suggest. fourth-quarter that finished off quarter, and that weighs heavily cerned that this might have been The loss marked the second Two of his best drives came in 2-the surprisingly competitive, go­on me." his final game. straight week the Raiders (1-31 minutn drills, with the second -for-broke St. Louis Rams on Buffalo drove 81 yards on its ''I'm going to continue to do were unable to hold onto a two­an eight-play, 82-yard march Sunday. next possession, capped by Lee the best I can, OK, and that's the score lead in the fourth quarter that ended with an 11-yard "We knew they could beq,t us, Evans' 39-yard reception and only thing I can control," and might finally signal the end touchdown to Miles Austin -and we were pretty certain we conversion catch for a 28-14 Linehan said. "That's what I've of coach Lane Kiffin's tenure in giving the Cowboys a chance for could beat them, too," Bills cushion. done my whole life and that's Oakland. a stirring rally. coach Diek J au ron said. "We just The Bills are 4-0 for the first what I'm going to do the rest of The Raiders blew a nine-point 
A field goal away from the ended up making more plays at time since 1992, the middle of its my life." fourth-quarter lead last week in lnad. Dallas went for an onside the end, and that's what this dominant AFC years. The Bills Buffalo. They led 15-0 at half­kick with 1:42 left. The ball game is all about. So there it is." have gotten an early jump on the Chargers 28, Raiders 18 time Sunday and went into the came up high and catchable for After three blowout losses to franchise's second winning sea­For three quarters, the fourth quartnr with a 15-3 lead. receiver Sam Hurd but he wasn't open the season and amid son since 1999. But the previous Oakland Haiders stopped Now with a bye coming up this able~ to hold it. losing the ball out rumors he might be fired during two wins were nailbiters by a LaDainian Tomlinson and week, the questions about of' bounds. The Cowboys were the team's bye week, Rams total of five points. appeared poised to stop a long Kiffin's job security will only out of timeouts, so the game was eoach Scott Linehan benched "It's not easy being 4-0," losing streak to the San Diego intensify. nfTedively over, causing team quarterback Marc Bulger in owner Ralph Wilson said after Chargers. "That's not my call," he said. "I owner Jerry Jones to grimace on favor of 38-year-old Trent visiting the victorious locker Then Tomlinson got loose, the don't know what I expect. I'm the sideline; wherever Hedskins Green. Linehan had six new room. "It's not easy being 1-0 in Chargers pressured JaMarcus not going to do anything differ­ownnr Dan Snyder was, he was starters in all, four on defense. this league." Russell and the longest winning ent than I've been doing, keep­certainly cnlebrating. The shakeup worked for a Steven Jackson had 110 yards streak any team has held against ing this team together the best I 
"Everybody has to look at the while, with rookie wide receiver on 24 carries, the first 1 00-yard the Haiders grew to 10 games. can.:' 

Monday, September 29, 2008 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Week of upsets shakes Associated Press poll 
Oklahoma moves to No. 1, Alabama is No. 2 

Associated Pr~ss 
NEW YOHK-Oklahoma, where the No. 1 ranking rests again. 
Tho Sooners sit atop the AP Top 25 on Sunday after the first upset-filled weekend of the s1~ason gave the media poll a powerful shake. Alabama was both a mover and a shaker, as the Crimson Tide rose to No. 2 aftl~r a sur­prising 41-30 pounding of (;eorgia. 
Previously top-ranked Soutlwrn California lost at Oregon State to set the tone for a WPI'kend that brought hark nwmori<~s of tlw topsy­turvy 2007 season. 
On Saturday, two morl' top­five tnams fell. Florida was stunnnd at home by Mississippi, 31-30. (;eorgia, which started tlw snason No. I , was down :~ 1 points by halftimP to Alabama and 11 ever rerovn rPd. 
OvPrall, nino ranked toams lost, six to unranked foes. 
Tlw last time sueh a shake­up orcurn~d'? OnP Y!Htr ago, when in thf' last week of September thrPe of the top­five teams fpll and seven ranked toams lost to unranked opporwnts. 
"I think wn talked (Friday) that anyone can bnat anyone on any givPn Saturday, and that's why you'vn got to eome out and you'vf' got to play on ndge, full tilt every game bnrause if not, somnone's liabiP to come in and beat you," Oklahoma quarterback Sam Bradford said after the SoonPrs' :~5-1 0 victory ovnr TCU on Saturday. 
Oklahoma is No. l for the 9Mh tinw in tlw history of the AI' poll, brPaking a tie with 
Notre Dame for the most 
ever.  The  last  time  the  
Sooners  were  No.  1  was  
2003, when they  were  atop  

the polls all season before losing the Big 12 title game to Kansas State. 
Oklahoma received 43 of a possible 65 first-place votes and 1,599 points. 
Alabama's impressive per­formance jumped the Tide six spots. Alabama hasn't been ranked this high since it was No. 2 for the f'irst night polls of tlw 1993 season. 
The Tide received 21 f'irst­plaen votes and 1,565 points. 
LSU is No. 3, moving up two spots. No. 4 Missouri, which received a first-place vote, and No. 5 Texas also moved up two places and lnl't the top f'ive under thn control of the Big 12 (throe tnams) and Southeastern Conference (two). 
Penn Statn moved up six spots to No. (J after its 38-24 victory against Illinois. 
Texas Teeh was idle, but took advantage of the attri­tion in the top 10 to move up to No. 7. BYU is eighth, USC dropped eight spots to No. 9 and South Florida is No. 10. 
In tho USA Today coaches' poll, Oklahoma was No. 1, but LSU was No. 2, followed by Missouri, Alabama and Texas. In the Harris poll, which eame out for the first time this season Sunday and is used in the BCS standings, Oklahoma was No. 1, fol­lowed by LSU, Alabama, Missouri and Texas. 
Georgia and Florida each dropped night spots in the AP poll. The Bulldogs are No. 11 and Florida is No. 12, fol­lowed by fellow SEC rival Auburn at No. 13. 






Monday, September 29, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Louisville 
continued from page 20 
Dame appeared poised to complete a 2-0 weekend and move its Big East record to 4­0-1, but the Cardinals were awarded a penalty kick. Midfielder Aaron Clapham stepped forward to convert the kick sending the match into overtime. Five minutes into the extra frame, Louisville would pull out the win when defender Austin Berry headed home a corner kick. 
"It was very disappointing to lose on a penalty kick in the 90th minute," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "That's always a tough one. I thought 
we opened the "It was very play of Steven game well, but disappointing to lose Perry and 
I didn't feel it Tamba Samba,"
on a penalty kick in 
was one of our Clark said. 
better games." the 90th minute. "They were ter­The final stats That's always a rific. They came back up Clark's on and for the
tough one." 
assessment of first time this his team's per­season I feel formance. Bobby Clark they really Despite taking Irish coach stamped their 
the minimal advantage into the final minute of regulation, Notre Dame was outshot by Louisville 13-5 in the second half and 21-10 for ihe·entire match. 
Despite Louisville's superior­ity in the second half, the Irish were the first team to find the back of the net. In the 51st minute, sophomore forward Jeb Brovsky's shot was deflected by Cardinals' keeper Andre Bordeaux straight to Irish forward Bright Dike. The senior controlled the ball and put it home to give Notre Dame tlw lead and register his team-leading sixth goal of the season. 
Dike's goal was followed by an onslaught of Louisville pressure. The Cardinals creat­ed chances in the 71 st and 87th minutes, but they would­n't break through until the penalty in the final minute. 
"After we got the goal in the second half. we kind of sat back on it," Clark said. "They became very direct and they have some pretty big boys. They are always going to be dangerous whether in corner kicks or long throw-ins. They 
Sweep 
continued from page 20 
and 25-22. 
The second match was on Sunday against a hostile Georgetown (8-7; 1-1 Big East) team eager to prove itself defending its home turf. The Irish ended Georgetown's five game home winning streak with a three set sweep of the Hoyas. 
"We were able to take their outside hitters out of the game," Brown said. 
Kaelin and Sciacca again both paced the Irish with 12 and 9 kills, respectively. 
pinned us in for long periods of the second half." 
Notre Dame didn't leave themselves such a slim margin for error earlier in the week­end at Cincinnati. After open­ing the scoring once again early in the second half, the Irish pushed home two more goals for a comfortable 3-0 win over the Bearcats. 
The first tally came twelve minutes into the second half when junior forward Tamba Samba received a pass from fellow forward Steven Perry, turned his defender and fin­ished far post. It was the sec­ond consecutive game that Samba scored off a feed from Perry, and Clark was compli­mentary of the play of his two forwards. 
"The big thing 
today was the 

authority in a game and that was terrific." 
After Samba's goal, some of the Irish's usual suspects made sure to leave their mark on the game. Just over ten minutes after the opening goal, junior midfielder Michael Thomas received a pass at the top of the box from fellow midfielder Justin Morrow. Thomas proceeded to fire past Cincinnati keeper Robert Cavicchia for his fifth goal of the season. 
Dike would finish off the scoring in the 88th minute unassisted when he muscled through the Bearcat defense 
· and fired home from six yards out. 
Notes 
+ Notre Dame's win over Cincinnati Friday night was Clark's 100th career victory with the Irish. That puts him third on the list for career wins behind Rich Hunter ­128 wins from 1977-1983­and Mike Berticelli -10~ wins from 1990-1999. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Sciacca had five of her kills in the first set along with four kills and one block from Enzweiler. The team hit .343. 
The Irish dominated the sec­ond set 25-1 6 as Kaelin Enzweiler, Sciacca, Stremick and freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy all had at least three kills in the frame. 
In the final frame, strong defense led to 15-3 run that sealed the match for the Irish. 
The Irish will continue Big East play on Saturday when they travel to Kentucky to face Louisville before matching up with Cincinnati on Sunday. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Blowouts 
continued from page 20 
Irish goal in the net to give Notre Dame the definite 6-0 conference win. 
Sunday wasn't the only conference win the Irish picked up this weekend. The Irish ticked off Louisville 4-1 at home Friday night. 
Hanks posted her second multi-goal game of the sea­son, scoring twice. The Irish came out early as Hanks con­verted a cross from Julie Scheidler within the first 20 
minutes of play. Notre Dame had the 3-0 lead at half time, and despite posting a strong first half, struggled a little in the second -something Waldrum attributes to the fact that in-conference teams know each other well. 
"The teams in conference just know each other so well, and you know their person­nel and they know yours and their tendencies, and that makes it more difficult just that familiarity," he said. 
Louisville's Shannon Smyth got the first goal of the sec­ond half, but the Irish responded in under a 

minute. Hanks got her sec­ond goal of the game to secure Notre Dame's win at 4-1. 
Courtney Barg and Erica Iantorno notched the other two Irish goals. Barg was the fourteenth goal scorer for the Irish this season. 
"It gives you so many more weapons to choose from," Waldrum said of the team's versatility. "They all are a lit­tle different type players so it makes it very difficult for the opponent to mark." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
MLB 

Brewers in; Mets out again 
Associated Press 
Already standing tall, CC Sabathia climbed on top of the Brewers dugout and sprayed fans with bubbly. 
A vintage scene, indeed. 
For the first time since 1982, when it was a member of the American League and well before wild cards even existed, Milwaukee is going to the play­offs. 
"It's our time," Sabathia said after beating the Cubs 3-1 Sunday. 
No such luck for the New York Mets. They lost on the field ­and the out-of-town scoreboard -and again were eliminated by Florida on the final day. Making it worse, a farewell-to-Shea Stadium followed. 
"We failed. We failed as a team," star David Wright said after a 4-2 loss. "There's no pointing fingers. There's no excuses. We as a unit didn't get the job done." 
No telling yet about the Minnesota Twins and Chicago White Sox. They still haven't sorted out their AL Central scramble. 
So while workers at Wrigley Field and Tropicana Field put up the postseason bunting, this year is going to extra innings. 
One slot left, guys. 
"It's kind of an ongoing joke that it seems like nobody want­ed to win the Central, so this ·is kind of probably the way it should go down, going into a game tomorrow when the sea­son's supposed to be over," Twins closer Joe Nathan said. 
On Monday· afternoon, Detroit visits Chicago in a makeup from a September rainout. If the White Sox win, the would host the Twins in a one-game tiebreaker Tuesday for the AL Central title. 
Then on Wednesday, the play­offs begin with three games: Manny Ramirez, Joe Torre and the Los Angeles Dodgers take on the Chicago Cubs, the wild-card Brewers travel to Philadelphia and the World Series champion Boston Red Sox play the 100­win Los Angeles Angels. 
Along with playing the win­ningest team in the majors, the Hed Sox will face another obsta­cle: Josh Beckett, who was sup­posed to pitch the opener, will not start until Game 3 after straining a muscle in his side a few days ago. 
By then, the Tampa Bay Rays will have made their postseason debut. They host either the White Sox or Twins on Thursday. 
Before the Rays beat Detroit 8-7 in 11 innings Sunday, man­ager Joe Maddon held a brief team meeting. 


"Joe just said to keep every­thing normal -like any other game. There's no reason to start . showing up five hours before the game now. It's another game and we need to prepare like it's another game," pitcher James Shields said. 
Inside their clubhouse at Comerica Park, there also was a note on a dry erase board: Wear your AL East champs shirts on the flight back home, it remind­ed the Rays. 
The White Sox hoping to join the Hays this week. They gave themselves a chance with a 5-1 win over Cleveland while Minnesota w~s beating Kansas City 6-0. 
"You play 161 games and today is supposed to be the last day of the year," Mark Buehrle said after pitching the White Sox to victory. "Everybody is going home, .a lot of people are going to the playoffs and here we got to play another game that mat­ters for us and not for the other team." 
The. Brewers and Mets went into the final day even at 89-72, facing the possibility of a wild­card tiebreaker at Shea. 
Instead, in a moment's notice, the whole playoff picture took shape. 
Right after the scoreboard at Miller Park showed the Mets had fallen behind -the bullpen again was the culprit, with Scott Schoeneweis and Luis Ayala giv­ing up back-to-back home runs in the eighth inning, the Brewers struck. 
With Milwaukee fans still buzzing about the big doings in New York, Ryan Braun hit a tiebreaking homer in the eighth inning. Sabathia then closed it out, pitching a four-hitter in his 

third straight start on three 
days' rest. 

"He's the best pitcher in base­
ball," Braun said. "The best 
pitcher on the planet. He's our 
MVP this year. No chance for us 
to do this without him." 

After their fans watched the Mets' loss on the giant video board in center field, the Brewers celebrated. Quite an end for a team that fired man­ager Ned Yost with two weeks · left, promoted third-base coach Dale Sveum to run the club and overcame a 3-11 September 
start. 

"I give all the credit to Ned," 
Sveum said. "He's one of my 
good friends. Just some unfortu­
nate incidents. I love Ned from 
the bottom of my heart and I 
wish he was here right now." 

The Mets and their fans could 
only wonder what went wrong. 
A year ago, they blew a seven­
game division lead with 17 
games left. This year, they wast­
ed a 3 1/2-game edge with 17 
remaining. 

Minus the 1981 split season, 
the Mets became the first club 
in big league history to hold 3 
1/2-game division leads -in con­
secutive Septembers and fail to 
make the postseason both 
times, the Elias Sports Bureau 
said. 

Hardly a way to send out their 
old ballpark. 

"It would have been better if 
.
we wcmld have won today, but I don't think it spoils the celebra­tion," general manager Omar ~inaya said. "What's going on out there, it's about the history of this building, the history of the players, the history of this organization." 
page l8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 29, 2008 
Feed your future 
See how many ways there are to create your own path at PwC. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 
' ­



Monday, September 29, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 


The Excise Police's Biggest Bust: 
Take this cup and drink from 
it... c:::=::> 




HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
JJIJJ)~JJJIDr1T!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CEEPA 
j
I ri I I 
:§2008 Tribune Media Services: Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CLATH 
j
I I [ t) 
FIMITS 
j 
1 
ri (] 
www.jumble.com 

Answer: rI I I I) ( I I I I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: POPPY SWOOP ROTATE TINGLE Saturday's Answer·. Wh t h I h d 'lh b d
a a p o ograp er can o w1 a ore model -GET "SNAPPY" 


IN FOR OINNE:R, 
BUT Fl<t=:QUE:NTL-Y 
OUT AL-L-NIGHT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
Across  28 Where you might  58 Young cod for  
John _,host of "America's  get into hot water?  dinner 60 F.D.R. job- 
Most Wanted" 6 "Jeopardy!" whiz Jennings 9 "Hey, you!" 13 2600 (classic video game console)  31 Schiaparelli of fashion 34 Cigarette substance 35 Interlocks 37 Bride's bounty 39 Meadow  creating measure: Abbr. 62 "Famous" cookie maker 63 Gangly guy 65 Fruit from a palm 66 "Don't hurt me!,"  
14 St. Louis  41 Bird on birth  e.g.  
landmark 15 Voice above a tenor  announcement cards 42 Comes about  67 Straight up 68 Laid off, as workers  
16 Appetizer with  44 Wrigley's  69 Wood in archery  
sweet and sour  product  bows  
sauce  46 S. & L.  70 Copenhageners,  
18 Gorilla watcher  conveniences  e.g.  
Fossey 19 Frightful female 20 Puccini heroine  47 All U.S. senators until 1922 48 Monotonous voice  Down Do the laundry 2 Even, on the  
21 Cheerful 22 Take turns  51 Birds flying in V's  leaderboard 3 Slow, in  
24 Dangler on a suitcase  53 Has confidence in  4  symphonies Lanka  Puzzle by Lynn Lempel  
26 Deadly long­56 Beverly Sills and tailed fish others ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  5 Merely suggest 6 Ray who created the McDonald's empire 7 Custardy dessert 8 Rink org. 9 City where Galilee taught 10 Goliath's undoing 11 Baseball's  29 Straight-to-curly transformation, informally 30 Poses questions 31 Dutch city with a cheese market 32 Oral tradition 33 Make-or-break election bloc 36 Does' mates 38 Si and oui  40 Home of the von Trapp family 43 Bra's sibling 45 Lamebrain 49 Get cozy 50 Prodded gently 52 Lessened, as pain 54 11-or 12-year­old 55 Rocket's realm  56 1920s art movement 57 Giant-screen theater 59 Backstage bunch 61 Tiny tunnelers 63 Mata Hari, for one 64 Top half of a bikini  
Musial  
12 Broadway award  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a14 Weapons stash credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 17 "Oh, I see" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 

21 Eyelid nuisances 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 23 Romanov rulers 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year) . 27 One of the Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Allman Brothers solvers: nvtimes.com/learnino/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Skye Battusiak, 16: Hilary Duff, :!I; Gwyneth Paltrow. 36: Janeane Garofalo, 44 

Happy Birthday: Don't give in to anyone--you must stay in control if you want to get a fair deal. You have great ideas and should be recognized for your contributions. This can be a great year for you if you go it alone. It may require a little more work on your patt but, when you don't have to share the re"•ards. it can be oh. so sweet. Your numbers are II, 13, 17, 25, 33, 41,48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Clear up any personal matters before they escalate into something you cannot handle. If you stay calm, you can accomplish what you set out to do. Help out a cause you believe in. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): You'll learn something if you listen. An opportunity to get involved in son1ething at ground level will grab your attention. Don't let your con­servative nature stifle your chance to try something a little different. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll have everyone waiting and watching to see what you do next. Your engaging patticipation will show you at your best. You don't have to impress anyone. lise ym.rr Genllni charm. 5 stars 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Watch your step, especially if you aren't too pleased with the way things are going at home or in your pcorsonal life. Saying the wrong thing will only lead to more trouble. Be affectionate, understanding and fun to be with. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take on a challenge and you will outmaneuver your oppon'ent. You have what you want in place and are ready to deal with whatever comes your way. You will be convincing enough to win over your toughest critic. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Ang. 23-Sept. 22): You can deal with family. friends and children with ease. 

It's up to you to organiZe things well so that nothing goes wrong. Love is looking good, so put some time aside for you and that special some.one. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Expect visitors to drop by with some interesting ideas but, before you proceed, make sure that your budget can afford these new plans. You can solve a problem you are having with one of your peers. Be friendly but don't back down. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Emotional matters will develop between you and a friend, parent or child. Before you voice your opinion. hear what others have to say. You may need to rethink your strategy. Be patient, not aggressive. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Traveling will result in delays, detours or other mishaps that you can do without. Take care of a job that needs to be done around your home. Physical labor will help you blow off steam. 2 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may be intent on talking you into some­thing you don't \Vant. Don't let anyone put pressure on you. You can come into some caqh if you collect an old debt or you make adjustments that will improve your assets. 5 
stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make a move. settle an old debt or even promise someone you lo,·e what he or she is waiting to hear. Most of all, utilize your ability to chat with passion and follow through with your plans aggressively. You will 
gain respect and higher status. 5 stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It's time to give in to reason. You are imaginative but sometimes you have to add practicality to the mix. If you can balance things, you will have lots to gain through a relationship you once had. Doors will open if the right words are spoken. 3 stars 
Birthday Bahy: You are candid in the way you handle personal and professional rela­tionships. You are honest, emotionally intense and passionate about your beliefs. 
Eugenia's Web si/es: astroadricr.com.for fim, rugnrialast.comfor confidemial callSu/tatiolls 

.------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, September 29, 2008 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Still rolling 

Top-ranked Irish outscore two Big East opponents 10-1 in cruising to a pair of conference wins 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assistant Managing Editor 
They stepped ofT the field at the end of the first half with a 2-0 lead over Cincinnati, but the Irish were nowhere near done Sunday. Kerri Hanks notched the first goal for Notre Dame, followed by freshman Melissa Henderson in what proved to be a rough and gritty first half. The Bearcats tried to stop Notre Dame from gaining any sort of rhythm by pulling shirts and racking up nine fouls in the first half. 
"It wasn't that they were overly physical or morn physi­eal than us. it was just that thoy worn more disruptive," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "EVf~ry time you would boat a player off the dribble they wnre pulling your shirt or they're fowling you and thoy just nevor let you get a rhythm." 
But that only fed Notre Dame's fire and the Irish 

came out running in the sec­ond half. 
Henderson scored her sec­ond goal of the game in the 71 st minute, followed four minutes later by Courtney Husen. And just 33 seconds later Henderson buried her third goal, giving the fresh­man her first career hat trick. 
With three goals within five minutes of each other, the Bearcats knew who they were dealing with. 
"We came out with a much higher level of intensity, and even though the first half. we had the game handled, and they were never really dan­gerous, it was just one of those things that I think we needed to come out and make sure we stepped up the inten­sity level and make them try to match that and they could­n't match the depth and they couldn't match the intensity level once we really got it going in the second half." 
Haley Ford put the final 
see BLOWOUTS/Page 17 


NO WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Tea111 starts conference slate vvith a pair of victories 
however, not wanting her team her of kills, which helps," side hitter Kellie Sciacca. The first set against the Bulls By JARED )EDICK 
to get ahead of themselves. Brown said. "We held her Sciacca had 20 kills on 28 went well for the Irish largely Sports Wri tcr 
"It's still way too early Ito under her percentage average, attempts for a .643 average in due to the power of Sciacca's worry about first placel." and we took some of her shots the match. six kills in the frame, including 
Thn Irish stnppt~d up to the Brown said. away." "[Sciacca] came alive offen­the set-winner. plato and came up huge this Up first for the Irish on Notre Dame's lineup changes sively, she was on her game," In the only set that the Irish wtwkend. starting the Big East Friday was a strong South in light of junior outside hitter Brown said. "It was really, would drop this weekend, the season off right with two solid Florida (10-6, 1-1 Big East) Serinity Phillips absence due to really good to see." second. the Irish nevertheless wins against South Florida and team led by All-American jun­an ankle injury saw senior out­Junior outside hitter drove the llulls to the wire 21­<;norgetown. ior outside hitter Marcela side hitter Justine Stremick on Christina Kaelin also pitched in 25 and posted a .406 hitting 
Notre Dame improved its Gurgel. The Irish defeated the the right with junior middle with 18 kills and a .429 hitting percentage. overall record to 2-0 in the Big Bulls 3-1. blocker Tara Enzweiler and average. Sciacca's kills and the Notre East (7-7 overall) to propel Gurgel paced the Bulls with Sciacca in the middle. Brown "Kaelin let her competiveness Dame defense continued to itself into a tin for first plan~ in 19 kills and 11 digs, but the cited this formation as helping take over," Brown said. "She stand strong in the final two the conference with Seton llall. Irish were able to control her her team deal with USF. wanted the ball and she had sets, winning them both 25-21 
Irish eoaeh I>Pbbic Brown for the most part. Starring for the Irish against some great swings. I was really kept things in perspective, "We had a pretty high num-the Bulls was sophomore out-pleased with her performance." see SWEEP/Page 17 
MEN'S SOCCER 

ND falls in OT heartbreaker 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writ<•r 
All good things must come to an end. hut this orw was particularly diiTkult to swal­low for No. :~ Notre Damn. 
Tlw Irish's snvnn-game unbeattHI streak. Fifteen­ganw regular season Big East unbeaten run and stretch of :~95 minutes without conced­ing a goal all conw to an end with a 2-1 OT loss at No. 19 J.ouisvilln. 
It all changed on one blow of the whistle. Leading 1-0 in the final minute of n~gulation, Notre 
see LOUISVILLE/Page 17 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Boulder, Colo. to host 19-team tourna111ent 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to build ofT its third place fmish in the Mary Fossum Invitational last weekend as the Irish prepare to compete in the Ileather Farr Memorial in Boulder, Colo., a two-day event beginning today. 
The 19-team event will be played at Omni lnterlocken Golf Club, the home course for the University of Colorado. 
The Irish are led by senior captain Lisa Maunu, whose 73 scoring average through the first two events is the best on the team. Maunu will be sup­ported by junior Annie Brophy and freshman Beeea Huffer, each of whom shot under par in their final round last week­end to help clinch the third place finish. 

Also competing for the Irish are sophomore So-llyun Park, who finished tied for 11th place with Brophy and Maunu at the Fossum Invitational, and soph­omore Katie Conway, who will be competing as a member of Notre Dame's five-woman team for the first time this season. 
Contact Eric Pcistec at eprister@nd.edu 



