
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND student assaulted, left 7 miles from campus 
Sophomore got into car on Ironwood Drive, said he was robbed, found early April 20; still in University Health Services 
By CHRIS HINE News Writer 
A Notre Dame student suffered a concussion and a broken right hand on April 20 after he was allegedly assaulted, robbed and left approximately seven miles from campus, St. joseph county police said Saturday. 
Sophomore Timothy Clarke, 20, said he left Tailgaters Sports Bar around 3 a.m. and got into a car with either two or three men near Nick's Patio on Ironwood Drive early in the morning on April 20. 
Clarke, a resident of Keough Hall, said he thought the men would give him a ride back to campus. The men, whose identi­ties are unknown, allegedly assaulted him, took Clarke's wallet and cell phone, and left him on the side of Primrose Road about seven miles from campus, St. Joseph County Police Detective Phil Williams said. 
A 911 call was placed to county police by a passer-by, who saw Clarke lying unconscious. Police responded to the call and found Clarke at approximately 6:45 a.m. and took him to Memorial Hospital in South Bend. Clarke is currently staying in University Health Services. 
Williams said the identities of the suspects are unknown and he and Clarke said they did not know why the assault and robbery occurred. 
Clarke said Sunday he could not remember if he voluntarily got into the car or was forced into the car, but Williams said he would not likely charge the men with kid­napping or abduction if he fmds them. 
Clarke's account of what hap­pened may not be 100 percent accurate, Williams said, because of memory loss Clarke suffered from his concussion and other head injuries, and also possibly from alcohol he consumed that night. But Williams said that with time, Clarke is regaining recollec­tion of what happened that night. 
Clarke spent most of last week in University Health Services before having surgery on his hand Thursday. After surgery, he was returned to Health Services where he will recover for the next few days, but doctors may need to per­form a second surgery on his hand. Clarke also sustained other lacerations and bruises on his head, chest, and elbow. 
Clarke said he tried to phone a friend, who was serving as a des­ignated driver, to pick him up from Tailgaters on Ironwood Drive at approximately 3 a.m. The driver was picking up other people at the time and told Clarke to wait at Tailgaters until he arrived to take Clarke back to campus, Clarke said. 

HillaryOintonspeaks to supporters inSouthBend 
Presidential hopeful challenges Barack Obama to Lincoln-Douglas style debate in Indiana 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
New York Senator and Democratic presidential can­didate Hillary Clinton chal­lenged Barack Obama to a debate in Indiana and dis­cussed key election issues in a speech Saturday afternoon at Coveleski Stadium in South Bend. 
"I am offering Senator Obama a chance to debate me one on one, no moderators," Senator Clinton said. "Just the two of us going for 90 minutes, asking and answer­ing questions. We'll set what­ever rules seem fair." 
Clinton said she is disap­pointed that Obama and she have only met four times in one-on-one debates. However, Obama rejected Clinton's request for another debate Sunday morning. 
"I think this country is sure worth debating about its future. I think the issues we face are sure worth dis­cussing. I want the American people to be part of that dis­cussion," Clinton said. 
Former Congressman John Brademas introduced Clinton to the crowd and emphasized the importance that Indiana will play in the upcoming election. 
"Indiana can play a key role in restoring vital leadership to our country," Brademas said. 
Clinton called for a change 
see CLINTON/page 6 


Relay helps raise funds 
Event collects over $50,000 for research 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
In a spirit of celebration and remembrance, the Notre Dame community walked together as the Fighting Irish Fighting Cancer in the fifth annual Relay for Life. 
"The goal of Relay for Life is to raise awareness about cancer because it really is a disease that affects us all," public relations chair Adam Lamm said. 
The event, a fundraiser for the American Cancer Society, honors and remem­bers victims of cancer. Although the final total has not been released, students, faculty and staff collected over $50,000 in donations according to the Relay for Life Web site. The final total will be much higher after corporate donations are included. 

The Relay for Life was held on South Quad between Badin Hall and the Rockne Memorial Gymnasium. 
"The location was really good, in the center of stu­dent life on campus," chair of the Student Committee Chris Pingel said. 
Traditionally, Relay for Life is an overnight event, symbolizing that cancer endures. However, the event was scheduled to end at 1 
a.m. in observance of University policy that man-
see RELAY/page 6 




Malloy 


'justwar' 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Living by the just war the­ory is more essential now in the war on terror than ever, University President Emeritus Father Edward 
Malloy 
said in a 
lecture 
Friday. 
"As far as 
Christians 
are con­
cerned, 
there are 
two viable 
alterna­

tives just war theory or pacifism," Malloy said. 
Christianity began as a strictly pacifistic religion, according to Malloy. This pacifism was the result of both a strict interpretation of Biblical texts and the fact that Christians were a per­secuted minority, and had no need for military power. 
"If an alien comes from outer space and reads the text, Christianity would come out on the pacifist side," he said. "But does [pacifism] have a realistic view of human nature?" 
When Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire, followers were no longer able to be pacifistic. 
"All of Christianity began to embrace just war theory, as an attempt to be realistic about evil and harm-doing," Malloy said. 
Just war theory, accord-
see MALLOYIpage 6 


By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's College president Carol Ann Mooney invited University president Fr. John Jenkins and Holy Cross College president Brother Richard Gilman to discuss the values and traditions of a Holy Cross education in a public meeting Friday. 
Moderated by vice president for College relations Shari Rodriguez, the three presidents spoke of the first time they encountered Holy Cross educa­tors, the beatification of Blessed Basil Moreau and the benefits of a Holy Cross education. 
All three said they try to apply Moreau's words "the mind will not be cultivated at the expense of the heart" from his book "Christian Pedagogy" to their own institutions. 
"What we're trying to do as a Holy Cross institution is having a seamless environment," Gilman said. "Learning doesn't just take place in the class­room." 
Gilman said Holy Cross College Board of Trustees recently approved a new strate­gic plan that takes Moreau's writings into account. 
"Having reflected on some of the things Moreau said ... [edu­cation is] really a holistic thing," he said. "The strategic planning that we've adopted really looked on the Holy Cross education that we are offering as a 10-year education not a four year edu­
see HOLY CROSS/page 3 

But Clarke said he declined the ride and thinks he saw students he knew walking north on Ironwood toward Nick's Patio alone. 
"I figured I'd go there and wait for a cab," Clarke said. 
Clarke walked north along Ironwood Drive and said he thought he was near Nick's Patio when the car approached him. 
Clarke does not clearly remem­ber what happened next except that he thought these men would give him a ride back to campus. He got in the backseat and two men were in the front. A third man may have also been in the car, Clarke said. Williams said 
see CLARKE/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 28, 2008 

INSIDE COLUMN 
S'tnore sununers 
Hecently it struck me that this summer may be my last mal summer. I have been told to calm down and that this is ridicu­lous. However, by this time next year, I will be a. senior and facing graduation. I may be prnparing to start a job or graduate Emma Driscoll sch1x11 or going 
News Production 
through applica­
Editor
tion processes for 
either of the two, 
and many ofyou arc already at this point. 
Thio; ha'> made me start to reminisce about 
othBr lktiona.l people's summers to see if I 
have bmm living mine right so far. 
I have always wanted a 'The Sandlot" 
summer-the life-changing kind of sum­
mer where you lind your best friends and 
you lind yoursdf and you learn that with 
teamwork or a pair of PF Flyers, you can do 
anything-whether it's kissing the Iife­
~-,ruard, catching a ba'>Cball, making s'mores 
or taking on The Bea<;t. 
'The Si'itnrhood of the Traveling Pant.'>" 
and "The Baby-Sitters Oub" summers are 
other coming of age summers, and they are 
full of sport.'>, travel, little kids, fihnmaking 
and mnmorizing songs about the brain. It 
isn't all fun and games. though, because the 
1-,rirls in both movies learn very serious les­
sons about themselves, their families and 
thn world the hard way. 
Then thnrn Lo; the pre-"Greao;e" summer, 
tlw one before the movie when the heroic 
Danny and 1:ramp-inflicted Sandy meet 
mid-swim, fall in love, and sing their way to 
a happy ending despite the soda.! trials of 
Hydelllligh. 

"Savnd by tim Bell" summers were epie. Zaeh, Kelly, Screech and the rest of the Bayside gang all go to a snazzy resort and take up jobs a<; busboys, waiters, coaches, lili!J.,tuard'i, ete. and spend time playing vol­leyba.IJ <md applying sunscreen to guesl'>. Even alter Zach starts dating the boss's daughter, he still manages to stay on the man's g1xKi side. Morri'i does not just enjoy summer. lie uses it to network. 
But it's "The Parent Trap" summer that truly serves a<; the model for a summer that is both fun and productive. Not only do llayley Mill<> and Lindsay Lohan (since both version<; deserve to be mentioned) get to go to summer camps where they make bird­cages out of popsicle sticks and learn to fenr,e, but they al'iO manage to find one another and reunite their divorced parents. Whethnr in 1961 or 1998, that's a summer wnll spent. 
There io; al'>O the Ray Bradbury "All Summer in a Day," summer. The short story takes place in a world that rains con­stantly. For a brief peri1Ki on one day of the year, though, the sun shines and all of the seh1x>l childnm (theoretically) go outside to enjoy the weather that will not be back for another 365 days. The shortness ofthi<> summer a.llows for the tension in the story (whieh is one of the saddest things I have evnr read, but very worth reading) and truly makes me appreciate the three or so months of n~liable sunshine that we get here. 
Taking all of thio; into consideration, I plan to take a break from working and throw a bwit~ball around thi'> summer and during whatevllr 'summers' I get from here on out. I hope that everyone does the same, because whether we are college kids, work­ing adullo;, or in between, summer seerno; to ~~ th1~ time to enjoy this life that we have. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at r•driscol@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In rhc anidc "SMC securiry addresses recent safety ron­a:m.," rhc quorc '"We're enmuraging our guys to make con­met wirh rhc per.«m who made rhe romplaim. You should be cubJ hack and explain what w.lS fimnd, that's just g<Xxl poliu· work or sc.·curiry work." illould be attribute-d to Sran Kliu'll~tk. JSSL,r.mr director ofscmriry. "11>c ( )bscrver regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU RATHER HAVE A TEST, PAPER OR PROJECT FOR A FINAL AND WHY? 








Caste Sweeney London Vale Andrea Archer Claire Murphy Meghan Paladino Nick Hlttler 
senior senior sophomore senior senior junior off-campus off-campus PW off-campus off-campus Zahm 
"A test-"A project "None, because "Test, because "D. None ofthe ~'No." 
20 questions, because there's I have mono.,, when it's over true or false. ,, more room for it's done with. creativity. ,, Instant gratification. ,, 

Father Theodore Hesburgh delivers a speech during Father Ted's Inaugural Fun RunjWalk for Upward Bound on South Quad Sunday. Upward Bound provides college preparatory opportunities and resources to South Bend high schoolers. 
OFFBEAT 

Senator campaigns to ban replicas of bull testicles 
TALLAHASSEE -They're proudly displayed by any self-respecting bull, but dangling big metal ones on the back end of a truck could be banned in Florida. 
Metal replicas of bull tes­ticles have become trendy bumper ornaments in some parts of the Sunshine State, but state Sen. Carey Baker is campaigning to ban the orbs. 
Baker acknowledged that Florida lawmakers have more pressing issues, including huge revenue shortfalls, but said the state needs to draw a line on what's obscene before more objectionable adornments appear. 
State Sen. Steve Geller argued against Baker's bill. 
"I find it shocking that we should be telling people that have the metallic bull testicles . . . you're now going to have points on your license for this," said Geller. 
Saints give 53-year-old a second chance to pitch 
ST. PAUL -A 53-year­old knuckleballer named Jon Secrist isn't giving up on his goal of pitching in 
pro baseball, and the St. Paul Saints are giving him another chance. 
Secrist was invited Friday by the Saints to their spring training camp after a tryout in front of manager George Tsamis. Secrist will pitch for St. Paul in an exhibition game on Tuesday night. 
He had a prior stint with the Saints in 1999, when he posted a 9.34 ERA in two appearances. At the time, Secrist was the oldest signed rookie in profession­al baseball. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
UJ 
:::1: 
!c;: 
UJ 
~ 
....I 
~ 
CJ 
0 

HIGH 48 HIGH 34 HIGH 47 HIGH 57
..... 

LOW 40 LOW 28 LOW 36 LOW 38 
-~'1Ib­
.IP
>~~ 
~~\ .
u<J..Y 


above., 
IN BRIEF 
"The Use and Abuse of Holocaust Photography" lec­ture will be delivered today by Professor Susan Crane in 119 O'Shaugnessy Hall from 3 to 4:15p.m. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band's Spring Concert will be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets are free but must be reserved through the DPAC ticket office. 
Baseball will play Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Frank Eck Baseball Stadium against Mississippi Valley State. 
"Rumors," the Neil Simon play sponsored by Sorin, contin­ues Tuesday from 8 to 10:30 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 and proceeds go to Sorin's fund for St. Jude Primary School in Uganda. 
Collegium Musicorum spring concert will take place Wednesday at 7 and 8:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DPAC and will fea­ture sacred and secular a capella music from the Medieval, Renaissance, and Baroque areas. Tickets are $3 at the DPAC ticket office. 
Screenings from the Angelus Student Film Festival will be shown at the Angelus Film Series on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema. 
Assistant professor Paul Gao will speak in the Finance Seminar Series on Friday from 
11:30 to 1:05 in the 339 Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 71 HIGH 66 LOW 57 LOW 49 
Atlanta 68 I 44 Boston 51 I 51 Chicago 47 I 34 Denver 72 I 44 Houston 79 I 52 Los Angeles 88 I 60 Minneapolis 43 I 31 New York 60 I 50 Philadelphia 67 I 49 Phoenix 97 I 69 Seattle 55 I 43 St. Louis 54 I 36 Tampa 85 I 67 Washington 66 I 49 
Monday, April28, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students organize canned food drive 
Collection for poor part of Earth Week activities to promote awareness 
By EMMA DRISCOLL NewsWrirer 
Students collected canned food items from members of the South Bend community to be donated to The Food Bank of Northern Indiana in Saturday's Earth Week Canned Food Drive. 
"We basically go around and collect food from a bunch of neighborhoods in South Bend." co-coordinator Katie Day said. 
Day said South Bend resi­dents were informed about the Canned Food Drive by fliers passed out by student volunteers throughout the week. 
To kick off the Canned Food Drive, Lead ND brought kids they have mentored from the South Bend community to the event. 
The day was concluded by a blessing from University President Emiterius Father Ted Hesburgh. 
"Most student activities are for the benefit of the students ... but of all the things that get done around here, this stands out each year as some­thing very typical of Notre Dame because you're doing it for the poor," Hesburgh said. 
Last year. the Canned Food Drive collected 14,000 pounds of food, but Day said she expected less this year because not as many neigh­borhoods would be covered. 
Totals are not yet available for this year's Canned Food Drive because the Food Bank weighs the collections itself, Day said. She estimated that there "might have been 6 or 7,000 pounds of food, but that's not definite." 
The collections will be com­ing at a good time for the Food Bank of Northern Indiana. 
"Basically, the Food Bank of Northern Indiana has a diffi­cult time meeting the demand for food right now because a lot of collecting takes place in the winter months," Day said. 
The Canned Food Drive also calls attention to current events. 
"It is especially important this year because of the food and security issues going on worldwide are also effecting what's going on here," Day said. 
The Canned Food Drive was one of several Earth Week events. 
"We've had a really busy week, even more so than last year. We really expanded [Earth Week]." Students for Environmental Action [SEA] co-president Tracy Jennings said. 
The week kicked off April 19 with a tree-planting event in the Northwest Neighborhood before the Blue-Gold game, Jennings said. There was also game day recycling at the game, she said. 

On Monday, coffee and dis­cussion of environmental top­ics took place in O'Shaugnessy Hall, Jennings said. 
One of the larger events of the week was the Earth Day Festival held on Tuesday on Fieldhouse Mall. Representatives from the Farmers' Market and Elkhart Environmental Core attended to speak with students and WVFI brought music to the event. 
"A lot of people stopped by on their way to class and it was a big success," Jennings said. 
SEA teamed up with ND for Animals to hold a vegetarian no-waste dinner Wednesday, Jennings said. 
"No utensils were provided. You had to bring your own plate, spoon and fork so you didn't waste anything," Jennings said. 
Thursday night was the Nature Film Festival, which featured films treating envi­ronmental topics. 
Notre Dame power plant tours were offered Friday, and Sunday the SEA partnered with Best Buddies for a picnic and to share information about recycling and compost­ing with the buddies. 
"It was a great week for fel­lowship and for education and for having a good time," Jennings said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Mary's would have on how dif­ferently I would live because of 
HolyCross 
[the gospel]," she said. "I saw this over the years in my class­
continued from page 1 
mates, I saw the difference in 
cc;ttion." their lives." 
Gilman said Holy Cross She said a Holy Cross educa­
College will try to make contact tion isn't about just telling peo­
with potential students two ple how to live, but leading by 
years before they enter the example. 
institution and continue that "It's not so much what we say 
contact for around four years but what we inspire," she said. 
after they graduate to empha­"I think we do teach the mind 
size the fact that education and the heart but the proof is 
takes place outside of class­much more in the outcome." 
rooms and outside of school. Jenkins said Moreau would 
Jenkins feel comfortable ·agreed with on the campuses 
"The education of
Gilman's ideas if he were to that the teach­mind and heart is so have lived today. ing of central, it's really the "I think he was 
Moreau's a very pious per­
most central thing to
words does not son, a very 
occur solely in Holy Cross education, determined per­
the classroom. I feel." son ... but a per­
"The educa­son open to the 
tion of mind world," he said. 
Fr. John Jenkins
and heart is so "He could have central, it's University president sat in that little 
really the most central thing to Holy Cross education, I feel," Jenkins said. "The principles that are articulated [in Moreau's writings] are present in the lives ... of those at these institutions." 
Mooney agreed with her col­leagues, saying while the mind is educated at Saint Mary's, but the heart is not forgotten . 
She said when Pope Benedict XVI spoke to Catholic educators when he visited America last week, he said something which has resonated with her since ­"Those who hear the gospel should as a result live different­
ly." . 
"I don't think when I graduat­ed from [the College] in 1972 I realized the impact Saint corner of France 
and done great but he simply thought of America. He embraced the future." 
Mooney agreed with Jenkins saying Moreau was an innova­tive educator. 
"[Moreau said] we have noth­ing to fear from knowledge. It is essential to the development of human civilizations ... and in fact to the development of a mature faith," she said. "I think that has characterized Holy Cross higher institutions specif­ically ... the ability to examine ideas from a variety of perspec­tives because we're not afraid of engaging the world." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Faculty & Staff Appreciation Event April 28th and 29th 
All Notre Dame Faculty and Staff will receive an additional 5%* off all regular and sale priced merchandise at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Varsity Shops in the JAC, and at the Notre Dame Clearance Center on Ironwood. 
Receive a tall Starbucks coffee from the Irish Ink Cafe with your faculty or staff ID at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 4/28 or 4/29. Limit one per person. 
* 5% discount is in addition to your everyday 20% discount. Faculty or Staff ID required. May not be combined with any other offer. 
Valid in-store only. Excludes "the shirt", textbooks, gift cards, diploma frames, class rings, previous & online purchases, computer hardware & software, calculators, Steiner Memorabilia, Lladro, Waterford, & professional references. See store for further details. 
Thank you for your continued support throughout the year and for making us your bookstore of choice. 


HAMMES :\ 
NO'TRE I)AME. ~~~1 '\
" :f 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE EOK CENTER 
phone: {574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotalog.com 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 28, 2008 
the video before I talked to him 
again." 
Williams said he could not 
obtain the video from Tailgaters 
until Friday. 
According to the county police log, Clarke was only able to give police limited identification. Canarecci, who has been sherill' for six years, said this case is unique. 
"That I'm awam of, it's the first such abduction and assault of a Notre Dame student," Canarecei said. "There have been thefts, there have been assaults but to aetually pick someone up and beat him, I can't recall that in many, many years." 
Canarecci also said he hopes this typn of <Timl~ doesn't become a l'mquent problem and urged stu­dents to use caution when getting rides back to campus. 
"The fortunate thing was he wasn't hurt worse than he was," Canareeei said. "I hope this does­n't become more of a eommon­place thing. I hopo it's just an iso­lated incident." 
NUSP director Phil Johnson con­tacted Canarecd Friday about the case and ollf1red any assistance he muld give, Canarncr.i said. NDSP S!-,rt. Dave Dosmann is now a<;si..<;t­ing Williams in the investigation. 
Canareed said he did not know il' Tailgaters would be fined for serving to an underage person, because that would depend on what type of identification Clarke presented to l11e bar. 
Anyone with inliJrmation about the incident should call St. Joseph County Poliee. 
Katie Kohler contributed to this report. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


3ALE 
I} H  I  WAYNf.  ~JQfJB  
May 1-4  Thursday and Friday  
Saturday  
Sunday  
Visit verahradley,com  

to find a retailer near you. 
$ 
OFF A $100 PURCHASE OR MORE 


Limit one coupon per customer. Vahd at thP. 2001'. \!era Brad!l:ly Outlet Sale or. th~ lja\et; )nd t1mes on this coupon only. Not to be us.<Jd and i:; void out.s1<Je thP. stated date•:s}itime(s) Co«;.:on must be surrendered at the time ot redemption Ma:; "'lt be combined ·:;ith any other otter or coupon. Offer ·m;a to employees of Vera Bradley and where prohib<;.;d. 
Clarke 
continued from page 1 
Clarkn eould not providll a dnscription ol' thn car. 
Whiln in the car. ClarkP said he rnalizml lw was in thn car too long to be going bark campus. lin said hn trim! to call at least six pnopln on his cell ph01w in the ear bntwnnn :~:40 and :~:45 a.m., but nobody answnrnd. 
Clarkn said lw was not sure il' he ww; attacknd in lllP car. Tlw men may havn hit him w; hn was trying to call peopln on his photHl, hn said. 
Clarkn daimod his wallnt and his phonn worn stofpn by the mnn. 
Clarkn had <:rndit <~ards and idnntilkation in his waiiPt, but had no <:<i.'ih. lin said nobody h<L'> tt'ind to usn t.lw crndit <·.ards since thn inddnnt. 
Assoeiatn Vicn l'rnsident l'or Hnsidnncn Lilil Bill Kirk said it is typically Univnrsity policy not to puhlidzn oll'-campus crime involv­ing studnnts. Tlw Univnrsity does rnlml.'in inlimnation n•garding on­campus crinw usually in the liwrn ol' n-mail alnrts, but Kirk said in an n-mail to Thn Ohsnrwr that the Univnrsity "usually donsn't havn tlw authority to rPimL'>P the dntails ol' crinws that occur outsidn the lim itnd jurisdiction ol' the Notre I>arnn Sncurity/l'olicn Dnpartment (NI>SI')," Kirk said. 
But thn Univnrsity dollS make nxcnptions in enrtain <:<L'><lS. 
"Vnry simply, il' thn Univnrsity bnli<wnd that our studnnl'> would bn saliw. bnttnr prnparPd, or bnttnr ahln to pmvent h<worning thn vic­tim ol' a crinw hy publicizing inliJr­mation about tlw ocnrrrnnce ol' any oil-campus r.rimn. we would <~nrtainly do so," Kirk said. 
A'> ol' Sunday evening, Kirk did not respond to a subsequent Obsnrver e-mail asking why the University chosn not to publieizn the nvent involving Clarke. 
Williams said the men who com­
mittnd thn crime wem likely resi­
dents ol' St. Joseph County 
be<~ause Primrose Hoad is a dirt 
road in a woodnd area that is hard 
to lind li1r pnople unfamiliar with 
the ama. 
St. Joseph County Sherill' Frank Canarecd said juv<\nile crime is common near the spot whern police linmd Clarke. 
"It's often the place where juve­niles would go and drink," Canareed said. "It's a road that's lightly traveled and it's close enough to tlw city but remote enough whem you ean do things that yo~ shouldn't b<l doing." 
Williams described the location as a "swamp area" that had no buildings or homes around it. 
"Whnre he was found, he eould'vn benn screaming and nobody would've heard him," Williams said. 
Williams said he rnviewnd video surveillance tapes from Tailgaters to traek Clarke's movnments throughout the night. From what lw muld tell, Clarke did not seem overly inebriated. 
"I didn't observe him drinking a lot of akohol," Williams said. "I wouldn't say he was completnly intoxicated. lin walkEld out pretty much like you or I would il' he had one or two drinks." 
Williams said he spoke with Clarke after the incident on April 
20. but did not speak with him again until Friday. Williams did not want to bother Clarke, bm~ausn ol' Clarke's condition, until he had mo'l"n inlilfmation. 
"Since he had very little infor­mation at first. I wanted to review 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 28, 2008 CoMPILED FROJ'v1 THE OBSERVER'S W[RE SERViCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Father imprisons daughter for 24 years 
VIENNA -Police have found a woman miss­ing since 1984, who told authorities that her father had kept her in a cellar for almost 24 years and that she had given birth to at least six children after being repeatedly raped by him. 
The 73-year-old father was taken into cus­tody, said franz Polzer, head of the Lower Austrian Bureau of Criminal Affairs, on Sunday. 
Authorities found the woman Saturday evening in the town of Amstetten following a tip, Lower Austria police said in a statement. 
The 42-year-old woman told police that her father began sexually abusing her when she was 11 and locked her in a room in the cellar on Aug. 28, 1984. 
During the 24 years that followed, she said she was continually abused and gave birth to six children, the statement said. She said she gave birth to twins in 1996 but one died several days later; police said they were investigating. 
Green zone attacked during sandstorm 
BAGHDAD -Suspected Shiite extremists 
hammered the U.S.-protected Green Zone ·Sunday in the fiercest salvo in weeks, apparently taking advantage of a sandstorm that blanketed the capital and grounded the American aircraft 
that normally prowl for launching teams. 
Thunderous explosions resounded throughout 
the evening as rockets or mortar shells slammed 
into the heavily fortified area in central 
Baghdad. 
Anti-U.S. cleric Muqtada ai-Sadr, meanwhile, rejected terms set by the Iraqi government for lifting a crackdown against his Mahdi Army mili­tia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Obama: race not factor in worker votes 
WASHINGTON -Democratic presidential candi­date Barack Obama said Sunday that race is not the reason he L'> struggling to attract working-class votes and insisted he can win over uncommitted supordelegates by showing he is "best able to not just defeat John McCain, but also lead the coun­try." 
Speaking in a broadcast interview, Obama also brushed aside a challenge from Hillary Rodham Clinton to debate before the May 6 primaries in Indiana and North Carolina. ''I'm not ducking. We've had 21" debates, he said. 
Civil rights advocates protest verdict 
NEW YOHK -A coalition of civil rights advo­cates on Sunday urged changes in the handling of police misconduct and brutality complaints after the acquittal of three officers involved in the shoot­ing death of an unarmed man on his wedding day. 
They also called for a permanent state-level spe­cial prosecutor to investigate such cases. 
"The verdict in the Sean Bell case proves it is almost impossible to successfully prosecute cases of police misconduct, especially in homicide cases," said lawyer Norman Siegel, former head of the New York Civil Liberties Union. 
"The verdict underscores the need for systemic change in the way New York handles these impor­tant and at times high profile cases, and to improve community relations," said Siegel, an out­spoken advocate on civil right'> and law enforce­ment issues. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Neighbor describes accused as 'strange' 
SOUTH BEND -A neighbor of a 16-year­old boy accused of planning a Columbine-style attack on his high school described him as "kind of strange." 
"lie was an average kid, but kind of strange," said Allen McBride, who lives seven houses away. "He came down here one day with a snake wrapped around his arm and said, 'Do you want to buy a snake'?' I said, 'Man get back there."' 
McBride said he's lived in the house for 22 ynars and had watched the boy grow up from tlw time hn usnd to visit his deceased gqmdfa­tlwr until he movPd into the house with his undn. lin said the boy didn't spend time with other children in the neighborhood, though he used to play with another boy who has since mov(~d away. 
Wildfire spreads near Los Angeles 
More than 1,000 people must evacuate; fire expected to burn for two or three days 
Associated Press 

SIERRA MADRE, Calif. -An early season wild­fire slowly chewed its way through dense brush near Los Angeles on Sunday, forcing more than 1,000 people from homes in the foothills. 
More than 400 fire­fighters attacked the 350-acre fire, aided by two helicopters and water-dropping air tankers, said Elisa Weaver of the Arcadia Fire Department. Residents evacuated at least 550 homes Saturday night and Sunday, but none had burned. 
"This is pretty serious," Weaver said. "Some of these areas have not burned in over 40 years." 
Smoke and fire bil­lowed near neighbor­hoods on the outskirts of Sierra Madre near Bailey Canyon Wilderness Park. The fire moved slowly as it fed on brush and was estimated to be 5 to 10 percent contained. It is expected to continue burning for another two or three days. 
Winds were calm early Sunday, boosting fire­fighter efforts, Weaver said. 
Helicopters made water firefighters were needed to attack the brush fire. · drops Sunday morning on a steep ridge above area where the wedding parking lot. Most of the set up for evacuees. Sierra Madre, about 15 party's cars were. The Scouts had already left Flames outlined steep miles northeast of Los party then was escorted the camp by the time the ridges about a mile above Angeles and just east of out by road. evacuation was ordered, Sierra Madre, a San Pasadena. A fixed-wing The fire was first Weaver said, and no Gabriel Mountains water tanker also made reported Saturday after­injuries were reported. foothill community of at least one drop of flame noon in a wooded area a Firefighters originally about 11,000 popular retardant. few miles northeast of had hoped to have the with artists. 
The blaze also stranded Pasadena. It was windy blaze contained Sunday, To the south in San 50 guests from a wedding at the time and unsea­but gusting winds late Diego County, about 40 party at the Chantry sonably hot, with temper­Saturday night kept the acres burned in thick Flats ranger's station on atures approaching 100 fire out of control and brush about 15 miles Saturday until they were degrees. sent it creeping toward north of downtown San airlifted out Sunday The flames also nearby homes. The Diego. No injuries or afternoon, Weaver said. brought the evacuation of mandatory home evacua­property damage had It took five helicopter a Boy Scout camp tions came shortly before been reported, a San trips from the ranger's Saturday and left about 11 p.m. Diego Fire Department station to the parking 100 hikers stranded in a Two shelters have been spokeswoman said. 

AFGHANISTAN 

Militants kill three in attack on president 
The gunfire apparently came from a deployed to target the president, and
Associated Press 

three-story guesthouse, popular with three of those militants died in the 
KABUL -Militants firing rockets and migrant laborers, about 300 yards from attack. He said they were armed with 
automatic rifles attacked the Afghan the stands where Karzai was seated guns, rockets and suicide vests 
president at a ceremony in Kabul on alongside Cabinet ministers and senior although no suicide bombings were 
Sunday, missing their target but killing diplomats, who all escaped unharmed. reported. 
three and wounding eight others. A U.S. Embassy official confirmed U.S. The initial moments of the attack, The Taliban claimed responsibility for Ambassador William Wood·was also which came as a marching band played the assault that sent President Hamid not hurt. the finale of the national anthem, were Karzai and foreign ambassadors scur­A lawmaker who was about 30 yards broadcast live until TV transmissions . rying for cover, underscoring the fragile from the president was killed in the were cut. Hundreds of dignitaries could 
grip of his U.S.-backed government. attack. be seen diving for cover. Two lawmak­
Gunmen opened fire as a 21-gun Residents reported that a 30-minute ers were hit by the gunfire. One of the 
salute echoed over the capital at an gunbattle broke out between security men slumped back in his seat, while 
anniversary ceremony to mark the forces and gunmen holed up in the the other lay on the ground. 
mujahedeen victory over the Soviet guesthouse, located in a neighborhood Less than two hours later, Karzai 
occupation of Afghanistan. of ruined mud brick buildings. appeared on state-run TV and said 
IIundreds of people, including army Defense Minister Gen. Abdul Hahim "everything is OK." 
and police that had formed an honor Wardak said three attackers were Appearing calm, Karzai said "the 
guard inspected by Karzai minutes ear­killed by security forces, and assault enemy of Afghanistan" tried to disrupt 
lier, fled in chaos as shots rang out. The rifles and machine guns were confiscat-the ceremony but was thwarted by 
president was hustled away, surround­ed. · security forces. He said several suspects 
ed by bodyguards, and left in a convoy Taliban spokesman Zabiullah were arrested and smiled as he signed 
of four black SUVs. Mujaheed said six militants were oil" his brief recordod statement. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 28, 2008 
soccer team raised over activities at the event. tation in the face of terror­
"after 9/11, the great temp­

$7,500 in donations, repre­In addition to pledges made
Malloy Relay 

senting the most raised by any for walking, the event fea­continued from page I tality of the Crusades and 
ism i~ a return to the men­

continued from page 1 participating team. tured other fundraisers that the practices of the 
"I think everyone knows contributed to team totals ing to Malloy, is a very strict Inquisition," Malloy said. 
dates quiet behavior in and someone who has had cancer. such as the Notre Dame doctrine. Malloy spoke out against 
around residencies beginning You can say that you are Security/Police's lNDSP) chick­"Under Christian aus­the return to the torture 
at 2 a.m. on weekends. doing IBelay for Life] for a en barbeque Friday afternoon pices, the horror of war practices used by the 
Inclement weather also forced person and you know where at the Stepan Center. tried to be containnd," he Inquisition. 
organizers to end the event your money is going," sopho­A silent auction was also said. "It's tlw elosest thing "In subsequent conversa­
earlier. more soccer player Rachel held during the event and the wn havn to trying to get a tion, there has been a 
"The rain really only cost us VanderGenugten said. proceeds will be credited to handle on reducing the vio­strong consensus in rejec­
our final ceremony," Pingel More than 500 people par­the final fundraising total. lence and destruetion of tion of torture," he said. 
said. ticipated in the event, includ­Autographed sports memora­war." "Waterboarding is torture 
When the final totals are ing teams comprised of resi­bilia, tickets to a Chicago Cubs Malloy said Christianity and anyone who doesn-'t 
completed, the two students dence halls and athletic teams baseball game and a trip to has embraced a third think torture is horrible, 
raising the most money will be to University Health Services Las Vegas were among auc­approach to warfare in its volunteer to be tortured." 
awarded with free textbooks and the Physics Department. tioned items. history -the Crusade, Taking a just war 
for a semester from the Most teams coordinated a whieh originally began in approach is not an easy way 
Hammes Bookstore. walking schedule so that par­Contact Meg Mirshak at 1090 under Pope Urban II, out, Malloy said. 
The Notre Dame women's ticipants could enjoy other mmirshak@nd.edu who wanted to find a com­"It's a very demanding mon enemy around which way of holding people Christian nations could accountable. It calls for an rally. expression of conscious in 
and renegotiating the North sidizing the oil companies that Under the Crusades, there both the military and civil­
Clinton 
American Free Trade already make millions of dol­were horrors committed by ian leadership," he said. 
Agreement (NAFTA). lars of profit, so we are going
continued from page 1 
both sides, and each side Malloy stressed the long­

"We need a 21st century to put that money to work with saw the other as the spawn term reality of confronting 
trade policy because what we for clean renewable energy," of Satan, Malloy said. terrorism. 
in direction for the country, had in the 20th century no she said. The Crusades went hand­"This is a horrible topic to 
but recognized how difficult longer works in the 21th cen­Clinton also spoke about her in-hand with the talk about, but it's not going 
the decision for the ticket is tury," Clinton said. "We are health care plan, which would Inquisition, which conduct­to go away," he said. "Ten 
because of the historic nature going to play offense. We are allow uninsured Americans to ed frequent purges and years from now, there will 
of this campaign as the first going to start creating jobs buy into the Congressional committed a number of be terrorism, and there will 
woman candidate vies for the again." Health Care Plan. atrocities. be fear." 
Democratic nomination Clinton also promised to end "It's good enough for mem­While the Crusades and 
against the first African­the Iraq War in order to bring bers of Congress, it's good the Inquisition ended dur­Contact John Tierney at 
American candidate. more money back to the enough for every Hoosier and ing the Enlightenment, jtiernel@nd.edu 
"I think we need someone on American economy. every American, and that you day one who can go into that "Well, I am going to end that keep insurance if you have it, Oval office, and as war in Iraq, and bring that but if you don't you will be Commander-in-Chief' start money back home," she said. able to buy into it," Clinton making the tough decisions "We are going to start invest­said. that confront us around the ing in America again." This speech in South Bend is world, and as president turn Clinton said she would help one of several stops Clinton is this economy around so it create jobs in states like making as she campaig.ns starts working for middle class Indiana by taking subsidies through Indiana beforn the 
and hard working families like away from oil companies and May 6 primary. you in Indiana," Clinton said. instead funding ethanol. The senator discussed out­"I don't believe we ought to Contact Ashley Charnley at sourcing around the country be subsidizing fossil fuels, sub-acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Call 



Monday, April 28, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,891.86 +42.91
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 


S&P 500 1,397.84 9.02 
NIKKEI (f..llliln13;967!98W;if]b4::~00l 
FTSE 100 (London) 6.091.40 +40.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE FORD MOTOR CO (F) -10.71 -0.90 7.50 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.93 +1.28 139.60 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -6.19 -1.97 29.83 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.25 -0.12 47.15 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.02 +0.039 3.866 13-WEEK BILL +5.33 +0.065 1.285 30-YEAR BOND +0.99 +0.045 4.589 5-YEAR NOTE +2.32 +0.072 3.176 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.46 118.52 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.30 889.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.40 76.80 
Exchange Rates YEN 104.7000 EURO 0.6395 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0097 BRITISH POUND 0.5045 
IN BRIEF 
Chavez threatens Sidor expropriation 
CARACAS, Venezuela -President Hugo Chavez is threatening to expropriate Venezuela's largest steel maker because he says shareholders are demanding excessive compensation for the company's nationaliza­tion. 
Chavez dismissed a request made by Sidor's parent company, Luxembourg-based Ternium SA, for US$4 billion (2.6 billion) in exchange for a 60 percent stake in the steel maker. 
Chavez ordered Sidor nationalized earlier this month, taking sides with workers who fought for improved salaries and benefits. 
His government is still negotiating the price it will pay to shareholders to take over the company. Chavez says he may expropriate the company outright if the two sides fail to reach an agreement. 
Israel slows Palestinian economy 
RAMALLAH, West Bank-The Palestinian economy won't grow this year, largely due to Israeli restrictions on movement and despite billions of dollars in aid meant to shore up support for peace talks, the World Bank pre­dicted Sunday. 
The bleak prognosis stands in contrast to the bank's initial assessment that double­digit economic growth would be possible if Israel, the Palestinian government and the donors did their part. 
The bank now estimates that the Gross Domestic Product -currently at about $4 billion -will grow by only 3 percent in 2008. 
"That, taking into account population growth, leaves per capita income static, if not lower than the previous year," the report said. 
The bank noted that the Gaza economy has sharply contracted because of the virtually complete closure of the Gaza strip by Israel and Egypt after the violent Hamas takeover there last year. In the West Bank, where Israel maintains a network of hundreds of checkpoints, gates and earthen barriers, GOP growth was only modest, the bank said. 
In December, donor countries pledged $7.7 billion over three years to help fund a Palestinian reform and development plan. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Workers strike over pensions 
BP PLC shuts down pipeline system; group predicts $100 million loss per day 
Associated Press 

EDINBURGH, Scotland -Hundreds of workers at Scotland's only oil refinery on Sunday began a 48-hour strike that has forced BP PLC to shut a pipeline system that delivers almost a third of Britain's North Sea oil. 
BP said it had complet­ed the closure of the Forties Pipeline System by 6 a.m., when 1,200 workers at the Grangemouth refinery in central Scotland walked off the job. The pipeline brings in 700,000 barrels of oil a day from the North Sea to BP's Kinneil plant, which is powered from the Grangemouth site. 
Energy industry group Oil & Gas U.K. said the strike, over pension issues. could cost $100 million a day in lost pro­duction. 
The main effect of the walkout was likely to be felt by the British Treasury -which relies heavily on taxes from oil production -and at gas stations in Scotland, some of which limited purchases in anticipation of the strike. 
The government urged Hutton, told the British pounds $2.47 Ineos, and the workers' motorists not to hoard Broadcasting Corp. "But Saturday for a liter of union, Unite. Talks to fuel, saying there would of course there is going unleaded, up from about avert a strike broke be enough to go around. to be a challenge if peo­1.08 pounds-$2.14-down earlier this week. It wants to avoid a repeat ple change the way that on Monday. The refinery strike is of scenes in 2000 when they consume fuel." The Scottish govern­one of a series of labor motorists were forced to Gas stations in and ment said 72,000 tons of disputes to hit Britain as line up at gas stations as around Edinburgh were extra fuel was being the global economy truckers angry at heavily limiting purchases to 20 imported from Europe to weakens. taxed fuel brought pounds -equivalent to help keep the country A nationwide teachers' Britain to a standstill by $40 -per visit Saturday, running. strike over pay issues blockading refineries. and lines of cars formed Prime Minister Gordon shut about a third of 
"There is plenty of beside some pumps. A Brown said the strike schools across Britain on petrol and diesel in number of stations was unnecessary and Thursday as the govern­Scotland to meet demand reported they had run called for new negotia­ment tries to clamp down during this period of out of gas and diesel. tions between on public sector wage time," the government's Some Scottish gas sta­Grangemouth's owner, increases due to inflation business secretary, John tions were charging 1.25 the chemical company fears. 

Continental says it will not seek merger 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -Continental Airlines Inc. said Sunday it would not pur­sue a combination with another carrier right away, a surprising move after weeks of growing specu­lation that it would join with United Airlines to create the world's biggest airline. 
Continental Chairman and Chief Executive Lawrence Kellner said in a message to employees that the Houston-based airline was better off alone than merging. 
"We have significant cultural, operational and financial strengths compared to the rest of the indus­try, and we want to protect and enhance those strengths -which we believe would be placed at risk in a merger with another carrier in today's environment," Kellner told employees. 
Although it reported an $80 mil­lion loss in the first quarter, Continental is widely viewed as the second-strongest U.S. carrier in financial terms, behind only Southwest Airlines Co., which has indicated it isn't interested in a merger. 
While Kellner ruled out a merger for the time being, Continental appeared to leave the door open to an alliance with another carrier. The airline has reportedly discussed such an arrangement with AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines, in which the companies would work together in many ways but not merge their operations. 
Airlines have been considering consolidation as a way to cut costs and raise fares in the face of record fuel prices. Delta Air Lines Inc. announced earlier this month it has agreed to buy Northwest Airlines Corp. in a stock-swap deal that would create the world's largest carrier. A Continental-United com­bination would have trumped Delta­Northwest in size. 
"Every U.S. carrier, including Continental, is under enormous pressure from record high fuel prices, a slowing U.S. economy and a weak dollar," Kellner told employ­ees. "In today's harsh environment, we must continue to adjust our business model to ensure we suc­cessfully navigate through these dif­ficult times, so that in the future we can once again grow and prosper." 
Continental expects to spend $1.2 billion more on fuel this year than it did in 2007. To cope with the added cost, the airline plans to take some older, less-fuel-efficient planes out of service over the next 12 months and to reduce its U.S. capacity by 5 percent beginning this fall. 
Ray Neidl, an analyst with Calyon Securities, said Continental's exit leaves US Airways Group Inc. as a potential merger partner for United. 
The CEOs of United and US Airways are both vocal proponents of airline mergers. But US Airways lacks the strong international routes that made Continental an attractive partner. 
A US Airways spokesman declined to comment, and a United spokesman did not immediately return a call for comment. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, April 28, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notn: Dame, IN 46556 024 SoUih Oinin~ f!.1ll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOI\ BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle Wcsr 
ASST. MANAGING EOITOR: Katie Kohler 
A~s·r; MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VJEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI'OIUS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
So:NE Enrma: lae Andrews 
SAINT MAllY's EI>ITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EOITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERfiSING MANAGER: Jessica C:orrc:z 
An DESIGN MANAGER; Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim .Sobolewski 
Svsn:Ms ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6JI-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.3 l-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(174) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63!-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(514) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The ( Jbscrver is the indcpendt•nr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrt·nr. including adverrisemenrs, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrimrion. The Observer reservt-s the right to retllSC advcrtist·menrs lxt,cd on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possibk. UnsiwK·d editorials represent the opinion of tht· majoriry of the Fditor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Man;tging Editors and department editors. Cornmenrari<.,, lcrrers and columns present the views of rill' aurhors and not necessarily those ofThe ( Jbst·rver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrour,h letters is encouraged. l.t·rtcrs to rhe Editor must be signed and rnu.st include contact information. 
Qumiow rl!gttrding Obsm'rr policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
I'IJC ( >h'l'fYl'l (tJSP\ 'i'l11l.-41KHI)!). pubh,h("() Mnmb.y throuj:th hido~y cxl.cpt durmg ~;um .111<\ v.•~;IIW\1 )k'rl<ltl,, A ~uh...U)lilloto tu 'flu: tlh..crvrr 1• $11111 li1r orw .~rad(mk 
yt\11, $'i5 liu one.-c:mnr~·r 
llu: l \lncrvrr r• puhh•hcd .u tll4!oluurh [linilll( H.rll Xnd addrt:J\ (OrtCI:tinm w: N"uc IJJm,. IN iio'i~f>..077tJ ·rhcUIJ6t"rvu l't-nu.hul pu~l.l~ vo~ul II Sotrc D.nuc f~Q. 1\..oK 7"]tJ .tlllllll.httth>ll.ll tll.liltttK••llicc~ !t..!-1 )uuth Dmin~o;H;~ll 
t'-onuT Dame. IN 4(l'i';CJ..on•J 

·nl( t.>h'II.'Tvt'll~· ntt""rnhcr<)t the ft,.'Yo<>u,uC'd r~ AlliCJUUtiu,uun tl~hlloli.IC 
lt"'II.'Ht""tj 
The very first "real" college football game I went to was this past September whnn Notre Dame played Georgia Tech. Two things stuck with me about it. First was the sense of awn that I got wlwn 
DarrylI saw a stadium full Campbellof fans hanging on nvnry play, which 
Speak Up,
was definitely not 

Please
the ease in the Division 1-AA games I'd seen. The sec­ond was that before the game, I heard more than a few fans chanting "Go Irish. beat 'gay' Tech," then laughing at their own cleverness at substituting "gay" for GA. Later that term. I heard that a few people worn planning on demonstrating (against homosexuality, I guessl by wearing "Gay'? Go to Hell" T-shirts around campus. In both cases, I rolled my eyes and wondered how people could act in such poor taste, but didn't dwell too much on it. 
Last week, I was asked to sign a petition to get the University to add sexual orientation to its non-discrimi­nation elause, something that students have been trying to get passed for about a decade. And as I thought back to those episodes from last fall, I real­ized that there was a common thread connecting them with the petition. By refusing to protect homosexuals in its non-discrimination elause, the University is doing the same thing as the people who use the word "gay" pejoratively or who are wearing "Gay'? 
Two words 
Go to Hell" T-shirts. All of them, sim­
ply put, are reducing a person's iden­
tity to their sexual orientation. 
According to the University, adding the words "sexual orientation" to the non-discrimination clause could open up a Pandora's Box of litigation, possi­bly compromising its ability "to sup­port Church teachings on sexual ori­entation and conduct," especially problematic since such a matter has "theological connotations." The gov­erning bodies of the University, mean­while, pay lip service to inclusiveness -as the Spirit of Inclusion reassures us, "we value gay and lesbian mem­bers of this community as we value all members of this community"-but will not say so in any legally binding sense. In the meantime, the University tacitly reserves the right (one that, to be sure, is very rarely, if ever, invokedl to keep gay and lesbian stu­dents from taking classes, playing sports, getting scholarships and gen­erally taking advantage of the many great opportunities afforded to them by the University. 
I wonder, then, how insisting that homosexuals are equally valued mem­bers in the community but refusing to give them the same legal protection that everyone else gets promotes a "Spirit of Inclusion." To define some­one by their sexual orientation ­whether for comic effect, for the sake of provocation or to refuse them legal protection from discrimination -is to judge thHm for one small aspect of' thHir identity, not on the mnrits of' their personality, intnllnet or charac­ter. Even thn Church acknowlndges that a homosnxual person is not del'ined entirnly by tlwir snxual eon­duet. Such reduetionism is a dnnial of' basie human dignity. And it is thorn­fore doubly insulting that thn reasons that the University gives for doing so are ultimately practical (i.n. to pre­vent legal meddling in University affairs), though the theological impli­cations arH sometimns vaguely alluded to. 
According to its mission statement, Notre Dame prides itself for instilling in its students not only "those disei­plined habits of mind, body and spirit which characterize ndueated, skilled, free human beings," but also impart­ing to thHm "a st~nse of human soli­darity and concern for the common good." We need look no further than our own university-in fact, no fur­ther than thn book that contains these very statements-to see where a sense of human solidarity and concern for thn common good is laeking, all over two words. 
I signed thn petition, by the way. 
Darryl Campbell is a first-year graduate student in history. 1/e can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY's STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY

News Viewpoint Joseph McMahon Lianna 
What are you doing this summer? 
Emma Driscoll Brauweiler Claire Reising Sports 

Being a beach bum "Old elephants limp offto the hills 
Graphics Matt Gamber 

to die; old Americans go out to the 
Traveling
Hyan Raffin Alex Barker highway and drive themselves to 
Stuck in the office 
death with huge cars. " 
Summer school No idea Hunter S. Thompson journalist 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, April 28, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Spell check 'Juicy Campus' 
I once heard a piece of wisdom that has now become frighteningly more applicable: Don't do anything that you wouldn't want to see cov­ered on the front page of the newspaper. That is, when faced with a decision, imagine the consequences (with your name attached) as the next day's headline. With JuicyCampus.com, that imaginary front page has, unfortunately, become a little less imagi­nary. 
With this in mind, Juicy Campus, to me, seems a little less evil. Knowing that your actions may magically appear before the world for anyone to read may make you think twice before you drunkenly leap onto a dorm coffee table (I heard some guy tore his you-know­what doing that). But, if it doesn't get you to change your mind about certain courses of action, at least it can bring you to the realiza­tion that gossip is real and it just may be about you. Did you do something you shouldn't have with someone you shouldn't have over Spring Break? Well, if you thought no one was going to know about it, you're living iri fantasyland. People talk. And isn't Juicy Campus nothing but a collection of thoughts, sentiments and notions that we all may have but just not ver­balize? 
That brings us to the racism, sexism, clas­sism, heterosexism, anti-geekism, whatev­erism that is so shockingly prevalent in our classmates' posts {was anyone truly shocked?). Now, at least, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities can't deny that these are real problems. Instead ofthese thoughts being locked away in our minds, they have manifest­ed themselves on this public forum and, hon­estly, it's pretty ugly. I personally haven't been attacked on Juicy Campus but I cannot help but point out the most obscene, disgusting and utterly offensive thing I have found in the posts: the spelling and grammatical errors. This is Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Come on, people. If you're going to cruelly degrade another person or group in order to cover up your own insecurities, at least retain a shred of your own dignity and use spell check. 
Rachel Boury senior off campus Apr. 24 

Greatness through sensibility 
As an alumnus of Columbia myself, Andrew Nesi's recent column {"The best school in the country," Apr. 24) was a joy to read as it brought back many fond memories of my days in the John Jay Lounge. I am, though, somewhat confused by the logic of his column. He suggests that Notre Dame is a great institution because it mimics the same polarizing debates that are found in the American mainstream media. 
However, I would counter that what is great about Notre Dame are the people who are shocked and dismayed that in the year 2008, such debates can continue, as if certain ques­tions are still open for discussion. To me it is most appalling, given the numerous documents of the Catholic Church on the dignity of the human person, that any Catholic university would still be arguing over adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause. Nesi is correct in that this is indeed a "mockable conversation" if not for the fact that those who advocate discrimination are so lamentably serious. 
John Shekitka grad student Fischer Graduate Residence Apr. 24 

U WIRE 
Want to lower drinking age? Stop driving drunk 
What is it about alcohol that makes some people lose all cognitive func­tion? After being dressed up as the ethanol scarecrow that would fight farm overproduction, oil dependence and global warming 
Tim Williams

-despite much evi­dence to the contrary -a vocal minority in The Badger several states includ­
Herald 

ing Wisconsin has once again turned to alcohol to solve their problems. Seemingly as a half-hearted recom­pense to young soldiers fighting a war in Iraq most Americans no longer sup­port, some want to lower the drinking age to 18-for military personnel only. 
The most bizarre proposal, however, is a bill introduced in Minnesota that would allow 18-year-olds to drink in bars and restaurants, but not to buy liquor in stores. Presumably support­ers are afraid of uninhibited binge drinking at teen house parties, but wasn't the whole point of the federal government strong-arming states into raising the drinking age to 21 to stop drunken driving? Overwhelming evi­dence shows raising the drinking age lowers fatal automobile accidents, which is why Ronald Reagan, who made big government public enemy No. 1, signed a constitutionally ques­tionable 1984law that ties 10 percent of federal highway funds to setting the drinking age at 21. A 2003 review by the Center for Disease Control showed increasing the drinking age lowered fatal accidents by 16 percent and the National Traffic Highway Administration estimates 900 lives each year have been saved by the switch. While that might not seem like a huge number, it's hard to argue against a proven safety measure. 
Students can moan and groan all they like, but proposals to change the drinking age are doomed to failure as long as one out of six of adult motorists nationwide report driving under the influence, as found by the National Survey on Drug Use and Health. According to a 2007 Gallop poll, 77 percent of Americans oppose lowering the drinking age. Until it's no longer a given that someone at a party will drive home drunk, the visceral images of deadly car accidents will continue to stir outrage, even as we decide it's OK to drive intoxicated ourselves. 
Wisconsin tops the list of drunken drivers, with more than a quarter of motorists saying they have driven while intoxicated in the past year. Of course, analysts immediately hit on the obvious cultural factors at play here, with both Nina J. Emerson, director of the Resource Center on Impaired Driving at the University of Wisconsin Law School, and Paul Moberg, senior scientist at UW's Population Health Institute, pointing to Wisconsin's gen­eral acceptance of drinking being high­er than many other states, according to an Apr. 22 Milwaukee Journal Sentinel article. 
But this ignores the fact that even in Utah, a state where a majority of resi­dents belong to a religion that pro­hibits the consumption of alcohol, one in 10 people reported drinking and driving. Clearly, the problem is that Americans love their cars as much they love their booze. The United Kingdom-with the same .08 blood­alcohol concentration legal limit as all 50 U.S. states -had only 560 alcohol­related deaths in 2004 among its 60 million people, according to the British Medical Association. While the U.S. has five times the population, it had more than 20 times the alcohol-related deaths. 
One oft-cited explanation for high 
U.S. traffic fatalities is that most inter­national drivers first receive permits after they reach the legal drinking age. This makes little to no sense, however. The difference, if any, is usually less than a year, and traffic fatalities, sober and not, remain high for young people well after they turn 21, as any insur­ance or rental car agent will tell you. The only reason the drinking age won't raise to 25 is the uproar would be even louder than if it were lowered to 18. It's certainly true Europeans are less car-dependent, but the move to public transportation in this country has been slow and painful. 
No, what Wisconsin needs is to cor­rect its two-faced attitude toward drunken driving with harsh penalties even for first-time offenses -this is the only state where a first drunken driving incident is not criminal. While there are concerns that ignition locks may not yet hold the answer, as a California Motor Vehicles Department study found they did not deter first­time offenders, we should look to inno­vations like these to keep alcohol­impaired drivers off the street. If we can do that, then maybe college stu­dents young and old can legally have a beer together. 
This column first appeared in the Apr. 24 issue of The Badger Herald, the daily publication of the University of Wisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

I 
THE OBSERVER
l CENE
page 10 Monday, April 28, 2008 

By CHRIS MCGRADY 

On MaeGyver vs. Matlock's debut album the Oakleaf Drive. Over the past summer Martin and I band aehieves something that takes other groups lived in apartment in a kind of rough area o ears -they suecessful meld several different Indianapolis (actually the apartment complex es into a homogenous sound. itself was really the rough area). When he played 
Dog and the Wolf"' is MvM's first CD -a me his first draft of this song I really felt like he oint ef'l'ort between Notre Dame senior Pat absolutely hit the nail on the head with what it aieomo and Martin Kent (a student at Ball State). was like for us. On top of the lyrics I really love 
Jaicomo is a musician from the word go. In the different textures that ebb ad flow throughout addition to singing on the album, . . . . the composition." he also plays multiple instruments. Jazcomo lS a muszcwnfrom The personal connection the In fact, the band, despite havi~g the word go. In artis~s have with this s?ng .?efinite­only _two people, plays all t~err addition to singing on the ly ~hu~~s through, makmg ?akle 
own mstrurm~nts-drums, guitar, Drrve one of the album s bes and bass, just to name a few. album, he plays offerings. Jaieomo is the lead singer of cam-multiple instruments. The MacGyver Vs. Matlock's sound is pus band .Threat l:evel _Midnight, band despite having only dif'ficult to define. Part Fall Out Boyand Kent IS an audw maJor at Ball ' . and part Early November, tangen­State, and was in charge of the two people, plays all thezr tially touched with Fall Out Boy's entire mixing, mastering and own instruments. emo-influenced lyrics, and finished rncording process. off with wildly inventive hints o 
All 13 tracks ofT the CD are originals. Even the electronica reminiscent of The Postal Service and . artwork of the album is done by the band. Death Cab for Cutie, MacGyver Vs. Matlock is the 
The CD opens with the instrumental track "I audiophiles dream. Make sure you listen to the IIope to See You Soon." This song sets the tone for album with good speakers and definitely in stereo tho album. Hhythmie eleetrie guitar and crashing -the band use of multiple channels adds a groat cymbals fuse with just a slight air of electronica. deal of depth to the music. 
Hhough probably not one of the stronger efforts This CD isn't yet available in stores, but can be 
the album, the song sets up the listener for the picked up for just $8 on the band's website at next song-"Heroes Don't Call Themselves macgyvervsmatlock.com. Consider adding this CD l11~roes." to your collection-it would be money well spent. 
This track opens with simple, if almost under­. ated, piano. It is suddenly backed by some pow-
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu
rf'ul electric guitar riffs. and then layered with one, although with some difficulty. 
"Picking one single is like trying to decide which of your children is your favorite," he said in an interview on Sunday, "but I would say that at this moment in time my favorite track is probably 
me wnll placed electronic beats. Jaicomo and 
ek's voicns shine on this traek, creating a song 
at is extremely well done. 

Another highlight of the album is "The Jumping Off Place." Thn song opens with some soulful acoustic guitar and heartfelt lyrics, but is more than just the average emo-ballad. The lyries are impressive and though it is one of the less com­plex songs on the album, it is devastating in its simplicity. 
"In the Grand Scheme of Things, Such as Geology, Ten Years Is Not That Much," might be the strongest song on the album. Its electronic beats and rhythms are unbelievable addieting, and the song extremely approachable. 
The seventh traek is "Oakleaf Drive," and is one of the strongest on the album. When asked to pick one "single" from the album, Jaicomo picked this 
The Dog and the Wolf 
MacGyver vs. Matlock 
Label: Se~-released Recommended Tracks: "Heroes Don't Call Themselves Heroes," 'Oakleaf Drive" and "In the Grand Scheme of Things" 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 28, 2008 
page 11 
Dear readers, friends, fans, enemies, apathetic and people who intended to open to the ""'·~n·~• section but inadvertently opened to Scene 
This will be the last time I 

T. Edward
write to you. As a college 

Andrews
tudent, anyways -I can't · I won't make a cameo a Letter to the Editor in Scene Editor 
Viewpoint section at some in my life as an alumnus. 

the days dwindle down on my remaining ....I'·'Ju<'~":uo career, I feel much the same as I imagine lame-duck president must while playing out the tring of his remaining weeks in office, with the 
ion being, of course, that I don't get to pardon . Alright, well maybe The Rover. , I forgive you for your assaults on my section 
apologize for laying the proverbial smack down n you guys. Much as General William Tecumseh herman did to the Confederate South during his 
arch to the sea, my "scorched earth" rhetoric deci­ated your readership and fan base, and I'm sorry. any trees had to die to make our little war possi­
and so I'd like to apologize to the environment well. There, that's better. Cathartic even. I'm glad 
~-got that off my chest. There's a new breed replacing the old guard here t The Observer, moving in to run Notre Dame's student-run newspaper, and I trust they will e good care of you in the years to come. I leave u in their very capable hands. In journalism, whenever you can't come up with words you want to express yourself with, you quote someone famous. It's great. In the words the immortal Baltimore Sun columnist H.L. ken, " ... as I look back over a misspent life, I myself more and more convinced that I had re fun doing news reporting than in any other nterprise. It is really the life of kings." As I look a misspent collegiate career, I realize that more anything else I've done here at Notre Dame, I nearly every minute of my time writing and '"""''"<T for The Observer. As such, I'd like to encourage anyone and every­so inclined to write for The Observer. You get to your voice out there, drop some knowledge on masses and discuss hot-button issues such as the Monologues. Besides, if you're like me, it'll e no problem putting in late nights at the office ause you probably aren't doing homework any-
for The Observer is also a great way to (or dudes, depending on your persua­tell how many times attractive, 
,..r----------~----~ 

buxom young jezebels have approached me at ties. The dialogue typically goes something like "Oh, you're Tae Andrews? The Tae Andrews? I such a big fan of yours!" to which I invariably reply, "I get that a lot." The point is, earning a fe Observer bylines will quickly put you on a so prestige level approaching that of a football or a trust fund baby. You can also create a pen nam for yourself {in case you've been wondering, I'v also graced these pages as the one and the same T. Edward Andrews). It helps keep people on their toes. 
Sad as I am to leave, I feel I've accomplished about everything I could have here at The Observer . Throughout my time, I've written a few good stories, a few truly awful ones and a whole mess that somewhere in the middle. Regardless of how well we did, our stories were, as always, designed to inform, entertain and sometimes provoke. I hope you've enjoyed them; if you hoven't, feel free to crumple them up and I suppose I don't need to tell you where you can stick them. 
I also attained the No. 1 spot on The Observer drinking rankings (and if you think you've partied hearty, try hanging out with 50+ uninhibited student journalists. In case you haven't seen them, our Observer cups bear the motto, "The drinking team with the journalism problem."). 
All in all, I've learned a lot here at ND: how to man up, a profane set of different lyrics to the Michigan fight song, the value of a power hour, the value service, how to love thee some Notre Dame, how to hate thee some USC, how to celebrate St. Patty's Day, how to incorporate "Here Come the Irish" into my iPod workout playlist, what a special and unique place The Grotto is, why Stanford Hall has always been and will always be the premier men's dormito­ry on campus, how important good friends are and why Notre Dame is the best college in the world. 
To my fellow seniors preparing to become alumni in one capacity or another (and although my inner grammarian winces as I write this), in the words Charles Wright in his hit song, "Express Yourself," "Whatever you do, do it good." There, now that I've quoted both H.L. Mencken and Charles Wright, in the same column nonetheless, I can retire in peace. 
Underclassmen who still have remaining years eligibility here at Notre Dame, I say this to you: enjoy it now, because you will miss it later. As for me, I'm off to explore the strange realm they "the real world." 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
Contact T. Edward Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 28, 2008 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles end season with series split 
By LAURA MYERS Spons Writer 
The Belles (23-8 overall, 12-4 MIAA) finished the regular season with a dou­bleheader split with Tri­State Saturday at Saint Mary's. 
In game one, the Belles took an early 3-1 iiHtd after thn third inning, but the Thunder scored five unan­swnred runs in the next three frames to win the game 8-:3. Junior Calli Davison (11-8) took the loss. 
Game two started out sim­ilarly, with Saint Mary's jumping out to a 3-0 lead in tho first on a home run by junior Ashley Fusaro. This 

time, however, it was the Belles scoring five more unanswered runs, as they went on to shut out the Thunder 8-0. 
Saint Mary's' only senior, McKenna Corrigan, pitched the complete game shutout to finish her final season a perfeet 12-0. She also hit a three-run home run in the top of the fifth in her last home at-bat. Overall, she. was 2-for-3 with three HBI and two runs scored in game two. 
")Corrigan) was fantastic," coach Erin Sullivan said. "She hit [the home run] off of Elise English, Tri-State's stud pitcher." 
English pitehed the fifth and sixth innings of game 
two. The three-time MIAA pitcher of the week came into the game with an ERA of 0.98. 
The Belles are nearing or have already surpassed sev­eral school records. Their 12 league wins are the most in the regular season for Saint Mary's since it joined the MIAA in 1998. 
Individually, sophomore Ashley Peterson is close to single-handedly re-writing the offensive reeord book. She posted two hits on Saturday, tying her for most hits in a season with 53. That record, held by Andrea Arena, dates back to 1997. Peterson's 36 RBis are only three away from tying the school record, and Corrigan 
is right behind her with 32 RBis. Peterson, who has hit 13 doubles so far, is just six doubles from tying the career record. 
Sullivan said Peterson also has a good chance at being the regular season batting champion with a .580 in­conference batting average. 
The Belles will head to the MIAA tournament as either 
the  No.  2  or  No.  3  seed,  
depending  on  whether Tri­ 
State wins  or  loses against  

Adrian. Tri-State will also be eompeting in the tourna­ment, which will be held at Alma College on Thursday and Friday. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
ATP 

Nadal beats Federer, takes Monte Carlo 
Associated Press 
MONTE CAHLO, Monaco -Hafael Nadal won his first title of the season, defeating top­ranked Hoger Federer yet again on elay to elaim his fourth eonsecutive Monte Carlo Masters. 
The second-ranked Spaniard won 7-5, 7-5 Sunday, and improved his clay-eourt record over Federer to 7-1. 
"Winning four times here is unimaginable," said Nadal, who earned his 24th career title. "l{oger played a great match. We always have good finals." 
Nadal has won 98 of his last 99 matches on clay, with a loss to Federer in the 2007 llarnburg final the only blip. 
The Swiss star blew com­manding leads in each set, breaking Nadal to lnad 4-3 in the first and racing to a 4-0 lead in thn second. 
"Disappointing seeond set," Federer said. "After playing the right way against him and thnn letting him back into the match, it was disappointing. Maybe I didn't play my best." 
Federer eommitted too many unforcnd errors, sur­prisingly on his forehand, and 

...­
let Nadal back into the match. 
"lie deserves to win, Federer said. ''I'm pushing Rafa today, having the feeling I ean beat him if I play the right way. And I think that's thn feeling I didn't have after (Monte Carlo) last year." 

Nadal is the only player in the Open era. to win four straight titles at Monte Carlo, and the first since Anthony Wilding of New Zealand (1911-14). 
Nadal has won 22 eonsecu­tive matches at Monte Carlo since losing to Guillermo Coria in the third round in 2003. Federer was the last person to take a set from him in the 2006 final. Nadal missed 2004 with injury. 
The three-time French Open ehampion is 19-1 in clay-court finals, while Federer dropped to 7-8 on his least favorite surface. The 12-time Grand Slam ehampion has never won the French Open, the only major .title missing from his resume. 
Still, Nadal thinks Federer remains the best, despite a slower start to the season. Federer picked up his first win of the season last week at the Estoril Open. 
"I think he doesn't get enough credit," Nadal said. "It is impossible to be at 100 per­cent all your career, he is still No. 1, the best in the world." 
Relying too much on his forehand, Federer also missed routine volleys at the net, and made 44 unforced errors. 
Federer seemed poised to even the match after hitting some near-perfect winners down the line and taking a 4-0 lead in the second set. Nadal struggled to hold his serve in the fifth game, but turned the 
SMC GoLF 
Girls take second at qualifier 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 
It was just too little too late this weekend for Saint Mary's, who Jinished second in the MIAA's NCAA qualify­ing tournament in Marshall, Mich. 
The Belles shot the final round low seore of 342 but were unable to overcome the 23-stroke deficit they faced after the first two rounds of the three-round event. 
In the final round of the qualifier, senior captain Katie O'Brien led the Belles with an 81 and freshman Rosie O'Connor fired an 84. 
Saint Mary's finished 22 strokes behind first-place finisher Olivet, who received the MIAA's auto­matic bid into the NCAA tournament. 
With their recent success­ful performances in the Vassar Invitational, the Illinois-Wesleyan Spring Fling and the MIM tourna­ment, the Belles have a good chance of receiving an at-large bid into the nation­al tournament by being chosen from a group of teams by an NCAA selection eommittee on May 5. 
If the Belles are among the chosen, they will travel to Waverly, Iowa, to com­pete in the NCAA champi­onship tournament May 13­16. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 



WANTED 
SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE·APPT. flexible, no exp. nee, customer sales/service, cond. apply, ages 1 7 +, positions available throughout US & Canada, www. workforstudents.com 
New student needs good laptop. 
574-993-8733. 
FoR SALE 
Condo For Sale. Close to ND. Quiet community-beautifully cared for. Contact Paul @ 574-993·5858. 
A Brick House For Sale by Owner! 2 Minutes North of Campus. $118,000. 53097 Oakmont Central Drive. Call571·225·9376. Email: archfao@ yahoo.com 
Subaru 99 Forester/great condi­tion/AWD/feather/CD/121 Kl$6,500. 234-2104. 

FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering 'flex' leases bluegoldrentals.com 
For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighborhood, central air, new appliances, very nice. 289-4071. 
1 OR 2 Bdrm aptin historic neighbor· hood. One mile to ND. Laundry & security. $510/mo. Call574·532-8718. 
54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 bed­room 1bathroom randl house near ND, behind Nicks Patio. Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage, $725/mo. $250 security deposij. jirnc343@yahoo.com 
3 bdrm homes & 1bdrm apts. Close to 
ND. Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email: greatlakespg@gmail.com 
Staying in South Bend this summer? Need a place to live? 1017 E. Washington St. (cross street Eddy St.) Great Location -Less than 5 mins from campus. 6 spacious rooms available & 2.5 bathrooms. Contact Shannon at straeger@nd.edu for details on subleasing. 
Large house available for 2009· 2010.Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet. 5 bathrooms. 
MacSwain@ gmail.com 

3 bdrm 1 bath home, garage, new appliances. Close to ND. $800/mo plus utilities. Call 286·4063. 
8 bdrm, 3 full bath house for 08·09. Great area.Cfose to campus. $250 per student. 574·250-7653. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE 
WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. 
We want to help. Calf our 24 hourconfi­dential hotline at 1-BQO.No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecafl.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go ij alone. ff you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistarce. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at t-7819. For more information, visij our website at: http1/osand.edu'departments'pregnant.s htrnl or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 28, 2008 
MLB 
American League, East Division 

team  record  perc.  GB  RS  
Tampa Bay  14-11  .560  118  
Baltimore  14-11  .560  108  
Boston  15-12  .556  133  
NY Yankees  13-13  .500  1.5  114  
Toronto  11-5  .423  3.5  115  

American League, Central Division 

team record perc. GB RS 
Chicago Sox 14-10 ·.583 127 Cleveland 12-13 .480 2.5 115 Minnesota 11·14 .440 3.5 95 Kansas City 11-14 .440 3.5 82 Detroit 11-15 .423 4 130 
American League, West Division 

team record perc . GB RS 
Oakland 16-10 .615 120 LA Angels 16·10 .615 130 Seattle 12-14 .462 4 117 Texas 9-17 .346 7 114 
National League, East Division 

team record perc. GB RS 
15-10 .600 114 NY Mets 13-11 .542 1.5 113 Philadelphia 14-12 .538 1.5 124 
124 

Florida 
Atlanta 12-13 .480 3 Washington 9-17 .346 6.5 95, 
National League, Central Division 

team record perc. GB RS Chicago Cubs 16·9 .640 145 St. Louis 16·10 .615 .5 120 Milwaukee 14-11 ;560 2 1tf Houston 12-14 .462 4.5 115 Cincinnati 11-15 .423 5.5 116 Pittsburgh 10·15 ;400 6 111 
National League, West Division 

team record perc. GB RS 
Arizona 18·7 .720 148 LA Dodgers 12·13 .480 6 117 San Francisco 11-15 .423 7.5 84 Colorado 10-15 .400 8 109 San Diego 10·16 .385 8.5 84 
Golfweek's Men's Golf Rankings 
team record Events 

1 Alabama 111·11·1 10 2 Georgia 107-21·0 9 3 usc 110·11·1 9 4 UCLA 89·15-1 8 5 Oklahoma State 100·24 9 6 Charlotte 106·18·1 9 7 Stanford 86·28 9 8 Florida 97-42·1 10 9 Georgia Tech 90·38·2 9 10 Florida State 100·32·1 10 11 Tennessee 105-37·3 10 12 South Carolina 111-40·2 10 13 Chattanooga 130·30·4 11 14 Duke 84-36·3 10 15 UNLV 113·32·2 10 16 Texas A&M 86·51·1 10 17 Auburn 93-43·3 10 18 Clemson 92-44·1 10 19 UCF 95·45·3 10 20 Louisville 103-48·3 11 21 East Tennessee 72-57·2 9 22 Arizona State 76·52·2 9 23 Wake forest 88·48·5 10 24 Michigan State 87·34·2 10 25 Indiana 110-35· 11 
around the dial 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Celtics at Hawks Bp.m., TNT Lakers at Nuggets 
10:30 p.m., TNT 


COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES 
PGA 
page 13 

.., 
Pettersson (69) tied for fourth at 2 under. 
It was the fourth career runner-up finish for Moore, the first player since Tiger Woods to skip Q-school and go straight from college to the PGA Tour. Woods got his first victory in his sev­enth start as a pro, while Moore is still looking for his first after 70 tourna­ments since 2005, after he was a four-time All­American at UNLV. 
"A loss is a loss, but I tied for first at the end of the day," said Moore, who had never been in a playoff. "I was just proud of myself for battling around on a tough day in tough condi­tions."' 

Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas -Adam Scott felt he needed to make a statement by win­ning Sunday. He did, though, not quite the way he wanted to do it. 
After blowing the three­stroke lead he carried into the final round, Scott made a 9-foot birdie putt on No. 18 to force a playoff, then made a 48-footer playing it again on the third playoff hole to beat Ryan Moore in the EDS Byron Nelson Championship. 
"In the end, I think (the statement) was to myself, I could actually win it when things weren't going my way," Scott said. "But it 
IN BRIEF 

League @}?roves 'Pacman' 
traoe to Dallas 
!HYING, Texas -The NFL for­mally approved Tennessee's trade of suspended cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones to the Dallas Cowboys on Sunday. 
"l think for Adam's sake it's a very good 11rst step," Jones' agent Manny Arora said. "We still have to get through the NFL commission­er's office. I think once we do that we can breathe a sigh of relief and get back to playing football." 
Jones must still be reinstated by NFL commissioner Roger Goodell. Arora declined to discuss the details of the contract Jones signed. 
Dallas gave the Titans a fourth­round pick in this year's draft and a sixth-rounder next year for Jones. The Cowboys would get back a fourth-rounder in 2009 if Pacman isn't reinstated, or a fifth-rounder if he returns then gets punished again. 
wasn't quite the statement I had in mind. I would have liked to have gone out there and have played like Rya?, played and won by a few. 
Still, Scott made the clutch shots when he need­ed them for his sixth PGA Tour victory after cutting short his post-Masters trip home to Australia so not to waste his good play there. 
Playing the 18th hole for the third time in less than an hour, the second time in the playoff. Scott hit his tee shot into a fairway bunker to the right. But he got his approach to the front of the green, then rolled the putt over two ridges and into the cup. 
"I got away with one today," said Scott, at No. 10 in the world the highest­ranked player in the Nelson field. "A bit lucky." 
Moore still had a chance to force another hole, but his pin-high putt from the fringe skimmed just past the cup. 
''I'm just a little frustrat­ed I didn't make mine," said Moore, who closed with a 2-under 68 to match Scott (71) at 7 -under 273. 
The playoff was a fitting end after a back-and-forth Sunday duel between Scott and Moore, who 11nished four shots ahead of Bart Bryant (72). Nicholas Thompson (67), Mark Hensby (69) and Carl 

Busch cruises to victory
under caution flag 
TALLADEGA, Ala. -Kylp, Busch fell a lap down midway through the race, and after racing his way back into contention, needed an awesome save to keep himself from triggering a massive crash. 
"Typical Talladega," he thought. 
Only this time, the crash happened behind Busch. Instead of leaving Talladega Superspeedway with a smashed-up car, he drove into Victory Lane. The kid who couldn't conquer Talladega fmally won at the harrow­ing track Sunday, and in this break­out season for Busch, it was only fit­ting that he coasted to the victory. 
''I'd like to say that I'm smarter than I look, but that's certainly not the case," Busch said. "Today was just due to having a great car. Getting a lap down, that was like, 'Oh, typical Talladega' there. But I didn't wreck today and I was definitely happy of that." 
UCLA's Ship_p declares for 
draft, won'fliire agent 
LOS ANGELES-UCLA's Josh Shipp will enter the NBA draft, but the junior won't hire an agent, leaving hin1 the option of returning to play for the Bruins. 
Shipp averaged 12.2 points and 3.2 rebounds during UCLA's run to its third consecutive Final Four. The Bruins lost to Memphis in the national semifinals. 
"After speaking with my family and with coach (Ben) Howland, I think I should test the NBA waters to get some feedback," Shipp said in a state­ment Sunday. "I feel like it really can't hurt me at this time. I want to go through the process this year, which will serve as a positive experience for me in my future development." 
Shipp is the fourth UCLA starter to enter the June draft, along with fresh-. man Kevin Love, sophomore Russell Westbrook and junior Luc Richard Mbah a Moute. 
Monday, April 28, 2008

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish knock off Seminoles for fifth straight win 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
The Irish remained hot in their first applHLrance since the Big East Tournament and pullnd ofT their best win of the season with a 4-3 upset over No. 13 Florida State. With the win, Notre Damn ran its winning streak to fivn rnatelws. 

for a 9-7 straight sets. 
victory. The Bobby Bayliss Helgeson dom­I r i s h Irish coach inated the first clinched the snt with a 6-1 point with a win and come-from-jumped out to behind vic-a 4-1 lead in tory from the pair of junior the second set, but Bowles Brett Helgeson and senior fought back to tie the set 4-4 
Arts &Letters Students 

····~ 

Sheeva Parbhu, who defeat­before Helgeson pulled away ed the Florida State pair of with a 7-5 win.
'Fou·re invited to a gatherinfJlo 

senior Sam Chang and junior Havens matched Helgeson
1nark the release ofthe 

Maciek Sykut. Chang and with a straight sets win of Sykut jumped out to a 4-2 his own as he defeated lead before Helgeson and Mixson 7-5, 6-2 at the No. 4
,/(JURNAL OJ? 
UNDERGRADUATl~: U I~'SEAN.CJJ 

Parbhu rallied for an 8-6 position. With the win, he 
For the second straight and won two of three dou­win. match, the Irish relied on bles matches to win the dou­The Seminoles tied it up gutsy play from freshman bles point. Junior Santiago when junior Chris Cloer Daniel Stahl at the No. 6 Montoya and senior Andrew defeated Irish freshman position. Stahl defeated Roth jumped out to a 3-1 David Anderson at No. 5 in Seminole junior Drew Bailey lead against the Florida straight sets, 6-0, 6-1. The 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 to seal the win State pair of Bailey and Irish responded with back­for the Irish. sophomore Brad Mixson, but to-hack wins f'rom Helgeson 
"lie has really made a lot t h e and freshman of improvements," Irish Seminole Stephen coach Bobby Bayliss said of pair tied it Havens. his freshman. at 7-7 Helgeson
"[Daniel Stahl] has really
The Irish stayed hot early before defeated Montoya made a lot of Florida State and Roth freshman Clint
improvements."
pulled away Bowles in 
improved to 20-20 on the season. 
The two wins gave the Irish a commanding 3-1 lead, but the Seminoles did not go away easily. Sykut defeated Hoth in straight sets 7-6 (6), 6-2 to bring th~1 Seminoles within one at the No. 3 posi­tion. The loss dropped Hoth to 10-19 on the season. 
The Seminoles tind the mateh 3-3 when Chang defeated Parbhu in a match­up of' nationally ranked play­ers. Chang, ranked No. 90 nationally, won a tightly con­tested first set 6-4 and went on to win the second set in a tie break 7-3 
With the win, the Irish con­cluded the season with a 16­10 record. Notre Dame's pre­vious win in the Big East tournament earned the Irish an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. The Irish have made the tournament in 17 of the past 18 years. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
7/Jescfay, .Jlpril29t~ qreat '.}{a{{of0 'Sfzauglinessy 

SMC TENNIS 
3:30-4:30 
CJ?sfresliments servecf 

Belles take fifth in MIAA tourney 
Please come join the authors and editors of this year's JUR to discuss the JUR, particular articles, or 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Vdtli tJWf I iQSGQJ tl I 

SportS Writer College of Arts and Letters Journal of Undergraduate Research is now available in the Office for Undergraduate 
Saint Mary's (12-10) took 
Studies. 

fifth in the MIAA tourna­
ment while sophomore co­
captain Camille Gebert and 


_Sltllll1111111 
~ 

DeBartolo Hall 
STIJDY HATES AN I> TIMES: 

l\t1 av Ist.  2"d, 3n1• and 41"  :  7am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
L" "'•I' ma s  \1.: k·•ee :  l\1 -th' ay ~  8th-:  Rooms available except when scheduled by the  
Registrar's office.  

May 91" : OeBartolo Hall closes 30 minutes after last exam scheduled by the Rt'gistrar's Office. 
See Building Support Personnel ({you hare specific needs: Room I03 or 104. 
~ t~l 
Coleman-l\tlorse: May I st-4th: 

Finals Week: Romn.~ al'ailahle except wlre11 scltetluled by tile RegiMror's office. May 91h :~Coleman -Morse closes at 5:30 pm 1st Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"tt floor : 7:00am-3:00am 3"11 Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Builtlillg Support Person Room 101 ifyou have a specific ueed. 
O'Shaughnessey: *!\'lay 1st, 2n11, 3rd, and 4111 : 7am to 3:00am 
*Finals \Vt•ek: !\'lay 51h -81h: 7arn to 3:00am 204, 206, 207, 208, 209, 242, 338, and 345: Rooms available except when scheduled by the l{egistrar's office.
. 

~
•if Cood Luck with Finals .,_ 
Special 1fla11ks to 

Au.tilia~)' und l'aei/ity Operation•, Campu.< Mitli.vtry untl the Student {:nio11 lll•urd. 
"_j 
freshman J iII ian II urI e y both earned all-MIAA hon­ors. It marked the first time since 2005 that two Belles were named to the all-conference team. 
In Friday's first match, Saint Mary's lost 5-1 to Kalamazoo after beating the Hornets 6-3 on April 19, moving them into the consolation round. Saint Mary's only victories against Kalamazoo carne from their four singles wins. No. 1 singles Gebert won 7-5, 6-2, No. 2 Burley won 7-5 in the first set before not finishing the second, No. 3 Betsy Heed won 6-2, 5-0 in an unfin­ished second set, and No. 5 Lisa Rubino won 6-4, 1-0 before the second set was concluded. 
"Our first round match against Kalamazoo was dis­appointing," Gebert said. "Had we started stronger with our doubles, we could have turned the match around, but we did not play our best." 
As part of the consolation draw, Saint Mary's took on Tri-State Friday. The Belles won two of the three dou­bles, won three of the six singles, but three singles matches went unfinished. No. 1 doubles of Gebert­Hurley won 8-2 and No. 2 doubles pair of Reed­Rubino won 9-8 (8-6). 
In the singles against Tri­State, Saint Mary's won three matches, and three went unfinished. Gebert, Reed and Arnold all won full matches. Hurley's, Jessica Kosinski's and Rubino's matches were not finished. 
Saturday morning Saint Mary's took on Alma in a match for fifth place in the tournament, winning 5-2. The Belles won two of the three doubles, three of the 
singles. Two singles match­es went unfinished. No. 1 doubles Gebert and Hurley defeated Margaret Curtiss and Kelly Schwartzkopf 8­6; No. 2 Reed and Hubino won 8-3 over Laura McKendry and Lindsay Wagner; No. 3 Camp and Lee lost 9-7 to Kelsey Erwin and Emily Noss. 
In singles on Saturday Saint Mary's won three matches and had two unfinished. No. 1 Gebert defeated Schwartzkopf 6-1, 6-2, No. 2 Hurley beat McKendry 6-1, 6-2; No. 3 Heed defeated Wagner 6-0, 6-3. No. 4 Kosinski was defeated 7-6 (7-3). 6-2 by Heather Spratt. No. 5 Hubino's match against Curtiss and No. 6 Arnold's against Noss went unfin­ished. 

"We were able to rebound and win our next to match­es, however, to secure fifth place," Gebert said. "I think that we played with our hearts this weekend. We left it all on the courts, all the hard work, all the late night practices. As usual, our singles were stronger than our doubles play and took care of itself. enable us to take the lead in our last two matches." 
Saint Mary's ends its sea­son in fifth for the MIAA for the fourth conseeutive year. 
"I feel as though we've all matured in our own way through the course of the season," Gebert said. "We started a little slow in the beginning of the season, but definitely ended strong. I know that next season we will have more experience, and more confidence, so we can manage to get over the hump in our conference." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO1 @saintmarys.edu 

Monday, April 28, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
10) was hot for the Irish on the mound, going seven innings in the doubleheader without giving up an earned run. 
Game two of the double­header with the Friars began with Providence jumping out to a 2-0 lead early with two doubles off of freshman Jody Valdivia (8-7) in the first. Valdivia gave up four runs on five hits with five strikeouts and no walks in the loss. 
Valdivia gave up two more runs in the fourth to bring on Bargar, who pitched the final 3 and 1/3 innings with one unearned run on three hits. 
The Irish got back in the game on the force of an RBI triple from Fleury and an RBI single from Smith, but it would not be enough, as the Friars never relinquished the lead, winning 5-3. 
A lot of opportunities were left on the bases for the Irish -they left 11 runners on base. 
Sunday was senior day for the Irish, and they celebrated with a sweep of Connecticut (25-21, 11-7 Big East) in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Game one against the Huskies was not for the faint of heart Irish fan, as the Irish were trailing by a score of 5-1 in the bottom of the second. 
The Irish came back quick­ly, however, evening the score at 5-5 with runs in each of the first three innings and a two­spot in the fourth. 
In the sixth inning with the score tied, freshman outfield­er Brianna Jorgensborg blast­ed the ball over the center­field fence to take the lead. 

The Irish scored twice more on Kohan's two-out double to right that scored senior sec­ond baseman Katie Laing and Smith after they had singled earlier to get on base. 
Bargar had a workman-like outing for the Irish, giving up five runs on seven hits with five strikeouts. 
The se.cond game was a dif­ferent story, as this time it was the Irish jumping out to a three-run lead after three innings. 
Smith and Fleury had RBI hits in the first and second innings respectively, before sophomore first baseman Christine Lux hit a solo home run in the bottom of the third. Lux went 2-for-3 with two runs and two RBis for the Irish. 

Bargar went the distance for the Irish again in the sec­ond game, allowing one earned run on four hits and tallying two strikeouts. Bargar added seven defensive assists in her 26th win of the season. 
The Irish will next be in action on Tuesday with an away game against Valparaiso. The game will begin at 5 p.m. before the Irish will complete their Big East schedule with double­headers against Pittsburgh and Syracuse next weekend. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Draft 
continued from page 20 
forced fumbles, four fumble recoveries and six blocked kicks. 
Laws, who played defensive tackle under former Irish defen­sive coordinator Rick Minter's 4-3 scheme and defensive end for cur­rent defensive coordinator Corwin Brown's 3-4, said he is more suit­ed to playing tackle for the Eagles. 
"I looked at their roster a little bit, but I see there is a position for me to contribute. There is an 
opportunity for me to get in there and compete with some guys. I think it's a pretty good place for me," Laws said in a conference call with Philadelphia reporters. 
Laws rejoins former teammate Victor Abiamiri in Philadelphia. Philadelphia took Abiamiri, a defen­sive end, with the 57th overall pick in last year's draft. 
Laws said he is thrilled to be back with his friend and former teammate. 
"We're real close friends. We were roommates for over a year. I talk to him on a weekly basis almost," Laws said. "It's really exciting to go to the same team as hirtl." 
The next Irish player drafted was Zbikowski, who the Ravens took with the 86th overall pick during the third round of the draft. 
Zbikowski set the Notre Dame record for tackles by a defensive back with 300, eighth best in Irish history. He also had eight inter­ceptions, seven forced fumbles and four fumble recoveries in his career. Zbikowski also returned three punts, two interceptions and two fumbles for touchdowns. 
Ravens general manager Ozzie Newsome said in a press confer­ence in Baltimore that he wanted to increase the defense's size and speed, and that Zbikowski was part of that. 
Newsome said Zbikowski is cur­rently slated as the backup safety 
and a backup 
punt returner. 

"Those are ...
"There is an 
some areas that

opportunity for me to 
we got hit pretty get in there and hard last year and we ended up tak­
compete with some 
ing guys from the 

guys. I think 
practice squad,"[Philadelphia's] a Newsome said. The final Irish
pretty good fit for 
, player taken was 
me. 

center John Sullivan, 187th Trevor Laws overall to the Minnesota
former Irish 
Vikings. Sullivan

defensive lineman 
was a four-year 

starter at Notre Dame, playing in 31 consecutive games before an injury sidelined him for the last two games of the 2007 campaign. 
Note: 
Former long snapper J.J. Jansen signed as a free agent with Green Bay and former running back Travis Thomas signed with Cleveland on Sunday night after going undrafted. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents 

Thursday, May 1, 2008 
DeBartolo  Performing 7:00 PM  Arts  Center  
A FREE screening of fwritten, and directed  our by  short, award-winning students. A Q+A with  films produced, the filmn1akers  

will follow the screening. This is a FREE, but ticketed event. Contact the DPAC 1 s box office at 1-2800 to reserve 
FarnilyTheater Productions created the Angelus Awards in 1996 to showcase and award emerging filmmakers and encourage them to continue creating visionary projects that honor the fundamental dignity of the human person. 

For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 

Monday, April 28, 2008

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TRACK 

Relay team claims three-peat 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sports Writer 

The weekend for the Notre Dame men's track team can be summed up in one word: dominanen. With outstanding pnrf'ormances at the 99th annual Drake Hnlays and a strong showing at the llillsdale Belays. the Irish will have a good chance of earn­ing the top seed in next week's Big East conference meet. 
At Drake, history was made when the 4-by-1 hOO meter relay team of juniors Patrick Smyth and Dan Clark and seniors Jake Watson and Kurt Benninger took Notre Dame to first place for the third year in a row with a world­best time of 16:51.82. 
"Every year we come out here and we always run this relay and the fact we've been abln to win it four of the last five sort of nstablishns a tra­dition now. It's something we look forward to every year," Watson said. "We just have a strong mid-distance, distanee 
MEN'S SOCCER 

ND fights to scoreless tie vvith Mexico U-20's 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame played Mexico's U­20 team to a scoreless tie in a physical friendly before more than 2,700 fans at Alumni Field on Friday. 
In a game that featured 32 filuls bdween the two t1mms and saw Mexieo draw three yellow cards and a red card. neither squad could muster even a solid attempt on goal until the first half's final minute, when Mexico's Moises Velasco's shot soarnd over the net. The Irish were out-shot 8-1 in the first half and 13-8 for the game. 
Notre Dame's best try carne just four minutes into the see­ond, when rising senior defender Jack Traynor's free kick deflect­ed otT the post. The Irish domi­nated the possession over the final 20 minutes, as rising sopho­more Josh Thiermann just missed a shot near the Mexico goal. 
That started a string of good looks for Notre Dame, as rising 
juniors  Dave  Donohue  and  
Michael  Thomas  both  saw  
decent looks sail high.  

Notrn Dame auditioned a pair of goalkeepers in the game, both of whom fared well. Rising sen­ior Andrew Quinn manned the net during the first half, while rising junior Philip Tuttle closed out the game with a solid per­formance in the second. Tuttle's save with 33:40 to play prl;l­served the shut-out, as he punched a Velasco shot just over the cross bar on Mexieo's best seoring chance of the match. 
program in general. That's sort of where our orientation is as far as track and field goes. This relay is perfect."' 
Other running performanc­es ineluded senior Austin Wechter placing 19th in the 400-meter hurdles and senior Brett Adams placing 13th in the l ,500-meter run. As for field events, senior Mike Sehubert and freshman Denes Veres plaeed 14th and 17th, respectively, in the shot put. Sophomore Brandon Denon followed close behind to plaee 14th in the discus throw. 
At the Hillsdale relays, jun­ior Blair Maejina reached his season-best jump of 2.10 meters, beating his previous jump by .3 meters. Sophomore Hyan Bell finished with top marks in the discus throw, placing 16th with a throw of 41.74 meters. Junior Tray Morgan threw for the Irish as well, plaeing 14th with 46.46 meters. 
Other l'ield event perform­ances included freshman Greg Davis who plaeed eighth in hammer throw, with a dis­

tanee of 54.54 meters. Junior Jeff Mensch placed 17th in the same event with a throw of 51.16 meters. 
As for running events, the 800-meter run was an event loaded up with Irish partiei­pants. Sophomores Cameron Eekert, Jack Howard, Jim Notwell and freshmen Hyan Gamboa, Kevin Labus, Speneer Carter and sopho­more Brier Steenberge all finished in the top 30 in a race that featured almost 100 runners. Eckert lead the paek of Irish, finishing fourth. 
Junior Billy Buzaid and Senior Bob Kueny finished with top marks as well in the men's 400-meter dash, plac­ing sixth and seventh respee­tively and earning qualifying times for the Big East meet next week. 
The outdoor season for the Irish will culminate in the Big East Conference champi­onship at the Jumbo Elliot Track at Villanova starting at 11 a.m. on Friday. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
t 3 weeks? t 3 credits! 
.

t Mary's 
college 
...•. 
...

surn MaY 19-June 
Sign up today for athree-week*summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! t Choose from avariety of subject areas-art, biology, history, math, sociology, theatre, and more t Most courses are three semester credit hours t Study abroad opportunities are also available 
learn in adynamic environment with knowledgeable faculty, and explore unique topics at one of the 

nation's top-ranked liberal arts colleges. 
For complete information visit 
www.saintmarys.edu/summer -~­
SAINT 

or call (574) 284-4560. MARY'S 
COLLEGE

Registration will be accepted through May 16. NOTRE DAME, rN 
www.saintmarys.edu

*unless otherwise noted. 
WOMEN'S TRACK 

Irish athletes shine in weekend's relays 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame sent a lim­ited number of athletes to both the Hillsdale and Drake Relays this week­end, but it walked away 
with  more  than  a  few  
impressive results.  
At the  Hillsdale  Helays  

meet in Hillsdale, Mieh., the Irish shined with a number of top finishes. 
In the 1500-meter run, senior Julie Opet grabbed the top spot with a time of 4:31.77. Marissa Treece, competing in her first meet since the World Cross Country champi­onships, rounded out a solid Irish performance in the event with an eighth­place finish. 
In the 800-meter run, senior Jacqueline Carter and sophomore Molly Sullivan took seeond and fourth-place, respectively. 
In field events, the Irish 
had a strong showing, led by junior Mary Saxer, who won the Pole Vault with a jump of 13 feet, 1 1/2 inches. Sophomore Elise Knutzen took third in the javelin and sopho­more Jamie Minor fin­ished seventh in the triple jump. 
At the Drake Helays, the Irish got quality perform­ances from of the two athletes that were sent to the highly competitive meet. 
Sophomore Jaelyn Espinoza grabbed sixth­plaee with her throw of 
44.58 meters in the dis­cus event. 
Junior Anna Weber also finished well placing ninth in the hammer throw event with a toss of 
58.16 meters. 
The Irish will compete in the Big East champi­onships next weekend. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 


L>o y<-">U want to boost you.-J~esume with some n,.o:u-ketable skills? 
7~1£• C~1n1p1.11'£,r 
Apl7/icalit£-'ll...: Prtri.J.:rUIII 
(CAPP) 
W'-"Vw.nd.edu/-capp 
Pl'opel'ty fol' Rent 
2008-2009 School Year 
lrlsb Crosslag 
Townhome 
4Bedrooms 3 and 1/2 Bathrooms 1 Bloch from Campus 
Call: Jach Pryor Cell: 214·957·3278 Home: 972.624.5007 

Monday, April 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish win final home game 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 
In its last home game of the season, No. 7 Notre Dame cap­tured the GWLL regular season title with a 17-12 win over No. 13 Ohio State. 
The victory pu lied the Irish ( 11-2, 4-1 GWLL) into a three­way tie with the Buckeyes (9-4, 4-1 GWLLl and Denver for first place in the Great Western Lacrosse League, which the Irish won by virtue of a tiebreaker. The Irish came out !iring early, scoring three goals in tho first seven minutns, including one by junior mid­lielder Peter Christman just 51 seconds into the game. 
But the Buckeyes wouldn't go down easily. Following a time­out, the Buckeyes scornd four straight goals to take the lead for the first time in the game. 
Despite this impressive offen­sive display by the Buckeyes, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he remained confident in his team's ability to adjust to the pressure. 
"We knew it was going to be up-and-down and I wasn't con­cerned with the mentality of the team," he said. "A lot of times you would call time-out in that situation but I didn't call timeout because I wasn't wor­ried." 
After ending the first quarter down 5-4, Notre Dame showed its coach that his confidence was not in vain, going on a 4-2 run of their own to go into half­time up 8-7. 
Senior midfielder Michael Podgajny dominated during the run, scoring all three of his goals, two of which were assist­ed by sophomore midfielder Grant Krebs. 
The third quarter saw much of the same as the Irish extend­ed their lead to 12-9 on goals by sophomore midfielder Neal Hicks, junior attack Duncan Swezey, senior attack Alex Wharton and sophomore attack Matt Ciambella. Wharton, who leads the Irish in assists this season with 27, had four in the game. 

Notre Dame closed out the game thanks in part. to two goals by Krebs, who finished the game with three. Senior goaltender Joey Kemp made 12 saves. 
Having secured the No. 1 seed in next week's GWLL tour­nament, the Irish will take on the Quinnipiac, a team the Irish beat 16-6 on April 18. Corrigan said after the game that the team is happy with the win but determined to keep their focus. 
"Denver and Ohio State are very good teams, excellent teams, and I think that not hav­ing to play one of them in the first round and the other in the second round is terrific," Corrigan said. "We're glad that we'll only have to play one or the other, but our job now is to play Quinnipiac in the first round and take them down. We only have one game on the schedule right now, and we have to work hard this week to prepare for it." 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

NBA 
West's three vvith 5.4 seconds left lifts Cavs 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON King James lost his crown. 
All right, so it was his bur­gundy headband that went fly­ing when LeBron James took a shot to the noggin from DeShawn Stevenson, their simmering feud nearly boiling over. James kept his cool, allowing the 11agrant foul to spark him and his Cleveland Cavaliers. 
At game's end, James was just as collected, drawing waves of Washington Wizards defenders before dishing to Delonte West for a tiebreaking 3-pointer with 5.4 seconds left. That shot, along with James' 34 points and 12 rebounds, led the Cavaliers to a 100-97 victory on Sunday and a 3-1 lead in their best-of­seven Eastern Conference playoff series. 
"There's been some extracurricular activities going on outside and inside this series," James said, "but I've been able to stay focused." 
The Wizards were ahead by a point with three minutes left in the first half when James drove to the basket, and Stevenson came from behind and swiped a hand out, clip­ping the Cavs' star with what James said teammates told him was a closed fist before tumbling to the court. James kept his balance and stepped toward Stevenson, who got up and stepped toward James. 
They exchanged words, but that was it, before teammates stepped in between. 
"If we was on the park, · something definitely would have escalated," James said. "But, you know, I guess that's ­what they want to do. They want to hurt LeBron James this series. It ain't working." 
Stevenson's take? "That's how it goes," he said. "It was a big game for 
us." 
Now the Cavaliers, who eliminated the Wizards in each of the previous two post­seasons, have control, with Game 5 on Wednesday at Cleveland. 
James got help Sunday from more than just West, whose career playoff-high 21 points included five 3-pointers. Daniel Gibson made four 3s, and Ben Wallace had 12 rebounds -part of a remark­able 51-31 edge on the boards for Cleveland. 
One small sequence that epitomized things: At the end of the third quarter, Joe Smith's three-point play fol­lowed two offensive rebounds and gave the Cavaliers an 80­73 edge. 

This is one course you won't be graded on. Recent college grads qualify for a $400t rebate on any new Scion. Ask your dealer for details. 
Scion "s Pure Price'M policy means the dealer's advertised price is the price you pay. Dealer price may vary from MSRP. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 28, 2008 
Barnes dropped a pop-up to Then a high fly ball down the cushion for Irish starter Eric first and second before allow Hod Storm sncond base­left lield line landed between Maust. Boockford drilled a two-run
St. John's 
continued from page 20 
Sherry had baek-to-baek infinld hits. Sophomore desig­

... 
nated hitter David Mills came through with a clutd1 two-out single to seore tlw lirst Notre Dame run and eu_t tho load to 2-1. 
Junior sec:ond baseman Jeremy Barnes then led off the bottom of the seventh with an opposite field home run, tying to game 2-2. The Irish had a chance to grab their first lead of the game later in the inning, but Brezovsky was called out at the plate trying to scorn from second on senior catcher Sean Gaston's single. 
Notre Damn committed two 
errors in thli eighth to allow 
St. John's to rngain the lnad. 

man Gino Matias to reach second base. Matias then came around to score when Brezovsky misplayed a single to left. 
Notre Dame knotted the game back up at 3-3 with a clutch HBI single by sopho­more outfielder A . .J. Pollock in tho eighth. The Irish defense, however, let St. John's take back the game in the ninth. 
"It's tough," Schrage said, "I thought we were patient and battled back and had a good opportunity to win the game." 
With junior closer Kyle Weiland on the mound, the Hed .Storm put men on first and Sf1Cond with two infield hits. On a tough groundball to third Sherry could not pull the ball out of his glove in time, allowing a run to score. 
three Irish players, scoring _ two more. 
"We catch those balls and 
we win," Schrage said. "I 
don't know what happened." 
Brezovsky extended his hit­
ting streak to 20 games in the 
ninth with a double, and 
came around to score and cut 
the lead to 6-4. But St. John's 
closer Colin Lynch struck out 
junior Evan Sharpley to end 
the game, also picking up the 
win. 
Notre Dame 8, St. John's 4 
Despite an unusually early l'irst pitch at noon Sunday, the Irish bats woke up in a hurry and chased Hed Storm starting pitcher Jared Yecker from the game before the end of the third inning. Notre Dame tagged Yecker for three runs, providing a sizable 
"They always say hitting is contagious so when you got guys at the top or the order and the bottom of the order hitting well, that's all you can ask for," Brezovsky said. "All­it takes is one guy to have a good at bat and get a hit and it starts rolling and all of a sudden you have 13 hits like we did today." 
When he stroked a single to right field in the fifth inning, Brezovsky extended his hit­ting streak to 21 games, whid1 is tied for the longest by a Notre Dame player since 1995. 
"I could care less about hit­ting streaks as long as we're winning games," Brezovsky said. "It feels good to get a win the day after losing two in a row." 
Brezovsky's hit put men on double into left-center to give Notre Dame a 5-0 advantage. 
The lead was more than enough for Maust, who retired the leadoff batter in seven of eight innings and ran his record to 5-l. 
"He's a bulldog. He goes out and gives it his all every out­ing and we have a lot of con­fidence in him," Brezovsky said. 
Barnes was one of four Irish hitters with multiple hits in the contest. 
Irish senior right-hander Tony Langford worked the final 1 and 113 innings and did not surrender a run, low­ering his ERA to 1.10. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu, Michael Bryan at mbcyan@nd.edu, and Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Big EaSt 
continued from page 20 
tlw !warts of the Irish ( 11-7, 4­1 Big East). 
"It's gu t-wnmehing bncause when you put your heart out tlwn1, our sports psychologist says it's agony or ecstasy," Irish snnior captain Caitlin MeKinrwy said. "[ wouldn't want it any other way, hut right now. it's agony because wn put everything out there. That's thn hardest part. to walk off and know that you gavn nvnrything you ran. 
"It gives you peaen, but it also tears you inside bncausn you wish thn hall would have bounced your way, and espe­rially as a s1~nior, it's really dif­lkult." 
Thn Irish started with a bang, scoring the game's 11rst six goals to take a 6-0 lead with just under 15 minutes to play in the lirst half. Freshman Shaylyn Blaney scored thrne of her career-high five goals over 

· the strnteh. "It was just on thn fiPid, somothing comes over you," Blaney said. ''I've got a whole team in tlwre that I feel like I'm playing for. I would do any­thing for these girls, and that sort of inspires 11111 to just go." Georgetown finally got on the board with 14:25 to play in the first half'. but Notre Dame scornd twiee ovnr the next live minutes to grab an 8-1 lead. The tnams traded goals bnfore tlw momentum began to swing in Georgetown's favor, as the lloyas, down 9-2, began a 6-1 run that would cover the last fivn minutns of' the first half and the lirst live of the second. lloyas midfielder Ashby Kanstner scored all four of her goals over that stretch, trans­forming a 9-2 game with 7:31 to play in thn first half into a I 0-8 battle less than four min­ult~s into the second. 
"When they started getting 
possession off' the draw, then 
Kaestner. their best play1~r. 
stepped up and started killing 
us at the end of the lirst half," 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
"I think we tried to take her 
out of the mix and facn-guard 
her off the draw, I mean we 
wen1 definitely trying things, 
but they're a good team. We're 
not two top-1 0 teams for no 
rnason." 

Georgetown would tie the game at 11-11 on Allie llubschmann's third goal of the game at 18:51 and take a 13­12 lnad. their lirst of the con­test. with just over four min­utes to play. McKinney's third goal tied it at 13-13 with 1:17 to go, and the game entered overtime after the lloyas, stalling for the linal shot, were unable to convert. 
Eight seconds into the first of two three-minute, non-sudden death overtimes, sophomore attack Gina Scioscia gave the Irish a 14-13 lead off an assist from McKinney. But Georgetown's Jordy Kirr tied it right baek up 15 seconds later on an unassisted goal. 
Both teams were held score­less over the second non-sud­den death overtime and the first or the two sudden death periods, though both had sev­eral chances to put the game away. 
"We had opportunities to win the game in regulation, and we had our chances," Coyne said. "We just didn't capitalize, and when you get to sudden death, it's a funny bounee that's going to end up winning it -it is what it is, but it's unfortunate that we're on the losing end." 
Notre Dame's best chance came when McKinney, running down the field after a draw, had her bid for the game-win­ner stuffed by Georgetown goalie Caitlin Formby. With the ball on the ground just in front of the net, McKinney opted to try to !lick the ball in with her 
stick, as she had done successc 
fully earlier in the contest, 
instead of picking it up and 
shooting normally. 
"I got too excited and I 
should've just picked it up and 
put it in," McKinney said. 
I was back and forth between 
flicking it and picking it up, 
and I should've had more con­
fidence and composure. It 
could've changed the game but 
I guess that's how it goes 
sometimes." 
The Iloyas dominated the 
possession in sudden death, 
and even when the Irish man­
aged to pry the ball loose, they 
were plagued by untimely 
turnovers, including two in the 
deeisive overtime period. 
"I want the team to play to 
win, so I don't really question 
some of the decisions they 
were making because I want 
them to go with their gut," 
Coyne said. "If they think they 
can take it and make some­
thing happen, I don't want to 
take that away from them by 
forcing them into something. 
We have our set plays, but at 
the end of the day, you want 
the players out there pulling 
the trigger and playing to win. 
Maybe we lived and died by it." 
The Irish players were visibly 
distraught by the. loss, both on 
the field and in the locker 
room following the game. But 
they will have to regroup for 
their final regular season 
game, at home against Cornell 
on May 3, in order to have any 
chance at an at-large bid into 
the NCAA tournament. 
"There aren't really words that are going to give them consolation right now," Coyne -said. "They wanted to be in the championship game, and we wanted to be representing Notre Dame and winning our first Big East title. It's a really difficult position we're in right 
now." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



The ~est Project 2008 Lecture Series 
Science and Religion in rhe Abrahamic Faiths: Judaism, Christianity, and Islam 
Join us... 
on !lpril29 for a lecture by Hava Tirosh-Samuelson Professor, Department of History, Arizona Stare University 
12:00 P.M. 
Vander Vennet Theater, Student Center 
A Feminist Reads Maimonides: Science and Religion in judaism 
g
.... ·····-··tit . 
SAII"T MARY'S COLLEGE 

saintrn<uys.edu/spirituality ·(574) 284-4636 ·E-mail: kguthrie@saintmarys.edu 
Department of Irish Language & Literature 
Fall 2008 Course Offerings 
Literature Courses 
IRLL 30107  The Hidden /refund  Prof Peter McQuillan  
(TR 12:30-l:45)  
IRLL 30108  2dh Century Irish Utemture  Prof Sarah McKibben  
(MW 11:45-1:00)  
IRLL 30307  The Irish Tratlition 1  Prof Hugh Fogarty  
(TR 3:30-445)  
lRLL40304  Poetry uml Politics in lrelund  Prof Breandan 6Buachalla  
(TR 2:00-3: 15)  
IRLL.60203  Scottish Gt~elic  Prof Peter McQuillan  
(TR 200-315)  
IRLL 60305  Oa.mici nu (it~eilge  Prof Breandan 6Buachalla  
(W 600-900)  

Language Courses  
IRLL 10101:01  Beginning Irish I  Stafffl'BA  
WOMEN'S ROWING  !RLL 10101:02  Beginning Irish I  Prof. Tarn Macl.~od  
IRLL 10101:03  Beginning Irish I  Staff/TBA  
Irish win Big East yet again  IRLL 10101 04 1RLL 10102 01 IRLL 10102 02  Beginning Irish I Beginning Irish I! Beginning Irish I!  Prof Muircann Ni Bhcagluoich Prof Ciant Conneely Prof Tam MacLeod  
IRLL 20103 0 I  Intermediate Irish  Prof fJrian () Conchubhair  
IRLL 20103:02  Intermediate Irish  Prof Sarah MacKihhen  
Observer Stall Report  ty four, novice eight and novice four races.  Connectieut (64), Villanova (44) and West Virginia (28).  IRLL 20203:01 IRLL 6010101  Advanced Readings in Irish Culture Beginning Irish I  Prof Britm c) Conchubhuir Staff/TilA  
Notre Damn swnpt all six of  Since the first conference  Stone and assistant coaches  IRLL 60101:02  Beginning Irish I  Prof. Tara Mucl.cod  
its races en route to capturing  championship in  2001,  the  Joe Schlosberg and Marnie  IRLL 60102:01  Beginning Irish Language II  Prof Ciaru Conneely  
its fil'th straight Big liast crown  Irish,  led  by  coaeh  Martin  Stahl also captured their fifth  IRLL 60102:02  Beginning Irish Language II  Prof. Tara MacLeod  
ovPr thn wnnknnd in Oak Hidge,  Stonn,  have  never  finished  straight eoaehes-of-the-year  IRLL 60103:01  Intermediate Irish  Prof Brian () Conchuhhuir  
Tnnn.  low!lr than seeond.  honors.  IRLL 60103:02  Intermediate Irish  Prof Sarah MacKibbcn  
For the nrst timP evnr. the  Thn Irish rinished with 123  The Irish will next compete in  IRLL 60203:01  Advanced Readings in Irish Cu{/ure  Prof. Brian 6Conchuhhair  
Irish eapturnd gold medals in  points, followed by Louisville  the  Central/South  Region  
the varsity eight, second varsity  (105 ),  Syracuse  (92),  Championships on May 17-18 in  
night, varsity four, second varsi- Georgetown (85). Hutgers (67),  Oak Hidge, Tenn.  

Monday, April 28, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

LOLLERSKATES 

LINAPAEK

THE SINGLE LIFE 

WILLSHORTZ  
62 What Noah  
Webster said  
... ?  
64 Aftershock  
65 Shepherd's  
locale  
66 Nylons  
67 HJgh-school  
honey  
68 Directional suffix  
69 Ready for  
business  
Down  
Flows out  
2 Request at a  
medical exam  
3 Viewpoint  
4 Put to good  _  
5 Porch protector  
6 "Rock of Ages"  
accompaniment  
7 Hair colorers  
8 Picasso output  
9 Little piggy  
1 0 Actress Jessica  Puzzle by C. W. Stewart  
11 Rated NC-17,  34 Row  47 Witches'  53 Lottery winner's  
e.g.  35 "You're  talk!"  blemishes  yell  
12 Fathers 13Wee 18 Hand-wringer's words 24 Monk's home 25 Traffic noises 26 Merrie England  36 Rent out 37 Trio after K 38"_-hoo!" 40 Slanted type: Abbr. 43 Sis or bro 44 Lightheaded  48 Put forth, as effort 49 Flood stopper 50 Transporter across the Andes 51 Not cut up 52 HBO's "Real Time With Bill  54 Convalescent home employee 58 Biblical place of innocence 60 Hip, in the '60s 61 Delve (into)  
27 Command to  46 Novelist Melville  "  63 "Sez  ?"  
Rover  

CROSSWORD 
Across 30 Just watched 

"I saw 33 What Miss Molly sawing wood ..." said ...? (old tongue 
39 End intwister) 

(draw)5 Lawn base 
40 In a huff 

8 Finally 41 Captain who14 Outlaws 
said "Eat your 15 "I won! I won!," pudding, Mr. 
e.g. Land" 16 Amp toter 
42 What Galileo 17 What President said ... ? Washington said 
44 "I can't 

upon winning the satisfaction" 
lottery? 
(Rolling Stones 19 Professor's goal lyric) 
20 "I've got a mule, 
45 "_shocked ... her name is " 
SHOCKED!" 21 Once around the 
46Collide 

sun 47 What the Big22 Hidden valley 
Bad Wolf said 23 What flagmaker 
... ? Ross said ...? 
55 Figure skater's 28Colonial 
jump

Franklin, 56 Rocklike
familiarly 57 Clamor
29 Cheer to a matador 59 Overhaul 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
30_ Miguel, For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a largest island of credit card, 1-800-814-5554. the Azores 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 31 Part of N.C.A.A.: crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Abbr. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 32 Actor Robbins past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 33 Commercial Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young prefix with phone solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
MIKEARGIRION
JUMBLE 
JEFF KNUREK 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD by Mike Argirion and JeH
JJ1JJ~LR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CUPAN 
1 rJ (j 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i¥f~~) 
SILCHE ± 


WHAT THE= T AL-1.-E::ST PL.AYE=R 010 WHE=N THE= TE=AM STAYE=D
www.jumble.com 
IN A HOTE:L-. 
LOTTES 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
riJ cJ 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: rI xI I J"r I I I xI J" 
I 
(Answers Jumbles: COUPE ELDER LARYNX Saturday's Answer·. Wh t th · 't d'd h h I d k


a e Jant or 1 w en e p aye po er ­HE"CLEANED"UP 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Lascher, 36; Sheena Easton, 49: Ace Frehley, 57; Anouk Aimee, 76 · 
Happy Birthday: Minor mishaps and health hazards will plague you this year if you don't use caution and common sense. A few alterations to your home life and you \vill have things pretty much the way you want them. Open your heart and your doors to the people you care about most and good things will come in return. Your numbers are 7, 9, 19, ~5. 32.48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't let things get to you. If somffine is annoying or trying to get a rise oul of you, back away. Don1t get involved in an argument you can't win or ruin a perfectly good day with people who just won't listen. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Plan to do decorating or renovations around your home. Open up your doors to friends and family. You will be able to solve an emo­tional issue that you have with someone you are close to. Money is coming your way. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't get taken in by a wild scheme. Use your own inge­nuity and you will come up with a far better way to make some extra cash. Pressure may be put on you by someone you are responsible to or for. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your sights may be set on how you can earn more or implement something you do well into a money-making business. A great idea can flourish as long as you start small and grow. It's overspending that will do you in. 3 
stars 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your trusting nature will lead to trouble. If you are generous with the \l:rong person, you will not get any satisfaction out ofyour kindness. Don't let anyone take advantage of you; instead, pay more attention to yourself and your needs. 
3 stars 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can do what you want, take what you want and capitalize on whatever you see fit today. The chance to help others will bring benefits that help to secure your position and stabilize your life. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do things that make you feel good and forget about ev­eryone who is picking on you. Rejuvenate, reorganize your thoughts and in general get yourself back on track. Don't let anyone push you mto an argument. Focus on the changes you want to make. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Partnerships can be put into place or discussed. You can make final changes to something creative you are working on or to travel plans. 
Don't become emotional or argue over insignificant points. Z stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Open up emotionally about your past, present 
and future. It's good to get things that may cause problems later ont of the way now. Once you clear the air, you will know how to proceed. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): With a little ingenuity and hands-on work, you can tum your place into one ofcomfort and entertainment. You will attract new friends and make old friends realize how much they like you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Secrets are brewing and a surprise may be heading 
your way. Don't fear: It will turn out in your favor. An old love relationship will help 
you realize how glad you are you moved on. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If yon try hard, everyone will recognize your efforts 
and pitch in. A plan you have will not go unnoticed. Someone influential will recog­nize what you are doing and step in to fme-tune everything. 4 stars 

·--" 

' 
THE OBSERVER
' 
PORTS
Monday, April 28, 2008 page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Playing on Sundays 
can contribute at the next level as

Four former Irish stars 
both a receiving and blocking tight drafted by NFL teams end. 
"At Notre Dame, I had a dual role," he said. "That's what I want 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
to be -a tight end that can block 
Sports Writer 
and can catch the ball." Carlson said he was prepared to 

Four former Notre Dame play­wait until the second day of the ers were taken during the 2008 draft, but the Sea.hawks traded up NFI. Draft: tight end John Carlson, in the second round with the defensive lineman Trevor Laws, Baltimore Ravens to get the sev­safety Tom Zbikowski and center enth pick of the round, which they John Sullivan. quiekly used op Carlson. 
Carlson was the first Notre "I thought it could possibly not I>arne player selected, going in the happen until tomorrow," he said. semnd round (3Xth overall) to the "When I got the phone call [from Seattle Seahawks. the Sea.hawks], I was relieved and 
"I know very little about the extremely happy." Seahawks and what tl1ey do there. The next former Irish player I'm just exdtnd to get in there on taken was Laws, who also went in Thursday and start learning," the second round (47th overall) to Carlson said in a conference call the Philadelphia Eagles. with Seattle reporters. Laws left Notre Dame with 224 
<:arlson finished his Irish career tackles, 10 sacks, 22.5 tackles for 

with 100 catches, 1,093 receiving loss, 10 passes defended, two 
yards and eight touchdowns. The 
6-foot-5 firth-year senior said he see DRAFT/page 15 

BASEBALL 
Red Storm take two of three, tied with ND atop Big East 
St. John's 10, Notre Dame 3 of the ball in the last three also struck out one batter and sion. 
By LORENZO REYES, Heading into the top of the innings. allowed one walk. The game began as a pitch­
MICHAEL BRYAN, and FRAN sixth, the Irish clung to a 3-1 After Notre Dame's junior In the contest, Brezovsky er's duel between Korpi and 
TOLAN 
lead, looking to get the week­ace David Phelps retired the extended his career high hit­St. John's southpaw George 
Sports Writers end series started off on the inning's first two hitters, Chris ting streak to 19 games, going Brown, who entered the game 
right foot. Just 20 minutes Anninos and freshman third 1-for-3. One of Notre Dame's with an 8-0 record. Brown 
No. 24 Notre Dame dropped later, it was a completely dif­baseman Greg Hopkins deliv­main downfalls was the shut down the Irish offense the first two games of its ferent story, as the contest ered back-to-hack home runs inability to drive in base run­over the first five innings, weekend series to St. John's soon was out of Notre Dame's to tie the game 3-3 and begin ners, as it stranded six run­allowing just two hits and no before recovering to win in grasp. a downward spiral for the ners, four of which were in runs. Sunday's matinee match-up. After giving up the game's Irish. Notre Dame allowed five scoring position over the first The Red Storm took the 
The Irish (28-12-1, 13-5 Big first run in the top of the fifth, home runs, marking the first four innings. early lead in the top of the East) and Hed Storm (31-10, Notre Dame picked up three time the feat has been done at second, touching up Korpi for 13-5 Big East) are now tied runs of their own after a pair Frank Eck Stadium since St. John's 6, Notre Dame 4 two runs on a walk and two atop the conference stand­of singles and a walk loaded Miami achieved it on April 2, The Red Storm capitalized doubles. After giving up the ings. the bases. Senior leftfielder 1994. on several Irish miscues late early 2-0 lead, Korpi retired 
"!Sunday's gamel was a Hoss Brezovsky delivered a St. John's scored once more in Saturday's game, winning the next 10 St. John's hitters. must-win for us," Irish coach sacrficie fly and sophomore in the sixth before adding their second straight over The Irish finally broke Dave Schrage said. "We Billy Boockford hit a two-run another pair of solo home Notre Dame. through against Brown in the could've woken up [Monday! single to give the Irish a 3-1 runs in the seventh and a Notre Dame could not take bottom of the sixth, getting and been in fourth place and lead. three-run blast in the eighth. advantage of a solid start their first runner in scoring two games behind [St. John's! Those were the only runs Phelps was tagged with the from senior pitcher Wade position after junior Casey ... so to be honest with you, Notre Dame would score all loss, giving up six earned runs Korpi, who gave up just five Martin and freshman Greg !Sunday) was a must-win game, as the Red Storm on 12 hits on 6 and 2/3 hits and two earned runs in 7 game." exploded on the offensive side innings of action. The junior and 1/3 innings in a no-deci-see ST. JOHN'S/page 18 
SOFTBALL 
Team takes three of four weekend games 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish sent their seniors 

..__.. out in style, going 3-1 this weekend by splitting with Providence and sweeping Conneetieut in the last home weekend of the year. The wenkflnd began with a 10-1 drubbing of Providenee (24-20-2, R-X Big East) on Saturday, highlighted by sophomore outfielder Ashl1~y Ellis's fourth-inning grand slam. The slam, which was I•:llis's snvnnth home run on this season, was the first 
grand slam posted by the Irish this year. 
Ellis had a career high five HBis with two hits to go along with the grand slam. 
Also pitching in for the Irish (34-17 -1. 12-6 Big East) offense with two hits apiece were freshman shortstop Katie Fleury, senior outfielder Sarah Smith and junior third baseman Linda Kohan. Junior designated hitter Beth Northway added a two-run double in the bottom of the third. 
Junior Brittney Bargar (26­
see SENIORS/page 15 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish lose in sudden death 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Ediwr 
No. 10 Notre Dame had dreamed all season of hoisting the Big East championship tro­phy on the turf of Notre Dame Stadium, but those dreams were dashed on Friday night as No. 7 Georgetown overcame an 8-1 deficit to win 15-14 in sudden death overtime. 
In the first Notre Dame women's varsity event to be held in the stadium, it was the Hoyas' (12-5, 3-2 Big East) sophomore attack Molly Ford's goal with 46 seconds to play in the third overtime that broke 
see BIG EAST/page 18 




