
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 

Campus groups mobilize over 2008 election 
College Dem, GOP clubs support their candidates 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
No matter who wins the presidential election this fall, there's going to be a big celebration at Notre Dame. 
"We'll have the biggest party that Notre Dame's ever seen," Edward Yap, the president of the Notre Dame College Republicans, said. "Regardless of who­ever wins, we'll have tons of fun at it." 
But Yap is hoping for a victory by the Republican ticket of Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska. He said the club might look into booking an off-campus location to watch the election returns Nov. 4. 
Across the political spectrum, Notre Dame College Democrats co-president 
see PARTIES/page 4 



By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Putting the debacle that was Notre Dame football 2007 in the past, students are excited about the possibilities this upcoming season holds, starting with tomorrow's game against San Diego State. 
"''m excited to see how this first game will play out," sopho­more Octavia Ratiu said. "I don't think it's possible to do worse than last year.". 
For members of the senior class, who have seen Notre Dame's storied program plum­met from being within seconds 



Students hopeful for upcoming season 
Upgrades for team, re-tooling of pep rallies excite student body after last year's 3-9 record 
of the National Championship to being 3-9, this season repre­sents a shot at redemption. 
''I've experienced the highs of a BCS game and the lows of a loss to Navy," senior Dennis · Rankin said. "So I'm excited to experience the highs again." 
San Diego State is anticipated to be an easier opening game than Georgia Tech last season, and many students say they expect a win. 
"The schedule looks good, the offense seems really improved," sophomore Matt Robinson said. ''I'm excited to get back in the football stadium and see an Irish 
see FOOTBALL/page 4 

Band holds annual plaiding ceremony 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Tailgating, watching the foot­ball players head to the stadi­um after the team Mass, buying steak sandwiches from the Knights of Columbus on South Quad. Students and fans in town for the Notre Dame home opener against San Diego State have a lot of entertainment opportunities vying for their attention before the 3:30 p.m. kick-ofT. 
If tradition is what catches their interest though, the Irish faithful can attend the Band of the Fighting Irish's plaiding ceremony, which will take place before the traditional concert on the steps in front of Bond Hall at 1:25 Saturday. 
At the ceremony the senior members will present plaids to the first year members of the band to complete their uniform. 
After the seniors present their plaids they receive a spe­cial senior plaid that is distin­guished by the gold cording along its edges from a family member or friend. 
"It's a way to honor the new band members for their first home game, and a way to rec­ognize the seniors at the begin-
see BAND/page 4 


Nonpartisan ND Votes '08 helps register new voters 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Since the beginning of the fall semester, NDVotes '08 has regis­tered 91 new voters and added 410 people to its database, senior Mallory Laurel, a co-chair for the nonpartisan education campaign run by the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) said. 
At the CSC's opening picnic last week, the NDVotes '08 table was "just swarmed the entire time," Laurel said. 
"I think, because this election in particular is so exciting and monu­!fiental, more people are interested in registering to vote," Laurel said. 
see NO VOTES/page 6 


College 
1

undergoes 
~ 

renovation 
Construction takes place in dorms, classrooms 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
Saint Mary's underwent a massive renovation effort this summer with 11 of the College's buildings undergoing construction. According to an e-mail sent to the student body by Director of Facilities Bill Hambling. LeMans Hall, Havican Hall, Holy Cross Hall, Haggar College Center, Cushwa-Leighton Library, Angela Athletic Facility, Madaleva Hall, McCandless Hall, Moreau Hall, Regina Hall, Reidinger House and the Science Building have all been renovated. 
LeMans Hall was under con­struction as early ~s spring semester last year, Hambling said in an April 29 Observer article. 
"We have installed new drain lines to remove the water shed from the roof away from the sanitary lines and into our storm water system. This repair has eliminated the numerous leaks that were caused from the plugged down spouts and backing up into the walls, causing interior finish damage. Interior finishes that were damaged by the water, 
see SMC/page 6 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 


Pageantry Rankings 
Football weekend is here again! That, of course, means that campus will transform from a sleepy little place and turn into Disneyland for a eoupln days. 
To celebrate the occasion, John Tierney 
we dneided to 
rnlease the offi­cial Notre News Writer Dame Football Pageantry Power Hankings, 08. (Disclaimer: power rankings are not oftieial.) 
Our goal is to rank football pageantry items 1-10. We might not get that far, but we'II give it a college try. 
1. 
The game. This is too obvious. It shouldn't even really count. 

2. 
The Alma Mater at the end of the game. People complained last year that we shouldn't sing it after we lose, or at least the players shouldn't sing it with us, but we should sing it and the players should join us. The Alma Mater is more than a school tradition. It's a prayer. And it's really cool that Charlie Weis and the players are willing to join with nveryone else in the stadium for it. 


:~. Knights of Columbus Steak Sandwich sale. Best grub you can get before the game. Plus, the it raised over $60,000 for eharity last year. 
4. 
The jig. I think the jig is more fun than the touchdown pushups. It gets even better when the band speed up the tempo cause someone in the row winds up messing up and everyone falls over. 

5. 
Ollicer Tim McCarthy from the Indiana State Poliee. Bad puns are so much fun. 


I'm a fan. Only not really. Think about it. 
6. Candlelight Dinner. I like food. And the food at Candlelight Dinner is good. This would be higher, but the line is significantly longer than it is at 12:20 on Tuesdays.

~ 
7. 
Trumpets in the Dome. I didn't know about it until sophomore year, but it's worth fighting the crowds to see it. The Victory March is really powerful in the Dome. I like it more than Concert on the Steps because it doesn't spoil the half-time show. But a friend just disputed the spoil factor of Concert via text message. She likes the concert because "you can listen to the music, then you can focus on watching at halftime." 

8. 
Drummer's circle. Between the people climbing the trees on God Quad, the undergrads on the steps of the Dome, and the mosh pit that develops, there's plenty of fun to go around. 

9. 
Going to the Grotto before the game. This is a tip from the same column contributor who advocated for Concert on the Steps: "You almost catch fire because of all the can­dles." 


10. 
The players taking the walk from the Basilica to the Stadium. Since I live in Sorin, it's pretty easy for me to attend this one, but it's worth a trip. 


Moral of the story? Go Irish, beat Aztecs! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due m a reporting error in the Sept. 4 issue ofThe Observer, Geddes Hall wa.' incorrectly referred ro as new huildin!\ tor the Cemer fur Social Concerns. The build­ing should be referred to as Geddes Hall, the new home t(Jr the lnstirure for Church Life, and irs associated cen­ter, the Cemer for Social Concerns. The Observer regrers this error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 5, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO AT THE GAME THIS WEEKEND? 




Liz Brown  Shanna Goffinet  Mickey Grusciniskl  Lindsey Appelqulst  Angela Slier  
sophomore  junior  senior  senior  senior  
LeMans  LeMans  LeMans  Regina  LeMans  
"The craziness  "Not being  'The fact that  "/ want to see a  "The awesome  
ofthe student  there. "  we're going into  unified team  halftime show  
body in the  the game  that plays their  ofthe Band of  
stands."  undefeated.  strongest. "  the Fighting  

There's hope. " 

UPS driver surpasses 1 million miles In truck 
PALESTINE, Texas -A routine package delivery turned into a milestone for a UPS driver in East Texas. Brent Boyd, 51, on Thursday surpassed one million miles on his UPS delivery truck, the same vehicle he's driven for 22 years with the company. 
The odometer on Boyd's 1987 GMC truck rolled over to all zeros as he began his delivery route near Palestine. He said he's never had an acci­dent with his company vehicle. 


Atlanta 86 I 68 Boston 84 I 68 Chicago 72 I 57 Denver 55 I 47 Houston 92 I 71 Los Angeles 85 I 64 Minneapolis 71 I 51 New York 89 I 70 Philadelphia 90 I 69 Phoenix 106 I 78 Seattle 74 I 50 St. Louis 76 I 61 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 86 I 70 
Boyd told The Associated Press that his truck's gone through at least three engines and been repaint­ed several times. 
But he's resisted offers for a new van. Boyd says the truck is "like home" and feels like "sitting in the recliner in your house." 
House cats rescued after starting fire 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. ­Chattanooga firefighters rescued several cats during a house ftre that investiga­tors say was probably caused by the cats them­selves. 


Fire department spokesman Bruce Garner said firefighters responded to an alarm Thursday morning and found a fire in the kitchen. While no one was home, they found about 10 cats inside. 
Some of the cats escaped the house on their own, but some showed signs of smoke inhalation. 
Capt. Lesley Morgan said the cause of the fire appears to be accidental and most likely was caused by a cat knocking over an unattend­ed candle in the kitchen. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Irish ... and the hot dogs." 
IN BRIEF 

Communion and Liberation at Notre Dame will be hosting its Beginning Day today from 4:30-6 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. All stu­dents, faculty and staff are invited to attend. 
The Office of Student Activities will host comedian Joel McHale, star, writer and producer of E!'s "The Soup" for an hour of comedic relief at 10 p.m. today on South Quad. 
The Disabilities Studies Forum entitled "Disability and Obsession: Can a psychiatric impairment have a history?" will be held today at noon in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
The first pep rally of the season is today from 6 to 7 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will have a "Kickoff Concert" at 8 p.m. today at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $5 for gen­eral admission. The event is sponsored by the Department of Music. 
GreenND will hold an informal meeting Wednesday, September 10, at 7p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Michael Novak will be speaking regarding his book "Business As A Calling" on Sept. 11 at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, room 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

80 HIGH 53 LOW 
73 45 

LIZ HARTER/The Observer 
Members of Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SAB) make cotton candy for students In the basement of the Student Center as part of SAB's the annual Twilight Tailgate event. The event had to be moved from Library Green Into the Student Center at the last minute because of rain. 
OFFBEAT 

TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
a: 
1.1.1 

s :::c 3: 
..... 
oct: 
(,) 






0 

HIGH 73 65 HIGH HIGH
...I 
LOW 65 60 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
78 
58 
77 
55 

Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer + NEWS . page 3 
SMC co-hosts first pep rally of year 
By EMILY DABISH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will co-host the first pep rally today along with four Notre Dame dorms -Knott, Pasquerilla East, Pasquerilla West, and Siegfried. This year marks the third time the "The Shirt," Saint Mary's is selling the "SMC shirt." 
Saint Mary's freshmen Madison Thatcher and Hilary Ferguson said they were excited for their first Notre Dame pep rally. 
''I'm so excited for my first pep rally as a Saint Mary's student. I 
"/think it's really 
College has spon­sored a pep rally, great that Saint and the Board of Mary's supports Governance has 
Notre Dame in their 
stepped up efforts 
to advertise the athletic tradition. " event to students. 
Madison Thatcher 
"I think having it at the beginning of Saint Mary's freshman 
the year is an excel­lent way for our students to show school pride and get excited for the year ahead," student body vice president Sarah Falvey said. 
This year the Board of Governance hopes to get the stu­dent body more involved. Instead of just advertising through e-mail, they plan to go dorm to dorm to spread the word. 
Also, inspired by Notre Dame's think this football season is going to be much better than last one," freshman Madison Thatcher said. 
Ferguson agreed, adding Saint Mary's inte­gration into Notre Dame's athletic tradition helped build bet­
ter relations between the schools. 
"I think it's really great that Saint Mary's supports Notre Dame in their athletic tradition," she said. 
Friday afternoon the SMC stu­dent body will be invited to walk over to the rally from the Welcome Center. 
Contact Emily Dabish at edabisO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


FEMA aids Gustav victims 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -The fed­eral government says it will pay the hotel expenses of some of the nearly 2 million people who fled their homes ahead of Hurricane Gustav, but exactly who will be eligi­ble for assistance and how much it will cost taxpayers was uncertain. 
Officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency planned a telephone news conference Thursday to answer questions. 
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Wednesday in Baton Rouge that FEMA would pay hotel costs "to make sure that people don't feel eco­nomic pressure to return home prematurely, before it's safe." 
He said FEMA would pay hotels directly, so it was unclear whether those who had already paid for rooms and checked out would be eligible for reimbursement. 
With two other hurricanes threatening the East Coast, the decision to pay for hotels could make it easier to evac­uate residents during the next disaster. But doing so would also burden the agency with huge expenses. 
The news that hotel costs might be reimbursed came too late for people who have been sleeping at public shel­ters, such as those in a con­vention center in Birmingham, Ala. Some of those evacuees said they But he was uncertain what would have preferred a the agency would offer such hotel if they had known a family, in part because FEMA money would be various other factors ­available. including the family's insur­
"You can just get cat naps ance coverage and whether here," said Aaron Clark, 63, their house was damaged ­as he sat under a shade tree could come into play. outside the center. "We did­Also, the minimum number n't get breakfast this morn­of days that would be cov­ing because they said some­ered had not been deter­
thing  was  mined, and it  
broke  down.  was  unclear  
It's just sur­ whether food  
viving, that's all it is." FEMA offi­ ''I'm so tired of smelling tennis shoes  and fuel c 0 s t s incurred  
cials  in  and diapers. We have  while  on  the  
Louisiana urged resi­dents affected  no laundry. We have nothing."  road would be covered. A Georgia  
by the storm  Emergency  
to  register  Carlos Pavilus  Management  
with  the  Hurricane Victim  Agency  

agency and to save receipts that document their spending during the evacuation. 
"We'd need receipts, and we'd need to know whether the area they were evacuat­ed from is one of the manda­tory evacuation areas," said Ed Conley, a FEMA spokesman. 
Conley was asked, as an example, whether a family could be reimbursed for hotel expenses after leaving New Orleans on Sunday, checking into a Tennessee hotel, then returning after two, three or four nights. 
"That's exactly the family we want to get in touch with us," Conley said. 
spokesman 
s a i d 

Thursday that the agency had received a handful of calls in recent days from evacuees asking for gas money to return home. The state is referring those people to FEMA and the Red Cross. 
Some evacuees also won­dered whether FEMA would cover their lost wages and other expenses after they return to New Orleans. 
In the Birmingham shelter, Carlos Pavilus of New Orleans said he would give anything to be in a hotel. 
''I'm so tired of smelling tennis shoes and diapers. We have no laundry. We have nothing," Pavilus said. 

PASS YOUR GIFTS FORWARD 

JOIN US SEPT. 5TH 

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SEPT. 9TH 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 5, 2008 
has caught the interest of stu­dents at Notre Dame, and the

Parties 

interest of college-aged young continued from page 1 adults in general. "We see this election as 
Spencnr Howard is anticipat­something that will really influ­ing a win by the Democratic ence our futures," Yap said. tieket of Illinois Sen. Barack "We are all 18 to 22, so this Obama and Delaware Sen. Joe election will really make a Biden. huge impact on our jobs and 
"We ran through Stonehenge where we go after college, and to eelebrate IHep.] Joe the economy and nation that Donnelly's win [in 20061." he we ~cad into after we gradu­said. "We're hoping for another ate. one of those momnnts." lloward said his outlook may 
With sixty days to go until the be skewed by the fact that he is eleetion, both Yap and Howard a political science major (so is 
fully  support  Yap),  but  he  
their  party's  said  he  has  
ticket  - and  "We see this election  been struck by  
each is eonfident his candidate will emnrge vic­ as something that will really influence  the interest stu­dents are show­ing in the presi­ 
torious.  our futures. ''  dential  cam­ 
The  stretch  paign this fall.  
from the nomi­nating conven­tions to Election  Edward Yap president  "People seem to have gotten into it and  
Day  will  bn  a  College Republicans  become  
"two month long  involved,"  he  
event," Howard  said. "They're  

said, and both clubs plan to use curious to see what's going to the last streteh of what has happen after the election ­bnen a longer-than-usual elec­where we are going, and tion year to get students inter­what's in store for them." ested in the demoeratic process The College Hepublicans and and, more importantly, inter­the College Democrats are both estnd in voting for their candi­planning debate watches and date. election night watches. More 
Howard and Yap burst into immediately, the College their roles as the representa­Democrats are joining with tives of their respective party's other college students in ticket early this semester, with Northern Indiana to work for the Democratic National Democratic candidates from a Convention taking place the central office on Mishawaka first week of classes and the Ave. Hepublican National The College Republicans are Convention occurring the sec­heading to a McCain!Palin cam­ond. paign rally today in Miehigan. 
Howard said he thought the Howard's and Yap's involve­speakers at the Democratic ment in politics go beyond their eonvention did a great job leadership of the College bringing the party together, in Democrats and the College light of speculation that disap­Hcpublicans at Notre Dame. pointed supporters of former This summer, Howard, a sen­presidential candidate Sen. ior, worked for a nonprofit Hillary Clinton ([)-N.Y.) would group near Washington, D.C. not back Obama. organizing voter outreach tar­
"I think after thn convention geted mainly at Democrat-lean­and hearing from the Clintons ing constituents. and Barack Obama and Sen. Yap worked for Luke Puckett, Biden. people have kind of who is running for Indiana's come together," Howard said. 2nd District against incumbent 
One of the main stories at the Dmnoerat Joe Donnelly. Yap, a Hepublican convention has junior, still holds his job as be0n the emnrgence of /\Iaska Puckett's deputy finance and Gov. Sarah Palin on the nation­field director. When asked how al scnnn. with McCain choosing he balances taking classes with her as his running mate. working for Puckett, Yap said 
"I absolutely love Sarah "less sleep." Palin," Yap said. "I think she's a great candidate. She is per­Contact Kaidynn Riely at haps the best candidate McCain kriely@nd.edu could have chosen. When they win in November, she'll be an awesome vice president." 
Thompson said he was espe­cially excited about plaiding


Band 
a new member of the band. 
"When I was a freshman I 
didn't really appreciate it, 

ning of their final year but I imagine it'll be a lot with the band," assistant more emotional this year," director of bands Larry he said. Dwyer said. He said he thinks the cere­
While the plaiding is just mony is an important way to for first year and senior show appreciation for the band members, Dwyer said seniors who have been in the entire band will be in band for a number of years. attendance along with a Thomson, who will be plaid­large audience to witness the ed by one of his parents said ceremony. he knows that the ceremony 
The plaiding ceremony is an honor, said he thinks began in 2002 when the the family and invited guests band first started to wear who are asked to participate the navy blue uniforms they get more emotional than the wear today. The plaid, how­band members during the ever, has been a part of the event. uniform since the 1970s "We're up there every when it was confirmed by weekend during concert on the Tartan Advisory the steps," he said. "For Committee in the Court of them it's something difl"erent the Lord Lyon in Edinburgh, and special." Scotland to be a distinctive Putz -who has asked a design not associated with fellow Saint Mary's student any clan in Scotli:md. to plaid her because her 
When it was eonfirmed family, who live in New that the plaid was original to Mexico, won't be attending Notre Dame, the University this game -said she's adopted the blue design as happy she gets to choose the oflicial plaid. It has since who will be taking part in been trademarked and copy­the ceremony with her. righted which prohibits any­"As a senior I get to choose one outside the Irish Guard anyone I like to be a part of or the band from wearing it. the concert on the steps," 
"[It] is a unique part of the she said. "A lot of us choose Notre Dame band uniform," someone who might not be Dwyer said. "It gives our in band. It's someone who band a distinctively Irish has been there through all appearance." the hardships and fun times 
Each of the colors in the of band and now they get to plaid symbolizes a different be a part of the band." aspeet of the Notre Dame community. The blue and Contact Liz Harter at gold in the design are Notre eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu Dame's colors; the green is for the Fighting Irish; the red signifies the Church and the Holy Cross fathers who 
continued from page 1 
Football 
continued from page 1 
win." 
Sophomore Luke Hagon said he hopes the team gained some valuable expnrience last year, and this weekend's game will be a chance for the student body to see the new and improved Fighting Irish. 
"I think they learned a lot from last year, and there will be major improvement<>," Hagon said. 'Tm excited to see how the team's looking." 
The team will not be the only aspect of the football season that is improved, as organizers have also been revamping the pep ral­lies. 
"At pep rallies in the past, the dorms hosting the pBp rally would scream and chant, and by the time the other dorms got there, they would be kind of worn out," Hall President's Council athletic eo-chair Laura Burdick said. "We knew something had to ehange." 
Burdick said this year's rallies will feature the Dorm's Championship League, where dorms will compete against each other for prizes. 
"The new pep rallies will pit dorms against each other through obstacle courses," Burdick said. "Every week there will be a dif­ferent prize for the winners; this weekend, the winning dorm gel<> free Chipotle. Then at the big 'championship' round for the Syracuse pep rally, the winners will get a trophy. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

founded the University; and 
black outlines the design. 

While the band stafl" choos­
es which senior member will 
plaid the new members, the 
seniors can choose anyone 
they want to be a part of the 
ceremony, though Dwyer 
said they typically choose a 
family member or friend. 

Senior saxophone player 
Katie Putz said she has been 
looking forward to this cere­
mony since her first year in 
the band. 

"They show us the senior 
plaids the first day in band," 
she said. "It's really exciting 
to finally get to wear one." · Senior bass player Joe 
Newsteam, Assemble! Write for News. Call Jenn at 631-5323. 
Of eourse. lloward disagreed with Yap. 
"I don't think thn pick was looknd into enough, as a lot of reports are eoming out, he met with her onen," he said. "I don't think it was a very care­ful piek." 
Howard and Yap also divl'rged on their views on Ohama's running mate, Sen. Jon Bidnn or DPlawaro. 
"It was a horrendous pick, lwcause for someone running on a platform of change, choos­ing SOIIIeOIW that is a Beltway insidnr donsn 't makn any snnse for me," Yap said. "His entire caronr has been D.C." 
Howard said he thinks Obama made a great deeision in choosing Bidl'n. 
"II!\ has a lot of expnrinnce, nspndally fornign relations," lloward said. "I think Obama's comfortable working with him, sinen thPy spent time togntlwr on the Senate Foreign Hnlations Committnn. lie's a fightnr. lie's willing to go to bat f'or thn people who nnnd hnlp." 
Tlw one issun on which Howard and Yap did agree, however, was that this elnction 

SENIOR PORTRAITS! 
Sign up on the internet NOW @ 
www.LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in the 2008 DOME Yearbook (Use the school password DOME to access the Notre Dame Schedule) 

Who: Class of 2008 Students When: Pictures taken 
Now-Sept. 21 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To he in yom· 2008 Notre Dame 
Dome Yearbook 
Renle,;,b;;---·----~­

Sign Up Today! 
) www.LaurenStudios.com _School Password-DOME 
--~ 
... ------·-··-· ----··----=-------­


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 5, 2008 CoMrruo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gas explosion kills 24 in China 
BEIJING -A gas explosion inside a mine in northeast China on Thursday killed 24 people and injured six, local authorities and state modia said. Threo others were trapped inside. 
The ollicial Xinhua News Agency said the 9 
a.m. accident happened in a coal mine in the city of Fuxin in Liaoning province. Rescuers were searching for the three trapped people, it said, citing local authorities. 
Forty-one miners were working inside at the time. Xinhua said 14 managed to return to the surface on their own. 
A spokesman at the Fuxin safety bureau con­firmed the explosion but would not provide fur­thor details. The man, who refused to give his name, rofern•d qup,stions to the local coal min­ing burnau. A woman who answered the phone at the coal mining bureau hung up without answering quostions. 
U.S. raid strains Afghan relations 
KABUL -The Afghan president said a deadly raid on a village by American and Afghan com­mandos has put new strain on relations with the United Stat(~S and promisfld Thursday to punish thosl' rnsponsible. 
U.S. ollidal<> have said that at least 30 militants, including a Taliban commander, and no more than seven civilians were killed during the Aug. 22 raid. Algh<m oflkial<;, backed by the United Nations mi<>­sion, insi<>t that morP than 90 civilians died, includ­ing dozpns or childnm. 
Pn~sidnnt llamid Karzai's comment come a day afi.Pr hn spoko to President Bush about the raid and how to prPvent civilian casualties, his office said. 
"Presidfmt Bush told President Karzai that he grieves anytime innocents die," White House national sm:urity spokesman Gordon Johndroe said Thursday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Muslim leader given U.S. citizenship 
NEWAHK -An influential New Jersey Muslim leader accused by some federal offi­cials of having terrorist ties but praised by others as bning an important ally won his fight to gain permanent U.S. residency Thursday. 
A federal immigration judge in Newark rulnd that Mohammad Qatanani, the spiritu­al leader of the Islamic Center of Passaic County, can remain in the U.S. 
The ruling brought cheers, tears and applause from about a dozen Qatanani sup­portnrs who gathered in the courtroom. 
"I would like to thank the judge for work­ing hard in this case," Qatanani said. "This is a beautiful thing. The justice system in this country is grPat." 
Detroit mayor guilty in sex scandal 
DETHOIT-Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick was bounr:n~ from oflice Thursday in a deal with pros­ncutors that will snnd him to jail <md put an end to thn snx scandal that embarrassp,d this chronically struggling city and preoccupied its government l(w months. 
The :1R-ymtr-old "I lip-! lop Mayor" who brought eneq.,ry and oxcitmnent to City Hall when he took ofTI(:n in 2002 pleaded guilty to obstruction of jus­tice and will get tbur months behind bars. 
The Democrat will also pay a $1 million fine and loso his license to practice law, and cannot run for any elected oflice for five years. His resig­nation will take elleet in two weeks. 
lOCAL NEWS 
Medical helicopter crashes killing 3 
HUSHVILLE -Rush County is suspend­ing usn of the Missouri-based Air Evac LifetPam because of a fatal crash involv­ing one of its medical helicopters. 
Three crew members were killed Sunday when the helicopter, on its way to its basn at Rush Memorial Hospital, crashed in a farm field near the town of Burney· in neighboring Decatur County. Air Evac, which also has Indiana bases in Brazil, Evansville and Paoli, suspend­ed operations at all four bases temporar­ily. 
Bush poised to punish Russia 
White House planning to take action after Moscow's invasion of Georgia 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -President Bush is poised to punish Moscow for its invasion of Georgia by canceling a once­celebrated deal for civilian nuclear cooperation between the U.S. and Russia. 
With relations between the two nations in a nearly Cold Warlike freeze over Russia's actions against its neighbor last month. planning is under way at the White House for the largely sym­bolic move by Bush, accord­ing to senior administration ollicials, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the decision was not yet final. Action could come quickly, within days at the most, and officials see no need to wait until Vice President Dick Cheney returns next Wednesday from an overseas trip that includes stops in three for­mer Soviet republics. 
Withdrawing the agree­ment from CapitollliU would have little aetual impact, as the deal very likely would not gain approval during Bush's presidency. 
But taking the overt and public step of pulling it would be intended to send a message to Hussia and the world that its actions in Georgia last month are not 

acceptable and will not go 
American-supplied reactors dar for the required review ately that Russia must suffer 
unanswered. 

around the world. Such a period to run out and have some consequences for its
It would require a state­
deal was seen as crucial to the agreement take effect actions and wanted to take 
ment by Bush to Congress 
boosting relations with without congressional punitive measures in concert 
that the deal is "no longer in 
Russia, and to fulfilling action. with Europe. But they have
the national security inter­
Bush's vision of increasing After years of tensions boen frustrated at the lack of 
ests" of the United States. A 
civilian nuclear energy use between Russia and Georgia, similar resolve among allies, 
future president could 
worldwide as a way to com­the recent fighting began who have offered condem­
reverse that and send the 
bat rising energy demands Aug. 7 when Georgia's mili­nation of Russia but little
agreement back to Congress. 
and climate change. tary tried to re-establish else.
Signed in May by the two 
But key lawmakers were control over its breakaway If Bush decides against
nations, the administration 
suspicious of it even before province of South Ossetia. pulling the deal, there are
originally presented the deal 
the disastrous Hussia­Russia joined the battle, bru­other penalty options avail­
as a landmark break­
Georgia war. tally repelled the Georgian able.
through. 

Some feared it would offensive and then pushed The administration could
It represented a significant 
undermine efforts to rein in deep into Georgia proper, insist that Russia continue to
reversal in policy tor the U.S. 
Iran's nuclear program, where many of its forces be quietly left out of any dis­
on cooperation with Russia · 
because of Russia's extensive remain. cussions among the elite 
on nuclear issues. It would 
business and energy -Both sides signed a cease­Group of Eight nations,
give the U.S. access to state­
including nuclear -ties tire, but Russia has ignored essentially denying Russia
of-the-art Hussian nuclear 
with Tehran. That has so far its requirement for all threes membership in the club of
technology and clear the 
prevented a move to to return to prewar posi­major industrialized democ­
way for Russia to establish 
approve the deal, and now tions. racies without actually kick­
itself as a lucrative center for 
there isn't enough time left Administration officials ing it out.
the import and storage of 
in the fall legislative calen-determined almost immedi-The United States also 
spent nuclear fuel from 

Syria offers peace proposal to Israel 
Associated Press DATELINE -BODY COPY mediators in talks focusing on Mideast reflected a desire to break with
Associated Press 

peace and Iran's nuclear program. Syria's past policies. The quest was 
DAMASCUS -Syria's leader said France hopes that warmer relations given a boost by France's President Thursday he offered a proposal for with Syria, Iran's ally, could help the Nicolas Sarkozy, who visited peace with Israel but also refused to West in its efforts to persuade Iran to Damasc.us on Wednesday and break ofl' ties with Hezbollah and mili­curb its nuclear program. Thursday, becoming the first Western tant Palestinians -a key Israeli Assad said his proposal for Israel leader in several years to come to demand. was intended to serve as a basis for Syria. 
President Bashar Assad also said direct talks. He said he would wait for Sarkozy has encouraged face-to­indirect negotiations with Israel were a similar document laying out Israel's face Syria-Israel negotiations and on hold until that country chooses a positions before any face-to-face offered to sponsor such talks in the new prime minister and that direct talks. So far, negotiations between the future. The .French president has talks would have to wait until· a new two foes have been held indirectly been trying to forge better relations 
U.S. president takes oflice. through Turkish mediators. with both Syria and Libya, a longtime 
Assad's comments came after meet­Although Assad didn't divulge international pariah that has signifi­ings with France's leader and regional details of his proposal. the move cantly improved ties with the West. 
.-----------------------------------~---------------­
page 6 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 5, 2008 
Bernhard 111akes three new-office appoinbnents 
Vice president welcomes new colleagues 
Special to The Observer 
Hobnrt J. Bernhard, vice prnsid()nt for rnsearch at the Univnrsity of Notrn Dame, has made thrnn nnw appoint­ments to his officn. 
Handy Huchti, professor of physics, has joined the office as associate vice president for research in a part-time capacity. lie will continue his tnaching and research activi­ties in the Department of Physics in a reduced role. 
Huchti will assist primarily with rnsearch development, which includes lwlping facul­ty indnntify and secure con­tracts and grants, and with the launch and management of eentnrs and research corns, particularly in the area of new awards. 
Hucthi's research areas includn elnmentary particle physics and experimental high energy. A Notre Dame faculty member since 1977, he is thn founder of the Notrn QuarkNet Center, a nationwide program that gives high school students and tlwir teachers an oppor­tunity to be involved with ongoing expnriments at par­tide accelerators, sueh as Fermilab. lie recently returned to Notre J:iamn after a three-year assignment as a program director at the National Science Foundation. 
Liz Hu IIi, formerly director of financial affairs in the of'ficn of the vice presidnnt for research at Purdue University, will become assis­tant vice president for research on Sept. 15. 
ller Purdue career includes six years in sponsored pro­gram administration of industrial, foundation and state of Indiana projects, two years as business manager in the Department of Physics, five years as the business manager for the College of Science, six years as director of financial affairs in the of'rice of' the vice president for research, and two years in the enterprise software effort at Purdue. 
In office of the vice presi­dnnt for research at Purdue, Hulli supervised several of the business managers in significant research units, including Discovery Park, Purdue's new interdiscipli­nary research campus. 
Tracey Poston has been named director of research 
eomplianee for the office.  
She previously served  as  
associate  director  of  
researeh  compliance  at  

Missouri State University and as special projects/research integrity officer in the office of the vice chancellor for research at St. Louis University. 
Poston, who recently narned a doctorate from St. Louis University, will evalu­ate, implement and manage Notre Dame's research com­pliance programs. 

Please recycle The Observer. 

mo~ ~~ vie aa 
1733 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend 
574.277.6767 
7220 Heritage Sq. Dr. •lVIishawaka 
574.272.6767 
www.salonnouveau.com 
AVEDA.. 
tht ort ond tcltnt:t of p11111 flGWer ond picml --. 
Hair Care • Extensions •Skin Care • Make Up Nail Care • Body Care • Gift Cards 
When a person signs up with NDVotes'08, he or she
ND Votes 
is added to an e-mail data­base. The campaign will
continued from page 1 

send an.e-mail with a link 
to the Web site the person's 
The aim of NDVotes '08 is state provides to request an to simplify the voter regis­absentee ballot. tration process and, if stu­Laurel has taken her own dents are already regis­advice. She is already tered, the program will applied to vote by absentee send them ballot in her instructions, home state of tailored to the "Not only is there Texas. student's The race for
the racial factor, but 
state, about the presiden­
there's also the
how to regis­cy, between ter for an gender factor with t h e absentee bal­Democratic
Sarah Palin's
lot. · 

ticket of Sen.
selection."
This year, Barack Obama students are of Illinois and "definitely" Mallory Laurel Sen. Joe Biden 
being proac­NO '08 co-chair of Delaware 
tive in regis­against the tering to vote Republican and applying for an absen­ticket of Sen. John McCain tee ballot, Laurel said. of Arizona and Gov. Sarah 
"NDVotes is working so Palin of Alaska, represents hard to make absentee vot­a "monumental election," ing such a simple process," Laurel said. she said. "We want to make "Not only is there the the process as simple as racial factor," she said. "But possible to make sure there's also the gender fac­everyone votes." tor with Sarah Palin's selee-
SMC 
continued from page 1 

have been repaired," Hambling said in the e-mail sent to students over the sum­mer. 
In addition, Hambling's e­mail said ceilings, shower heads and valves, new sinks and counters have all been repaired or replaced in the Annex wing of LeMans. 
Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans Hall had its exterior storm windows removed and repaired and the damage to the walls inside the chapel is also still currently being repaired and will be finished August 15. 
Madaleva Hall, a classroom building, "is scheduled for a major interior renovation beginning in August 2008," according to the e-mail. In addition, the building's gut­ters, hutches, blinds and fur­niture have been repaired as well. 
The Cushwa-Leighton Library's roof is still currently under construction as well, and it will be sometime before the project is complete. 
"This is an extensive project that will involve total removal of the slate, refastening the wood sub-structure to the con­crete deck and replacing the tion." 
NDVotes '08 has been working to increase student civic participation and polit­ical knowledge through pro­gramming events. The group will eontinue hosting its popular "Pizza, Pop and Politics" nights, Laurel said. 
The first one of the semester is schnduled for Monday in Coleman-Morse Lounge at 5 p.m., where professors in Notre Dame's political science and jour­nalism programs will hold an informal discussion about the race to the White House. 
"People this nlection sea­son are really interested in what the professionals have to say," she said. 
NDVotes '08 has several oth1~r events planned for the two months leading up to the Election Day on Nov. 4, including a politically­themed film series and an outdoor screening for the first presidential debate on Sept. 26. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
plywood sheeting. New ice melt system will be installed to eliminate the ice-damming problem," he said. 
llambling, however, assured students that the main doors of the Library would always be open. 
Some interior work was done on the carpets and tiles of McCandless Hall, and the showers are being regrouted, Ilambling said. 
In Angela Athletic Facility the "gym floor has been refin­ished" and the internal and external handrails have been repaired and repainted. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astrioO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




-------~------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 5, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,188.23 -344.65
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
568 74 2,828 1,002,583,934 
AMEX 1i93i~i0 Ji~5~i~4 NASDAQ 2,259.04 -74.69 NYSE 8,008.2!) A~~~f~ S&P 500 1,?36.83 -38.15 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,SS7.G6 ();00 FTSE 100 (London) 5.362.10 -137.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -3.01  -3.85  124.03  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -3.24  -1.46  43.66  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -4.90  -1.08  20.98  
ISHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  -3.14  -2.33  71.82  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.46 -0.054 3.643 13-WEEK BILL -0.90 -0.015 1.65 30-YEAR BOND -0.86 -0.037 4.281 5-YEAR NOTE -2.18 -0.064 2.876 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.46 107.89 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.00 803.20 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) --2.88 87.43 
IN BRIEF 
Consumer spending down, stocks fall 
NEW YORK -Dejected investors sent stocks plunging Thursday, hurtling the Dow Jones industrials down more than 340 points after retailers and the government added to a moun­tain of bad economic news and devastated hopes for a late-year recovery. 
The market was already nervous as it waited for the government to release its August employ­ment report on Friday. So news from the nation's major retailers that shoppers curtailed their spending last month due to higher gas and food prices came as a heavy blow. 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest retail­er. beat expectations because of it<> big discounts, but many teen retailers and luxury chains did poorly, a sign that consumers are spending most­ly on essentials _and putting discretionary buying on hold. 
Shea selling stadium piece by piece 
NEW YORK -As a season-ticket holder, Darrell Buono spent 13 years rooting for the New York Mets in blue, loge-level seats at Shea Stadium. So he bought them. 
The seats cost $869 for a pair and will have a place of honor in Buono's basement in New Hyde Park when they are shipped, sometime after the last game is played at Shea this fall and the Mets begin dismantling the stadium. 
"My wife kind of gave me a strange look when I told her I was doing it," Buono admit­ted. "But she was OK with it." 
Comcast appeals FCC blocking ruling 
WASI-IINGTON -Comcast Corp. is appealing an FCC ruling that the company is improperly blocking customers' Web traffic, triggering a legal battle that could determine the extent of the government's authority to regulate the Internet. 
In a precedent-setting move, a divided Federal Communications Commission last month deter­mined that the company is violating a federal policy that guarantees unfettered access to the Internet. · 
Comcast challenged the FCC decision Thursday in the U.S. District Court of Appeals in Washington, D.C. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Corrupt lobbyist sent to prison 
Abramoffsentenced to four years for cutting deals between lobbyists and politicians 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Jack Abramoff, the once powerful lobbyist at the heart of a far­reaching political corruption scandal, was sentenced to four years in prison Thursday by a judge who said the case had shattered the public's confidence in government. 
Abramoff, who fought back tears as he declared himself a broken man, appeared crestfallen as the judge handed down a sen­tence lengthier than prose­cutors had sought. 
Over the past three years, Abramoff has come to sym­bolize corruption and the secret deals cut between lobbyists and politicians in back rooms or on golf cours­es or private jets. The scan­dal shook Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House to Capitol Hill and contributed to the Republicans' loss of Congress in 2006. 
"I come before you as a broken man," Abramoff said at his sentencing before U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle. ''I'm not the same man who happily and arro­gantly engaged in a lifestyle of political and business cor­summary of.the misdeeds politics. was undone by biased pros­ruption." 
and the seriousness of the The book, set for publica­ecutors, reporters and politi­He added later that, "My corruption, the Justice tion later this month and cal enemies. 
name is the butt of a joke, Department said little in obtained by The Associated McCain campaignthe source of a laugh and court while urging leniency. Press, says Abramoff was spokesman Tucker Bounds the title of a scandal." 
Defense attorney Abbe pressured to plead guilty. did not immediately respond Already two years into a Lowell portrayed Abramoff The book blames The to an e-mail seeking com­prison term from a separate 
as a conflicted man. Yes, he Washington Post and Sen. ment. 
case in Florida, Abramoff, corrupted politicians with John McCain, the That theory was nowhere 49, will have spent about gix 
golf junkets, expensive Republican presidential to be found in court 
years in prison by the time meals and luxury seats at nominee whose Senate com­Thursday. Abramoff wept as 
he is released, far longer 
sporting events. But he also mittee investigated his attorney discussed his than he and his attorneys donated millions of dollars Abramoff, for making him family's suffering. He 
expected for a man who to charity, and his good the fall guy. seemed shocked when 
became the key FBI witness deeds were catalogued in "I never expected that I Huvelle handed down her in his own corruption case. 
hundreds of letters from would have to go to prison," sentence, looking at his wife With Abramoffs help, the friends. Abramoff says in the book, and children and shakingJustice Department has won "How can we be talking "until it became clear that his head. 
corruption convictions 
about the same person?" the media could not allow Huvelle could have sent against former Rep. Bob Lowell said. "But that's the this play to close without the Abramoff to prison for 11 Ney, R-Ohio, former Deputy record: A modern-day 'Dr. hanging of the villain." years but showed leniencyInterior Secretary J. Steven Jekyll and Mr. Hyde."' In "The Perfect Villain: because of his work with the 
Griles and several top 
Although Abramoff John McCain and the FBI. She rejected, however,Capitol Hill aides. 
expressed remorse Demonization of Lobbyist proposals to reduce the sen­Because of that coopera­Thursday, he also has spent Jack Abramoff," Boston tence even further by giving 
tion, prosecutors were 
his time in prison cooperat­journalist Gary Chafetz por­Abramoff credit for the time reserved in their comments ing with a book that por­trays Abramoff as an inno­he already has spent in to the court. Rather than trays him much differently: cent man who excelled in an prison on a fraudulent casi­
regaling the court with a 
as a victim of Washington already corrupt system and no deal in Florida. 

FDAorders new medication warnings 
drugs also lower the body's defenses Siegel said the investigation began
Associated Press to various kinds of infections. with a single case of a woman taking WASHINGTON -The Food and Siegel, who heads the office that one of the drugs who died of histo­Drug Administration ordered oversees arthritis drugs, said the plasmosis. Delving into the case, doc­stronger warnings Thursday on four FDA became concerned after discov­tors at the FDA found that the medications widely used to treat ering that doctors seemed to be over­woman had been sick with the fungal rheumatoid arthritis and other seri­looking a particular kind of fungal infection for a long time. "This case ous illnesses, saying they can raise infection called histoplasmosis. Of led us to be concerned that there the risk of possibly fatal fungal infec­240 cases reported to the FDA in may be other situations in which tions. which patients taking one of the four physicians may not recognize histo­The drugs -Enbrel, Remicade, drugs developed this infection, a total plasmosis," said Siegel. Humira and Cimzia -work by sup­of 45 died -about 20 percent. FDA officials searched the agency's pressing the immune system to keep The infection, which mimics the database and found the 240 cases of it from attacking the body. For flu, is prevalent in much of the mid­patients taking the medications who patients with rheumatoid arthritis, dle part of the country. It can have had also developed the fungal infec­the treatment provides relief from particularly grave consequences if it tion. Of those, at least 21 appeared to swollen and painful joints, but it's "a isn't caught early and spreads involve a late diagnosis, and 12 of double-edged sword," said the FDA's beyond the respiratory system to them -more than half-ultimately Dr. Jeffrey Siegel. That's because the other organs of the body. died. 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 5, 2008 
Senator leads boycott in underfunding protest 
Associated l'ress 
CIIICA<;o -The statn snna­tor who led a school boycott to protest underfunded Chicago schools cut it short af'tor two days and said Thursday he will be talking to Gov. Bod Blagojnvieh soon to discuss solutions. 
Snn . .lamns Mlleks said the governor's office has suggest­ed Monday or Tuesday as pos­sible datns for a menting. 
Meeks had announced latH Wednesday that his boycott, which began Tuesday. was being ended bncause Blagojevich said hn wouldn't meet while it was still in n!Tnct. It was to have lasted through Friday. 

"The governor stated that he would not meet until the boycott was called ofT. so we are going to not only call his bluff' but trust that he keeps this word." Meeks said in cut­ting thn protest short. "We 
trust that the governor is a man of' good will and good sense." 
Meeks said he eould not yet estimate how many students participated in the boycott's sec.ond day, but he said the number was in the hundreds. While the number was only a fraction of the district's 400,000 students, Meeks said it was successful in publiciz­ing the funding problem. 
Blagojevich spokesman Lueio Guerrero said the gov­ernor was happy to talk with Meeks but it was up to the legislature to approve fund­ing. 
Meeks spokeswoman Tasha !farris said all boycotting chil­dren should have returned to school Thursday. Schools spokeswoman Anitra Schulte had no immediate detail on the day's turnout, but said first-day attendance Tuesday had actually risen from last year, despite the boycott. 
Prison officials get digital TV 
Associated l'ress 
COLUMBIA-The big swit1:h to digital TV ha'i prison ollieials scrambling to keep om1 of the most important peacekeeping tools in prisons across the nation -broadca'it 1.t1levision. 
When thn nation's broadcasters make the switch from analog to digital signals nnxt 1-'eb. 17, tele­visions that aren't hooked up to cable, satnllitn or a eonvertnr box will be rnducnd to static. While TV might seem like an unde­servnd luxury lilr inmates, prison oflicial'i and inmatns say the tubn does more than fill year after y11ar of' idlt1 hours -it provides a snnsn of normaley and is a bar­gaining chip that encourages good bnhavior. 
The TV industry has spnnt months prnparing consumers lhr the switd1. running ads and oiTPring governnwnt-l'undnd coupons that can b11 r11dnemnd 1\Jr the conwrtPr boxns needed to display thn digital sihl'JJal on older TVs. But ollicials worry that pris­orwrs may bn lPI't to starP at blank scmnns because they don't quali(y li1r thn $40 coupons. 
"Tiwy won't givn us thn swikh­ns, we 1~allml tlwm," said South Carolina CorrPetions Department I>imdor Jon Ozmint. "W11 asknd thmn li1r the coupons and they said they're only availabln for households. I said, 'We'rn the big house.' But they didn't buy it." 
Ozrnint said stat11 money won't bP usnd to buy tlw undeterminml number of' convnrtnrs South Carolina ruwds to keep its TVs running in common areas. Ollidals in many states havnn't 11gured out tlxactly how many 1:onvertnr boxes will bn nnncl1~d · -and what thn exact eost will hP. 
In North Carolina. 691) tnlevi­sions in 26 of' thn statn's 7H prison fadlitins gnt ovnr-thn-air broadntst TV. For instanen, orw prison in Taylorsville has 40 ovnr­tlw-air TVs. l>11partnwnt of' Corrections spokesman Keith AerPn said. 
The agnncy is trying to dnter­rnirw wlwther multipln televi­sions can bP hook11d up to a sin­gle convt~rtnr box, or if' each TV will nned a convPrtnr box, he said. 
In Florida, corrections depart­

ment spokeswoman Gretl 
Plessinger said ollidals arc ask­
ing for donations for the digital 
boxes and could buy the eonvert­
ers themselves. 
But that's something that may need legislators' approval beeause Florida law bars spend­ing money on perks lik11 eable 1V for inmates. "It's important bncause it's an inmate idleness issue," Plnssinger said. "(We're) eoncernnd about inmates aeting up if they're bornd." 
Plessinger, Ozmint and others -including those who have served limn -see television more as necessity than perk. Norris llenderson, who spent 27 years in Louisiana's Angola prison, said it's a myth that inrnates idlP away thn day watch­ing soap opera<; and game shows. 
"If' anything ha'i a priority, it's the news," llnndnrson said. 
Whnrn inmatns watch 'IV, and for how long, depends on the state and prison. Some inmates watch tnltwision in communal day rooms. while other prisons let inrnatns have small TVs in their cells. 
Checo Yaney, who spent 20 years in Angola, said 1Vs rarely arn turnnd on when inmates are working -but there arn excep­tions. On Sept. 11, 2001, inmates watdwd in horror as the after­math or the terror attacks on New York and Washington unlilldnd. 
"Inmates were just as heart­broken as p<lople on the outside," said Yaney, who now helps run the Louisiana chapter of Citizens United for Hnhabilitation of ErranL'i. "I saw guys ery that. par­tieular day because it was a tragedy." 
I>r. Terry Kupers, a psychiatrist and prison expert at thn University of Califiwnia, Bnrkelny, said them is dear evidence that 'IV privileges (~an positivoly all'eet prisonnrs. At Indiana's Wabash Valloy super-maximum security prison. he said, far fewer bnhav­ior problems were reported among imnates in isolation alter thny worn given small televisions and prison ollieials spent more time talking with them. 
440 children seizedinpolygcunist raid 
Child welfare working to find homes for underage boys and girls 
Saints wer.e the subject of one
Associated l'ress 
of the largest custody cases in 

SAN ANGELO -Child by U.S. history, taken into stahl child, Texas authorities are custody from their ranch in a acknowledging that many of tiny west Texas town because the children seized during a child welfare authorities said raid on a polygamist sect's girls were being forced into ranch can safely live with their underage marriages and boys parents or guardians. were being raised to be perpe­
Since the April 3 raid on the trators. Yearning for Zion Ranch in Authorities went to the ranch Eldorado, 235 after several children's cus­calls to a domes­
"In most child
tody cases have tic abuse hotline, been dropped, welfare courts, in which the meaning fewer they're going to be caller claimed to than half of the be an underage
safe rather than
440 children wife and mother seized remain sorry, and in some who was being bound by a cases, that will beaten and court order to raped by her
result in removals
stay in Texas, much-older hus­attend parent­that shouldn't have band. Texas ing classes or happened,, state police arc be available for now investigat­unannounced ing whether the
Jessica Dixon
visits by Child calls were a Protective Methodist University hoax. 
Services. Law Professor Once authori­
was 12 -has been returned to 
foster care. 

Five sect members, ineluding Jeffs, have been indicted in Schleicher County for sexual assault of a child; several have also been charged with bigamy. A sixth FLDS member is charged with failing to report. child abuse, a misdemeanor. Jeffs, convicted as an accom­plice to rape in Utah, remains jailed in Arizona where he awaits trial on charges stem­ming from the alleged under­age marriage of sect girls. 
Crimmins said the agency never intended to take the FLDS children from their par­ents pnrmanently. 
"We never brought the kids into care to keep them in care. We brought them into care to do an efficient and effective investigation," he said. 
Jessica Dixon, a law profes­sor who oversees the child advocacy clinic at. Southern Methodist University in Dallas, said CPS cases do sometimes result in children quickly being dropped from court supervi­sion, even after initial foster placement. But it doesn't hap­pen often. 
To remove a child, "legally, you've got to be able to show risk," she said. 
CPS now usually looks for a way children can remain with their parents safely, Dixon said, though she noted that cases of alleged sexual abuse will usually trigger swifter action. 
"In most child welfare courts, they're going to bn safe rather than sorry, and in some cases, that will result in removals that shouldn't have happened," she said. 
Since the April raid and ran­corous custody case, the FLDS, which believe polygamy brings glorification in heaven, has said it will not sanction mar­riages of underage girls. The seet is a breakaway of the Mormon church, which renounced polygamy more than a century ago. 

www.salonrougeinc_com 
c p s 

spokesman Patrick Crimmins said more cases are likely to be dropped but he was unsure how many. 
They're being dropped "as fast as we can because it's a burden on everyone," he said. 
He said the dismissals do not mean that abuse never oceurred, only that many of the children can safely live with a parent or other relative ­something that sect members and lawyers argued early on in the chaotic custody case. 
"It most certainly goes back to the idea that the proper way to have conducted this process was to get evidence as to what children, if any, were at risk," said Cynthia Martinez, a spokeswoman for Texas RioGrande Legal Aid, which represented dozens of mothers in the case. "They went through this ordeal, and in the end, CPS found they were a good parent." 
The ehildren of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of' Latter Day 
ties had the chil­
dren at a San Angelo shelter, they said the sect members refused to coop­erate with the investigation, refusing to give last names or identify parents or siblings. CPS officials said they had no choice but to treat all the chil­dren as potentially members of the same family.. 
They were scattered to foster care facilities across the state in April and remained there for_ about two months until the Texas Supreme Court ruled that authorities were wrong to take all the children. Half the children sent to foster care were younger than 6. 
When state District Judge Barbara Walther ordered them returned to their parents in June, she also ordered them to stay in Texas, take parenting classes, allow psychological assessments and be available to investigators from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. every day. 
Only one child -a girl allegedly married to jailed sect leader Warren Jeffs when she 

Welcome 5ack! 
Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
THAILAND 
Protestors work to oustprime minister 
Leader refuses to cede or compromise amidst economic chaos 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK -Thailand's prime minister refused again on Thursday to cede to protest­ers determined to oust him, but o!l'ered an unconventional com­promise -a referendum on his fate aimed at ending the politi­cal crisis that has paralyzed the government and raised fears of economic chaos. 
Prime Minister Samak Sundaravej hopes the vote will allow him to keep his job while placating the People's Alliance for Democracy, which has vowed to continue its cam­paign, including occupying the seat of government, until Samak quits. 
The referendum will ask the public to choose between the alliance and the government, but many analysts say a simple yes-no vote is insufficient in the face of a complicated political crisis. 
The alliance ridiculed the plan, saying Samak will manip­ulate the vote, just as they allege he did during general elections in December 2007. 
"The referendum is an. attempt by Mr. Samak to buy himself some more time in the office," Sondhi Limthongkul, a media tycoon and one of the protest leaders, told The Associated Press. 
Before announcing the refer­endum, which caught the nation by surprise, Samak delivered a combative speech on national radio, again refus­ing to step down. 
"I will not abandon the ship, and I will take responsibility for the crew on board," Samak said, peppering his speech with folksy language. "I am not resigning. I have to protect the democracy of this country." 
But some have said the refer­endum could aggravate rather than alleviate the political deadlock. 
"A referendum is normally used to test public approval on whether to go to war or pass an important law. It would not be effective as a tool to solve a complicated political crisis with many conditions and layers," said Panithan Wattanayagorn, a political science professor at Bangkok's Chulalongkorn University. 
"The problem is complex and nuanced and asking a yes or no question will only further divide the country," Panithan said. 
Before any referendum can be held, the Senate must pass a law because current statutes do not provide for the possibility. Samak said once the law is passed, it would take about a month to hold the vote. 
The alliance, which claims to be apolitical, is a loosely knit group of royalists, wealthy and middle-class urban residents, and union activists. It wants Parliament to be revamped so most lawmakers are appointed rather than elected, arguing that Thailand's impoverished rural majority is too susceptible to vote buying. 
The group has already had a hand in bringing down one gov­ernment, when it staged demonstrations in 2006 that paved the way for the bloodless coup that removed then Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra from office. 
Thaksin, a telecommunica­tions tycoon, recently f1ed to Britain to escape corruption charges. The protesters say Samak is Thaksin's stooge and is running the government for him by proxy. They accuse Samak's government of corrup­tion and making unconstitution­al decisions. 
After months of protests in the capital, thousands of PAD supporters stormed the gates of the Government House, the stately domed building that houses Samak's office, on Aug. 
26. They have occupied the compound's lush lawns, set up a thriving community under tents and refused to budge. 
Even though Samak imposed a state of emergency on Bangkok on Tuesday, the mili­tary has not stepped in to evict the protesters for fear it would lead to a bloodbath. 
Rioting between supporters of Samak and the alliance left one person dead and dozens injured early Tuesday, the only violence since the deadlock began. 
GAZA STRIP 

Medical staff strike cripples hospitals 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -A walkout of medical staff throughout Gaza has strained services at hospitals and clinics throughout the terri­tory, the latest in a series of crip­pling strikes that are deepening bitter divisions between Gaza's militant Hamas rulers and loyal­ists of moderate Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. 
The strike has forced non­complying doctors to pull double shifts and left residents strug­gling for treatment, adding to the hardships in a territory suf­fering from international isola­tion since Hamas wrested con­trol of Gaza from Fatah-allied security forces in June 2007. 
The Medical Workers' Union, dominated by Abbas' Fatah movement, called the strike last week to demand Hamas rein­state workers Fatah says have been fired for their political loy­alties. The union said Hamas police have forced some essen­tial staff to report to duty under the threat of arrest. 
Hamas has accused Fatah of calling the walkout at state-run hospitals and clinics as a politi­cal ploy -but has aggravated the crisis by shutting down pri­vate clinics run by striking doc­tors. 
Around half of Gaza's thou­sands of doctors, nurses and administrative medical workers have walked off the job since last week, according to the World Health Organization. Hospital workers carried out a similar strike last year after Hamas fired several senior doc­tors, but the doctors weren't rehired and the slowdown fiz­zled after five days. 

Gaza hospitals are barely grinding along because working doctors and nurses are putting in 12-hour to 24-hour shifts and running on skeleton staff, many only treating emergency cases. Many clinics are closed. 
"I want to ask something. The doctors and nurses that went on strike, if their son or brother is sick, will they watch him die?'' asked Mohammed Musa, an unemployed, 36-year-old father who could not find a doctor to treat his son's fever. 
Union leader Osama Najjar said hundreds of medical staff were called in for interrogations, and dozens of pro-Fatah employees have been fired and replaced with Hamas loyalists. 
Mahmoud Zahar, a top Hamas leader and physician by training, said the government had to take action because key staff were not turning up. He said there isn't enough medical staff in Gaza to replace strikers, prompting police to force them to work. 

'l)))))) 
www.ndprayercast.org 

Campus Ministry 
Plug in to the Notre Dame PrayerCast! 
• Free iTunes subscription for reflective listening on your iPod. 
• 
~vpe ''ndprayercast" on the iTunes search engine, -or-log onto www.ndprayercast.org 

• 
Hear it here this week: Rev. Ralph Haag, c.s.c. Songs of the ND Folk Choir • Psalms • Homilies • Prayers • Meditative music 


Weekly rebroadcasts of the Sunday 10:00 am and 11 :45am Liturgies 

(5iU...Iul.JJ •Jil.l.W 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, September 5, 2008 
======================~ 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining I !all. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EI>ITOR IN CHIEII Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER
'' 
Jay Pitzpatrick Kyle West 
Assl: MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jes.•ica Cortez 
AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6:3 I -6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6:31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631·5.313 
News DESK 
('\74) 6:31-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-454.3 sporrs.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6.31-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Obs<·rver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Univt·rsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collt-gc. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwnisements based on coment. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.•iblc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rlw majority of the Editor in Chid~ Managing Editor, As.•i;tant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views of the authors and not nect-ssarily those ofThe ( )bscrvcr. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free <'Xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. IA.'trers to rhe Editor musr be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiow "?,arding Observrr policies should be dirr:cted to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oll>oC'rvc-r (lJSI'S "i~J l--'1000) llj,ublud~d Muud.t~ d11"11tth fo'rido~y txl'r:pt rlnrmg rx,un ,UJd V'ol\'lUUIII jl(lit"b. 1\ l!UI~IIptiun w The Ob~Jtrvcr 11 $100 fOr one :at..tdcnlic yc;m $5' litr 11111: ~m"Jcr 
1l1c Uh.<ner it pul'tl~hcJ .u I'O;TMASTER IJlil SuUih llinmj( llo1ll Send Jd1liU$ corrcctiOJU m: Nnur L);unc.IN 1(,~~6-0179 The Orucrvcr l't!nt.du:-111 pi.WI.lf(e plud :u Nmrc 0Amt P.O Boxn9 .111d addinon.&l mo~.Hing offico. 021 South Dining H.UI 

Nom Dame, IN 4b"i~6-0n9 
'I he Ohterwt ~ a member olrhc ~t.ucd Pres.<O. All repmduction tiWus arc rekrvtd. 
Reasons behind cancellation should be revealed 
Hecently, Dillon llall rector Fr. Paul Doyle cancelled the must be completed is also suspect. Fr. Doyle denied requests Dillon Pep Hally, the dorm's signature event. Fr. Doyle was to postpone the pep rally to later in the football season, say­vague in his reasoning and emphatic about his decision, but ing that instead planning for the pep rally must begin in April did not give what many residents of the dorm felt was sum­and continue throughout the summer. Ilowever, with a seript dent reasoning for abandoning the pep rally so definitively. fully written by Sunday night, the pep rally was on the same Because of the abrupt nature and the lack of clear rationales timeline it had been in previous years. of the cancellation, The Observer believes that it was unfair The University has been mum on the issue. Both the to the students of' the dorm to cancel their event. Student Activities Ol'fice and the OITiee of' News and 
In an interview with The Observer, Fr. Doyle Information denied involvement, claiming that the explained his decision by saying that things eancellation was done entirely by Dillon II all's were not coming together in a "timely fash­stan· with no outside pressure. 
OlrsEERVER
ion." However, by Sunday -the day pep rally In a meeting with Dillon llall residents interest­tryouts normally begin -a crowd of 30 stu­ed in performing in the Dillon Pep Hally, Fr. Doyln dents gathered in Dillon llall with a 25 page expanded on his reasons for eancelling the dorm's 
Editorial 
script ready to begin rehearsals. signature evnnt, mentioning complaints he 
Moreover, those in charge of the pep rally received after last year's pep rally about the vul­already had confirmed guests of' Notre Dame football coach garity in the skits. Ilowever, Fr. Doyle did not read this year's Charlie Weis, new Notre Dame athletic director Jack script's first draft to see if that sanil~ level of erudeness that Swarbrick and two Notre Dame football players. After had been present in previous years was used this year. announcing to the dorm that the pep rally was cancelled, Fr. Overall, the Dillon Pep Hally is an annual event not just for Doyle had to call these guests and inform them that they did that dorm, but for the University as well. It does not stand for not need to attend. the vulgar jokes Fr. Doyle wants to supprnss, but instead for 
Fr. Doyle also mentioned the lack of an approved T-shirt bringing Notre Dame football fans together to get ready for design as a reason behind cancelling the event, and took the the season. blame for that. Ilowever. the T-shirt is an ancillary part of the Fr. Doyle singlehandedly undid 30 years of' tradition over. pep rally; the important parts (guests, a script and actors) according, to his reasoning, a t-shirt and a fnw complaints ­were already taken care of. clearly not important enough to deprive a dorm of a key part 
The issue of the "timely fashion" in which the pep rally of its identity. 
A class by class guide to a Notre Dame football weekend 
After impatiently waiting for the past nine months, and avoiding excuses for that abomination of a season, it's morning again at Notre Dame. Our football team is back in 
action this weekend, and campus is mor­phing to account for it. Trash cans are being put everywhere, food stand equipment is 


being laid across Bob Kessler 
campus, tempo­rary fences are House ofStix being erected and alums have start­ed arriving on campus. Notre Dame is a different place on a football week­end, and this list should get every­body in the mood, and remind each class of students of what they are supposed to do throughout the week­end. 
Freshmen: 

Watch Hudy on Thursday night. Go to the pep rally on Friday. Attend Drummer's Cirele at midnight. Wear The Shirt on Saturday. Watch the Band play at Bond Hall Arrive at the game 45 minutes before kickoff Do the cheers incorrectly Try to start The Wave in the 3rd quarter. Eat at the Candlelight Dinner in South Dining Hall. Fall asleep early. 
Sophomores: 

Pregame the Pep Hally with beer and/or liquor. Lead dorm cheers on the way to the JACC. Host an oppo­nent themed party such as "Beat them Back to the Aztec Era" where everybody comes dressed as an Aztec Warrior. Wake up early after the party to sell Brats and Burgers at a dorm/club concession stand. Head out to the Stadium Lot with a group of friends looking for some friendly alums or a random friend's relative to give you free food. Arrive at the game 25 minutes before kickoff to watch the band perform. Complain about the freshmen doing cheers wrong in the 1st quarter. Purchase a platter of Nachos in the 2nd quarter. Try to start The Wave in the 4th quarter. Order Pizza in the Dorm after the game. 
Juniors: 

Utilize fake IDs at Club Fever on Thursday Night. Attend the Pep Hally on Friday. Complain about the length of the Pep Rally. Party at the oppo­nent themed party, but ditch early for Washington Street. Wake up in mid­morning and watch College GameDay. Complain about Lee Corso's anti­Notre Dame comments. Wear The Shirt or a green Brady Quinn jersey. Drink some beer at a relative's tail­gate. Hun from the cops through the Stadium parking lot. Arrive at the game five minutes before Kickoff with a good buzz going. Complain about The Wave. Get a free dinner from your roommates parents after the game. Fall asleep early while watch­ing College Football Final. Complain about Mark May on Sunday morning 
Seniors: 
Go to Finnegan's on Thursday Night. Skip the Pep Rally with an enormous hangover. Welcome recent Alums back for a party on Friday Night. Wake up early on Saturday for Tailgating. Wear whatever you want to wear, which probably isn't The Shirt. Host a tailgate at an oiT campus house or at the Hadio Tower lot. Keep BAC high enough so that you can feel free to yell loudly whenever you like about how Matt Leinart and Heggie Bush ruined the best moment of your life. Shotgun approximately seven beers in the 90 minutes leading up to kickoff. Stumble into the game 10 minutes after kickoff because you were busy playing one last round of Can Of Shame. Participate in one out of every seven cheers. Complain that the sophomore year Leprechaun was way better than this one. Walk home to OfT-Campus house after game. Go to The Backer at night. Sing/yell "Oh What a Night." Pass Out at home. Watch Entourage on Sunday night. 
Freshmen/Sophomores/Juniors/Sen­iors: 
Do it all again next weekend! 
Now that we're all clear on the game plan, let's go out and do it. 
Go Irish, Beat Aztees 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 

----~------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, September 5, 2008 page 11 
Eulogy for my ND classmate, Steve Pallucca 
Thirty-nine years ago this evening, we Notre Dame freshmen from Lyons Hall eagerly trekked across campus to witness our first football pep rally in the old Field House. Ara Parseghian and his players appeared on a bal­cony as though standing on a cloud above the crowd. The reverberating sounds of the band mixed with the stu­dent cheers drowned out any conversation among us. We could merely gesture in jubilation during our exciting experience. 
At the rally's conclusion, we experienced our first "cattle call." Students pushed so hard and close together during their exit from the building that I and my classmate, Stephen Raymond Pallucca, both jumped up about a foot so that the crowd carried us above the dirt floor without ever touch­ing the ground. Despite my fear of falling under the stampede, Steve marveled at how his 280-pound frame never wavered during the exit. While dropping back to his feet outside he said, "I love the first game of a season." 
We never thought that following our freshman year Steve would only enjoy 38 more opening season game days. Looking back, his life could not have been a more heroic and humorous time mixed with tragedy. He was our campus John Belushi, endearing himself to everyone he met with a reservoir of jokes and entertaining rou­tines. Lookfug through old photographs, it is remarkable how much he actually did look like Belushi. 

The Pallucca family owned a grocery store, and fed Steve's discriminating pallet with exotic foods. Opening his care pack­ages became a dorm event, anticipating what delicacies awaited discovery ... even at the end of his supply. With the premier foods gone, I noticed that the more hungry we were after midnight. the more willing we became to try some ofhis personal favorites -Kipper Snacks, smoked oys­ters, sardines and anchovies. 
Life with Steve at times was not easy. He smoked Wrnstons and stayed awake at least until 4 a.m., well past other late-night owls. Steve was a prankster and instigator. Senior year, one early morning after the bars had closed, I opened the door ofmy single to find the soda machine brightly shinning in my face. Without a beat, I plopped on what was available of my unus­able day bed and fell immediately to sleep. My camera's film revealed the culprits ­Steve was among those posing around the machine. 
College life for Steve was not all fun and games. Some courses posed problems either in content or as a result ofhis atti­tude. A nun at St. Mary's College chastised him once by saying that he would never get along in life with his attitude. As he further explained, "Failing geometry twice merely proves that I am a student of literature." 
On a whim, Steve assembled a slate and ran for sophomore class president. The campaign turned serious when I lent my efforts to his election. Students today can thank him for breaking the sophomore car restriction by arranging to pave a new lot near Grace Hall. He also led an experimen­tal sophomore parents weekend during football season, complete with hundreds of 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Fair-trade in line with mission statement 
If we do away with fair trade coffee for the sake of cost efficiency, let's just get rid of locally grown veggies too and the organic choco­late from the Huddle that donates a portion of its profits to wildlife. 
Forcing students to pay for the difference in fair trade coffee ver­sus free trade coffee is such a minute and minimal aspect of the required meal plan. The meal plan requirement is the real issue in question. 
Realizing that Dan Kamp ("Stop wasting my money," Sept. 4) is not arguing for or against fair trade coffee, I'm not writing to argue about ethics. Simply, fair trade coffee is not the only item in the meal plan that isn't the most cost effective alternative. Maybe, just maybe, there's a reason beyond cost that Notre Dame promotes fair trade items or locally grown products. 
Supporting human rights and human endeavor -yeah, that's all part of Catholic social teaching. Living in accordance with Catholic social teaching is not confined to involvement in the Center for Social Concerns. We don't recycle because we like to spend more money on numerous types of waste receptacles. We recycle because being a steward of the Earth is also part of Catholic social teaching. 
The University does not spend money frivolously on "their own ethical qualms." Please. These "ethical qualms" are not merely their own. By the simple fact that you attend Notre Dame, you are subject to Catholic ethics in all areas of life -from theology course requirements to traditions like opening mass at the beginning of the school year. Why should the standards for food be any differ­ent? 
The University is not here to "[hold] others hostage to [its] own set of values." The last time I checked, the Notre Dame mission statement says, "What the University asks of all its scholars and students, however, is not a particular creedal affiliation, but a respect for the objectives of Notre Dame ... " 
Granted, the meal plan is expensive, but the requirement itself is the real issue -not the promotion of Catholic social teaching over cost-effective, economic consumerism.. 
Kelsey Falter freshman Pangborn Hall ~Sept. 4 

game tickets for parents. His success got him reelected president junior year. 
Steve's humanity was at times larger than life. He taught me generosity through his charity and apathy offinancial gain. Steve's dad, "Big Ray," taught Steve a love of mankind and the duty of charity. Raymond would always sign his notes, "Be good, be careful, I love you. Your Old Man." Together they shared a devotion to Our Lady and her university. Attending Notre Dame was the purpose of Steve's life. Graduation was the fulfillment of his life's goal. 
Following graduation, Steve attended Washburn law school for a year and a half. He fondly said that he learned to handle mayhem, but not murder. His Catholicism, Italian heritage and rotund physical stature did not fit that campus. I once sent him $5 to "buy a beer" which he showed to a classmate when he had no cash. He said, "Now that is a true friend." 
When asked ifhe ever had any regrets, Steve replied, "I never filled out a job appli­cation." But I recently found a note describing his application to teach in a high school after our graduation. Eventually Steve settled into a routine which he described, "As a graduate ofliterature, I have become a maker ofbooks." 
An avid football fan, Steve taught himself how to handicap games. He could bet on an opening point spread, bet against him­self as points adjusted, and eventually be guaranteed wins by combining overs and unders-numerical science only a litera­ture student can understand. 
The test in Steve's life came when his father developed Alzheimer's disease. For nearly a decade, Steve cared for Raymond at the nursing home. He discovered 1940's sayings like, "hubba hubba," made Ray laugh. Eventually, Ray did not know Steve but said, "Here comes that man again." 
During this time Steve found refuge in substances. He nearly died 15 years ago with Cardiomyopathy, having been induced into a coma. Steve said that he never remembered anything while in the coma. But he confessed that he prayed to the Lady on the Golden Dome -he would clean himself up ifshe gave him another chance. 
Their agreement ended in early July. Yet he was able to speak with classmates at reunion this spring. Faces beamed as they once did nearly 40 years ago while speak­ing with him on the phone. Steve was a Kansas classic who became a Notre Dame Oass icon. 
It is typical of Steve's life that the last per­son to see him was in a grocery store. Steve bought the groceries for a town drunk who could barely care for his family through odd jobs. Steve's love of mankind was no less than angelic for the company he kept was a modern-day version of Gentiles, tax collectors and stray animals. 
No doubt, Steve was my best friend from college. I sent him an iPod which he used while riding his bicycle 20 miles a day. My telephone recorded his voice, "It arrived. You are the king, and I salute you!" 
No, my friend and classmate-especial­ly during this, your favorite first football weekend -for all ofthe life lessons you taught me, I salute you. 
Gary Caruso is a '73 alumnus. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Implications of our ethics 
Dan Kamp ("Stop wasting my money," Sept. 4) seems to argue that we do not have a common responsibility to construct a better and more just world. He contends that the fair-trade coffee on campus is an imposition of the ethics of a "sub­set of the student body." 
It would be one thing to criticize the choice of fair-trade coffee, but not on ethical grounds, only because there may be better ways for our campus community to support dignity and jus­tice internationally. We, as a university, as a society and as individuals, have a responsibility to act out Christian love, dignity and justice in everything we do. The fact that our community encourages things like fair-trade coffee and going green is laudable, and such efforts help us engage in the most important issues in our world. 
However, there is still a long way to go, for 
Be 
considerate 
Dear students, We hope you've had a great start in these first few 
weeks of classes and are looking forward to a very suc­cessful year. As we prepare for the first football game of the season, it is important for all of us to remember to be considerate to those around us, particularly residents of the South Bend area. ln order to sustain a positive rela­tionship with the local community, we encourage you to be good neighbors this weekend. By demonstrating mature judgment, we, as a student body, will continue to improve 
the relations between Notre Dame and South Bend. 
Go Irish! 

Bob Reish Notre Dame student body president Grant Schmidt Notre Dame student body vice president 
example, the University has not made serious efforts to pay a living wage to our thousands of workers. We can and should debate the best way to apply our commitment to social justice, but it is undeniable that we have a .responsibility to our fellow brothers and sisters in all our actions. 
Compassion and justice should be our values, and applying them to what the University buys and promotes is the responsible thing to do. In the same way our ethical principles guide our lives, our society and university should reflect our community's ongoing conversation about how best to promote social justice and human dignity. 
Thomas Weiler senior off campus Sept. 4 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
It has the largest collection of Olmec art in North America, with artifacts covering more than 3000 years of Mexico's mother culture­the Olrnec Civilization's history. It contains Native American art predating European contact, countless paintings from the last live centuries and is currently exhibiting Hichard Serra's groundbreaking Arc of the Curve and Paths & Edges. But most Notre Dame· stu­dents have never been inside. 
The Snite Museum of the Arts sits in the silhouette of Notre Dame Stadium, but its col­lections are anything but overshadowed. 
Located immediately to the east the of museum's main entrance is The Dragon and the Goddess: Olmee Art and Its Legacy exhib­it, which houses over 270 works of art, more than HO of which are Olmec, and 169 of which were made before A.D. 250. The gallery is the museum's largest collection and one which Gina Costa, the Museum's Public Helations and Marketing Specialist, says is the most important Mesoamerican collection outside~ of Mexieo City. 
And it is. 

The gallery eontains artifacts and sculp­tures from the Aztec, the Toltec, the Mayan and the Teotihuacan Civilizations. to name a few. Notable among them is the "God L Helief Panel" attributed to Toltec and Mayan culture of the Late Classic and Early Post Classie periods (A.D. 850-950). God L, the Lord of Hell, can be seen smoking a cigar in the stone sculpture. 
Also eye-catching is the basalt sculpture "Palma depi!~ting the God of Death as a ballplayer holding a knife and a severed head" from the Classic Veracruz Culture (A.D. 700-900), which nearly resembles the shape of a tiara. 
In the center of the exhibit there are selec­tions from the museum's collection of Spanish Colonial Christian art interpreted by Indian and Latino artists, including a stone Atrial Cross with the face of Christ and instruments of the passion, i.e. torture devices, carved into it. The cross predates the conquest of the Aztec Empire. 
But the Olmec collection is only one of many at the Snite Museum of the Arts. 
On the upper level of the museum are the 18th and 19th Century Galleries. the American Gallery and the Beardsley 20th and 21st Century Gallery. The 18th and 19th Century Galleries contain works by numerous European artists including Jean-Baptiste Camille Corot, Franr;ois Boucher, Gerard de Lairesse and Charles Louis Muller, who's "Holl Call of the Last Victims of the Reign of Terror" calls out pertinently from a wall in the Virginia A. Marten Gallery. 
In the American Gallery, Father William J. Corby, CSC, can be seen addressing troops of the Irish Brigade on July 2, 1863 at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania in Paul Henry Wood's "Absolution Under Fire," which he painted at the age of 19 in 1891. Demanding attention from the other side of the room with its stunningly bright color scheme hangs Jeanette Pasin Sloan's more modern, acrylic on canvas, "Mercato Stripes," (1983) which shows chalices reflecting off one another. Inside the Beardsley Gallery are a number of contemporary art pieces including Kenneth Snelson's "Mozart 1," whose shadow is almost as impressive as the intricate brass tubing'"'· and wire design creating it. 
The lower level of houses the Arts of Afri 
Gallery whose pieces include a 19th 
brass ceremonial sword of the Ghana Ash 
people, Liberian facial masks from the 
20th century and numerous Cameroon 
en pipe bowls depicting toothless old 
The basement also contains the nu\,H:;;u 
Medieval and Renaissance Gallery which 
tains many marble works from the lir.st 
second centuries AD and the 16th centu 
marble depiction, "Virgin Enthroned Nursi 
Infant Jesus," by Italian sculptor Giovann 
Antonio Amadeo. 

There are more than 23,000 works of 
inside the Snite Museum of the Arts 
that's not including the exhibitions on 
main floor which change regularly. 
The aforementioned Serra exhibit is on 
play in O'Shaughnessy Gallery (locate 
behind the Native North Americans 
until mid-October and selections from Maxi 
Kantor's Wasteland and Metropolis are 
display in the Milly and Fritz Kaese 
Mestrovic Studio Gallery on the first floor 
northeastern most wing. 

The title of the Olmec gallery, The 
and the Goddess, according to Museu 
Curator Douglas E. Bradley, refers to t 
important features of the Olmec template-th 
concept of the land of Mexico as a giant dr 
on's body, and the role of the Great Godd 
as the primary deity involved in human 
You'd be silly to miss seeing either of them. 
The Snite Museum is open on Tuesday 
Wednesday 1Oam-4pm, Thursday thr 
Saturday from 10am-Spm and Sunday 
1-Spm. Admission is frPP. 
Contact Mark Witte at · · @ d d
rmw1tte n .e u 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
Thl\ 200X~2009 season at the 
University's Snile Museum of Art 
is •~urn~ntly f'oaturing an exhibit 

of prints by artist Hichard Serra. 
"Are of' thn Curvt~ and Paths and 
Edges: Prints by Hkhard Serra" 
is in some ways a departure for 
the artist, who is better known 

for his works of sculpture. 
A native of San Francisco, 
Hiehard Serra is primarily known 

for his work in minimalist sculp­
ture with large pieces or sheet 
metal. hunous for his statmnnnt 

on sit1\-sperilie art, "To remove 
the work is lo dc\stroy it," Sorra 
JESS LEE I Observer PhOtograPhy 
has also exhibited work at the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, the Netherlands, and a retrospective on his work in New York at that dty's Museum of Modern Art. Hardly one to shy away from political content in his work, in 2006 Serra showed a litho cray­on drawing of an Abu Grahib prisoner with the caption "STOP BUSH" at New York's Whitney Museum of American Art. The drawing was then adapted for promotional materials surround­ing the Whitney's Biennial show. lie has also worked with video as an artistic medium. 
Like his sculpture, his collec­tion of prints currently being shown at the Snite is often focused on pushing the bound­aries of printmaking. With alter­native sizing and dimensions, the prints are fascin;;tting, dominat­ing pieces of art. The exhibit con­sists of 26 prints from two of Serra's collections, 2004's "Are of the Curve" and 2007's "Paths and Edges." The prints will appear at the Snite courtesy of collector Paul Schupl', in honor of Rev. 

Theodore  M. Hesburgh.  The  
exhibit  is  scheduled  to  run  
through Octobnr 12th.  

For more information about the Snite, visit their Web site, www.nd.edu/-sniteart. 
Contact Analis Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


If 2005's "X&Y" was Coldplay's way of becoming more commercial and connecting 
the masses, then their latest alb_um, "Viva la Vida or Death and All His Friends" must be the band's way of showing that they 
;can be boldly experimental while still con­necting with the masses. Three years in the making, Viva Ia Vida is, as it's opening track "Life in Technicolor" suggests, bursting with color and life. Chris Martin, Johnny Buckland, Will Champion, and Guy Berryman are still the Coldplay we have grown to know and love with their brooding ballads and heartfelt songs about love, and doubts and fears, but this time around they've put their musical chops on full display en route to recreating their sound. It may not connect 
Viva Ia Vida or Death and All His Friends 
Coldplay Released by: Capitol Records Recommended Tracks: "Viva La Vida", "Lost!", and "Lovers in Japan" 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

A flier outside the Laurel Tree, a local Camden club, read "January 16th, 1998, Starfish + others live at the Laurel Tree". A one-man tech crew could be seen through the crowd of rowdy teenagers on the decrepit stage setting up microphones for the night's act. Around one hundred and fif­teen people were stuffed into a room, all of them unable to maneuver their way through the commotion. Backstage, ready to lay their musical aspirations on the line for the first time was the band Starfish. Yes, Starfish. Not exactly the name of a band anyone in their right mind would expect to make it in the music industry. 
But here we are, ten years, four studio albums, five EPs, and one name change later, and Coldplay is selling out the world's largest arenas and topping charts in every­where from Chile to Malaysia. Coldplay may have started out at the Laurel Tree by mak­ing the mistake of playing the same song twice in a row under a band name they had come up with an hour before taking the stage, but now, as lead singer Chris Martin said in a recent television appearance, "it doesn't get any bigger than us." 
Of course Coldplay didn't start out selling millions of albums and headlining shows at Madison Square Garden. No, their humble beginnings as four Brits trying to make it big with listeners as much as "A Rush of Blood to the Head" and it most certainly isn't as dreamy and moodily dramatic as their debut album "Parachutes," but "Viva la Vida," despite its shortcomings, is in fact a resound­ing experimental success that has solidified Coldplay's status as one today's fmest bands. 
From the band's newly dawned 19th centu­ry French peasant army attire, to the album artwork, to the title track, Coldplay seems to scream revolution from every which way. It's no "OK Computer" or "The Joshua Tree". Then again, Coldplay isn't exactly sticking to their formula this time around. Sure, tracks like "Lovers in Japan" and "Lost?" could have come from any other Coldplay album, but they're still worthy nonetheless. Meanwhile "42" sounds like nothing before it while "Lost!," "Chinese Sleep Chant", and "Str~wberry Swing," although not revolution­ary, are surely uncharted waters for Coldplay. 
Viva Ia Vida starts ofT quite appropriately 
with a beautifully celebratory instrumental 
prelude that truly lives up to its name, "Life 
in Technicolor". Next up is "Cemeteries of 
London", which despite its dreary name is 
actually mellow, and sees Martin's voice 
operating at a lower register, which is quite 
common throughout the album. Following 
"Cemeteries of London" are a host of truly 
engrossing, contemplative songs, that 
includes the likes of "Lost!" with its drum­
circle flare and engaging lyrics, "Lovers in 
Japan", a pure Coldplay ballad with a great 
hook, the title track "Viva la Vida", a truly 
inventive, unbelievably catchy portrayal of a 
dethroned king recounting his fall from 
with piano laden ballads started with a lit­
tle-known song called "So Sad" and their 
first attention grabber, "Ode to Deodorant." 
From there they released five EPs, the most 
popular of which, Brothers and Sisters, 
helped garner them a spot with a major 
record label in 1999. 
The very next year, Coldplay released its 
first studio album, Parachutes, an incredibly 
well-crafted debut with a singular resound­
ing message as well as a breakthrough hit, 
"Yellow," which put Coldplay into the public 
consciousness. Having earnfld a Grammy 
award and beHn nominated for the presti­
gious Mereury Prize, Coldplay returned in 
2002 with what is arguably their best 
album, "A Rush of Blood to The Head." 
Both genuinely moving and eonsistently 
majestic from the first note to the last, "A 
Rush of Blood to The Head" reeeived over­
whelming critical acclaim and served notice 
that Coldplay was not just another flash in 
the pan. 

2005 saw what may very well be 
Coldplay's only misstflp in ten years. "X&\"' 
was Coldplay's way of creating more main­
stream music and while it was successful 
commercially, it lacked in many ways and 
for a while it seemed as though the band 
had traded itself in to please the masses. 
Then, three years later, Coldplay finally 
released their fourth, much-awaited album, 
the oddly but aptly titled "Viva Ia Vida or 
Death and All His Friends." This fourth 
effort saw the band aim for the stratosphere 
-~--­
power, but the true standout in the album is "42." Ingeniously dark and artistically abra­sive, "42", with its brooding lyrics and sud­den change of course into what initially seems like a completely different song, is the revolution Coldplay had been hopfng to achieve with this album. 
Of course "Viva Ia Vida" does have its fair share of missteps. To being with, it is over­produced and spotty in both quality and in delivering a central message with each song. Songs like "Chinese Sleep Chant" which, lets face it, is better ofT skipped than· listened to, and "Reign Of Love" have no business being in the album. "Chinese Sleep Chant" sounds like a bad impression of My Bloody Valentine and "Reign Of Love" almost feels like a rehashed version of "A Rush Of Blood to the Head" minus the artistic genius. Redefining one's sounds isn't always a good thing when an editing eye isn't used, and such is definite-. ly the case with "Viva la Vida." 
When all is said and done, "Viva la Vida" isn't Coldplay's best album. It simply takes a longer time to digest, because, upon first listen it tends to bewilder rather than immediately pierce the listener like Coldplay's first two studio albums did. In the end, however, "Viva Ia Vida," which to this point has topped charts throughout the world and has produced a No.1 hit single, is a grand creative leap for a band that has already proven its immense artistic capacity as well as its ability to have commercial suc­cess while staying true to itself. 
with bold experimentation that involved the incorporation of many new international sounds, new dimensions of Chris Martin's voice, and evolved songwriting, all of which made the album an instant success. 
Coldplay's formula f.or success mixes a knack for piercing song writing, a flair for moodily dramatic craftsmanship, and an ability to maintain a high quality from wire to wire while striking gold numerous times on each album. Their music manages to be dark one song yet vivid the very next. It is a culmination of thoughts on love. ruminations .... on fears and doubts, and reflections on the journey of finding oneself, all of which the band has managed to stay true to since crossing the threshold to the mainstream. 
In ten years, Coldplay has risen from the depths of tiny clubs in the heart of Camden to a headlining mega-band with an automat­ic success factor. They've been through it all. They've sold 35 million albums (and count­ing), won three Grammy awards, received positive (and ne,gative) comparisons to Radiohead and U2, been accused of ripping of another band in the song "Viva Ia Vida", and, most importantly, have provided the world with a brand of dreamy Britpop that trulytranscends the shortcomings of today's music industry. 
With music as good as their's, who knows, maybe they could have actually gotten away with the name Starfish. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
page 14 

The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 5, 2008 
MLB 

Angels top Tigers to cut magic number to six 
Votta's heroics help Reds to late comeback win over Pirates who've lost eleven of their last thirteen games 
after he gave up four straight
Associated Press 
singles starting the third 

DETHOIT The Los inning, his shortest start since Angeles Angels showed the he gave up seven runs and got Detroit Tigers what a playoff just two outs at Cleveland on team looks like. July 25, 2006. The 43-year­
Torii Hunter homered to old left-hander, who allowed back Ervin Santana and the six runs and eight hits in two Angels beat the Tigers 7-1 on innings, has lost three straight Thursday to cut their magic starts and seven of eight. number to six for clinching ''I'm not tired. I feel fine," their fourth AL West title in he said. "I had no reason for five seasons. failing. I went out there and 
Santana (15-5) struck out didn't get it done. That's the eight in 7 1/3 innings, allow­only way to look at it. ing one run and six hits. Everything they hit went for a 
"lie's as consistent as any double or single or whatever. I pitcher I've seen," Angels just couldn't stem the tide." manager Mike Scioscia said. Tigers manager Jim Leyland "lie's approaching 30 starts, thought Hogers is fighting and he's throwing as well as some nagging pain but didn't he did in start five or six." think the pitcher would admit 
Santana, who won his first it. six decisions this year, is 4-0 "He won't make excuses. in seven starts since July 27. He's a professional," Leyland 
"It's about working hard," said. he said. "You just have to Hun-scoring singles by keep it up and keep throw­Teixeira in the first and ing." Rivera in the second built the 
Detroit {67-73), which hasn't Angels' early lead. Robb been at .500 since Aug. 2, Quinlan and Teixeira hit run­who made frequent stops in eighth, when his wild pitch let two mirror-image franchises advanced just two runners scoring singles in the third, Detroit during his first seven in the tying run. Hansen has have shared misery and: past first base before Curtis chasing Rogers, and Vladimir full seasons in the majors with given up runs in six of his quite often, the bottom spots Granderson's homer in the Guerrero and Rivera singled Minnesota. nine appearances with the in the NL Central. eighth. in runs off Aquilino Lopez. Pirates, who got him from At 59-80, the Pirates are 
Mark Teixeira and Juan Hunter homered in the Reds 8, Pirates 6 Boston as part of the three­two defeats away from clinch­Rivera each drove in a pair of eighth off Nate Robertson, At this point in another dis­team trade involving outfield­ing their 16th straight losing runs for the Angels, who reaching 20 homers for the mal season, the Cincinnati er Jason Bay. season, which would tie the broke open the game with a third consecutive season and Reds are looking for any rea­He came in throwing 96 major-league record held by four-run third inning off seventh time in eight years. son to feel a little better about mph fastballs, but most of the 1933-48 Phillies. The Kenny Hogers (9-13). Gary The drive landed an estimated themselves. • them were off the mark. He Heds are 62-78, leaving them Matthews Jr. hit safely in his 435 feet away in the upper How about this: At least walked two of the batters he within four defeats of their first four at-bats, his first hedgerow at Comerica Park. they're not in last place. faced and threw the wild eighth straight losing season. four-hit game since June 9. "That's the longest ball I've Joey Votto hit a solo homer pitch. It's their longest such slump 
Hogers (9-13) was removed ever hit here," said Hunter, and a tiebreaking, bases­"He was trying to do too in a half-century. loaded single in the eighth much in a situation like The Pirates pulled ahead 5­inning Thursday, completing that," Russell said. "He 0 in the second inning against the Reds' rally from a five-run wants to come in and throw Josh Fogg, who left after deficit to a victory over the hard and dominate the three innings with a strained Pittsburgh Pirates, who got to inning, and it got away from groin. Chris Gomez hit a two­stay all by their lonesome at him." run shot off Fogg, the 3 7­the bottom of the NL Central Votto's run-scoring single year-old infielder's first standings. off T.J. Beam put the Reds horner since April 14, 2007, 
"It was real important for ahead for the first time, and when his grand slam off us," manager Dusty Baker Edwin Encarnacion followed Kansas City's Joel Peralta said. "They were gaining on with a sacrifice fly. accounted for his only homer us, trying to get out of last Nick Masset (1-0). who of last season. place." came to the Reds in the trade It was another poor showing 
Instead, the Pirates blew a that sent Ken Griffey Jr. to by Fogg, who has only one vic­big early lead, gave up three the White Sox, got the victory tory in 10 starts since return­runs in the eighth inning and despite giving up a solo ing from a sore back. His ERA lost for the 11th time in their homer to Nate McLouth in over that span is 6.30. lie last 13 games. A victory over the eighth. Francisco strained his groin while tag­the Reds would have complet­Corde.ro pitched out of a ging up on a sacrifice fly in the ed a series sweep and left the threat in the ninth for his bottom of the third. two teams tied in the loss col­27th save in 33 chances. The Reds pulled even by umn. "Generally, we're just fin­scoring a run in five consecu­
"You couldn't have scripted ishing off strong, trying to tive innings off left-bander a better day," manager John win as many as we can and Tom Gorzelanny and the
-Russell lamented. "We're hope it transfers to next Pirates bullpen. Jay Bruce and going for a sweep and we're year," Votto said. Votto hit solo homers. spotted five runs." The Pirates swept the first "I was just trying to do too Craig Hansen (0-3) couldn't series at Great American Ball much," Gorzelanny said. "I left hold a one-run lead in the Park in 2003. Since then, the a lot of balls up." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed lor 2008 Fall Season· 
The Stanley Clark School, a south side elementary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed lor 5-6th grade and 7­8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35.00 per game to licensed referees. It interested. please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at phone #574-291·4200. 

TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego­tiable. Call 574-276·8299. 
Need sitter as needed lor our 5 year old son. Need transportation. $10/hr. 574-271-1216. 
General help needed tor tailgate 10/4, ND vs. Stanford. $12/hr + gra­tuity. 9 hours minimum. Can attend game. Call415-898-1875 or email Arlene@ warrencapital.com 
FoR RENT 
Football Weekend B&B safe close to ND (574)243-9279 GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES WEST OF CAMPUS 3 large 
Bedrooms each with Private Bath. Great Common Room with floor to ceiling Windows and outside Deck overlooking rolling prairie. Breakfasts. No smoking; no pets. Call 219· 778-2585 or email share@sharetoundation.org 
House lor rent. Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot. Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal lor faculty and/or small family. $1 000/month + utilities. 
Call (574) 340-3895. 
Home for rent for ND football week­ends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from ND cam­pus. Contact Rocky at Rock0299@ aol.com. 
TICKETS 

Wanted: ND football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 
574-232-0964. 

A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT­
BALL SEASON TICKETS. ANY 
HELP APPRECIATED. 574-277· 
1659. 

BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE. 
MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574· 654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). 
WANTED: Ml tix. Will trade. 574­276-8507. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap/ 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit NDs Pregnancy Resources website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
LIVING ROOMS, KITCHENS, DINETTES! We got it. You want it. At the market, Flea Market. Montgomery.. . It's just like .. . It's just like .. . a Mini. .. MALLI 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 5th, 2008 COf\-1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 15 
NCAA FooTBALL 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team points 
1 usc 1,539 2 Georgia 1,506 3 Ohio State 1,497 4 Oklahoma 1,432 5 Florida 1,415 6 Missouri 1,301 7 LSU 1,207 8 West Virginia 1,108 9 Auburn 1,033 10 Texas 1,028 11 Wisconsin 849 12 Texas Tech 842 13 Alabama 834 14 Kansas 748 15 Arizona State 672 15 Brigham Young 672 17 South Florida 588 18 Oregon 508 19 Penn State 467 20 Wake Forest 414 21 Fresno State 242 22 Utah 214 23 UCLA 151 24 Illinois 147 24 South Carolina 147 

Women's NSCAA Soccer Rankings 
team points 
1 usc 701 2 UCLA 678 3 North Carolina 677 4 Florida State 637 5 NOTRE DAME 634 6 Virginia 552 7 Stanford 526 
,, ;;,

ll!llldr· 81 ·re'xa~l))tl'-'1 514 
9 Portland 499 10 Penn State 412 11 Texas A&M 407 12 Duke 316 13 West Virginia 318 13 Boston College 318 15 Illinois 313 16 Santa Clara 279 17 Wake Forest 271 18 Oklahoma State 194 19 Connecticut 154 20 Tennessee 140 21 California 118.5 22 Georgia 104 23 Florida 98 24 Cal State Fullerton 83 25 Kansas 75 

MIAA Women's 
record 
1-0 1-0 1-0 
HI 
1-0 1·0 1·0 1·0 1·0 1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 
1-0 
1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 1·0 0-1 
t~o 
previous 
1 3 2 5 4 7 tO 8 6 9 13 16 11 15 18 21 20 23 12 14 17 19 22 RV RV 

Volleyball Standings Team Record 
league overall 

COLUMBUS, Ohio­Ohio State coach Jim Tressel said tailback Chris "Beanie" Wells will not play when the third­ranked Buckeyes take on Ohio on Saturday. 
Wells injured his right foot in last weekend's 43­0 victory over Youngstown State. He has not practiced with the team this week and has spent much of the time wearing a protective boot. 
"Beanie won't go this week," Tressel said Thursday afternoon. "I feel good about his progress, but it wasn't enough progress to prac­tice through yesterday." 
Asked if he worries that Wells may not be avail­able when the Buckeyes play at No. 1 Southern California on Sept. 13, Tressel added: ·"No, not at all. Not at all. But that's easy to say today." 
The junior running back was considered one of the top contenders for the Reisman Trophy behind returning winner Tim Tebow of Florida. Despite several nagging injuries last year, Wells rushed for 1,609 yards and 15 touchdowns. 
Ohio State has not allowed him to speak with reporters since he was injured, although he was 
IN BRIEF Cubs' Zambrano diagnosed
with shoulder tendonitis 
CHICAGO -Cubs ace Carlos Zambrano has right rotator cuff ten­dinitis and inflammation, an MRI con­firmed Thursday, a potential obstacle to Chicago's chances of winning the World Series for the first time in a cen­tury. 
Zambrano received a shot of anti­inflammatory medication and hopes to return to the rotation next week. 
General manager Jim Hendry said Zambrano hopes to start throwing again when the team begins a series in St. Louis on Sept. 10. If all goes well, Zambrano would start at Houston in the following series. 
Zambrano, 13-5 this year, left his start Tuesday night against the Astros after five innings, saying he did not feel well. He was examined Wednesday by team orthopedist Dr. Stephen Gryzlo. 
Zambrano is 1-1 over his last six starts and has made it past the fifth inning only twice. 
quoted as saying by a team spokesman that he was relieved that X-rays had not shown any bro­ken bones. He was seen walking between meet­ings at the team's prac­tice facility on Tuesday, carrying the protective boot while gingerly mak­ing his way in stockinged feet. 
Running backs coach Dick Tressel, Jim's older brother, said on Wednesday night that Wells had not been per­mitted to have contact, or to even put weight on his injured foot. 
"Any time you have a foot injury and you have to tote around 238 pounds at high velocity, it's a day-by-day thing," he said. 
Jim Tressel said Chris Wells' inability to practice all but prevented him from playing against Ohio. 
"I think there's a little bit of risk when you don't practice, not just in the injury department but in the execution depart­ment," he said. 
The Buckeyes will rotate Maurice Wells (who is no relation), Brandon Saine and Dan Herron at the position. 
Much of the state has been in an uproar since 
1 Adrian 
2 Albion 
3 Alma 
4 Calvin 
5 Hope 
6 ·Kalamazoo 
7 Olivet 
8 Trine 
9 SAINT MARY's 

1-0 1-0 1-0 1-0 0-0 0-1 0·1 0-1 0-1 3-2 4-1 3-2 4-1 3·1 2-3 1-4 3-2 3·2 
around the dial 
MLB 

Angels at White Sox 7:11p.m., CSN 
NFL officially recognizes
Bengals' 'Ocho Cinco' CINCINNATI -Call him Ocho Cinco on the field, too. 
The National Football League decid­ed on Thursday to recognize receiver Chad Johnson's legal name change to Chad Ocho Cinco. The new name will be on the back of his Cincinnati Bengals uniform for the season open­er in Baltimore on Sunday. 
The receiver had his name changed in his home state of Florida last week. It's a reference to his uniform number -Ocho Cinco means "eight five" in Spanish. When the NFL celebrated Hispanic Heritage month in 2006, he wore it on the back of his uniform for pregame warmups, but had to remove it for the game because of NFL rules -itwasn't his real name. 
The Pro Bowl receiver asked the media to start calling him by his new name this week. The Bengals couldn't change the name on his uniform until the NFL gave permission. 
Federer reaches 18th 
consecutive major final 
NEW YORK-Roger Federer edged 130th-ranked qualifier Gilles Muller 7-6 (5), 6-4, 7-6 (5) at the U.S. Open on Thursday to reach the semi­finals for the 18th consecutive Grand Slam tournament 
It was Federer's 32nd victory in a row at Flushing Meadows, where he has won the past four championships. 
Despite playing a man who never before was past the third round at a major event, Federer had some trou­ble. He wasted six set points in the opener but closed it out on his sev­enth chance when Muller missed a backhand volley. Federer only went 1-for-11 on break-point chances. 
No other man has played in more than 10 major semifinals in a row. Bidding for a 13th Grand Slam title, which would move him one shy of Pete Sampras' record, Federer will meet No. 3 Novak Djokovic or No. 8 Andy Roddick in the semifinals. 

-

page 16 Friday, September 5, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 
f 
f 
I 
I MLB 
Kazmir's strong start helps Rays avoid sweep 
Jeter, A-Rod hit back-to-back homers in ninth in Yankees loss; Struggling Brewers lose fourth straight game 
Associated Press 
ST. l'ETEHSBUHG, Fla. ­S1~olt Kazmir allownd one hit in six seorcdnss innings, and Tampa Bay's bullpen wnath­nrnd ninth-inning honw runs by Dnrnk .Jntnr and Alox Hodrigunz to hang on for a 7-5 vietory ovnr thn Nnw York Yanknes on Thursday night. 
Willy Aybar homered and drove in thrne runs for tlw AI. East-leading Hays, who avoid­ed a thnHl-ganw sweep and extonded thoir lead in the divi­sion over seeond-plaee Boston to 3 1/2 gamns. 
Thn Bed Sox, who face Tampa Bay six times over the nnxt two wenks. wnre idle. 
Kazmir ( 1 1-6) lirnitnd the Yankees to Cody Hansom's fifth inning double, walked livn and struek out seven, but a high piteh-count (98) prevnntnd him from going deeper into the gamn. Hansom also singled ofT reliever Trnver Miller in thn sevnnth for Nnw York's seeond hit. 
Chad Bradford worked a seornless eighth but Tampa Bay lost its bid for its 13th shutout of the season in the ninth when .Jason Hammel gavn up HBI single to Hansom, who finished 3-for-3, and home runs to Jeter and Hodriguez. 
.Inter's three-run shot to right field moved him within four hits of tying Babe Huth for second on the Yankees career hit list. Hodriguez followed with camer homer No. 550 to trim New York's deficit to 7-5. 
Dan Wheeler replaced Hammel and earned his 11th save in 14 opportunities, retir­ing Xavier Nady on a first­pitch fly ball. 
Aybar capped a live-run sec­ond inning against Darrell Hasner (5-H)) with a two-run single for Tampa Bay. He hit a solo homer in the fourth off Alfredo Aceves. 
The Hays. who lost a series for the first time since the All­Star break, looked bad in dropping the first two games. 
Manager Joe Maddon attrib­uted the flat performances to the way the Yankees have been playing lately and uncharac­teristic mistakes by the Hays ­not the pressure of being in a pennant race in September for the first time. 
Tampa Bay improved the best record in the majors to 85-52, but is 6-9 against New York, one of two AL teams with winning marks against the Hays this year. 
Kazmir walked four in the Jirst threP innings, inducting A­Hod twice. He didn't give up a hit until one out in the fifth when Hansom doubled on a fly ball to shallow right that fell in when Gabe Gross tried to make a shoestring cateh. 
Hasner, 0-3 in nine starts since last winning on July 12, allowed live runs and six hits in 1 1-3 innings. Aybar drove in the last two runs charged to the right-hander with a bases­loaded single off Aceves. 
Gross, Jason Bartlett and Akinori Iwamura also had RBis during the five-run second against the Yankees starter. 
Padres 5, Brewers 2 
Will Venable hit his first eareer homer and the San Diego Padres beat Milwaukee Thursday night, handing the slumping Brewers their fourth straight loss. 
Nick Hundley and Luis Hodriguez each drove in two runs for San Diego, which had lost nine straight on the road and is tied with Washington and Seattle for the fewest wins in the majors. 
With all of the NL's playoff hopefuls taking the day off, maybe Milwaukee should have, too. The Brewers' wild-card lead was trimmed to four games over Philadelphia, and they fell live games behind NL Central-leading Chicago with 22 games left. 
Fresh off being swept by the New York Mets, Milwaukee fell to 0-4 on a 10-game homes­land, but this loss was much more troubling. 
The Padres, mired in last in the NL West, took advantage of every opportunity Jeff Suppan (10-8) and Milwaukee gave them. 
San Di.ego eliminated Milwaukee from postseason contention in its visit last year before the Brewers won the final two of the season to force the Padres into a one-game playoff with Colorado for the wild card that the Rockies won. 
In this four-game series, only San Diego can play spoiler, but the Brewers' problems were self-inflicted Thursday. Milwaukee stranded nine run­ners after leaving 26 on in the series against the Mets. 

Shawn Estes (2-1), making his first start since May after being sidelined with a broken left thumb, allowed one run and seven hits over six innings for San Diego. Trevor Hoffman allowed a leadoff single to Jason Kendall in the ninth before finishing for his 28th save. 
Suppan, who had won his last five decisions and posted a 
3.00 EHA since July 1, strug­gled against the youthful Padres. 
Venable, who was called up from Triple-A Portland last Friday, went deep in the sixth in his sixth big league game. Suppan was chased minutes later after loading the bases on a single to Hundley, an error and an intentional walk. Hodriguez's sacrifice fly off Guillermo Mota gave San Diego a 5-1 lead. 
Hundley had a sacrifice fly in the second and a two-out RBI double in the fourth. Rodriguez's fifth-inning single drove in Brian Giles, who slid in just around Kendall's tag at the plate. . 
J .J. Hardy hit his 22nd homer off Mike Adams in the seventh, cutting the lead to 5­2. 
Milwaukee had its chances, stranding two runners in the first, two in the second, one in the third, three in the fourth after loading the bases with one out and one in the ninth. 

Experie11ce the traditions -and good times offootball weekends at Notre Dame. 
Includes 130 color & blw photos ISBN 978-0-268-04129-8 • $19.00 paperback 
Available at local bookstores, or order online at: VIJIJVW.undpress.nd.edu 


''As head football coach 
at Notre Dame for eleven seasons, I 
was fortunate to witness firsthand the spectacle ofyoung athletes achieving greatness on the field. But football 
weekends at Notre Dame are about so much more rhan the game. William Schmitt's book perfectly 
captures all the traditions that reflect the unique spirit that is the University of Notre Dame." 
-Ara Parseghian 
head football coach, University of Notre Dame, 1964-1974 

Pick up this keepsake book today for your family, friends, and Fighting Irish fans! 
University ofNotre Dame Press 
Tel: 800/621-2736 
Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Fins circle around Favre 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -The messages are spread in black paint across the Miami Dolphins' locker room walls. 
"The fastest way to lose is divi­sion from within," reads one wall. 
"Miami Dolphins players have the makeup!" exclaims another slogan. 
The new regime has tried all sorts of gimmicks to get players motivated. Defensive coordinator Paul Pasqualoni, inheriting one of the NFCs worst units, has fed players old stories and an intense attitude to get them hyped. 
Despite all the offseason tricks, the greatest motivation Pasqualoni gave his defense came in the playbooks this week: stopping Brett Favre and the New York Jets. 
''lie's just such a veteran and has had such a great career and can take over a game," Pasqualoni said Thursday. "He's one of those quarterbacks that can beat you. It's just going to be a big ehallenge going into this game, trying to play with this guy and trying to contain him." 
Trying to contain anyone -let alone a three-time MVP quarter­back -was tough enough last season lor the Dolphins. 
Miami is coming off a 1-15 sea­son that was a defensive mess. The Dolphins ranked last in the AFC in 2007 in scoring defense, giving up 27.3 points a game. 
And some of the best players -Jason Taylor and Zach Thomas -are gone, and an anonymous group is faced with trying to stop the quarterback who broke Dan Marino's touch­down record. 
"I know the kind of quarter­back he is. He's no different than the other 31 quarterbacks in the league," safety Chris Crocker said, chuckling. "lie's just a Hall of Farner. So, you know, I can't say he's too much different." 
The defense has a weapon to help game-plan against Favre: Chad Pennington. 

Perhaps no one knows the Jets' offense better than Pennington, who spent the past eight seasons as the Jets quarterback before he was released to clear space for Favre. It's a unique tool for the Dolphins, even if it's something they're not ready to admit. 
'Til put it to you like this," cor­nerback Will Allen said, "if we did get some things from Chad, we wouldn't tell you." 
Game planning for Favre ­and the rest of the NFL -has been an offseason in the making for Miami's defense. 
The coaching staff has tried to wipe away any leftovers from the losing attitude that surrounded the NFI.:s worst team. In the case of Pasqualoni, the former line­backers coach with the Dallas Cowboys, his favorite tool is sup­plying analogies to keep players interested. 
His defensive motto: Know your assignment, and know you know your assignment. 
But perhaps nothing has res­onated more with the defense than his description of the unit as an old car trying to be "cranked up." 
The metaphor has become a routine discussion among play­ers, who were inspired to create a signature celebration named the "The Flywheel," where they crouch low to the ground and mimic cranking an antique ear after a big play. 
Pasqualoni also has tried to keep players' attention through intimidation, a change from the Cam Cameron-led coaching stafT that seemingly babied players. And Pasqualoni's deep voice has helped. 
Linebacker Channing Crowder, who receives the plays from Pasqualoni in his helmet, called it the "voice of God" last week. Other players also have taken notice. 
MLB 
Injuries, losing streak raise concerns for Cubs· 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Ryan Dempster stepped out in front of the team's headquarters at the beginning of spring training nearly seven months ago and made a bold statement: He said he thought the Chicago Cubs would win the World Series. 
Dempster's optimism remains intact, despite a recent funk that has seen the first-place Cubs drop five straight games for the first time this season. 
And not only are the Cubs try­ing to weather the losing skid, they learned Thursday that ace Carlos Zambrano has rotator cuff tendinitis, a condition that required an injection of anti­inflammatory medication. 
Zambrano, who will miss his turn Sunday in Cincinnati, hopes to begin throwing in St. Louis when the Cubs go there next Wednesday. 10. And if all goes well, he could rejoin the rotation for a series in Houston and pitch against the Astros. 
"It's a relief knowing Z doesn't have anything more significant than what we thought. And hopefully he'll pitch in Houston, which means he will only miss one turn," general manager Jim Hendry said Thursday. 
So, in the 1OOth anniversary year of their last World Series win, the Cubs are sorting out some major issues. They have 22 games remaining and just six are at Wrigley Field, where they are 51-24. 
"Obviously you lose five in a row and don't play as well as you are capable, it's frustrating for everybody," said Dempster, who has 15 wins after being converted from a closer. "There are better times ahead. I prom­ise that." 
But will those days ahead include Zambrano? Big Z left his start Tuesday 
night after five innings, telling pitching coach Larry Rothschild he didn't feel well and wanted to be taken out. He had been slat­ed to pitch last Sunday but got two days extra rest for what was described as a tired arm. 
!lis right arm was more than just weary. 
Zambrano, on the disabled list in June with a sore shoulder, was examined by team orthope­dist Dr. Stephen Gryzlo and then had an MHI on Thursday that confirmed the original diagno­sis. 
"Dr. Gryzlo has been right-on with all his evaluations this year, and he felt this was not going to be a significant prob­lem," Hendry said. "It was not like the situation where he had to be put on the DL after Tampa. And Carlos never felt it was going to be that serious either." 
Chicago also is taking a cau­tious approach with hard­throwing Hich Harden -who will go 12 days between starts because he has some discomfort in his arm. Sean Marshall will start for Zambrano on Sunday. 
"There's no good time when people are out," Hendry said. "We have a lot of confidence in Marshall, Dempster's had a great year, Ted Lilly's as tough as they come and (Jason) Marquis has been throwing the ball real well." 
Sore arms, bad luck and strange occurrences are part of the Cubs' lore, especially since their 2003 collapse in the NLCS, when they were five outs from their first World Series appear­ance since 1945. In the ensuing seasons, repeated arm problems for Kerry Wood and Mark Prior sidetracked the Cubs and even­tually led to the departures of both manager Dusty Baker and chief executive officer Andy MacPhail. Wood has since returned as a top closer. 


·tftCgl&· 
Friday Septembers. 2008 • 7:00pm Saint Patrick's Park South Bend. Indiana 
Tickets on sclle now ot the Morris Box Office. charge by phone 574/235-9190. or online www.morriscenter.org. Also at all Ticketmoster locations. Charge by phone 574/272-7979 or www.ticketmoster.com. $25.00 odvoncef$30.00 day of show tto lawn choirs or coolers -o blanket. This is. o no show. 
-

.------------------------------------------------------­
---------·­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 5, 2008 
NFL 

Culpeppers rolls out of NFL after 9 seasons 
Former Vikings, Dolphins, and Raiders quarterback anounces retirement after failing to land starting job 
Associated l'ress 
MIAMI -l>auntn Culpeppnr summed up his thoughts Thursday in two words, whieh ushnrml in the start of a nnw era for thP fornwr Pro Bowl quartllrhack. 
"Farewnll NFL," lw wrote. 
With that. a r.arnnr onen 
fillnd with sueh promisn eanw 
t.o a most uncPrPmonious nnd. 
Cui pnppN, who starred for ttw Mimwsota Vikings lwforn a major kruw injury in 2005 eur­taiiPd his r.arPPr. announeNI his rntirPrnPnt in an n-mail Thursday morning. saying lw's simply grown tin•d of lighting for OllP mon~ opportunity. 
T h n :{ 1-ye a r-o I d w as t lw Vikings' first-round draft choice in 1999, lwcanw tlwir full-tinw startPr a ynar latnr, and tnanwd with Handy Moss to piiP up yards and touch­downs at an imprPssive ratn. 
But hn hurt his right krwe in Oetolwr 2005, nnvPr playod for the Vikings again, and never Slwmnd to return to his past lnvnl. oithnr. 
"When frno agnncy lwgan this ynar, I had a nnw snnso of exr.itnmPnt about continuing to rnbuild my carnor in tho samn way that I had rebuilt my krwn aftPr my catastrophic injury in 2005," Culpoppor said. "Unfortunatnly, what I found out was that the ll~ague did not share any of thn opti­mism about me as an unr<~­strietod l'rne agent that I oxpected. In l'aet. there was an overwlwlming snnsn that thoro was no room for me among this year's group of' quarter­backs." 
Tho Miami Dolphins a c q u i r o d h i m i n 2 0 0 (J i n oxd1angn for a soeond-round pick, but CulpPppnr played only four games lwforn being shut. down boeausn of eontin­und knon problnms. 1111 was saeknd 21 times in those f1lur ganws. and his brinf stint with Miami had two compelling images: 
-(;etti ng sacked seven limns in his first home gam1~. 
whnre fans booed him by half­
limn. 
-Walking off the field dur­
ing minicamp in June 2007 
because the Dolphins wouldn't 
let him play. and flanked by a 
team security of'lieial. 
"Now that dream to get back on the field and prove every­body wrong is behind him," said Dolphins defensive line­man Vonnie llolliday, who talked to Culpepper about his ongoing comeback qunst this sumnwr. "It has to be tough.... Wlwn lw was healthy, hn was clnl1nitPiy onn of the best." 
Last season, the Oakland Haidnrs took a shot on Culpepper. and he madn fivP starts tlwrn. albnit only getting live touchdown passes in thosn ganws. And ovnr the past few months, lw tried to gel. any opportunity around the leaguP. even saying just last wm~k that lw'd be willing to be Aaron Hodgers' backup in (;reon Bay. 
There were no takers, and Culpnpper saw no reason to kenp waiting. 
"Since I was not given a fair chance to come in and com­pete for a job, I would rather move on and win in othnr are­nas of' life." Culpoppnr said. 
In Minnesota, Culpepper's deeision was met with disap­pointment, evnn though he hadn't played there for years. 
"Very surprising. Surprising that he hasn't gotten a job, too. Sad," Vikings safety Darren Sharper said. "Last year I didn't think he played bad in Oakland. I've seen quarterbacks that are still playing in this league today play a lot worse.... And they still have jobs. So I don't know thn rnason for it." 
Culpepper completed 64 per­ennt of his passes in a nine­year career, with 142 touch­downs. The 6-f'oot-4, 265­pounder out of Central Florida was a thrne-time Pro Bowl selection, and he was at his bnst in 2004, whnn he estab­lished earner-highs in yards (4,717), touchdowns (39) and 


passing rating (110.9). 

Tlwn came the knee injury, and it all went downhill from thoro, even though Culpepper -who has served as his own agent and announced his retirement in an e-mail ­believes he can still compete. 
"No matter what I did or said, there seemed to bo a uni­fied message from teams that I was not welcome to compete for one of the many jobs that were available at the quarter­back position," Culpepper said. 
Culpepper said, without cit­ing anyone by name, that he 
was told he'd get a chance with some teams this season when other quarterbacks got injurml. Friends, family mem­bers and "league personnel" also advised him, Culpepper said, to continue waiting for a chance and postponing any decision on retirement. 
"If he was anywhere close to 100 percent, it would seem teams would have to take a shot at him," Holliday said. "You look at the league and you see a lot of teams don't have that high-profile. quality quarterback." 
Sometime in the past six days, though, Culpnpper's mind was made up. 
"I want to thank my family and my fans for their unwa­vering belief in me as a person and a player," Culpepper said. "I embraced both th1~ peaks and the valleys of thn game and my earner. I am a better pnrson today as a direct result of the experience of playing in the NFL. I can now focus on the enjoyment of watching some of the greatest athletes in the world play tho game I love without the distraction of waiting for thosn nlusive return phone ealls." 



FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant 11 00 am · Midnight Pub 1100 am -2:00am 
SATURDAY Restaurant. 8:00am -Midnight Pub: 8:00am -2:00am 
574.631.2582 www.legendsofnotredame org 

edetvtate witl't .&p!fdj! 
Join us after the pep rally for food, drinks, and plenty of football coverage on our 144" screen and 16 large, flat screen TVs. Return on Saturday for our pregame party and enjoy breakfast, lunch, and our tailgate menu. Spend your weekend with friends and fans at Legends! 



Master something a little easier, like your personal finances. 
Wells Fargo knows that college can be a challenging time. That's why we have a wide range of tools to help you along the way, from checking and savings to a College Combo"' specifically designed to help you be financially successful. And best of all, you'll get someone to answer your questions and help you make sense of it all. Why wait for someday? 5M Stop by Wells Fargo, visit wellsfargo.com/student or calll-800-WFB-OPEN (1-800-932-6736) today. 
e>2008 Wells Fargo Bank N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. (117926_1 0322) 

-
Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
NeVVlllan' s injury 111ay 111ake Parman a starter 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Call him Adam Jones or Pacman. Maybe even call him a starter. 
Because the Dallas Cowboys are wary of corner­back Terence Newman's groin injury, there's a chance .Iones will make his Dallas debut as part of the starting lineup Sunday in Cleveland. 
"Yeah, if we didn't start Newman, Adam .Iones would start," coach Wade Phillips said Thursday. 
Even if Newman can play and starts, he's likely to get more rest than usual ­which still means more play­ing time for Jones in his first NFL game since the finale of the 2006 season. when he was with Tennessee. 
"I don't have a prefer­ence," Phillips said. "I wouldn't want to hold back Adam if that was the case. I feel good about how he's play~d and he is ready to play. 
Newman missed nearly all of training camp, and the entire preseason, while dealing with a slightly torn groin muscle. He returned to practice last week and was listed as fully going through drills Wednesday. On Thursday, however, he was 
listed as limited participa­tion. 
Phillips said there was no setback, just a mistake in the way Newman was listed Wednesday. Phillips said Newman did the same thing both days. 
"I don't definitely say he'll play. It looks good for him right now. But we'll see where he is tomorrow," Phillips said. "I don't think he's completely back yet. We're being cautious and I think that's the right thing to do." 
Newman missed the first two games last season because of a foot injury. The Cowboys eased him back into action, bringing him off the bench each of the next two games. 
"We learned last year about Terence that you need to bring him along slowly when he's missed rather than just throwing him in there," Phillips said. "We kind of winged him in last year and that's pretty much the .same process right now. ... It could be that situation (again). Or it might be that he plays the whole game. I don't have a feel for it yet. We'll see how he did after today's practice and if we're going to limit him some tomorrow or not." 
NFL 
Giants begin title defense 
Super Bowl champs shut down Redskins offense in 16-7 victory 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­The New York Giants won the Super Bowl with defense and they kicked off defense of that title with more of the same. 
Playing without Pro Bowl line­men Michael Strahan and Osi Umenyiora, New York limited the new-look Washington Redskins to 11 first downs and 209 total yards and gave indications that these Giants are back for another run in a 16-7 victory that ushered in the NFL season Thursday night. 
"We played well and it's no sur­prise to us," defensive tackle Barry Cofield said. "We feel like we got capable guys and we held them for very few yards other than the two-niinute situations where the got most of their yardage. We are confident in our defense and feel like if we stick with the scheme we'll have suc­cess all year." 
Super Bowl MVP Eli Manning, Plaxico Burress and the rest of the offense that started the Super Bowl against the New England Patriots also came up big in spoil­ing the debut of Redskins coach Jim Zorn and his West Coast offense. 
Manning capped a game-open­ing 84-yard drive with a 1-yard touchdown run and recently signed John Carney kicked three field goals as the Giants scored on their first four possessions in post­ing a rare home win. They won their final 11 away from Giants Stadium in capturing their third Super Bowl, but they were 3-5 at home, losing the last four games. 
The win capped a fun-filled opening night for Giants fans, who saw the retired Strahan hold up the Lombardi Trophy just minutes before the opening kickoff . 
"It was a great opening to the season," said Manning, who com­pleted 19 of 35 for 216 yards and an interception. "There was a lot of emotion, a lot of excitement. You could feel it in the crowd. It was great to see Michael holding the trophy. 
"It was a great crowd. They were fired up. It was good to play well at home and to win a game at home. It's been a while." 
Coordinator Steve Spagnuolo· and his defense made sure the home woes came to an end. In the process he might have mad~ Hedskins owner Dan Synder think twice about trying harder to hire him. 
Spagnuolo was a serious candi­date to replace Joe Gibbs until backing out to stay with the Giants. 
Zorn eventually got the job, but his offense did little against Spagnuolo's aggressive defense, which limited Washington to three of 13 third-down conver­sions. 
Jason Campbell threw a 12­yard touchdown pass to Santana Moss with 13 seconds to play in the first half to account for the Redskins' points. The score was set up by a Giants' special teams lapse, a 50-yard kickoff return by Rock Cartwright. 

Washington only got in New York territory three times in the game, the last time in the final seconds. 
"A team held us to three and out for over half the game," said Redskins halfback Clinton Portis, who had 84 yards on 23 carries. "We have to be better than that." 
The only concern for the Giants was that defensive end Mathias Kiwanuka went down with an ankle injury on the final play, but he said after the game that he was OK. He was switched from linebacker to end when Umenyiora was lost for the season with a knee injury in the presea­son. 
Other than that the game belonged to the Giants, who have been overlooked when it comes to their chances of repeating. Their odds were 25-1 heading into the game. 
"We are not worried about what people are saying," middle linebacker Antonio Pierce said. "We are trying to win games. You have to get to the Super Bowl to repeat, and if we don't make the playoffs if won't matter. Right now our goal is to win the divi­sion." 

.... 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 5, 2008 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles off to Wabash for first road llleet of year 
other beyond their comfort
By KATE GRABAREK zone. I don't know that any­

Sports Writer 

one is taking charge, rather 
the team is realizing their 
Saint Mary's will hit the roles and their potential." road this wnnkend for its first This weeknnd's meet differs away mont of the snason. from the team's typical 5K 
Tlw team will travel to tlw race. In this pair relay style, Wabash Invitational to com­each Belles' tandem of two pnte against a nin1~-team field rumwrs will run two miles ­of And1~rson. DePauw, four miles per pair. Franklin. Indianapolis, "I· rn hoping to see us Indiana Tech. improve on the Marian, Hose-things we saw It u l m a n . at the Alumnae
"/ believe the team
Wabash and Hace," Bauters VincPmws. and myselfreally try said. "Small Tlw BPlles ran groups working
to create a 
t.lwir first racn together to
supportive, positiue 
of tho sPasorJ at push each home last environment for other and sen Saturday com­the importaneo
everyone to 
pPting in the of the team. I
succee'd in." 
first annual expect them to Alurnruw Baen. put their best "Thn tnam is Jackie Bauters effort forward." looking gn~at," With four new
Belles coach 
Bnllns coaeh .laekie Bauters said. "I think tlw tPam ran wnll and really got a fnel for raeing together again. We have work to do, but I am VPry happy with tlw start to the season, and it was a n~ally fun WIWkPnd for tlw tPam and t.hosn who ranw to join us." 
The tnam is also dnaling with tlw advPrsity of losing its top two rumwrs from last S!~a­son. Mngan (;ray graduatnd and sophomorn Samantha Winczon~k is out for the sea­son with a kiWI~ injury. 
"Evoryorw is stPpping up," Bautl~rs said. "WP havn a great group that is working hard together to push each 
freshmen this 
year, the team 

is trying to help the girls get through their first couple of weeks on cam­pus. 
"So far I believe th ny arn handling the balaneP of being a student-athlete well," Bauters said. "I believe tlw team and myself really try to rn~ate a supportive, positivn environment for everyone to succeed in." 
Following this weekend. tlw BP!lns will next compete in the Bradley Invitational in Peoria, Ill.,onSept.l2. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at KgrabaO I @saintmarys.edu 
SMC GoLF 

Saint Mary's starts year slovvly 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 

Entering the first MIAA Jamboree of the season, Saint Mary's had hoped to make some noise and establish itself as the premier team in the conference and one of the pre­mier teams in Division Ill golf. 
The Belles, however, found themselves in a familiar posi­tion after the 18-hole competi­tion, finishing in third place with a cumulative score of 340 behind defending ehampion Olivet College and llope College, who finished with scores of 322 and :n&. respee­tively. 
Despite the third place fin­ish, the Belles had their fair share of strong individual rounds. All five Saint Mary's golfers finished with one of the 25 lowest scores of the tourna­ment. Sophomore Rosie O'Connell's 83 was the low round for the Belles and 1Oth­best in the field. 
The three Saint Mary's fresh­men that started did not disap­point, as each golfer broke 90. Freshman Natalie Matuszak continued hnr solid play and finished right on O'Connell's heels with an 84. good for 11th in the field. Fellow freshman Christine Brown finished with an 85, which tied for the 12th lowest round in the finld. 
Matuszak and Brown's elass­mate Kailey Jacob finished in a tie for the 17th lowest round in the field with her seem~ of 88. Senior Perri Hamma's 92 was tied for the 23th lowest score in the field. 
Olivet's 322 set a new MIM course reeord at the Medalist Golf Club. Olivefs strong per­formance was a result of superb individual performane­es, as all five Olivet golfers fin­ished with seores of 85 or lower. Junior Megan Rimnwl's 78 was the lowost seorn of the day. 
Saint Mary's returns to the course on Sept. 20 at the Zollner Golf Course, the home coursn of Trinn University. 
Contact Mike Gotimer 'at mgotime@nd.edu 
NFL 

Collier showing progress 
Associated Press 

.JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­Jaguars offensive tackle Hichard Collier is making grad­ual improvement from gunshot wounds but is "not out of the woods yet," his agent told a newspaper Thursday. 
Collier remained in eritieal but stable condition in the intonsive care unit at Shands .Jacksonville Medical Center, but agent Jeff Jankovich told the Florida Times-Union he was encouraged by what limited knowledge he has of Collier's condition. 
"(The family) seems pretty upbeat he's going to make it," Jankovich told the paper. "He's awake at times. lin's still in intensive care. but he's stable. Every time they've talked to the doctors. it seems like it's a little bit better. It's still pn~carious. There may be morn surgery needed, but it seems oncourag­ing at this point." 
Jankovich did not imnwdiatn­ly rnturn a phone call or an e­mail from The Associated Press. 
Collil~r. a 6-foot-7, 345-pound backup, was shot several times while sitting in his Cadillac Escalade early Tuesday morn­ing. Collier and former team­mate Kenneth Pettway were waiting outside an apartment complex for two women when the attack occurred. 


Police have no suspects in the case, and Collinr's family has n'questPd privac:y from the hos­pital and tlHl Jaguars regarding his mndical condition. 
.Jankovieh mnphasized the need for caution because Collior's progress has bnPn gradual, though tlw family rnmains hopeful that his rncov­ery will continue moving in a positive direction. The agent didn't give any specifies about where or how many times Collier was shot or what type of surgery he had. 


t ht~ iterns you net~ d v,nt h a Member s.h ip e:.:clusively for college studl:'nl<.--complete with a $15 Gdt Card to kick-start your savings. 
SHARE WITH A COLLEAGUE AND SAVE EVEN MORE 
For $40, you'll receive all the benef1ts of an Adva11lage i·v'1embership. College students with a valid student ID 
. and a university C.edu) e-mail account are eligibiP. 
SAM'S CLUB 120 INDIAN RIDGE BLVD MISHAWAKA, IN 
&• ,, "''I '' 
••l.oltll<'tl r .. '' •·>J-.. 
• M..h.ow41b II ·• 1• I 

574-243-8048 



Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
the Tar Heels more than twice. North Carolina Friday, they anchored by senior co-captain forward Kerri Hanks, the In addition, North Carolina will will take the field Sunday Carrie Dew, who was named reigning Top Drawer Soccer
Fetzer 
be seeking revenge after Notre against Duke, another team ori Big East defensive player of the national player of the week, Dame ended its season a year the hunt for vengeance against week for the second consecu­leads the Irish with four goals
continued from page 24 
ago with a 3-2 Notre Dame. A tive time on Monday. But the to go with one assist. We're expecting about four or win in the third week before unit will be pressured by North "Their offense is great but five thousand people to show round of the 'The North Carolina-knocking out Carolina's potent attackers. we expect to have a lot of up so the place should be elec­N C A A North Carolina Led by senior midfielder Allie chances against them, too,
Notre Dame series 
tric." Tournament at last season, the Long and junior forward Nikki with all the firepower that we
has two ofthe most
The Irish are just 3-9-2 Fetzer Field. Irish bounced Washington, who each have have on our side," Waldrum against North Carolina all-time "The North storied programs in the Blue Devils four points, the Tar Heels have said. and 1-2 at Fetzer Field, which Carolina-Notre from the sec­averaged three goals a game in Notre Dame's 3-0 record
women's soccer, so we
is located on the Chapel Hill Dame series has ond round of wins over Charlotte, Texas stands in stark contrast to its
really bring out the
campus. two of the most the NCAA A&M and Tennessee. disappointing 2-3-2 record to 
And despite Notre Dame's storied programs best in each other. ,, Tournament.· "They're offense is certainly begin last season. The Irish poor overall mark against the in women's soc­The Irish a big challenge," Waldrum look to add an exclamation Tar Heels, this will be one of cer, so we really defense has said. "There's not many teams point to their hot start when
Randy Waldrum 
North Carolina's most impor­bring out the been impene­that can hold them to two or they go toe-to-toe with some of
Irish coach 
tant games of the year. The best in each trable so far, three shots a game like we've the best programs in the coun­Irish are one of North other," Waldrum allowing just been doing to teams." try this weekend. Carolina's main rivals, in part said. five total shots At the Fetzer Classic, the because the Irish are one of If the Irish have any energy on goal in the team's three Irish will look to continue their Contact Fran Tolan at only two teams to have beaten left after the showdown with games. The back line is offensive dominance. Senior ftolan@nd.edu 

Unmistakably Italian 
•Full menu-Serving to 
11:00pm 
•Great Food and Spl 
219 North Front 
Street 
Niles, Michigan 

10 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS ON 
Contemporary favorites including Salmonc alia Griglia, Tri-Color Tortellini, signature Sizzelini® and generous portions of Italian Classics like Lasagna and Chicken Parmesan 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 
CATERING 1332 Hilltop Rd. 
For 1mery occasio 11 St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 


Recruits 
continued from page 24 
an area he needs to continue to recruit to succeed." 
Another New Jersey product that committed in the middle of May is inside linebacker Carlo Calabrese. Coming out of Verona High School in Verona, N.J., Calabrese is a force to be reckoned with in terms of stop­ping the run. More than any­thing, Frank feels, Calabrese has the type of attitude that the Irish are looking for in high school recruits. 
"Carlo plays the game like it should be played," Frank said. "The play stops when Carlo hits you. He's a guy that's going to hit you every play he goes out there. He's fast and I think some will be surprised with how aggressive he is on the field." 
Over the summer, the Irish coaches hit the recruiting trail and picked up some big names along the way. The second week of July, however, proved to be one that solidified some of the key players of the class of 2009 thus far. In the span of seven days, Notre Dame picked up verbal commitments from cornerback Marlon Pollard, who originally committed to UCLA, tight end Tyler Eifert and offensive guard Chris Watt. 
Pollard originally wasn't scheduled to visit the Notre Dame campus, but after the Cajon High School product had an extra day in Chicago at the Offense-Defense Sports Select Football Camp, he decided to visit the Irish. That was all the coaching staff needed as spe­cial teams coach Brian Polian showed the four-star corner around campus and received his pledge to play for Notre Dame. Frank thinks Pollard could eventually be one of the biggest commits of the class. 
"It was a real big deal to land another corner this early on in the process," Frank said: "Pollard's a little undersized, but at 6-foot-1, he's got good height to play against other receivers. He has extremely quick feet, maybe quicker than anybody on the [Irish] roster right now. He could be a leader in the secondary with his tal­ent." 
Watt, out of Glenbard West High School in Illinois is a phys­ical presence and is exactly what Notre Dame needed, according to Frank. 
"Chris is exactly what the coaching staff was looking for," he said. "He's a player that's going to hit you during the play, and he might hit you after the whistle too. Not to say that he gives cheap shots, but he's extremely aggressive and loves the contact. 
"It was a big get because he's a Chicago kid and it was impor­tant to land him. With him on one side and Trevor Robinson on the other, the Notre Dame running game could be good for years to come." 
Lying in the road ahead for the Irish are a couple of blue­chip prospects that are being heavily recruited by most large programs across the nation. Outside linebackers Jelani Jenkins out of Wheaton, Md., and Manti Te'o out of Honolulu, Hawaii headline the names along the defense. 
"It's hard to tell with Jenkins because no one really talks to him," Frank said. "He came for a visit with his stepfather and mother, and his father likes Notre Dame too. I'd say Notre Dame will definitely be in his top five. If the Irish can win some games, they'll be in better shape." 
Te'o's situation is very simi­lar, Frank said. 
"Manti's case is almost the same situation," he said. "Weis has done an excellent job of staying in touch with him and recruiting him very hard. Notre Dame needs to bring him up for a visit to have a shot here. I've been hearing that they're working on bringing him for the [Pittsburgh] game, but I think the Irish have a better shot at Te'o than most people think." 
The other big name Irish fans are hearing a lot of is Xavier Nixon, a left tackle out of Jack Britt in Fayetteville, N.C. This is perhaps the most vital position left on the board for the Notre Dame, due to its recent strug­gles with the position. Like most recruits, Frank thinks the visit will tell the story. 
"Xavier will definitely come up at some point," he said. "If not during the s~ason, they'll look to bring him afterwards, but they need him on campus. His family likes the coaching staff and the education that Notre Dame brings. He's a highly recruited guy, so he's hearing from just about every program in the nation. He wants to know how the Irish will play and how he'll fit in. Having Corwin Brown recruit­ing him has been an advantage because Brown has struck up an excellent relationship with Nixon and his family." 
As the season kicks off Saturday against San Diego State, all eyes will be on the Irish and how they will respond to last year. None will be as important as the high school recruits on the fence about the Irish. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
page 22 Friday, September 5, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 
Idaho 
continued from page 24 
also eontributed 30 kills apincn. Seiacea was se!f1cted to the Big East honor roll this wenk. 
Brown said her team has been foeusing on improving its offensive efficiency this week in pradien. 
"We did pinpoint a few areas," Brown said. "We were struggling in a few rotations, so we just tried to work those rotations out." 
Eastern Washington enters the tournament with a 1-2 record. participating in last weekend's llilton Classic in Fort Collins. Colo. Despite the losing record, the Eagles pushed No. 17 Colorado State to a fifth set before falling at tho wire. 
Like the Irish, host Idaho enters the tournament 2-1. The Vandals notched wins last weekend over South Dakota State and Southeast Missouri State, with their only loss being to No. 15 Middle Tenrwssee State. 
Idaho is led by senior out­side hitter llaley Larson, the reigning WAC Player of the Wonk, who has 49 kills on the season. 
"I think it's a pretty eompeti­tive field and I know we're going to bn t11stnd," Brown said. "W11're just looking to put oursnlvns in competitive situations and rllspond posi­tivnly to that." 
Notrn Damn's final oppo-

Valpo 
continued from page 24 
Dame on Sept. 19. 
lin said thn ment is mostly a way to gaugn the lnvPI of fitness and tlw cornpntitivn nature of his runners. 
"Thny're 

"They're going to be
going to b11 run­men, led by ning tirnd," he running tired. We'll head coach Joe said. "Wn'll sP.n Piane, finished
see who can dig deep 
who can dig 21st of 30
when it starts to
deep wlwn it teams at the starts to hurt." hurt." N C A A The Irish men Championship. have won the In addition to
Tim Connelly 
Crusader Opnn hosting the
Irish coach 
four times in a National 
r·ow and are looking to rnakf~ it live with a host of uppPrdassmnn return­ing. 
Snnior Patrick Smyth. who l'inishnd 15th at last ynar's NCAA Championships as a jun-
Recycle The Observer. 

nent, Washington State, is the only undefeated team coming into the event, sporting a 3-0 record after winning last weekend's Boise State Bronco Invite. Junior defensive spe­eialistllibero Kelly Hyder is third in the PAC-10 with 4.36 digs per set. 
This weekend marks the first time Notre Dame will play a volleyball game in the state of Idaho, but Brown doesn't think the unusual travel schedule will bother her team. 
"We sometimes play better on the road than we do at home," Brown said. "It's not necessarily a real easy trip, but I don't think it should allect us." 
Notes: 
+Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown was honored by her alma mater, USC, on Thursday night during the Trojans' match against Oklahoma. Brown won national champi­onships with the Trojans in 197 6 and 1977. also winning the Mikasa Award as the "nation's best all-around play­er" in those years. A perma­nent banner with Brown's name will hang in the Galen Center. 
''I'm really honored and cer­tainly it's a testament to the teams we had here," Brown said. "To be a part of the first two national championships at USC was just a great experi­ence for me." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
ior, will be leading the Irish on the men's side. Smyth has earned two All-American acco­lades in cross-country and one in traek and field. 
Chris Hodriguez. now a sBn­ior li1r the Irish, won the men's 6k course last year at the Crusader Open with a time of 
19:51. 
The Irish 

Catholic Championships, Notre Dame will host the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 3. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
OPEN HOUSE Sun., Sept. ih, 2-4 18160 Lisbon Dr. Farmington Hills Subdv. 4 BDRM., 2 Yz Bath Approx. 2333 Sq. Ft. Hdwd, Floors, Lg. Kitchen Formal DR., & Fin. BSMT 
Lots of Storage Deborah Crowder 
The Bulls shut out Bowling Green 3-0 in their season
Berticelli 
continued from page 24 

Union Classic, completes the four-team field. 
"They're both tournament teams the last couple years," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It should be two very testing games. Quite dif­
opener Aug. 30, receiving goals from Zak Boggs, Jordan Seabrook and Bernardo Anor. Returning nine starters from a team that adv-anced to the third round of the NCAA Championships, South Florida was picked to win the Big East Red Division. 
"Dartmouth 

ferent games, but both will be chal­ "We didn't play so  is always one of the top  
lenging for sure."  very badly on Friday,  teams in the  
The Irish have never played Dartmouth,  but the goals came Sunday. If you could  Ivy League," Clark said. "USF will be  
where  Clark  find the magic  different:  
coached  from  formula to that, it'd  they're  very  
1985-1993. The Big Green return  be easy.,  athletic and have a great  
their  top  three  Caribbean fla­ 
scorers from last  Bobby Clark  vor  about  
year's  11-4-3  Irish coach  them."  
team, including  The  Irish  
senior  Craig  will  look  to  

Henderson, who competed in start this weekend on a better the Summer Olympics with note than last, when they fell New Zealand. He led the team to No. 12 Akron 3-0 on Friday with six goals and four assists night in Bloomington, Ind. last year. Notre Dame, then-ranked No. 
South Florida, like Notre 3, rebounded to beat Duke 4-1 Dame, competes in the Big Sunday. East conference, but the two "We didn't play so very are not scheduled to play each badly on Friday, but the goals other in the regular season. came Sunday," Clark said. "If Sunday's match will not count you could find the magic for­toward conference standings. mula to that, it'd be easy." 
Senior forward Bright Dike led the Irish charge against Duke, scoring two goals for his first career multi-goal game. Junior midfielder Justin Morrow scored Notre Dame's first goal -a erucial one, Clark said. 
"Jt's very important to get the first goal," he said. "When Akron got the first goal. we had to open up to get back in the game and that gave them space to give us a tough time and score some goals -and it was the opposite against Duke. The first goal is always very important -if you don't get it, you've got to chase it carefully." 

The Irish hope to avoid that ehase by taking the advantage from the opening kick-off ­right after Nino Berticelli, the son of the tournament's name­sake and a 1999 Notre Dame graduate, makes a ceremonial opening kick-off. Berticelli was an assistant coach for the Irish in 2000, the year after his father's passing and before Clark took the helm. 
Notre Dame will next hit the field with its Big East opener, Sept. 11 at home against Marquette. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


F A L L 2 0 0 8 T 0 U R 
Washington Hall, University of Notre Dame 
General Public $20 • Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $18 • Students $12 
Tickets are available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office. Call 574-631-2800 or purchase online at performingarts.nd.edu. 
~$']UNIVERSITY OF
SIIAKFSPE/\H..E 
/I.T NOTRL [),A.Ml ~NOTRE DAME 

du. 
---------------. 

Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

HENRI ARNOLDMICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE

BLAcK DoG MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JruJMJID11JK 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Just salad and lean meat to form four ordinary words. 
EXIDO 
± 
NUMIS 

CIJ 
WHENEP 
THE CROSS-COUNTRY TRUCKER 5 T A YEO
rJ 
1 
THIN WHEN HE WATCHED THIS--­
www.jumble.com 
FALOTA 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rI J [ J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

THE" rI I I ]" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: DALLY PRUNE JITNEY BUSILY Answer: Most brides look stunning, but some grooms are -STUNNED 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across <!tl Heacn 1n total 0 I Laoor CICliVISl Silkwood
1 Mover of 29 Inner ear? merchandise 52 1860 campaign 
32 "Draft Dodger nickname

9 Deadens Rag" singer 53 Catch 
14 Like singing in a 33 Athletic schedule 54 Survivor of many 
shower list battles
16 Ship sinker 34 Ordering option 17 Unwilling to get 
35 Spaying Downorganized customer? 

"Born from jets"18 Divine 36 South-of-the­company19 Showing border homes 

2 It might make extreme 37 Pack animal you red in the
embarrassment 
38 Pack animal? face ~0 War 
39 1 970s American 3 Around the("Charge of the Motors car witching hour
Light Brigade" conflict) 40 They often make 4 Archetypes a splash 5 Drove
~2 Fictional parrot type featured in 44 Where to find 6 Extends, as a Monty Python's tree spirits lease "dead parrot 45 While traveling 7 Choose not to sketch" say?
48 Lieutenant of ~4 7 and 11 Capone 8 Mideast grp. 
~6 Some swings in 9 Tackled Puzzle by Patrick Berry 
49 Having trouble 

a ring energetically
delivering the 25 Competition 36 The M-1 , for one 42 Prefix with ~7 Threw a tantrum eulogy, say 
1 0 W.W. II enders, 28 Bookwork, e.g. 371mpolite chloride for short 43 Singer Lewis ~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Architect's 29 Dextrose 38 Snapper, of a with the 2008 #1 
starting point 30 Big brute sort 
hit "Bleeding 31 Wellington, e.g. 39 Nose, slangily Love" nation that 
33 Tree-dwelling 40 Eggheaded 46 Slow-moving 
hosted the 1Oth ships
snake experts season of 47 Sword: Fr.
34 Enter, as a cross 41 Dealing with 
"Survivor" street honey makers 50 -to
13 "Diamonds Are a ­Girl's Best Friend" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800·814-5554.
composer Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
15 Plato and crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
Aristotle, e.g. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 24 Play thing solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


FRIDAYS WITH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) If the Tin Man really had no heart, wouldn't he have strangled that yappy dog Todo? 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct.22) Check out the gum stuck to my leg. 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) Don't force it, feel it. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Don't go into the long grass ... That's where the raptors are. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Drink Knapstein!! 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) If you don't like these horoscopes, DX has two words for ya. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) Tim the Toolman Taylor has a huuuuge tool. 
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) Take Grambling and the over. 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) Call (914) 924-3717 and tell him, "Look whatcha did, ya little jerk." 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) I can see liking pina coladas but who honestly likes getting caught in the rain? Rain makes one feel icky. 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) Search for the whereabouts of Aaron Carter's once-promising career. 
Leo (July 23-Aug.22) San Diego State might have the superior football team but Notre Dame girls have much better tans. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, September 5, 2008 
page 24 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Wood, Stockton highlight impressive early 2009 commitments 
By LORENZO REYES 
Spons Writer 
I low Notre Dame was able to havn a 3-<J rneord last season and still retain arguably the top recruiting class in the nation has boggled the minds of many across the nation. If anything, it is a testament to the effort and skill that head coaeh Charlie Wnis and the rest of the Irish eoaehing staff has to bring in top taltmt. 
Although the 2008 season has yet to start, Notre Dame has already received verbal com­mitments from many of the top players in the nation -some of these coming in positions of key needs. 
The first notable player to jump on board was running back Cierre Wood from Santa Clara lligh School in Oxnard, Calif. Hanked as a five-star recruit at Scout.com, Wood brings an element of speed, explosiveness and playmaking ability from both the backfield and special teams. Wood com­mitted during the weekend of the spring Blue-Gold game and his interest in the Irish turned some heads due to last season's record and the heavy competi­tion at the running back posi­tion. 

Tyler Stockton, a defensive tackle out of The Hun School in Princeton, N.J., also verbally committed to Notre Dame dur­ing the spring game. Irisheyes.com's Mike Frank thinks very highly of Stockton and feels that Irish fans will recall a recent ~tandout along the defensive front when watching Stockton. 
"Tyler is a very big pickup for the coaching staff," Frank said. "He's short, compact and can penetrate and make some plays in the backfield. He's a huge piekup because defensive tack­le has been a position that· Notre Dame has struggled to recruit in the past. I think he'll remind a lot of people of Trevor 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 

Headin' to Tobacco Road 
Unbeaten Notre Dame to face ACC rivals North Carolina, Duke at UNC's Fetzer Classic 
By FRAN TOlAN Assodatc Sports Editor 
No. 5/4 Notre Dame has rollnd to a 3-0 start. including a win ovPr No. 21 Santa Clara. But thn nation will get to sec what tlw Irish really have to o!Tnr this Wl~ekend in thn Fetznr Classic, hosted by North Carolina. 
The Irish will take on tlw No. 3/2 Tar IIPels Friday and -as if the first contest won't be enough of a test ~ eonelude thn tournanwnt with a match against Duke Sunday. 
While thn Irish havn been impressive in tlw early-going, outseoring opponents 13-0 in three ganws, tlwy will havP a chanen to prove thny arn among the top teams in thP country this weekend. TIH~ team has not yet played away from Alumni Field, but the Fetzer Classic should provide one of tlw most diflieult road tests imaginable. 
"It's certainly a very diflieult place to play," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. " ... 
see FETZER/page 2 I 


Laws when all is said and done." 
Weis and his staff have done a solid job of luring talent out of the Garden State, a place Frank feels is vital for success in the future. 
"Charlie has been putting a lot of effort into the recruit­ment of players out of New Jersey," Frank said. "It's a vital area that he can relate to because he's from there and it's 
see RECRUITS/page 21 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Road trip to provide tough tests 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Writer 
The Irish eontinue their early-season tournament play this weekend, journeying all the way to Moseow, Idaho, to take part in the Idaho Volleyball dassic. 
Notre Dame will face ofT against Eastern Washington today and will take on Idaho and Washington State Saturday. 
The Irish arc 2-1 in the young season after hosting last week­end's Shamrock Invitational. Freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy leads Notre 
Dame with 31  kills on  the sea­ 
son.  
"I thought she did  a  great  

job," Irish eoaeh Dnbbie Brown said. "She took some really aggressive swings. I think she learned a lot from the weekend and I think she's just going to keep getting better." 
Sophomore Kellie Sdaeca and junior Serinity Phillips have 
see IDAHO/page 22 
NO CRoss CouNTRY 

Men, won1en to open season at Valparaiso 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Wri rcr 

The men's and women's cross­country teams open the 2008 snason today at the Crusader Open in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Both teams eamn in first place at the nvnn t last year and an! looking to do tlw same this year. Women's lwad eoaeh Tim Connolly said, however, the meet will not bn a good indieator for the rost of tlw smtson. 
"Thern is no roal strong !:om­petition at this meet," he said. "Our approach is fairly low-key." 
Junior Beth Tacl led the Irish at this event last year, placing third on the 4L course with a time of 1<J:07. 
Conrwlly said he plans only to run the upperclassmen in this meet in order to give the fresh­men more time to improve. 
"We're taking a different approach this year," he said. "We've got three seniors and many good upp1~rclassmen." 
Connelly said he will run the freshmen for the first time in the National Catholic Championships, held at Notre 
see VALPO/page 22 
MEN's SoccER 

ND hosts four-team tourney 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

No. 8 Notre Dame will host the seventh annual Hilton Garden Inn Mike Bertieelli Memorial Tournament this weekend in memory of the late Irish eoaeh who died suddenly in January 2000. 
The Irish (1-1-0) play Dartmouth at 7:30 tonight and No. 5 South Florida Sunday at 2 p.m. No. 3 Indiana, who hosted but did not play Notre Dame in last weekend's adidas/IU Credit 
see BERTICELLI/page 22 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 5, 2008 
COMMENTARY 

Past is unspoken but not forgotten 
The frightening images of 3-9 are still fresh in the mind. 
John Sullivan snapping the ball over Armando Allen's head to start a "38-0 debacle at Michigan. 
Southern Cal coming into the Stadium and laying another 38-0 beatdown on the Irish. Fans 

screaming, 
Chris Hlne
babies cry­
ing, gnash­
ing of teeth Sports Writer 
and so on. 
So fright­nning, in fact, that coach Charlie Weis instructed his team to no longer speak of last sea­son. 
But try as Weis might, those images are hard to repmss for anybody. 
For many of his players, it was a rude awakening to the eollnge game. 
Unspoken now, but still mmmnbered. 
Thn problems were well-docu­mented -poor oll"ensive line coupled with anemic ollimsive production, a defense that '~ouldn't stop the run. 
Before the year, you eould nxpect Notre Dame wasn't going to match previous years suc­cess. but who knew they wen~ going to be 3-9 bad'? 
All the Irish can do now is learn from it. Don't speak about it, but don't forget it either. Quarterback Jimmy Clausen and the rest of the oll"ense shownd sihrns of progress toward the end of the year, but in the back of their minds, moti­vating them this season, should be the memories of those early­season mishaps. Fear of failure can bn the best motivational tool. 
That fear of failure also resides deep within Notre Dame fans. Some fans on the surface are optimistic about the coming year, and will give you their rosy prediction. After all, look at that schedule, look at that tal­ent, everyone's a year older, and God can't hate Notre Dame that much. Still, they know another 3-9 is still possible. 
Others are mom pessimistic, and project a defeatist attitude about the coming year as a defense mechanism because the thought of another 3-9 is too much for them to think about. 
But next to that fear of failure resides the pride of being a Notre Dame fan, the intimate connection each fan feels toward this University. It's a 
connection that's forged with 
family, with tradition, and a 
connection forged in part by 
unprecedented success on the 
field. 
Unspoken now, but still 
expected. 
It doesn't matter if Notre 
Dame was 3-9 last year. It does­
n't matter that this team is 
young and may still need a year 
or two to get back to national 
prominence. That's not the atti­
tude fans are accustomed to. 
Notre Dame football is not allowed to go 3-9, it just isn't supposed to happen. In the eyes of every Notre Dame fan, this year must be dilTerent. This year must be a success or else something needs to change. That's why Tyrone Willingham got fired. A middling Notre Dame team just won't do. Not with the fans, and not with the administration, and not with NBC, who just re-negotiated its eontraet with Notre Dame. One year of 3-9 didn't concern the NBC suits, but a few more, and those ad revenues will start to shrink, and the suits at NBC and Notre Dame will start to sweat a little bit. 
Notre Dame is one of the few places where the term low expectations doesn't exist, and it shouldn't. And nobody knows that better than Weis, the for­mer student who once met with then-University president Fr. llesburgh to complain about the football team. I wonder what Weis, the student, would've thought of 3-9. 
And nobody knows better than Weis that last year can't happen again. Yes, there are personnel holes on the team that Weis inherited and has done a great job recruiting to fill those holes, but at some point, those recruits have to produce. 
Weis called his book "No Excuses," and rightfully so. It's the attitude you need at Notre Dame. There are no excuses for 3-9. And there will be no excus­es should it happen again. 
He was a student here, he knows what it's like to sit in the stands when the team stinks and he knows the anger fans and alumni feel when the team stinks. And he knows what those fans will be thinking if there's a repeat of 3-9. 
Unspoken now, but still very much understood. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the writer and not necessarily The Observer. Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu. 

2008 Irish opponents 
(1-0) (1-0) 
Last week Next week L, 29-27, Cal Poly vs San Jose St. L, 25-23, Utah at Notre Dame L, 38-31, Cal vs. FAU Idle vs.OREGON W, 36-28, Or. St. atTCU W, 35-27, McNeese at Rutgers L, 44-10, Oregon vs. Oklahoma L, 27-17, BGSU Idle W, 21-0, Kent St. Idle W, 41-13, Towson at Duke L, 30-10 NW'ern vs. PennSt. W, 52-7, Virginia vs Ohio St. 

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 5 
• 
3:00 pm -4:00 pm Notre Dame 1953 Football Team Autograph Session, including John Lattner and others. Free with full-priced admission. 

• 
6:00 pm -10:00 pm Football Fridays Block Party featuring Mack Pherson &the Struts 


SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 13 
• 7:00 am Salmon Chase Fall Classic: 
Runners, walkers and kids are invited to take part in 5K Run, 1OK Run, 5K Walk and the Guppy Run (ages 2-7) from the Hall of Fame. 


Want to cover ND sports? Conta~t _ Bill Brink or Dan Murphy at:~, sports@nd.edu·· ';i[r•.• 
Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The firentan's son 
Eric Olsen gained perspective on life from his dad's hardships on Sept. 11 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
This offseason, Notre Dame guard Eric Olsen's body changed. Not only did it get bigger (along with the rest of the offensive line), it got more colorful. 
The change was the addition of a tattoo covering his entire right upper arm. 
The tattoo took months to finish, with Olsen beginning it in Dnenmber after the season ended and not finishing it until this summer. 
Tlw tattoo has some more common aspects, including an American flag and a family crest. but the back of his arm has a more personal design: angels crying on the shoulders of a fin~lighter. 
"It's a real famous image in New York from September 11. My father was a firefighter, so it fits in with the theme lof the tattoo! 'Only the strong will survive,'" Olsen said. 
Olsen's 
pened," Olsen said. 
When the attacks initially happened, Olsen was in eighth grade and, like many other students that day, was unaware that the attacks had occurred. After he found out about the attacks, Olsen said he felt "a lot of anger that someone could do something like that." 
"I felt a lot of anger toward the terrorists, a lot of pride in New York. Knowing the pain that my dad had to go through -it just hits home on a real· personal level," he said. 
Olsen also said that he felt helpless and frustrated because, at only 14-years-old, he said he felt there was not much he could do to help his dad. 
Olsen said one of the worst parts of the day was his father's direct involvement in the rescue efforts. Olsen said some of his father's best friends had died in the effort. 
"Being a firefighter is like a 
brotherhood, 
like being on a 
football team or

"Being a firefighter is 
father Andy -a fraternity," 
who lives in like a brotherhood, Olsen said. Staten Island like being on a football "Watching the -was already losses that he
team or a fraternity. 
a firefighter had to endure 
when the Sept Watching the losses -his friends, 
11 terrorist that [my father] had the people that attacks on the he knew-was
to endure -his
World Trade really painful. 
Center friends, the people he "The relation­occurred, and knew -was really ships that he was called to had with those
painful."

Ground Zero guys, seeing the after the initial pain on his face 
Eric Olsen

attacks. and the pain on The elder Irish guard my mom's face 
Olsen was at horne when the planes first hit the build­ings, on a two-week vacation after being promoted. But after the attacks, he and other off-duty personnel were called to Manhattan to assist with the emergency relief. 
Olsen said his father was stuck in trartic on his way into Manhattan and forgot that he had his officer plates with him. lie put them on his wind­shield, and a police officer escorted him to Ground Zero. Olsen said his father arrived shortly after the towers fell. 
"If he had noticed that he had \the plates] sooner ... who knows what could have hap-and the people 
that we're close with, it was a really hard time for us." 
Olsen said every anniver­sary of the attack -which is coming up on Thursday ­brings back his memories and emotions from that day. 
"It hits you when you are sitting in class and on the top corner of the page you write 'September 11,"' he said. 
Olsen said that helping with the attacks was just one ordeal his father has had to go through. Andy Olsen has had 12 surgeries, including two for his anterior cruciate ligaments (ACL) and quadru­ple bypass surgery three 

COLEMAN COLLINS!The Observer HY Observer 


Olsen (55) and the Irish offensive line face off against Navy during Notre Dame's 4644 triple overtime loss to the Midshipmen last season. Olsen has taken over as a leader on the offensive line. 
years ago. He was also elec­factors, and Notre Dame was trocuted at one point during the best fit. his firefighting career, leading "I was looking for the com­to some nerve damage. plete package of academics; 
Although Olsen still harbors football, obviously; and the bad memories from Sept. 11, situation on the offensive line, 2001, he did move on, enter­in terms of depth. Everything ing Brooklyn Poly Prep high had to be perfect," he said. school the next year. "And when you look at those 
Olsen was a stand-out play­characteristics and break it er in two down, not sports in high many schools school, can compete anchoring the "I saw [in Olsen] a big, with Notre football Dame."
strong guy that showed
team's offen­
he liked playing 
sive line as a tackle and football and had leading the 
passion for playing 
I a c r o s s e 
football. " 
team's attack, including a 50-goal sea­John Latina son as a jun­
Irish offensive line coach 
ior. Olsen said he still weighed over 300 pounds when he played lacrosse, but it was "a little different 300" and that he was leaner and had more muscle than in the past. 
"It was easy [playing attack]. The little guys could­n't stop me," he said. 
Olsen said he tries to keep up with playing lacrosse, and has been trying to play with tight end Will Yeatman -who also plays lacrosse for Notre Dame -but has not done that yet. 
Even though Olsen described playing lacrosse was one of the happiest times in his life, he said he never 
had any interest in playing any­thing other than football in col­lege. 
Olsen fell into tight end coach Bernie Parmalee's recruiting area, but offensive line coach John 
Latina, his cur­rent position coach, also recruited him. "I saw [in Olsen] a big, 
design. "I have a 
Olsen took advantage of the various academic opportunities available at Notre Dame, beginning as an art studio major before switching to industrial 
passion for draw­

ing. It's something I like to do in my free time. I'm also interested in marketing, so I figured I could somewhat combine the two in industrial design," Olsen said. 
Olsen said the recent suc­cess of the program is excit­ing and that he is impressed by some of the projects his classmates have done. 
He also said managing his time as an industrial design major is tough because of the number and length of classes involved. 
"I had to take a couple stu­
"We can talk the talk all we want, we can talk all off-season and still have confidence and be excited about the season. But all that 
· S d ,
matters zs atur ay. 
Eric Olsen Irish guard 
dio classes each semester and the studio class­es can be up to three hours long," he said. "It kind of fills up my schedule a lot because I'm just going from class-to­class and then straight to practice." 
This seas{m, Olsen is slated as the No. 1 right guard on 

tackle in high school. The coach said that is the easier transition to make than guard to tackle because tackles often play against faster oppo­nents and have no one cover­ing their outside. Latina said guards play "big guys like yourself in a phone book amount of space," making it an easier adjustment. 
Latina said Olsen has done well since transitioning per­manently to guard after his freshman season. 
Olsen played sparingly as a freshman, but saw increased playing time last season, including his first Irish start against Boston College. That added experience has given him more confidence to per­form well, Latina said. 
"He's just older, smarter, wiser, more confident," he said. " ... Now he gets to reflect back and pull from past experience." 
Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis agreed, saying the game has slowed down for Olsen since last season. 
"When you first start going out there and you're lining up there the first time on the offensive line as a young guy, okay, it's like, whoa, every­thing is happening real fast," Weis said. "Everything's hap­pening real fast and those guys you're playing against are pretty good. Now it's a year later and he thinks he's one of those good guys now. Where last year he was trying to get his feet wet." 
Even defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said Olsen has improved to the point that he has been a big help in improv­ing the defensive line play this season. 
"Olsen is a tough guy. Everybody else has to be tougher because they are watching him play," Brown said. "I gotta choose my words right. You gotta do your business or get off the pot." 
But despite this confidence and improvement. Olsen said the only thing that matters is a win. 
"That's the only thing we can do," Olsen said. "We can talk the talk all we want, we can talk all off-season and have confidence and be excit­ed about the season. But all that matters is Saturday." 
strong athletic guy that showed he liked playing foot­ball and had passion playing football. That's what I saw in high school and that's what I'm seeing now," Latina said. 
Olsen said determining 
the opening day two-deep depth chart. He's been a source of leadership for an offensive line determined to improve its play from a year ago. 
Latina said he always envi­
Irish guard Eric Olsen runs during practice Tuesday. Olsen where he wanted to play col­sioned Olsen playing as a Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at recently covered his upper right arm with a tattoo. lege football involved multiple guard, despite having been a jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 5, 2008 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD
Record: 0-0 


AP: NR 

Coaches: NR Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Charlie Weis Fourth season at 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame career record: 
2008 Schedule 
21-14 

against head coach San Diego St.: 0-0 CharlleWeis 
Sept. 6 SAN DIEGO ST. Sept. 13 MICIDGAN

Roster 
No. Name Pos. HI 1 Deion Walker WR 6-2 3 Michael Floyd WR 6-3 4 Gary Gray DB 5-11 5 Annando Allen RB 5-10 6 Ray Hernng DB 5-10 7 Jimmy Clausen QB 6-3 8 Raeshon McNeil DB 6-0 9 Ethan Johnson DE 6-4 9 Kyle Rudolph TE 6-6 10 Dayne Crist QB 6-4 11 David Grimes WR 5-10 12 Nick Lezynski QB 5-8 12 Robert Blanton DB 6-1 13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 14 Brandon Walker K 6-3 15 Brian Castello QB 6-2 15 Dan McCarthy DB 6-2 16 Nate Montana QB 6-4 18 Duval Kamara WR 6-5 19 George West Jr. WR 5-10 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 21 Barry Gallup Jr. RB 5-11 22 Harrison Smrth DB 6-2 23 Golden Tate WR 5-11 24 Leonard Gordon DB 5-11 24 Brian Coughlin WR 6-0 25 Jonas Gray RB 5-10 26 Jamoris Slaughter DB 6-0 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-1 29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 29 Michael Garcia WR 6-1 30 Steve Paskorz FB 6-2 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-2 32 Luke Schmid1 TE 6-3 33 Robert Hughes RB 5-11 34 James Aldridge RB 6-0 35 Kevin Smith LB 5-8 35 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 36 Joe Bizjak K 6-2 36 David Posluszny LB 6-0 37 Mike Anello DB 5-10 37 Eras Noel RB 5-8 38 Chris Balhon DB 5-10 38 Christopher Gurries WR 5-10 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 40 Maurice Crum Jr. LB 6-0 41 Scon Smllh LB 6-3 41 Nikolas Rodriguez RB 5-11 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 42 Dan Fmnco WR 5-10 43 John Leonia DB 5-9 43 Eric Maust p 6-2 44 Asaph Schwapp FB 6-0 45 Darius Fleming LB 6-1 45 Kris Patlerson WR 5-11 46 Steve Filer LB 6-3 47 Joe Vinoria LB 5-11 47 Mike Narvaez FB 5-11 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-1 51 Dan Wenger c 6-4 52 Braxston Cave c 6-3 53 Morrice Richardson DE 6-2 54 Anthony McDonald LB 6-3 55 Eric Olsen OG 6-5 56 Kerry Neal LB 6-2 57 Mike Golic Jr. c 6-3 58 Brian Smith LB 6-3 59 Chris Stewart OG 6-5 61 Martin Quintana LB 6-1 62 Bill Flavin c 6-3 63 Jeff nsak OT 6-3 64 Tom Burke LB 5-10 65 Mike Hernandez OL 6-2 67 Tom Bemenderfer c 6-5 69 Carl Brophy OL 6-4 70 MaH Romine OT 6-5 71 Dennis Mahoney OL 6-6 72 Paul Duncan OT 6-7 74 Sam Young OT 6-8 75 Taylor Dever OT 6-5 75 Lane Clelland OT 6-5 76 Andrew Nuss DE 6-5 
77 Mike Turkovich OG 6-6 78 Trevor Rob1nson OG 6-5 79 Hafis Williams DE 6-2 81 John Goodman WR 6-3 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 85 Sam Vos WR 5-10 86 Paul Kuppich TE 6-3 87 Joseph Fauria TE 6-7 89 Kapron Lew;s-Moore DE 6-4 90 John Ryan LB 6-5 91 Emeka Nwankwo DE 6-4 93 Paddy Mullen NT 6-3 94 Justin Brown DE 6-3 95 lan Williams NT 6-2 96 Pat Kuntz DE 6-3 97 Kallen Wade LB 6-5 98 Sean Cwynar DE 6-4 99 Brandon Newman NT 6-0 

WI. YR 
188 FA 215 FA 188 so 195 so 198 SR 217 so 190 JR 275 FA 252 FA 233 FA 177 SA 157 so 180 FA 215 SA 202 so 191 so 200 FA 200 FA 219 so 198 JR 195 SR 200 JR 206 so 195 so 187 JR 172 JR 230 FA 182 FA 212 SA 203 SR 202 JR 178 so 235 so 205 JR 246 JR 237 so 225 JR 200 SA 241 JR 165 JR 220 FA 170 SR 190 so 192 JR 181 so 190 JR 235 SA 235 SR 205 SA 250 SA 188 JR 169 SA 177 JR 257 SR 236 FA 185 SR 236 FA 244 JR 231 JR 225 SA 244 JR 
302 JR 315 FA 255 JR 225 FA 303 JR 246 so 280 FR 245 so 337 JR 242 JR 252 so 306 SA 242 JR 275 FA 300 SA 278 FA 292 so 290 FA 308 SA 330 JR 308 so 281 FA 304 so 305 SR 301 FA 302 FR 
197. FA 210 JR 
Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 Nov. 29 

at MICH. ST. PURDUE. STANFORD atUNC at WASH. PITT atBC NAVY SYRACUSE at USC 
IRISH PASSING 
Kamara and Floyd add some much needed height for the the Irish receivers. The team will miss tight end John Carlson's good hands over the middle, but as long as Clausen can stay on his feet the pa<;sing game should be much­improved from his rookie season. 
With a pair of six-foot­ers at corner back the Aztecs will match up well against the Irish receivers. They didn't see too much of a test last weHk but were able to shut down most of the Cal Poly passing attack. 
The Irish passing offense looknd prom1smg at the end of la<>t year, but th~y have,yet, to_ ()Stabli~h thelhSf~lveSltw;l ~ ddlnir.lant fo~,_ ~ tall;'strogg Azt~ secondary will be able to hang with the Irish receivers throughout most of the game. 
Liken this game to Notre Dame's late­season wins last year. The offense should be able to move the ball down the field and put up a few points, the defense should do a decent job shutting 

COACHING 
Charlie Weis handed over play calling responsibilities to his coordinators so he could focus more on what is going on in the field. The once-wor­shiped coach must be feeling the pressure to win quick after last year's 3-9 record. 
Chuck Long may be pretty green as a head coach, but the 1985 Heisman runner-up knows the game. Long also won a national cham­pionship during his seven year stint as an assistant coach under Bob Stoops at Oklahoma. 



don't expect the Bill Brink Aztecs to do much Sports Editor on the ground. Their passing offense,
Irish 

however, will take advantage of a sketchy Notre Dame secondary. It won't matter in the end, but it won't be a blowout.
experts 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 
QUARTERBACKS 
Jimmy Clausen has an extra year under his belt and a healthy throwing arm for the first time in his career. A stronger 0-line should keep him off of his back for a little longer, but it is still far from Brady Quinn under center. 
Hedshirt freshman Ryan Lindley settled down for some impres­sive stats after a rocky start to his career last week. Standing in front of 80,000 screaming fans in Notre Dame Stadium is a big jump up for act two. 
IRISH RUSHING 

A combination of speed and power in the backfield looks promis­ing for Notre Dame's new "pound it" mentali­ty. However, it's all up to the big boys in the trenches who have yet to prove themselves as a force to be reckoned with. 
Despite returning eight starters, the Aztocs gave up 263 yards on the ground against Div. 1-AA Cal Poly last week. They struggled to stop the option and will most likely struggle to slow down the speedy, youthful Notre Dame backfield. 



Everything that Notre Dame was at this time last year, it is no longer for this sea­son's opener. Weis has a clear strategy going into the first game and all the players who debuted last year are 

Jay Fitzpatrick 
veterans now. Look for 

Managing the Irish "pound it" 
Editor strategy to be success­
ful against a smaller Aztec defense. The offensive line atones for last year's sins, leading to a big offensive out­put on the ground and in the air. FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 


265 so 199 JR 232 SA 245 FA 257 FA 264 JR 295 so 300 JR 277 SA 310 so 283 SA 255 JR 263 FA 310 FA 

Chris Hlne 
down San Diego State. 

Editor-in­It's probably not going 
Chief to be pretty and first­
game jitters are likely to play a role. But San Diego State lost to Div. 1-M Cal Poly last week. This should be a good warm-up for a young Irish team. FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 
Robert Hughes will run the ball effective­ly -he'll gain 130 yards and score two touchdowns. San Diego State's rush offense spluttered against Cal Poly, so 
San Diego State 17 San Diego St. 13 San Diego St. 14 

Friday, September 5, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
HEAD 
San Diego St. Aztecs 
San Diego St. 2008 Schedule 

Aug. 30 Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 18 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov.15 Nov. 22 

CALPOLY-L NOTRE DAME at San Jose St. IDAHO atTCU AIR FORCE at New Mexico COLO. ST. at Wyoming atBYU UTAH UNLV 
AZTECS RUSHING AZTECS PASSING 
Fifth-year linebacker Mo Crum anchors a group of linebackers that could only improve. Smith and Ne'al add some much-needed ath­leticism and a bigger, stronger defensive line should be able to clog up some holes against San Diego State.  
SDSU running back Brandon Sullivan picked up only 43 yards on 15 carries. The offensive line is smaller than average and will have trouble push­ing around an Irish defense that spent the summer in the dining halls and weight rooms.  

The loss of Darrin Walls at corner hurts the already inexperienced defensive backfield. McCarthy and Parris should be strong over the middle but the front seven will have to pro­vide a consistent pass rush for the Irish to keep the ball on the ground. 
Long, who knows a thing or two about quarterbacks, is excited about his passing attack which gained 352 yards through the air and threw for three touchdowns last week. The learning curve is still pretty sharp for a young, talented group. 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Brandon Walker went 6­for-12 kicking field goals last season, only one of those was 30 yards are more. The Irish lost fire­cracker returner Tom Zbikowski but still have some speed in their return game with Armando Allen and Golden Tate returning kicks. 
Punter Brian Stahovich averaged 39.5 yards per kick last week including two pinned inside the 20. The placekickers were perfect on extra points but did not attempt any field goals. The Aztecs also averaged 25 yards per return in the punt 
game. 

INTANGIBLES 
In case you have been living under a rock for a year, this game is a must win for Weis and the Irish. Notre Dame was embarrassed on their own turf week after week last season. Expect them to be fired up and looking to make a statement. 
The Aztecs play in front of less than 30,000 fans on a regu­lar basis. If 80,000 peo­ple and a national tele­vision spotlight don't get these guys crawling with goosebumps, it's time to check for a 
pulse. 
z 
0 
-t 
:a 
ITI 
c 
>
3: 
ITI 
(/) 
> 
z 
c 
ITI 
C) 
0 
(/) 
. 
-t 


Notre Dame fans will finally have some­thing to cheer about Saturday, but don't hold your breath. Weis' smash-mouth mentality will make for a slow first half with plenty of work 
Mike Golic co-hosts the popular radio show Mike & Mike in the Morning. Golic played football and wrestled for the Irish from 1981-1985. He was drafted by the 
Oilers and also played for the es and the Dolphins. Golic 
•""'"r''" for ESPN on NFL Live as well as 
radio show. His oldest son, Mike Jr., a freshman on the Notre Dame team. 
I expect the Irish to 
try to grind down the 
clock and control the 
ball with the running 
game. Weis is going to 
try to wear San Diego 
down even if they 
aren't picking up 
many yards. The 

Mike Golic defense will be 
ESPNHost aggressive and going 
after it on each play. I think people will be excited and surprised to see how aggressive and quick this defense is going to be. FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30 San Diego St. 10 for both punters. A bigger, stronger Irish team will run away 


with this one in the second half and Michael Floyd will earn himself a spot in the starting line-up with some big catches and most likely a trip to the end zone. 
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 San Diego St. 17 
page 5 

San Diego St. Aztecs 
Chuck Long 3rd season at San Diego St. career record: 
7-17 
against Notre 

Chuck LongDame: 0-0 
head coach 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
DeMarco Sampson  WR  6·2  210  JR  
Andy Gregorio  DB  5-9  195  so  
2  Travis Crawford  DB  6·0  200  SA  
2  Kelsey Sokoloski  QB  6-2  195  so  
3  Mekell Wesley  WR  5-10  175  JR  
4  Darren Mougey  WR  6-6  230  SA  
5  T.J. McKay  DB  6-1  205  SA  
6  Atiyyah Henderson  RB  5-9  180  JR  
7  Vonnie Holmes  DB  6-0  170  SA  
9  Drew Westling  QB  6-2  220  JR  
9  Miles Burris  LB  6-2  245  FA  
10  Davion Mauldin  DB  5-10  175  JR  
10  Josh O'Brien  OB  6-4  210  so  
11  Martrell Fantroy  DB  6-1  215  so  
11  Zack Kusn~  QB  6-6  215  FA  
12  Alston Umuolo  TE  6-4  240  so  
13  Brandon Davis  WR  6-2  185  FA  
14  Ryan Lindley  QB  6-3  205  FA  
14  Brian Stahovich  K  6·0  170  FR  
15  Jose Perez  DB  6-1  180  so  
16  Eric Miclot  TE  6-5  245  SA  
17  Josh Wade  DB  6-0  175  FA  
17  Justin Shaw  WR  6-2  210  SA  
18  Roberto Wallace  WR  6-4  215  JR  
19  Jon Toledo  WR  6-3  215  JR  
20  Matthew Kawulok  TE  6-2  245  JR  
21  Robert Gregorio  RB  5-10  170  FA  
21  Aaron Moore  DB  6-0  195  JR  
22  Andrew Preston  LB  6-1  225  so  
23  Brandon Sullivan  RB  5-11  205  so  
24  Kwincy Edwards  DB  5-11  165  JR  
26  Gerard Armstrong  DB  6-0  225  SA  
27  Vincent Camarda  DB  6-2  195  FA  
29  Bryan Shields  K  6-1  190  so  
30  Davon Brown  RB  5-9  180  so  
30  Darryn Lewis  DB  5-9  165  so  
31  Logan Ketchum  LB  6-3  215  FA  
32  Tyler Campbell  RB  6-0  220  SR  
33  Ramon Judkins  RB  6-0  205  FR  
34  Jerry Milling  LB  5-10  230  JR  
35  Luke Laolagi  LB  6-1  230  JR  
36  Rob Andrews  LB  6·2  225  FA  
37  Colin Shumate  LB  6-2  225  FR  
38  Josh Ulibarri  FB  6-1  240  SA  
38  Zach Shapiro  LB  6-2  250  JR  
39  Dey Juan Hemmings  DB  5·11  195  so  
40  Corey Boudreaux  DB  6·1  220  SA  
41  Tony Demartinis  TE  6-5  260  JR  
42  Nick Sandford  DB  6-2  210  JR  
43  Ross Williams  LB  6-3  200  FA  
43  Aubrey Smith  DB  6-2  190  FA  
44  Romeo Hom  DB  6-1  185  so  
45  Dus1in Abrams  p  5-11  170  JR  
46  Russell Allen  LB  6-3  235  SA  
47  David Brown  PK  5-10  160  FA  
48  Eron Moses  DE  6-4  250  FR  
49  J.J. Autele  DE  6-1  240  FA  
50  Trask losefa  OL  6-0  315  so  
51  Jimmy Miller  OL  6-3  290  FA  
52  Marcus Yarbrough  LB  6-2  245  so  
53  Emilio Rivera  OL  6-4  330  FR  
54  Zach Clarke  LB  6-2  225  SR  
55  Neil Spencer  DL  6-2  295  so  
56  Jonathon Soto  DL  6-3  270  JR  
57  Willie Watters  DE  6-2  240  JR  
58  Aaron Brewer  LS  6-5  210  FA  
59  Lance Louis  OL  6-3  300  SA  
60  Tomrnie Draheim  OL  6-4  285  FR  
61  Demetrius Barksdale  LB  6-3  200  FA  
63  Bryan Finkel  LB  6-2  225  JR  
65  Shane Morris  LB  6-0  230  SA  
66  Henry Simon  DL  6-3  275  FA  
67  lkaika Aken-Moleta  OL  6·2  305  JR  
68  Mike Schmidt  OL  6-2  320  SA  
69  Erik Quinones  OL  6-3  305  FR  
71  Alec Johnson  OL  6·3  310  FA  
72  Tom Rische  OL  6-4  320  so  
73  Kellen Farr  OL  6-7  ~0  FA  
74  Mike Matamua  OL  6-4  305  FA  
75  Leo Grassilli  OL  6-3  280  FA  
76  Uaita Emosi  OL  6-2  350  FA  
77  Damian Shankle  OL  6-2  310  JR  
78  Brian Milholland  OT  6-6  300  FA  
79  Kurtis Gunther  OL  6-8  280  FA  
80  Vincent Brown  WR  6-0  185  so  
81  Dominique Sandifer  WR  6-0  180  FA  
82  Doug Deakin  WR  6-0  185  so  
83  Simon Ayala  WR  6-1  195  SA  
84  Dante Daniels  WR  5-9  170  FA  
85  D.J. Shields  TE  6-4  230  FA  
86  Waika Spencer  TE  6-4  265  JR  
87  Lucas S1afford  WR  6-1  170  FA  
88  Lane Yoshida  K  5-10  195  JR  
89  Hunter Hewitt  TE  6-5  230  FA  
90  B.J. Williams  DE  6-3  250  so  
91  Darias Jones  DL  6-4  355  JR  
92  Siaosi Fifita  DL  6-4  270  SR  
93  Avery Williams  DL  6·3  280  JR  
94  Jerome Long  DL  6-5  250  FA  
95  Michael Snead  DE  6-4  250  FA  
96  Greg Scott  DL  6-2  260  FA  
97  Eric lkonne  DE  6-0  250  so  
98  Ryan Williams  DL  6-5  250  JR  
99  Ernie Lawson  DL  6-3  300  so  

Irish 
experts 

' 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 5, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
2007 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
ND points seored 
1•.4 
SDSU points scored [_ 21.1 
ND points allowed SDSU points allowed 
ND rush yards 

SDSU rush yards 

ND rushing allowed ­SDSU rushing allowed ~24iti
1 

ND pass yards SDSU pass yards 

ND passing allowed SDSU passing allowed 

OBSERVER CLASSIFIED 
WITH . • • 
IAN WILLIAMS #95 NT 
HT: 6-2 WT: 310 

HOMETOWN : Altamonte Springs, Fla. 
Where did you get the nick­bed in Fisher. I'm always just try­name "Tank"? ing to catch up on some sleep now. 
Some of the trainers started call­ing me that last y~ar and I guess it You're a long way from home, stuck. how has the transition IJeen? 
My uncle and my mom have been Who do you like to hang with there to help me out, I talk to offthe field? them three or four times each 
Most of the guys in my sopho­week. more class, Ragone, Emeka, Golden, Armando. How did you survive your first 
winter in South Bend? 
If you could play any other It was tough. It took a little bit of sport than football what would it getting used to, but I kind of like be? the cool weather over the warm 
Probably basketball. I played it water. back when I was in middle school. 
So no regrets that you didn't What's your favorite spot stay in Florida or anywhere else around campus? warm? 
That's gotta be my room -in my No, no regrets at all. 
PRIME STEAKS AND SEAFOOD • SPORTS THEATRE ROO:rvl WITH 15' SCREEN SEATING FOR OVER 500 • LARGEST 1VIARTINI BAR IN THE AREA PRIVATE DINING OUTDOOR SEATING BANQUETS CATERING• • Villa Macri Ristorante off~rs Home of the Official Notre Dame Football Radio Show. ' Hosted by Jack Nolan and Reggie Brooks each :rvlonday at 7:00 prn through November 24-WSBT 960 AM.  


Friday, September 5, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Smith handles position switch with aplomb 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Editor  expected," he said. "Playing outside linebacker, you don't have to know too much. But as  The Notre Dame defense, Tenuta said, is a gap-fill defense. Each defender is  
a Mike [middle] linebacker, you  assigned a gap to fill between  
Brian  Smith  isn't  happy  have  to  know  the opponent's  
about his nickname.  what's going on  offensive line­ 
"Puppy," he's called. It start­ed after defensive coordinator Corwin Brown introduced him  in front of you, behind you, all over the place."  "Every time I'm outside, I try to use  men. None of the players, Tenuta said,  
to coaches at a clinic before he came to Notre Dame. "He's just a young pup," Brown said. The genre is fine; Smith just  Assistant head coach/defense Jon Tenuta offered a reason  my speed against slow offensive tack­les. I feel like I can  will ever have to play two gaps. "You're not  
wants  a  fiercer  canine  why Smith has  attack from  going to go into  
moniker. "Rot, Doberman, I don't care.  made the transi­tion.  everywhere.,,  a two-gap against a 300­ 
Just give me a  masculine dog  "He's  a  line­ pounder  
name," Smith said.  backer, first and  Brian Smith  because you're  
Smith,  a  sophomore, will  foremost,"  Irish linebacker  not  going  to  
have a chance to make his case  Tenuta said.  win,"  Tenuta  
for a more intimidating label  The middle of  said.  
tomorrow - and from  a  new  the  field,  or  So for Smith,  
spot on the field. A former out­ "maze,"  as Tenuta called it,  understanding how his gap  
side linebacker, Smith will start  can be confusing to players  assignments change  as  he  
this year at middle linebacker  who have never played there  moves inside is, he said, the  
along with fifth-year senior  before,  so  Smith spent the  biggest mental aspect.  
Maurice Crum Jr.  spring and summer learning ­ "When you're playing Sam  
He's  not  moving  too  far,  albeit at a slow pace ­ how to  [outside linebacker] you have  
about six yards on the field.  read it. Now, Tenuta said, he  one gap," Smith said. "You just  
But he said he handled the  has learned how to play at  cut the field in half and take  
transfer well.  game speed and understand  the edge. When you're playing  
"It's been smoother than  his responsibility.  Mike, you can have the A, B, C  
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer or D gap." Irish linebacker Brian Smith, 58, tackles Purdue quarterback Curtis 
Smith has what he called  a  
safety net in Crum,  a  Painter during Notre Dame's 33-19 loss to the Boilermakers last season.veteran  
at  middle  linebacker  with  Irish coach Charlie Weis said  couldn't sit still, bouncing his  
whom he  roomed  over  the  it's possible Smith's itch to get  knee on  the ground and ges­ 
summer.  outside will be scratched.  turing while answering ques­ 
"He's been a big help. When  "Before this year's out, I  tions at a press conference  
I'm on the field and I think I  think you might see him in  Wednesday. Watching football  
know something, I'll look at Mo  multiple spots," Weis said.  this weekend increased his  
and we'll check it," Smith said.  "You might see him inside. You  appetite to play, especially, he  
"He'll tell me, 'You're thinking  might see him outside. You  said,  watching  Alabama's  
the right thing."'  might see [both! this week."  defense.  
Brown said Smith handled  Smith said he relishes the  "I don't root for teams, I root  
the  transition  well,  and  chance to get back outside and  for defenses," he said. "When I  
"itched" to get back outside.  looks to capitalize whenever he  see  a  defense that's on  the  
Any time  a  young player can  does.  same  page,  making plays,  
do multiple things, he said, it  "In some packages I'm out­ being physical and violent, I  
opens up what the defense can  side, and when I'm outside, I'll  love that kind of football."  
do.  But  Smith  can't  learn  think, 'Okay, I'm back, let me  Smith hopes to replicate that  
everything during spring ball,  take it, let me take advantage  this  weekend  against  San  
Brown said, and Smith needed  of it,"' he said. "Every time I'm  Diego State; when asked about  
to "play his rules" to succeed.  outside, I try to use my speed  the game, he said, "It's going to  
"If I just play my rules, it  against slow offensive tackles. I  be violent."  
doesn't matter what happens  feel like I can attack from any­ Maybe violent enough to earn  
around  me,"  Brown  said.  where."  himself a new nickname.  
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer "What matters is what the guy  Smith's itch isn't limited to  
Irish linebacker Brian Smith  forces a fumble during Notre over me  does and what my  speed rushing  outside.  He  Contact Bill Brink at  
Dame's 41-24 loss to Air Force  on Nov. 10, 2007. rules tell me to do."  wants to get on the field. He  wbrink@nd.edu  

Players, coaches remember Yon to's ways 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor  defensive line coach in his first year at Notre Dame in 1964. He said they became  lineman Mike Golic said. Golic said he first met Yonto when the coach was  he had a demeanor about him that demanded respect and made him a giant.  knew how to get the most out of all of his players," Parseghian said.  
good friends and practically  recruiting his older brother,  A  short,  easy-going  Yonto always had coaching  
On Aug. 4 Notre Dame foot­ lived together during the  Bob, in 1975. Bob was heavi­ prankster with the mouth of  in his blood. His first job was  
ball lost a legend. At the age  season.  ly  recruited  out  of  high  an altar boy is generally not  as an assistant coach for the  
of 83, long-time defensive  The  one  thing Parseghian  school, but both Golic broth­ a  strong resume  for  a  foot- freshman  team  after  a  leg  
line coach and former Irish  remembered most about his  ers  were  filled  ball  coach.  injury  ended  his  playing  
player  Joe  Yonto  passed  friend  was  that he  never  with  nervous  Add to that  a  career in 1946. Prior to his  
away. Yonto spent 19 years on the Notre Dame sideline  swore -something that is pretty rare in the world of football coaches.  excitement with an Irish coach coming  "He was a coach·s coach no doubt, but off  permanent ear-to-ear smile or an  injury Yonto played fullback and guard for the Irish start­ing in 1945.  
when all was said and done.  "We used to have a quarter  to the house.  the field he was a  undying loy­ After graduation, Yonto  
He also spent nine years as an assistant to the Athletic  box set up in coaches' meet­ings. If you swore, you  When he arrived Yonto put out his  regular guy. A lot of coaches will just talk  alty to your wife and six children and  coached high school teams for several years in the Chicago area. Parseghian  
Director and remained close to the team until his death.  "We used to have a quarter box set up in coach ·s meeting. If  paid a quar­ter. Joe never went near that box,"  hand, but when the Golics went to shake it he  football all the time, that wasn't Joe.,,  it becomes almost unimagin­able. Yonto  was coaching at Northwestern at the time and met Yonto while recruit­ing some of his players.  
Beyond any shadow of a doubt, he changed the his­ you swore, you paid a quarter. Joe never went near that box.,,  Parseghian said. Players remember  moved it away just enough to make them whiff ­a trick  Mike Golic former Irish defensive lineman  found a way to make it work, and he made it work  "When I got the job [at Notre Dame] Joe contacted me and we hired him right away," Parseghian said.  
tory  of  Notre  him  as  a  man  that  Yonto  well.  Yon to  suffered  a  he art  
Dame football, but he never let football change  Ara Parseghian former Irish coach  who could talk to you about anything in  loved to use to break the ice with young players. "With a guy like that walk­ The coach won three national championships, in 1966, 1973 and 1977. He  attack earlier this year and was also on kidney dialysis, but was able to live out his  
him.  the  world,  ing  in,  you  were  almost  also  produced  12  All­ final days playing golf and  
"Joe  was  a  great family  most of the time it had noth­ standing at attention," Golic  Americans  on  the defensive  enjoying life.  He is survived  
man, he always was," former  ing to do with football.  said.  "It  was  the  kind  of  line. In eight different sea­ by his wife, six children and  
Irish coach Ara Parseghian  "He was a coach's coach no  thing that just put you  at  sons  his defense lines held  the hundreds of players he  
said. "He was a  very sincere  doubt, but off the field he  ease  with him right away  opponents to  an  average of  improved  on  and  off  the  
guy who had  a  wonderful,  was  a  regular guy. A lot of  though."  less than 100 rushing yards  field.  
unshakable set of principles  coaches will just talk football  Golic said Yonto  was  never  per game.  
he lived by."  all  the  time,  that  wasn't  as  large  as  any of the big  "He  never  used profanity,  Contact Dan Murphy at  
Parseghian hired Yonto  as  Joe," former Irish defensive  linemen that he coached, but  but he could yell at you.  He  dmurphy6@nd.edu  






