
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 7 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER4, 2008 
Peene serves as GOP delegate 

Grad student is youngest member ofNew Jersey contingent 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Ryan Peene has always been interest­ed in polities, saying he was "a little politico" from a young age. 
So when Republicans congregated in St. Paul, Minn., this week for the 2008 Republican National Convention, Peene, 
a  Notre Dame graduate student,  was  
right in the mix.  
The  New  Jersey  resident,  the  

youngest member of his state's delega­tion, is currently in Notre Dame's Master of Nonprofit Administration program. He arrived in St. Paul on Sunday. 
"It's been a whirlwind of a convention [so far]." Peene told The Observer 



SMChosts Twilight Tailgate 

Outdoor event will feature dinner, movie 
By JENNIFER HOFFMAN 
News Writer 
·A picnic dinner on a summer evening. An outdoor movie under the stars. An exciting date night in South Bend? Not quite. 
But Saint Mary's will host its annual Twilight Tailgate tonight on Saint Mary's Library Green. A picnic dinner will run from 
4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., and Made of Honor, starring Patrick Dempsey, will begin at 9 p.m. While the dinner is only for Saint Mary's students, the movie is open to all Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students. Both dinner and the movie are free (the Saint Mary's dining hall will be closed). 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) has been planning this event since students returned to campus. SAB President junior Michele Peterson worked with the Traditional Committee to discuss ideas for this year's tail­gate. Peterson has attended past tailgates and promises an evening of camaraderie and fun. 
"Due to the popularity of last year's dinner and a movie on the !Library! Green, we decided to bring it back," Peterson said. 
Student body president Mickey Gruseinski has always cherished events like this at Saint Mary's. 
"When else can you get together with your friends and peers on a quad at your school and see a movie outside for 
see TAILGATE/page 8 
Wednesday. "Expect the unexpected -that's been my motto this week," he added. 
"We went from not having a [real] convention to being very obviously happy that the hurricane was down­graded to a tropical storm," said Peene, as the threat of Hurricane Gustav changed convention plans. 
But the focus Monday night remained on the storm damage. Peene said he had spent time Wednesday at the Xcel Energy Center making relief packages for those affected by the storm. 
He was in the convention center when former Sen. Fred Thompson of Tennessee and Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman spoke. 
Peene said the convention was "very 
see CONVENTION/page 4 

Photo courtesy of Ryan Peene Ryan Peene with Rep. VP nominee Gov. Sarah Palin at the RNC in St. Paul, Minn. 
escbuilclingconstructioncontinues 
By MEG MIRSHAK 
News Writer 
Construction on a new build­ing for the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and the Institute for Church Life con­tinued throughout the summer, progressing toward an August 2009 completion date. 
Geddes Hall, the new build­ing west of Hesburgh Library, will occupy 65,583 square feet when fmished, said A<>sociate Vice President and University Architect Doug Marsh in an e­mail to The Observer. 
The former CSC building, which was demolished when construction began in January on the new building at the same site, occupied about 8,400 square feet, Marsh said. 
The building's structural steel frame is complete and 
see CSC/page 8 




Senate dismisses donn event ru.mors 
Vice president Schmidt dispels speculation that other halls would suffer same fate as Dillon 
"There is a lot of concern in Alumni about other events get­ting cancelled," Reuvers said. 
"The cancellation of the Dillon pep rally was an inter­nal decision as far as we know," Assistant Vice President for Student Activities Brian Coughlin said. 
And student body vice presi­dent Grant Schmidt said no other dorm's event was in danger, and called the specu­lation over SAO's involvement "rumors." 
see SENATE/page 8 

By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate squashed rumors Wednesday that the abrupt cancellation of Dillon Hall's annual pep rally would lead to the abolishment of siganture events in other dorms. 
Alumni Hall senator Zach Reuvers asked about the rea­son for the cancellation, saying he feared other dorms' signa­ture events could be terminat­ed in the future. 
NDSMC BSERVER.COM 


OIT e-mail tnigration corrtplete 
Coogle 1tpps replaces old Webmail service 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) said they have migrated all student e­mail accounts from Webmail to Google Apps as of Wednesday. 
The Goog:le Apps accounts for all incoming students have been functioning since the beginning of the semes­ter, but the process of migrating the existing stu­dent accounts has taken longer to complete. 
Nonetheless, OIT project director Katie Rose said the migration process has been a success. 
"Migration of student e­mail to the Google Apps serv­ice has gone extremely well," Rose said Wednesday. 
Rose said most students have not encountered prob­lems in making the switch. 
"A handful of students experienced some problems switching to Gmail, but over­all the move has gone very smoothly, and the feedback from students has been very positive," Rose said. 
Many students have been calling the OIT Help Desk to ask questions about the migration to Google, Rose said. 
All stu dent Webmail accounts were automatically switched to Gmail accounts on Wednesday morning, Rose said. 
see GOOGLE/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Predictions gone -wrong 
As a senior. it's undnrslandable that I would want-and liknly get-classes that don't start early. Unfortunately, I have an H::W and a 9:30. 
Although that isn't ideal, it does have onn great

advantage: 1gnl  Jay Fitzpatrick  
to Iiston to Lhn  
best radio show  
on (;od's grnnn  Managing Editor  
Earth: Mikn and  
Mikn in tho  
Morning.  

This is not because I whole-heartedly agrne with everything Mike Golie­himsolf a fornwr Domer -says about sports, and espeeially about Notre Dame. It's boeause the two have great bantnr together and act like they were lifnlong friends. 
It's also bncausn of the permanent segments that dnline the show. 
1\ny fan of the show knows about tho Sheets of lnlngrity: the guys' version of a March Madm~ss bracket. The classic arguments about one Ibrar,ketJ vs. many and their wagers on the oulcomn arn an annual event that I look for­ward to almost as much as the NCAA Tournament. 
For Lhos«~ who don't watr,h the show, hern are somn examples of recent tnrms of' tho bnl. Orw yoar Golir, won the brar.knt. and Miko Greenberg (Greeny) had to dress as the Leprndmun for the pair's live broad­east f'rom the Backer before the USC game. This past season, Greeny won and Golit~ had to face profi~ssional eatnrs in a r.ompelilivn boneless wing­naling contnsl. ((In lost that too). 
But my f'avorite segment is one that is sum to rl1lurn to provalenen soon: NFL Prndidions Surn to Go Wrong. In honor of' my f'avoritn radio pair, here an~ my l'rnclictions Sun~ to Go Wrong: 

+Brady Quinn will havn the same nlllnlwr of' touchdowns as Darius Walker. That's not to say that D-Walk finds a pnrnumenl spot in the Texans lineup, unlikely since he is· back on the practice squad. Instead, Derek 1\ndnrson will continue to lead a high­flying Cleveland Browns ofl"ense and Quinn will again spend a year on the bench with no meaningful downs. 
+IIouston will gt1t the first winning season of' its franchise. The Texans finally dropped the sacktastic David Carr and havn a solid defense with for­mer No. I piek Mario Williams. The only thing that slopped that from hap­pnning last snason was injuries, to their first two running backs (1\hman Green and Hon Dayne) and star receiv­er 1\ndrn Johnson. Expect big things out of' llouston this season. 
+Tom Brady and the high-11ying l'atrioL'i rnturn to Earth this season and have a pedestrian year: only 40 touchdown passes f'rom the New England signal caller. Teams started to figure out the Pats at the end of last season, and yet they still won 18 games. Unless teams are able to blitz eonstantly and still r,over Randy Moss and Wes Welker like the Giants did in the Sup«\r Bowl, the Pats will still dom­inatn the league. 
Maybe my guesses aren't as good as my radio icons, but they probably have the same good r,hance of being wrong. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at ifitzpa5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
ITIJ<• Observer rt-gard, itsdfas a professional publication and mivcs l(>r the highest standard' ofjournaJL,m at all times. We do, however, recogni1.e that we will make mis­tak<-s. Ifwe have made a mistake, plt'".ISe contact mat 63 t-4S41 so we c-.111 correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 4, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH DISNEY CHARACTER DO YOU HAVE A CRUSH ON? WHY? 







Kaitlin Files  Larisa Conant  Rebecca Jones  Sara Farias  Stephanie Klem  
junior Cavanaugh  junior Farley  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  junior Howard  
"Prince Phillip because I want to be 'Sleeping Beauty. "'  "Prince Phillip from 'Sleeping Beauty'... he's the only one that fights for  "Hercules ... that should be pretty much self-explanatory."  "Eric from 'The Little Mermaid' ... dark hair, dimples ... delish."  "Thomas from Pocahontas. HOT."  

her. " 


The South Quad of Notre Dame was turned into an arcade Wednesday evening when the Student Activities Office {SAO) hosted "Rock the Quad," featuring games of Wii and Rock Band. 
IN BRIEF 
The Inferfaith Fellowship Kickoff sponsored by Campus Ministry will take place today at 5::~0 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse Student Lounge. 
A screening of Tom McCarthy's 200H film "The Visitor" will takn placn at 9::~0 
p.m. tonight at tho Browning Cinema in thn DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tiekets arn availabln in the box ofliee. 
Tho Offir,n of Student Activities will host comedian Joel McHale, star, writer and producer of' E!'s "The Soup" for an hour of r,omndie mlinf' at 1() 
p.m. Friday on South Quad. 
The Disabilities Studies Forum entitled "Disability and Obsession: Can a psychiatric impairment have a history?" will be held Friday at noon in the Notre Dame Hoom of LaFortune Student Center. 
The first pep rally of the sea­son is Friday from 6 to 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will have a "Kickoff Concert" at 8 p.m. Friday at the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $5 for general admission. The event is spon­sored by the Department of Music. 
Michael Novak will be speak­ing regarding his book "Business As A Calling" on Sept. 11 at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, room 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation. about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 


_,  HIGH  72  HIGH 67  HIGH  77  HIGH 78  HIGH 77  HIGH 80  
LOW  68  LOW 63  LOW  60  LOW 58  LOW 55  LOW 53  
Atlanta 85 I 71  Boston 76 I 67 Chicago 94 I 65 Denver 64 I 46 Houston 96 I 78 Los Angeles 85 I 67 Minneapolis 80 I 75  

OFFBEAT 
Police accuse woman of crashing SUV into home 
POHTLAND, Maine ­Portland police say the Labor Day weekend got off to a rough start for a Westbrook woman accused of deliberately crashing her SUV into a home dur­ing an angry dispute over money. 
Police say the woman faces charges of aggravat­ed assault, reckless con­duct with a dangerous weapon and drunken driv­ing, as well as driving with a suspended license. 
Police say they were called to a home Friday night following the dispute over money between the woman, her friends and people at a home in Portland. 
Officers arrived to see the woman's sport utility vehicle baek up and ram the building. She's also accused of hitting a man in the head with a rock. 
Credit card thief signs own name to receipts 
IOWA CITY, Iowa -Iowa City police say they didn't have much trouble finding a man accused of using a stolen credit card -he signed his own name to the receipts. 
Police said the man used the stolen credit card to buy a latte at a coffee house and to buy ciga­rettes at a tobacco store. Police said the credit card was reported stolen from an unlocked apartment last month. 
They said the man also tried to use it at another store, but the card was declined ber,ause it came up as stolen. He also used the card at a local deli. 
He has been charged with four counts of unau­thorized use of a credit card. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a: 
LIJ 
:::1: 
~ 
LIJ 
3: 
...... 
c( 

••• 4 ' 
(.) 0 


New York 88 I 68 Philadelphia 90 I 67 Phoenix 103 I 82 Seattle 69 I 50 St. Louis 91 I 74 Tampa 94 I 77 Washington 92 I 65 




-----------------------:~ 
Thursday, September 4, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



SMC plans Friday pep rally activities 
its meeting locations starting
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 

next week, student body vice 
News Writer 
president Sarah Falvey said. 

"We want to have students Saint Mary's College will come and get to know what sponsor the first pep rally of our process is about," she 
Notre Dame's football season, student body president Mickey Gruscinski said at a meeting of the Board of Governance 
( B 0 G ) 
Wednesday. 
The members of the BOG invited students 

"We want to have students come and get to know what our process is about., 
Sarah Falvey Saint Mary's student body vice president 
said. The Board is still in dis­cussion about where the new meeting place will be. 
In other BOG news: 
E I I e n Gootblatt, a relationships expert and motivational 
to meet at the Student Center at 4:15 p.m. on Friday to walk over together. They also encouraged students to wear the Saint Mary's shirt that is being sold in Le Mans and outside the Student Center. The shirt is $5. 
The BOG will be changing speaker, will come to Saint Mary's campus to speak about "Meeting, Dating and Mating." She is speaking Monday, Sept. 7 in Vander Vennet Theatre. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Prof publishes synthesis ~of work 
Father Richard McBrien's most recent paperfocuses on ecclesiology 
interest has been, as he puts it, 
Special to The Observer 
"theological reflection on the 
For more than 40 years, nature, mission, ministries and Father Richard P. McBrien, structures of the Church." Crowley-O'Brien Professor of Ecclesiology, in other academic Theology at the University of words. Notre Dame, has written a His most recent work, "The 
weekly column in the Catholic Church: The press. For almost as m a n y years, he 
"It's really the culmination 
has been a frequent ofa career ofteaching, 
and occa­writing, and lecturing about 
sionally 
the Church. Ecclesiology 
controver­sial com­has always been my 
mentator specialty and this book 
for nation­
represents a synthesis of
al media 
on Catholic all the work that I've done Church in that area oftheology.,issues. A priest 
Father Richard P. McBrien
of the archdio­theology professor 
cese of Hartford, Conn., and a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1980, Father McBrien served as the theology department's chair from that year until 1991, teaching gradu­ates and undergraduates, lee-· turing nationwide and publish­ing a steady stream of books on Catholic teaching, the popes, the lives of the saints, and the rela­tionship between religion and politics. 
Throughout his career, Father McBrien's principal scholarly 
Evolution of Catholicism," just published by Harper One, concen­trates ·solely on Father McBrien's favorite sub­ject. 
"It's really the culmina­tion of a career of teaching, writing, and lecturing about the Church," he said recently, adding that "ecclesiology has always 


been my specialty and this book represents a synthesis of all the work that I've done in that area of theology." 
An early review in Publisher's Weekly had high praise for "The Church" and its author, noting that "in good academic fashion, McBrien organizes his material thoroughly, with frequent intro­ductions, summaries, lists and cross-references that make this an ideal textbook." 
Father McBrien himself hopes that the book will, as he writes in its preface, provide the first "comprehensive, up-to-date, one-volume, English-language ecclesiology that individuals, teachers and students can turn to for private study, reference, or formal course work at the graduate and undergraduate levels in colleges, universities, seminaries, and institutes of various kinds or in adult educa­tion programs in parochial and diocesan venues." 
If any early readers thought this an outsized ambition for an amply footnoted, indexed and glossaried 496-page tome, Notre Dame's president emeri­
tus,  Rev.  Theodore  M.  
Hesburgh, C.S.C.,  was  not  
among them.  

In a foreword to "The Church," Father Hesburgh wrote that he had "no hesitation at all in warmly recommending this book to a wide and reli­giously diverse audience, whether in universities, colleges and seminaries, or in parish and diocesan adult education programs, or in more advanced high-school programs and espe­cially to high-school teachers of religion." 
Father Hesburgh's praise was echoed by Lord George L. Carey, former Anglican archbishop of Canterbury, who wrote that "in this immensely deep, timely and accessible book, McBrien probes the meaning of the Church through the centuries. It is a must for all Christians." 


Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet &200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 




luxury apartments



Illrish 
ROW 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 4, 2008 
convention in New York City." Peene studied political sci­

Convention 
continued from page 1 
fortunate" to have Litdwrman, a l'ornwr I>emoc.rat and curnmt inde­pendent. eonw to endorse and fully support the nomination and election of' McCain. 
On Wedrwsday, Peene said he was antidpating witnnss­ing vice pn~sidcntial eandi­date Cov. Sarah Palin (H­Aiaskal give what lw called "the most important 
ence as an undergraduate at Hutgers, and now works for a lobbyist firm called Capital lmpaet Group that works with nonprofit organizations. Hec:ognized for being politi­cally active in his home state, Peene was nominated and electt!d to represent his dis­trict, earning him a delegate spot this year. 
Eaeh state has a certain 
number of delegates, inelud­ing politi­cians, eleeted delegates and others, deter­


speec:h of' hPr mined by both
"There's a reason that 
lift~." The New Hepublican .It~ rst~ y dPiega­8.5 percent ofthe National t io n • lw s a i d . population in Committee fully supports bylaws and
Alaska approves ofthe 
Palin. eaeh state's
job she's done." 
"There's a party rules. reason that H!i Peene is not percnnt of' the Ryan Peene the only rep­population in resentative in
graduate student 
Alaska approves or the job she's done," he said. 
In addition to his ol'fieial duty to cast his ballot for McCain Wednesday, Penne said tlwrn are plenty of 
advantages  to  being a  deln­ 
gatn.  
llis  free  time  has  been  

spent "hitting the parties" "It's all about big hats and Miller Lite." he said. 
Peene would know -this year's convention isn't his first. 
"I was a spectator for the last two conventions," Peene said. "First as a senior in high school during the 2000 eonvention in Philadelphia, and again during the 2004 his delegation 
with a Notre 
Dame connec­
tion. Other 
Notre Dame alumni are in the New Jersey delegation, and Peene said he was certain there are anum­ber of Domers from around the country serving as dele­gates. 
"We [alumni] are looking forward to Friday, so we can head home and watch the Irish take on San Diego on Saturday," Peene said. 
But Peene said he hopes he will return to another Hepublican convention in four years. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



Google 
continued from page 1 
"All nnw P-mail nwssages for students are now deliv­ernd to NotrP l>anw Gmail. so all st.udnnts actually did switrh over the morning of' SPpt. ]," HosP said. "Any stu­dents who did not ehange tlwir password prior to Sept. :~ only rwed to rhange their password at password. nd .ed u 
to  gain  access  to  their  e­ 
mail."  
orr will send additional  e­ 

mails throughout the senws­ter to remind students to movn any old nwssagns to c;oogln Apps that might still be on tlw Webmail system as soon as possible, Hose said. 
Senior Allison Lang said migrating to Google Apps was a smooth transition. 
"It's been working really well. I made the switch to Gmail right away when OIT sent out the e-mail," Lang said. "It is easier to use and will probably be a lot better than Webmail which was crashing all the time." 
Additionally, Lang also said the increased quota on c;oogle Apps makes it easier for her to exchange pictures, e-mails and videos with her friends. 
The Google Apps e-mail sys­tem has a 6.5 GB e-mail quota, which is markedly larger than 100 MG Webmail system. 
Lang also said she has been 
using the cal­
endar feature 

St~nior AdPI)()la "It's been working on Gmail to c;iwa said lw really well. keep her had not bPen appointments
I made the switch to
paying atl!mtion in order. to n-mails sPnt Gmail right away In addition 
by OIT whirh when OfT sent out the to the calen­informed stu­dar system.
e-mail."
dPnts of' the Google Apps migration to also features c;oogln Apps. Allison Lang an application "J'vp btHHl gl't­senior called Google 
ling a lot of' n­mails about lthe migration I. but I haven't been paying attPntion to tlwm," he said. c;iwa said that hn r PI' P i vP d a 11 o t h P r P -rn a i I We d IH~ S d a y i11 f'0 r 111 ill g h i Ill that any nPW P-mails would lw sPnt to his (;mail account. 
SincP lw alrPady had anoth­Pr P-mail account with Gmail, Giwa said the switch from Wnbmail to GoogiP Apps is a wPkomn 1·.hangn. 
"I likP c;rnail bPcausP I can send largPr dorunwnts," hP said. "With WPbrnail. I could only send sm aiiPr documents surh as school assignnwnts." 
documents 

whieh allows studPnts to create Word docu­ments. Excel spreadsheets and Powerl'oint presentations and sharP them with other students. StudPnts have the option or collaborating and 
e di t i n g t he s ~~ do c u rn e n t s 
onlirw at the same time. 
Sophomore Chris Hidnnour said lw plans to use the chat utility that Gmail offers as well. The new Gmail system is "a grPat improvement" from Webmail, he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 4, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W1RE SFRVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Pakistan condemns raid on village 
ISlAMABAD -Pakistan angrily condemned a raid on a village that killed at least 15 people Wednesday, claiming U.S.-led troops flew in from Afghanistan for the first known foreign ground assault against a suspected Taliban haven in this country's wild tribal belt. 
The Foreign Ministry protested the attack, and an army spokesman warned that the apparent escalation from recent missile strikes on militant targets along the Afghan border would further anger Pakistanis and undercut cooperation in the war against terrorist groups. 
The boldness of the thrust fed speculation about the int~nded target. But it was unclear whether any extremist leader was killed or cap­tured in the operation, which occurred in one of the militant strongholds dotting a frontier region considered a likely hiding place for Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida's No. 2 leader, Ayman al­Zawahri. 
Congo army leaves national park 
DAKAH, Senegal -More than 1,000 sol­diers have left a national park that has been on the front lines of fighting in east­ern Congo in a move the park director said was intended to preserve an environ­ment that is home to endangered gorillas, hippos and active volcanoes. 
However, rebels still occupy a sector of the reserve that is home to some of the world's last remaining mountain gorillas, ol'f'ieials said Wednesday. 
The decision to move out all government troops and their families -about 6,000 people in all -came after negotiations between Virunga National Park Director Emmanuel de Merode and Gen. Vainqueur Mayala, the army's commanding officer, Merode said in a statement. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gustav evacuaton successful 
NEW ORLEANS -If Hurricane Katrina was one big lesson in government bungling, Gustav has been an open-book test of whether the politicians learned anything from the disaster. 
And so far, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and Mayor Ray Nagin are getting high marks. 
In the days leading up to Gustav. Jindal and Nagin persuaded a sometimes complacent pop­ulace to get out well ahead of the storm. They didn't mince words; they didn't hedge bets. In the end. they were credited with overseeing the exodus of 2 million people in one of the biggest and smoothest evacuations in U.S. history. 
That take-charge attitude in a crisis could bring political rewards, especially for Jindal, a 37-year-old Republican once mentioned as a potential running mate for John McCain. 


Prosecutors expect mayor to plea 
DETROIT -Prosecutors accusing Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick of lying on the witness stand to cover up an extramarital affair with a top aide said Wednesday that a plea deal is expected soon in the case, though the mayor's attorneys insisted one had not been struck yet. 
The surprise development came as Gov. Jennifer Granholm heard evidence in an extraordinary hearing that could result in the married mayor's removal from office. The outcome of the criminal case does not nflccssarily bear on the governor's hear­ing. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Agency aims to stop welfare changes 
lAPOirm. Ind. -'!be state's human services agency is seeking to movn to fedflral court a lawsuit that would block thn state from extending changes in welfare eligi­bility screening to 13 northern Indiana munties. 
Th11 Fmnily and Social Services Administration filed the motion Tuesday in U.S. District Court in South Bend. agency spokeswoman Lauren Auld said. The agency did not y11t know ifits motion had been granted. LaPorte attorney Shaw Friedman sued the agency last month in LaPorte Circuit Court on behalf of eight wel­fare clients. Friedman is a former general eounsel for the Indiana Democratic Party and a former party chair­man in LaPorte County. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
ELECTION 2008 


Palin delivers at GOP conv~ention 
Vice presidential nominee discusses family, says she will serve American people 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Sarah Palin delivered. 
An embattled vice presiden­tial candidate, a novice on the national stage, the head of a family suffering its "ups and downs," th!l first-term Alaska governor rocked thfl GOP con­vention with a star-turning performance. 
Wielding a stiletto and a smile, Palin belittled Democrat Barack Obama and praised her new boss, John McCain, jolting the crowd of GOP partisans. 
"Don't you think we made the right choice for the next vice president of the United States!" McCain said, hinting the controversy surrounding his pick. "And what a beautiful family." 
Indeed, the family was on display for the TV cameras ­five children, including a 17­year-old unmarried daughter who is pregnant. Their mother lacked the soaring oratory skills of Obama -a man she attaeked as a tax-raising, ter­rorist-coddling, self-indulgent liberal. But the former TV sportscaster spoke in calm, TV­friendly tones reminiscent of Ronald Rflagan. Like the for­mer GOP president, Palin warmed the crowd with quips and jokes. 
"What's the difference between a hockey mom and a pit bull," she said, pausing for a beat and a smirk. "Lipstick." 
She left the crowd smiling. 
"For too many times, we've brought knives to gun fights," said Chuck Gast, a delegate from Maryland, 
When asked if Palin brought a gun to the fight, Gast said: "Yes, I think she brings a big gun, like a moose gun." 
It was the crowning moment of a roller-coaster week in which the first woman ever on a Republican presidential tick­et has faced questions about how closely the McCain cam­paign scrutinized her. Shfl also has heard a wide range of inquiries about family issues, hflr policy positions and her record of public service. 
"Our family," she said, "has the same ups and downs as any other." 
One speech does not a cam­paign make. Kept at arm's 
Associated Press 

KABUL, Afghanistan-It was a weeklong journey through Afghanistan's most danger­ous Taliban territory, dodging persistent attacks by insurgents and bumping over rough desert terrain riddled with mines. 
But a snaking convoy of 4,000 coalition forces, guarded by dozens of attack helicop­ters and fighter jets, arrived successfully with its cargo: a turbine for a U.S.-funded dam project that could provide more than 6 percent of the country's electricity. 
More than 200 Taliban militants were length from the media in the days leading up to the address, Palin now heads out on the campaign trail, where events are less rehearsed, crowds less friendly and the environment less controlled. Even as she spoke, airplanes in Alaska were unloading reporters and political operatives sent to pore through her personal and pub­lic life. 

A big test comes at the Oct. 2 vice presidential debate with her Democratic counterpart, Joe Biden. 
But tonight was hers. 
Facing down her critics with smiling resolve, Palin took crowd-delighting swipes at Obama and what she called the Washington elite. "Here's a little news flash for all those reporters and commentators: I'm not going to Washington to seek their good opinion. I'm going to Washington to serve the people of this country," she said. 


A new celflbrity herself, Palin cast Obama as a little more than a fancy speaker with a compelling biography. 
"The American presideney is not supposed to be a journey of 'personal discovery.' This world of threats and dangers is not just a community, and it doesn't just need an organiz­er," Palin said, a clflar refer­ence to Obama's time as a community organizer in Chicago. 
The Obama campaign had less than a warm greeting, say­ing Palin's speech was "written by George Bush's spflechwriter and sounds exactly like the same divisive, partisan attacks wfl've heard from George Bush 
AFGHANISTAN 

Turbine arrives for U.S.-funded dam 
killed by forces protecting the convoy, British officials told a reporter from the Times of London who traveled with the group. No deaths were reported among coalition forces but a British soldier had his pelvis crushed as he tried to repair a broken down vehicle, reporter Jeremy Page wrote. 
Western oflicials had long fretted they would not be able to deliver the much-need­ed turbine safely through the Taliban-held land. 
British, U.S. and Canadian troops escort­ed the hulking machine as it traveled 110 miles from Kandahar city to the site of the for the last eight years." The speech was written by Matthew Scully, who met Palin for the first time last week. 
Seleeted by McCain only last Friday, Palin addressed the convention amid questions about her qualifications and relative lack of experience. 
The first-term governor had top billing at the convention on a night delegates also lined up for a noisy roll call of the states to deHver their presidential nomination to McCain. 
Watehing her speech were her husband Todd and their children, including daughter Bristol Palin, whom the Palins disclosed earlier in the week was five months pregnant. Bristol's 18-year-old boyfriend and apparent fiance, Levi Johnston, was seated with them. 
Kajaki dam project -the largest American aid project in Afghmlistan -in neighboring Helmand province. The province is the most violent region in the country. 
The troops fended off countlflss attacks and disabled scores of improvised explosive devices during the weeklong journey. 
"The result of the operation will be a much needed increase in capacity to gener­ate elflctrical power, whieh will create a bet­ter quality of life for Afghan people in south­ern Afghanistan," NATO's International Security Assistance Force said in a state­ment. 

page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 4, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, September 4, 2008 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Stocks  
Dow Jones  11,532.88  +15.96  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,716  96  1,657  824,624,437  
AMEX  1,988A2  ··'-37.82  

NASDAQ 2,333.73 -15.51 NYSE 8,269.25 -27.72 S&P 500 1,274.98 -2.59 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 12,689.59 0.00 FTSE 100 'London~ 51499.70 -121.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.09 -0.11 127.88 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.94 -0.43 45.12 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +0.34 +0.34 22.06 FREDDIE MAC (FRE) +0.20 +0.20 5.38 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.31 -0.049 3.697 13-WEEK BILL +0.91 +0.015 1.665 30-YEAR BOND -1.01 -0.044 4.318 5-YEAR NOTE -1.87 -0.056 2.940 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.36 109.35 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.30 808.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.45 90.30 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 108.3700 
IN BRIEF 

Kellogg purchases assets of plants 
SEELYVILLE, Ind. -Food maker Kellogg Co. hopes to boost its production in the Midwflst through the purchase of assets of plants in Indiana and Illinois. 
Kellogg said Wednesday that it would integrate IndyBake Products plant at Seelyville, Ind., and Brownie Products at Gardner, Ill., a contract snack manufactur­ing business, into its U.S. Snacks operation. 
Financial terms were not disclosed. 
About 150 IndyBake and Brownie employees joined Kellogg when the deal closed. 
The Battle Creek, Mich.-based company expects to add about 300 new full-time and contract positions at the Seelyville facility, about 5 miles northeast of Terre Haute. 
"Expanding our business is a key element of Kellogg's business strategy and commit­ment to driving sustainable growth," David Mackay, Kellogg's president and chief exec­utive, said in a statement. "This acquisition will help us expand our capacity to manu­facture existing and proprietary snacks products as well as enable new product innovations." ' 
lndyBake and Brownie had combined revenue of $50 million in 2007, according to Kellogg. The operations have worked with Kellogg for many years as a snacks contract manufacturer. 
Economic struggles to persist into 2009 
WASHINGTON -The nation struggled with slow economic growth and still-high prices that are weighing on consumers and businesses alike as the race for the White House kicks into high gear. 
The Federal Reserve's new snapshot of business conditions, released Wednesday, underscored the toll the housing, credit and financial debacles are having on the economy and the challenges likely to be faced by the next president. Problems are expected to persist into next year. 
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his col­leagues are all but certain to leave a key interest rate alone at 2 percent when they meet next on Sept. 16 and probably through the rest of this year. 
Rains, tornadoes threaten businesses 
Utility company reports 674,036 outages; La. Offshore Oil Port survives storm 
Associated Press 
BEAUMONT, Texas ­
Torrential rains and the 
threat of tornadoes in the 
wake of Hurricane Gustav 
slowed attempts to rebuild 
Louisiana's brokfln trans­
mission and distribution 
systems even as hundreds 
of thousands of residents 
who had fled the storm 
return to homes that may 
be without power for 
weeks. 
Oil and natural gas pro­
duction in the Gulf of 
Mexico that had been shut 
down last month before 
the hurricane resumed in 
limited volumes, U.S. 
Minerals Management 
Service said Wednesday 
afternoon. And the 
Louisiana Offshore Oil 
Port, which handles about 
12 percent of the nation's 
crude imports and is tied 
by pipeline to about half 
the nation's refining 
capacity, does not appear 
to have been damaged by 
Gustav. 
Utility giant Entergy 
Corp., with 1.2 million 
customers in Louisiana, 
reported 6 7 4,036 outages 
among them Wednesday 
afternoon and said out­
ages expanded into 
Arkansas overnight, 
where 86,440 customers 
were without power. It 
said about 40 percent of 
its transmission lines and 

27 percent of its substa­"Power continues to be The Department of Membership Corp., based 
tions were out of service the most critical obstacle Energy reported 1.2 mil­in Baton Rouge, said only 
in the state. to the recovery of our lion outages in Louisiana, 6 percent of its 95,000 
"It was a direct hit state," he said. Arkansas and Mississippi. members had power. 
across Louisiana," Renae . More than half of New Orleans and Baton "It's going to be a slow, 
Conley, president and Entergy's 141,000 cus­Rouge were particularly arduous task," said 
chief executive of Entergy tomers in New Orleans hard hit, and in the center spokesman Brent Bradley. 
Louisiana and Entergy were without power and, of the state, near At least 15,000 utility 
Gulf States Louisiana, told Rod West, president and Alexandria, heavy rains workers from as far away 
reporters. chief executive of Entergy and flooding prevented as Massachusetts and 
The Public Service New Orleans, said some utility crews from access­Utah were either in 
Commission, which regu­residents returning to ing some areas. Cleco Louisiana or en route, 
lates utilities in Louisiana, New Orleans may have Corp. reported 61 percent matching the mobiliza­
estimates that half the power in a day or two. It of all its customers, about tions that followed hurri­
power will be restored in may be much longer for 167,071 customers, were canes Katrina and Rita. 
nine days, but that it will others. without power. Entergy Arkansas utility workers 
take up to four weeks Entergy was able to said the Baton Rouge area who have been in 
before all power is reconnect some critical has never suffered dam­Louisiana since Monday 
restored. buildings in an area south age as severe as that will return Thursday to 
Gov. Bobby Jindal said of Lake Pontchartrain, caused by Gustav. restore power in their 
that's unacceptable. such as hospitals. Co-op Dixie Electric own state. 


Motor clubs hope to be recession-proof 
Associated Press about launching a luxury club as the for-profit country club where members 
economy sputters, they don't show it. tool around in performance cars instead 
MONTICELLO, N.Y. -Bill McMichael They offer what they hope is a reces­of golf carts. The vibe here -with its 
braked his new Ferrari F430 Scuderia sion-proof offer to wealthy people with a helipad and storage garage loaded with 
into the turn, downshifting as he went Lamborghini or Lotus in their garage: European sports cars -is more 
into the corner. Then he punched it on Come and drive as fast as you can when­Formula One than NASCAR, even 
the straightaway. Pedal down, engine ever you want. though racer Jefl' Gordon is a member. 
whining an octave higher, the sleek, "It's .the most exciting thing I've ever The club's centerpiece, a 4.1-mile 
black car closed in on 140 mph within done," said McMichael, an entrepreneur track that pretzels around the hilly land­
seconds. who is a partner and chief executive offi­scape, is already in use. Chief operating 
Acting like a lead-foot is OK here at cer at Monticello. "I've played almost officer and partner Ari Straus said the 
the Monticello Motor Club. Actually, every sport you can imagine. Nothing special surface is "grippier" than normal 
speeding is pretty much the reason the gives me the same sensation, the excite­roads, all the ibetter for fast turns. 
exclusive club opened this summer in ment, the thrill of driving a really fast McMichael was Uike a proud father as he 
the Catskills. car on a track." recently gave a high-speed tour in his 
Down the road, gasoline goes for The Monticello track had a "soft" $290,000 Ferrari. 
around $3.70 a gallon and drivers think opening June 29 amid the hills and lakes "This is one of the nicest turns on the 
twice before making errands. But at this of the old Borscht Belt northwest of New whole course," he said, easing the steer­
private club, work is going ahead full York City. Right now, business is con­ing wheel slightly. "It's an eight-degree 
throttle to transform an old airport into ducted mostly out of an elaborate two­bank, a very long, left-hand sweeper. It's 
a playground with pit stops for people story tent, but the club is building a spa, one of our signature turns. It's like 
who can pony up the $125,000 entry condominiums and a fancy restaurant. famous golf courses have signature 
fee. If Monticello's operators worry Monticello essentially is a high-end, holes." 
------~--­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 4, 2008 
Senate 
continued from page I 
"As of right now, no other nvonts havo been cancellnd," he said. "As far as we know, the deeision on the pep rally was an intnrnal decision within Dillon." 
In other Senate news: 
+Thn Senate praised the Office of Information Technology's (()IT) rncent deci­sion to switd1 from Wnbmail to the Google-basnd (;mail. 
"The transition from Wnbrnail to (;mail has been deemed by OIT to be an overwhelming suc­cnss," said Devin Fen, the Senate Campus Technology Committee chair. "I am highly confident this is the bnst e-mail application for Notre Dame at this timn." 
Fee said some accounts. namely those usnd by clubs and dorms, still needed to be added to the Gmail system. 
+Student body president Bob Heish announced he would be sending a letter to all students before the first football game Saturday reminding them of their responsibility to be good neighbors. Heish said the letter was aimed at avoiding another ordinance such as the one almost passed by the South Bend Common Council last year, which would have required stu­dents to register for a permit with the city to hold parties at ofT-campus houses. 
"We are all well aware of what happened last year and we want to be cognizant to be good neighbors," Heish said. 
+Student government plans to hold a mock election sometime in early Octob(~r. Reish said. 
"We've been trying to figure out the best ways to increase student voice around campus," he said. 
In the week leading up to the mock election, Schmidt said there will be several events on campus to raise students' politi­cal awareness, such as a panel discussion with political science professors. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


esc 
continued from page 1 
masonry work is underway, he said. 
"Looking at the drawing is excit­ing," said Paul Horn, the din~c:tor of communications for the esc. "But to ac:tually sne it come to life is bnttnr." 
WhiiP the new building is being constrw:tnd, tlw esc has tem­porarily rnloeated to the old Security Building behind the Hockne Memorial. 
esc stan· oporations were not adversnly a.llilc:tnd by the move to a temporary location, Horn said, but studenlr.; do not vir.;it the build­ing as often. 
"CSC is a vibrant eore and meet­ing place for studrmts," Horn said. "Boing located in the heart of campus was great, and that will return with the nnw building." 
I lorn said the now-demolished building war.; so overcrowded that some staff members were work­ing out of closol<i. 
The staff for the Institute for Church Life remained in their main olliees on the 12th floor of I Insburgh Library when eonstruc­tion bngan on the new esc build­ing. 
John Cavadini, direetor of the Institute lor Chun:h Iif(J and ehair of the theolo!-,ry department, said the program had a severe short­age of olliees. Divisions of the pro­gram, like NI> Vision, opnrate from separate locations. 
"The new lildlity will give us the ol'lice spacn so we can opnrate morn nllieinntly and as a unit," Cavadini said. 
The (;eddns llall design features an auditorium, chapel and emn­rnon spaee for student gatherings and discussions, a project costing $15,094,000, Marsh said. 
The hall has additional space 
for futurn expansion of the Center 
liJr Social Concerns and Institute 
for Church Life programs, he said. 
Similar programs could also be 
housed in Geddes I!all. 
In addition to being larger than 
the old building, the hall's design 
maximizes the building space and 
avoids lost green spaee. 
"!The University planners] con­sider our landscaped open space on campus quite sacred," he said. 
With a ba'inrnent and a top floor Joeated inside the roof line, the five-story building design appears only three stories tall. 
Thren largP sycamonl trees on the south side of the work site were preserved, Marsh said. 
Geddes Hall was registered with the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) sys­tem, a certification of the U.S. Green Building Council. 
The council does not verify LEED certification until eonstruc­tion is completed, Marsh said. Other current construction proj­ects that are LEED registered include the new women's resi­dence hall near the Hammes Bookstore and Stinson-Hemick Hall, a nnw engineering building. 
As construction continues throughout the academic year, Marsh said all attempts will be made to minimize inconveniences to students. 
A sidewalk temporarily dosed during the spring semester between the Geddes Hall work site and the llesburgh Library has reopennd. The eonstruction fence, however, should remain in place until late next spring. 
Geddes Hall is funded by gifts totaling $14 million primarily from Michael and Sheila Geddes and Thomas and Mary Cabot, according to a February 2007 University press release. 
A member of Notre Dame's 

Sarah Falvey added: 
"I've gonn nvnry year I have been on eampus. It's a fun picnie with delieious food and a nice ehange of pace, especially this ynar as wn lwad into thn SMC­hostnd pnp rally 
Union of Souls performed for ''Twighlight Tailgate is students. 
"Twilight

a great Saint Mary's 
Tailgate is a tradition -it's good great Saint 
food and a great time Mary's tradi­
tion it's

with your friends. ,, 
good food and a great time Sarah Favley with your 
student body vice president f r i e n d s . Twilight is a fun way to 
and the first ganw." 
During dinnnr, thern will be a raf'lln for students. Thnrn will also be fren popcorn, candy apples, and eotton candy during the movin. Peterson and the unwind after the first few weeks of elass and kick oil' the week­end," Falvey said. 
Contact Jennifer Hoffman at jhoffmO I @saintmarys.edu 
Board of Trustees, Geddes serves as a Trustee liaison on Notre Dame' Institute for Church Life Advisory Council. I le earned his bachelor's degree from the University, and serves as the chairman and president of Geddes and Company of Phoenix, a private investment and consult­ing firm. 
The building's chapel will be named for the Cabot family of Naples, Fla., the primary sponsors of the CSC's international summer service initiative. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

THE 2009 DOME YEARBOOK 
wants you on our staff. 
Open meeting today. No experience necessary. 
Sports, Organizations, or Design 
Thursday, Sept. 4th 7:30-8:00 p.m. Dome office (Basement of SOH) 




Tailgate 
continued from page 1 
free'? I'm sad that this will be my last Twilight Tailgate," Gruseinski said. 
Student body vice president 
members of SAB decided "Made of Honor" would be a crowd­pleaser. 
"Homantic comedies almost always go over well with the students," Peterson said. 
In the past, movies like "License to Wed" were shown, and eoncert acts like Blessid 
Thursday, September 4, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 


CANADA 

Huge ice shelf breaks off fro111 Arctic island 

Scientists say ice split indicative ofwarming 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -A chunk of ice shelf nearly the size of Manhattan has broken away from Ellesmere Island in Canada's northern Arctic, another dramatic indication of how warmer temperatures are changing the polar frontier, sci­entists said Wednesday. 
Derek Mueller, an Arctic ice shelf specialist at Trent University in Ontario, told The Associated Press that the 4,500­year-old Markham Ice Shelf separated in early August and the 19-square-mile shelf is now adrift in the Arctic Ocean. 
"The Markham Ice Shelf was a big surprise because it sud­denly disappeared. We went under cloud for a bit during our research and when the weather cleared up; all of a sudden there was no more ice shelf. It was a shocking event that underscores the rapidity of changes taking place in the Arctic," Mueller said. 
Mueller also said that two large sections of ice detached from the Serson Ice Shelf, shrinking that ice feature by 4 7 square miles -or 60 percent -and that the Ward Hunt Ice Shelf has also continued to break up, losing an additional eight square miles. 
Mueller reported last month that seven square miles of the 170-square-mile and 130-feet­thick Ward Hunt shelf had bro­ken off. 
This comes on the heels of unusual cracks in a northern Greenland glacier, rapid melt­ing of a southern Greenland glacier, and a near record loss for Arctic sea ice this summer. And earlier this year a 160­square mile chunk of an Antarctic ice shelf disintegrat­ed. 
"Reduced sea ice conditions and unusually high air temper­atures have facilitated the ice shelf losses this summer," said Luke Copland, director of the Laboratory for Cryospheric Research at the University of Ottawa. "And extensive new cracks across remaining parts of the largest remaining ice shelf, the Ward Hunt, mean that it will continue to disintegrate in the coming years." 
Formed by accumulating snow and freezing meltwater, ice shelves are large platforms of thick, ancient sea ice that float on the ocean's surface but are connected to land. 

Ellesmere Island was once entirely ringed by a single enor­mous ice shelf that broke up in the early 1900s. All that is left today are the four much smaller shelves that together cover little more than 299 square miles. 
Martin Jeffries of the U.S. National Science Foundation and University of Alaska Fairbanks said in a statement Tuesday that the summer's ice shelf loss is equivalent to over three times the area of Manhattan, totaling 82 square miles -losses that have reduced Arctic Ocean ice cover to its second-biggest retreat since satellite measurements began 30 years ago. 
"These changes are irre­versible under the present eli­mate and indicate that the envi­ronmental conditions that have kept these ice shelves in bal­ance for thousands of years are no longer present," said Mueller. 
During the last century, when ice shelves would break off, thick sea ice would eventually reform in their place. 
"But today, warmer tempera­tures and a changing climate means there's no hope for regrowth. A scary scenario," said Mueller. 
The loss of these ice shelves means that rare ecosystems that depend on them are on the brink of extinction, said Warwick Vincent, director of Laval University's Centre for Northern Studies and a researcher in the program Arctic Net. 
"The Markham Ice Shelf had half the biomass for the entire Canadian Arctic Ice Shelf ecosystem as a habitat for cold, tolerant microbial life; algae that sit on top of the ice shelf and photosynthesis like plants would. Now that it's disap­peared, we're looking at ecosys­tems on the verge of extinc­tion," said Mueller. 
Along with decimating ecosys­tems, drifting ice shelves and warmer temperatures that will cause further melting ice pose a hazard to populated shipping routes in the Arctic region -a phenomenon that Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper seems to welcome. 
Harper announced last week that he plans to expand explo­ration of the region's known oil and mineral deposits, a possi­bility that has become more evi­dent as a result of melting sea ice. It is the burning of oil and other fossil fuels that scientists say is the chief cause of man­made warming and melting ice. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 4, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Separating church and state 
P.O. Box n9. Notr< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
ASS'!~ MANAGING EmTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EmTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vitwpoint.1 @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoroei!'nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
rHE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Th<· Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represcm the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and dcparrmem editors. Commmtaries, letters and columns prcsem the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe (>bscrver. 
Vicwpoim sp~t·e is available to all readers. The free t·xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.<.·ncrs to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inlormarion. 
Qursrions ,ygarding Obsm;er policies should br dirr:cted to Editor in G"hiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u;· OlN"rvcr (lJSI'S '\1Jj) 2-401111) •• ~~ublt11hed Munday tluuugh Frldo~y except dunng ~·.~~am ami vo~ •.:;,unn ~1<rin1k A •ullbCnpuon to The ()!~rver 15 $1()0 fur vnc actdcmk vc.~r: $5~ 1~11 unr lf:IIICIII(t 
!'he (lht~erver 15 puhliJhcJ .u: PO!o.TMASTER 
!1.24 South Ditting I l11ll Xnd o~ddrns corrccdoru. to; 
Nouc· Do~.mc, IN <t(,'S%·0779 The Observer 
1-'cri•wlll·otl pttll~f.lc.' patd .u Nom Do~mf r.o Box 779 .md addi1tun1l rn.~.ilinM uiTica. 014 South Dining HJ.il 
Natrc lJ.une. IN 46'5%-0779 
'11tc ()~rver 1\ a mcmbc·r o~ the A~~ouct.m·J Pn::IS. All reproduction n"hb arc rcwrvcJ. 
Just before praising a student for being a "redheaded Sasquatch for Jesus" in a June graduation speech at the Wasilla Assembly of God School of Ministry, Sarah Palin dropped this gem: 
"I can do my part in doing things like working really, really hard to get a natural gas pipeline-about a 30 billion dollar project that's going to create a lot of jobs for Alaskans and we'll have a lot of energy flow­ing through here. And pray about that, also. I think God's will has to be done in unifying people and companies to get that gas line built, so pray for that." 
That's right. The woman who could be one misplaced pretzel away from the most important job in the world said that God's will is to have citizens and gas conglomerates unite behind the most noble cause of all: piping nat­ural gas throughout the state of Alaska. 
And though I haven't yet found the Bible verse that discusses pipelines, at least this is a woman who has a vision of unity in America. Forget this post­racial, bipartisan mumbo-jumbo. She, too, has a dream: that one day, Pentecostals and Exxon Mobil can join hands as sisters and brothers. She has climbed to the glacier top, and seen the Promised Land. 
Palin wasn't done. 
After talking about her son, Track, being deployed to Iraq, Palin asks the commissioned to "Pray for our military men and women who are striving to do what is right. Also, for this country, that our leaders, our national leaders, are sending them out on a task that is from God. That's what we have to make sure that we're praying for: that there is a plan and that plan is God's plan." 


Praying for the troops is admirable, but that's not what Sarah Palin asked the graduates to do. She suggests -or, at least, implies -that our cause is divine. I thought They were the ones fighting a Holy War, not Us. 
The worst was to come, though. 
Palin's pastor followed her brief speech by asking for a prayer for, among other things, "the natural resources," as Palin had implored. He believes, "Alaska is one of the refuge states in the last days ... Hundreds of thousands of people are going to come to the state, and the church has to be ready to minister to them." Palin nods a few times; the congregation gives a tepid Amen. 
Thank God. And here I was worried I'd have to dial international to reach my saved loved ones. 
It's embarrassing that any person serving as the most important political figure in a given state-let alone run­ning for national office -should express anything close to agreement with the statement, "my state is likely a refuge in the impending end times." 
But Palin seemed to think that God has chosen Alaska. Maybe it's because they have a redheaded Sasquatch for Jesus. 
Sarah Palin may be a fantastic politi­cian. She may be a great vice presi­dent. If elected, she may help root out corruption on a national level. In her time in Alaska, she hasn't seemed to force her faith-informed conservativism on policy too much, which is probably why her approval ratings remain phe­nomenally high. So, maybe, this ... dif­ferent ... worldview doesn't deserve the scrutiny I'm paying it. 
But here's the problem: Sarah Palin, like Barack Obama, is running on her judgment. And, as a general rule, I question the judgment of someone who cannot separate her political beliefs ­on the war in Iraq and an oil pipeline -with God's will. Even if you agree with Palin's political views in each, you might question this judgment. I ques­tion the judgment of someone who nods when her pastor says that her home state is likely God's chosen land. And I question the judgment of someone who thinks we need to start planning for the "last days" by equipping Alaska to han­dle the hundreds of thousands who will inevitably come. 
When Barack Obama's church made controversial statements -a serious blow to his campaign -he condemned the statements and made sure every­body knew he was not at the service the day they were made. When Sarah Palin's church made eontroversial statements, she was standing at the pulpit. She stood next to her pastor. bowed her head, and nodded. 
If nothing changes, Sarah Palin will likely get her wish. People won't want a one-breath-away who emphasizes her judgment but believes that Iraq and an Alaska oil pipeline are God's will. 
Maybe this embarrassing belief means she'll get to stay in Alaska for all eternity. 
Andrew Nesi is a senior American Studies major from Fairfield, Conn. In preschool, he forced a girl to wet herself when he locked himself in a bathroom during a game ofhide and seek. He can be reached at anesi@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kaitlynn Hiely Fran Tolan 
How many wins will Notre Dame Becky I logan Jared Jedick football have this season? 

Emma Driscoll Marie Bugnitz 
"I am often asked to explain the Graphics Scene mystique ofNotre Dame. I reply, .'If Blair Chemidlin Mark Witte 10+ you were lhere, no explanatwn ts Viewpoint 8-9 necessary: Ifyou Wf:!ren 't, nq,expla­
6-7 natwn ts sattsfactory
Kara King 
5 or fewer 

Lou Holtz former Notre Dame coach 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 4, 2008 page 11 
Be generous: Share the road 
If you lived in South Bend this past summer you could not have missed the news of three tragic accidents which have occurred locally since mid-July. 
Patrick Sawyer was hit by a car while cycling on the morning of July Kate Barrett 16, and died of his injuries on July 
21. He was 40. Faithpoint Keith Coros was hit by a car on July 23 while maneuvering his motor­ized wheelchair across an intersection at a traffic light. lie was 61, and died at the scene of the accident. Peter Kaczor was hit by a car while cycling on Aug. 29, and he too died at the crash site. He was 38. 
Many others have used up time and space in the blogosphere debating whether or not non-automobile vehi­cles should even be on city streets, and if so. what responsibilities drivers assume towards these smaller, slower, sometimes less-visible means of trans­port. This is not strictly a column about the rules for "sharing the road," though that is a lesson that has come home to me in particular after the death of Pat Sawyer, who was a friend of my family and mine. 
You risk a lot when you place the importance of your time or the signifi­cance of your needs above those of oth­ers. Sometimes, just one selfish deci­sion can lead to regret beyond what we've ever dreamed. 
The 21-year-old driver who hit Pat was intoxicated, and he left the scene without even stopping; he then turned himself in to the police the next day. He may have thought he couldn't wait to sober up, or didn't have time to drive more carefully, or just couldn't stop to see who he'd hit. Unfortunately, time has now stopped in too many ways both for him and for the many who mourn for a husband, a dad and a friend. 
Perhaps our own moments of selfish­ness won't ever kill another person. However, if we think our time is too prized or our needs too great to pause in the life of another, we may wound someone we love, or someone we don't even know, by a careless word or omis­sion. We may lose the opportunity to bring comfort to a widow, a son or a daughter overcome by grief. We may miss out on the chance to meet a new friend who will change us or teach us to see the world with new eyes. 
As Patrick's wife and their children 

LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hovv about a little self-control? 
Wow. Brendan McPhillips ("Contraception not to blame," Sept. 3) who are you? Obviously not someone who is able to "take into account the natural rhythms [of a woman's reproductive cycle I to regulate birth without offending the moral principles" of the Catholic church and natural law. 
I happen to be the pregnant wife a Notre Dame graduate student -happily married two years, current employee of Notre Dame and excited to stay at home and raise my fam­ily (whether we are blessed with one child or fifteen). I have lived by the Catholic teachings on sexuality, contra­ception and moral behavior outlined in Humane Vitae. I can tell you that both Pope Pius VI and Professor Emeritus Rice are correct in their assessment of contraception and abortion. What it comes down to is self control and the sincere love of one's spouse by refusing to make another person the object of one's sexual passions. If you want to "be smart about" and "protect yourself' from sexual diffi­culties, don't have sex outside of marriage and marry someone who does the same. It's kind of impossible to get an STD from a virgin. And in marriage an "unplanned pregnancy" doesn't necessarily mean an unwanted preg­nancy. 
Using contraception promotes selfish behavior, which stems from the lack of self-control. It gives an excuse to satisfy one's sexual appetites at the expense of another. And it causes harm. Emotional ("he broke up with me after we had sex!"), physical (a myriad of health problems are associated with the Pill, including breast cancer), spir­itual (from turning your back on the church's teachings) ­need I go on? 
Some contraceptives are also abortifacants -which means they also cause the murder of an unborn child. In fact. there is an undeniable connection between contra­ception and abortion. Brendan McPhillips, you ridicule what you know not. And you argue from a position of authority you do not possess. I am sorry that attending a Catholic university hasn't opened your eyes to the beauty and grace of God's plan for sexuality. 
Natural Family Planning (that thing that takes into account a woman's natural reproductive rhythms) is an absolutely effective and moral use of common sense and self-control. I know because I have studied it and prac­ticed it. But, moreover, I trust those sent to lead me in matters of faith. 
I think the real issue for you is not even about contra­ception -but your desire to act out your base passions without condemnation . .In case you didn't realize, that is hedonism {aka: treating people as objects for your person­al use). And it is exactly what Pope Pius VI predicted. 
Ashley Kreager Holy Cross College Sept. 3 

attempt to navigate a new life irrevoca­bly changed by their loss, I have begun to recognize in a whole new way that very basic truth of our faith: Our lives are not ours to grasp tightly and arrange in ways that simply meet our own needs. Jesus has called us, by his own example of sacrifice, to offer our lives to each other. 
Imagine if we really did put the needs of others before our own. What if we actually lived like the Good Samaritan, who delayed his own journey to attend to the needs of the wounded traveler? Two others had hurried right by their injured "neighbor," not wanting to interrupt their busy schedules. What if we lived like the shepherd who took the time to find the one lost sheep that had wandered away from his flock of 100? His concern for the lost one made the risk of leaving the others worth it. 
Maybe we drive intolerantly, aggra­vated by the elderly woman going too slowly -surely we have more impor­tant places to get to than she does, right? Maybe we hurry along the quad, impatient with the guy we can't quite edge around to get to class faster ­doesn't he realize we're running late? Maybe we even sit edgily through Mass -come on, this priest has got to know we've got stuff to do! 
Actually, Jesus teaches us-unmis­takably and without equivocation ­that "those who want to save their life will lose it, and those who lose their life for my sake will save it." We can put ourselves first so frequently and thoughtlessly that we lose sight of the fact that the message of the gospels clearly states, in Jesus' words and in his very death, "Whoever wants to be first must be last of all and servant of all." 
Most of all at this time of the year, when so many opportunities and peo­ple and needs are new, whenever you can, make the generous choice. Share the road. None of us possesses time so valuable or needs so significant that we cannot offer something of ourselves to others. Jesus offered his very life for us; surely we can offer our time, full attention and generous hearts to one another. 
Kate Barrett is the director of resources and special projects for Campus Ministry and can be contacted at kbarrett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Stop -wasting IllY llloney 

Recently, I had to write a substantial amount of my own money over to the University, and now feel entitled to complain about different objects that the University spends its money on. 
I presently live on campus, so I am forced to have a meal plan. The way the meal plan is set up for those on campus, as everyone knows, is a sin­gle, large, lump sum payment for 14 meals a week with flex points or 21 meals a week. It may seem like a minor and inconsequential item to complain about, but I feel it is representative about how the University spends much of its money on frivolous efforts. 
I am speaking about fair trade coffee being bought at the dining hall. I am not going to argue the costs and benefits of free trade versus fair trade coffee efforts, but feel free to assume that the cost of free trade is less than the cost of fair trade coffee. I do not drink coffee, but do know that the difference in product is negligible, so it is not similar to skimping on different health stan­dards for other items. 
The biggest problem I have with this policy is that an interest group is able to spend other peo­ple's money on their own ethical qualms. As stated earlier, I do not drink coffee, yet I am in essence subsidizing people's conscience. If I did drink cof­fee (and I am suggesting this exact alternative), two pots next to each other would be satisfactory. One would be free trade which would have the cost paid for by the meal plan. The other pot would be the fair trade coffee that would have some cost involved in it, which would equal the difference in price to the consumer. The amount of the price dif­ference is not significant, it could be $0.25, $0.10, $0.05 or any amount of money. What is important is that those with ethical issues with free trade cof­fee would be able to buy their fair trade coffee, without impeding on the price of those without the same set of ethics. 
This way people can make their own informed decisions about what coffee they choose, and that those who are more concerned with price are able to not be forced to subsidize others' conscience. 
Purchasing various goods with a set of particular ethics and ethical results is a very important aspect of consumerism, but holding others hostage to your own set of values by making them supple­ment your conscience is entirely irresponsible and an atrocious way to show people the true conse­quences of their choices. Instead of having to pay the extra money to purchase goods that satisfy their own particular set of values, the money is passed off onto the greater good. Please lend this recommendation your attention and concern. 
Do make sure to recognize that this is an argu­ment about whether a particular subset of the stu­dent body's ethics should be bought with the entire student body's money, not a particular argument for or against fair trade coffee. For the latter, feel free to email me at dkamp@nd.edu 
DanKamp junior Keenan Hall Sept. 3 


This Friday in South Bend's own St. Patrick's Park, locally grown band Umphrey's McGnn will perform their third annual first home game concert. Soveral of the band members have conner.tions With Notre Dame, includ­ing guitarist and vocalist Brendan Bayliss, wlwse father Bobby Bayliss coaches the Notre Dame tennis team. Heeently Brendan had the chanr.o to sit down with Sr.ene for an interview. 
Scene: So Brondan, how did you lirst gel involved with the band'! llow did Umphrey's MeGee come about? 
Brendan: I was living in Keenan hall as an undergrad in 1997. The original bass player lived in Alumni, and his band was practicing in the basement of Knenan, which is how I met him. We started a band together. There was also another band on cam­pus that had our original drummer and keyboardist. We kind of formed Umphroy's McGee out of those two bands -we had to keep quiet initial­ly, because it was kind of awkward at first. But I think it was the right deci­sion. We were on campus, and there wasn't much of a music scene. 
Seem~: It's funny to hear about how dorm life had an impact on a band that's nationally known. Notre Dame is a small world. 
Brendan: Yeah. but it's pretty far­reaching. s(~ene: llow did the band get start­ed'? 
Brendan: We started playing at Mickey's pub, which is now Finnegan's. We played at the Oyster Bar. and all the local places. We did­n't really travel much the first year we were playing -the original drummer was two years younger than I was, so when I graduated, I ended up sticking around the Bend a few more years, and waited for Mike to graduate. Once he did, we decided to move to Chicago and see if that would work. 
s(~ene: Was it tough to get started in Chicago'? 
Brendan: Yeah, it was very tough. It was hard to get a start here. We played every little hole in the wall, and we were willing to lose money just to get our foot in the door. I think moving here was good. We created a name for ourselves just by over­killing it and playing everywhere. But we come back to South Bend all the time, because it's where we started, and essentially where we did best. We stopped coming for a while, but now we've been coming for the past three years for the home opener. We'll be 2-1 after this weekend -we won the first year and lost the second. 
Scene: How would you guys describe your sound? 
Brendan: Well, I don't know. It's kind of ... self-indulgent orc~hestral rock. That's one description. We're kind of all over the map, so we're a little progressive in that way. It depends on what night you see us, really, and what environment we're in. We have musieal ADD -we're never really in the same spot. 
Scene: How would you describe your style as a live band? 
Brendan: I'd 
that you guys play? 

Brendan: Well, we do improvise a lot, but we have a lot of structure too. I'd say it's about 50/50. To be honest, we like playing whatever's tho newest song, because we perform so much. Whatever's the most recent is usually our favorite thing until WI) play the hell out of it. 
Scene: llow often are you guys touring? 
Brendan: We played about 120 shows last year, I think. We're proba­bly gone for close to two-thirds of the year, maybe less than that. This year we're trying to work for half the year ... week on, week off ... fnw weeks on, few weeks off, repeat the cycle. 
Scene: It sounds like you're very busy. 
Brendan: Yeah, when we first moved to Chicago, I moved in, I left 2 days later and I didn't come home for 
six weeks. That's 
say we're pretty kinda how it was
The department head told me
interaetive; the for a long time, live setting is the that my trying to major in but I'm home 
root of the group music was like me trying out more often now. 
and it's how we're Scene: Why
for the Cincinnati Reds. He
most comfortable. return to South It's easy for us to was probably right, but I Bend each year? revert baek to never really listened. Brendan: that. We interact Initially, it was a a lot with eaeh Brendan Bayliss ploy for us to go to other -we do a guitarist and vocalist the home opener, lot of improvising, because we're on 
and use a lot of baseball-type signals to communicate. If the erowd isn't feeling something, we'll stop and move on. If' they're encouraging us, we'll keep on doing what we're doing. 
Scene: Any funny anecdotP.s from touring? · 
Brendan: I eouldn 't isolate one -I mean there are a lot of things you probably couldn't print. In terms of our best experiences? Opening for Dave Matthews Band was really cool. We've done it the last two summers, last year and the year before. The catering was the best food I've eaten in my life. A funny story about Notre Dame, though -I went in my sopho­more year to the musie sehool, and I told the department head at the time that I wanted to be musie major but I had no training. The department head told me that my trying to major in musie was like me trying out for the Cincinnati Reds. He was probably right, but I never really listened. 
Scene: What's your favorite song 
the road so much. There was one year I didn't go to any games, and we wnre getting frustrat­ed with our schedule. We figured if we eould book the Friday in South Bcmd, we'd just toll our management that we're getting Saturday otn 
Scene: Wh<~re do you sec the band heading in tho next five yoars? 
Brendan: To be honest, I just want to see us still together, getting along and enjoying what we do. If we didn't grow financially and stayed where we arc now, I'm totally line with that. In five years, as long as we're still doing it, I don't care. We've been on a slow, steady incline from the beginning. If we keep doing what we're doing, I'm more than happy. 
Tomorrow's Umphrey's McGee con­cert begins at 7 p.m. at St. Patrick's Park in South Bend. Doors open at 6 p.m. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, September 4, 2008 
page 13 

Thursday, September 4: Best of LaFortune 2008 Student Center Open House. 9 p.m. -11 
p.m. This annual open house event allows stu­dents to tour LaFun, learn about its offices, sam­ple some food and enjoy entertainment. While supplies last, there will be samples of Sbarro's Pizza in the basement, Subway Cookies and Ice Cream Treats in the Ballroom and Burger King Chicken Nuggets on the third Floor. Be sure to there early, because samples will go fast. t to play in the grand prize game show that at 11 p.m. in the ballroom? While you are making your way through LaFun get your card ped at the specific locations and you can based on popular trivia shows to win 
prizes. There is even an opportunity to win tickets to the football game against Michigan State. Be sure to check out the billiards contest in the basement, and play Guitar Hero in the main lounge. You can also win great prizes if your dorm section has one of the highest atten­dance rates. And of course, be sure you make your way to the Ballroom to watch the Best of Acoustic Cafe from 9-11 p.m. The six best per­formers from last year will play and sing live at this free event. 
Saturday, September 6: Roger Drawdy & the Firestarters performing at Fiddler's Hearth in South Bend. 9 p.m. What to do after the Fighting Irish {hopefully) defeat the San Diego Aztecs ear­lier in the day? Well long after the taste of brats has left your mouth, venture to North Main Street to enjoy a delicious meal at Fiddler's Hearth and some fabulous entertainment. The Firestarters play Irish music with an edge of American rock. The band began in 2000, and has toured numerous venues across the Midwest. The Celtic rock group has four albums already out, with their most recent, entitled "Hallowed Ground," released in 2007. Check out the band's MySpace music page for a sample of what you can see Saturday night. 
Friday, September 5: FTT Talks Presents Patrick Whitesell. 2 P.M., Browning Cinema. 
DeBartalo Performing Arts Centers and the Department of Film, Television and Theater have come together to bring Patrick Whitesell to cam­pus to speak about his career as a Hollywood agent. lie has been a partner at Endeavor since 2001 and has been involved in its recent growth and development. His long list of clients includes high-profile actors and actresses such as Ben • Affleck, Jessica Alba, Christian Bale, Matt 0 Damon, Jennifer Garner, Kate Hudson, Hugh Jackman, Jude Law, Ellen Page, Joaquin Phoenix and Charlie Sheen. Whitesell was previously the head of the talent department at United Talent Agency, but began his career at InterTalent where he soared from the agency's mailroom to a full-Iledged agent after only two years. If you have any interest in a career in the entertain­ment industry, or just find it fascinating, this talk is for you. It is a free, but ticketed event. Call the ticket office at 574.631.2800 to reserve your seat for a chance to hear Whitesell share his wisdom. 
Sunday, September 7: PAC Classic 100 ·Presents Frederico Fellini's La strada, 3 p.m., Browning Cinema. Felini directs his wife Giulietta Masina in a film that took the Oscar for Best Foreign Film in 1956. After her destitute mother sells her to a ruthless gypsy carnival per­former Zampan (Anthony Quinn), Gelsomina (Masina) adjusts to life under the cruel strong­man. Struggling to maintain optimism, Gelsomina becomes the target of Zampan's vio­lent rage and when he bumps into his enemy the Fool (Richard Basehart), fury explodes. It's a movie Roger Ebert claims functions as the "bridge between the postwar Italian neorealism which shaped Fellini, and the fanciful autobio­graphical extravaganzas which followed." Don't miss the film that brought Fellini and Masina to fame. The 35 mm print is in Italian with English subtitles. Tickets are $6 for the public, $5 for faculty/staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for students. 
Photo courtesy i 
Take control of your dining hall experience and make your own dish. 
lemon, salt, and pepper again, Provolone. mixing. Layer on top of bean Quick Tip spread. In a rush? Try taking a bowl of 
6. Close up your sandwich and chili or tortilla soup and adding enjoy! Try dipping it in the dress­your own red onion, cheese, sour ing from the tomato salad above cream, and fritos to make it a little 0 
0 

for a kick {or even mixing it more crisp and crunchy. •· straight into the spread), or adding some more of your favorite vegeta­Contact Michelle Fordice at bles or a mild cheese, suchas mfordice@nd.edu 

By MICHELLE FORDICE 
l Oh, dining hall. Whether they 1f'requent North or South, students 
•have such a love/hate relationship 1with you. We can't complain too lmuch; you do offer quick, full­jcourse meals that are tasty {rela­'tive to most dining halls), but a few jweeks into the school year we long to see something new, or to have lmore control over what we get to 
taste each meal. 

! Well, we here at Scene believe 
,there is more than meets the eye 
1to the dining hall's offerings, and 
have set out to see what we can 
;create out of the ingredients that 
:offp,red most every day. So stick 
with us, and let's see what we can !cook up. . l This week's recipes: 
, Red Wine Vinegar and Tomato !Salad 
1. Fill a bowl with red wine vine­gar, a splash of olive oil, and a dol­lop of Dijon mustard. If you are in South, add a dash of Italian sea­soning or oregano, to your taste. 
2. 
Layer a plate with sliced tomatoes or tomato wedges and sprinkle with feta cheese crum­bles. 

3. Pick up a lemon wedge. 

4. 
Take your bowl and add in lemon juice, salt, and pepper, to taste. Mix into a dressing and pour over the tomatoes and cheese. Let sit while you make your sandwich. 


Tuna-and-Bean Sandwich 
1. 
Fill a bowl with black beans and a splash of olive oil. If you are in South, add some basil· from the spice rack as well. 

2. 
Fill another bowl with plain tuna, black olives, and red onion. 

3. 
Pick up lemon wedges and some good sandwich bread. 

4. 
Once you're seated, take the first bowl and squeeze in the juice from a good size lemon wedge. Add salt and pepper. Mix it all together, smashing the beans so that it makes a spread. Spread on one side of the bread. 


5. Take the second bowl and add 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 4, 2008 
MLB 

Pedroia leads Red Sox to four-run con1eback against Orioles 
Church hits grand slam to complete Mets' sweep of Brewers, Dunn's RBI double in ninth lifts Diamondbacks 
trip. We knew it would be a
Associated Press 

tough road trip with these guys 
BOSTON -After sleepwalking and Tampa at their place, but through six innings, the Boston we've got a lot of young guys up Hod Sox woke up. here learning on the job and 
AL batting leader Dustin there's going to be a lot of Pndroia homered in the seventh lumps." inning to begin Boston's come­The Orioles took a 4-0 lead in back from a four-run deficit, and the fourth against Daisuke the Hed Sox beat the Baltimore Matsuzaka. Boston's comeback Orioles 5-4 WNinesday when began when Pedroia homered pitcher .Jim Miller threw away a ofT Jamie Walker into the Green bunt for a game-ending error. Monster seats, his 17th homer of 
I lilting cleanup for the fourth the season. Pedroia hit just eight time in live games, Pedroia went last year and had two in 2006, :{-for-4 and raised his average to when he first came up to the .:~n. lie is 21-for-34 (.618) in majors and played in 31 games. his last eight games. Boston loaded the bases with 
.-
"We looked tired the first live, a hit batter, walk and bunt sin­six innings, then we kind of turn gle, and Rocky Cherry came in 
it up," l'edroia said. "We finally and walked Coco Crisp, forcing 
swept somebody." home a run. 
Boston swept the three-game Mark Kotsay hit a two-run series. The Hed Sox had won the triple in the eighth off Miller, a first two games in three of their drive just over center fielder last four series only to lose each Adam Jones, who crashed into finale. the wall. Miller stranded Kotsay 
"Anytime you gnt a sweep its by strikinw out Jason Bay and nice," Boston outfielder Jacoby Jason Varitek. Ellsbury said. Justin Masterson (5-4) pitched 
Cora singled off Miller (0-1) two scoreless innings. 
walks and working out of sever­his right fist twice in a modest lied against the Cardinals' tat­opening the ninth, and took sec­Matsuzaka gave up four runs ­
ond on Coco Crisp's bunt single, three earned -and four hits in al jams until leaving in the sev­celebration as he rounded first. tered bullpen, whose 29 losses enth. The Mets went up 6-0 with are most in the majors. 
which appeared to be heading six innings. 
New York's road to redemp­two outs when Schneider hit a Arizona won for only the thirdfoul before taking a weird With planned starter Jeremy sidelined arm tion after last year's seven-game solo homer to almost the same time in 10 games and stretchedbounce on the line. Guthrie by collapse with 17 to play returns spot in right field, the first time its NL West lead to three gamesEllsbury, attempting to sacri­fatigue, the Orioles gave Lance to Shea Stadium, where the since July 19, 2007 that New over the Los Angeles Dodgers, fice, bunted the ball toward Cormier his first start since last Mets open an eight-game home­York scored six or more runs in who were to face San Diego onMiller, who threw it past third Sept. 15 for Atlanta. Cormier stand Friday beginning with the top of the first inning. Wednesday night. Arizona opens baseman Aubrey llull' and down allowed two hits in three Philadelphia, their closest pur­The Mets made it 8-2 in the a three-game series at Los
the left-field line. innings, throwing 32 pitches. 
suer in the NL East at 2? games eighth when pinch hitter Nick Angeles on Friday night. 
"The first bunt hits a cleat Dennis Sarfate followed with back. The Phillies play Evans singled in two runs with The winning rally began when mark and kicks fair. That's just another three shutout innings, 
the nature of the game," Miller giving up just one hit, a single. Washington on Wednesday two outs off reliever Mitch streaking Stephen Drew tripled night. Stetter. David Wright hit a sacri­to lead off the ninth against
said. "I think if I make that Baltimore scored when Brian But the Mets, now 3-0 in fice fly in the ninth. Chris Perez (2-2). One out later,throw the way it needs to be Roberts doubled on the game's 
September and winners of four Not that New York needed all Conor Jackson singled throughmade, I've got a good chance of second pitch and Nick Markakis straight and six of the last the extra runs. Milwaukee the drawn-in infield to tie it. It
getting him." flied to center, where Crisp 
seven, finished this road trip in couldn't figure out a lefty for the was Perez' second blown save inCora slid headfirst into third dropped the ball for an error. 
style by sweeping the Brewers third straight game after coming eight chances. 
base and his helmet popped off. Crisp, who battled the bright in a potential postseason into the series with the best Dunn followed with a shot toThen he jogged home with his sunshine, wasn't wearing sun­
matchup. record against southpaws in the the right field corner to score
arm raised. glasses. 
Milwaukee leads Philadelphia league. Jackson ahead of the throw. 
"I was diving," Cora said of The Orioles boosted their lead by four games in the wild card The Brewers, who stranded 26 Chad Qualls 14-8) pitched thethe play at third. "All of a sud­in the fourth on Luke Scott's RBI 
chase, but since the All-Star runners in the series, failed to ninth to earn the victory. 
den I looked to my right and saw double, Lou Montanez's run­break the Brewers are 0-7 score with two on and less than Arizona trailed 3-0 in the sev­
the ball." scoring groundout and 
against the NL's divisional lead­two outs in the first and third enth when pinch-hitter AugieAsked whether he had ever Guillermo Quiroz's RBI single. 
ers and 8-10 against teams innings when Perez struggled to Ojeda led off with a doubleseornd a winning run without a Ellsbury robbed Huff of a above .500 with 10 such games find the strike zone and didn't against reliever Kyle McClellan.
hPlrnet, he smiled and said, "Ah, home run with a leaping catch 
left to play. push a run across until Hart's One out and two walks later,
probably not." at the wall by the Orioles New York, leading the majors RBI double in the sixth before Ojeda scored on Conor Jackson's Boston, 48-19 at Fenway Park bullpen in the fifth. 
in first-inning runs with 123, leaving two more on base. fielder's choice grounder to cutbut 34-38 on the road, began battered Brewers starter Dave J.J. Hardy homered with one St. Louis' lead to 3-1.
the day four games behind Mets 9, Brewers 2 
Bush, who is allowing opposing out in the seventh and Perez Ron Villone came on andTampa Bay in the AL East and Hyan Church hit a grand slam 
hitters to go .321 with eight recorded the second out before threw a wild pitch, allowing
led the AL wild-card race by and Brian Schneider added a 
homers and 25 RBis in the first walking Gabe Kapler and being Miguel Montero to score to slice
four games. homer in a six-run first inning 
inning this year. relieved by Joe Smith. the deficit to 3-2.
The Hed Sox sold out 96-year that provided all the offense the 
After an out, Bush (9-1 0) gave St. Louis took a 2-0 lead in the old Fenway for the 455th con­Mets needed to beat the up three straight singles, includ­Diamondbacks 4, Cardinals 3 third when Cesar lzturis buntedsecutive regular-season game, Milwaukee Brewers and com­ing an RBI hit by Carlos Delgado Adam Dunn doubled home the for a single and Glaus followed
tying the Cleveland Indians' plete a three-game sweep 
to make it 1-0, then walked winning run in the ninth inning, by hitting an 0-1 delivery frommajor league record. Wednesday. 
Carlos Beltran to load the bases. and the Arizona Diamondbacks Doug Davis into the left fieldBaltimore has lost six straight Starter Oliver Perez (1 0-7) Church drove an off-speed beat the St. Louis Cardinals on seats.
and 11 o1'12. benefited from the highest-scor­
pitch to the Mets' bullpen Wednesday. In the sixth, Felipe Lopez"It just wasn't a good road ing first inning by the Mets in 
beyond the leaping grab of right For the second time in three reached on an infield single and trip," lluiT said. "We didn't even more than a year by scattering fielder Corey Hart and pumped games, the Diamondbacks raJ-took second on third basemanwin a game on the whole road two runs off five hits and five 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit

CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season -The Stanley Clark School, a south side elementary/mid­die school is located north of Erskine Golf course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5-6th grade and 7 ·8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35.00 per game to licensed referees. If interested, please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at phone #574-291-4200. 

TUTOR for Prob & Slats. Fee nego­liable. Call574-276-8299. 
Need sitter as needed for our 5 year old son. Need transportation. $10/hr. 574-271-1216. 
General help needed for tailgate 10/4, ND vs. Stanford. $12/hr +gratuity. 9 hours minimum. Can attend game. Call415-898-1875 or email Arlene@ warrencapital.com 
Wanted Ml tix. Will trade. 

FOR RENT 
House for rent. Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot. Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just 
·east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. $1000/month + utilities. Call (574} 340-3895. 
Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bed­room home also available. Call 574­532-1408. 


TICKETS 
Wanted: ND footballtix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND foot­ball tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232-0964. 
A BUSINESSMAN NEEDS FOOT· BALL SEASON TICKETS. ANY HELP APPRECIATED. 574-277-1659. 

PERSONAL 

Paid internship available immedi­ately. We need you to take pho­los of local events, including tail­gating. nightlife and camp~o~s activities. You play we pay. 
Contact Jenny Sibert at sibert@ uhaps.com or 513-344-3569. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or some­one you love needs confidential sup­port or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at1-7819 or Ann Firth at1-2685. For more information, visrt NDs Pregnancy Resources website at: 


------~--~­



OUND THE NATION 
Cotv\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES
Thursday, September, 4, 2008 
page 15 



Women's NSCAA Soccer Rankings 

team  points  previous  
1  usc  701  1  
2  UCLA  678  3  
3  North Carolina  677  2  
4  Aorida Stale  637  5  
5  NOTRE DAME  634  4  
6  Virginia  552  1  
7  Stanford  526  10  
8  Texas  514  8  
9  Portland  499  6  
10  Penn State  412  9  
11  Texas A&M  407  13  
12  Duke  376  . 16  
13  West Virginia  318  11  
13  Boston College  318  15  
15  Illinois  313  18  
16  Santa Clara  279  21  
17  Wake Forest  271  20  
18  Oklahoma State  194  23  
19  Connecticut  154  12  
20  Tennessee  140  14  
21  California  118.5  17  
22  Georgia  104  19  
23  Florida  98  22  
24  Cal State Fullerton  83  RV  
25  Kansas  75  RV  

AVCA Women's Volleyball Rankings Team Record 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. ­LSU postponed its football game against Troy after Hurricane Gustav damaged Tiger Stadium and battered Louisiana's capital city far worse than anticipated. 
The university made the decision Wednesday after having a full day to get a handle on damage to the stadium and the community, much of which is expected to be without power into next week. 
"It's the right decision," LSU head coach Les Miles said. "Our guys are maybe a little more affected than the Katrina and Rita duo ­more firsthand concerns, more power lines that they saw, more trees down that they saw and power outages affected us, affecting them than the last storm we had. They were a little ragged on Tuesday." 

LSU players reported to their indoor practice field on Tuesday afternoon, first so coaches could make sure everyone was OK, then so they could have position meetings and practice in the hope that Saturday's game could be played as sched­uled. A day later, it was obvious to LSU officials that was not going to happen. 
"We would have loved to play the game, but it's not possible and the city of Baton Rouge is in too bad shape to take resources away to play a football 
IN BRIEF 
Injury ends season for 
Raven's Boller 
OWINGS MILLS, MD -Kyle Boller was placed on injured reserve Wednesday by the Baltimore Ravens, ending his season and raising the question of whether the quarterback will throw another pass for the team. 
Boller has been sidelined since hurting his shoulder in Baltimore's second preseason game against the Minnesota Vikings on Aug. 16. 
"He has got either one of two injuries, either the torn labrum or he's got, I don't know the medical term, but there's a con­nection in the biceps to the shoulder that might be a prob­lem," Ravens coach ·John Harbaugh said. "The torn labrum has not responded to the medication, and the other injury is a season ender. He's done." 
game," LSU athletic director Joe Alleva said. "The wel­fare of the people of Baton Rouge, the uncertain power issues facing all of us and the condition of Tiger Stadium were all factors in making this decision." 
The seventh-ranked Tigers' game against the Trojans will be played Nov. 15. 
"We are fortunate that both schools had a common open date later in the year," Alleva said. "I am apprecia­tive of the cooperation of the good people at Troy for their understanding of this situa­tion." 
Classes at LSU are can­celed through the end of the week, with only part of cam­pus on power generated by the school's emergency backup power plant. 

LSU players practiced again Wednesday afternoon at their indoor facility, which also has backup power. Miles said they will continue to practice until Friday and then get the weekend off so those players whose families have damaged property in Louisiana can return home to help. 
The most noticeable dam­age at Tiger Stadium were torn awnings that, along with their metal supports, were ripped off of an upper deck facades, crashing onto club seats below. Debris lit­tered the stands and playing field soon after the storm had passed, though much of it had been cleaned up 
1 Penn St. 2 Nebraska 3 Stanford 4 Texas 5 Calilornia 6 UCLA 
7 usc 
8 Florida 9 Washington 10 Wisconsin 
3-0 2-0 
1-1 
1-1 2-0 2-1 0-2 2-0 2-0 3-0 

around the dial 
MLB 
Nationals at Braves 7:00p.m., FSN 

Bra<!y to be ready for 
Patnot season opener 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -New England Patriots coach Bill Belichick expects Tom Brady to be ready Sunday for the season opener against Kansas City after the NFL's reigning MVP missed all four exhi­bition games. 
"He's practicing this week and I expect he'll be ready to go," Belichick said Wednesday during a conference call with Kansas City reporters. 
Asked if that meant that the quarterback, who has had an injured right foot, would play, Belichick said: "He's been practic­ing all week. I expect him to be out there today and I expect him to be out there the rest of the week." 
Brady, who participated fully in practice Wednesday, said Monday the condition of his foot has improved and he could have played in all four exhibition games. 
Boston Red Sox rally
after 4-run deficit 
BOSTON -After sleepwalking through six innings, the Boston Red Sox woke up. 
AL batting leader Dustin Pedroia homered in the seventh inning to begin Boston's comeback from a four-run deficit, and the Red Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles 5-4 Wednesday when pitcher Jim Miller threw away a bunt for a game-end­ing error. 
Hitting cleanup for the fourth time in five games, Pedroia went 3­for-4 and raised his average to .333. He is 21-for-34 (.618) in his last eight games. 
"We looked tired the first five, six innings, then we kind of turn it up," Pedroia said. "We finally swept somebody." 
Boston swept the three-game series. The Red Sox had won the first two games in three of their last four series only to lose each finale. 
Thursday, September 4, 2008 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Close by campus, Martin's has what you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar Complete Tailgating Supplies New Sandwich Express made-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh daily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Panini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cakes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, just like homemade ATM and stamps Party supplies Fuel Center 


Toll Road 

martinr 
Count On Us! 

Thursday, September 4, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
u.s. OPEN 
Safina overpow-ers Pennetta in tvvo sets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sixth-seed­ed Dinara Safina overpow­ered No. 16 Flavia Pennetta 6-2, 6-3 in the li.S. Open quarterfinals Wednesday, earning the right to play one of the Williams sisters next. 
Safina, the sister of 2000 
U.S. Open men's champion Marat Safin, reached her first semifinal at Flushing Meadows. The Russian has won 37 of her past 41 matches and made it to the 
tournament finals. But because of injuries, inactivi­ty and inconsistency, they dropped in the rankings, and now it's the luck of the draw that determines at which stage they potentially meet. 
At the U.S. Open, they wound up in the same sec­tion of the bracket, so what many might consider the two top players at the moment were forced to meet in the round of eight. 
Serena has 
won eight 
major titles, 
and Venus 

finals at six of has won
''I'm gettiing closer to
her previous seven -and
reaching the same
seven events. none of the 
"''m getting thing as my brother." other quar­closer to terfin a I is t s reaching the owns a single
Dinara Safina 
same thing as such prize.
Russian tennis player
my brother." Before this 
Safina said. 
The French Open runner­up and Beijing Olympics silver medalist compiled a 25-13 edge in winners against Pennetta and only was broken once. 
"She was playing unbe­lievable, you know," said Pennetta, from Italy. "She dido 't give me a lot of chance." 
Now comes a much harder assignment for Safina: try­ing to beat Venus or Serena Williams. 
"It's going to be a big match. You know, they're both playing good," Safina said. "I just want to focus again on myself and to give my 100 per­cent and see who's going to be stronger." 
tournament, 
Venus had 
reached the 

quarterfinals at 28 majors, and Serena at 23, while the six other women to reach that stage this time had made a com­bined total of 22 previous Grand Slam quarterfinal appearances. 
For Pennetta, this was her first career major quarterfi­nal -and it showed, right from the start against Safina. 
Pennetta came to the U.S. Open with a 21-22 career record in Grand Slam tour­naments and a 1-4 mark at Flushing Meadows. She dropped her first service g a m e Wednesday, misjudging an overhead to set up a 
The sib-"It's going to be a big break point, 
lings, both then flubbing
match. You know
two-time a forehand to 
Open cham­they're both playing end a 15­pions, were good." stroke to face each exchange. other in the That was 
Dinara Safina 
last women's part of quarterfinal Russian tennis player Safina's run 
Wednesday night, their 17th matchup as profes­sionals. 
Safina is 1-3 against Serena and never has faced Venus. 
The Russian was asked which sister she would rather meet? 
"I don't care," Safina said. 
Wednesday's schedule also included the first two men's quarterfinals, with No. 6 Andy Murray and No. 17 Juan Martin del Potro meet­ing in the afternoon, and No. 1 Rafael Nadal taking on unseeded American Mardy Fish at night, after Williams vs. Williams. 
The sisters headed into that match 8-8 in all­Williams encounters, 5-5 at Grand Slam tournaments. Seven of those came in Grand Slam finals, including at Wimbledon in July, when Venus beat Serena in straight sets for her fifth championship at the All England Club. 
Back when they were ranked Nos. 1 and 2, the siblings only could meet in to leads of 3­
0 and 4-1. 
W h e n 
Pennetta 

sailed yet another groundstroke long while serving down 5-2, the Russian earned another break and owned the first set. 
Safina's one real blip came when she was broken at love to fall behind 2-0 in the second set, as Pennetta smacked a backhand return winner on an 83 mph sec­ond serve. But Safina broke right back, then broke again for a 5-2 lead. 
At the start of the U.S. Open, Safina was one of six women with a chance to be ranked No. 1 at the end of the tournament. 
That included current No. 1 Ana Ivanovic, who was upset in the second round. But by virtue of No. 2 Jelena Jankovic making the semifi­nals, Ivanovic is assured of dropping from No. 1. 
Jankovic will face No. 5 Elena Dementieva in the other women's semifinal. They advanced with victo­ries Tuesday. 
NFL 

Collier in critical condition 
Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE -Jaguars' linebacker Clint Ingram spent about 14 hours at the hospi­tal Tuesday, waiting with teammates, coaches and Richard Collier's family and friends. 
He didn't get any of the answers he wanted. 
"I just really want to know how he's feeling, you know, and go in there and maybe whisper something in his ear to let him know we're behind him," Ingram said Wednesday. "I just want to go in there and let him know that one of his close friends and part of his family is behind him and backing him up." 
Collier remained in critical condition a day after getting shot in the front seat of his 
Cadillac  Escalade.  The  
Jaguars,  meanwhile,  
returned  to  practice  still  

thinking about their team­mate who was fighting for his life less than 2 miles away. 
The 26-year-old offensive tackle and former teammate Kenneth Pettway were wait­ing for two women outside an apartment complex early Tuesday when a gunman fired into the vehicle, accord­ing to the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office. 
Collier was shot several times, but it was unclear where the 6-foot-7, 345­pound linemen was hit. Pettway was not injured. 
Collier had surgery at Shands Jacksonville Medical Center, and updates on his condition have been scarce because family members requested privacy. Coach Jack Del Rio said Wednesday that Collier was still in criti­cal condi­tion. 
Del Rio 


AP Wounded Jaguars offensive lineman Richard Collier stretches during training camp in Jacksonville, Fl., on August 7. 
that I'd rather keep to 
myself." 
also said 

"I just really want to know 
t h e 

Jaguars how he's feeling, you know, 
were try­and go in there and maybe ing to get 
whisper something in his 
back into 

ear to let him know we're 
their rou­tine in behind him." prepara­tion for 
Clint Engram 
Sunday's 

Jacksonville linebacker 
season opener at Tennessee. 
"We've 
Running back Fred Taylor, cor­nerback Rashean Mathis and several oth­ers met T u e s d a y night for a prayer ses­sion. 
"When it hits at home, you can real­ly feel it," Taylor said. "The thing 

got to handle it and then that happened in Denver last we've got to move on," Del year (Darrent Williams' Rio said. "That's what we're shooting), the thing that hap­player shot in the past 18 months. Washington Redskins star Taylor was fatally shot during what police said was a botched burglary attempt at his Miami-area home in November. Broncos corner­back Williams was killed when his rented limousine was sprayed with bullets minutes after leaving a New Year's party at a club in 2007. 
The motive behind the attack on Collier was unknown, and the sheriff's office said it did not have any suspects in the case. 
The shooting happened around 2:45 a.m. in a mid­dle-to upper middle-class neighborhood near downtown Jacksonville. The players had 
gone to the apartment complex so the women could drop off their c a r , authorities said. 
"You see this stuff in the news and it hap­pens all of the time, but it really doesn't hit you hard until it hits y o u r going to do, that's what we have to do. When you face adversity, when you deal with situations that come up, you've got to be able to han­dle them and you've got to be able to move through and deal with the issues that are there. And then you've got to be able to continue on as a football team, and that's what we'll do." 

Ingram, Collier's closest friend on the team, was most affected by the news. He went to the hospital early Tuesday, left for a few min­utes around lunchtime and then returned for the rest of the night. He planned to pened with S e a n (Taylor) and a few other things that happened in the past with traffic accidents and stuff, you hear it and say, "Damn, I feel sorry for that person and his family,' and you just go on with your daily 
"We've got to handle it and then we've got to move on. That's what we're going to do, that's what we have to 
d0. " 
Jack Del Rio Jacksonville coach 

return Wednesday after prac­routines and life. 
tice. "But when it hits right here 
"The only thing we really in your back yard, it's like, know right now is to wait on 'Damn, this is real.' We take time," Ingram said. 'Tm real­a lot of things for granted, ly not in a position to go into but this is real. Life is pre­it and tell what's going on. I cious, and it's short." do know a few small details Collier is the third NFL home," Ingram said. "Rich is just like my brother; we're close friends .... When you spend a lot of time with a person like that and you're real close friends, something like this gets to you real bad." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 4, 2008 
FOOTBALL 

Wells limited in practice 
lot of football this fall. We're his foot. 
Associated Press 

going to be smart with his Tressel said Wednesday 
COLUMBUS-Ohio State rehab." that he had seen Wells wear­tailbaek Chris "Beanie" Wells Wells has an injury at the ing the boot and not wearing is not taking contact or put­base of his big toe on his it earlier in the day. ting pressure on his injured right foot, said Tressel, the 'Tel just as soon he wore it right foot but still holds out older brother of coach Jim all the time," he said. hope of playing in the Tressel. Wells has difficulty Considered one of the top Bucknyos' next game. putting pressure on the foot Heisman Trophy prospects 
Team ofTieials and doctors and has not participated in this season, Wells will have to will huddle within the next full practices this week, wait for doctors to decide day or two to Tressel said. whether he is available to dncidn ir and "Absolutely, play against Ohio University when Wolfs will "'fI could get each of he wants to on Saturday. play nnxt. Thn play Saturday, If Wells is unable to play, a
them about 15 car­
sncond-ranknd but it's not his group of four running backs
ries, I'd have a good
Bu1: knyns pi ay call," Tressel will all soc playing time: Ohio Univorsity weekend." said. Maurice Wells. Brandon on Saturday, Wells was Saine, Dan "Boom" Herron then tr<tvnl to injured in the and Marcus Williams.
Dick Tressel 
takn on No. 1 third quarter "If I could get each of them Southern Buckeyes running backs of Ohio State's about 15 carries, I'd have a 
California St~pt. coach 4 3 -0 victory good weekend," Tressel said. 
B. o v e r Wells has had nagging 
"Is hn injured Youngstown injuries throughout his two or dons hn just havn some State on Saturday. lie previous years at Ohio State. pain lw can play through?" writhed on the ground and Still, he rushed for more than running hacks eoach Diek was eventually helped ofT the 1,600 yards and scored 15 Tressol said Wcdnosday. field. lie returned to watch touchdowns a year ago, "We'vn got a long way to go, the final few minutes, wear­marking him as one of the wn'n~ counting on playing a ing a protective black boot on top returning running backs 
NBA 

Oklahoma City to be 'Thunder' 
ed in mid-July that Thunder
Associated Press 
had been chosen as the nick­

OKLAHOMA CITY -Thunder name. Then the NBA Web site can be heard from miles away, listed NBA.com/thunder as a an early warning that a storm link to the Oklahoma City is about to arrive. So, perhaps team's page. Then the Orlando it's only fitting that the name of Magic's site listed games Oklahoma City's NBA team did­against the Oklahoma City n't sneak up on anyone. Thunder. 
Six weeks after the name lirst Even the logo and colors surfaced, team officials official­leaked out over the weeknnd. ly announced Wednesday that Then, prior to the 5 p.m. the team formerly known as the announcement, Thunder mer­Seattle SuperSonics would be chandise started showing up on known as the Oklahoma City the NBA's online store. Thunder. "I thought it was great fun. 
"It's hard to keep a secret," Maybe I have a warped sense of team chairman Clay Bennett things," BennPtt said. "I said after stepping to a podium thought it was a lot of fun. I on the ground floor of thn was disappointnd in thn image downtown office building where being released." the team is headquartered. That left Bennett somewhat 
The announcement had long surprised that hundreds of' peo­been anticipated, but everyone ple still showed up in the atri­knew what was coming. um of Leadllrship Square, 
The local ABC affiliate report-watched from their office win­





























The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act require each public water We have tested for over 150 parameters regulated by the EPA and the State of supply to produce awater quality report titled the Consumer Confidence Report Indiana. Included in these tests were metals, volatile organics, pesticides, (CCR) Follow1ng is the University's annual report for the 2007 calendar year herbicides. synthetic organic chemicals and cyanide. 
The University's water system is aprivately owned public water supply operated Water Quality Data by the Ut11ities Department The University's system provides water to the University community and the nearby C.S C. properties. Questions regarding the The table below lists the EPA's regulated and unregulated contaminants system or sampling results can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director of Utilities, detected in the University's drinking water. All of the contaminants are below 102 Facilities Building, Notre Dame. IN 46556, phone 574 631.6594 or Erin allowable levels Hafner. General Safety Specialist, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556, phone 574.631.5037. Not included in the table are the more than 150 other contaminants including 
pesticides, herbicides, metals, synthetic organic chemicals, volatile organic There are currently s1x wells serving the water system, all located on the campus chemicals and others which were tested and not detected. proper The water is drawn from deep aquifers surrounded by substantial clay barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply. We do not believe that our source is vulnerable to contamination. We are also taking steps to ensure that 
Regulated at Point of Entry (Well)
our water source does not become contaminated through our Wellhead Highest 
EPA's EPA's Source of
Range Level 
1

Protection Program. This program assists in defining where the water supply Substance 
MCL MCLG 
Contamination

comes from and methods to protect the aquifers from potential contamination. 
Detected Barium (ppm) 
0.10 
0.061 .0.10 
EroSion ol natural deoos1ts

2.0 
2.0

The sources of drinking water (both tap water and bottled) include rivers, lakes, 
Nitrate (ppm) 

1.0 
10 
10 
0.13·1.0 

Runofllrom letnlizer, seplic streams, ponds, reservoirs, springs and wells As water travels over the surlace 
tanks natural depos~s N1ckel (ppm) 
00075.0015

0.015 
0.1 
P1pe malen~. nalureJ
0

of the land or through the ground, it dissolves naturally-occurring minerals and, in 
depositS

some cases, radioactive material. and can pick up substances resulting from 
Chromium (ppm) 
0.0088. 0.012

0.012 
01 
OJ 

Erosion ol natural deRQsnsanimal and human activity. 
Fluoride (ppm) 

1.1 
4.0 
4.0 
<0.1·11 

Rtlnoff trom ten1liZer. erosiOn of natural depoSits Arsenic(ppm) 
0.0034 
001 
<0 0020 . 0 0034 
Erosion of natural deposils
0.0

Drinking water. including bottled water, may reasonably be expected to contain at 
Gross alpha 

3.8 
15 
19-3.8 
Naturally occurnng
0

least small amounts of some contaminants The presence of contaminants does 
(~iil.i 

Gross tela (pCiA..) 21.2 
50 
3.2-212 
Decay ol natura! and manmade dei)OOis 
0

not necessarily indicate the water poses ahealth risk. More information about 
contaminants and potential health affects can be obtained by calling the Enwonmental Protection Agency s (EPA) Safe Drinking Water Hotline Unregulated Substances (1.8004264791) or at the EPA's website at www.epa.govisafewater. 













Substance Highest EPA's EPA's Range 

Source of Level 
MCL MCLG 
Contamination Contaminants that might be expected to be in source water (untreated water) 
Detected include 
Sodium (ppm) 

58 
100 
41· 58 
Ero~on of natural deposits 
1 

M1crob1al contaminants, such as viruses and bacteria. which may come 
Regulated at User Tap from sewage treatment plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock operat1ons and wildlife 
1 

Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and metals, which can be naturally· occurring or result from urban stormwater runoff, industrial or domestic wastewater discharges. oil. pesticides and herbicides. 
I 

Organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic chem1cals. which are by-products of industrial processes and petroleum production or can come from gas stations, urban stormwater runoff. and septic systems Definitions 

1 

Radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally-occurring or are the MCL Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL). The highest level of acontaminant result of oil and gas production and mining activities. allowed in drinking water. 
Some people may be more vulnerable to contaminants in drinking water than the MCLG: Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (MCLG). The level of acontaminant general population Persons w1th cancer undergoing chemotherapy, persons at which there is no known or expected health risk. who have undergone organ transplants, persons with HIV/AIDS or other immune system disorders, some elderly and infants can be particularty susceptible 212!J1 parts per million. These people should seek advice about drinking water from their health care providers. EPA/CDC guidelines on appropnate means to lessen the risk of QQQ; parts per billion. infection from Cryptosporidium and microbial contaminants are available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at the EPA's website at ~Percentile: 90% of the samples were below the number listed. www.epa.govisafewater. 
pCi/L picocuries per liter Infants and young children are typically more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than the general population In general. if you flush your could tap until the water Since 1993, the University has been granted aStandardized Monitoring gets as cold as it is going to get, you will have eliminated the potential metal Framework (SMF 1), monitoring waiver. Due to the high quality of the water, the contamination Additional information is available from the Safe Drinking Water monitoring frequencies are significantly reduced. Hotline (1.800.4264791) or at the EPA's website at www.epa.acvlsafewater. 
dows or leaned over a second­
floor walkway to hear it for 
sure. 
"My family talked about wanting to come down, and I said, 'Well, I don't think it's that big a deal. Everybody snnms to know the name already,"' Bennett said. 
To unveil the logo, six chil­dren joined players Desmond Mason and Damion Wilkins to pull down a curtain as the AC/DC song "Thunderstruck" blared over the loudspeaker. What was revealed was a large blue banner with the logo in the middle, and splashes of yellow at the top and reddish-orange at the bottom. 
Bennett said the light blue color eoincidiJs with the state nag to represent the inclusion of all Oklahomans, the yellow refers to the sun and the red­dish-orange eolor to the sunset. With the University of Oklahoma featuring crimson as its primary color, and Oklahoma State using orange, Bennett said it was "not too red and not too orange." 
Thunder is a fitting moniker for the Oklahoma City fran­chise, not only as a reference to powerful storms in the area known as Tornado Alley. The Oklahoma City-based 45th Infantry Division carries Thunderbirds as its nickname, and that's a reference to the state's American Indian her­itage. Even one of Oklahoma native Garth Brooks' biggest hits was "The Thunder Rolls." 
"There's just all kinds of good thunder images and thoughts, and the in-game experience of Thunder," Bennett said. "Just here was a good sense of' how that evokes emotion. It's very powerful." 
The team name had been the most evident -and talked about -element missing after Bennett announced July 2 that the SuperSonics would be mov­ing to Oklahoma City through an agreement that will have him pay the city of Seattle up to $75 million to settle a lawsuit. 
Bennett said the uniforms and mascot won't be unveiled for another few weeks, but T­shirts, basketballs and other Thunder merchandise went on sale immediately after the announcement. 
"The guys in the jnrseys, if' they play, the jerseys are going to look real good," eoach J>..J. Carlesimo said. 
Thursday, September 4, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
STUDENTS
LaRoche snaps slun1p to edge out Cincinatti 
Wolf tosses complete-game shutout in win 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI Adam LaHoche snapped an 0-for-16 slump with a pair of RBI sin­gles to lead the Pittsburgh Pirates to a 6-5 win over the Cincinnati Beds on Wednesday night. 
With the score tied at 4 in the eighth inning, Nate McLouth led off with a single off of Cincinnati left-hander Jeremy Affeldt (1-1). McLouth stole second and continued to third when Affeldt's throw got past first baseman Joey Votto for a throwing error. Ryan Doumit walked and moved to second on a wild pitch, and LaRoche drove in McLouth with a soft single to right. 
Mike Lincoln relieved Affeldt and gave up a run­scoring single to Andy LaRoche. 
Tyler Yates (5-3) got the final out of the seventh inning to earn the win. Matt Capps pitched the ninth for his 19th save in 24 opportunities. 
Adam LaRoche actually gave Pittsburgh the lead twice in the span of three innings after starting the game 0-for-2. lie followed Doumit's sixth-inning, RBI single niT of Cincinnati starter Edinson Volquez -which tied the score at 3 -with a broken-bat bloop to short right field that drove in McLouth with the go-ahead run. 
Volquez had a perfect game with fivn strikP-outs before 
Nyjnr Morgan led off the fourth inning with a grouna­rulp, double to. center field. Freddy Sanclwz and Doumit followed with doubles to give Pittsburgh a 2-0 lead. 
Hoss Ohlendorf, a former New York Yankees reliever making his first career start, retired the first eight batters he faced before Volquez solidly lined a single to center field. Votto got the Reds on the board with a solo homer in the fourth, his 16th homer of the season and first in 39 at bats since Aug. 21. Edwin Encarnacion followed with a walk. Encarnacion moved to third on Jay Bruce's double to right field and scored the game-tying run on a passed ball. 
The Beds took a 3-2 lead in the fifth on Chris Dickerson's sixth homer of the season. After Pittsburgh regained the lead in the sixth, Encarnacion tied it with a single to left. 
Ohlendorf. acquired with three othnr playNs from the Yanknes on July 26 when Pittsburgh traded outfielder Xavier Nady and left-hamler Damaso Marte, lasted six innings, allowing throe earrwd runs with one walk and two strikeouts. 
Volquez went seven innings. giving up six hits and four runs with onn walk and 13 strikeouts. a earner high. and 
the most by a Reds pitcher in one game this season. 
Astros 4, Cubs 0 
Randy Wolf pitched a six­hitter for his eighth career shutout and Ty Wiggin ton homered Thursday night as the Houston Astros won their eighth straight with a victory over the slumping Chicago Cubs, who've lost a season­high five in a row. 
The surging Astros com­pleted a three-game sweep at Wrigley Field behind the pitching of Wolf and some good defense. Wigginton, an infielder most of his career, also made a great throw from left field to cut down a poten­tial Chicago run in the fifth inning. 
It is Houston's second eight­game winning streak in less than a month, matching an earlier one from Aug. 7-14. 
The Cubs are stuck in their first five-game skid since dropping six in a row from May 27-.June 2 last season. The NL Central leaders have 22 games left this season, 16 away from Wrigley Field. 
Despite another loss, the Cubs maintained their 4? game lead over Milwaukee after the Brewers were beat­en 9-2 by the Mets as New York completed a three-game sweep at Miller Park. 
Wolf (9-11) walked two and struck out eight, including Reed Johnson to end the fourth when they Cubs had two on. It was the 31-year­old left-bander's first shutout 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 7th and September 14th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 45 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.ndeedu 
Ifyou have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Poolyou may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
and complete game since April 24, 2004, when he beat the Montreal Expos 7-0 while pitching for the Phillies. 
Wigginton, who homered 12 times in August, hit his 22nd of the season in the fifth, a two-run, two-out shot off Ryan Dempster (15-6) to give the Astros a 3-0 lead. 
The Cubs threatened in the bottom of the inning when Ronny Cedeno walked and went to second on a sacrifice. 
When Alfonso Soriano sin­gled sharply to left, Wigginton made a strong on­target throw to catcher Humberto Quintero, who reached back and nicked the back of a sliding Cedeno's jersey for the out. Astros cen­ter fielder Michael Bourn then made a nice catch of Ryan Theriot's long drive to center to end the inning. 
The Astros made it 4-0 in the ninth when David Newhan and Bourn singled to put runners at the corners with two outs. Cubs' reliever Jeff Samardzija picked Bourn off first but when he was caught in a rundown. Newhan raced home. Cubs shortstop Theriot's throw to the plate was not handled by catcher Geovany Soto. Newhan was credited with a steal or home on the play and Theriot an error when Bourn made second. 
Ion~ needs help call. Notre D<une 
OP, Student :\!fairs, 631-7819 
Sr. Jean Lenz, OSF, Student Affairs, 631-7-1.07 
Syh-ia Dillon, Cmupus Ministry, 631-7163 
John Dillon, Guupus Ministry, 631-7163 Dr. Susa.n·Steihe-Pasalich, Counseling Ctr., 631--t.365 
llJl•,i!'!il~YVa, Health Scn·ices, 631-8286 


.-----------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 4, 2008 
T:9.6671n 

5 ;l'!),000 AT 2 .9~ AP1t. !:XCL\JSIVIELV rOR ROTC. Take the first step In the rloht direction with a Career Starter• Loan from USAA. Pay off student loans. Eliminate credit card debt. Invest In your future. At USAA, we know you're focused on your academic and military life rloht now, so we want to help you oet a jump start on your financial future. 
» 00 TO USAA.COM/ROTC OR CALL 877.820.8321 
~ We know what it mean.t to terVe~ 
L.oan iUbJ•c:t to t:ffldit .-.pproval and I~ availilble to orflc:Ar c:andldates within 18 months of comml~5-lonlnQ and nP.wly c:omml$.'ikmed offkers within 011e year after commissioning. l.biln payrnE'nts will bl:" (JeiP.rn~d for 90 days aft~r commlsslonlnQ or 90 day':> aft~;>r loan cltJ,:h'lQ date If alrwi!ldy r.onunh~.~luned. AIJtr.n-rultlr; payment from, and cJirec.t deposit of pay Into, a l.lSAA ChecklnQ account, r.md overdraft protection IJ-:;Ing a USAA Credit Card or USAA Scwlm,;s an:ount dH! •·eq1.1lrad. In the evfmt of ~ loan cJP.fautt lX lo:r.:r. of !'tatu:'5 ft~ (.'Omml!)skmad offker. /nan •·atq wllllru.:re..-s., to lJSAA'l\ stand.,.rcJ un:r.H(".lH"f:>t1/t)i.Jn rtJte In erfed nl that tirne. Cn'Jdlt c.tJI'dS pnwlded by USAA Savln(Js Bdnk. OttH~t· t~rmkh'g pr-oduc:l:r. pmvlt'led by USAA Feden:;~l Savi"gs. BtJ"k. Bt,th Mr:>rnbE:>r FDIC. cc:> 2008 USAA. 87771·0808 
COMPC 
68 8112108

C:~~ ~Cjli~EN~T;'U~~~;;...:~:::."'.iJO~B11'~U1~~~;-~0:.8:37:97::::::;:-;::~~::P:U:B:;~:h;ni:QU:e:-~~~~~~~~~~~PR~O;J.;M~G~R~'~i"~n~G~Ioo;r~::;:~:·:E:~~::n~::Aip:er:n~~~~~D~~~-~~~~~~~
~~~ ~· ;:~~,;~;, 1'" =~:~::~~~:~ oa 3797 am1 •c c.R< ~:~:~:~:~~~~~;::,':o~;;~M ~~' =:,'::~ ...
ruaom, 

Few:,~,::•: 
FONT FAMILY: lnlarstate (Bold, Light), Times (Roman)  
COlORS  .  
IMAGES Y62fl17·A·2 eps (~39 ppl. ·439 ppl, CMYK). USM._SIG_BLU_Nonllai_Nolag.eps, USM_CTA_ICON_BlU eps, USM_Banklab_ 4"0M_ 4C.al  CLIENT:  
LEBAl:  

~ L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~-a·~-h-0-'u-=~=-~-'"-'_"=''="m=OO~"~ 
theVISitor 
'·" 
"-·-··l·ii-"....,....""'".ooill'--"' 


Additional 2008  The Exiles • Friday, October 3 •  Charles Burnett will discuss the film  
Fall Semester Events  Dare Not Walk Alone • Friday, October 10 • Join dirsctor Jersmy Dean  
The Sari Soldiers • Nepali language with English subtitles • Friday, November 14 • Join director Julie Bridgham  

know no boundaries 
World View is an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive ~UNIVERSITY OF 
w.~~ D E BART 0 L 0 

WNOTREDAME ~~~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity, religion, and gender through the arts. 
Office of the President 


Thursday, September 4, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Johnson says Bell
jr=»~~A~HEN~~~®-----­
stole his luggage
Unmistakably Italian· $ ~b Unbelievably Good 


CATERING 
For et'1!1J' occasion 
Associated Press 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -Alex Rodriguez's ninth-inning homer was upheld in baseball's first use of instant replay, and the New York Yankees beat the AL East­leading Tampa Bay Rays 8-4 on Wednesday night. 
Rodriguez, who went 3-for-4 and drove in four runs, hit a tow­ering two-run shot off Troy Percival that third base umpire Brian Runge immediately ruled a homer when it bounced off the catwalk behind the foul pole in left field. 
Rays catcher Dioner Navarro protested, bringing manager Joe Maddon out of the dugout. After convening, the umpires left the filed to review the tape, a process that took 2 minutes, 15 seconds to back the onfield call. 
Boston, which beat Baltimore 5-4 on Wednesday, moved within three games of Tampa Bay in the division. 
Edwar Ramirez (5-l) worked out of a bases-loaded, no-out jam after Carl Pavano ran into trouble in the fifth. He was the winner despite facing only three batters as the Yankees extended their road winning streak to a season­high six straight. 
Rodriguez, who has two homers and nine HBis in the first three games of 1 0-game, four-city road trip, had a run-scoring dou­ble in the third off Edwin Jackson (11-9) and a RBI single in the fourth against Chad Bradford. The home run was his 31st of the season and 549th of his career, breaking a tie for 12th place with Mike Schmidt on the all-time list. 
Robinson Cano, Ivan Hodriguez and Jason Giambi had HBI dou­bles off Jackson, who lasted 3 1-3 innings. 
The Rays, who had one hit after the fifth inning, lost a series for 
Tuesday, and talked about Bell in a positive manner -saying5110 Edison Lakes Parkway they had discussed the Lions Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 and that Bell, also a running 
1332 Hilltop Rd. St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 

MLB 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

Yankees take dovvn 
first-place Tan1pa Bay 
back, had given him advice on the team and the city. 
However, shortly after Johnson praised Bell, team security director Ricky Sandoval showed him footage from the team's surveillance system. 
"Ricky showed me the tape Tuesday afternoon," Johnson said. "What makes this crazy is that I've talked to him after games, and I talked to him a couple hours prior to this -I guess it was before he found out he was going to be released." 
Johnson said a woman returned the bags to the prac­tice facility Tuesday evening, but that the contents were gone. 
"I got the bags back ­empty," he said. "So he's got a bunch of my underclothes. What he's going to do with that, I don't know. He's got some socks and boxers." 
Johnson said he was also still missing about $200 in cash along with his ID and credit cards, but said that he did not plan to involve the authorities. 
the first time since the All-Star break. 
It was the third time since the break that Tampa Bay lost con­secutive games. 
The Rays had been 12-0-1 in series since losing a season-high seven straight games from July 7­13 to turn a five-game lead over the Red Sox into a half-game deficit. 
While the Rays weren't charged with any errors Wednesday night, sloppy defense contributed to four infield singles and helped the Yankees advance baserunners at will on hits to the outfield. 
In losing the series opener 7-2 on Tuesday night, the Rays ran themselves out of a potential big inning and committed a throwing error that helped New York break the game open after Xavier Nady hit a two-run homer. 
The Yankees built a 6-1 lead for Pavano. The right-hander, mak­ing his third start since returning from elbow surgery that sidelined him for more than a year, couldn't get through the five innings required to get the win. 
B.J. Upton singled and Carlos Pena walked to begin the fifth against Pavano, who was replaced by Ramirez with New York leading 6-3. Cliff Floyd lined a single off second baseman Cano's glove to load the bases with no outs. 
The Yankees escaped unscathed when Willy Aybar lined into a double play to Cano, who stepped on second before Pena could get back to the bag. Eric Hinske popped to Derek Jeter, ending the threat. 
The Rays scored on Floyd's > first-inning HBI double and Gabe Gross' two-run homer in the fourth as Pavano allowed six hits, walked two and struck out one in four-plus innings -his shortest outing since coming off the DL. 
Tri-Color Tortellini, signature Sizzelini® and generous portions of Italian Classics like lasagna and Chicken Parmesan 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. ­Detroit running back Rudi Johnson said Wednesday that the player who was waived to make room for him on the Lions' roster -Tatum Bell ­took his luggage from team headquarters. 
"All this happened when he got released," Johnson said. "He came in to get some stuff out of his locker and that's when he scooped up the bags." 
After being cut by the Cincinnati Bengals, Johnson came to Detroit to work out for the team and meet with Lions president Matt Millen on Monday. During the meeting, which ended with Johnson agreeing to a free-agent con­tract, the two Cucci bags that he had received as a Pro Bowl gift were taken from inside the team's headquarters. 
Johnson met with the Detroit media for the first time 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 4, 2008 

Bethel 
continued from page 24 

points of sel'i, notably with the crucial second set being decid­ed by thnH~ consecutive Belles errors late in a tied game. SehroNinr-Hiek li11~used on fun­danwntals this week in prac­tice. 
"What I think it comes down to is connections." Schroeder­Biek said. "We need to stay con­nected with our teammates. We need to celebrate our successes on the court and pick each other up when we are down. We need to connect as team­mates before we can expect to 
Hopper 
continued from page 24 

experience of seeing Phelps' aehievemfmt. he said, was amazing. 
"To see that record. which will never be broken again. was phenomenal," he said. "I have the China Daily from the next day. I'm gonna frame it. Him with his big smile and eight medals." 
Hopper swam on Notre Damn's team until hn was a junior, but was plagued by shoulder problems through­out his earner. lin suffered a torn labrum that kept him out of his sophomore season. The surgnry to fix it was not com­plicated, Hopper said, with a short expnetPd recovery time, but doctors diseovnrnd a com­plication about six months Iatm. IIn had another surgery to cause captular shrinkage, or thn shrinking of the rotator culT around the muscles so it doesn't slip out of the socket. 
In his first race during of junior year, the 200-meter backstroke, he beat Notre Damn's No. 1 backstroker and qualifind for the Big East meet. I lalfway through a race a few wPeks later, however. he fnlt his shoulder pop again. 
Medalist 
continued from page 24 

nr, but I expect our two uppnr­classnwn to play solidly and for thnw freshnwn to stpp in and fill th1~ void," Hamilton said. 
Thursday marks the first limn thn frPshnwn will com­pete at the Medalist Golf Course, but llamilton has few doubts that tlwir play will be limitnd by their irwxpnrinnce. 
really compete as a team." 
Bethel. on the other hand, heads into tonight's match com­ing off a first-place tournament finish at the Judson University Eagle Invitational and six straight victories overall. Just one of those wins was even pushed to live sets. The Pilots sull"ered their only loss of the season late last month against No. 25 Mount Vernon Nazarene in live sets at the UMD Early Bird Tournament. 
The match begins tonight at 7 
p.m. at Bethel's Wiekamp Athletic Center in Mishawaka, Ind. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
"That was pretty much almost defining moment that I was done," he said. "My shoulder's just had too much wear and tear, constantly swimming on it." 
Hopper decided to stop competitively swimming shortly after that, but is now an Irish assistant coach. He still gets to be at practice every day and travel with the team, which he enjoys. 
"It's unfortunate, but it's life, you can't really control what's happened," he said. "I don't think I would have actu­ally been able to go to the NBC thing if I was still swim­ming." 
Hopper will play a fun new role with the team this sea­son: Ile will run the new scoreboard in the Rolfs Aquatic Center during meets. As an information technolo­gies major, Hopper said, he is pretty technologically savvy and looks forward to working 
with the board,  as  well  as  
being around the  team  at  
meets.  

"I love technology. To get to play with something like that is absolutely phenome­nal." he said. "It's a beauti­ful board, you can play movies on it." 

Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
"We will be playing them on their home course, and we will be playing with three players that have not seen the course," Hamilton said. "But I know the young players will rise to the occasion and perform well." 
Play begins at the Medalist Golf Course at 1 p.m. on Thursday. The match is the first of four 18-hole jamborees that will bel p determine the 2008 MIAA ehampion. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Write Sports for The Observer. Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.ed 
NFL 

Favre named Jets captain 
Associated Press 

FLOHHAM PAHK, N.J. -Brett Favre has made quite an impression on his new team­mates. 
The ballots are in, and the vet­eran quarterback was voted one of the New York Jets' offensive captains despite being with the team for less than a month. 
''I'm honored," Favre said Wednesday before the Jets' first practice at their new home in Florham Park, N.J. "I felt a little uncomfortable to be voted. I feel like I need to earn it." 
Well, that'll start Sunday when the Jets open the regular season at Miami with Favre under cen­ter. 
"I don't want it to be based on past performances or longevity, whatever," Favre said. "All those things are important, but what's important is what I do here and how I carry myself as a team­mate, what type of leader I am. But you have to vote a captain, as every team does, early in the year and I'm honored to repre­sent this team." 
Favre, acquired from Green Bay on Aug. 6 after coming out of retirement, joined new left guard Alan Faneca as offensive captains. Defensive end Shaun Ellis and safety Kerry Rhodes were selected captains on defense in the vote by players Tuesday, while David Bowens and Leon Washington will repre­sent the special teams unit. 
"Obviously, he's fitting in well to be voted on by his peers to be a captain," coach Eric Mangini said of Favre. "I think the ques­tion of how he's adjusting, how he's fitting in with the guys has been clearly answered by the fact that his peer group -I 

AP Jets quarterback Brett Favre, who was named a team captain Wednesday, throws a pass during warm-ups on Aug. 16. 
don't know how peer groups work with that age differential -but the kids voted for him." 
The 38-year-old, gray-stubbled quarterback has been lauded throughout his career for being one of the game's ultimate lead­ers. His new teammates recog­nized that, and the fact he has started an NFL-record 253 con­secutive games, showing a pen­chant for playing through pain. It also helps that he has the coach's ear. 
"You want a guy who has a hand in upper management," Bowens said with a big laugh. 
"That was a no-brainer, I'm sure, for the offensive guys. Brett can go upstairs and talk to Eric pretty easily, but aside from all that, Brett is a good leadnr. He's showed toughness and played about 1,000 games in a row or something like that. Anytime you've got a guy in that situation, you definitely look up to him for leadership." 
Favre will take on the Dolphins and Chad Pennington, the man he replaced, on Sunday and acknowledged he still has moments of anxiety before games, even after 17 seasons. 



---~---~------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, September 4, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE -., 
Across 36 One of the four 3 Support,ata 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Kiran Desai, 37: Charlie Sheen, 43: Val­
evangelists. game
1 Temple activity 
erie Perrine, 65; Eileen Brennan, 76 
briefly 4 Tear out 8 Tex-Mex treats 
39 Many Latin 5 Radio_ ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You should probably question a business or personal15 Wedding gown compositions (onetime relationship you are in. It's time to request answers if you don't understand exactly material propaganda what's going on and why the boundanes of a situation you are facing have changed. 
43 Come up 
3 stars 

source)16 Distinguished 44 Shot (off) 6 Footnote word 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotions will be skyrocketing and troubled waters 7 Locale for Che will make you wonder how secure you are. Stick to what you know and don't take 
17 Dean Martin, for 45 Yes, in 
Yokohama

one Guevara in "The on too much to compensate or save someone else's neck. 3 stars 
46 Let go 

18 Bach work Motorcycle
47 Author of a GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ignore comments made out of anger, jealousy or spite.
Diaries"19 1979 Bee Gees 
Keep your head clear and your mind alert. Love is in a high cycle. If you put a little
once-popular

chart-topper 8 Computer whiz effort into your relationships, you will have fun and stabilize your situation. 3 stars 
book of 9 Menotti title21 Civvies quotations 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may feel like speaking out but, in your emo­23_ change 48 Devil tional state, you will probably say something you'll regret. Demands, ultimatums or 
character 
10 Harbor danger 
pressuring others to do things your way will backfire. You won't win if you fight. 2
50 1979 AC/DC 

24 OB's stat. 11 Architectural pier stars
seven-time 

25 Great Plains platinum album 12 Michael ___, 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can talk anyone into anything if you have your facts 
Bush secretary
tribe 55 Blow up straight and your idea~ ready to present. A trip, meetings or something you believe 
of health and
56 Emit in will secure your position in a competitive market. A friend or experienced ally 
26 County of St. 
human services 
will help you. 4 stars 
59 Smaller than Andrews, 

small 13 Accord Scotland VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Shyness will hold you back. Let everyone see what
60 Where the buoys 14 Suffragist 
you can do. Advancement is in the stars, if you aren't afraid to present what you 
28 Part of a seal are? Elizabeth Cady 
have to offer. Change is heading your way; prepare to jump at any opportunity. 3 30 Professor Lupin 61 Puts under stars in Harry Potter 20 One that's
62 Takes over

books, e.g. "perky" in the LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Overreacting and causing a fuss before realizing the ·morning 
beneficial changes that are taking place will be your downfall. Relax, wait, and then 33 Creator of the Down comment, make alterations or back away. Time is on your side. 3 stars 
21 Shorten, in aBennet family 
1 Fighters' org. way Puzzle by Allan E. Parrish SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can rely on the old, experienced people watch­34 Band with the 2 1967 N.H.L. 22 Multipurpose ing over you to come to your rescue. Trust m the advice offered. Your reactions will 1970 hit "Get rookie of the 37 Drill instructor's 47 Patrick 52 Judicial directive reassure your supporters that you are still worth backing. 3 stars 
truck
Ready" year charge 1996 Tony'
26 Chess tactic that 
recipient for 53 Killer whale SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Falling for someone you meet through work or
involves 38 Got around at a 
getting closer in a personal relationship you've already established will do you good 
"Marat/Sade"attacking two

1\NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE get-together and help to stabilize your life. Don't let someone's negativity hold you back or
pieces a1 once 54 Violin virtuoso
48 045 or Grand tamper with a decision you make. 4 stars 
27 Spot in Ia mer 40 Military wing Hilary
Marquis

28 Half-and-half, CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Fuzzy thinking will result if you take on too
41 Eggs Benedict 

much. Don't give away information that can jeopardize your expectations. Expect 
maybe 49 "Walkin' After 57 Gadget for 58­
ingredient 

someone to take advantage of you if you don't protect your ideas. Caution is your 29 Department of Midnight" Down best defense. 4 stars 
42 Hardly a chug hitmaker, 1957Labor agcy. 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have a good idea that will help your finances 
31 Post-Civil War 44 Football Hall-of-51 Mandlikova of 58 Golfer dubbed 
out, so stick to it and watch your money grow. Set up a budget that can help you out 
Reconstruction Farner Gale tennis fame "the Big Easy" 
in business, even if it does restrict your playtime acllvities. Stay with it. 2 stars 
and others 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't leap when it is clear that too much could poten­
32 Pottery 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a tially go wrong. Someone with experience will teach you the ropes and help you 33 Unimaginative credit card, 1-800-814-5554. make the right decision at the right time. You don't have to go it alone. 5 stars 35 Koko who 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
Birthday Baby: You are charming, eloquent and can make a statement with apJ?Car­
communicates 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ance alone. You are opportunistic, aggressive and will always reach for your ulll­
through 
mate goal. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Language, e.g. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 
American Sign 
Eugenia1S Web sites: astroadvice.comjor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
36 Lingerie drawer Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young items solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
The Obse interested in you are inte 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJ1JJM®IbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ADYLL 
rJ I I
1 ©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
l~f~flrJ 
NIJYET 
j 
1 
ri I I 
www.jumble.com 
YUBILS 

[IJ I I Print answer here: rI I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: FOCUS SCARY BUTLER WEDGED Answer: What you can do at first, if you're the boss' son -SUCCEED 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indisp(:msible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 4, 2008 
page 24 
SMC SOCCER 

Squad drops one-goal game on the road at Manchester 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

Through tough rain and tor­rent winds the Belles fought. But in the end, they just could­n't avoid another second half meltdown and were defeated 2-1 at Manehester Wndnesday evening. 
Saint Mary's eame out with something to prove al'ter drop­ping its first two matches of the season, and jumped on Manchester by scoring the first goal of' the game. Freshman standout Taylor Paton assisted junior forward Sam Smogor on her first goal of the season in the 27th minute to give the Belles an early 1-0 lead. 
Saint Mary's continued to dominate play throughout the 
remainder of the first half, out­shooting Manchester 5-2. 
However, like in the previous two games, the second half proved unkind to the Belles. 
Arter the second rain delay forced a lengthened halftime, Manchester came out and evened up the score just over three minutes into the second period. 
Saint Mary's had plenty of chances, but could not find the back of net in the second half which they have been unable to do so far this season. 
In the 68th minute, the Spartans netted another goal to take a decisive 2-1 lead which they would never relin­quish. 
The Belles finished the match with twelve shots on goal, seven more than the Spartans, 
and seven corner kicks, six more than the Spartans. 
Senior goalie Nicole Beier got her second start of the season and played all 90 minutes in the net for the Belles. 
So far this season, second half woes have been the Achilles heel for the Belles, who have been outscored 5-0 after halftime. 
This loss drops Saint Mary's to 0-3-0 on the season. The Belles will try to regroup dur­ing a 10-day break from com­petition. They return to the field again for the North Central College Tournament in Naperville, Ill. They will take on Mount Mercy in their open­ing-round game Sept. 13. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

MEN'S SWIMMING 

Witnessing history 
of swimming is going to benefit stayed until three days after the they would bring the right thing soccer game and the U.S. vs.
NO assistant coach 
from it." swimming competition ended. back. I went to a dumpling Japan baseball game. One thinginterned at Olympics Hopper swam for Notre Dame Hopper said he was surprised restaurant that was absolutely he didn't get to do, however, 
before a shoulder surgery at the number of amazing. And you had was attend the opening cere­
ended his competitive career. people that spoke to go traditional duck, monies.
By BILL BRINK lie had an internship with English in Beijing, 
you had to eat that." "Even some of our managers

SportS Editor 

NBC for the Olympics this sum­but after a while, the Hopper stayed about and bosses couldn't get into it," 
mer, logging camera footage language barrier got 25 minutes away from he said. "On top of your media 
Where WPre you when and creating clips for teasers. to him. the Water Cube in the credential, you had to have Michael Phelps delied eyesight'? Hopper was working in the NBC "They did an media village and said three difl'erent stickers." 
Senior Jace llopper was in an truck when anchor Bob Costas excellent job getting traveling out into Hopper did sneak into NBC truck outsidP. the Water interviewed Mark Spitz -who ready for it," he Beijing made him feel National Stadium one after­Cubn in Beijing, watching 10 held the previous record for said. "There were like he was in a fish noon, but ended up getting lost difTnrnnt eam1~ras showing 10 most gold medals in a single people who could bowl because of all the for half an hour. I Ie said could dif'f'nrnnl replays of Phelps Olympics with seven -and speak English every­eyes on him. see the nreworks during the sneaking ahead of Serbia's Milo Phelps at the same time. lie and where." Jace Hopper ~ometimes, he said, he opening ceremonies from the Cavic by a fingPrnail. his eo-workers got so excited NBC brought i.n was the only American media village, though. 
"I had a rnplay thing right when U.S. swimmer Jason American catering -Hopper within a square mile. . On his days oil", Hopper got to with me, I could scroll back and Lezak pulled ahead of Alain said he had steaks some nights Hopper got up-dose access to sit in the Water Cube for several do f'ram1~ by framn," Hopper Bernard of France in the 4x 1 00 -but eating out in Beijing events: he sat in the front row finals races. He sat behind said. "''ve probably seen it over relay, he said, they broke two brought with it inherent dan­for the U.S. vs. Australia bas­American swimmer Hyan I00 limes. I've heard a lot of chairs. gers. ketball game, and watched the Lochte's panmts and Phelps' people say they wish he didn't Hopper said he was one of "There were a lot of hand sig­men's and women's tennis mom for some of them. The Ibreak the record I. but I'm real­100 or so interns working for nals, pointing and gestures," finals, track and field, fencing, ly glad he did because the sport the network. I Ie left Aug. 2 and Hopper said. "You were hoping diving, the Brazil vs. Argentina see HOPPER/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

• 
Teatn looks to rebound after falling to Adrian 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 

After a promising start to the season, Saint Mary's hit its first roadblock Tuesday night. 
The Belles (3-2 overall rncord, 0-1 rvtiAA) are coming oil" a dis­appointing conference loss to Adrian but hope to shill back into gear tonight against a tough Bethel squad (7-1 ). The match will be played at the Pilots' Wiekamp Athletie Center in Mishawaka, Ind. 
Saint Mary's burst out of the gate by going :~-I at the Thomas Morn Invitational last wenknnd. Two Belles players, senior Cathy Kurezak and junior Lorna Slupczynski, were named to the All-Tournament Team. The Belles struggled early last season, and finished with a 6-10 MIAA record. Starting strong is a high priority for the team this time around. 
"Last year, we struggled at the beginning of the season, especial­ly, but by the end we had really started to click," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Adrian elaimed the victory in straight sets. Offensive inconsis­tency and defensive lapses ­which had also surfaced during the Thomas More Invitational ­sealed the Belles' fate. Attack errors were often the tipping 
see BETHEL/page 22 
SMC GOLF 

Belles head to Olivet course 
Squad expects continued contributions from talented underclassmen 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
After a promising perform­ance at the Ferris State Bulldog Invitational this past weekend, Saint Mary's opens conference play on Thursday at the Medalist Golf Course in Marshall, Mich., the home track of Olivet College, the defending MIAA champions. 
Entering the match, the Belles believe that they are ready to compete on a national level. 
"We are looking forward to our first MIAA conference match." Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. "The ladies are anxious to show the country what they can do when healthy and firing on all cylinders." 
Health was a concern for the Belles last weekend, as some upperclassmen did not com­pete because of injuries. As a result, three freshmen started at the Bulldog Invitational. Despite their inexperience, freshmen Natalie Matuszak, Kailey Jacob, and Christine Brown all contributed to the Belles' strong efl'ort. 
MasLuzak had the lowest score of any Div. III player in the lield, Jacob contributed an 83 on the first day, and Brown matched Jaeob with an 83 out of the No. 4 spot on the second day. 

Hamilton said he is proud of his freshmen both on and ofT the course. 
"They have been making great progress in practice while learning how to balance golf with academics," I Iamilton said. "I am very proud of how they luLVe responded thus far." 
The Belles will still be with­out one player on Thursday while playing in their first MIM mateh since the gradua­tion of 2007 MIAA Most Valuable Golfer Katie O'Brien. However, Hamilton said the team will still put forth a strong efl"ort. 
"We will still bo down a play-
see MEDALIST/page 22 





