------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Yeatman suspended for rest of 2008 season 
Office of Resident Life and Housing told tight end he won't be allowed to play or practice for the remainder of year 
Ave, where he was one of 37 stu­at the party. All but three were system. Charges are still pending the University whether or not to By DAN MURPHY dents arrested at a party. allowed to choose a voluntary on all students. grant him a fifth year. 
News Writer 
The South Bend Tribune also diversion program to avoid the Yeatman continued to practice Yeatman will be eligible to play reported 
formal charges. with the team during the three lacrosse for the Irish this spring. 
Irish sophomore Will Yeatman t h a t Yeatman was skating on thin weeks before a ruling came from Last season, he led the team in has suited up for the Irish foot­Yeatman ice after his Feb. 25 arrest for ResLife. The tight end had two points (46) and assists (25). ball team for the final time in will stay at operating a vehicle while under catches for six total yards in Neither Yeatman, football 2008. Notre Dame the influence of alcohol and Notre Dame's first three games media relations director Brian 
According to the South Bend and will not reckless driving. He was placed of the season. His final appear­Hardin, nor Irish coach Charlie Tribune, which verified the story transfer. on one-year probation, provided ance was the 23-7 loss to Weis were available for com­Tuesday with Yeatman's father, He was that he committed no further Michigan State the afternoon ment following the University's Dennis, Yeatman was told by the charged criminal offenses. before his arrest. ruling. University spokesman Office of Residence Life and with minor The false informing and resist­Because he has only played Dennis Brown could not be Housing that he would not be in consump-Yeatman ing arrest charges were dropped three games and sustained an reached for comment regarding allowed to play or practice with tion of alco-two weeks ago, but his con­injury in his fmal game -a bro­possible punishments for other his team for at least the remain­hol, resisting arrest and false sumption charge was not. Any ken nose -Yeatman is techni­students involved. der of this season. The decision informing. The 36 other Notre punishment Yeatman has cally eligible for a medical red­was made following Yeatman's Dame students, 21 of them var­received at this point is from the shirt that would give him one Contact Dan Murphy at arrest on Sept. 21 at 702 Colfax sity athletes, were also charged University but not from the legal extra year of eligibility. It is up to dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Exec stipend dr3ws criticism at Saint Mary's 
Revised Student Government budget to be voted on at meeting tonight, Student Diversity Board secretary resigns 
Oct. 1. Tuesday. the SGA Constitution, which allocations of funds prepared byBy LIZ HARTER The budget failed to pass with "I have become aware that a does not specifically state that the executive treasurer." 
Saint Mary's Editor 
the two-thirds majority required stipend is being awarded to the the Executive Board can set This budget lays out the allo­
for approval at an Oct. 8 meet­president of all the major boards aside a stipend for themselves, cation of funding for the 
Two weeks ago the Saint ing. The Executive Board had to with the justification that they but also does not state that they $243,040 that SGA received Mary's Student Government then go back and revise the will be too involved to have an cannot. from the $160 student govern­Association (SGA) Executive budget and that revised budget on [or] off campus job," ment fee each full-time student Board voted to approve the will be voted upon at tonight's Saavedra said. "In my opinion I Student funds is required to pay in her tuition. 2008-2009 SGA budget during a BOG meeting. don't think that is justification at According to the SGA Gruscinski sent an e-mail to meeting that left student body The Executive Board meeting, all, not to mention that paying a Constitution, the Executive the Executives, after their first president Mickey Gruscinski BOG meeting and subsequent student for involvement on cam­Board, consisting of Gruscinski, meeting as a Budget Committee feeling "disillusioned" and discussions on the topic among pus will soon take the meaning Weaver, student body vice presi­before they approved the budget caused her to "strongly consider members of BOG and the stu­away of leadership." dent Sarah Falvey, chief of staff in a 6-2 vote, explaining her resignation." dent body has caused some stu­Saavedra said she doesn't Lauren Theiss, Residence Hall position against the stipend. She 
While Gruscinski has since dents to question whether or not believe it is fair for the president Association (RHA) president showed The Observer this e­
told The Observer she has the Executive Board should of a group to receive a stipend Maura Clougherty, Student mail. rethought her declaration that receive a stipend and one stu­when the entire board works Activities Board (SAB) coordina­Gruscinski said she originally she would resign, she has pub­dent serving on a board under together to organize programs. tor Michele Peterson, SOB told the Executive Board that licly spoken out against the one of the Executives resigned "I am simply making sure that President Adriana Rodriguez she would be fine with them budget, which contains a for "personal reasons and students recognize that this and executive secretary Jenny allotting themselves a stipend $20,000 stipend that executive beliefs" dealing with the stipend. stipend will break the unity that Hoffman, who has previously "to appease everyone" but she treasurer Mo Weaver said "the Jasmine Saavedra, the secre­[Saint Mary's] so very much written for The Observer, is the would not accept the money. 
executives would receive for tary of the Student Diversity stands for and I want to have no Budget Committee which has to However, after thinking about being executives" at a Board of Board (SOB) announced her res­involvement with that," she said. "recognize, amend if necessary Governance (BOG) meeting on ignation from the position on Students are also questioning and approve the SGA budget and see BUDGET/page 6 


Bike thefts are on the rise 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Cycling-enthusiasts around campus may want to be more careful about how they lock their bikes because according to assistant director of Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) Dave Chapman, bike thefts are on the rise. 
"From Aug. 2006 to Aug. 2007 we had quite a drop in the number of bikes being stolen, and now we see an increase [in bikes being stolen!. I don't know why," he said. 
Chapman said there were 6 7 bikes thefts reported this past Sept. -26 more than 
see BIKE/page 4 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group says pep rally 
format will be changed 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Football pep rallies will become more student-friendly, Hall Presidents Council (HPC) athletic committee co-chairs Laura Burdick and Derek Sanchez announced at the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting Tuesday. 
The change follows growing student dissatisfaction with the football Friday events, highlighted by Sorin College's boycott of the Stanford pep rally. 
After Burdick and Sanchez talked with football coach Charlie Weis, they decided the pep rallies need to promote a "student-football relation­ship," Burdick said. 
"Part of that is us not sitting there for an hour and a half before the football team comes out," Burdick said. 
However, the pep rallies can­not completely reject the role of the alumni and other fans. According to the new proposed pep rally structure, the alumni 
see COR/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October I5 2008 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

Boring Scranton 
In Tuesday's paper, sc<me writer Mary nmces l'opit advi'>ed you to go to Scranton wIiLII brnak. I'm horn to save you from mking that tnrribln decL'iion. . 
Sen, I'm lhnn West l'itL'>I.on, l'a., a town that is about a 15-minutn driw~ soulh of S<:nmt.on ;md a 15-minute drive norlh of 

Wilkes-Barre. or as I  
like to <:all it, the  Chris Hlne  
poor man's  
Serant.on.  
Let me make  Editor-in-Chief  
something dear to  
those of you not from  

Scranton. Even though I'm not officially lrom Scranton, West Pitt'it.on L'> in the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre area, or as its oilier­wise known, NEPA (Norlheast.em Pmmsylvania). So I'm allowed to say I'm from Scranton undnr the NEPA corollary: If you're from the Scrantont\Vtlkes-Barre area, you'm allowed to say your lrom Serant.on. So really, when people say S<:r<mton, they're usually referring to all of NEPA. If you lived there, you'd know what I'm utlking about. 
It's one oflhe many screwed up things about Scranton and the area surrounding it so humorously lampooned on "Saturday Night livn"la'lt week. I did a spit-take when Isaw the SNL version of .Joe Bielen say, "You wouldn't want to spend a weekend Lhern." 
You wouldn't. Bdieve me. 
There's not mw:h to do there besides nat pi:t.za, (tl10ugh pi.:t.za i'> one of the lew tl1ings Scranton has going lhr it) go to tlw movies or go tho bars. My, how NEPA loves iL'> bars. Mary Fram:ns said tl10ught it was UOLL'>Uai Umt college kids and 50-some things were hanhring out at the same bar. Well, if you come to NEPA, gnt used to it, it's the nom1. I've run into rmmy liinnds of my parnnL'> out at bars in NEPA. And thnn there's the Woodllmds in Wilkes-Barn1, a slightly dw·;sier version of Club Fever. That's about il.. (llmm. All them i'> to do is go to bars and the occa'>ional nightdub. Sound familiar'?) 
Onn day out ofUm year, NEPA is legiti­mat.llly lim, and that's St. Patrick's Day. Do go thnrn liJr Umt. It's crazy. I spnnt New Year's Evn on Bourbon Street in Nnw Orlmms in 2006 ;md I havn to say, St. Patrick's Day in Scranton i'> right up tl1nre with Umt. <lther than that one day. though, it's up to you to make your own fun. 
NEPA puL'> too much stoek in iL'> high seh<KJI sport'>, (ifyou've ever seen "Friday Night I jghL'>," the movie or 'IV show, you get the idea) and is a town where you have to bl1 politic;LIIy eonnm:tnd to get anywhere. Wilkes-Barrn ;md Scranton have been undnrdnvllloped liJr decades <md despite rnennt att.<lmpL'> at revitiLiization, especially in Wilkes-Barnl, Uwre's still not much them 
t.ll attract p<lople t.IJ the area, ouL'iide of pres­idential <'.andidates. who light lbr the swing vot.11s of these Calholi<: voters. 
That bl•ing said, whern am I going for fall bnmk'! You h'llllS..'>ed it-NEPA. 
You can ntwer leave NEPA. no matt.11r how much you say you don't like it them. Allt1r all. it's homn. It's whnre I h'I'ew up, it's whom my liunily still lives and whenever I hoar it mentionod on "Tho Oflien," a part of mn still swlllls with pride Lhat I'm from thorn. 
NEPA is like any othnr plaen-you mi'>s the pnopln and thn fritmds you've made tlwm. Any dty ean seem blwing and dnprnssing if you don't know anybody there. 

NEPA may bl1 b<Jring, but that won't stop me lrom going bru:k. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strive.< tor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE NICEST THING YOU'VE DONE ALL DAY? 




Kevin Godshall  Mason Roberts  Michael Ferguson  
junior Zahm  freshman Morrissey  freshman Morrissey  
"I held a door open for someone.  "I helped a friend with a displaced knee get up a flight ofstairs. "  'Tve done nothing nice today. I slept all day. "  


TOM LA/The Observer 

South bend children and Notre Dame students operate a lemonade stand on the Fieldhouse Mall benefitting the Riley Hospital for Children. 
OFFBEAT 

Fake eye gives minature horse hope for career 
LAWTON, Okla. -A miniature horse has been given a second chance for a career as a show horse -thanks to a prosthetic eye. 
The 65-pound horse, named KBuck, was born June 1 at Lil Chums Miniature Horse Farm in Lawton and lost its eye a few days after birth. Owner Kelsey Chumbley, 12, said she suspects the young horse was the victim of a swift kick from its mother. 
"We thought he was going to end up being a backyard pet" instead of a show horse, Kelsey said. "When we found out he had a second chance I was really excited for him." 

Veterinarian .Jeff Hammond of Marlow tried in .June to save the young horse's eye. When it became evident the sur­gery didn't work, Hammond suggested the cosmetic alternative. 
KBuck's prosthetic eye was handcrafted by designers at La Fuente Ocular Prosthetics in Oklahoma City. 
Woman leaves 32 cats at vet with anonymous note 
OPELIKA, Ala. -Five vet­erinary clinics in eastern Alabama received 32 sur­prises in the last week: Healthy cats in containers and carriers, along with notes from an anonymous donor saying she is dying from cancer. 
The notes signed by "Miss R" beg the vets to find her pets new homes. 
"My time is very, very short," the donor wrote. "There is not enough time to find homes for my children another way. I beg you not to let them die because I have to, plea<;e!" 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



Leon Zhou

Jenna Heffernan 
freshman freshman Walsh Stanford 
"It was my "I helped a roommate's random parent birthday and I move crates bought her candy" into his son's 
room. I don't know his son either." 
IN BRIEF 
The documentary film "The Price of Sugar" will be shown tonight at 7 in the Carey Auditorium of the llesburgh Library. The event is free and open to the pub­
lic. It is sponsored by the Class of 2009 Class Council. 
.John Schwarz, Harold 
Brown  Professor  of  
Theorfltical  Physics  at  the  
California  Institute  of  

Technology will bn deliver­ing a lecture on "Connecting String Theory to the Heal World" today from 4 to 5:25 
p.m. in 11 S Nieuwland. 
"Move Your Body" will take place today with a free Yoga session from :l to 4 
p.m. in Hockne Memorial 
205. There will also bn a Dance workshop from 6 to 7 
p.m. at the North Quad Fieldhouse Mall. Students can learn dance moves from f'ASO. Project Flesh and the Ballroom Dance club. 
The film "Hashomon" will be shown Thursday, Oct. 16 at 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet theater at Saint Mary's. The film is a part of the Professor's Choice Film Series and is free and open to the public. 
The film "Tell No 6ne" will be shown on Thursday, Oct. 16, Friday, Oct. 17 and Saturday, Oct. 11-! at 6:30 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 







..I 
<( (.) 
0 

HIGH 65 HIGH HIGH 58 60 HIGH
...I 
LOW 43 LOW LOW 45 43 LOW 
55 
33 
65 47 
HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
65 45 

Atlanta 84 157 Boston 70 I 50 Chicago 65 I 48 Denver 61 I 34 Houston 82 I 72 Los Angeles 89 I 57 Minneapolis 60 I 44 New York 77 158 Philadelphia 80 I 58 Phoenix 87 I 57 Seattle 55 I 41 St. Louis 71 I 57 Tampa 88 I 69 Washington 83 I 60 
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Oub hosts \Vinner of business avvard 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala, winner of the 2007 Harvard Business School Alumni Achievement Award, said it is possible to help out poor communities while at the same time making a profit in a 
lecture  hosted  by  the  
Entrepreneurship  Society  
Tuesday.  
Ayala  spoke  to  students  

about how he has developed business solutions that engage impoverished areas while still moving forward with economic growth. 
Ayala is the CEO of the Ayala Corporation and received the award for providing water for poor areas in his home country, the Philippines. 
At the start of this project in 1999, only 26 percent of people in the Philippines received water 24 hours a day, Ayala said. In 2007, after Ayala and his corporation had completely redesigned -the project, the number rose to 99 people. At the same time, the company made a profit, he said. 
"Originally in 1999, we invested $67 million into the project. The company now makes $50 million per year off this venture," Ayala said. 
lie said this new way of doing business is exciting and it also does a lot of good for those in need. 
Ayala said business ventures that create a social develop­ment agenda will help to allevi­ate poverty in some of the "The companies that enter poorest areas of the world, but into this have to work with the process will not be without these low-income communities its hardships. in different ways than they 
"Businesses will face both normally would," Ayala said. operational and cultural chal­"These are markets that are lenges," Ayala said. "They have growing around the world and to take their social develop­we have to deal with them in ment agenda and integrate it whole new ways." 
with a business strategy." 
In order to do this, Ayala said businesses must know about the cul­ture and the people they are trying to do business with and remember that, in some cases, they are working with people living below the poverty line. 
Apps and more at 
echo.nd.edu 
"Businesses that are setting out on these ventures need to expand their market but also reach people who have less money to spend.'' 
Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala Ayala Corporation CEO 
He said this new way of doing business is doing a lot of good for less fortunate people all over the world and is also profitable when the com­panies approach the enterprise in the right way. 
"There are great opportuni­ties to get good returns by expanding into 

"Businesses that are setting out on these ventures need to expand their market but also reach people who have less money to spend," Ayala said. "They need to think of whole new ways to bring costs down." 
"You want to touch commu­nities at the lowest level of income and make them your customers,"Ayala said. "In order to do that, you have to make it beneficial to them." 
The biggest challenge that companies will face is changing the way that they do business and adapting their methods so that they will fit with the com­munity and people that they are trying to reach, Ayala said. 
these poorer areas,"Ayala said. "If you tackle these areas correctly, you will make a huge profit." 
Ayala said companies must consider people as well as money when they make deci­sions about their business ven­tures. 
"Business is not just dealing with numbers and marketing; it also deals with people," Ayala said."We can have capi­talism that fulfills social devel­opment and addresses the needs of people around the world." 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden@hcc-nd.edu 
Notre Dame will hold celebrations 
Special to The Observer 
Community-wide celebrations will be held to mark both the opening of Irish Green from 4 to 6 p.m. tomorrow in front of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and the fifth anniversary of Notre Dame Downtown from 4 to 7 p.m. Friday at 217 S. Michigan St. in South Bend. 
Free entertainment, children's activities and food will be provid­ed Thursday in celebration of the completion of the 16-acre Irish Green on the south side of the Notre Dame campus. A per­formance by the N-E-W Trio will follow at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets to the concert are $32 general admission, $26 for faculty and staff, $24 for seniors and $15 for students. 
The Notre Dame Downtown celebration will include live music at 4 p.m. by the Herb Wilson Ensemble and at 5:15 
p.m. from the Merriman Jazz Trio. Activities for children and food from downtown restaurants will be provided free of charge. 
Underwritten with a gift from Notre Dame Trustee Fritz L. Duda and his wife, Mary Lee, Irish Green unfolds from the DeBartolo Center to Angela Boulevard, linking the campus to the community. It is populated by maple, elm, oak, beech and other trees and shrubs, and walkways lined with benches wind through 


Are you interested in ... 
Master's degree in Theology? Catholic Identity? Spiritual Formation? Professional Development? Community Living? 
the park. 
"Irish Green is a wonderful new gathering spot for members of both the University community and, as importantly, the greater Michiana community," said Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president. "We are grate­ful to Fritz and Mary Lee for making this beautiful addition a reality." 
In addition to serving as a venue for outdoor receptions, picnics and recreational and other activities, Irish Green will provide a convenient route from many parts of the Notre Dame campus to Eddy Street Commons. 
Notre Dame Downtown, a 10,000-square-foot venue located across the street from the State Theatre in a section of the old Robertson's department store building, houses the University's Office of Commu.uity Relations. Under the direction of Jacquelyn Rucker, the office serves as the primary administrative link between Notre Dame and the local community. It embodies the University's goal to be responsive to its neighbors and to support the local community's efforts to create a prosperous, healthy environment in which to live. 
Notre Dame Downtown also is home to The Crossroads Gallery, which is operated by the Snite Museum of Art, Institute for Latino Studies and Community Relations and showcases art as a community outreach tool. 
Working with kids, teens, and adults? Teaching Theology? 


Then come learn more Oct. 29 
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
been taken lying next to buildings," he said.

Bikes 
However, Chapman said NDSP has also apprehended
continued from page 1 
several members of the the 41 reported in South Bend community who September 2007. He said a have stolen bikes on campus, variety of factors could be including recently when offi­contributing to the rise in cers arrested three juve­thel'ts. niles. 
"Maybe there's more bikes "We arrested them and on campus, maybe it's they're in the court system because the weather is a lit­now, so it's not all the !Notre tle bit nieer this year. It's Dame] community doing it," just a combination of he said. things;" he said. Not all students report the 
Other studnnts are the theft of their bike to NDSP. most likely culprits in most Sophomore Scott Mcintosh cases, Chapman said. said his bike was taken from 
"Thn majority of bikes that the courtyard between are bning Alumni and taken are, Dillon, but
"The majority ofbikes
u n fortuna to Iy, chose not to bning taknn by that are being taken report it 
fellow stu-are, unfortunately, because he 
dents," hn thought there
being taken by fellow 
said. "What we was little think is hap­students." chance of it pening is that being recov­students arn ered.
Dave Chapman 

leaving elass "When
assistant director 

or leaving thnir went to go dorms and not find it the loek
NDSP 

wishing .to was just sit­walk across campus so they ting on the ground. I looked hop on a bike that is avail­around campus for a little abln, ride it to where thny bit but there was really no nned to ride it and then chance of finding it," leave it there." Mcintosh said. "I know it's 
Chapman also said any stu­happened a lot around cam­dent caught stealing a bike pus and I just assumed that could face serious conse­it's the way things work." quences, including prosecu­Senior Drago Flores said tion. when his bike was stolen two 
"They can be criminally years ago, he made a charged with theft and that Facebook group entitled would go to the prosecutors "Little Red Hiding Bike," oflice. Also, HesLife becomes encouraging his friends to involved because it involves look for his bike around a student taking another's campus. Although someone property," he said. eventually found' his bike, 
Chapman said most recov­the story didn't have a happy ered bikes are found aban­ending. doned next to buildings "It was just kind of a fun, around campus. spur of the moment thing 
"We recover many bikes that worked," Flores said. "It that have been taken around ended up getting stolen from campus and students often me about three weeks after­find their bikes that have wards again." 
during the rally. When the students enter,
COR 
"the alumni will have already continued from page 1 gotten their money worth," 
she said, quoting Weis. will arrive at the pep rally The new plans are not yet first. They will continue to finalized, but "it's all in the feature the video montages works," Burdick said. and Chuck Lennon, aecording Burdick and Sanchez are to Burdiek. still unsure about the role of 
Thn pep rally experience for the dorms in the new pep ral­students will lies. One begin at the group of Golden Dome dorms still has with the Band not hosted a
"/The pep rally will! 
of the Fighting pep rally this
be more ofa mosh
Irish, Burdick year, and they said. The stu­pit set up." will do so for dents and the the Pittsburgh band will march game. At
laura Burdick

to the .Joyce Syracuse,
HPC athletic committee
C1mtnr together. however, the The band will co-chair emphasis form a tunnel might be less outside the on the dorms Joycfl Center and more on through which students will Notre Dame. "The cama­enter the arena. raderie is about Notre Dame 
Onee inside the .Joyce Football," Burdiek said. Cnnter, the atmosphere will COR also unanimously con­be different than what stu­firmed the appointment of dents currently experience, Matt Barloh as president of Burdiek said. The Shirt 2009. Barloh is the 
"It'll be more of a mosh pit current president of Knott set-up," she said. llall, served as chair of The 
The football team will entnr Show 2008 and has worked thn arena about 10 minutes with The Shirt for the past after students do, Burdick two years. said. They will be able to Barloh will "give everything directly interact with students he has to ensure project con-
Chapman said Flores' case is not unique. Often students report their bikes being taken multiple times. 
"We've had students who have had their bikes stolen two or three times this year," he said. 
Chapman said one of the best ways to protect a bike was to buy a steel U-lock, which unlike cable locks cannot be easily broken. 
"The best locks for bicycles are the big U-locks because those can't be cut. The other chain locks and combination locks can be cut very easily and very quickly," he said. 
Chapman also stressed it is very important for students to register their bikes with NDSP, or else, unless they have the bike's serial num­ber, NDSP is forced to hold on to the bike because they do not know whom to return it to. 
"If you don't register your bike and you don't have a serial number, then even when we find a bike that looks like yours, if you can't prove it's yours then we can't give it to you," he said. 
Currently, NDSP is holding more than 600 bikes that have been found on campus. 
"We collected over 600 bikes at the end of the school year last year that were left laying on campus," Chapman said. 
Ultimately, Chapman said his major goal is simply making sure students are able to protect their bikes. 
"We want students to have their bikes," he said. "It's a convenience for them to have their bikes to ride to class or wherever they need to, and we're trying every­thing we can do to push reg­istration and locking your bike up." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
tinues on upward path it's been for past two years," The Shirt 2008 president Jason Gott said. 
By aecepting the position as The Shirt president, Barloh will be forced to relinquish his Knott Hall presidency because it is an "enumerated position," whieh is a student government position already listed in the Student Constitution, according to Student Body president Bob Heish. 
Barloh said "it has always been my contention that Ipresident of The Shirt! is not an enumerated position," but he will not protest Reish's interpretation of the Student Constitution. 
Heish insisted that he will enforce his interpretation of the enumerated positions. 
"This is an enumerated position. You will be stepping down," he said. 
Barloh said that while detail of The Shirt must remain seeret, students can expect something special this year. 
"It's the 20th anniversary of The Shirt," he said. "We would be remiss to not do something to honor that." 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 




Anonymous fliers encourage boycott 
Disgruntled diners call for students to protest food quality served at Noble Family Dining Hall 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
Monday morning Saint Mary's students living on campus woke up to find small fliers that had been slid under their doors the night before. There were no names or groups identified as being responsible for the fliers. 
The fliers called for stu­dents to take action against the Noble Family Dining Hall by boycotting dinner Tuesday night. 
"Join with the rest of the student body to show your dissatisfaction. Eat at Cyber [Cafe] Dalloway's [Coffee House] or order out," the fliers said. 
They compared the meal plan at Virginia Tech to the 
meal plan at Saint Mary's, calling what the Dining Hall serves "fake meat," as opposed to the "lobster and steak" the fliers said Virginia Tech supplies to its students. 
B a r r y Bowles, General 
Manager of Sodexo at Saint Mary's, said he was sur­prised to hear of the protest. 
"I would expect they'd come talk to me," he said. "Nobody's really contacted me at all this year about major dissatisfactions." 
As to the fliers' claim about Virginia Tech, the writ­Notre Dame, by 9 a.m., he said. 
Sodexo wont be able to tell exactly how many students went to the Dining Hall last night until they get the weekly report on Friday, Bowles said. 
In the Noble Family Dining Hall during the dinner hours, some students did decide to ignore the fliers and eat dinner in the Dining IIall. 
"The reasoning for boy­eotting is not a valid rea­son," sophomore Katie Brown said. "I don't think the food's horrible." 
Other students decided to go to dinner because they disagreed with the methods the people who created the fliers were using to be heard. 
"I don't think the students 

"/ would expect they'd come talk to me. Nobody's really contacted me at this year about major dissatisfactions. " 
Barry Bowles General Manager Sodexo 
have taken into consideration the effects of boycotting," sophomore Christina Posadas said. "Workers could be laid off." 
Others found issue with the flier's anonymi­ty and the infor­mation present­ed on the fliers. 
"Virginia Tech 
is a bad example because it's 38 thousand kids. It's a huge state school," junior Allie Greene said. 
She added that she thinks the claims about "fake meat" were ridiculous. 
"I've been here for three 
years,  never  once  have  I  
eaten  fake  
meat,"  she  


ers are making "The reasoning for said. a comparison Some stu­
boycotting is not a
of "apples to dents did opt to oranges" valid reason. I don't eat in Cyber Bowles said. think the food's Cafe as part of 
"I don't think the boycott,
horrible."
they're com­however to paring similar protest the meal plans," Katie Brown quality of the he said. sophomore food offered in 
With the Virginia Tech meal plan, students pay for each individual food item instead of being guaranteed a certain number of meals a week, he said. 

"They're a state school and it's a huge school, much larger than Notre Dame ... [you're] talking about state subsidized items," he said. 
Instead of boycotting the Dining Hall to .show dissatis­faction, the students who are upset should approach him, Bowles said. 
"Students would be much better served for the individ­uals to come and talk to me," he said. 
Before dinner, the Dining llall did run out of co­exchange tickets for stu­dents to have a meal at 
the Dining Hall. 

"The food is not very appetizing and it seems like it's repetitive," junior Patricia Luna said. 
Both the student body president and vice president, Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Falvey respeetively, decided to not follow the boycott as well. 
"We should not be not using our tuition money," Gruscinski said, "It's already paid for." 

Falvey agreed, adding that student government wasn't involved in the boycott. 
"I don't think visiting Sodexo-sponsored locations would be the best way to boycott," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 CoMPILED FR01\i THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Real estate booms, segregation stays 
BAGHDAD -An arrow in central Baghdad points down a side-street to a glass door with a sign that reads: "Ali's Office." 
That's where real estate broker Hadi Abbas Ali has greeted clients for 25 years. Now Ali is witnessing a boom of sorts in the Iraqi capital, where real estate prices have doubled in some areas. 
But a sectarian shadow hangs over the boom. Buyers don't look for a river view or simply the best deal in town. Safety-conscious Shiites seek housing in walled-in areas dominated by their sect, and Sunnis stick to their own as well. 
With little new construction afoot, there are far more buyers or renters than available homes in places like Karradah, a mostly Shiite area where Ali is hard-pressed to shrink his waiting list. 
"The business in the ama is not so good now because there is high demand but not much supply." said Ali. He not11d that. the monthly rent for a two-room apartment in Karradah. wh11rn attacks still occur. is about $400, double the pricP in 2006. 
Astronaut's son visits space station 
KOHOI.YOV. Russia -A Russian space­craft carrying an American computer game d11signer and two crewmates has docked with the international space station. 
Th11 Soyuz TMA-13 is delivering Richard Garriott for a H)-day stay on the station. The paying space tourist says it is a lifelong dream for the first child of a U.S. astronaut. 
The Soyuz automatically latched onto the station a few minutes ahead of schedule Tuesday after a two-day journey from Earth. 
Garriott's father Owen applauded as he watched the docking from Russian Mission Control outside Moscow. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

"Too fat to die" inmate executed 
LUCASVILLE. Ohio -The first inmate to die by lethal injection in Ohio in more than a y11ar argued to the end that his obesity would make it difficult for prison staff to find suit­able veins in his arms to deliver the deadly chemicals. 
During preparations for his execution Tuesday, Richard Cooey shouted for one of his attorneys as prison staff tried to insert a shunt in his left arm. 
"lie was worried that we were on the brink of another botched execution," said Greg Meyers, an attorney with the Ohio Public Defender's Office. 
There were no difficulties, said Larry Greene, a spokesman for the Southern Ohio Correctional Facility, where Cooey was exe­cuted for killing two University of Akron stu­dents in 1986. He was one of two people exe­cuted nationwide Tuesday. 

Soccer mom gets gun permit back 
LEBANON. Pa. -A mother who angered fellow parent<> when she openly carried a pistol to her 5­year-old daughter's soccer game got her concealed weapons permit back Tuesday after a Pennsylvania judge overruled a sheriffs decision to revoke it. 
Meleanie Hain lobi the permit after other parents complained about the presence of the gun during a soccer game on Sept. 11. Lebanon County Judge Hobnrt Eby. who said he also is a gun owner with a concf~alnd weapons permit. said the law required him to return Hain's permit. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Candidates for Ind. governor debate 
BLOOMINGTON-The three candidates for gov­ernor squared on· Tuesday night in their final debate before the election. 
Ikpublican Gov. Mitch Daniels recalled a night he spent in jail while in college, saying the worst part wa<> latnr litdng his father. 
Libnrtarian Andy Homing said he was "ba<>ically an idiot" until hfl tumnd his lite around at agn 31 and became a dillerent p(~rson through hi<> religion. 
Dnmocrat. Jill Long Thompson said her family's struggles to keflp their northern Indiana titrm dur­ing the 1980s made lwr "extremely sensitive" to tim nmnomic well-bning of the state. 
IRAQ 

Delibetationoversecuritypactcomplete 
Iraqi officials review 'final draft" with U.S. to govern use of troops in nation 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD Iraq's prime minister and presi­dent reviewed on Tuesday the "final draft" of the security pact with the United States -a first step in a process that could finally end in an agreement governing U.S. troops in Iraq. 
Yassin Majid, a senior adviser to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, did not say whether the draft resolved the contentious issue of legal immunity for U.S. troops, the last major obstacle standing in the way of a deal. 
Although Iraqi officials had said the issue was unresolved, Majid's use of the phrase "final draft" suggested that negotia­tions have ended. 
American and Iraqi negotiators have been working for most of this year to hammer out an agreement setting down rules for the U.S. military mission beginning next year. 
The meeting with President Jalal Talabani" as well as the Sunni and Shiite vice presidents" lasted for several hours and was the first in a series of planned sessions aimed at measuring polit­
ical support for the agree­prime minister" presi­explained the strategy" ic Muqtada al-Sadr" who ment before al-Maliki dent" the two vice presi­said the prime minister control 30 of the 275 par­submits it to parliament dents" the leaders of wants to make sure he is liament seats" oppose any for a final decision. political blocs and the on solid ground politically agreement that would 
An official statement parliament speaker. before risking his political keep U.S. soldiers here. said al-Maliki" Talabani If those groups are career on an agreement Shiite-dominated Iran" and the two vice presi­favorable" he will then which would keep which wields considerable dents -Tarik al-Hashemi submit the draft to his American troops on Iraqi influence among some and Adil Abdul-Mahdi -Cabinet and ask for their soil nearly six years after Shiite parties" also oppos­studied the draft "in approval by a two-thirds the U.S.-led invasion. es the agreement. depth and in detail" but majority. The aides said the draft The major obstacle has have no indication how The final step will be calls for U.S. troops to been jurisdiction over the participants reacted parliament's approval. pull out of Iraqi cities by U.S. troops. The United to details of the docu­The official statement" the end of June next year States had demanded ment. issued several hours after and leave Iraq by Dec. exclusive right to prose­
Majid told The Majid spoke to the AP" 31" 2011" unless the cute U.S. troops for Associated Press that the confirmed these steps as Baghdad government asks offenses committed here. prime minister will show al-Maliki's road map for them to stay. The aides The Iraqis had insisted on the draft Wednesday to adopting the security spoke on condition of the right to try Americans the National Security pact" but gave no time anonymity because the -at least in offenses Council" a consultative frame. negotiations are sensitive. committed off American body that includes the Aides to al-Maliki" who Followers of Shiite cler-bases. 

UNITED KINGDOM 



Britain's PM seen as economic savior 
bailout worth $63 billion. the foreign press Tuesday. One 
Associated Press 

"Gordon Brown: European reporter asked whether he should 
LONDON -Once dismissed as Superhero," declared a column in Le be referred to as "Gordon" or "Flash Britain's ditherer-in-chief. Prime Monde, which ran a poll showing Gordon" -the quick-footed science Minister Gordon Brown has taken the French had more faith in Brown fiction hero. decisive action to rescue the nation's to rescue the world's economy than "Just Gordon, just Gordon. I can banks, charting the way for bailout in their own president, Nicolas assure you," chuckled a blushing packages in the U.S. and the Sarkozy. Brown. European Union. Paul Krugman, this year's Nobel For the British leader who has 
If the coordinated push to save the economics prize laureate, praised gone from political has-been to global economy works, history may Brown and his team in his New York hero, it has been a remarkable turn­look back on Brown as a savior. Times column. saying they "defined around. 
For the moment Brown may have the character of the worldwide res­Since he replaced Tony Blair in more modest hopes: reviving his cue effort, with other wealthy June last year. Brown's Labour political fortunes on the back or the nations playing catch-up." Party has suffered crushing defeats widespread praise he has received Brown -often caricatured as in a series of special elections and for his bold decision to take owner­dour and cheerless -soaked up the lost control of London's City Hall to ship stakes in ailing banks in a accolades as he took questions from the main opposition Conservatives. 
page 6 The Observer +NEWS Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
prior -were given the option to allotted themselves a $40,000 receive money. If the decision monetary stipend, and
Budget 

was in their hands and they're Executives serving SGA prior to 
continued from page 24 the ones going to receive the that would often take a trip to 
money, I don't see the open­Chicago where they would "stay 
the issue, she wanted to "light mindedness of the decision or an at five-star hotels, eat at nice 
against receiving any sort of unbiased decision regarding it. I restaurants, see shows and go 
stipend from student activity fee guess I kind of see a conflict in shopping," Johnson said. 
money." getting money in general." Johnson said she did not con­
"I believe it is unethical, no Class of 2009 vice president trol what previous Executive 
matter how much we would Taryn Pabst said she is surprised Boards did with the money they 
allocate to ourselves or how we by the fact that the eight people were given to budget. Her only 
try to justify it, receiving funds involvement was making sure 
to pay ourselves are the eight peo­they taxed themselves on the 
out of student ple who make the money they received and made 
money, "/feel it's wrong decisions on the sure the Executive Board did not 
Gruscinski said. budget. get audited. 
because ifpeople
When the "Considering the "I did require [last year's budget was first knew what their fact that I am the Executives] to allow us to pay presented to parents' hard-earned vice president of them so as to be in line with IRS BOG many com­Senior board, I issues," she said. "I am not
money and their
missioners have the power to opposed to a stipend for Student were opposed students loans were take funds from Government Officers and was to the stipend going to, they my class's bank not last year." for this same account, but that
wouldn't pay it." 
reason. thought never Past Boards 
Health and crossed my mind," The 2007-2008 Executive wellness com­Katie Cahill she said. ''I'm Board, under the leadership of missioner senior coming from a former student body president Pauline Kistka position where I Kim Hodges, was the first said her pri-could do this Executive Board to receive the 
mary issue with myself and I think stipend. 
the Executive Board taking a they're using their power for Hodges said the entire team of stipend is the fact that it will be negative things." Executives thought about allot­coming out of these student fees. BOG public relations commis­ting and accepting a stipend 
"I don't see how we can take sioner Katie Danko asked if it through thoroughly and the money we get out of tuition and would be possible for Vice $40,000 was a residual amount pay other students," she said. President of Student Affairs left over in the budget after the 
Class of 2009 president Jenny Karen Johnson, director of SGA's major programming had Antonelli added: "I have an issue Student Involvement and BOG been completed for the academ­with it coming out of student advisor Patrick Daniel, the ic year. funds that can be used towards director of Residence Life "The entire first semester was another activity on campus or Slandie Dieujuste and College devoted to researching compa­
some type of thing that could President Carol Ann Mooney to rable institutions and their stu­benefit the entire student body," decide whether or not the dent government structures," she said at the meeting. Executives should receive a she said. "Most other institutions 
Senior Katie Cahill said she stipend. give students [serving student doesn't agree with the Executive "I don't think government] Board taking a stipend out of it's ethical for stu­free room and student funds because that is not dents to decide "I am simply making board, what she believes the student this," Danko said. sure that students stipends, fees are supposed to be used for. Johnson, how­tuition breaks
recognize that this 
"I feel it's wrong because if ever, said the and much people knew what their parents' SGA Constitution stipend will break the more or a com­hard-earned money and their states that the unity that [Saint bination of student loans were going to, Executive Board those."
Mary's] so very much 
they wouldn't pay it," Cahill said. is the Budget Hodges said. "It's as simple as that. When Committee and stands for and I her board peti­something is called a student are responsible want to have no tioned the idea government fee, it implies that for the budget. of rece1vmg
involvement
the money goes to the student She said that free room and government for student activi­when she came to with that." board directly ties, not someone 's salary." Saint Mary's to the College, three years ago but the idea
Jasmine Saavedra 
Conflicts of Interest she was shocked was not
Former SOB secretary 
Many BOG members also said that they gave the approved due the faet that the Executive Board Executive Board to internal will receive a stipend from the dose to $250,000 to budget with budget restrictions at Saint budget they voted on is a eonllict no college oversight and that Mary's. of interest. much trust was put into stu­Dieujuste, however, said The 
Kistka said at the Oct. 1 BOG dents; however, they have done Observer's inquiries into the meeting that she doesn't know a good job budgeting the money, subject were the first she had how she feels about this fact. at an Open Forum on the topic. heard about the subject. 
"We wnrn not informed of this Johnson also told students that "This is the first Karen !happening! last year," she said. last year was not the first year Johnson and I are hearing about "My coneern is that I know that the Executive Board took a this petition," she said. "There 
six people -and I'm not saying stipend. were no discussions about this you guys, I'm saying on boards Last year's Executive Board last year." 
Hodges said her board decided to allot the stipend because SGA executive positions can be a full­time job and some of her board struggled fmancially. 
"I, personally, had unmet need by the end of my first semester," she said. "I had no idea how [that need] would be paid because I did not have time to have a campus job." 
She said the amount the Executives received "breaks down to be on par with the cur­rent work study wage compen­sation." 
She said receiving a stipend had been an agenda on previous SGA executive teams and her board just happened to be suc­cessful in seeing it through. 
Susan Mcllduff, 2006-2007 student body president. con­firmed that her Executive Board did begin to look 
a proposed budget to BOG and BOG voted to approve the budg­et." 
Constitutional discrepancies 
The SGA Constitution states that "once approved by the Executive Board, IBOG] pro­vide[s] final approval for the dis­tribution of student government funds by approving the Executive Treasurer's [SGAJ budget." 
While BOG provided final approval to the budget approved by Mcllduff's Executive Board, it did not provide fmal approval to the budget under Hodges' Executive Board. 
"Both Patrick and I interpret [that section of the Constitution] to mean the Executive Board," Johnson said. 
Gruscinski, however, dis­
agreed with that 
into some kind of monetary reward to allevi­ate financial struggles and to get more people involved in stu­dent govern­ment. "We were adamantly  "I, personally, had unmet need by the end ofmy first semester. I had no idea how [that need] would be paid because I did not have time to have a campus job. "  interpretation and presented the budget to BOG for approval on Oct. 8. "There's a dis­crepancy in the Constitution," Falvey said at the meeting. "In  
opposed to receiving a reward from stu­dent funds," she said. "We  Kim Hodges Former student body president  some places it says the execs approve it as the budgeting com­mittee and in  
thought the administration  some it says that Board of  

should support the student gov­Governance has a say." ernment in some way." Falvey said the Constitution 
VVhen she heard about Oversight Committee, which she Johnson's remarks that chairs, will be trying to imple­Executive Boards prior to ment a system of checks and 
Hodges' used student funds to go balances through an amend­to Chicago to shop she was con­ment to the Constitution fused. throughout the year which will "[Our trip to Chicago] was not address the issue of a stipend. a stipend or reward but an SGA In order to put a system of Executive Board retreat," she checks and balances in place, said. though, 10 percent .of the stu­
The eight Executives went to dent body would have to vote in Chicago for the retreat and approval of the amendment, stayed at the Knickerbocker Daniel said. Hotel, which is five-stars, but The revised budget will be she said the room they stayed in presented at tonight's BOG was donated by executive secre­meeting and voted upon once tary Ashley Enright's parents. again. 
Mcllduff also said they saw a "I think we need to let the dolphin show at the Shedd processes work," Johnson said. Aquarium and ate dinner at the "As I mentioned [last week at Cheesecake Factory, but that the Open Foruml this is the first was the extent of the group time in my short history here spending student government that people are even interested. funds. Now is a great time to revise the 
Mcllduff said she thinks it is Constitution, institute policies proper for the Executive Board and develop job descriptions for to be constrained by checks and the officers." balances in the SGA Constitution. Ashley Charnley contributed to 
"At least when I was president this report. the Constitution said the Executive Board is the Budget Contact Liz Harter at Committee," she said. "We gave eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 



Wildfires prove difficult to control in California 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Flames whirled dangerously close to homes Tw~sday as gusty Santa Ana winds sent the biggest of southern California's wildlires flaring in hilly brushlands on Los Angeles' northern edge and along subdivisions to the west. 
Firefighters with hoses guard­ed houses as helicopters unleashed loads of water on hot spots of the more than 20­square-mile blaze charring slopns above the San Fernando Valll~y 1:ommunitins of Porter Haneh and Granada llills. 
Flanws thnn pushed west to the rolling grasslands or Ventura County and made runs toward Simi Valley nnighbor­hoods of modern homns dnfend­l~d by a broad firnbmak, heli­copters, airplanes and ground crews. 
The firn is one of three major blazes that have burned more than 34 square miles of Southern California, destroyed dozens of homes and forced thousands of people to evacuate their homes this week. One man died in the flames, and a motorist was killed in a crash as a lire neared a freeway. 
Fifteen homes and 47 out­buildings were destroyed in the Porter Hanch area, and another six homes were damaged, said Los Angeles County fire Inspector Hon Haralson. Ollieials said Tuesday night they did not know how mueh of the lire was eontained. 
Ten miles away, there was major progress against Los Angeles' other big wildfire. 
A 7 -square-mile blaze in the northeastern San Fernando Valley was 80 percent con­tained and some evacuees were allowed to go home. But people who Jived in an area where 38 mobile homes were destroyed were not permitted to return. 
Teresa Eseamilla, 4 7, lay on a cot in a Red Cross shelter, thinking the worst. She believed she lost everything including a shoebox containing five years of savings. 
"It feels like it's not real," the nursing assistant said in Spanish. "It's a nightmare." 
Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa acknowledged the uncertainty facing residents of the fire areas. 
"Many still don't know when they are going to return home," he told a news conferenee. "Our hearts and prayers are out with all of them." 
On the north eoast of San Diego County, a 3,950-acre fire at the Marine Corps' Camp Pendleton was 60 percent con­tained. Most evacuation orders were lifted for residents of about 1,500 homes in neighbor­ing Oceanside and many Marine Corps personnel and family members in military housing, but some remained in emer­gency shelters. 
In eastern San Diego County along the U.S.-Mexico border, a fire burned 200 acres and forced residents from 300 homes in the community of Campo before it was contained Tuesday night. Firelighters kept watch for flare-ups overnight. Two were injured battling the blaze. 
The outbreak of fires followed the weekend arrival of the first significant Santa Ana winds of the fall. 
The National Weather Service said the intensity or the winds was diminishing but warned there would still be strong gusts. Warnings for critical lire weather conditions were to remain in effect until Wednesday night. 
The Santa Anas usually sweep in between Oetober and February as cold, dry air descending over the Great Basin flows toward Southern California and squeezes through mountain passes and canyons. The extremely low humidity levels, which make vegetation easier to burn, and high windspeeds combine to whip fires into infernos. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  9,310.99  -76.62  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,911  36  1,609  3,960,952,898  
AMEX  1 1~-:~l'}iii!lilll!i!!11•&  

NASDAQ 1,779.01 -65.24 NYSE . itWl'iliilb'i;, :i:;J;i;~fal!llllillll[!llWIII S&P 500 998.01 -5.34 NIKKEI (TokYO) . 1ifjlli~'911mlfllil:;li FTSE 100 (London) 4:394.21 +137.31 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -1.48 -1.50 99.85 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -4.33 -1.52 33.61 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) +6.45 +1.05 17.33 CITIGROUP INC (C) +18.22 +2:87 18.62 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +4.20 +0.162 4.0230 13-WEEK BILL +11.90 +0.025 0.2350 30-YEAR BOND +2.97 +0.123 4.2600 5-YEAR NOTE +7.28 +0.201 2.9630 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.56 78.63 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.00 839.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.48 86.68 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 101.3050 EURO 0.7367 


IN BRIEF 
PepsiCo to cut jobs, close plants 
NEW YORK-PepsiCo announced plans on Tuesday to cut 3,300 jobs and close six plants as it deals with lagging U.S. drinks sales and a surging dollar, which will hurt profits from its rapidly growing international business. 
The announcement came as the global snacks and drinks maker reported a 9.5 per­cent drop in third-quarter profit that missed Wall Street expectations. It also offered a downbeat profit outlook. 
The job cuts amount to roughly 1.8 percent of PepsiCo's global work force of about 185,000 employees. The cuts will affect mana­gerial and factory jobs both in and outside the 
U.S. Most will be eliminated in the coming months, Chief Financial Officer Richard Goodman said. 
The nation's second-largest drink maker ­which also owns the Frito-Lay, Tropicana and Quaker brands -said the cuts would gener­ate pretax savings of more than $1.2 billion over the next three years. It plans to save $350 million to $400 million in 2009. 
Credit markets face slow improvement 
NEW YORK -The government's efforts to crank open the credit markets have led to some mild improvements in lending rates and Treasury bill yields. But it will probably take months, and perhaps a few years, before lending returns to healthier levels. 
It was clear Tuesday that there is still plenty of fear in the lending business -one indica­tor. the dill'erence between the rate at which banks lend to other banks and the rate at which they buy U.S. government debt remains near a 25-year high. 
But analysts believe that as long as condi­tions keep improving, the economy should be able to grow. 
"I don't think we need to have credit condi­tions come back to normal before we see signs that the economy is recovering," said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. lie said he believes the financial system won't be fully restored until at least 2010, but that he expects the economy to turn around in the second half of 2009 after the housing market bottoms. 


Feds buy partial ownership of banks 
Bailout becomes buy-in as federal government pours billions into banks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Big 
banks started falling in line 
Tuesday behind a rejig­
gered bailout plan that will 
have the government fork­
ing over as much as $250 
billion in exchange for par­
tial ownership -putting 
the world's bastion of capi­
talism and free markets 
squarely in the banking 
business. 
Some early signs were 
hopeful for the latest in a 
flurry of radical efforts to 
save the nation's financial 
system: Credit was a bit 
easier to come by. And 
stocks were down but not 
alarmingly so after 
Monday's stratospheric 
leap. 
The new plan, President 
Bush declared, is "not 
intended to take over the 
free market but to preserve 
it." 
It's all about cash and 
confidence and convincing 
banks to lend money more 
freely again. Those are all 
critical ingredients to get­
ting. financial markets to 
function more normally and 
reviving the economy. 
The big question: Will it 
work? 
There was a mix of hope 
and skepticism on that 
front. Unprecedented steps 
recently taken -including 
hefty interest rate reduc­
tions by the Federal 
Reserve and other major the money to rebuild their said in announcing the ini­pretty well capitalized," 
central banks in a coordi­reserves and to increase tiative. "Yet the alternative Kashyap said. "But if it 
nated assault just last week lending to consumers and of leaving businesses and doesn't reach that point, 
-have failed to break businesses. Another $125 consumers without access we'll be back in soup down 
through the credit clog and billion will be made avail­to fmancing is totally unac­the road." 
the panicky mind-set grip­able this year to other ceptable." The government is count­
ping investors on Wall banks -if they need if -Whether the $250 billion ing on banks not to just 
Street and around the for cash infusions. will be sufficient to encour­clutch onto the cash, which 
globe. In return, the government age banks to lend again is aggravated the credit crisis 
The Dow Jones industri­will get ownership stakes in hard to tell, said Anil to begin with. 
als declined 77 points on the financial institutions. Kashyap, professor of eco­"The needs of our econo­
Tuesday after piling up Banks, meanwhile, will nomics and finance at the my require that our finan­
their biggest point gain ever have to accept limitations University of Chicago's cial institutions not take 
on Monday on news of on executives' compensa­Graduate School of this new capital to hoard it, 
Europe's rescue plan and in tion. Business. The Treasury but to deploy it," Paulson 
anticipation of the United "Government owning a Department arrived at the said. 
States' new measures. stake in any private U.S. $250 billion figure after Treasury switched gears 
Initially the U.S. govern­company is objectionable to consulting with banking deciding to first use a 
ment will pour $125 billion most Americans -me regulators. chunk of the $700 billion 
into nine major banks with included," Treasury "This plan will work if we from the recently enacted 
the hope that they will use Secretary Henry Paulson wind up with everybody financial bailout package to 


Federal budget debt hits historic high 
Associated Press year's deficit could easily top $700 responsible for the growing deficit. billion, giving the next president a They noted that wlh.en Bush took WASHINGTON -The federal formidable challenge. office in 2001, the budget was in 
budget deficit soared to $454.8 bil­
The administration blamed this surplus with projections that total lion in 2008 as a housing collapse year's record deficit on a litany of surpluses over the next decade 
and efforts to combat the economic 
economic woes. The prolonged would reach $5.6 trillion. Those slowdown pushed the tide of gov­housing slump sharply reduced surpluses never materialized. The 
ernment red ink to the highest level 
economic growth and has sent the economy fell into a recession and in history. unemployment rate rising, develop­then faced unexpected costs such 
The Bush administration said 
ments that reduce tax revenues. as fighting wars in Afghanistan and Tuesday the deficit for the budget "This year's budget results reflect Iraq and dealing with the after­year that ended Sept. 30 was more the ongoing housing correction and maths of Hurricane Katrina. 
than double the $161.5 billion 
the manifestation of that in Democrats also cite the costs of recorded in 2007. strained capital markets and slow­Bush's 2001 and 2003 tax cuts as 
It surpassed the previous record er growth," Treasury Secretary further reasons for the budgetof $413 billion set in 2004. 
Henry Paulson said in a statement imbalances. Economists predicted a far worse accompanying the deficit report. "The eight years of this adminis­
number next year as the costs of 
"While it will take time to work tration will include the five biggestthe government's rescue of the through this period, we will over­budget deficits in history," said financial system and the economic come the current challenges facing House Budget Committee Chairman 
hard times hit the nation's balance our nation." John Spratt, D-S.C. "The resultingsheet. 
Democrats said the administra­debt will be passed to our children 

Some analysts believe that next tion's economic policies were and grandchildren." 

page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box n9. Notn: Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR 8\JSINFSS MANAGER lay fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler A.ss·t: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NF.WS EDITOR: Jenn Mt·tz 
VIEWPOINT ElliTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SeEN!\ EniTOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Ilatter 
PttOTO EmTOR: Jessica Lee 
GR.APIIICS ElliTOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 

AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLU\R: Stacey Gill SYSTI\MS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (iJl-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 'viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
snlC.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by rhe students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned e(litorials represent the opinion of rhc majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions "Karding Obsm;rr policies shouM be directed to Editor in ChiifChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OllKrv~r (liSPS ~~9 l-4000} a-$"-lhla»hcd Munclay chrou~_~:h Friday nu:~lt during cum anrl Vok;.l!Umr pc:riuda. f\ •uhr...-nptr,~u to lnc: <.)t\"tCrvl'r u $100 for one ac;u,kmk ~roS'S5forouciiCtm:srcr. 
The Obsc:m:r i1 published ar POSTM~nR 021 SoUih Dmi~ Hall Send .uldrcas corrections to: Nout 0Jmt, IN 165~6-0179 TheOMrvtr Petit~dk~IJ~HI.lF paid .u None L>.uue P.O. Buxm And oadditimul nuilmg ufficrs. 014 South Dining Hall 
Nou~ Dame. IN 4(r';'>().0779 

The l )IJ~C:rver t' "member ,.r 1he ~IGr.att'd Prut. All rcpwducnon righu arc 
raerv«<. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
Eat Reese's, light your fire 
A few days ago I was passing through the very busy sidewalk between the main gate of Trinity College and Dublin's pedestrian shopping area. It was a cool afternoon. damp-aired but not raining, and the sky, I'd 
Katherine

noticed earlier, 
was a few shades Khorey 
lighter than the 
Both Sides 

sidewalk. I was 
Now

looking down at the sidewalk now, watching people's shoes as they passed -women in this city have some pretty awesome boots -and admiring the gray slabs of pavement, when my eye caught a patch of din~:,ry gold laid in a gutter. 
It was a small, trampled-down pile of leaves. 
Very briefly I stopped walking. 
Then, with the human traflic at my back, I started again. A'l I walked, I final­ly looked up. I saw an entire tree whose leaves had gone ochre. 
I thought, "Wow. It's fall." And then, "Really? Seriously? Fall? Already?" 
See, we only just started class this past week. For the entire month of Snptember, Notre Dame students at Trinity have done next to nothing resem­bling schoolwork. So maybe it's under­standable that the first third of autumn had slipped past me unnoticed. 
Don't let this happen to you. 
*** 

Of course, there is no part of the year, not even the nastiest depths of winter, that should pass by us unnoticed and un­experienced. At two o'clock on a snowy January morning, for instance, when someone downstairs sets their bag of popcorn on fire and the harsh blare of the fire alarm yanks you from your snug­gled deep sleep, you can still find beauty and meaning even in standing outside, barefoot in the slush, for 20 minutes. At the very least, you can laugh at your more unfortunate dormmate who was in the middle of a nice hot shower when those clueless freshmen fatally misman­
aged the microwave. . 
But autumn, in which the setting off of the fire alarm would be admittedly much less dire (I'm told it's unseasonably warm in South Bend this year), deserves acknowledgement as a turning point as well as a season. It's the beginning of the school year, and it's the end of summer. Enjoy it for what it is, but don't forget what it all means. 
For many, it means enjoying football season, the thrill of experiencing either disgrace or glory on a weekly basis. Ditto the spirited roar of the pep rally or vol­untary lack thereof. You live in the midst of a legendary heritage; by all means continue to carry it on. 
Though you've carried through September already, and now September has flown there's another aspect of fall to enjoy, and reflect on. 
This is, after all, October. Halloween looms before us. 
*** 

I think the aura of Halloween makes October a time of purgation. When I was little October was a time to get ridicu­lously excited about wearing costumes and getting seared: much later, when I got involved with the haunted attraction business, it was a time to get ridiculously excited about wearing costumers and scaring other people. And of course there's more to Halloween, and the sur­rounding season, than that: The cool dark neighborhood streets made unrec­ognizable by decorations, the sudden influx of free Reese's cups, the helping little fairies and Buzz Lightyears throw­ing beanbags in the church gathering hall, the sitting in Spanish class imagin­ing what food I'd bring to a picnic at my great-grandmother's gravesite, etc,. 
That these things, as well as your own images of October (and early November, if you're fortunate enough to have actu­ally attended family picnics at your great-grandmother's gravesite) should be cathartic is hardly unsurprising. 
Halloween did originate as the day the 
living paid tribute to the dead; now the 
customs of this time of year allow us to 
explore our own mortality. 

So this October, keep exploring. Dress up. Hang cobwebs and lights around your door. Dance. Drink (sensibly, and preferably something interesting). Eat Reese's cups, Smarties, pumpkin pie and caramel apples (we don't have thes1~ things in Dublin). and provide a large selection of the best goodies for triek-or­treaters. Find a party to volunteer at. Brave the Niles' Scream Park. Treat yourself to laughter, creativity, adnma­line, hangovers, smiles, joy. Whether you're watching a kid's face light up as you drop a Twix into their plastic pump­kin bucket or refurbishing a strictly­functional funetion room with black and orange erepe paper or facing death in the form of the ehainsaw-wielding zom­bie who's just jumped onto your hay wagon, cherish that moment as one that proves your physical, fallible, soul-grant­ed humanity. 
Next month, you may be grateful you're alive and blessed: the month after, you may celebrate that life and blessing run higher and deeper than we can, while on Earth, understand. But now, October, the middle of fall, is the time to really feel what being alive means. 
It's the time to remember those who've gone before us, both the people and the summers, and to enjoy and anticipate the time, the loved ones, and the life we have now and will have a while longer. 
January's not far away. Look up. The leaves are blazing now. 

Katherine Khorey is an Hnglish major and Russian minor spending her junior year abroad in Dublin. She's sorry ifthis column was a bit ponderous, and promises you something completely frivolous next time. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Fran Tolan Who would you rather spend a night Madeline Buckley Jared Jedick on the town with? Tess Civantos Douglas Farmer Graphics Scene 
John McCain "A professor is one who talks in 
Madeline Nies Michelle Fordice 

Barack Obama someone else's sleep." 
Viewpoint 
Joe Biden 

Kara King W.H. Auden 
Mr. Sarah Palin poet 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 page 9 
Environment, image and Notre Dame 
Notre Dame has entered a new era of environmental stewardship, signaled by a new Office of Sustainability, the recent Forum on that topic and a serious recy­cling program energized by student par­ticipation. Efforts to recycle wastes, to 
Kenneth Sayre 
conserve electricity and to install ener­
Guest
gy-efficient equip­
columnist
ment are commend­able and should be continued. But such efforts are quantita­tive (how many pounds recycled?) rather than qualitative, and are already com­monplace among Notre Dame's peer institutions. To assume a position of environmental leadership, Notre Dame will have to make qualitative changes as well. A few suggestions follow. 


Policy and planning 
Power Generation -During the 1990s, as reported in the most recent Scholastic (Sept. 18), Notre Dame's coal-burning power plant was in violation of the Clean Air Act, resulting in a large fme by the EPA. Rather than rest content that no fines have been levied since then, the University should seriously consider shifting to less polluting forms of energy. Reliance on clean energy might involve extra expense initially but certainly would reduce Notre Dame's ecological footprint. 
Ecological Footprint -The concept of carbon footprint is now established in public awareness. But carbon emissions are not the only burden the University places on our beleaguered environment. Others are the ozone-depleting halogens released in manufacturing the hundreds of computers we buy annually, toxic chemicals applied by factory farms pro­viding food for our dining halls and non­biodegradable plastics used in many aspects of campus life. These all con­tribute to the University's total ecological footprint. An environmentally alert insti­tution would strive to keep a complete tally of its ecological footprint and would take ser:ious steps to keep it at a mini­

mum. fr,., Avoiding Need to Recycle -A better policy than simply recycling is one of avoiding materials that require recy­cling. A few examples of things to avoid are glossy reports issued by centers and institutions, single-use manila envelopes containing routine notices, and vending machines selling things in plastic bottles. The University's goal in this regard should be to recycle as little as possible while at the same time recycling every­thing that needs it. 

Instruction 
Course Offerings -All undergraduates at ND should have opportunity to take a full-credit course exploring humankind's tenuous relation to the rest of the bios­phere. For students in some disciplines, such a course should be required. One possibility is to make environmental instruction part of a mandatory Freshman Seminar. The format of such an offering should be broad enough to be taught through any department that chooses to participate. 
Learning by Doing-Notre Dame stu­dents learn about social issues by partic­ipating in programs sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. The University should consider establishing a similar center to help students learn about environmental issues. Such a cen­ter could set up cooperative arrange­ments with near-by organic farms, could arrange internships with state and fed­eral environmental agencies, and could train students to provide assistance to businesses concerned with their ecologi­cal footprints. 
A Demonstration Ecosystem -In most learning situations, doing and observing go hand-in-hand. Before its property is all taken up by buildings, the University should set aside 20-30 acres on which to enable a self-sufficient ecosystem (an "ecopark") of native woodlands, mead­ows, and wetlands. Once established, this demonstration ecosystem would be kept mostly free from human manage­ment. While the area would be available for field trips by appropriate groups, its main purpose would be to provide stu­dents a place to "commune with nature" and thereby to learn more about how nature works. 

Student Life 
Consuming Less -Consuming less water and electricity in dorms is a good beginning. A good continuation would be to reduce dependency on environmental­ly damaging consumer items like red meat and bottled drinks. A side benefit is 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Stop generalizations 
As a 2001 alum, it was good to see Darryl Campbell's column appear in The Observer ("Community building, common-council style," Oct. 13) in response to the article from Oct 10's article titles "University addresses community relations." 
It's pretty clear that the community relations between Notre Dame students and South Bend need a sweeping overhaul, but it's likely not going to get anywhere until the council mem­bers and community leaders understand how their stances comprise of unjust, sweeping gen­eralizations. 
It's funny. I think the article on Oct. 10 was meant to "educate" students about how poor their judgement is and unless they start acting differently then nothing will improve. The arti­cle probably did more harm than good and the leaders of South Bend might need to take a look in the mirror. 

Back in the winter of 2000-2001, a friend of mine who was visiting from another school referred to South Bend as "Russia" in reference to the cold weather. Sounds like nowadays, a statement like that has more than one meaning. Just wanted to say thanks for running Mr. Campbell's article sticking up for the students. 
Patrick Schaffier alum Class of 200 I Oct. 13 
Speak out against stipend 
As the proud parent of two Saint Mary's stu­dents, I am appalled at the stipend issue that has arisen and the subsequent delay in stu­dent activities funding as a result. 
This issue should not be holding student activities hostage by insisting that they receive a stipend in the budget. 
To the nine students that voted no: Congratulations for standing up for your beliefs in the face of tremendous pressure. 
To the Executive Board: The issue is not how much of a stipend you should receive. Rather, the question is should you receive a stipend at all? This flies in the face of a proud and honorable tradition at Saint Mary's. 
The only way this should be implemented is with a referendum type vote and if your stu­dent body agrees with the action, then fine. To the argument that other schools do this, since when does Saint Mary's want to be like every other school? 
Last I read, the ad campaign says "She's Saint Mary's" and the "She" represents every student who attends this outstanding college. The campaign does not proudly proclaim "We're Like Every Other School You Will Visit". 

You have been given the privilege of repre­senting the student body and should be voting on a budget that is for the greater good. Not for a select few of you to receive money in a vote that only you can cast. This issue calls for thoughtful discussion and input from every corner of campus. 
To Saint Mary's students: Last year's outra­geous aberration is a call for more vigilance in watching your representative's actions. Indeed, a prime example of why we should all pay attention to government action at every level. 
Please make your voice heard prior to the upcoming meeting and contact your student representatives with your feelings on this issue. Make your voice heard. 
To Saint Mary's parents: Please support our student groups in any way possible; so that events are able to continue if they do not receive funding in a timely manner due to this issue. The Saint Mary's spirit will prevail. 
Thank you, 

Sandy King Green Bay, Wis. Oct. 12 
that cutting back on beef and giving up soda pop is good for one's health. Other consumer items that could be cut back include fashionable clothing (e.g. The Shirt) and video games. 
Living without Cars-Few modern conveniences contribute more to a heavy ecological footprint than private automo­biles. On a truly green campus, people would limit use of cars to occasions of genuine need. Walking, riding bicycles and taking buses are adequate for most purposes. Notre Dame students should take pride in cutting reliance on automo­biles to a bare minimum. 
Life-style changes-To help Notre Dame gain preeminence in environmen­tal stewardship, its student body will have to go beyond recycling and turning off light switches-beyond even avoid­ing red meat and foreswearing soda pop. Concerned students will wal!lt to adopt life-styles devoted to "walking lightly on the earth." This includes living simply (minimum use of devices run by motors), reducing material needs (fewer trips to the mall) and becoming more aware of other creatures (listening to birds rather than ipods). With examples like these in its midst, the University could learn from its students and assume leadership in its witness of environmental values. 
Kenneth Sayre is a professor of philosophy. He can be contacted at ksayre@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are thoes ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

More reasons not to vote 
Sure, I watched the debate last week, and I was taken aback for the 20 seconds where I heard one of them start to answer the question they were given. The only reason I watched the debate is so that Saturday Night Live is funny. 
The point is: When will politicians start answering questions? Why is a bail out needed? Here is my attempt: because without the bail out, credit is hard to come by which is necessary for businesses to do a lot of their busi­ness and some times all of it. Therefore, if they can't get a loan, then they can't do business, then some people are going to lose their jobs. I think that's pretty accurate, and yet, I only heard part ofthat answer in the debate. When I ask a question, and you answer a different question, you're telling me that my question was stupid, and I'm not smart enough to know what to focus on. So as I see it, these two politicians are telling me that I'm an idiot. If I'm asking the question, it is because I expect an answer. So what can you do about it? I don't know, but I can tell you what I'm going to do about it. 
I'm not voting this year just like four years ago. I'm not voting until politi­cians stop answering questions I didn't ask. I'm not encouraging anyone else not to vote, and I was about to vote in this election. I was told it was important, and I was going to vote for a third party even though I know that's basically wasting my vote. I'm enslaved to one of two parties who are mostly the same. 
As Lewis Black says, you have the republicans on one side who say, "We have a really bad idea", and the democrats on the other side who say, "And we can make it worse!" Thank God for George Carlin on voting: "You may have noticed that there's one thing I don't complain about: Politicians. Everybody complains about politicians. Everybody says, 'They suck.' 
But where do people think these politicians come from? They don't fall out of the sky. They don't pass through a membrane from another reality. No, they come from American homes, American families, American schools, American churches, American businesses and they're elected by American voters. This is the best we can do, folks. It's what our system produces: Garbage in, garbage out. .... 
I have solved this political dilemma in a very direct way: I don't vote. On Election Day, I stay home. I firmly believe that ifyou vote, you have no right to complain. Now, some people like to twist that around. They say, "Ifyou don't vote, you have no right to complain," but where's the logic in that? If you vote, and you elect dishonest, incompetent politicians, and they get into office and screw everything up, you are responsible for what they have done. You voted them in. You caused the problem. You have no right to complain. 
I, on the other hand, who did not vote -who did not even leave the house on Election Day-am in no way responsible for that these politicians have done and have every right to complain about the mess that you created. 
Robert McKeon grad student offcampus Oct. 8 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
~==============~================================================================= 
A look at this fall's 

who ts petrifted of gtrls, and 11-)'eor-ol~ loutse, who hangs.pro; ,.;:;:~~ lfthis season is any indication, American writers and produc­tures of AI Gore a.na Mahatma Gandht ~"! her wolls. That the. ·:'ti;;F':·N.~ ers have been scramblin~ for,,s.t.ory_ ideas from everywhere but
...:·1~ 

show has the maktngs of a one-season htf IS a shame becaUSf:lF' ··;\ the good ole' U.S. of A. 'Kath,& Kim" is yet another sitcom it's surprisingly funny. Though occasionally crude in his buf-.-. · > ) remake, this time coming from an· Australian sitcom of the same 
Crusoe 
NBC 

{~ 
Based. on Daniel Defoe's legendary novei,.Xru~oe" tellf'4he ltor,.Jof the world's most famous castawd)', Robmson Crusoe. Witft. the s~ess of miniseries like "John Adorns" ond "Into the ·West" ond si\Qws like "Rome" and "The Tudors," NBC is tryin~J. to see if o histq_rical drama can make it in the mainstream. The > trailers for "Crusoe" are definitel)' stirring and nothing can beat his house in the trees so let s hope the show stands up to its potential. "Crusoe" indudes familiar faces such as Sean Bean and Sam Neil and some rising stars such as Philip Win­
-chester and Anna Walton. The pilot premieres this Thursday~ 
Gary UnJBamecl Wednesdays 8:30/7:30c 
® 
CBS' new sitcom, •Gary Unmllfri!>d." foUC!'I(s tl)t., recently d~ vorced Garr. Barnes (Jay Mohr), <whose ex-wife Wife, Allison (Paula Marshall), is engaged to their formal marriage coun­selor: They .s~are cu~tody of their two kids: l~yeor-old Tommy, 
foonisn. hu~or, Gary is _charming, and at. times! percipier:tt. At .·.. one pomt hts new gtrlfnend, Vanessa, chtdes htm for eahng .... ,('· dinner on P.oper pJate placed inside a Frisbee. 11What'" he ex• ;:\X claims, .uwhen I'm done I throw it on the lawn and the sprin-·.· kler cleans it. N The show focuses on Gary's struggles to become a responsible single parent. 
·. 

for •My Own Worst Enemy" contoined all the signs of 



tJdl•WaG-uo premier episode, including overly sentimentorwrit;, 
over-the-top stunts, but there were times when it dis­f()ft1C:ed itself from alt the shows this season that touch on lost 
and secret government proiects. There were mo"'!ents one ~ould ff!•! the saqa pulse you get when ~atchang ·movae. Chrtstian . . Of the $plit-persol\diF :·•. 

Mlhdlln character isn't . eerformance 
:worth fuming in 
·' 

---. 1! Kat . h  --·-··--;----------.----­& K1m Thursdays  ----------··­ --­8 --.-.. -----=-~--·:· :10/7:30c  
/NBC  
.. . ·  I i 1  

~;tf 

1 name. The stateside version of ''Kath & Kim" stars Molly Shan­
I non as a wac~y, 40-somethina mother and Selma Blair ("Hellboy," 1'Cruellntentions''l as her celeb-obsessed 20-some­fhing daughter. The eorlr. prognosis on NBC's "Kath & Kim" is uncertain, but the Australian stars, Jane Turner and Gina Riley, ate serving as executive producers . 
....-----·------~--------·----··----~--·--------,-----·-···---·---·-""' 

Privileged Tuesdays 9/Bc 
CIJJ 

11Privileged," a rtew show on the CW, was adapted from the popular novel, ~,tifow To ':I"each Filthy Rich Girls," f)Y. Zoey 
Dean. The show follows Yale graduate Megan Smith Uoanna Garcia) as the tutor to the faoulous, rich, socialite Baker twins with the goal of ~etting them accepted into Ouke. Megan wants to be a wrater, and takes the job hoping to learn from and make connections through the twint' grandmother, but elder sister Sage (Ashley Newbroughl does not take to Megan as quickly as her sister Rose {lucy Ha e). Megan must navigate Sage's terror, the girls' outlandish antics and her jumbled love life that includes her best friend Charlie (Michael Cassidy), who is secretly in love with her, the hot billionaire neighbor Will, who is casually dating her sister (Brian Hallisay), and her current beau, the garl's principal {David Giuntoli). Joanna Garcia demonstrates that she can play more than Reba's dim­witted daugh~r o~.Jne anchor of this new soap. 
,.. 

Another remake of a ~riti~h seriej{.*Eieventh Hour" is a Jerry 
·.,,tuckheimer mochine fh9f'f1tt~'t.he ftotential to pull out all the ·.·stops. Rufus SeweJI ("The ltiolfday1) ploys Dr. Jacob Hood~ a ;biophxsicist who also happens. to ~e a ~pe.cial Science Advisor 
· to·tn, FBI. Marley Shelton {11Sm Ctty") ts hts female counter­P9rl, an FBI agent assi9ned to protect Hood as he investigates Llfgh..profile s<;lentific cnmes. !~e pilot's ,Prod_udion costs were recently valued at over $4 mtllton, feadmg vtewers to wonder how far the producers will go. 

-----------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Wednesday, October IS, 2008 
page II 

prem1er1n 
shows 

-----The 1Ex
···.. s' 
I I • 
Filmed in beaut~ful San DieSJo,Califq~i~J~~~~¥ Ex qst" t~ocks 
Bella Bloom (Elizabeth Reo$er, Avo ftom ~Gt8y's A~tomy"), a young woman whose (:_ -~ · ----­or may not determine he e. she has alreadY. dated h ,Yre hu ___ .__ . _ _ 
not find him within a year, s,,e'll spen -_·_. ·-•. ··• single. With the show's story,line providing a paten __ _ yea~ shelf life, it's up to !he '~lent and creative ted'm -· Ex l1st" to keep each ep•soc:fe:·fresh. 
Life on Mars Thursdays_ J·Oj9c Thes Mentalist 
e . 
"Life on Mars,utpn American,,remake of the BB,C s~ties, pre­miered last 'thursday: on ABC. D~tective Sam Tyle~ (JasonO'Mara) is sent'back in time to-1973 __ -. is hit by a car. The~ilot follows him solving th~crirne · . killer whose 
· . _-. ·--his girltrknd (~isa Bo ___ the rre~~~t 
· must be dreqf'{tJng . ._o chota<:· ·_'"'. 
unding him aP.P~?rs t~ be real_. .-_, ·-· K7itel stars -a$ 
Hunt, the ham-nosed &oss of the ··_ ..---pol•ce; force, 
.receives 

d Michael Jmperiotigs · 
n of the stutjon. Sdm 
respectable ratings and looks _ be·_..,._._......... procedural crime drama. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Tressel, tea111 at odds about quarterbacks 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS -Ohio State 

coach Jim Tressel has no 
doubt Terrelle Pryor is the 
best quarterback to lead the 
Buckeyes. 
Not all his players agree. 

Tight end Jake Ballard said it could help the Buckeyes' struggling offense to turn back to former starter Todd Boeckman and have him share the job with Pryor. The freshman has shown flashes of skill, but is still a work in progress. 
"The senior leadership that Todd brings to the table and just how he commands the huddle would definitely help us out." Ballard said. "And he could make some big throws for us.... I don't think a two­quarterback system would be a bad idea." 
No. 12 Ohio State (6-1, 3-0 Big Ten) will be facing one of its biggest tests of the season Saturday when it plays at No. 20 Michigan State. 
The Buckeyes are last in the Rig Ten in passing and next to last in total offense. 
But Tressel clearly is com­mitted to Pryor going it alone, though he said Tuesday he wants to play Boeckman. The senior has not played either of the last two games, both Ohio State victories. 
"(I) haven't determined that that was the right moment (or) situation," Tressel said tersely. 
Boeckman led Ohio State to a Big Ten title and a spot in the BCS national champi­onship game last season. This season, he had the job for three games before Pryor, who was playing high school ball in Jeannette, Pa., a year ago, was promoted. 
Boeckman said the transi­tion has been painful but he's tried to make the best of it. 
"When you're on the side­lines, you always want to play," Boeckman said. "You always want to be that guy out there. Terrelle is doing some good things out there. lin's getting better each and nvnry week. I'm doing what I ean. If my number's ever called, I'm going to be there, nmdy to go." 
The Buckeyes have won all four of Pryor's starts, but the offense has sputtered. Pryor is only permitted to speak with reporters after games and not during weekly inter­vinw periods. 
A unit that returned nine starters stands 94th in total offense in major college foot-

CLASSIFIEDS 
ball, including 108th in pass­ing. 
"If an apology is what you'd like, we can all go to lunch," Tressel cracked. "I apologize. And we'll try to get better." 
But at the same time, he knows it's no laughing mat­ter. The Buckeyes have totaled 18 touchdowns in their first seven games; a year ago at this point, they had 31. 
Buckeyes fans on radio call­in shows and Web sites are calling the offense unimagi­native and predictable. Several Southern California players said they knew what the Buckeyes were going to do on almost every snap after USC pounded Ohio State 35-3 in Boeckman's last start. 
Even Tressel seemed to question his own approach on Tuesday. 
"You always have to start by being troubled by the plan, because there's got to be some reasons why you're not executing," he said. 
A porous offensive line might be Ohio State's biggest problem. The Buckeyes are 106th in the nation in sacks allowed. 
Tressel has taken an increasing interest in the line in recent weeks, even dub­bing himself the "assistant offensive line coach." Usually reserved on and off the field, Tressel has strained his voice yelling at the linemen to be quicker and hold their blocks longer. 
But the sacks aren't all the lines' fault. 
Pryor is dangerous runner -able to dodge or outrun onrushing defenders. Yet he sometimes doesn't know when to throw a ball away to avoid trouble. He was sacked three times on Saturday in a 16-3 victory over Purdue, a game in which the Buckeyes' 
didn't  score  an  offensive  
touchdown.  
"lie  can  make  big plays  

with his feet but he has to realize it's not high school, he can't make big plays every single time for 20 yards or more," Ballard said. "He's not always going to get big plays." 
He said the Buckeyes can­not continue playing the way they have been. 
"It's frustrating. Everybody thinks it's frustrating," he said. "But we're not worried about it as much as maybe others are because we know it's things that we can change, to turn around the way the season is going right now." 
MLB 



Stairs is Phillies' ironman 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -One day 
after hitting the most signifi­
cant home run of his career, 
Matt Stairs went about his 
business as though nothing 
ever happened -which 
helps explain why he's still 
around at age 40 after 12 
full seasons in the big 
leagues. 
No huge celebrations for the pinch-hit homer Monday night that broke an eighth­inning tie and sent the Philadelphia Phillies over Los Angeles 7-5 for a 3-1 lead in the NL championship series. 
Instead, he stood in the outfield at Dodger Stadium during an off-day workout and shagged fly balls and joked with teammates. He also tried to answer the 40 messages on his cell phone, including a few from guys he coached in hockey back in Maine. 
"I enjoyed it last night when I left the ballpark. My wife and two of my daugh­ters are here, so it was fun to talk to them about it. But my point of view, it was over with," Stairs said. 
"I mean, we didn't turn on SportsCenter, I didn't read any newspapers -nothing. It happened yesterday," he said. "That's what I've always learned. You can't live in the past." 
A lesson well learned in a career that's taken him to 11 different major league teams, starting with the Montreal Expos in 1992. He got this chance with the Phillies because of a trade Aug. 30 with Toronto for a player to be named. 
Some of his former Blue Jays teammates called to congratulate the Canadian­born Stairs. The shot off hard-throwing Jonathan Broxton was Stairs' 15th career pinch-hit homer. 
Stairs launched it from the same batter's box where one of the most famous pinch-hit homers ever was hit, Kirk Gibson's shot in the 1988 World Series. Stairs' homer came two days before the 20th anniversary of Gibson's drive. 
Yet the compact slugger with the powerful left-hand­ed swing tried to stay hum­ble. He has 254 regular-sea­son homers in the big leagues -and now one in the postseason. 
"Even the year I hit 38 homers (with Oakland in 1999), I didn't think about what I did," Stairs said. "This game can bite you in the butt. You can have a great day yesterday and all of a sudden go 0-for-20." 
Dodgers manager Joe Torre was well aware that Stairs was a dangerous threat off the bench because of all the years he managed against him in the American League. Stairs twice had more than 100 RBis in a sea­son and even drew some MVP votes. 
"He's one of those guys who has made his presence necessary," Torre said. "He has done a great job accept­ing whatever role is given to him. He knows he can hit. The biggest thing for me is he has a plan at the plate." 
Stairs has a unique hitting approach. He swings for the fences every time up. Most players will tell you that they can't hit a home run if they try for one. 
"Certain people for certain swings," Stairs said. "I swing as hard as I can. My goal when I get into the batter's box is to see how far I can hit the ball. I'm not going to lie. I try to hit home runs. It carries over from batting practice I try to hit every ball out of the ballpark." 
An outfielder, first base­man and DH most his career, he accepted his role as a bench player for the Phillies. 
"I was excited when they told me I was going to Philly," Stairs said. "It was a great team and it was head­ing in the right direction. I knew I was coming to an organization that needed a pinch-hitter. 
"When you come to a new team, you want to do some­thing big to fit in real nice. You want to contribute as 


much as possible. And I think last night was a good way to jump into the fire. That home run really helped us, so you feel like part of the team. But by no means did I feel like an outsider here before that." 
Asked why he's ended up with so many teams after others cut him loose, he just shrugged and pointed out that the other 10 teams did­n't want him anymore. 
"I think I bring a positive attitude," he said. "Nothing negative comes out of my mouth. I enjoy the game. I enjoy being here early and talking to guys about hitting and give them my point of view. This is the way I approach the game and play the game-to always have a smile on my face and not let things bother me." 
This is Stairs' third trip to the postseason and his first to the LCS. lie was with the Boston Red Sox in 1995 when they lost to Cleveland, and played for Athletics in 2000 when they were elimi­nated by the Yankees. 
Once he's done playing, Stairs wants to stay in the game as a manager or hit­ting coach. Phillies manager Charlie Manuel thinks it'll be an easy transition. 
"I think he's definitely got the qualifications and the resume," Manuel said. "He's been in the game a long time, he's got a lot of experi­ence and he's been a lot of places. so I'm sure he's got a lot of stories to tell." 
"lie's got a baseball eye, and if you talk to him, you can tell how much he loves the game," he said. 
The Observer accepts classified.s every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Two teachers ready to adopt  
FoR RENT  SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER  WANTED  FoR SALE  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  newborn and provide a wonderful life for him/her. Confidential.  
PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR  
 or assistance. please call Sr. Sue  Expenses paid.  
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed  KRAMERHOUSES.COM  Financial Partner wanted.  CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND.  Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann  Stephenandliz@aol.com or call  
House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths,  7% ROI plus 2.5 Pts.  PLEASE CONTACT TED@ 574-233­ Firth at 574-631-2685. For more  us toll free 1-888-760-BABY  
washer dryer, dishwasher, new  100% secured  6191 MSL#231736  information, visit our website at:  
stainless steel appliances, 3 car  TICKETS  w/real estate.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- Wanted: team capable of  
garage, central air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch.  VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND foot­ 35 Yrs. Experience. References.  PERSONAL  nant.shtml  beating the Tampa Bay Rays.  
Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to  ball tickets. www.victorytickets.com.  Call  If you or someone you care about  Qualifications:  
ND. Available immediately, fourth  574-232-0964.  574-360-8707  TAXI TAKING TIME CALLS TO  has been sexually assaulted,  must not be the Red Sox.  
month free or flat screen TV  or  AIRPORT FOR BREAK.  visit  Could be the Philadelphia  
installed. $1180 per month. Call  Wanted: ND football tix for family.  Email:  CALL  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap  Phillies.  
Harold 574-315-7781.  57 4-251-1570.  2heavn @comcast.net  574-360-6480.  I  Contact Joe Maddon  



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 CoMPlLED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES page 13 
USTFCCCA Men's Cross Country Rankings 
team points 

1 Oregon (11) 359 2 Oklahoma St. (1) 349 3 Colorado 322 4 Portland 314 5 Wisconsin 313 6 Alabama 293 7 lona College 288 8 Georgetown 261 9 Michigan 250 10 Stanford 247 11 Iowa State 232 12 Virginia 214 13 Florida State 208 14 Minnesota 200 15 North Carolina St. 181 16 Auburn 176 17 Northern Arizona 176 18 BYU 170 19 Tulsa 142 20 TexasA&M 121 21 Texas 119 22 Providence 110 23 UCLA 89 24 William & Mary 77 25 California 76 
AVCA/Coaches Women's Volleyball Rankings 
team points record 

1 Penn St. (60) 1500 •16-0 2 Nebraska 1440 15·0 3 Texas 1371 10-2 4 Stanford 1307 13·2 5 California 1229 10-2 6 Hawaii 1175 12-2 7 Oregon 1083 13·3 8 UCLA 1052 11-3 9 Florida 996 12·1 10 Washington 935 11·3 11 usc 919 7-4 12 Minnesota 858 14-2 13 Colorado State 835 13·1 14 Wichita St. 706 16·0 15 San Diego 620 12·2 16 Kansas State 557 14-3 17 Pepperdine 485 13·1 18 Purdue 436 13-3 19 Illinois 417 11-4 20 Santa Clara 355 10·3 21 Wisconsin 318 12-4 21 Cal Poly 183 9-6 23 Michigan 163 14·2 24 Oregon State 139 12·5 25 Kentucky 88 15-2 
Big East Women's Volleyball Standings 
Team Record 
league ouerall 

1  Pittsburgh  5-1  13-8  
2  St. John's  4-1  13·7  
3  Syracuse  4-1  12-9  
4  Cincinatti  4-2  16·5  
5  Georgetown  4-2  11·8  
6  NOTRE DAME  4-2  9·9  
7  Louisville  4-2  8·9  
8  Connecticut  3-2  13-6  
9  USF  3-3  12·8  
10  Villanova  2-3  11·9  
11  Seton Hall  2-3  10·10  
12  Marquette  2·3  7·10  
13  DePaul  1-5  2·16  
14  West Virginia  0·6  6·12  
15  Rutgers  0·6  1-14  

around the dial 
MLB 
Phillies at Dodgers 
8:22 p.m., FOX 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
DETROIT -The winless Detroit Lions placed quar­terback Jon· Kitna on injured reserve Tuesday, ending his season. 
The move could raise questions about Kitna's future in Detroit. 
There had been specu­lation the Lions (0-5) might trade Kitna and rely instead on backups Dan Orlovsky and Drew Stanton. But a trade didn't materialize. Instead, the Lions sent wide receiver Roy Williams to Dallas for draft picks. 
Kitna suffered a back injury in a loss to Chicago two weeks ago. He did not play last week against Minnesota. 
Orlovsky played in Kitna's place against the Vikings. He likely will make his second career start at Houston on Sunday. 
Kitna declined comment Tuesday, but had told The Associated Press on Monday he expected to play again this season and that his injury wasn't that serious. Also on Monday, Coach Rod Marinelli wouldn't answer ques­tions about Kitna's health. 
"After extensive exami­nation and consultation with the team medical staff, it became clear that placing Jon on injured reserve was the right decision," Lions general manager Martin Mayhew said in a statement. "Jon and I met today and dis­cussed moving forward with respect to his reha­bilitation which will be done in coordination with our medical staff." 
The Lions said Kitna's injury represents "an acute exacerbation of a chronic condition." 
Kitna had 758 yards passing this season with five touchdown passes and five interceptions before back spasms side­lined him against Chicago on Oct. 5. 
Kitna had started 36 straight games until 

Orlovsky played in Sunday's 12-10 loss at Minnesota. 
Orlovsky was 12-of-21 for 150 yards and a score. The fifth-round pick from Connecticut in 2005 also rolled out of the end zone for a safety. 
Stanton has not played in the regular season as a pro. 
Kitna had an MRI last week and was evaluated by a specialist, but had declined comment on his health. 
Kitna had 4,000-plus yards passing in each of the past two seasons in Detroit and combined to throw 39 TDs and 42 interceptions. 
IN BRIEF Ward fined $15,000 in 
last two weeks 
PITTSBURGH -The Pittsburgh Steelers are asking the NFL to clari­fy why Hines Ward, one of the league's best-blocking wide receivers, was fined $15,000 the past two games for unnecessary ~oughness despite not being penal· tzed. 
Ward was fined $10,000 following the Steelers' 26-21 win at Jacksonville on Oct. 5, a week after drawing a $5,000 fme for a play in which he stepped over Baltimore cornerback Corey Ivy on Sept. 29. Ward did not draw a penalty on either play. 
Also following the Jacksonville game, Steelers linebacker James Harrison was fined $20,000 for crit­icizing referee Brian Winter for calling a roughing-the-passer penalty against him. Two other Steelers also drew fines for that game, safety Ryan Clark $7,500 for unnecessary roughness -a late hit -and wide receiver Nate Washington $7,500 for taunting. Among the four players, the one­game fines totaled $45,000. 

Telfair sns.Pended three 
games for 2007 offense 
MINNEAPOLIS -Minnesota 
Timberwolves point guard
Sebastian Telfair was suspended on 
Tuesday for three games after 
pleading guilty to criminal posses­sion of a weapon.
Telfair was sentenced last month to three years' probation. He was 
arrested m April 2007 when police
found him carrying a loaded gun in 
his car while lie was a member of the Boston Celtics. 
The Celtics traded him to Minnesota in the deal for Kevin Garnett, and Telfair had a solid and incident-free first season in Minnesota. He signed a three-year,$7.5 million deal this summer to remain with the Timberwolves. He 
is the top backup to starter Randy
Foye.

'Tve talked to Sebastian about the incident. This is something that haP.pened in the past, and he is look:in~ forward to. putting this behind-him," Timberwolves vice president of basketball operationsKevin McHale said. "Since he has been a member of the Timberwolves, Sebastian has been a great teammate and has been actively involved in the community." 
Gonzalez stays in KC as 
trade deadline pas:ses
KANSAS CITY, l\fo. --Tony Gonzalez is staying with the Chiefs. 
Just minutes after the 4 p.m. EDT trade deadline Tuesday, Kansas City coach Herm Edwards said no deal had been struck for the nine-time Pro Bowler. His announcement ended 10 days of tension for the player and his fans in Kansas City, most of whom were boring he would get what he wantec and be traded to a contender. 
Gonzalez, 32, asked the Chiefs to explore trade possibilities after deciding the rebuilding Chiefs (1-4) would probably not reach champi­onship caliber before time ran out on his career. 
Neither Gonzalez nor Chiefs presi­dent Carl Peterson was avaiilable for comment. Edwards said he did not know how close Peterson came to reaching an agreement with any­one. Arizona, Buffalo and Philadelphia had all expressed interest. Peterson had indicated he would not let Gonzalez, who has been the face of the struggling fran­chise, go cheaply. 

page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
NFL 
'Pac:m.an' Jones earns another suspension 
and said the Cowboys didn't
Associated Press 
plan any discipline because 
FOHT WORTH, Texas -no team rules were violated. Dallas Cowboys cornerback But he knew the NFL might Adam "Pacman" Jones once have a different view. again must earn his way back "He was brought back into int<) the NFL, and it likely will the league with the under­take more than being on his standing that we would have best behavior. a zero tolerance relative to 
The NFL suspended Jones such things as publicly having for at least four games a negative issue under any Tuesday for violating the kind of circumstance," Jerry league's personal conduct Jones said. policy. Commissioner Roger In the latest incident, Dallas Goodell will determine the police said officers responded 
full length of the suspension after the Cowboys' game in Washington on Nov. 16. 
"If he earns his way to a point that he can be consid­ered to play again, then I would support that," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said. "Frankly. just as he earned through his behavior the 
"Frankly, just as he earned through his behavior the right to get back in and play a few weeks ago, he would have to earn /playing again]." 
Jerry Jones Dallas owner 
around 11 p.m. Oct. 7 and that the matter was over by the time they arrived. H o t e I employees had reported hearing a tussle in the men's rest­room in the lobby. 
The player and the bodyguard, T o m m y Jones, said 
right to get back in and play a few weeks ago, he would have to earn that." 
The league said reinstate­mont will depend on strict compliance with treatment plans by the NFL and the Cowboys and an nvaluation by "clinical experts." 
"The question really is, can he address his issues he needs to address. lie does need treatment," said Jerry Jones, adding any treatment would be volun­
everything was OK. Police said both were driven from the hotel by an acquaintance, and the bodyguard, part of a security detail provided by thn Cowboys, didn't want to press charges. 
Jerry Jones said last week banter between the player and his bodyguard got out of hand, resulting in the scurne. A small glass item on the vanity in the restroom was 
damaged. 
The owner 
acknowl­
tary. "I do agree edged that
"It's terribly 
with the com­alcohol was 
missioner in disappointing to me served at the that he needs to that we're dealing with party, but address some that witness­
this again and that he's 
things and show es told him that he's aware the player's
reflecting so poorly on 

of that and all ofthe players in "conduct address those should not be
this league. " 
things." interpreted 

After repeated as over legal trouble Roger Goodell drinking." while with the NFL commissioner Before get-
Tennessee Titans, Adam Jones was trad­ed six months ago to Dallas, where he had stayed out of trouble until an alcohol-related scuffle Oct. 7 with one of his bodyguards at a private party. 
In a letter to Jones on Tuesday, Goodell cited a "dis­turbing pattern of behavior and clearly inconsistent with the conditions I set for your continued participation in the 
NFL" 
The disturbance at an upscale Dallas hotel came only six weeks after Goodell reinstated Jones from a 17­month suspension. 
"It's terribly disappointing to me that we're dealing with this again and that he's reflecting so poorly on all of the players in this league, which they don't deserve," Goodell said at the NFL meet­ing in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
The player's agent, Worrick Hobinson, didn't return mes­sages lnl"t with his assistant and on his cell phone. 
J<~rry .Jones called the Oct. 7 incident an "abnrration" 
ting traded 
to Dallas, the 
cornerback 
was arrested six times and involved in 12 instances requiring police intervention after Tennessee drafted him in the first round in 2005. 
Jones has started all six games for the Cowboys, part­ly because Pro Bowl corner­back Terence Newman has been injured. Jones has 25 tackles and 11 pass deflec­tions, and has averaged 5.0 yards on 16 punt returns. 
Tennessee got a fourth­round pick from the Cowboys in the April draft and was supposed to get a sixth­rounder next year for Jones. But beeause Jones has been suspended again, Dallas will instead get the Titans' fifth­round piek next April. 
Jones was an elite corner­back and kick returner in his first two seasons with the Titans, but the accumulation of arrests and legal problems, ineluding his connection to a shooting at a Las Vegas strip club, led to his suspension without pay in April 2007. 



Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 5-11, 2009 


Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
4o,ooo+ reasons to thin}{ about starting your own venture... Register today for the 2oo8-2oo9 University of Notre Dame Business Plan Competitions Compete for more than $40,ooo in prize money. 

CCtQS~ ~t)SINESS >tt, 
LAN COMPETITION ''itt., 
..,..:....=-=~=~====·:=.=-" · . ...... :.,_:bJ.:?-:.::-C., _...,:,.;..;.,;.;,::i§~,,_,. 
New ventures not yet been launched or in the earliest stages of launch. 
SOCIAL VENTURE PLAN COMPETITION 
Business plans with a social mission/purpose. 
Intrigued but not sure where to begin? Wondering, "what's a business plan?" No worries. Our web site will walk you through every step ofthe way. Detailed instructions outline each step, each requirement along the way. 
Have an idea but need others on your team? No problem--we'll help. Don't have an idea but want to join a team? No sweat. We 'II help figure it out. 
Don't know much about writing a business plan? Training is available. Our experienced entrepreneurs are available to meet with you. 
Give it a try! It's .a great opportunity to experience the entrepreneurial spirit! Plus those 40,000+ reasons are terr~fic incentive to participate! 

···::::--:~m~~JW?.<&~?~~::t;:{:~~r::~~Tf~~11MM~W.?~K .·<:*, • 
v" Submtsston Deadhne: November 3, 2oo8 
~:~::::~if 

OPEN TO ALL ND STUDENTS & ALUMNI· TRAINING SESSIONS AND MENTORING AVAILABLE 
Notre Dame
VISIT THE GIGOT CENTER WEBSITE AT 
business plan


gigot.nd.edu competitions 
2008~2009 
Questions? Contact us by telephone at 6Jl-J042 or· by email at enh·ep@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, October 15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Eli suffers bruised chest 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­The New York Giants left Cleveland battered, and with a bruised quarterback. 
Eli Manning bruised his chest in the Giants' embar­rassing 35-14 loss to the Browns, and coach Tom Coughlin was not certain about the extent of the injury although he gave indications that the Super Bowl MVP would practice for this week­end's game against the San Francisco 49ers. 
"I'm not going to know until I hear some things," Coughlin said Tuesday. "From time to time, obviously for anybody who plays that position, you're going to have some things that don't allow you to perform at your best. Injuries do occur. I don't know whether this is (a serious injury) or not. 
"Eli has played very well with soreness and that type of thing," Coughlin said. ''I'm sure that will be something he'll go ahead and practice and play with, but we'll see. I don't have a lot of information now." 
Coughlin said he thought sprained his shoulder in a season-opening loss to Dallas last year and did not miss a game. 
Coughlin didn't know if the injury contributed to Manning three interceptions, including Eric Wright's game-clinching 94-yard touchdown return in the fourth quarter. 
"I can't tell you it wasn't," Coughlin said. "He is certainly very good at masking all of that." 
Coughlin said that on Wright's touchdown, Manning was under pressure and there was a timing issue. On the other two picks, Coughlin said the Giants ( 4-1) had chances, but the Browns made the plays. 
Coughlin was frank in say­ing that the Giants were thor­oughly outplayed in the game that ended their 11-game road winning streak -12 if you count the Super Bowl -come to an end. 
"Any time where you have a game where you don't stop the run and then you turn the ball over on the other side of the ball, you are not going to have much of a chance to win and that's 

Manning was exactly how the
"Eli has played very 

hurt early in game played the third quar­well with soreness out," Coughlin 
ter, although and that type of said. "We play 
the quarter­a game that
thing.''

back was driv­calls for us to en into the run the ball, ground by Tom Coughlin stop the run Browns defen­and win the
Giants coach 

sive tackle Shaun Rogers early in the second quarter after throwing a pass to Plaxico Burress. 
Manning, who threw three interceptions in the Giants first loss in eight games dating to last season, did not miss a play in the game. He com­plained of chest pain after the game ended, Coughlin said. 
Manning received treatment and underwent further exami­nation at Giants Stadium on Tuesday. However, players were not available for com­ment. 
Manning has played in pain, as recently as last season. He 
battle of 
turnovers and 
we didn't do any of those." 
Coughlin said the Giants also didn't use good technique, had mental errors and were not physical against a team that played very well with two weeks preparation. 
"It was a disappointing game, disappointing loss, and the film certainly does not change your opinion from last night," Coughlin said. 
One concern was the per­formance of the defense, which came into the game giv­ing up an average of 236 yards. 
The Browns gained 278 yards in the first half and fin­ished with 454 yards in total offense. Cleveland converted on 9 of 13 third-down chances. Even more troubling, the front seven barely touched quarterback Derek Anderson all night. 
"I really don't think for the last two weeks we have had much pressure on the quar­terback," Coughlin said. "I think there has to be a lot of self-analysis there in terms of not only how we are going about our business but exactly who is doing what. I think we need to look hard at that and we are talking about that." 
Coming off a very impressive win over Seattle the week before, the Giants went to Cleveland knowing that the Browns (2-3) would be des­perate. 
The Browns played that way. Coughlin was disappoint­ed the Giants did not match the intensity. 
"This team will bounce back. I believe that," Coughlin said. "I think it will be a good week of focus and a good week of practice. It is disap­pointing to fall into whatever lapse we fell into in not play­ing as well as we have been playing." 
Three other Giants also were injured in the game. Weakside linebacker Gerris Wilkinson had a mild knee sprain. His status is uncertain. Safety James Butler aggravat­ed a biceps injury and middle linebacker Antonio Pierce aggravated a quad that he hurt last week. 
Center Shaun O'Hara was treated at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York for an infected toe on Tuesday. 
Receiver David Tyree, who made the key catch off the top of his helmet in the Super Bowl win over the Patriots, has recovered from knee injury and was activated off the physically unable to per­form list. He will practice this week. The team has three weeks to decide whether to place him on the active roster, put him on injured reserve or cut him. 
NFL 


Covvboys receive -wR Williams in Lions trade 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas Roy Williams headed home to Texas on Tuesday in the NFL's biggest trade before the dead­line, giving the struggling Dallas Cowboys another proven receiver opposite Terrell Owens. 
The winless Detroit Lions traded their unhappy 2004 first-round pick and one-time Pro Bowler for three draft picks, from the first, third and sixth round in 2009. Detroit also gave the Cowboys a sev­enth-rounder next year. 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said he struck the deal two minutes before the NFL trade deadline. 
"I'm more happy to be a Dallas Cowboy then when I got my first bike," said Williams, an Odessa native who starred at the University of Texas. 
Williams' best season was 2006, when he went to the Pro Bowl after catching 82 passes for 1,310 yards and seven touchdowns. He has 17 catches for 232 yards and a score this season, and has 262 career passes for 3,884 yards and 29 TDs. 
"We felt like right now that was the best thing for us to do as a football team. It gives us something for the future. You're looking at the possibili­ty of having five of the first hundred (2009) picks," Lions general manager Martin Mayhew said. "It was a prag­matic business decision." 
Soon after announcing the deal, the Cowboys4 said that they had given Williams a five­year extension on his contract that was set to expire after this season. 
The Cowboys acquired their new star hours after learning they lost another in corner­back Adam "Pacman" Jones, whom NFL commissioner Roger Goodell suspended Tuesday for at least four games. 
Goodell will determine the full length of the suspension 





Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language 
u roa r rams 

exico 

hile 


Wednesday, October15, 2008 6:oopm 204 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 

following the Cowboys' game in Washington on Nov. 16. Jones was in repeated legal trouble while with the Tennessee Titans and was involved in an alcohol-related scuffle Oct. 7 with one of his bodyguards at a private party in Dallas. 
Jerry Jones, who has never shied from adding pllayers with checkered pasts to the Cowboys locker room, made a point Tuesday to mention Williams' "outstanding charac­ter, no matter who you talk to." 
Williams said the :first phone call he received after the trade was from Owens, who has complained recently about not getting enough catehes in an offense that lost quarterback Tony Romo this week for per­haps a month with a broken finger in his throwing hand. 
Jerry Jones said Owens was "elated and beside himself" upon hearing the trade. Williams said he and T.O. talked about winning. 
"We got two guys out there that can really run, they're big, but as you know, both of them can really make spectacular catches," Jones said. 
Williams is expected to begin practicing with the Cowboys on Wednesday, and play in their game Sunday at St. Louis. 
Williams will line up opposite Owens in an offense that has not had a clear No. 2 receiver since waiving veteran Terry Glenn this summer. Tight end Jason Witten leads the Cowboys with 39 catches and two touchdowns after six games. Owens has :23 catches and 5 TDs. 
The Cowboys have filled the gap with Patrick Crayton and Miles Austin. Now they will have two of the NFL's biggest, most physical receivers -both worthy of double coverage. 
After the trade, Williams talked as if he had found a new mentor in Owens, whom he made clear was "the No. 1 
guy." 

"I've never had an older wide receiver to sh1)w me the 
way," Williams said. 
Jerry Jones said Tuesday he said he'd been trying to pry Williams from Detroit for two years. 
The addition figures to fur­ther heighten Super Bowl expectations for the Cowboys (4-2), who are only a game behind the New York Giants in the NFC East but have dropped two of their last three games. 
Sunday's overtime loss to Arizona was particularly costly for Dallas. Romo broke his pinky finger and rookie run­ning back Felix Jones sprained a hamstring to end a trying week that began with contro­versy over Adam Jones' run-in with police. 
Williams will probably catch his first passes in Dallas from Brad Johnson, the 40-year-old backup whose last start was in 2006 for Minnesota. 
The 26-year-old Williams said it was tough to leave Detroit but said he was ready "to see what the playoffs feel like." Detroit was 21-48 since Williams arrived as a rookie and never made the postsea­son. 
"Going from 0-5 to 4-2, you can't ask for anything better than that," Williams said. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
MLB 



Red Sox lose reigning World Series MVP 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Mike Lowell will undergo surgery on his right hip Monday, depriving the Hcd Sox of last year's World Series MVP for the rest of their season. 
The third baseman, who is not on Boston's roster for the AL championship series, chose to have the surgery as soon as possible so he would have a good chanee to be ready for the start of spring training. 
''I'm kind of relieved, in a snnse, just to get it over," l.ownll said in the dugout Tuesday. "I think I was hang­ing onto something that was­n't really rnalistie." 
l.ownll was removed from the playoff rostnr after Game 3 of the first-round series against Los Angeles, making him innligible for the ALCS. Tho Hnd Sox beat tho Angels three games to one to advancn. 
Boston enternd Tuesday night's gamP against Tampa Bay trailing 2-1 in thn best­of-seven ALCS. 
Lowell said his hip started bothering him a fnw weeks bnforn the All-Star brnak. lie 
was  limited  to  one  at-bat in  
the last  ll  regular-season  
games and  went 0-for-8 in  

two postseason games. 
lin dncidPd late last wePk to have the surgery. It will be done in New York. 
General manager Theo Epstein told Lowell "there was probably a 99 pereent chance I was not on the ros­ter" if the Hed Sox get to the World Series, Lowell said before Game 4 against the Hays. 
"I don't think we can bank on that one percent and !just didn't want to drag it out and then see if it affpcts the later 
part of spring training or even April of next year," he said. 
The arthroscopic surgery involves repairing a torn labrum in the hip and a bone spur on the femur as well as checking and possibly fixing a muscle. 
"There's no way he was going to be able to play" this year, manager Terry Francona said. "Any addi­tional time that he can have now so he ean come to spring training, he really wanted, and l don't blame him." 
Doctors have told Lowell 
that's realistic. 
"They've told me they've cleared NFL players for full contact after four months" following similar surgery, he said. "So I guess I'm banking on that." 
Lowell had two stints on the disabled list this year and played in just 112 games. He had a sprained lefi thumb and a strained left side mus­cle along with the hip injury. 
"[ was very happy with two months, May and June," he said. "Obviously, disappoint­ed in April because I got hurt early and it was just really a struggle, I'd say, the last three months." 
In last year's World Series sweep over the Colorado Hockies, Lowell was 6-for-15 with four HB!s. And in the last two games he went 4-for­9 with a solo homer in the seventh inning of the finale that gave Boston a 3-0 lead in the clinehing 4-3 victory. 
Lowell said he expected to be released from the hospital Tuesday and spend the next two weeks on crutches. 
''I'd love to be in the dugout here (for) Game 1 of the World Series," he said. "That would be good, as long as no foul balls come in." 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to No.17 Calvin College 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles fell to #17 Calvin College at home on senior recog­nition night Tuesday. 
The Knighl'i swept Saint Mary's 3-0 (25-19, 25-22, 25-21 ), solidi­lying their position in the polls. 
Junior outside hitter Lorna Slupezynski led the Belles on offense with 15 kills and Meg Hose lnd the dnlimse with 19 digs. 
Slupczynski and senior outside hitter Kaela IIellmann led the Belles early with nine of' the t1~arn 's 12 kills in the first set. Calvin College freshman middle hitter Hebecca Kamp broke a 16­16 tie in the first set, and Calvin College was able to eruise to the end. 
In the second set the Belles fell into a quick 10-4 hole. Slupczynski helped to bring the Belles back with four straight points on her serve. The two teams were tied at 13-13, 14-14, 15-15, and 16-16 before Calvin College was able to pull away. 
The third set saw the Belles jump out to an early 9-5 lead on the power of Hellmann's kill. The two teams exchanged the lead several times before Calvin College was able to close out the set and the mateh. 
The Belles will travel to Boston, Ma., this upcoming weekend to participate in a one-day tourna­ment at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT} on Saturday. 

DEBATE WATCH The Final Presidential Debate of 2008 Barack Obama vs. John McCain 
Wednesday, October 15 9:00-10:30 p.m. Coleman-Morse Lounge Refreshments 

Sponsored by The Notre Dame Debate Team 
''I Call You Friends~~5.15) 
DAY OF RECOLLECTION 
A Special Silent Retreat Opportunity for Faculty Members 
Retreat Director: Fr. Gustavo Gutierrez, O.P. 
John Cardinal O'Hara Chair ofTheology 
Saturday, November 8, 2008 9:00am-5:15pm, followed by dinner 
Sponsored by the Institute for Church Life 
What is a "Day of Recollection?" Itis an opportunity to set some time aside for God. 
We are all busy! Sometimes in the midst of all our activity, it is good to take an 
opportunity for some time apart, time for guided prayer and meditation, time with 
God and one another. The Day is structured around two "conferences" (biblically 
based reflections) offered by the retreat director, one morning and one afternoon. 
Each is followed by guided meditative and conversational response for the group, 
and opportunity for individual prayer and reflection afterward. The day will end 
with Mass and dinner. 

Who is invited? All faculty members interested in deepening their relationship with God. The retreat is in the living tradition of Catholic spirituality. It can be meaning­fully experienced from a variety of perspectives, including those with no previous exposure. The only requirement is commitment to the whole day's experience. 
For further information and to register: The Day of Recollection is a project of the Institute for Church Life, which assumes all costs. Simply email: cavadini.l®nd.edu. Deadline: Monday, Nov. 3, 2008. 
For more information, please visit our website: http://icl.nd.edu/faculty-retreat.html 


Wednesday, October 15, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


Trine 
continued from page 20 
"I want to give a lot of credit to Calvin on the game Saturday," Crabbe said. "They are certainly a very good team and it showed in their play why they are one of the top teams in the country." 
Part of the Belles' recent struggles can be attributed to mistakes early in matches. 
"We have struggled with slow starts to games in partic­ular lately," Crabbe said. "Against both Adrian and Calvin, we gave up goals with­in the first five minutes of the 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
son ended -what defense can we play that can help us do that -and I think that we haven't figured it out yet." 
The first step in figuring out her team's defense will be to decide what kind of personality her team will have, McGraw said. For much of last year, the Irish played their best defense when pressing opponents, but McGraw said she will give different types of defenses a look when prac­tices begin on Friday. 
"We really feel pretty good about that. The question is what type of zone do we want to play," she said. "We will work on our man-to­man, but I don't think we are going to be as aggres­sive man-to-man as we want to be. So we're going to have to mix it up and keep the [other] team off-bal­ance." 
One thing that should help McGraw's team in develop­ing a zone is the new crop of freshmen -guards Fraderica Miller and Natalie Novosel and forwards Erica Solomon and Kellie Watson. 
Solomon and Watson will add length to the Irish defense as both are 6-foot­
2. Miller and Novosel are no slouches, either: the fresh­man backcourt tandem checks in at 5-foot-10 and 5-foot-11, respectively. 
McGraw said this added 
1~!
"

The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 


• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION Monday, October 27 5:30PM -125 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15,2008 
game. Especially with a team like Calvin, we cannot allow ourselves to make their job any easier. Our biggest strug­gles have come from creating quality scoring opportunities. Being behind early in games is certainly not helping that." 
Crabbe has made several midseason changes to the line­up that he said will help cor­rect some of the problems that have plagued the Belles all season. 
"We have looked at some changes in our lineup recently to try and better utilize some personnel," he said. "I think working through some of these changes will hopefully spark us on the field. We gave some of 
height will make it a lot eas­ier for her team to defend. 
"It's amazing how big we can be in the back line. That really says to me that if we can get a good zone, it's going to be hard to throw the ball over us," she said. 
Solomon, who echoed McGraw's need to defend against 3-pointers, said she hopes to be strong on the boards for the Irish this season, but that she also has a team-first outlook for the season. 
"I'm comfortable on defense. Whatever coach needs me to do, defense­wise, whether it's guarding the guards on the perimeter or guarding the post, what­ever she needs me to do, I'm going to do it," she said. 
One major change in Notre Dame's defense from the end of last season will look familiar. Sophomore forward Devereaux Peters was cleared for practice after tearing her anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) on Feb. 10 in a win against Pittsburgh. When she went down, Peters was the Big East leader in blocked shots with 45, and averaged 5.6 rebounds and 9.0 points to go along with 39 steals. 
"[Peters] changes the game. When we lost her in the Pitt game, it changed our defense," McGraw said. "Our press wasn't as good. Our defense wasn't as good." 
McGraw said that, after watching Peters in training sessions, the sophomore 
these changes a look in the Calvin game and I was encour­aged by what I saw." 
Looking ahead to Trine and the remaining matches on the schedule, Crabbe said he is 
. optimistic that his team will finish the season on a positive note. "I believe we have four very winnable games remaining on our schedule," he said. "I would like to see the team gen­erate and finish more opportu­nities on goal. That being said, we need to limit our mistakes and not allow teams to take an early advantage in games." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker@nd.edu 
hasn't lost a step on the court, but may need to be patient before trying to go at full speed too quickly. 
Peters said she feels good, but is not quite where she wants to be. She said she thinks she will be back at 100 percent at some point during the season. 
She also said she is glad to have the added team height defensively. 
"I think it's great. It will be helpful with the taller, kind of skinny guards, because that's what we have now. And I think it will help a lot in the post, too. I think, as far as defense, we'll get a lot more steals and tips," she said. 
Junior Erica Williamson returns as the only true center on the Irish roster. The 6-foot-4 Williamson will often be the lone big man in McGraw's four-guard set, but only because Solomon and Watson will be playing on the perimeter. 
As the center, Williamson said she wants to be a strong presence under the basket, taking charges ­something she excelled at last season. 
"I definitely want to get back to taking charges because I really think that offsets the other team a lit­tle bit, a little scared to drive the lane," she said. "I just want to be a big pres­ence in the post and be there if something happens to the guards." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

"With Josh [Sandman] out after surgery, we're a senior­
West 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -They fluttered in and rocketed out: Three more homers sent sailing over the Green Monster to help the Tampa Bay Rays blow out Boston for the second straight game and move within one win of their first AL pennant. 
Evan Longoria hit his rookie­record fifth home run of the playoffs, and Carlos Pena and Willy Aybar also homered off aging knuckleballer Tim Wakefield on Tuesday night to give the Rays a 13-4 victory over the Red Sox that put the defending World Series champi­ons on the brink of elimination. 
Carl Crawford tied an AL championship series record with five hits and Andy Sonnanstine pitched 7 1-3 innings of six-hit ball as Tampa Bay took a 3-1 lead in the best­of-seven playoff. Aybar had four hits and fiye RBis. 
After an off day, James Shields and Game 1 winner Daisuke Matsuzaka are sched­uled to pitch Thursday night at Fenway Park in a potential clincher for the surprising Rays. 
"We've just got to go out there and play our game, not let up on them," Crawford said. "It would be nice to finish it here." 
Tampa Bay had never even approached a .500 record dur­ing its first decade in the majors before edging wild-card Boston for the AL East title by two games. But the Rays were poised and powerful against a Red Sox team that has made the playoffs in five of the last six years, advancing to the ALCS four times and winning it all twice. 
Facing the 42-year-old Wakefield, the oldest pitcher to start an ALCS game, the league's newest team homered three times in the first three innings to take a 5-0 lead. The Rays scored another in the frfth and blew it open with l.ive more in the sixth when seven straight batters reached base to make it 
11-1. 

"We wanted to be aggressive at the plate," Crawford said. "Guys are just focused right now." 
Fans lined up for the exits after the Red Sox went down 1­2-3 in the sixth -the third inning in a row they were retired in order; TV showed horror-master Stephen King reading a book in the stands, bored. 
On the fie.ld, it was twice as scary. 
One night after the Rays hit four homers to beat Boston 9-1, they hit three more and totaled 14 hits against five Red Sox pitchers. Wakefield, who was making his first appearance in 16 days, lasted just 2 2-3 innings, giving up five runs, including Longoria's fifth play­off homer to break the rookie record set by Florida's Miguel Cabrera in 2003. 
"Sitting through that wasn't a whole lot of fun," Hed Sox manager Terry Francona said. "We've been on the other side. When it happens to you, you've got to get through it the best you can, and we'll need to regroup as quickly as we can." 
Red Sox reliever Justin Masterson allowed another run; Manny Delcarmen gave up five more while getting just. one out; 42-year-old Mike Timlin gave up two more in the eighth. 
Meanwhile, Sonnanstine retired 12 consecutive batters in all after Kevin Cash's homer to lead off the third and make it 5-l. The Rays right··hander, who pitched 13 shutout innings against Boston in a pair of September no-decisions, allowed just two hits before David Ortiz's leadoff triple in the seventh. 
Ortiz, who had been hitless in his first 12 at-bats in the series, scored on a groundout to make it 11-2, and Boston chased Sonnanstine while adding two more in the eighth. 
continued from page 20 
Usher finished in 73rd place, carding a 19-over 235. 
For Notre Dame, the sopho­more-led effort has been par for the course this season. The younger members of the Irish squad have posted strong scores throughout the season, leading the team in scoring several times so far. Kubinski said he has been happy with the way his underclassmen have stepped up and provided a lift when needed. 
less team," Kubinski said. "The sophomore class has four very talented players, for sure. None have a great deal of college experience, but our three sophomores are all capable of leading the way." 
Notre Dame will close out its fall schedule on Oct. 27th when it travels to the Forest Oaks Country Club in Greensboro, N.C., for the UNCG Bridgestone Collegiate Championship. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
MLB 

Rays crush Red S~ox, take control of series 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
with anything single digits or top 10 or top 12 is I just 
Kurz




Schedule 
haven't seen us defensive continued from page 20 rebound at key times and get 
continued from page 20 kny loosn balls," hn said. "We Big East is this year and the have not done that consistently 
Brey wasted no time, jump­midst of what we've been enough yet and that's some­
ing at the chancn to respond given in th1~ Big East -w11'rn thing that they know." 
with a wide smile on his just gonna go to Pauley Brey said sinee the Irish are 
face: "I think he's going to Pavilion one weekend. We're somewhat undersized in the 
have a heek of a year." just gonna take a break and physical Big East, they must 
In fact, that's exactly what just go play UClA on the road. learn to rebound better as a 
Brey said to Zeller during a Now that's -I should have my tnam. 
brief meeting last spring. head 11xamined on that one." "The way our team is built 
"I think you're going to Hegardless of whether Bmy and against some of the ath­
have a hell of a year," Brey was joking about a possible letes that ean get up on the 
said. psyehiatrie assessmnnt, he said backboard that we play, it's 
The forward replied: he thinks his tfmm is ready to doing it as a unit," he said. 
"Yeah, I know, coach." faee the tAst that its Big East "Getting that key loose ball 
"Get out of here," Brey and non-conference opponents and that key defensive 
said. "''ll see you in the present. The squad returns rebound -and I think that's 
weight room later." four starters and four seniors an area where we're weak at 
End of meeting. from a group that reaehnd the right now." 
The 6-foot-1 0 Zeller's con­seeond round of the NCAA But the Irish have at least 
fidence has never been high­Tournament a year ago. s1wen players that will play 
er, and neither have the "A key for us is padng this significant minutes, so the bur­
stakes for him and his team­group through a long season. den of rebounding and lock­
mates, who will head into the It's the toughest basketball down defense can be spread 
season with a high ranking sdwdule we've ever played in out. Brey said Jonathan 
and Final Four aspirations our history, given what the Peoples emerged as one of 
on their minds. This year, league is and !who we play! in Notre Dame's top reserves on 
Zeller will be called upon to thn non-leagu11," Brey said. "So the team's summer trip to 
help Notre Dame replace Rob lit isl an exdting ehallnnge, a Ireland and gives the Irish 
Kurz. ehallenge that this group even more viable options than 
"Rob did a lot of things and should have when you've got they expncted to have. 
I feel like I can do a lot of SIWIHl oldnr guys that have "I almost feel like we have 
things too, to be able to fill contributed." seven starters. I would have 
in that role," Zeller said. Bwy enrtainly eould echo the said six starters before we 
"Maybe not the same way, "Dive Hight In" slogan that went to Ireland but the way 
but fill in a different way and eoach Charlie Weis presentnd .Jon Peoples played when we 
add to the team that way." to the Irish football team went to Ireland. I feel like we 

And with Kurz's exit also McAlarney when they're hav­that eould be a carry-over before the season bngan. But have seven starters," Brey 
goes Notre Dame's third­ing an off-night. for the start of the season. I Brey said he will rntain the said. ''I'm really happy with 
leading scorer from a year "We need those guys to went over there and took mantra that he rnpeated last how he played and how confi­
ago, a guy who was always step up. There are going to what was given to me. They season, constantly urging his dent he has gotten coming on· 
good for, give or take, 12 be nights when Kyle and I double-teamnd 'Cody or playnrs to "Dream Big that trip." 
points each night. Kurz was struggle," Harangody said. when Kyle wasn't on early, I Dreams." Even with the increased 
able to take some pressure "The great thing about this is took it on myself to make the "This group deserves to be stress on defense and 
off Notre Dame's Inading that guys like Tory, Luke, short-range jump shots, to abln to dream about it and rPbounding, Brey warned fans 
seorers -reigning Big East Zach and Hyan can do that." get to the !free throw] linn." think about it," Brey said. "I not to nxpeet the Irish to play 
player of the year Luke Jackson had a memorable AyPrs and llillesland are mnan. that's realistic for this in too many low-seoring games 
llarangody (20.4 points per game last season that dis­two seniors with a wealth of group. T lw y 've do rw so nw this snason. lin said the Notre 
game) and first-team Big playnd what he might be able basketball smarts who ean really gmat things for our bas­Damn offense will rntain the 
East seleetion Kyle to do this season. In Notre sense when thny might need kPtball program. I want tlwm sanw up-tnmpo style that has 
McAlarney (15.1 points per Dame's H2-70 victory over to step it up ofTnnsively and thinking about it and going fi1r defirwd it in n1cnnt y11ars. 
game. And by the way, it Pittsburgh on Fnb. 21 at thn both have shown the abilityit... "That's the way llw game 
seems the University has for­.Joyce Center, Notre Damn to do so at key times. And Still, BrPy said l111 is r·eluc­should be played," hn said. "I 
given MeAlarney and is no seemed on the verge of Pnopl11s eame through in th1~ tant to rank his team among just don't know how people 
longer ashamed of that thing defeat as they faced a dou­duteh last year in Notre tlw top I0 in the country -a ~~an watd1 52-4H lgarnesl. I 
a few years ago -ble-digit seeond-half deficit. Dame's H6-H3 win ovnr group in which sonw experts mnan. ~~ome on. arn you kid­
McAlarney's No. 23 T-shirt Then .Jackson look over, end­Marquettn on Feb. 9, hitting haw• indudPd Notn1 l>anw. ding nw'! I mean, we're trying 
jnrsnys are now on sale in ing up with 16 points and 13 two duteh frnn throws late in "I don't know if wp're that to SPII tickets too ... lOur style! 
The Bookstore). rebounds. the gamn to propel Notre good. Tlw ganw that sti1~ks in has bneonw a niehe in our 
Kurz was dependabln, This season, .Jaekson, who Dame to victory. my mind is Washington StatP lnague that we've evolved to. 
someone who Notre Dame averaged 5.H assists pPr Heplaeing Kurz is not going ... " BrPy said, rl'i'Prring to to survivn and thrivn -quite 
could rely upon each night to game last year. is prepared to be an nasy task for Notrn Notn1 l>anw 's 6 1-41 loss to tlw frankly-in the league." 
help out MeAlarney and to be more of a scorer if Dame. lie was someone who Cougars in tlw second round of Brey said he has seen 
llarangody. nep,d be. Even though hn's added a lot to Notre Dame last sPason's NCAA irnprovnmnnts in the play of 
''I'm ready. Our team's bal­hardly the best shooter in both on and ofT the eourt. Tournanwnt. "I think we've got mtch of thn Irish starters and 
anced and we understand the world, Jaekson said lw and it wor)'t be nasy f'illing in top-25 ability lbutl I've snen that the nxpnrienced squad is 
our roles and wn're ready to has improvnd his mid-range those big shoes. sonw of tlw singln digit Irank­constantly looking to improve. 
step up. If I'm called upon to jumper to eomplernnnt his But the players this year ingsI and I don't know if I can "Thnse arn older guys, 
step up, I'm definitely ability to penetrate. know what thny need to do agrPP with that right now. they're intellignnt guys and 
ready," Zeller said. "I fnel like I've got to figure and they have the nxperience Wn'vp got a Iotta potnntial. tlwir basketball I.Q. is really 
Zeller will have help out a different way to help to do it. though, and a lot to work high. Lt's certainly teaehing an 
n~plaeing that produetion my tnam when the two main No wonder Brey was so with." honors dass when you work 
this year. lie's one of the scorers are struggling," excited. Br11y said lw is not willing to with these guys," the eoaeh 
players -the othnrs being .Jackson said. "They're not considnr his tnam among the said. "They want it bad indi­
senior forwards Hyan Ayers, going to have perfect games The views expressed in this UJlJH'r erlwlon in tlw NCAA vidually and they want it bad 
Zaeh llillesland and junior every night ... I'm not going column are those of the because it has not shown as a group." 
guards Jonathan Peoples and to force my shot at all, but author and not necessarily enough of a pnnchant for dirty 
Tory Jackson-on Notre the way we played in Ireland those of The Observer. work on thn defensive end. Contact Fran Tolan at 
Dame who can step up and [on Notre Dame's overseas Contact Chris !line at "The reason I can't agree ftolan@nd.edu 
help Harangody and tour in August]. I felt like chine@nd. edu 


Threes 
continued from page 20 
threes. This year, he said, the team wants to correet that imbalanee. 
"The girls have kind of taken it on themselves as a personal challenge to bn more ready and more consistent from the 3-point linn," Tsipis said. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw said lots of the players can step out on the perimeter and hit a shot, and she and Tsipis said two freshmen -guard Natalie Novosel and forward Kellie Watson -will contribute to the perimeter game. How many they make in the game depends on their work beforehand; the play­ers said their ability to hit 3­point shots depends on getting good practice. 
Novosel said she and the other freshmen come to the JACC at night to practice their shooting. A helpful device they call the "gun," a ball retriever that sends basketballs back to the shooter at varying speeds, allows the player to take a high volume of shots in a short amount of time. 
"It's really effective," Novosel said. 
The beauty of the gun, Novosel said, is it helps her work on her quick release, the biggest shift in the 3-point shot from high school to college. 
Watson agreed, saying the gun's variable speed helps her practice getting the shot off quicker. 
"If you don't get the shot up in time you'll get hit with it," she said. 
Novosel, a self-described night owl, said the machine also saves energy late at night. 
Junior guard Melissa Lechlitner said the gun allows her to take 300-400 shots in a 45-rninute period. For her, how­ever, she said taking shots in game situations and building confidence would foster improvement. 
"I didn't attempt many shots last season so I think that's going to be something you'll see more from me this year," she said. 
What the team needs, Lechlitner said, is the confidence bred from shooting during games. 
"We've got a lot of good shoot­ers coming in and I know the returning players have been working on our threes a lot more," Lechlitner said. "We still have the confidence to knock them down. We know we can hit them, it's just a matter of doing 

it... Sophomore guard Brittany Mallory said the 3-point shoot­ing game works in conjunction with the inside game. When the defense expects a drive to the lane, she said, the players can pull up and shoot a three. And should the defender come out to guard the three, the players can drive. "It goes hand in hand. We've been working on that a lot this year," Mallory said. "It opens up a little more inside because the help's not going to be there. It gets good looks for everybody else." Tsipis echoed Mallory's asser­
tion that the deep ball opens up the rest of the offense. 
"To just be out there and be a threat, be someone the defense knows is a 3-point shooter, I think that opens everything else up," he said. 
Notes: 
+Team doctors cleared sopho­more forward Devereaux Peters to play. Peters suffered a torn ACL in February. 
+Mallory will miss the team's opener at LSU as a punishment for her incident with law enforcement at an off-campus party. Mallory was one of 37 Notre Dame students, many of them athletes, arrested at a party on Sept. 22. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Wednesay, October 15, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 



WILLSHORTZ 

39 Penny like a bee" boxer 
48 Relative of the 40 Suffix with sandpiper 58 and wisdom marion 49 Lubricated 59 Bullring shout 
50 Emancipated 
43 Stack in a kitchen cabinet 54 Regarding 60 Shade tree 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Philosophy 
Department 


• 
Yes, Existentialism 
and Metaphysics is still open. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 32 They're seen at marble Down
Exercises sometimes done tournaments 1 "Sure thing!" cross-legged 35 What the easiest 2 Morsel for 
path offers Dobbin

5 Basement's opposite 41 Waiting to be 3 Overseer of 
mailed govt. office 

1 0 Place for a ship 42 "O.G. Original bldgs.
to come in Gangster" 4 Legendary
14 Rightmost bridge rapper sunken islandposition 43 Items in a "bank" 5 French cleric 15 Grand Canyon 46 Off-course 6 Blinkers signal transport 48 Long-lasting them 16 Western native 
housetop 7 "My_" (dinner 17 Base for turkey host's offer) 
51 Thrill 

stuffing, often 8 Levin who wrote52 Appointed 
19 Wagering "Rosemary's
53 Native of Tehran 

parlors, for short Baby"
55"_ cost you!"

20 Madison Square 9 Fish-and-chips
56 Sob stories 

Garden is one fish 61 Orange
21 On ___ (when 10 Thingamajig 
throwaway

challenged) 11 Canada's capital 62 Miserable 
12 Snake charmers' 22 J. R. of "Dallas" weather snakes25 Leave furtively 

63 Cash drawer 
13 "One Flew Over 

28 Taoism founder 
64 This, to Tomas 

the Cuckoo's 30 New Balance 65 Pal Nest" author Ken competitor 
66 Cherry 18 Work units 31 Opposed to throwaway 21 Preferred invitees ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 Carrier to Tel Aviv 23 Decrease 
gradually 24 Greek "I" 26 Have a home­
cooked meal, say 27 " Fideles" 29 Salary recipient 33 Painting surface 34 Enzyme ending 36 Like a good-sounding piano 
37 Emergency military transports 
THE OBSERVER 


Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source· of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion J

JJt1JMJ]]1JE. 
l I 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
j 

one letter to each square, 
~ 

to form four ordinary words. 
YEDEK 
I [J I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

I I r II tCLITIE 
WHAT SHE DI::C.IDED WHEN THE EYE
] [) II 

DOCTOR A:SKED 
www.iumble.com 
HER OUT. HINSIF 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise' answer, as
I I I 

suggested by the above cartoon . 
Answer here: 

TO "r I I )" D=:IJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: PROBE BUXOM RACIAL BROOCHSaturday's 
Answer: What the weaver left in his estate ­AN "HEIR" LOOM 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Stacy Keibler, 29; Usher, 30: Natalie Maines, 34; Harry Anderson, 56 
Happy Birthday: Don't give in to keep the peace or so you can feel secure in your posi­tion with colleagues, friends or family. You may not like to argue moot points but some­times it is required to reduce stress and clear the air. Anyone trying to take too much from you or who is overindulgent. must be avoided or you wiiJ not have clear passage forward. Your numbers are 7, 16, 25, 27, 30, 34, 48 
ARIES (March 2.1-April19): Calm down or you won't finish what you need to get done. Be motivated and don't let unimportant things eat away at you. The sweetest re­venge is your own success. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 2.0): Prepare to put up a fight if someone opposes your ideas. Chances. are, whoever tries to stand in your way is jealous or insecure about your suc­cesses. You have the potential to make a difference by making reforms. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 2.0): Follow closely what's going on financially and legally ­a life-altering event is apparent. Implement changes that will help broaden your outlook and solidify your plans. Learn the ins and outs of any deal you pursue. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 2.1-July 22): It won't be easy to decide between two people who need your help or which organization to support or even ho\\' to discipline a child who bas taken a wrong turn. Listen, evaluate and stay calm. You will choose the right \\'Ords and select what's best for everyone involved. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Reconnect with your past ideas. JJ<'Ople and goals. Travel or attending a reunion will bring about memories and the realization that you may not have followed through with your dreams. This should inspire you to rethink your future plans. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make your home space more conducive to what you need to accomplish. It will help you be more productive. Strive to be the best and you won't be disappointed with the recognition and results you get. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.3-0ct. 22): You may be forced to make a move for your own emo­
tional well-being. Don't let love or a friendship get you down. You can count on the people who know you best to intervene and help you if things get too diJlicult. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 2.1): A challenge will appear to be built on false pretenses. Avoid falling for a setup when you can do things on your o\\'11. You don't have tu match up to anyone. you just have to surpass your own standards. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 2.2.-Dec. 21): A change of heart may lead to all< rations to your living arrangements as well as to your location. Emotional matters can be deah with and \vill allow you to dismiss tension and stress. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You don't have to get involved in something to prove your loyalty. Just be there as a sounding board if something goes ~>TOng. Family feuds will e.scalate, causing separation. Don't tH.ke sides. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Set goals to achieve and rules to follow. There is money to be made and deals that will help you get your life in order. Sp<'ak with some­one who has experience and savvy about what you want to do. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): It's time to make yourself heard, to take the position you de-sire. to strive for greatness and w offer what you have as a gesture of good wilL Speak from the heart and you will be beard and "ill moYe forward. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are outspoken and independent. You are a thinker. sensitive toward others but always fair. You value home, family and traditions. 
Euge11it1 1S Web sites: eugenialast.comfor confidential consultntions, mvspace.comleugenialnstfor Eugenia's blog, astroadt•ice.com forftm 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year D Enclosed is $65 for one semester Name ___________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ 
' 
City _________ State ____ Zip_______ l• 
~ 

• 
~ 

l ' 
l 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 15, 2008 
page 20 
BASKETBALL MEDIA DAY 
Irish rnen look to build on solid season 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
Last season, the Irish won 26 games, induding 14 in Big East play. Their reward? 
Try one of the most grueling schedules in college basketball. In addition to the always-formi­dable Big East gauntlet, Notre Dame's slate includes an early­season trip to the prestigious Maui Invitational and non-con­ference tilts against Ohio State and UClA. 
"At times I've looked at [the schedule! during the summer and wondered what I was think­ing when we did all this," Irish coach Mike Brny said in his media day press conference Tuesday. " ... The thing that's crazy-in the midst of what the 
see SCHEDULE/page 18 

Let's play some hoops 

Left, guard Tory Jackson saves a ball from going out of bounds during Notre Dame's 89-791oss to Marquette on March 13. Right, forward Luke Harangody dunks during a 68-50 win over George Mason on March 20. 
Team seeks to fill Rob Kurz's big shoes 
Coach Mike Brey said over and over how excited he was about this year's team, but it seemed as though he was chomping at the bit, waiting for some­one to ask this one question during his 40-minute chat with the media Monday. 
It finally came about 35 minutes into the press con­ference. 
"Coach, Luke Zeller, what are your expectations for him this year?" 

Chris Hine 
Editor-in-Chief 
see KURZ/page 18 
Women's squad looks to improve perimeter shooting and 3-point defense 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Notm Dame's 3-point shooting li~ll short last season. This sfm­son. the Irish have plans to make sure the long-range game comes bark on line. 
The Irish shot okay from behind the are in the regular s1mson -they hit 29.2 percent of their thnws. In the postsea­son, however, that number droppnd to 23.1 percent. In the limll game of the regular season against St. John's, a Big East tournanwnt game against Pittsburgh and a Sweet 16 game vs. Tennessee (all losses), Notre Dame hit only thnH~ 3-pointers. 
Assoeiate head coach Jonathan Tsipis said last year's problem with hitting 3s stmnmnd partially from the fact that the team had lots of shoot­ers that could hit midrange jump shots, but not necessarily 
see THREES/page 18 


Left, Irish guard Melissa Lechlitner dribbles during Notre Dame's 70-55 win over Seton Hall on March 1. Right, center Erica Williamson gets set to shoot during the victory over the Pirates. 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Managing Editor 
Last season, Notre Dame ranked sixth in the 16-team Big East in team defense, surrendering only 61.6 points per game. But the defense could hav1~ been even stronger if not for giv­ing up the third worst 3­point percentage in the con­ference, allowing opponents to shoot 35.5 percent against it. 
All last season, the 3-point defense was a point of emphasis for the Irish, and this season nothing has changed. 
"We are going to guard the 3-point line this year. We are determined to guard the 3­point line, Irish coach Muffet MeGraw said. "That is the one thing I think we have talked nonstop since the sea-
see DEFENSE/page 17 
MEN'S GOLF 
Team finishes in 10th place 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After opening the tourna­ment with a 17-over par performance on Monday, sophomore Dustin Zhang fired two high-quality rounds for the Irish, carding a !-under par 71 and a 4­under 68 Tuesday to put Notr1~ Damn in I Oth place at the Prestige at PGA West. 
TCU dainwd first place wi t h a ;{ -u n de r 8 6 1 , whi Ie ' UC Davis's Nate Pistacchio and the llorned Frogs'' Nathan De Beer took home
~­
eo-medalist honors with 6­
' 
' under 21 Os on the Greg
' 
Norman Course at PGA WEST, in La Quinta, Calif. 
The Irish shot 301 and 293 in their final two rounds after Monday's 307. Overall, they tallied a 37-over 901. The result was one of the strongest showings yet from a young Notre Dame squad that has struggled recently. 
A horrific 17-over par first round offset Zhang's 5­under performance in the final two rounds, and Zhang finished in a tie for 35th place overall. lie collected 11 birdies against only six bogeys to l'inish the tourna­ment after his high opening round. 
Fellow sophomore Connor 
Alan-Lee matched his class­mate's performance, also tying for 35th place with a 12-over 228. Alan-Lee fin­ished Monday's rounds just 2-over par. but fired a 10­over 82 in his closing round. 
Junior Doug Fortner. who has been the most consistent scorer for the Irish this sea­son, shot a 13-over par 229 to finish in 38th place. Junior Carlos Santos­Ocampo's 18-over 234 land­ed him in 71 st place. Coming off his first collegiate tour­nament at last week's Fighting Irish Gridiron Invitational. freshman Tom 
see WESTI page 17 

SMC SoccER 
Belles attempt to end slump against Trine 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sporrs Writer 
As the final few games of the regular season approach, Saint Mary's is still searching for its first MIAA eonference win. The Belles (1-9-1 overall, 0-4 MIM) will get a promising opportunity to end the drought when they face Trine (3-11. 0-4) today at 4 p.m. 
Despite the team's disappoint­ing record so far this season, Belles coach Hyan Crabbe said he still sees a determined efl'ort and unwillingness to back down from his young team. 
"One thing I have bt~en most proud of with this team this season is the faet that they eon­tinue to show up every day and work hard to get better," he said. "Even with the frustration of our lack of results on the field in terms of wins, those players continue to eompete every time they are out on the field." 
The Belles are eurnmtly on a six-game losing streak, includ­ing last weekend's 4-0 home loss to No. 8 Calvin. 
see TRINE/page 17 









