
THE 
.The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Club joins March for Life 
Right to Life travels to Washington, D.C. to protest legalized abortion 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
More than 230 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross have made the 12­hour bus trip to Washington, D.C. to join thousands of other pro-life advocates at the March for Life on Tuesday. 
The march is an annual demonstration against Roe vs. Wade, the Supreme Court deci­sion that legalized abortion in 1973. 
The Notre Dame Right to Life Club offered students three travel options, ranging in length from 36 hours to four days. Students on the two longer trips participat­ed in service projects and mini pro-life conferences as a prelude 
see LIFE/page 6 


SMC students march 
for peace and history 
By LIZ HARTER Assisstant News Editor 
About 45 students and fac­ulty participated in the first annual March for Peace to commemorate Martin Luther King Jr. Day on Saint Mary's campus Monday. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney commended the idea of a march and said she hoped it would be a recur­ring activity at the College. 
"Love is not passive, it is active," Mooney said. "It's that love that you have that can transform this place [Saint Mary's] because this is a place that still needs transforming. It is a place in which love needs to grow and stretch." 
She said the tradition of the march should not stop until there is enough love at Saint Mary's to love every­one and to learn from every­one. 
The idea for the march originated with the College's Sisters of Nefertiti club, club president LaQuay Boone said Thursday. 
The march for peace should not be looked at as a way from destination A to destination B, said Lawrence Giden, a member of the Civil Rights Heritage Center at Indiana University South Bend. 
"[This march] has a des­tiny and a purpose," Giden said. 
· see MARCH/page 4 

OLUME 42: ISSUE 70 TUESDAY. JANUARY 22,2008 


Oub donor's family upset with ND 
Steins from University Club auctioned in Chicago to support endowed scholarships 
By DAVIS RHORER, JR. 
News Writer 
CHICAGO -Decades after their grandfather funded the construction of the University Club at Notre Dame, members of one family of University alumni have said they felt snubbed when the Univflrsity did not notify them at once about the Club's planned destruction. 
Robert Hayes Gore, Sr. never attended Notre Dame, but he donated the $350,000 in 1967 to construct the Club, along with a prized collection of beer steins and tankards that was housed in the build­ing. Six of Gore's nine chil­dren attended the University. 
The collection of steins and tankards was auctioned at a 
Disability class reaches out to collllllunity 
College Seminar combines interdisciplinary studies with service at South Bend's Logan Center 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Sixteen Notre Dame stu­dents will join the growing field of disability studies this semester in a seminar on dis­ability that will supplement interdisciplinary academic study with community serv­ice. 
"Disabilities studies is very new ... and there are very few courses dedicated to it in the U.S.," course instructor Essaka Joshua said. "When I got here I was really excited with the reaction I was get­ting from people within Notre Dame." 
In addition to attending tra­ditional classes, students in the Arts and Letters College Seminar on disability will spend time each week with disabled persons at the Logan Center in South Bend. This weekly service will allow students to expand upon tra­ditional studies through interaction with the disabled, Jostma said. 
Students have backgrounds in a wide variety of studies, including medicine, anthro­pology, English, history, American Studies and psy­chology. 
"[The course] attempts to 
local auction house Sunday to raise $300,000 for scholar­ships for economically under­privileged children to attend Catholic schools. 
"The university showed a lack of respect for its donors" Andrew Gore, a grandson of the late Robert Gore, Sr. and Notre Dame alumnus, said. 
"The family was not advised until very late," he said of the demolition planning process. 
Gore called for the University to enact better reg­ulations about the time-frame for donations. 
"[The University] should consider family akin to the donor," he said 
University spokesman Dennis Brown acknowledged 
see STEINIpage 4 

look beyond seeing disability in a medical context," Joshua said. 
The seminar, which is filled to capacity, looks at various disabled communities, atti­tudes towards difference, the history of disability and cul­tural representations of dis­ability through literature. The course will also examine government policy, the poli­tics of charity and issues sur­rounding medical insurance. 
Students will draw on their weekly volunteer experiences for class presentations, dis­cussions and projects. 
"The students will be help­ing with all sorts of recre­ational activities for people of all ages, learning about the lives of the clients, and about the ways in which institutions of this type can make a dif­ference," Joshua said. 

Students will work with a Logan Center representative to select their service place­ment. Some students may work in the Center's newly opened Regional Center of Autism, where •they will assist clients with developing their social skills. The volun­teer aspect of the course is self-directed, so the students · will have the option of mov­
see DISABILITY/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CLC 

Hall gym funding sought 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
Members of the Campus Life Council unanimously approved a resolution requesting Student Affairs funding to improve residence hall work­out facilities at their Monday meeting. 
The resolution will now be 
submitted for review 
University Vice President of 
Student Affairs Father Mark 
Poorman. 
This is the first resolution 
the Campus Life Council (CLC) 
has passed this academic year. 
Student senators have clam­
ored for improvements to 
dorm facilities, claiming 
RecSports facilities such as the 
Rockne Memorial and Rolfs 
Sports Recreation Center have 
reached maximum capacity. 
Senior Mariana Montes, 
chair of the Senate Residential 
Life Committee, spearheaded 
the project. Research for the 
resolution began in April 2007. 
"If we had more [workout facilities] in dormitories," Montes said, "it would allevi­ate capacity in RecSports facil­ities." 
Montes added 'that CLC ini­
tially asked RecSports to 
increase spending on in-dorm 
equipment, including cardio­
vascular machines and free 
weights. RecSports, however, 
was unwilling to negotiate the 
budget, she said. 
see RESOLUTION/page 4 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Epic n1usic? Disney 
We can all attest to the fact that our appmeiation for different music gHnres has evolved over the years. If you're like me, you learned to walk on Phil Collins and Ace of Base and your first CD purchase was a Rohan Anand Hansen album. After exposurn 
to the Kanyes, Production Editor 
Modest Mouse and Daft Punks of the world, is there any real consistency to the 
contnmporary music lover's taste? 
I remember one day in high school when I was pillaging my Dad's sweet collection of Michael Jackson and 
. Havi Shankar albums, among oth­ers, to add to my new iPod (yes, our parents grew up with great artists). Suddnnly, I saw the dusty tapes of movies that produced, by far, some of the most epic hits of our genera­tion: Disney films. 
What an anchor for our upbring­ing as innocent children. Who could resist snapping to Baloo the Bear when hn sang "Bp,ar Necessities," from The Jungle Book? How inspir­ing was P-ocahontas when she sang "Colors of' thn Wind?" What a test of manliness was it when Captain Li Shang in Mulan sang, "Be a man" to rally his men against the evil Huns? Things completely turned a corner after that song. 
In thnory. wn hold these songs dnar to our hnarts not just because of the originality of' the lyrics, but bocause we were able to see the carefrne, loving, innocent individu­als, much like ourselves. incorpo­rate those kinds of lessons and val­ues into action. 
Take, for instance, the creativity of The Lion King soundtrack. Hits like "I just can't wait to be King," exposed us to the power of ambi­tion, while others like, "llakuna Matata" encourages a problem-free philosophy. 
We even acquired skills about romance. "Kiss the Girl" from The Little Mermaid instructed men on the perfect time to make "the move." "A Whole New World," from Aladdin showed bolder men how to really bring their A-game with a Princess. And "Can You Feel the Love Tonight?" That's just a down­right sexy song to show true intima­cy. 
I'm pleased that my fellow com­rades of Siegfried IIall frequently celebrate our Disney music gusto playing CD compilations in the shower radio. Singing, "The Circle of Life" in unison in the shower stalls is a great way to start ofT a morning. II" time allows, you might catch us singing Beauty and the Beast's "Be our Guest" all the way down to Peter Pan's "Yo-ho, Yo-ho a Pirate's Life for Me!" 
Truthfully, appreciation for such a genre of music is wholesome. Instead of venting frustrations for neglecting my homework to write this column, I am going to "Whistle while I work," for the next few hours just like the Dwarves from ,'-,'now White. Just because it's that uplifting. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ran an d@n d. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF BRITNEY SPEARS AND CHUCK NORRIS HAD A BABY, WHAT WOULD IT LOOK LIKE? 




imagine a hooves." person alive round house with the kicking infant greatest facial hair.,,
with a pink wig. " 
Police nail gas peddler in sting SOUTH CHARLESTON, 
W. Va. -A gas station clerk is accused of defraud­ing her boss out of nearly $50,000 by selling fuel to her family and friends for a tenth of a penny a gallon. 
Police arrested 25-year­old Madeline Jordan on Sunday -along with her mother, brother, a cousin and two others -after set­ting up a sting at the BP station in South Charleston. 
The station's owner told police last week he had noticed a significant drop in his income and found 

Jimmy Miller Junior Knott  Joe Romano Senior Sorin  Alex Dzurik Sophomore Stanford  Sarah Barrett Senior Off-Campus  Mary Pence Senior Saint Mary's  
"/ canjust  "It would have  "The craziest  "Black hole. "  "Chuck Norris'  


LAURIE HUNTffhe Observer 
Turtles Pooka and Norbert, who are owned by Art Image Library curator Denise Massa, wander around O'Shaughnessy during one of their daily strolls. 
OFFBEAT 
Sciences in Uppsala, about 40 miles north of Stockholm, officials said Monday. 
Cattle release methane, a greenhouse gas believed to contribute to global warm­ing, when they digest their food. Researchers believe the level of methane released depends on the type of food the eat. 
"This type of research is already being conducted in Canada so we will be in contact with Canadian agricultural researchers in the near future," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

receipts that listed the deeply discounted rate. 
Police alleged that for several months Jordan, of Nitro, had reset the price at the pumps every Sunday morning and allowed peo­ple she knew to fill up. 
Swedish researchers to study bovine belching 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden­A Swedish university has received $590,000 in research funds to measure the greenhouse gases released when cows belch.About 20 cows will participate in the project run by the Swedish University for Agricultural 

sperm would dominate to make a clone of Chuck Norris." 

IN BRIEF 
The entire HecSports fitness class schedule is available for free during the "Try It, You'll Like It!" week today through Sunday. Show up at Rolfs RecSports Center to try various classes. Space is first come, first serve. Class registration begins Thursday at 7:30a.m. online. 
The Creative Writing Program presents Professor Honoree Jefl'ers, who will read her poet­ry Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Gold Hoom of North Dining Hall. 
The Notre Dame Post Of'fice will offer a Passport Fair Thursday from 7:30a.m to 4::~0 
p.m. 
On this day only, no appointment will b1~ necesary to apply for a passport. Applicants should bring proof of U.S. citi­zenship, proof of identity and two recent photos. 

Actors From The London Stage will present The Taming of the Shrew on Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 7:30 

p.m. 
in the DeBartolo Permorming Arts Center. Student tickets are available for $12. 


Prints from the Suite Museum of Art's collection that focus on artistic subjects from the 17th century will be displayed Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit, "Rembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the golden age of Dutch art, depictions of land­scapes, portraits of animals and individuals in non-aristocratic social and economic classes, and scenes of their everyday life. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

...I 
<C 
(.) 0 


..... 
LOW 19 LOW 11 LOW 8 LOW 4 
Tuesday, Janaury 22, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Sorin College rector publishes new book 
Special to the Observer 
"Known by Name: Inside the Halls of Notre Dame," by Rev. James B. King, C.S.C., rec­tor of the Sorin College resi­dence hall at the University of Notre Dame, has been pub­lished by Corby Books. 
By turns anecdotal, affec­tionate, nonchalant, humorous and deeply reflective, Father King's first person account of his ministry in the University's oldest and most storied resi­dence hall provides a glimpse into a unique and cherished feature of Notre Dame student life. 
In an introduction to the book, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., president emeritus of Notre Dame and quarter-cen­tury resident of Sorin College, describes Father King's narra­tive as "unvarnished, straight­forward and full of insightful observations about the acade­my and about contemporary culture. But in the end it is a story full of hope and prom­ise." 
Something of that story's depth and quality is suggested in a chapter on "The Heartbeat of Notre Dame," where Father King observes that a rector's responsibility is to try "by living among our students to instruct them in manners, social skills, tact, discretion, self-discipline, com­mitment, leadership and integrity" while also impress­ing upon them "the impor­tance of cultivating a forgiving spirit, service to one's neighbor and a persistent dedication to exploring the truths that lie deeply within one's soul." 
Now in his fifth year as Sarin's rector, Father King, a native of Chicago, was gradu­ated from Notre Dame in 1981, entered Moreau Seminary and received a master of divinity degree from the University in 1987. Ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross the following year, he spent two years as an assistant rector and freshman seminar instruc­tor at Notre Dame before leav­ing for the University of Wisconsin, where he earned a master's degree in political sci­ence in 1992. He served for five years at the University of Portland as a history instruc­tor, rector, assistant director in the alumni office and for one year as director of Portland's foreign study program in Salzburg, Austria. He returned to Notre Dame in 1997 and served as director of vocations for the Indiana Province of Holy Cross from 1997 to 2005. 
Dance 111arathon begins fundraiser 
"Whiteout Week" kicks off SMC's efforts to raise money for hospital 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Students walking across Saint Mary's campus this week may notice the nearly 50 women wear­ing white t-shirts with the slogan "2 Legit 2 Sit" in blue letters across the front. 
They are student members of the Dance Marathon committee, who are promoting "Whiteout Week" the first week of registra­tion for Saint Mary's biggest fundraising event, the Dance Marathon, said Francesca Johnson, co-president of the annual Dance Marathon. 
The Dance Marathon is held each year to raise funds for Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. This year's "Dance for Chance" Marathon will be held from 8 p.m. on April4 to 8 a.m. on AprilS. 
Each night this week a different dorm will host registration for the upcoming Marathon. The registra­tion locations are Monday in Holy Cross Hall, Tuesday in Regina Hall, Wednesday in Le Mans Hall, Thursday in McCandless Hall and Friday in Le Mans, according to small fliers that were handed out door-to-door. 
Wearing the shirts all week is "really a way to catch people's attention," Johnson said. In addi­tion, the executive board will be wear their Dance Marathon polo shirts to attract attention to the cause and to show the number of people involved at Saint Mary's, she said. 

The two Public Relations com­mittee co-chairs, Sarah Voss and Kelly Deranek, came up with the idea, Johnson said. 
It was their goal to "plaster the campus" with Dance Marathon's information, co-president Pauline Kistka said. 
The co-chairs came up with the idea at a conference where they saw that another school did 'Teal Tuesdays." They chose the first week of registrations because "it's our biggest week to promote the marathon," Deranek said. 
The committee wants partici­pants to register this week so it can proceed with its letter-writing campaign before the Dance Marathon, Kistka added. 
"It's really important to get peo­ple to sign up this week so we can raise money to help the kids," Voss said. 
At the registration locations stu­dents are asked to fill out a pack­et, give their $12 registration fee and provide contact information for the committee's letter writing campaign, Johnson said. Students can also download registration forms off the Dance Marathon's Web site she said. 
"At this point, we're just going to keep promoting," Kistka said. Students who are unable to 
attend that night are encouraged to turn over a few addresses to the committee either by dropping them off at the registration loca­tions or by emailing them in to dm ar a thn@saintmarys. edu, Johnson added. 
Johnson declined to give an exact amount for how much they hope to earn this year. Instead she hopes to increase the number of dancers in attendance and the amount of money raised in gener­al. 
Since the event won the "Best New Marathon" award in 2006, it's first year, and doubled its earn­ings in 2007, Johnson and Kistka have high hopes for its future. 
"Our big goal is to increase par­ticipation from Notre Dame and Holy Cross," Johnson said. 
This year's event will seea few changes, Johnson saidd. Instead of the 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. hours that have been held for the past two events, the time has been changed to 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. in the hopes of including families with small chil­dren, she said. The committee hopes that by making the event later in the morning, these fami­lies will be able to stop by earlier, she said. 
The Dance Marathon will also have the usual bands, music, food, and games. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, January 22, 2008 

Disability 
continued from page 1 
ing around the Logan Center and interacting with people with various disabilities. 
Joshua said students will engage both in group activi­ties and one-on-one time with Logan Center clients. 
"Volunteering is very much part of the culture of Notre Dame," Joshua said. "It's good to be able to reward that 

classes address poverty issues. 
"Students tell me that when they have experiences in the community, it gives them a sense of urgency about the issues and shows them how important it is to address these issues," Beckman said. "Having that experience in the real world, gives them much more of a sense of the com­plexity of the issues." 
Students have requested more service-learning oppor­
tunities in their 
academic sched­
interest and to ule, she said.
"Volunteering is very 
integrate it The disability
much part ofthe
into a study course has program culture ofNotre attracted inter­through volun­est among alum­
Dame." 

teer place­ni and faculty as ment." well. Joshua said "I've even been
Essaka Joshua that she had instructor contacted by no problems Disability seminar Notre Dame 
obtaining University approval for the course. 
"The College Seminar has lots of freedom and covers topics that might appeal to students," she said. "I had quite a lot of freedom to do what I wanted." 
Joshua said the Center for Social Concerns was instru­mental in helping her create the course. 
Mary Beckman, the Center for Social Concern's director for academic affairs and research, said the disability seminar is one of three College Seminars offered with a community-based compo­nent to it. The other two 

March 
continued from page 1 
(;iden said he was glad that Hevern"nd II. Gregory llaygood, the pastor at Pilgrim Baptist Chureh in South Bend was present at the mareh bneausn it was vnry n~minisc:ent of the marehns that King participat­nd in during thn 1950s and 1960s. 
"Thny always had ministers in tho front lirws," he said. "It shows that Cod was with thnm." 
Al'tnr marehing from thn atrium of tlw studnnt cnntor to llaggar Parlor, Mooney read King's famous "I llavn a Dream" 

s pn~~ e h , w hieh "/ experienced many the partiei­was spoken dur­pants in the
attacks and things of
ing tho march student eenter 
on Washington. that nature just as they sang
I> .c . i n 1 9 6 :{. because ofthe color "Lift Everyalong with rdi­Voiee and
ofmy skin."
gious studies Sing" in the prof'nssor Stacy student eenter Davis and four Rev. H. Gregory Haygood 
atrium and students. pastor "We Shall Aftnr thn n~ad­
Pilgrim Baptist Church Overeome" 
ing, Haygood spoke of' his own nxperienees with the Civil Bights Movnment as he grew up in Alabama in the 1950s and 1960s. 
"I experienced many attaeks and things of that nature just bneause or the color of my skin," Haygood said. "Howfwer, it was dnmanded in my household that evil was not retaliated by evil." 
Haygood recounted the story or his older brother who felt compelled to marel1 with King in the August 1963 march from Selma to Montgomnry. Ala. llis white employer told him that he 

alumni who are 
interested in the issue, and are pleased that Notre Dame is pioneering a course on this topic," Joshua said. 
Joshua, who is currently researching a book on disabil­ity in the Romantic period, said she hopes students will find the course personally as well as academically reward­ing. 
"I hope the students will broaden their horizons and think more deeply about ques­tions they are interested in," she said 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Haygood's mother told his brother that he must follow his convictions and allowed him to march even though his job helped support the family. 
"King's mission was a mis­sion to secure equality and fairness and rights for per­sons of all colors who were disenfranchised in society," Haygood said. "I want to encourage you tonight to con­tinue to make the dream the reality. One of things that interfHres with racial oneness is that blacks stay with blacks and whites stay with whites, so we never really under­stand each other." 
Senior Caitlyn Mack was one of the many marchers who walked through the dark and eold hold­ing only a can­dle. She joined 
during the march. 
"I wanted to take part beeau~e I wanted to learn more about Martin Luther King, Jr. and his impact on the world," Mack said. 
Participating in the march allowed Mack to gain some perspective on King's demon­stration, she said. 
"I ean't imagine being vio­lently attacked and verbally abused while marching and not giving up. Those people [who marched with King] had great determination and they still do. We need to follow their example." 
"Rather than collecting
However, representatives of scholarships over all other the University met with the a year, and dust in some cellar at endeavors. Gore family on numerous that's forev­"Assuming
Notre Dame, these
occasions before the club er" Charles the site [of the
assets can be spread 
was demolished this fall, he said. club] was the said. The collec­across the country." only available Prior to the demolition, the tion, which spot for an University also sent a letter auctioneers e n gin e e r i n g 
Charles Gore 
of apology to the family for estimate building, no 
Notre Dame alumnus 
not consulting them before brought in one would 
pieces, Hindman said. 
One piece, a 26 inch tall ivory silver-gilt tankard made by Tiffany & Co. sold for $216,000 to a private bidder. 
Despite his complaints about the timing of his fami­ly's notification of the demoli­tion, Andrew said the University would be right to prioritize academics 


Club 

continuedfrom page 1 
the family was not notified immediately when plans were made for the Club's demolition. 
"We made the mistake and didn't consult with the family in 2001," Brown said Monday. 
The family plans to donate $300,000 from the auction to the Gore Family Memorial Trust, which provides finan­cial aid to economically underprivileged children to enroll in Catholic primary and secondary schools across the United States. 
"With that [money], we'll be able to provide 25 

finalizing plans, he said. nearly 
"We take very seriously our $302,000, obligation to be good stew­was consid­ards" Brown said. "I think we ered an incredible success, are." said Leslie Hindman, opera­
In addition to his monetary tor of the auction house. donations, Robert Hayes "We're thrilled," Hindman Gore, Sr. donated the exten­said. sive collection of beer steins She cited the "significant and tankards that were provenance" of the Notre housed in the University Club Dame history behind the col­for nearly forty years. That lection as a "major factor collection, contributing to which had the success of gained sig­the auction."
"We made the mistake 
nificant Members of the
and didn't consult 
prominence Gore family also OVeJ: the with the family in won the bids for years, was a few pieces. 
2001."

auctioned "They really off piece by are a great col­piece by the Dennis Brown lection and a fa m i I y University spokesman rare and valu­Sunday at able asset," Leslie Jesse Leighton, Hindman the husband of Auctioneers in Chicago. one of Gore's granddaugh­
"Rather than collecting ters, said immediately after dust in some cellar at Notre the auction. Dame, these assets can be Due to the very high vol­spread across the country," ume of phone and internet said Charles Gore, another bids that poured in from grandson and Notre Dame around the globe, it is impos­alumnus, immediately follow­sible to know how many dif­ing the auction. ferent parties bid on the 
debate that 
!the demoli­

tion I was the right thing to do" Andrew said. 
But, he said, the University showed a lack of courtesy when it failed to offer an explanation as to why the site of the club was so inte­gral. 
Andrew concluded asking the University to revise its Donor Bill of Rights by inserting a timeline of com­mitments the University must make to donors. 
Andrew said the events surrounding the Club's demo­lition have not really altered his relationship with the University, though he said he could not speak for his entire family. 
The decision to donate the proceeds of the auction to the family's trust were based solely on "who needs the money the most." 
The University has no plans to rebuild the independent University Club, Brown said. 
Contact Davis Rhorer, Jr. at drhorer@nd.edu 

\~rt:IJNI:SIJI\\'I ,JI\~~lll\11\' 2:iiiiJ, 5:1111 . &::ill IJ~VI 
011 

·rltiJIISIJI\\', ,Ji\Nlli\11\' 24Tit, 4::iO · 6:1111 I,~VI 


211 BROWNSON HAll 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT -CAll 1-5123 
would lose his job were he to 

Contact Liz Harter at 
participate. www.nd.edu/-nanovlc
eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
-·------------­





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 COMPILED FROA,1 T!-·l£ OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chess prodigy Fischer put to rest 
REYKJAVIK. Iceland-Reclusive chess genius Bobby fischer was buried Monday in a private ceremony at a churchyard in southern Iceland, a television station reported. 
Fischer, who died of kidney failure Thursday at the age of 64, was interred at Laugardalur church outside the town of Selfoss, Iceland's Channel 2 said. 
Hev. Kristinn Agust Fridfinnsson told the TV station the ceremony was arranged so hastily he did not arrive until after the fact. 
The funeral was attended by only a handful of people, including Fischer's longtime companion, Miyoko Watai, and his Icelandic friend and spokesman Gardar Sverrisson. the TV station mported. 
Heavy snowfall problematic in China 
BEIJING -Unusually heavy snowfall in cen­tral China has been blamed for at least 15 deaths and has stranded hundreds of thousands of people ahead of the peak Lunar New Year travel season, state media said Monday. 
Frigid temperatures caused pipes to burst, leading to water shortages for thousands of resi­dents. the Xinhua News Agency and newspa­pers reported. Power lines carrying electricity from the massive Three Gorges Dam to Shanghai snapped under a heavy accumulation of ice and snow. state broadcaster CCTV said. 
Heavy snow damaged thousands of homes, and at least one person was crushed to death when a roof collapsed at a gas station, the reports said. Xinhua said that collapsing roofs killed six people. and that nine others died in 
NATIONAL NEWS 
94-year-old man brutally murdered 
MORHISTOWN, Tenn. -A 94-year-old man was found fatally beaten early Monday in a thicket of bushes, his left hand cut off, and three people were arrested in what might have been a botched robbery, authorities said. 
Willie Lee Morgan, who was reported miss­ing Saturday, "died a horrible death," Hamblen County Sheriff Esco Jarnigan said. 
Two butcher knives and a left hand were found in one of the suspects' cars. 
"This poor man was supposed to die peace­fully on a front porch swing, not like this," Jarnigan said. 
Darrell Nance, 22, was charged with murder and Jessica Lane, 23, was charged with acces­sory to murder. Brice Whaley, whose age was not immediately available, was charged as an accessory after the fact and abuse of a corpse. 
Michigan tougher on illegal immigrants 
LANSING, Mich. -Michigan will no longer let illegal immigrants get driver's licenses, a practice just seven other states continue to allow. 
Michigan Secretary of State Terri Lynn Land, who oversees the motor vehicle department. announced the new policy Monday and said it takes effect Tuesday. 
The new policy also bars people who are legal but not permanent U.S. residents from getting licenses. Legislation to allow those on temporary work or student visas to get licens­es is pending in the Legislature. 
The change is aimed at complying with an opinion issued last month by Attorney General Mike Cox, who said granting licenses to illegal immigrants is inconsistent with federal law. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daniels against higher gas taxes 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels is urg­ing Indiana's congressional delegation to say no to a federal gasoline tax increase if such a pro­posal comes up for a vote. 
The National Surface Transportation Policy and Hevmme Study Commission suggested this month that federal gas taxes should be increased by up to 40 cents per gallon over five years to help fix aging bridges and roads and reduce traffic deaths. 
Daniels sent a letter to all members of Indiana's congressional delegation, saying an increase in federal gas taxes would be harmful and unnecessary for Hoosiers. The lease of the Indiana Toll Road has funded transportation needs in Indiana for at least a decade, he said. 
Dozens of protestors battle in Jena 
About 50 white separatists, 100 counter-demonstrators rally in town embroiled in controversy 
Associated Press 

JENA, La. -About 50 white separatists protested the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday Monday in this tiny town, which was thrust into the spotlight months ago by 20,000 demonstrators who claimed prosecutors dis­criminated against blacks. 
Police separated partici­pants in the "pro-majority" rally organized by the Learned, Miss.-based Nationalist Movement from a racially mixed group of about 100 counter-demon­strators outside the LaSalle Parish Courthouse. There was no violence and one arrest, a counter-demon­strator. 
Chants of "No KKK" from the mostly college-age counter-demonstrators were met with a chant from the separatists that contained a racial epithet. 
At one point, dozens of state police forced back about 10 people, dressed in New Black Panther uni­forms, who had gathered around a podium where the separatist group's leader Richard Barrett was to speak. 
One man who broke away from that group was arrest­ed and booked with battery on a police officer and resisting arrest; authorities identified him as William with attempted murder, tion. Only when faced with a Jena resident. "It looks like Winchester Jr. of New leading to accusations that lawsuit did the town drop a a big waste of my tax Orleans and said he was a they were being prosecuted requirement that the money." member of the New Black harshly because of their Nationalists post a $10,000 Police from several organ­Panthers. Members of the race. Charges have since security bond for a permit. izations, including Louisiana group at the scene declined been reduced. Almost all the demonstra­State Police and at least to comment. Critics of the prosecutor tors and counter-demon­three parish sheriff's 
Race relations in Jena have noted that months strators appeared to be departments, were on hand. (population about 2,800) before the beating, no from outside of Jena. Snipers staked out the roofs have been in the news ever charges were filed against ''I'd like to see more peo­of buildings across the street since six black teenagers three other white students ple from Jena here," said from the courthouse. were arrested in the beating accused of hanging nooses George Ferguson, a local Jena resident Dayna of a white classmate at Jena -seen as signs of racial resident who wore a T-shirt Brown, a black woman who High School in December intimidation -in a tree at reading "Justice for Justin," made a scrapbook on the 2006. the high school. The prose­referring to Justin Barker, September protest, had her 
About 20,000 people cutor has said that the the white teen beaten in the camera in hand Monday. peacefully marched in sup­noose hangings, while school attack. "I haven't She said she was ready to port of the so-called Jena "abhorrent," violated no seen anyone else I know." see Jena's time in the spot­Six in September, and state law. A few locals, black and light end. Monday's demonstration Many Jena residents said white, watched from the ''I'm hoping this is the last was organized in opposition that coverage of the contro­sidelines. of it," Brown said. "Jena's to both the teenagers and versy last year unfairly por­"I wanted to see what was not a bad place to Jive if the King holiday. trayed them as racists, and going on," I've heard a lot you're black or white. We'd 
Five of the black teens that Barrett's group brought about it," said Charles just all like to see things set­were originally charged renewed unwanted atten-Bailey, a white 58-year-old tle down." 

IRAQ 

Teenage suicide bom.ber on fanilly tnission 
intimidation against fellow Sunnis against al-Qaida in Iraq. Al-lssawi
Associated Press even as insurgents try to regroup said he believed he was the target, after being driven from strongholds but the bomber may have become BAGHDAD -His father was a sen­across central Iraq. nervous and detonated his explosives ior member of al-Qaida in Iraq. His The 15-year-old attacker was car­before he arrived. mother promised him they would rying a box of candy at a gathering of "This is not the first time that we meet again in paradise. tribal members to celebrate the have been targeted by our relatives Details emerging in the investiga­recent release of a relative, Hadi who live in the same area around tion into a teenage suicide bombing Hussein, who had been let go after us," said al-Issawi. near Fallujah on Sunday suggest the more than a week in U.S. custody, The Issawis represent one of the boy was dispatched by his family on officials said. Hussein, his brother largest tribes in the province, which the mission and took advantage of and four guards were killed in the stretches west of Baghdad to the bor­tribal ties to pass through tight secu­blast. ders of Syria, Saudi Arabia and rity -raising concerns about infiltra­The youth blew himself up in a Jordan. The desert expanse provided tion within Sunni groups now allied reception area as Hussein was greet­a vast safehaven for ai-Qaida in Iraq with U.S. forces against extremists. ing well-wishers in the compound of until Sunni leaders became fed up It also points to concerns that al­Aeifan al-Issawi, a leading member of with the group's brutal tactics and Qaida and its backers are still com­the Anbar Awakening Council -the joined forces with the Americans mitted to campaigns of revenge and first Sunni group to publicly turn against it. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, Janaury 22, 2008 
Life 
continued from page 1 
pn~ludc to the march. 

"So far everybody seems to really be enjoying themselves," Hight to Lili~ president Mary Liz Waltnr said Monday night. "And tomorrow should be even better. I think for most it'll be such a pow­erful experience to be in the heart of the nation's capital next to hundreds of thousands of other people, all united for one cause." 
More than 200,000 people attended last year, according to the Hight for Life Web site. 
In addition to a 27 percent increase in the number of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross participants, Walter said there are about 30 students from Purdue University who registered to attend through Right to Life. She said the dub's travel options were afl'ordable and convenient fi1r many college studenL'i. 
Tw~sday's itinerary will include attonding a youth Mass, rallying at Capitol Mall and finally march­ing from the Mall to the Supreme Court building, the Notre Dame l{ight to Life-Web site said. 
"Hopefully this will be an opportunity for everyone to be in solidarity with other people who are also fighting for the dignity and the respect for human life in all of iL'i stages," Walter said. 
Notre Dame students traveling to Washington, D.C. for the march have been excused from dasses by the Oflice of Hesidence Life and Housing because the march represents an integral part of l{ight to Life's mission, Associate Vice Presidnnt for Hnsidence Life Bill Kirk said Monday. 
"Hight to Life is a recognized student organization and like many othPr student organizations with national conferences and nvents that arc critical to their underlying purpose, they were granted excusod absencns to be able to partieipate in the march," Kirk said. 
The deeision to allow these stu­
tours, honorary society national 
conventions and student union 
board national conferences, 
among other events, participants 
of the Right for Life March were 
eligible for an excused absence 
from their classes through Kirk's 
office. 
"This is not the first year that excused absences have been granted for participants in the Hight to Life March," Kirk said. "Our oflice only maintains class absence records for the immedi­ately previous year, so I am unable to say with certainty for how many years excused absences have been provided, but I do recall excused absences being granted for at least the last several years," he said. 
Last year, about 120 students took advantage of this option and filled three Right to Life charter buses to Washington, D.C. This year, as the number of partici­pants surpassed 100, Kirk was "delighted" to approve their absence from class. 
He said he hopes these students will be "a very visible sign" of the University's commitment to its Catholic mission. 
"I can think of few better ways to do so than through this march," Kirk said. 
The students on the four-day trip, whieh came with a price tag of $85 per person, have been lodged at the St. Agnes Parish in Arlington, Va. since Saturday morning. The second batch of students, who paid $75 to cover the cost of transportation and some food at the parish, arrived one day later. The third and final group, which contributed $50 per person to cover the cost of the buses, arrived this morning after an overnight drive. 
But for many students, spend­ing the night on a bus is a minor inconvenience for a chance to make their voices heard. 
Senior Ana Laura Virzi said she just wants to protest abortion on behalf of "all the unborn souls that didn't have the opportunity to protest themselves." 
From the bus carrying the third group to Washington, D.C., she 

Nigerian n1an faces deportation 
Immigrant fears return to homeland after working as drug informant 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -More than two decades ago, Frank Enwonwu got caught smug­gling five ounces of heroin into the United States from his homeland in Nigeria. He admitted his mistake and readily agreed to work as an informant, believing the U.S. had promised to keep him safe. 
He went on to pursue his share of the American dream, driving a cab and training as a nurse's aide ­until a change in law in 1996 retroactively made him liable to be deported for his drug conviction, despite his work to help the government. 
Now, he weeps in a room at a homeless shelter he shares with his 13-year-old son, fearful that any day he could be sent back to Nigeria to be tortured or killed as drug dealers with long memories seek retribution for his work as an informant. 
"Trust me, no one there has forgotten what I did -even after 22 years. I'll be killed there before I even have the ability to see daylight," he said. 
Enwonwu, 58. has spent about five of the last 11 years in detention while fighting his deportation order. His legal appeals all but exhaust­
ed, he  now  is asking to  be  
spared  on  humanitarian  
grounds.  

"I have a little boy who did not grow up with me because of all the time I have spent in detention. He needs me," said Enwonwu, who is sepa­rated from his wife and has custody of the teen. 
Enwonwu is under a final deportation order and could be taken into custody and deported without notice. 
"This is a man who assisted the United States government as an informant, helping them prosecute drug-related crimes, and in so doing, he has put his life at complete risk. We believe that creates an obligation on the part of the United States to protect him," said Meetali Jain, an attorney at the American University Washington College of Law International Human Rights Law Clinic. 
Enwonwu admits he com­mitted a crime when he brought drugs into the United States, but claims he was tricked by a Nigerian military officer who offered to buy him a plane ticket if he would show the man around Boston, where he had attend­ed Tufts University in the 1970s. 
The night of their flight, Enwonwu said, other military officers ordered him to carry two packets of heroin. He was arrested at Boston's Logan International Airport after Customs officials found the drug. 
Within hours of his arrest, Enwonwu said, federal drug agents asked him to partici­pate in a sting to catch the dealers who were to come to Boston from New York to pick up the heroin. Enwonwu agreed, and two men were arrested. Their boss in Ohio was also prosecuted. All three were from Nigeria. 
In the mid-1980s, Nigeria had become a major transit point for Asian heroin and South American cocaine being smuggled to Europe and North America. The transit networks expanded and became highly organ­
ized, prompting U.S. pressure on Nigerian authorities to crack down on the trade, which Nigerian police say frequently involves gang killings. 
Enwonwu worked for the Drug Enforcement Administration for 10 months, providing the names of suspected drug dealers in Nigeria who U.S. officials believed were running drugs to the United States them­selves or through couriers. He also supplied the names of Nigerians living in the United States who he had learned were involved with drugs. 
Enwonwu said the DEA promised him he would not be deported and would be protected from the drug deal­ers he had ratted on. 
"They knew how dangerous the drug lords in Nigeria were and they told me I was­n't going back to Nigeria," Enwonwu said. "Based on that promise, I continued my cooperation with them." 
The DEA acknowledges it paid him $1,600 for his work as an informant, but Herbert Lemon Jr., the DEA agent who Enwonwu claims made the promises, said he never told Enwonwu he would not be deported. 
"Absolutely not. I (didn't) have the authority to do it," Lemon, who is now retired from the DEA, told The Associated Press. "That just didn't happen." 
Lemon said he did tell fed­eral prosecutors that Enwonwu had cooperated, which the agent believes spared Enwonwu from serv­ing jail time. He got a sus­pended sentence and proba­tion on the heroin charge. 
dents to miss their classes, he said, is in accordance with the absence policy outlinnd in duLac, which says members of groups that officially represent Notre Damn may rnceive excused absences when they are away from campus pnrforming duties fin· the University. Like many stu­dents involvod in varsity or club athletic evenL'i, mock trials, choir said that though she is a Panamanian citizen, she thinks it's important to make a differ­ence in the United States -a country that may well serve as an example for other countries in Latin America and the world on the abortion issue. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 



Resolution 
continued from page 1 

Dorm improvement funds are not sufficient to cover the expenses of facilities, Montes said. 
Badin rector Sister Denise Lyon echoed this claim, noting that 1-.,rym costs include maintain­ing as well as purchasing equip­mont. 
Onn of th1~ few ways to main­tain dorm workout fadlities is to incrnaso hall taxes, Lyon said. 
Knott rector Brother Jerome Meyer said the OITice of Hesidence Life and Housing gives rectors the responsibility of finding workout machines for thnir dorms. 
"If people plan, knowing at the bnginning of the year what they want !regarding workout equip­mnntl, they will eventually get it," lw said. 
Knott Hall obtained all the equipment for its workout room through thn matching funds pro­gram for elective dorm expons­os. Hnctors can apply for up to $1500 of funding, two third of which will come from the University and one third whieh will come from the Hall Presidents Council. 
Meyer urged members to approve a resolution to fund dorm workout facilities that is not tied to matching funds. 
Montes suggested rectors sub­mit surveys to students inquiring what kinds of improvements they want from their dorm's matching funds to be spent. She asked whether matching funds were suflident for improvement on dormitory workout facilities. 
Student government vice pres­ident Maris Braun, a member of the Task Force on Student Development, suggested there should be alternate funding sourcos, such as a fund solely to improve workout facilities. 
Gustavo Gari, a member of the Task Force on Community Helations, argued the resolution should simply acknowledge the shortcomings of curmnt workout facilities. 
"We just need to address the issue that facilities are inade­quate," Gari said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 


Assistant Rector 
for University Residences 
Wednesday, January 23, 7:30-8:30 p.m. 
Fischer Community Center (at Fischer O'Hara Grace Graduate Residences) 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit http://osa.nd.edu/ 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,099.30 -59.91

:Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,152 64 2,045 1,680,918,110 
AMEX 
NASDAQ NYSE .;~M-iwN;NA~Mtii:i!!lilillitiiB S&P 500 1,325.19 -8.06 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ··.·.····..·.•. ,!!1i[1~2wl·I~)2I!l!'i[il·~~~~t-i FTSE 100 (London) 5,578.20 -323.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.03 -1.37 132.06 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.13 -0.06 46.35 CITIGROUP INC (C) -2.04 -0.51 24.45 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.71 -0.33 19.00 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.22 +0.008 3.648 13-WEEK BILL -6.38 -0.190 2.790 30-YEAR BOND + 1.03 +0.044 4.297 5-YEAR NOTE -1.79 -0.052 2.850 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.44 90.57 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +1.10 881.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.00 84.20 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 105.93 EURO 0.6939 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0354 BRITISH POUND 0.5155 

IN BRIEF Disneyland tries to raise appeal in China 
HONG KONG -Hong Kong Disneyland unveiled new Chinese New Year outfits for Mickey and Minnie Mouse created by designer Vivienne Tam on Monday as part of the park's efforts to boost its appeal to Chinese tourists after a dismal second year. 
Disney's two iconic characters strutted their stuff down a red carpet -Mickey in a bright red Mao suit and Minnie in a cherry blossom red dress with a bouquet-like bottom. 
Mao suits were named after late Chinese leader Mao Zedong, who frequently donned tight-collared outfits instead of Western-style dress shirt and tie. 
Nine other models also displayed red and black dresses featuring Mickey Mouse patterns. 
''I've liked Mickey Mouse since I was very lit­tle. They !Disney characters] gave me many happy moments during my childhood," Tam, a Ilong Kong native, told reporters. 
Democrat pushes for even tax rebates 
WASHINGTON -Any rebate included in an economic stimulus plan should include people who pay Social Security taxes, not just those who pay income taxes, a leading Democratic lawmak­er said Sunday. 
"If we did the rebate based on the payroll tax, it would hit a lot more people at a lower end of the spectrum. And so to just say income taxes are the only taxes we're considering that people pay is unfair," said Charles Schumer, the New York lawmaker who is chairman of the congres­sional Joint Economic Committee. People making $35,000 to $50,000 pay a lot of federal taxes, he said, but much of that is not income tax, but dimcted to programs like Social Security. 
Democrats and the Bush administration say they want to reach a quick agreement so the economic stimulus can be applied quickly to the struggling economy. But any Democratic insis­tence on covering those who don't pay income tax could be a cause of conflict. 
The White House, for now, envisions providing one-time rebate checks to people who pay feder­al income taxes. That would leave out millions of the working poor, who do not make enough to pay income taxes but do pay Social Security and Medicare payroll taxes. 

Web site founder strikes again 
Reid Hoffman's business networking site, Linkedin, thriving; corp. might go public 
Associated Press 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. -Few Internet entrepre­neurs practice what they preach as devoutly as Linkedin Corp. co-founder Reid Hoffman, whose busi­ness revolves around his belief that good fortune flows from good relation­ships. 
Hoffman, 40, has put that principle to work by mining his own vast network of Silicon Valley connections to rake in one Internet jackpot after another. 
A college friendship led Hoffman to PayPal and his first windfall when eBay Inc. bought the online pay­ment service for $1.5 bil­lion in 2002. Since then, he has become even wealthier by investing in other Internet startups he discov­ered through friends and former colleagues. 
Along the way, Hoffman also used some of his PayPal proceeds to help start Linkedin, an online business-networking serv­ice that helps professionals like him realize the value of their contacts from the past and present. 

With more than 1 million people joining each month and projected 2008 rev­enue of $75 million to $100 million, Linkedin Corp. online network, Mary could people now have profiles said. "We have had (buy­seems likely to deliver ask Fred for a referral to on the site, roughly twice out) conversations with all another big payoff for Bob, who could then decide as many as a year ago. the usual suspects, but I Hoffman. whether he wanted to Hoffman, who remains think an IPO is by far and 
"Linkedin is a _great embrace a new relation­Linkedin's chairman and away the most likely out­expression of who Reid is," ship with Mary. largest shareholder five come." said John Lilly, chief execu­Linkedin's focus on pro­years after starting the Nonetheless, Linkedin tive of the Firefox Web fessional networking distin­company, said the has its share of detractors, browser maker, Mozilla guishes it from social play­Mountain View-based com­who see it as little more Corp., where Hoffman sits grounds like Facebook and pany will probably file for than a tool for job hunters on the board of directors. News Corp.'s MySpace, an initial public offering of and employment recruiters, "It's really his brain on the where users are encour­stock before 2010 if he isn't a slightly different twist on Web." aged to share their person­first tempted to sell to one online help-wanted servic­
Linkedin tries to help al lives by posting party of the suitors that have es like Monster.com or people who know each photos and adding favorite inquired about buying Yahoo Inc.'s HotJobs. other elsewhere more easi­bands. Linkedln. Hoffman would­Besides selling ads, the site ly meet others who might Although it may not n't identify the suitors. lets employment recruiters help their careers. For sound as much fun, "I know we are going to and others pay for expand­example, if Mary and Bob Linkedin appears to be be much more valuable in ed access to Linkedin mem­are both part of Fred's thriving. About 18 million a year or two," Hoffman bers. 


LATnnes editor ousted inbudget dispute 
O'Shea's departure comes just a management over how much to cut
Associated Press 
month after the Times' parent, the news budget. 
Chicago-based Tribune Co., was When Editor John Carroll left in 

LOS ANGELES -The Los Angeles taken private in an $8.2 billion buy­2005 he was replaced by Baquet, Times fired its top editor after he out by real estate magnate Sam Zell. who was then the Times managing rejected a management order to cut The departure also follows that of editor. Hiller, former publisher of the $4 million from the newsroom budg­his predecessor, Dean Baquet, who Tribune who had worked with et, 14 months after his predecessor was forced to resign after he opposed O'Shea in Chicago, then brought him was also ousted in a budget dispute, further cuts to the newsroom budget out to replace Baquet. the newspaper said Sunday. in 2006. Hiller had joined the Times in 2006 
James O'Shea was fired following a O'Shea, then the Chicago Tribune's after former Publisher Jeffrey M. confrontation with Publisher David managing editor, was brought in to Johnson was ousted for refusing to 
D. Hiller, the Times reported on its replace him. carry out budget cuts ordered by cor­Web site. The story didn't say when At the time, he asked the news staff porate headquarters in Chicago. the confrontation took place. not to see him as "the hatchet man A month later, Hiller dismissed 
"The Los Angeles Times, like all from Chicago" and promised to fight Baquet and brought in O'Shea to newspaper companies, is facing to ensure the Times would "remain a replace him. major challenges in charting a major force in American journalism." Before coming to the Times, O'Shea course that will be successful for the "If I think there is too much staff I had been managing editor of the future. The path ahead is going to be will say so," O'Shea told the paper's Tribune since February 2001 and difficult and requires that our people editors and reporters in 2006. "And had worked at the newspaper in var­and our organization be aligned if I think there is not enough I will . ious capacities since 1979. behind what we need to do," Hiller say that, too." Before joining the Tribune he had said in a statement. "As a result of O'Shea is the third Times editor to been a reporter, editor and these changes, Jim O'Shea will be leave the newspaper since 2005, all Washington correspondent for the leaving the Times." of them departing in disputes with Des Moines Register. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Ken fowler Kyle West 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass·l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDI'IUR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574)·631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intormation. 
Questions regarding Observer polici~ should b~ directed ttJ Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'!1Jc Oh<;drvcr (USPS ';99 2-4UUO) j, puhli.hcd Mund:~y rhwugh Friday exc-ept dunn~ tum ;and V".l4'llliHu pcruxh Asuh~npriun w Til(· Olm:rvc"r i• S 100 fur one :~.Gtdcmic year; $S~ lOr nne: ~mcatn 
The OMervcr lS puhlishtd .u: POSTMASTER 024 S..omh Dining I h.IJ S<:nd .-.ddrcss (Ort«'rions to: Notre O;unc, IN 46S'S6-0779 The Observer Pc-riodiulf>e151~ paid <1t Norte D.1mc: r.o. Bmt 779 aml.addidnnal n10tiling offices. 024 SoUih Oining H.tll 
Neue D;unc, IN '\6SJ6-0n9 
Tiu~· OllKrvtr is;& member nfrhc Asl.uci.-.u:J f'ro;s. All rcpruductiun tl~ts ate re.ttvcli. 

The construction work on Duncan Hall has progressed steadily through­out last semester and over Winter Break. The new residence should cer­tainly do its part to help ease the over­load in male hous­
ing. Before that Secretary of State, Condoleezza Rice. happens, however, Sure, she does have a record of doing a few unsettled things like amicably chatting with the issues need to be dictator of the oil-rich, corruption-rid­addressed by the den African nation Equatorial Guinea .administration and and calling him a "good friend" of the 
the greater Notre United States a month after our State 
Dame community. Department reports on his country's 
The biggest ques­tortun~. child labor and restricted free­tion mark sur­doms-but who are we to judge? All rounding the new that oil could help our school's energy dorm is the identity concerns, or fund Duncan Hall, if we 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion
of its mascot. With "Duncan" in the title, a whole host of options are avail­able. One of my favorites is the Duncan Donuts. That probably has the most flair out of any choice, as well as the most potential for corporate sponsor­ship. The popular donut company could join Coca-Cola and Adidas in the proud pantheon of Irish sponsors, and maybe we could get a Dunkin' Donuts in the Huddle. That would be pretty sweet. 
Then again, the donut is not the most inspiring of mascots. While it would hardly be the campus's weakest logo (no oiTense, BP and Farley), we can probably do better. Something like the Duncan Hunters would conjure up a fiercer and stronger sense of dorm unity, a more rousing battle standard. The hall could enlist the patronage of congressman Duncan Hunter himself, proud representative of California's 52nd district. There is a danger, how­ever, that Hunter would try to fence off the dorm's ethnic minorities. in line with his support for a border fence in southern California. That, and possible entanglements with campus security when Hunter tries to convert the put­ting greens near Duncan into an NRA shooting range. 
Slam Duncan 
On second thought, maybe we should be more selective about government relations. Notre Dame already catches enough flak from those damned dirty liberals who like to criticize our Master's Degree alumna and current 
ask Hice to say a few words for the 
new dormitory. 
We'll have to be sure not to mention to her our own nuclear Hadiation Hesearch building, of course -she might not be too keen on that. But don't let me slander her -after all, Rice does have a softer side. She's played piano accompaniment with Yo­Yo Ma. Speaking of which, what about the Duncan Yo-Yos as a mascot? That sponsorship could rival donuts for the coolest free giveaways. 
But I digress. If we really want to lind a good energy policy for Duncan Hall, as well as a politically conscious mas­cot (and when do those two concerns not go hand-in-hand?), perhaps we could consult Charles Duncan, former Secretary of Energy for President Carter. He might be able to find an energy plan for Duncan that does not draw power from a facility which pumps warm water into St. Joseph's Lake and keeps it from freezing even in sub-zero weather. Charles Duncan could spearhead a bold new campus energy initiative. 
With Charles in charge of our ­wait! Pardon the interruption, but I just reminded myself of the hit 1980s fami­ly sitcom, "Charles In Charge," starring Scott Baio. You remember-"Charles in charge, of our days, and our nights." And remember how Charles' basement room had that cool wall bed that could fold up and create extra space when he needed it? Duncan Hall should really look into those-folding beds would be a huge space-saver, and they could even credit Charles In Charge for the idea. Of course, that show also starred James Widdoes, who we all remember played Robert Hoover in Animal House earlier in his carPer. Connect the dots. No disrespect intended to Widdoes, but I feel the administration might fear sending the wrong message to dorm residents by installing beds inspired by a prop piece featured on a television show starring a former cast member of a raucous college comedy. (Of coursn, that might just be me.) 
lf Notre Dame really wants a more appealing image, Duncan llall should be christened Duncan's Toy Chest. You know, after the giant FAO Schwarz­modeled toy store !'natured in "Home Alone 2: Lost in New York." IL's what Marv and Harry plan to rob and where the old toy store guy gives young pro­tagonist Kevin McCallister a turtle dove ornament for a tree. (Kevin Iatm gives one of the doves to the homeless pigeon lady.) That was a pretty good movie in 1992, but I don't know if it has stood the test of time. 
Oh, right-Duncan Hall. I can't real­ly offer any more advice than that. It really comes down to one simple ques­tion: donuts or yo-yos? In the spirit of Secretary Rice: The choice is yours. But choose what we want you to choose, or we'll blow you up. 
James Dechant hopes you could fol­low his convoluted train ofthought and would like to place blame on Wikipedia and the Internet in general. You can complain about his rambling diatribe by writing him atjdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Karen Langley Chris Khorey Who will win the Republican Beeky Hogan Matt Gamben 
nomination? 
Nikki Taylor Pat O'Brien 

Mitt Romney John McCain 
Graphics Scene 

Mike Huckabee Fred Thompson "If everything seems under control, 
Matt Hudson Chris McGrady 

you're not going fast enough. " 
Viewpoint Ron Paul Rudy Giuliani Maria Stohler Mario Andretti Professional racecar driver 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Viewers tired of television reruns 
By now almost everyone is at least aware of the writer's strike that began on Nov. 5. On that day, for the lirst time in two decades, 12,000 script writers of film, television and broadcasts put down their pens in favor of picket signs demanding residual compensation for evolving technolo­
Tannen Gliatta 

gy. But what does that actually 
mean for viewers and the entertain­
Bowling Green 

ment industry? 
State

It means repeats and reality 
shows. And lots of them. Television University's 
has been hit hardest by the strike; BGNews 
on average, television shows only 
lilm about a month ahead and most of the programs 
were forced to stop production immediately. 
Jonathan Sommers, a Miami University graduate, who 
has worked under the executive producers of such televi­_sion shows as Medical Investigation and this season's ·Bionic Woman on NBC, is currently on strike with fellow 
writers. 
"This television season is more than done," Sommers 
said. "Even if we start writing tomorrow, it would be at 
least May before new programs were on television." 
According to TV Guide Magazine, programs including 
Grey's Anatomy, Gossip Girl and The Office have already 
aired all their new episodes, and many other programs 
like House and Brothers & Sisters have only two or three 
new episodes left. 
A few midseason scripted shows will have original episodes this winter, but even those programs will have abbreviated seasons. The CW's One Tree Hill just began its fifth season but will run out of original episodes by the end of March, and ABC's Lost will return January 31 for a mere eight episodes. FOX's 24 was scheduled to return this month, but the network has decided to hold onto the handful of completed episodes until they can air the sea­son uninterrupted as planned. 
Currently the Writer's Guild is demanding higher resid­uals for when television programs and films are streamed on new technology including the Internet, DVDs and cell phones. The union is asking for 2.5 cents per dollar of DVD sales and Internet downloads, an increase from the one-third of a penny per dollar they receive now. 
With no end in sight to the current strike, it appears that networks are once again turning to reality. Unlike the strike in 1988, reality television is no longer unchart­ed territory, but rather a proven success. As the impend­ing strike grew closer, CBS quietly rushed another season of Big Brother into production, casting has begun for sea­son six of ABC's Dancing with the Stars, and FOX's mega­hit American Idol returned this week. 
Other areas of television are reacting to the current strike the same way they did in 1988. Late-night talk show hosts walked the picket lines in support of their writers before returning to air a few months later with­out their writers, and daytime dramas have once again hired non-union writers to ensure ori~al programming throughout the strike. 
"Conan O'Brien and Jay Leno are members of the Writer's Guild and I think with them on the air again it almost weakens the fight," Sommers said. 
The $500 million lost in 1988 may seem like a paltry sum compared to what the industry stands to lose now. The cancellation of the Golden Globes has already cost the industry over $20 million in ad revenue, and now the 2008 fall television season is in jeopardy. 
Scripts for fall television start to be written in April, Sommers said. Also, new series like Pushing Daisies and Chuck were just gaining momentum and viewers before their season came to an abrupt end and may face prob­lems fmding an audience again, unlike long running pro­grams with established fans. 
"Any show that is on the bubble will be pulled in favor of more reality like American Gladiator, which has already been approved for a second season," Sommers said. 
Despite George Clooney's recent efforts, there is cur­rently no set date to resume formal negotiations between the guild and studios. 
"No one knows what will happen," Sommers said. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 18 edition ofThe BG News, the daily newspaper at Bowling Green State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Voters need not slip into intellectual laziness 
Meet Bethany, an average American and a life-long Hepublican who wishes she could vote for President Bush a third time, but interestingly enough, is consider­ing Sen. Barack Obama as her horse in the race for the presidency. 
Her reasons are not grounded in Jeff Hubbard an ideological shift, but are as sim­ple as describing Obama as fresh, University of good-looking and smooth. 
Southern 

Aristotle felt democracy was a 
California's

poor form of government because it 
Daily Trojan 

can become easy for a population to slip into intellectual laziness by let­ting trivial characteristics-such as a candidate's looks -justify their support for a leader. 
To bring this discussion close to home, Stephen Colbert has a segment on his show called "Don't F%#k This Up America." 
Within this skit, Colbert highlights the two challenges facing the American voter: voting and not voting. As Colbert jokingly explains, the first way to f---up an election is by voting. Like Bethany, there is a portion of the population that likes to vote based on gut, instead of on intellect. 
These feel-good gut feelings, as observed by Colbert, are triggered by one-liners such as Gov. Mike Huckabee's, "I cannot part the Red Sea, but I believe I can part the red tape." 
What Colbert is getting at is what the French writer Voltaire observed: "A witty saying prove!'; nothing," but sadly, will tickle the American political bone into votes. 
The other way to f---up an election, explained by Colbert in his segment, is by not voting. 
This portion of Colbert's discussion reaches out to the disaffected and apathetic voters because by not voting, fewer voters allows either Bethany or the religious right to dictate who the president will be -both are scary thoughts. 
The lesson here: Find a candidate who shares your values and vote for him or her even if it means voting for the Libertarian, Independent or Socialist parties. 
The theme that emerges out of Colbert's segment is the failure of the American voter. 
There are too many Bethanys and too many citizens who do not vote, which explains why 70 percent of Americans are against the war in Iraq, yet we are still there. 
If you are one of these individuals who votes based off looks, popularity, catchy one liners or not at all, there is good news. You have a chance to remedy your past errors. 
The California primary is quickly approaching and will be held Feb. 5, which is known as "Super Tuesday." This is your opportunity to cut through the rhetoric 
and vote for a presidential candidate who defends your beliefs. 
If you are against the war in Iraq and the larger war on terrorism, but support Sen. Hillary Clinton, you should know she has not pledged to have all troops home by 2013, and recently voted to label Iran's mili­tary as a terrorist organization. 
If you are against the Patriot Act, but support Sen. Barack Obama, you should know that in 2006 he voted to reauthorize it. 
If you are pro-life, but support Gov. Mitt Romney, you should know he ran on a pro-choice platform in Massachusetts. 
Vote based on your principles, not funny quips or physical appearance. 
Vote for the candidate who shares your visiDn for America and has the record and experience to deliver it. 
Most importantly, if we cannot vote based on princi­ple, then there is no way we can expect our politicians to do so. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 16 edition of The Daily Trojan, the daily newspaper at the University ofSouthern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

) } 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
REVIEW: 'DRESSES' Is ONE-SIZE-FITS-ALL 
By NICOLE EGGENBERGER Scene Writer 
Fox's plan to maximize holiday ticket sales by pushing the release date of "27 Dresses" back to Jan. 18 proved to be a smart one. 
"27 Dresses" opened second with a gross weekend total of $22.4 million behind the movie "Cloverfield" which totaled $41 million on opening weekend. Its chick-flick competitor, "Mad Money," only opened seventh with $7.7 million­making the fairly predictable romantic plot of "27 Dresses" a clear favorite alter­native to the Sci-Fi thriller "Cloverfield." 
Katherine Heigl stars in "27 Dresses" as Jane, a serial bridesmaid who, after per­forming all the necessary bridesmaid duties 27 times, has trouble completing her 28th. Her younger sister Tess (Malin Akerman) plans to marry Jane's boss George (Edward Burns), whom she secre­tively loved. Adding to her distress, a writer for the commitments section, Kevin (James Marsden), follows her around to cover the big event. 
After telling Vanity Fair in an interview that "Knocked Up" was "a little sexist," Heigl chose her next role to be more female friendly. "Dresses" gives audi­ences what -if not more than -they expect in a classic romantic comedy. Previews did not do the movie justice for the depth of the plot. , 
The film does not only showcase the horrible 27 weddings Jane had to attend, but also centers around her personal career, passions, love life and family. By the end of the film, Jane's personality is so understood that her happiness and growth is a concern for everyone in the 
27 Dresses 
Director: Anne Fletcher Starring: Katherine Heigl, James Marsden, Edward Bums & Judy Greer 
audience. Jane was a woman who would only try to please everyone else before herself, but in order to find love she had to start thinking for herself. 
Kevin pushes Jane to stop being a door­mat by persistently getting on her nerves. For viewers, the irritated but cute exchanges between Jane and Kevin set the playful romantic mood. The pairs on­screen chemistry was perfect in making the story believable and desirable. "Awwing" out loud moments included a modeling show for Kevin of all 27 dress­es; a drunken rendition of Elton John's classic "Bennie and the Jets," sung by both on top of a bar; and the big romantic gesture at the end of the film. Marsden made a simple line -"Come here" ­unbelievably sexy and dream-worthy. 
The talent of the cast did not stop with Heigl and Marsden. Burns played the per­fect clueless and overly dependent boss whose main concern was himself unlike Jane's problem of concern for others. George is a tofu loving outdoor adventure fanatic who falls for Tess his deceivingly perfect match. Tess is more of burger lov­ing spa girl whose only thing she may have in common with George is that she only thinks about herself. Akerman plays the role of a snotty younger sister so well that it may be disappointing that Jane never actually punches her out. 
A near-show stealer was Jane's sassy and sarcastic friend Casey played by Judy Greer. Most of Casey's lines were the types of inappropriate thoughts that peo­ple only think in their heads but never actually say. Following Jane around to all her wedding events seemed to have given Casey a perpetual hangover. Casey goes to the weddings for all of the fun that can be had there as laid out in "Wedding 
Crashers." 
It may seem that "27 Dresses" has the typical romantic comedy characters and plot -and that's because it does. It doesn't fail to give the target audience exactly what they hope for in chick-flick and that's the best thing about the movie. Love scene in the rain, cute romantic phrases and a breakout everybody sing-along song are all included. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel @nd.edu 
REVIEW: 'DRESSES' NOT M 
By JESS SCHAFFER 
Scene Writer 

Do romantic comedies exploit wint blues? I think so. And "27 Dresses headlined by Katherine Heigl, is : exception. 
It's that time of year when a cup of l coco is just not enough to warm yo heart. And· the bleakness of 1 0-degre• below-zero weather doesn't exactly he Parkas, earmuffs, scarves and mitte are probably not the cuddly consolati you had in mind for surviving the remai ing winter months.... Hollywood to t rescue. In an effort to satisfy -1 exploit, cough cough -whims of frostb ten love, the annual wintertime roman comedy invades the box office. Last ye it was "The Holiday," and this year i "27 Dresses." With a trendy cast, lots fashion faux paxs, and the minimu requirement of witty banter and physic humor "27 Dresses" complies to the chi flick standard, with little innovation. 
Heigl was perhaps the perfect pick f being leading lady of "27 Dresses." Wi the hype surrounding her engagem and recent wedding, her "Gr Anatomy" publicity, and her previous success in "Knocked Up," Heigl no do generates the perfect media storm neces sary for box office triumph. Just as witl her previous movie and television ve11 tures, Heigl succeeds in her role as Jan( a wedding fanatic who lacks the wor, "no" in her vocabulary. As usually, Hei1 
brings her own class and charm to tl role, making Jane both relatable and li able. Jane is the underdog that the enti 
audience is rooting for. With Heigl at t~ wheel, fond sympathy overrides indign~ tion, as she continuously suffers th 
plight of the curse of "Always a bride~ maid, never a bride." The trend is to extremes when Jane begins arrangi her sister's wedding to the man of bo their dreams. But Heigl doesn't make audience suffer with her. She avoi 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, January 22 , 2008 
page II 
MoRE THAN STANDARD FARE 
becoming annoying and whiney, and 
instead represents a dynamic character 
overwhelmed by her own compassion and 
need to take care of others. 
The supporting cast complements to 
Heigl's work. Marsden plays the guy who 
steals Jane's heart. With sarcastic bitter­
ness and (of course) attractiveness, 
Marsden fills the role as a journalist who 
has lost faith love and marriage, the very 
topic of his style column. Bringing his 
own good looks, Marsden exhibits noth­
ing especially interesting. His chemistry 
with Heigl, while cute, is not outstanding. 
Outside their outrageously handsome 
coupling and occasionally sweet 
moments, there is not much to them as a 
pair. 
There are also the stock characters like 
the loving old fashioned father and the 
jaded, droll best friend. The evil woman 
of the film is Jane's overindulged sister, 
Tess. Played by Malin Akerman, Tess is 
ironically the antithesis to Jane's self-sac­
rificing nature. Akerman plays a bridezil­
la reminiscent of that friend or sibling 
you unfathomably still love despite all her 
selfish antics. In this way Tess, as a sup­
porting character, allows viewers to con­
nect to Jane through their own experi­
ences with cattiness. 
Despite its highlighting cute moments 
and the intermittent great one liner "27 
Dresses" pulls too heavily from its prede­
cessors. There are countless scenes 
evocative of romantic comedy "greats." 
"1 0 Things I Hate About You," "How to 
Lose a Guy In 10 Days," "The Wedding 
Planner," "The Holiday" and "America's 
Sweethearts" are all represented influ­
ences. 
Though it could have saved itself with 
better writing or a fresh take on an over­
done storyline, "27 Dresses" lacks the 
charisma or ingenuity to separate itself 
from these precursors. In the end, there 
is not much too the film and it is overly 
reliant on the formulaic preconceptions 
of the chick flick. 
While meeting the standards of medioc­
rity, don't go into this film with high 
expectations for it to become a 
romantic comedy classic. Still, it 
may be good enough to satisfy the 
needs of your winter blues with 
some old tricks. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 


watch. Maybe I Cassie Belek should cut the genre a little more slack, 
Scene & 

but to me, watching 
Heard 

a terrible romantic comedy is almost as bad as watching "Citizen Kane" more than once. (I'm a film student, but that doesn't make that film any Jess boring). 
"27 Dresses" is significantly better than romantic comedy train wrecks "Failure to Launch" and "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days" (note that both movies star Matthew McConaughey). But it's no "You've Got Mail" or "Love Actually." It has its ups and downs, but overall it's an enjoyable movie that gives you some laughs and ample opportunities to stare at James Marsden's chiseled face. Here are the hits and misses from "27 Dresses," according to me. 
ToP FIVE HITs 
5. Jane's 27 dresses. It was pretty hilarious to see her try on each one of these, even though I doubt that a per­son in real life would not have at least one dress that she liked. I've been a bridesmaid five times and I liked a cou­ple of my dresses, but just like Jane, I never did get any of them shortened so that I could wear them again. That just doesn't happen. 
4. James Marsden's smile. I'm going to make it my screensaver. 
3. James Marsden sings! Sure he's only singing along to some Elton, but if you were a fan of him in "Hairspray" and "Enchanted," then you'll appreci­ate his vocal endeavor in this movie. Maybe just like John Travolta dances in every movie, Marsden can sing in each of his movies. But, please, I never want to see him dressed as a woman. 
2. The bar scene featuring Jane and Kevin escaping from the rain and Jet­ting loose. Nowhere in the movie is their chemistry more apparent than in this scene. It's the highlight of the romantic comedy and it only makes us wish the pair would do less soul­searching and just have more fun. 
1. Judy Greer as Jane's drunken best friend, Casey. Greer is a scene stealer in every role she plays and is one of the funniest women in Hollywood. Keep an eye out for Casey the morning after a particularly wild weekend. Greer por­trays just the right amount of hangover to keep us laughing. 
TOP FIVE MISSES 
5. The misuse of Melora Hardin. We know that Michael Scott's main squeeze, Jan Levinson, is a whole lot of funny (and a whole lot of crazy), so couldn't Hardin have had one or two funny lines to show her stuff? 
4. Jane's sister, Tess. I absolutely hated this character. I know she's sup­posed to be the villain, but she wasn't even one of those "so-evil-I-love-her" characters like Ursula from "The Little Mermaid." 
3. Brown hair equals dowdiness. What can we do to make the gorgeous Katherine Heigl look frumpy and unde­sirable? Give her brown hair! 
2. The large majority of the dialogue. It was too cheesy and painful to watch­ing, like "Summer Catch." 
1. Too many movie cliches: Weddings on the beach? Of course! Your mother dies when you're young so you learn responsibility at an early age and stop living for yourself? Tragedy is a must! 
When life falls apart, design hand­bags? Just like Monica Lewinsky! 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of us.it.yimg.com 

James Marsden stars opposite of Katherine Heigl in "27 Dresses." In the film the actor from "Hairspray" showcases both his brilliant smile and his singing ability: 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
NBA 

Outlaw's game-winner sparks Blazers' OT win 
Wizards complete season sweep of Mavericks; Timberwolves' Gomes nets career-high 35 in one-point victory 
3:50 left in regulation but came back at the free-throw line. The Hawks scored 11 straight points on free throws to pull even at 100 with 31.9 seconds left. Johnson made the Hawks' last six free throws in the rally. 
After a Portland timeout, Hoy dribbled almost 20 seconds off the clock before missing a driv­ing layup against Johnson. AI Horford grabbed the rebound for Atlanta, which called a timeout with 11.2 seconds left to set up a last shot, but a miss by Johnson led to overtime. 
Outlaw scored the first four points of overtime on a hook and a jumper, but Smith helped keep Atlanta close. Smith's steal and assist set up a basket by Johnson, and Smith added another assist to set up a jam by Marvin Williams that left the teams tied at 107. 
Following two free throws by Outlaw, the Hawks missed four shots but created another pos­session when Smith stole the ball from Outlaw. 
Williams, fouled by LaMarcus Aldridge, made two free throws for another tie at 109 with 19 seconds left. 
Tyronn Lue had 18 points while making each of his four 3-pofnters. Smith had 17 points, 1 7 rebounds, six assists and three blocks. Williams and Josh Childress each added 11. 
Portland improved to 3-3 on its seven-game trip through the Eastern Conference. 
Wizards 102, Mavericks 84 
Caron Butler and Antawn Jamison gave the Washington Wizards their first season sweep of the Dallas Mavericks since 1996-97. 
Butler had 25 points and nine rebounds, Jamison added 23 points and eight rebounds, and Washington overcame Josh Howard's 32 points to beat Dallas Monday, the Mavericks' biggest loss of the season. 
The Wizards have won five of their past six games -includ­ing beating the Boston Celtics twice -to take hold of fourth place in the Eastern Conference despite playing without star Gilbert Arenas since November. 
Howard's chief help came from Dirk Nowitzki, who fin­ished with 21 points, 11 rebounds and six assists. Devin Harris added 14 points. 
Timberwolves 109, Warriors 108 
Ryan Gomes had a career­high 35 and 11 rebounds to help Minnesota snap a 16-game road losing streak. 
AI Jefferson added 21 points and 12 rebounds and Marco Jaric had 16 points, 10 assists and eight boards for the Timberwolves, who won just their second road game of the season and first since a 103-94 win at New Orleans on Nov. 26. 
Gomes hit two free throws with 54.5 seconds remaining to give the Timberwolves a 109­108 lead. After Baron Davis missed a 3-pointer with 32 sec­onds left at the other end, Golden State got one last chance following Jaric's missed 3-point­er with 8.8 seconds to go. 
Davis then missed a driving layup and AI Harrington could­n't tip in the miss at the buzzer, giving Minnesota just its second win in the past 15 games. 
Spurs 95, Bobcats 86 
Tim Duncan had 19 points and 10 rebounds and San Antonio ended its ofl'ensive dol­drums. 
Behind a balanced efl'ort with five players in double figures, the Spurs snapped a two-game losing streak and ended a three-
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -As the final sec­onds in overtime expired, it bneamn elnar that both the Atlanta Hawks and Portland Trail Blazers wen~ eontent to allow Travis Outlaw take the last shot. 
That was all he needed to know. 
Outlaw took advantage of the opportunity, sinking a 20-foot jumper with 1 second left in overtime to lirt the Trail Blazers to a 111-109 victory over the llawks on Monday. 
Outlaw, who led Portland with 23 points, said coach Nate MeMillan asked if he wanted the shot. 
"I was like, 'Yeah,"' said Outlaw, grinning. "It was nice for him to call my number. rt felt good when I shot it. I'd been on it kind of the whole game so I felt good about it." 
The Hawks, who expected Outlaw to pass to Brandon Roy, did not give Josh Smith extra defensive help on Outlaw. 
Outlaw held the ball outside the 3-point line until under 5 seconds remained. Then he took a couple of dribbles inside the circle before pulling up and shooting over Smith. 
McMillan said he made the call for the hot shooter. Outlaw madP. 9 of 14 shots. Roy, who had 18 points,was 8-for-22. 
McMillan said Outlaw had "perfect execution" on the shot. 
"lie got his rhythm and shot the jump shot," McMillan said. "And he nailed it. Just another big shot." 
The Hawks gave Outlaw credit for making the long shot their defense was designed to force. 
"It was a contested shot," Smith said. "I wanted him to shoot a jump shot instead of driving, and he knocked it down. It was just a tough shot." 
The Hawks called a timeout with 0. 9 seconds left. Joe Johnson, who scored 37 points, missed a shot at the buzzer. 
Portland's reserves -led by Outlaw, Sergio Hodriguez, who had 16 points, and James Jones, who had 10-outscored Atlanta's reserves 62-30. 
"Their bench outplayed our starting five, if you ask me," Johnson said. "They've got a good team." 
The Hawks trailed 96-89 with 
AP 



game stretch where they failed to reach 90 points. 
Manu Ginobili and Tony Parker added 16 points each and Michael Finley scored 13 for the Spurs, who shot 49 per­cent. 
Emeka Okafor had 21 points and 10 rebounds and Gerald Wallace added 15 points before leaving late in the game with a sore left calf and knee. 
Celtics 109, Knicks 93 
Kevin Garnett had 20 points, 13 rebounds and seven assists, and Boston routed New York for the second time this season. 
Kendrick Perkins scored 22 of his career-high 24 points in the first half for the Celtics, who shook off the loss of leading scorer Paul Pierce, ejected along with New York's Quentin Richardson late in the third quarter after both picked up two technical fouls for jawing with each other during the peri­od. 
Boston (33-6) has won three straight following the only rough patch in its season, a stretch of three losses in four games. Hay Allen added 17 points and Rajon Hondo had 14 in his return to the lineup after missing two games with a sore lower back. 
Zach Randolph had 24 points and 15 rebounds for the Knicks. 
Mavericks forward Josh Howard, left, and Wizards forward Antawn Jamison elevate for a loose ball Sunday in Washington's 102-84 win. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 

CYO CAMP Rancho Framasa 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS· 
HIRING NOW! Secure your sum­

mer jobl Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclusive. residential camp. located in south central Indiana. operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a welcoming staff community in a beautiful out­door setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes Course, Adventure and Health positions available. All positions start at $240/week. Training is provided;start date May 31, 2008. Apply online www.campranchofra­masa.org Questions? contact Angi at 888-988-2839, x25 or email angi @campranchoframasa.org 
FoR RENT 
705 ND Ave. 3 Bedroom $1 ,000.00. 273-4889 Available 08/09 
Nice Rental Home within a block of ND & Med School. 718 Napoleon,3bdrm,attached garage,basement,large lot,new upgrades/appliances. 574-339-0275. 

Executive House available for out­of-town guests of wedding. special events, and graduation. Walking dis-lance to campus. 4 bedrooms 4 baths. Sleeps 10-14 easily. Irish pub/basement with pool table,bar,pub table, and game tables. High-end home. Gourmet kitchen with granite coun­ters. Very tasteful house. All brick exterior. Built 1935. See website: www.irishhearthmanor.com 
Large house available for 2009-201 0. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com 
4 bedroom, 2 bath, 1 900 sq. ft. tri-level house, 2 car garage, kitchen appliances, smoke and security system. Three miles to ND, move in clean condition. $1600/mo during the school year + utilities. 574-272-5453. 
3-4 bdrm. 3 bath home close to campus, safe. cathedral ceilings. fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
PERSONAL 

Need a job to gain experience? Need experience to gain a job? Entry-level position in Admissions and Alumni Affairs available January 2008 at a private board-ing/day school located 30 minutes from the University o.f Notre Dame. LaLumiere School is looking for an energetic and dedicated person who likes to work with high school students. Some coaching and dorm supervision may be available as well. Please email kennedy@lalumiere.org for further information. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
page 13 
NFL 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Tony Dungy insists family always comes before football. 
But Dungy believes he can make those priorities coexist -even if it means long commutes. 
With his passion to coach high, his family supportive of his ambitions, and the Colts team owner intent on bringing him back, Dungy followed his heart and his family's wishes Monday deciding to return for at least one more season as head coach before turning the job over to his chosen successor, Jim Caldwell. 
"I love this franchise, I love my family," said Dungy, whose contract 

AP 
team 
1 Memphis {49} 
2 Kansas (23} · · 3 Tennessee 4 Duke 
5 North Carolina 6 Washington State 7 Indiana 8 UCLA 9 Georgetown 10 Michigan State 11 Wisconsin 12 Texas 
Indiana 8 Geometow~ · 9 Michigan Stat~ 1Q .•..·· Wisconsin 11 ···texas '1g . 
13 Pitbibur~th 14 Vanderbilt 15 Butler 16 Dayton 17 Mississippi 18 Villanova 18 TexasA&M 20 Stan1ord 21 Marquette 22 Drake 23 Xavier 24 Arizona Slate 25 Baylor 
V!lnderbllt 13 ..• antler 14 ... 
Mlssis!lippcl ls···· 
Tex!lsA&M 16 . 
Pittsburgh 11 
Villanova 18 
Daytun 19 
.. Ml:trtl~!ltte 20 Stanford 21 Xavier 22 Drake 23 
Saint Mary's 24 . Clems()n..?5 
Women's AP CollegQ Basketball. Poll•····· ···· · 
team 
1 
2 
3 
4
1r 
6 1 ~·!l~••li..a .8 9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 
1 2 3 4 
5 6 
7 
8 
9 10 
··········· ····· 

runs through 2009. "I wouldn't have come back if I was going to shortchange either one, or my children were not for it. It was real­ly a family decision." 
The weeklong delibera­tion created an emotional tug-of-war for the deeply religious Dungy. 
His family recently moved back to Tampa, Fla., and his 16-year-old son, Eric, is attending high school there. The percep­tion was Dungy had to chose between leaving the NFL so he could be spend more time at home -as he often cajoles other par­ents to do -or becoming a regular commuter on off­days to fulfill family obliga­tions. 
IN BRIEF 

Defensive end Hargrove
suspended for one year 
BUFFALO -Buffalo Bills defen­sive end Anthony Hargrove was sus­pended without pay for all next sea­son Monday by the NFL after violat­ing the league's substance abuse policy a third time. 
The violation was Hargrove's sec­ond since August, when he was sus­pended without pay for the first four games of the regular season. 
A third violation triggers an auto­matic one-year suspension, and Hargrove must apply to commis­sioner Roger Goodell for reinstate­ment. 
The NFL did not disclose how Hargrove violated the policy. Violations can result from positive tests, failure to cooperate in the testing program or failing to comply with a treatment plan. 
Hargrove's agent, Philip Williams, was out of the country and not immediately available for comment. 
Dungy believes he can do both well. 
Owner Jim Irsay offered to make Dungy's life easier by reducing his day-to-day workload, provide his own private jet for trips to Tampa, and give Dungy a chance to groom his long­time friend, Caldwell. 
It wasn't the offers that convinced Dungy; it was the opportunity to keep winning and the chance to use coaching as a pulpit for his message. 
"I enjoy my job, the play­ers, the staff we have here and Bill (Polian) and Jim," Dungy said. "But it is a platform and that's some­thing I talked to my wife and pastor about. I said 'I could stop and start a min-
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
istry, but I might not have a platform like this.' So I see it as a little more than a job." 
Irsay wasn't the only Colts official relieved. Team president Bill Polian was pleased with the outcome, and last week players repeatedly expressed their desire to have Dungy back. 
"I think there's not a guy in this locker room who wouldn't love to see him back," defensive tackle Darrell Reid said then. 
The 52-year-old Dungy has spent more than half his life coaching in the NFL and became the first black coach to win a Super Bowl last season. He'd like to add to that collection next season. 


Oregon State fires men's 
baslietball coach 
CORVALLIS, Ore. -Oregon State fired basketball coach Jay John, whose team is 6-12 this season and winless in the Pac-1 0. Attendance is reaching record lows at Gill Coliseum and the school has had only one winning season since 1989-90. 
Assistant Kevin Mouton will tem­porarily run the team after the rare midseason coaching change, which was announced Sunday night by athletic director Bob De Carolis. De Carolis did not rule out Mouton as a permanent replace­ment. 
John, in his sixth season, received a five-year contract extension in 2005. Oregon State owes him about $1.1 million. 
"Sometimes things just don't work out and that's the case here," De Carolis said. "We needed to move on." 
Philip Rivers to undergo 
surgery on knee 
SAN DIEGO -Chargers quarter­back Philip Rivers needed surgery to get his right knee through the AFC championship game, and now needs a more extensive operation to repair a torn ligament in the same knee. His rehab could last six months. 
While confirming that he needs sur­gery on his torn right anterior cruci­ate ligament, the quarterback revealed for the first time that he had arthroscopic surgery to clean out the joint a week earlier in order to play in the AFC championship game. 
Rivers made it through Sunday's 21-12 loss to the Patriots in freezing Foxborough, Mass., despite the dam­age to his knee, which he sustained in an upset win over the Indianapolis Colts a week earlier. 
Rivers, lauded by his teammates for his gutsy play, said he'd like to have surgery as soon as possible on the torn ACL. 
around the dial 
TENNIS 2008 Australian Open 3 p.m., ESPN 2 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Michigan at Wisconsin 7 p.m., ESPN Tennessee at Kentucky 9 p.m., ESPN 

I I 
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Tuesday, January 22, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Hurricanes score 3late goals to edge Islanders 
Predators hand Blues fifth straight loss; Coyotes' Doan extends point streak to 11 in home win over Sabres 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -The way things have gone lately for the slumping Carolina Hurricanes, every win is a masterpiece. 
Rallying on the road in the third period against a club that hadn't lost when leading after 40 minutes all season made this victory that much sweeter. 
Carolina defensemen Mike Commodore and Niclas Wallin scored in the third period, and Cory Stillman netted the power­play winner in overtime for the Ilurrieanes, who earned a 3-2 victory over the New York Islanders on Monday. 
"It was a gross game," Commodore said. "The ice was terrible. Pucks were bouncing all over the place. Each team got a couple of lucky goals. We were all just trying to get pucks to the net. That's how we got the first two." 
New York seemed well in con­trol after carrying a 2-0 lead into the third period, but Commodore and Wallin each broke 11-game goal droughts to get the Hurricanes even. 
Stillman took a pass in front from Eric Staal, during Andy Sutton's cross-checking penalty, and scored past Rick DiPietro with a second whack 52 sec­onds into overtime. 
"It was a broken play. It's scary how it works out some­times," Stillman said. 
The Hurricanes didn't have any power-play chances until Staal was crunched into the end boards by Radek Martinek with 
1:23 left in the third period. Their second advantage was enough to give them a second consecutive win following a four-game skid. 
Carolina hadn't won two in a row since Dec. 15 and 18, both after regulation. 


Thursday, january 24 ·i:301?~lvl., O'Laughlin Auditorium 
/ Traditional dance and music play a very important role in the lives ofRwandans. Berwa, meaning ''be proud," is a Rwandan dance group comprised of mostly first -generation Americans of Rwandan decem [hil[ striv<:~s to promotl" their culture by providing moral, spiritual. and physical support to its members. 

"There's a saying that the worst lead in hockey is a two­goal lead, and it proved to be right," Stillman said. 
New York, which squandered a two-goal edge for the second straight game, is 3-3-4 in its last 10. Not even the return from injury of Martinek and fel~ low defenseman Brendan Witt was enough to help. The Islanders had been 15-0 when leading after two periods. 
"It was bound to happen eventually," captain Bill Guerin said. "It's a sour taste in our mouths right now." 
The Islanders are 0-2-2 in their past four at home, sand­wiched around a successful 2-1­2 road trip. New York led 3-1 over Philadelphia on Saturday before falling 5-3. 
"We should be flying a bit higher after the road trip we had," Guerin said. "I think sometimes you get a lead at home and you take it for grant­ed." 
Commodore started the rally 
3:39 into the third, and Wallin tied it about 12 minutes later. 
Wallin let the puck go from the right point, sending a drive between the legs of Islanders forward Trent Hunter and past DiPietro, who was screened in front by Carolina captain Rod Brind'Amour with 4:40 left in regulation. 
Commodore had cut the deficit to 2-1 with a shot that caromed in off an Islanders skate in front. 
Andy Hilbert and Miroslav Satan scored second-period goals for New York. 
Hilbert took advantage of a fortunate bounce off the glass 
3:17 into the period, and Satan doubled the Islanders' lead near the end of the second. DiPietro shook off an injury to his right leg and was in line for his 20th win. 
DiPietro stretched for a shot that sailed wide of the net late in the second period and got up slowly, flexing his right leg. He made a flurry of saves soon after and appeared to be OK. DiPietro missed three games last month due to a left knee injury and said this was unre­lated. 
"It was a little tweak. Nothing major," said DiPietro, who fin­ished with 26 saves. 
Cam Ward stopped 23 shots and helped the Hurricanes build off a 7-2 home win on Friday that ended their skid. Carolina has allowed only four goals in two games after giving up 19 in the four-game slide. 
The teams will conclude their four-game season series at Carolina on Tuesday night. 
"These points are huge," Witt said. "We have to become road warriors." 
Predators 6, Blues 3 
Alexander Radulov and Martin Gelinas had two goals and an assist and the Nashville Predators beat the slumping St. Louis Blues Monday. 
Shea Weber and Scott Nichol also scored for Nashville, which improved to 7-2-2 in its last 11 games. Chris Mason finished with 31 saves. 
Brad Boyes, Dan Hinote and Keith Tkachuk scored for the Blues, who have lost five straight. 
Boyes put St. Louis in front with his 27th goal of the season at the 3:56 mark in the first. He got a pass from Andy McDonald and converted from the low slot. 

Weber had a power-play goal and Nichol also beat Manny Legace to help Nashville take a 2-1 lead after the first period. Nichol scored two short-handed goals against Legace on Saturday in the first game of the home-and-home series between the teams. 
The Blues tied it on Hinote's rebound goal in the second but Nashville went ahead for good on Radulov's backhander at 
16:12. Gelinas' deflection of defenseman Greg deVries' shot from the left point with just 
37.2 seconds remaining in the 
period made it 4-2. Radulov scored again just 
1:58 into the third, and Gelinas had an empty-netter to com­plete the scoring. 
The Predators moved into second in the tightly contested Central Division with the win. Nashville and Columbus each have 52 points, but the Predators have one more victo­ry and have played one less game. 
Tkachuk accounted for the third St. Louis goal at 2:57 of the third period. Legace made 21 saves. 
Coyotes 6, Sabres 2 
There were stars all around for Phoenix in the Coyotes' rout of Buffalo. As often is the case, Shane Doan headed the list. 
Doan had what coach Wayne Gretzky called "a tremendous goal" and an assist as the Coyotes sent the Sabres to a franchise-record eighth consecu­tive road loss on Monday. 
The team captain extended his career-best points streak to 11 games. 
"He's just taking the team on his shoulders right now, there's no question," Gretzky said. "He's playing probably better than I've ever seen him play." 
Five other Coyotes scored as the team matched its highest­scoring game of the season. 
Doan, Niko Kapanen and Derek Morris scored in a span of just over 5 1/2 minutes of the second period against backup Buffalo goalie Jocelyn Thibault. Peter Mueller, Phoenix's 19-year­old center, scored his 13th goal and extended his points streak to seven games. 

"It was a tough night for Joe," Buffalo coach Lindy Ruff said. "They got off to a tough start with the first one. He battled back the rest of the period, and I thought he was going to be OK, but it was a night we couldn't overcome those goals and we didn't give him enough support." 
Daniel Winnik and Ed Jovanovski also scored for Phoenix. Paul Gaustad and Thomas Vanek had goals for the Sabres, in the second stop of a seven-game road trip that will pause for the All-Star break. 
The Braves snapped a fran­chise-record 10-game overall losing streak with a 10-1 win against Atlanta on Friday, but followed with a 4-2 loss at Toronto on Saturday. 
"It's repetitive but we have to stick together and keep playing our system and play better," Gaustad said. "We're not happy in here at all. Every guy has to look at himself in the mirror and then stick together. 
"We have to find a way. We have to be better. We're not pointing fingers." 
Kapanen put Phoenix ahead for good 2-1 on a power play, when he intercepted Toni Lydman's attempt to clear the puck from behind the net, then wristed it in off the goalie's glove. 
"They kind of took the play to us in the last of the first [peri­od]," Doan said. "That first one was big for them, to tie it up at 1-1. We could feel their energy pick up. We kind of dropped it for a little bit and we had to answer. It was big for us to get that next goal right away. 
Doan 's 16th goal of the season just over 3 minutes later put Phoenix ahead 3-1. The Coyotes' captain maneuvered the puck through traffic, then shot it just off the right corner post into the net. 
"Over the last probably 15 to 20 games, he's just become more and more of a dominant player," Gretzky said. "You watch Shane each night, he's just a big horse out there. The more I play him, the better he plays." 
It was 4-1 after Morris rocket­ed a slap shot from about 65 feet through the goalie's legs at 12:30 of the second. Fredrik Sjostrom and Keith Ballard got assists. 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 22, 2008 

BECAUSE YOU DESERVE IT 
(AVAILABLE FOR RENT STARTING JUNE 1, 2009) 
IF YOU ARE PLANNING ON LIVING IN A HOUSE OFF CAMPUS AND YOU DO NOT CONTACT US FIRST, YOU'RE NOT SMART ENOUGH TO BE A NOTRE DAME STUDENT! 
WHY LIVE IN AN OLD, SMALL AND WORN-DOWN HOUSE WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO CAMPUS THAT ONLY CONTAINS NEW, SPACIOUS HOUSES SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR NOTRE DAME STUDENTS? WHY LIVE IN AN APARTMENT WHEN YOU CAN LIVE IN A HOUSE WITH A BIG YARD? WHY PAY DEPOSITS 15-17 MONTHS IN ADVANCE? 
New 2,400 square feet (4 Bedrooms, 2 112 Bathrooms) and 3,000 square feet (6 Bedrooms, 3 1/z Bathrooms) brick homes close to campus with Dens, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Mud Room and Back Porch/Patio. Each home has the following main features: 
1. 
Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots/ pans, plates, cooking utensils, and dinnerware; 

2. 
Dining Room; 

3. 
Family Room with fireplace; 


4. 
Mud Room with laundry center, including a washer and dryer; 

5. 
Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Mud Room); 

6. 
Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design features: 

* 
Fully carpeted 

* 
Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror 

* 
Walk-in closet 


* 
Wired for cable television and internet service 



7. 
Each two students will share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a steam shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring; 

8. 
Gas barbeque grill on Back Porch/Patio; 

9. 
Wireless internet service ready; 


10. 
Fire/Security Alarm System and locks with deadbolts for all exterior doors and all doors from staircase to bedroom areas; 

11. 
Top-of-the-line heating, air conditioning and other mechanical systems (the "Mechanical Systems"); 

12. 
The floors, ceilings and walls surrounding each bedroom and bathroom are completely insulated to reduce noise; 

13. 
Reduced utility costs because of the Mechanical Systems and the fact the homes are extremely well-insulated; 

14. 
Spacious yards; and 

15. 
Substantial parking available. 




For more information, contact Robert L. Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or (630) 886-7715. 
HURRY AND RESERVE YOUR HOUSE BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE! 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
and junior Karol Kostka cap­the NCAA level, but we're There, Notre Dame will Association released its first tured the bronze in the 250-competitive at the national cir­fence most of the top teams set of rankings for the season.
Frosh 
competitor men's epee senior cuit," Kvaratskhelia. from the Midwest and Notre Dame is No. 1 on the 
continued from page 20 division. The Irish will try to use the Northeast, including Notre women's side and No. 3 on the "I think our whole team momentum from the finishes Dame's bitter rival, Ohio State. men's side. 
Irish freshman Ewa Nelip made a huge, huge statement in Atlanta Saturday when they won the open division of the with this competition -that travel to New York City for the Note: Contact Ken Fowler at women's epee competition, we're not just competitive at NYU Duals. The U.S. Fencing Coaches kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Ski team travels tO Michigan, dominates races 
Women's Hockey scores plenty, nets one win; Bowling warms up for next week's home invitational 
Associated Press  Women's Ice Hockey Notre Dame split a  pair of  Freshman goalie Karen Riedl shut the Tigers out the  Chappell. Aimola's second period goal was assisted by  Bowling Notre Dame tuned up for  
Men's Ski  games  with  the  Chicago  first period.  Knoelder, and Notre Dame's  the  upcoming  Blue  Gold  
Wearing new bright-green  Tigers but dropped  a  second  Junior Margaret Knoedler  final goal of the game  was  Invitational with  a  league  
jackets, the Notre Dame men  pair against  the  Chicago  put the Irish  on  the board  assisted by Ryan to freshman  tournament in Toledo.  
dominated its first  race  of  Flash this weekend.  first with an unassisted goal,  Amber Rosenberg.  Chris Kieser led the Irish  
the season, this weekend at  The games began with  a  which was followed by a goal  Despite the offensive out­ with  a  158 average  on  the  
Cannonsburg, Mich.  tough 5-2 loss to the Tigers.  from Ryan assisted by fresh­ burst, the Irish couldn't keep  difficult Viper PBA pattern  
Both men's ski and men's  The Irish scored first in the  man Cassie Kral.  the puck out of their own net,  shot  on  the  lanes.  Nick  
snowboard  won  their  opening period with an unas­ A goal in the second period  giving up five goals to  the  Manieri followed with a  148,  
respective divisions thanks  sisted goal from freshman  from Chappell was followed  Flash.  while James Breen (137),  
to  top finishes from senior  Tess Ryan.  shortly by a  goal from Ryan.  The next evening, Notre  Allie  Hensley  (130).  CJ  
captains Oliver Short and  But then Notre Dame's lack  The Tigers couldn't  come  Dame started the scoring  Kaltenbach (1 09). Lindsey  
Steve Feutz.  of  practice  back after  again with a  goal by senior  Zimmerman (131), and Alex  
Sophomore Kevin Dacey,  started  to  the scoring  Kara Brennan. The second  Desch (110) completed the  
along with  Notre  Dame's  show.  flurry, and  and final Irish goal  came  scoring  for  a  29th-place  
strong freshman class, con­tributed significantly to the win.  The Irish, who had practiced  The amount ofyoung talent on this team is like a slap  N o t r e D a m e walked  from Knoedler and Chappell, but once again the Flash scored at will, and this time  showing on Saturday. On Sunday, the club showed significant improvement,  
"Never have I ever seen a team so ready to win," sen­ior Mike Chulito said. "The  only once s i n c e Christmas  in the face for the upper­classmen I'm stoked. ,,  away victo­rious, 4-2. In the  won 5-2. While the Irish lost two strong players to study­ bowling on a PBA Chameleon pattern. Nick Manieri had high game with a 219 and  
amount of young talent  on  break,· went  first game  abroad programs, Knoedler  averaged  167.  Breen  
the team is like a slap in the  scoreless  Mike Chulito  against the  has just returned home from  improved 24 pins as he post­ 
face for the upperclassmen.  until  the  Irish senior skier  F I a  s  h  ,  studying abroad and is excit­ ed  a  161 average,  while  
I'm stoked." Grand Valley  State,  third period, when sopho- N D  o t r a m  e e  ed about how the looking.  team is  Hensley improved 18 pins to a 148.  
Michigan  State,  Western  more  Emily  found itself  ''I'm really looking forward  The club moved up to 2Jth  
Michigan, Central Michigan  Chappell took  on the los­ to the  season.  It looks like  place in the second event of  
and  Ferris State provided  a  pass  from  sophomore  ing end of a 5-4 thriller.  we  have  a  strong group of  the weekend.  
the competition this week­ Ashley Bozel and found the  Ryan opened the first game  girls who are willing to work  This year's Blue Gold will  
end.  Next week the  team  back of the  net.  But that  with a goal that was assisted  hard," says Knoedler of prac­ move  to Chippewa Bowl, and  
will be traveling to Crystal  would be all the scoring ·the  by  senior  Laura  ticing with the team and the  approximately 70 teams from  
Mountain in Langlois, Mich.,  Irish would do.  Steinbrenner.  Knoedler  new coach, Conor Brennan.  across  the  country  are  
and  hopes  are  high  for  The following night, Notre  later scored  a  power-play  "We should have a successful  expected to attend  on  both  
another set of victories.  Dame avenged its loss.  goal  off  a  pass  from  season."  Saturday and Sunday.  


NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Orange fall to Hoyas in OT as last shot rims out 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Even when Georgetown is a huge favorite, the Hoyas always have their hands full with Syracuse. 
It was no different Monday night, when No. 9 Georgetown had to rally from a seven-point deficit over the final five min­utes of regulation then outscored the Orange 4-2 in a ragged overtime to escape with a 64-62 victory. 

CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VAUARTA, SOUTH PADRE, RORIDA, CRUISES 
-----~"¥  
~ .... ~1!··-'  
Sell Trips, Earn Cash &Travel Free  r;:;:~~~.:9lJeJntAn&-umcn  

1-800-648-4849 
www.ststrnvel.tom 

Roy Hibbert scored 15 points for Georgetown, including the only field g-oal of overtime. The 7 -foot-2 center, who has made the first two 3-pointers of his college career in recent games, was left open for a 13­footer that gave the Hoyas a 64-60 lead with a minute remaining. 
Donte Greene then made two of 3 free throws -he was fouled attempting a 3-pointer -to cut the Orange's deficit to two with 44 seconds left. But Syracuse's Jonny Flynn, who scored 24 points, missed a long, contested 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
Georgetown (15-2, 5-1 Big East) improved to 10-0 at home and avoided the upset that happened last season under almost identical circum­stances. Syracuse upset then­No. 9 Georgetown 72-58 on a Monday night last season to stop the Hoyas' 11-game win­ning streak. The Orange had won seven of the last eight in the series. 
Syracuse (13-7, 3-4), which is down to nine scholarship players including five fresh­men, has lost four of five over­all. Orarige coach Jim Boeheim remains one victory shy of tying Henry Iba at for 10th all­time in Division I with 764. 
Jonathan Wallace scored 15 points for the Hoyas, who were outrebounded 43-33 and shot only 35 percent in the second half. 

Greene finished with 15 points on 5-for-19 shooting. He was 1-for-13 from the field at one point before his layup gave the Orange their first lead of the second half, 45-44, with 10:34 to play. 
Greene's 3-pointer gave the Orange a 58-51 lead with 4:31 remaining, and his wild bank shot made it 60-55 with 2:02 remaining, but Jessie Sapp hit a 3-pointer and converted a Syracuse turnover into a layup that tied the game at 60 with 1:14left. 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Kessler vvins MIAA player of the week 
Davis 
continued from page 20 
His main competition for that goal will be Louisville junior Andrew Hackne~ Hackney and Davis threw in the same club while both were in high school in suburban Atlanta. 
"He finished in the top ten last year and threw in my high school throwing club," Davis said. "He's got the best mark in the Big East right now." 
At 17.58 meters, Davis' throw on Saturday qualified him for the Big East meet ­an achievement that most freshmen would celebrate. 
But for Davis, the throw was merely average. 
"1 didn't really put much thought into it. I threw that far my junior year in high school, so I wasn't too wor­ried" he said. "However, it's always good to get that mark out of the way". 
Davis credits his throwing coach, Irish assistant Adam Beltran, and senior teammate Mike Schubert with the fresh­man's blossoming throwing career at Notre Dame. 
"As a first-year throwing coach, Coach Beltran has been amazing" he said. "Also 'Big Mike' is awesome and has influenced me a lot in adjusting to college track and field." 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
''r1\ 'N ,,, ~~ I) 

RESIDENT ADVISORS 
Hospital 
continued from page 20 
D.C. to play Georgetown. if you ever want to [visit Walter Heed I you can."' 
Brey, who still keeps in contact with his players from Kuwait, said his interest in using basketball to support thn military comes from his parents. IIis father was in the Army and his mother was a physical therapist at Walter Heed. 
What's more, cities with his­

Brey makes a "After you [visit torical and 
living working Walter Reed,} you political signifi­with players cance, like
should never feel 

who are the Washington. same age as sorry for yourself "In the midst 
many of the again. of basketball, soldiers eur­in addition to rnntly serving getting an
Mike Brey

overseas. NCAA tourna­
Ile said his Irish coach ment bid, players can there's an edu­learn lessons cational side," from meeting the soldiers he said. that apply on and off the The coach said that the 
court -es peeially after a sight-seeing trips have rarely game like the loss to the been as poignant as the visit IIoyas. to Walter Reed, which serves 
"Sometimes when you're a college athlete, you don't live in a real world," Brey said. "After you [visit Walter Heed I. you should never feel sorry for yourself again." 
Irish forward Rob Kurz said the thing lHl noticed most was the commitment of the soldiers being treated, sever­al of whom said they were anxious to get back overseas 
more than 150.000 patients. 
"When we've gone to D.C. we've done the White House and we've done things like that, but I think this one, given what's going on in our world and in our country, we'll try to well-round these guys," Brey said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu 
The Northwestern University College Preparation Program is looking for resrdent advisors to help guide high scl1ool students through a summer of learning and fun at Northwestern. Earn salary, includmg room and board; work with bright, motivated high school students from around the country and abroad; plan exciting events and gain valuable experience while enjoying Northwestern campus life and exploring Chicago this summer! 
Apply by February 15, 2008 
For rnforrnation and to request an application, contact Breanne Heath at b-heath@northwestern.edu or 
847-491·3443. 
QUALIFICATIONS, 
• 
completwfl of sophomore year of college by June. 2008 

• 
a cons1stent record of academ1c 


achievement 
• prev1ous expenence as an RA, 
tutor, or camp counselor 
• excellent communication. 
leadership. motivation, and problem-solving skills 
• 
a wtde range of extracurricular interests and activities 

• 
enthus1asm and agenuine interest in workmg with high school students · 

• 
a strong sense of responsibtflty and a high level of maturity 


NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

The Notre Dame Creative '"'Tiling Program Presenrs 
poet 
HONOREE JEFFERS 

DeiDons 
continued from page 20 
they want to run, but they 
shoot a lot of threes in transi­
tion whereas wn don't shoot as 
many." 
One player that gave Notre Damn trouble in the three games last year was guard Allie Quigley, who averaged 21 points in the eontests, 
"She's somebody that we def­

initely need to know where she 
is all the time," McGraw said, 
Quigley has played well all 

season. She has 20 consecutive 
games in double figures dating 
baek to last season and is aver­
aging 1S.5 points and 5.5 
rllbounds pllr game so far in 
2007-0S. 
Despite Quigley's offensive output, McGraw said that she isn't doing anything specific in prac:tiee to shut her down. Instead, she is focusing on the team's man-lo-man defense. 
Both teams will look to push the tempo of the game by run­ning fast-paced offenses. The Irish average 79.4 points per game this season. and the Blue Demons seore S2.2. DePaul also shoots :n percent from 3­point land, while the Irish defense has allowed confer­ence foes to shoot 3S.5 percent from beyond the are. 
McGraw said that she has not changed her practice plans this week to lit specifically against DePaul. but instead has worked on keeping the offense consistent. 
"We're starting to gel a little bit and I just hope we can keep that going," she said. 
One key to Notre Dame's suc­enss will be the play of its bench, including freshmen Brittany Mallory and l>nvernaux Peters. Peters has been a force oiT the bench for the Irish this season, with 8.6 points per game, 5.3 rebounds per game and totals of 38 to continue their service. 
Point guard Tory Jackson said the soldiers trying to cope with sometimes life­changing injuries affected him the most. 
"Whatever we go through, they're worse off than we are," Jackson said. "It let everybody know that we shouldn't complain about anything." 
Brey said he likes to take to take his team on "field trips" scheduled around road games, especially when Notre 
Dame visits 


Award is the sixth of the senior's career 
Observer Staff Report 
After a week that included a school-record 41 points in one game, Saint Mary's guard Alison Kessler has been named MlAA player of the week. 
Kessler set the team mark in a 72-69 win over Kalamazoo on Jan. 16. Her scoring total not only eclipsed Julie Norman's single-game Saint Mary's record, set during the 1998-99 season, but it also marked the most points scored by a Division III player this season. 
In addition to scoring, the senior from LaPorte, Ind., also pulled down a career-high 
nine rebounds against the Hornets. 
On Saturday, Kessler led the Belles to a 74-71 win over Tri­State. She scored 16 points, including 11 from the free­throw line. She also tied her career high with nine rebounds in the close win over the Thunder, a team to which Saint Mary's has never lost. 
In the two games against Kalamazoo and Tri-State, Kessler played 77 of 80 min­utes. 
Kessler now owns six confer­ence player of the week hon­ors, including three this sea­son. 
Saint Mary's (8-7, 4-3 MIAA) will travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., to play Calvin Wednesday, and then will return home to host national No. 1 Hope Saturday. 
blocks and 34 steals. 
Peters' biggest flaw, McGraw said, is simply her inexperi­ence. The 6-foot-2 forward has fouled out of every conference game except Notre Dame's 69­58 win over Villanova on Jan. 16. 
"She's just making a lot of freshman mistakes. She wants to contribute, so she's trying to do whatever she can," McGraw said. "I think she probably gets a little frustrated with herself when she fouls out." 
McGraw recruited Mallory as a 3-point specialist, but the freshman only shot 21.8 per­cent (12-of-55) from 3-point distance before entering Big East play, Since then, the guard 7 -of-15 from behind that ar, and her confidence contin­ues to grow. 

"We've encouraged her to keep shooting the ball, we want her to shoot the 3, and it's been really successful, but mostly because she feels her confidence has really soared," McGraw said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
author of The Gospel ofBarbecue, Outlandish Blues, and Red Clay Suite 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY ll, l008 7:30PM 
GOtD ROOM, NORTH DINING HAtl 
Everyone welcome! 
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

WILLSHORTZ
CROSSWORD 
..:::.a...:...fl.._=-l":...f.:::.f 26 Meteor shooting acros.-s !he sky, maybe 27 Aphrodite's d:Jtnalti< 28 Sketched 29 Kennel club listing 31 Tenn1s great Agassi 
Pl.i1:Zful by G"'il Gtabow11loA 

32 Panorama 43 What !he teen 49 Havoc 33 Memo phrase wishes the 
50 "It's ~·our
paren! would do
34 Like some instead 51 Military groop

chooses 44 land oltice map
36 "Abs<.llute1y!' 52 Nasty sort 45 Hometown­
'J7 -·surgeon M HI-speed

related
38 Had to hand it connection
4£ Tehran resident
to? 

47 "Ex-x-xactlyl~ 55 Non's opposile
42January birthstqne 413 Kissers 56 With it, OOOfl 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .. 49 a minute: or; with a 
credit card, 1-80(}.814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions; Today·s puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytlmes.com·crosswords ($31l.95 a year). Share tips: nyHmes.cc·mfpuzzleiorum. Cm-sswords tor young solvers:· nytimes.comtleaminwxworcts. 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GA.ME
m~am1~ 
b•i H<.!'nn Amok? and Mike Atn!rion 
~~~ 
Unscramble lht¥~ low Jumb\es, on.e latter to each square, 10 lofm four ord•,nary '"''Onts 
u 
rAPAT 
t
I I IJ 
STOFRY j
[II 

REPHOG 
Now <~nar.gt:; the ck~ed le-tter1> &.1 kirrn tha surprf!M'! a~swr. as su>J9~ted by the above Cllrtoon. 
Ans! 


AN (IIIIIIIIIJ 
fAr.swars tomorrow) 'r'esterda• '$ IJumblfls: FLOOR E,JECT POUSH FIDDLE 'I An&mH: Wha! happonoo wh>!!!n sh>!!! waf'!l out with tM a~t· COndi1JOn111f1 Sai{).>j;man ~· Hf LEFT HER ~cotD' 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Izabella Miko, 27; Emma Bunton, 32; Geena Davis, 52; Robby Benson, 52 
Happy Birthday: This can turn out to be an interesting year if you concentrate on some of your inventions or ideas. Get involved in self-improvement projects and you will get results. A change is apparent at a personal or professional level. Both will con­tribute to an attitude improvement. Your numbers are 7, 16, 20, 24, 27, 39 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will pick up valuable information from someone who has experienced more life lessons. Travel will put you in a position to make a move in the future or to source out the job opportunities elsewhere. Don't get bogged down by emotional issues. 2 stars 
TAURUS {April 20-May 20): Have no fear--try new things and you will benefit through experimentation. An opportunity to deal with someone from a different back­ground will open your mind to far-reaching ideas that can tum into a lucrative en­deavor. Someone you least expect will encourage and help you. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You should be brainstorming and trying to get ahead. Focus on your goals and you won't be disappointed but, let jealousy or emotional mat­ters intervene and you will miss out. ~ stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions will play havoc with you if you don't give in to change. Look beyond your immediate situation and see the potential. It's time to be a bit of an adventurer. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If it's excitement you are looking for, you should be able to find it. Love is in the stars and the opportunity to interact with all sorts of people from different walks of life will be stimulating. Don't hold back. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let anyone force his or her will on you. You are in the driver's seat, so be finn and formulate your own ideas so you are happy with the outcome and secure with what is heading your way. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Avoid an altercation with anyone competitive. You cannot let your personal thoughts interfere with your productivity. Focus on what you are doing and ignore what's going on around you. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Taking something you already have or are working on and increasing its value or even making a residential move should help you tum your financial situation around. Change is required and the longer you sit idle, the further away you will become from resolving your problems. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Answers will be made available but you have to question where they are coming from. A change in the way you do things will confuse anyone trying to undermine you. Stay ahead of the game by being one step in front of the competition. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money is heading in your direction from a most un­usual source. Broaden your horizons and look at the possibility of getting involved in a money-making venture. Follow your intuition and it will lead to a good decision. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can bet that if you ask for something, the person on the giving end will expect something big in return. Be careful with whom you do business. You are better off pursuing on your own. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take charge and do things according to your plans. You will attract the help of someone who has JUSt what you need to complete your goal. Be careful not to give away too much. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a thinker, a doer and an entrepreneur. You are sensitive and always trying to lend a helping hand. You are adaptable and have no fear of stepping in and taking over. 
Eugenia 1s Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, euge~ialast.comfor confidential consultations 
Aeross Uke some 

pettlcoats 5 OWn up (to) 10 Bank with 
s•gnifican! 
deposit~? 

14 Award for MHot L 
Baltimore~ 

15 Harness parts 16 Writer ........... Stanley Gardnm 17 Teen's response 
to a parent's "No· Somme summer Greek war god Novelist Joyce 
Carol ........•. 

"Enooraf' 
1 Forest in ~As Yoo like It" By way of 
35 Teen's response to a parent's 
"No~ 
39 & 40 Change of government 
411973 #1 hit·-·­
an American Band" 42 Basketball position 
43 Gushf!ld 45 Subjecl to legaf damages 
47 Uke bad!~· worn 
!ltes 48 Peter ot ·casablanca" 
49 "Howdy!~ 
50 Batman and Robm, e.g. 
53 Teen's response !o a parent's "No" 
57 Window sec!ion 58 Power problem 59 Mideast V.LP. 
60 Narrow cut 
~-::-1..;.1~ 
~~;;.t.;..,;ol 
Bt Wheels for big wtte£1s 62 fol'k singer 
~eger 
Down 
Ear or liea! feature 2 So next to 3 Mootion, as in a court opinion 4 To date 5 Couples' <feshnatitm? 6 Prevent through intimidation 7 Pageant Iitie 
8 Coontry lodg(f 
S Gen~¥a! on a 
C!linese menu 10Mallgn t 1 Staarmng f 2 Mnvie,set liqhl t 3 Plural $Utlix with 
aucbon or 
mooket 
t 8 "Awn't you the comedian?!" t9 Lugging 23 "Moonstruck" actress 
24 Point from which there's nowhere to go but up 
25 Depletes, with "up" 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, January 22, 2008 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Fatniliar foe 
After playing DePaul three times last year, Irish face them again 
By JAY FITZPATRICK A,sociate Sports Editor 
After notching the 10th triple-digit seorn in school his­tory, Notre Damn returns to thn Joyce Center tonight to face a familiar few. 
Tho Irish take on DePaul at 7 
p.m. -a team that Notre Dame .faced three times last scmson. The two squads had a home-and-home series last snason and played again in the l'irst round of the Big East tournamnnt last March. 
Notre Dame (15-3, 3-1 Big East) also plays DePaul twice this year; the Irish will travel to Allstate Arena outside Chicago on Feb. 24. 
Despite all that familiarity Irish coach MufTet McGraw said that she did not think the experienee against DePaul last ynar will makn much of an impaet in tonight's game. 
"They're a tough team for us to guard. They score a lot of points; thny'n~ really good in transition. They shoot a lot of threes," McGraw said. "They're kind of like us in that 
see DEMONS/Page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team visits vvounded veterans 
Brey calls side trip to D.C.'s Walter Reed Hospital'educational' 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame traveled to Washington last week to play a basketball game -they also got a lesson in life. 
On Friday, the day before their 84-66 loss to the Iloyas, the Irish visited Walter Reed Army Military Center in Washington to meet with 
wounded,  injured  and  ill  
members  of  the  Armed  
Forces.  

Notre Dame coaeh Mike Brey said he first came up with the idea to take his team to the hospital during his trip to Kuwait last sum­mer for Operation Hardwood, a basketball tour­nament for members of the armed services with the help of coaches from the states. 
"When I made the Kuwait trip last year, the contact said, 'Hey, when you come to 
see HOSPITAL/Page 18 
FENCING 

Freshn1en in1press at North An1erican Cup 
Osbourne, Hasset, Reese perform well vs. continent's best 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

Call it a freshman frenzy in A-Town. 
Notre Damn's strong show­ing at the North American Cup event in Atlanta eoneluded Monday with three more notable finishes by first-year fpneers. 
Freshman Hayley Beese cracked t lw top-I 2 of the womnn's foil snnior division. Honse finishnd sncond in the junior division Parlier in the wonkend. behind only foil prodigy Nzihgha Prnseod. 
"llaylny is a girl who has luwn in nvery competition, you know," Irish assistant coach Cia Kvaratsklwlia said from Atlanta. "This time she barely missed final Pight. ... I think the tournament was very hard, but her going that far was sur­prising for me." 
Kvaratsklwlia said Hense would have made the final night if not for a slew of con­troversial calls by the officials. 
With six seconds remaining, he said, Heese advanced and appeared to score a touch that would have tied the bout at 9­9 and sent it to overtime. But the referee ruled it a score for the opponent, and Reese lost 10-8. 
"She lost to a four-time 
world team member, and it carne down to the wire," Kvaratskhelia said of Reese. "She was very disap­pointed. She could taste it. It was there." 

Meanwhile,
Reese 
freshman 
Eilceen llasset took the bronze in the women's sabre junior division, and freshman Jacob Osborne earned a top-16 finish in the junior men's epee competition. 
The Cup ineluded fencers from the United States, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Hico, all seeking to earn points to qualify for national team competitions and this season's World Championships. 
On Saturday and Sunday, 
see FROSH/Page I 7 

MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Davis gets 'weighty' win 
Freshman takes throwing title at ND Invitational 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sports Writer 
After starting off the new year at the Notre Dame Invitational with a victory in the men's weight throw, fresh­man Greg Davis hopes to improve even more as the season progresses. 
"Although the beginning of the season has started off OK, it hasn't been fantastic." he said. "IIowPver. I'm pretty happy with how it's going." 
Davis has proven to be an essential part of the throwing team, coming baek from win­ter brPak with the rest of the team three days early in order to prepare for the meet. 
He also hopes for a success­ful indoor season, in which he hopes to put his name in the Notrn Dame record books. 
"I look to break the school record in the weight throw, and I'm four feet away from that now," he said. "Also, my other goal is to win the weight throw in the Big East Conference meet." 
see DAVIS/Page 18 





