
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 

Student groups debate platfonns 
Representatives from Notre Dame political clubs discuss merits ofpresidential candidates 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
There was no debate Friday afternoon between Sen. John McCain, Sen. Barack Obama and former congressman Bob Barr. There was no face off between Gov. Sarah Palin and Sen. Joe Biden and Wayne Allyn Root. 
Instead, members of the Notre Dame College Republicans, Democrats and Libertarians acted as surrogates for their candidates and argued in favor of their platforms, taking questions first from a moderator and then from an audience. 
Junior Christine Romero, the co-chair of NO Votes '08, a campaign run by the Center for Social Concerns. posed ques­tions to the three teams of two and then later allowed the audience to ask ques­tions of their own. 
Students from Notre Dame's Republican, Democratic, and Libertarian groups see DEBATE/page 3 debated of Sen. John McCain, left, Sen. Barack Obama, middle, and Bob Barr. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Skunks pose probleins for both ca111puses 
By LIZ HARTER and KELSEY FALTER 
News Writers 
With the apparent spike in the number of nocturnal creatures at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, many students have reported seeing skunks around their resi­dence halls, making them wonder if they should stock up on tomato juice. 
Scott Knight, Industrial Hygenist of Risk Management for NDSP, said he hadn't heard of skunks being a problem until early September. 
"I had not heard of anything until [early September] when a student contacted us about a skunk," he said. "Building Services typically handles those types of calls." 
Students have reported seeing the skunks between Main Circle and Reekers, in front of Siegfried Hall, on God Quad and South Quad and on the Alumnae Green at 
see SKUNKS/page 3 

Nuinber of students takingGRE 
•
Increases 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
News Writer 
According to Council of Graduate Studies, enrollment in graduate school has increased three percent annually over the past 10 years, leading to a spike in the number of seniors taking the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). 
"The increase in doctorates awarded. particularly in key fields, is a necessary step in pro­ducing the highly qualified work­force required to enhance U.S. competitiveness," said Debra W. Stewart, CGS President in a 2008 press release. "While the increased representation of minority students is another encouraging sign, we must con­tinue to expand the domestic pipeline to ensure that America has the talent pool it will need in the 21st century global economy." 
Admissions departments use GRE Scores to determine admis­sion into a graduate program. The test scores supplement an application. 
The test consists of three parts -verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. The verbal reasoning and quanti­tative reasoning sections are 
see GREIpage 6 


Lyons hosts annual Mara Fox Run 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
About 250 runners partici­pated in Lyons Hall's annual Mara Fox run Saturday, marking the 15th anniver­sary of the death of the Lyons Hall freshman who was hit and killed by a drunk driver in 1993, run organiz­ers Jeana Caminiti and Katie Sample said. 
The run was successful and had more participants this year than last year, Caminiti said. 
"We couldn't have asked for more beautiful weather and we had such a great turnout," Caminiti said. 
The run raised a little over $3,000 through the $15 dol­lar registration fee and some personal donations, Sample said. While some of the money will pay for the T­shirts that were given to participants, most of the funds will go toward a schol­arship fund to help-a Notre Dame student study abroad in Toledo, Spain, she said. The scholarship fund was started in Fox's name the first year after she died, Caminiti said. 
see FOX/page 6 


Bags tournainent benefits children's groups 
Event raises funds for Big Brothers Big Sisters 
event because he knew how much the club benefits the 
children  of  South  Bend  
through mentoring.  
"We  wanted  to  raise  
awareness  about  Big  

Brothers Big Sisters. The club currently has a waiting list of children in South Bend that want to be matched up with Notre Dame students -especially boys -so we were hoping that the tournament would spark some interest in the club and lead some students to sign up to be 'Bigs,"' Cummings said. 
While the event was 
see BAGS/page 3 


By KATIE KOHLER Assistant Managing Editor 
In order to raise money for the fast-growing Big Brothers Big Sisters Club of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, senior Charlie Cummings hosted, organized and orchestrated the first annual Bags for Kids 2008 on Saturday. 
More than 40 teams of two participated in the bag toss­ing tournament, which raised more than $300 which the University will match, bringing the grand total to $600. 
Cummings organized-the 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Paris' ne-w 

BFFs 

For mn, MTV's new show Paris /Iifton 's My Neu• !JFF is a must-see, hneausn it sueennds in combining two of rny guilty plnasures: trashy reality tnlnvision and Paris Hilton. 
I'm a big fan of any kind of "reali­ty" show. I smirk at the loser boyfriends on Parnntal Control, giggle uncontrollably at the devil-costume­clad, pitchfork-waving man on Hell 
Date, and sing  
along to YouTube  Irena Zajlckova  
vidnos of Paula  
Abdul's stalker  
from Amnrican  Wire Editor  
Idol.  
There's just  

something about watching other peo­
ple do embarrassing things that 
amuses me to no end, even though 
their antics are most likely staged. 
My fixation with Paris is a bit hard­or to explain. It started when a boy tried to make me mad by informing me, via the misspnlled f'acebook mes­sage that passes for communication now, "you act like your Paris Hilton." 
My first thought was: "MY Paris I Iiiton? llow is she dif'fnrent from anyone nlse 's?" After realizing that he meant the contraction "you are," I glanemJ at his list of reasons, which did nothing to convince me that Paris and I arn thn samo pPrson. 
Novortheloss, l'vn f'nlt an odd sort of kinship with lwr over sinen. 
I watdwd the first Ppisode on Wndnesday. The show opnncd with Paris informing us, "I'm Paris Hilton, and I'm an amazing host friond." I can honostly say that I'd rather bo frionds with Paris than with any of Uw contestants. Most worn bland, catty, and dnarly using Paris to achinvn. as they put it, "instant colnbrityism." I almost felt bad for twr. 
The bnst part was probably when Paris had a scary man question her bnsties-in-training about their rnotivos for wishing to become her BFF. As if those weren't obvious. 
The awesome part was that the questioning took place in an aban­doned warehouse. And the contest­ants were blindfolded. It was quite ominous. 
After one of the girls was sent home, the credits rolled and I debat­ed if I should go to bed or watch the next episode. 
The show brought up one of life's grnat qunstions: who do I !'eel more sorry for, Paris or her wannabe friends? On the one hand, they're using her to get their 15 minutes of !'am e. 
But she's rich and famous, so she probably doesn't even earn. On the other hand, those girls are so atten­tion-starved that they've resorted to being on an MTV reality show to get noticed. 
But it's working. Granted, people are mostly mocking them, but I guess any publicity is good publieity. 
Whatnvnr I decide about Paris and the girls, I'll definitely be tuning in next wnek. Whern else am I going to learn sueh pearls of wisdom as, "Someone is always judging you. Exeept when you're judging them." 
Plus, Paris dresses way dassier than Tila Tnquila. 
The 1•iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obserl!er. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­! ion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us al 631-4541 so we can correC£ our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 13, 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE OFF CAMPUS BLOCK PARTIES? 






Margie Rosmonowski  Ryan McCune  Caroline Green  Billy Lyman  Nick DePrey  Megan Ladiere  
senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  
~·Makes me love South Bend that ,much more.  "It's always interesting when the pizza  "Chicken Jackson rocks my world."  "Hopefully ResLife can't fine us for this  'The bass playerform that band that  "/just love block parties!"  

outnumbers one. people four to one." 
'­


JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer 

Anna Lacey signs a poster for the Notre Dame Core Council in LaFortune Friday. Seated at the table, from left to right, are Core Council representatives Sr. Sue Dunn, Lauren Cummings, and Janeva Waked. 
OFFBEAT 
Couple saws house in half after divorce proceedings 
PHNOM PENH, Cambodia -A couple in rural Cambodia has terminated their 18-year marriage with a divorce settlement that entailed sawing in two the wooden house they once shared, villagers said Friday. The husband, 42-year-old Moeun Sarim, has taken away with him all the bits and pieces of his half a house, said his 35-year-old wife, Vat Navy. 
"Very strange, but this is what my husband wanted," she said by phone from a vil­lage about 62 miles east of Cambodia's capital, Phnom 
TODAY 
c::: 
Penh. She said they ended _their marriage last month. 
"He brought his relatives 
and used saws to cut the 
house in half," she said, 
adding that she now owns 
the other half that is still 
standing. The house is made 
from wood with a tile roof 
and propped up on wooden 
pillars, a typical style for a 
Cambodian country home. 
Blind Belgian man drives 
car at 192 miles per hour 
ISTRES, France -Blind 
Belgian daredevil Luc 
Costermans won a world 
record Saturday when he hit 
308.78 kilometres (192 
miles) per hour driving a Lamborghini Gallardo supercar on a French airstrip. 
The 43-year-old, who was blinded in an accident four years ago, hit the top speed twice in the borrowed car at the Istres airbase in south­ern France. 
Costermans thanked his co-pilot Guillaume Homan, the air force and his spon­sors. and dedicated his record to the Formula 1 driver Philippe Streiff, who has been a tetraplegic since an accident in the 1989 Brasil Grand Prix. 
Information compiled from the Assodated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI :I: 
!;;: 
LLI 
~ 


0,,,,,,,

...I 
,,,,,,, 
~~ 

<
CJ 
_.0 HIGH 83 HIGH 68 HIGH 74 HIGH 65 LOW 64 LOW 55 LOW 52 LOW 44 
played is dreamy. , 
IN BRIEF 
NDVotes will hold Pizza, Pop, and Politics: Social and Moral Issues today at 5 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Lounge. The event is open to the public and free pizza will be served. Professors Paolo Carozza, law, and Mary Keys, political science, will speak. 
A panel discussion, "The Credit Crisis: What It Means for You and the World," will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
German Club and SUB will hold Okdomerfest on Tuesday. Oct. 14, from 7 to 10 p.m. at Legends. Free food will be served, t-shirts given away, and a live German band will perform. The event is free and open to all students of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
A health information ses­sion, "Know Your Body," will be held Tuesday, Oct. 14, at 8 
p.m. in Room 117, O'Shaughnessy Hall. The event is part of "Love Your Body Week." All events throughout the week are free and open to students. 
The documentary film "The Price of Sugar" will be shown on Wednesday, Oct. 15, at 7 p.m. in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The event is free and open to the public and is sponsored by the Class of 2009 Class Council. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~
~ 
HIGH 59 HIGH 58 LOW 39 LOW 40 

Atlanta 75 I 55 Boston 68 I 50 Chicago 79 I 62 Denver 46 I 36 Houston 86 I 68 Los Angeles 78 I 55 Minneapolis 65 I 44 New York 78 I 57 Philadelphia 79 I 54 Phoenix 79 I 57 Seattle 56 I 47 St. Louis 81 I 62 Tampa 87 I 72 Washington 81 I 58 
Monday, October 13, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Skunks 
continued from page 1 
Saint Mary's. 
Pangborn Hall freshman Courtney Sands said she saw a skunk near her dorm one night. 
"It ran in front of us really quickly," she said. "Skunks make me so nervous." 
Liz Brown, a sophomore from LeMans Hall, ran into one near the Saint Mary's Student Center in mid­September on her way back to her dorm. 
"That was the first skunk I had seen Lon campus!," Brown said. "I was thinking, if I get sprayed I'm screwed." 
Brown hasn't seen any more skunks at Saint Mary's, but she has run into them when she has visited Notre Dame. 
"It kind of freaks me out knowing that I can run into them," she said. "No one real­ly wants to be sprayed when you're going out. It totally ruins your weekend." 
Farley rectress Sr. Carrine Etheridge said there is a skunk that seems to live behind the dorm. Her dog, Farley, a Pekingese who was once a stray found on campus, discovered it when she was sprayed. 
"(Farley] tugged the leash from my hand and went after what she thought was a cat, I think," Etheridge said. "By the time I caught up with her between Farley Hall and Breen-Phillips she had been sprayed by a skunk." 
She said she thinks everyone has seen the skunks on the Quad, but when Farley got "skunked" she "duly warned" her residents. 
According to GetRidofThings.com, if a stu­dent does get sprayed by a skunk they should bathe as quickly as possible, but many students are under the impression that tomato baths do the trick. 
Etheridge said she soaked Farley in tomato juice and shampooed her three times over the course of a weekend. 
"She still smelled bad, but at least she was tolerable," she said. "My entire apartment reeked of that awful skunk smell." 
Etheridge said Farley moped around for a few days but she's fine now. 
"Although, I still get a whiff of skunk when she gets wet," she said. 
Brown said she wants to warn students that tomato baths don't work. 
"My brother got sprayed when he was at college," she said. "He went in to take a midterm and the professor told him to leave immediately and he could make up the exam because he smelled so bad. Tomato baths don't work, I know that from his experi­ence." 
GetRidofThings.com said white vinegar or hydrogen peroxide should be used to dissolve the skunk oils instead of tomato juice. The victim should then use an odor neu­tralizing detergent or soap to further dilute the smell. 
Bill Hambling, Saint Mary's Director of Facilities, said the prevalence of skunks on cam­pus "is a smelly situation," but a family of skunks near the College's Early Childhood and Development Center on the Northwest side of campus was trapped and relocated off­campus. 
Dave Gariepy, director of the Department of Safety and Security at Saint Mary's, said students can report skunks to the department. 
"We respond to all sorts of calls ... including calls about animals that may be sick or injured or just a nuisance," he said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Kelsey Falter at kfalter@nd.edu 

Gulu Walk raises funds for Uganda 
Africa Faith and Justice Network, IUSB host event to aid refugees 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
As part of an international effort to draw attention to the 22 year long war in northern Uganda between the Government of Uganda and the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), the Africa Faith and Justice Network and the Student Government of Indiana University South Bend (IUSB) sponsored the GuluWalk Sunday. 
"[The GuluWalk is to] raise awareness and to raise money for those who are suffering in northern Uganda," President of the Africa Faith and Justice Network Sean Gaffney said. 
As many as 40,000 chil­dren in Uganda would walk from their villages to Gulu or another urban location in order to sleep as safely as possible and to reduce the chances of being abducted by the Lord's Resistance Army, according to the GuluWalk's Web site. 
"[We] walk to be symboli­cally in solidarity with those children who were forced to do so every night," Gaffney said. 
Although the night com­muting has stopped, accord­ing to the GuluWalk Web Site, Gaffney said that there are still over two million people in camps who have been displaced by the war. 
GuluWalk is an interna­tional campaign of Athletes for Africa, a registered Canadian charity, and is coordinated in the United States in partnership with Resolve Uganda, according to the GuluWalk Web site. 
GuluWalk partners with 

War Child Canada, Canadian Physicians for Aid & Relief, AMREF Canada and the Justice and Reconciliation Project and distributes donations to these organiza­tions, according to the Web site. 
IUSB and Notre Dame's GuluWalk earned money through pre-fundraising and through donations collected at the end of the walk. Gaffney said the Africa Faith and Justice Network worked with other organizations on campus to raise money. 
A final total of funds raised in Sunday's walk was not available yesterday, but Gaffney said T-shirts will still be sold. 
Last year, the GuluWalk raised four thousand dol­lars, Gaffney said. 
The GuluWalk started on the campus of IUSB and par­
ticipants walked along the streets of South Bend and returned to IUSB for a clos­ing ceremony. 
"We think it's a good show of community support to do it in South Bend rather than on Notre Dame's campus," Gaffney said. 
Gaffney estimated that about one hundred people took part in the walk and said there was "definitely a mix" of students and mem­bers of the South Bend com­munity who walked. 
"It was good that there were so many students who made it out this time," Gaffney said. "Notre Dame students probably made up the majority, but there were IUSB students and communi­ty members as well." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

the finite supply of clean water. to using the military, Howard 
couldn't have turned out any "If we don't work with other said. The United States cannot 
better than it did. We had a
Bags

Debate 
nations on this issue, we are spend its money on "just any 
great turnout, a fun, competi­going to see the supply of fresh war," he said. 
continued from page 1 tive tournament, it was acontinued from page 1 

water great reduced," he said. "We have. to have the judg­
beautiful day and there was The debate. held in the College Libertarians co-presi­ment of what the right ones 
organized independently of an awesome live band. I may LaFortune Student Center ball­dent Ben Linskey said the are," Howard said. 
Big Brothers Big Sisters, all come back next year and room, lasted an hour but the sleeper issue of today is that Linskey said the United States 
of the proceeds are going organize the second annual discussion continued for at least America's government is on the should start withdrawing troops 
directly to the organization. at a younger friend's house," another 20 minutes afterwards. path to bankruptcy. from Iraq in a "responsible and 
Cummings collected the sets he said. As Romero thanked the audi­"American policies are head­safe manner." 
of boards and bean bags, Cummings was happy to ence and the debaters for tak­ed in a direction that just is not "The best way to promote 
invited the attendees, and combine his love for the game ing part in the debate, a student sustainable for the future," he peace there is through a peace­
arranged for Chicken and donating to a great wearing a College Democrats T­said. He called for the govern­ful foreign policy," he said, 
Jackson, his roommate's cause, he said. shirt rose from the crowd, ment to massively reduce "Yhich includes trading with the 
band, to play at the tourna­"I am really happy we were demanding to hear more infor­spending. countries in the region. 
ment as well. able to combine a fundraiser mation from the Hepublicans Freshman Henry Eggers of The debate grew rowdy as 
Even though 40 teams reg­for a great cause with a Bags and the Libertarians about the Notre Dame College the discussion turned to health 
istered, many more people tournament, which is proba­their plan to reverse the cur­Republicans said the sleeper care. 
came to take part in the fes­bly my favorite game," he rent economic crisis. issue was "governmental tyran­"We have the best health care 
tivities. said. "I was also proud of my The debate ended, but the ny," the problem of the govern­in the world," Eggers said. 
"Many people came to cheer peers at Notre Dame and conversation continued, with ment taking public funds and "Never let anyone convince you 
for their friends and show Saint Mary's who showed some members of the audience misusing it. that we don't." 
their support for Big Brothers once again that we students staying after to talk more about After Romero asked her five But problems that exist in the 
Big Sisters," Cummings said. are always willing to come the candidates' platforms. questions, members of the health care system should not 
There was a $10 registra­together to support those in Freshman Nicole Burson said audience, who filled up most of be dealt with at the federal 
tion fee and the event took need." she has been following the 2008 the ballroom, asked their own level, he said. 
place at Cummings' house on Matt Weiser and Jim Herron presidential election, attending questions. One female student Howard said Obama's health 
St. Peter's Street. were the winners of the tour­ND Votes '08 events and watch­wanted to know how each of care plan will not mandate 
Because of this year's suc­nament, even though the real ing the televised debates. The the candidates would promote health care for everyone, just 
cess, Cummings hopes the winners were .the kids, Notre Dame debate, she said, peaceful solutions to global con­for children. 
tournament will become a Cummings said. was more informative about the flicts. The College Libertarians said 
tradition. ''I'd encourage peo­· real issues than the actual pres­Eggers gave the example of they were opposed to Obama's 
ple to hold the tournament Contact Katie Kohler at idential and vice presidential the United States' response to plan. 
again next year. It really kkohleOl@saintmarys.edu debates have been. the recent conflict between the "People need to work for their 
Romero asked the debaters counties of Russia and Georgia, health care," freshman Justin questions ranging from abor­which did not garner a military DeRosa said. "You are not just tion to immigration to what she response from the United going to get it." called "sleeper issues." States. McCain knows some sit­Friday's debaters will return Terrorism, Romero said, was a uations require aggressive to their status as observers "sleeper issue" in the 1990s. diplomacy, he said. Wednesday for the third and What, she asked, is today's 'They are not under the men­final presidential debate sleeper issue? tality that the military is the between Obama and McCain, 
Senior Spencer Howard, the only way to ftx things," he said. scheduled to start at 9 p.m. co-president of the College The next president should Democrats, said he thinks have the ability to make the Contact Kaidynn Riely at today's biggest sleeper issue is proper judgment when it comes kriely@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 13, 2008 

For more information and to apply go to: www.macquarie.com/us 
FORWARD thinking 

""MafX-lUarie" rtlfers to MacquariH GroJp Un1ited (MGL) and its subsidiaies and <:=~.Hiliates wol1dvvide. Ma<...x..1uaie Ha1k l.lrrlltt~·l (MBL), awt·lolly ownod ~ Jt,sl{llay of MC:lL., Is not lh::onsr:xi to condiiGt t·l:::mking btJsh·l<'3'!:lS in the lJS. MBL rr1r-dntairls HoptOSE."f Jtalive 011ic..;es ill NE..W York, laxas, California and Wast·1ingLon. Wlttl rosrx:cl to rnatters whict·, 1nay be subjo:;l to lJS, sur....ulties law. u1·1d to tt1o f.lXfUJt required by sur.;h lc:JWS, MGLa·Jd Its wortc..JINide subsidiaries COilSI.JII witl1, arJ(I a.;t tltn>lJ!-~ 1, or 1e of tt1t:Jir afliiaLAt.::J IJS f'f:'l~,Jistere.i t-xoka--dealffs whk:h rnay I::">B lllffllbers ol tl1e FINRA 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 13, 2008 CoMPILED FROA~t THE OBsERVER's WIRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia test-launches missiles 
MOSCOW -President Dmitry Medvedev watched a missile soar from Russia's rain-soaked northern forests toward a target thousands of kilometers away on Sunday, capping a weekend of launches reminding audiences at home and abroad about the country's nuclear might. 
Prominent coverage of the tests on state-con­trolled television also seemed designed to boost the bookish Medvedev's credentials as command­er-in-chief in the eyes of the Russian populace. 
On Sunday, Medvedev saw what officials said was the successful test-firing of a 21-year-old Topol intercontinental ballistic missile. The missile hit it.'i target thousands of kilometers to the east on the Kamchatka Peninsula, Medvedev told ser­vicemen who conducted the launch. 
"Respected comrades ... you have fulfilled your task and I congratulate you," Medvedev, dressed in a dark bomber jacket, told servicemen in bulky blue uniforms in a clearing near the Plesetsk launeh facility. 
Suicide bombers sbike in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD -Suicide car bombers struck twice Sunday in the northern city of Mosul, killing at least six people and wounding dozens of others, U.S. and Iraqi officials said. A car bomb killed seven other people in Baghdad. 
Two Iraqi soldiers were killed by snipers in separate attacks Sunday in the capital's Yarmouk district, police said. 
Also Sunday, the government announced new security measures to protect Christians in Mosul after a spate of attacks against them by Sunni religious extremists. 
The series of attacks shows the ongoing security challenges facing Iraq as the U.S. shifts responsibility to this country's own sol­diers and police following the sharp decline in violence since last year. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Nat'l debt clock runs out of digits 
NEW YORK-A watched clock never moves ­unless it's the National Debt Oock. 
In fact, the digital counter has been moving so much that it recently ran out of digits to display the ballooning figure: $10,150,603,734,720, or roughly $10.2 trillion, as of Saturday afternoon. 
The clock was put up by the late real estate mogul Seymour Durst in 1989 when the U.S. gov­ernment's debt was a mere $2.7 trillion, and was even turned off during the 1990s when the debt decreased. 
It will be replaced in 2009 with a new clock, said Jordan Barowitz, a spokesman for the Durst Organization. The new clock will be able to track debt up to a quadrillion dollars, which is a '1' fol­lowed by 15 zeros. 
Chief says he supports police force 
CHICAGO -Chicago's police superintendent is denying a news report that officers in his command are working the streets less aggres­sively out of fear of being second-guessed by him. 
Jody Weis (WEES) told reporters Saturday that despite what some people may say, he sees officers who are well supported by their superiors and highly motivated. 
According to statistics provided by police and an internal document obtained by The Associated Press, serious crime is up but arrests are down in Chicago. Officers are also seizing fewer guns and frisking gang members less often than they did before Weis arrived. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Legal aid nonprofit closing its doors 
FORT WAYNE -A nonprofit legal aid agency for low-income residents in Fort Wayne is closing because of shrinking resources. 
Legal Services of Maumee Valley plans to stop operations by the end of the year. 
The agency has existed since the 1960s to provide free or low-cost legal assistance to those with little money. But the group has had to fight over dwindling resources in recent years, and says it will provide advice-only assistance until the end of November. 
Camps highlight foes' old associates 
As election draws near, campaigns try to prove guilt by association 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. Scraping for any advantage in the presidential campaign's waning days, John McCain and Barack Obama are introducing voters to a new cast of charac­ters. 
McCain would like people to know about a former 1960s radical and a corrupt govern­ment insider -both with links to his Democratic opponent. 
And Obama is raising the Republican candidate's con­nections to a disgraced savings and loan executive and a sup­porter of right-wing death squads. 
Eacli. candidate is trying to plant the idea that his oppo­nent must be guilty of some­thing if he has connections to such unsavory characters. Both candidates are guilty of stretching the facts, at times, to smear by association. 
A closer look at the relation­ships being mentioned in cam­paign videos, ads and e-mails: 
+William Ayers: Forty years ago, Ayers was a founder of the Weather Underground, a radical group that claimed responsibility for a series of bombings, including nonfatal explosions at the Pentagon and 
U.S. Capitol. He was a fugitive for years with his wife, fellow radical Bernadine Dohrn. But after Ayers surrendered in 1980, the charges against him were dropped because of pros­ecutorial misconduct. 
Eventually, Ayers became a Ayers advised Obama on poli­mild rebuke from the Senate together with their wives. professor at the University of cy. Obama has denounced ethics committee. McCain Rezko was convicted this Illinois at Chicago, specializing Ayers' violent activities, which repaid $112,000 to the U.S. summer on federal charges of in education reform and even occurred when Obama was a Treasury and reimbursed using his clout with state gov­advising Chicago Mayor child. Keating for the trips. He later ernment to squeeze kickbacks Richard Daley. + Charles Keating: Keating said attending two meetings out of firms wanting to do busi­
In 1995, Ayers hosted a was a real estate speculator with bank regulators on behalf ness with the state. The meet-the-candidate session at and savings and loan owner. of Keating was "the worst mis­charges do not involve Obama. his home for Obama as he pre­His institution failed, costing take of my life" and that it had Rezko now appears to be coop­pared to run for the state many investors their life sav­made him more sensitive to erating with a federal probe of Senate. Later, the two worked ings and sticking taxpayers the need for government corruption in the Illinois gov­with the same charity and with a $2.8 billion bailout cost. reform. ernment. social-service organizations in McCain received $112,000 + Antoin "Tony" Rezko: . Obama consulted Rezko, a Chicago. from him, his family and asso­Rezko was a key supporter and real estate developer, before 
Obama has tried to minimize ciates, and took trips to the donor throughout Obama's buying a home in 2005. Rezko his link to Ayers, at one point Bahamas at Keating's expense. political career. Obama esti­ended up buying a vacant lot saying he was Just a guy who McCain took up Keating's mates Rezko raised $250,000 next door and then selling lived in the same neighbor­cause with financial regulators for his various campaigns, some of the land to Obama. hood. But while there was who were investigating the though not for his presidential But Rezko did not help Obama more to the relationship than businessman. bid. The two were friends who pay for his house, and the sell­that, there is no evidence they Keating eventually went to talked frequently about politics ers say Obama got no special were ever close friends or that prison, and McCain received a and occasionally dined out treatment. 


PAKISTAN 
Pakistani tribesmen battle militants 
during an army-backed offensive against but they have been involved in all kinds of 

Associated Press 
insurgents in the Bajur tribal region. crimes," said Malik Mohrnmand Habib, a 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Pakistani Government official Jamil Khan said heli­leader of the Salarzai tribe, one of the tribesmen are raising armies to battle al­copter gunships shelled militants' bunkers, largest of at least five tribes who have Qaida and Taliban militants close to the killing at least 10 people. Fifteen more formed lashkars in recent weeks. "We Afghan border -a movement encouraged suspected militants were killed in separate want them out of our area." by the military and hailed as a sign its clashes, he said. Habib claims up to 15,000 men in his offensive there is succeeding. On Friday, a suicide bomber killed more lashkar. Similar figures have been given 
The often ramshackle forces lend force than 50 tribesman gathering to form an by other leaders of private armies but to the campaign in the lawless and moun­army. Eight pro-government tribesmen those claims could not be independently tainous region, but analysts question their have been beheaded in recent days. verified. Analysts caution tribesman are effectiveness against a well-armed, well­By encouraging the private armies, or likely exaggerating, perhaps by as much trained and increasingly brutal insur­"lashkars," the government is exploiting as 50 percent. gency. local resentment against foreign and The lashkars have drawn comparisons 
The extremists are increasingly target­Pakistani extremists in the area, consid­with government-backed militia in Iraq ­ing the militias, an indication they believe ered a likely hiding place for Osama bin the so-called awakening councils -that them to be a threat. Laden and other al-Qaida leaders. have been credited with beating back the 
On Sunday, two tribesman were killed "These Taliban call themselves Muslims, insurgency there. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 13, 2008 
Fox 
continued from page 1 
"!Mara Jiox'sl dream was to 
study abroad in Toledo," 
Sam pie said. 
Al't1~r Notre Dame, Fox want­ed to be a psychiatrist in a Spanish spmtking country, but on November 13, 1993, shn was hit by a drunk driww when she was walking to campus, Sample said. 
"It was a Notre Dame law stu­dent that hit her on Douglas Hoad, whnn shn was walking back from Steak and Shake," she said. 
Sample said Mara Fox's fami­ly comes to campus every year for the run. 
"They were really happy with how things turned out this year," she·said. 
The race included a 5K run that started at Lyons Ball and ended in front of South Dining I tall and a 1-mile walk around Saint Mary's Lake, Caminiti said. Afterwards, the runners were servnd with bagels from Panora Bread. which "were a big hit." she said. 
Caminiti said the top male, junior Miehanl Wrapp, won a 
GRE 
continued from page 1 
scored on a 200-800 point scale and the analytical writing section is scored on a 0-6 point scale. Seores are valid for five years from the time the stu­dent takes the tBst. 
Hesearch also shows students under the age of 23 score earn a higher average score than any othor age group. 
"What we are suggesting is that students consider taking tho GHE il' they do know what they want to do after gradua­tion. We havn information that shows that individuals under the age ol' 23 tend to do bntter boeausn they are in thn middle ol' using academic skills that they would use in graduatn school and on thn (;HE." Dawn cash prize, a bucket of candy and a pair of crocs. The top female, sophomore Laura Lindsley, received a gift certifi­cate to a hair salon as well as crocs and a bucket of candy. 
Caminiti and Sample said they have been working since the summer to put together the race. They enlisted about 40 volunteers from Lyons Hall to help sign up runners, design the T-shirts, put together the e­mail lists and publicize the event. 
"Everything ran so smoothly," Caminiti said. 
The week preceding tlie race, Lyons Hall worked closely with Pillars -a student group on campus run through the Office of Drug and Alcohol education -to raise awareness about drunk driving, Sample said. 
"We had an event every day leading up to the run," she said. 
The events included an infor­mation session with a golf cart that simulated that feeling of drunk driving and posters with statistics about drunk driving were set up outside of O'Shaughnessy Hall and DeBartolo llall, Sample said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
they will need to do a review to refresh their skills." 
Hesearch done by the council of' Graduate Studies showed there were a total of 1,698,445 graduate students enrDiled in the United States in 2007. In addition to the three percent annual increase in graduate enrollment over the last 10 years, the data conducted by Council of Graduate Studies 
Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 5-11, 2009 


Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 

"What we are
Piacnnlino. asso­the scores in a eiatn diroctor in suggesting is that few years to tho Gil I·: pro­earn a master's
students consider 
gram at degree in psy­
taking the GRJ;' ifthey
Hducation chology. Tnsting Serviens do know what they "I took the (WI'S ) , a n o n -GHE because I
want to do after 
profit rnsoarch am planning on
graduation. " 
and standarcl­pursuing a iznd testing graduate organization, Dawn Piacentino degree in psy­said. chology eventu­
associate director 
l'nopln undnr ally down tho
Education Testing
tho agn of 2:{ road," she said. 
Services

~~arrHHl an aver­"I also am inter-
ago seorn of 484 on tho vnrhal portion ol' the tnst and SX7 on tlw quantita­tivo part on tlw tnst, ETS data shownd. Thn scorns droppod not.ieoably for peopln in tho 2:{­25 y1)ar old ago group. In 2006, t hn 2;{ -25 yo a r o I d g r o u p 
seorod  an  avorago of' 477  on  
t.lw verbal Sf~dion  and 55(>  on  
tho quantitative soction.  

"What wo stw is gnnerally individuals that are undnr the ago of 2.:{ do hnttnr than older st.udnnt and tho diiTornnens are significant on tlw quantitative nwasuro" l'iaeontino said. 
Tho quantitative snetion mnasurns a studPnt's abilitins in arithnwtic. algnbra, gnome­try probability and statistics. 
"Tho <;HI~ dons not havn col­logo lnvnl math on it, so you can think that. tlw youngnr a pnrson is, tho dosPr thny arn to tlw i r high s c h o o I r oursns." Piarnntino said. "As pnopln gnt farthnr away from high school, 
ested in doing ACH I like that it's a combined program where you ean pro­vidn service to children and get a masters in education. I am hoping to combine my degrees in education and psy­chology in order to develop programs l'or our educational programs." 
Because ETS encourages students to take the GHE, they offer l'ren preparation for all who register to take the test. 
"The GHE makes available l'rnn test prep material for evoryono who registers for the gonnral tnst because we think its important that a person be propared and know what kind ol' qunstions are on the test. Being prepared and under­standing what thny arc going to bn tnstnd on is very impor­tant." Piacnntino said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
showed there was a four per­cent yearly enrollment increase among women and a five percent yearly enrollment increase among international students. 
"There is published data that shows that the higher degree that you have the more money you make," Piacentino said. 
Senior Elizabeth Nye took the GHE in order to gain a master's degree in education through ACE. She also plans on using 

CATERING 
For et'er:J' occasion 
• 
d.edu. 


5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 1332 Hilltop Rd. St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, October 13, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  8,451.19  -12R.OO  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,147  30  2,130  2,871,427,904  
AMEX  ···w1>~@i~29tJ:18'~r'·'t§o:o4  

NASDAQ 1,649.51 +4.39 NYSE 5/704.13 405.85 S&P 500 204.84 -1.82 NIKKEI (Tokyo) Si276U43 -881.06 FTSE 100 (London) 3,932.06 -381.74 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) -2.43 -2.20 88.50 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) +10.30 +1.41 15.10 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.63 -0.20 31.32 ULTRA FINANCIAL$ (UYG) +12.72 +1.07 9.48 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.70 +0.0270 3.8610 13-WEEK BILL -63.79 -0.37 0.21 30-YEAR BOND +0.41 +0.0170 4.1370 5-YEAR NOTE -2.16 -0.0610 2.7620 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -8.89 77.70 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -27.50 859.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.78 86.48 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 100.80500. EURO 0.7461 
IN BRIEF 
Economic woes stall greenhouse laws 
WASHINGTON -The economic free fall grip­ping the nation may bring down one of the main environmental objectives: capping the green­house gases that are blamed for global warming. 
Democratic leaders in the House and the Senate, and both presidential candidates, contin­ue to rank tackling global warming as a chief goal next year. But the focus on stabilizing the economy probably will make it more difficult to pass a law to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. At the very least, it will push back when the reductions would have to start. 
As one Republican senator put it, the green bubble has burst. 
"Clearly it is somewhere down the totem pole given the economic realities we are facing," said Tom Williams, a spokesman for Duke Energy Corp., an electricity producer that has supported fPderal mandates on greenhouse gases. Duke is a member of the U.S. Climate Action Partnership, an association of businesses and nonprofit groups that has lobbied Congress to act. 
Iran and Hamas gloat over crisis 
CAIRO -America's opponents in the Middle East are gloating over the financial meltdown in the United States, painting it as divine retribution for past misdeeds against Muslims and the last gasps of a dying empire. 
1-Iardline clerics across the region and groups like llamas and ai-Qaida took delight in America's financial woes even though it has not left the region unscathed. with stock markets across the Middle East dropping more than 10 percent last week. 
"We are witnessing the collapse of the American Empirn," llamas prime minister in the Gaza Strip, Ismail Haniyeh, told worshippers during Friday prayers. "What's going on in America is a result of the violation of the rights of people in Palestine, Somalia. Iraq. Afghanistan and Muslims around the world." 
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said TuPsday that America was paying the price for exporting innation and deficits to the rest of the world. 
"Now the world capacity is full and these prob­lems have rp,turned to the U.S." he said. "And finally thny are oppressors, and systems based on oppres­sion and unrighteous positions will not endure." 
Lawmakers push bank stock purchase 
Treasury Secretary Paulson opposes free trade and protectionism 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Treasury Secretary Ilenry 
Paulson told international 
leaders on Sunday that iso­
lationism and protectionism 
could worsen the spreading 
financial crisis. With a new 
trading week dawning, U.S. 
lawmakers urged quick 
action by the Bush adminis­
tration on measures to 
make direct purchases of 
bank stock to help unlock 
lending. 
Sen. Chuck Schumer. 
chairman of the Joint 
Economic Committee. said 
an administration proposal 
to inject federal money 
directly into certain banks, 
in effect partially nationaliz­
ing the banking system, "is 
gaining steam." 
"I am hopeful that tomor­
row, the Treasury will 
announce that they're doing 
it. And they have to do it 
quickly ... markets are wait­
ing," Schumer, D-N.Y., said. 
The administration has 
not indicated when it would 
announce its next steps. 
Democrats also are lining 
up behind House Speaker 
Nancy Pelosi's plan to bring 
lawmakers back to Capitol 
Hill after the Nov. 4 election 
to work on a second eco­
nomic relief plan. The idea 
is "give the middle class and 
the average citizen the same 
kind of relief that we try to 
give the financial sector," 
said Democratic Rep. 
Barney Frank of for states that overspent on the dangers of "inward­bank and the IMF will draw 
Massachusetts, chairman of social programs. looking policies." on the full range of their 
the House Financial In another step aimed at "Although we in the resources to help these 
Services Committee. easing the financial crisis, United States are taking countries. 
Top Democrats are sug­the Federal Reserve on many extraordinary meas­Bank President Robert 
gesting a $150 billion meas­Sunday approved the $12.2 ures to ease the crisis, we Zoellick told reporters the 
ure that would extend job­billion acquisition of trou­are not pursuing policies financial crisis "has been a 
less benefits, provide more bled Wachovia Corp. by thai would limit the flow of manmade catastrophe. The 
money for food stamps and Wells Fargo & Co. Wachovia goods, services or capital, as actions and responses to 
finance some construction is the latest in a string of such measures would only overcome it lie in our 
projects, such as rebuilding major banks and financial intensify the risks of a pro­hands." 
bridges and roads. It would institutions that have been longed crisis," Paulson said. Jittery investors awaited 
also include either a tax felled by the financial crisis. Meanwhile, the World the reopening of stock mar­
rebate or tax cut. The Fed action was expect­Bank pledged to protect kets -the Dow Jones 
Rep. Roy Blunt of ed. poor and vulnerable coun­industrial average just com­
Missouri, the second-rank­As the International tries and nations with rapid­pleted its worst week ever, 
ing House Republican, said Monetary Fund and World ly developing economies. plummeting more than 18 
he would help on a plan Bank held their annual Mexican Finance Minister percent -and hoped for 
"that makes sense" but is meetings over the weekend, Agustin Carstens, who bold, coordinated interna­
not laden with huge public Paulson warned the bank's heads the bank's policy-set­tional steps to address the 
works projects or bailouts policy-setting committee of ting committee, said the crisis. 


Possible conflicts ofinterffit inbailoutplan 
Associated Press While Treasury employees will oversee selves," she said. 
the plan, there does not appear to be any­House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. 

WASIIINGTON -The government's thing in the rules that requires the gov­said the guidelines drawn up by the plan to make sure private managers of a ernment to make sure the applicants are department fall short. $700 billion bailout plan are free of con­being truthful. · "I am very concerned that they fail to flicts of interest is weak, according to "It basically says that these companies meet the tough conflict-of-interest-stan­some critics, and allows too much room are responsible for disclosing their own dard directed by Congress in the legisla­for abu<>e. conflicts of interest," said Laura Peterson, tion,'' Pelosi said in an Oct. 7 letter to 
The Treasury Department is in the a senior policy analyst for Taxpayers for Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson. process of hiring financial experts to run Common Sense, a private watchdog "Under these guidelines, companies that the giant, taxpayer-financed fund, -created group. "And they are then responsible for benefit from the Troubled Assets Relief by the legislation that President Bush coming up with a plan to fix them. Program may also be eligible to offer signed on Oct. 3. Nowhere in there does it say Treasury asset management or other contractor 
The law allows the department to offer will also be doing due diligence." services if Treasury personnel approve a contracts that are not governed by federal Treasury can waive the conflict-of­mitigation plan." procurement regulations, but requires it interest provision. The second-ranking House Republican, to draw up conflict-of-intnrest guidelines. Department spokeswoman Jennifer Rep. Roy Blunt of Missouri, said the 
Interim guidelines released last week Zuccarelli said the government will do bailout legislation rushed through require applieants to disclose "any actual more than simply require the companies Congress provides for much oversight or potential conflicts of interest" that may to identify potential conflicts. "While we and transparency. "Whatever the secre­come into play. Applicants must submit a ask the firms to independently identify tary does, the American people are going plan to show how they will "avoid, miti­their conflicts, Treasury then independ­to get a chance to look at it," he said in a gate or neutralize" such conflicts. ently identifies potential conflicts our-television interview Sunday. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, October 13, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Community building, 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Dining H•ll. Note< Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

common council-style
Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Katie Kohler 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR; jenn Mctz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
BiJJ Brink 
SCENE EDITOR; Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jes.•ica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary )esse 
CoNTROLLER! Stacey GiJJ 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAfOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S 0ESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent. daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrriscments based on content. 'l'hc news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmenr editors. Commcnrarit·s, letters and columns present the views of tilt' authors and nor necessat"ily those ofThe Observer. Vit·wpoint space i.s available to all readers. The free t'Xpres.~ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include t·ontact information. 
Qumiom "Karding Obsm'"polides should bt directed to Editor in ChitfChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l1•c Ol~rvcr (USPS 'IJ!l 2-4000) t1 puhli.othcd Monday tht()\tt(h hid.y ac;ept cluring ClliliU ;U11I v:.~.:.;Uinf• pt:rin~l•. A •u'-':ripnm• '"The Oh:tervcr iJ SIOO for ollt' aadc:mic ~·"'$55 r~·r mu: Jlcmestcr. 
The 0\Hcrvtr ia pubhJdKod ;ar I'C >STMASTER Ol4 Snufh Dit1inK H...ll ~nd .Wdrc:.t~ corrl!'ctions w: 
Nmrt Dolme, IN 4M'56·0n9 Tiu:l>MMr 
1\lriodkill pom.gc pOI.t\1 .11 Notre Dame W.llox779 And additimu.l mailiul'l nlftc:CI. 024 Suurh Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46'iS6-0n9 

The Ol\ ....rver •• .1 mcmhc:r of the A.uucut<d P1U5. All rqm~hu.:tinn tii\hu art ~rvttl. 
Last Friday (Oct. 10), The Observer ran an article entitled "University addresses community relations," from which you could easily have drawn the conclusion that all Notre Dame stu­dents-not just off-campus ones -are irresponsi­ble, lawless hooli­gans. Students' self-control, according to some residents, Common Council members and even the chief of police, is inverse­ly proportional to the performance of the football team. Judging from statements like "there's no mention of the con­tributing factor of alcohol -and how that contributes to danger" or "you cannot walk down the street at 2:30 in the morning, sloppy drunk, singing and expect to be safe," the article may as well have reported that, according to those interviewed, the real public safe­ty problem is people who are drunk. If they happen to get robbed or assault­ed, well, they were being irresponsible in the first place; they basically deserved it. The chief of police even stated that "we will not turn our backs 
·on the citizens that live here [year­round]" -which, I guess, suggests that policing the entire city necessitates a choice between ignoring either Notre Dame students or permanent residents. Between these kinds of attitudes and the dredging up of a few high-profile 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
incidents, it seems that South Bend's community leaders are in high dudg­eon about student behavior, so much so that they are expressing the sort of sentiments that probably wouldn't fly if they were targeting anyone other than college students. 
Obviously, any town that boasts a university will have problems with its students; town-gown relations, espe­cially concerning students' extracurric­ular activities, have been a problem for as long as there have been universities. And certainly Notre Dame students bear responsibility for following local noise ordinances and other laws, as well as representing Notre Dame to the community as a whole. 
But there is also no excuse for the sort of rhetorical bluster that unfairly singles out Notre Dame students as irrational, antisocial and a major threat to public order and safety on par with those who are actually committing crimes. Yes, there are a few parties hosted and attended by Darners that result in noise violations and underage drinking (which, on the whole, have been fewer this year than in previous years). But I'm willing to bet that the majority of the crimes appearing on the September Safety Stats have little, if anything, to do with Notre Dame par­tygoers, unless they happened to have been victims rather than perpetrators. And the city of South Bend -which already boasts a crime rate about twice as high as the national average for almost all violent and property crimes except aggravated assault -will be facing massive budget cuts that will probably reduce the uniformed police force by 15 percent over the next two 
years. Clearly there are larger and 
more endemic problems than student 
parties. 
Fortunately, neither r.esidents nor students believe that the students of Notre Dame are second-class residents who are only here to be part of an intellectual enclave and otherwise have absolutely no interest in civic affairs or even being neighborly. After all, in the same paper, an article appeared about another student party that got out of hand, after which the students gen­uinely attempted to make up for an evening of bad judgment; their neigh­bors were content not to throw them under the bus for a single incident. They, like most ofT-campus Domers, are trying to live with, rather than pro­voke, their neighbors. So it would seem that official representatives of South Bend are l;:trgely blowing the actions of a few students out of proportion in order to attribute unfounded stereo­types of college undergraduates on all the student body, by way of lecturing them about their civic responsibilities. And this strikes me as completely absurd, if not self-defeating. Wouldn't it be better to constructively indude the student body of Notre Dame in the city's attempt to promote public safety and community-building rather than antagonize it? 
Darryl Campbell is a second-year Ph.D. student in history, and wishes his students good luck on their midterm today. He can be reached at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
~LL \HI~ PL\)5l\ NEW V/PE.O oP BI\RACk OBA~tl ~lck\NG '(ouR DoG 
~ILL. NO DOUBT. , NO'T fiELP McCMNS pot.L NUt-\SERS. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports 

Joseph McMahon Sam Werner Who would you rather spend a nightAaron Steiner Lorenzo Reyes 
on the town with? 
Robert Singer Mike Gotimer Graphics Scene "Those who don't know how to weep
John McCain
Andrea Archer Analise Lipari with their whole heart, don't know
Barack Obama how to laugh either. " 
Viewpoint Jess Schaffer Joe Biden Lianna 
Golda Meir

Mr. Sarah Palin 
Brauweiler fourth Israeli prime minister Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, October 13, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Athletic director leaves SMC 
Saint Mary's College lost an outstanding role model this fall-athletic director Lynn Kachmarik. Lynn stepped down from her position, but it is a move that should not go unnoticed. Lynn had quite a career before she came to Saint Mary's College, and the College and student body were fortunate to benefit from her experience and lead­ership. Lynn knew what it was like to be an ath­lete. Lynn was a four-year All-American in water polo at Slippery Rock University (SRU) from 1976­80, as well as an All-American on the SRU swim team. She was a member of the United States Women's National Water Polo Team from 1976-88, serving as captain for six years. She was selected to the All-World Team in 1978. She competed in three World Championships and seven FINA World Cup tournaments while on the U.S. team. 
Lynn also knew what it was like to be a coach. At the collegiate level, she was named women's swimming coach at Bucknell University in 1982 and in 1984 was appointed assistant coach of the university's men's water polo team. Lynn was named head coach of the Bucknell men's water polo team in 1986, making her the first woman to serve as the head coach of any NCAA men's team sport. In 1987, her first year on the job, she was named Eastern Men's Water Polo League Coach of the Year. She continued as head coach for the men's water polo team until 1990. Lynn served as the women's swimming coach from 1981-94 and the head men's and women's swimming and diving coach from 1994-98. 
Lynn also served as a coach on the national level. She was an assistant coach of the U.S. national water polo team from 1990-92, and coached her squad to a third place finish at the 1992 World Championships in Perth, Australia. Lynn was among the first group of women to be inducted into the United States Water Polo Hall of Fame and the first woman inducted into the Collegiate Water Polo Hall of Fame. She was inducted into the Slippery Rock University Hall of Fame in 1991. She currently serves on the U.S.A. Water Polo, Inc. Board of Directors. 
Lynn relocated, to South Bend with her family in 1999. Fortunately for Saint Mary's, she accepted a position as the head athletic director. The student body, particularly the athletes and workers in Angela Athletic Facility, did not know Lynn Kachmarik, the accomplished athlete and coach. We met a woman who was dedicated to advancing athletics and school pride: She established the Varsity Club, Midnight Madness, Saint Mary's cheerleaders and Saint Mary's mascots; she rein­stituted the Saint Mary's College Athletic Hall of Fame; she brought the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Conference 2000 swim championships to Saint Mary's home pool-Notre Dame's Rolfs Aquatic Center -and directed a class-A event; she encouraged students to assume leadership roles in the College and community through the Student Athlete Advisory Council; she recruited established coaches and impressive student-ath­letes. The list is endless. Lynn was a leader at Saint Mary's, continually fmding new ways to involve the student body in athletics and fostering a sense of pride in Saint Mary's athletes. She did this mainly by example, inviting us into her home and sharing her family, spending time with the athletes and coaches, listening to the students' concerns and putting words, thoughts and ideas into action. Many of us learned through Lynn that a Saint Mary's woman is not an outdated arche­type adorned with smiles and pearls; she is a real woman who constantly works to balance family, career and self. ' 
Lynn is not a superwoman. She is a real woman, one who shows us that success is not easy, but it is attainable ifyou work at it. Coming from a school that prides itself on producing strong women lead" ers, we -the alumnae of Saint Mary's College ­are proud to have had such a leader in our midst and humbled that she gave the Saint Mary's stu­dents the attention, professionalism and warmth that she dedicated to her other quite noteworthy endeavors. Thank you, Lynn. 
Michelle Samreta, Elise Hall, Johna Graziani, Lori Smithe, Colleen Schaefers, Maureen Palchak, Ashley Dyer alumnae class of2000, 200 I, 2004, 2005 Oct. 6 
Listen to JillllllY 

Our quarterback has done some great things on the field and is trying to assert himself as a team leader this year, but unfortunately the students and band let him down Oct. 4 when given a chance to say "thank you." At Friday's Pep Rally, Clausen proposed that the students should give one "crank me up" on the band's cue to pump up the defense on the third down. When we tried it out in the JACC, it sounded great 0 could tell from my seat that even recruit Zeke Motta was impressed). During the game however, not only did the band forget to give the cue on the first defensive third-down play, but none of the students minded that Clausen's request was ignored. I was disappointed and I'm sure Clausen must have been too, because he was trying to help out a defense that has not been up to par with the offense he's lead this season. 
Most likely the third down "crank me up" didn't happen because there was barely anyone at the pep rally to hear Clausen's proposal, and that's disappointing because it was the best one I have ever been to. Although the pep rally could have been cut short by at least half an hour by omitting the Notre Dame Olympians ceremony (which was nice but had nothing to do with beating Stanford and was repeated at the game in front of the same people who were at the pep rally), it was still worth going to because Terrail Lambert and Pat Kuntz gave two hilarious speeches. For the future, I hope that students attend the pep rallies if not to get pumped for the game, then for the players. There's only so much Jimmy Clausen can ask from us as fans and it's a shame that we couldn't follow through on a simple request Saturday. Hopefully we can make up for ourselves at our next home game against Pitt, and hopefully in the future the University takes the appropriate measures to make pep rallies more concise and enticing to the students. 
Kyle Blanco freshman Fisher Hall Oct. 6 

ND can still tnake Irish flag 
This is in response to the "Irish flag won't fly" by Pat has been accomplished? 1. No responsibility on the fans to Moore (Oct. 7). I agree that a couple columns in the news­wear a certain color. 2. Colored paper will cost a lot less paper are not enough to cause an impact on what everyone than shirts. 3. It's not brain science to figure out what sec­wears on game day. However, that does not mean we can­tions will get what pieces of paper. 4. It won't be too much not get this Irish flag idea off the ground. It is simply too extra work for ushers (or someone else) to hand out paper hard to get everyone to wear the right colors -people down the rows. 5. Since we are all trying to "go green" why refuse, people don't remember, etc. So here's an idea: How not recycle those scraps on the way out? Perhaps we could about we ask everyone to wear whatever they want? That hold up the paper during kickoffs, so that the paper does seems simple, right? not disrupt viewing the actual game. 
So now moving on to making the Irish flag. This idea The details are debatable. Now it rests on putting this comes from watching European sports and the occasional plan into action ... any takers? high profile American sporting event. When fans walk into the stadium they are given a colored piece of paper. Beth Comeglio Obviously, this color depends on section, seat, and so on. At junior certain points during the game fans hold up the piece of Le Mans Hall paper and the results are a spectator spectacular! So what Oct. 7 
Keep dinner discussions clean 
At a meal in South Dining Hall yesterday evening with a good friend, the topic of the election came up. My friend and I sit on opposite sides of the aisle. Our conversation started congenially enough, but quickly dissolved into accusatory but veiled jabs at one another's personal judgment (e.g., "I don't see how you could trust ... " and "I have a problem with a politician who ... "). I think we both walked away with a bad taste in our mouths. I love politics, but I detest the type of destructive debate in which I engaged. · 
As this election turns nasty, let's not allow MSNBC and Fox News to provide our arguments or (even worse) form our beliefs. We all face the same question: How can we best run our country? The truth is that ifthere was a "right" answer, we would have settled on it by now. There isn't, so the debate goes on. At bottom, we all maintain the same goal: to move our nation toward goodness, equality and prosperity. My friend and I would have done well to remember that. 
Brett A. Strand grad student Duncan Hall 
Oct. 7 

Who has the 'Right to Life'? 
It's that time of year again. The sight of rows of simple ideal. We're not "pro-abortion;" we're "pro-the-woman's­white crosses and pink and blue flags greets me as I walk choice-to-have-an-abortion-if-she-chooses-to." down South Quad. Yet again, I am moved to feel guilty, as I We all know what the mission of Right to Life/Respect Life am of pro-choice ideology. But then, I look at the captions Week is to get the message out to the student body that we and quotes dispersed among the crosses -they all have to should all respect the life of an unborn fetus and allow it to do with abortion -and I remember why I feel the way I do. live a full, healthy life. But what about the right of would-be The bantering between the pro-life/pro-choice issue has mothers to live that same full, healthy life? Is she expected to always baffled me. It always seems to center around the give up her rights over her own body the second she morality of abortion, when, ifanyone really cared to dissect becomes pregnant? As a pro-choice idealist, I say that she is the issue, they'd see that the real issue at stake has nothing entitled to act as she sees fit. If that entails abortion, while it to do with abortion per se. It has to do with whether a is a regrettable situation, I accept it because in the end, it is woman has the right to have domain over her own body and her body ... and therefore her choice and right. the right to do with it as she chooses. The pro-choice view­Abortion is a terrible predicament to experience. For it, point dictates that it is her right, not the government's, hence against it ... however you feel, it's clear that this is not the its name. real issue at stake. It is the rights of the mother that are at 
Naturally, most opposing issues have opposing ideas: pro­risk. I, personally, hope that I will never have to be put in a welfare vs. anti-welfare, death penalty vs. life in prison, etc. situation where it is a choice I will have to make. However, if However, ifyou really look at both issues, pro-choice and that day ever comes, my hope is that the government will pro-life viewpoints don't necessarily contradict each other. still allow me to make my own choice. I've always found it interesting that pro-choice activists get labeled as "anti-life" or "pro-abortion." There is nothing to Lindsay Schwartz suggest that in the term "pro-choice." In fact, I'm fairly cer­sophomore tain that ifyou asked most pro-choice activists, they would Welsh Family Hall say that abortion is a tragedy for all parties involved and not Oct. 7 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Monday, October 13, 2008 
; I 
--/ -:. 'i

(------~-----~ 0 I-/"'-1 --1 -N··--­__,) :___: -~. ' t.·1E/ L ' · . t~t: 
'1\,/.,,_ ...I-.
' 2 1· ~ ) ' I I 1 .--~ 
' 
: I ~ I I I

i ,'· 
lrorn • ·' t I ( I I 
Cl .4 
By MICHELLE FORD ICE 
Assistant Scene Writer 

Fashion. It's more than just clothes. It's about mixing imagination, art, practicality, and form into a new expression. Of course, sometimes between classes and the temptation to lounge around in sweatpants, it is easy to loose track of the fashion world on a college campus, so here are some of the best places you can find on the internet to re-inspire yourself. 
THE 5ARTORIALIST. 
www. thesartorialist.com 
The Sartorialist was one of the first well known fashion blogs and has become an influence in the fashion world itself, as illustrated by its selection as one of "The Times" top 100 Design Influencers and author's Scott Schuman's increasing presence in major fashion publications. The Sartorialist, a Nnw York street fashion blog with stunning photography, is beautiful in its simplicity. Photographs are laid out on a plain white back­ground and are at most accompanied by brief, but revealing, commentary. Schuman seeks out the chie on the streets and never fails to find it. He is also very aware of the fact that fashion is not limited to perfectly proportioned girls. Many of his subjects arc older and not 11awlessly figured, and yet just as striking. This undeniable beauty in the day to day makes the bJog a real treat. 
T H 1: S _\ K T 0 Rl.\. L .I S T 
ICONIC MAGAZINE 
www.iconique.com 
Iconique is a striking online fashion magazine with beautiful presentation. Covering fashion, beauty and design, Iconique blends music, excellent pho­tography and graphic design to create visual feasts for the fashion forward. Their virtual catwalk is great for those of us who can't get there. The Les !\rtes Digitalns section is neat because it reminds us of the connection between graphie design and fashion. While most of its content isn't what anyone would aetually wear or do with their makeup, the imagination it cap­turns is inspiring. The magazine is about to be revamped, so we'll have to wait and see if it can get even better. 
-~
l -J =
C~ONI -· ­
\ 
Go FUG YOURSELF 
gofugyou rself. celebuzz. com 
Go Fug Yourself is one of those secret pleasures. The blog reports the biggest fashion blunders of the celebrities who are supposed to be our fash­ion inspiration (if only because they have the money to buy the things we can't). Yes. it is catty, but in an entertaining way. The writers are witty and absolutely hilarious. And they do admit it when their worst perpetrators get it right, occasionally including a 'Well Played' article that praises their suc­cesses. Still, the best moments are when they capture the truly insane outfits some celebrities have put together. If you ever need a laugh, this is a great place to stop by. 
5TEET PEEPER 
www.streetpeeper.com 
Street Peeper is an excellent street fashion blog, covering over 23 cities, from Amsterdam to Zurich. Snapping pictures of anyone they think is making a statement, the ten photographers of Street Peeper leave it up to their view­ers to decide what they think about the day to day ensembles of people on the streets, giving no other commentary than a list of the brands their spur­of-the-moment-model is wearing. One of the most intriguing things Street Peeper allows you to see is the fashion of different cities laid out side by side; each location has its own character, flair, and trends. Of course the best part about Street Peeper is that, -like all street fashion blogs, these are the fash­ions of real people, making them much more accessible than anything you would find on a runway. In that way it is almost more inspiring then the highest fashion. 

STREETPEEPER 
-.~ 
LooK BooK. 
www.lookbook.nu 
Lookbook is unique because it gives control of its contPnt to its viewers, kind of like a Face book for the world's fashionistas. Members post pictures of their best outfits and rate the outfits of other members. Like street fashion blogs, Lookbook is great because of its accessibility; the outfits are all made to be worn, not paraded across a runway or left hanging in store windows. Also, because all of the members are your average person, the outfits are within the average price range. Many of the pieces come from thrift stores, but it is the creativity of the wearer that turns them into statements. 
LOOKBOOK.nu 
fASHION 156 
www. fashion 156.com 
Fashion 156 is both an on-line fashion magazine and an excellent fashion blog. The blog is one of the best because of its diversity. It covers everything from high fashion, to rising designers, to bargain hunting. The writers cover London Fashion week as well as they do the latest fads and their own per­sonal inclinations. The magazine features new London designers and is mostly of a high fashion bent. It is fun to see what these designers are pro­ducing. Even better, Fashion 156 is one of the most frequently updated on­line fashion magazines to be found, releasing a new issue every 12 days. One of the best sections is 'Must Have,' which features their favorite items for men and women laid out side by side. 



,.::;,-k::,'­
;:_: 
--~--·.:.=· 
~f~ ~~ .• ... ·-~:·i' :·; 
.com 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

NSIDER 

O
THE Monday, October 13, 2008 BSERVER North Carolina 29, Notre Dame 24 
Achilles' Heel 
Irish fall to 0-2 on road after North Carolina uses turnovers to mount fourth quarter comeback in. Chapel Hill 
By CHRIS HINE Ediwr-in-Chief 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C.-The clock hit zero before Notre Dame quar­terback Jimmy Clausen could down the ball inside the 10-yard line. North Carolina players rushed the field. But Charlie Weis had thought there was still time let\ on the clock. 
IIe was right. Replay officials said there were two seconds left -but they also said Notre Dame didn't have the ball anymore. North Carolina did, giving the Tar !!eels a 29-24 victory Saturday over the deflated Irish. 
"''m not saying this to be disre­spectful, but that team in that locker room today, it was the first time in a long time where I've looked in their faces against a good opponent and it was a team that really feels bad," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "And the reason they really feel bad is because they're starting to get it ... This is not the same team that everyone saw at the beginning of the year. This team is starting to get it." 
The officials initially said fresh­man wide receiver Michael Floyd was down before he let go of a fourth-down reception at the 7­yard line. North Carolina defen­sive back Jordan Hemby scooped it up. After review, the officials gave the ball back to the Tar Heels. 
'The guys upstairs don't know about when the whistle is blown, so they're not there, whether the play is blown dead or not blown dead," Weis said. "It's a bitter end­ing, but it is what it is." chances in the fourth quarter to threw one of his interceptions on regain its eight-point lead. On that third downs, including a 19-yard, 
Notre Dame had entered fourth re-capture the lead. On its first what appeared to be miscommu­drive, Clausen went 4-for-7 for 44 third-and-10 completion to wide quarter with a 24-22 lead, but drive following Sexton's touch­nication between him and Floyd. yards. receiver Golden Tate in the end North Carolina quarterback down, the Irir.;h drove to the North "The clock was running down. It "I put the ball in his hands zone. Tate finished with five catch­Cameron Sexton (18-for-32, 201 Carolina 30-yard line, but a short was late getting set up, we just again," Weis said. "And he drives es for 121 yards. One of those yards) scored on a 4-yard bootleg run by sophomore running back barely got the play off and I think us right down the field and scores catches came on Notre Dame's just a few seconds into the quarter Armando Allen, who had 60 yards because it was running down so ... which out of the wbole game, next touchdown on a pass that to give the Tar Heels a 29-24 lead. rushing and 4 7 yards receiving, late, Michael and Jimmy weren't probably showed the most moxy seemed to be a sure interception The score capped a seven-play, and a pair of incomplete passes, on the same page because he of anything." for North Carolina. 42-yard drive for North Carolina Notre Dame faced a fourth-and­couldn't get a clean read on what North Carolina countered with a On second-and-9 from the 39, that wa..c;; set up by a Clausen fum­seven on the 27-yard line. We is the coverage is because we were long drive of its own, going 69 Clausen seemed to overthrow Tate ble that was recovered by Tar opted to go for it, a decision he rushed," Weis said. yards on 13 plays. On the drive, deep down the sidelines. North Heels defensive lineman Aleric said was not based upon the Clausen threw his first intercep­North Carolina faced a third-and-Carolina cornerback Kendric Mullins. recent struggles of kicker Brandon tion on Notre Dame's first play of 18 on its own 34, but Sexton found Burney had his eyes fixed sky­
Clausen set another career high Walker. the third quarter on a pass intend­receiver Hakeem Nicks, who fin­ward, and his body positioned to for yards in a game, throwing for "I thought we needed a touch­ed for tight end Kyle Rudolph. But ished with nine catches and 141 make the interception. Then Tate 383 yards on 31-for-48 passing down," Weis said of the decision. Tar Heels linebacker Quan yards, for 19 yards to keep the came flying in, jumped and with two touchdowns, but he also "It had nothing to do with [Walker] Sturdivant intercepted the pass drive going. The Tar Heels scored snatched the ball before Burney accounted for three of Notre ... Obviously, I put the kid in and took it 32 yards for a touch­eight plays later on a 1-yard run could get it for a 4 7 -yard catch. Dame's five turnovers. He also before, but ... I was concerned down to make the score 17-16 in by tailback Ryan Houston to cut Three plays later, Clausen found threw two interceptions against with them being able to run out favor ofthe Irish. Notre Dame's lead to 24-22 with Floyd for a 7 -yard touchdown to thn Tar Heelr.;, who lnad the nation the clock." "Despite the x's and o's, you 5:14 left to play in the third quar­give Notre Dame a 17-6 lead. in picks. Clausen found receiver David need an inspirational play, some­ter. "I think I just had some divine 
"Too many mistakes," Clausen Grimes over the middle on the thing good to happen ... " North In the first half, Notre Dame had intervention on that one," Tate said of his performance. "Too fourth-down play, but Grimes was Carolina coach Butch Davis said. little trouble moving the ball. said. many mistakes to be able win a tackled before reaching the first "[fhat interception] just electrified Using a five-wide receiver set But that divine intervention did­big game like this. North down marker, giving the ball back the whole football team, kind of the entire time it was on the field n't come when Notre Dame need­Carolina's a great team, great to North Carolina. got our mojo going again." in its first drive, Notre Dame went ed it most. defense and I give them a lot of After forcing a punt, Notre Notre Dame responded with an 82 yards on 11 plays for its first en~dit." Dame again drove into North 11-play, 72-yard drive, aided by a touchdown. Clausen was 5-for-9 Contact Chris Hine at 
Notre Dame had plenty of Carolina territory before Clausen roughing the punter penalty, to on the drive, and converted two chine@nd.edu 

play of the gameplayer of the game stat of the game quote of the game 

"Too many mistakes. Too many mistakes to be able to win a big game 
Michael Floyd's fumble onHakeem Nicks 

5 
the game's final playTar Heels wide receiver 
like this." 

Turnovers by Notre Dame, its Nicks caught nine passes for I 4 I 
Floyd caught the ball at the UNC 7highest number of the season. 

Jimmy Clausen

yards, including a I9-yard reception yardline but was ruled to have 
Irish quarterback 
fumbled, ending the game. 
on a3rd-and-I8. 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 13, 2008 

report card 
8-
quarterbacks: Jimmy Clausen edipsnd a earner high in passing yards fiw thn 
third straight week, but his three turnovers, especially the pick-six, wnre gan1e-changers. 
8 
running backs: Annando Allen lnd thn tnam in catchns and nm well whtm hn got the rock. and Hobl~rt llughns and James 
AldridgP did their job running betwmm 
tlw t.acklt~. Aldridge ran fi>r a ·m. 
8+ 
receivers: I>uval Karna.ra got back into the mix, David Grimes mntinund to be steady, ;md Mirhad Floyd <md Golden Tatn contin­
uo to bt~ dm:trifying. Kyle Hudolph looknd likt> a sn<L•;onnd go-to targd at times. 
8-
offensive line: Considering the Tar llm~ls usnd a fi>ur-man rush for most of tlw ganw, Clausm1 was undnr pres­
sun~ a lot mort• ofttm than he should 
haVt) been. 

8 
defensive line: Pat Kuntz and his linn­mates worn relatively quint aflor a big day against Stanfi>rd. They foreed 
Canwron Sexton out or the porkPt on 
otT<L'iion hut nevnr rattled him much. 
linebackers: Maurien Crum misst1d a 
8-
dmncP f(w a tackln-fi>r-loss on what turnPd out to bt~ a big play-though it 
W<L'i called bat~k fi>r holding. Ovt~rall, lol'i of' missPd Utcklns. 
defensive backs: Thn secondary failed to 
+intert:Ppt Snxton, who ha'i strugglnd in limitPd action. Ha11shon McNeil. a North
C Carolina natiw~. got bumt all day, ;md 
I>avid Bruton W<L'i pretty quint. 

C-
special teams: .Jona'i Gray bl>tehnd a kick­of!' and while Brandon Wa.lknr made his only liPid goal attmnpt, the Irish p<L'ised 
on a rhanm to try a 43-yarder in a late­
g;unP situation. 

B 
coaching: <:harlie Wnis and his stall' pre­parPd tht•ir team wtdl for a tough road ganw against a ranked opponnnt. And 
you ean't blamn the guys with headsnl'i fi>r turnovnrs and missnd tackles. 
overall: i\notlmr game fillnd with 
encouraging si~-,rns. but still. 
anotlwr road loss. The Irish had 
2.70 
a chance t.o win late. but tlw fart rPmains that th11y didn't. 
adding up the numbers 
The difference in total offensive yardage at 
15o 
the end of the day. The Irish outgained North Carolina 472-322. 
1 
The number of times Notre Dame was forced to punt. The Irish would have had to kick it away a second time if not for a roughing the kicker penalty. 
Notre Dame's time of possession in 
10·.26 
the fourth quarter, when the Irish were outscored 7-0. 
48 
The number of the years since the Irish had last lost to North Carolina. The Tar Heels won the 1960 matchup. 
The number of passes of 20 or more yards 
2 4 
Jimmy Clausen has completed through six games. He completed just 13 last season. 
2 The number of third-down conversions Notre Dame managed in the second hall. Tiley went 2­8 in the second hall after going 6-8 in the first. 
The yardage of Brandon Walker's field goal. He had missed seven of his last eight, and 
42 
the kick was the longest of his career. 
4 
The number of receiving TD's lor Michael 
Floyd through six games, tying the freshman mark Duval Kamara set last season. 
CHAPEL IIlLI,, N.C.-Some stood, some sat, some tried to stay loose, but everyone on Notre Dame's sidelines was doing the same thing-waiting. 
With just under two minutes remaining in the fourth quarter, few words were spoken on that sideline, there was only waiting for the oflieials upstairs to either grant Notre Dame one last opportunity, or end il'i hope of a 
last-second victo-Editor-in-Chief 
ry. 
Initially, the ollicials ruled that Tar I I nels wide receiver Brooks Foster had controlled a first-down catch that would have essentially ended the game. But the official upstairs wanted to take another look. 

While they did, most or the ommsive line sat on a bnneh, silent. Sam Young tried to keep himself loos<~. Jimmy Clausen stood, then crouched, then kneeled away from the bench r.lostw to tho field, not sure what to do with himself while every­body waited, plotting what the Irish needed to do should they get one final shot. 
"We wore thinking, 'If we get the ball, we'vn got to move. This is our last chance. We'vn got to call the 
best plays, we've got to get open, That meant more waiting. The we've got to stay on blocks, do every­ofl'ense got together with the coaches thing we could to win,"' wide receiver and got its play ready, thinking it'd Goldnn Tatn said. have one more to run. 
he Observer 
"We were thinking, 'If we get the ball, we've got to move. This is our last chance. We've got to call the best plays, we've got to get open, we've got to stay on blocks, do everything we could to win." 
Golden Tate Irish wide receiver 
If they wanted to see for themselves what happened on the play, they were out of luck. The video board at Kenan Stadiwn didn't show the play, just a revolving Tar Heels helmet. 
So they waited as the referee stnpped on the field. Once he did, he got about five words into his explana­tion that Foster did not have posses­sion of the ball before the sideline erupted. The linemen sprang from the bench, Clausen threw on his hnlmet and they prepared themselves while North Carolina punted. 
There was 1 :4 7 left, 82 yards to go and one timeout. There was also hope. 
The drive started ofl'well, with com­pletions of 30 yards to Tate, eight to Kamara, 12 more to Tate. Those catches were followed by a few incom­plete passes and a sack where Clausen ran out of bounds. Then, on a play that coach Charlie Weis said he "drew in the dirt," there was the fate­ful post route to freshman wideout Michael Floyd. Hn caught it, was hit 
and rolled over a 
defender. The ball came loose and chaos 
ensued. 
North Carolina picked up the ball, but the ollidals on the field said Floyd was down. Out of time­outs, Notrn Dame tried to down the ball with one second lnft. The dock hit zero. players rushed the field, but the oflkials quickly got them back to the sideline while the booth reviewed, well just about every­thing about the play. 
"That's all we were thinking about," 
Clausen said. "I just wanted one more 
chance to help this team win." 
/\gain, the video board just showed 
that damned revolving helmot. 
The n~feree trotted back out, only this time, the hope of victory was gone -Floyd was not down when he lot go of the ball. North Carolina had tim baJJ and the victory. a vietory tho Irish thought was going to be theirs. 
Replay can giveth hope and replay can taketh hope away-but not all of it. 
With that game, and that gutsy drive, the Irish gave their fans hopt~ for the future\. Notre Dame's last two wins wnre nice, but games the Irish should haw~ easily won. 
This one was more of a question mark-facing a ranked opponent, on the road. especially after Notre Dame's dismal showing in its first road game, a 23-7 loss at Michigan Statn. 
And Notrt~ Dame was up to the ehal­lengn. 
Clausen didn't have a good sm:ond half, throwing a pick six, another intnrception and fumbling, but he nearly led Notrn Dame to a comeback win and throw fiJr 383 yards. 
Miehael Floyd may be kicking him­self over that last play, but he didn't cost Notrn Dame the game and he's one of the top freshmen in thf1 country right now with a brilliant collegiatn earner lined up. 
And the defense may have allownd the go-ahead score, but it did get a key stop in the fiJurth quartnr to give tlw ofl'enstl a chance. 
Notre Dame has a bright, BCS-fillnd futurn alwad of itsnlf. All that's left to do is wait. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those qf' The Obsenwr. 
Contact Chris /line at chine(alnd.edu. 

Monday, October 13, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Young WR's continue to impress 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assistant Managing Editor 
CHAPEL HILL N.C. -Talk about a head hanger -and that's basically all Michael Floyd could do as he tore off his chinstrap and walked off the field. 
Cue the rest of the Irish wide receivers and the rest of the team. 
"That team today expected to win, they didn't come here hoping to win, they expected to win, and they did­n't," Irish coach Charlie Weiss said. 
But Floyd's fumble, or attempt at a lateral pass (whatever it was) was far from a representation of Notre Dame's receiving performance against· the Tar Heels, after all, Floyd did put the Irish up 6-0 in just the fifth minute of play. And the Irish passing game was certainly not at a standstill. Notre Dame had North Carolina beat 199-126 in passing yards at halftime and again in the second half 184-75. But time, and tho review gods wore not in Notre Dame's favor. 
"We had the mentality that we wantl1d to go out there and just keep bringing it cause ya know the whole game we moved the ball very easily ya know we just ran out of time," wide receiver Golden Tate said. 
And the Tar Heels never stopped nipping at Notre Dame's heels­fighting back with two field goals to bring the game within four in the sec­ond quarter. Yet Jimmy Clausen and his receivers kept the ball rolling. 
With just under six minutes left to play in the first half, Clausen launched a pass down the left sideline that looked like Tar Heel cornerback Kendric Burney was likely to intercept -but 
and help the team," Kamara said. 
The drive would eventually end with James Aldridge rushing for the touch­down' and the 24-16 Irish lead. But those would be the last points posted by the Irish offense. 
Down by five with the ball on the North Carolina 33 and only 11 sec­onds left to play, the wide receivers showed a glimmer of hope, but there just wasn't enough time and chance wasn't on. their side -all they could do was hang their heads and feel bad. 
"That team in that locker room today is the first time in a long time where I looked in their faces against a good opponent and it's a team that really feels bad, and the reason they feel really bad is because they're starting to get it, they are starting to get it. This is not the same team that everyone saw at the beginning of the year. This team is starting to get it," Weis said. 
They just haven't gotten it yet. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
•
scoring suminary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  7  10  7  0  24  
MSU  3  6  13  7  29  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, North Carolina 0 
Jimmy Clausen 19 yd pass to Golden Tate 
(Walker kick) with 10:27 remaining. Drive: 11 
plays, 82 yards, 3:29 elapsed Notre Dame 7, North Carolina 3 
Barth 41-yd field goal with 2:49 remaining. 
Drive: 8 plays, 54 yards, 2:51 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 10, North Carolina 3 
Brandon Walker 42-yd field goal with 12:53 
remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 63 yards, 4:56 
elapsed Notre Dame 10, North Carolina 6 
· Barth 34-yd field goal with 5:22 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 58 yards, 7:31 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17, North Carolina 6 
Jimmy Clausen 7-yd pass to Michael Floyd 
(Walker kick) with :52 remaining. Drive: 8 
plays, 80 yards, 4:30 elapsed Notre Dame 17, North Carolina 9 
Barth 42-yd field goal with :09 remaining. 
Drive: 7 plays, 42 yards, :43 elapsed 
Third quarter 
-Notre Dame 17, North Carolina 16 
Sturdviant 32-yd interception return (Barth 
kick) with 14:48 remaining. Notre Dame 24, North Carolina 16 
James Aldridge 2-yd run with 10:43 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 72 yards, 4:05 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, North Carolina 22 R Houston 1-yd run (Sexton pass failed) with 
5:14 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 69 yards, 5:29 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, North Carolina 16 
Cameron Sexton 4·yd run (Barth kick) with 
14:55 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 42 yards, 3:18 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

~.~~fi~::;.~~:l~$~1 
passing yards 


Sturdivant intercepted a Clausen pass intended for Kyle Rudol-ph and returned it 32 yards for the Tar Heel touchdown. Yet somehow, Clausen took the ball back in his hands and his wide receivers answered right back. On first and ten, Clausen launched a 16­
there stood Tate on the "This team is starting yard pass to wide North Carolina 8-yard­to get it.,, receiver Duval Kamara, line, ball in hands. A a face that has been 4 7 -yard completion that missing from the Irish 
Charlie Weis 
would put Floyd in the lineup. And just as it end zone one more time Irish coach looked like Clausen 
before half. and another possible turnover avoid­ed thanks to thosp, gold­en mitts. But the glory of Clausen's 7-yard pass to Floyd in the final minute of the half was only momentary North Carolina answered with another field goal to cut the Irish lead to 17-9 headed into 
the locker room.  
Enter the second half,  and  a whole  
other ball game. In the  first 20 sec­ 
onds  of  the  second  half  Quan  

might throw his second interception of the game right into the hands of Bruce Carter, 
Kamara knocked Carter to the side­lines forcing the ball out of his hands. Clausen then threw another 16-yard completion to Kamara. Talk about a response from a player who's playing time has dwindled since last season. 
"That play just felt real good, we scored on that drive, kept the drive going, so it felt good to go out there 
Turnovers kill Notre Dame's chances 
Quan Sturdivant, was his first God -a Tar Heels fan Irish have 11, seven of those 
By CHRIS HINE 
pick in 132 pass attempts -Since Notre Dame is a to Golden Tate. 
Editor-in-Chief 
the second longest streak in Catholic university, it's only 
Notre Dame history behind natural to assume the Irish "It's good!" 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -The Brady Quinn may have a Brandon Walker nailed his outcome might have been dif­(226) in 2006. little extra only field goal attempt -a ferent l'or Notre Dame had the help from 42-yarder to give Notre Dame
"I thought we needed
Irish not committed five No Tate, no above when a 10-3 lead in the second 
a touchdown. It had
turnovers on Saturday. Irish problem they take the quarter. Notre Dame faced a coach Charlie Weis said Dangerous nothing to do with teh field, But if fourth-and-seven on the turnovers were No. 2 on his North Carolina you ask Tar North Carolina 27-yard line
field goal kicker ...
team's top 10 list of things to receiver Heels run­and Weis elected to go for it. 
Obviously, I put the
accomplish in Saturday's Brandon Tate ning back He said after the game he Clausen 31·48 Sexton 12-26 game. exited in the kid in before, so it's S h a u n thought Notre Dame needed a 
rushing

"lit wasl after 'Can you win first half Draughn, the touchdown, given North
not about him, but I 
on thP road?' They seem to go because of a Almighty was Carolina's ability to run the 
... was concerned Allen 11-60 Draughn 17-91
hand-in-hand." Wnis said. sprained right wearing ball and eat up clock. 
Aldridge 4-23 Houston 8·28

Notre Dame came into the knee and did with them being able Car o l'i n a "I thought we needed a game with a +5 turnover rat­not return, but to run out the clock. ,, Blue. touchdown. It had nothing to receiving ing for the season. That mar­Hakeem Nicks "We always do with the field goal kicker gin vanished as North was more than have a !Brandon Walkeri 
Allen 7·47 Nicks 9-141 

Carolina didn't commit one. willing to fill Charlie Weis chance, Obviously, I put the kid in Floyd 6-93 Foster 3-28 Notrn Dame's -5 margin in Tate's shoes -Irish coach always." before, so it's not about him, Tate 5·121 Arnold 2-3 Saturday's game was its worst Nicks ended up Draughn but I ... was concerned that Kamara 5·58 Quinn 1-15 since Nov. 2. 2002, a 14-7 loss with 141 yards said. "With they were getting in that 2-Grimes 4-19 Thornton 1-5 to Boston Collegn on nin11 catches with one God on your side, you never tight formation and pounding 
tackling

touchdown. know." us, and I was concerned with The streak is over Nicks has eight career 100-them being able to run out the 
Bruton 8 Paschal 11

Jimmy Clauson's intercep­yard games, one of those Going deep clock." 
McNeil 6 Sturdviant 10 tion at the beginning of the coming in 2006 against the In 2007, Notre Dame had Smith, H. 6 Williams, D. 6 third quarter. which was Irish when he caught six pass­only six passing plays over 30 Contact Chris Hine at Crum 5 Hemby 6 returnml for a touchdown by es for 171 yards. yards. So far this season, the chine@nd.edu McCarthy 4 Goddard 5 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 13, 2008 
Tobacco Road-block 
Notre Dame entered Saturday's contest with a plu'i-5 turnover margin on the 
year -20th in the country. The lri'ih left dead even after giving the ball away five times. including one interception for a touchdown and a fumble on the game's final play. 'lbe oflense wa'i productive from the opening drive, when Jimmy <Jau<>en led the Irish on an 11-play, 82-yard touchdown drive that fin­ished with a 19-yard touchdown pass to Golden Tate. After field goals made it 10-6 Irish. <lauw.n led Notre Dame to its second 80-plus yard drive, this time U'iing eight plays and finding Michael Floyd from seven yard<; out. But Notre Dame gave away almost all its 17-9 halftime lead when Oau'ien's first second­half' was picked and taken to the hou<;e. After James Aldridge capped another long Irish t.ouchdown drivn, the Heel<; but answered but failed on their two-point try, making it 24-22 Notre Drone. North Carolina closed the scoring on the first play of tho filllrth quartor, when Cameron Sexton plunged in from four yard<; out. The lri'ih drow inside thn I h~el<;' 10 with seconds to play but couldn't punch it in. 

Clockwise from top, David Grimes tries to gain extra yardage after a catch; Armando Allen finds a seam after breaking a tackle at the line; Golden Tate outmuscles a North Carolina defender for a big play; Michael Floyd finds himself in space after one of his six receptions; North Carolina receiver Hakeem Nicks avoids two Irish defenders. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 13, 2008 
page 11 

CBy JIM McGUIRE Scene Writer 
H 
What would happen if the world were struck with an inexplicable pan­demic of blindness, and the "infected" were quarantined and left to their own increasingly feral devices? That is the question "Blindness," the new film by 
V 
0 
Fernando Meirelles ("The Constant Gardener"), explores with some degree of success. The film aims to be an art­ful commentary on the fragility of soci­ety and how our baser instincts can corrupt with little provocation. What we see instead is a grim post-apocalyp­tic tale that drifts into a fog -much like the milky white haze that the afflicted see in the film -without pro­
viding much substance. 

The film begins with scenes of hectic, urban traffic and a man in a white sports car at a red light who inexplica­B bly goes blind. The man and the'on­lookers who help him (and steal his car"ttryio rationalize the~Situatiorr;· but even the man's eye doctor (MarkH IRuffalo) is befuddled by the situation. There is nothing physically wrong with the man's eyes, and yet he is complete­p tc ly blind. Over the next day, a number of people who came into contact with the man in some way including the man who stole his car, a prostitute; a
0 K bartender, and even the doctor find themselves suffering from the same inexplicable "white sickness." 
0 Z The government, about·whose totali­tarian measures the film thankfully doesn't sermonize, orders a quarantine of the recently blinded, and the doctor
I C and his wife (Julianne Moore), who can still see but wants to stay with her hus-. band, are taken to a converted mental ~ hospital with the rest of the supposedly infected. There, the newly blind are cut off ,._, from the outside world and forced to V elect ward representatives and run their own affairs. The overcrowded conditions, lack of aid, and general malaise of the people leads to the hos­pital becoming squalid, dirty, and ­ironically -rife with disease. The doc­tor, aided by his wife who must keep her sight a secret, takes on the leader-
S 
Blindness 
Producer: Jim McGuire 

Starring: Julianne Moore, Mark 
Ruffalo, Gael Garcia Bernal, and Aoanny Glover
I ,Director: Fernando Meirelles 

quickly escalate as the conditions worsen and help from the outside dissi­pates. 
One day, things finally snap, and the self-proclaimed King of Ward Three (Gael Garcia Bernal) gets a hold of a gun and hoards all the food rations~ from the rest of the hospital, d.emand­ing payment in the form of jewelry and other valuables. Later, he demands payment through the rape of women from the other wards. 
After one of the women in her wards dies, the doctor's wife finally decides to take matters into her own hands, killing the King and starting a war that leads to the burning doWn of the build­ing. Those who escape the blaze find 
the gates unlocked and escape to the 
c 

devastated cities on the outside where blindness has taken over all of society. 
The last twenty minutes might remind viewers of any number of bleak, post-apocalyptic urban tales A 
(e.g. "28 Days Later," "I Am Legend," heck, even "Wall-,1~"¥ once vibtant'dty streets filled with garbage aiid"dejeCted R survivors wandering aimlessly to tonal, art-house music. 
There is a bit of hope at the end of "Blindness," but after all the nihilistic 0 I behavior in the preceding hour and a half, viewers can't help asking, "what is the point?" 0 
"Blindness," along with the originalz novel by Jost:r Saramago, has the dis­tinct honor of being condemned by the National Federation for the Blind for>l Cl the depraved and unrealistic portrait it gives of blind people, and it is easy to see why. , .1 d 
The one character in the film that"' was born lfigally blind is as depraved as anyone else, helping the King of H Ward Three round up the other patients' valuables and women for con­sumption. Julianne Moore as the doc-tor's wife. the one who can "see," is 
a 

portrayed as the voice of reason. While everyone else squabbles and wallows in their own filth, she is the one still cleaning, still moving, still fighting, i.e. the only one who is still a A productive member of society. Moore's character, for her constant presence in the movie, rarely says anything of any substance, only deep sounding things. The movie is filled with great actingo talent (Moore, Ruffalo, Danny Glover), but nobody gets to shine or grab your attention because the camera's focus is always lost in a cluster of people when it isn't floating randomly to the side. 
The essence of the film for both the-1 characters and the audience i.s being lost in a fog, and neither group gets much gratification at the end. 
Contact Jim McGuire at jmcguir@nd.edu 
) 
Check·out music in the Greenhouse 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 
One of the area;s most unique live music venues, the Potawatomi Greenhouse will play host to a night of deejays and bands today. The latest "Music at the Greenhouse" event will feature five diverse performers in different areas of the conservatory, includ~ ing jazz artists Eastern Seaboard and The Squirm Ensemble. The Potawatomi Greenhouse, itself a botanical conservatory that houses a variety of tropical plant life in the daytime, is Iocat~d at 2105 Mishawaka Avenue in South Bend. 
The frrst artist listed is Eastern Seaboard a Brooklyn-based band who takes a moder~ twist on free-form jazz. The band consists of bassist Jordan Schranz, drummer Seth Nanaa, and reed player Brent Bagwell. The band, according to their Web site, describes themselves as "raised on Sonic Youth's 'Daydream Nation' and wooed by John Coltrane's 'A Love Supreme."' Their most recent album, ''Nonfiction," is ,currently for sale on their Web site for $15. With a unique flavor and an expansive sound, Eastern Seaboard should prove to be an interesting listen. 
Music at the Greenhouse organizer Thorn Klepaoh describes the night's second artist Kocho-Bi-sexual's shows as "a rare mix of reverent hilarity, wistful surreality and raw booty shakin' fun." Kocho-Bi-sexual consists of Emi Kariya, Sebastian Paulson, a Roland Space Echo and a Hammond console organ. The duo met in New York City and soon combined their musical talents to create one dynamic act. 
Midwestern natives the Squirm Orchestra are. best described as an experimental jazz act. The band often uses ordinary objects in composing their sound. With members from Michigan, Illinois and Illinois, this live, improv band has a local flavor and an elec­tric soul. Klepach describes their sound as "electro-acoustic." The band will likely per­form with a reel of accompanying videos. 

The evening's fourth band is the Red Falcon Projects, a South Bend-based group who ,~()Unts among their influences Prince, Chuc'I(White, Koji Kondo and The Miftang Audio. Describing their sound as "futuristic folk," the band also makes use of synthesiz­ers and lasers in their techno-influenced sets. 
Rounding out the night's lineup is 21 Jump~uit. Both 2.1 Jumpsuit and the Red Falcon Projects belong to local label "I, Absentee" Records. Based out of Canton, Ohio, :21 Jumpsuit consists of music produc­er Carl States and often experiments with a blend of classic psychedelia and modern 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 13, 2008 
NFL 

Cardinals shock Cowboys in overtime thriller 
Rams earn first win on late field goal over Redskins; Elam kicks five field goals in Falcons' win vs. Bears 
utive points, including a pair of loose. Antonio Smith recovered for 
A..sociared Press 

touchdown passes by Kurt the Cardinals, but the Cowboys 
GLENDALE, Ariz. -Two little­Warner, to go up 24-14 on Neil challenged the ruling. known players brought an abrupt Hackers' 41-yard field goal with After the review, officials said end to a day of confusion, come­3:17 left in regulation. Homo had tucked the ball away baeks and cluteh pnrformanees in Tony Homo, who threw three when he fumbled and, by rule, it the desert. touchdown passes but fumbled was an incomplete pass. 
Sean Morey blocked Mat twice, connected with Marion The Cowboys went on to score McBriar's punt and Monty Beisel Barber on a 70-yard scoring play the tying touchdown. Romo threw seooped up the ball and scored that cut it to 24-21 with 2 minutes over the middle to a wide-open from 3 yards to give the Arizona left. Crayton on a 55-yard scoring play Cardinals a crazy 30-24 overtime Dallas' defense held, and the and it was 7-7 only 59 seconds vietory ow1r the Dalla..'> Cowboys. Cowboys got the ball at their 32. before the break. 
It wa..'i the first time in NFL histo­Romo connected with Patrick ry that a blocked punt f(Jr a toueh­Crayton on a 30-yard play to the Rams 19, Redskins 17 down ended a game in overtime. Arizona 39, where the Dallas The St. Louis Rams seemed 
Morey rushed untouehed off the quarterback spiked the ball with 4 almost determined to sink to 0-5. left side of the Dalla..'> line to block seconds to play to stop the dock. They fumbled at their own 4­the kick. Beisel. a backup line­LaBoy was far downfield, and yard line on their second play backer, picked up the ball at about wa..<; called offside. from scrimmage. They were going the 3 and bowled over the goal Officials, who had a difficult day nowhere until a fluke turnover line. all around, huddled for several flipped the momentum. They blew 
McBriar was hurt on the play minutes and even reviewed the a nine-point lead in the fourth and had to be earted oil" the field play before Folk's game-tying kick. quarter. They set themselves up in the din of a crowd that inducted The Cowboys scored the last for a gimme field goal to win the the usual large portion of Dallas time they had the ball in the frrst game, then committed a 15-yard fans. half and on their first possession of unsportsmanlike conduct penalty. 
The stunning play by two of the second to take a 14-7 lead. But this is the start of the Jim Arizona's most unheralded players Before the blocked punt, Haslett era, so maybe the ball is brought a conclusion to a game Arizona's biggest play of the game finally going to bounce the Rams' that began with a 93-yard kickoff eame the next time the Cardinal'> way. The defense forced the return by the Cardinals' J.J. had the ball and it wa..<; third-and-Washington Redskins offense into Arrington followed by many 17 on their 33. its firSt three turnovers ofJ.he sea­moment'> of confusion, controversy Warner's pass was tipped at the son, and Josh Brown kicked a 49­and cluteh perf(Jrm;mces. line of scrimmage, but the intend­yard field goal on the last play 
Dalla..'> (4-2) scored 10 points in ed receiver, rookie Tim Hightower, Sunday to give the two-touchdown the final 2 minutes of regulation, still caught it. Hightower powered underdogs a victory. sending the game into overtime to the first down, and the ''I'm kind of, like, blank. I don't Incognito claimed he doesn't a goal-line stand by the Falcons, when Niek Folk's 52-yard field Cardinals went on for the tying know if I want to cry or laugh," know what he said to provoke the an 85-yard kickoff return by goal barPiy cleared the erossbar as score. Hams linebacker Pisa Tinoisamoa ollicial, and Haslett also tried to Atlanta's Jerious Norwood, Elam's the fourth quarter ended. Larry Fitzgerald's leaping catch said. "A lot of emotions hit me at plead his player's case. first missed field goal in 31 
Folk was in field-goal range only between defenders on a 30-yard once. It's different, but a good dif­"If you're going to call a penalty attempts, a gutty drive by the becausfJ a 5-yard offside penalty play led to Warner's 11-yard ferent." on a guy who swears -if he did Bears that culminated with Kyle wa..<; called against injured Arizona touchdown pa..<;s to Steve Breaston A lot of emotions? Darn right. swear -then there's going to be a Orton's touchdown pass to linebacker Travi~> LaBoy a5 he that put Arizona ahead 21-14 with There was plenty of the bizarre in lot of flags flying out there," Hashied Davis with 11 seconds tried to limp downlield. The penal­10:44 left in regulation. a game that ended the franchise's Haslett said. remaining and, finally, Elam's win­ty moved the ball from the 40 to A disputed call resulted in a 14-eight-game losing streak over two Washington'(4-2) was playing a._<; ning kick aftt~r Hyan hooked up the 35. point swing late in the first half. seasons and helped put Scott a huge favorite for the first time with Michael Jnnkins on a 26-yard 
That wa..'i just one of the weird Arizona appeared to go up 14-0 Linehan, fired two weeks ago under coach Jim Zorn, and it completion. moments in Arizona's sixth con­late in the first half when Darnell before the bye, firmly in the showed. Portis said the Redskins Whew. secutive horne victory. Dockett slammed into Homo in the rearview mirror. overlooked the Rams, who were "That L'i one of the most exciting 
Arizona (4-2) scored 17 consec-Dalla..<; end zone and the ball carne The Redskins, guilty of playing supposed to be the first of three games I've ever been in," first­down to the opposition after two easy wins in the soft part of the year Atlanta coach Mike Smith big NFC East road wins, appeared schedule. said. "There were a lot of ebbs set to win their fifth straight game and flows." when Clinton Portis' 2-yard run Falcons 22, Bears 20 The Falcons erupted in a play­with 3:47 left gave Washington a Jason Elam stood on the sideline oll"-like celebration near the mid­17-16 lead. St. Louis, however, with head bowed, figuring he had dle of the field. Smith lifted Hyan in had enough time to mount a cost the Atlanta Falcons a win. the air. Elam was swarmed over comeback. Reinstalled starter Then, a kickoff return and a by his teammates, having atonnd Marc Bulger hit Donnie Avery quick pass gave him a second for the mL'is with his firth field goal down the right sideline for a 43-chance. of the game, equaling his career yard gain on third-and-13 to move In the blink of an eye, he went high. He also connected from 29, into field-goal territory. from goat to hero. 48, 32 and 41 yards. 
But the Rams (1-4), being the Atoning for his miss a few min­Six games into what was sup­Hams, nearly botched it from utes earlier, Elarn booted a 48-posed to be a rebuilding year, there. With his team trying to kill yard field goal on the final play to Atlanta (4-2) already has matched the clock to set up for the easy give the Atlanta Falcons a stun­its win total from a forgettable kick, lineman Richie Incognito said ning victory over the Chicago 2007 season. Suddenly, the play­something to an official that Bears on Sunday. offs don't appear out of the ques­prompted a yellow flag. Brown, ''I've been in some wild games," tion. who was already 3-for-3 in the said rookie quarterback Matt "I think this is going to do great game, no longer had a chip shot to Ryan, "but I think this one trumps things for our confidence and 

AP win it. them all." chemistry," Elam said. "Hopefully "I was just kind of angry," How wild? we can do something pretty spe­Brown said. In the last 8 minutes, there was cial down the stretch." 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classi!leds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed VICTORY TICKETS Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn FREE HAIRCUTS! Color 1/2 price House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, Cash and Go Free. Call for Group at SALON ROUGE, 620 W. Edison, NOTICE FoR SALE washer dryer, dishwasher, new Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Mish. CALL 258-5080. Licensed 
stainless steel appliances, 3 car Buy-Sell ND football tickets. Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, apprentice stylists only. Expires Dog walker needed. 1/2 block from CONDO FOR SALE. garage, central air, beautiful light Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, 10/31/08. ND. $25/week. Call 847-370-0486. fixtures, deck and front porch. Florida. Information/Reservations 1· 
CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CON-Marble entryway. All new. 2..miles to www.victorytickets.com. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravet.com Matt Gamber is wrong. TACT TED@ 574-233-6191 MSL ND. Available immediately, fourth #231736 month free or flat screen TV UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? When you call my name its like a lit-
WANTED installed. $1180 per month. Call 574-232-0964. tie prayer 
Harold 57 4-315-7781 . Do not go it alone. If you or some-lm down on my knees. I wanna take Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROt FoR RENT one you love needs confidential you there 
plus 2.5 Pis. 100% secured w/reat PERSONAL support or assistance, please call In the midnight hour I can feel your 
estate. 35 Yrs. Experience.  HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10  TICKETS  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631­ power  
References.  SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS  If you or someone you care about  7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685.  Just like a prayer you know Ill take  
AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER  Wanted:  has been sexually assaulted, ·visit  For more information, visit our web- you there  
Call 574-360-8707 or Email:  PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR  ND football tix for family. 574-251­ http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap  site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ 
2heavn@ comcast.net  KRAMERHOUSES.COM  1570.  I  ments/pregnant.shtml  Go Irish. Beat Bye Week.  


OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S wmE SERVICES
Monday, October 13, 2008 Page 13 
NBA 
Football AP Top 25 

team point previous 
1 Texas 1,599 5 2 Alabama 1,582 2 3 Penn State 1,492 6 4 Oklahoma 1,306 1 5 Florida 1,284 11 6 usc 1,247 8 7 Texas Tech 1,210 :.l 8. Oklahoma State 1,184 17 9 Brigham Young 1,131 9 10 Georgia 1,081 10 11 Missouri 984 3 12 Ohio State 908 12 13 lSU 893 4 14 Utah 834 14 15 Boise State 714 15 16 Kansas 620 16 17 Virginia Tech 540 18 18 North Carolina 416 22 19 South Florida 397 19 20 Michigan State 371 23 21 Wake Forest 330 21 22 Vanderbilt 258 13 23 Pittsburgh 182 24 24 Ball State 166 25 25 California 115 NR 
Football USA Today Top 25 

team points previous 
1 Texas 1,505 5 2 Alabama 1,452 4 3 Penn State 1,416 6 4 usc 1,198 
9 

5 Texas Tech 1,195 7 
6 Oklahoma 1,147 1 
7 Florida 1,145 12 
\11 construction in the next and designed from the touring Europe for the third
Associated Press 
8 Brigham Young 1,143 8 

couple of weeks," Stern said ground up." straight preseason.
9 Georgia 1,010 10 
LONDON -The NBA has at a joint news conference Stern said he hoped the On Friday, Stern said the
10 Oklahoma State 958 17 
formed a joint venture with with AEG president and venture would not be affect­NBA was "an arena closer"
11 Ohio State 920 11 
Anschutz Entertainment CEO Timothy J. Leiweke. ed by the global financial to European expansion
12 Missouri 886 2 
Group to design and develop "We anticipate that in a rel­meltdown. because of the 02 World in
13 Utah 819 13 
about 12 multipurpose are­atively short order we will "In terms of fmances, we Berlin, which will host a
14 lSU 776 
3 

nas in major Chinese cities. have laid out a road map of will be making investment preseason game between
15 Kansas 676 15 
The project was a dozen buildings or so decisions on a building-by­the New Orleans Hornets
16 Boise Stale 648 16 
17 Michigan Stale 468 19 announced Sunday at the throughout China." building basis," the commis­and the Washington 18 Virginia Tech 467 02 Arena in London, where Leiweke said it could take sioner said, adding they did Wizards on Tuesday.
18 

19 Wake Forest 376 21 the New Jersey Nets and decades to complete the have some ideas about The development of the 20 South Florida 334 20 Miami Heat played a pre­project. where to start building. same type of arenas in 21 North Carolina 321 NR season game. AEG runs the "We think of this over the "We hope there's going to China is an indication Stern 22 California 169 25 02, and the venture will be next 20 years, not the next be a rapid determination wants to see more NBA 23 Vanderbilt 147 14 equally owned by the two year or two," he said, made over a period of teams playing outside the 24 TCU 138 NR parties. adding some would be new months which cities are the United States and Canada. 25 Ball State 135 NBA commissioner David arenas and others would be right ones for this venture," In China, the NBA has a 
Stern did not say when the created by renovating exist­Stern said. huge fan base, and Houston 
plan would be starting, or ing facilities. Stern has been looking to Rockets center Yao Ming 
where the buildings would "You're going to see a increase the league's mar­was one of the biggest stars 
M IAA Volleyball be located. combination," Leiweke said. ketability overseas for sev­of this year's Beijing 
"We weren't going to start "Most of them will be built eral years, and teams are Olympics.
Conference Standings 


Team  Record  
IN BRIEF  
1 2 3  Hope Calvin Alma  11·0 8·2 9·3  Cheruiyot, Grigoryevawin Chicago Marathon  Georgia loses starting tack­le Vance to knee Injury  BenJ!als' Palmer to Mets' doclor about injury  
4  SAINT MARY'S  1-5  ·  CHICAGO ­ Kenya's Evans Cheruiyot  ATHENS, Ga.  -Georgia must  EAST  RUTHERFORD,  N.J.  - 
5  Adrian  6·6  won his second marathon in two. tries,  find a new starting left tackle.  Cincinnati  Bengals quarterback  
6  Albion  4·7  pulling away late from countryman  Again.  Carson Palmer will have his ailing  
7  Trine  3-7  David Mandago before finishing in 2  Vince Vance will need recon­ elbow examined by a New York Mets  
8  Kalamazoo  2·9  hours, 6 minutes, 25 seconds to win the  structive knee surgery and miss the  team doctor.  
9  Olivet  0·11  Chicago Marathon on a warm Sunday  rest of the season, coach Mark  Palmer said after the Bengals lost  
morning.  Richt said Sunday.  26-14 to the New York Jets on Sunday  
A winner at Milan in December, the  The successor to Vance will be  that he would remain in New York to  
26-year-old Cheruiyot grabbed the lead  the team's fourth first-string left  be examined by Dr. David Altchek.  
in the 24th mile and was all alone as he  tackle since the preseason.  Palmer was designated as the third  
crossed the finish line for his first major  Georgia lost left tackle Trinton  quarterback for the game behind  
around the dial  marathon victory. Mandago clocked in at 2:07:37 in his first major marathon, with fellow Kenyan Timothy Cherigat third at  Sturdi¥ant to a season-ending knee injury before the first game. Kiante Tripp moved up as the starter in  Ryan Fitzpatrick and Palmer's brother Jordan, the second game this season he has missed with the elbow injury.  
2:11:39.  the first three games before mov­ ''I'll play whenever they give me  
MLB  It was a good day for Russia's Lidiya Grigoryeva, too.  ing to tight end. Vance, a sopho­more, made his third start before  clearance," said Palmer, who injured his elbow against the New York Giants  
The 2007 Boston Marathon champion  hurting his right knee in the sec­ three weeks ago, missed a  game  
Rays at Red Sox  breezed to her second major victory,  ond quarter of No. 10 Georgia's 26­ against the Browns, then played  
4:30p.m., TBS  clocking in at 2:27:17 and finishing more than two minutes ahead of runner-up  14 win Saturday.  over  Tennessee  on  against Dallas last week. He said he had been told that his injury is the  
Phillies at Dodgers  Alevtina Biktimirova of Russia (2:29:32). The field featured 33,033 runners.  Vance, a junior, was the only upperclassman among the five  kind common to baseball pitchers, one reason he decided to consult  
with $100,000 going to the winners.  starting offensive linemen.  Altchek.  



page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 13, 2008 

PGA 

Ballesteros ready to take on tumor 
Associated Press 
MAI>HII>. Spain -Arter a carnPr full of miraculous shots -including orw from a parking lot during his first British Open win-Sovn BallostPros was pr'l)paring for tlw "hardest chaiiPnge" of his lifo Sunday af'tPr announcing hP has a brain tumor. 
Tlw 51-y~>ar-old Ballesteros was snt to undergo a biopsy Tunsday lwl'on~ doctors 

"Now I want to be
d e t o r 111 i n I' players the how to pro­confronting the !JanHJ has 
coed. hardest challenge of SPPn, D.A. 
"Throughout Weibring said
my life, with all my
my career I Sunday in havn been strength, counting on Maryland af'ter 
among thP all ofyou who are winning the 
host at over­Senior Players
sending me
coming chal­Championship. lenges on tlw encouraging "lie had a golf' course," messages. grnat swaggnr, tho l'ive-tinw had a great major win nor short game,
Seve Ballesteros 
said in a state­great creativi­Ill ent n~ In as1Hl PGA golfer ty.... 1111's truly 
by Madrid's l.a Paz hospital. "Now I want to be the best confronting tlw hardest ehal­lnngn or my lifo, with all my strength, counting on all of' you who are sending me encouraging messagos." 
Ballesteros was admitted to 
the hospital Monday after 
briefly losing ronsciousnnss. 
"Once I had been able to inform my three children personally and their mother, I ean now communicate to you the illness I am suffering from." Ballesteros said. "After an in-depth cheek up which has been carriod out on me in the La Paz Hospital they have detected a brain tumor." 
Ballestmos did not give any more details on the test results. It was unknown whether thn tumor was benign or malignant. 
"I have always shown my solidarity with those people who l'aee illness, including those whose (illnesses) are much worse than mine," said Ballesteros, who was also admitted to a hospital last year when doetors discov­ered an irregular heartbeat. "Now my wish is to ask for respect towards my family and especially my children. We will keep you informed." 
The swashbuckling Spaniard was well known for being able to manufacture a shot from just about any­where, a feat that narnod him the titlP "Car Park Champion" at tho 1979 British Open. Tho Pndrena native found the grnnn from a parking lot rwxt to the 16th fairway at Hoyal Lytham & St. Annos bPI'ore sinking a long birdio putt on his way to his first major titln. 
During that final round. Ballnsteros usnd his driver only nino times and hit the fairway orH~n. 
Josn Maria Olazabal. who visited Ballestnros af'ter play­ing at the Madrid Masters on Sunday, said that his l'ormnr Hyder Cup partner appnarl'd in good physkal shape. 
"I saw Snvl' looking very wnll. Wn wnrn spnaking for quito a little while," Olazabal told Spanish news agency Efn. "I wish him a prompt 1'11COVOry." 

Ball11storos. who won a rnc~ord 50 times on the Europnan tour, won the British Open three timns and thn Masters twice before n~tiring last year dun to a long history of back pain. lie has since focused mostly on golf course design. 
"lin was one of thn most 
talentod, 
charismatic 
one or the per­
sonalities of thn game, espeeially the ere­ativity and short game." 
Many credit Ballesteros' spirit and flare on the golf course for transforming the European game. 
When the Hyder Cup com­petition was expanded to ineludn continental Europe in 1979, Ballesteros helped beat the United States in 1985 to begin two decades of dominance. lie also cap­tained Europe to Hyder Cup victory on home soil in 1997 at Valderrama. 
Ballesteros and Olazabal teamed up to produce the most formidable partnership in Hyder Cup history, with an 11-2-2 record. 
"I want to thank from the bottom of my heart everyone who has shown interest with gn~at fondness for my health," Ballesteros said in the statement. "Many thanks.. A big hug." 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
' 
Belles earn wins vs. Altna, Olivet 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After dropping consecutive coni'Prence matches for the second time this season, Saint Mary's had the chance to make a statement against some of the M1AA's best and worst. 
The Bellns (14-7, 7-5 MIAA) avnnged an early-season loss against Alma and swept Olivet at an MIAA mini-tour­nament at Olivet on Saturday. Tho BellPs claimed a tough, four-set victory (25­21, 20-25, 25-23, 25-20) over the Scots (17-8, <J-3 MIAA), while disposing of tho Comets (4-18, 0-11 MIAA) in straight snts (25-23, 25-19, 25-21 ). 
Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek praised the fortitude of her team. which has struggled offensively in recent matches. 
"Our approach to this weekend was ... ltol keep going forward and finish strong," she said. "I have been incredibly proud of my team for how well they haw1 responded to teams that have defeated us, Adrian and Alma [for examplPt. and turning around to defeat them in the second [meet­ing]." 
ThP Belles began play Saturday at 1 p.m. against Alma, who defeated Saint Mary's in a four-set match earlier this month. While thP BellPs burst out of the gate with a .283 attacking per­centage to drop the Scots in the opening set, Alma's defense -among the confer­ence's best -clamped down and held Saint Mary's to a .140 attacking percentage for the rest of the match. The Belles relied on their own smothoring defense to grind out the four-set win. 
Sophomore defensive spe­cialist Meghann Hose led Saint Mary's with 29 digs, while senior hitter Kaela Ilellmann added 22 of her own along with 11 kills. The kills leader was junior hitter and offensive leader Lorna Slupczynski, who tallied 13 
I i 
Saint Mary's sophomore middle blocker Andrea Sasgen follows through on a spike last year against Hope. 
kills as well as 12 digs. Freshman setter Dani Brink totaled 33 assists for the match while adding four service aces. Saint Mary's posted 9.5 blocks beside 83 digs to keep the Scots in check. 
"The Alma win came at a great time for us, Schroeder-Biek said. "We had just come off back to back conference losses, and my team just respondod so well Ito the earlier losses[." 
In the 3 p.m. match, the Belles dropped woeful Olivet for the second time this sea­son, adding another three-set victory to their earlier win. In what is becoming a tem­plate for success, thP Saint Mary's defense fueled the 
STUDY POLITICS, ECONOMICS AND SOCIETY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS IN 
•PARIS, 
FRANCE AND 

•MONTREAL, 
CANADA 


INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, OCTOBER 15, 2008 5:30PM 204 DBRT 
win, whilP the offense posted a pedestrian .1 (,7 attacking percentage. Slupczynski again led the Belles offen­sively with 14 kills, while HosP added 20 digs. Brink tallied 13 assists, while Hellmann finished with 9 kills, a service ace, and 1.5 blocks. 
Saint Mary's hosts confer­ence-opponent Calvin Tuesday evening at the Belles' Angela Athletic Facility in Notre Dame, Ind. The 7:00p.m. match will give Saint Mary's an opportunity to avenge a brutal, three-set loss to tho Knights three weeks ago. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

Monday, October 13, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles fall to No. 8 Calvin 
By ALEX BARKER Sporrs Writer 
A strong second half effort proved too little too late for Saint Mary's who dropped its fourth conference match of the season against No. 8 Calvin 4-0 Saturday. 
Calvin took an early lead in the seventh minute of the contest when Elaine Schnabel scored off a rebound inside the penalty box. 
The Knights put a stranglehold on the match when Emily Ottenhoff added a goal in the 25th minute and another in the 34th minute to send Calvin into halftime with a 3-0 lead. 
Saint Mary's refused to bow out without putting up a fight and came out in the second half determined to get back in the match. The Belles created chance after chance but were unable to capitalize on any opportunities. Saint Mary's best chance to get a goal came on a header attempted by Belles freshman Alex Mullen that went just inches past the net. 
The Belles strong surge was promptly halted in the 80th minute when Knights substitute Michelle Koele provided the clinching goal. 
Junior Patty Duffy played all 90 minutes in goal for the Belles recording six saves in the match. 
Saint Mary's drops to 1-9-1 on the season and 0-4 in MIAA con­ference play. The Belles have four conference matches remaining before the MIAA tournament in November. 
Next, the Belles will take on a Trine University squad that is also winless this season in four conference matches. Kickoff is scheduled for Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
NFL 
Pack snap lOsing skid vs. Seattle 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Aaron Rodgers turned his sprained shoulder into a lesson for any Packers who may still be missing his predecessor. The first-year starter is showing grit and leadership that would make Brett Favre proud. 
Rodgers again ignored the shoulder injury and a crunch­ing early hit on Sunday to run for a tying touchdown, then threw two scoring passes in the second half to perhaps save Green Bay's season in a 27-17 victory over the sinking Seattle Seahawks. 
"Everybody plays with injuries in this league. But to not practice for two weeks, to not throw the ball at all, I'm proud the way I was able to play today," Hodgers said with a shy smile after he was 21-for-30 with 208 yards. 
The Packers (3-3) stopped a three-game losing streak and are suddenly tied for the NFC North lead. 
"Hopefully it shows my teammates that I will put my body on the line for them and I care about them a lot, that come Sunday I'm going to give it all I can," Rodgers said, recalling he's played with a broken foot, a torn ACL and a broken index fin­ger on his passing hand since junior college. 
"And I've been pretty effec­tive the last two weeks." 
"Effective" is the last word anyone would apply to Seattle right now. 
The stunned Seahawks paid for having to start No. 3 quar­terback Charlie Frye, because Matt Hasselbeck was inactive -he will be getting his bruised knee reevaluated on Monday -and backup Seneca Wallace was out with a calf injury. Seattle looked inept while gaining just 177 yards on offense and skidding to 1-4, the equal of the St. Louis Rams at the bottom of the NFC West that Seattle has ruled the last four seasons. 
"It's been a while since it's been like this. It's just a shock," Seahawks defensive tackle Rocky Bernard said. 

'Offer valid every Monday.i1!:!.rn. tpclose. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish split conference ga111es with WVU, Pitt 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame took strides towards beating breast cancer Saturday, but couldn't take care of Pittsburgh, falling to the Panthers 3-1 (25-22, 20-25, 25­23, 25-20). 
Donning uniforms with pink lettering and playing with a special pink and white ball, Notre Dame (9-9, 4-2 Big East) raised over $6,000 for the Susan G. Komen for the Cure in the second annual Dig for the Cure event. 
Junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin tallied 21 kills for the Irish, who appeared to "But that's a hole that's a little too big to get out of sometimes." 
Despite Kaelin's kills, the Panthers did a good job of shut­ting down the Irish attack, notching ten team blocks in the match. 
"Going into the match, we knew that they were a very strong blocking team," Brown said. "We started off not very smart with our shots, and then I think we got a lot better after that." 
Brown said that after the first set, her team did a better job of taking good angles and hitting around the block. 
Junior setter Jamel Nicholas 
had a career­
high 54 assists, 
and Brown 
have control in 
praised
"We didn't come out
the first set, 
Nicholas' leader­
flat, we just
before 
ship on the 
Pittsburgh tied started slow." 
court. 
the set at 9. The 
"She does a 
teams went back good job of
Debbie Brown
and forth until 
directing the
Irish coach 
the Panthers 
called a timeout at 19-19. After that, Pittsburgh ripped off a 6-3 run to close out the set. 
Notre Dame appeared to rally back in the second set, and, with the score tied at 17, scored eight of the next 11 points and tied the match at one set apiece. 
Poor starts doomed the Irish in the third and fourth sets, though, falling behind 6-1 in both. 
"When you're playing against a team and it's going back and forth, you can't give up five points in a row and expect that you're still going to be in there," Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown said. "We didn't really come out flat, we just started slow." 
Notre Dame rallied in the third set, tying the game at 19 before falling 25-23. The Irish also came back in the fourth set, cutting the Pittsburgh lead to two before the Panthers put the match away. 
"Obviously we didn't give up, and that's good," Brown said. 
offense," Brown 
said. "And she 
does a good job 
of Kaelin and trying to find the hot hitters." 
The loss drops the Irish to 4-2 in the Big East. They had improved to 4-1 after a Saturday night rout of West Virginia (6-11. 0-5 Big East). Notre Dame beat the Mountaineers 3-0 (25-13, 25­13, 25-17) to earn the 600th win in program history. 
Freshman Kristen Dealy had 13 kills, and Kaelin added 11 more as the Irish made sure the match was never in doubt. 
Notre Dame is now tied with Georgetown, Cincinnati and Louisville for third in the con­ference. Brown said that, despite the loss to the Panthers, the Irish were optimistic about their conference title aspira­tions. 
"It's no different then where we were before," she said. "We feel like we need to win every game." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 13, 2008 
OvertiiDe 
continued from page 20 
ning goal IPss than seven min­
utns into overtinw Sunday to 
irnprovn Notrn Damn's roeord to 
14-0-0, including 7-0-0 in Big 
East play. 
"Hose had a good wnokend for us," Waldrum said. "She was rnally good against (;eorgetown and then played well again ISundayl ... The !game-winning! goal was really a fitting way to end a good wnnkend for her." 
The Irish got oil' to a fast start against the Wildcats, scoring twice in the first eight minutes to takn a quick lead. But Villanova elawnd back and nvnntually seored an equalizing goal with just nine minutns remaining in the contest. 
Waldrum said he was disap­pointed that his tnam surren­dnred its lnad. 
"I was a littln disappointnd that wn missPd a chance to really put llw gamn away," he said. "I think subeonseiously we relaxed and quit really push­ing." 
But Augustin kept llw Irish unbeatnn when she took a bouncing pass from snnior dnfendnr !~lise Weber and volleynd it into the Jpft side of­the net. 
"It was a grnat goal." Waldrum said. "Tiw pass was 
Fallon 
continued from page 20 
Sophomore Stephen Havens also earned a singles and dou­bles win. 
Havens again came up with big wins in singles and doubles again on Saturday defeating players from Hall State in sin­gles, and a Michigan State dou­bles team in round two. Havens teamed with Watt in a loss in round one of the doubles matches on Saturday. 
Davis and Anderson com­bined for three wins and one loss also on Saturday. Both Davis and Anderson earned a singles win, and teamed up to beat a Michigan State doubles team in round two. 
Johnson and Tan again teamed up for two wins in both doubles rounds on Saturday, and each earned a singles win. The duo beat teams from llarvard and Michigan State in the doubles rounds. 
Stahl and junior Patrick Callaghan teamed up for three wins on Saturday. defeating a llarvard doubles team in round two. Callaghan defeated Jon Wegener from Ball State, and 
VIEW FROM AFAR 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Quarterback Jimmy Clausen watches the final minutes of Notre Dame's 29-24 loss away from the rest of the team Saturday. 
coming from left to right in the 
air and it bounced a couple 
times. Hose took it on a bounce 
from about 12 yards out and 
really hit a rocket into the other 
side of the goal." 
Against Georgetown on Friday. Notre Dame got impor­tant contributions from several underclassmen. Freshmen Melissa Henderson and Courtney Barg each scored a goal as the Irish notched a 3-1 win. 
"Both of them had a really good game against Georgetown," Waldrum said. "They werH both a little beaten up so we didn't use them as much as I would have liked !Sunday!. I think that hurt us !against Villanova)." 
Waldrum said he was pleased with his team's ability to bounce back after playing poorly dur­ing tlw second half against Villanova. 
"One thing I'm really happy about is our response when we got into a little bit of a hole and our ability to dig out of' it." he said. 
Note: 
+ SPnior l'orward Kerri Hanks had another big week­end for Notre Dame, chipping in two goals and extending her goal-scoring streak to eight games. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Stahl defeated Alex Forger of 
Michigan State. 
Junior Takashi Yoshii also added a singles win, and Santiago Montoya added a dou­bles win with Callaghan in round one. 
II avens finished with a 1-1 record on Sunday in the final round losing his singles match to Sasha Ermakov of Harvard and teaming with Watt to defeat a doubles team from Western Michigan. 
Watt also earned a singles win over another Harvard play­er on day three. Stahl earned another win for the Irish at sin­gles defeating Eduardo Pavia of Ball State. 
David Anderson, Johnson and Callaghan all fell in singles to players from Western Michigan. Tan earned a victory over Pablo Olivarez of Western Michigan. Davis and Fitzgerald also earned singles victories on day three. 
Tan and Anderson. and Stahl and Callaghan all earned dou­bles wins on Sunday. 
The Irish will now compete in the Midwest Regionals which open on October 16. 
Contact Ka,telyn Grabarek at kgrabaraO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Catholic Charities USA® 
Fr. Larry Snyder, President of Catholic Charities USA will discuss: 
• 
The mission of Catholic Charities 

• 
Getting involved in Catholic Charities 

• 
Professional and entry-level positions 


Monday, October 13, 2008  
5:45-6:45 p.m.  ~UNIVERSITY OF  
Pizza Provided  WNOTREDAME  
Mendoza College of Business  
Giovanini Commons, Lower Level  
Mendoza College ofBusiness  

For information contact (574) 631-3277 • shwang2@nd.edu 


Monday, October 13, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Denver 
continued from page 20 
endured a 0-for-39 stretch, Jackson said. 
"That's kind of deFt vu a little bit," he said. "We had a few guys out of the lineup, which hurt our depth compared to a real good Denver team." 
Notably sophomore center Ben Ryan, who was banged up and missed the contest. Jackson is hopeful Ryan will be 
available for this weekend's home games against Sacred Heart.  Big East  game," Clark said. "That was our theme. We said you have to be patient because they're  his first career Notre Dame goal. Sophomore Jeb Brovsky's shot clanged the far  
"We have one more weekend to tinker with things before we  continued from page 20  well-organized in the back. They sit a lot of guys, and try  post, but King was there to collect the rebound and tally  
get to  our CCHA schedule,"  minute when Irish defender  to counter and play for set  the game's final goal.  
Jackson said. "But we have to  Jack Traynor deflected a cross  pieces."  Saturday's balanced and  
be prepared for  a team that's  into his own net.  Clark's players heard the  explosive scoring attack was  
going to give us their  ·~  game  "We started a little bit slack  message loud and clear. After  nothing new for the Irish. The  
in Sacred Heart. They're com­ at the beginning of the game,"  outshooting Pitt 9-4 in the first  four goals by four different  
ing here to beat us, and they're  Irish coach Bobby Clark said.  half, Notre Dame picked up  players marked the sixth time  
not going to let us have our  "I really don't know why that  the pressure right where it  this season that Notre Dame  
way."  would  be.  Full  marks  to  left off before the intermis­ has registered at least three  
Pittsburgh. They really out­ sion, and the end result would  different goal scorers in  a  
Contact Matt Gamber at  worked  us  at first, and that  be  a  flurry of goals that's  game.  It was also the fourth  
mgamber@nd.edu  forced us into putting an own  becoming somewhat common­ time  that  the  Irish  have  
goal away."  place for this team's potent  reached the four goal plateau  

The Panthers lead was short offense. in a game.Notre Dame head coach Jim 
lived. After the own-goal, the The go-ahead goal came in "It's a fabulous attackingKubinski took the showing at 
Irish settled down and began the 58th minute when junior team," Clark said. "It's hard to the USF Olympic Intercollegiate 
to possess the ball and control midfielder Justin Morrow single out individuals, and on in stride, focusing on the 
the game. The first break­crossed the ball finding class­any given day somebody dif­progress shown by his young 
through came in the 23rd mate Dave Donahue who ferent can step up. It's without squad. 
minute when midfielder deposited the service to regis­a doubt the most potent''I'm honestly not disappoint­
Michael Thomas fed defender ter his fifth goal of the season. attacking team I've had in myed with the USF event," 
Matt Besler who beat Senior forward Bright Dike eight years here." Kubinski said. "Like any team 
Pittsburgh keeper Jordan continued his personal scoring Notre Dame and its in-form playing a first tournament or 
Marks for his first goal of the streak putting the game away offense will return to the pitch game, you're not sure what you 
season. in the 80th minute with a on Thursday when they travel have, or have to work on, until 
Notre Dame continued rocket shot from inside the to Bloomington to take on in­you start competing. To be suc­
pressing the rest of the half box. Dike has now scored in state rival Indiana. The gamecessful, we'll just need a little 
dominating everywhere but six consecutive games, and he is schedule to start at 7:30 time for the young players to 
the scoreboard as the teams leads the team with nine goals p.m.learn on the job and grow." 
would enter the locker rooms and 21 points.However, the onus to succeed 
tied at one. Freshman Brendan King putis on the players, and a fourth­
"We talked a lot about the finishing touches on the Contact Greg Arbogast at straight mediocre showing is 
patience even before the game in extra-time notching garbogas@nd.edulooming unless the team begins to put some shots together. 
"Honestly, actions speak loud­
NFL
er than words," Kubinski said. "I expect they'll bounce back and really show us something. They haven't lost their resolve 
Jets come off bye week with win 
after a tough performance. In fact, I think they're eager to get back out and play Notre Dame up the clock to seal the victory second start in three games
Associated Press 
golf." 

over the Bengals (0-6). with Palmer resting a sore The first two rounds will 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -"I don't believe in ugly right elbow. "It was a struggle begin this morning at 7:30 
Brett Favre and the New York wins," Favre said. "I believe a out there today. We have to go a.m., with the final round 
Jets were far from flashy on win's win. That one felt as back to the drawing board beginning tomorrow at 7:30 
offense, and they didn't need good as any win I've been a and figure it out." 
a.m. Both days begin with a 
to be against the winless part of in recent memory." Despite their struggles, the shotgun start. 
Cincinnati Bengals. Ryan Fitzpatrick couldn't get Bengals were still in it late. Thomas Jones ran for two much going for the Bengals in The Jets had a third-and-4 Contact Michael Blasco at 
touchdowns, including a 1-place of an ailing Carson from the Bengals 7 when mblasco@nd.edu 
yarder late in the game, and Palmer. He was 20-of-33 for Favre hit Chris Baker for 6 caught a pass from Favre for a 152 yards as Cincinnati yards. Jones followed with a score to lead the Jets to a 26-dropped to 0-6 for the third 1-yard rumble into the end 

14 win Sunday. time since 2000. zone with 2:22 left and the 2­
"It wasn't our best perform­"0-and-anything stings," point try fell incomplete to ance on offense, but it was a linebacker Dhani Jones said. make it a 12-point game. win," Favre said. "We did "We just want to get the bad Favre, coming off a six­some good things .... Thomas taste out of our mouths. 0-touchdown performance in a Jones, he had one of those and-6 is not a position any­56-35 victory over Arizona, days." body wants to be in." wasn't nearly as explosive in 
The Jets (3-2) improved to The Bengals gained just 43 this one. He finished 25-for-33 3-0 in games immediately fol­yards rushing on 21 carries, for 189 yards -throwing lowing a bye under coach Eric with Fitzpatrick's 23 leading mostly short passes -a Mangini, but this one was far the way. touchdown and two intercep­from easy. With New York "Everyone will say that with tions. holding a tentative 20-14 lead, a backup in there, we need to ''I'm not here for stats," the Jets needed a 10-play, 41-run the ball better. We will," Favre said. ''I'm here for yard drive by Favre that ate said Fitzpatrick, making his wins." 
Jones finished with 17 car­ries for 65 yards and had his 
first career three-TD game for the Jets, wearing their navy and gold throwback New York Titans uniforms for the second straight game. 
"Last (game), we threw the ball really well and scored a 

li{it'i li{ay to li{iidom 

West 
continued from page 20 
its ability," Kubinski said. "We've seen it in all sports. Yet, often, that same team comes out a week later and gets back to showing good habits and performs to its capabilities. We're counting on that this week. We know we lost out at home but feel we can rebound with a solid effort this week." 
Frustration and hope in equal measure have marked Notre Dame's season thus far. The Irish began their campaign with a tenth-place finish at the USF Olympic Intercollegiate, but the real story was the emergence of the team's young players. Sophomores Tyler Hock, Jeff Chen and Connor Alan-Lee lead Notre Dame in scoring, while highly touted juniors Carlos Santos-Ocampo and Doug Fortner turned in pedestrian efforts. Santos­Ocampo was coming off an appearance in match play at the U.S. Amateur, the first Irish golfer in nearly four decades to do so, while Fortner was still glowing after a simply brilliant tour of Ireland, highlighted by an astonishing 6 7 at the famed links of Ballybunion. 
Joseph Pearce Ave Maria University 
Tuesday, October 14 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 
8:00 PM 
Also Coming ... 
October 28, 2008 "Waugh Revisited" Rev. Charles Gordon, CSC 

lot of points and today wasn't that exact same situation," Jones said. "We had to kind of grind it out a little more. The good thing is we're able to do both." 
Cincinnati took a 7-0 lead. on the third play from scrim­mage, when Antwan Odom sacked Favre and forced a fumble. Chinedum Ndukwe picked it up and ran 15 yards into the end zone to give the Bengals the lead 1:24 into the game. 
It didn't last long as New York tied it with a 2-yard touchdown reception by Jones. 
"The whole point is to be out there with the ball in your hands," said Jones, who had two TDs all last season. "It always feel good to get touch­downs, get into the end zone and contribute to the team winning." 

-----------------------------~--------­
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 13, 2008 
Feed your future 


Monday, October 13, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

DAVE CAVADINI 
Yes, there are openings in that Anthro course. Can you pick up your A or should we mail it? 

BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
JUMBLE 
JJIJJWl~Ji1LE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 

@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~f~Ii I I
tGREJIG
J () (] 
www.jumble.com
tGERBID j
J I r I I 
Answer: 
" rI I I I I J' rI I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  JUMBO  REBEL  (Answers Monday) ORIOLE SLEEPY  
Answer:  What he experienced when he studied  
math  -"PROBLEMS"  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arg i rion 

CLEANING A CARPE:T CAN Bt:: A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Country with 52 Shakespearean coups d'etat in scholar Edmond 
1 Backup 2000 and 2006 56 Problem ending
6 Squirts 35 Airline 57 Expensive 10 Size in a lingerie purchased by choice for ashop 
T.W.A. in 1986 commuter 14 Music maker 
36 Cellist who 59 Big name in "played" by the debuted at contact lens wind 
London's cleaners 16 Basse-Wigmore Hall at 60"Madame Normandie 
age 16 Butterfly."department 
39 Invite to one's updated 17 Stereotypical penthouse suite 61 Peer on a stage 
nerd 40 Robed dignitary 62 Being tossed, 18 2004-06 poet maybe
41 Fen benderlaureate Kooser 

63 Statistical and others 
42 Availed 

calculations 19 Boards 
44 It lands at Landvetter

20 Fluffy, perhaps Down 46 Holders of 
22 Tears Tio _(sherry
shoulders: Abbr. 

brand)24 Trainee 
47 Ancient Greek 
2 Crazy25 Zodiac symbol 

sculptor famous 

3 Setdown28 Britannica for his athletes 4 Bronc rivalin bronze29 Navajo 5 Wrongfulhandicrafts 48 Inclusive slammer 
pronoun31 Car rental 

sentence, say company 50 Cautious people 
6 Appreciationfounder Warren stay on it abbreviation 
7 Curses
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 Palm 


smartphone 9 Smart 10 Fashionable resort area 11 Pinata 
decoration 12 Not put off 13 Raid victim 15 Instant success? 21 Indian lute 23 Like 
Shakespeare's Prospera, e.g. 25 Javanese chiefs 26 Salt halter 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13;000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Karen M. Tracey 
27 It'll knock you 37 Beehives, e.g. 49 Cartoonist Segar out after you 
38 He wrote "In the 50 Pioneering knock it back 
country of the puppeteer 29 1996 Golden blind the one­51 Place of honor Globe winner for eyed man is 53 Grammy-winning "Truman" king" merengue singer Taii6n
43 Knot 30 Variety listings 
54 Rialto sign 32 Like some 
45 Gomer Pyle 
expletive 55 Coastal avifauna diamonds 
48 Where the Fulda 58 Fed. property 34 Lord of fiction flows overseer 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
·Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State __________ Zip________________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kirk Cameron. 38: Martie Seidel. .W; Hugh Jack­man. 40; Sally Ride, 57 Happy Birthday: Go above and beyond your noRnal contributions and show everyone you mean business this year. Be unique. surprising and take whate\·er you do to new levels. Challenge the competition and you t~an capitalize on your talents. This is a great year to get ahead and secure your position. Your numbers are 8, 19. 22, ~8. 34, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Money should be spent on worthwhile investments tltat en­courage a better lifestyle but not on impulse purchases. Change can be beneficial, so don't hesitate to expand your talents and moneymaking ability. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do your research and something will be revealed that will make your job easier. Attending a ftmction. course or conference will open your eyes to ne\". possibilities. Your emotional outlook will cbange how you feel about the people around you. 
**** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you are too flowery in your speech, yon will give the \Vrong impression and not make your point clear. Yon can get things done but only after you put auy misconceptions to rest and lay out your plans. ** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get together with family, children or a lover who knows how to make you happy. Au event that combines somethiug you enjoy wilh infomtation you cru1 ttse for future reference \Vill also )end to making new fl'iends. ***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put a little money into your surroundings. A change will be as good as a rest. Invest in yourself and your talents. Don't be fooled by someone's jealousy and uncomplimentary comments. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Unexpected emotional outbursts may take you by sur­prise. Try to treat everyone with kindness and affection bnt don't hesitate to say no to unreasonable requests. A new friendship will open your mind to a host of new hob­bies.*** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A change at work can be expected. Don't get emotional about something you cannot alter. Falling for someone you know through business may be hard to resist. A back-up plan will help you deal with whatever you face with more confidence and business savvy. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put everything you've got into sometl1ing you love doing. Challenge yourself by putting your skills to the test. Creative endeavors will help you ex­press your thoughts. imagination and yom talents. Don't hold back when you have so much -. to offer. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Erratic behavior will bring poor results. Travel and talks will be stressful. You may not like to stay put but, for once, it may be a wise choke. Concentrate on accomplishing your life goals. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll have a brilliant idea if you mull over some of the things you've done iu the past and !(ive them a new spin. Refuse to be taken in by someone trying to get you to invest in a scheme. Put time and money into yom own projects. **** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you don't feel certain about something you are being asked to do, talk to someone older and with more experience. You may have a change of heru1 but it will be for the best in the end. Build equity and secure your future. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your behavior may be a little reckless regarding money. partnerships and your plans for tl1e day. Before you step into territory that may lead to irre­versible consequences, question yonr motives. If someone you love wants you to do some­thing you'd prefer not to do, walk away. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are a great storyteller. You take life. love and what you do seriously and give your alliOO percent of the time. You are open-hearted and generous. 
Eugenia's Web sift's: eugenia/ast.comjvr confidemial co11sulwtiom, myspnce.comleugenia/astjor Eugenia's blog. astroadvice.com for fim 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, October 13, 2008 
SOCCER 
for win over Villanova 

~. 
Finding ways to win 

By GREG ARBOGAST. Sports Writer 
Af'tnr a brinf detour into 
returnnd to Big East 
a resounding 4-1 win 
plaee of the Division. Trailing Notre Dame by thrne 
4-1) came to Alumni field with hopes of pulling even with the Irish (8-:~-1. 4-1-1) atop the conference standings. It looked 
on. An energetic start by the Panthers put Notre Dame on its heels culminating in a Pittsburgh lead in the sevnnth

Left, senior defenser Elise Weber passes in a 3-1 Notre Dame win over Marquette Oct. 5. Right, junior mid-see OVERTIME/page 16 fielder Justin Morrow attempts to posses a pass in the Irish 4-1 victory over Pittsburgh Saturday. see BIG EAST/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Third period collapse allovvs Denver to take season opener 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
Things snowballed out of con­trol on the ice in the third peri­od Saturday night for No. 4 Notrn Dame, as host No. 6 l>env11r scored thrne goals in four minutes to break a 1-1 tie and skate to a 5-2 season-open­ing victory. 
"Oncn that third pnriod got· going, it all just kind of came down on us," Irish coach J nff .Jackson said. ''I'm not sure our guys were as ready for it. 

[Denver] elevated their game and we didn't, and we have to learn from that." 
Irish freshman right wing Billy Maday scored on his first career shot to give Notre Dame a 1-0 lead just 3 minutes into the game. He became the first Irish player to do that since 2006 grad Tim Wallace did it in 2002. 
Ten minutes later, Denver's Tyler Ruegsegger evened the score with a power play goal .:_ the l'irst of two special teams tallies for the Pioneers. Denver had live man-up advantages in the first period alone. 
"I thought we played a great first period, and if anything hurt us, it was taking some unnecessary penalties," Jackson said. "We killed off some penalties early in the game, and that kind of wore down some of our top players [for later]." 
After 30 minutes of scoreless hockey, Denver freshman Luke Salazar capitalized on a three­on-two chance to put his team up 2-L Two minutes later, Salazar struck again, this time on a rebound for the Pioneers' 
page 20 
Squad takes care of Pittsburgh with ease 
a non-confernnee portion of its schedule, No. 14 Notre Dame play Saturday, and three second­half goals propelled the Irish to over Pittsburgh to knep them in first Big East Blue 
points, the Panthers (6-5-2, 2­
promising for Pittsburgh early 
MEN'S GOLF 

West-coast trip awaits Irish 
By MICHAEL BLASCO SportS Writer 
After a disappointing start to tho season, Notre Damn is look­ing to gnt its season on track. 
The Irish head to La Quinta, Calif.. rwxt week, their third wnst-eoast trip this snason. to eornpntn in th1~ J>rnstign at J>GA WEST Intercollegiate. Sixteen teams will play thren rounds over Monday and Tuesday at thn par 72, 7,156-yard Greg Norman Course during the tournament. co-hosted by Stanford and UC Davis. 
Dnspito rough early going for Notre Damn. Irish coach Jim Kubinski is confident that his team will bounce back. 
"SomPlimes things start to go one way and, rngard lt1ss of eiTort or attitude or prnpara­tion, a team just doesn't play to 
see WEST/page 17 second power play goal of the night. 


Patrick Wiercoch's goal two minutes later made it 4-1, and Anthony Maiani scored with seven minutes to play to give Denver a 5-1 lead. 
"Fatigue was a little bit of a factor -killing off so many penalties early, the elevation ... it was a number of things," Jackson said. "We have to capi­talize on our chances. We hit a couple crossbars and goalposts, and we have to get our confi­dence and put the puck in tho net again. I. think that will come." 
Irish senior center Justin White put home a rebound with under a minute to play to close the scoring. Junior center Kevin Deeth assisted on both Notre Dame goals. 
The Irish were dominated in special teams, as Notre Dame didn't score on any of its eight chances but the Pioneers con­verted 2-of-8. 
The power play struggles brought back memories of last December, when the Irish 
see DENVER/page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Squad played host for To111 Fallon Invitational 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame opfmed the 22m! annual Tom Fallon Invitational on Friday while hosting Harvard, Wisconsin, Michigan State, Western Michigan and Ball State. 
"The Tom Fallon is a hidden­dual tournament," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "One in which each team plays its line­up as it might in a dual matd1, but there is no team scoring due to NCAA rule that would necessitate that each day of play would count as one of the team's 25 playing.. dates rather than as one event. 
The Irish earned 13 singles wins in day one of the tourna­ment. Sophomore Dan Stahl earned two wins in singles and a win in doubles on Friday, defeating Harvard and Michigan State players in sin­gles and teaming with fellow sophomore Tyler Davis to beat Michigan States doubles team. 
Davis also earned two singles wins in day one over two llarvard players. 
"After Brett, last year's letter­men Stahl, David Andnrson, Stephen Havens, and Tyler Davis have been pretty good," Bayliss said. "With Matt Johnson looking like he can join them and Sean Tan much improved in doubles." 
Freshmen Casey Watt and Niall Fitzgerald cornbirwd for three singles wins on day orw. Sophomores Sean Tan, and David Anderson combined for four wins also on Friday. 
see FALLON/Page 16 







