
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 110 TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2008 
Immigrant admission policy examined 
Undocumented students could gain acceptance to University, but few actually apply 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
After last fall's campus-wide forum on immigration, senior Michael Kozak was left with questions about the University's role in the debate. 
Kozak, who had completed a four-credit field study course on Mexican immigration last semester, was inspired to research the University admis­sions process for undocumented students. lle wanted to find out if Notre Dame allowed undocu­mented citizens -a genteel euphemism for illegal immi­grants -to apply and enroll. 
"Once we began researching we started finding that it is entirely possible for undocu­mented students to be admitted [to the University]," Kozak said. 
Assistant Provost for Enrollment Dan Saracino said while the University does not prohibit undocumented students from applying to Notre Dame, it does require that they apply as international students. 
"We have no policy against admitting an undocumented student if the student is aca­demically qualified," Saracino said. 
However, few apply, and few are admitted. Saracino said he wasn't certain the University had any undocumented stu­dents enroll in the past 10 years. 
The applicant pool is so small in part because a limited amount of fmancial aid is avail­able for international students. 
According to the Office Of Undergraduate Admissions Web site, the University "meets 100 percent of every student's demonstrated need," though it also requires international stu­dent applicants to submit a Certificate of Finances proving they can pick up the costs for their education. 
Because undocumented stu­dents are treated like interna­tional students, they must "be able to show the University that they have the funds to pay for a four year experience at Notre Dame," Saracino said. 
"A U.S. citizen and or a per­manent resident is eligible for federal grant money and federal loans, and then we are capable of meeting the difference of what the federal programs pro­vide," Saracino said. "We cannot afford to offer admission to undocumented students who can't afford to pick up the tab 
see IMMIGRANT/page 4 
ColU11111ist says era of religious right at an end 
Dionne claims Christian voters have shifted party affiliation over past three decades 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
After over 20 years of associ­ation with right-wing conser­vatism, Christians are redefin­ing their relationship with poli­tics and moving away from the religious right to support the Democratic Party, Washington Post columnist E. J. Dionne Jr. said. 
"The era of the religious right is over. The end of the religious right does not signal an end to conservative Christianity," Dionne said in a lecture Monday in Carey Auditorium. "It's a sign of a reformation among Christians who are dis­entangling their great religious movement from a political machine." 
Christian conservatives have adopted "a broader definition of what it means to be a Christian in public life," he said. 
Dionne said religion has tra­ditionally been a conservative force but religious Americans are now focusing on other faith­influenced issues such as social justice and Jesus' emphasis on serving the poor. 
"This is a change which is now underway, for liberals and conservatives alike, to abandon their sometimes narrow view about who real Americans are and what they believe," he said. 
Voting trends among young people indicate this ideological shift, Dionne said when he com­pared Ronald Reagan's 1980 election with today's political climate. Voters under 30 voted three to two for Reagan, who was a Republican, but in 2006, young voters supported demo-
see DIONNE/page 3 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Burglary cases may be linked 
NDSP description matches Valpo suspect 
By BILL BRINK 
News Editor 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) has received new information about burglaries in Lyons Hall last week that may identify a suspect and link him to similar crimes at Valparaiso University, NDSP director Phil Johnson said Monday in an e-mail to The Observer. 
During the burglary, three laptops and two wallets were stolen from two unlocked rooms last Wednesday, NDSP assistant director Dave Chapman said last week. 
Johnson said "several peo­ple" had seen the man NDSP considers to be a suspect. He was described as a black male, between 5-foot-8 and 5­foot-11, with a thin build, "frizzy, long, black hair" in a pony tail or braid, possibly bad or missing teeth and pos­sibly facial stubble, Johnson said. 
The man had a duffle-type bag, Johnson said, and entered unlocked rooms when students were present. When he saw the students, he asked for someone by name who did not live in the room, Johnson said. 
NDSP learned from Valparaiso that similar rob­beries took place on its cam­pus in recent months, and the 
see LYONS/page 4 


Maura Weis details fatnily's struggle 
Husband, Charlie, leaves practice early to help promote wife's new book 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
To introduce of his wife's book during a discussion and book signing in McKenna Hall, Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis said Monday was the first occa­sion in coaching career that he has ever left a practice early. 
"I told the guys this morn­ing this is something impor­tant enough for me to leave practice for," Charlie said. 
Maura Weis' book, "Miles From the Sidelines: A Mother's Journey With Her Special ·Needs Daughter," focuses on the tribulations 
see WEIS/page 6 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group discusses change to Orientation forn1at 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
In its last meeting before the new administration takes office, the Campus Life Council 
(CLC) discussed improving the format of First Year Orientation (FYO) Monday. 
Brian Coughlin, assistant vice president for Student Activities, presented a plan to update and improve the first three days a freshman experiences on cam­pus. 
"The programming lof FYO] seemed awkward and forced ... with some of the inter-gender socialization," Coughlin said, referring to socializing activi­ties between men's and women's dorms typically planned for students during the orientation days. 
Coughlin said students have too little time to move into their rooms and say goodbye to their parents during the current FYO schedule and advocated free time for the students in his pro­posal. 
He also said more in-dorm activities should be planned for the weekend to foster friend­ships among men and women in their respective dormitories. 
"[We want to plan activities in 
see CLC/page 4 
Tuesday, April 1, 2008

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A guide for vvriting to Vievvpoint 
It's that time of the year again when Viewpoint becomes intensely 'Monologues' oriented. 
So here it is, a shameless plea 
Kara King 
for letters. But not just any let­
Viewpoint
ters. Good let­
Editor
ters. Articulate lntters. Lett11rs with a logical argument. 
Below arc some helpful tips for let­ter-writing, guaranteed to incrnase your chance of publication. 
1) Proofread -Don't just write a letter in anger and send it off. Hemember that you are submitting this for publication. It is not just a friendly (or not-so-friendly) e-mail. If there are typos or basic grammat­ic<d mistakes, your letter won't be taken seriously. llave some pride in your work. 
2) Sign your name-We have only printed one anonymous letter in our 42 year history. We are unlikely to do so again. If you are embarrassed by your opinions, perhaps you should reconsider sending it out t.lwrn for the world (or at least thn campus) to see. And sign your real name. We can't publish under psnu­donyms. 
3) Providn the necessary contact information-It's frustrating whnn wP. receive a well-writtnn IP.t.t<~r but cannot run it aftnr wn fail to get in touch with the author. If you'rn a student, give us your dorm and class ynar. If you're an alum. let us know when you graduatnd. And everyone should provide a phone number and valid n-mail address. 
4) Don't makn sluff up-If you quote facts or figurns, cite your sources at the end of the letter. 
5) Find something new to write about-This isn't necessarily a requirenH~nt. hut it improves the section as a whole. You can literally write about whatew1r you want. Write about something you care about. A passionate letter is much more likely to run and draw readers and responses. 
6) Keep it brief-I can't stress this one enough. Anything over :~50 words, and you'll be losing readers. It's supposed to be a letter, not a manifesto. Be coneise. You'll get your point across to more people if you can manage this one. 
7) Don't be afraid to ask -If' you have a time-sensitive topic, e-mail us ahead of time so we can do our best to aecommodate the letter. If' you're interested in writing a guest eolumn. let us know. We are open to suggestions. 
8) I do my best to print letters rep­resentative of what I receive, but I can't print nverything that comes in. If yours doesn't quite make it, find a new topic and try again. 
Viewpoint is representative of our community. If you l'ind it boring, change it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kara King at kking5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, the article entitled "SMC alum discusses NWP tactics" in Monday's issue of The Observer incorrectly attributed the reporting ro Sarah Mayer. Katlyn Smith was the author of this article. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU PARTICIPATE IN A CAMPUS SPORT, IF SO, WHICH ONE? 


Jason Briggs Julie Lambe Meagan Conway Michael Lutkus Avery Ambrose Liam Leyden 
junior senior senior senior junior freshman Z.ahm off-campus off-campus O'Neil Keenan Keough 
"Varsity beer 'Tm president "I used to play "Rowing: it's "Water polo -"I row for the 






best sport illustrious ever. mens crew team. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame softball team will play Ball State at 
5:00 tonight at Ivy Field. 
The Notre Dame baseball team wi II play Western Michigan at 5:05 tonight at Eck Baseball Stadium. 
The Saint Mary's Senior Gift and Quarters Campaigns will host an April Fool's Comedy Night tonight at 7::l0 at Dalloway's Coffee House. 
Breen-Phillips Hall will host a Pig Boast from 5 to 7 p.m. Wednesday on North Quad as a part of' Beach Week. 
Thn Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform in its Spring Concert featuring pianist Piiivi Ekrolh in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at S p.m. Wednesday. 
The tilm "Blood Diamond," which tells the story of a the diamond trade in Sierra Leone, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team will play Ball State at 4:00 p.m. Friday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The third annual Saint Mary's Dam~e Marathon will take place from 8 p.m. to 8 
a.m. Friday in Angela Athletic Facility. Registration for daneers begins at 7 p.m. in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

••• t 

HIGH 52 HIGH 55 LOW 35 LOW 38 
pong. " ofthe ultimate flag football more than a team sport-until my broken sport. men's rowing, finger injury of It's a way of because I like to 2005-then I life." boss guys retired.,, around." 
Police bust high school root beer kegger 
WAUSAU, Wis. -Cars lining the street. A house full of young people. A keg and drinking games inside. Police thought they had an underage boozing party on their hands. 
But though they made dozens of teens take breath tests, none tested positive for alcohol. That's because the keg contained root beer. 
The party was held by a high school student who wanted to show that teens don't always drink alcohol at their parties. It has gained fame on YouTube.com. 
Dustin Zebro, 18, said he staged the party after friends at D.C. Everest High School got suspend­ed from sports because of pictures showing them drinking from red cups. 
Man shoots cat to •get even' with wife 
BOULDER, Colo. Police say a man shot a cat with a rifle and sent e­mails to relatives to tell them he did it "to get even" with his wife. 
Longmont police say they arrested 50-year-old Paul John Vickers Wednesday after his wife's sister told police of the e­mail in which Vickers wrote about killing "Bootsie." Police Sergeant Tim Lewis says the mar­ried couple was involved in a long-running argu­ment and Vickers was angry at his wife. 
Police found the eat's body in a pond ncar where Vickers lives and say "Bootsie" was shot while in the couple's base­ment. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
c:: 
LIJ 
:::1: 
~ 
LIJ 
3: 
•• & 6 
•• 6 •
•• 6 6 
..... 
®••• 
• ®••• • ® • 
<C 
(.) 


...J 0 HIGH 45 HIGH 35 HIGH 50 HIGH 52 LOW 25 LOW 15 LOW 30 LOW 38 

Andrew McMahon, frontman of the band Jack's Mannequin, took the stage for a live concert at the Stepan Center Friday. The concert was sponsored by the Student Activities Office. 
OFFBEAT 

Atlanta 68 I 54 Boston 60 I 44 Chicago 41 I 36 Denver 43 I 22 Houston 84 I 69 Los Angeles 64 I 51 Minneapolis 36 I 25 New York 66 I 48 Philadelphia 70 I 50 Phoenix 84 I 56 Seattle 51 I 34 St. Louis 53 I 44 Tampa 81 I 64 Washington 67 I 49 
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Dionne 
continued from page 1 
cratic candidates three to two. Likewise, in the 2008 presiden­tial primaries, young voters are showing the most support for "Obama-style progress," he said. 
Dionne said Democratic politi­cians' greater openness to dis­cussing religion's influence in politics and their personal reli­gious lives might be an explana­tion for this shift. He said Barack Obama has created a "new pub­lic language" about religion, 
and Hillary "The era of the 16 percent of Clinton discuss­religious right is over. Americans now es religion in a claim no religious
The end ofthe religious
sophisticated, affiliation and 31 personal way. right does not signal percent of that 
Dionne said an end to conservative sample said despite this Catholicism was
Christianity.''
move away from their childhood the religious religion, Dionne right, there are E.J. Dionne Jr. said. He offered still polarizing Washington Post several reasons religious issues, for this trend,
columnist
like abortion. 
Dionne also said the problem of abortion needs new solutions, since it has been legal for 35 years, and even if Roe v. Wade was reversed, he said most states would still allow early-term abortions, and women would obtain tl_1em illegally. 
"Our rate is much higher than in other countries where abor­tion is legal," he said. "It seems to me the time has come for pro­choice people to acknowledge that abortion is a moral problem and tci understand why right-to­lifers see abortion as a moral evil and for pro-lifers to say, 'Let us pursue a strategy that will sub­stantially reduce the number of abortions in our nation."' 
Instead of arguing over issues like Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion in the United States, Dionne proposed that both pro­life and pro-choice advocates should seek abortion-reducing policies, such programs that combine abstinence and contra­ceptive approaches to prevent unwanted pregnancy. 
While some religious Americans are redefining their political priorities, Dionne said secularism and neo-atheism are on the rise on the American political scene. 
In a study conducted by Pew 
Forum Religion 
and Public Life, 
such as disputes 

over science and the notion that religion implies conservatism. 
Dionne said although some atheists take belief seriously and engage in intellectual discourse, the neo-atheists can be as adamant in their right-wing con­servative Christian views. 
"They are operating in a tradi­tion too," he said. "There's a sort of elitism in some of their line of argument, which I find no less troublesome than a right-wing Christian who votes differently than I do in every political con­test." 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 
Scholar discusses sex inShakespeare 
Lecture examines sexuality in Elizabethan society, literature 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Shakespeare scholar Stanley Wells used public records from Shakespeare's hometown Stratford-upon­Avon to understand the sexu­al behavior of Shakespeare and his contemporaries dur­ing his lecture "Sex and Literature in Shakespeare's Time" Monday. 
Sexual misconduct was not blatant under the eye of Q u e e n Elizabeth, 

who was often "It was a sexy that spread referred to as business. Rumors throughout 
the Virgin Europe on the­
circulated about the 
Queen, and atrical per­the church or sexual conduct of the formances and the state did players." Wells com­not tolerate pared the adultery, players who

Stanley Wells 
incontinence dominated the 
or pre-marital Shakespeare scholar Shakespearian 
sexual experiences are reflected in his writing, Wells said. In Shakespeare's "As You Like It," Rosalind dis­cusses pre-marital sex, and in his Sonnet 151, Shakespeare gives an "extraordinary description of an erection, detailing the ris­ing and the falling of the penis," he said. 
This frank discussion of sexual encounters gave Elizabethan theater a bad reputation, Wells said. There were some religious leaders who blamed the plague 
sex, Wells said. 
"Stratford records give record of prosecution for for­nication," Wells said. 
In spite of the danger of punishment, evidence shows that Shakespeare himself engaged in pre-marital sex, as his wife Anne Hathaway was already pregnant at the time of their marriage, Wells said. It seems as though he escaped prosecution for this and escaped "scot-free." 
Shakespeare's personal 

stages to the current celebrity culture. 
"It was a sexy business," he said. "Rumors circulated about the sexual misconduct of the players." Like actors now, players were scrutinized for more than their acting skills, Wells said. 
While prostitution was also a component of Elizabethan society, it is left out of much literature of the time, Wells said. Although the practice did occur, public records are scarce on the subject, he said. However, one prison record indicated the exis­tence of a prostitute from Shakespeare's hometown. A woman by the name of Elizabeth Evans lived a color­ful life as a prostitute until she was finally arrested for using a 5 year-old girl to earn money as a prostitute, Wells said. 
Homoeroticism was anoth­er scandalous literature theme "in vogue" at the time of Shakespeare, he said. 
Although sodomy was pun­ishable by death, "male-to­male relationships were com­mon," he said. Most famous­ly, accounts detail the sexual exploits of Queen Elizabeth's successor, King James I, Wells said. His "fondness for handsome young men" is well documented, he said. 
While homoerotic themes were popular in the literature of Shakespeare's contempo­raries, and many believe that some of Shakespeare's work falls in the same category, Wells is skeptical that Shakespeare's writing can be classified as homoerotic. 
"Shakespeare succeeds in writing verses that could be applied to homoeroticism," Wells said, "but ultimately, he simply captures the very essence of human love." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April I, 2008 


IIDinigrant 
continued from page 1 
for the full four years." 

Kozak is not satisfied with the University's claim that undocu­mented students are a financial burden. 
"We're not talking about droves of undocumented stu­dents." Kozak said. "We're not dealing with huge numbers. Personally. I don't think that it's the burden (the University( is making it out be." 
lie thinks the University's poli­cy of meeting 100 percent of students' demonstrated need unfairly prevents undocument­ed students from enrolling due to lack of financial aid. 
Saracino said it's critical for 

Kozak, however, said the poli­cy should be changed to simplify the process of applying as an undocumented student or to receive a student visa. 
"Undocumented immigrants have to physically go back their country [of origin! to get a visa ... getting an international stu­dent visa is extremely difficult in and of itself," Kozak said. 
Kozak said reevaluating the current policy is part of the University's duty as part of its Catholic mission. 
"In the same way that the University does not deny admis­sion to poor people because of the additional burden they will place on financial aid, it ought not deny admission to undocu­mented immigrants based on financial ease alone," Kozak said. "This is a moral decision 
studenLo:; to have "This is a moral and one that permanent resi­ought to reflect
decision and one that 
dency, since our Catholic
ought to reflect our
that status sense of morali­makes them eli­Catholic sense of ty." hrible for federal morality." Kozak said it is aid. imperative for "But if' an the University to
Michael Kozak
undocumented reevaluate the student applies senior policy because 
to us and won't be a permanent resident, we can't offer them admission unless they have someone who can sponsor them (to help ofl'set tuition costs]," he said. 
Saraeino mentioned a female applicant from California who is in the ·proc-ess of attaining per­manent residency prior to join­ing the Class of' 2012. 
"We just sent .a letter to California Senator (Dianne( Feinstein on behalf of' the stu­dent asking her do her best to expedite this process.... We want that student to be able to start here in the fall," he said. 
Saracino said tlwre has been no discussion about changing the University's 1:urrent policy toward undocumented immi­grant applicants. 
there are public 

and private non­Catholic colleges and universi­ties that admit undocumented students and offer them aid to finance their education. 
lie said Harvard University and Princeton University are two of the non-Catholic, highly visible institutions that accept undocumented students and provide them with financial aid. I Iarvard had 10 undocumented students and Princeton had at least one in 2006, the most recent year for which figures are available. 
Kozak said there are local institutions that accept undocu­mented students, like Saint Mary's. 
Dan Meyer, vice president of enrollment management at Saint Mary's, said the College 
evaluates undocumented immi­
grants just as they would any 
other applicant. 

"We accept undocumented students because when we go through the admissions process we may or may not know if a student is undocumented," Meyer said. "The decision is just based on academic qualifica­tion. We do not want to penalize a student if she is undocument­ed." 
When an undocumented stu­dent applies for financial aid at Saint Mary's, she is not guaran­teed to receive full financial aid from the College since Saint Mary's does not guarantee meeting 100 percent of stu­dents' demonstrated need, Meyer said. 
"She has to rely on her family and her extended family to fmance her education," he said. 
Unlike the University's policy, however, undocumented stu­dents are considered for schol­arships from the College in the same way any other student would be considered. 
"We also make a decision on the level of academic scholar­ship she qualifies for," Meyer said. "We apply the same stan­dards across the entire appli­cant pool." 
Saint Mary's did change the way undocumented students apply for aid this year. They are now required to complete a paper version of the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). The College uses this application to assess a stu­dent's eligibility for aid. 
'This year the change in poli­cy was carefully analyzed and reviewed. We feel it's consistent with our mission as a Catholic institution," Meyer said. 
Although Meyer could not give an exact number, he said that there were less than a dozen undocumented students admit­ted last year. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

the dorm that] talk about dorm traditions as well as the brother­hood and sisterhood of each dorm," Coughlin said. "We want to look at what makes each hall unique." 
l-Ie said the new proposal introduces activities that "take some of the attention away from some of the running around and chanting" of current activities. 
In the newly formatted FYO, there will be a divergence from other types of scheduled activi­ties, such as anything that is physically demanding, which, Coughlin said, can alienate peo­ple. 
"We want to keep this as organic as possible," he said. 
Coughlin also advocated elimi­nating certain activities between men and women's halls, such as tie or shoe exchanges. 
According to Coughlin, in the newly proposed schedule, first­year students will participate in more activities within the dorm for very specific reasons. 
"[First-year students will] get to know their floor-mates, sec­tion-mates and dorm-mates before moving out into the greater campus in general," Coughlin said. 
He said in order to implement the new proposal, Coughlin 



Lyons 
continued from page 1 

suspect matched the descrip­tion NDSP had, Johnson said. 
"[The] suspect askledl for someone using the same ficti­tious name used at (Notre Dame I when confronted by students in the residence halls at Valparaiso," Johnson plans to work with the rectors of each dorm and implement a for­mal University committee on ori­entation. 
According to Coughlin, a jun­ior or senior hall orientation coordinator will take the place of the current sophomore com­missioners that have served each dormitory in previous years. 
"We need someone with a little bit more experience before they become the coordinators of events," Coughlin said. 
In Other CLC news: 
Sheena Plamoottil, head of the Task Force on Campus Environment, announced a pro­posal to advocate proper serving sizes on dining hall trays was rejected. 
Plamoottil said Notre Dame Food Services recently ordered around 15,000 new trays which nullifies the task force's plan to print the serving sizes of' each food group on the trays. 
"[The idea is] to focus on eat­ing a balanced meal, not just showing what foods are healthy," Plamoottil said. 
The group now is looking into getting plates made with portion sizes marked off. 
"It will give a visual estimation of how much meat, dairy, veg­etables, et cetera, that students should eat," Plamoottil said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
said. _ 
Chapman said last week the police assumed the two thefts, which took place between 11 
a.m. and 3 p.m. last Wednesday, were related. 
Johnson asked students to contact NDSP at 574-631­5555 and to refrain from attempting to confront or detain the suspect. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Storage College Partners We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@storagecollege.com Simplified Summer Storage!  
11M rYMORRISSEY -MANOR­.. n Find the medallion and win $300! Clue #2: Well you're tired of looking at Ed The words by him staying unread But don't give up yet You'll find it I bet Think hard and you'll get what I said The Manor Medallion Hunt is a week long campus-wide search for a single three-inch medallion. The Medallion is located somewhere on the Notre Dame campus-not in a residence hall, church. or at the Grotto. A new riddle will appear daily in the Observer and at the Morrissey website: www.nd.edu/-rnanor Br·ing the m~dallion to Monissl'~· 001 hdween 9-10 PM to claim your $300 pr·izl'!!  





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, Aprill, 2008 CoMPilED FROM THE OBsERVER'S wmr SERVteEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mideast peace talks seem productive 
AMMAN, Jordan -Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice said Monday that Mideast peace talks are "moving in the right direction," although 
U.S. ollicial'i conceded it would be a hard slog to meet the goal of an Israeli-Palestinian deal in 2008. 
Speaking after two days of talks in the region during which she wrung hard-fought but limited concessions from Israel to ease the economic iso­lation of Palestinians in the West Bank, Rice said more needed to be done, and singled out a halt to Israeli settlement as key. 
"I think it's all moving in the right direction," she said at a news conference in the Jordanian capital after meeting Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. 
New digging project at Stonehenge 
LONDON -Some of England's most sacred soil was disturbed Monday for the first time in more than four decades as archaeologists worked to solve the enduring riddle of Stonehenge: When and why was the prehis­toric monument built? 
The excavation project, set to last until April 11, is designed to unearth materials that can be used to establish a firm date for when the first mysterious set of bluestones was put in place at Stonehenge, one of Britain's best known and least understood landmarks. 
The World Heritage site, a favorite with visi­tors the world over, has become popular with Druids. nco-Pagans and New Agers who attach mystical significance to the strangely shaped eircle of stones. but then1 remains great debate about the actual purpose of the structure. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Family seeks to appeal MySpace suit 
NEW ORLEANS -The family of a teenage girl who says she was sexually assaulted by a 19­year-old man she met on MySpace.com asked a federal appeals court Monday to revive their lawsuit against the social networking Web site. 
A federal judge in Austin, Texas, dismissed the $30 million suit in February 2007, rejecting the family's claim that MySpace has a legal duty to protect its young users from sexual predators. 
U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks also ruled that interactive computer services like MySpace are immune from such lawsuits under the Communications Decency Act of 1996. 

Ohio soldier's body finally recovered 
BATAVIA, Ohio -The parents of Staff Sgt. Keith Matthew Maupin had vowed never to let the U.S. Army forget about finding their son. 
Their elTorts included trips to the Pentagon and even meeting with President Bush, but they ended in disappointment Sunday: An Army general told them the remains of Maupin, a soldier who had been listed as miss­ing-captured in Iraq since 2004, had been found. 
"My heart sinks, but I know they can't hurt him anymore," Keith Maupin said after receiv­ing word about the remains of his son, who went by Matt. 
On Monday, Defense Secretary Robert Gates expressed sympathy to Maupin's family. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana toll road increases rates 
HAMMOND, Ind. -Motorists who pay cash to drive on the Indiana Toll Road will see their rates increase starting Tuesday. 
The highway's private operator is author­ized under its contract with the state to increase tolls as it starts operating an elec­tronic toll transponder system on the full length of the 157-mile highway. 
The toll for the full length of the toll road will rise to $8 from the current $4.65 for car drivers paying cash. Drivers who use a transponder won't see a toll hike until 2016. 
All drivers of vehicles with three axles or more automatically will pay toll increases, regardless of whether they use the electron­ic tolling system known as 1-Zoom. 
"Tlw spirit of the toll freeze is for local users," said Matt Pierce, a spokesman for the Indiana Toll Hoad Concession Co., the highway operator. 


HUD Secretary resigns from duty 
Jackson steps down from post amid speculation of political favoritism 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -I-IUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson, his tenure tarnished by alle­gations of political favoritism and a criminal investigation, announced his resignation Monday amid the wreckage of the national housing crisis. 
IIe leaves behind a trail of unanswered questions about whether he tilted the Department of Housing and Urban Development toward Republican contractors and cronies. 
The move comes at a shaky time for the economy, with soaring mortgage fore­closures imperiling the nation's credit markets. 
In announcing that his last day at I-IUD will be April 18, Jackson said only, "There comes a time when one must attend more diligently to personal and family mat­ters." 
Some Congressional Democrats had pushed for him to leave. 
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton said that while Jackson's resignation is "appropriate, it does noth­ing to address the Bush administration's wait-and­don't-see posture to our nation's housing crisis." 

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said I-IUD years, first as the agency's and Guppies" -well-edu­strongly disagree with that will be called on to work No. 2 official and since 2004 cated, young, black and gay sentiment." with Congress on assisting in the top slot. upwardly mobile achievers On Monday on his way out refinancing for borrowers Despite a strong commit­-with expensive cars who of the country for a trip built faced with imminent fore­ment to housing for those in bought $400,000 homes around a NATO summit, closure. need, Jackson was capable with little or no money Bush said he wants 
The ethical allegations of ill-advised public com­down. Congress to modernize against Jackson "meant that ments. In announcing his depar­HUD's Federal Housing the Bush administration's Last year, after the sub­ture, Jackson said that in his Administration, allowing ineffective housing policies prime mortgage crisis time at I-IUD, "We have more struggling homeown­were being burdened by an erupted, many policymakers helped families keep their ers to refinance their mort­even more ineffective I-IUD underlined the dispropor­homes. We have trans­gages. Secretary," Sen. Patty tionate impact of the high­formed public housing. We In October, the National Murray, D-Wash., said after risk, high-cost mortgages on have reduced chronic home­Journal first reported on the Jackson's announcement. minorities and the elderly, lessness. And we have pre­criminal investigation of 
President Bush called who often are targets of served affordable housing Jackson. The FBI has been Jackson "a strong leader predatory lending practices and increased minority examining the ties between and a good man." Ties that lure people into loans homeownership." Jackson and a friend who between the two men go they are incapable of repay­Bush has been cool to the was paid $392,000 by back to the 1980s when they ing. idea of a big federal housing Jackson's department as a lived in the same Dallas Asked about the problems rescue. "The temptation of construction manager in neighborhood. It was with subprime mortgages Washington is to say that New Orleans. Jackson's Jackson's personal ties to last June, Jackson insisted anything short of a massive friend got the job after Bush that brought him to that many such borrowers government intervention in Jackson asked a staff mem­Washington, where he dis­were not unsophisticated, the housing market ber to pass along his name played a forceful personal low-income people but what amounts to inaction," the to the Housing Authority of style at I-IUD for seven he called "Yuppies, Buppies president said recently. "I New Orleans. 

CUBA 

Resorts opened up to Cuban citizens 
Associated Press foreigners were previously permitted salons and other previously off-limit 
to buy. facilities. Cubans can even rent cars 
HAVANA -Raul Castro's govern­But the latest surprise, allowing for the first time. ment opened luxury hotels and ordinary citizens into luxury hotels For now, few Cubans can afford a resorts to all Cubans Monday, ending and resort beaches long reserved for night at a hotel on a government a ban despised across the island as rich foreigners, is a particularly sym­salary, but that could change if "tourist apartheid" and taking bolic victory for Cuba's everyman. Castro succeeds in increasing his cit­another step toward the creation of a "I was born here and live here. I izens' spending power. consumer economy in the socialist believe, as a Cuban, I have the right Meanwhile, the government is cre­state. to it all," said Elizabeth Quintana, a ating the kinds of consumer incen­
Cuba has made a series of crowd­Havana resident. "It's good. Really tives any economy needs to thrive. pleasing announcements in the past good." For many years, Cubans haven't few days. Cubans with enough cash While there was no official word been able to buy certain electronic will be able to buy computers, DVD from the government, hotel employ­goods, lounge by the rooftop pool at players and plasma televisions start­ees said Ministry of Tourism officials the Hotel Capri or enjoy a drink at ing Tuesday, and soon they'll even be told them that as of Monday, Cubans sunset on the grounds of the historic able to have their own cell phones -can stay in hotels and resorts across Hotel Nacional, no mattPr how much consumer goods only companies and the island, and pay to use gyms, hair money they earned. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April, 1 2008 
Weis 
continued from page 1 
Maura and her husband have encountered raising their autistic daughter, Hannah. /\II proceeds of the book go to the Weis' charity, Hannah & Friends, which helps children with special needs. 
Charlie called the book "a heartfelt. sincere story of liv­ing the lifo of a parent with a special needs child" during his introduction. 
lin said any parent with a child that has special needs could have written the book but his wife was a good can­didate because she has truly experionced what it is like. 
After the introduction, WNJ>U's Maureen McFadden interviewed Maura on both 
having a
"{llannahl used to

the book and daughter with her back­want to be around special needs 
ground as a people but suddenly has been a 
parent of a struggle.
she just wanted to be
special needs "No one child. by herself" looked at us Maura said like; hey can I she knew give you a
Maura Weis 

something hand," she
author 
was wrong with Hannah around the time she turned two. 
"She used to want to be around people but suddenly she just wanted to be by her­self," Maura said. 
Hannah was diagnosed with autism and at age 10, she began t-o have seizures. Doctors were unable to find a 

diagnosis for the seizures but she began receiving treat­ment. The family learned Friday the treatments Hannah recevied were suc­cessful and she should never have a seizure again. 
Maura said the family has adapted to Hannah's wheat­free diet and she has had a positive impact on those she comes in contact with. 
"Charlie Jr. has learned patience and tolerance and to love someone uncondition­ally (through llannah)." Maura said. 
Maura said Hannah has also impacted Charlie's life. 
"Coach loves her. she is his little angel," Maura said. "My husband is a wonderful human being. He does not play golf or go out with his 
friends; being 
with his family 
is his hobby." 
Maura admit­
ted 
said. 
In spite of this, Maura said the South Bend communi­

ty has been very supportive. 
"OK, the weather's not great," she said. "But I wouldn't want to live any­where else." 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Judge warns of alcoholdangers 
Magistrate takes courtroom to high school to shaw drunk-driving consequences 
Associated Press 
BELEN, N.M. -Marlene Chavez stood before a hushed courtroom, acknowl­edging the consequences of her second drunken-driving offense. Among the specta­tors were hundreds of teenagers who hung on her every word. 
"I lost a lot of things," said Chavez, 43. "I left my vehicle in the impound so that I don't do drinking and driving after that. And I lost my house. 1 lost my kids to their father so that they can go stay with him because I had nowhere to go." 
Chavez had already plead­ed guilty. Now a judge gave her four days in jail and a $500 fine. But her sentence came with an additional indignity: It happened in a high school auditorium, where 400 students stared as she lifted one leg, then the other, to let jailers shackle her feet. Guards also wrapped a chain around her waist and handcuffed her. 
When the hearing ended, she was escorted out of Belen High School, about 30 miles south of Albuquerque, and locked up. 
Magistrate Daniel Hawkes brought his courtroom to the school in hopes that the pro­ceedings will show students the dangers of alcohol, espe­cially in the weeks leading up to the prom and gradua­tion. 
Hawkes, whose program is unique in New Mexico, also senteneed two people at the school last year. lie brings with him a plywood court bench emblazoned with a New Mexico Supreme Court seal. The makeshift court­room also includes U.S. and New Mexico flags. 
Ed Chavez. chief justice of the high court and no rela­tion to Marlene Chavez, said he would like to see the pro­gram go statewide. 
When the hearing began, 18-year-old Angel Mendez didn't realize the seriousness of the proceedings. But after watching Marlene Chavez and four other repeat offend­ers get sentenced, he changed his view. 
"I thought it was pretty shocking just to see them like that. I didn't think they would have them in shack­les," he said. 
Elizabeth Sluder, 17, was initially skeptical, too, think­ing the hearing was overly staged. But she also ehanged her mind by the end. 
"You see your friends, you know, they're like, 'I'm going to go out to this party.' But you never see the conse­quences of them getting in trouble or getting in an acci­dent, or any kind of conse­quence of driving drunk," she said. "But here, it's actu­ally being brought to us. It does happen, there are con­sequences." 
Michael A. Martone, a Michigan judge, started the first court-in-schools pro­gram in 1993, sentencing offenders who pleaded guilty to charges ranging from drunken-driving to assault and battery. lie has held hearings at high schools and middle schools in Troy and Clawson, Mieh. 
In 2000, Martone's pro­gram became the model for the outreach program at thn National Judicial College in Heno. Nev. Hawkes said he learned of the program while attending the judicial eol­lege. 
Other touches he came up with himself, including his mobile courtroom, which is hauled around in a trailer that he bought for $6,800. On the side of the trailer is: "Judicial Outreach Team. Courts are the crossroads of prevention. It's NOT KOOL to SKIP School. Stay in school." 
Sluder was struck by the emotional impact of the sen­tencing and the statements from the defendants. 
"I can't imagine how those people felt standing up and having to talk to all of us kids, especially because we ean see them in the commu­nity," she said. "It just makes it real." 
''~;

Brand new, furnished townhomes 
for this Fall Semester, 2008 ~-·x·;·/·.·.f_·_ .·. 
· .. " ~------.· ' 
f 
'.\; ..... 

2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Street 
·,. ' 

A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 

Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
now leasing. 

Tuesday, April I, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 12,262.89 +46.49
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,111 102 2,204 3,691,156,260 
AMEX !7231.83 NASDAQ +17.92

"'?1??9~10 
NYSE . 8,797.29 S&P 500 
+7.48 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London) 5:702.10 +9.20 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SCHERING PLOUGH CP -25.99 -5.06 14.41 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.35 +0.46 131.97 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.53 +0.23 43.72 CITIGROUP INC (C) +2.83 +0.59 21.42 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.98 -0.034 3.432 13-WEEK BILL -5.56 -0.075 1.275 30-YEAR BOND -0.90 -0.039 4.306 5-YEAR NOTE -2.68 -0.068 2.467 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -4.04 101.58 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -15.00 921.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 76.40 
Exchange Rates YEN 99.8550 EURO 0.6340 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0217 BRITISH POUND 0.5038 
IN BRIEF 
Lehamn Brothers filing suit for fraud 
TOKYO -Lehman Brothers filed suit Monday against major Japanese trading company Marubeni, demanding $350 million in damages in a case of alleged fraud. 
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is seeking to recoup funding it provided to another Japanese company that the U.S. bank says employees of Marubeni Corp. helped secure. 
The Tokyo District Court confirmed the lawsuit was filed. A Lehman Brothers official, who spoke on condition of anonymity citing policy, said the lawsuit demands $350 million. Other details were not immediately available. 
Marubeni, which has repeatedly denied wrong­doing, said it has not yet seen the lawsuit and could not comment. But it reiterated it has no obligation to repay the money, which was provid­ed to a unit of ITT Bio-Pharma, a medical con­sulting_ company. The unit has since declared bankruptcy. 
Vytorin's makers see drop in shares 
NEW YORK-Shares of Merck & Co. and Schering-Plough Corp. fell to record lows Monday, as analysts warned new clinical data would cause sales of their blockbuster choles­terol drug Vytorin to fall further. 
The companies market Vytorin through a joint venture, but earlier this year, partial results from a clinical study showed that it was no more effective at limiting plaque buildup than Merck's Zocor, a drug that is already available in generic form. Full results of that study weJ,"e released Sunday. 
Vytorin is a combination of Zocor and Schering-Plough's drug Zetia. 
Schering-Plough shares plunged as low as $14, touching their lowest levels since August 1996. Merck shares fell as low as $36.82, their lowest since June 2006. 
Leading physicians are now recommending the use of older drugs called statins before put­ting patients on Vytorin. Many physicians had prescribed Vytorin in lieu of higher doses of statins because of what some said was an undue fear of side effects. 
"There was an irrationality to begin with," said Dr. John LaRosa, president of State University of New York Downstate Medical Center. 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page7 

New economic strategy proposed 
Federal Reserve overhaul will not ease current problems but help in the future 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -It's a Herculean task: revamping a financial regulatory sys­tem dating back to the Civil War to deal with 21st cen­tury crises imperiling the country. 
Under an ambitious Bush administration plan, the Federal Reserve would take on the unwieldy role of uber cop in charge of financial market stability. Other regulatory agencies could see their in!1uence diminished. 
The proposal won't fix the host of economic and financial problems that threatens to plunge the United States into a deep recession, but it might help guard against future trou­bles. It would take years and a lot of political wran­gling -in Congress, on Wall Street, in statehouses and elsewhere -to imple­ment all the changes envi­sioned. 
Yet, the initiative, formal­ly announced Monday, casts a fresh spotlight on the best way to protect the country from financial catastrophes in an intricate web of complex, often­

changing financial prod­Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson announces the biggest overhaul of financial regula­ucts and the wide array of tions since the Great Depression during a speech at the Treasury Department Monday. financial players using them in the United States for millions of distressed up today when really this consolidation of the vari­and beyond. That debate homeowners clobbered by had nothing to do with the ous supervisory bureau­probably will take center the housing collapse and current problems we're cracies is very important stage in the next presi­credit crunch. Foreclosures facing?" recognition that we are in dent's administration. have hit record highs. Democratic presidential a global economy, and 
Asked if President Bush's "We must take steps now contender Hillary Rodham transparency and closer goal was to get the revamp to provide help to families Clinton was even more oversight is necessary," he approved before he leaves who are hurting," said emphatic: "No amount of said. office, press secretary House Speaker Nancy rearranging the deck The plan would greatly Dana Perino acknowledged Pelosi, D-Calif. chairs can hide the fact expand the role of the Fed, the enormity of the plan. Senate Banking that our housing and credit created in 1913 after a "We'll have to see. It is a Committee Chairman Chris markets are in crisis and series of bank panics, to big attempt," she said. ·Dodd, D-Conn., called the they are sinking deeper oversee the stability of the 
Democrats in Congress administration's proposal a every day." entire financial system said the administration "wild pitch." Sen. John McCain, who including commercial should be focusing its "It's not even close to the has wrapped up the banks, investment banks, efTorts on easing the coun­strike zone," Dodd said. Republican nomination, insurance companies, try's current woes, includ­"This is a very legitimate welcomed Paulson's rec­hedge funds, private-equity ing providing more relief issue, but why bring this ommendations. "I think firms and others. 

Smaller com crop means higher prices 
syrup is used in soft drinks and many Richard Lobb of the National
Associated Press 

other foods, including lunch meats Chicken Council said recent increas­
WASHINGTON -From chicken and salad dressings. Corn is often an es in the cost of corn feed have been nuggets to corn flakes, food prices at ingredient in breads, peanut butter, absorbed by larger chicken compa­grocery stores and dinner tables oatmeal and potato chips. nies, such as Pilgrim's Pride Corp. or could be headed even higher as Corn components are even used in Tyson Foods Inc., that provide feed to farmers cut back on the land they're many grocery store items that aren't poultry farmers. But that could planting in corn this spring. edible -including disposable dia­change. 
Corn prices already are high, and a pers and dry cell batteries. "At a certain point we have to drop in supply should keep them ris­When the corn that goes into those readjust and get back to square one," ing. Combine that with the huge products goes up in price, increases Lobb said. "The only people who demand for corn-based ethanol fuel eventually can be passed along to have money ultimately are con­-and higher energy costs for trans­consumers. sumers." porting food -and consumers are And corn prices have skyrocketed Tucker-Forman of the Consumer likely to see their food bills going up in recent years, almost tripling since Federation of America and Scott and up. 2005. They have been pushed along Faber of the Grocery Manufacturers 
Farmers are now expected to plant by the burgeoning ethanol industry, Association both say rising food 86 million acres of corn this year, the which turns the crop into fuel, and prices could be stemmed if Congress Department of Agriculture predicted by rising worldwide demand for food. would pull back subsidies for the Monday, down 8 percent from last "People who are working families, ethanol industry. year, which was the highest since just barely making it and already The number of ethanol plants has World War II. paying higher prices for gas and almost tripled since 1999 and more 
Corn is almost everywhere you look home heating oil are going to be shot are being built, according to the in the U.S. food supply. Poultry, beef in the pocket by higher food prices," Renewable Fuels Association. Such and pork companies use it to feed said Carol Tucker-Foreman of the plants could gobble up more than a their animals. High fructose corn Consumer Federation of America. quarter of the country's corn crop. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Nou< Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Noue Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hinc 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Ntws EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SI•OIUS EDITOR: C:hris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: 'Jae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisemems, is not goVl'rncd by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Th,· Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprcsem the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, A,sistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc ()bscrver_ 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The !Tee ,·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.c·tters to the Editor must be sign~d and must include contact inlormation. 
Qtmtiow "1/:arding Ohsm;rr po/ici(s shott!d b( dim·ted to Editor in G..hiifC'hris Hin~ 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11u: l )h6t'n-cr (liSI~ 'WIJ 2-4000} 11 llllhh,ltccl Munday tluuuglr J.rilt.~y ou.:epr during cum.md Yol<..Uitlll •'Cri•kl.s_ A w~ripuuuwThc Oh-crvcr 111$100 fur nnc:.ac.adcmk ycar;'S~5(ur,mt•~~emarn 
The ( lhsc:rvcr i~ puhli1hcd Jt POSTMASTER 
0.21 South LJinm(( llt~.ll Send Jddrcs.' currtctimu w: Nurrt Dame, IN 465';6-0779 ThcOh~rvtr l'criutltt.-.1 ptUIJJ;t' poud .tr NotK D.un< 1~0 Rmtn9 ;~nd additiunJirnJtlmg nlfka. O,z.j Smnh Dining ll.dl 
None Ullmc, IN 46S'XJ.l)779 
Thc<.1hsei'VO!'r 15.1 mcmhcr oflhC' f\.!.M,.;:,.arcd f't't'n. AU tepruducrinn nttlm arc:: 
rc~rvcJ. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Back to the issues 
This is no response to any specific Viewpoint article, but rather to the over­flow of press coverage regarding Barack Obama's relationship with his church pastor, Hev. Jeremiah Wright. It occurmd to me that the media has seemed to place an unfair weight on the relationship Obama has shared with Wright over the ye<:W"s. For anyone unaware of the issue, Wright is the pas­tor of Trinity Church and recently became famous for his controversial remarks regarding race in America. While I do not need to go into the specifics of his comments, they are seen as quite heated and contentious. 
The media since then has been highly critical of Obama's relationship with his pastor, and rightly so. If we are to elect an individual to the highest public office in this country, are we not allowed to scrutinize their character? After all, a lot may to be said by the people with whom we associate. However, the media has taken it too far. 
Before I go on, I should state that I am not a Barack Obama supporter, nor am I a Clinton supporter. I simply want to see a fruitful debate among the Democratic Party that is fair and worthy to produce 

a candidate to the general election. Obama recently answered questions regarding his relationship with Wright, 
and even went on to comment on racial divisions that still exist today. 
I have to admit I was extremely impressed with the articulate Obama and can fully understand why he is such an attractive candidate to a lot of people. But even with his answers, the media did not let it go. They still ask the pierc­ing questions concerning his character, almost as if to make up for previous lack of scrutiny. 
All I ask is that we do not forget the issues. While it is easy to say that this upcoming election is a momentous one for the history of our country (every presidential election cycle says that), it does have importance. We are currently in a war that has passed its fifth anniversary. We have major issues with the continuation of social security. The economy appears to be in a slump. We have serious thinking to do in the com­ing years. 
I want to know both where Obama stands and what he has done in the past as a senator to affirm those belief's. Sure, it is easy to go on his Web site and read about it, but I want to listen to him artic­ulate it more. I want the media to foster debate about the issues. I want to know how Obama will manage to stabilize the Middle East with his steady withdrawal of American troops. I want more specifics on government-sponsored healthcarc. Exactly how will it work? What are the consequences? 
These arc only a few of the many issues on which the media could focus, but instead their attention is elsewhere. Do I think scrutinizing character is unimportant? No. But I do believe the media has to do a better job balancing that with debate among the issues. 
I do not support Obama, and I disagree with what I do know of his stance on issues. Alii ask is give him an opportuni­ty to make a case for what he believes in. Debate amongst the issues will better serve this country in the long run. 
Patrick McDonnell freshman Fisher Hall Mar. 19 

'Monologues' 

refusal 

I am a woman. I refuse to be objectified. I refuse to be mocked. I refuse to be trivialized. I refuse to be debased. I refuse to be used. I refuse to be stereotyped. I refuse to be violated. I refuse to be valued only for one part of my body, and for how I utilize that part of the whole that is myself -a woman. I especially refuse to do so under the guise of "empowerment." I refuse to support "The Vagina Monologues." 
Morgan Cullen Kimberly Stoddard Agata Michalska Ann Weber Joanna Emilian Elliott Marie Argue Laura Lindsley Natalie Rauch Mary Forr Rachel Miller Esther Sims MaryKDaly Kelly Levis Jacqueline Libaudais Mary Liz Walter students Notre Dame Mar. 28 


Support academic 
freedom 
While I personally wish the Vagina Monologues were not performed at Notre Dame (or anywhere for that matter). I fully support Fr. Jenkins' deci­sion to allow the performanc­es this year, consistent with the guidelines on academic freedom he articulated two years ago. 
I have been criticized by fel­low alumni in my local region for that support. One member of our alumni club removed me from her e-mail list, stat­ing that Satan is clearly at work here because our friendship has been am~cted. I don't understand this. We have a different understand­ing of academic freedom; that in no way affects how I feel about her as a friend and fel­lowalum. 
One thing keeps coming to mind that I wish she and Bishop D'Arcy and others would realize. At Notre Dame, 
unlike most if not all other campuses, there are real choices. Such choices, it seems to me, are only to be expected in an environment where both Catholic charac­ter and true academic free­dom are vibrant. In addition to the performance of "The Vagina Monologues," students at Notre Dame last weekend hosted the Edith Stein Conference lor the third con­secutive year. Notre Dame students have also developed a Notre Dame-specific alter­native play. There are just so many examples of God's work on campus and among the alumni. Once again let it be said, "Only At Notre Dame." 
Jack Fremeau alumnus Class of 1971 Mar. 28 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz Harter Fran Tolan What are you most excited about Becky Hogan Laura Myers 
for football season? 
Nikki Taylor Genie Alfonzo Graphics Scene Jon Tenuta's arrival 

"Fool me once, shame on... shame on
Andrea Archer Jess Shaffer Mike Haywood taking over play-calling you. Fool me... you can't get fooled Viewpoint duties again." Maria Stohler Jimmy Clausen's new haircut 
President George W. Bush 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
-
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Patriotic protest 

Impressionable youth 
As a senior leader in Army ROTC who faces the likely prospect of being sent to Iraq in the next year or two, I found the discussion about last week's protest interesting. I would like to offer my two cents and thank those who started and continued what I found to be a thoughtful and well­timed protest. 
What are you supporting by sup­porting the war? The Army does not declare war, Congress does. A soldier takes no part in deciding whether or not to go to war; a soldier goes to war when he or she is told to by the gov­ernment. 
Since we are fortunate enough to be governed by a democracy, "the peo­ple" are essentially the ones who decide to go to war, and our support of the war means supporting the cause and the deployment of troops to realize that cause. If you do not sup­port the war, you are simply opposing a government decision, and the best way to support the troops in that case is to discourage the government from sending troops into harm's way (in a thoughtful manner, of course). 
A soldier's mission is to support and defend the people of the United States and its Constitution; to support a sol­dier is to support this mission, not necessarily a particular war. Patriotism does not mean blindly fol­lowing the dictates of the present administration; it means encouraging the course of action which is best for our nation and the whole world. 
The recent protest, by provoking thought and discussion about that best course of action, was an act of patriotism. 
Phillip Hicks 
senior 
Dillon Hall Mar. 28 

"The Vagina Monologues" have stirred up a lot of passion in many students at Notre Dame. This led stu­dents to a debate with each other and panelists, and as a result, I witnessed one of the most compelling and insightful conversations I have ever seen. 
This exploration of sexuality strengthened my own ideas on the subject, which I would classify as conservative. Not changed, strength­ened. Bishop D'Arcy has noted that college students are impressionable, and such a play could be dangerous to our Catholic understanding of sex­uality. 
There are many aspects of the . world we live in that could be danger­ous for a young Catholic to see. For example, The Keenan Revue protrays college boys who are open about their sex lives, scenes of masturbation, and scenes demeaning to women. Yet tick­ets to the Keenan Revue sell out with­in half an hour of availability. 
Clearly, Notre Dame students are regularly exposed to "sexual revolu-

Disability awareness not just for March 

Revive the concert 
Disabilities are something that I'm sure many people on our campus do not think much about. I think about them every day. 
I have a learning disability, and at the very beginning of my freshmen year, I felt like I was the only one on campus who did. That all changed when I was invited to get together with other students with disabilities to create a group. We started meeting every week and eventually called ourselves Perspectives. This came about because we feel that being a per­son with a disability at Notre Dame gives you a different perspective, but also because we want people with normal abilities to try and understand that. 
Our goal is to offer support to each other and promote awareness and edu­cation about disabilities. Having a dis­ability is not a necessary component to membership, just an interest in our goal. We worked hard to gain group status, and I am very proud of the work we have done. We have had panels, simulations, and socials, and have worked with other groups such as Best Buddies and the Logan Center. It has been a very reward­ing journey. 
I write because March is Disability Awareness month. There have been many great events, but the promotion of disability awareness does not have to end. There is so much that you can do. You can be more understanding of people with disabilities all year and educate yourself. 
I invite anyone who is interested in any of this to join Perspectives. It has been one of the best parts of my four years here at Notre Dame. 
Molly Rivard 
senior 
Welsh Family Hall Mar. 30 

PERSPECTIVES: APRIL 1, 1991 
Bored on a cold day, watching UCLA blow Xavier out of the water, I was lis­tening to music on my computer to make the game go by faster. I was lis­tening to Bruce Springsteen when I wondered, when was the last time Bruce played at Notre Dame? 
Let's just go this far, most readers of the Observer weren't born yet. So I decided to look into the online archives of The Observer to find a mention of the Boss, and one com­pletely blew me away. 
Just over four years ago, on Feb. 9, 2004, there was an article labeled: "University rejects concert." I first thought, "they canceled a potential Bruce concert!" I then reasoned with myself that there probably wasn't enough money. I continued to search on, but upon returning to "University rejects concert," I discovered a horri­ble incident. 
According to the article, Norte Dame SUB has planned potentially the great­est concert in Notre Dame history­even greater than the 2001 U2 con­cert. U2 and Bruce Springsteen in the Stadium. 
Upon reading this, I choked on my Arizona Iced Tea and did a double take. I was shocked that SUB could pull something like this together, but once again I thought, "It must be a pipe dream and there is not enough funding." As I read on, I discovered that SUB had raised $250,000 over the estimated $1.25 million required for this show. Not only was money not a problem, but the reason for the con­cert was not just the pleasure of Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross stu­dents, but for a greater good: all pro­ceeds from the concert were going to fund the AIDS effort in Africa. 
After skimming it, I read deeper into tion propaganda." "The Vagina Monologues" offered students an opportunity to discuss complex issues of female sexuality, and each panelist gave an alternative to the sexual rev­olution. 
Is there a better place to be exposed to the sexual revolution than Notre Dame? I doubt that, had the play been held elsewhere, anyone would have cared to conduct such a respectable conversation as the debate on Friday night. 
You cannot hide reality from us. It will hit us eventually. I thank Fr. Jenkins and the organizers of "The Vagina Monologues" for offering a dose of the reality of sexuality in the world today, and providing me with a remarkable and beautiful response that I probably would not have recieved anywhere else but Notre Dame. 
Flannery Kearney sophomore Pangborn Hall Mar. 29 

the article to find out why this epic endeavor was never carried out. I found it: University spokesman Matt Storin said the proposal was not approved by the administration. "Several university officers considered this proposal and decided that we did not have the resources or personnel to pull off an endeavor of this size within the necessary time frame," Storin said. 
At this I became very upset. I mean, a university that has enough security, personnel, parking, and other resources to maintain order on the six to seven home game weekends each year can't provide enough for a one­time concert that would cater to far fewer patrons? Notre Dame had a chance to host one of the greatest con­certs of the decade and the adminis­tration balks. 
I also wonder what happened to SUB continuing to fight for this endeavor. At the end of the article there is a mention of how this idea will come to be, but there have been no echoes of it coming to fruition, not a mention in the rest of the Observer archives. 
In the end, I can only stare back at the University's missed chance to host two musical talents that have com­bined to sell more than 200 million albums. The chance of a lifetime spurned. 
I hope that SUB has great events in motion for the 2008-09 season, but I also hope this can get gears turning again because settling for one hit won­ders and alternative rock shouldn't be the highlights of a year 
TtmStaub 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Mar. 30 


The mural on the Hesburgh·Ubary. which 'lilf~s t6rrrierty of Jesus, now sports a new upolitically correct" figure. 
This Perspective was originally printed in the April 1, 1991, issue of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
exp \o~1 on.s 1n -the skj 
RICH at1d REAL 

Since coming unto the scene in 1999, Explosions in the Sky has mad some of' the most intense, emotionally rich music in tlw genn~ of post-rock. 
Put simply, post-rock is the use of' rock instruments like guitars, drums, and bass to creato musical styles that are not common to rock music. Most post-rock bands, including Explosions in the Sky, arn purely instrumental. 
The band creates beautifully layered textures and narra­tivn guitar linus with their instruments, and uses this talent to grab the listener. 
In 2000, they released their first album, "!low Strange, lnnoconee". It was first released on just 300 CD-Rs, but they rn-reloasnd it in 2005, and fans were able to soc how they got thnir start. 
In tho dobut album album, their sound is more stripped down. but their car for arrangemonts is apparent. Songs like "Snow and Lights" and "Glittering Blackness" show basie tcxturns that are tho beginnings of more thir:kly layered songs on their later albums. 
Thn album "Tho Earth Is Not a Cold Dead Place" from 2003 presents a hopeful view of life. While the title says the Earth is not awful. one had to think it was initially to need that kind of' assurance. 
In "Tho Earth Is Not a Cold Dead Place," the band fully 


Explosions in the Sky releasd their debut album in 2000, and just
realizes everything they are trying to achieve. Intricate gui­

premiered their new album,"All of the Sudden I Miss Everyone."
tar lines, precise drum work and explosive crescendos lend to an ~~motional palette only Explosions in the Sky can cre­ate. The songs "Mmnorial" and "Your Hand in Mine" are Everyone." For the 11rst time, the album did not show any perfect representations or what the band does best. measurable development in the band's sound, besides a 
Finally, in 2007, they released "All of a Sudden I Miss small introduction of piano into their music. But this latest 
Explosions in the Sky 
Reccommendecl Tracks: Memorial, Your Hand in Mine, Yasmin the Ught, DayTwo 

work still provides some solid songs. 
The band also released an EP entitled "The Rescue" in 2005, in which they wrote and recorded a song a day for eight consecutive days. In many ways, this is their most accessible due to the relatively short lengths of the songs. The band also did the entire soundtrack to the film "Friday Night Lights." 
The music of Explosions in the Sky is some of the most explosive (no pun intended), rich, emotional, cathartic and beautiful music you will ever hear. The fact that they are. able to draw so much out of basic rock instruments is· incredible. The music of Explosions in the Sky is almost too epic, if only it didn't fit so well within our lives. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

~' 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
page 11 

Stepan Center is not exactly the ideal spot for a con­cert. Not only is it acoustically stifling, but also remi­niscent of chemistry related events, including dreaded Organic Chemistry exams. Additionally, it takes a bit of a hike from civilization to reach the complex. Nonetheless, on Friday night the lights came up on Stepan Center when Jack's Mannequin took the stage. 
Jack's Mannequin's Andy McMahon was a member of Something Corporate before writing his own songs while the band was taking a break. His songs from the hiatus became the first and only album of the newly formed Jack's Mannequin, "Everything in Transit." The album has slowly gained a wide following, and a new one is expected soon. 
The real story behind Jack's Mannequin is unusual for a band riding the punk-pop wave. After the album was recorded in 2005, the band was ready to go on tour to promote it. Just before the tour, McMahon was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. His little sister was the marrow donor, and he made a full recov­ery. They are now touring and will eventually end up on the Warp Tour circuit. 
The set was typical, except for the large black grand piano center stage. No opening band in sight, Andy McMahon and his crew bounded onto the set at around 
9:15. Bursting into the opening chords of "Dark Blue," 

cacophonic ride of li an there. Drums, bass, guitar and piano managed to cre­ate a sound full enough to elevate the crowd to eupho­ria. 
The crowd stood on its feet the whole time as differ­ent people sang along with different snippets of songs. Though few people know the album by heart, man people have heard their songs and were able to get into it along with McMahon. 
The artist spent the evening banging on the piano. He felt the music to the point that he appeared almost par­alyzed at moments. McMahon never sat, but hunched over the keys and sang into the mic with his head turned toward the audience. It was almost existential to watch him completely living within the sound of his own music. 
Most of the songs from "Everything in Transit" were performed. Near the end of the evening, McMahon s calmly at his keys and played a more introspective off the album yet to be released. 
The band played for an hour and 20 minutes, includ­ing one encore. When they left the stage the second time they ignored the cr·owd 's cry for another song, leaving the audience to mistakenly cheer the roadies the lights came up. The evening was generally deemed a suc;cess by everyone. The energy that had bee buzzing for an hour and a half was carried out into night as students walked home under the stars. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
..­
-
-
ANDREA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

-
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men's water polo hosts alumni tournament 
Women's water polo wins Miami Invitation; Rugby beats Loyola 66-0; Rowers begin season at Lubbers Cup 
-.. 
-
Special to the Observer 
Women's water polo 
The nation's top-ranked club proved worthy of its status as Notre Dame captured the pres­tigious Miami Invitational in Oxford. Ohio this weekend. On Friday, the Irish opened play against the Pennsylvania, the No. 8 team in the country. The game was back-and-forth, with the Irish coming back from a two-goal deficit in the fourth quarter to tie it at 9-9. After Bridget O'Neil fouled out early in the fourth quarter with five goals, Kelly Horner took over in ovnrtime, scoring a hat trick in the extra periods to lead the Irish to a 12-10 vic­tory. Ali Durkin, Kristen llarchut and Cristina Homano nach contributed a goal, while goalie Betsy O'Neill made 12 saves. 
On Saturday, the Irish defeated Wisconsin 14-4. O'Neill and Homano led the squad with four goals apiece, and Horner added another three. Durkin, Emily Harig and Beth Nagel also each splashed one home for the Irish. Goalies O'Neill and Maggie Hyde split the cage, making a combined nine saves. 
The Irish then defeated No. 6 Michigan 5-3 Saturday night. 
In the championship game on Sunday, the Irish finally met No. 3 Cal Poly in a long-antici­pated game that lived up to its expectations. In the end, the Irish came from behind to win 4-3. O'Neill hit a lob shot in the second quarter to tie the score 1-1 at the half. Poly opened the second half with two goals, taking a 3-1 lead at the end of the third quarter. But Notre Dame picked it up in the fourth quarter, scoring three unanswered goals. Homano hit a cross-cage shot on a man-up opportunity then Harig nailed one from outside. Finally, Kennifer muscled the winning goal by the keeper from set, as the Irish won by a final score of 4-3. O'Neill came up huge in the win, keeping the goal clear for two quarters while recording five saves. 


Men's volleyball 
In their final tune-up before nationals, the Irish traveled to Columbus, Ohio, to play in the annual MIVA tournament. The tournament brought together 30 teams from three of the most competitive conferences in the nation. With an incon­sistent season thus far, the Irish looked to gain some sta­bility and momentum going into nationals. 
In the opening day, the Irish were placed in a six-team pool. Notre Dame played tough all day, but was unable to pull out any victories. The Irish dropped dose contests to Minnesota, Indiana and Cincinnati, while defeating Bowing Green. The Irish went 1-3 on the day, losing five sets by a combined 11 points to put them in a deep hole for the second day. The Irish entered the single elimination bracket portion of the tournament with the No. 17-seed and plenty of difficult matches ahead of them. 
Notre Dame's first opponent Sunday morning was Grand Valley State. The Irish came out flat in the first game, giv­ing up several short runs that turned into a large deficit and a convincing 25-18 win for Grand Valley State. Aggressive serving by freshman Jason Healy kept the Irish in the sec­ond game, which was close until the end. A strong defen­sive push tipped the score in the favor of Notre Dame as they closed out a squeaker, 25­
22. The momentum carried into the third set as the Irish dominated, 15-8. 
The next match pitted the Irish against conference rival Marquette, a team that defeat­ed Notre Dame twice during the season. But the Irish played their most inspired vol­leyball of the day as they burst out of the gates. Outside hit­ting by Mark Iandolo carried the Irish to the end as they took the first set easily. But the Golden Eagles did not go down easily as they responded with a strong 17-25 win that sent the match into a third game. Middle blocker Mike Nejedly fueled Notre Dame's early push with phenomenal attack­ing, giving the Irish an early lead they never relinquished on their way to the match vic­tory, 15-11 in the third game. 
In the quarterfinals, Notre Dame defeated Dayton 25-17, 26-24. 
For the right to play in the championship, Notre Dame faced No. 4 Lakeland College. Despite forceful hitting by out­side hitter Dan Zibton, who was also named all-confer­ence, the Irish looked as if the seven previous matches had taken their toll. The Muskies took control and didn't relent, beating Notre Dame in consec­utive sets and sending the Irish home with a third-place finish. 


Rugby 

Notre Dame swept Loyola College in a pair of dominating victories on Saturday in Skokie, Ill. The A-side opened play with a convincing 66-0 win marked by Chris Harrington's three tries. Patrick Toole and Bob Huguelet each added a pair of tries, while Ben Frost, Andy Mullen and Chris Brown scored one apiece. Don Greiwe was 8-of-10 on two­point conversions. The Irish preserved their 28-0 halftime lead with a three-minute goal line stand to close the half. 
Dan Blakely also scored three tries for the Irish in the B-side's 55-0 whitewashing of Loyola. 

Men's rowing 

Notre Dame opened its spring season with a trip to Grand Rapids, Mich., where the team raced in the Lubber's Cup Regatta. The Irish raced in fours and eights in a fast current and unusually warm regatta conditions. Notre Dame faced some of the best crews in the northern Indiana and Michigan area, along with the University of Rochester from New York. 
The Irish novice boats were the highlight of the Notre Dame performance as they took home a total of 16 medals and one trophy. In the eights, the novice first boat had a dominating performance. The crew won the race with open water on the next boat and brought the large, golden cup trophy back to Notre Dame. The second novice boat took second in its race. In the fours, the Irish novice continued to show powerful performances, winning both the novice A race and the novice B race. The third novice four took fourth place in the B race as well. 

Cycling 

The Irish resumed competi­tion at Michigan State and Michigan with racers in every category but men's B. The road race consisted of a 4. 7­mile loop with a 1.25-mile sec­tion of dirt road. The men's C had an all-star line-up looking to win the race, while the B entry women's squad was seeking more experience. With numerous break away attempts from rookie Kirk Post, the pace of the race was fast. But the rest of the pack worked against Post and kept him on a short leash. The Irish benefited, though, with Nate Farley netting fifth place and Josh Johnson finishing eighth. Post came in just behind in 12th place. 
Laura Simons and Caitlin Sullivan competed in the women's B race and finished 18th and 22nd. Veterans Jenn Perricone and Meghan Johnson new the argyle in the women's A 45-mile race. The soft and difficult dirt section took its toll on the field. Perricone came in 1Oth behind an old and experienced field with Johnson taking 13th. 
The men's A race consisted of 35 riders, including Tim Campbell and Mike Lavery. The 55-mile race started off pretty tame, but the attacks started the third lap of the race. Campbell finished slight­ly behind the dwindled main field in 13th place. 
The D men, who started right after the A men, had a short 20-mile race. The entire field was on the attack, but it was Irish riders John McDunough and Adam Bee that joined another rider the make the 3-man break of the day. McDunough drilled the pace hard and consequently dropped back from the group to rejoin the pack, finishing 13th. Bee went on to win the sprint for first place, giving the Irish their first win of the sea­son. John Dailey and Mike O'Connor also finished with the pack and did not place. 
Sunday's races started with a twilight D men's criterium on the University of Michigan campus. The D men had a short but furious 20 minute race. All four Irish riders drilled the pace on the course and caused mass suffering in the peleton. McDunough pulled in front in as he went for the victory, but his push was reeled back in. This set up Bee once again as Bee won the group sprint. Dailey took fourth place and O'Connor came in slightly out of the placing. 

Men's water polo 

The Irish hosted their annual Alumni Tournament at Rolfs Aquatics. The event featured Purdue, Mercyhurst, Monmouth, and the Notre Dame Alumni team. In addition, a Notre Dame B squad competed. The team was comprised mostly of the club's large freshmen class. 
In Notre Dame's first game, against Monmouth on Saturday morning, the club came out strong to take a quick 4-0 lead in the first quarter before winning 15­3. 
In their second game, the Irish faced a much tougher opponent in Mercyhurst, a division II varsity team with several All-American play­ers. The Irish fell 12-6. Notre Dame came out fired up and managed to hit the back of the net five times in the first half as Fordonski and Dunn each scored twice and senior Zhan-Wei Khaw netted one to forge a 5-5 tie at the half. 
But the Irish were unable to keep up the pace in the second half and began to seriously tire in the third quarter. Mercyhurst quickly pulled ahead by five goals and the Irish were only able to respond with one by Connors. The game slowed in the fourth quarter as Mercyhurst scored two more unanswered goals for the easy victory. 
The last game of the day for the Irish A team was against the ND Alumni team. The two squads kept the score neck-and-neck for the entire game before the Irish pulled out an 11-10 victory. 
The final game of the weekend against Purdue was also a nail-biter, with the Irish squeaking out a 10-9 win. Connors lit up the goal in the first quarter, scoring three right off the bat before Dunn added one to make it 4-1 the end of the quarter. Purdue bounced back in the third quarter to tie it up, and the two teams battled it out in the fourth with Connors, Dunn, and Fordonski scoring one goal each. Purdue answered with an additional three goals to knot the score at 7-7. The game ended in a shootout as goalie Jon Kelly performed spectacularly for the Irish, blocking three Purdue shots. Damian Sharratt, Sebastian Andres-Testero, and Fordonski all scored in the shootout to give Notre Dame the victory. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr 10 edir 
all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS

-
Paul at weithman.1 @nd.edu or  fireplace, 2-car garage, 1 Ox20 deck,  Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home  www.lifecall.org  Summer In Maine:Males and  
WANTED  Maura at ryan.61 @nd.edu Dependable person to do yard work  deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844,  for rent walking distance to college. Call 847-507-7444.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone.  females. Meet new friends! Travel! Teach  
$14.25 BASE·APPT. STUDENT  and minor fixups. Call Sue at 233­ 
 Large house available for 2009­ your favorite activity.  
- WORK flexible. no experience needed, customer sales/service,  7719. Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  Two story house ready for immedi­ate occupancy or next school year.  2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+  If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance,  *Tennis*Canoe*Water  
conditions apply, ages 18+, 574·  08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex"  Off street parking includes motion  square feet, 5 bathrooms.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·  Ski'Swim'Saii'Kayak  
273-3835,  leases bluegoldrentals.com  sensor light for security. Four indi­ MacSwain@gmail.com  7819.  Theatre'Video'Ropes'Office*Potter  
vidually locked bedrooms, central  Housemate sought. Private room.  y'English  
www. workforstudents.com Notre Dame Staff member seeks house sitting/furnished rental  FoR RENT  station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat  Call 631·7897. $400 monthly.  For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi·  Riding'Landsports and more. June to August.  
-­ through July 31 while home is being built. Call 574-360-6919.  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08·09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­ next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appli­ MISCELLANEOUS  weekly ad in The Observer. If you or someone you care about  Residential. Enjoy our website. Apply on-line.  
Child Care: Occasional evenings  234-2436 OR  ances, large Jiving room, free trash  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ has been sexually assaulted, visit  
and weekends for our twin daugh­ KRAMERHOUSES.COM  removal. Garage available for car­ ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  http ://osa. nd. edu/departments/rape.  TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1­ 
ters. age 7. Looking for someone  extra. Call 289-4071 .  be alone. We want to help. Call our  shtml  800-997-4347, www.tripplake·  
who is responsible, energetic and  3-4 bdrrn, 3 bath home close to  24 hour confidential hotline at 1­ camp.com  
enjoys kids. Good pay. Contact  campus, safe, cathedral ceilings,  800-No Abort or visit our web site at  
- 

.---------------------------~--­
--------------------------------------------------. 

OUND THE NATION 

Tuesday, April I, 2008 
NCAA Men's Baseball USA Today /ESPN Poll 

rank  team  record  
1  Arizona State  25·1  
2  Miami FL  21-2  
2  Florida State  23·3  
4  North Carolina  21·5  
5  UC Irvine  19·3  
6  South Carolina  18·7  
7  Missouri  20·5  
8  Vanderbill  18·6  
g  Long Beach 51  17-7  
10  Nebraska  21-4·1  
11  Wichita St.  20·3  
12  California  18·5·1  
13  Florida  20·6  
14  Texas  18·8  
15  Virginia  23·5  
16  Rice  19·9  
17  Kentucky  22·4  
18  Arizona  14·9  
19  Texas A&M  21·6  
20  Stanford  12·7  
21  Georgia Tech  22·5  
22  Coastal California  21.6  
23  (tie) Ole Miss  16·11  
23  (tie) CS Fullerton  15·9  
25  San Diego  19-10  

NCAA Women's Softball Top25 

rank team record 
1 UCLA 26-3 2 Arizona Stale 34-2 3 Alabama 27·3 4 Florida 35-2 5 Stanford 31-2 6 Michigan 25-3 7 TexasA&M 31-6 8 LSU 2H 9 Tennessee 28-5 10 Arizona 21-8 11 Houston 28-4 12 Fresno State 30-5 13 Oklahoma 27-8 14 Long Beach State 24-9 15 Lousiana·Lalayette 20-8 16 Northwestern 13·9 17 Hawai'i 24-10 18 Georgia 30-8 19 Baylor 18-8 20 North Carolina 27·6-1 21 Mississippi Slate 26-9 22 San Diego Stale 27-10 23 California 29-10 24 DePaul 19-9 25 Washington 21-9-1 
Women's Softball Big East Standings 

team record streak· 
USF 4·0 W5 Louisville 4·0 W6 Pittsburgh 3·1 t1 
prev 
1 3 2 4 7 9 6 13 5 17 11 19 18 10 15 12 14 3 22 21 
NR 
20 16 25 23 
prev 
1 2 3 4 5 8 9 6 8 10 11 13 22 12 14 16 17 18 24 15 19 20 23 25 
NR 


Syracuse 3·1 l1 DePaul 1·1 t1 NOTRE DAME 1·1 W1 Providence 1·1 W2 Connecticut 1·1 W1 St. John's 2·4 L4 Villanova 1·3 ·W1 Rutgers 1·3 W1 Seton Hall 0·6 L5 
around the dial 
NCAA Women's Regional Championship Texas A&M at Tennesse 7:00 p.m., ESPN 
Rutgers at Conneticut 
9:00 p.m., ESPN 
NIT Basketball Tournament Massachusetts vs. Florida 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
Mississippi vs. Ohio State 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 

CoMPI u:n FROM THE OBSERVER'S w1 RE SERVJCEs 

NCAA 
Associated Press 
North Carolina's Tyler Hansbrough and Kansas State's Michael Beasley were unanimous selections to The Associated Press' All­America team Monday. For the first time, no senior was chosen. 
Beasley and Kevin Love of UCLA made it two straight years there were two fresh­men chosen. Sophomore D.J. Augustin of Texas and junior Chris Douglas-Roberts rounded out the selections, shutting out the seniors. 
Until this group, Hansbrough, a junior and the . Atlantic Coast Conference player of the year, and Beasley, the Big 12 player of the year and third freshman to lead the country in rebounding, were named on all 72 ballots and received 360 points from the same national media panel that selects the weekly Top 25. 

"To be one of just two players in the country to receive such an honor is very humbling, n said Beasley, who led Kansas State to its first NCAA bid since 1996. "I have never been about individual accomplishments, but about helping my team win games. I wish we were still playing, but I am happy with the suc­cess we had this season." 
Hansbrough, a second­team selection last season, compiled impressive num­bers (23.0 points, 10.4 
.-,... 
. --::-. 
-
IN BRIEF Indians' Martinez out with 
a hamstring injury 
CLEVELAND-Indians All-Star catch­er Victor Martinez left Cleveland's sea­son opener on Monday in the second inning after injuring his left hamstring while rurming to second base. 
Martinez had opened the Indians' seven-run inning with a single off Chicago White Sox starter Mark Buehrle. Later in the inning, he drove home Travis Hafuer with a two-out base hit. When reliever Nick Masset's pitch got away from catcher A.J. Pierzynski, the slow-footed Martinez attempted to take second. 
But he stumbled as he neared the bag and fell with an awkward slide. 
Martinez also got hurt in the 2007 season opener against Seattle, straining his left quadriceps while running to first base. 
However, the 29-year-old never went on the disabled list and batted .301 with a career-high 25 homers and 114 RBis for the AL Central champions. 
rebounds) and lived up to his "Psycho T" nickname while leading the Tar Heels to a school-record 36 wins and their 17th Final Four. 
Douglas-Roberts, the third member of the All-America team playing in the Final Four, had 52 first-team votes and 309 points. The 6-7 swingman averaged 17.2 points and 4.1 rebounds and shot 44.9 percent from 3­point range for the Tigers, who lost just one game this season and earned the school's second No. 1 rank­ing. 
"It's an honor. I've put a lot of work in, over the sum­mers, during the season and staying after practice just trying to improve. I feel now that I'm finally getting the 
page 13 

recognition I deserve," said Douglas-Roberts, Memphis' first All-America since Penny Hardaway in 1993. "But I still say when people look at that All-American list, it's a motivation because I'm the one that people know the least about. n 
Notre Dame sophomore center Luke Harangody was sixth in the voting with 211 points, and he was joined on the second team by seniors Shan Foster of Vanderbilt, 
D.J. White of Indiana and Roy Hibbert of Georgetown, and college basketball's newest star, Davidson sopho­more guard Stephen Curry, who led the Wildcats to the regional final by averaging 
34.5 points in the NCAA tournament. 
Loi!ar~'s lucl.cy pJitt lands him 
an mvlte to the Masters 
NEW ORLEANs-Peter Lonard figured the closest he would get to the Masters this year was in front of his television. Thanks to a 5-foot par putt on the final hole that he thought was only worth money, he was added to the field Monday by squeezing into the top 50 in the world ranking. 
Lonard was at No. 72 and figured he had to win the Zurich Oassic. 
He was one shot behind Andres Romero and faced a 45-foot birdie putt on the 18th to force a playoff. Lonard ran it 5 feet by the hole, then made that to finish alone in second. Had he missed, Lonard would have tied for second with Tim Wilkinson and moved up only to No. 53. 
The Masters now has 93 players expected to compete, with one more spot available to the winner in Houston if he is not already eligible. Among those still not eligible is Davis Love ill, whose 70 consec­utive majors is the longest streak among active players. 
OIY.mpic torch lightinJ! in 
Beijing goes without prolest 
BEIJING-The elaborate ceremo­ny to rekindle the Olympic torch went off without a hitch Monday in closely guarded Tiananmen Square -with hundreds of cheering women in brightly colored T-shirts, flower--toting children and confetti. 
There were no protests in Beijing, although some are expect­ed during the 85,000-mile world tour. 
Demonstrations are expected as the torch goes to London, Paris and San Francisco. Even stops in Kazakhstan on Wednesday and Turkey on Thursday could be flash points for China's Muslim Uighur minority living abroad. 
President Hu Jintao presided at the elaborate ceremony in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, where the flame -carried from Greece in a lantern aboard an Air China flight -reignited the Olympic torch. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles look to end dry spell at Olivet 
Saint Mary's searching for first MIAA win 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Stanford brothers to go pro 
Twins Robin and Brook Lopez announce intention to enter NBA draft 
"This has been a very diffi­nals for the first time sinee 
Associated Press 

cult deeision for me because I 2001. The Lopez twins are going really enjoyed my two years at Both Brook and Hobin will pro together. Stanford," Hobin Lopez said in hire agents and thus forgo their 
Stanford sophomore Robin a statement released to the AP. remaining two years of college Lopez is joining his 7-foot "I have always hoped I would eligibility, their mom said. brother Brook in entering the have an opportunity to play in "That's something we're still NBA draft. the NBA and I feel now is the working on and finalizing," she 
The brothers made their right time to make that dream said. "It's a 'definite decision. announcement to The a reality." We'll be hiring agents." Associated Press on Monday Brook Lopez, a third-team lie averagnd 16.0 points and through thP.ir mother, Deborah All-American and a first-team 7.1 rP.bounds in his two college Ledford. Pac-1 0 selection, averaged 19.3 seasons, blocking 101 shots 
It was expected that Brook points and R.2 rebounds to go and shooting 48 pP.rcent from would declare himself eligible with 56 blocks this season. He the field in 53 games. Brook, for the NBA, but Hobin was not scored the game-winning bas­who missed time earlier in the so certain. They were prep ket with 1.3 seconds left in an season bceause he was aca­stars in Fresno, Calif., and 82-R 1 victory over Marquette demically ineligiblP., scored in came to Stanford together. Now in the second round of the double figurp,s in 41 gamns and they will depart as a tandem, NCAA tournament to put scored a career-high 31 points too. Stanford in the regional·semifi-at Washington this season. 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's (4-8 overall, 0-2 MIAA) continues confer­ence play on the road Tuesday at 4 p.m. when it takes on Olivet (6-1 overall, 0-2 MIAA) at Michigan State. 
Tuesday's match will be the third conference competition this season for both teams. 
"I feel pretty good about playing OlivPt." Belles coach Chuck Rubino said. "They are not pickPd as one of the top tPams in the conference, like who wp'vn been play­ing." 
The Belles have played Albion and Calvin in their first two eonfen~nce matches this season. Albion (10-1. 3-0 MIAA) is currently leading in the MIAA. and Calvin (8-2, 1­0 MlAAl is third. Saint Mary's fell 6-:{ to both Albion and Calvin in the past two weeks. 
"UnfortunatPly. the confer­ence teams we have played so far have been two of the three toughest teams in the MIAA. so they havfl brought some pretty good competi­tion." sophomore co-captain Camille (;ebert said. "Tomorrow's match should be slightly easier than the teams we've been playing so far. llopcfully it will be a good match to bring us out of our slump." 
The Belles are coming off a 0-2 weekend at the Jack Swartz Invitational at Wheaton College. Ill., where they lost to Olivet Nazarene and Wheaton College, both rankPd teams. The Belles lost 6-3 to NAIA No. 16 Olivet Nazarene on Friday, and 8-1 to Wheaton. which is ranked No. 28 in Div. Ill, on Saturday. 
"We had a lot of tough matches this weekend and I think we're going to put that experience into this match," Rubino said. 
Rubino said one main prob­lem in the weekend losses was his team's doubles play. 
"I want to see improvement in our doubles," Rubino said. "Singles did well this past weekend, we want to contin­ue to improve in singles, but I hope to sweep the doubles and if we can -the singles, too." 

-
Saint Mary's heads into competition today having played better teams than Olivet. However, both teams 
have yet to win any confer­ence matches. and will be going into play hungry for a win. 
their potential," Hubino said. 
"We still have  a  way to  go  
until we peak."  
Rubino  said  his  team  is  

hungry for a long-awaited win. 
"Unfortunately, we had to play two of the better teams right away, but we'll certain­ly get our chances in the con­fp,rence mep,t in a couple of weeks," Rubino said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
FREEBIES ISIJ8S & CLIJBS ONLY)
"I just don't want to go in 
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo, sliced
therp, overconl'ident," Hubino 
cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano.
said. "It's not like playing Albion or Calvin. Olivet isn't at that level, and we want to eontinue the play that we 

I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~
had this weekend." Olivet team is similar to 

1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 54570 H. IRONWOOD DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
Saint Mary's in that both 

574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600
lP.ams are comprisP.d mostly of frp,shmen and sophomores. SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA To Hubino, this means his Belles have a lot of untapped 
potential. "YOUR MOM WANT$ YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!" © "We are starting to get to ,,that level of playing up to 

Tuesday, April 1, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Royals win in extra innings on opening day 
Indians defeat White Sox with help from seven-run second frame; Jim Thome hits two home runs 
Associated Press 
DETROIT-Money can't buy wins. Just ask the Detroit Tigers. 
Tony Pena Jr. hit a two-out, tiebreaking single in the 11th inning and the frugal Kansas City Hoyals held on to beat the big-spending Tigers 5-4 in Monday's opener and give Trey Hillman a win in his major league debut as manager. 
Detroit eloscr Todd Jones said a team's payroll is "totally" irrelevant on any given day. 
"But the beauty of baseball is it's all about the long haul, not one game," Jones said. "Hopefully with the kind of tal­ent we have, we'll find a way to grind out more wins than other people." 
Hillman made the right moves and his players executed in the field to rally from a three-run deficit and hold off a late come­back. 
"This is pretty cool for me," said Hillman, who was success­ful as a manager in Japan. "It's a great honor, it's humbling." 
The Tigers will spend about $138 million on their star-stud­ded team, putting them in the pack with Boston and the New York Mets -behind only the Yankees. 
Kansas City, meanwhile, will try to compete with a payroll of approximately $58 million ­ranking among the smallest. 
"I don't think we'll win most of the time just because our payroll is big," Detroit manager Jim Leyland said. "We just left some guys on base and we left a couple pitches up." 
The Tigers stranded 10 run­ners, including Clete Thomas, who was on third base with only one out in the 11th. 
Joakim Soria got out of the jam and earned the save by striking out Edgar Renteria and getting help from third base­man Alex Gordon, who snared Placido Polanco's grounder in the hole and threw him out. 
"We had one of the best hit­ters in baseball up with a man on third and two outs the last inning," Leyland said. ''I'll take that situation every time." 
Miguel Cabrera hit a homer in his Detroit debut, helping the home team go ahead 3-0 through five innings, but Justin Verlander had a lackluster start to spoil the party. 
"This is just Game 1 of many, you can't get too upset about it," Verlander said. 
Leo Nunez (1-0) threw two hitless innings. "He was probably the unsung star of the game," Leyland said. 
Denny Bautista (0-1) was an out away from pitching two scoreless innings, but Pena's single to center brought John Buck home. 
Trailing 3-0, Gordon hit a two-run home run in the sixth and the Royals scored two more while facing four pitchers in the seventh. 
Leyland raved about the 24­year-old Gordon, who impressed him last year as a rookie. 
"This guy is a big-time player waiting to happen," Leyland said. "He's got a tremendous swing. I think he'll be a star in this league before it's over with. That's why he was a No. 1 play­er." 


Carlos Guillen helped send the game into extra innings with a solo shot in the eighth. 
Cleveland 10, Chicago 8 
CLEVELAND -As the inning unfolded, C.C. Sabathia felt as if he was watching a favorite movie, one with a dialogue he knows by heart and predictable ending. 
"Not to sound cocky," the reigning AL Cy Young Award winner said. "But I think everybody knew what was coming." 
Say this for the Cleveland Indians, they can do drama. 


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 3 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Every011e is welcome and confidentrallty rs assured. 
CURE C~UHCil 
FUR GAY l LESBIU 
STUDENTS 

The defending AL Central champions won in familiar fashion at Progressive Field -their ballpark previously known as Jacobs Field -as Casey Blake hit a three-run double in the eighth inning Monday for a 10-8 opening win over the Chicago White Sox. 
Blake's shot off the wall against Octavio Dote! capped a 3-hour, 21-minute opener that featured five homers, controversial calls and unsea­sonably pleasant weather in a city finally thawed out from the snowiest March on record. 
After blowing a 7-2 lead, the Indians loaded the bases in the eighth on two singles and a two-out walk before Blake's clutch hit. 
"It was not that big of a sur­prise," said Sabathia, who made his fifth and potentially final opening day start for the Indians. "Nobody in this club­house was ever in doubt. We always have faith that some­body would come through and it was Casey-once again." 
They may not play in the Jake anymore, but everything else seemed in place for the Indians, who won 23 times in their final at-bat last season. 
With the score 7-7, Kelly Shoppach and Jhonny Peralta opened the eighth with sin­gles off Dote! {0-1), who bounced back and got two quick outs. Franklin Gutierrez, who hit a three­run homer in Cleveland's seven-run second off Mark Buehrle, walked to load the bases. 
Blake fell behind 1-2 in the count before lifting a shot high off the 19-foot-high wall in left, barely missing a grand slam but starting a new chap­ter of memories for Indians fans, who have resisted the 
ballpark's  new  corporate  
moniker.  
"I  was  begging  for  a  

homer," said Blake, who bat­ted just .190 with runners in scoring position last year. 
Chicago's Jim Thome hit a pair of two-run homers off Sabathia, who couldn't pro­tect a 7-2 lead but wound up with a no-decision. The lefty struck out seven in 5 1-3 innings. 
The White Sox threatened in the ninth as Jermaine Dye homered off Joe Borowski, last year's AL saves leader who once again had pulses racing before retiring Joe Crede on a foul pop to get the save for winner Rafael Betancourt. 

AP Cleveland catcher Kelly Shoppach tags Chicago's Joe Credy in a controversial eighth inning play. The Indians won the game 10-8. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 1, 2008 

April2-3 
lOam -7pm 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Herff Jones, Framing Success and Balfour will be present to take your orders for class rings, diploma frames, and cap and gown fittings. 
Cap and gown portraits will be available from Traditions Photography, $10 sitting fee will apply. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore staff can answer regalia questions and help you find everything you'll need for commencement. 

NoTREDAME~ 
BOOKSJDRE 
IN THE EDK CENTER 
phone: (S74) 631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 
070066503, 308A 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Jordan's Nephews downs SensAsians 
second period.
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
As the second half started,
Sports Writer 

Jordan's Nephews started to ease up on the SensAsians, let­SensAsians tried for the third ting the team take more shots, year in a row to make it to the most of which ended up being second round, but its dreams airballs. The boys continued were shot down by five tall guys with their long passes and fancy who hardly gave the team a shots they knew would never chance to score work on any other in the first half. court. SensAsians Jordan's started to gain some
"It was fun, but
Nephews took momentum, but was down the hope­hopefully one year stopped short by the ful SensAsians Jordan's Nephews
we'll win a game."
squad 21-5. ball-hawking 
Jordan's defense. However, Nephews, led Jenn Nguyen the men did ease up by captain SensAsians captain on their defense a T o m m y little, standing in Mumford, were front of the basket taking fancy with their <trms shots and throwing full-court raised, which was defense passes as they dominated the enough due to the height advan­SensAsians, captained by Jean tage they had. Nguyen. The girls showed little As the SensAsians kept taking skill on the court, often throwing shots that bounced ofT the rim, weak passes and shots that did­Jordan's Nephews continued to n't make it into the net. What make them. But the winning they did have were nicely-deco­team was courteous in the end rated red jerseys, complete with and congratulated its opponent. numbers and last names on the "We play as a group," back, designed by Nguyen, along SensA<>ians captain Nguyen said. with a lively cheering section. "We have a little bit of a disad­
SensAsians was down 11-1 at vantage with the height. It was halftime, with its only point fun, but hopnfully one year we'll coming from Melissa llarintho. win a game." Ilarintho scored three more in the second half. and Tatiane I Isu Contact Meaghan Veselik at added a basket early on in the mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

John Paul II and the Jews 
Presented by ordained Rabbi Dr. David Dalin 
Room 138 DeBartolo Hall -7:30p.m. Thursday, April3 
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
LOOKING FOR THE BEST J·OB ON 
CAMPUS? 
VISIT OUR JOB FAIR! 
Thursday, April 3rd, 11 :00am-2:30pm Lafortune-Dooley Room 

The Development Department Phone Center is seeking students with excellent communication Notre Dame skills, enthusiastic attitudes, and a love for Notre 
ANNUAL FUND 
Dame. 
EVENING STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni, parents, and friends on behalf of Notre Dame's Annual Fund. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
Fun environment 

• 
Evening hours 

• 
Paid training 

• 
Merit pay increases Summer and '08-'09 academic year positions available 


Questions? Contact Matt Young or Laura Thesing, Program Managers of the Annual Fund. at phcenter@nd.edu or 631-3152. 
CAMPAIGN STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni. parents, and friends an behalf of i i Notre Dame's Development Department. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
Fun environment 

• 
Day & evening hours 

• 
Paid Training 

• 
No solicitation calls 

• 
Summer and '08-'09 academic year positions available 


Questions? Contact Lori Rush, Phone Center Coordinator, at PCSQirlN!>nd.edv or 631 -7935. 


Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
Although the lack of energy proved detrimental to team 490, the squad put up tough resist­ance as 535 tried to get the last two points in the second half. 
Lipp said 535 will not signifi­cantly cb.ange its approach. 
"[Our strategy] will probably not change. Our goal was to win one game and we did that." 
Spiny Backed Arabian Tortoises 21, Team Bad Life Decisions 15 
The Spiny Backed Arabian Tortoises earned a well-fought victory over Team Bad Life Decisions. Although the male Tortoises ended up winning, the girls from Decisions played them even the whole game. 
In the hour and 10 minute game, the defense of Decisions made it difficult for the Tortoises. However, their offense couldn't handle the intense defense from the Tortoises, which proved to be the differ­ence in the contest. Both teams threw up multiple airballs and displayed questionable passing, but the game intensified as the Tortoises couldn't make their fmal shot. 
After several failed attempts, Tortoises guard Kyle Hanratty ended the marathon game with a corner shot from three-point range. 
We're the Real Reason Brett Favre Is Crying 23, U Got A Bad Draw 11/2 21 
In an epic struggle that lasted nearly an hour and forty-five minutes, We're the Real Reason Brett Favre Is Crying held off U Got A Bad Draw 1 1/2 in the biggest upset of the tournament so far. 
Bad Draw, which was com­posed of club lacrosse players from IIoly Cross, came out with a fiery display of confidence. 
But this cockiness was short­lived as the all-female team, Brett Favre, stormed out to an 11-5 halftime lead. 
"We simply need more elec­trolytes," Bad Draw team mem­ber Dave Bendel chanted as he ran over to his team's communi­ty Gatorade bottle. 
Similar to the bottle of "Michael's stuff' from the movie "Space Jam," the Gatorade seemed to revitalize Bad Draw as it managed to fight back and tie the game at 17. 
The final minutes of the game were grueling as the two teams traded baskets. 
As team members from other games began to come over to cheer for the ladies of "Brett Favre," the girls capitalized on the crowd momentum and pulled ofT the narrow victory. 
"We absolutely played our hearts out today. We kept it together at the end when we needed to," captain Emily Dore said. "It was truly amazing." 
Bendel was quick to dismiss the loss. "I blame it on the weather ... and the hot girls," he said. 
On this day, the only thing sloppier than the rainy weather was the play of the two teams. Frequent turnovers, errant shots, constant complaints, and even a 15-minute seoreless peri­od all contributed to the ridicu­lous length of this contest. 
Carrolynn's Chub Club 21, Scurrying Lemurs 12 
A bone-chilling, earth-shatter­ing bloek by Patriek Mulligan was all Carolynn's Chub Club, needed to down the Scurrying Lemurs Monday at Lyons courts. 
"I saw her coming down the court. It was just me and her," Mulligan said about the block. "As soon as I smelled weakness, I attacked." 
Mulligan sent the ball flying out of bounds, but the damage had been done. The Scurrying Lemurs' confidence was shot and Carolynn's Chub Club, the dirtiest team name to sneak by the Bookstore censors in years, took over from there. 
After facing an 11-2 deficit heading into halftime, the Scurrying Lemurs thought they had a good second half plan to get them back in the game. 
"We need to get the ball to our secret weapon," captain Holly Hinz said to her team between halves. 
What they failed to account for was Mulligan's game-breaking ability that ultimately sealed their fate. 
"We tried to pull it together and make a comeback," Hinz said. "It just wasn't enough and we came up short." 
LHOOQ 21, Equestrians 3 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Equestrian Club usually just rides horses and travels to com­petitions, but Monday it took to the bookstore courts to take on LHOOQ, a team named after a French painting making fun of the Mona Lisa. 
The Equestrian girls came out in almost full gear, mostly in rid­ing breeches, a few in riding boots, one in riding boot socks covered in flames, and one in a riding helmet. Their opponents were two guys, one in short shorts and sunglasses, the other in shorter shorts and a bandana around his eurly mass of hair, and three girls, all in regular sweatpants and tee-shirts. 
The game started off as a con­test of which team could actually hit the rim first. Airballs were the trend for much of the first half, but the Equestrians squad was the first to draw iron. However, LIIOOQ scored the first point of the game, which was somewhat surprising sinee the team had a majority of the game's air balls up until that point. 
Equestrians was unable to seore many points in the first half, with its only point scored by helmet-clad Katrina Stuart. But it did keep i:ts opponents fighting for the ball as they raced up and down the court. The most aggressive Equestrians players were Heather LaDue, Kelley Daniels, and Andrea Kochert, the team captain. The guys from the LHOOQ team weren't too happy with having to tight for the ball with girls, but they still showed no restraint. 
LHOOQ led 11-1 at the half, and carried its momentum into the second half. The Equestrians scored its second point of the game, made by Stuart again, after LHOOQ had scored three more times. LI-IOOQ continued to score but the team's baskets were few and far between. Daniels scored the third basket for the Equestrians, bringing the score to 18-3. LHOOQ pulled out the win after a 50-minute game of air balls and back and forth play. 
"It was a really physical game, but both teams played hard until the last point," LHOOQ captain Stephanie Brauer said. 
"We played mean and strong, 
-

and it showed with our amazing three points. But we could out­horsebaek ride them any day," Equestrians captain Andrea Kochert said. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu, Alex Barker at abarkerl@nd.edu and Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
Broncos 
continued from page 20 
including an eight-run fourth inning -and cruised to an easy victory over a weaker Western Michigan team. 
Facing the improved Broncos tomorrow will be an Irish team that has played well of late, winning eight of its last 11. But the team has also sufTernd several frustrat­ing (OSSflS. 
Notre Dame is batting .305 on the season, and the team sports a 4.52 EHA. The Irish also lead the Big East in field­ing but have yet to see their offensive output translate into as many wins as they would like. 
"It's frustrating to play well as we have and lose some tough games," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "We haVfl to step up a11d make some plays, hit with men in scoring position, do the little things to win." 
The Irish were unable to do the little things over the week­end, dropping two games to the Bearcats by a total of three runs. Notre Dame lost 5­3 Saturday in the first game of a doubleheader and struggled to score ofT Cincinnati starter Dan Osterbrock. 
Despite tying the game in the seventh, the Irish bullpen was unable to hold the Bearcats late, and Osterbrock 
Bonding 
continued from page 20 
"When the come in your meeting, that's good," Brown said. "When the lw ad eoac h is watching your individual drills, that's good. There an1 no negatives to that. nonn. It puts the players on alert, it makes sure the 
head coach 
retired the last eight Notre Dame batters for the complete game win. 
The Irish split the Saturday doubleheader with a narrow 4-3 victory in the nightcap, and picked up a strong per­formance from senior starter Wade Korpi. The Irish bullpen, led by closer Kyle Weiland, hung on the preserve the win. 
In the closing game Sunday, the Irish fell just short in a ninth-inning comeback, falling 4-3. Despite giving up an early 4-0 lead, Notre Dame fought its way back with relievers Weiland and freshman Cole Johnson holding Cincinnati seoreless in the final seven innings. Sophomore David Mills attempted to score on a two-out single in the ninth, but was thrown out at the plate to end the game. 
Schrage said the Irish foeus on making plays in the non­conference and exhibition games this week in prepara­tion for the Big East series this weekend. 
"We really want to get back on traek this week and build some momentum before another big series against Hutgers this weekend," Sehrage said. 
The first pitch against Western Michigan is sched­uled for 5:05 p.m. at Eck Stadium. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
"lie's still the same 
you can see coach Weis and he's more or a big­ger picture,"
still about business 
Weis said.
and about winning." 
"This has been kind of fun, to Maurice Crum, Jr. tell you the 
truth. It's not
Irish linebacker 
coaehes are doing what you're supposed to do, which you should be doing anyway." Weis has also become a fre­
quent attendee -and has 
brought a Iittlll humor -to 
the defensivn nwetings. 
"I sat in tlw dnl'ensive baek 
meeting room IFriday!. It's 
funny beeause Corwin's 
coaching and I'm in the back 
of the room and hn 's making 
run or his guys bncausn they 
have a gunst visitor in the 
elassroom," Weis said. "It's 
actually been kind of fun to 
tl'll you the truth." 
So far. the playnrs have n~spond1HI in different ways to the incrnasnd presence or Weis in llwir lives, but ulti­mately, the players know what Weis is trying to accom­plish with thn change, rising f'if'th-ynar senior Mauriee Crurn said. 
"lie's letting the guys know lw's tho coach but he wants to be morn a part of the team. Somn guys tighten up, and at tlw same time, guys get a bet­ter understanding or who Coaeh Weis is and what he means when he speaks," Crum said. "lie's still the same coach Wnis and he's still about business and about winning. With him being around more. it just lets you know he's willing to ehange and he wants to do whatever it takes to win." 
Now that he's not involved 
as heavily in the offense as he was before, Weis said eoach­
ing  the  whole  team  has  
become a  little easier  - and  
a little more fun.  

"You just see more. When you don't have to zone in on one aspect, 
like I don't say anything to the offense ... 
but I'm also getting an oppor­tm~ity to..say something to the defense. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
MAC 
continued from page 20 

the few areas of eoncern for the Irish of late, an area that Gumpf has addressed with her squad. 
"Our defense really does need to improve," Gumpf said. "What I believe the problem to be is that we are not keeping everything simple. Sometimes I feel like we are rushing things and we just need to slow down and watch the ball into the glove." 
The Irish will first face a Ball State team they bested 3-0 at home last year. Gumpf is not tak­ing the contest lightly, as she knows Ball StatP has strong pitch­ing and good hitting eharacteris­tic of the MAC. 
"When we played them last year they had very good hitters," Gumpf said. "And this yPar they havP added an outstanding trans­fer pitcher, junior Tiffany Garofano, so it is going to be very tough." 
Gumpf.said the kPy to bPating thP Cardinals is Notre Dame's pitching. 
"To beat Ball State we are real­ly going to have to loeate our pitches and control their hitters," Gumpfsaid. 
On the offensive side, Gumpf would like to see thP tPam main­tain its strong showings of the past couple weeks and keep foeusing on the fundamentals. 
"Ofl"Pnsively, we rPally nend to keep it simple," Gumpf said. "I want to see us do the littll~ things that are necessary to score runs." 
On Wednesday, the Irish will take the field against Toledo, another offensive-minded MAC team. 
"Toledo is another great hitting team, and we just need to find a way to eontrol thPir hitters," Gumpf said. "I believe Jody [Valdivia! will eontinue to do a great job." 
Gumpf also wants to see the team be patient at the plate against the Bockets. 
"I want us to wait for and swing at good pitehes," Gumpf said. 
Both games will be at 5 p.m. on Ivy Field. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
*+
.EEJJ 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites N<nninations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy A ward, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member ofthe Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies I 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 


Best Value 1n Town Come See Why.' 
,.. I:nt:lt10r/ Oul't:loor Te:n.nis a:nJ Ba.skel'ba:ll 
,.. Free Ta:n:ni:ng 
,.. Heal'et:l Pt10l 
,.. Hela..zi.:ng Jacuzzi 
,.. Gal'et:l Co.m.m u:nil'y 
,.. Co.m.m u:nil'y Busi:ness Ce:nl'er 
,.. No App}ical'io:n Fees for SJ'u Je:nl's 
,.. Close l'o everyl'.hi:ng__. far from ort:li:nary! 
Castle1'oint ~80~1 C2eve2and Bd_ South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: l574} 272-8~~0 Fax: l574} 272-8~~4 Hlnl' _cppj _COII't 


Tuesday, April 1, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DIDIER LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 

Mid..term week at Saint Mary's 
LIZ MURPHY & SARAH MUSCARELLA 
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 

WILLSHORTZ
CROSSWORD 
Across 25 Scientology 64 Garden plant founder support

1 Puppies' plaints Hubbard 
65 One hired by a

5 Cobb of "12 28 For no profit corp. board
Angry Men" 32 Sister of Marge 66 McCann of 
9 Icy look Simpson country music 
14 Oratorio 36 Forsaken 67 Cheated, highlight slangily38 Get the
15 Di or da habit 68 One of "The preceder in a Addams Family,"Beatles song 39 Enjoying an informallyouting, of sorts16 Moves like 69 Comrade in sludge 42 Homecoming armsfigure, for short 
17 "What Did" (classic 43 Yin's counterpart children's book Down
44 Checking out with a punny Comic Smimoff 
45 Michelin offeringtitle) 2 Tehran denizen 47 Flagston family 18 _ Spee (old 3 Actress ZaSupetGerman 4 Greet cordially 

49 Gin flavoring 5 Paul Bunyan,

warship) 51 Edit19 Catcher's 
position 56 Enjoying an e.g. 6 River of Spain
outing, of sorts 7 Mideast airline­

20 Enjoying an 
outing, of sorts 61 Like wild tigers a Port of Israel 
23 "Gets the red 62 Drought relief out" sloganeer 9 Treat leniently, 
Puzzle by Victor Fleming 
63 Hi Flagston's with "on"

24 Italian auto, for wife, in the 33 Former 46 Trued up 55 Lamb or Bacon short comics 10 Talkativeness Connecticut piece
48 Twist badly governor Grasso 11 France's Cote 34 Speak well of 50 Everglades 56 browns

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE d'_ 

35 "I can't blame wader (diner fare) 12 Actor Stephen anyone else" 52 Home
and kin 57 Analogy part 
37 Latvia's capital overlooking the 13 Renaissance 40 Fishing line sea, maybe 58 Havana auntsfamily name material 53 How some tuna
21 China's Zhou 41 Georg who wrote 59 Kind of stand 
is packed 
"The Philosophy of Right" 54 Dexterity 60 Doesn't dally 
22 Trolley sound 26 Gymnast Korbut 2? Ad infinitum For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
29 ''The Love" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday(R.E.M. hit) 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 British W.W. 11­
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
era gun 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 31 Chinatown gang 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Exchange jabs solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
~­
D 
~ 1» £
I LURBY 
<:.~"\..._,

I [J I I I 
He's a real @2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
daredevil All Rights Reserved 
I YLDMO I [) bI ) -~ )-yt 
. ~!1­
. • I 
.t ~

tPORRAL WHAT H!:: TURN!::D INTO WH!::N Hf;:
J I I b I 
~T TO SKYDIVING
www.jumble.com 
SC.I-bOL-.
ORAFIT 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I (J I [) suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: A[IIIJ[IIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) IJumbles: VITAL IVORY NIBBLE SLOGANYesterday's 
Answer: Watching an ironworker high on a skyscraper can be -"RIVETING" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Pavel Bure, 37; Ewan McGregor, 37; Rhea Perlman, 60; Christopher Walken, 65 
Happy Birthday: Check out all the possibilities rather than assuming everything will go according to your plans this year. You are likely to overreact if you aren't prepared. Oversee everything. Detail and precision will be key to your success. Your numbers are 2, 10, 26, 29. 35,40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Settle down and let everyone else take care of things for a change. You need to break away from the stress and give yourself a chance to reclaim what's really important to you. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have the right idea and will certainly be able to convince others that you know what you are doing. Take care of any matters that require dealing with banks, institutions or government agencies. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can pick up valuable information that will allow you to help someone from whom you need a favor. Make a change at home and you will rid yourself of some of the tension you've been facing. An older individual will reveal some family background. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a dynamic approach to whatever you do and you will excel. Be a little unique, bold and no-nonsense and you will capture the attention of someone who will support what you are doing. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Emotional matters are likely to escalate. A business trip will lead 
to an interesting meeting with someone who can help you see and do things a little differently. An offer regarding your vocation and what you want to pursue is heading in 
your direction. 3 stars 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get your chores out of the way so you are free and clear to enjoy friends, family or someone you love. A love connection can be made if you are single or a commitment made from the heart to someone you are already involved with. Be a participant. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): So much of what you do will depend on how you treat the 
people close to you. If you have been overreacting, expect to apologize but. if you have 
been helpful and understanding, expect a pleasant surprise. Don't mix business with 
pleasure. 5 stars 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take anything or anyone for granted. You will not get the respect or the help you require even if you ask for it. Do the work yourself and you will have no regrets or apologies to make. Someone is probably withholding information. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Hard work and dedication will pay off and will keep 
you too busy to get into trouble on a personal level. Someone you are involved with will be 
sizing up his or her situation. You may want to distance yourself. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be the driving force behind what gets done. 
Your outgoing nature and your big ideas will take you over the top and on to massive 
projects. An emotional encounter will prove beneficial in the end. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Hidden matters will lead to trouble. Try to keep everything out in the open so you aren't blamed for something that is not your fault. A partnership can take a turn that will lead to greater security if you are honest. Share how you see things unfolding. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can gain ground by the way you handle situations today. You will be able to make professional headway by making a few alterations to your resume. A change at home will allow you to make extra cash doing something that is second nature to you. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and caring. You are strong, steadfast and determined. 
You aren't afraid to pitch in and help or to ask for assistance. 
Eugenia 1s Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April I, 2008 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Changing priorities 
Weis devotes more time to coaching 'D' 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Coach Charlie Weis said he wantnd to get to know his nntirn tl~am a little better ­not just the offense-and this spring, the dnl'ense is finding out exactly what that mnans. 
It nwans thny sec a lot more of thnir coach on the field in practice and ofT the field in the wnight room and in meet­ings. 
Weis said part of his reason­ing bnhind giving play-calling dutins to o!Tnnsiv•~ coordinator MichaPI Haywood was to nnhane•~ his rdationship with his playnrs and becomn morn involved in their individual dnveloprnent. And the deff1nse has notiend a little more W<~is in tlwir day-to-day operations sincn thn beginning of spring pradien. 
"lin's dnfinitnly a more visi­bln figure, in the ofT-season and practice," rising senior Kyle McCarthy said Monday after pradicn. "Whnn you're on dnfnnse and you'rfl not used to seeing coach Weis behind you, you're kind of tripping a bit, but it's boen good. It's bnnn putting the pressuro on some guys but I think !.t's going to work well for us. 
Wnis said his increasnd visi­bility with the defense at practice has onablcd him to interaet with the playnrs and coach more on that said of the ball. 
"It gives me a chance to 


_coach a lot more players instead of having to just worry about the quarterback or the offense," Weis said after practice Friday. "I stoppHd practice more times IFridayl to give a coaching point and I'll probably give as many of them to the defense as I give to the offense. I'm not talking about scheme of the defense, but there's things that I notice." 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish prepare for pair of :m_id-week contests 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
Notrn Damn hopos to enjoy somn sunny skins -and play sornn good softball -when it hosts Mid-Anwrkan Conference opporwnl'i Ball Statn (20-1 h) and Tolndo (6-1 0) Tuesday and Wndnnsday. The Irish will attnmpt to build on thnir monHm­tum from a double-header split against No. 17 DePaul on Sunday. 
Notrn Dame (17-1 0) starting pitdwrs Brittney Bargar, a junior. and frnshman .Jody Valdivia have been outstanding for tho Irish thus far. Their latest strong pPr­f(mnanc.n mmn in a 2-0 Valdivia shutout Sunday. 
".Jody IValdivial really moved tlw ball around well against DePaul," coach Deanna Gumpf said. "With tlw misting and eold conditions, sho was really irnpr<~ssivo." 
Valdivia was named the Big East pitcher of the week on Monday after notching two shutoul'i in 10 and 2/3 innings of work. She limited IUPUI to three hil'i and a walk with seven strike­outs in the home opener Wednosday before handing DePaul its first regular season loss of the season. 
"She did a great job this week with her two shutouts," Gumpf said. "She just gets better every time she goes out onto the mound." 
This is the third time in seven weeks that an Irish pitcher nabbed Big East pitcher of the wnnk honors. Bargar has narned the honor twice this season, and hold DePaul to two runs on lour hits Sunday. 
"Brittney [Bargar! pitched a really great game, as well, in the first half of the double-header," Gumpf said. "But she had trouble gntting enough support from her defense." 
The defense has been one of 
see MAC/page 18 
Weis has left most of the schematic adjustments to defensive coordinator Corwin Brown and assistant head coach/defense Jon Tenuta, who was the defensive coordi­nator at Georgia Tech for the past six seasons. 
"He's going to be the first one to evaluate the talent, put the guys in the right positions of how he sees it and go from there," Tenuta said Monday. 

"He's been around for a long time. There's nothing I've done in my career -having faced him two times and being here -:-that he doesn't understand how we do it or why we do it." 
Brown said having Weis help out more during practice could only improve the team in the long run. 
see BONDING/page 18 
BOOKSTORE 
BASKETBALL 
ND bailers begin play in tourney 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO, 
ALEX BARKER and 
MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writers 
The 2008 Bookstore Basketball tournament kicked off Monday. Dnspite bad weath­er, the first day featured excited players and at least one big upset. 
Team 535 21, Team 490 10 
Team 535 dominated team 490 and won with intricate pass­ing, great teamwork and key steals and blocks. But the strate­gies of the two squads also proved to be a key in the well­played game. 
"Our strategy to win the game was to just wing it," said senior Derek Lipp of' team 535. "Wn have four seniors and a fresh­man on this toam and it was especially fun for the seniors because this was our first win ever." 
It was a different story for team 490, who dedieated the game to physics professor Christopher Kolda. 
"Our gameplan consisted of going to the Hock two hours before our game and scrim­maged some random team," freshman Ben Linskey said. "Then we went to dinner after­wards, so we had absolutely no energy when it came time to play." 
see BOOKSTORE/page 17 
BASEBALL 

Squad looks for home win 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Arter dropping two of three in a tough series against Cincinnati this past weekend, the Irish will look to rebound in a non-eonferenee game against Western Michigan today. 
The Broncos (12-7-1) suf­fen~d a three-game sweep at the hands of Ohio in their first three MAC conference games. 
Sophomore catcher Chris Lewis leads Westnrn Michigan in most ofl'ensive categories. In 19 games this season, Lewis is batting .403 with four home runs and 19 HBI. The Broncos offense is batting over .300 combined this season, scoring almost seven runs per game. 
The Irish will hope for a result similar to last year's game, a 17-9 Notre Dame win at home. Notre Dame pounded the Broncos for 22 hits ­
see BRONCOS/page 18 


The Independent Newspaper Mocking Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLUME 6: ISSUE 66 TUESDAY, APRIL 1. 2008 NDSMCYOMAMA.COM 
Vaginas present at ND since 1 72 Expose rocks campus; Bishop, alumni express outrage 
Lady has welcomed v*****s edict, but he suspects it will 
By PHYLLIS McFILLY 

since autumn of 1972 is incorporate the essential parts Vaginal Correspondent appalling. If God wanted us to of each opposing view. honor and respect all parts of a "While the presence of the 
An Absurder investigative woman, he wouldn't have made vagina would seem an egre­report that vaginas have been female sexuality embarrassing gious violation of Church teach­enrolled in the University since and offensive." ing, it might be acceptable in a 1972 drew outrage from University President Father strictly academic setting," already-riled opponents of "The Jim Spankins said he is not yet Spankins said. "Or maybe not." Vagina Monologues" this week­ready to draw conclusions Vaginas were initially brought end. about reported presence of to the University during the 
Chief among critics was vaginas on campus. He said, tenure of University President Bishop Tom Farcy, who argued however, that he plans to initi­Emeritus Father Fred that females -and all parts ate campus-wide discussion Messburg, an outspoken propo­associated with them -should about the spiritual and academ­nent of vagina equality. be kept private. ic significance of the vaginas. "I had started to notice that 
"As spiritual guardian of this "We must join together in the longer I was at Notre Dame, community, I must denounce thought and prayer to deter­the more brutish the men were the presence of the v***** at a mine the place of vaginas at an becoming," Messburg said. supposedly Catholic university," institution that is both Catholic "Without women, men degener­Farcy said in a prepared state­and a university," he said. ate into something less than ment Friday. "The recent find­Spankins said it is far too ings that the University of Our early to predict his eventual see VAGINAS/page 3 
Thousands of fetal corpses found under South Quad 
NDSP names no suspect, but encourages students to report 'all suspicious townies' 
By IGNOMINY Staff Cynic 
SOUTH QUAD -In a shock­ing turn of events, the white crosses that adorn this quad periodically to commemorate aborted fetuses were shown to mark the graves of thousands of actual fetuses. 
The fetuses were discovered Monday night by an NDSP sting operation, the first of its kind to be launched entirely on a fleet of Segway and Rascal scooters. 
Alerted to the possibility that vandals would desecrate the demonstration -popularly known as Graveyard of the Innocents -the responding officers were shocked to find the executive board of the Notre Dame Right to Life Club were moonlighting as gravedig­gers. 
All students involved were immediately tased. 
"Using our full force of six security -I mean police -offi­cers, we were able to appre­hend the suspects," said NDSP spokesman Jill Phonson. 
Phonson was unable to say the last time a troupe of pro-life activists had buried fetuses on campus. He did not have access to information about the time, exact location, number of sus­pects, where the fetuses came from or where they would be taken. 
The Absurder contacted Right to Life President Virginia 
see FETUSES/page 3 


HEADLINE INFLATION: A ONE-PART SERIES 
Tuition or grades: which rise faster? 
Students will get more points for more money 
By MARVEY HERSFELD Divinely Anointed 
Citing competitive pressure from other leading universities and the popular notion of "you get what you pay tor," University Prnsident Father Jim Spankins announced that the average GPA of a Notre Dame gradu­ate will increase 4.8 percent for 2008­09 academic year. 
"We need to remain competitive 
see $$$/page 5 
-% -
... ~· ~ 
~~ 
..... ·>$., 
·~· 
!»
·-a ~ ~ 
~ x ~· 
5 ~ 
·--£ ~ ~ 
r ­
-~ ~~
... 
g 
->.'* ~ ~ x .... ~ ..;... Q -::::: 0 
~
... ~
-
"" 8"' w x•, 5 10
'I* E ~ 
""' ~ 
moo 20'..!0"' (;~t.) 

University considers a deal with the Devil 
Desperation drives Spankins to seek Satan 
Dame football team, which hadBy RITA SKEETER a miserable 3-9 record last sea­
Wizard Authority 
son, would go 13-0 en route to winning the national NCAA 
Absurder sources have Championship over Ohio State learned that University by no less than a 45 point mar­President Father Jim Spankins gin of victory. is currently weighing accepting In return, Satan asks only a deal with the Devil himself, that "The Vagina Monologues" who also goes by the Prince of become required First Year of Darkness, Lucifer, Satan and Studies curriculum for all stu­Mephistopheles. dents. 
Under the proposed agree­"It's a pretty simple deal," the ment, Lucifer himself would see to it that the University of Notre see SATAN/page 5 
page 2 The Absurder+ PAGE THE SECOND Tuesday, April I, 2008 
LAST MINUTE COLUMN 
I declare a Vie-wpoint -war!!! 
I ley fellow Domers! Inside Column here. Sorne of you may know me from my daily musings on life, but others of you may pass right over me on your way to Sports to read about Charlie Weis' rose-seented bowel movements or those other "sports" that we tolerate in between football seasons. 
If you're one of my fans, then I want to say thanks for being there for me through the years as I write about top­ics that only I care about, like spring weather. assorted lists, passing torches or 9/11. But if you do enjoy reading me everyday, then you 'II notice that I don't get quite as mueh attnntion as a eer­tain otlwr snction of this paper. I'm rnady to makn a 1:onf'nssion: I hate Viewpoint and I'd like to take this opportunity to dedare war. Viewpoint war. 
I nwan, why hasn't there bmm an Inside Column vs. Viewpoint war yet? Suw I don't talk about the state of Notw Damn's Catholie identity or the irwfl'edivmwss of student government, but opinion is opinion and at least I don't ramble on about soap operas and "I low I Met Your Mother" or whatever else Se1~1H1 & I Ieard feels the nm~d to talk about as she watdws marathons of "Anwriea's Next Top Model" all day. 
And it's not like Viewpoint is little Miss Perfect either. I was driving to my apartment in Clover Ridge and I totally caught Viewpoint walking baek from Turtle Creek wearing the same Britney-worthy dress and red high heels from the night before. Humor has it, she's been spending a few too many nights at Sports' apartment. For as much as she's against the "Vagina Monologues," her vagina sure has been doing a lot of talking lately. Maybe she's getting some pointers from those Saint Mary's girls she seems to love so much (Ah! Stereotype!). 
Actually, I hear Viewpoint has been around the block with everyone except for Scene. Scene's too busy watching "The Wire" and talking about how excited he is for the new "Indiana Jones" movie. 
All I know is that if Viewpoint wants to keep her credibility. she better stop flirting with Comics so inuch. I mean, seriously? All he does is sit on his futon playing "Halo," thinking of lame jokes about squirrels or ugly girls (because guys here really have room to talk). 
So bring it Viewpoint. I hear Crossword and Horoscope talking behind your back everyday. And it turns out that Question of the Day and Oflbeat were talking smack too before I scared them ofl' in the bathroom so I could smoke cigarettes rolled with old copies of the Irish Hover and Scholastic. So let's start a war and try to give Notre Dame students a break from all this talk about vaginas. Hetaliation is up to you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are divine revelation so don't get so uiorked up about it. 

John Mark Karr 
Still Creepy 
CORRECTIONS 
The Absurder regards itself as a professional publication. But, truthfully, we pretty much suck. Scholastic sucks more. That's what she said. Think we made a mistake? Suck it up. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL'S TOP RIVAL? 







"High "When you say "Bike locks. " "JD scanners. " "Stanford. " 
expectations. " 'rival,' you have 
to encompass what is and what is not. When you realize what there is not, you find what is." 


JAYSON BLAIR/The Absurder 

Senior Khornelius Wrigglesworth emulates his idol Pretrial McBiarney in an intense game of one-on-none basketball. 
BEATOFF 
Heath Ledger jokes finally deemed fumy 
GOING TO HELL, Kan. ­Although the premature passing of the Oscar-nomi­nated actor Heath Ledger in January was a tragic end to a young life, celebri­ty expert Classy B. has decided that jokes about the deceased heartthrob are now funny. 
"Enough time has passed," says Classy. "His death has become open game, just like AIDS, 9/11 and poverty in Africa." 
Classy believes that her favorite Ledger jokes are sensitive and thought-pro­voking. 

"E! is reporting that pro­duction has begun on 'The Patriot 2.' Heath Ledger will once again play the role of the dead son," Classy jokes. 
But her favorite joke goes, "What do Jake Gylennhal's cherry and a bottle of Paxil have in com­mon? They both got popped by Heath Ledger." 
SMC students shave heads for Britney, not cancer 
FIRECROTCH. Calif. ­Reports on Monday that Saint Mary's students had shaved their heads in sup­port of cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy proved to be false. Instead. the students reportedly shaved their heads in soli­darity with Britney Spears, who has made great strides in recent months toward a comeback. 
"We, like, Jove Britney! She's super cute and not fat, and her new CD is, like. Shakespeare," said sophomore Kimberly Johnson. "Why would we shave our heads for can­cer? Cancer patients aren't famous." 
Information compiled by someone who just wants to be famous. Really, that's all she asks out oflife. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 
::J: 
~lY(;r~
!ct 
1.&.1 
~';
3: 
~ 
~ 
c::J 


;::) HIGH 17 HIGH -12 HIGH 107 HIGH 22
LL. 

LOW 5 LOW 50 LOW 10 LOW N/A 
BOXERS OR BRIEFS? 
Former New York governor Eliot Spitzer will be on the Saint Mary's campus today. lie may or may not have $5,500 to burn. but either way he'd like to get to know you better. 
NDSP will put an underage drinker in the stocks and pelt him with tomatoes tonight at 7. The University community is invited to attend. Bring your own tomatoes. 
Turtle Creek Apartments will showcase its units tonight in a session gearnd at underelass­men entitled "Y()u, the Excise Police, and Turtle Creek: A Winning Combination." Beverages will be served. 
University auditor Will Igetasmoochie faces a HesLife hearing Wednesday. lie was yelling "COLLEGE!" while caught playing drinking games in the hall. 
Finnigan's and Club Fever announced they will raise Thursday night cover charges to $15 a person. The statement came as part of the South Bend Bar Association's "What the hell else are you going to do around here?" campaign. A bar spokesman said underage girls will still be allowed to cut you in line as long as they give the bouncers sexual favors. 
The Irish Rover is seeking new writers. Applicants should exhibit poor grammar and a self-important attitude that lends itself to holier-than-thou "journalism." 
Seriously, who goes to talks on Jamaican immigration from 1962-67? 
If you have something to sub­mit, you have no life. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
1!1 1!1 ­

SAINT SAINT 
M_ARY'S MARY'S 
COLLEGE COLLEGE 
NUrlll; DAMI!. IN NOI'II..I: UAM.t. IN 
HIGH Pi HIGH 32 LOW 0 LOW 22 
Hotlanta 46 I 33 Beantown 38 I 29 Chi-town 22 I 10 KC 34 I 20 Houston 68 I 42 City of Angels? 60 I 43 New York 39 I 31 Nick's mom 39 I 30 Phoenix 66 I 37 Seattle 44 I 26 St. Lunatics 29 I 17 Tampa 7 4 I 59 Do you really read the weather? 
-----~-------~---~--------~ 
~---------------------------------------------------------... 
NATION & STUFF 
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 CoMPILED FROtv\ THE ABsuRDER'S WIRE SERVICES page 3 
Obama taps ND coach to lead Dept. of Defense 
Illinois senator's approval rating among Big East basketball fans falls sharply; choice provides 'balance,' analysts say 
Agence Ken Presse 
Sen. Barack Obama has named Notre Dame basketball coach Mock Tee his expected nominee to become Secretary of Defense if the Illinois Democrat wins November's presidential election. 
Obama cited Tee's visit to Kuwait last summer as "undeni­able evidence" that Tee was "far more qualified than myself' to lead the nation's military. 
But Republicans immediately attacked Obama's decision. citing Tee ineffectual defenses in his current role. 
Tee responded harshly, arguing that a strong offense can com­pensate 
"Did real good in Denver, eh Mike?" snickered one staffer for Sen. John McCain. 
Top Obama advisers responded that Tee's strongest quality is his recruiting success. 
"The U.S. military has long had a disproportionate number of minorities when compared to the population as a whole," said Rob Lowe Obama's new chief of staff. "When you look at Mock, you think of 18, 19, 20-year-old white Photo courtesy of Donny Rumsfeld kids." Irish coach Mock Tee kills some Arab terrorists. That's what she said. 

Tee has said he believes there is one major issue causing the mage" with Guam, marijuana and cocaine during ing Tee, who was once pho­the FBI's Chicago office earlier disparity of athletics between the "The point is, we're trying to his high school and college years. tographed waving a $1 bill in this week. When asked for con­races in the military. get ready for what I like to call On the other hand, Tee has a front of his wife as 18-year-old tact information for the inform­
Under his leadership, Tee said, our 'tough conference slate,"' Tee strong history of punishing pot "Porn Squad" exhibitionists per­ant, investigators mistakenly the U.S. military will schedule said. "You know -Iraq, Iran, smokers harshly. formed during a Notre Dame released the address and phone minor conflicts with Andorra, India, Pakistan and China." Tee, however, may meet legal football pep rally. number of Rainn Wilson, the Congo, the Democratic Republic Tee also counters Obama's obstacles before his nomination. Police said a Wisconsin resi­actor who portrays fictional char­of Congo and Bangladesh. He image as a historic drug user; the Federal investigators confirmed dent with the last name Crean acter Dwight Schrute on NBC's also scheduled a "war scrim-senator has admitted to using Monday that they are investigat-forwarded the pictures of Tee to "The Office." 
Vaginas 
continued from page 1 
human. That's why God put vagi­nas here, because he didn't want the world to be a zoo." 
Meanwhile, the entire Notre Dame female population responded by running through LaFortune wearing only crotch­less panties. 
"We thought the administra­tion realized accepting vaginas was part of becoming a co-ed institution," one student said. 
Contact Phyllis McFilly at vaginarevolution@nd.edu 
main campus thoroughfare quorum. name it," Christianson said. "In doesn't convince this student Though the burials typically this case, they said our mem­
Fetuses 

body of the seriousness of pro­take place after dark, some bers can be excused from tecting human club members classes for what is, after all, an
continued from page 1 

life, I don't know experience activity that supports our mis­
"Jfplanting the 
what will." scheduling sion." Christianson at her Grotto Within student remains ofthousands conflicts with University spokesman Bennis office, where she was praying government, ofbabies ... doesn't their night Drown said he cannot com­for the souls of "the tased, the Council of theology class­ment on specifics of the case.
convince this student 
tasers and the babies." Representatives es. "The University supports in When asked why Right to was called to an body of the serious­"Fortunately whole the traditionally Catholic Life had not revealed sooner emergency ness ofprotecting for us, Notre mission -and tactics -of the that the "Graveyard" was not meeting to Dame has Right to Life Club," Drown
human life, I don't 
in fact a metaphorical demon­advise student been accom­said. "Sometimes the ends jus­
know what will."
stration, Christianson said body president modating to tify the means. Look, [insert campus apathy required dras­Izza Clown any-and all reporter name], haven't you tic measures. about responses Virginia Christianson -requests for ever heard of the Inquisition?" 
"They just weren't getting to the Graveyard funding, heavy 
self-righteous
it," Christianson said. "But if revelations. The machinery, planting the remains of thou­group was dis-exceptions to Contact Ignominy at sands of babies beneath the missed after failing to meet SAO regulations ... Really, you noshame@fetus.com 
Sexually Frustrated? 
Come and Enjoy Student Government's Newest Initiative: 


==·:===:=~===:=mm=:~:·,.=.==·=· 
The Daily Bouncing Castle OJl South Quad 
Sponsored by Old College, Vocations@ND, South Food Market, Reekers, hunger,AUianceND, Asian*AmericanAssociation, Ebony, Irish Students of America, Knights of Columbus, Children of Mary, Office of the President, LBGTQ, North Dining Hall, Waddicks, Hannah and Friends, Morrissey Manor, Zahm House, Carroll Hall, Bishop John D'Arcy, Secretary of State Gondoleezza Rice, Rice~A~Roni (The San Francisco Treat), PLS, GoDaddy.com, the Keough Institute for Irish Studi~sandBarackO'Bama(The Candidate for Change). 
THE ABSURDER 


IEWPOINT
page 4 Tuesday, April I, 2008 
THE ABSURDER 

Motorola brings voice of truth 
l~O. Box 779. 'Not« Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Thank God for Greg Motorola. If it fight the good fight through the pages Parts I and II and now I continue fight­
EDIIDR IN CHIEF 

weren't for his biweekly columns of The Observer's Viewpoint section. ing the good fight on the pages of this 
Bryans Id Lick 

defending truth, justice and the conser­"Absolutely not," he answered after newspaper." MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER vative Catholic-American way, I would being asked whether his advancing age "I bleed red, white, gold and blue." llryans Is Lick Bryans ld Lick have long ago doused the pagan pages has made him lose touch with his col­As far as the coincidence that he hap­of this godless lege audience. "Nothing about starting pens to share his surname with the 
AsST. MANAGING EDIIDR: Bryans Id Lick 

newspaper with Tayshaun to write for my alma mater's student communications giant corporation by 
As.H. MANAGING ElliTOR: Bryans ld Lick 

holy water and "the" Prince newspaper nearly a decade after the the same name, Motorola says, "Of NEWS EDITOR: Bryans ld Lick watched them burn "of the Palace" fact screams 'impending midlife crisis.' course I do. I'm the great communica­VIEWPOINT EomlR: Bryans ld Lick in the righteous In fact, like the late and great Strom tor." SPORTS EDIIDRS: Bryans ld Lick fires of damnation, not to mention can­Thurmond, I firmly believe that I only And as far as The Vagina Monologues celled my subscription. continue to get better with age." go, Motorola says, "Well, to be quite 
Bryans ld Lick I recently had the privilege and As far as his personal morals go, honest I don't know much about the
SCENE EDITOR: Bryans ld Lick 

pleasure of interviewing this freedom Motorola refuses to compromise. "I former, but I know a thing or two about 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Bryans ld Lick 

fighter. Fellow true Catholics and good don't get a lot of what you might call the latter. My column is a monologue in 
PHOTO EDITOR: Bryans ld Lick 

people of America, sit back, enjoy and 'play,"' Motorola said. "Or 'action,' or its own right -a defense against the GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Bryans ld Lick relax in the comfort of knowing we [rear end] or [posterior]. Fortunately, I left-wing liberal agenda threatening to ADVERTISING MANAGER: have one of ours dedicated to shedding have a lot of Photoshopped Ann Coulter destroy the fabric of this country." 
Bryans ld Lick light on the increasingly murky morals porn which gets me through the long "I defend those most persecuted in 
An DF.SIGN MANAGER: Bryans Id Lick 

of Notre Dame. Blue state bleeding lonely nights." this country -middle to upper class 
CoNTROu.ER: Bryans ld Lick 

hearts, read with caution, as the sheer "Hell, l said as much in my recent white men." 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Bryans ld Lick 

amount of hard truth contained in the column, 'Challenging Male Critics have leveled charges of being OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO following paragraphs may make your Promiscuity.' I've never been afraid to "crazy" at Motorola, but he remains 
(900) 444-PJNK liberal eyes to go blind or cause your call people out, even if that means steadfast in his conviction. "If 'crazy' FAX brains to sublimate inside your very indicting myself." means being the voice of reason and
(574) 631-6927 

skulls. Upon being asked whether he would justice, then bind me up in a straitjack­
ADVERTISING 

ELITEVII'@cscorts.com "I calls 'em like I sees 'em," Observer ever consider defecting from The et and waterboard me until! scream EDITOR IN CHIEF columnist Greg Motorola says. "I like to Observer to leave and write for The 'Freedom!' like my hero, Mel Gibson, in 
(574) 631-5000 think of myself as the voice of reason, Hover, Notre Dame's fortnightly toilet 'Braveheart,"' he said. "I see myself as 
MANAGING EDITOR 

or maybe the voice of the people. Or paper substitute, Motorola giggled soft­a combination of Jesus II. Christ and 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 

even better, as the lightbringer carry­ly to himself and replied, "See, therein Prometheus. I'm a martyr and a torch­
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

ing the torch of truth to the people, all lies the beauty of it all. You know how carrier. I'm not afraid to be nailed to a
(574) 631-4324 

BUSINESS OFFICE over campus, regardless of whether or them terrorists got sleeper cells work­tree or have my liver pecked out by a 
(574) 631-5313 not I still attend that campus." ing undercover? Same goes for me. I'm crow for all of eternity if it means con­NEWS DESK Whether that involves calling out lib­like a covert agent planted deep within tinuing to rain down the fire and brim­
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l@nd.edu 

erals for being the fascists that they The Observer's liberal left-wing agen­stone of truth on these mindless liberal 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

are, or calling out Barack Obama and da, behind enemy lines." sheep."
(574) 631-5303 vit•wpoint.l @nd.edu 

his millions of supporters as a pop-cul­Just don't question his patriotism. 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
6.~ 1-4543 sports.! @nd.edu ture fad, Motorola slings word counts Upon being asked about the ethnic ori­The views and opinions expressed in SCENE DESK the way a cowboy slings lead -hard, gins of his last name, Motorola flew this column are those ofthe author and 

(574) 
631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu fast and straight to the heart. And into a rage. "Absolutely not,'' he said not necessarily those of The Absurder, 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

unlike gunslingers, who can pack a after being asked whether or not he although unless you hate freedom, love
smc.l @nd.edu 

mere six rounds into their sharpshoot­was an immigrant to the United States. terrorism and detest the Almighty him­
PHOTO DESK 

· (574) 631-8767 obsphoto<"'nd.cdu ers, Motorola's lengthy columns prove "Of course, my great grandfather was, self, you will agree 116% with all ofthe SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS he never lacks ammunition. and he fought in three world wars. My above printed material. 
(574) 631-8839 Ever since Motorola graduated nearly father, who was born on the Fourth of Contact Tayshaun Prince at notgoing­a decade ago in 1999, he has wanted to July, fought in Korea, Vietnam and Iraq togetbyboston@nbaplayoffs. com 
THE 
ABSURDER ONLINE www. ndsmcyDmama. com 
POLICIES 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
The Absurder claims nothing in this paper to be true. Anything you read in rhis special section is nor subject to review of the Norre Dame administration. We hope it will remain that way. 

Hall of science must go 
Special thanks to: 

It has recently come to my attention that the the floor itself depicts the blasphemous con­
BiiiiGrk 

wisdom of the papacy has been ignored. This ception of our solar system that Galileo sought 
Jeff Shoup Brian Coughlin problem goes far deeper than the compara­to sponsor, placing the sun at the center of the Dennis Brown tively superficial conflict of The Vagina planetary orbits. Phil Johnson Monologues. When, exactly, did Notre Dame stop teach­Melanie McDonald And the solution starts here. ing retrograde motion'? Why were the alumni 
Matt Smith 

Notre Dame is a leading Catholic University, . not consulted? and as such it has no legitimate justification The solar system, however, was nothing for a statue of Galileo above the entrance to compared to the shock I received upon laying the Jordan Hall of Science. eyes on another floor depiction. "Nothing in 
Galileo was the Eve Ensler of his day, pen­Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of 
(~umions regarding Absurrkrpolicies art! inane. Shut the hell up andgo home. ning the equally egregious (though mercifully Evolution." devoid of vaginas) "Dialogue Concerning the All the while the current focus remains Two Chief World Systems." steadfast on the equally blasphemous yet 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION Galileo was a heretic, and we aren't comparably tolerable "Vagina Monologues." '11\l' Abturdrr (r~lli.klm numhtn KO hm:) i1pubhd1cd ou April foo!'.s. Day each year. required to see eye to eye with John Paul II's Catholics of Notre Dame, realign your per­Alub.ow.:riptwn ru The Amurder would be-puindew apology. The Catholic Church made it perfect­spective. Fight for what you know in your soul 
Tiwis;dl. 

ly clear the first time around in its formal con­to be right. Join me tonight at midnight to 
Tht! Absurder il published .u: POSTMN>TER 

024 Suuth Dining HaU Send addtes.'l cortttlions to: demnation of Galileo, and should never have raze Jordan where she stands, and put an end 
Nurre: Dame, IN 465S6-0n9 ThAmurdtr 

l~rioxliaaJ JM)IliAgl!' paid ;u Nocre D-lmt P.O.Boxn9 backpedaled in the face of prevailing, new­to this dark chapter in the history of our lady. omd .1dclitiono~l mailing offices. 021 South Dining ~IJJI 
fangled opinion. Notre Dame need not follow 
Natre Dame, JN 465l,;6-0n9 

such a cowardly example. Ptolemy Barberini After saying seventy our-fathers and under alum 
The Atumnler t~ 11 member nt liUmc: stupid wire scrvitt. All rcprod~Ktion riWus ouc vio­the escort of a priest, I made my way inside Class of 1943 
l.ucd. 

the offending building, only to discover that Mar. 31 
Redux 
Saint Mary's is treated unfairly. 
Fetuses do not have the rights they deserve. Abortion is morally 
reprehensible. 
The "Vagina Monologues" are offen­sive. 
Homosexuality is dif­ferent. Too different. The comics are offen­sive. 
Don't do that one cheer that offends peo­ple at basketball games. 
·The football coach should be fired. The football coach shouldn't be fired. Notre Dame isn't Catholic enough. 
Everyone Mar. 31 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Timmy Plauson Martha Burke Do parietals prevent you from thinking about the opposite sex? 
Darryl Fingers Buster Olney 

"Outside ofthe killings, Washington 
Out-of-position Ron Reagan Jr. (A) Yes. has one ofthe lowes[ crime rates in Mohawk Warrior (B) Most ofthe time. the country. " 
Marion Barry Graphics Viewpoint Former mayor of Washington, D.C.
Vote by paper ballot in the 
Ronald Talley Rev. Jeremiah Wright University president's office. 

Tuesday, April 1, 2008 The Absurder + SPORTS/FEMALE SEXUALITY/EDITORIAL page 5 
The Absurder endorses student governinent. All of it. 
Student government has done it again. Despite the student body's typically demanding expectations, no one was surprised when, mirroring last year's success, all student body concerns were addressed in the productive, issue-oriented approach that Absurd Staff has come to characterize 
Editorial

everything about student government at Notre Dame. 
"We had a great year," said outgoing student body president Fiz Beige at the impromptu, stu­dent-organized recognition ceremony held last Friday. "For one, student government single handedly stopped the Common Council ordi­nance," she continued, referring to the proposed legislation cited as unconstitutional by lawyers and unenforceable by SBPD. 
Katie McDomer, who helped to organize the surprise ceremony, summed up the general atti­tude of the more than 2,500 present, an attitude echoed here at The Absurder. 
"I just couldn't sit down and let their tireless, unflagging commitment to student issues go uncelebrated," McDomer said. "I haven't even been paying attention to key student issues like resume-padding and meaningless political machinations," she continued, referring to stu­dent government's well-known policies designed to harness the prestige associated with illusory power. 
Beige and student body vice president Paris Lawn had been forced to leave their class after 
Big East 
continued from page 8 
Browns, the New York Knicks and Bookstore Team No. 451. 
"We feel this diverse group of teams makes us one of the most, if not the most, compet­itive conference in the coun­try," Trogese said. "We want­ed to make sure we got to 24 teams because I think there's some way you can do a tour­nament with that many." 
Trogese said that while most of the new teams will not play football in the Big East, the Cleveland Browns will make "good competition for Louisville, West Virginia and Rutgers" in that sport. 
The Cleveland Browns will also compete in basketball, something that excites back­up quarterback Quinn Brady. 
"I was on a pretty good intramural team in college," Brady said. "Maybe I'll be able to start for Browns bas­ketball." 
Trogese said he's looking forward to the cross-town battles between Saint John's and the New York Knicks at Madison Square Garden. 
"Although we do not expect either of those teams to be competitive with the league at large, it will be nice to have a major event in New York," Trogese said. 
Trogese also said he is excited to have Memphis, Xavier and Davidson in the fold because "they're really good." 
"Memphis is in the final four." he said. "PIus X a vier and Davidson beat West Virginia and Georgetown. My policy is, if you can't beat them, have them join you." 
Notre Dame coach Mock Tee said he can't wait to play a mob assembled outside DeBartolo and began chanting their names. After stepping outside, students rushed to place them atop separate thrones, which were subsequently carried to South Quad for the ceremony. 
This is exactly the sort of leadership advocat­ed by The Absurder. The illustrious reign of Beige and Lawn, though over in principle, will never be over in spirit. Of course, it must also be noted that their accomplishments were bol­stered greatly by the loyal service of senator Tim Dockwood, whose puppet rule master plan was a shining example of student government in its purest form -empty debate over internal procedures wholly unadulterated by confused attempts at action. 
The future, too, looks bright. 
Campaign posters for all successful tickets were a fitting tribute to the best student govern­ment values: Smiling, eye contact, bullet points, and postures that are both powerful and friend­ly. 
Going above and beyond simple posters, the winners of the presidency/vice presidency ­Rice and Smith-combined all the key ingredi­ents of a good poster with the more wide-reach­ing platform of a Web site. Lofty, immeasurable goals like "bridging the gap" and "forging rela­tionships" are the key to building on the monu­mental accomplishments of the last regime. 
The Absurder knows that student government will continue its impressive and formidable legacy. Keep up the good work. 
The Big East's new teams 
Memphis Xavier Davidson Harvard 
North Florida Cleveland Browns NewYork Knicks 
Bookstore Team 451 

Satan 
continued from page 666 
Devil said in an interview in the basement of South Dining Hall. Wreathed in shadows, he appeared only as a pair of glow­ing red eyes set amidst a swirling coil of darkness some­what similar to the smoke mon­ster seen on ABC's popular tele­vision series "Lost." "Eve Ensler is my homegirl. Deal or no deal. Let's go, I have other things I could be doing, such as luring souls to the precipice of eternal damnation." 
The Devil himself admitted that he "drove a hard bargain," but said that Spankins didn't have much choice in the matter. 
"Did you seriously think last season was what, a fluke?" the Prince of Darkness continued. "A few bad bounces against the Irish? A few breaks going the wrong way? Come on, people. That was all me." 
Satan also reiterated his rela­tive position of power in the negotiations, intoning, "What? Do you think I won't do it again this season? 'Cause I will. You all laughed because I helped Appalachian State topple your rival in Michigan last year. " While he wouldn't hint at the precise nature of his dastardly plans, the Devil did say, "You all have San Diego State first on the schedule this year. At home, nonetheless. Can you say, 'sequel?"' 
"Obviously, there are pros and cons whenever you're consider­ing a deal, especially with an entity such as Hades himself," Spankins said of his current musings. "When you push back from the bargaining table and shake on [the deal]. you kinda want to make sure you still have all your fmgers attached after­wards." 
"What people don't realize is, heavy is the head that wears the crown," Spankins said, sighing and slumping in his chair. "Or the papal hat, which represents our strong Catholic morals here, or the mortarboard, which rep­resents academic freedom. You see, I have a lot of hats I have to wear here as the president of the University, and one of them happens to be, well, a baseball 


$$$ 
continued from page 1 
with other leading institutions of higher education," Spankins said. "The bottom line is we can't charge more for a diploma with­out making it more attractive to the market. Our customers expect demonstrable increases in quality to account for superinflationary pricing." 
Spankins said specific increases would vary by department. l-Ie expressed his concern that a 4.8 percent grade raise would not be possible for all departments, as increasing an average GPA higher than 3.8165 by 4.8 percent would put it over the currently allowed maximum of 4.0. 
"We expect the greatest benefi­ciaries of the 4.8 percent average increase to be the College of Engineering and the College of Science," Spankins continued, cit­ing the possibility of increases as high as 25 percemt without hit­ting 4.0. Other departments expressed displeasure with this dissimilarity. 
Business school dean Caroling Foo called the 4.0 maximum "absurd" and "anachronistic." The limitation of any increase to a 
4.0 maximum is speculated to cause the lowest grade increase hat, but it reads NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL on it. Plus, and not to sound hopeless here, but we all hoped and prayed and went to the Grotto last year, and all it netted us was three wins and a trip to the toilet bowl." 
"I mean, let's cut to the chase here: either we get better at football soon, or I'm out of this chair anyways, 'Vagina Monologues~ or no." 
"Besides," he said, "winning cures all evils, does it not? So if you follow my line of thinking, we'll start racking up the Ws next season and maybe the whole 'deal with the devil' thing will just sort itself out." 
While he wouldn't set a hard deadline regarding the Devil's offer, Spankins did say that tim­ing had a large part in deter­mining when he would announce his decision. 
"Obviously, you can't go public with a deal like this on say, Good Friday. That wouldn't be kosher," Spankins said. "After the rebirth of newly risen Lord, the Devil tends to be a little weaker, a little less confident. Who knows, maybe he'll sweet­en the deal and toss in a guar­anteed berth for our men's bas­ketball team in the Elite Eight next season? For now, it's best to sit and wait. We still have time before the season starts." 
"Absolutely not," the Devil raged after hearing of Spankins' plans to sit on his hands. "Who does this guy think he is? First off, I put Mike Brey in that posi­tion for a reason. The best defense against having a good offense, or a good defense, is hiring Brey. If he hadn't approached me and cut a deal first, he'd have fulfilled his des­tiny of selling used cars in Nebraska for all of eternity." 
While the delay continues, the Devil said he has big plans for Notre Dame's spring training. "Expect to see a lot of ankle sprains," he said, "and more mysterious bone spurs in Jimmy Clausen's throwing shoulder. Tell Spankins to call me when he's ready to deal" he said before disappearing into the ground with an accompanying thu~derclap. "He has my num­ber. 
Contact Rita Skeeter at dastardly@darkarts.com 
across all departments for either the College of Business or the College ofArts and Letters. 
"We need to take the lead on this issue, and bring collegiate grading policy into the 21st centu­ry," Foo said. "If only all the mar­keting majors were as stupid as the engineers, then everyone could get a 4.8 percent increase. It doesn't make sense to punish our college for the unmatched work ethic of its students, as evi­denced by their high GPAs." Foo added that a marketing class was in the midst of developing a con­vincing Powerpoint presentation that she felt would sway Spankins' thinking. 
Addressing concerns aboqt the impact higher grades would have on distinguishing between the best and worst students, Spankins explained that greater weight would be given to previously less significant decimal places. 
Spankins emphasized funda­mental economics as the basis for the Board of Trustees' decision to up grade inflation. "You have a $129,648 degree with a 3.4 GPA in 2008, and then in 2009 you expect a $136,476 degree with a 
-
3.4 GPA to be flying off the shelves? Please. Be reasonable. Make it a 3.56." 
Contact Marvey Hersfeld at smarterthanyou@nd.edu 
North Florida and Bookstore Team 451. 
"They were going to be on our non-conference schedule anyway," Tee said. "It's nice to have them in our league." 
Bookstore Team 451 cap­tain Miles O'Hanahanahan said he hopes the cross-cam­
pus rivalry between his team and the Irish grows. 
"We're hoping to have them over to pregame before we play," O'Hanahanahan said. 
Contact John Thompson IV at morefetuses@nd.edu 


page 6 
SMC BASKETBALL 

By NEWBIE FRESHMAN Couldn't get a hold of the coach 
SAINT MARY'S, Ind. -In the midst of one of Saint Mary's best­ever seasons, the campus has caught basketball fever. 
At 13-13 (8-8 MIAA), the Belles have as many wins as losses for just the third time in school history, and the crowds at the Angela phere than those at other major basketball powers. 
"When we're not breaking down the latest MIAA standings or discussing zone defense, we usually talk about boys and clothes," O'Katiehan said. "Sometimes we do each other's 
hair."  
Saint  Mary's  coach  Jenny  
Hanraid said the  
rowdy  home  
crowds  have  

given her team
"We just love Belles 
Athletic Center an advantage it have never been basketball!" hasn't had in bigger. previous years. But it isn't the "Before, we
Katie O'Katiehan 
crowds inside the didn't have many 
SMC sophomore 
arena that have attraeted attention -it's the crowds out<>ide. 
A group of Saint Mary's stu­dents has taken to camping out the night before the game in order to get the best seats. They eall themselves "Belle-topia." 
"We just love Belles basketball!" sophomore Katie O'Katiehan said. 
The campoul'i are organized by the Angela Angels, a group of rowdy students that has its own section at games. 
At the all-female school, the eampouts have a diiierent atmos­
student fans," 
she said. "Unless 
you count the 
girls on the treadmills on the second level." The Belles have won three straight games at home. I-Ianraid said the team hopes to increase that total next year. 
"We open with Rose-Hulman, and that will be a tough game," she said. "We're going to need all the help we can get from our crowd." 
Contact Newbie Freshman at quoteless@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 1 , 2008
TheAbsurder + SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

ND releases 2009 schedule 
By DeKENDRICK FOWLAH Senior Kevin White Correspondent 
Athletic Director Melvin Black on Monday announced Notre Dame's 2009 football schedule. 
The schedule will be a historic slate, with Notre Dame becoming the first team to host an opponent twice in the same season. The Irish will play Stanford in Week 9 and then again in Week 12. The second game ol'ficially will be a n e u tra I s i t e g a m e a t Mishawaka's Penn High School, as part of the two neutral site games in Black's new 8-3-1 schedul­ing model, but all gate receipts and TV revenues will go to Notre Dame. 
"Stanford is perhaps the greatest school in the country for combining aca­demic and football excel­lence," Black said. "Why wouldn't we want to 
2009 Notre Dame Football 
Week 1: Idle 
Week 2: Idle 

Week 3: vs. Michigan (International Falls, Minn.) 
Week 4: vs. LSU 

Week 5: vs. Tulane (Pyongyang, North Korea) 
Week 6: vs. Louisiana Tech 
Week 7: vs. Louisiana Lafayette 
Week 8: vs. Louisiana Monroe 
Week 9: vs. Stanford 
Week 10: vs. Navy 
Week 11: vs. South Florida 
Week 12: vs. Stanford (Penn High School) 
Week B: at Southern California 
"Why wouldn't we
schedule Bungle. Notre them as want to schedule Dame will play many times [Stanford] as many all five 
as possible? Division I foot­
times as possible?"
Sure, we're ball teams in upset that Louisiana in we will be Melvin Black consecutive unable to weeks. The
Notre Dame athletic 
fulfill our Irish will kick
director

three-game off the mini-commitment slate in Baton with the Big East, but Rouge against Louisiana that's because we've State. They will then travel replaced them with an to Pyongyang, North Korea, even better regional com-to battle Tulane. Games 
Week 14: Idle 

mitment." That commitment Black 
mentioned is Notre Dame's new initiative: the Bayou 
against Louisiana Tech, Louisiana Lafayette and Louisiana Monroe follow in South Bend. 

"We're proud to have the opportunity to represent Notre Dame in many national -and interna­tional -games," Black said. "We believe this schedule represents a true return to the barnstorming days of Knute Rockne. We also feel that this schedule 
is  well-balanced,  well­ 
rhythmed  and  well­ 
planned."  

Contact DeKendrick Fowlah at athletics@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Late-running season scares tean1 
Players not used to having games in April, run in fear 
By ADAM BANKS 
District 5 

A frightened and confused Notre Dame hockey team refused to step onto the ice for practice today after seeing that the calendar had changed to April. 
The Irish, who are headed to play in the Frozen Four in less than two weeks, became dis­orientated when they entered the locker room and realized they had to play hockey after March. Several players broke down in tears, while others fled to protect themselves from the month. 
"This just isn't right," said Irish captain Clark Van Builder, who had wrapped himself in tin foil to camou­flage himself from April. "We've never had to do this before, ~tnd we're all scared. I heard thai. if you play hockey in April, yout face grows a beard. Can you imagine that?" 
Notre Dame head coach Jack Jefferson, furious upon learn­ing that his team was still playing hockey in the crucial offseason training period, called the Irish "the biggest bunch of lazy, cake-eating pan­sies he had ever seen." Jefferson vowed the Irish will pay dearly for all the 6 a.m. workouts they will miss while playing in the Frozen Four. 
"They thought 6 a.m. was bad? Wait till they see what I have planned," Jefferson said in between clean and jerks of a dazed and badly beaten CCHA referee. "I bought a slave gal­ley out on Lake Michigan. They're going to row until they learn teams win games with offseason work." 
The Joyce Center rink was a chaotic scene the rest of the afternoon. 
Seniors Steve Stankin and Rock Greehan attempted to blend into the fencing practice above the arena but were kicked out when they speared the team's best fencers with their hockey sticks. 
"They were Eastern European," Stankin protested. "That's the only way you can slow them down." 
Stankin, screaming that April was coming for him, had to be removed at saber-point. Greehan hacked his way out of the fencing gym and immedi­ately put himself in the penalty box. 
Junior right wing Connor Eriksson patrolled the outside of the Joyce Center in a motor­ized scooter, wearing only a jock strap and carrying a stick. The Notre Dame Security Police were called when Eriksson began to challenge passersby to joust. 
NDSP followed Eriksson in a slow-speed chase to the library, where the deranged forward jumped out of his scooter and fell flat on his face. 
"The same thing happens to him when he tries to skate, down he goes," Van Builder said. "It's sad, really. We all feel bad for him. Most days he has to skate with a traffic cone or else he falls down." 
The body of freshman goalie Sherm Lips lay at center ice, the naive victim of a dozen Notre Dame players who believed a sacrifice to the hockey gods could protect them from April hockey. Led by junior center Islam Branson, the players built a fortress of pucks along the goal line and lured Lips into their trap with promises of more playing time and tips on how to survive puberty. 
"Playing this late in any sea­son goes against everything Notre Dame athletics stand for," athletic director Melvin Black said. "I applaud the efforts of Branson and compa­ny to try to keep national championships away. That Lips kid had it coming any­way." 
There were a few Irish play­ers, however, who weren't ready to give up. 
Senior defensemen Stan CaNard and Ryan Farsi offi­cially transferred today to the Irish women's club hockey team, where they will compete for the fifth and sixth spots on the women's blue line. 
"Hey, at least they'll let me play there," CaNard said. "And I'm pretty sure no one can hurt me for once." 
Contact Adam Banks at mightyducks@disney.com 


Tuesday, Aprill, 2008 C.E. TheAbsurder + SPORTS page 7 
Wise 
continued from page 8 
requested that he be struck dead if he used the word "rebuilding," the Supreme Being said. "He used that word today. In accordance with heavenly policy, Mr. Wise was summarily smote." 
Heaven press secretary Michael the Archangel said that Wise "had been living 
kinda dangerously." "The team sucked last 
y e a r , 
Michael 
said. "And 
e v e n 
though 
God does­
n't care 
who wins 
football 
games, his 
mother 
does. And 
you do not want to see Mary 

angry." 
Michael also said that God considered using a giant fin­ger to smite Wise, but that he decided on the lightning bolt "because it's way cool­er." 
The Notre Dame theology department was quickly convened to discuss the implications of the smiting. 
"We felt that God acted unfairly, because Wise was clearly talking about a rebuilding season and not 

the rebuilding of an actual building," associate profes­sor Abicus O'Hoolihan said. 
O'Hoolihan was later found in his office trans­formed into a pillar of salt. God was not available for further comment. 
Former Notre Dame defen­sive coordinator Corduroy Braun was promoted to interim head coach. Linebacker Marty Krun said the team, while sad at the loss of coach Wise, expects 
to continue spring practice as planned. 
"We're just going to keep working hard," Krun said. "We're just trying to get better." 
Linebackers coach Tom Thanuta was promoted to defensive coordinator in place of Braun. 
"Thanuta no scared," he said. "Thatuta blitz!" 
Contact Horseman No. 3 at pestilence@apocalypse.net 
Sharpey said. For a time, it was.

Sharpey 
Sharpey started every game for the next few months and

continued from page 8 
hit six home runs. But Crag 

"He was the No. 1 coming said he wasn't satisfied. out of fall baseball," Crag "He took way too long to said. "But when he got hurt, swing," Crag said. "He took we had to pursue other too many looking strike­options." outs." 
For the first few games of So starting tonight, Tauson the season, with Tauson will be the starter at first. hurt, Crag decided to start "He's finally healthy," base-stealing Crag said. "He's e x p e r t not banged up Demetri anymore. We're Smith. "{Tauson] was No. I very excited to 
"We were see what he can
coming out offall

hoping to d0. " 
baseball. " 

surprise Liberty, Note: Iowa, and Agro Crag +Crag said Albany by that outfielder
Irish head coach 

playing small Silver Trait, who ball," Crag, saved Notre who usually Dame's 11-10 prefers power hitters, said. win over Maine March 4 
But the Irish mustered just with several diving catches, two runs against the will not play regularly until Flames, and Smith made six he learns to catch balls that errors as Notre Dame are somewhere other than allowed 14 and 12 runs over his head. against the Hawkeyes and "As you saw, he's great at Great Danes. Crag pulled going back," Crag said. "But him and inserted Sha'!"pey. we're not satisfied with his 
Frustrated, Smith trans­ability to come in or move to ferred to Cincinatti. his right or left." 
"I thought when he left, that it was my chance to Contact Kosuke Fukudome at show what I could do," japaneseguy@cuhs.com 

NDN 
continued from page 8 
were like piranhas -fat, nerdy, non-athletic piranhas." 
By nightfall, the tensions that had run through the crowd all day changed to fear as the members realized what the ramifications of their rally would be. 
'Tm not sure how we can go back to the old ways," poster Senior You Never See Who Lives in the Single said. "Before, we posted anonymously from our computers and no one knew who we were. We were untouchables, there was no accountability anywhere. Now ... we've seen faces, talked to people. My God, we've seen souls. We can never go back. There's responsibili­ty now. Not like it was." 
The planned roast of football coach Charlie Weis over a fire pit had to be cancelled as dispirited and frightened posters headed back to their cubicles. 
'Today was really a big success for us," Cappuccino said. "I was disappointed we had to cancel the roast, I was really looking forward to the months of leftovers we would have had. But if we get another three-win season, trust me, we will feast." 
Contact NDSWEET1509150 at ndnation.com 
Help Wanted 
Position Open: Quarterback -who can run the spread option -No previous signal calling experience necessary -Kinesiology course credit available 
If interested, please contact Rich Rodriguez at dickrod@umich.edu 

MICHIGAN 


® 
The Leaders and Best 
-
-
THE ABSURDER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April 1, 2008 
page 8 
.. 
FooTBALL 

God strikes Wise dead 
Coach says 'rebuilding,' is smote by Supreme Being as requested 
By HORSEMAN NO.3 OfThe Apocalypse 
In August, Notre Dame coach Chuck Wise told reporters that "God strike me dead" if he used the word "rebuilding." 
Monday, God delivered on that rnqunst. 
During a post-practice news conference, Wise updated the media on his plans for a new headquar­ters for Banana and Friends, his charity for developmentally disabled children. 
"We aren't buying any new land," he said. "We're rnally just rebuilding the existing headquarters." 
At that moment, the roof of the Guglielmo Athletic Centnr was ripped open and a lightning bolt from heav­en smote Wise. 
(;od later issued a state­ment explaining the smit­ing. 
"Mr. Wise expressly 
see WISE/page 7 


BASEBALL 

Sharpey loses starting job to freshman 
By KOSUKE FUKUDOME Japanese Dude  world recruit El Jimador Paulson last fall, will not be in the lineup at first base  the best chance to win, Crag said. Tauson, who hit .432 and  He was expected by many to turn pro after being drafted by the Tampa Bay  
for tonight's game against  hit 103 home runs over four  Rays out of high school, but,  
For the second straight  Western Michigan  at Frank  years  at  Westlake  High  in  a  highly  publicized  
season, junior Eric Sharpey  Eck Stadium, coach Agro  School outside Los Angeles,  announcement  at  the  
has  bonn  beaten  out  by  a  Crag said.  was  the No.  1 high school  College  Baseball  Hall  of  
frnshman.  Instead, freshman Timmy  player in the country last  Fame, he decided to come to  
- Sharpey, who  was  passed  Tauson  will  start for  the  year.  The Eagles never lost  Notre Dame.  
ovnr  for  the starting quar­ Irish.  a  game with him in the line­ "I  was really impressed by  
terback job in favor of all­ "I think Tauson gives  us  up.  the combination of athletics  

NO ATHLETICS 
Big East to expand to 2 4 teaiTIS 
'We didn't think 16 was enough schools,' commzsswner says 
By JOHN THOMPSON IV 
Ferus · 
Just three years after expanding to 16 teams, the Big East is getting bigger again. 
The league is raiding several different other conferences and will add eight new members next school year. 
"We didn't think 16 was enough schools," confer­ence commissioner Mikail Trogese said. "We need a few more to have a com­petitive conference." 
The new teams will be Memphis, Xavier, Davidson, Harvard, North Florida, the Cleveland 
see BIG EAST/page 5 
yet again 
and academics," Tauson said. 
Crag said that Tauson would have started "from the very beginning" if not for a bone spur in his throwing elbow that required surgery over Christmas break. 
see SHARPEY/page 7 
INTERNET CRAZIES 

NDNation gathers in person, mongers hate 
By NDSWEET23015 llnint(mncd Smanass 
Members of the Notre Dame sports messag1~ board ndnation.com gathered oul-;idn tlw South Bnnd Tribunn building filr a rally Monday that onlookers mis­took aftnrnatdy fi1r a large all-main orgy and pagan blood sacrilkn. 
The postl~rs. many of whom had lnf't tlwir eomputers for the first limn sinm Si).,'lling Day, wnro hrrent­Pd by thnir lnadnr, Kim Cappuedno,

-
and ln~atnd to a long-windnd, opin­ionatml and ofll'n violent opening address. Al'tN the speneh nndnd. tlw thousands of screaming rnnn slrippnd naknd and did an intnrprn­tative danco basnd on the lWJ6

-
Mkhigan Statn game. "Normally we like to relive our mllnge ynars vkariously through thn message board," said poster Brady's Flulli.~r. who would only be idmtifind by his online h<mdle. "But 
this really leL<; us get together and channel all our hate at once. It's way better than the time I wrote a haiku about Zbikowski's pac;s cov­erage. He sucks." 
The revelers pounded Appletinis and Fuzzy Navels well into the afternoon until rally leaders cut back alcohol consumption when it was discovered that preparations li1r an Elephant Walk had almost bnnn completed. 
But then the day's festivities kicked into high gear. 
The posters danced naked around a burning effigy of Kevin White, tl1eir bodies eovnred in blue and gold paint and their faces smnared with the blood of South Bend Tribune columnist Jeff Carroll. Several dancers became confused at the remarkable like­ness of the efligy and received tl1ird-degree burns in an attempt to "teach him how to make a sched­ule." 
As the sun set, the posters formed a circle and dropped to their knees around a life-size statue of oflen._c;ive lineman Sam Young made from a mixture of Spam and their own tears. An Plaborate ceremony fol­lowed in which pale, out-of-shapP postnrs fought each other to the death with sharpened keyboards. 

"Wn fight so that we may livn. WP live so that we may watch. We watch so that we may ridicule oth­ers nwrcilessly from behind our computer screens while our wife goes grocPry shopping with the kids," said poster I'm Bored at Work, Hate My IJfe and Am Filled With Irrational Anger. 
Notrn Dame anthropology profes­sor Winfred Q. Brentley observed thP rally with students from his Introduction to Cults and Groupthink dass. 
"The sheer inten._c;ity of their hate for any and all things is just mind­boggling," Brentley said. "They 
see NON/page 7 






