
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 10 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2008 

ND victory brings mixed reactions 
Students call first Irish game a 'rollercoaster' 
Clausen threw two intercep­tions and running backs Armando Allen and Robert Hughes each fumbled once in the 21-13 win over the Aztecs. The Irish scored two touchdowns in the fourth quarter. 
But senior Matt Kernan said the team looked much better in the fourth quarter. 
"It was two completely dif­ferent feelings. During the first [halfl I was already look­ing forward to basketball sea-
see FOOTBALL/page 4 

Candidates invited to speak at University 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Over the next two months, presidential candidates Sen. Barack Obama (D-Ill.) and Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) will be traversing the country, each making his case that he is the best person to lead the nation for the next four years. 
But will they pitch their candidacy in Notre Dame, Ind., prior to Election Day Nov. 4? 
Notre Dame has invited the presidential candidates for the Democratic and Republican tickets to come to campus every presidential election year since 1952, Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said. 
Letters of invitation to the Obama and McCain cam­paigns are being sent early this week, he said. 
Then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh initiated the tradition of ask­ing presidential candidates to speak at Notre Dame campus in 1952, Brown said, when he invited Republican nominee Dwight Eisenhower and Democratic candidate Adlai Stevenson to speak on cam­pus. Both accepted and spoke at Notre Dame, he said. 
The invitation to the presi­
see ELECTION/page 3 


MADELINE NIES/Observer Graphic 


By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Assistant News Editor 
Although Notre Dame's football team kicked off the season Saturday with a victo­ry over the San Diego State Aztecs, the performance did­n't sit well with some stu­dents. 
"I was kind of disappoint­ed," sophomore Robert Ward said. "I didn't see a lot that signaled we were different than last year." 
Quarterback Jimmy 
Abroad participants back at ND 
Students experience 'reverse culture shock' upon return to campus 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Returning to Notre Dame after studying abroad can often be just as overwhelming and challenging as acclimating to a foreign culture due to the effects of "reverse culture shock." This fall, over 400 stu­dents returned to campus after studying abroad throughout the world for either one or two semesters. 
"Reverse culture shock" hap­pens when students have expectations about returning to campus and come to find that life seems different. 
"Reverse culture shock is when you expect that you know 
see ABROAD/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Tvvo ND students assaulted 
Seniors attacked near Lafayette apartments 
ByJENNMETZ 
News Editor 

Two Notre Dame seniors were assaulted while walking to an apartment in Lafayette Square early Saturday morn­ing, police said. 
The students, Chris Williams and Mark Koegel, said they were walking along Notre Dame Ave. near Club 23 toward Lafayette apartment complex on N. Frances St. when they were attacked. 
Williams, a resident of Lafayette, said, he, Koegel and two other students walked past a house near Club 23 that had between eight and nine people they did not know on the porch at at about 1 :30 a.m. 
One of the people on the porch, who was described by Williams as a male between 18 and 19 years old, began a con­versation with him. 
Williams told The Observer he spoke with the man because he was "just trying to be friendly." Their conversation revolved around weekend plans, and the man asked Williams if he was going to the football game, he said. 
In the middle of the conver­sation, the man "sucker­punched" Williams in the eye 
see ASSAULTIpage 4 
Recycling initiatives expand to game day 
By MEG MIRSHAK 
News Writer 

Student volunteers helped tailgaters recycle before Saturday's football game against San Diego State University as a part of an expanded program designed to improve recycling efforts on campus. 
The Game Day Recycling program grew this year under the newly created Office of Sustainability to reach tail­gaters in several campus lots, said Sarah Cline, a member of 
the  leadership  team  for  
GreeND  and  a  Game  Day  
Recycling  volunteer  on  
Saturday.  

Game Day Recycling volun­teers worked in the library and stadium parking lots, as well as White Fields, a parking area north of campus for tail­gaters, she said. 
GreeND, a student organiza­tion that coordinates environ­mental and energy activities on campus, initiated the pro­gram in 2007 but mostly cov­ered the library lot until this year, she said. 
"We're trying to make it really easy for tailgaters to recycle," Cline said. "We're trying to be more comprehen­sive with it this year." 
Cline said tailgaters responded well to the recy­cling program on Saturday, but the amount of items col­lected was unknown on Sunday. 
see RECYCLING/page 3 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Tnnes, they are a-changin' 
Upon my return to campus this year, I was met with several surprises. While some (an actual mini-quad for the oft neglected West quad) proved beneficial, others (the new Heckers' menu, 
Kara King
our very narrow 
win over San Viewpoint
Diego State) were 
Editor 

not so weleome. 
But none upset me more than our housekeepers' deci­sion to stop supplying trash bags to the dorm. The otlicial party line for this dis­appearance: The privilege was abused. Apparently, 18-22-year-old women are just not capable of controlling their klep­tomania when confronted with mass amounts of trash bags on display. Apparently, we had too much trash. 
Uses for these trash bags have been varied over the years, although I fail to see where the abuse comes into play. From makeshift ice buckets (for very bad ankle sprains I'm sure) to dorm prank necessities, each and every one served a purpose, satisfying some ulti­mate goal in the grand scheme of things. 
Until now. 

Now we have to buy our own trash bags. While other dorms have them pro­vided in their room and board, we are expected to somehow either fmd a way off campus or else succumb to the ridiculous over-pricing that is the Huddle Mart. 
Unless, of course, we resort to thiev­ery. I have heard numerous reports of my dorm fellows making the treacher­ous journey to neighboring dorms to procure their trash bags. Other more daring individuals have stolen them from community bins throughout the dorm, leaving our social spaces without a lined trash receptacle. 
I have also heard reports of people forgoing the bags entirely, risking the overall cleanliness of their room by allowing waste to accumulate sans-bag, leaving a layer of semi-liquid perma­trash in the bins. No doubt the house­keepers will realize this, but I'm afraid by the time they do it will be too late. 
Perhaps this is just one of many moves in the GreeND campaign. If that's the case, I hope it fails miserably. I can't imagine our trash chute has seen any less action due to this endeavor. And before, when trash bags were so readily available, we were more likely to discov­er the aforementioned alternative uses Jorthem. 
What makes things even worse was the lack of warning in this rationing. Unknowing undergrads showed up, kissing their parents goodbye without even thinking to ask for a year-long sup­ply of trash bags along with their new sheets and laundry detergent to get them through the semester. 
Perhaps, along with the cancellation of the Dillon Pep Rally and the Fisher Zoo, this is just a sign of the many things to come. The rules are getting stricter, and now there really is no denying it. And at this rate who knows what will come. 
I understand that our housekeepers have an unenviable job. I understand that, perhaps, we did take two bags when one would do and may have used them in new and different ways. But seriously, just give us back our trash bags. Please. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kara King at 
kking5@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 8, 2008
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHATS YOUR FAVORITE WORD? 



Sade Murphy 
junior offcampus 
"Ubiquitous ... starts with 'u ' ends with 'q' means everywhere.,, 
OFFBEAT 

Cries for help turn out to be a bird 
TRENTON, N.J. -Cries for help inside a Trenton, N.J., home turned out to be for the birds. Neighbors called police Wednesday morning after hearing a woman's persistent cry of "Help me! Help me!" com­ing from a house. Officers arrived and when no one answered the door, they kicked it in to make a res­cue. . 
But instead of a damsel in distress, officers found a caged cockatoo with a con­vincing call. 
It wasn't the first time the 10-year-old bird named 
TODAY 0::: 
1.&.1 
:::c 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
....1 
c:c 
(,) 0 


HIGH 75
.... 

LOW 55 
Atlanta 89 I 68 Boston 79 I 59 Chicago 68 I 52 Denver 60 I 48 Houston 90 I 72 Los Angeles 82 I 63 Minneapolis 59 I 44 New York 82 166 Philadelphia 84 I 66 Phoenix 105 I 82 Seattle 76 I 55 St. Louis 82 I 57 Tampa 93 I 78 Washington 87 I 73 
Brigitte Githinji  Sean Gaffney  Belma Torres  Michael Baznik  
sophomore Lyons  senior off-campus  senior Lyons  junior Zahm  
"Salaam because it transcends  ,,"Florida.  "Y-E-S Yes! It opens so many ,,opportunities.  "Microcosm ... because Dean Hugh Page says  

borders.,, 

Luna said something that brought authorities to the home of owner Evelyn DeLeon. 
About seven years ago, the bird cried like a baby for hours, leading to reports of a possible aban­doned baby and a visit to the home by state child welfare workers. But it was only Luna practicing a newfound sound, DeLeon says. 
Youngest to hit hole-in­one at course is 5 
BELLEVILLE, Ill. -Look out Tiger Woods, 5-year­old Drew Gray's got game. 
The kindergartner had a hole-in-one -though it doesn't count because it was on par-3 course -last week on the 75-yard, fifth hole at Yorktown Golf Club. The shot was witnessed by several family members and verified by course owner John Bethard. 




Drew is the youngest player to ace a hole at the course, Bethard said. Drew has been playing golf on family outings for two years. He played this sum­mer in the club's golf camp for 4-to-8-year-olds, Bethard said. 
Information from the Associated Press. 

it.,, 
IN BRIEF 

The Student International Business Council (SIBC) will hold its first meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza School of Business. 
The Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecture, titled "The Idea of Black Culture," is to be given by Hortense Spillers, Gertrude Conaway Vanderbilt Professor of English at Vanderbilt University, at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Sept. 9 in the audi­torium of McKenna Hall. This event is free. 
GreenND will hold an infor­mal meeting Wednesday, Sept. 10, at 7p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Army ROTC through the American Red Cross will spon­sor a Blood Drive on Sept. 10 and 11 in the Grand Ballroom, LaFortune Student Center from 
9:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. Sign up online at www.givelife.org, sponsor code "irish," to sched­ule an appointment. Walk-ins are also accepted but those with appointments will be seen first and will take less time. Doners must be at least 17, weigh a minimum of 110 pounds and be in gpod general health. Doners are asked to bring their donor cards or positive identification when they come to donate. 
Michael Novak will be speak­ing regarding his book "Business As A Calling" on Sept. 11 at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Auditorium, room 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH 

73 
LOW 

56 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
64 HIGH HIGH 53 LOW LOW 


Monday, September 8, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SIBC provides int'l opportunities Recycling 
continued from page 1

Council also provides business experience through non-profit work Student volunteers wearing purple shirts provided blue bags for tailgaters to recycle aluminum cans, plastic bottles, paper products and other recy­clable items, excluding food, Cline said. Tailgaters left the blue bags in the parking spaces where a recycling company picked them up during the football game, she said. Under the newly expanded recycling program, participat­ing student volunteers desig­nated $75 to be allotted to a club of their choice, she said. A selected student club or organ­ization also helps sponsor the volunteering each home foot­ball game week by soliciting volunteers from their club, Cline said. "A lot of people are excited about the opportunity to recy­cle," Cline said. "In the past, resources weren't there." Some families, especially in the library lot where Game Day interest for everyone whether it what can we do?" 
Recycling was available in By SARAH MERVOSH 
2007, were expecting the stu-News Writer 
is strictly business or more serv­This year, on Oct. 2, up to 30 
ice oriented," she said. teams of four people will compete 

dent volunteers to bring the bags to their tailgate areas, she said. 
"They had been waiting on us all morning," she said. 
Another member of GreeNO and a volunteer on Saturday, Jackson Bangs, said he checked concession stands for recycling efforts and helped distribute blue bags where they were needed. 
"We've never done it on this scale before," Bangs said about the student effort to cover all of the tailgate lots and concession stands. He said the more than 10 student volunteers also checked the cardboard recy­cling bins placed across cam­pus to see if they were being used effectively. 
"Almost everyone I talked to was excited about the pro­gram," Bangs said. "Some peo­ple jogged up to us to ask for a bag." 
GreeNO and other campus environmental groups have not met to address the effective­ness of Saturday's large-scale recycling effort, Jackson said. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

The Student International Business Council (SIBC) will hold its first meeting of the year tonight at 7 at Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza School of Business, said fifth-year senior Evan Lintz, the club's president. 
SIBC gives students the oppor­tunity to get business experience by way of projects and intern­ships, she said. 
One key concept of SIBC is to link such business experience with non-profit work, said senior Brian Eskew. SIBC director of internships. 
"W~en you work for a non­profit, you feel like your work means more," said junior Maria Bufalino, SIBC marketing direc­tor. "I always feel like I'm really helping in an area where they will use your ideas." 
Usually, internships work half with non-profits, and half with for-profit businesses, Eskew said. 
He added that SIBC offers 20 different internships in 13 differ­ent countries. 
"We pretty much span the globe in terms of stuff we offer," he said. 
Bufalino added the opportuni­ties offered are not always specif­ically business oriented. 
"SIBC is very diverse and has 
One such experience was this past summer, when sophomore James Pappas went to Ghana, Africa. 
Pappas interned for the gov­ernment's cocoa industry doing clerical work. He also worked for the Agribusiness Development Group, a group founded by Notre Dame graduates that takes tropi­cal fruits that would normally been wasted and dries them out to send to North America and Europe, according to the group's Web site. 
"It was an extremely eye-open­ing experience," Pappas said. "There is no better way to broad­en your horizons." 
Another major aspect of SIBC is the business experience that students get, said junior Eva Binda, the SIBC accounting direc­tor. 
"You network with top firms. You network with these really famous companies that people want to work for," said Binda. 
One way to get experience with these companies is to work on case competitions, she said. 
A case competition is an attempt to provide a business solution for fictional companies. For example, Binda said: "This business wants to go green so from an accounting standpoint, and present a solution to a case, she said. Ultimately, one team will be chosen to go to an inter­national case competition in Dubai, she said. 
In the past, teams from Europe, Asia and the Middle East have attended, but this is the first year that North America will par­ticipate said Binda. 
"This is giving us a chance to go international. [The winning team will] not only going to rep­resent Notre Dame, but also the United States, which is a huge honor," she said. 
This case competition is open to students of all ages. The only qualification is that participants must be members of SIBC, but do not need significant business experience, she said. Students who attend Monday's meeting and join will be eligible to partici­pate, said Binda. 
One of SIBC's main goals this year is to increase awareness and expand participation across campus, Lintz said. SIBC is look­ing for students from all schools and majors to participate she said. 
"It [SIBC] is open to anyone on campus," said Lintz. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Election 
continued from page 1 

dential candidates is "an invi­tation to come speak on cam­pus, on some sort of substan­tive policy issue, not a cam­paign rally type event, but rather a public policy speech," Brown said. 
Junior Edward Yap, the president of the Notre Dame College Republicans, told The Observer last week that he hopes his party's candidate, Sen. John McCain, will come to campus. 
"Notre Dame is a very wel­coming place for political can­didates," he said. "I believe that McCain will experience a welcome that will rival any other welcome he sees in any other parts of the nation. He will be very warmly received here." 
In an interview last week with The Observer, Notre Dame College Democrats co­president, senior Spencer 
-Howard said he would like to see Sen. Barack Obama or his running mate, Sen. Joe Biden 
o•o-D­O-[:=J  The Ce~'er for .E'hics a~d ReLigio66s VaL66e.s i~ .B66.si~e.s.s a~d The I~s'i'66'efor .E'hicaL B66si~ess J.'l/'orLd.vide  
Proudly Presen~  
Berges Lec~ure  Series in Business E~hics  

(Sponsored by lthe John A. Berges Endo"'D"Ient") 
.,.,CLL~nare Clzange: TeclznLcaL, BusLness and ErlzLcaL I~npLLcaiLons"" 
Panelists: 

JVI:ark. IVI:cCre:ady., Professor :and Chair of Chemical :and 
Biomolecul:ar Engineering 
Gerard P:annek.oek.., lVIanagement Department and former CEO oC the 
Chicago Climate Exchange 
Patrick. E. JVIurphy., Co-Director., Institute Cor Ethical 
Business 'V'Vorld""ide 
JVIoderator: 

Georges Enderle., R.yan Chair oC International Business Ethics 
All participants :are faculty members at the University of Notre Dame_ 
Tuesday., September 9., 2008 7:00p-m­I4I DeBartolo ..all 
(D-Del.), come to speak at Notre Dame. 
"We'd love for that to hap­pen," he said. "It's a busy schedule, I know, for both of them to get around the coun­try." 
Chelsea Clinton, the daugh­ter of former presidential candidate Sen. Hillary Clinton (0-N.Y.), spoke at Notre Dame and at Saint Mary's last spring, and Obama spoke at Washington High School in South Bend in April, before he was the Democratic Party's nominee. 
The last presidential or vice presidential candidate to visit Notre Dame during a cam­paign was Sen. Joe Lieberman {1-Conn.), when he ran with former Vice President AI Gore in 2000 on the Democratic ticket. Neither party sent a candidate in the 2004 presi­dential race between Republicans George Bush and Dick Cheney and Democrats John Kerry and John Edwards. 
When Bill Clinton was run­ning for president in 1992, he spoke on campus, and in 1988 then-Vice President George 
H.W. Bush accepted Notre Dame's invitation to speak on campus when he was running for president, he said. Democrat Walter Mondale spoke on campus when he was running for president in 1984, having already visited campus in 1976, when he was running as vice president with Jimmy Carter, who also spoke on campus that same year. 
In 1972, Democratic vice presidential candidate Sargent Shriver spoke at Notre Dame, and in 1968, Democratic vice presidential candidate Ed Muskie spoke. 
In 1964, Republican Barry Goldwater's running mate William Miller, the only Notre Dame graduate to have ever been on the presidential tick­et, came to Notre Dame to speak, and four years earlier, Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., who was running for vice presi­dent on the Republican ticket with Richard Nixon, spoke at Notre Dame. Richard Nixon spoke in 1956 when he was running for vice president with President Eisenhower, Brown said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

.--------------------~------~~--­
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 8, 2008 
over how loud he spoke," he said.
Abroad 

Neary has also noticed that continued from page 1 when people walk down hall­
ways and sidewalks in where you're returning to and America, they often block other how you fit into your life and people. then realizing that you're look­He said that it is just a differ­ing at things differently and ence in culture, and that while that you don't fit in the way it is culturally acceptable to that you used to," Kathleen speak loudly in America so that Opel, director of the Office of everybody can hear you, in International Studies, said. London this behavior would 
Senior Charlie Vogelheim have been considered inconsid­returned to campus after erate. studying in Innsbruck, Austria, "It's not so much inconven­during the last academic year. ient as it is humorous," Neary 
"What I've been telling said. everybody is that it was a sen­After spending time studying sory overload kind of thing in different schools throughout because I was gone for a whole the world, some students find it year," Vogelheim said. "Things challenging to adjust to the 
were the same,  academic life at  
but a year had passed, so a lot was different." Opel said that students react differently to  "[Abroad returnees] do see themselves differently at Notre Dame ... That's part of  Notre Dame. Senior Luis Crespo, who studied in Angers, France last fall, said  
their return to campus. "Depending on the location  a growth process and they are still who they were before they went,  that returning to school at Notre Dame was a change  
that (students are I coming from, there are a variety of  but now there's something else that makes them more than  of pace. " [ W h i I e abroad] you just do your  
feelings, and depending on  that as well. "  homework for the class and  
how they've  long been  Kathleen Opel  take off for the weekend. Here,  
away,"  Opel  Director of the Office of  academic stan­ 
said.  International Studies  dards are very  
Whether stu­ different," he  
dents  study  said.  

abroad in urban cities or small He said that with studying towns also has an impact on abroad in the fall and the pres­their reentry into Notre Dame, sure to find an internship for Opel said. the summer during the spring 
Senior Rachel Wiehoff spent semester, "in a way, junior year the spring semester in London, didn't exist." England. Wiehoff said that she Wiehoff added that the public misses all of the cultural events transportation system in that capital city had to offer. London is also something that 
"There's such a variety of she misses now that she has things you can do. On any returned to South Bend. Senior given night, there are hun­Mark Bond agreed. dreds of opportunities," "Public transportation was a Wiehoff said. lot less available, which 
Senior Kyle Neary also spent annoyed me," Bond said. the spring semester in London. Still, Bond said that he did He said that American culture not go through a period of in general seemed different "reverse culture shock." after his time abroad. For some students, returning 
Neary said that on the air­to campus after studying plane ride back to the United abroad is more challenging States from London he sat next than leaving campus in the to an American businessman. first place, Opel said. 
"The American accent was so "For some students, it's a weird to me and I couldn't get more intense experience when they're coming back," she said. 
Vogelheim said the experi­ences of going abroad versus coming home are unique. 
"The experiences were so different that you can't com­pare," he said. 
He said it seemed difficult to adjust to arriving in Austria because he was jetlagged and people were constantly speak­ing German to him. However, Vogelheim said that arriving in Innsbruck was easier in some ways, particularly because he traveled with a group of Notre Dame students. 
"We went over as a group and we had each other to talk to. Coming back, you're kind of alone a little bit," Vogelheim said. 
Opel said that students who are readjusting back to life on campus often like to talk about their experiences abroad and relate well to people who shared their abroad experi­ence. 
"They do see themselves dif­ferently at Notre Dame," Opel said. "That's part of a growth process and they are still who they were before they went, but now there's something else that makes them more than that as well." 
Wiehoff said the connections that she made with other Notre Dame students while abroad have made Notre Dame more exciting. 
"There are still a lot of friends that I have on campus that I am still close with and I stayed close with while I was abroad, but so many people that I met while I was abroad in London ... have turned out to be some of my closest friends. It's really fun not to be back because there were so many of us from so many dif­ferent groups ... " she said. 
In order to help students readjust to life on campus and deal with reverse culture shock, The University Counseling Center (UCC) has developed re-entry support groups. 
The OIS also hosts returning meetings for each program in which students debrief their experience and the OIS can learn about the students' time abroad, Opel said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
ELECTION 2008 

McCain takes on Bush and Oba111a 
Republican candidate attempts to project independent, 'change' image 
Associated Press 

ALBUQUEHQUE, N.M. ­Barack Obama isn't John McCain's only opponent. Sometimes McCain sounds like he's running almost as hard against President Bush and the Hepubliean Party as he is against Obama, his Democratic rival for the White House. 
The GOP is guilty of indulging in a spending spree of taxpayers' money, McCain laments. They haven't solved huge problems such as the looming insolvency of Social Security and Medicare, pass­ing on huge IOUs and perplex­ing issues to future genera­tions instead of fixing them as they had promised. lie doesn't name Bush but the implication is clear: It happened on his watch and he signed bills that made the deficit soar. 
"We began to value power over principle," McCain said in Colorado Springs, Colo. Some lawmakers turned corrupt and wound up in jail, he told a rally in Albuquerque, N.M. 
"Change is coming, change is coming," McCain promised, projecting an image of inde­pendence and political pop­ulism. 
One of his challenges is to separate himself from the unpopular incumbent in the White House and fight against Obama's charge that a McCain presidency would amount to a third term for Bush. 
"On the eore issues, the economy and the war, he has been joined to Bush at the hip," said Democratic pollster Mark Mellman. "On the other hand, Bush is a lead weight dragging him down. He has to rely on rhetoric to separate (himself) but he can't separate himself on policies important to the American people." 
Eager to keep control of the White !louse, Hepublicans are keeping their mouths shut about McCain's barbs. 
McCain's criticism rankles White House officials who are eager to build up Bush's lega­cy. They are quick to strike hard at anything they perceive as criticism from almost any quarter, particularly the media. But Bush aides are giv­ing McCain a free pass even as they quietly grumble about how pointed his attacks have become. 
There's no free pass from Obama's campaign. 
"Voting with George Bush 90 percent of the time isn't being a maverick, it's being the pres­ident's sidekick," said Obama campaign spokesman Bill Burton. "The idea that John McCain represents change in Washington is as laughable as his claim that he'll take on the special interests when some of the biggest corporate lobbyists in America are running his campaign." 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
without provocation, Williams said. 
He said that the assaulter, after learning that he and his friends were students at Notre Dame, threatened them and warned the group to "run away." 
Koegel, who was walking behind Williams with another student, said he saw Williams get punched in the face and began to quicken his pace. 
Another assailant "came out of nowhere" and hit him in the upper arm with a baseball bat, he said. 
The group of students ran away from the scene, and the assailants did not follow them, Williams and Koegel, a Zahm resident, said. 
When they arrived at Lafayette Square, Williams called the South Bend Police Department (SBPD). 
SBPD was able to confirm the students' story with The 
Football 
continued from page 1 
son, but during the second half after we switched to the hurry-up offense we looked much better," he said. 
Ultimately Kernan said he was just happy to see the team pull off a win after last year's abysmal season. 
"An ugly win is better than an ugly loss," he said. "At least it's not starting off like last year." 
Kernan also said he was excited to finally sit in the senior section, although at times it was difficult to follow some of the cheers. 
"It's easier to watch the game but harder to keep up with the cheers," he said. "Our seats were awesome but there were some adjustments we had to make." 
The class of 2012 got their first introduction to Notre Dame football as students Saturday, and freshman Daniel Barrera said it was certainly a memorable game, albeit somewhat nerve­wracking. 
"I thought it was an awe­some experience, although I will say it was a nail-biter," 
Observer from the dispatch report from that morning. The dispatch report said police were called at 2:31 
a.m. Saturday morning to Lafayette Square where two males reported they had been assaulted while walking to the apartment complex. 
The two refused ambulance treatment, SBPD said. 
Koegel and Williams said they told the police they would not be able to identify their assailants, whom Koegel described as black men in their mid-20s. 
When Koegel returned to campus, he went to Health Services at around 3 a.m., he said, to have his injured arm examined. 
"They said I got hit in the best place that I could have gotten hit," he said. 
After an examination, his arm was put in a sling but was not broken. 
Neither student was seri­ously injured in the attack. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

freshman Daniel Barrera said. 
Barrera said the game was an emotional rollercoaster that, though thrilling, wore him out. 
"The ups and downs were a highlight, although we were very tired afterwards and it led to a quiet night in the dorm," he said. 
The game also featured the new "crank me up" cheer, which was introduced during Friday's pep rally. The new cheer confused some of the students who didn't attend the pep rally. 
"It was hard to unde·rstand at first because I didn't go to the pep rally and I didn't really like it," sophomore Lauren Weber said. "But I think I'll get used to it." 
Sophomore Chris Schiraldi said he thought the game was excellent, but would have been even better if kiek­er Brandon Walker had man­aged to score a touchdown on the play in the second quar­ter where a botched snap spoiled a field goal attempt. 
"I just want to see him involved in the offense more," Schiraldi said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Proprietors Warren &Unda 
Yirs!OrigindJlizza in7oaml 
Since 1951 
Specializing in Italian Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs,: 5:00PM ·11:00 PM FrL ·Sat: 5:00PM ·1:00AM 537 North St. louis • South Bend/ IN 574·233·2464 

r-------~-~ --~----­
ORLD & NATION 


Monday, September 8, 2008 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Democratic-camp wins key vote 
HONG KONG -I long Kong's pro-democracy camp has won more than a third of seats in leg­islative elections, retaining its veto power over major legislation. 
Results announced Monday show the opposi­tion has claimed at least 22 of 60 seats in the legislature. The key threshold for pro-democra­cy parties was 21 seats -a number that would allow them to block major legislation that requires a two-thirds majority for passage. 
The pro-democracy camp had been expected to suffer a setback in the election after China gave a timetable for democratic reform in Hong Kong last year. 
Half of Hong Kong's legislative seats are directly elected by voters, with the rest chosen by special interest groups. 
Many still missing in Egyptian rocks 
CAIRO -Hopes diminished Sunday for finding survivors among hundreds of peo­ple believed trapped beneath massive boul­ders that destroyed an impoverished neigh­borhood on Cairo's outskirts, killing at least 32 people, including whole extended fami­lies. 
Anger and resentment mounted as authorities failed for a second day to get heavy machinery into the devastated shan­tytown to try to clear the large slabs that split away from the Muqattam cliffs early Saturday. Survivors among the 100,000 residents of the Dewika slum were also left to spend the night without shelter, despite government promises to provide it. 
"The area turned into a mass grave," one bearded man shouted, while a tearful young woman in a black robe clutched a picture of a newlywed couple whose bodies remained trapped below. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
PA senator faces fraud trial 
PHILADELPHIA -A longtime power bro­ker in Pennsylvania politics earned nearly $100,000 a year as a state senator, up to $1 million a year as a rainmaking lawyer and millions more from the sale of a family bank. 
However, prosecutors say freewheeling Philadelphia Democrat Vincent Furno used little of his own money as he took yachting vacations with friends, spent lavishly on a 33-room city brownstone and hired opera­tives to spy on ex-wives and political foes. 
Obesity found to damage teens' livers 
TRENTON, N.J.-In a new and disturbing twist on the obesity epidemic, some over­weight teenagers have severe liver damage caused by too much body fat, and a handful have needed liver transplants. 
Many more may need a new liver by their 30s or 40s, say experts warning that pedia­tricians need to be more vigilant. The condi­tion, which can lead to cirrhosis and liver failure or liver cancer, is being seen in kids in the United States, Europe, Australia and even some developing countries, according to a surge of recent medical studies and doc­tors interviewed by The Associated Press. 
The American Liver Foundation and other experts estimate 2 percent to 5 percent of American children over age 5, nearly all of them obese or overweight, have the condi­tion, called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Thin gas lines could be fire threat 
FISHERS, Ind. -Improperly installed ultra­thin gas lines have left thousands of central Indiana homes in danger of fuel-fed fires if struck by lightning, but the state has made no concerted effort to warn homeowners, a report Sunday said. 
State officials have known for at least three years that corrugated stainless steel tubing that has become the preferred choice for contractors is more likely, if not grounded properly, to be breached by lightning than the traditional thick­er. black iron pipes, The Indianapolis Star mported. 
CoMPiLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
CUBA 

Hurricane hits Caribbean islands 
Heavy rains force residents of Cuba, Haiti, Bahamas to find shelter, evacuate 
Associated Press 

CAMAGUEY, Cuba Hurricane Ike bore down on Cuba after roaring across low-lying islands Sunday, tearing apart houses, wiping out crops and worsening floods in Haiti that have already killed more than 300 people. 
With Ike forecast to sweep across Cuba and possibly hit Havana head-on, hundreds of thousands of Cubans evacuated to shelters or higher ground. To the north, residents of the Florida Keys fled up a narrow highway, fearful that the "extremely dangerous""hurricane could hit them Tuesday. 
At least 48 people died as Ike's winds and rain swept Haiti Sunday, raising the nation's death toll from four tropical storms in less than a month to 306. A Dominican man was crushed by a falling tree. It was too early to know of deaths on other islands where the most powerful winds were still blowing. 
Ike's center hit the Bahamas"Great Inagua island, where the roofs of its two shelters both sprung leaks under the 135 mph (217 kph) winds. As the storm passed, people inside peeked through windows at toppled trees and houses stripped of their roofs. 
"It's nasty. I can't remem­ber getting hit like this," reserve police officer Henry Nixon said from inside a shelter holding about 85 people. 
Great Inagua has about 1,000 people and about 50,000 West Indian flamin­gos -the world's largest breeding colony. Both popu­lations sought safety from the winds and driving rain, with the pink flamingos gathering in mangrove thickets. Biologists worried that their unique habitat could be destroyed. 
"There's a possibility that the habitat can't really be replaced, and that they can't find an equivalent spot," said Greg Butcher, bird con­servation director for the National Audubon Society. 

"You might have a signifi­cant drop in the number of flamingos." 
At 8 p.m. EDT (0000 GMT). Ike had weakened slightly to a Category 3 hur­ricane with top winds of 120 mph (195 kph). It was about 30 miles off Cuba's northern coast, moving westward at 14 mph (22 kph). 
The U.S. National Hurricane Center predicted Ike's eye would make land­fall early Monday and could hit Havana, the capital of 2 million people with many vulnerable old buildings, by Monday night. 
Cuba's government said more than 224,000 people were being evacuated in the central-eastern province of Camaguey alone. Foreign tourists were pulled out from vulnerable beach resorts, workers rushed to protect coffee plants and other crops, and plans were under way to distribute food and cooking oil to disaster areas. 
"There's no fear here, but one has to prepared. It could hit us pretty hard," said Ramon Olivera, gassing up his motorcycle in Camaguey, where municipal workers boarded up banks and restaurants. 
More than 100 people waited in chaotic bread lines at each of the numerous government bakeries around town as families hoarded supplies before the storm. 
On the provincial capital's outskirts, trucks and dented school buses brought about 1,000 evacuees -many of 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Republican vice pres­idential candidate Sarah Palin has agreed to sit down with ABC's Charles Gibson later this week for her first tel­evision interview since John McCain chose her as his running mate more than a week ago. 
Palin will sit down for multiple interviews with Gibson in Alaska over two days, most likely Thursday and Friday, said McCain adviser Mark Salter. 
The interview with Palin was con­firmed Friday, ABC News spokesman Jeffrey Schneider said. 
The first-term Alaska governor has given speeches alongside McCain since becoming his surprise pick on Aug. 29. But Democrats have already begun to question why Palin has not been put before reporters to answer questions. 
McCain, who appeared on CBS' "Face the Nation" Sunday, said he expected Palin to start doing inter­views "in the next few days." 
them families with small children -to the sprawling campus of an art schooL 
Classrooms at the three­story school built on stilts were filled with metal bunk beds. The approaching hur­ricane brought a stiff breeze through the open windows. 
Mirtha Perez, a 65-year­old retiree, said hardly any­one was left in her small town of Salome, located nearby. 
"It's a huge evacuation," she said. "We are waiting and asking God to protect us and that nothing happens to us." 
The first islands to bear Ike's fury Sunday were the Turks and Caicos, which have little natural protection from storm surges of up to 18 feet (5.5 meters). 
ELECTION 2008 
ABC lands Palin's first TV interview 
McCain campaign manager Rick Davis complained that the media has focused too much on 44-year-old Palin's personal life. Many of those stories came after McCain's campaign announced that Palin's unwed 17­year-old daughter was pregnant. News reports also have questioned her record as a reformer in Alaska. 
"She's not scared to answer ques­tions," Davis said on Fox News Sunday." But you know what? We run our campaign. not the news media. And we'll do things on our timetable." 
~--~ 

page 6 The Observer +WORLD NEWS Monday, September 8, 2008 
Cruise lines cut trips to save 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Maine-When the 

1 ,020-foot Explorer of the Seas 
cruises through North Atlantic 
waters next year, it'll spend more 
time off the coast of New England 
and less time near Canadian 
shores, and it's not because of 
better vistas. 
Hoyal Caribbean International and other cruise lines have begun charting a new course in search of routes that eat up less fuel. Already one of the industry's biggest costs, record fuel prices have cut heavily into the bottom line. 
The impact of shifting itiner­aries will certainly have implica­tions beyond the bottom line of cruise operators, creating win­ners and losers in port towns all along the way. 
When cruise ships pull into Maine's Bar Harbor, passengers spend an average of $105 each while ashore, according to a 2002 University of Maine study. 
Explorer of the Seas can carry more than 3,000 passengers. 
A ship even half that size could mean nearly $160,000 per visit. That means big money in Portland, which expects more than 30 visits next year from ships that can carry between 1 ,000 and 3,000 passengers. 
While Portland stands to reap big rewards from the itinerary changes, port cities along Canada's Atlantic coast could be on the losing end. 
Canada's Atlantic ports saw a 33 percent jump in cruise ship visits between 2000 and 2007, according to the Atlantic Canada Cruise Association. 
"It's disappointing to be losing a bit of business, but we realize that cruise lines have to make deci­sions based on best-business practices," said Betty MacMillan, vice chairwoman of Atlantic Canada Cruise Association and business development manager of 
the port of Saint John, New 
Brunswick. 

Royal Caribbean International 
changed the fall itinerary for the 
Explorer of the Seas along its 
northern route next year, shorten­
ing the distance between ports. 
Rather than sail from New Jersey 
to Quebec City and back, the ship 
will add stops in New England 
and go no farther than Halifax, 
Nova Scotia. 

Fuel consumption was the pri­mary reason, said Vice President Diana Block. 
"You have to look at where the biggest benefit is financially with the least impact on the guests," she said. 
Annual fuel bills for cruise lines can add up to hundreds of mil­lions of dollars and their ships can gobble up tens of thousands of gallons of fuel on any given cruise. The price of intermediate fuel oil, which most cruise ships use, has risen in tandem with crude oil. 
Many cruise lines have added fuel surcharges to passenger bills, but energy costs continue to cut into profits and squeeze margins. 
Cruise lines have also begun using energy-efficient light bulbs and new window coatings that reflect the heat from the sun to keep rooms cooler. They've also been using new hull paint that reduces a ship's drag in the water. 
And increasingly, cruise lines are altering itineraries so ships can slow down and reduce their travel distances, said Lanie Fagan, spokeswoman for the Cruise Line International Association. Carnival Corp., Norwegian Cruise Line and others have said high fuel costs are a factor in new routes. 
"While it is paramount to offer a cruise itinerary that a guest wants to sail, the design and sequence of that itinerary can be evaluated to minimize the dis­tance between ports of call and the speed necessary to accom­
plish that itinerary," Fagan said. 
In many cases, passengers will 
barely notice the difference. 
Besides changing port calls on some routes, Royal Caribbean is reviewing its departure and arrival. In some cases, ships are leaving port half an hour earlier at night or arriving half an hour later in the morning -allowing ships to travel at slower speeds between ports. 
Cutting speed cuts costs. For example, going 23 knots will con­sume twice as much fuel as going 15 knots for the new Solstice class of ship being launched this year by Celebrity Cruises, said John Krousouloudis, senior vice presi­dent for marine operations. 
Even as cruise lines watched fuel prices ratchet up costs, some port cities had already seen an opportunity. 
In Maine, a consortium that promotes Portland as a cruise ship destination is using high fuel costs as part of its marketing strategy. 
Last fall, Discover Portland & Beyond Executive Director Sandra Needham met with half a dozen cruise ship companies in south Florida. She presented them with some mock itineraries for their ships detailing how much money they could save in fuel costs if they included Portland on certain routes. 
Besides touting southern Maine's attractions, Needham wanted to show cruise line execu­tives how having port calls rela­tively close together could save them money. 
By stopping at ports that are relatively close together, the ships could cruise at speeds of 12 knots or so rather than higher fuel-guz­zling speeds, she said. Her itiner­aries showed that a few tweaks here and there could save cruise lines between $40,000 and $100,000 a week in fuel alone­and that was ten months ago, when fuel prices were lower. 
Coney Island park to close 
The Cyclone and Wonder Wheel will not be affected by park's end 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-When reports circulated over the weekend of a last-minute deal to keep Coney Island's historic Astroland amusement park open for another year, owner Carol Hill Albert was not amused. 
Indeed, her tone was bitter as she described plans to close the park Sunday night in lieu of an agreement with the city or with private devel­oper Thor Equities, which have competing plans for the 3-acre Brooklyn site. 
"Despite rumors to the con­trary, there are absolutely no negotiations going on, and there never were," said Albert, whose family has owned Astroland for more than four decades. 
She said uncertainty about Astroland's future had creat­ed stress for its 400 employ­ees and hampered the acqui­sition of spare parts for the rides, and that the park would elose permanently. 
"We cannot risk the safety of our customers," she said. The Cyelone, the famous Coney Island roller coaster, 
and the 150-foot-tall Wonder Wheel, a Ferris wheel, are separately owned and land­marked by the city so they are unaffected by the closing. 
But the news that Sunday would be the last gasp for the Dante's Inferno fun house, 22 other rides and three arcades drew hundreds of nostalgia­minded visitors, including elderly residents of the beach area and families with chil­
dren who had  never  ridden  
on  the Tilt-A-Whirl  or  the  
Water Flume.  

Bobby Salony said bringing his wife and their daughters from Greenwich, Conn., was a kind of "unfinished business." 
"We had to come in and have one more time (at As troland)," Salony said. "Twenty years from now, they can say they were here on the last day." 
On a nearby sidewalk, Amos Wengler strummed a guitar and sang a tune he wrote for the occasion: "Save Coney Island, don't let them take it away, and the whole world wants it to stay." 
Wengler was one of a few who said they felt there was "still hope" that Astroland 
would not disappear. Even if a developer takes over, "you can always make it the same again," he said. 
Last fall, Astroland and Thor Equities, which owns 11 acres of seaside property that includes the amusement park, agreed to a one-year lease extension that expires Jan. 31, 2009. 
Albert said Sunday that she had sought since June to negotiate an extension with Thor through 2010 but was repeatedly told the company had "no answer." Her spokesman, Joe Carella, said Albert decided to close Astroland when it was clear that Thor had no intention of negotiating with her. 
Thor spokesman Stefan Friedman said the firm was "extremely disappointed" that Albert had "decided to give up on the future of Coney Island" with several months remaining on her lease. 
The Daily News reported that Astroland's rides were already being offered for sale on the Internet, with prices ranging from $95,000 for the merry-go-round to $199,000 for the bumper cars. 
GEORGIA 

President seeks aid in reunifying 
Associated Press 

TBILISI, Georgia -On the eve of a European Union shuttle mission to convince Russia to pull its troops back to prewar positions, Georgia's president vowed Sunday to regain control of two break­away provinces with the help of "the rest of the world." 
A month after the Aug. 7 outbreak of war in the region and weeks after a cease-fire was approved, Hussian troops remain entrenched deep inside Georgian territory. 
French President Nicolas Sarkozy is due in Moscow on Monday at the head of an EU delegation charged with reducing tensions and ensur­ing Russian compliance with the cease-fire terms, which include withdrawing its troops to positions held before the fighting broke out. Russia says those troops are peacekeepers and that they are allowed under the accord. 
Despite the presence of Russian troops on Georgian soil, President Mikhail Saakashvili said the West would help his country regain control of South Ossetia and Abkhazia, the separatist 
regions of Georgia recognized as independent nations by Moscow last month. 
"Our territorial integrity will be restored, I am more convinced of this than ever," Saakashvili said in a televised appearance. "This will not be an easy process, but now this is a process between an irate Hussia and the rest of the world." 
"Our goal is the return of our territory and the peaceful unification of Georgia," he said. 
In Moscow, Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, who often taunts the West, insisted in an interview broadcast late Saturday that Russia was jus­tified in its intervention in South Ossetia. lie said there would be no cooling of ties with the West because the West depends on Russia's oil, gas and mineral wealth. 
The West has been reluc­tant to provoke Moscow, and French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said the EU did not plan to impose sanctions against Hussia. 
President Dmitry Medvedev declared Saturday that "Russia is a nation to be reck­oned with" following its war with Georgia. 
CHARISMATIC PRAYER MEETING 
Dillon Hall Chapel, Tuesdays 7:30PM Mass follows the prayer meeting 

The College Football Hall of Fame 10am-4pm 
For inforrnation and tickets Call 702-885-3501 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, September 8, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,220.96 +32.73
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,614  103  1,532  732,904,499  
NYSE  
S&P 500  1,242.31  -32.67  

1

NIKKEI (TokyoJ~I1'!1'11 111111~11' 1ll!i'l~~$9. 
FTSE 100 (London) 5,240.70 -121.40 COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.31 +0.39 124.42 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.48 -0.21 43.45 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +3.62 +0.76 21.74 !SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM) -0.25 -0.18 71.64 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +0.47 -+0.020 3.660 13-WEEK BILL -0.61 -0.010 1.640 30-YEAR BOND -0.12 -0.005 4.276 5-YEAR NOTE +1.50 +0.043 2.919 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.66 106.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.30 803.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.33 86.10 
Exchange Rates YEN 108.3800 
IN BRIEF 
Soybean prices fall as dollar rises 
NEW YORK-Soybean prices tumbled Friday after the dollar continued its rally against the euro, giving investors more rea­sons to sell commodities that were bought as a hedge against inflation. Corn and wheat also fell sharply. 
The dollar gained ground against the euro although the Labor Department issued a dis­appointing report on U.S. employment; more pessimism about the health of European economies supported the greenback. The 15­nation euro fell to $1.4266 in late New York trading Friday from $1.4331 late Thursday. 
A stronger dollar dampens investors' appetite for commodities, which are typically bought as safe-haven investments used to hedge against inflation and weakness in the 
U.S. currency. 
Soybeans for November delivery fell 58 cents, or 4.7 percent, to settle at $11.77 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. 
Boeing machinists go on strike 
EVERETT, Wash. -Boeing Co. machinists walked out on strike Saturday after contract talks arbitrated by a federal mediator failed to produce an agreement. 
About 100 union members hoisted their strike signs at 12:01 a.m. outside the Boeing plant in this city north of Seattle, cheering and blasting air horns at passing cars, many of which honked back. 
"It's been about lack of respect," said Steve Morrison, 42, a tester at the Everett plant. "They always tell us we're valued much but labor is the first out the door, the first to be outsourced." 
This is the machinists' second strike in as many contract negotiations with Boeing. They struck for 24 days in 2005. 
The machinists assemble Boeing's commercial planes and some key components. Key strike issues include pay, outsourcing, retirement and health care benefits. 
The company said it would not try to assemble planes during the strike. 
Boeing spokesman Tim Healy said the company is open to further discussion, but both sides wern too far apart to nmch an agreement. No additional talks wnrn scheduled. 
U.S. takes over mortgage giants 
Government seizes Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac in attempt to right economy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-The Bush administration's seizure of troubled mort­gage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is potentially a $200 billion bet that it will help reverse a prolonged housing and credit crisis. 
The historic move announced Sunday won support from both presi­dential campaigns, but private analysts worried that it may not be enough to stabilize the slumping housing mar­ket given the glut of vacant homes for sale, rising foreclosures, ris­ing unemployment and weak consumer confi­dence. 
Officials announced that both giant institu­tions were being placed in a government conser­vatorship, a move that could end up costing tax­payers billions of dol­lars. Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said allowing the companies to fail would have extracted a far higher price on consumers by driving up the cost of home loans and all other types of borrowing because the failures would "create great tur­moil in our financial markets here at home and around the globe." said. "This takes a major The Treasury The government, which 
Mark Zandi, chief financial threat off the Department said it was will receive warrants economist at Moody's table." prepared to put up as representing ownership Economy.com predicted Futures on all major much as $100 billion stakes of 79.9 percent in that 30-year mortgage stock indexes rose about over time in each of the each company, is hoping rates, currently averag­2 percent in electronic companies if needed to that its moves will reas­ing 6.35 percent nation­trading Sunday night, keep them from going sure nervous investors wide, could dip to close another sign of investor broke, in exchange for that they can continue to to 5.5 percent. That's relief about the takeover senior preferred stock. buy the debt of the two because investors will be plan Treasury will immediate­companies. more willing to buy the The companies, which ly be issued $1 billion of In a statement, debt issued by Fannie together own or guaran­such stock from each President Bush said, and Freddie -and at tee about $5 trillion in company, which will pay "Americans should be lower rates -since the home loans, about half 10 percent interest. confident that the federal government is the nation's total, have Further purchases of actions taken today will now explicitly standing lost $14 billion in the preferred stock will be­strengthen our ability to behind that debt. last year and are likely triggered if quarterly weather the housing cor­
"Effectively, the federal to pile up billions more audits find that the com­rection and are critical government has now in losses-until the hous­panies' capital cushion is to returning the econo­become the nation's ing market begins to below prudent stan­my to stronger sustained mortgage lender," he recover. dards. growth." 

Auto industry asks Congress for $SOB 
Associated Press electric vehicles. With credit tight, The low-interest loans, at rates of 
automakers and suppliers now about 4 percent to 5 percent, would 
WASHINGTON -Auto industry want lawmakers to come up with pay for up to 30 percent of the cost allies hope to secure up to $50 bil­the money for the program -and of retooling plants to build hybrids, lion in government loans this expand the pool of money available plug-in hybrids, electric cars and month that would pay to modernize to $50 billion over three years. other alternatives. plants and help struggling car mak­Industry leaders have argued that Ford and General Motors Corp.'s ers build more fuel-efficient vehi­the loan guarantees are not a gov­credit ratings have fallen below cles. ernment bailout because it would investment grade, making it diffi­
With Congress returning this hasten production of fuel-efficient cult for the companies to borrow coming week from its summer vehicles and reduce dependence on money at affordable rates. Chrysler, break, the industry plans an imported oil. which has been heavily dependent aggressive lobbying campaign for "This is not about benefiting Wall upon truck sales, has been private­the low-interest loans. The situa­Street," said Ford Motor Co.'s ly held since last year and faces tion is growing dire after months of President of the Americas Mark similar problems accessing capital. tumbling sales, high gasoline prices Fields, referencing recent federal "This industry could fall down, and consumers' abandoning prof­support for the investment firm literally, or be absorbed if they itable trucks and sport utility vehi­Bear Stearns and troubled mort­don't get something in place very cles. gage companies Fannie Mae and soon. I think it's that severe," said 
Lawmakers authorized $25 billion Freddie Mac. "This is benef'iting Hep. Joe KnollPnberg, H-Mich. 
in loans in last year's energy bill to Main Street, the working men and "Something has to happPn pretty 
help the companies build fuel-effi­women. The auto industry is part of quickly because they can't compete 
cient vehides such as hybrids and the backbone of the U.S. economy." paying 15 to 20 percent (interest)." 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, September 8, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
11u J,,/rf"ndn~t, Daily Nrwsp4prr Serving Notrr Danw and &tint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: jenn Metz 
VJEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Haner 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Bnyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary jesse 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. 1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's C'_.ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor govemed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
'I 'he news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofrhc authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encolffilged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
~estions regarding Obs~rver policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'lln: Ol~,o;crvcr (llSPS 599 24000) U ~mhli~h«l Mond;~y 1hrnugh Friday c:tcc:pt during C::K-1111 .md ....QIIt111 periods. A ~ubw,;nprinu to The oh....-rvcr iJ: $100 for nne ac..adcmk year; S:SS for one !<'mesu:r. 
The Ol.»ervcr j, published at: POSfMASTER 02-4 Sourh Oini11g Hall Send nddrtlS corrections to: Nmrc Dame, IN .f655()..0n9 Tht;>Ol'"'crvcr Pcriudical p(»t.J~c paid ar Nom: Dame P.Q.Ilux779 and ;ulditional rnJiling_offiru. O.M South Dining Hall 
N<:atte D;unc, IN 46'556-0779 
The (>hs.erva IS a mrmhcrof the AwK:i:atcd Pn::ss. All reproduction rights ;uc r=n«d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mandi Stirone Lorenzo Reyes Aaron Steiner Laura Myers Sarah Mervosh Marie Bugnitz 
Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint 11lustrator 
Lauren Mary Jesse 
Brauweiler 

Getting in touch with my European Roots 
I'm writing this column from Salzburg, Austria. !lather than cheer­ing for our football team to a victory Saturday, I spent the day walking through thousand year-old castles, climbing up mountains, and listening to grand pianist street perform­ers (Do you think he carried it on the bus with him there?). 
This year, I write you from the German­speaking country of Austria; lnnsbruck, to be specific. As Notre Dame's oldest study abroad program, we ... okay, that's not really relevant to anything. We're just old. 
In preparation for this column, I had a few primary worries. First of these was that my German has already crept into my Englisch skills. If you notice any choppy or back­wards-sounding sentences, or can't pinpoint where an idiomatic phrase came from, please recognize the mis­take quietly to yourself, maybe share a laugh with a few dining hall acquaintances, and then continue reading. 
Simultaneously plaguing my mind as I brainstormed for this column was my noticeable geographical distance from the University. How can I con­nect with the students of NO when I have not been there since before a 

MOST FANTASTIC JOKES 
OBSERVER POLL 
Should the Dillon Pep Rally be rescheduled? 
Yes No I don't care 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
new group of 2,000 people became a 
part of our family? 
The answer to this question, like so many anxieties that we worry our­selves with but can't seem to isolate and tackle (maybe not being able to isolate and tackle is just an NO thing ...), came to me when I least expected it. 
We were hiking up to Gaisberg Spitze: the peak of the mountain Gaisberg. My fellow hikers were a bit ahead of me, but the steepness of the climb kept me a little farther back; maybe for safety, maybe to view the picturesque surroundings, maybe because talking when you're trying to muster together enough air to prop­erly breathe tends to drag you down. 
But no matter the reason, I was going a little slower, and found myself on the ground more than once, trip­ping through the mess of the bumps and tangles of the trail. 
"What are you doing back there Jackie? Pick up the pace!" 
And then I knew it. I knew the real reason why my pace was slow, why the trail's unbelievable sights every three steps compelled me to linger and absorb the beauty that saturated the hills, the rocks, the plants, the breeze. 
"Don't wait on me, guys. I'm just getting in touch with my European roots." 
And I was. Touching them every step of the way up the mountain. Everyone I ever knew who participat­ed in Study Abroad told me that it was the best experience of his or her life. That you could never imagine such old, majestic, and effortlessly cultured cities. That the train system amazes whether on a cross-continent or cross-city trip. That the language 
and the people are all different, but 
with time, you realize the reasons 
behind their distinct patterns of life, 
and you assimilate, even bringing 
some of the new perspectives with 
you home to America, to NO. 

But not until I got here myself did I realize that the roots of Europe wern also a part of this cultural experi­ence. That the famously mountained Austria does not have an Austria of the cities, an Austria of the yodeling Alps, an Austria of the pastures, and an Austria of the ski season. No, rather, they are all the same. I can walk through pastures, past 500-year old wells, and hear mountain music on my way to some of the most serene and strikingly tranquil places I have ever been. 
Here in Europe, it's more obvious that natural beauty does not require a parking fee, nor does it necessitate driving 2,000 miles west. Walk past the yellow houses with intricate brown Bavarian trim. step by the goats tended by a young man in lederhosen (no joke), enter the paved road to a hotel high on the hill, and you will see that the sights and sounds of nature are there with you all along. It doesn't always feel like this in America, but maybe that's just because we need to get in touch with those European roots. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior History and German major. She has been practicing her yodeling, but still won't do it in public without wearing· a dirndl. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not remove a fly from yourfriend's forehead with a hatchet." 
Chinese proverb 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 8, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NDSPneeds to organize priorities 
It is a shame that what should have been a memorable start of the football season and a perfect occasion to reunite with friends, ended up being eclipsed by an unfortunate episode. I write this letter with the intent of expressing my frustra­tion and disappointment towards an inci­dent that happened during a tailgate event; an incident which I consider to be a complete misunderstanding. 
I arrived at the tailgate event around 30 minutes before it was broken down by our very own Notre Dame Police depart­ment. I had asked one of my friends, who's twenty years old, to hold my beer while I went to the rest room (it just felt wrong to carry the open can with me into the portable potty). Just about when I was coming back, an NDSP officer got her with the can. When I tried to explain the situation to him, in the calmest and most respectful way possible, he chose to blatantly ignore us. I asked him to test my friends' alcohol level to verify that she was not drinking and that we were both absolutely sober. It was clear to him that we were, and yet, he chose to incul­pate my friend of "underage alcohol pos­session", and, in my case, of "inducing alcohol possession on a minor". 
This incident made a negative impres­sion on me and my friend. Not only was this an evident case of abuse of authority, but it was coming from an officer who works with and for the University and thus, should have the student's interests in mind. The officer's poor judgment and unwillingness to listen was not what I expected from someone in his position. 
Being that there were more important things to attend to, he wasted his time with the wrong couple of tailgaters and, by the way, he spoiled our day. Yes, I asked the wrong person to hold my Bud Light. But from now on ... Should I keep track of every person's age before asking them to hold my beer when I go to the restroom? I'm afraid that would be absolutely absurd. And if so, why do authorities punish possession? Once again, my friend was not drinking 
Hubert George grad student offcampus Sept. 7 
Get thy ears lovvered 
Jimmy Clausen needs a haircut. Based on the number of people I heard express­ing this same sentiment at Saturday's football game, I may be on to something. Rather than simply complaining about the issue, I would like to propose, with our young quarterback's cooperation, the following: I will personally donate twenty dol­lars to pay for the man to seek the services of a barber or hair stylist of his choice, provided it approaches something resembling last year's (let the Google image searching commence). I also challenge all students, faculty, and staff to match, exceed, or otherwise contribute to increasing this sum. The money collected will go to pay for the initial cut, as well as the possibility of a couple more later on in the season. All remaining donations will go to Hannah & Friends. I think it's a win-win. 
Ryan Bailey grad student offcampus Sept. 5 

Dude, -where's nty dornt? 
Ladies and gentlemen of the Notre Dame community, I'm writing this mes­sage with regard to the future of our community. I fear that university officials are trying to make changes to student life without fully taking student interest to heart. They seem to be more concerned with how outsiders view us rather than with how we see ourselves. I was lucky enough to join this school as a member of Zahm House, just as others were lucky to join their own unique dorms. Today, our dorm is only a shell of itself. We've all heard that the annual Dillon pep rally has mysteriously been cancelled, but this is only the latest step in a series of cancella­tions of Notre Dame on-campus tradi­tions. There were several attempts to cancel the Zahm Bun Run, and for those of you who have heard the stories, AnTostal has gone from a week-long, on­campus celebration to a picnic on DeBartolo quad. I know that we have all chosen to attend a conservative school, but without the bun run, some girls on campus may never see a dude without pants. Creating a more vanilla on-campus life could weaken our renowned Alumni Network, as we end the traditions that have created such strong bonds at our University historically. For those officials who are worried about the "decency" of these traditions, their efforts to end the traditions have only made things worse. Antostal has become Pigtostal-an off­campus party that spawns many arrests and exhibits far less creativity than its predecessor. It seems that the University is trying to create a generic dorm life, even though Notre Dame has always prided itself on the dorm life that no other school offers. There has never been a need for a Greek life due to the unique environment that exists within the dorms. We've all experienced the stories at tail­gates: stories about the crazy events that used to go on. Coming in freshman year, I heard about how watered down every­thing was becoming. Unfortunately, now I'm the one that has to say that. Living in Zahm, I knew that there was pressure by the University to stop us from doing cer­tain things. I thought it was only directed toward us, but now it is clearly becoming an all campus plan. AnTostal and Pep Rallies have already gone out the win­dow. Unless we acknowledge the issue here, I would watch for the Revue or Zoo to follow suit in the near future. As mem­bers of the Notre Dame Community, let us be aware of what is happening. Five years from now, don't claim ignorance that the university's traditions have faded away. 
Tim Shinnick 
senior 

off campus Michael Amenta 
sentor 
off campus Sept. 5 

Hovv to perform. a fire drill 
Yesterday afternoon (Thursday) I witnessed a bizarre and somewhat unsettling event take place in the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Fire alarms blaring, a steady stream of students poured down the stairs on the side of the building. At the base of the stairwell, students quickly followed the green "EXIT" lights directly to a door. This is when something rather extraordi­nary occurred. Seeing the "Emergency Exit Only" sign on the door's handle, the entire stream of fleeing Jordanites began frantically yelling at one another as they turned around 180° and jostled their way back into the main hallway in search of another door. 
Confused, I walked up to the door with three other physics majors and exited. 
Scott Feister senior Sr. Edwards Hall Sept. 5 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 8, 2008 
By JOEY KUHN Scene Writer 
While you were screaming your head off and throwing your hands into the air at the pep rally on Friday, another group of people was doing the same thing in St. Patrick's Park, just north of South Bend. This group, however, was giving it up not for the Notre Dame football team, but for a band called Umphrey's McGee. 
After a slew of uninspired videos at the pep rally, Umphrey's McGee was a refreshing breath of air. Their sound was constantly morphing and evolving, going from Styx-influenced stadium rock to psychedelic waves of sound effortlessly and seamlessly. The band members communicated these transitions to each other with hand signals, which somehow seemed oddly appropriate, what with their baseball hats and sporty attire. They didn't dress like the stereotypical hippie/jam band, con­trary to expectations. 
Umphrey's whole style seemed to be about "eontrary to expectations." They were always doing something surprising, and the surprises were pleasant. For instance, what started out sounding like their song "Higgins" actually turned into a stellar rendition of Pink Floyd's "Breathe." They also covered "Africa" by Toto. 
But the real strength of their show was not in their covers, but in their own unique sound and their epic jam sessions. 
The band is hard to put into any genre; they could be described as alternative or progressive rock, but they had moments in which they sounded like reggae, techno, acid rock and even a little hip-hop. The chord progressions are quirky and engaging, the lyrics are intelligent and meaningful, and the six-mem­ber depth of the band allows for intricate song arrangements. 
Many of their faster songs fea­ture helter-skelter, stop-and-start rhythms crafted by their two per­cussionists, Andy Farag and Chris Meyers. These two used both tradi­tional drum sets and more unusual percussion devices, such as bongos and cowbells, to achieve their sound. 
The two guitarists, Brendan Bayliss and Jake Cinninger, also employed a wide variety of strange effects, sometimes lengthening every note until they built on one another into some monumental chord, or sometimes damping their strings to sound almost like a ukulele. Backed up by the outstand­ing rhythm section of Joel Cummins on keyboards and Hyan Stasik on bass, the sextet was unstoppable. 
Umphrey's true strength unques­tionably comes from their improvi­sational prowess. This is where they really wowed the crowd. Their songs weren't really songs anymore, so much as pieces of sonic art being created before your very eyes. It was easy to get carried away with Cinninger as he felt out each note, often closing his eyes and letting his musical instincts guide him. 
As everyone who's ever been to a concert knows, though, the actual music isn't the only important aspect of the concert experience. The audience, the people surround­ing you, is just as important to the overall effect. Of course, most of the crowd was chemically induced, but that in no way detracted from the show. In fact, the slew of peaceful stoners and ex-hippies actually made the concert more fun. At least if the music ever got boring (which it didn't), there was some interest­ing people-watching. One guy had a scooped-out half watermelon rind on his head with glow necklaces sticking out of it. He looked like a giant neon daddy-long legs walking around in the crowd and spreading love, giving glow sticks to everyone. There were none of the pushy, over­bearing fans one usually runs into at concerts. 
Getting into the venue was a long and arduous ordeal, but that was probably the only truly negative part of the entire night. The tem­perature was pleasant and cool, and the sky was cloudless. At the end of the three-hour concert, which Umphrey's McGee divided into two sets, the techies even played the Notre Dame Victory March over the loudspeakers, cap­ping off a near-perfect night with a little Irish spirit. 
Umphrey's McGee has played in South Bend regularly for the past two years, making this concert their third in an annual series of concerts on Notre Dame's opening weekend. They come to South Bend often because several of the band mem­bers attended or have ties to Notre Dame, including Bayliss, who lived in Keenan Hall as an undergradu­ate. 
Umphrey's sound may not be for everyone; if you don't enjoy com­plex, carefully orchestrated song arrangements and mind-blowing, 15-minute long jam sessions, you might want to look somewhere else, such as mainstream radio. But for everyone else, if you're around the Bend next year, don't miss Umphrey's McGee. 
Contact Joey Kuhn at jkuhnl@nd.edu 


NSIDER 
OTHE Monday, September 8, 2008 BSERVER Notre Dame 21, San Diego State 13 
Aztecs ruined 
Notre Dame avoids embarrassment, beats San Diego State 21-13 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
It wasn't pretty, but Notre Dame rallied from a fourth quarter deficit to defeat the San Diego State Aztecs 21-13 Saturday. 
Mistakes marred Notre Dame's play, including two fumbles, two interceptions, a botched field goal attempt and several penalties. 
"We looked like a team that was playing their first game," coach Charlie Weis said. "You're happy with an ugly win because it's better than an ugly loss." 
But following three quarters of mistake-ridden football, Notre Dame's fortunes changed with 11:55 left in the fourth quarter. 
The Irish were down 13-7, and San Diego State had a first­and-goal at the four-yard line. 
Quarterback Ryan Lindley handed the ball to running back Brandon Sullivan, who sprinted toward the goal line. Just before Sullivan broke the plane for a touchdown, senior safeties David Bruton and Kyle McCarthy knocked the ball from his grip and recovered it in the end zone. 
It was "game-changing play," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
There was some disagree­ment on who caused the fum­ble, but Bruton wasn't going to argue. 
''I'm fine with Kyle saying I did it," he said. 
On the ensuing Irish drive, sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen completed 5-of-5 pass­es, including a 38-yard touch­first half. throwing a 43-yard pass to the punt, causing a five-yard it's the Super Bowl." down pass to sophomore wide Mistakes hampered Notre senior Darren Mougey, San penalty and a first down. Notre Dame's offensive line, receiver Golden Tate to take a Dame in the early portion of Diego State quarterback Ryan Kicker Lane Yoshida knocked which is one year older and 14-13 lead. Clausen threw the game. In the first quarter, Lindley scored the first touch­the extra point off the uprights, many pounds bigger, showed another touchdown pass to senior linebacker Maurice down of the game on a 1-yard however, and the Aztecs some improvement. senior David Grimes on the Crum, Jr. was charged with rush. remained at 13 A line that gave up a record Irish's next possession to make pass interference, and, later in "We have a lot points. 58 sacks last year (119th in the the score 21-13 and put the the same drive, roughing the of work to do," The San Diego NCAA) kept Clausen vertical game further out of reach of passer. Both penalties pro­Weis said. "I "I thought we would State offense the whole game. Also, there the Aztecs. longed an Aztec drive that thought we execute better, take relied almost were no false starts and only 
Tate had six receptions for 93 would have ended. would execute exclusively on one holding penalty, against
care ofthe ball 
yards and the touchdown along The Irish put their first prom­better, take care the passing junior guard Eric Olsen in the
better.,,

with a 28-yard kickoff return. ising drive together at the of the ball bet-game. Lindley, a fourth quarter. He also made a diving attempt beginning of the second quar­ter." redshirt fresh­Weis saw improvement in the in the fourth quarter, but it was ter, marching 68 yards in only The Aztecs man playing in team's confidence as well.
Charlie Weis 
ruled incomplete because the nine plays. That drive ended scored again in only his second "You know, there are times
Irish coach 
ball hit the ground. abruptly at the four-yard line the third quarter game, complet-when you look into (the play­
"[Tate] has become much when sophomore running back after senior ed 29 of his 59 ers') faces and you see a scared more of a receiver," Weis said. Robert Hughes fumbled and Vonnie Holmes pass attempts look," he said. "For the guys "He has very good ball skills, the Aztecs recovered. intercepted Clausen's pass in for 27 4 yards. playing in this game, that was­very good speed." On the next possession, on the end zoQe. Lindley led an Most fans did not expect San n't the look you were getting." 
Clausen finished the game third-and-11, Clausen hit soph­80-yard drive that ended in a Diego State to have such a But how will the team do 21-for-34 for 237 yards with omore receiver Duval Kamara 15 -yard touchdown pass to strong start, but senior safety from here on? three touchdowns and two in the hands, but Kamara Mougey. Kyle McCarthy, who had 14 "The jury's still out," Weis interceptions. His first touch­couldn't handle it and the ball That drive seemed to be over tackles in the game, did. said. down pass was a 22-yard shot ricocheted to Aztec safety T.J. after the Aztecs failed to con­"We're Notre Dame. Every to highly-touted freshman wide McKay. He returned the inter­vert a third-and-three at their team comes in here and plays receiver Michael Floyd with ception 16 yards to the Irish own 39, but senior safety Ray their heart out," McCarthy Contact Laura Myers at one minute remaining in the 44. Two plays later, after Herring jumped offsides before said. "They come in here like lmyers2@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Golden Tate Notre Dame receiver 

Tate caught six passes for 93 yards and a touchdown. 
stat of the game 
0 

Sacks allowed by Notre Dame,s offensive line. 
play of the game 
David Bruton's fumble recovery in the end zone 
The play gave the Irish the ball back and let them drive for the go­ahead touchdown . 
quote of the game 

"You're happy with an ugly win because it's better than an ugly loss." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

..... , .... l 1eV1eadO ~ 331V1 3~11J30AM 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 8, 2008 
report card 
8­8­8+ 
8 
C+ 

8+ 8­c 
quarterbacks: Clausen had three touch­down passes and two interceptions that weren't entirely his fault, but did not look off his receivers. He improved running the two-minute drill. 
running backs: Armando Allen and 
Hobert Hughes combined for 122 
yards, but averaged only 3.1 yards per 
carry. Both also fumbled, and both 
were recovered by the Aztecs. 
receivers: Michael Floyd, Golden Tate and David Grimes all caught touchdown pa<>s­!lS. Duval Ka.ma.ra allowed a pa'>.'> to be intnreepted after it hit hi<> hand<> and gave up on another interception in the end zone. 
offensive line: The line did not allow a. sack. but failed to block well on thi'rd­and-short. The linemen were also called for a hold. 
defensive line: The defensive line held San Diego State to 71 rushing yards. Although they pressured Ryan Lindley at times. he had ample time to throw most of the game. 
linebackers: Kerry Neal had an intercep­tion, and Maurice Crum Jr. had an up­and-down game. Harrison Smith was largely invisible and John Ryan had trouble getting inside. 
defensive backs: Kyle McCarthy had 14 tackles and Sergio Brown made plays all over the field. They did allow 274 yards and two touchdowns, along with a blown coverage that set up first-and-goal. 
special teams: The Irish blocked a punt 
and averaged 13.7 yards per punt 
return. The field goal unit, however, 
missed one and botched another. 
coaching: The Irish ran some predictable plays on third-and short, but the no-hud­dle oflimse was effective. Defensive penalties extended an Aztec drive, even­tually allowing them to score. 
2.70 
overall: They tmk their time, but the lri<>h eventually fbund an oflim­sive rhythm. 11m defense looked eoh~ive, and although it wa<;n't pmtty, a win's a win. 
adding up the numbers 
Catches by Notre Dame receiver Golden Tate. 
6 

Tate had six catches all of last season. 
23 
Net yards per punt by San Diego State punter Brian Stahovich. 
Third downs Notre Dame converted in 12 attempts.  3  
14 Tackles by safety Kyle McCarthy.  
Touchdowns thrown by Jimmy Clausen. Clausen  3  
has thrown three touchdowns in three of his last  

four starts. Times in five attempts the Irish converted when in the red zone. All-purpose yards by Armando Allen. 
158 

1 ()() 
Number of penalty yards on San Diego State. 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Irish receiver Duval Kamara, 18, watches as Aztec defensive back Vonnie Holmes intercepts Jimmy Clausen's pass in the third quarter of Notre Dame's 21-13 win over San Diego State Saturday. 
Unfulfilled, but still pleased 
Like most people who watched Saturday's game, I left Notre Dame Stadium feeling unful­filled. 
I can remember the Good 01' Days (read: 
when Brady Quinn was here). when a win meant 41­9 (I'm looking at you, Army) and you left knowing that we were the 


better team on Jay Fitzpatrick the field. You can 
Sports Writer 

delve into the stats as deep as you like. 3­for-12 on third down? Terrible. One of five in the red zone? Atrocious. Four turnovers (five including the botched field goal)? Nasty-and not the good kind. 
But before you go too far down the final statistics chart, go ahead and look at the top, 
and tell me what you see. 
21-13 final score? Pretty darn good. 
As a wise man in a commercial I once saw said, "A win's a win; a loss is a loss," and that's the attitude you should take. If for nothing else, you should think that because Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis is. 
"Are you happy with an ugly win? I told [the team], Yes, you're happy 

':4re you happy with an ugly win? I told [the team], yes, you're happy with an ugly win because it's better-than an ugly loss. I'll take an ugly win any day ofthe week." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 
with an ugly win because it's better than an ugly loss. I'll take an ugly win any day of the week," he said after Saturday's game. 
Fans might have thought they were experiencing de.Pt vu, that they were reliving last year's nightmare. The difl'erence? This team could win. and yet, neither did. 
Notre Dame fans seem to have Irish left tackle Sam Young developed the same short-term understood how important what memory that quarterbacks are didn't happen was as important all supposed to have. You can as what did. think about how "The way we did bad we were last it isn't exactly the year and make way we wanted to connections to this "The way we did it do it. ... I think the season, but you biggest thing this
isn't exactly the way
would be wrong. says is something
we wanted to do it ...
The offensive about our charae­line, while still not I think the biggest ter," he said. stellar, was at the Former Notre
thing this says is 
very least compe­Dame coach Lou
something about our
tent and, more Holtz wrote in his correctly, showed character. " autobiography, serious develop­"Wins, Losses and ment into a solid Lessons," that a
Sam Young
corps. The football team has 
Irish tackle 
defense, while to go through four 
stagnant under former defensive coordinator Rick Minter in Weis' first two sea­sons, went blitz-crazy under current D.C. Corwin Brown and new assistant head coach/defense Jon Tenuta. And quarterback Jimmy Clausen, by 
the fourth quarter at least, looked like he had shaken off the rust and was ready for some football. 
But the improve­ments would have meant nothing without the all­important W. 

This is where the team's biggest improvement shows through, not on a stat­sheet, just the result. 
Hemember last year, against Purdue and Boston 
College, when the Irish were losing and managed a partial comeback? They were so close, and yet couldn't push over the edge. Or against Michigan. when the team looked dead and could never overcome an early deficit? 
Both could have happened, 
stages before it 
can win: it has to 
learn to compete, 
then learn to win, then learn to 
handle winning, and then it can 
be champions. 

This blueprint provides a timeline without dates, some­thing that impatient Notre Dame fans need to understand. With a wholly inexperienced team last year, the Irish needed to learn how to eompete, they needed to build their character and become a football team. 
Now the team is winning. Sure, it's not the ideal way to win, or the prettiest of wins, but it is a win nonetheless. And for those of you keeping score at home, the Irish are sitting on a three-game winning streak dating back to last season. 
The most important thing this team needs right now is patience. The Irish won't be great this year and likely not next year, but they will be bet­ter each season. 
But as for right now, a win is a win, and that's good enough for me. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Monday, September 8, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
No-huddle offense jump-starts Irish 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's offense needed something to get going. The Irish had played three quarters and managed just seven points against San Diego State, team that allowed 29 points to Bowl Subdivision Cal Poly a week ago. 
But down 13-7 with 11:55 left in the game, and facing the prospect of losing its third home opener in four years, Notre Dame changed the pace of its offense, and by doing so, changed the outcome of the game. Oh, and it certainly didn't hurt that they had a little luck as well. 
San Diego State was about a foot away from taking at least a 12-point lead on Notre Dame, but somehow, thanks to safeties Kyle McCarthy and David Bruton, Aztec running back Brand Sullivan lost the football before crossing the goal line. That spark, combined with Notre Dame's switch to a no-huddle offense, helped the Irish take the lead. 
"You get stagnant, you're not converting, you have no rhythm going," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "One thing in a situation like that is you can get some rhythm going, but a lot of it's dependent on the quarter­back." 
And despite an otherwise shaky after­noon, Weis' quarterback came through on the go-ahead drive. 
Sophomore Jimmy Clausen went 5-for-5 on the drive, connecting three times with wideout Golden Tate for 63 yards, includ­ing a 38-yard go route for the go-ahead score. Clausen was 21-for-34 for 237 yards, two interceptions, and three touch­downs. But the drive showcased an improved Tate, who showed he acquired the ability this season to run a pass route other than a fly. 
"Golden has become much more of a receiver this year versus a running back playing receiver last year,"· Weis said. "Whether it be a go route where he keeps running now, his routes at the tops of breaks, running slants, I mean, he looked like a receiver, that's what he looked like." 
Tate added: "I felt like I was playing foot­ball out there." 
Notre Dame then ate up 6:30 using a steady diet of runs from Robert Hughes to take an eight-point lead. 
The final two drives were a night-and­day change from the first three quarters, which saw the Irish struggle to score even when the defense and special teams put them in ideal positions to do so. 
Weis had said prior to Saturday that he wanted the Irish running game to "pound it." Notre Dame ran for 105 yards, but that came against a depleted San Diego St. 

front seven. 

"Our defense, I was extremely proud of them," Aztec coach Chuck Long said. "We were down seven defensive linemen going into the game to injury. They fought. We had to switch some guys around. We put Russell Allen on the defensive line. He had two days of practice there. I thought those guys did a great job." 
Weis also emphasized getting out to a fast start, but his team didn't score until the waning moments of the first half. 
"I think we looked like a team that was playing their first game," Weis said. "That's what we looked like. I think we weren't executing very well on offense." 
The Irish still struggled even when they didn't have far to go to score. Following a punt return from running back Armando Allen to the San Diego St. 26 yard-line, and a personal foul penalty which brought the ball to the 13, the Irish failed to score after there was a faulty exchange on a field-goal attempt. 
Then, in the third quarter, Kerry Neal intercepted a pass from Aztec quarterback Ryan Lindley on the San Diego 17 yard­line, but Clausen gave it right back to San Diego, throwing a fade route -to Aztec corner Vonnie Holmes. 
But the offense didn't waste every gift the defense and the special teams gave them. In what Irish fans hope is a sign of things to come, Clausen connected with freshman wideout Michael Floyd for a 22-yard score following a blocked punt by Sergio Brown. 
"Michael has a world of ability," Weis said. "Just the more he gets on the field, the more production we'll get out of him. But I thought that was obviously a huge play, you know. That's the type of thing he can do, he can go up and make those plays. For a freshman to be able to come in and make a play like that, that's pretty good." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
•
scoring summary 

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total . ' Notre Dame 0 7 0 14 21 San Diego St. 0 7 6 0 13 
Second quarter 
San Diego State 7, Notre Dame 0' Ryan Lindley 1-yard touchdown run with 5:32 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 44 yards, 0:29 elapsed 
San Diego State 7, Notre Dame 7 Jimmy Clausen 22-yard pass to Michael Floyd with 1:14 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 21 yards, 
0:17 elapsed 
Third quarter 
San Diego State 13. Notre Dame 7 
Ryan Lindley 15-yard pass to Darren Mougey 
with 8:31 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 
4:31 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
-
Notre Dame 14, San Diego State 13 
Jimmy Clausen 38-yard pass to Golden Tate with 
9:43 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 2:12 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, San Diego State 13 
Jimmy Clausen 6-yard pass to David Grimes with 
2:08 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 55 yards, 6:30 elapsed. 
statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 
...... 
passing yards 

return yards 
...... 
time of possession SD 29:08
Coach Yonto honored before kickoff 

thing for which he's waited a At the post-game press confer­three of those guys to get into the By CHRIS HINE and LAURA longtime. ence, he denied suggestions that mix in the first half ... " Weis said.
MYERS 
"It was tough to wait," Brown he started calling plays in the "In the second half, what mini­
Sports Writers 
said. "I was itching to get in, and fourth quarter during his hurry­mized his opportunity to get on we had a bad season last year, up offense. He did admit, howev­the field that is when we go two­Before the game, Notre Dame and I was down in the dumps er, that he "got involved." minute, Armando is our guy and honored the memory of Joe but stuck it out. I took good Robert is our other guy in two­
passing

Yonto, who died Monday, August advice from good people." Best of the worst? minute." 
4. Yonto served as an assistant Brown made the most of his At the post-game press confer­
Clausen 21·34-2 lindley 29·59-1
defensive coach under Ara opportunity on Saturday, record­ence, SDSU coach Chuck Long Feverish halftime show Parseghian, Dan Devine, Gerry ing six tackles and blocking a was asked who was better, Cal­During halftime, former Notre rushingFaust and Lou Holtz from 1964-punt that led to Notre Dame's Poly or Notre Dame. Long Dame basketball coach Digger 1980 and 1986-1987. He was 83. first score. hemmed and hawed for a few Phelps emulated Christopher 
Allen 17·64 Sullivan 10-66 ''I'd been getting off on the ball moments before declaring, "It Walken in his classic 2000 Hughes 16-58 Henderson 2-13 
Toss-up really good all week and my man doesn't matter. They both beat Saturday Night live skit, asking receiving
Notre Dame won the toss but gave me a soft shoulder, and I us." the band for "more cowbell" dur­chose to defer to the second half, took it, left my feet, and was just ing its performance of "{Don't a rare occurrence during the hoping I got the ball when I did," Three's a crowd Fear) The Reaper" by Blue Tate 6-93-1 Kawulok 9-60 
Grimes 5-35-1 Mougey 5-97-1
Weis era. Weis explained that Brown said of the block. Coming into the season, Weis Oyster Cult. Phelps, along with 
Hughes 3-32 Wallace 4-40
when Brady Quinn was quarter­said he planned on using three nine band members, played cow­
Allen 3-18 Henderson 4-37
back, he wanted the ball in the Fresh start running backs-junior James bell and danced during the song. 
Kamara 1-28 Brown 3-19
hands of the offense as much as Kyle Rudolph became the first Aldridge and sophomores 
Floyd 1-22-1 Sullivan 2-7 
possible. No more. "I think you freshman in Notre Dame's histo­Armando Allen and Robert Full house Rudolph 1-5 Umuolo 1-7 have to make a statement to the ry to start a season-opener at Hughes. Allen finished with 17 Saturday's game marked the Yeatman 1-4 Shaw 1-7 defense, to let them know, 'I'm tight end. Rudolph had one carries for 64 yards and Hughes 200th consecutive sellout of 
tackling

counting on you,"' Weis said. reception for five yards. had 16 carries for 58 yards. Notre Dame Stadium, as well as Aldridge, however, didn't touch the 400th game played in it. 
McCarthy 14 Laolagi 13
What can Brown do for you? Handing over the reigns the ball, not part ofWeis' original 
Bruton 7 Milling 11
For Notre Dame safety Sergio After last season, Weis plan. 
Lambert 6 Holmes 7
Brown, San Diego State's pass­announced that he was handing "The problem is we were off Contact Chris Hine at 
Brown 6 Preston 5 
heavy offense was a chance to over play calling duties to offen­the field so much in the first half, chine@nd.edu and Laura 
Crum 6 Allen 4 get a lot of playing time -some-sive coordinator Mike Haywood. you know, the intent was for all Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu B. Smith 4 Williams 4 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 8, 2008 
Struggling to victory 
It wasn't inspiring. The start smaeked of last season, complete with inter­ceptions. fumbles and three-and-oul'i. ThP pass defense gave up big plays. The erowd booed before the first half was over, fearing the worst, and fans 
called for Dayne Crist. But the clouds cleared in the second half. David Bruton and Kyle McCarthy kept the game within reach, saving a touchdown and fim:ing a fumble to give Note Dame the ball. Jimmy Clausen found a rhythm with his receivers and ran an eflcctive no-huddle oll'ense to put the Irish ahead. The running game eontrolled the cloek late, and Clausen added the gravy when he hit David Grimes for a score to take an eight-point lead. llardly fantastic. somewhat hopeful. Good enough to beat Michigan? Doubtful. But better than last year, and at this point that's all that 
matters. -Bill Brink 

AMANDA SCHREIBER!The Observer 

Clockwise from top, Maurice Crum Jr. and Sergio Brown tackle Brandon Sullivan; Charlie Weis stands over Armando Allen after he was shaken up; Eric Olsen blocks for Robert Hughes; Pat Kuntz raises his arms to pump up the crowd; Allen tries to escape a tackle. 
------------~---------. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, September 8, 2008 
page 11 

called it quits after their only success, their collabora­tion with the Wayans brothers on the "Scary Movie" series, ran dry. 
Instead, determined to take bits and pieces of greater movies, throw in a few completely random appearances by pop culture personalities and mold them into a "comedy," the duo have trekked on, churn­

How Friedberg and Seltzer managed to create a comedy without an ounce of humor must befuddle viewers. Is it too much to ask for a "ha ha" moment every ten minutes? Then again, when you try to fit together a comedy by throwing random celebrity look­alikes into random scenes with actors who shouldn't have careers in comedy, horrendousness is bound to By SHANE STEINBERG Scene Writer 
Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer's latest foray into the beaten-up-and-left-for-dead genre of spoof comedy has resulted in ninety minutes of utter stupidity. 
Their latest brain-dead brainchild of a film, the aptly titled "Disaster Movie,'' is a beacon of all that is worth­less and beyond the point of saving in the entertain­ment industry. The equation may have worked for the self-proclaimed spoof kings in the past, but Friedberg and Seltzer, just as they did in "Epic Movie" and "Date Movie," have once again proven that they should have 
ing out piles of garbage. "Disaster Movie" is no excep­happen. tion. It's a calamity that a studio could actually be willing The plot of "Disaster Movie" alludes to such recent to fund a film like "Disaster Movie," but then again, if films as "Cloverfield" and "Indiana Jones and the one thing is certain in the entertainment industry, it's 
Kingdom of the Crystal Skull," as well as references to "Juno," "No Country for Old Men,'' "Enchanted" and "Superbad." 
Disa~ster Movie Directed and Written by: Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer Starring : Matt Lanter and Nicole Parker 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
Unoriginal in more ways than one, "Disaster Movie" is the latest spawn of a genre with a lot of cinematic history: the gag film. Scene examines the history of the Hollywood gag film by ranking some of its best-known examples into three distinct categories. Good gag films deserve multiple viewings of a well-worn IWD. In-between gag films might garner a rental and an oversize bowl of popcorn on a Friday night. Bad gag films deserve to be incinerated and n'wer seen again. 
The Good 
Airplane! (1980): Often seen as the granddaddy of all gag films, "Airplane!" is chock full of iconk film moments. Examples include seeing Barbara Billingsley, TV's June Cleaver, translate jive-talkin' with a white stewardess; a parody of the famed "Win one for the Gipper" speech, complete with the use of the Notre Dame Victory March; Robert Hays and Julie Hagerty's "Saturday Night Fever" dance mcves; and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar as himselfI co-pilot Robert Murdock. 
Hot Shots (1991): With the tagline ''The mother of all moYies!" 1991's "Hot 
The storyline, if you're generous enough to call it that, follows a guy named Will (Matt Lanter) who suddenly finds himself trying to save the world after being told an apocalyptic prophecy by none other than Amy Winehouse (Nicole Parker). 
From there, the plot basically disap­pears. Soon enough a host of overused Michael Jackson jokes are thrown in, and 
"Disaster Movie,, will probably go on to make a fair amount ofmillions, while quality scripts are overlooked in favor ofthe next idiotic film 

that stupidity sells. "Disaster Movie" will probably go on to make a fair amount of millions, while quality scripts are over­looked in favor of the next idiotic film. But really, what's the point of watching an unfunny comedy about other movies when you could simply watch the other movies and not feel like your brain cells are being murdered in the meantime? 
In the end, there are about one thou­sand ways to rip "Disaster Movie," but when all is said and done, bluntly put, "Disaster Movie" is nothing more than a 

the scenes get progressively weirder (or stupider). To grossly idiotic film made by supposed filmmakers who make a long and completely pointless story short, dur­ought to do audiences a favor and never work in ing one scene a man in a panda suit and a naked guy Hollywood again. screaming "I am Beowulf!" run around through "Night in the Museum." Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
GAG FILMS AND CORNBALL COMEDY: THE GOOD, THE BAD, AND THE IN-BETWEEN 
Shots" is a high-aiming comedy. the film features future "Two and a Half Men" costars Charlie Sheen and Jon Cryer, along with Lloyd Bridges and "The Princess Bride" star Cary Elwes. "Hot Shots" is an "Airplane!" meets "Top Gun" spoof directed by Jim Abrahams, co-director of "Airplane!" The on-film saga of Topper Harley (Sheen), a pilot in the U.S. Navy, also includes a legendary scene featuring Saddam Hussein loung­ing by a pool. 
The Naked Gun series (1988-1994): Based on the criminally cancelled "Police Squad!" series, "The Naked Gun" is Leslie Nielsen at his finest and most ridiculous. The first film details Sergeant Frank Drebin's (Nielsen) quest to uncov­er an assassination plot against Queen Elizabeth II. Its sequels, 1991's "The Naked Gun 2 1/2: the Smell of Fear" and 1994's "Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult," follow Drebin through various screwball exploits. The Hollywood Reporter recently wrote that a fourth "Naked Gun" direct-to-video film is also in the works. 
The In-Between 

Kung Pow! Enter the Fist (2002): A parody of Hong Kong action cinema, "Kung Pow!" features a battle sequence between our protagonist, the Chosen One (Steve Oedekerk) and a fighting cow named Moon Yoo who uses her udders as battle gear. 
Hot Rod (2007): While not exactly a gag film, Andy Samberg's first attempt at headlining a movie makes use of differ­ent gag film techniques. Plus, fans of Samberg's digital shorts on "Saturday Night Live" get their fill of the actor's comedic stylings here. 
Scary Movie 1 & 2 (2000-2001). The original "Scary Movie" was directed by Keenan Ivory Wayans, and featured the tagline "No mercy. No shame. No sequel." Ironically, the opposite has proven true, much to the chagrin of moviegoers. It's also ironic that the main source of parody in "Scary Movie" is "Scream," which itself was meant to riff on horror movie conventions. The origi­nal "Scary Movie" and its first sequel, "Scary Movie 2" (with the tagline "More merciless. More shameless. We lied"), are both worth a rental. 
The Bad 

Disaster Movie (2008): It seems odd that Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer would bother parodying films like Adam Sandler's "Don't Mess with the Zohan." Normally, successful films might deserve some good-natured ribbing, but "Zohan" was hardly worth its original on-screen appearance, let alone an allusive second. Add that to its ill-timed comedy in gener­al, and you've got a recipe for little more than a waste of time. 
Date Movie (2006): The creative team of Friedberg and Seltzer, who both cowrote the first "Scary Movie" film with four others, brought this gem to film audiences two years ago. Despite a high­ly respectable cast including Alyson Hannigan ("How I Met Your Mother"), Fred Willard, Eddie Griffin and Jennifer Coolidge, "Date Movie" was, much like those that came before and after it under the Friedberg-Seltzer masthead, an uneven collection of unfunny gags. 
Meet the Spartans (2008): Much like its Friedberg-Seltzer brethren, but with a slightly different name, "Meet the Spartans" was mainly focused on paro­dying 2007's "300." With Carmen Electra playing a key role, an assess­ment of the quality of "Meet the Spartans" can likely go without discus­sion. Lindsay Lohan, Paris Hilton and Britney Spears are unable to escape the parody machine, but all three have been mocked more successfully elsewhere. 
White Chicks (2004): Little needs to be said. Little can be said. Wrong, wrong, and painfully wrong. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy of movieweb.com The gag film genre mached its creative pea Andy Samberg prepares to take a daredevil leap in 1980 with the classic "Airplane!" "Hot Rod." The movie uses gag film techniques. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 8, 2008 
NFL 

Rejuvenated Favre leads Jets to victory over Dolphins 
Bengals' Carson Palmer throws for 99 yards in loss to Ravens; Cowboys embarass Browns as LeBron looks on 
early before finishing 26-for-
Associated Press 
43 for 251 yards. 

MIAMI -Brett Favre sank to "I just hate losing," one knee on the sideline, help­Pennington said. "I hate it as 
lessly watching the Miami bad as you can imagine. It 
Dolphins try to upstage his doesn't matter if it's the Jets or 
comeback with one of their anyone else, a loss hurts bad." 
own. New York's Dwight Lowery 
Six months after Favre batted away a pass by began a brief retirement, he Pennington in the end zone on made a stirring debut Sunday fourth down with 9 minutes as Broadway Brett. But in the left, but the Dolphins kept final minute the Dolphins coming. They converted a marched down the field while fourth-and-7 during a 53-yard Favre's New York Jets clung to drive that ended with six-point lead. Pennington's 11-yard touch­
What was he thinking? down pass to David Martin, "Don't score," he said. making it 20-14 with 3:27 left. Simple enough. Favre's new After New York punted, the beginning had a happy ending Dolphins started from their 39 when Darrelle Revis intercept­with 1:43 left. They reached ed Chad Pennington in the end the Jets 18, but when zone with 5 seconds left, and Pennington tried to hit Ted the Jets won 20-14. Ginn Jr. in the corner of the 
"It was shaky, but it's a good end zone, Revis had position start," Favre said. "It's a win, and made a one-handed inter­and you can never question a ception. win." That clinched the Jets' fifth 
Favre hardly looked like the consecutive win over their AFC retiring type, raising his arms East rivals. to signal a touchdown, then Favre was traded to New 
leaping and skipping to the York after his decision to delay bench, where he vaulted into retirement led to a messy the arms of two teammates. divorce with the Packers. The That was after he threw a 56-Jets hope Favre can transform yard touchdown pass on New a team that went 4-12 last York's second series. year into a playoff contender, 
He later improvised on and it didn't take long for him fourth down for a 22-yard to make an impact. seoring pass, and finished 15-Wearing his familiar No. 4, for-22 for 194 yards and his Favre went deep on the first 161 st victory, extending his play of the Jets' second posses­NFL reeord for starting quar­sion. Jerricho Cotchery caught terbacks. the long pass at the 5 and 
Favre said the game left him scored to complete the 56-yard and Troy Smith's infected ton­tion. home to the New York Giants, glad he's still playing at age play. At the other end of the sils, Fiacco deftly operated Chad Ocho Cinco, forced by the Cowboys lived up to all 38, and after 16 seasons in field, Favre celebrated like a within the system of new the NFL to wear Chad Johnson their preseason hype with a Green Bay, he feels at home rookie. offensive coordinator Cam on his jersey, was held to one solid all-around performance. with his new team. Cameron. The rookie went 15-catch for 22 yards. He praised They are the team to beat ip 
"I know I made the right Baltimore 17, Cincinnati 10 for-29 for 129 yards and no the blitz-oriented defense the NFC, and after one game, decision," he said in his The Baltimore Ravens suc­interceptions, and his touch­deployed by Ryan. it is hard to argue there is any Mississippi drawl. ''I'm a New cessfully launched a new era, down run put Baltimore (1-0) "Two thumbs up to him and better. York Jet. I don't know about a for coach John Harbaugh and up 17-3 in the third quarter. what they did today. It was With Homo completing 24 of native New Yorkian, or howev­rookie quarterback Joe Fiacco. "This is just a beginning for unbelievable, and I told him 32 passes for 320 yards, er you say it. Hey, I'm happy to The festive occasion was Joe," Harbaugh said. after the game," Ocho Cinco Dallas' offense controlled the beaJet." made complete by a few famil­If Fiacco was unnerved play­said. "I don't know what they clock and strung together four 
For the Dolphins, the loss iar friends: Rex Ryan and the ing in his first NFL game, he were playing. That's some long touchdown drives. The marked a disappointing start Baltimore defense. sure didn't look like it. Or feel playground defense." defense held one of the AFC's to the Bill Parcells era, and it Fiacco ran for a 38-yard like it. most potent offenses in check, was painfully reminiscent of touchdown in his first NFL "It's just football. It's a lot of Dallas 28, Cleveland 10 and except for some silly last year's 1-15 team. Parcells start, and the Ravens held the fun, though, just like it's T.O. and his talented team­penalties, the star-studded took over last December, but Cincinnati Bengals to 154 always been," said Fiacco, the mates were way too much for Cowboys had a dazzling debut. despite turning over more than yards and eight first downs 18th overall pick in the NFL the Browns. Owner Jerry Jones was all half the roster and hiring Tony Sunday in a victory. draft. "I think our offense was Terrell Owens caught a 35-smiles as was LeBron James, Sparano as coaeh, the "It's a thrill," Harbaugh said. in control all day. And obvious­yard touchdown pass, Tony Cleveland's NBA superstar and Dolphins gave up too many big ''I'm appreciative of (owner) ly we had a lot of help from Homo effortlessly picked apart longtime Dallas fan who spent plays and sputtered on offense Steve Bisciotti, (general man­our defense." Cleveland's secondary, Marion part of the pregame hugging until their frantie late rally. ager) Ozzie Newsome and the Ryan, retained as defensive Barber scored on a pair of 1-Jones and Owens and cannot 
"If we had made just one rest of the Ravens organization coordinator when Harbaugh yard runs and the Dallas seem to find it in his heart to more play, we eould have won for giving a no-name a chance replaced Brian Billick, put Cowboys opened a season they root for the other local teams. the game," receiver Greg to be a head coach in this together a game plan that ren­expect to end with a Super Owens had five catches for Camarillo said. "That's what league. We have a long way to dered the Cincinnati offense Bowl title by overwhelming the 87 yards, Jason Witten six for hurts." go, but this is a good start." helpless. Chris Perry gained 37 Browns on Sunday. 96 and Barber rushed for 80 
Pennington, playing against Thrust into a starting role yards on 18 carries and Coming off a 13-win season, yards and 16 carries before the team that released him in because of a season-ending Carson Palmer was 10-for-25 which ended with a bitterly leaving in the third quarter favor of Favre, drew boos shoulder injury to Kyle Boller for 99 yards and an intercep-disappointing playoff loss at with bruised ribs. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 

SOCCER REFEREES Needed for 2008 Fall Season ·The Stanley Clark School, a south side elemen· tary/middle school is located north of Erskine Golf course on Miami Street. Soccer referees are needed for 5·6th grade and 7 ·8th grade girls and boys soccer matches. Pay is $35.00 per game to licensed ref­erees. If interested. please contact Caryn MacKenzie, Athletic Director, at Stanley Clark School at phone #574-291-4200. 
Need sitter as needed for our 5 year old son. Need transportation. $10/hr. 574-271-1216. 
FoR RENT 
House for rent. Newly remodeled, beautiful 2 bedroom, 2 bath home on large lot. Walking distance to Notre Dame Campus on Berger Street, just east of the university. Ideal for faculty and/or small family. $1000/month +utilities. 
Call (574) 340-3895. 
Rooms 4 blocks from campus. $400 per month including utilities. 6 bed· room home also available. Call 574­532·1408. 
Home for rent for NO football weekends. 3 bdrm, 1.5 baths with eat-in kitchen. Just 2 blocks from NO campus. Contact Rocky at Rock0299@aol.com. 
TICKETS 
Wanted: NO football tix for family. 574-251-1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell 
NO football tickets. www.victorytickets.com. 574-232· 0964. 
BUYING SAN DIEGO STATE, MICHIGAN & PURDUE TIX. 574-654-0169 (LOCAL CALL). WANTED: Ml tix. Will trade. 57 4-276-8507. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. We have many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 or Ann Firth at 1­2685. 
For more information, visit NOs Pregnancy Resources website at: http:f/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http:f/osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 

Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1­800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
This is why fantasy football is really bad for your sanity. 
Happy 22nd Birthday, Emma! From, News. 

LOUND THE NATION 
Cnl\trlLED rROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES
Monday, September, 8, 2008 
page 13 
15 16  Brigham Young Alabama  628 611  15 17  
17  Penn State  547  19  
18  South Florida  475  18  
19  Wake Forest  419  20  
20  East Caronna  375  NR  
21  Fresno State  300  21  
22  Utah  235  23  
23  Clemson  175  22  
24 25  West Virginia Calitomia  145 128  8 NR  

MIAA Record Team 
1 Hope 2 Adrian 3 Alma 4 Calvin 5 Albion 6 Kalamazoo 7 Trine 8 SAINT MARY'S 9 Olivet 
around the dial 
NFL 
Vikings a1t Packers 7:00p.m., ESPN 
Broncos c:1t Raiders 
10:15 p.m., ESPN 


NCAA Football USA Today Top 25 

team potnts previous 
1 usc 1,481 1 2 Georgia 1,454 2 3 Oklahoma 1,370 4 4 Florida 1,306 5 5 Ohio State 1,289 3 6 Missouri 1,212 7 7 LSU 1,198 6 8 Texas 1,069 9 9 Auburn 1,017 10 
10 Wisconsin 946 11 11 Kansas 854 12 12 Texas 755 13 13 Arizona State 737 14 14 Oregon 665 16 
MIAA Womnn's Volleyball Conference Standings 


AP 
Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is helped off the field by medical personnel during the first quarter of New England's 17-10 win over Kansas City on Sunday in Foxborough. Brady injured his left knee on the play. 
Brady injures knee in Patriots' win 
Associated Press 

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­Tom Brady screamed. The fans went quiet. 
The seemingly inde­structible star of the New England Patriots lay on the ground, clutching his left knee. The NFL's reign­ing MVP and three-time Super Bowl champion was done for the day -at least. 
"He was in a lot of pain. When you hear a scream, you know that," Kansas City safety Bernard Pollard said after hitting Brady on the left leg mid­way through the first quarter. 
Untested Matt Cassel took over, and played well as the Patriots beat the Chiefs 17-10 in Sunday's opener. But they needed a last minute defensive stand to do it. 
There was no word on the extent of Brady's injury -"I am not sure what we are dealing with," coach Bill Belichick said -or how long he would be out. But his 128­game starting streak, third-longest in NFL histo­ry, is in jeopardy. 
"It kind of looked bad," Randy Moss said. "I know the show must go on and, hopefully, Matt Cassel is ready to step in." 
He was Sunday. That came as somewhat of a surprise after he failed to produce a touchdown in 17 exhibition series, lead­ing many to wonder if he would even make the team on which he backed up Brady the past three seasons. 
"He did a good job com­ing in and, obviously, made some big plays for us," tackle Matt Light said. "That guy's had a lot of criticism cast down on him and I felt like he stepped up and played like a professional." 
Still, the Patriots plum­meted from an exclama­tion point of an unbeaten 2007 regular season to a huge question mark in 2008. They lost the Super Bowl to the New York Giants 17-14 then went 0­4 in the exhibition season while Brady had a right foot injury and missed all four games. 
But for the first time in 57 games, Brady wasn't listed on the Patriots' injury report for Sunday's game. He completed seven of 11 passes for 76 yards. 
Cassel. who had thrown just 39 passes in his first three seasons, went 13­for-18 for 152 yards and one touchdown. 
"This is something I've been preparing for (for) a long time. It's not some­
. thing that we expected to come up on opening day," he said. "Since I've been here and been around Tom, he's always popped back up." 
Not this time. And Kansas City also had its 
IN BRIEF 

Colts open new stadium 
with "party" atmosphere 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts wanted a party atmosphere for their first NFL regu­lar-season game at Lucas Oil Stadium, so they opened it up. 
The Colts opted to play Sunday night's season-opener against the Chicago Bears with the retractable roof pulled back and the sliding glass window in the north end zone wide open. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell, who attended the game, called the new stadium "spectacular" and said the windows on both ends made the Colts' new stadium different from any other in the league. 
NFL rules allow the home team to make a decision about whether to open the roof 90 minutes before kickoff. It must remain open through the entire game unless the officials decide to close it for safety reasons. 
East Carolina in To~ 25 
for first time since 19"99 NEW YORK-East Carolina can't play the underdog role anymore. 
After opening the season by upset­ting two ranked teams, the Pirates earned themselves a place in the AP Top 25 for the first time in nine years. 
East Carolina was No. 14 in the media poll released Sunday. Southern California remained No. 1 and Georgia was No. 2. 
East Carolina's latest big win was its third straight against a ranked opponent, dating to last season's Hawaii Bowl victory against Boise State. 
East Carolina manhandled previ­ously No. 8 West Virginia 24-3 Saturday, shutting down Pat White and the Mountaineers' speedy spread offense. That came a week after the Pirates took out Virginia Tech. 
West Virginia dropped all the way to No. 25. 
For now, Chad Johnson 
can't wear Ocho Cinco 
BALTIMORE -Chad Johnson has changed his name, but his jersey remained the same Sunday. 
The Cincinnati Bengals receiver legally changed his name from Chad Johnson to Chad Ocho Cinco, but the NFL decided against allowing him to put his name on his jersey. 
"While the NFL has recognized the legal name change of Chad Johnson to Chad Ocho Cinco, the league informed the Bengals today that certain issues remain to be resolved before Ocho Cinco will be permitted to wear his new surname on his jersey," the league said in a statement. 
"He will wear the name Johnson on his jersey today and will be referred to as Chad Johnson on the official play-by-play sheet," the statement said. "Further questions should be directed to the league office." 
Feed your future 
See how many ways there are to create your own path at PwC. 
Begin at www.pwc.tv 
I

I ~. 
I I I 
I 
-----~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--­
Monday, September 8, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
BEACH VOLLEYBALL 
Olympic duo loses again 
May-Treanor and Walsh lose in semifinals of AVP Croc Tournament 
Associated Press 
SANTA BARBARA, Calif. ­Olympic beach volleyball gold medalists Misty May-Treanor and Kerri Walsh lost for the second time since the Beijing Games on Sunday and missed their first AVP Crocs Tour final since April 2007. 
In the biggest upset in women's volleyball this E:eason, No. 3 seeds Jen Boss and April Ross beat the top-seeded team of Walsh and May-Treanor 21­18, 15-21, 20-18 in a semifmal match of the AVP Croes Cup Shoo tout. 
Last week in Ohio, May-Treanor and Walsh lost for the first time in more than a year, dropping a 21-19, 10-21, 25­23 decision to Elaine Youngs and Nicole Branagh in The AVP Crocs Cup Shootout. That snapped the two-time Olympic champions' winning streak at 112 matches and 19 titles. Their previous loss came on Aug. 19, 2007, also to Branagh and Youngs. 
Boss and Ross knocked off Walsh and May-Treanor for the first time in a semifinal and for the first time overall since 2007, when the duo last failed to reach the finals of an event. 
Boss and Ross lost in the fmals then went on to come in second, falling in the final to Jenny Johnson Jordan and Annett Davis 21-16, 24-22. 
On the men's side, Olympic gold medalists and Santa Barbara residents Phil Dalhausser and Todd Rogers celebrated a hometown victory by winning the AVP Crocs Cup Shootout. They outlasted No. 6 seeds John Hyden and Brad Keenan 16-21, 21-19, 20-18 in a match that lasted 3 hours, 18 minutes. 
Dalhausser and Rogers trailed 14-9 in the third game before rallying to victory. 
MLB 
Manuel tossed for unusual dispute 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Phillies manager Charlie Manuel was ejected in the first inning of a crucial game Sunday night against the Mets for arguing an u:rrusual call: catcher's interference. 
New York slugger David Wright was awarded first base after a foul ball because plate umpire Jerry Meals ruled Chris Coste's mitt touched Wright's bat as he swung. 
Manuel came out of the dugout and the 6-foot-4 manager towered over Meals as he gestured and pointed down at the ump. After a long argument, Meals ejected Manuel while the Shea Stadium crowd roared. 
It was Manuel's fourth ejection this season. 
Replays showed Coste gri­macing and yanking his mitt back toward his body as Wright followed through on a late swing-though it was difficult to tell for sure if his bat grazed the glove. After the pitch, Wright immedi­ately turned around and pointed to Coste, who was charged with an error. 
Carlos Beltran hit Cole Hamels' next delivery for an RBI single and Wright slid safely into third on a close play, bringing Phillies bench coach Jimy Williams out for an argument. 
Carlos Delgado's two-run single gave the Mets a 3-1 lead, and pitching coach Rich Dubee paid a visit to Hamels on the mound. That made it two Phillies coaches and the manager on the field after five Mets batters. 
After winning the opener of a day-night doubleheader 6-2 behind Jamie Moyer, Philadelphia went into the nightcap one game behind the first-place Mets in the NL East. 
M~~dels Needed 
Looking for MODELS 
to model for Figure Drawing on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 12:30-3:15 PM during the fall semester. Modeling is done in the classical tradition, with nude poses. $20 per hour 
Please contact: Prof. Maria Tomasula at Tomasula.3@nd.edu 
Dept. Art, Art History & Design Riley Hall 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
'Glory Road' Hall of Fame coach dies at 78 
Haskins helped to break color barrier when he started five black players to win 1966 title 
Associated Press 

EL PASO, Texas -Don Haskins, credited with helping break color barriers in college sports in 1966 when he used five black starters to win a national basketball title for Texas Western, died Sunday. He was 78. 
Texas-El Paso spokesman Jeff Darby said the Hall of Fame coach died Sunday after­noon. He had no other details. UTEP was previously known as Texas Western. 
"The word unique does not begin to describe Don Haskins," former Texas Tech coach Bob Knight said. "There is no one who has ever coached that I respected and admired more than Don Haskins. I've had no better friend that I enjoyed more than Don Haskins." 
Haskins was an old-time coach who believed in hard work and was known for his gruff demeanor. That attitude was portrayed in the 2006 movie "Glory Road," the Disney film that chronicled Haskins' improbable rise to national fame in the 1966 championship game against Kentucky. The movie, which was preceded by a book of the same title, also sparked renewed interest in Haskins' career. 
"The myth that surrounds Don Haskins in the movie 'Glory Road' and what he did for black players is better said that he cared like that for all his players. To me that tells me more about the man than anything," Knight said. "There was never anyone like him before and there will never be one like him again." 
Former Oklahoma State coach Eddie Sutton said Haskins "had a tremendous impact on the college game. Anybody who's been around college basketball dating back to those days, they've seen how it changed after Texas Western won the national championship." 
Sutton said he hadn't talked to Haskins for at least six weeks. 
"Don had not been in good health and was having a hard time," Sutton said. "He'll be dearly missed. He was a great basketball coach." 
During his career, Haskins turned down several more lucrative offers, including one with the now-defunct American Basketball Association, to remain at UTEP as one of the lowest paid coaches in the Western Athletic Conference. 
Haskins retired in 1999 after 38 seasons at the school. He had a 719-353 record and won seven WAC championships. He took UTEP to 14 NCAA tourna­ments and to the NIT seven times and briefly worked as an adviser with the Chicago Bulls. 
His health had been an issue in his final coaching years, often forcing him to remain seated during games, and his program struggled after twice being slapped with NCAA sanctions. Serious health con­cerns continued in his retire­ment. In the midst of a series of book signings and other appearances Haskins was hos­pitalized with various woes. 
After his retirement, Haskins kept close ties with the Miners. The school's most recent hire, Tony Barbee, said he even met with Haskins just after accept­ing the job. 
"He is a guy who has forgot­ten more basketball than I will ever know," Barbee said. 
Haskins played for Hall of Fame coach Henry "Hank" Iba at Oklahoma State, back when the school was still Oklahoma A&M. Haskins was later an assistant under Iba for the 1972 U.S. Olympic team in Munich. 
As a coach, Haskins became a star early in his career by leading his Miners to the 1966 NCAA championship game, then making the controversial decision to start five blacks against all-white, heavily favored Kentucky, coached by Adolph Rupp. The Miners won, and shortly after that many schools began recruiting black players. 
"He took a school that had no reason to be a basketball giant and made it into one," Knight said. 
Haskins said he wasn't try­ing to make a social statement with his lineup; he was simply starting his best players. The move, however, raised the ire of some who sent Haskins hate mail and even death threats during the racially charged era. 
"When they won the national championship against the University of Kentucky, that changed college basketball," Sutton said. "At that time, there weren't many teams in the South or Southwest that had African-Americans play­ing. There was a change in the recruiting of the black athlete. It really changed after that. They've had a great impact on the game." 
The coach always was focused on the game of basket­ball. He had a reputation for working his players hard. 
"Don got more out of his teams and players than any coach who has ever coached college basketball," Knight said. 
"Our practices wore us out so much that we'd have to rest up before the games," said Harry Floury, a starter in the 1966 championship. "If you work hard all the time and if you go after every loose ball, you see things like that (cham­pionship) happen." 
Haskins is credited with helping Nate Archibald, Tim Hardaway and Antonio Davis, among others, make it to the NBA. 
In November 2000, Haskins was awarded the John Thompson Foundation's Outstanding Achievement Award during a tournament hosted by Arkansas. 
"We couldn't think of anyone that deserves this recognition more than coach Haskins," said Nolan Richardson, the former Arkansas coach who played under Haskins for two years. "He opened the door for African-American players to play basketball." 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 8, 2008 
TENNIS 

Murray defeats No.1 Nadal to reach first Grand Slam final 
Associated Press 

NEW YOH.K -Hafael Nadal 
hunched over, his chest heav­
ing, his hopes of reaching his 
first U.S. Open final fading fast. 

No one ever seems to run Nadal ragged. Andy Murray managed to do just that. 
Exhibiting precisely the sort of winner-vaporizing, oppo­nent-demoralizing defense new No. 1 Nadal usually employs, Murray reached his first Grand Slam final by completing a stunning, rain-interrupted 6-2, 7-6 (51, 4-6, 6-4 upset of the Spaniard on Sunday. 
"lin beat me because he was better than me," acknowledged Nadal. whose 19-mateh win­ning streak at major tourna­ments ended. "When he's play­ing aggressive, he can beat everybody." 
Now, instead of a third con­secutive Grand Slam final bntwenn Nadal and the man he replaced atop the rankings, Hoger Federer, it will be Murray vs. Federer on Monday night. 
Federer will be attempting to win his firth consecutive U.S. Open championship and 13th Grand Slam title overall. And Murray? The 21-year-old Sent is trying to beeome the first British man to win a major ten­nis title since Fred Perry at the 1936 U.S. Open. 
Get this, though: Murray owns a 2-1 career mark against Federer. 

"He's got loads of experience in these situations, and it's something new for me," Murray said. "I know I'm going to have to play great to have a chance of winning, but I've played well the last couple of weeks." 
The sixth-seeded Murray won the first two sets against Nadal and was down a break at 3-2 in the third in Louis Armstrong Stadium when play was sus­pended Saturday because of Tropical Storm Hanna. As should surprise no one, the generally indefatigable Nadal made a stand when they resumed things in Arthur Ashe Stadium on Sunday, taking the third set and going ahead 3-1 in the fourth after saving seven break points in one game. 
"It was almost slipping away," Murray said. 
But he took five of the last six games, twice breaking Nadal, who later said he "wasn't very fresh" and complained that the 
U.S. Open plays the men's semi­finals the day before the final. 
While they were exerting themselves, striding and sweat­ing this way and that, the sec­ond-seeded Federer went through more-relaxed paces in a practice session Sunday. He managed to get through his semifinal before the rain arrived Saturday, beating Novak Djokovic in four sets for a 33rd consecutive victory at the U.S. Open. 
After that match, Federer said he'd prefer to play Nadal in the final, mentioning his loss-es to his nemesis in the French Open and Wimbledon finals this year. 

"I mean, I'd like to play Andy, as well, but obviously he hasn't been as good as Rafa for the past years, you know," Federer said Saturday. "But I'm sure he will be, you know, at the top of the game for a very long time, because I always thought Andy has incredible talent." 
Murray entered his first major semifinal 0-5 against Nadal as professionals. Nadal, meanwhile, was hoping to become only the fourth man in the 40-year Open era to win three consecutive Grand Slam titles, joining Hod Laver, Pete Sampras and Federer. And while he did win the gold medal at the Beijing Olympics, Nadal has never had as much success on the hard courts of the U.S. Open as on the clay of Boland Garros or the grass of the All England Club. 
While Murray's skills have been clear since he won the 2004 U.S. Open junior title, he knew he had work to do. With a new team of support staff since the end of last year, he's focused on improving the strength of his body and mind. 

Welcome to 21st century student apartments. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 



luxury apartments
IIIrish 
ROW 


Monday, September 8, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


Thinking about Europe;~ Comeseeusl 
* 
~ 
"'-.....,: .... 

NANOVIC 
I NS"l'l'T'UTE 
FOR E U RC) PEA N s·ru D! E S 


Tri-Color Tortellini, signature Sizzelini® and generous portions of Italian Classics like Lasagna and Chicken Parmesan 
CATERING 
For et•e1:r occasion 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 1332 Hilltop Rd. St. Joseph, Ml • {269) 983-9900 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
Irish 
continued from page 20 

minute of the second half. Duke tied it at 1-1 with a set play off a corner kick. 
Sophomore Lauren Fowlkes gave the Irish the 2-1 lead with her first goal of the season. Senior Rebecca Mendoza fol­lowed just four minutes later to secure Notre Dame's win at 3-1. 
The Irish return to Alumni field when they take on Southern Methodist Friday. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
NFL 

Falcons rookie Ryan 
wins first start as QB 

Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Matt Ryan hopped down the field to celebrate after his first NFL pass, knocking down teammate Todd McClure along the way. 
That was about the only stum­ble as the Atlanta Falcons started anew era. 
The new quarterback did just fine. The new running back looked like an All-Pro. The new coach was beaming. 
Ryan became the first quarter­back in eight years to throw for a touchdown with his first pass, Michael Turner rushed for a team-record 220 yards and the Atlanta Falcons put Michael Vick in their rearview mirror with a 34-21 victory over the Detroit Lions on Sunday. 
"We wanted a fast start, and I thought we did that," said Mike Smith, who had never been a head coach at any level until the Falcons gave him a shot. 
Indeed, Atlanta scored on its first three possessions for a 21-0 lead. Ryan, the third overall selection in the draft, looked wor­thy of the starting job bestowed on him after just three preseason games. In keeping with that numerical theme, he hooked up with Michael Jenkins on the third snap of the game for a 62-yard touchdown pass. 
The running game did most of the damage, with Turner han­dling the bulk of the load. Atlanta's big free-agent signee broke off a 66-yard touchdown, scored again on a 5-yard romp and had another TD called back by a penalty. Even with that set­back, he averaged 10 yards on his carries to break the team record of 202 yards set by Gerald Riggs in 1984. 
"I always wondered what it would feel like to break a record," said Turner, who also set an NFL record for most yards by a runner in his first game with a new team. "It just happened." 
The Lions resembled, well, the Lions. They bickered among themselves on the sideline, showed just how meaningless the preseason is (they had won all four exhibition games) and slipped to 31-82 since the start of the 2001 season. They surren­dered a staggering 318 yards rushing, allowing the Falcons to break their franchise record. 
"It happened, and it was bad," coach Rod Marinelli said. 
The Falcons decided to start over after Vick was caught up in a dogfighting scandal last year. He pleaded guilty to federal charges and headed off to serve a nearly two-year sentence, leaving his former team to struggle through a dismal4-12 season. 
Afterward, the team brought in a new general manager (Thomas Dimitroff), hired a new coach and used its first pick on Ryan, who was quickly anointed Vick's suc­cessor. 
So far, so good. 

Atlanta took the opening kick­off and handed the ball to Turner on its first two snaps. Then, Ryan found Jenkins on a slant over the middle, hitting him in stride at the Detroit 45 and watching him streak all the way to the end zone ahead of Travis Fisher and Gerald Alexander. 
Ryan raced down the field to celebrate, knocking over McClure when he jumped on the center's back. Michael Bishop was the last quarterback to throw for a touch­down in his first NFL pass, doing it with New England in 2000, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
"I was fired up," said Ryan, who completed his first five pass­es and fmished 9-of-13 for 161 yards. "You have to play this game with emotion." 
While Bishop lasted only one year in the league -and it would be his lone TD pass -the Falcons are counting on a much longer stay for Ryan. 
"He didn't seem like a rookie," Turner said. "He took control of the huddle. He made all the right calls. He was a real drill sergeant out there. He was letting every­one know he was in control." 
With Norwood chipping in to rush for 93 yards, including a tO­yard touchdown that gave Atlanta a 31-14 lead late in the third quarter, the Falcons aver­aged 7.6 yards per run on their 42 carries. 
Jon Kitna threw a couple of touchdown passes for the Lions, hitting Roy Williams from 21 yards and Casey FitzSimmons on a 1-yard score, but Detroit gave few indications they are over last season's 1-7 finish, which ruined a 6-2 start. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 8, 2008 
Berticelli 
continued from page 20 
match with South Florida, a Big East team that Notre Dame is not scheduled to play during the conference season. The Irish victory will not count in the Big East standings. 
Junior midfielder Justin Morrow started the scoring in 24th minute on an assist from senior forward Bright Dike. That began a string of four goals in 11 minutes for the Irish, who pressured the Bulls defense and created opportuni­ties for shots and corner kicks. 
In the 28th minute, Dike con­verted a corner from freshman Brendan King for his team­leading third goal. Sophomore midlielder Josh Thiermann did the same four minutes later, giving King his second assist of the day. 
Thomas added an unassisted goal in the 35th minute and Brovsky capped the scoring with his first goal in the 78th minute. 
"We started the game on Friday the exact same way that we started today," Clark said. "We didn't get the goals on Friday like we got the goals today ... I thought it was a very workmanlike performance. A lot of people worked very, very hard and I feel the team is growing every game now and the trick is to keep it going." 
Senior goalkeeper Andrew Quinn continues to establish himself as the prime man in net for the Irish, notching his first clean sheet of the season Sunday after a solid perform­ance Friday. 
In addition to bringing home the tournament's team title, Thomas was named the offen­sive MVP while senior defender Matt Besler was selected as the tournament's top defensive player. Donohue and Dike were also named to the all-tourna­ment squad. 
The Irish open Big East play at home Thursday against Marquette at 7 p.m. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles place fourth in the Hokem Karem race 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Cross Country team traveled to Crawfordsville, Ind., on Saturday and placed fourth in the Hokem Karem race, an event known for its peculiari­ty. 
"The 1-Iokem Karem isn't a tra­

ditional race," head coach Jackie 
Bauters said. "It is a relay with 
pairs, where each pair runs 2 x 1 
mile race for a total of four miles 
per pair." 
The scores were based on the 

top three finishers from each 
team. 
The first Belles to cross the fin­

ish line were junior Megan 
McClowry, and freshman Arianne 
Rodriguez. McClowry and 
Rodriguez finished 1Oth overall 
with a time of 23:45. Rodriguez is 
a native of Sandusky, Ohio and 
McClowry is from Naperville, 
Illinois. 
The second team to cross the linish line for the Belles was sen­ior Caitlin Brodmerkel and fresh­man Joanne Almond. This pair finished 19th overall with a time of24:44. 
Another Saint Mary's team fin­ished just behind Brodmerkel, and Almond. Sophomores, Caite Salyer, and Clare McVey finished 20th overall with a time of 24:56. 
With these finishes the Belles finished with a score of 38. Indiana Tech claimed the victory in the race. 
"The team is looking great," Bauters said. "And while 1 believe they are all working very hard, without much outside competi­tion I think it isn't as true a rep­resentation of what they're capa­ble of at this time. We have work to do but I'm very happy with the start to the season." 
Senior Becca Mason and fresh­man Hanna Vicary finished 28th overall with a time of 25:45. 
Sophomore Kristy Kucharski and senior captain Alicen Miller were next across the fmish line with a time of 26:17. 
The team of sophomore Angie Bronicki and junior Ellen Pfister linished 45th in the race with a time of 27:31. Right behind them was the team of senior Caitlin Stevenson and junior Kelly Payne in 46th place, only six seconds behind Bronicki and Pfister. 
Senior Erin Seidlemann and sophomore Lauren Easton fin­ished 47th at 27:52. Junior Kate Peters and sophomore Stephanie Waite fmished 49 with a time of 
29:12. Freshman Cece Witous and junior Taylor Flaherty fin­ished 50 with a time of 29:31. 
"So far I believe they are han­dling the balance of being a stu­dent-athlete well," Bauters said. "I believe the team and myself really try to create a supportive, positive environment for every­one to succeed in. While the first week was a bit of a jolt back to reality, they all have continued to be 100 percent on their game at practice." 
The Belles will travel to the Bradley Invitational next Friday in Peoria, Ill. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Idaho 

continued from page 20 
Dame dominated Washington State (3-3) three sets to one for one of their biggest wins, but was dominated by Eastern Washington (3-3) and Idaho (5-l) by scores of 1-3 and 0-3 to finish things up. 
"We were very good against Washington State, but we struggled against the other two teams," Brown said. "Against Idaho we had our most error-prone match of the year. We were unable to make the adjustments." 
The first match against Eastern Washington on Friday was a very hard fought affair, with the teams often tied and exchanging the lead. The first set saw five ties and two lead changes that result­ed in a two-point win for Eastern Washington. 
The Irish came right back in the second set and fought through 10 ties and five lead changes to earn the second set and tie up the match. The rest of the match went Eastern Washington's way, with the Eagles winning the third set by two points and the fourth and final set by six. 
The one bright spot for the Irish in the match and the entire weekend was junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin. Against Eastern Washington, Kaelin had 20 kills for a .286 average and 
Veselik 
continued from page 20 
Crusader Open. Sophomore Marissa Treece finished first overall with a time of 17:42 on the 4K course. 
"It's how we wanted to start the season," senior Becca Bauman, who came in sev­enth with a time of 18:35, 
:::<:::::· t:w. ::!:%~ 

five digs. Overall on the week­end she had 34 kills. 
"Christina Kaelin's offense was dominant," Brown said. "She really wanted the ball and had some really good matches. She was playing at the level she is capable of." 
Junior setter J a mel Nicholas pitched in with 35 assists. 
The Irish followed up their hard-fought match against Eastern Washington with a three-set sweep of Washington State on Saturday morning. 
Kaelin had 10 of her kills against the Cougars, and Nicholas contributed a dou­ble-double with 10 digs and 20 assists. Freshman Frenchy Silva also added 10 digs for the Irish. 
The Irish hit a .313 average in the match including .342 and .406 hitting percentages in the last two sets. 
The Irish dominated the first set from the onset, win­ning by nine points. The Cougars kept things close throughout the second set, but the Irish won four of the last five points to take the set by three. The final set flew by with a 25-14 Irish win. 
"You always want to string points together in a row," Brown said. "That is when lopsided games can occur." 
The Irish saw themselves on the other side of a lopsided 
"It was a variety of things [that led to the errors]," Brown said. "Our first contact wasn't good, and we were chasing the ball all over the court and miscalculating." 
Freshman outside hitter Kristen Dealy had 15 digs in the match, and sophomore outside hitter Kellie Sciacca had 10 kills to lead the Irish offense. 
The Irish kept things close in the first set, losing by only four points, but dropped the other two sets by margins of eleven and eight. 
The problem for the Irish on the weekend was their inabil­ity to be consistent from set to set and from game to game. 
"We need to find the best combinations of players of players in certain situations," Brown said. "We were having inconsistencies in individual players and we just need to be more consistent overall." 
Being inconsistent can be a killer for a team, as it only takes a couple runs by an inferior team to run away with a game. 
"With the 25-point games we play now, if you give up three or four points in a row in a given game, that can be the difference in a match," Brown said. 
The Irish will be back in action on Friday against Cal Poly to start the Diet Coke Classic in Minneapolis, Minn. 
game on Saturday evening when host Idaho swept them Contact Jared Jedick at in straight sets. jjedick@nd.edu 
said. "Our goal was to have seven in the top 10, and we ended up with 8 in the top 11." 
Bauman said the team's main accomplishment was running well together, which is evident in their close finish. 
"We have room to improve, and the competition is going to get tougher," senior Emily Wauford, who finished eighth with a time of 18:39, said. 
The women did not run any freshmen in the race because head coach Tim Callahan wanted to give them more time for conditioning. 
The next meet for the men's and women's teams is the National Catholic Championships, which takes place Sept. 19 at Notre Dame. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

---------------------===== 
Think you ha-ve vvhat it takes? 
Start the applicatic::n-• prc::>cess tc::>clay at: http://c::>ptiv-er_ennect-cc::>m/ev-ents/nc::>tredame 
To learn more about Op1:iver, please .stop by our booth on Sep1:em ber 1 0 a1: the Fall Career Expo 2008. 

Monday, September 8, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek
JJfJJWIDILJK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square. 

to form four ordinary words. 
KIMPS 
j

I I [ (] 
¢!2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
f~f~l1 
I 
YULOHN 

[l] b
www.jumble.com 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

A "r I I I I ]" rI I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TWEAK HIKER MATURE PARDONSaturday's 
Answer: When the wealthy matron was caught shoplifting, she found it -HARD TO "TAKE" 

WHAT THE: C.OME:DIAN GAVE: THE: HE:C.Kl-E:R 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
CROSSWORD 
Across 26 1947 semi-50 Bigger and Claimed as docu,nentary-stronger 
one's own style crime 51 Class struggles? drama
8 Paper binder 52 Sanctions 27 Aces 
15 Sandlot game 53 Pro performer 
16 Draft pick 29 Communist 54 Others federation: Abbr.
17 Looking ragged 55 Expose and 
18 Lined with trees 30 Comnon site of destroy archaeological
19 Rock guitarist remains
born·David Down 
Evans 31 They mean 
Guinness Book nothing
20 Mike Brady of weather record "The Brady 35 Red stain in a category Bunch," e.g. lab 
2 Former home of 21 Half a nursery-37 Dance in a pit the N.F.L.'s rhyme spider's Rams
41 Running wild description: Var. 
3 Cooling-off 
22 Longtime period45 Carrying on 
43 "It's I rue!" 

"What's My 
4 Spoils Line?" panelist 
46 First name in 5 Immobile in
eleclrical23 "Go jump in the winter

engineering

lake!" 
6 Not wait for an47 Run.. in25 Begin, as an 
invitation enterprise 49 Made happy 
7 Eye sore 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Bath and others 9 Carnegie Mellon athletes 
10 King of Belgium 
11 Races 
12 Pantries . 
13"_ and Franklin," 1976 biopic 
14 Makes flush 
24 Drum accompanying a pipe 
25 The Marbles 
THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
28 Island said to be 35 Young members 40 Control tower 
the home of of a convocation equipment 
Homer's tomb 36 Melville's 42 Purrer 

Ishmael, e.g. 37 Comes through 44 Links with 31 "Again?!" 
32 With no time to 
successfully
lose 48 Once, long ago 

38 Bristol Cream 
33 Celebrity chef 
ingredient 

49 Woodwind 34 Scoundrel 39 Guide feature? instrument: Abbr. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or. with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Devon Sawa, 30; Corbin Bernsen. 54; ­Julie Kavner, 58; Gloria Gaynor, 59 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotions stand in the way of a good decision. The people you really want on your side will want to see something with substance. You have the ooods. so set your priorities and you. will gail~ the ground you need to be successful Remam moderate. adaptable and !Teethmkmg. Your nnmbers are 9. J.t 22,28,36.41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Choose a destination for travel. With the right place, you'll be off on a new adventure. Don't get down because of the changes going on around you professionally or educationally. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't give in to spending because someone is put­ting pressure on you. Find out more about an interest you have or get involved in a course that will help you find a better job. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Partnerships and making a change to vour current po­sition are probably your best bet. High energy and lots of activny will show you at your fmest. Share your ideas and multitask your way through all that needs to be done. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't take what others say or do too seriously. There will '?" plenty of discussiOn regarding your home and personal life. Rally some sup­port from the fnends or family members who can help you out. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can push and persuade until you !(et your way. Plan a fun activity that wi11 allow you to show your skills and make an1mpression on someone you fancy. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Emotional issues will snrface that have probably been tucked away for some time. You may have to dig deep into your past if you want to resolve the way you feel and the effects it is havmg on your personal life. 1 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Use your Libra charm and intellect to find out what you need to know. A little probing will help you decipher what everyone arouud you is doing so you can add your own unique touches. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let your emotions take over, especially if . someone IS d1sapprovmg or condescendmg. A change Ill your soc1al structure With both business and personal friendships should be altered. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Avoid taking on too much and do what you can from home. Don't confront someone who is questioning your whereabouts or your intentions. A sudden disruption or change is apparent if you are insensitive to someone's needs. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Use your imagination and yon will find a way to make something out of nothing. Travel less and you will get more done. This is not the best dav to discuss serious matters with partners or those who can influence your life. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): There are benefits heading your way if you re· structure your fiuances and resolve pending legal or health problems. Romance is opening up but, if you choose to get involved with someone for the "Tong reason, a missed opportunity will occur. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stick to the truth and what yon can be sure of. If you let emotions get involved, mistakes will result. Problems with seniors or people in charge will develop if you keep changing your mind. Keep a low profile. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a thinker, a dreamer and a player. You act whatever part is required to do what needs to be done. You are popular and good-humored. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroad\'ice.com for fun. mgenia/ost.com for confidential COJISultaJions 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City ______________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
. 
PORTS
Monday, September 8, 2008 page 20 
' 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Squad takes care of pair of top-15 teams over the vveekend 
Just six minutes into the sec­gent play after she saw the keep­the Irish net. With a strong quarter of the game. Hanks By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
ond half, senior Brittany Bock er off her line," Irish coach defensive line, the Tar Heels had broke past the defense to send a Sporrs Writer 
drilled a 30-yard goal that came Randy Waldrum said. "From that to resort to threatening from 20-yard shot over Hodenbough's with a little bit of luck as well as angle we were at, we could tell it outside the box. With less than fingertips only to hit the cross­
As No. 4/5 Notre Dame faced continued pressure from the was going to be trouble right 20 minutes remaining in the bar. Just missing a chance to the daunting task of going toe-to­Irish offense. away and it just kept going right match, junior forward Nikki widen their lead, the Irish would toll with a pair of top-15 teams Senior Kerri Hanks broke free into the net." Washington fired a shot that finish the game with the 1-0 vic­this past weekend, the Irish off a pass from sophomore However, North Carolina came nearly missed the Irish goal from tory. defense didn't back down. In Taylor Knaack, but Tar Heels fighting back to test the Irish 20 yards out. The Irish took to the field l'aet, it took the challenge with senior goal keeper Anna defense and junior goalkeeper "We're very pleased with this again Sunday against Duke in determination, and wound up Rodenbough denied her drive. Kelsey Lysander. The defense, win and especially happy with their final game of the Carolina victorious against No. 2/3 North Rodenbough tried to clear the led by senior Carrie Dew, turned the play of our defense," Classic. Carolina on Friday and No. 12 ball, but it landed at Bock's feet. in another strong performance, Waldrum said. "We kept our Like Friday, the Irish struggled Duke on Sunday. Bock took advantage of the forcing Lysander to make only shape well and didn't get flus­to get on the board until the sec­
-
Notre Dame took the lead early empty net and her 30-yard drive three saves in her second con­tered when they made their run ond half. Hanks opened up scor­in the second half against the sailed over the keeper's head secutive shutout of the season. at us after our goal in the second ing for the Irish scoring off a Tar Heels, but it was the defense and into the upper left corner of North Carolina shots from junior half." cross from Bock in the first that held the margin together the net. Casey Nogueria and freshman The Tar Heels defense was and paved the way for victory. "Brittany made a really intelli-Merritt Mathias that just missed nearly caught off guard in final see IRISH/page 17 
MEN's SoccER 

-Defending the homestead 
Irish display dominance with pair of wins over Dartmouth and South Florida to take tournament championship 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

No. 8 Notre Dame snuck by Dartmouth 2-1 Friday before blowing out No. 5 South Florida 5-0 Sunday to win the Hilton Garden Inn Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, held at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame ( 3-1-0) has now won its last three games, scor­ing 11 goals in those matches after losing its season opener 3­0 to Akron on Aug. 29. 
"This was a very good tourna­ment," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "To come out on top of it with two good wins is a good start. And that's all it is, a start. It maybe makes a statement that this team can score goals. ... We have a lot of guys that can contribute and that's very important." 
N D VOLLEYBALL 
Senior Veselik finishes 
Erratic play mars weekend 
fifth despite loss ofshoe
Inconsistency at Idaho Volleyball Classic brings season record to .500 
Junior midfielder Dave Donohue secured Friday's win with the go-ahead goal in the 89th minute from sophomore forward Jeb Brovsky. 
Notre Dame got on the board early thanks to junior midfield­er Michael Thomas' first goal of the season in the sixth minute. The Big Green tied it, however, just two minutes into the sec­ond half on a corner kick. 
"I never felt comfortable in that game mainly because of' how they handled their corner kick and long thmws," Clark said. "But, we stuck to it and I felt in the last 20 minutes we got a hold of things ... Full marks to Dartmouth, they played very well." 
The Irish appeared to carry the momentum from Friday's dramatic win into Sunday's 
see BERTICELLI/page 18 

By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame had an inconsis­tent road-trip at the Idaho Volleyball Classic this weekend in Moscow, ld., to drop their season ma1·k to 3-3. 
"We were pretty disappoint­ed in our pcrformanee," head eoach Debbie Brown said. "We made a lot morn errors than we should have. and we are not where we want to be at this point in the season." 
Tho Irish played some of their best volleyball of' the year this weekend. as well as some of their worst. Notre 
see IDAHO/page 18 By LAURA MYERS 


Sports Writer 

Kevin Veselik proved that "Impossible is Nothing" by kicking off his Adidas. 
The senior runner finished first among Notre Dame's squad and fifth overall at the Crusader Open in Valparaiso, Ind., Friday, even though another runner kicked off his shoe halfway through the race. 
Veselik was in first place before another runner clipped his shoe off with three kilome­ters to go in the 6K race. A lit­tle after that, Veselik said, yet 
CASEY CARNEY !The Observer 
another competitor hit his bare 
Freshman Beth Wildermuth sets the ball against Valparaiso 
foot with the spikes in his shoe. 
in a 3-11rish loss on Aug. 31. "It hurt when it happened," 
Veselik said, "but I didn't really feel it after that." 
Veselik finished with a time of 19:48. His Herculean effort helped propel the Irish to sec­ond place out of five in the invitational. 
However, Veselik preferred to talk of the team's performance over his own. 
"We have a lot to improve upon," he said. "We'll be much better." 
He said the team is focusing on its major goals of the Big East and NCAA tournaments, and using the season's races as a stepping-stone to those two. 
The women's team came in first of six teams at the 
see VESELIK/page 18 




