
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
The long journey home 
Friends come together to help cancer patient George Porter-Young return to his family in England one last time 
By CHRIS HINE News Writer 
On a bitter cold January day in South Bend, Dr. Dean Park walked into George Porter-Young's hospital room and shut the door. 
Over the past few weeks, George, 72, had been passing out during his breaks at work in Sbarro's in the LaFortune Student Center, a pattern that alarmed his doctor. Dr. Park, an oncologist, had put him through a rigorous regimen of tests -from X-rays to multiple bone marrow drills ­but this time George sensed something was different in Dr. Park's demeanor; he rarely shut the door to talk to George. 
"I said, 'Hello, something must be up," George said in his British accent. It's been 42 years since George left his family in England and came to America, but he never lost that accent so many customers in LaFortune have come to love over the past eight years. "You closed my door, you must want some privacy." 
Dr. Park confirmed George's intuition. "I've got some bad news for you," he said. 
But before Dr. Park could speak another word, George interrupted him. George was fed up with all the tests he was taking and the time he was spending in the hospital. He didn't want more tests. He didn't want Dr. Park skirting the issue. He just wanted to know the truth, no matter how chilling it was. 

"Do me a favor," he told the doctor. "You better tell me the truth, because ifyou don't tell me the truth, I'll be your worst enemy. But ifyou tell me the truth, then I'll be your best friend." 
Dr. Park told George the truth. "You have myelodysplastic syndrome," Dr. Park said. 
But George had no idea what that was. "It's bone cancer," Dr. Park said. "And it could lead to leukemia." 
Leukimia? George knew from experience -his uncle had suffered from it -that leukemia was not curable. And so, George asked one of the most painful questions of his life. 
"How long do I have left to live?" he asked. 

"Six months to two years. But maybe more," Dr. Park said, trying to put as posi­tive of a spin on it as he could. 
At first, George's mind went blank. 
"I said 'Well, there's only one person who knows when I'm going to die,"' George said. "And that's God. I'm sure he will let me know when it's my time." 
After a few seconds he thought of one thing-his sister, Joan. 
After listening to Dr. Park describe the various treatments he would have over the next few months -including hydration, blood transfusions and chemotherapy ­George called his sister in England. 
George dreaded this call to England. Joan's husband, Thomas, had just died of cancer a few months earlier, and George couldn't make it home for the funeral. How would Joan react now when George told her that he, too, had cancer? 
"I thought 'Oh God, not another one,"' Joan said. "I said to him, 'Please come back home.' All my life I've always said he's been gone to America. Wait until he's a little older and he's not well. He'll be back. And I've always said that." 
George Porter-Young has stared death in the face before, and hasn't backed down. As a young boy living near London during WWII, death was an everyday occurrence. George said its coming was signaled by the sound of Nazi war planes flying overhead 
see GEORGE/page 3 


Juan Muldoon named new varsity Leprechaun 
University mascot. my section joked that I should Leprechaun Matt Phipps. The interviews and role-play dif­By MADELINE BUCKLEY "I have learned to commu­be the Leprechaun," he said. position of Notre Dame ferent scenarios that they News Writer nicate with a crowd and think "In the spring as tryouts Leprechaun is about more may encounter as 
on my feet, which are skills drew nearer, a cheerleader in than just sports, Muldoon Leprechaun, Muldoon said. 
Football fans will see a new absolutely necessary to work my section encouraged me to said. The judges have to eval­And, of course, the prospec­face on the sidelines in the a football crowd," Muldoon give it a shot. It was a long uate the candidates as public tive Leprechauns had to fall when junior Juan said. shot because they generally relations figures for the demonstrate their ability to Muldoon graces the field as Muldoon's desire to repre­choose older students, but I University, as the Leprechaun work a crowd. the new varsity Leprechaun. sent Notre Dame as the got the J.V. position. frequently speaks with fans, "You have to conduct a Pep 
Muldoon said his experi­Leprechaun began during his "That's where the dream all the media and participates in Rally on your own in front of ence as junior varsity Freshman Orientation. started." rallies and community serv­a live crowd," Muldoon said. Leprechaun for the past two "During Frosh-0 I had a The grueling process of try­ice. During the tryouts, the The judges watched to see years has prepared him for beard and I was about five outs began in early April to Leprechaun candidates have the busy role of being the feet [tall], so some people in replace graduating varsity to partake in mock media see MULDOON/page 4 

Valedictorian: Josh Hammack 
Zahm resident participated in Bengal Bouts, service outside of class 
in a variety of activities, includ­important to you," he said. 
By CLAIRE REISING 
ing Bengal Bouts, interhall bas­Senior Chris Izaguirre, who 
News Writer 
ketball and soccer knows Hammack and the University See Also from Zahm and Although Joshua Hammack, admissions office's Bengal Bouts, said
"LeMans hall

the class of 2008 valedictorian, high school ambas­his dedication earned a GPA of 3.99. Zahm sador program. director gets new extends to his athlet­rector Corry Colonna said he Hammack said he ics, and that

apartment."

filled his college career with made time for all of Hammack seems to more than just academics. the activities that he page6 have an unending 
"lie's obviously well-round­enjoyed during his source of energy. ed." Colonna said. "Everyone years at Notre Dame. "He seems to find assumes ]being a valedictorian] "You just end up energy somewhere comes from your GPA, but in making time for the things that and is never too tired," he said. 
Joshua's sake, it reflects the you want to do," he said. "You In addition to athletics, person he is." just have to find the balance for Hammack places service as a While maintaining his yourself and force yourself to grades, I !am mack participated do the things that are really see CLASS/page 4 

ND ere a tes office for envirol1111ent awareness 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
In its efforts to continue sus­tainability and environmental awareness, Notre Dame has created the Office of Sustainability, and had named James M. Mazurek as its first director. 
Mazurek, a Notre Dame grad­uate, will begin at his new post May 1. 
The new office, which was created in January, will focus on University building efficiency and carbon strategy, among other environmental issues, said junior Lourdes Long, a repre­sentative to the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee. 

"[The office was created] to focus on energy and environ­mental action on campus," Long said. "It will develop a sustain­ability strategy for Notre Dame." 
Long said the plans for the office's implementation have been in the works for about a year, and that she is excited about Mazurek's appointment 
see OFFICE/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Love thee Notre Daine 
I did not always know that I wanted to attend the University of Notre Dame. For a while, I thought the University of Pennsylvania or possibly Dartmouth would be my top choice. They were both good schools, close to home and a bunch of my kids from high school always went there. 
I decided to visit Notre Dame on a whim. Two of my 
Joseph McMahon
best friends 
from high 
school both 
Assistant news 
went here, 
editor
and I figured that even if I didn't like the school, it would be a fun weekend anyway. 
When my dad and I drove up Notre Dame Avenue, we were greeted by possibly the most beautiful sight I have ever laid eyes on -the Golden Dome. It left both of us speechless, and I never looked back. I ended up applying to Notre Dame early action, and, after receiving my acceptance letters; I shredded my other applications (much to the chagrin of my mother). 
llowevor, it was not long until she too was won over. When we carne out to South Bend last fall, she still was not convinced that Notrn Dame was the right choice. It was far from horne in New York, and it had always been her hopo that I would attend an Ivy Lnagtw school. 
But tlw energy I felt when I stepped on this campus was intoxicating-unlike anything else I havo ever fnlt. There is this ineredible aura that sur­rounds the University. As my dad would say, it is weird to be in a place where everyone seems so happy all the time. My mom must have felt it too, because at the end of Frosh-0 she told me that I had definitely made the right decision in choosing Notre Dame. 
However, freshman year has not been entirely easy. There have been times of trial and tribulation as well. I have gotten bad grades, experienced heart­break and gotten very little sleep. 
But the mistakes I have made and the hard times that I have experienced at Notre Dame have helped me grow more as a per­son. I am happier now than I have ever been in my life, largely because the friends I have made at Notre Dame have helped me get through the bad times and focus on the good. Together, we have tested our strength against the force of gravity, found new uses for a rope, a skateboard and a bike, fed the ducks, expe­rienced the glory that is Fr. George Hozum, Alumni Hall and the Wake and made more trips to Meijer than I can even count. 
It has truly been the greatest time of my life, and all this sum­mer I will be counting down until next year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmahoo@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU MORE LIKE THE TORTOISE OR THE HARE, AND WHY? 



Jaime Minor  Joel Sharbrough  Kerry McGuire  Robin Link  Joy Hwang  Shea Doyle  
sophomore Cavanaugh  junior Keough  junior Welsh Pam  sophomore Cavanaugh  sophomore Cavanaugh  sophomore Cavanaugh  
"I want to be  "The tortoise,  'Tm like the  'Td be the  'Td be the tor­ 'Td be the hare  
the hare, so I  because of  tortoise,  tortoise, so I  toise-slow  because I'd  
could hop, hop,  'kinky turtle  because I'm  can outlive the  and steady  keep going and  
hop, hop, hop  sex.  slow, but I still  hare."  wins the race. "  going and going  



all day." don't win. " 


IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band's Spring Concert will be held today at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are free but must be reserved at the DPAC ticket of'lice. 
Notre Dame baseiJall will 

. play today at 7 p.m. in the Frank Eck Baseball Stadium against Mississippi Valley State. 
"Humors," the Neil Simon play sponsored by Sorin llall, continues today from S to 1O::W p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 and pro­ceeds go to Sorin's fund for St. Jude Primary Sehool in Uganda. 
Collegium Musicorium spring concert will take place Wednesday at 7 and 8:30 p.m. in the Heyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The performance will feature sacred and secular a capella music from the Medieval, Renaissance and Baroque eras. Tickets are $3 at the DPAC ticket office. 
Screenings from the Angelus Student Film Festival will be shown at the Angelus Film Series Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema. 
Assistant Professor Paul Gao will speak in the Finance Seminar Series Friday from 
11:30 to 1:05 in room 339 of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

68 40 

HIGH LOW 


JESS LEE!The Observer 
Students load canned goods into a truck Saturday during the Earth Week canned food drive. All food collected will be donated to the food bank of Northern Indiana. 
OFFBEAT 
Newlyweds spend night in jail after fighting each other 
PITTSBURGH -A newly­wed couple spent the night in separate jail cells -she in her wedding gown ­after police said they brawled with each other, then members of another wedding party, at a subur­ban Pittsburgh hotel. 
The fight started Saturday night after a reception when he knocked her to the floor with a karate kick in the seventh-floor hallway of a Holiday Inn -and escalated when she attacked two guests from another wed­ding party who came to her aid, police said. 
The melee moved to an elevator and then to the lobby, where the couple threw metal planters at the two good Samaritans, caus­ing minor injuries, police charged. 
300-pound man sues Ark. jail over weight loss 
BENTONVILLE, Ark. -An inmate awaiting trial on a murder charge is suing the county, complaining he has lost more than 100 pounds because of the jailhouse menu. 
Broderick Lloyd Laswell says he isn't happy that he's down to 308 pounds after eight months in the Benton County jail. He has filed a federal lawsuit complaining the jail doesn't provide inmates with enough food. 
According to the suit, Laswell weighed 413 pounds when he was jailed in September. Police say he and a co-defendant fatally beat and stabbed a man, then set his home on fire. 
"On several occasions I have started to do some exercising and my vision went blurry and I felt like I was going to pass out," Laswell wrote in his com­plaint. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::::1: 
=c 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
< 
(.) 

41 
33 

58 
45 

70 
48 

0 
HIGH 50
...I 
LOW 41 

Tuesday, April29, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
nausea medication and that works well." 
George 
George is going through chemo for another reason -his sister,
continued from page 1 
who wants him to come home and manifested itself in the form again and stay there as long as he of 500-pound bombs or tracer lives. bullets that claimed the lives of "Whatever time he's got, I told thousands of London citizens, him, 'Don't look at it as six including one of George's best months or two years. Don't look boyhood friends, David. at it like that. You just last day by 
George, who wrote about his day and you could go on for two life during WWII in his self-pub­years. Who knows what can hap­lished book, "A Boy Amidst the pen?"' Joan said. "I love him Rubble," said his family would dearly because he's my only true spend the fearful nights in a shel­brother. My others are step-broth­ter, only to emerge and fmd rub­ers. But he's my brother and ble and dead bodies lying on the we've always been so close." ground or hanging out of win­Even though he's lived in the dows. The whole experience United States since 1966, George made George grow up faster than has always left a piece of himself he should have, and made him at home. During WWII when his numb toward the reality of death. mother and grandmother took 
"It hardens you," George said. him to a train station to evacuate "You have to get over death. You him to a safer part of England, have no other choice but to." George got on the train -only to 
Only recently did George allow get off' on the other side and wait himself to feel the pain of that for the train to leave. He watched time. All those repressed images, as his mother and grandmother all those distant memories, espe­waved the train goodbye before cially of David, the first person they glanced over and saw him on George ever saw dead, came the other side of the platform. 
George Porter-Young looks at a poster in his home depicting a dogfight during WWII. George wrote about
flooding back to him as he was "My grandmother looked over 
his experiences during WWII in the book "A Boy Amidst the Rubble," which is being sold at The Huddle.
writing his book and putting his and said, 'You little sod,"' George thoughts about the war on paper said. "And I said, 'Well, dad told for the first time. me I had to take care of you while Mary, along with the help of Cassandra Wilarski, who met Leaving Notre Dame 
"It was a catharsis, writing that he was away and that granddad travel consultant Sarah Dickey, George during an autograph ses­After seeing a travel poster book," George said. would be all right as long as he's found a way for George to get sion at the Bookstore for "A Boy advertising New York City back in 
But now, George is facing death got his beer. How can I take care home, but George still needs to Amidst the Rubble," had a few 1966, George decided to come to again. Having gone through so of you when you're sending me raise enough money to fund the contacts she could use to get the America. Since that time, he's lived much in his life -diabetes, a away?' And my mom just kissed expensive trip. bookmarks printed. in El Paso, Tex., Davenport, Iowa, triple by-pass surgery -he is not me on the head and said, 'Come "He's one of our neighbors and "I have a great working rela­and San Diego, Calif. In 2001, afraid ofit. on, love, let's go we've gotten to tionship with the local printing fmancial troubles brought him to 
''I've had my problems over the home."' know him real­company Rink," Wilarski said. South Bend and forced him to set­years. I've had my ups and I've In his home in ly well and we "Once the bookmark was tle here. But since joining the staff had my downs," George said. South Bend, "And I'm not scared to want to do all designed, I called my Rink repre­at LaFortune, George has had "But I've also been very lucky, George has we can to help sentative Bill Deethart and asked nothing but fond memories to take
meet my Lord. Nobody 

because guess what, I'm still here. postcards hang­him out," him for a favor -to print the with him when he leaves for
really wants to die, but

A<> far as I'm concerned. it's been ing on a wall of Kowalski said. bookmarks for free." England. a great adventure. And I'm not every British then I think ofSarah In September, Rink agreed. Wilarski designed "When I bring friends to the scared to meet my Lord. Nobody monarch dating George and the bookmarks which feature the University, they say, 'George, I'm
Brightman, and she 

really wants to die, but then I back to William D.J. hope to word "faith" spelled out vertically just amazed how much they love 
sings this song, 'Who

think of Sarah Brightman. and the Conqueror. take an Amtrak in British flags, against the back­you. They come around, kiss you she sings this song 'Who wants to But George's wants to live forever?' train in New drop of another British flag. On on the cheek,"' George said. "It's a live forever?' Well. I don't." trip home isn't York City and the back is a message from wonderful situation and that's what 
Well, I don't." 

as easy as hop­stay overnight. George, detailing his struggle with I'll miss most -the students. I Finding a way home ping on a plane. The next day, cancer. think it's wonderful just to get to 
At first, George didn't know if it Because of George Porter-Young they would "I have spoken to my Lord in know them. It's nice when people was worth the trouble of going the low platelet author board a cruise the privacy of my night prayers recognize you. A lot of places through chemotherapy and multi­count in his ship leaving and told him we'll have a meeting nobody says, 'Hello, how are you, ple blood transfusions. Was it blood, George from New York of the minds," part of the message how are you doing?"' worth the fatigue, the dry heaves, -who current-City. Six days says. "Of course, I'm certainly not La Bella even said he always and the stomach pain? ly lives in South Bend with D.J.­later, the ship would dock in ready for him and I know he's not thought George specifically Eventually, with a little help from can't fly, or else he'll likely devel­Southampton, England, and ready for me. However, when it's requested to work at Sbarro his longtime friend and caretaker op blood clol<> in-flight and possi­George and D.J. will drive time for me to meet my Lord, we because it allows him to interact O.J., he decided it was worth the bly die. To fmd an alternate way approximately two and a half shall fully understand each more frequently with the students. trouble. home, George got in touch with hours to Ashford, Kent, where his other." Sbarro doesn't have as many cus­
"I le said persevere, you need to his friend Mary Kowalski, vice sister and niece Amanda are George is also receiving help tomers as Subway, and this allowed persevere," George said. president of travel services at looking for a place in the country­from the University. Supervisor George some time to chat with the "Thankfully, we got some anti-Anthony's Travel. side for George and D.J. to stay. for Events and Educational students that came in there. 
Only problem is, the total cost Planning Dee Dee Sterling said But for as pleasant as his experi­for the cruise is a little more than the University will pay for ence has been at Notre Dame, $3,600, and once in England, George's train ride to New York George is ready to go home. George would also have to buy a and his hotel stay there through ''I'm sorry but I don't want to die
If you wish to make a contribution 
car to get around in order to drive the Employee Compassion Fund. in Indiana," George said with a to the local hospital and clinic to The cost is estimated to be about laugh. "I really don't. I have nothing 

to help George raise money to get 
receive further treatment once in $500, Sterling said. against Indiana, it's been very good Ashford Kent. "The program is funded by to me, but it's not where I want to

home, send a check or money order to: 
Insurance problems are ham­University of Notre Dame employ­be." pering George's ability to get ees for the purpose of ministering And when his dying day comes, home. Facing rising medical bills, to Notre Dame employees who George knows where he wants to George had an idea to raise experience a bona fide need for spend eternity. 

Mary Kowalski 
money to get home -he would emergency assistance," Sterling "I told D.J. I want him to take my ask The Huddle to sell bookmarks said in a e-mail to The Observer. ashes and put them in the ocean in 

Anthony Travel 
and ask people to make a dona­George does not expect the Puerto Rico so I could go swimming tion to help him get home. George University to help him in any with the dolphins," George said.

LaFortune Student Center 
said he decided to sell bookmarks other way to get home. "And he said, 'You don't want them because they are something use­"Why doesn't Notre Dame pay to go in the Engli<>h Channel?' And I 
P.O. Box 1086 
ful for the students. for my fare? Well Notre Dame is said 'No, I don't want them to go in George contacted Jim La Bella, not a charity institution. It's a the English Channel because that

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
general manager of The Huddle business and it's run like a busi­water is cold. I want to go to Puerto and George's former boss, about ness and should be run by a busi­Rico to my favorite part of the the idea and La Bella got on ness. And I understand that," beach, spread my ashes in the sea board right away. George said. so I could go swimming with the

Make checks payable to Anthony 
"George's been like a grandfa­So far, The Huddle has raised dolphins." ther to all of our employees lin over $1,700 for George, La Bella George has always lived his life as

Travel and include a note saying the 
LaFortune]," La Bella said. "He said. but George still needs a few if he's everybody's friend. lie's one always takes time to tell a story. thousand more to have enough to of those people whom you never

check is "For George." 
Any subject, he's got a story for." go home. The Huddle is also hold­forget, no matter how long he was La Bella said he would put the ing a pie sale on May 7 to raise in ymrr life. His laugh, his smile ­bookmarks, along with George's money for George. The order and his accent -are hard to erase book, at the cash registers in The deadline for the pies is May 6 at 9 from memory. George hopes he has

Donations can also be made in 
Huddle. People could pick up a a.m. The Huddle will cover the brought as much joy to the students book or bookmark and contribute cost of the caramel apple pies, of Notre Dame as they have 

person on campus at The Huddle or 
to George's trip home. which are $10 each, while the brought hin1. He only asks for one But in order to do this, George Bake shop will cover the cost of thing from them in return -to

at Anthony Travel. 
needed someone to print the the labor needed to bake the pies. help him get home one final time. bookmarks. One-hundred percent of the pro­Luckily, events marketing coor­ceeds will go toward George's Contact Chris Hine at Observer Graphic by MATI HUDSON dinator at the Hammes Bookstore travel fund. chine@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
ball and basketball games, 
freshman through junior year, 
and the varsity Leprechaun 
said he still maintained his


Office 


Class

Muldoon 
works football and men's 
work ethic, despite the family 
basketball.

continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 crisis he faced.
continued from page 1 
"I have to start thinking 
"I was very impressed with 
as the oflice's first director. 

high priority and has worked how he handled his school
how excited the crowd about entertaining a bigger
"lie's very passionate about 

on projects such as Relay for work," Vranderic said. 
became while the audience at the games and 
Notre Dame." Long said. "He 
Life, mentoring and tutoring According to Hammack,
Leprechaun entertained, he Pep Rallies, and traveling 
earns about issues in sustain­
math at local high schools. At Sean's battle with cancer was
said. with the football and bas­
ability." 
his home in Huntington, West one of the experiences he
"It was nerve wracking, ketball teams, Muldoon 
Tho University administration 

but I put my best face for­said. ''I'm used to having 
Virginia, he volunteers at drew from to write his gradua­
is similarly passionate about 
Nazareth House, where people tion speech, and he was
ward," Muldoon said. 30-40 fans, and during the 
Mazurek's appointment. 
As an additional part of Blue and Gold game I had 
can buy food and dothing that inspired by "unrelenting faith 
"As Notre Damn progrnsses 

they cannot regularly afford. and hope beyond hope that
the tryout process, the 32,000 fans. I have the 
toward becoming a more envi­
Leprechauns took clinics responsibility of communi­
Even with these time com­things were going to get better, 
ronmentally rnsponsibln earn­
with the cheerleaders in eating with a broader audi­
mitments, Hammack earned in spite of what doctors were 
pus, I am certain Jim will pro­
straight A's at Notre Dame, telling us." 
order to learn stunts, he ence." 
vide tho necessary leadnrship 
except for one A-, and worked After graduation, Hammack
said. While moving to a larger 
and expertise as we strive to 
The panels of judges con­arena is exciting, Muldoon 
as a teaching assistant for will serve for one year, possi­
reach our goals," University 
business professor William bly in a tnaching position with
ducting the tryouts was had some nostalgia for his 
President Fatlwr John Jenkins 
composed of representa­old position. 
Sexton for two years. AmeriCorps. lie said he plans
said in a statmnonl. 
tives from different offices ''I'm actually going to 
Hammack also expanded his to eventually attend law school 
Mazurek's appointmnnt is 

academic interest beyond his and become a corporate
on campus, such as Student miss J.V. because I'm used 
espndally important "as Notre 
Activities, the Alumni to having personal relation­
accountancy major and said lawynr, but that he fnnls this is 
Damn builds its grnen program 
Association, Marketing and ships with the parents and 
two of his most influential thn best time in his life to work 
and aspires to be recognized as 
classes were Fiction Writing for a service organization. 
Public !\elations, Muldoon players," he said. "However, 
a global loader in this area," 
said. The eheerleading I'm hoping to establish 
and Poetry Writing. "If I do end up going to law 
vice pn~si d<Hlt for business 
coaches also took part in some new relationships as 
"They gave me a great school, that's going to piln on 
opnrations James Lyphout said 
opportunity to reflect on things more loans and more respon­
the decision process, he well. I look forward to 
in tho stat<mwnt. 
that I believe and values that I sibilities," he said. "Service is
said. working with the new J.V. 
The OfTico of Sustainability, 

hold and write about them," very important to me, so I
At the end of the process, Leprechaun Dan Collins. We 
l.ong said, will be granted a $2 
he ·said, each Leprechaun can both learn from each 
he said. think I'm seizing the opportu­
million loan to sponsor nnviron­
Hammack said he strove to nity at its bnst." 
candidate faced the panel in other." 
nwntal improvements on cam­
a personal interview. Muldoon will face his 
achieve balance in college, In addition to law, llammack 
pus. 
incorporating faith, academics, said he also wishes to become
"They are looking for position as Varsity
Long said the loan will fund 

service and athletics into his a published author, and he is
someone with the right atti­Leprechaun next year with 
many types of energy pro­
tudn, heart and ethics," "all the enthusiasm in the 
life. He added that his percep­beginning a novel based oil' his 
grams, from building improve­
Muldoon said. "You have to world." 
tion of this balance in Notre experience of having a sibling 
ments to research initiatives. 
be enthusiastic, positive, "I have some big shoes to 
Dame students is what attract­with cancer. IIo said he hopes
Mazurek. who majored in 

and have a great love for fill," he said. "I had the 
ed him to the University. his story will encourage read­
mechanical engineering as an 
the University." pleasure of being the 
During Hammack's sopho­ers who are struggling
undergraduate at the 
more year, he experienced the through situations similar to
Although Muldoon has understudy of Matt Phipps,
University, earned his masters 
strength of the Notre Dame his.
embodied these qualities· for and I have learned a lot. I 
degree in environmental engi­
community when his brother "If someone can see that
the past two years as the can build on that experi­
neering from the Illinois 
junior varsity Leprechaun, ence and bring my own per­
Sean, a current freshman in someone has a relatable expe­
InstitutE~ of Technology and his 
he will face new challenges sonality to the table. I will 
Zahm, battled cancer. rience ... that's another source 
MBA from the Kellogg School of 
Hammack said it was difficult of hope," he said. "When
and responsibilities as the be on the field next year
Managmnnnt at Northwestern, 
Varsity Leprechaun. The with a smile, jump and a 
to be far from his family dur­you're fighting cancer, that's 
Long said. 
ing this time and that he had all you can ask for." 
junior varsity Leprechaun is jig." 
to go home for a week.

generally in charge of 
Contact Katie Peralta at 
working the men's soccer Contact Madeline Buckley at 
Senior Doug Vranderic, Contact Claire Reising at 
kperalta@nd.edu 
Hammack's roommate from creisin2@nd.edu
games and women's volley-mbuckley@nd.edu 
The Notre Dame Center for Eth1cs and Culture Presents 

Thursday, May 1, DeBartolo Performing 7:00 PM  2008 Arts Center  
A w  FREE screen ng of four r i t t e n , a n d d i r e c t e d b y  short, award-winning s t u d e n t s . A Q + A w i t h  films produced, t h e f i I m n1 a k e r s  

will follow the screening. This IS a FREE, but ticketed event. Contact the DPAC 1 s box office at 1-2800 to reserve your ticket. 
FamilyTheater Productions created the Angelus Awards in 1996 to showcase and award emerging filmmakers and encourage them to continue creating visionary projects that honor the fundamental dignity of the human person. 


For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERV!cr:s page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Barbie deemed 'destructive' in Iran 
TEHRAN, Iran -A top Iranian judiciary official warned Monday against the "destructive" cultural and social consequences of importing Barbie dolls and other Western toys. 
In the latest salvo in a more than decade-old government campaign against Barbie, Prosecutor General Ghorban Ali Dori Najafabadi said in an ollicialletter to Vice President Parviz Davoudi that the doll and other Western toys are a "danger" that need to be stopped. 
"The irregular importation of such toys, which unfortunately arrive through unofficial sources and smuggling, is destructive culturally and a social danger," said the letter, a copy of which was made available to The Associated Press. 
Iranian markets have been inundated with smuggled Western toys in recent years partly due to a dramatic rise in purchasing power as a result of increa.•:;ed oil revenues. 
Chinese train derails leaving 70 dead 
ZIBO, China-Some passengers were sleep­ing, but others were standing in the aisle wait­ing to get off when their high-speed train derailed. toppling into a ditch "like a roller coaster" and slamming into another train. At least 70 people died and more than 400 were injured. 
China reacted swiftly to its worst train acci­dent in a decade, sending top officials and sol­diers to Zibo, the site of Monday's pre-dawn crash in eastern China's Shandong province, and sacking two railway officials. 
Authorities were quoted as saying that human error was to blame. The official Xinhua News Agency also said one of the trains was traveling too fast. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

I 00 truckers protest high fuel prices 
WASHINGTON -Horns blaring in a deafen­ing fanfare, a convoy of truck drivers traveled to Washington on Monday to protest record fuel prices. 
Members of Truckers and Citizens United circled the National Mall before parking their rigs at RFK Stadium. From there, about 100 protesters marched and took shuttles to the Capitol, where an afternoon rally was held. 
"The high price for oil is hurting our econo­my," organizer Mark Kirsch said. "It's hurting middle class people." 
The national average price of a gallon of regular gasoline is a record $3.51, according to a recent survey of stations by AAA and the Oil Price Information Service. The price for diesel-used to transport most food, industri­al and commercial goods-is $4.20 a gallon. 

Storms, tornadoes damage Virginia 
RICHMOND, Va. -Authorities say one person has died and at least 200 injured as severe storms cut through central and southeastern VITginia. 
Suffolk city spokeswoman Dana Woodson says the death occurred when two apparent torna­does passed through the city Monday afternoon. 
Bob Spieldenner from the Virginia Department of Emergency Management says at least 200 others were injured in Suffolk. Spieldenner says at least 18 others were injured in Colonial Heights. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Voters still required to show photo ID 
WASHINGTON -The surge of new voters into the 2008 presidential campaign could run up against a Supreme Court-sanctioned barrier next week, a law requiring photo identification before casting a ballot. 
The court upheld a Republican-inspired law in Indiana Monday that Democrats say will keep out some poor, older and minority vot-. ers. 
Indiana's presidential primary is May 6, and many new voters are expected to turn out for the Democratic contest between Sens. Hillary Hodham Clinton and Barack Obama. 
The results could say something about the effect of the law, either because a large num­ber of voters will lack identification and be forced to cast provisional ballots or because the number turns out to be small. 
Ointontakesleadinnewelectionpoll 

Senator 9 points ahead of McCain, outpaces Democratic rival Barack Obama 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Hillary Hodham Clinton now leads John McCain by 9 points in a head-to-head presidential matchup, according to an Associated Press-Ipsos poll that bolsters her argument that she is more electable than Democratic rival Barack Obama. 
Obama and Republican McCain are running about even. 
The survey released Monday gives the New York senator and former first lady a fresh talking point as she works to raise much­needed campaign cash and persuade pivotal undecided superdelegates to side with her in the drawn-out Democratic primary fight. 
Helped by independents, young people and seniors, Clinton gained ground this month in a hypothetical match with Sen. McCain, the GOP nominee-in-waiting. She now leads McCain, 50 percent to 41 percent, while Obama remains virtually tied with McCain, 46 per­cent to 44 percent. 
Both Democrats were roughly even with McCain in the previous poll about three weeks ago. 
Since then, Clinton won the Pennsylvania primary, raising questions anew about whether Obama can attract broad swaths of vot­improved," said Harrison the more formidable fall candidate didn't win the ers needed to triumph in Hickman, a Democratic poll­candidate for a lot of rea­nomination. such big states come the fall ster unaligned in the pri­sons, not the least of which Obama leads Clinton in when the Democratic nomi­mary. He attributed is that Obama can't seem to pledged delegates, but she nee will go up against Clinton's gains to people get his footing back." has the advantage among McCain. At the same time, moving from the "infatua­The AP-Ipsos poll found superdelegates with about a Obama was thrown on the tion stage" of choosing the Clinton and Obama about third yet to make up their defensive by his comment candidate they like the most even in the race for the minds. that residents of small-town to a "decision-making Democratic nomination. Democratic Party America were bitter. The stage" where they deter­Underscoring deep divisions Chairman Howard Dean Illinois senator also contin­mine who would make the within the Democratic Party said Monday that either of ued to deal with the contro­best president. -and a potentially negative the two will know when it's versial remarks of his long­Added Steve Lombardo, a longer-term impact -30 time to drop out of the race time Chicago pastor, the GOP pollster: "This just rein­percent of Clinton support­after the primary season Rev. Jeremiah Wright. forces the sentiment that a ers and 21 percent of wraps up in June so 
"I don't think there's any lot of Republican strategists Obama supporters said they Democrats can unite before question that over the last are having right now -that would vote for McCain in the late-summer convention three weeks her stature has Clinton might actually be November if their preferred and the fall campaign. 

AUSTRIA 


Wo111an held captive by father for 24 years 
how the latest instance could go unde­she was imprisoned in the cell con­
Associated Press 

tected for so long. structed deep beneath the family's 
AMSTETTEN -The children locked Questions were being raised as to how apartment in the building, said Franz in the basement never saw the light of the suspect -identified as Josef Fritzi, Polzer, head of the Lower Austrian day for years. 73 -deceived neighbors, social work­Bureau of Criminal Affairs. 
A retired electrician has confessed to ers and police for so long. "He admitted that he locked his imprisoning his daughter for 24 years "How is it possible that no one knew daughter ... in the cellar, that he repeat­and fathering seven children with her in anything for 24 years?" asked Anita edly had sex with her, and that he is the a windowless cell sealed by an electron­Fabian, a teacher in Amstetten. 'This father of her seven children," Polzer told ic keyless-entry system, police said was not possible without accomplices." The Associated Press. Monday. Fritzi was placed in pretrial detention According to police, Elisabeth said she 
One of the children died in infancy and faces up to 15 years in prison if gave birth to twins in 1996 but one died and was tossed into the furnace of what charged, tried and convicted on rape several days later. stunned Austrians have labeled a charges, the most grave of his alleged Police said the surviving children are "house of horrors," officials said. The offenses under Austrian law. three boys and three girls, the youngest suspect owned the gray stone apartment Police released Fritzi's full name and of whom is 5. The oldest child is 19. building, lived there with his family, and photograph at a news conference DNA tests were expected to determine rented the other units to relatives. Monday, after his identity was widely whether Fritzi is the father of the chil­
Austria is still scandalized by a 2006 reported by media in Austria and else­dren, as he claims. case involving a girl who was kidnapped where in Europe. Investigators said they were trying to . and imprisoned in a basement outside Fritzi was born in 1935 and was a determine how the victims could have Vienna for more than eight years, and young child when the Nazis annexed been hidden away for so long from other residents of this working class town Austria before World War II. families in the building and everyone west of the capital were puzzled as to His daughter, now 42, was 18 when else in the town of 23,000 people. 

page 6 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
LeMans hall director gets new apartment 
Office of Residence life converted the student lounge located in the tower into a living space during break 
By MANDl STIRONE 
A.'5istant News Editor 
LeMans Hall residents 
returned from break in 
January to lind that the tower 
room, one of the few student 
lounges in the building, had 
bnen turned into an apartment 
for their hall director, Trish 
Hodge. 
All of the hall directors at 
Saint Mary's were having their 
apartments refurbished, 
Director of Residence Life 
Slandah Dieujuste said. 
Continued construetion 
around and throughout the 
building had rendered Hodge's 
previous apartment, located in 
the basement of the building, 
unusable, Director of Facilities 
Bill Hambling said. 
"We kept traipsing through 
the apartment to do what we 
had to do. It just really was 
making a mess of things for 
anybody who had to be down 
there," he said. 
Construction on the tower 
room was supposed to be over 
in December but didn't finish 
until January, Dieujuste said. 
!lodges was able to move in 
right after that, she said. 
ller new apartment is a "New 
York style kind of motif," 
llambling said. 
It has a loft where her bed­
room is with a space under­
neath, Oieujuste said. There is 
also a private kitchen ofT to one 
side of the entrance to the 
apartment. she said. On the 
opposite side of the entrance is 
"her private bath which also 
has her washer and dryer," she 
said. 
Construction crews have 
been working on the plumbing 
and drainage of the building 
and much of the work has b(~en 
in the basement, Hambling 
said. 
"The down spouts and gut­tBrs from the roves were plugged, water was backing up and going into student rooms," he said. 
This was because these down spouts and gutters actually ran inside the walls of LeMans and were tied into the sanitary lines of the building, IIambling said. 
Construction crews were working to clear out these spouts as well as disconnecting them from the sanitary lines and connecting them to the storm watnr system, he said. 
Now, instead of running rain­water out of the building with the sanitary lines, he said, it is going into Lake Marion and the St. Joseph's Hiver, he said. 

In addition. the pipes that are running down the walls of l.cMans arc being pressurized to eheck for further leaks, and then hydro-flushed to ensure that all the water is flowing out of them, hn said. 
"We're going to stop the leaks from eoming back into the building," llambling said. 
This surnnwr tlwy will also be going back through LeMans to fix much of the damage caused by the leaks, he said. 

Though the basement apart­nwnt probably eould have been rnfurbished, the decision was made to move Hodge into an apartmnnt in another part of the building, Dieujuste said. 
"It just wasn't the same as the other hall directors apart­ments that were rnnovated," she said. 
After a careful snareh of the building, Dieujuste and llambling decided on the tower 
room for the new apartment, 
he said. 

"Slandah and I walked 
around looking for available 
space throughout the entire 
part of Lemans ... trying to find 
something that would be big 
enough to accommodate Trish's 
needs and there really wasn't 
anything without taking rooms 
out of service," he said. 

The decision was made in 
Oetober or September of this 
sehool year and student input 
was not eonsidered, Dieujuste 
said. 

"[When we do] renovations 
then we consult students and 
we form a small committee, but 
something like this, because it 
was a personal space, we really 
didn't form any committees or 
anything like that," she said. 
Based on the information she 
had received, the tower room 
was hardly being used by stu­
dents, she said. 

"From the feedbaek we got 
from RA's and the hall direc­
tors, [use was] seldom. I mean, 
most students didn't even know 
that it was there, for those stu­
dents that did know it was 
quite a hike ... it was just an 
awkward space," she said. 

Student reactions to losing 
the lounge space has been 
mixed. 

Some students were unaware 
that the tower room spaee had 
once been available to them as 
a student lounge. 

"I didn't even know that we 
were allowed up there," sopho­
more LeMans resident Ashley 
Breen said. 

Other students were upset about losing the space once reserved for student use. 
"1 hate it, I think it's ridieu­l<lus," sophomore Emily Schneider said, "When it would snow, you could see the coolest view ever [from the tower room] and it was really serene and really pretty and now we can't even see it." 
She went on to talk about 
how she and her friends used 
the room. 

"We used to have pizza par­ties up there for my friends' birthdays," the former LeMans resident said. 
Other students who lived in LeMans were also upset about losing the tower room. 
"[The tower room] should be for the use of students, like it's always been," senior Jeney Anderson said. 
However, students will be getting an updated lounge spaee in LeMans, Oieujuste said. They will be refurbishing "Vendoland," the area near the vending machines and the washers and dryers in the basement of LeMans, she said. That ineludes new lighting, rugs, window treatments, tables and chairs for group work, she said, and some more comfortable eouehcs, potential­ly including a few recliners. 
They are also looking to add some nnw appliances and sup­plins to the kitehen also loeated in the basement of LeMans off of the "Vendoland" room, she said. 
"What we're really looking to do [with Vendolandl is provide students a space that they're comfortable, wlwrn they can socialize but a space that they ean also study. So we're look­ing at providing different types of furniture than is already there," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Graphic courtesy of Slandah Dieujuste The floor plan depicts the new LeMans tower apartment, which was converted from a student study lounge over break for the Hall Director, Trish Hodge. 

STODY DATES AND TIMES: 
Mav 1st. 2"d, 3'"11 , and 4th : 7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! 
f'in;ls Week: May 5th -81h: Rooms available except when scheduled by the 
Registrar's oft1ce. 

May 9th : ncBartolo Hall closes 30 minutes after last exam scheduled by the 
Registrar's Office. 

See Building Support Pel'sounel ij):ou have spec~fic neetl."i: Room 103 or 104. 

Colcman-IV1orse: Mav 1st-4t11: 
Final~ Week: Roltms available except wllen schetluled by the Registmr's (IJ.fice. May 91h ?Coleman-Morse closes at 5:30pm l st f'loor: 7:00am-4:00am 
2"41 

floor : 7:00am-3:00am 3rd Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Building Support Perso11 Room 10 I ifyou lwve tl specific need. 
O'Shaughnessey: *May lst, 2°\ 3rd, and 4t11 : 7am to 3:00am 
*Finals Week: Mav 51h -81h: 7am to 3:00am 204, 206, 207, 208)09, 242,338, and 345: Rooms available except when scheduled by the Regi.strar•s office. 
··~.· Good Luck with Finals "'"'f 
Spe,·ial thank.+; to Al4.n/wry and Facili~l' OtJeratitm!J, Campus .Uiui:itry t.wd tht• ._\'rudent Uuhm Board. 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,871.75 -20.11
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

AMEX NASDAQ 
*~*''''


NYSE 


S&P 500 1,396.37 -1.47 NIKKEI {Tokyo) FTSE 100 'London~ 61090.40 -1.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FORD MOTOR CO (F) +9.47 +0.71 8.21 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.02 +0.03 139.63 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -2.82 -0.84 28.99 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +0.26 +0.21 27.02 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.80 -0.031 3.835 13-WEEK BILL +3.50 +0.045 1.33 30-YEAR BOND -0.52 -0.024 4.565 5-YEAR NOTE -1.29 -0.041 3.135 

Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.23 118.75 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.80 895.50 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -2.55 74.25 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 104.2200 EURO 0.6389 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0129 BRITISH POUND 0.5023 
IN BRIEF NYRA moves its way out of bankruptcy 
ALBANY, N.Y. -The New York Racing Association said Monday it's closer to emerg­ing from bankruptcy, and horse racing in the state got a potentially lucrative boost with a decision allowing racetracks and off-track bet­ting facilities to take wagers over the Internet. 
NYRA holds the state's franchise to run thor­oughbred racing at Aqueduct, Belmont and Saratoga. The group said a federal judge approved its amended plan to pay back credi­tors, a deal funded by a $105 million state bailout. 
The Racing and Wagering Board, the state's racing regulator, said it will allow bets to be taken from phones, including cell phones, over the Internet or by other electronic means. Some Internet betting has been temporarily allowed since last summer. 
In another development, bidders who creat­ed Hard Rock cafes and others who helped bring big-time casinos to Connecticut want to turn Aqueduct into a Queens hot spot. 
Crude oil prices continue to rise 
VIENNA, Austria-Oil prices hit an all-time high near $120 a barrel Monday after a week­end refinery strike closed a pipeline system that delivers a third of Britain's North Sea oil to refineries in the U.K. 
The shutdown comes amid supply outages in Nigeria that have helped to support oil against a strengthening dollar. 
"We've got a confluence of a number of events that have really disrupted crude oil supply," said Victor Shum, an energy analyst with Purvin & Gertz in Singapore. "That's what's driving oil to a new record even though the U.S. dollar actually strengthened a bit." 
Light, sweet crude for June delivery rose to a record $119.9 3 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The contract eased back to $119.04 a barrel by afternoon in Europe, up 52 cents from Friday's closeof$118.52. 
BP PLC on Sunday shut down the Forties Pipeline System that carries more than 700,000 barrels of oil a day to the U.K. because of a 48-hour walkout by employees at a refinery in central Scotland. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Candy corporations to combine 
Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. to sell to M&Ms maker Mars Inc. in deal financed by Warren Buffet 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -The Oracle of Omaha is betting that the country's candy jar is recession-proof. 
With financing from Warren Buffett, candy maker Mars Inc. on Monday said it is buying .confectioner Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. for an estimated $23 billion in cash. The deal would marry brands that sweet-toothed Americans have munched cin for decades: Mars owns Snickers and M&Ms; Wrigley's gum brands include Juicy Fruit, Orbit, Extra and Big Red. 
"A good time to buy a really great business is when you can do it," Warren Buffett said on CNBC Monday, adding that he understands Mars and Wrigley better than the balance sheets of most major banks. 
Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc. will pur­chase a $2.1 billion minori­ty equity interest in the Wrigley subsidiary once the deal is completed. The Omaha, Neb.-based com­pany also offered $4.4 bil­lion of subordinated debt to fund the deal. 
"In terms of Warren Buffett's sweet spot, these are exactly the kind of round of candy industry each share. Mars will also "I think this is a bold brands that he wants," consolidation. assume less than $1 billion move, but beyond that, I said Jet Hollander, a for­"I look at it as two com­of Wrigley debt. think this is the right mer candy industry execu­panies that see the oppor­Executives said family move," said Wrigley Chief tive who is president of the tunity to create a true owned Mars first began Executive Bill Perez. snack food consulting firm global confectionary pow­eyeing Wrigley in January After the buyout is com­Pre-Eminence Strategy erhouse," said Morningstar and approached the com­pleted in six to 12 months, Group. analyst Mitchell Corwin. pany with their unsolicited Wrigley would become a 
If the buyout receives "They become No. 1 in bid in April 11. Since then, subsidiary of McLean, Va.­regulatory and sharehold­chocolate and No. 1 in the two sides have haggled based Mars. Its headquar­er approval, the combined chewing gum with a strong to reach the $80-per share ters will stay in Chicago, companies would leapfrog international presence and offer -a 28 percent pre­where the business has over Britain's Cadbury growth in emerging mar­mium to Wrigley's Friday operated since it was Schweppes as the world's kets." closing price of $62.45. founded by the Wrigley largest confection maker Under the agreement, Monday's announcement family in 1891. The -a move that's already shareholders at Chicago­sent Wrigley's shares into Wrigley family will no fueling speculation that the based Wrigley would overdrive, reaching an all­longer hold any equity in buyout could spawn a receive $80 in cash for time high. the company. 



General Motors to lay off 3,500 workers 
Associated Press percent of their normal 40-hour gross and 900 workers in Oshawa. 
pay, said GM spokesman Dan Flores. "Those are the people that we 
DETROIT -Sagging pickup truck "With rising fuel prices, a softening believe will be impacted based on and sport utility vehicle sales have economy and a downward trend on what the shifts are," he said. "We'll be forced General Motors Corp. to shut current and future market demand for working with our partners to deter­down one shift each at four North full-size trucks, a significant adjust­min.e how that's brought to fruition." American factories and lay off about ment was needed to align our produc­Greg Gardner, an analyst with the 3,500 workers. tion with market realities," GM North Oliver Wyman Group, said the cuts 
The world's largest automaker by America President Troy Clarke said in look like "a realistic assessment." sales said Monday that the cuts, to a statement. "The full-size pickup and SUV mar­take effect starting this summer, were For about the past three years, the ket is not going to rebound anytime brought on by weak demand due to U.S. auto market has been shifting soon," he said. "It looks like that they high gasoline prices and an economic away from pickup trucks and SUVs to don't plan on making up very much of downturn. cars and crossover vehicles, but the the production loss due to the 
The cuts will affect pickup factories trend accelerated in recent months American Axle strike." in Pontiac and Flint, Mich., and due to gas prices that have topped Gardner said GM's announcement Oshawa, Ontario, as well as the full­$3.50 per gallon across the nation. reflects the industry's overall produc­size SUV plant in Janesville, Wis. The The company expects the layoffs to tion forecast this year, down to about layoffs represent just over 4 percent of take place starting July 14 at the Flint, 15 million light vehicles from an earli­GM's hourly manufacturing work force Janesville and Pontiac plants, and er forecast of 15.5 million. of about 80,000 in North America. Sept. 8 at Oshawa. Most of the facto­"Obviously, the larger, heavier vehi­
The company said the cuts mean it ries had already seen layoffs and pro­cles are taking the biggest hit," he will make about 88,000 fewer pickups duction cuts due to a parts shortage said. and 50,000 fewer large SUVs this cal­from a two-month strike at American The Flint, Pontiac and Oshawa endar year. Axle and Manufacturing Holdings Inc. plants make the Chevrolet Silverado 
GM said the exact number of layoffs GM spokesman Tony Sapienza said and GMC Sierra pickups, while will be worked out with its unions. the company will eliminate shifts with Janesville manufactures the Chevrolet Workers will get unemployment bene­750 workers each at Flint and Tahoe and Suburban and GMC Yukon fits and supplemental pay that total 80 Janesville, 1,150 workers in Pontiac big SUVs. 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer +NEWS 
SOUTH AFRICA 
President urged to step dovvn 
Opposition unites in Parliament; asks Mugabe to concede defeat 
Associated Prrss 
JOIIANNESBUHG Zimbabwe's opposition move­ment united Monday in spite of long-standing divisions, declaring that it has won con­trol of Parliament for the first time in history and that President Hobert Mugabe must concede defeat. 
Opposition leaders also appealed to the U.N. Seeurity Council to send a special envoy to Zimbabwe and to warn Mugabe that the mounting vio­loncn against opposition sup­porters was tantamount to "crimes against humanity." 
Putting months of bickering behind them. Movement for Democratic Change leaders Morgan Tsvangirai and Arthur Mutambara stood together and ordered Mugabe to step aside. 
"Old man. go and have an honorable exit," Tsvangirai said in a message to the S4­year-old autocrat who has ruled since independence from Britain in 19SO. 
"In a parliamentary democ­racy, the majority rule," Tsvangirai said alongside Mutambara at a news confer­fmce. "lie should concede that ... he cannot be president." 
More than a month after the elections, results from the presidential race have not been announced. Tsvangirai maintains that he won the presideney outright although independent observers say he fell just short of the votes needed to avoid a runoff. 
Tsvangirai reiterated Monday that he would not take part in a runoff. 

"The question about a runoff doesn't arise. It doesn't arise because of the simple fact that the people have spoken, the people have decided," he said. 
The opposition maintains that hundreds of its supporters have been arrested, attacked or driven from their homes, especially in rural areas that used to be Mugabe strongholds but voted against him in the elections. It says that 14 of its supporters have died, but there is no independent confir­mation of this. 
The Zimbabwe Association of Doctors for Human Rights says more than 63 people were hospitalized in three days last week alone, and pro­vided shocking photos of injuries. 
Movement for Democratic Change secretary-general, Tendai Biti, was due at U.N. 
headquarters in New York for a U.N. Security Council discus­sion Tuesday on the deterio­rating situation in Zimbabwe. 
Tsvangirai said Biti would ask the Security Council "first­ly to stop the violence, and to communicate to the regime in Harare that its actions are tantamount to crimes against humanity." Biti would also ask the U.N. to send a special envoy to investigate the vio­lence and recommend a way to resolve it. 
On Monday, the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission failed to publish the results of the recount of 23 disputed parlia­mentary seats from the elec­tions, as had been scheduled. 
Officials announced Saturday that recounts of 18 of 23 dis­puted parliamentary seats left initial results unchanged -­enough to confirm opposition's 
Girl dies of untreated diabetes 
Parents charged with murder after refusing medication for their daughter 
Associ a ted Prrss 
WESTON, Wis. -Two parenL'> who prayed as their 11-year-old daughter died of untreated dia­betes were eharged Monday with seeond-degrne reckless homicide. 
Family and friends had urged Dale and Leilani Neumann to get help for their daughter, but the fatlwr considered the illness "a test of faith" and the mother never eonsidered taking the girl to the doctor because she thought her daughter was under a "spiri­tual attack," the criminal com­plaint said. 
"It is very surprising, shocking that she wasn't allowed medical intervention," Marathon County District Attorney Jill Falstad said. "Iter death could have bmm pre­
ventl~d." 
Madeline Neumann died March 23 -Easter Sunday -at her family's rural Weston home. tier parnnL'i were told the body would be taken to Madison !or an autop­sy the next day. 
"They responded, 'You won't need to do that. She will be alive by then,"' the rnedieal examiner wrot1~ in a report. 
An autopsy determined that Madnlinc dind from undiagnosnd diabetic ketoacidosis, whieh left her with too little insulin in her body. Court rneords said she like­ly had sonw symptoms of the dis­nase li1r months. 
The Neurnanns nach face up to 25 years in prison if convicted. The couple and their attorney did not immediately return messages left Monday by The Associated Press. 
Falstad said the Neumanns have eooperated with investiga­tors and arc not under arrest. They have agreed to make an ini­tial court appearance Wednesday, she said. 
Handall Wormgoor, a friend of the Neumanns, told police that Dale Neumann led Bible studies at his business, Monkey Mo Com~e Shop, and believed physi­eal illness wa..<; due to sin, curable 
· by prayer and by asking for for­
• hriveness from God, the complaint said. Wormgoor said he and his wife. Althea, were at the Neumann home when Madeline -called Kara by her parents -died. Wormgoor said he had urged the father to seek medieal help and was told the illness "was a test of faith for the Neumann family and asked the Wormgoors to join them in praying for Kara to get well," the complaint said. Althea Wormgoor said she "implored" the parents to seek medical help for the girl, the com­plaint said. 
Leilani Neumann, 40, told the AP previously she never expected her daughter to die. The family believes in the Bible, which says healing comes from God, but they have nothing against doctors, she said. 
Dale Neumann, 46, a former police of!iccr, has said he has friends who are doctors and started CPH "as soon as the breath of life left" his daughter's body. 
According to court documents, Leilani Neumann said in a writ­ten statement to police that she never considered taking the girl, who was being home-schooled, to a doctor. 
"We just thought it was a spiri­tual attack and we prayed for her. My husband Dale was crying and mentioned taking Kara to the doctor and I said, 'The Lord's going to heal her,' and we contin­ued to pray," she wrote. 
The father told investigators he noticed his daughter was weak and slower for about two weeks but he attribut~d it to symptoms of the girl reaehing puberty, the complaint said. 
A day before Madeline died, according to the criminal com­plaint, the father wrote an e-mail with the headline, "Help our daughter needs emergency prayer!!!!." It said his daughter was "very weak and pale at the moment with hardly any strength." 
The girl's grandmother, Evalani Gordon, told police that she learned her granddaughter could not walk or talk on March 22 and advised Leilani Neumann to take the girl to a doctor. 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 

GAZA STRIP 
Israeli tank shell kills 5 civilians 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -An explo­
sion shattered a tiny Gaza 
Strip house as Israeli troops 
battled militants Monday, 
killing a Palestinian woman 
and four of her children in 
new bloodshed that threat­
ened efforts to arrange a 
truce between the warring 
sides. 

Palestinians said the 
house was hit by an Israeli 
tank shell; Israel said 
explosives being carried by 
militants blew up and 
brought down the two-room 
structure. 

Miyasar Abu Meatak was 
preparing breakfast for her 
children in the northern 
Gaza town of Bcit Hanoun 
when an explosion ripped 
through the home, her step­
son Ibrahim said. Four of 
her children, ages 15 
months to 6 years, were 
killed instantly, and she 
died shortly afterward at a 
hospital, Palestinian offi­
cials said. Her two older 
children were reported crit­
ically wounded. 
"What a black day. They 
killed my family," the grief­
stricken father, Ahmad Abu 
Meatak, wailed outside the 
hospital. Abu Meatak said 
he was on his way to a 
nearby market when the 
house blew up. 
The force of the blast 
scattered clothes and other 
household items outside the 
wrecked home. A single 
white child's shoe, flattened 
by the explosion, lay near a 
pair of blue shorts covered 
in sand. A green baby seat, 
one end bent, stood empty. 
Omar Abdel Nabi, a farmer in a large crowd watching workers clean up debris and bloodstained sand, said he was driving his tractor in a nearby field when two or three explo­sions shook the ground. 
"People were screaming that a tank shell landed in the next street," he told The Associated Press. "I carried two people covered in blood out of a house." 
Israel's military said its troops launched an opera­tion in the town after gun­men approached a border patrol. Palestinian Health Ministry official Moaiya Hassanain said two mili­tants and an unidentified men were also killed in the fighting. 
In a statement, the mili­tary said explosives carried by the militants were deto­nated by an Israeli airstrike, and the blast from the explosives hit the house, not a tank shell, "and uninvolved civilians were hit." Palestinians said the militants were at least 400 yards from the house and none of the fighters were killed near the struc­ture. 
Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak put the blame on the Islamic militants of llamas, which has run Gaza since defeating the rival Fatah movement in a five­day battle last June. Barak said Israel would continue to operate in the volatile coastal territory. 
"We see llamas as 
responsible for everything 
that happens there, for all 
injuries," Barak said during 
a tour of an Israeli weapons 
factory. "llamas is also 
responsible, by operating 
within the civilian popula­
tion, for some of the civilian 
casualties." 
During fighting April 16, 
a Reuters TV cameraman 
was killed by an Israeli 
tank shell in central Gaza. 
At least 18 rockets and 
dozens of mortar shells 
were fired at Israel from 
Gaza on Monday, the Israeli 
military said. No one was 
seriously hurt. Palestinian 
militants frequently launch 
rockets from Beit Hanoun. 
In recent weeks, militants 
have also tried to infiltrate 
into Israel at least four 
times. 
Monday's violence was a 
blow to Egyptian efforts to 
mediate a truce between 
Israel and Gaza militants. 
Ismail llaniyeh, Gaza's 
Barnas prime minister, 
accused Israel of trying "to 
ruin any regional and inter­
national efforts to end the 
siege and halt aggression." 
Last week, Hamas said it 
would accept a six-month 
cease-fire with Israel, pro­
vided Israel ended the eco­
nomic blockade it imposed 
on Gaza after the Barnas 
takeover. The blockade has 
caused shortages of fuel, 
cement and other basic 
items in the impoverished 
territory. 
Israel dismissed the truce offer, saying Hamas would use the lull to rearm after sustaining heavy losses in recent fighting. But Israel said it would hold its fire if llamas and smaller Gaza militant groups halted their attacks. 
While battling llamas in Gaza, Israel has been con­ducting peace talks with the rival Palestinian govern­ment of President Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank. 
Abbas condemned the new Gaza fighting, saying it would make peace negotia­tions with Israel even more difficult. "We emphasize the need to achieve calm and keep our people away from the agony of war and destruction," he said. 
The sides hope to reach a peace deal by the end of the year, though Abbas acknowledged after a trip to the White House last week that he was growing pessimistic because of the lack of progress in talks. 
In the West Bank on Monday, a Palestinian mili­tary court ordered the exe­cution of a man convicted of collaborating with Israel. 
Judges said the man, a Palestinian security ofl'icer, provided information that helped Israeli forces kill four Palestinian militants. Abbas must approve death sentences, though often they are commuted. 
The last execution was in 2001. Suspected collabora­tors are often killed vigi­lante-style before they can be arrested and tried. 

Tuesday, April, 29, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


from the Energy Information Administration 
Iiiii 

I 
half 

BEENLIGHT 
ED 
Notre Dame Forum 
JACC 

September 24, 3:00 p.m. 
enlighten.nd.edu 
rg;JUNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

~--------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------~­
page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A.•iSl~ MANAGING ElliTOR: Deirdre Krasula 
N~'WS ElliTOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EUJTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
SCENE EmTOR: Tao Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EmTOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EmTOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Corte-z 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univtrsity of Nom· l >arne du Lac and Saint Mary's Collegt·. Editorial content, including advertisements. is not v,ovcrncd by policies of the administration ofeither institurion. The Observer reserves the right to reti.tse advt·rrisenwnrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chic!; Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries. letters and columns present the views of tlw authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all rt'<!ders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact information. 
Qufstiom rrgarding Obsm1a policies should bt dirr:md to Ediwr in ChiefChris Hint. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l'lu: Ohacrvc1 (liSPS 'NY l-4UOH) 111 puhl1du:d Munday duou~;h l'wl.ay CXt.t.lf 1h1tint( cx.&m ;I.Uil v.ao..umn pcrio•o•.k A •ullk'lf~IUII w ·rht C.)hW"rvt'r 11 SIU(J IOrmu: aU<kmk 
yr.u,$')"j(urnnc.emnrcr.  
fhr (lfl!lctvcr i• pubhahr,J.u  ltt>S1 MASTER  
024 Suuth llimuiC IfAll  St-nd .Wdt«-\ corr~ctmns to:  
Nuu~ l),unc, IN 1f·~~On1J  The Obterwr  
l~ntldlo.oil pmro~gr p.ud .u Nucrr D.m1c  1~0  Bux 77'>  
llnd ;ultlitinno~l uuilinjll ntlkno.  0.!4 'inuch DininB llall  

Nunc Dame, IN 46'i';6-0771J 

111c Obaervc-r •• il member o( 1hc A.um1.11-:J P'I'Clll. All r,.-pmdm.llun uglus oU'C 
~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Bill Brink Fran Tolan Madeline Buckley Ellyn Michalak Nikki Taylor Matt Gamber Graphics Jared Jedick Mary Cecilia Andy Zicearelli Mitsch Scene Cartoonists Cassie Belek Carolyn Rose Viewpoint Sullivan Stephanie Vossler Adam I lembree 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 

Colbert? Really? 
I don't remember who spoke at my graduation. It's not that he/she was so forgettable, though I'm sure he/she was. I didn't go. I do remember, though, the previous year, when the graduating class president 
sniffed publicly that the speaker was good enough for Purdue maybe, but not Notre Dame. How she endeared herself to all Indiana! 
Anyway, I don't 


remember any Greg Yatarola 
administrators ask­
ing us seniors 

Dome and
whom we wanted 

Domer
to hear, and if they had, I hope they wouldn't have listened, for I'm sure that whoever did speak that day was less of an embarrassment to ND than our pick would have been. 
Nonetheless, I understand seniors' frustration with this year's speaker. One doesn't become a cardinal archbishop by saying anything interesting. I imag­ine he'll talk a bit about following Jesus, but it's doubtful at best that he'll make such following seem noble or somehow attractive, or that he'll discuss clearly what the stakes are. No, this won't be Patton, or Kierkegaard, or Alyosha's speech by the stone. But I hope I'm wrong. 
What I do not understand, though, is how seniors can complain that the administration didn't consider their input, given that their pick was Stephen Colbert. I'm more worried that the administration actually did consider it. They're giving the Laetare award to someone who played pretend for a liv­ing, so why not invite an obnoxious pre­tend journalist to address the seniors? What I hope happened instead is that whichever official saw Colbert at the top of the list just blurted out "[expletive] grow up" and hit delete. 
I don't dislike Stephen Colbert, or think he'd disgrace NO by speaking at graduation, because of his show's 
THE WITTIEST STEIN 
rather un-Catholic content. It's sad to see a man his age amuse teenagers with jokes about selling his own semen, but oh well. Nor is it because I can't identify a single accomplishment of his that would make him worthy of being at all honored by the University of Notre Dame. It's not even that Colbert, like his mentor Jon Stewart, is a small, weasely man, a dishonest cheap-shot artist, a bigot with all the acceptable bigotries who can only counter ideas he doesn't like by caricature. I highly doubt they'd practice their routine casual smearing if we had the right kinds of laws in this country, allowing dueling. I stopped watching Colbert when he described the pope in passing as a former Nazi. It's not just that his target was the pope. He and Stewart do it all the time. Just recently, after his man-crush the Obamessiah came under fire for his delightful "bitter" remarks (delivered to affluent San Francisco donors --per­fect!), Stewart went to bat for him. Obama was wrong in saying that slack­jawed rural whites turn to religion, guns, and racism because of economic hardship --no, according to Stewart, small-town white America is built on such backwardness. Don't hold your breath waiting for him to give such can­did analysis of some of Obama's con­stituencies -say, Chardonnay-sipping hot-tub liberals in Marin County. 
No, what disappoints me about this year's pick is how unimaginative it was. I bet the couch-burners up in East Lansing picked Colbert too, or would have. Why not just pick Flavor Flav? I'm sure an interpreter could be provid­ed. 
Notre Dame's student body is often criticized for conformity, and usually in terms of its Catholicity. I saw plenty of conformism at Notre Dame, but it was­n't to the teachings of the Church. It was to our culture. As I tried to state in a previous article, I knew as many girls actually on birth-control as dead-set against it. I knew far more people who watched "Seinfeld" religiously than who said the rosary. The music I heard at 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing this summer? 
Being a beaeh bum Traveling Stuck in the ollice Summer school No idea 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www. ndsmcobserver.com 

parties was whatever awful noise was popular at the time. not the quirky unknown stuff college kids traditionally take pride in liking. Nobody I knew went to see independent movies, but blockbusters were a staple. Several kids I knew could recite every line of "Austin Powers". Girls on the treadmills read "Cosmo". My classmates, by and large, had no problem adopting a critical atti­tude toward the authority of the Church, often with the help of their thn­ology professors. But rarely did I see such critical distance maintained toward the multiform stupidities of our popular culture. Slander Jennnifer Lopez, and you'd start a fight; my theol­ogy professor called St. Paul "evil," and nobody batted an eyelash. 
Of course, it's better to have low-brow tastes in music, movies, TV, magazines, etc. than to be pretentious and elitist. But that's the thing -Notre Dame too often combined the worst of both, devo­tion to "The Heal World" or "Sex & the City" with looking down at state-school kids, believing themselves so difl'erent from· the collegiate hoi polloi. You're not that difl'erent. You greet strangers sometimes on the way to class? Great, but do you think they just hiss and spit at each other at Penn State or LSU? And kids at Cornell do lots of service too. You're maybe smarter than the kids at Kentucky, and you've spent four years studying timeless works of tower­ing genius (hopefully). But then you want a comedian at your graduation? 
I'm not trying to scold anyone. Just please don't go out into the world with a sense of superiority. We Domers already have a bad reputation for that. If we're really that much better, let's show it. 
Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus. He hopes it's clear to all now why he asked to write under a pseudonym this year. He fears his class would have picked Jerry Seinfeld as graduation speaker. His address is gregpy@hotmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Summer afternoon -Summer . afternoon ... the two most beautif!Ll 
words in the English language. " 
Henry James British author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 29, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Economics at Notre Dame, an open letter 
As members of the University of Notre Dame, we have a special obligation to engage our learning, our teaching, and our world with integrity. Additionally, students deserve an education that explores the "full range of ideas." Therefore, the University, if it hopes to fulfill its mission, must teach its students to think critically and provide opportuni­ties for students to intellectually engage their discipline. It is our contention that the current situation of economics at Notre Dame often stifles debate, impedes student learning, and undermines the Catholic character of our University. 
At Notre Dame, economics is divided into two separate departments: "The Department of Economics and Econometrics, which is a: neoclassical economics department committed to r-ig­orous theoretical and quantitative analy­sis in teaching and research," and The Department of Economics and Policy studies, which is committed to "issues relating to socioeconomic justice and ethics," "openness to alternative methodological approaches," and the "roles of history and institutions" in the "broader political economy" It is our fear that. in pursuit of higher depart­ment rankings, Notre Dame will sacrifice the latter department in favor of the for­mer. 
In other words, we oppose a situation in which neoclassical economic theory is taught to the exclusion of other theories. This tendency is already apparent in the one-sidedness of economics majors at our University. The required courses ­introductory/intermediate microeconom­ics and macroeconomics, statistics, and econometrics -are all typically taught using only mainstream theory. It is alarming that a student could easily graduate from Notre Dame with a degree in Economics, having never ques­tioned the basic assumptions of or been presented with plausible alternatives to neoclassical economics. 
Neoclassical economic theory, because of its dominance in the academy, has become widely known as "mainstream" economics. Currently, introductory and intermediate micro and macro theory courses teach mainstream economics from an a historical perspective. These courses foster a narrow and incomplete view of economics, because they exclude teaching about the social and historical forces that shape economic theory and avoid sincerely questioning the underly­ing assumptions vital to the models. Furthermore, most professors present only neoclassical models to their stu­dents. This exclusive presentation implies that neoclassical theory itself is "economics." This system of education, insulated from critical dissent, produces the next generation of economists with a fixed toolkit of models and prescriptions that assume an unchanging economic reality. As a result, students fail to con­textualize neoclassical theory in the broader discourse of the social sciences. 
Living wage now 
have worked in Building Services Bills: for two years, so most of this is about House payment 525.00 the people there, plus food service, Heat budget 110.00 lawn care and laundry. Phone 45.00 
South Bend has one of the highest Electric budget 50.00 numbers of children living in poverty House/car insurance 78.00 as compared to other towns around Car, gas, etc. 160.00 the U.S., and our children are also Save for house tax 53.00 some of the worst-educated, as report­Old bill 50.00 ed by the South Bend Tribune. The Food 240.00 chances of them going tv college are Total$1,311.00 very small. In that Notre Dame is the I shop at stores where I get a dis­largest employer in South Bend, they count, I use coupons and I buy what is must help stop the poverty. It's good on sale. I do all of my trips in one to that they help all over the world, but save gas. I take lunch to work, do not take care of home first. eat out, do not go out to bars, movies, 
There are two people in my home etc. I have no cable or computer. At and I qualify for help to pay heat and the end of the month, there is no electric; you get help once a year. I money left, not even for the co-pay on also go to two churches every month a visit to the doctor. No money to take for food. Notre Dame keeps saying my grandkids to the zoo or pool. No that the benefits make up for the low money for car repairs, house repairs, pay, but they don't. We need a 401K or for gifts or vacations. No money to that they match up to 6 percent, not a buy children's clothes. There isn't college benefit that is no help to us. even money to put gas in the lawn­
The college benefit is not fair, mower. because how will many of us ever use You can't buy a car if needed. I know it? Even if the children made it, where two people who lost their cars and would we get the extra money for can't afford to buy replacements. The room and board? Also, many workers bus only helps if you work first shift. are older and will never be able to use A lot of the other benefits that the the benefit. If we were paid more, we University offers us we do not use could save for a college fund or retire­because many people work overtime ment if needed. but there is no money or two jobs and do not have time to left over to save. Plus, many schools play golf, go swimming, or go to the offer free schooling to low-income gym. I would like to see a change in families. some of the benefits. Maybe give us 
For right now, I want to be able to options for things that we could pay my bills. The university says we choose from, things that we need or need to manage our money. I see peo­would actually use. ple with food stamps eating better Notre Dame always wants to be than I do. We don't even get a cost of number one. Keeping campus workers living raise. and their children out of poverty 
If I was off work with no pay, I would be a good place to start in would lose my home. I am going to achieving this goal. The University show you what I make and what my keeps promising that things are going bills are: to improve, but they have not, and we 
Here is what I make in a month: need a living wage now. $1,334.94 Here is the total of my bills: Prudence Dorsey $1.311.00 sraff That leaves $23.94 April28 
In addition, mainstream economics is often presented as analogous to a natu­ral science, such that economic laws are attributed the same character of univer­sality as the laws of physics. As such, many faculty members teach main­stream neoclassical theory as a series of straight-forward mathematical concepts. This causes students to believe that eco­nomics is merely a matter of fine-tuning a particular model and thus void of ethi­cal implications. Many faculty promote this inaccurate notion in their courses by arguing that mainstream economics fur­thers a "positive analysis" of the world, a value-neutral agenda of "efficiency" in the process of allocating scarce resources. They argue that their eco­nomic models do not contain or render value judgments. However, this perspec­tive ignores the reality that neoclassical theory's starting assumptions and sup­porting logic carry an embedded ethics and have serious social implications. This misrepresentation of a value-laden theory seriously misleads students and inhibits their ability to morally engage current trends. Today's simultaneously increasing wealth and growing inequali­ty affirm a desperate need for models critical of the mainstream. 
To prevent this tendency toward a one­sided education, some economics stu­dents take courses where heterodox the­ories are introduced. These students are empowered to think about and critically engage both neoclassical models and alternative approaches. Unfortunately, the number of these courses at Notre Dame has dwindled in recent years. The deeper understanding afforded by these courses reveals that the current stunted education in economics is one of mostly memorization and unchallenging accept­ance rather than a critical examination of assumptions, logic, and implications. With a more sophisticated teaching of economics, which includes a plurality of ideas, students better learn mainstream neoclassical theory and, in the process, are exposed to a variety of instructive alternatives. 
As firm believers in the mission of the University and our ability to fulfill it, we hope that this letter begins a dialogue for change. The University of Notre Dame should reconsider its current teaching of economics, affirm the cours­es that currently offer heterodox approaches, and create more opportuni­ties for challenging intellectual engage­ment ifit hopes to provide its students with the truly premiere education it espouses. 
Please visit our blog with comments and sign our petition: www.openeconom­ics.blogspot.com 
Angela Maxey Nick Houpt Felipe Wttchger Sean Mallin srudents April28 

Staying true to Catholicisn1 
I believe too much is being made over the orientation is. They don't ask and therefore university's decision to not include sexual are non-discriminatory in that respect. The orientation in the non-discrimination university is simply upholding the Catholic clause. The Catholic Church opposes social values that we are required to uphold as a acceptance of homosexuality, yet recog­Catholic university. Adding sexual orienta­nizes that homosexuals deserve respect tion to the non-discrimination clause would and justice. The University is standing com­create the Pandora's Box mentioned in the pletely by that ideal by not including sexual "Two Words" viewpoint by opening up the orientation in the non-discrimination door to attacking different Catholic values clause. They recognize and have stated that and would therefore be an irresponsible they accept and value homosexuals on move towards maintaining a Catholic uni­campus (by treating them with respect as versity. stated in the "Spirit of Inclusion") yet will not put into policy a clause that recognizes David Fairburn social acceptance of homosexuals. sophomore 
Leave it at that. It's not like the university Keenan Hall asks on their application what your sexual April28 
Too juicy to be real 
Today I did something awful. I posted a We are giving this Web site way more nasty comment about someone on juicy­credit than it deserves. If you found a com­campus.com. The only thing is, I've never ment posted about you on there, it could met her. I just randomly searched a name have been made by a prankster roommate, on facebook and then spoke my unin­a jealous friend, or some random dude formed mind. In reality, I mean her no ill­from Bumpsville, Ill. who has never met will; I am just trying to make a point. you and hates all things Irish. Isn't the poor 
Here's the deal, guys. Juicy Campus is spelling and grammar a tip-off that maybe nothing more than the stuff of bathroom it's not Notre Dame students who are doing stall graffiti. The posts on Notre Dame's the posting? If you are reading about what forum could be written by anyone (read: a classmate did at a party, chances are the Notre Dame students OR students from party never happened, much less what the other colleges, any faculty, Joe Schmoe, a classmate is said to have done. Juicy racist KKK member, or an attention-seek­Campus provides NO true information. It is ing sixth grader posing as an Notre Dame like Wikipedia without any moderators student). from anywhere (read: Notre keeping it relatively accurate. Let's stop Dame's campus OR anywhere else in the using up our energy on this useless site world), about anyone (read: real people OR and get back to wasting our time on more fake people, or students the writer has important things like facebook. never actually met), concerning anything P.S. If I managed to damage anyone's (read: actual events OR completely fabri­reputation by posting on that site, I'm cated situations, false character descrip­sorry, but I'm more sorry ifour community tions, bent truths, half-lies, etc.), which has come to a place where reputations can may or may not reflect the author's true actually be damaged by such a site. feelings (read: reflecting their actual beliefs OR totally made up crap just to get a rise Scott Deeney out of people, someone from the outside senior trying to give Notre Dame students a bad Keough Hall name, etc.) April28 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 

By CASSIE BELEK 
AssistaiH Scene Editor 
Tina Fey and Amy Poehler an1 two women at the top of their comedy game. Arter serving as head writer for "Saturday Night Live," writing "Mean (;iris" and creating. writing. producing and starring in her own sitcom on NBC. ":{0 Hock," Fey has gone farther than most women in comedy today. Meanwhile, Poehler has become the MVP of "Saturday Night Live" while co-anchor-
Baby Mama 
Universal Pictures 
Director: Michael McCullers Written by: Michael McCullers 
Staning: lina Fey, Amy Poehler, Greg Kinnear, Romany Malco and Sigourney Weaver 


1ng "Weekend Update" and adding to her 
ever-expanding film and television 
resume. 

The problem with being at the top is that raised expectations make it so much easier to fall. Fey and Poehler's "Baby Mama," does not fail 
Kate, turning Fey and Poehler into the new "odd couple." 
There is no denying that Fey and Poehler are hilarious together. The two have known each other for 15 years and they have developed a chemistry that is 
as apparent in talk 
completely. but it doesn't show interviews as it live up to the quality of The movie is at its best is in "Baby Mama." their other work either. The movie is at its best 
when the pair is allowed 
"Baby Mama" follows when the pair is
to have fun on screen, not
37-year-old Kate allowed to have fun on Holbrook (Fey). a suc­only with each other but screen, not only with cessful executive for a each other but with
with the script as well. 
health food  the  script  as  well.  
store chain  "Baby Mama" could  
who longs for a baby before  use a little more improv, like in the scene  
it is too late for her to have  of Kate and Angie singing along to  
one.  Kate decides to go the  Karaoke Revolution.  
route of artificial insemina­ Most of the blame in the movie lies with  
tion through an anonymous  writer and director Michael McCullers.  

sperm donor. but her fertili­ty specialist (John Hodgman) doesn't like her uterus. In other words, her "junk" has gone bad. forcing her to use a surrogate, who comes in the form of South Philly working girl Angie Ostrowiski (Poehler). When Angie breaks up with her boyfriend. Carl (Dax Shepard). she moves in with 
, Although "Baby Mama" sounds like a movie Fey would have written, it was actually written by the man who co-wrote the "Austin Powers" trilogy. McCullers is clearly better at writing than directing. His script is funny. even if it lacks proper character development for Kate. We never dig deep enough into her motiva­tions for wanting a child. And once we see her dating smoothie maker Rob (Greg Kinnear). she seems so normal. confident and unflawed that we can't understand why her past relationships failed, leaving her single today. 
"Baby Mama" is McCullers' directorial debut, and it quickly becomes clear that with faster pacing (and a better editor). he could have made a better and funnier film. But "Baby Mama" drags, partkular­ly in the beginning. and the humor does­n't come as sharply and quickly as Fey and Poehler arc capable of. 
But even with all its flaws. "Baby Mama" still has its charms. As Kate's boss. Steve Martin steals scene after scene. His haircut alone is a visual gag that makes us laugh as soon as he appears on screen. "SNL" fans will get a treat with cameos from east members Will Forte and Fred Armisen (watch out for Forte's killer mustache). The friend­ship between doorman Oscar (Romany Malco) and baby mama Angie is sweet (yet unexplored), and Dax Shepard even has his moments to shine as Angie's white trash boyfriend. 
In the end, "Baby Mama" is worth see­ing for its truly hilarious moments. But it's unfortunate that poor direeting gets in the way of Fey and Poehler producing comedy gold. The two do not fail as actresses or eomedians; they only fail in their choice of project. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 


By JOE LAWLER Scene Writer 
I low would a young duo of Johnny Cash and .June Cartnr fare in today's country rnusil: world'! Or Gram Parsons and 1\rnrnylou llarris'! 
That's the question thP young country duo The Wrights pose in their new self­titled album. rPieased Jan. 29. The answnr is not yet clear. but husband. Adam Wright and wife Shannon's nnwest rnleasn follows their 2005 debut album "Down This Hoad" with another collection of beautifully lyricized and harmonized country duel<>. 
The nephew of nstablished country star Alan Jackson. Adam Wright already had an in with the Nashville erowd. Released on Jackson's personal label ACH. an RCA afliliate. "Down This Road" drew interest from Nashville critics for the couple's dircet and soulful lyrics as well as for their dose harmonizations. The lyrics on songs like "Down this Road" and "On the Hocks" displayed an honesty only achieved when the lyricists are in fact partners in love. 
Whether it was the lack of over-atl'ected eountry accents or amped-up guitar rifl's, "Down This Hoad" failed to attract the broad country audience it deserved. 
Instead of bowing to pres­
sure from record executives to abandon the duet format. water-down lyrics, and over­produce the accompaniment to increase sales. The Wrights left the HCA label to release their second album solnly on the indie ACR label. A sparse collection -only eight songs -the album is quiek and devastating, with the couple's lyrical agility and harmonization prownss on full display. 
On the opening track, "Rewind," the couple wastns no time in launching into two-part close harmony. While wistfully hoping to "rewind" their relationship to recapture their passion. Adam and Shannon showcase their improved vocals as well as their sense of the intimate. 
The couple ruthlessly interrogates each other in their co-writ­ten "Do You Still." 
Adam begins the Although short, "The Wrights" they are unable to do 
song with leading presents the young couple as so in soft two-part questions: "Honey are harmony with major
worthy ofcomparison to Cash 
you happy/ That you key changes and a
and Carter, Harris and
wear that little ring/ delicate steel guitar Or is it heavy on your Parsons and all the great aceompaniment. finger/ Is it like a ball One slight blemish
Nashville duos. 
and chain'!" Shannon on the album is "A 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
When I might as well be planting flowers on a gravel road." The harshness of the lovers' words to each other belies the overall hopeful impression of the song. All couples go through times when they would like to express their frustration in the words of "Planting Flowers," but, alas, 

joins him for a refrain marked by a classic Wrights contrapuntal turnaround of a wedding vow: "You said 'I do,' but do you still?" The slight distortion on Adam's guitar and the upbeat drum part mark a slight departure from the band's previous sound. but none of the new etl'ects undercut the pure. old-fash­ioned country sound Wrights fans expect to hear. 
The Wrights' strongest efl'ort is another introspective duet, "Planting Flowers." The title is part of the metaphor in the refrain. when the couple lament. " I'm planting flowers on a gravel road/ Waiting on a bloom/ Trying to make a garden growl Where nothing ever grew/ I give you my attention/ Keep you from the cold/ 
Love Like That," where Shannon forgoes the prominent harmony for a loud and somewhat pound­ing list of qualities she's looking for in a man. Also. "True Love is a Golden Hing," writtt~n by Alan Jackson, lacks the sensi­tivity of the Wrights' own works and sounds somnwhat moralistie in its com­parison between the ideals of wndding vows and thn reality of love. 
Although short. "Thn Wrights" presents the young couple as worthy of comparison to Cash and Carter. llarris and Parsons and all the great Nashville duos. If only they can be recohrniznd as such. and pro­duce more albums like the two they have. 
Contact Joe Lawler at jlawler2@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
page 13 

SENIOR PLUGS '30 RocK' ONE LAST TIME 
Like everyone, I have a few regrets sial opinion that I believe that "30 in college. I didn't discover the cafe in Rock" is better than "The Office." As a Grace Hall until three weeks ago. I second semester senior nearing grad­walked up the stairs of Main Building uation, I have run out of the energy to the first week of my freshman year. I defend my opinion again, so take what never got to share I say as truth and start worshipping at in the experience of the altar of Jack Donaghy and Button underage drinking Classic.
Cassie Belek

at the infamous While I'm at it, I might as well get Boat Club before it some other thoughts off my chest. 
Assistant

dosed and I didn't Michael Scott has become a gross cari­join the Scene staff cature of his season two self, Ted is a
Scene Editor 

until my sopho-super lame character on "HIMYM" more year. (but still watch it), "Gossip Girl" will 
However, there will bfl other cafes in never be as good as "The O.C." and my life, I will most likely graduate in "Grey's Anatomy" sucks. Period. three weeks, I can drink legally now Watch "General Hospital" instead. (although never at Boat Club) and There. I feel better now, but not even though I only had three short completely since I will soon be leaving years at The Observer, it was time well Notre Dame and The Observer behind. spent. It's true that I'll be moving on to a new 
I've had some good times delaying newspaper staff in graduate school, homework to write for Scene. I pre­but I have this secret fear that I'll end viewed concerts, wrote movie reviews, up having to work for News. I shudder avoided CD reviews at all costs (I don't at the thought (but still respect my do music), interviewed people who Observer colleagues working hard in knew famous people (making me that department). someone who knows someone who So ·now it's time to acknowledge knows famous people!) and covered those who have supported me during the award show beat. But soon after I my time with Scene. Thank you to all started writing for Scene, I found an the mothers of my friends who read area of the entertainment industry my articles online. Thank you to my that I loved writing about more than own friends who find my articles by anything else -television. accident while flipping to the cross­
Those of you who have recognized word puzzle. Thank you to my parents my byline over the years are aware of who read each one of my articles and my undying love for television. I have send them to their friend's cousin's made no secret of my obsession with grandmother's son. Thank you to my soap operas, my commitment to FTT classmates who read my articles "Arrested Development" and my and tell me how wrong I am, and last attendanco at "The Office" Convention but not least, thank you to everyone in Scranton. Pa. My DVH keeps me who has e-mailed me in the past to tell company when I can't sleep at night or me how wrong I am. I want to avoid homework, as does my I'm not wrong, so watch "30 Hock." oxpansive collection of TV shows on But more importantly, I would like to I>VD. end my position at The Observer with 
My favorite way to use my Scene & two pieces of advice: Don't be Heard columns is to implore you all to ashamed to love television, and get a watch TV shows that you are most DVR. It will change your life. That's likely not watching, specifically "30 all. Rock" and "How I Met Your Mother." Seriously guys, these shows will make The views expressed in Scene and you laugh. Don't you like to laugh? Heard are those of the author and not 
But sometimes my television opin­necessarily those of The Observer. ions are met with some resistance. Contact Cassie BeZek at Recently, I have shared the controver-cbelek@nd. edu 
Photo courtesy of tv.com 

How do you measure a year? The gonna be all right. number of classes you took? Ratio of The spring semester began with a football games we won? Amount of flex whirlwind of music, most notably points you dropped at Starbucks? "Falling Slowly," from the film "Once." Number of pictures you got tagged in on The song is heartbreakingly beautiful, Facebook? Love? and its performance at the Oscars made 
As the first year of me cry. When I think of that song, it my Notre Dame brings me back to my section lounge, 
Stephanie
experience comes to sighing with the other girls at how sim­
DePrez 
a close, I've found a ple and yet moving music can be. far more telling way The dead of winter was hard for me, a
Assistant 
to measure this Coloradoan, used to 300 days of sun­
Scene Editor 
year. I can trace all shine a year. The lovely perma-cloud sorts of experiences, that descended upon campus sent me ups and downs, revelations and short­into deep doldrums. The song "Breathe comings by looking back at the music Me" by SiA, which I bumped into when it that has been a part of my year. The was used in a presentation by the music I have discovered, shared or been PostSecret guy, became my refuge. I lis­obsessed with says a lot about my life. tened to that song every morning on my 
The first song of note that entered into way to class for about three weeks dur­my life would be "Cyclone" by Bal)y ing Lent. Bash. I do not like hip-hop. I am not par­Spring break came along, and my ticularly fond of the song. But when two friend burned me a number of discs of of the girls in my newly-furnished quad music to listen to on the plane ride realized they both knew the song, it home. The five-disc set opened with became our official anthem. I heard it "This Year" by the Mountain Goats. This every day for the first two weeks of the is a song worth checking out. The one fall semester. I still can't stand it, but it line that pounded in my head the entire has a very strong image tied to it of four flight was, "I am gonna make it through girls from four corners of the country this year if it kills me." getting to know each other and learning The arrival of spring brought about how to work out living away from home. the opera and the fmal trio from "Faust" It represents a time of change, a little by Gounod. This is the song that struck fear, and a lot of hope. me to the core whenever I heard it. All 
Getting settled into my new life of free­good things about being in the opera are dom was daunting at first. I clung to cer­tied to that song. tain songs for familiarity and comfort. And now, where are my musical One song in particular that helped me tastes? Firmly planted in "Can't Go Back was "Different Names for the Same Now" by the wee pies. This song of mov­Thing" by Deathcab for Cutie. I vividly ing on and finding a way to survive on remember riding my bike around the your own perfectly describes freshman lake at top speed, racing over the leaves year: "Go where you want to go. Be who and listening to that song, trying to gain you want to be.. .In the end the only what little wisdom it could afford, steps that matter are the ones you take because nothing at college was makings all by yourself." I have survived. I didn't sense. die, fall off the Dome, fail out of class or 
In the fall, I decided to join the World lose my room key. I've signed up for Music class for its field trip to the classes next semester, bonded with my Chicago music festival. On Navy Pier, a future roomy, and picked a major. Looks Czech woman named Lenka Dusilova like the music's gonna keep on coming. played the song "Litaci." It is a beautiful dream-pop tune, and even though I have The views expressed in Scene and no idea what the words mean, the song Heard are those ofthe author and not is calming and served to remind me that necessarily those ofThe Observer. college was going to be a challenge, but Contact Stephanie DePrez at that I could handle it. Things were sdeprez@nd. edu 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Glen Hansard, right, and Marketa lrglova's music, particularly "Falling Slowly," helped define this staffer's freshman year. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men's, women's ultimate fall short of title bids 
Special to The Observer 
Ultimate 
Notre Dame competed in the Great Lakes Hegional, part of the UPA College Series, this weekend in Hartland, Mich. Both the men's and women's squads were playing for a spot in the National Championships, which will be held in Boulder, Colo. 
Notre Dame's women's team opened with two pool games Saturday. Its first game was against rival North Park, who they had seen multiple times throughout the season. The women got tlw job done early and coasted to a 17-6 victory under the leadflrship of captains Shannon Morrison and Loretta Brown. Thn Irish dropped the second game 13-11 to the University of Chicago. 
Notre Dame headed into bracket play looking for a spot at Nationals. Notrfl Dame ddnated Indiana 15-5 to elose out the day on Saturday. 
On Sunday. Notre Dame had to win four games in a row to earn a spot at Nationals. Notre Dame used fresh legs to outrun Loyola to eome out on top 15-6 in the first game. The team's next game was against a Michigan State team who had previously rolled over Notre Damn 13-1 earlier in the sea­sorl. The Irish eame out with inl!msity and fire but were no match for Michigan Statfl's spend and backhand breaks, falling 15-4 in the final contest of the season. 

Men's play was double elimi­nation in a sixteen-team field. Notre Dame beat Oberlin 15-11 in the first game. The next opponent was Dayton, who had pulled off an upset in the first round. Next, Notre Dame took care of Dayton with a 15-6 vic­tory. 
This set up an anticipated match up between Notre Dame and Illinois in the semifinals. After not seeing each other at the sectional tournament, each team was anxious to get a chance to test its merit against the other. The game went back and forth early on with both teams essentially trading points until half. After halftime, Illinois came out firing and capitalized on some costly Notre Dame mis­takes. Illinois pull ahead and led 12-7 before the Irish fought their way back into the game. Despite amazing defense from junior Danny Collom, Notre Dame fell short, 15-13. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame drew Miami (Ohio). Miami gave Notre Dame problems early on. The first half only involved one break from each team and Miami took the halftime lead, 8­
7. Notre Dame came out fired up in the second half. Thanks to some fine throws from senior Erie Morin, Notre Dame pulled away and eventually won, 15­10. 
Notre Dame dropped its final game to Ohio State by a score of 15-12. 
The club finished one of the most successful years in recent men's play, with a 41-9 record. The Irish women's season was equally successful. Two tourna­ment victories, including Sectionals, were among the highlights. 
Men's Rowing 
The oarsmen of Notre Dame traveled to Eagle Creek for the perennial Indianapolis Invite, a regatta drawing the best crews of the Midwest. Arriving late Friday afternoon in preparation for Saturday's morning races, windy conditions that swamped three other crews prevented the Irish from getting in a light row before race day. Fortunately, however, the conditions improved, albeit slightly, afford­ing the Irish an opportunity to row for coveted shirts and medals. 
The story of the first day was the Notre Dame first novice 8­plus boat. The crew was the top seed entering the day's racing and confirmed its status with the best morning row, setting the stage for the highly-contest­ed final that was to follow in the afternoon. After a countdown start at 1:30, the Irish asserted their dominance, establishing an early lead, and holding off Marietta during the last 500 meters for what appeared to be the Novice crown. However, after lengthy deliberation stem­ming from post-race protests, the officials deemed the race void and mandated a re-row. The unusual re-row resulted from two separate instances of poor steering on the part of competing crews during the race, neither of which involved Notre Dame. Yet, after a poll of the coaches involved, a majority cast for a re-row that sent all six crews back on the water at 3:30, making it the final race of the day. The Irish found them­selves sitting in fifth place off the start and had only reclaimed fourth place at the 1000-meter mark. The Irish ral­lied in the final 1000 meters, with a sprint in the final 250 that had the crowd on its feet. But the Irish came up short, los­ing to Purdue by nine-tenths of a second with a second place time of 6:29.6. 
Sailing 

Having already earlier quali­fied entries in both the team and fleet racing at the Intercollegiate championships in Newport, R.I., Notre Dame was unable to qualify for the third event, eo-ed racing. The dub did earn a berth in the pre­nationals, which were hostfld by USC in Los Angeles this week­end. Georgetown, Yale, College of Charleston, and MIT finished in the top four spots. 
Rugby 

Notre Dame dropped a 56-24 game at Bowling Green over the weekend to conclude its season. Bowling Green played in the Nationals last year, and was ranked No. 5 just two weeks ago. The Falcons' coach retired after the game, which made for an emotionally inspired oppo­nent. 
Don Greiwe intercepted a pass and scored the game's first try and conversion in the opening two minutes to give the Irish a 7-0 lead. Bowling Green scored two minutes later on an advan­tage call following an Irish off­side. The Falcons then rolled to a 42-7 lead at the half. The Irish next scored as they mauled into the try zone off a Iineout as David Bray scored. Three min­utes later, Andy Mullen scored yet another try. Kevin Hitt added the final score of the day for the Irish A-side squad. 
The B-side fared no better, dropping a 65-7 game. Andy Mullen scored the only Irish try and Don Greiwe added the con­version. The Irish measured themselves against one of the nation's strongest teams and displayed promise for the future. 
Fishing 

Largemouth bass provided the competition for the fishing club this weekend in Chelsea, Mich. The dub arrived Friday evening and immediately start11d catch­ing fish. Using a "t<iuehdown worm" from their canoes, the anglers caught many big fish. highlighted by Brian Kirkendall's seven-pound bass. A full day of fishing on Saturday was followed by continued suc­cess on Sunday, as the club used the canoes to fish the entire lake. 
SUMMER OLYMPICS 

No disruptions as thousands celebrate torch in North Korea 
Only the most loyal communist tee, said at the relay start, father of Kim Jong II. Middle-aged women in tradi­
Associated Press 

elite are allowed to live in according to a report from An attentive and peaceful tional dresses danced and beat 
PYONGYANG. North Korea -Pyongyang, a showpiece city Pyongyang by Japan's Kyodo crowd watched the start of the drums in one square, while North Korea mobilized tens of filled with monuments to the News agency. relay, some waving Chinese and young girls held red balloons and thousands of dtizens on Monday hard-line regime. "We express our basic position Olympic flags, APTN footage bouquets of flowers, APTN to celebrate the Olympic torch China is North Korea's main that while some impure forces showed. The ceremony was footage showed. relay in Pyongyang, the flame's ally and a key provider of aid, have opposed China's hosting of presided over by the head of Security was far lighter than in 11rst visit to the authoritarian and the torch relay was used to the event and have been disrup­Parliament, Kim Yong Nam. most other cities visited by the nation. herald their ties. North Korea has tive, we believe that constitutes a Kim passed tho flame to Pak Du torch, although the flame was fol­
Men in their best suits and condemned disruptions of the challenge to the Olympic idea," Ik, a former soccer star who lowed by several Chinese in blue women wearing traditional high­torch relay elsewhere, and sup­Pak said. played on North Korea's 1966 tracksuit<; along with vehides and waisted dresses waved flags and ported Beijing in its crackdown The torch began its run from World Cup soccer team. motorcydes. paper flowers in the capital, on violent protests in Tibet. beneath the giant red stained­As the 12-mile relay wound The relay ended after about gn1eting the torch like a visiting Leader Kim Jong II was not glass flame that tops the 558-through Pyongyang, thousands of five hours at Kim II Sung head of state. seen at Monday's event, but he foot-tall obelisk of the Juche cheering people lined the streets Stadium, where female 
Unlike some other parts of the was "paying great interest to the Tower, which commemorates the waving pink paper flowers and marathoner Chong Song Ok used relay ahead of the Beijing success of the Olympic torch national ideology of "self­small flags with the Beijing the torch to light an Olympic Olympies, everything went ofT rfllay," Pak Hak Son, chairman of reliance" created by the late Olympics logo and chanting cauldron, China's official Xinhua without a hitch in North Korea. North Korea's Olympic commit-founding President Kim II Sung, "Welcome! Welcome!" News Agency reported. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 bed-Large house available for 2009­room 1balhroom mnch house near NO, 2010.Full renovations completed 
WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT behind Nicks Patio. Washer/Dryer,C/A, 2007:. Close to campus.. 4,000+ PERSONAL 1-car garage, $725/mo. $250 security square feet. 5 bathrooms. deposit. jimc343@yahoo.com MacSwain@gmail.com 
SUMMER WORK Condo For Sale. Close to NO. Blue &Gold Homes Showing for PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE Quiet community-beautifully cared 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" Staying in South Bend this summer? 3 bdrm 1 bath home, garage, new WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. $14.25 BASE-APPT. flexible, no for. leases bluegoldrentals.com Need a place to live? 1017 E. appliances.Ciose to ND. $800/mo We want to help. Call our 24 hourconfi-
Contact Paul @ Washington St. (cross street Eddy plus utilities. dential hoijine at 1-80Q.No Abort or visit exp. nee, customer sales/service, 57 4-993-5858. For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., St.) Great Location -Less than 5 Call 286-4063. our web site at www.lijecaJI.org cond. apply, student neighborhood, central air, mins from campus. 6 spacious rooms 
A Brick House For Sale by Owner! new appliances, very nice. 289-4071. available &2.5 bathrooms. 8 bdrm, 3 full bath house for 08-09. UNPlANNED PREGNANCY? Do not ages 17+, positions available Great area. Close to campus. $250 go~ alone. Hyou or someone you love 2 Minutes North of Campus. 1 OR 2 Bdrm apt.in historic neighbor-Contact Shannon at per student. needs confidential support orassistance, throughout US &Canada, $118,000.53097 Oakmont Central hood. One mile to ND. Laundry & straeger@ nd.edu for details on sub-please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. Drive. security. $51 0/mo. Call574-532-8718. leasing. 574-250-7653. For more information, visit our website at 
www.workforstudents.com Call 571-225-9376. htlpJ/osa.nd.edu/departrnents'pregoant.s Email: archfao@yahoo.com 3 bdrm homes &1bdrm apts. Close to FOR RENT: 2 bedroom house in REDUCED RENT for upscale html or see our bi-weekly ad il The ND. Oakmont Park-just north of campus. Dublin Village unit. Observer. Subaru 99 Forester/ 4 BR partially furnished. New student needs good laptop. great Call Jose 574-514-0900 or ernail: Contact 574-631-0805, email: Hyou or someone you care about has condition/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 Kl Call today! been sexually assaulted, visit 574-993-8733. $6,500. 234-2104. greaijakespg@ grnail.com Foudghir@ nd.edu 574-261-3338. htlp'}/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.shtrnl 
-------~--------------~ --~--­

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 13 


NBA 
team record 

1 Miami 33·4 2 North Carolina 34·7 3 Florida State 34-5 4 Missouri 28·10 5 Stanford 21-12 6 Arizona State 31·6 7 California 21)-10 8 Nebraska 28·7 
9 9 Rice 3HO 11 10 Georgia 27-12 13 11 San Diego 31-11 12 12 South Carolina 29-11 14 13 Oklahoma Stale 27-11 18 14 Wilchita Slate 30·7 7 15 Cal State Fullerton 23·13 15 16 UC Irvine 24·9 5 17 Vanderbilt 28·11 17 18 Texas A & M 33·7 19 19 Michigan 28·8 21 20 Cosal Carolina 33-7 22 21 Mississippi 25·15 16 22 Kentucky 30·9 25 23 Arizona 25-11 NR 24 North Carolina State 27-12 NR 25 Long Beach State 23-14 NR 
ESPN.com/USA Softball NCAA Top25 
team 

1 Arizona State 2 Florida 3 Alabama 4 UCLA 5 Michigan 6 TexasA& M 7 Stanford 8 Arizona 8 Oklahoma 10 Tennessee 11 Fresno State 12 Northwestern 13 Houston 14 North Carolina 45-8~1 15 Long Beach State 33-12 16 LSU 34-14 16 17 Louisiana-Lafayette 34-10 18 18 Virginia Tech 38-12 19 19 Hawaii 31-13 15 19 San Diego Slate 35·13 22 21 Washington 25-16-1 20 22 CalifornIa 36-18 21 23 Mississippi Slate 37-16 24 24 Massachusetts 30-11 NR 25 Nevada 31-14 NR 
MIAA Women's Softball 

team 
Alma 
14"2 

Tri·Stale 
11-3 

SAINT MARY'S 
12·4 

Adrian 
8·6 20· 

Hope 9·7 2342 Olivet 13·21
6·10 

Calvin 12-23
5-11 

Albion 13·16
4·12 

Kalamazoo 3-25
1-15 

around the dial 
NBA PLAYOFFS 
Mavericks at Hornets 7 p.m., TNT 
Suns at Spurs 
9:30 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 

MIAMI -On the night of his last game as an NBA head coach, Pat Riley heard the final buzzer, looked straight ahead and briskly walked away. 
Deep down, he knew it was over. 
"I didn't have to look back," Riley said. "I know that's behind me." 
And now, after spending several days plotting the Miami Heat's next course, Riley's past becomes Erik Spoelstra's future. 
The Hall of Fame coach resigned Monday, although he'll remain team president. His first act as Miami's for­mer coach was to choose i1s new one, and hired Spoelstra, a 37 -year-old who started in the Heat video room in 1995 and now becomes the NBA's youngest coach. 
Riley sees himself in Spoelstra. 
Riley was 36 when he first became a head coach, and didn't have any experience either. His first off-the-court job in the NBA was traveling secretary for the Los Angeles Lakers, handling boarding passes. Spoelstra also was at the bottom of the Heat totem pole when starting out, mak­ing videos for the team Orristmas party, but Riley is convinced he's ready for the top job. 
"It's very rare to have the opportunity to work for one organization for your entire career like I have," said Spoelstra, who was told the job was his Friday. "It means it's a special organization." 
Miami finished with the NBA's poorest record (15­67), by far the worst of Riley's career. As president, Riley will continue oversee­ing the plan to revamp a franchise just two years removed from a champi­onship, after deciding he'd best benefit the franchise from the front office. 
Last year, Riley said he was committed to coaching three more seasons. Monday, he admitted he never believed that to be true. 
"I am definitely sure that I don't want to do this any­more," Riley said. 
Riley's future was among Miami's many offseason issues. The Heat could have the No. 1 pick in the draft, are assured a top-four pick and are certain to make moves in an effort to revamp a roster plagued by injuries. 
"Pat Riley has instilled in me values that enabled me to win a championship in just three seasons," Heat guard Dwyane Wade said Monday. "''ve seen him do the necessary things to make us winners and I believe that with his focus on being pres­ident and his commitment to the team, we will once again become a contender." 

IN BRIEF Major changes to BCS not 
likely 

HOLLYWOOD, Fla. -As they kicked off three days of meetings at an oceanfront resort, the Bowl Championship Series overseers appear to have a better chance of getting a sunburn than making any major changes in the controversial system. 
"I continue to sense a certain comfort level, if you will, with the current status of things with the BCS," BCS coordinator John Swofford said after Monday's ses­sion. "I think it's been a pretty sta­ble few years." 
Still, the commissioners of the 11 major college football conferences, along with Notre Dame athletic director Kevin White, will have their most detailed discussions to date of the plus-one model, which could use two bowls as semifinals and another as a national title game, with the four participants seeded. 
Lieberthal to retire in June 
with Phillies 
PHILADELPHIA -Two-time All­Star catcher Mike Lieberthal will retire with the Phillies on June 1, ending his career with the franchise where he played 13 of his 14 major league sea­sons. 
Lieberthal, the third overall pick in the 1990 draft, hasn't played this sea­son and spent last year with the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
"Philadelphia has always been a sec­ond home to me, so I'm really looking 
· forward to this," Lieberthal said on Monday. "I spent half my life there and still follow the team closely on televi­sion." Lieberthal hit .275 with 150 home runs and 609 RBis in 1,17 4 games with the Phillies. He batted .234 with one RBI in 38 games with the Dodgers. Lieberthal was the sixth catcher in major league history to hit .300 with 30 home runs in a season when he reached those marks in 1999. 
Posada placed on DL for 
first time in career 
CLEVELAND -The New York Yankees took the field Monday miss­ing a familiar face: Jorge Posada, the club's proud catcher and one of its leaders, was in Alabama getting his injured right shoulder examined. 
Posada was placed on the 15-day disabled list for the first time in his career, ending a remarkable run of durability at baseball's most physi­cally demanding position. The 36­year-old, who has caught at least 137 games in each of the past eight seasons, finally succumbed to pain in his shoulder that he had been feeling for most of the season's first month. 
"It's kind of strange to go into the clubhouse and you don't see him," said Yankees manager Joe Girardi, who helped teach Posada in the 1990s. "He's a quiet leader. He's a constant in the clubhouse, you like to see guys like that." 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
MLB 

Reds defeat Cards on the strong arm of Arroyo 
Yankees jump on youngster Laffey, Tribe in four-run sixth to split series, Mussina earns 253rd career win 
A.•sociatcd Press 
ST. LOUIS Edwin l·:nc:arnarion had a pair ol' I!Bl doubiPs and rnadn a standout play at third bast' in thn snvPnth inning to prn­snrvP a onP-run load in tlw CiJH:innal.i I!Pds' 4-:~ victory ovnr tlw St. Louis Cardinals on Monday night. 
Bronson Arroyo 11-:{1 workPd six solid innings for thn llPds, who won tlwir first sPriPs O]JPnPr al'tPr losing llw l'irst ninP. /\dam Dunn and Brandon Phillips had an HBI apiPrP to lwlp Cineinnati win thrnn in a row for thn l'irst limP this snas011 and nvnn its r n co r d at :~-:{ s i n c: n W a It 
.I or k n tly  b I' c· am n  go 11 n r a I  
managnr.  
Bic:k  /\nkit>l  hit  his  fifth  

honw run l'or tlw Cardinals, l'or whom JorkPlty snrvNI as GM tlw pn•vious 13 seasons bnl'orn gntting l'irc~d last OctoiH'r. /\IIH'rt Pujols singiPd twic:n and walknd, nxtonding his hitting stroak to 12 ganws. and has rc~achod baso in all 2 7 ganws to start tlw snason. 
Arroyo allowPd thrnn runs on six hits and struck out six l'or his first victory sinco Snpt. 12 against thn Cardinals. lin had bcH~n 0-4 in night outings sinen, ineluding an o-:{ start to tho snason for tho sncond tirnn in his carenr. lin ontorod with a 7.56 EB/\ al'tor failing to mako it out of the fourth inning while allow­ing night runs in his previous start. against llouston. 
Franeisco Cordero allowed a hit in the ninth for his fourth savn in four chances. 
Tho Hnds bunched five hits in tho second and third off' Todd Wollemeyer (2-11, scor­ing twico in each inning to go ahead 4-0. Encarnacion had an HBI double in eaeh inning. 
Enearnaeion's second HBI double put the Heds ahead 4­0 and was a gift after left fielder Chris Duncan lost his routino pop fly in the lights. 
Wollnmoyer allowed only two hits in his last thren innings, striking out nve and walking two. lie had been 2-0 with a 1.50 EH/\ in his first two starts at home this sea­son. 
Troy (;]aus drew a bases­loaded walk in the third, /\nkiel hit his fifth homer in the fifth, and Cesar lzturis' opposite-field HBI double in tho sixth orr a sidearm 2-2 deliv11ry from Arroyo eut the gap to a run. It stayed that way when the Cardinals caught a bn~ak in thn seventh as Dunn's bases-loaded single struck Brandon Phillips for an out as h1~ was running to seeond. 
Glaus, who left Friday night's ganw due to watery PYI~s al'tM striking out twiee, won~ sunglasses while flying out to end the first. Glaus, whoso 11yns arn only al'l'eeted during night games at hom1~ dun to allergies, went without glass11s while coaxing a full­count walk in the third. 
Yankees 5, Indians 2 
Their record is barely abov1~ av11rage, one of' their superstars is still limping around and their everyday r a t rlw r i s o n t h e d i s a b I e d 

list. Tlw New York Yankees aren't tlwmsnlvns. But at least they're headed honw. 
Mikn Mussina narnnd his 2!i:{rd win, tying Hall of' Fanwr Carl llubbell on the earcwr Iist. and the Yan kens conrludnd an extended odyssey on the road by mak­ing tlw most or tlwir five hits in a victory over the Ch~vPiand Indians on Monday night. 
/\ftpr winning tlw final two ganws to split the four-game series, th11 Yankees packed tlwir bags for Nnw York to end a str11tch of playing 18 of 20 games away from homn. On Tlwsday night, they'll be back in the comforts of Yankcw Stadium after 18 road games in April -the most by any tPam in the month. 
''l'~e got t~l fin.d my h~u~e key, Muss1na Joked. Its been so long since we've been honw, we just assumed we're going to anotlwr hoteL" 
/\L 14-13. the Yankees aren't playing up to their pot11ntial or payroll, but eon­sidering the demanding schedule and a slew of injuries, they'll take it. 
"Basically we played three wonks in a row on the road," Mussina said. "That was a seven-city road trip over thrnn weeks and I think we played .500 for that stretch. We should be pleased with ourselves." 
Mussina (3-3) allowed two runs and seven hits in five innings, just enough to eatch Hubbell for 41st place. The 39-year-old had his second consecutivn solid outing after 
there  was  speculation  he  
might lose  his spot in the  
rotation.  

Mussina was followed by Jonathan 1\lbaladejo, Kyle Farnsworth, Joba Cham­berlain and Mariano Hivera, who worked the ninth for his eighth save in eight tries. New York's bullpen held the Indians to one hit over the final four innings. 
llideki Matsui had two HB!s for the Yankees, held without a hit for five innings by Aaron Laffoy (0-1), making his sea­son debut. 
But in the sixth, New York strung together four hits ­throe didn't leave the infield -two groundouts and a hit batter to score four times and tako a 4-2 lead. Matsui's RBI double in the eighth made it 5-2. 
"Sometimes it's not how you hit them, it's where you hit thorn," New York manager Joe Girardi said. 
It wasn't pretty, but the Yankees will takn it on a day when they had to place durable cateher Jorge Posada on the disabled list for the first time in his career. The :{6-year-old has been both­ored by a shoulder problem for weeks. lie left the team to have his shoulder examined by famnd orthopedic surgeon Dr. .James Andrews in Birmingham, /\Ia. 
Tho Yankees are still await­ing test results on Posada, who playnd in at least 137 games in each of the past night seasons. Girardi is try­ing to stay optimistic he'll get baek his catcher, who signed 
a four-year, $52.4 million 
contract before the season. 
"I have my fingers crossed," 
Girardi said. 
He's also going to keep a elose eye on Alex Rodriguez, who played the entire series but is still slowed by a strained right quadriceps. Rodriguez was lifted for a pinch-hitter in the eighth inning, and Girardi said he'll likely sit his All-Star third baseman on Tuesday against Detroit. 
"lie's not 100 percent and 
we felt it was best to get him 
out of there," Girardi said. 
"lie gave us four games and 
kind of sucked it up for us." 
Rodriguez said he felt a 
"pull" while running the 
bases. 
"It's hard for me not to play 100 percent," Hodriguez said. "Thn key for me is to get healthy." 
Laffey had never faced the Yankees, but he didn't look seared of their big names or big salaries. 
lle gave up a leadoff walk in the first and was in imme­diate trouble when Derek Jeter reached on an error. Laffey, though, settled down and retired Bobby Abreu, Rodriguez and Jason Giambi. 
Laffey retired 14 straight before hitting Hobinson Cano in the ribs with a pitch in the fifth. 
With Hall of' Farner Bob Feller, who no-hit the Yankees 62 years ago this week, watching from the press box, Laffey took a no­hitter into the sixth before New York manufactured a scoring rally that hardly befit their Bronx Bombing image. 
Melky Cabrera hit an infield single and Jeter was safe on a bad-hop roller to third. Abreu's single loaded the bases and Laffey got ahead of Hodriguez 1-2 before hitting him on the left leg to force in 

Summer. 2008 
Department o nsh Language Iterature 
IRLL30107 
IRLL 30108 
IRLL 30307 
IRLL 40304 
IRLL 60203 
IRLL 60305 
IRLL 10101:01 IRLL 10101:02 IRLL 10101:03 IRLL 1010104 IRLL 10102:01 IRLL 10102:02 IRLL 2010301 IRLL 2010302 IRLL 20203:01 IRLL 6010101 IRLL 60101:02 IRLL 60102:01 IRLL 60102:02 IRLL 6010301 IRLL 6010302 IRLL 60203:01 
Carroll said. "You saw them hit balls that took just the right hop, found just the right hole. What we have to do is keep battling and it will even­tually happnn for us, too." 
The Indians, who played their second straight game without /\11-Star eenter field­er Grady Sizemore, took a 2-0 lead in the fifth on a run­scoring single by .Jason Michaels and Travis Hafner's sacrifice 11y. 

Fall 2008 Course Offerings 
Literature Courses 

The Hitltlen Ire/anti 
21l' Century Iri.~ft Literature 
Tire lri.~ft Trrulition I 
Poetry and Politk.~ in Ireland 
Scottish Uaelic 
Cla.mici na (iaeilge 
Language Courses 

Heginning Irish I 
Beginning Irish I 
Heginning Irish I 
Heginning Irish I 
Heginning Irish II 
Heginning Irish II 
Intermediate Irish 
Intermediate Irish 
Advanced Readings in Irish Culture Heginning Insh I Heginning Irish I 
Heginning Irish f.anguage II 
Heginning Irish I-anguage II 
Intermediate Irish 
Intermediate Irish 
Advanced Readings in Irish Culture 
Prof. J>eter McQuillan (TR 12:30-1:45) Prof Sarah McKibben (MW II :45-1 00) Prof. Hugh Fogarty (TR 3:30-4 45) Prof Breandan 6 Buachalla (TR 2 00-3: 15) Prof Peter McQuillan (TR 2:00-3 IS) Prof Breanditn 6 Buachalla (W 600-9 00) 
SiafffrBA Prof. Tara MacLeod StufffrilA Prof. Mtttrcunn Ni Bhcaglaotch Prof. Ciuru Conneely Prof. Tara Macl.c\rd Prof llrian t'l Conchuhhatr Prof. Surnh MucKibbcn Prof. Brian (J Conchuhhuir Sialli'TBA Prof. Tara Macl.c~>d Prof. l'tunrl'onnecly Prof. Tara MacLeod Prof. Brian (> Conchubharr Prof. Sunrh MacKihhcn Prof. Brian Ul'onchubhatr 
Tuesday, April29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC GoLF 
Postseason hopes in NCAA's hands 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
The season hangs in the 
balance for Saint Mary's 
until May 5 when an NCAA 
selection committee will 
determine the fate of the 
Belles' post-season lives. 
The Belles finished as the 
runner-up in the MIAA con­
ference tournament, placing 
them into a group of teams 
vying to receive an at-large 
bid into the NCAA national 
championship May 13-16 at 
the Centennial Oaks Golf ·Club in Waverly, Iowa. 
There are a total of three 
spots open for at-large 
teams who did not receive 
their conference's automatic 
bid. 
Belles coach Mark 
Hamilton said he likes his 
team's chances of receiving 
one of those spots. 
"The first two spots are 
pretty much wrapped up by 
higher-ranked teams that 
failed to win their confer­
ences," Hamilton said. "But 
with our recent performanc­
es against higher-ranked 
opponents, I think we have a very good chance of captur­ing the final spot." 
One of the Belles' best per­formances of the season came in the MIAA tourna­ment last weekend. 
After the first round of play, the Belles found them­selves down 18 strokes to No. 10 Olivet. 
However, in the final two rounds, Saint Mary's showed great improvement by shoot­ing the lowest score of each round. 
"It was a pretty gutty per­formance by our team, but the first-round deficit proved to be too great," Hamilton said. "We beat the No. 10 team on its own course and that is a pretty big feat." 
If the Belles are fortunate enough to receive an at­large bid into the national championship tournament, they will certainly have their work cut out for them. However, they have beaten many higher-ranked teams already this season and will not hold anything back in trying to do it one last time. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
Your stun
iverthe Summer! 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2169 

6-48.2 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 
Pl'opel'ty fol' Beat 
2008·2009 School Year 
ll'isb Cl'ossiag 
Towahome 
4Bedrooms 3 aad 1/2 Bathrooms 1 Block from Campus 
Call: Jack Pryor Cell: 214·957-3278 Home: 972.&24-5007 


SMC SOFTBALL 
Tealll off to MIAA Challlpionships 
Belles earn No. 2 seed, will open against No. 3 seeded Tri-State 
win, they will play the winner percentage, on-base percent­
By LAURA MYERS 
of a game between No. 1 seed age, runs scored and total 
Sporrs Writer 
Alma and No. 4 seed Hope. If hits, and is tied with two oth­the Belles lose, they will play ers for the most doubles. Saint Mary's heads to the the loser of that Corrigan MIAA conference champi­game. leads the con­onships for the third straight Sullivan did not "They are going to be ference in year Thursday. The tourna­say which of her RBI and
nervous to play us
ment will be held Thursday two starting pitch­home runs. 
and Friday at Alma College. ers -junior Calli again, especially S a i n t The Belles are a No. 2 seed Davison (11-8) after our convincing Mary's has in the tournament, and will and senior won the
win in game two. ,
play No. 3-seeded Tri-.State McKenna Corrigan MIAA tourna-Thursday morning. The (12-0)-she plans ment only match-up provides some to start in the first Erin Sullivan once, in familiarity as Saint Mary's game. Belles coach 2 0 0 4 . 
faced the Thunder on "We will warm Saturday. That doubleheader up both for our was split, with Tri-State taking first game," Sullivan said. the first game 8-3 and Saint "Either one of them will be Mary's winning the second great against Tri-State. They 
contest 8-0.  both  pitched  
Belles  coach  well  on  
Erin said feels  Sullivan that she her team  "Our plan is to play hard and leave  Saturday." The Belles bring a formi­ 
has  an  advan­ everything on the  dable  offense  
tage playing Tri­State again so  field. No regrets.,  to the tourna­ment, led by  
soon.  Corrigan  and  
"They  are  Erin Sullivan  sophomore  
going to be nerv­ Belles coach  Ashley  
ous  to  play  us  Peterson,  
again, especially  whose .580 in­ 

after our convincing win in conference batting average game two," she said. was good for the regular-sea­The tournament is double­son batting title. Peterson also elimination, so if the Belles leads the MIAA in slugging 
Sullivan was 
a senior that year. However, because the current system awards points based both on tournament place and regular season place, the Belles did not get the MIAA's automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
Sullivan said that in 2006 and 2007, when Saint Mary's came in third and fourth, respectively, they tired in the postseason. However, she does not expect that to be the case this year. 
"Our plan is to play hard and leave everything on the field," Sullivan said. "No regrets." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

NHL 
Flyers take 2-1 series lead from Canadiens in Philly 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -Derian Hatcher wq.s like all the other Flyers fans who watched the last 15 minutes on TV. He did it in the locker room, feeling sick, stressed and helpless as the lead nearly slipped away. 
Unlike the other orange-clad diehards, Hatcher could have prevented the frayed nerves Monday night. 
When Philadelphia held on for the victory, Hatcher could thank Martin Biron that the defense­man's late ejection didn't cost them the series lead. 
Biron stopped 32 shots and the Flyers scored three goals in the second period to beat the Montreal Canadiens 3-2, taking a 2-1lead in their second-round series. 
"Marty has been terrific. He's been our best player in this series," coach John Stevens said. "We probably felt going in that he would have to be." 
Biron lost his shutout -and the Flyers nearly wasted a three-goal lead -when Hatcher was ejected in the third period and Montreal capitalized on the lengthy power play. 
Hatcher drove his right arm into the center of defenseman Francis Bouillon's back and slammed him into the glass. Bouillon, who wears a visor, was cut near the corner of his right eye. 
Hatcher was whistled for 5 minutes for boarding and a game misconduct, ending his night. That was all the opportu­nity Montreal needed to make its first serious run at Biron. It was nearly enough to tie the score. 
"Your first reaction is you just hope the team can get through it," Hatcher said. 
Tomas Plekanec quickly scored a power-play goal off a serum in front of the net to make it 3-1. The goal was reviewed, but the replay showed the puck was over the line before the net became dis­lodged. 
Saku Koivu was stopped on a breakaway by Biron's poke check in the first period, but he scored on the power play in the third to pull Montreal to 3-2. 
"It got a little scary on the power play," Biron said. 
Hatcher felt awful. 
"Watching the last 15 minutes was a lot more draining than actually playing the game," Hatcher said. "I feel mentally exhausted right now." 
The Flyers killed the rest of the penalty and Biron quickly reverted to the form of the first two periods, when he stopped shots in all kinds of ways. He made 17 of his saves in the third period while the Flyers took a measly two shots on goal. 
No wonder he was serenaded again from the stands: "Mar-ty! "Mar-ty!" "Mar-ty!" 
That's a sound the Flyers want to hear all the way to the Stanley Cup. 
"It's fun when they chant your name," Biron said. "They chal­lenge the guys to play better." 
The Canadiens outshot Philadelphia 34-12. 
"It seems that we're being tested right now," Koivu said. "I don't think we played as well tonight as we did in the second game, but still we were able to put a lot of pucks on net and create a lot of chances. That's a positive thing, but at the same time when you outshoot your opponent, you're hoping to get the win." 
Mike Richards, R.J. Umberger and Scottie Upshall all scored goals on the first six shots of the second against 20-year-old Carey Price. 
Price never made it to the end, yanked at the start of the third period for Jaroslav Halak. Price will get another shot in Game 4 on Wednesday in Philadelphia. 
"Cary has proven in the past that he can bounce back and come back really strong," said Montreal coach Guy Carbonneau. "I know he can come back and play really strong." 
After a scoreless first period, the Flyers made the most of their limited shots in the second. 
Upshall fired a wrister past Price 7:04 into the period and another sold-out crowd roared in approval. One fan pressed a sign that read "The Price Is Wrong" against the glass. 
Richards made it 2-0 when his short-handed goal bounced off Price's glove. Lasse Kukkonen was in the penalty box for hold­ing the stick, putting the Flyers a man down. Who else but Richards would give them a lift? He scored five short-handed goals in the regular season, which led the Flyers and was tied for third in the NHL. Richards picked off the puck to score the unassisted goal. 
Then the Flyers got what turned out to be a needed goal. 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, April29, 2008 
Thanks to the following men who signed the 
' 
I ­
! I 
i MAV pledge against sexual assault and 
domestic violence. Whether your name 
appears or not, we are all affected by sexual 
violence and we can all help create an 
environment where assault is never acceptable. 
Class of 2008 Class of 2009 Dave Wilberson Joseph Nachio Ben Queen Harrison J.Zacherl Ted Horn Merrick Doll Alex Klupchak Chris Gill Dan Carli Tom Haunert Brian Patterson Stephen Mattingly 
John Everett David Prina Andy Mastroe Teddy Okonokhua Jacques Nguyen Grant Van Eaton Julian Owyuy Nathan Serazin Andrew Matta Brendan Goteman Danny Smith Ben Gunty Tim Sobalewski Mike McCann Alec Hirschauer Brendan T. Ryan Greg Ramsower Brian Holland Rob Lindkley,Jr. Conor Kelly Michael Podgajny Sean Dougherty Brian Bak Sean Pietrini Patrick Lasseter Michael O'Connor Paul Spadafora Josh Raycraft Sean Pillai Justin Tresnowski Matt Poczatek Jonathen Beeker Charlie Horn Andy Mackrell Pat Reidy Michael Redding 

Paul Porto  Craig Borchard  Jorge Romeo  Andry Crecelius  David Stedman  Joey Kuhn  Christopher Tsoll  
Jose Duarte  Andrew Matasic  Davis Mezzanote  Matt Dobbertien  John Maltese  Phil Schneider  Michael Yassay  
Greg Barr  Scott Hurley  Dan Kessen  Brian Benjamin  Steve Waller  Flynn O'Neill  Richard Rathe  
Daniel Rodgers  Josh Uniewski  Charlie Gardner  Pat Jackson  Trevor O'Brien  Matt Moore  Marco Magallon  
Gary Nijale  Corey Sinclair  Pete Dolan  Brendan  Mark McGurie  Matt Coyne  Ryan Patton  
Steve Thomas  Greg Podolej  Garreth Condron  McQueeney  Alex Barbuto  Peter Ritchie  
Matt Posluszy  Howard Kelly  Andrew Loza  Luke Ricci  Class of 2011  Micahel Eardley  Kameron Mayne  
Paul Macias  Ronald Horr  Brian P. Heath  Nate Farley  Tom Dugan  Michael Sizemore  
Joe Gandolfi  Thomas Dundro  Kevin Stein  Ross Graetz  Joseph M. Soley  JT Redshaw  
Aidan Fitzgerald  Class of 2010  Thomas Gerkin  Matt Cal Iaman  Ben LaPres  David Zadigian  Brian Wysocki  
John "Staunchie"  Jeff Skroup  Patrick Kirkland  Chris Gigante  J Chen  
Souder  Bristol Schmitz  Simon Chun  Jeffrey Kraft  Nick Civetta  Peter Labaccaro  Grad/Law  
Anthony Cipolla  Andrew Medvecz  Clark DuMontier  Michal Johnston  Bredan Curr  Guillermo Pi  
Luis El Mufdi  Arthur Kinsey  Chris Ford  Chris Tulisick  Rory Kelly  Jim Cederberg  Ted Lawless  
Dave Crowley  John Fullard  Adam Fonseca  Drew Klein  Mike Redmond  Matt DeStefani  John Coyle  
Javier Palomo  Tom Pappas  Matthew Ardell  Brian Nulle  TJ Smith  Nick Goode  Charlie Gough  
Robbie Bernardin  Tim Luchetti ­ Tim Nelson  Alden Golab  Chris Fagan  Jim Hassom  Alex Chapeaux  
Mike Hawkiny  Pete Bruckbaver  Michael Rowley  David Chisum  Nick Gerali  Michael Dressing  Brian Vassel  
Ben Biller  Jay Stephens  John Koop  Michael Wrapp  Patrick Coughlin  Adam Doster  Timothy W. Rodts  
Andrew McKinley  Mike Uzbaniak  Ben Kim  Nate Garrison  Tom Banasiak  Mark Warzelbacher  Lee Roach  
Chris Hall  Mike Croteau  Greg Salter  Brant Howell  Bill Strallia  Michael Hogan  Clint Gine  
Dan Rave  Steve Vargas  Tony Klarsiag  Angelo Perino  Dave Retter  Ryan Shay  Mark Fennell  
Leo Rubinkowski  Nate Kolda  Conner Cox  Brier Steenberge  Cameron Smith  Tim Abromaitis  
Stephen Iacovo  Ryan Gabriel  Greg Lim  Jason Miller  Krut Natke  Zach Miller  
Matthew Pentz  Danny Gonzales  Sam Young  Toryan Smith  Corey DeSalvo  Josh Nosal  
Kyle McAiarney  James Breen  David Crisostomo  Adam Mattews  Mnick Lezynski  John Gallagher  
Ryan Crane  John Bracke  Michael Lean  Dan Dixon  Steve Morris  Kevin Laughlin  
Matt Quering  ian Secuiar  Sam Vas  Joseph Grone  Nick Normandin  Sean Kickham  
JeffTisak  Aldrich Anderson  Christopher  Ray Clark  Chuck Bernhard  Kevin Crepeau  
Clint Simkins  Lee Marsh  Kaltenbach  Brian Dolinar  Jules Kim  Jack Russell  
Sean Mallin  Joe Raupp  Patrick Lloyd  Marty Sandberg  Jim Ogorzalek  Graysen  
Patrick Riche!  Pat McKillen  John Darnell  Javier Soegaard  Felix Salaza  Petersen-Fitts  
Eduardo Pizarro  Matt Thomas  Matt Herrmann  Andrew Seelaus  David Chan  Mark Taneredi  
Kevin Archer  Tim Latham  Matt Barich  Steven  Joe Jensen  Jordan Smith  
Matt Tehrani  Kyle Urtel  Chris Anthonip  Cumberworth  Matt Delaney  Thomas Smith  

I PLEDCE THAT I WILL NEVER JtAP~ ABUSE OR EXPLOIT A PERSON. I PLEf)CE NEVER TO ALLOW SOMEONE TO BE JtAPEf), ABUSED, OR EXPLOITED IF IT COULD HAVE BEEN PREVENTED. TO DO THIS, I PLEDCE TO BE AWARE. 
I PLEDCE TO BE RECEPTIVE TO ISSUES OF VIOLENCE AND INEQUALITY TOWARD OTHERS. I PLEDCE TO BE A ROLE MOf)EL AND LET MY ACTIONS BE AN EXAMPLE TO OTHERS AND ENCOURAGE THE SAME FROM OTHER MEN. I PLEDGE TO BE STRONG ENOUGH TO DO WHAT IS RIGHT EVEN IF THAT MEANS CHALLENGING THE SOCIAL NORM. 
I PLEDCE ALL THESE THINCS BECAUSE I AM A REAL MAN 
AND ~ZEAL MEN CAJZE 
grc@nd.edu grc.nd.edu/ support/mav 


Tuesday, April29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Relationship could hurt Clemens' rep 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Roger Clemens had a decade-long relationship with country star Mindy McCready that began when she was a 15-year-old aspiring singer and the pitcher was a Boston Red Sox ace, the Daily News reported. 
Clemens' lawyer, Rusty Hardin, confirmed a long-term relationship but told the news­paper it was not sexual. 
"Mindy McCready is a long­time family friend of Roger Clemens and the Clemens fami­ly," Hardin said in a statement Monday. "At no time did Roger engage in any kind of inappro­priate or improper relationship with her. It is unfortunate that the Daily News has chosen to report anonymous allegations that are completely unfounded, have no basis in fact, and have nothing to do with Roger's base­ball career or the issue of steroid use in baseball." 
The story, which appeared on the newspaper's Web site Sunday night and in editions Monday, quoted several people who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the situation. 
McCready's lawyer, Lee Ofman, said he did not have any comment on the Daily News story. 
Clemens was 28 and a mar­ried father of two when he first met McCready, the newspaper reported. 
The story could undermine Clemens' reputation, which is central to the defamation suit the former pitcher has filed against former personal trainer Brian McNamee. McNamee con­tends Clemens used perform­ance-enhancing substances dur­ing his major league career. 
"If true, it's just another exam­ple of Roger's pervasive prevari­cations which will be at the core of any defamation case," said McNamee's attorney, Richard Emery, in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 
The newspaper said Clemens sent cash to McCready to help her with legal issues and reached out to her when she was in jail last year in Tennessee. 

The 32-year-old McCready was sentenced last September for violating probation from a 2004 drug arrest and was released from jail last Dec. 30. The violation occurred in July when McCready was accused of scuffling with her mother and resisting arrest at her mother's home in Fort Myers, Fla. She still must serve two years' pro­bation. 

NBA 
Turkoglu nallled lllost illlproved 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Hedo Turkoglu, whose 19 points, five rebounds and five assists per game helped the Orlando Magic win their first division title in 12 years, was selected as the NBA's most improved player Monday. 
Turkoglu's numbers marked career highs in each category, and dramatic improvements from 13 points, four rebounds and three assists last season. He earned back-to-hack Eastern Conference player of the week awards in late January and early February and was named player of the month for April. 
This was the type of season the Magic always expected from the 6-foot-1 0 forward, now in his eighth year. 
"Without him, I don't know where we would be," Magic general manager Otis Smith said. "I am happy to have him on our team and I'm happy that he is winning this award eight years late, but I am happy that he is at least win­ning this award. This is a sign of things to come for Turk." 
Turkoglu received 61 first­place votes and 380 points in the voting by a panel of American and Canadian sports journalists, well ahead of Memphis Grizzlies forward Rudy Gay, who earned i67 points, 23 for first-place, and the Portland Trailblazers' LaMarcus Aldridge with 128 points and nine first-place votes. 
Turkoglu was the fourth Magic player to win the award, handed out since the 1985-86 season. 

most prolific 3-point season in NBA history. The Magic made 9. 77 a game, behind only the Phoenix Suns' 10.21 a game in 2005-06. He also started all 82 regular-season games for the first time in his career. 
"I guess this year was the time for me to step it up and come this far, so I am just blessed that I was healthy this year and all the things went well for me, having a good coach, my teammates, everybody," Turkoglu said. "If you look at it, it is not just my improvement, it is the Magic's improvement too, comparing to last year." 
Turkoglu had two triple­doubles this season, also the first of his career. But per­haps most importantly, the Turkish-born pro has been key in the clutch. He hit win­ners with the clock running down twice against Chicago on Dec. 31 and Boston on Jan. 27 -and drained the go-ahead free throws with 2.4 seconds left 
on  Feb.  1  against  
Philadelphia.  
Turkoglu also  made  an  

acrobatic layup in traffic with 30 seconds left in Game 2 against the Toronto Raptors, the go-ahead bucket. 
"He is as talented a basket­ball player I have seen at 6­foot-10 in a long time. You feel comfortable with the ball in his hands," Smith said. "He can make decisions for your teammates -he is always at the top every night (in assists), and you can't ask for a 6-foot-10 guy to do that. 
"He has been asked to do a lot this year, and he has responded well. He has had these abilities all along, he just had to be brought out of them, and now he is able to do it." 

MLB 
Giants send Zito to bullpen 
Struggling lefty was 0-6 with 7.53 ERA 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Zito was demoted to the bullpen Monday by the San Francisco Giants, who hope the former ace can correct his problems by working in relief. 
Zito, who only 16 months ago signed a $126 million, seven-year contract with the Giants to lead their rotation, was informed of the move in a meeting with manager Bruce Bochy. 
The left-bander has lost his first six starts this season and has a 7.53 ERA that jumped considerably after Zito was tagged for eight earned runs in a 10-1 loss Sunday to Cincinnati. 
The 2002 AL Cy Young Award winner with Oakland, Zito lasted just three innings against the Reds and was booed frequently by the crowd at AT&T Park during his shortest outing of the year. 
A three-time All-Star and 
San Francisco's opening-day starter this season, Zito is only the third pitcher since 1956 to go 0-6 before May, joining Texas' Dave Stewart (1984) and Detroit's Mike Maroth (2003). 
The durable Zito has made 24 7 consecutive starts with­out missing a turn due to injury, the longest streak in the majors. He made his only big league relief appearance last season. 
Zito's next turn in the Giants' rotation would have been Saturday in Philadelphia. 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--· 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
NBA 

Johnson scores 35, Hawks surprise Celtics again 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Forget about a Boston sweep. The Hawks are headed back to Beantown all tied up with the mighty Celtics. 
Joe Johnson scored 35 points -20 in the fourth quarter ­and Josh Smith added 28 points and seven blocks for Atlanta, which surprised the Celtics again 97-92 on Monday night to even the best-of-seven series at two games apiece. 
A Game 5 that many never expected to happen is now on, Wednesday night in Boston. 
The Hawks, who had the worst record (37-45) of any playon· team, overcame two dou­ble-digit deficits to beat a team that won an NBA-leading 66 games during the regular sea­son. 
The credit for this Atlanta stunner goes largely to Johnson, who took control in the final quarter. After Smith's jumper put the Hawks ahead to st~y 81­79, Johnson scornd nine straight points to keep the Celtics on the ropes. 
The knockout came when Paul Pierce drove to the hoop and left it short, then tumbled over a cameraman alongside the bas­ket. When the Boston star finally dimbed back to his li)et, he had a look of disbelief-which prel­ty much sums up the way the Celtics are feeling about this snries. 
Smith went to the other end and made two free throws with 26 seconds remaining for 93-87 load. Johnson -appropriately enough -fmished otr the Celtics by making two more foul shots with 14 seconds left. 

Ray Allen led Boston with 21 points, and Kevin Garnett added 20. 
Smith set an Atlanta playoff record with seven blocks, the last of them a key swat on Garnett after he backed down in the lane, looking for the easy shot, with just over 3 minutes left. 
"It's time to shock the world," the public address announcer screamed to the sellout crowd of 20,016. 
Al'tm getting blown out in the first two games, Atlanta turned feisty on its home court. Hookie AI llorford taunted Pierce after putting the Celtics away in Game :~. prompting the Boston forward to llash a menaeing gesture that drew a $25,000 fine from the NBA shortly before Game 4. 
Then, with 7? minutes left in the second quarter, things really got testy. Garnett threw an elbow at Zaza Pachulia while going for a loose ball. The rugged Pachulia got right in Garnett's face, going forehead to forehead with the Boston star. 
The officials stepped in quickly and llawks coach Mike Woodson charged onto the court to pull his players away. No punches were thrown and no one was ejected, though the officials did call offsetting technical fouls ­two on each team -after look­ing at a replay. 


Student Appreciation Event 
April 30th and May 1st 
All Notre Dame & St. Mary's students will receive 20o/o* off all regular and sale priced merchandise at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Varsity Shops in the JAC, & at the Notre Dame Clearance Center on Ironwood. 
Receive a tall Starbucks coffee from the Irish Ink Cafe with your student ID at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 4/30 or 5/1. Limit one per person. 
*Student 10 Required. May not be combined with any other offer. Valid in-store only. Excludes "the shirt", textbooks, gift cards, diploma frames, class rings, previous & online purchases, computer hardware &software, calculators, Steiner Memorabilia, Lladro. Waterford, &·professional references. See store for further details. 
Thank you for your continued support tl1roughout tl1e year and for making us your bookstore of choice. 
}~\ 
H A M M E S ---;\

NOTRE DAME~;-43 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTI:R 
phone: {574)631-6316 • www.odcotolog.com 
-~------------­
--------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, April 29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Magic make Raptors disappear in five games 
Howard leads Magic to second round with 21 points, 21 rebounds; earns his third 20-20 game in series 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO, Fla. -Orlando Magic coach Stan Van Gundy saw something different about Dwight Howard head­ing into the playoffs. 
The 22-year-old All-Star, usually the team's biggest joknster, suddenly got serious. So did his already-impressive numbers. 
Howard had 21 points, 21 n~bounds and three blocks ­his third 20-20 game in the series -and tlw Magie advanced to after the technical on Bosh put the Magic ahead 73-66 with just under a· minute left in the third quarter, and Orlando kept that cushion until midway through the fourth. Delfino hit a jumper and I3osh made two free throws in four trips to the line, plus a hook shot over Howard, to draw the Raptors within 84-82. 
The Magie, who shot the fourth-best percentage in the NBA from 3-point range this season, strug­gled again from long range (9-of­

seeond round 32). but made
"He's probably the 

for the first them when it
strongest guy in the

time in 12 counted. Keith years by beat­league, and he knows Bogans and ing the Jameer Nelson
how to use his body. " 

Toronto each hit one and Haptors 102-Howard added a 
Chris Bosh

92 in Game 5 layup as the on Monday Raptors center Magic answered 
night. 
"There was a different demeanor from him," Van Gundy said of his young cen­ter. "Dwight is a fun-loving guy and he likes to fool around. There are a lot of times during the year, not bad, but a lot of times during the year where I've got to try to bring him back to being serious when we're prepar­ing. 
"I did not have to say one word, from the start of prepa­ration for this series all the way through," Van Gundy said. 
Howard's game said it all. And with Orlando's usually steady 3-point shooting on the fritz, his inside power was enough to pull them through. 
"He's a phenom; he's the best center in the league," said Raptors star Chris Bosh, who was guarded by Howard all game. "He's probably the strongest guy in the league, and he knows how to use his body. It doesn't surprise me at all. I've seen him play this whole series, I've seen him play this season." 
Bosh, who posted career playoff highs of 39 points and 15 rebounds at Toronto on Saturday, had with an 8-0 run 
over 3:13 to 
open a 92-82 lead, then its largest of the game. 
It was enough room to let them coast. 
"We've depended on the 3 all year. It's going to make us or break us," Bogans said. "Coach just tells us to keep shooting them and don't stop." 
Nelson scored 19 points for Orlando and Rashard Lewis had 18 points and 13 rebounds. lledo Turkoglu just missed a triple-double with 12 points, eight rebounds and nine assists, while Maurice Evans scored 12 points and Bogans added 11. 
Orlando hadn't won a play­off series since 1996, when Shaquille O'Neal and Penny Hardaway led the team to the Eastern Conference finals. The Magic played 28 postsea­son games in the intervening years, winning only eight. 
Howard grinned broadly, still unable to believe it was true. 
"It's just an unbelievable feeling," he said. "We did something I feel that hasn't been done here in a while." 
Orlando looked 
good early, tak­
ing a 10-2 lead 



technical foul after the Magic star muscled past him for a layup. 
T.J. Ford and Carlos Delfino both scored 14 points for the Haptors, while Jason Kapono had 1:~ and Jose Calderon 12. Delfino added seven rebounds and Ford had five assists. 
"We knew in the regular season that every time we played the Orlando Magic that you've got to score, and we just couldn't scorn," Toronto roach Sam Mitchell said. "We didn't make enough shots." 
The Magic will play tho win­nor of the Detroit­Philadelphia series, which is tied 2-2, in the Eastern Conference semifinals. 
Keyon Dooling's free throw 
16 points and on 3-of-5 shoot­
"Jt'sjust an 

nine rebounds ing, but the
unbelievable feeling. 

Monday. Raptors guards Howard frus­We did something I took over for the trated him rest of the first
feel that hasn't been 

down low into half. Calderon
done here in a while."

7-of-19 shoot­fueled a 10-4 ing, and Bosh run with two 3­picked up a Dwight Howard pointers to close third-quarter the first quarter
Magic center 
up 26-22, and 
Delfino scored 
eight straight points in the second quarter. The Magic drew to 44-43 as the Raptors went 2:20 Haptors without scoring -a period in which Lewis had nine points -but Ford scored six straight on two jumpers and two free throws to keep the Magic from regaining the lead before halftime. 
Toronto's Jamario Moon, who strained his groin in the third quarter Saturday and didn't return, started for the second time in the series. lie had six points in the first quarter on two quick 3-point­ers but just two more the rest of the way. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
So-Hyun Park was named most have to get into our mode, that Buck and the Irish will fin­
Louderback said. 

surprising women's player. thought process, that comes
NCAA
Awards 

Park, the No.14 player in the with managing the course Tournament in May. Buck and 
ish the season with the NCAA continued from page 24 country, has led the Irish with well."
continued from page 24 

a scoring average of 73.12, a This year marks the third Irish season marked by rous­program-record. Park also time in program history the 
Tefft lead Notre Dame into 
Krisik and freshman the tournament as the No. 3 Kristen Rafael. doubles pair in the nation. 
ing success. Notre Dame, who recorded two first-place finish­Irish have earned a bid to the opened the fall season with es this season. Junior captain NCAA Tournament. The squad
For all-conference singles, In singles, Notre Dame has 
three straight tournament vic­Lisa Maunu has contributed will com'pete in a field of 21 inthe coaches filled four of the No. 56 Tefl't and No. 102 tories, has finished in the top three podium finishes, inelud­the regional tournament for a
10 spots with Notre Dame Ciobanu alongside No. 78 
five in nine of 10 tournament ing one first-place finish. In chance at the NCAAplaynrs -TniTt, Buck. Hielley, Buck. Krisik quietly dominat­
and Ciobanu. ed from the bottom of the 
appearances this season, with total, every Notre Dame golfer Championship, which will be Finally. the coaches named lineup and finished the dual 
the Big East Tournament win has record~d at least one top­held May 20-23 in being their fifth first-place fin­ten finish this year. Holt attrib­Albuquerque, N.M. CompleteTniTt the Big East's most out­season with a record of 23-4. 
ish. The Irish also collected utes her team's success to seeding for the NCAA
standing player. Irish players The NCAA Tournament 
have won that award three splits the country's top 64 
honors at Golf World preparation and mental tough­Tournament can be found at Magazine's mid-season awards ness. ncaa.com.
straight years. Catrina teams into 14 four-team 
Thompson won the award in regionals. Since only the top 
banquet as they were named "Golf is basically hitting shots 2006 and 2007. 16 teams will host regionals 
the most surprising women's and playing holes and manag­Contact Michael Blasco at The recognitions are a fit­as No. 1 seeds, No. 22 Notre 
team while freshman phenom ing our game," Holt said. "We mblasco@nd.edu ting final chapter for the Dame will have to go on the career of senior captain road as a No. 2 seed. Brook Buck. Buck was named Louderback is confident in to the all-conference singles his team going forward, and 
Valpo
and doubles the Irish 
teams three h a v e 
continued from page 24 
times each in revenge for 
her career. past losses 
ular season. 
Buck was in the backs 
Notre Dame senior outfielder the only play­of their 
"There are some teams 

Sarah Smith earned Big East play­
we played earlier in the
er to post minds. 

er of the week honors on Monday
three singles year that we would like "We have 
for her impressive performancewins and to get a shot at again. ,, no idea 
against Loyola-Chicago,three doubles where we 
Providence, ·and Connecticut. For wins in the are going 
the week, Smith posted four
Jay Louderback

Big East yet. We' II 
multi-hit games with two three-hit 
Tournament Irish coach see when the 
outings and has a .538 average
this year, and pairings 
over that span.
she will enter come out 
Smith went 3-for-4 with a run 
her l'inal ltodayl, but 
and RBI in the second win over
N C A A there are 
Connecticut on Sunday.
Tournamnnt as the No. 7S some teams we played earlier 
She has hit safely in ten straight singlns player in the nation. in the year that we would like games with an overall batting
Louderback said he could to get a shot at again," 
average of .385 and has the best wins record with 29, including a their regular-season schedule not be prouder of his team's Louderback said. 
in-conference batting average program-best 11 at home. with double-headers against Biglnadnr and is pleased with Among the group of likely 
with her .466 mark in the Big Valparaiso senior pitcher East foes Pittsburgh and Syracuse how shn is dosing her out­top seeds are No. 1 
East. Andrea Zappia earned a pro­over the weekend. 
standing career. Northwestern, No. 2 Georgia, 
The Irish will look to continue to gram-record eighteenth victory in Winning Big East games has "This last part of the sna­No. 3 Georgia Tech, No. 5 
ride the strong arm of junior a single season against been the primary focus for the son, her play has been the Baylor, No. 9 Duke, and No. 
Brittney Bargar, who now boasts Youngstown State on Sunday in a Irish all year, aecording to head best it's been since she's been 11 Vanderbilt. Notre Dame 
a 26-10 record on the season. complete-game effort. coach Deanna Gumpf, and the hen~. !Brook and Kelcyl have lost tough matches to each of Bargar pitched 22.1 innings over Senior catcher Shannon team is still in good position to dmw a grnat job in doubles, those teams in the dual sea­the weekend and threw complete Hobinson tied the career doubles challenge for the Big Ea..'it crown. 
but IBrook's! singles play just son and Louderback said his games in both halves of the record at Valparaiso and the Their 12-6 Big East record is goodhas been very, very good," the team would not mind a 
Connecticut double-header. Crusaders broke the team's sin­for a tie with Louisville lilr third in coach said. "I really wish shn rematch with any of them. 
Valparaiso (29-15, 11-4 gle-sea..<>on record for HBI's in one the conference behind DePaul and had a better fall because then The Irish had a record of 
Horizon) is quietly having one of season. South Florida. 
she could have madn the sin­11-6 in matches played on its best seasons in its history, Against the backdrop of this his­The Big East tournament begins 
gles tournament at the end of the road or at neutral sites 
crushing school records left and toric season for the Crusaders, the on May 8 in Louisville, Ky., and the year hnre. It's good to see and went 10-6 against the 
right while putting themselves in Irish will look to steal one away the Irish will be looking to solidifysuch a great senior going out Top 75. 
very strong position to win the from their over-achieving Indiana their seeding in the comingin style." Notre Dame will try to Horizon League crown. rival and build some momentum weeks. 
Loud1~ rback said he wi II improve those records May 9 In a series win over Youngstown to finish up strong in the Big East. 
miss Buck's leadMship. In when regional play begins. If 
State this weekend, the Crusaders After the game against Contact Jared Jedick at addition to her sportsmanship the Irish win their regional, 
topped their all-time single-sea..'lon Valparaiso, the Irish will complete jjedick@nd.edu
and the way shn encourages they will join the other fifteen 
her teammates on thn court, regional champions at the 
Buck is a full-time leader. University of Tulsa to deeide 
"She's done a great job off the national champion start­the court as our captain, too, ing on May 15. 
Big Red 
and I could not be happier about how things have turned Contact Dan Masterton at 

continued from page 24 out for her this year," dmastert@nd.edu 
overall record and have been especially hot recently, winning six out of their last seven games. Their only loss in that stretch came at the hands of Syracuse, the winners of the Big East tour­
Arts &Letters Students 

nament. For their efforts, Cornell 
is currently ranked No. l4 by Inside Lacrosse. 
With their loss in the Big East semifinals, the game takes on extra significance for the Irish. With a win on Friday, Notre Dame could have all but locked up a berth in the 16-team NCAA
You're invited hJ Cl gathering to 

tournament. But with the loss,
nu1,.k the release ofthe 

the team has put its fate in the hands of the NCAA Selection
.JOURNAL OF' 

Committee. Because of the situa­
UNI>I:'RGRADVATE Rl~SEARCIJ 

tion, a win is necessary for the 
Irish, not only to impress the 
committee but also to regain
rtuesd"ay, }lprif29tli 

momentum in case they are (jreat :Haf(af0 'Sliaugfinessy 
snleeted. Hngardless of the outcome, the
3:30-<4:30 

season has been a memorable one for tho frish, for better or for worse. The rough spring break road trip to start the year eould 
'R..ifresfiments served 
Please come join the authors and editors of this 

have defined tho season for the 
year's JUR to dis~~~s~~~~ ;~c;~a;t~~1cular articles. or 

Irish. but the squad righted the one game left. the Irish will look or agony" after the team's loss to
0 

ship before the season spun out to focus all of their energy Georgetown. Notrn Dame's final 
I I 
of control. First-ever program towards Cornell and attempt lind game Saturday will cap a season 
search ts now available tn the Office for Undergraduate 
College of Arts and Letters Journal of Undergraduate 

wins on the road at both Duke a way to gain a berth in the that has seen both.
~ 
and Georgetown were huge NCAA Tournament.
Studtes

I 
I 
aecomplishments and testaments Senior captain Caitlin Contact Andy Ziccarelli at 
I 
--... ----__...... II 
to the team's resiliency. Now, with McKinney talked about "ecstasy aziccare@nd.edu 


Tuesday, April 29, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLAcK DoG 

DIDIER LEWIS
LOLLERSKATES 
Habits everybody  Every time you walk into a bathroom and you can't see what's behind the curtain you will make sure no one is hiding there unless it's . glass or a clear curtain.  rrou run up the stairs when it's dark because you always eel like someone is behind you or chasing you.  
~ou constantly highlight text on a computer when reading it (usually half of the paragraph).  
has, but nobody ever admits to  l'fou lock/unlock your car doors compulsively. ~f you're within range then you 'II press the ~nlock button 50 times unti I you get into your ar.  Vtfhen guys pee, they flush half way through and try to inish peeing before the water comes back up.  
When a group of girls go in the bathroom together, typically you think they'rejust re-applying make-up and talking about how amazing Lauren from 'The Hills is, but in all actuality they're just pooping a lot ... and it's awesome.  
it.  Repeatedly check your alarm clock to make sure it wi II go off. You 'II probably even do a test round.  

SARAH MUSCARELLA & LIZ MURPHY
ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by David Pringle 
31"_ is an 420ne with a 53 State with a island" carrot nose, panhandle: Abbr. maybe
32 Done for, 54 Show grief slangily 43 Tricky turns 
56 Hieroglyphics 

33 Org. with dens 46 U.K. honour 
cross 36 Cough medicine 
47 Full range 57 Archipelago unit 
am!. 50 What "there 58 Sly glance 
oughta be" 51 Strauss of jeans 38 Really wow 61 "Honest" prez 
40 Early 17th­century ye_ar 52 Cohort of Clark 62 Paulo 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 35 Carrot or radish 63 "We try harder'' company
MacDowell of 37 Ending with bed "Groundhog or farm 64 Up to the task 
Day" 65 Bracelet site 

39Mai ... 6 #41 or #43 66 Thought belore 
40 Cass and 1 0 These may be blowing out the
Michelle, in '60s coddled pop candles 

14 Nickel and dime 67Tide type 
41 Does something 15 Home to most 68 Significant _
42 Like COWS, to 
Turks 

Hindus 16 Maul or awl Down 
44 Hieroglyphics 
Ibuprofen target 17 Providential 

serpent 19 Mr. Peanut prop 
2 Coward of the 45 In close pursuit 
theater20 Vogue 48 Double reed 3 "Don't touch thatcompetitor 

!'l
49 One of two in21 Not 'neath 4 Play the market "boxcars"22 Walked like a 5 Suffix with 

50 Never-before­
tosspot Brooklyn 
seen

24 Disco of 6 When stolen, it· "The Simpsons" 53 Be in hock stays in place 
26 Conclude one's 55 Follow closely 7 Tech caller argument 8 Covet thy 
59 Pope lrom 440 neighbor's wife, 27 Nary a penny to 461 say33 Gymgoer's pride 

60 Adds up ... like 
9 Dislikes, plus 34 Portlolio this puzzle's 10 "Yadda, yadda, contents theme? 

yadda" 11 Slap shot 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
success 12 Auctioneer's last 
word 13 lditarod entry 18 Some are proper 23 Upper-left key 25 Wart cause, in 
folklore 
-=+-:++:-! 26 Hit the hay 27 Gunslinger's mark 28"_a Nightingale" 29 Everything that's left 30 Get to 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek

JmJJOO&ILL! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
01 
We'II use these all winter

-1

GLEEY 

I I 

©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CADEY j
I I r (] I HARPONj 
SOM£:: HOMt=MAKE:RS PRt=St=RVt= SUMMt=R

I I r (] 
Vt::Gt::TABL£::5 
BECAUSE--­

www.jumble.com 
I COATEL ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I [ J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: rI I I ] "rI I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: UNCAP GLORY CHISEL BOTTLE Answer: What the tallest player did when the team stayed in a hotel -SLEPT "LONGER" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jessica Alba. 27; Penelope Cruz, 34; Jay Leno, 58; Atm-Margret, 67 
Happy Birthday: Don't be too quick to judge others this year. First make sure that you are on the right track. There is plenty of opportunity out there so be creative and you can turn something you like to do into a benefit. This is your year to stabilize your current position and your future. Your numbers are 6, 18, 24, 31, 42, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't pass up a chance to help someone ouL What you get in return will be an interesting lesson that will help you with future partner~ ships. Strive for perfection in a timely fashion. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional issues will be brought to the surface. Stay calm and use your head and you can sort matters out. Someone you are dealing with 
....,. will twist things around_ Don't give in -· state facts and get to the root of the prob­lem. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Concentrate on what you can do, not what everyone else is doing. Gossip should be avoided at all costs. Promote your own interests and accomplislunents. Criticize someone else and you'll look bad. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may think that time is running out but you have 
lots of room to ponder what is important to your future. A great offer may be pre­
sented and, if you go over every detail, you won't need to worry. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Confusion may set in, making it difficult to keep things straight. Don't profess to know something if you aren't sure. Emotional matters will make you think about what you should have done to avoid such uncertainties_ What­ever you do. don't meddle_ 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't waste your time talking when whoever you are trying to convince of something isn't listening. Put your thoughts and efforts into se­curing your future. A meeting with someone from your past will enlighten you. 3 
stars 

LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will realize that things aren't exactly as they appear. Concentrate on creative projects, children or friends who share common interests. Do 
things that don't cost too much and put cash away for an unexpected bill or luxury item. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-No"#. 21): Trouble is brewing at home and within partnerships in 
which you are involved. Listen to whatever complaints are voiced and be prepared to 
do something quickly to keep the peace. A trip will lead to new ideas. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Talking with friends, family, neighbors or even 
one of your peers will help you get things sorted out concerning a new direction 
you've been considering. Don't feel forced to oblige someone else if it doesn1t work 
for you. Your knowledge will command prospects of all kinds. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec:. 22-Jan. 19): Something or someone from your childhood will 
remind you ofold goals. Don't role them out if they still interest you. There is prog­
ress to be made if you put in the hours and make the calls that can help you get 
something off the ground. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotions will be bard to control, causing difficulty 
when trying to find out the truth. Don't rely on what someone tells you -find out 
first band before getting upset or jumping to conclusions. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): So much is happening behind your back. Check out 
what everyone else is doing if you want to have a clear assessment of a deal, project 
or personal paperwork. Missing any little detail may cost you later. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are an opportunist, eager to make your way and claim your 
stake. You are fresh, youthful and know how to chann others with your charismatic 
approach. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadt•ice.com for fun, eugeniolast.comjor confidential consultations 
l ~ 
~ ·i 
I 
I I 
1 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April 29, 2008 
page 24 
.. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Looking for more hardware 
No. 22 Irish look for first-ever NCAA title 
By DAN MASTERTON Sports Writer 
The No. 22 Irish will be gun­ning to add another piece of hardwarn to their collection. As great as the 2008 Big East Championship and individual recognition looks, the trophy case has an nmpty place that Notre Dame will try to fill with a national championship. 
As the Big East champs, the Irish (21-8) have an automatic bid to the NCM Tournament. Thnir outstanding play in the conferenee tournament lead to the Big East coaches voting to reeognize the Irish with nine different awards. 
For the seventh time as Notre Dame coach. Jay Louderback was named Big East coach of the year. Louderback remained typical­ly humble, crediting the award to his team's outstanding play. 
"The big thing was winning the conference. After losing it last year, we were pretty dis­appointed. Our kids were not too happy about it. The awards were just a result of us winning the tournament and having a really great year," Louderback said. 


Big East coaches also voted all three of Notre Dame's dou­ble pairs to the All­Tournament team -the pairs of senior Brook Buck and jun­ior Kelcy Tefft, sophomores Colleen Rielley and Cosmina Ciobanu, and sophomore Kali 
see AWARDS/page 22 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

ND to face Cornell in hon1e tilt 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame's season took a stunning turn for the worse on Friday night after the Irish let an early 8-1 lead slip away into what became a 15-14 loss to Georgetown in triple overtime in the Big East conference semifi­nals. Irish players were visibly distraught after the gut-wreneh­ing loss that had such impor­tance to the season. 
Notre Dame's primary goal for the season, according to coach Traey Coyne, was to win the Big East championship. But with that now out of the question, the Irish must play for something else in their final regular season game. 
The Irish will have a week to regroup and focus, then will take on Cornell. The Big Red come into the game sporting a 1 0-5 
see BIG RED/page 22 

BASEBALL 
Team prepares for games with Mississippi Valley State 
Notre Dame, the Delta Devils' tough come up here so I'm sure they'll be tilt of the non-conference series Mi<>sissippi Valley State in the pastBy FRAN TOLAN non-conference schedule includes ready to play." before fellow righty Ryan Sharpley several seasons and are not famil­
Associate Sports Editor 
LSU, Mississippi State. Arkansas, As for his own team, Schrage takes the mound in the second iar with this year's Delta Devil'i. But Alabama and Auburn. said Notre Dame (28-12-1 overall, game. the Irish have won 20 of their la'it 
Notre Dame faces off against Tonight's game is scheduled to 13-5 Big East) is in the exact posi­Eight of the nine batters in Notre 25 games and senior co-captain Mississippi Valley State in a rarn begin at 6:05 but the time is subject . tion it had hoped to be when the Dame's lineup boast averages Ross Brezovsky said the team is just two-game midweek series tonight to change because Mississippi season began. above .300 and another. Billy eager to take the field again. and Wndnesday night. The Irish are Vallny State is traveling to Notre "We played the first [411 games of Boockford, sits at .299. But Schrage "I don't know muc:h about them looking to robound alter dropping Dame by train. Irish coach Dave the season to be in the spot we're said the team also need<> its pitch­at all. Thi'i is the first year we've two of three to St. John's over the Schrage said the visiting team is in," Schrage said. "Now every game ing staff to come through against played them since I've bmm here. I weekend. riding the rail<> in order to reenact we play is big because of what our the Delta Devils. can't really tell you anything. We 
Mississippi Valley State is 15-20 the lili.lstyle of players in the Negro record is." "We have gotta go out and pitch," gotta just go out and play well," overall but sit in third place in the Leagues decades ago. The Irish will rely on a pair of Schrage said. "We'll get our fresh­Brezovsky said. Eastern Division of the "I know that they're really look­freshman starting pitchers against men out there and get them some Southwestern Athletk Conferenee ing forward to this trip," Schrage Mi.<;si.<;sippi Valley State. Right-han­innings." Contact Fran Tolan at with an 11-9 lmt).,'Ue record. Besides said. " ... It'll be exciting for them to der Brian Dupra will start the first The Irish have not played ftolan@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish golfers earn NCAA Tourney berth 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
t\rter clinching the Big East conference title for tlw third time in six years. No. 27 Notre Dame was awarded the No. 9 seed in thn central region of the NCAA Tournament Monday night. Tho Irish earned an automatic bid as a result of thnir eonfenmee tournament victory. 
The NCAt\ Central Hegional will begin May 8 at the University of Texas Golf Club in Austin, Texas. This is the sec­ond time this spring Notre Dame will play at the University of Texas Golf Club. 
The Irish turned in a middling fifth-place finish at the Betsy Bawls Longhorn Invitational in mid-March. 
Notre Dame coach Susan Holt said she is confident in her team even though its suc­cess this season has been something of a surprise in the collegiate gulling world. 
"As a team, at the beginning of tlw year, we set high goals for ourselves," Holt said. "People on thn outside might be surprised, but we aren't. We made a commitment to do exactly ... what we're doing. We're on track." 
Tlw conference title caps an 
see NCAA/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 
Squad heads to Valparaiso 
Notre Dame hopes to take down record-setting in-state rival Crusaders 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish will travel to Valparaiso, Ind., to take on the Crusaders in their last non­conference game or the sea­son on Tuesday after a con­vincing double-header sweep of Connecticut over the week­end. 
The Irish (34-17-1 overall, 12-6 Big East) looked strong in their last home outings of the year, earning three wins over the weekend against con­ference foes. and will hope to ride that momentum through the last live games of the reg-
see VALPO/page 22 









