
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 111 WEDNESDAY, APRIL2, 2008 

Cardinal to give Commencement speech 
Theodore McCarrick will deliver primary address, recieve honorary law doctorate from University 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
The University announced 
Tuesday  that  Cardinal  
Theodore  McCarrick  will  
deliver  the  2008  

Commencement address on May 18. 
Along with delivering the primary speech at the 163rd Commencement exercises, McCarrick. five-year arch­bishop emeritus of Washington, D.C., will receive an honorary doctor of law degree from the University, according to a news release from the University. 
The decision to have McCarrick speak was made within the last couple of weeks, said Dennis Brown, assistant vice president for news and information. 
Brown said the University held off the announcement because the Easter season was so much earlier this year, and the Laetare winner is always announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent. 
"We wanted to give some time between that announce­ment and this one so as not to have too many announce­ments all at once," Brown said. 
Cardinal McCarrick, a native of New York City and graduate of Fordham University and St. Joseph's Seminary, presided over a mass for Fr. Basil Anthony Moreau, founder of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, last September in LeMans, France. The Congregation of the Holy Cross is the religious commu­nity that founded Notre Dame. 
"He was an indispensable participant in our recent and joyful celebration of the beat­ification of Blessed Father Basil Moreau..." University President Fr. John Jenkins said in the statement. 
Cardinal McCarrick visited the University in January when he attended a confer­ence organized in celebration of Father Moreau's first feast day. 
"[The University] looks for­ward to celebrating [McCarrick's] membership to 
see ADDRESS/page 4 
Achnissions office lll.ails 3,523 acceptance letters 
University sees a slight drop in applicants but overall quality ofadmitted students strengthens 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions mailed acceptance letters to 3,523 applicants seeking a spot in the class of 2012, accepting approximately 25 percent of the 14,000 appli­cations received this year. 
Despite the slight decrease in applicants from last year's overall number of 14,501 total applications submitted, Assistant Provost for Undergraduate Admission Daniel Saracino is pleased with this year's results as well as the work the Admissions Committee has put into selecting members of the Class of 2012. 
"Based upon the quality of 
admissions, demographics, and comparison to previous years' Iresults], I can tell you that the projected class should be clearly the strongest academically in our history," he said. 
Academic criteria for selection has remained as competitive in previous years. The average student graduating in the top 5 per­cent of their high school class, Saracino said. The average score on the SAT was 1400, Saracino said, and 32 on the ACT. Additionally, about 23 percent of the members of the incoming class are children of alumni, all 50 states will be repre­sented in the incoming class, 24 percent belong to an eth­
see ADMISSION/page 6 


Cotnedy sho-w helps senior class 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Three Saint Mary's students delivered punch lines during a stand-up comedy night hosted by the Senior Gift and Quarter's Campaigns at Dalloway's Coffee House Tuesday night. 
Senior Erin Brady, freshman Laurel Jabbers and sophomore Mallory Price joked about sub­jects including backup plans if majors don't work out, drink~ ing, public intoxication, celebrities and the stereotype that female Notre Dame stu­dents dislike Saint Mary's women enough to plot against them for stealing potential boyfriends. 
Jabbers, the vice president of the Class of 2011, opened the show by saying she is used to 
see COMEDY/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Professor disscusses idea of soul 
Says inorganic matter not necessary for life 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Nancey Murphy, an author and professor of Christian Philosophy at Fuller Theological Seminary, spoke about the concept of the soul in a lecture Tuesday called "Neuroscience, Christian Anthropology, and the Role of Women in the Church." 
The lecture was the second of a three-part series on "Science and Religion in the Abrahamic Faiths" at Saint Mary's, a series sponsored by a John Templeton Foundation grant. 
The concept of the soul, Murphy said, encompasses whether or not humans have a soul, if the idea of the soul is necessary to science or reli­gion, and the implications of these ideas. 
A physicalist herself, Murphy believes that due to current advances in biology, the con­cept of a human soul is no longer necessary. 
"With the development of modern biology it is no longer assumed that anything non­physical needs to be added to inorganic matter to produce a living organism; rather, life is due to complex organisms," Murphy said. "Thus, insofar as the soul was understood as the life principle, there is no longer a need for such a concept." 
see MURPHY/page 3 

COR 

Reish, Sclunidt approve positions at 1st meeting 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Bob Reish and vice president Grant Schmidt officially took office Tuesday at their first meeting of the Council of Representatives. 
Reish said he was "setting the agenda for the course of the year" and would focus on issues that are "time sensi­tive," including getting more freshman and transfer stu­dents involved in student gov­ernment and optimizing Webmail. 
"We will always have at least one topic to talk about and discuss," Reish said about COR. "I want there to 
be open dialogue and discus­sion." 
Reish handed out three Skittles to COR members and told them to introduce them­selves and provide informa­tion based on the color of the candy, such as a fact about their family or their future career plans. 
For every red skittle, repre­sentatives had to say some­thing no one knows about them. 
''I'm color blind, so I don't even know if I'm doing this right," Student Union Board (SUB) president Pat Gartland said. 
COR's faculty moderator Amy Geist reminded all repre­
see CORlpage 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The sorting hat 
Congratulations to the admitted stu­dPnts of' the elass of' 2012. 
I know this col­
umn makes two in a row l'vn written about Harry Potter. but I had this idea long ago. I'll make up for my geekiness with a column about tho NCAA tourna­mnnt nnxt wenk. 


If Notre Dame  Bill Brink  
had  a sorting hat  
for the incoming class, this is what  News Editor  
it would say:  
Welcome to all  
the new students,  

You're in for quite a find. Once you're on campus, you will see It's the best ofits kind. The dorms all have great qualities, Which fit each student's needs. Their staff. traditions and locales Create their unique creeds. Want to live with celebrity? .\'t. Hdwards will trump all. You can indulge your star crushes With phenoms down the hall. Cavanaugh has quite picturesque Views ofour fair Lady. !Jut better still. Starbucks is just A minute's walk away. Not sure if east or west is best? 
Pasquerilla 's for you. Pyros or Weasels: this hat knows No better ofthe two. {/"history strikes your fancy, Tlwn ."Iorin would be great. The first dorm on this campus, its 7rnoer rooms are first-rate. ,<.,'pelt your js like this: 'ph'? You should liue in Pangborn. A hall that is unrivaled yet. /Jespite Keenan's harsh scorn. Young athletes may like Keenan 
//all. Whose football reigns supreme. And their Revueing talents keep Us splitting at the seams. Like oolleyball? Well, Morrissey May just fit you the best. Unless you like tomatoes, though. You should hope for the rest. Ifyou find endless walks are fun, You're right at home in Carroll. It's nice and close to SMC. !Jut that could be your peril. If alternate lifestyles are Your so-called cup oftea, Zahm //all will gladly welcome you Just how? You wait and see. Wish your dorm lived on the edge? In Fisher you willfind More ResLifes in one night alone Than most others combined. If only dorm rules changed with 
times. Life would be more fulfilling. Parietals and drinking rules Could be revamped, God willing. But we get by. and so will you, Just make sure to remember, To keep away from LaFortune /,ate evenings in December. But welcome, and prepare for times Of past to be rebuked: Next year we show, once and for 
all, Last season was a fluke. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reponing and ediring error, The Observer incor­n.-aly idcnrifit-d Hannah Weis' disorder as aurism. It is I.Uldau-Klcffucr syndrome (LKS). Maura Weis said Hannah was origimlly incorrectly diagnosed with autism bdiJrt: she WJS diagnosed with LK5. I )uc to an editing error, the anidc "Administration rakes pan in Earth Hour" on March 31 incorrectly idenrifit-d junior Luke Finpanick as Luke McCormick. "Il1r ()hscrver apologize; and regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT PRANK DID YOU PULL FOR APRIL FOOL'S DAY? 




Nick Ward  Mary DeAgostino  Rob Plasschaert  James Welle  Dianna Zosche  
junior Sorin  junior Lewis  junior Alumni  junior Knott  senior off-campus  
"/ convinced a few long-boarders that they have a purpose in life."  "/ helped tape all ofmy Grad student's equipment to the ceiling and saran-wrapped all ofhis books together.,,  "/called my brother and told him my parents were dead."  "!put formaldehyde in the cell media."  "My identical twin sister and I switched places."  


OFFBEAT 

Aberration splits dog's left leg in two pieces 
AVON LAKE, Ohio -A developmental problem split Angel the dog's leg, making her look like a five-legged pet. Veterinarian Frank Krupka, with the Avon Lake Animal Clinic in suburban Cleveland, said he's never seen anything like it. 
After examining X-rays, Krupka determined that a genetic aberration split Angel's front left leg in two, leaving her with three nor­mal legs and two distinct parts of a fourth. 
Krupka said the condition doesn't cause pain but gives her problems moving between Sunday afternoon and Monday afternoon. lie remained at large Tuesday but was thought to bn in the San Antonio area, said U.S. Marshals Service spokesman Thomas J. Smith. 

Pena apparently escaped by pulling back chain-link fencing around a rooftop recreation yard and climb­ing down an eight-story frrn escape, Smith said. 
Perra was being held at the privately operated Central Texas Detention Facility for violating terms of his super­vised release. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
around. He said surgery is unlikely on the about-7­month-old dog. Krupka said any surgery would be cos­metic and not improve the animal's walk. 
Man escapes from private jail, nobody notices 
SAN ANTONIO -Law enf'oreement officials are trying to understand how a convicted felon managed to escape from a privately owned jail across the street from the police headquar­ters without anyone notieing his absence for a full day. 
Esequiel Pena, 35, escaped from a private San Antonio jail sometime 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

....I 
<( (.) 






0 

HIGH 50 40 HIGH 68
.... 

LOW 40 30 LOW 40 
HIGH LOW 
52 
33 
HIGH LOW 


IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Scrabble Club will hold an ND Scrabble Tournament to ben­efit the Literacy Council April 5 at 1 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. A $3 minimum donation is requested. 
Dr. Adrian Heimers, adjunct professor of philosophy, will give a lecture today at 8:30 
p.m. entitled "John Paul II and the Centrality of Love" in tho Montgomery Theater of the LaFortune Student Center. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play the South Bend Silverhawks at 5:30 
p.m. today at Covaleski Stadium. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will perform in its Spring Concert featuring pianist Paivi Ekroth in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 8. 
The film "Blood Diamond," which tells the story of the diamond trade in Sierra Leone, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Dance Company will perform its spring show, called "Taboo" Thursday at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Dr. David Dalin will give a talk called "Pope John Paul II and the Jews" Thursday at 7::W p.m. in 138 DeBartolo. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

55 

45 
38 

35 

Atlanta 71 I 56 Boston 50 I 40 Chicago 47 I 26 Denver 58 I 30 Houston 82 I 66 Los Angeles 61 1 50 Minneapolis 44 1 24 New York 50 I 42 Philadelphia 53 I 43 Phoenix 83 I 57 Seattle 54 I 32 St. Louis 55 I 35 Tampa 83 1 66 Washington 59 1 44 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 The Observer +NEWS 
Trailer dangers ignored 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A federal scientist said Tuesday his boss­es ignored pleas to alert Gulf Coast hurricane victims earlier about severe health risks from formaldehyde in government­issued trailers and once told him not to write e-mails about his concerns. 
Christopher De Rosa, who until recently was one of the government's top toxicologists, told a congressional panel that he repeatedly raised concerns early last year that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention was not adequately informing the public of the haz­ard, even as symptoms of dan­gerous exposure were surfac­ing. 
As a result, tens of thousands of families displaced by hurri­canes Katrina and Rita remained in the trailers without full knowledge of the risks, he said. 
"I stated that such clinical signs were a 'harbinger of a pending public health catastro­phe,"' De Rosa said in written testimony, quoting one series of e-mails he wrote to superiors last summer. "I stressed the importance of alerting the trail­er residents to the potential reproductive, developmental and carcinogenic effects ... (but) the only response I received was that such matters should not be discussed in e-mails since they might be 'misinter­preted."' 
De Rosa's comments came Tuesday at a House Science and Technology subcommittee hear­ing on how the CDC and its sis­ter agencies handled com­plaints about trailers issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
Committee Democrats accuse FEMA of manipulating scientific research to downplay the dan­gers. They say the CDC and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, where De Rosa worked, went along with the effort. 
"Your agency failed to protect public health," said Nick Lampson, D-Texas. 
When complaints of possible formaldehyde poisoning sur­faced, FEMA officials insisted in early 2006 that the trailers were safe. But after coming under increasing pressure, FEMA enlisted the CDC's help to test them. 
Formaldehyde, well known as a preservative and embalming fluid, is commonly used in building materials. Prolonged exposure can lead to breathing problems and is also believed to cause cancer. 
The CDC initially said in February 2007 that, with prop­er ventilation, formaldehyde levels were safe in the short­term. FEMA immediately began citing the advisory as evidence that the trailers were safe. 
De Rosa said he protested immediately that the CDC should more aggressively address the matter and that the advisory didn't include broader warnings about longer-term health risks, including for can­cer. 
But it wasn't until February 2008 that the CDC released pre­liminary results from additional testing showing that FEMA trailers and mobile homes had formaldehyde levels that were, on average, about five times higher than in most modern homes. 
The CDC urged people to move as quickly as possible, prompting FEMA to say it would rush to find new housing for some 35,000 families still living in the trailers. 
As they have done previously, De Rosa's bosses at the toxic substances agency, director Howard Frumkin and deputy director Thomas Sinks, acknowledged that the agency took too long to address the formaldehyde hazard, in part because little is known about its risks. 
But they said there was never any effort to silence De Rosa or mislead the public. 
"I regret that our initial work on formaldehyde in trailers did not meet our own expecta­tions," Frumkin said. "In some respects, we could and should have done better." 
The agency is reviewing its procedures, he said, and is planning a five-year study of children who lived in the trail­ers in Alabama, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. 
Subcommittee Chairman Brad Miller, D-N.C., called De Rosa a whistleblower, noting that the nearly 30-year employ­ee was recently removed from his job and assigned to another division. 
Murphy 
continued from page 1 
Saint Thomas Aquinas wrote elaborately about the purpose and job of the soul. Neuroscientists can now prove many of the traits and tasks Aquinas attributed to the soul to be brain functions, Murphy said. 
"I would elaborate on this claim by emphasizing that these are capacities enabled by our complex neural systems, in interaction with cultural resources, and also resulting from our interaction with God," Murphy said. 
An example of this, she said, is emotion, which Aquinas attributed to the soul. Scientists now know, however, that emo­tion is controlled by the tempo­ral lobe of the brain. When it is damaged a person can recog­nize an object, but not always the emotional significance behind the object, Murphy said. 
Murphy did concede, howev­er, that there is really no way of knowing whether humans have a soul. 
"It is important to note that no such accumulation of data can ever amount to a proof that there is no mind or soul," Murphy said. 
Nonetheless the concept of the soul is one that Murphy believed Christians can and should do without. This, she said, is not a question of sci­ence but rather one of history. When the Bible was being translated from Hebrew to Greek, some of the Hebrew words were translated in terms of Greek philosophy, Murphy 
page 3 
said. 
"The clearest instance of this is the Hebrew word nephesh, which was translated as psyche in the Septuagent and later translated into English as 'soul,"' Murphy said. "It is now widely agreed that nephesh did not mean what later Christians meant by 'soul."' 
Murphy went on to speculate that perhaps women would have been better off had early Christians not believed in body­soul dualism, the idea that humans have both a body and soul. She said the soul was respected over the body, and women were more associated with their bodies, making them of less value than the men who were in tune with their souls. 
Though Murphy does not believe in the soul, she said this does not also mean a disbelief in God. She said while "physi­calism" refers to both the human person an lack of spiri­tual realities, she treats the phrase to refer only to the human person. 
"Physicalist anthropology has no implications regarding the existence of God," Murphy said. 
To wrap up her lecture, Murphy said the physical make­up of humans does not limit their ability to feel emotions. 
"My goal here has been to show that our status as embod­ied creatures in no way contra­dicts the fact of our sociality," Murphy said. "It does not undermine our ability to attain the highest heights of reflective thought, or our capacity to be sustained by deep emotions and motivations." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


~ 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Address 
continued from page 1 
the Notre Dame community," Jenkins said in the statement. 
Cardinal McCarrick, the archbishop of Newark, N.J. for the 14 years before his appointment in Washington, was also chaneellor of the Catholic University of Amnriea as well as president of thn Board of Trustees of the Basiliea of' the National Shrine of the Immaculate Concoption, tho statement said. 
As an arehbishop, Cardinal McCarrick has placed a great deal of' emphasis on educa­tion, vocation and serving the needs of' immigrants and low­inc:ome families, tho state­ment said. 
A member of the board of Catholic Helie!' Services (CHS) and ehairman of' the ens Foundation, Cardinal McCarrick also has served on the Administration of the Patrimony and Holy See for the Vatican as well as the United States Commission for International Religious Freedom, the statement said. 
The University did not com­ment on other candidates eonsidered for speaking at the Commencement exercis­es. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Mary's and she said 'Damn, a] 21-year-old is drinking and She also said she gets that doesn't work."' hooking up with random guys annoyed when people from

CoiDedy 

Brady then took the stage and I'm like yeah that's so afl1uent neighborhoods drive continued from page 1 and introduced herself with weird... I'm so glad no one is into the inner city or poorer 
what she has come to call one taping me." areas and begin making performing in comedy clubs of her taglines. Price closed the half-hour derogatory eomments. and was going to have to cen­''I'm Erin Brady," she said. long show with "It's like poor sor her show so as to not "Yes, Brady, like the Bunch and jokes about the people don't offend the audience, which the Quinn." environment at eome into sub­included a few children. She said she's used that line Saint Mary's urbia and say
"! told my mom I wan,t
''I'm going to keep it clean on many occasions to mixed and her annoy­'Oh my God, because there arc kids here," responses. ance at the to be a stand-up comic that girl right she said. "It really smoothes things way people act there looks like 
and she said 'Well 
She said she has thought of a over with the lunch ladies in in certain situ­Regina George 
that's going to save us
couple of backup plans in case the dining hall, but not the cops ations. from the movie her major in social work does at Notre Dame when you're When Saint about 90 thousand dol­Mean Girls. not lead to a getting Mary's is lars in the end." She just pulled job after arrested for recruiting new out her blaek­graduation. "After hosting Karaoke public intoxi­students, they berry and 
Laurel Jabbers
Possibilities cation," she send pictures think she's
Idol last fall we found 
include driv­said. of the beautiful Freshman going to ruin ing a party that sponsoring different Brady said campus, Price someone's life bus or train­events on campus and she loves, said. with a three­ing an lives and "When they way call,"' she
teaching students the 
Olympic feeds off of send you the pictures they said 
diver. importance ofphilanthro-celebrity don't tell you about the crazy The event served as a way to "Handom? py to the college we've gossip and animals on campus," she said. spread information about the Yes. Fun? hoped to be She told a story of how she eampaigns, which raise money
gotten much more ofa
Even more on VH1 's saw two deer as she was walk­for both a class' senior gift. The 
student resonse., 
so," Jabbers celebrity pop ing across campus one day and seniors will give the gift to the said. culture trivia as she mentioned them to her College upon their graduation She said Beth McKevitt game one friend on the phone the deer and add funds to ofl'er students she has also day until she perked up, seemed to recog­scholarships, senior gift chair
Senior gift chair
been told she found out nize that she was talking about Beth McKevitt said. should con-that doing them and then proceeded to "After hosting Karaoke Idol sider a career as a stand-up math was a part of the applica­charge towards her. last fall we found that sponsor­comic on the side, which is why tion process. "When was the last time you ing different events on campus her friends signed her up for She said she finds it interest­heard of deadly assault by a and teaching students the the event. ing when gossip magazines and deer," she said. importance of philanthropy to 
"I told my mom I want to be a television shows report on the Price offered the explanation the College we've gotten much stand-up comic and she said behaviors of celebrities like that Notre Dame girls sneak more of a student response," 'Well that's going to save us Lindsey Lohan. onto campus to feed the deer McKevitt said. about 90 thousand dollars in "I think it's funny that the cocaine to prevent Saint Mary's the end,'" Jabbers joked. "I told media is so obsessed with her," girls from stealing their Contact Liz Harter at her I was going to do it at Saint she said. "They'll [report that boyfriends. eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
BOG 




Gruscinski, Falvey prepare for office 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) packed into its conference room with twice its usual number for Tuesday's turnover meeting. The new board members kept a watehful eye on the current members in order to learn the ropes before eond ucting their first meeting next week. 
Mickey Gruseinski, the new student body president, and Sarah Falvey, the new student body vice president will take over next week along with new executives and commissioners. 
Student body president Kim !lodges said the incoming board will officially take office at the Church of Loretto on April 28 at 7 p.m. They will also be honoring the exiting seniors at a reception on April 29 in the Student Center lounge at 5 p.m. 
Hebecea Hosswurm, president of the Psychology National Honor Society, Psi-Chi, and vice presi­dent Loretta Hodts also attended the BOG meeting to request funds for a eo-sponsorship. Eight students from the psyehology department are going to attend the Midwest Psychology Association's Conference in Chicago from May 1-3. 
Five seniors will present their senior comprehensives, and three juniors will be going in order to get ideas for their own comprehensives for the following year. 
"It is a good way to show off work they have been to and how much work we put into our pre­sentations on our comps," Rosswurm said. 
In other BOG news: 
+SMC Tnstal will be held next Thursday, April 10, said Cassie Calion, president of the Student Activities Board. The event will start at 12 p.m. in the Student Center Atrium with caricatures and balloon animals. There will also be a band playing in the Student Center lounge and desserts served at dinner from 4­7p.m. 
+Singer Colbie Callet will per­form in the ()'Laughlin Auditorium Friday, April 10 at 7 
p.m. Tickets have already been distributed. 
+Meet Me at the Avenue took place Sunday and brought over 600 people to campus, student ambassador commissioner Krystle Hodges said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 3 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIU 

STUDENTS 


3. 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Dn:ullord sought by U.S. gets sentence 
SAtJ PAULO, Brazil -A reputed Colombian drug lord whose cartel is accused of having shipped hundreds of tons of cocaine to the United States was sentenced Tuesday to more than 30 years in prison in Brazil for crimes commmitted in that country. 
Juan Carlos Ramirez Abadia, who was arrested last year in Brazil, was found guilty of money laundering, corruption, conspiracy and use of false documents in this South American country. Besides the sentence, Ramirez Abadia must also pay a fine worth $2.5 million. 
"It was proved that after July of 2004, Juan Carlos Hamirez Abadia has channeled his business in Brazil mainly toward the acquisi­tion of properties, vehicles, and other objects using the money resulting from drug traffick­ing in Colombia," Judge Fausto Martin de Sam;tis said in a statement. 
Zimbabwe elections see controversy 
HARARE, Zimbabwe -The main opposition leader insisted Tuesday he has won Zimbabwe's presidential election outright and denied persistent reports he was negotiating to oasc out President Robort Mugabe, who has lod tho country from liberation to ruin. 
In his first public comments since Saturday's election. Morgan Tsvangirai said he was wait­ing for an official announcement of tbe results from the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission before he would enter any talks with Mugabe. 
A businessman close to the state electoral commission and a lawyer dose to the opposi­tion said earlier the two men's aides were negotiating a graceful exit for Mugabe, the country's leader of 28 years. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Chicas!o students push for gun control 
CIIICAGO -Twenty desks -enough to fill a classroom -sat empty in a downtown plaza Tuesday, each bearing a pair of sneakers and repr:esenting a Chicago Public Schools student killed by gunfire this school year. 
Several hundred more sat empty in city schools, as busloads of teens skipped classes to attend a gun-control rally -their absences sanctioned by the district, whose CEO says he's angry that too many students talk about "if' they grow up, instead of "when." 
"This doesn't happen in other countries," Arne Duncan said. "We just value our right to bear arms more than we value our children, and our priorities are fundamentally back­wards." 
Nevada town hit by second quake 
RENO, Nev. -A moderate earthquake Tuesday shook a town in northeast Nevada where a stronger tremor caused damage more than a month ago. 
There were no reports of injuries or damage from the magnitude 4.1 quake centered 11 miles northeast of Wells, Nev. It hit at 6:16a.m., according to the National Earthquake Information Center in Golden, Colo. 
Wells was hit by a magnitude 6.0 quake in February that damaged hundreds of homes and the town's historical district; no one was hurt. Hundreds of smaller quakes have hit the region since then. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Debate Commission invites Democrats 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Debate Commission is inviting Democrats Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama to hold a presidential primary debate in Indiana. 
The commission says the debate could take place after the Pennsylvania primary April 22 and before the Indiana primary May 6. Details such as location and exact date have not been determined, but the commission says PBS and CNN would carry the debate nationally. 
The debate commission has not yet heard from either campaign. But Clinton's cam­paign says the New York senator would like­ly welcome the opportunity to debate Obama. 
Indiana Debate Commission affiliates include journalism organizations, the Indiana State Bar Association and the League of Women Voters of Indiana. 
IRAQ 


Britain delays Iraqi troop cuts 
50 percent increase in monthly death toll freezes British plans to withdraw soldiers 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Britain froze plans Tuesday to with­draw about 1,500 soldiers this spring after the falter­ing effort to drive Shiite militias from Basra raised doubts whether the Iraqis are capable of maintaining security in oil-rich southern Iraq. 
The British decision was announced in London one week before the top U.S. commander in Iraq appears before Congress to offer his recommendation on how fast America should draw down its own forces. 
Defense Secretary Hobert Gates said Monday in Copenhagen, Denmark that last week's violence in Shiite areas had not changed American plans to withdraw more combat forces by July. · But second thoughts about Iraqi security capa­bilities emerged as Iraq's government reported a 50 percent rise in the number of people killed in March over the previous month. 

Much of the increase was a result of the fighting between Iraqi government forces and Shiite militiamen in the southern city of Basra. The conflict quickly spread, engulfing Baghdad and major cities throughout the Shiite south. lawmakers later this month. not fully consulted their ed. The spokesman made 
Britain had planned to Browne offered no criti­coalition partners before the comment on condition drawn down its 4,000-cism of the Iraqi effort in launching the operation. of anonymity under Foreign strong military force in Basra, launched March 25 Fox said it was "not Office rules. southern Iraq to 2,500 over to regain control of the acceptable for us to end up Nonetheless, Iraqi offi­the next few months, hand­country's second-largest mopping up if we don't cials have acknowledged ing over more security city from Shiite militias and have a say in what opera­they underestimated the responsibility to the Iraqis. criminal gangs which have tions are being carried out fury of the militia resist­
In the wake of the Basra effectively ruled the streets and how they are being car­ance, which included rocket fighting, however, Defense for nearly three years. ried out." and mortar attacks against Secretary Des Browne told The operation faltered in "It appears that our com­the U.S.-controlled Green the House of Commons that the face of fierce resistance manders had just 48 hours Zone in Baghdad and "it is prudent that we pause from the Mahdi Army of notice and they yet had to armed assaults against gov­any further reductions anti-American Shiite cleric deploy more than one battle ernment and political party while the current situation Muqtada al-Sadr, forcing group with tanks, armored offices throughout the is unfolding." the Iraqi military to turn to vehicles and artillery," Fox south. 
"At this stage we intend to U.S. jets and British tanks told the Commons. "Is this Prime Minister Nouri al­keep our forces at their cur­and artillery to try to dis­an acceptable model for the Maliki, a Shiite, flew to rent levels of around 4,000 lodge the gunmen from future?" Basra last week and took as we work with our coali­their strongholds. A British Foreign Office personal command of the tion partners and with the Britain's opposition spokesman called Fox's 48-crackdown, promising he Iraqis to assess future Conservative party defense hour claim "nonsense" and would remain in the city for requirements," Browne spokesman, Liam Fox, com­said U.S. and British com­"a decisive and fmal battle" said, promising to update plained that the Iraqis had manders had been consult-to crush the militias. 


Trial begins over alleged U.S. troops attack 
you what was in their mind and in recorded saying they had agreed to kill 
Associated Press 
their hearts" in the recordings, prose­American soldiers or helping others do 

TOLEDO, Ohio-A government cutor Thomas Getz told jurors in his it, he said. informant spent about three years opening statement. "This case is about a contrived and secretly recording three men as they "You're going to hear them on more misplaced effort on the part of the gov­plotted to recruit and train terrorists to than one occasion celebrating the ernment to go out and find terror cells, attack U.S. and allied troops overseas, deaths of American soldiers." and create terror cells if you cannot a federal prosecutor said Tuesday. Mohammad Zaki Amawi, Marwan fmd one," Ivey said. 
Defense attorneys alleged in opening Othman El-Hindi and Wassim I. Prosecutors said the informant who statements that the informant made up Mazloum are accused of conspiring to foiled the plot is Darren Griffin, who the case to keep a six-figure govern­kill or maim people outside the United spent 14 years in the military before a ment "gravy train" going. States, including military personnel in knee injury ended his career. 
The government began laying out its Iraq. They faee a maximum penalty of Authorities previously identified him case against the three, who prosecu­life in prison if convicted. only as the "trainer." tors said were recorded having con­Amawi's attorney, Timothy Ivey, told Griffin spent time in the Middle East versations about making explosives, jurors that the informant received in the military and while there gained recruiting others to help in the plot $350,000 to work with the government knowledge of Islam. He began working and raising money to fund their intent and that he concocted the conversa­with the FBI and later befriended the to harm American troops. tions about training for a holy war three men at a Toledo mosque, Getz 
"These defendants are going to tell overseas. The three were never said. 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Kathleen Donohue and Jeff Lakusta were all approved
COR 

as non-voting members of 
COH. 

The Couneil also approved 
freshman Michael Yassay as sonlalivos that attendance at student government policy montings is important. branch eonlroller, sopho­
"It's really important for more Whitney Toole as SUB you to be here and be here secretary, junior Laura on time," (;eist told COH Srebro as SUB's director of nwmlwrs. publicity, junior Sam 
COH also unanimously McDonald as SUB's director approved a ol' opera­number ol' tions and individuals for junior Evan 
continued from page 1 

"We will always have at 
nnw positions. Liu as SUB's Most of tho least one topic to talk chief eon­
nominations about and discuss. I troller. worn approved A f t e r
want there to be

with little g o i n g 
debate. open dialogue through the 
Only junior and discussion." nomina­Dennise tions, Reish Bayona was apologized
Bob Reish

not approved for the as director of Student body president lengthy list. programming "I apolo­ft1r SUB gize there because of a rule in the con­are so many," he said. "This stitution that forbids indi­is by l'ar ridieulous." viduals from holding two Last week, COB also positions at once. approved Sorin senator Bayona was recently elect­George Chamberlain as the ed vice president of Walsh new Judicial Council presi­II all. dt~ nt. Director of internal al'fairs Shanna (;ast and eo-direr­Contact Joseph McMahon at tors of external 1il'f'airs jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
In past years, around 56 to national university," Saracino 58 percent of admitted students said.


Adntission 
chose to enroll at Notre Dame, The Admissions Committee Saracino said. In eomparison to has also offered spots on thn other Universities, he said, waiting list to 1,000 applicants. Notre Dame falls just behind Saracino said. Last year, about nic minority background and 4 other top-tier pner institutions 175 students were selected percent are international stu­such as Harvard, Stanford, from tlw wailing list, and dnnts. Yale, Princeton, Pennsylvania, Saracino hopnd tho University, 
Saracino was nsptlcially Columbia and MIT in terms of "can admit these students proud of the work that the the number of admitted stu­because thny are very similar Olliee of Financial Aid has done dents who enroll. academically to students admit­to accommodate a wider range It may be harder to gauge ted initially." of students in need of assis­whether the yield figures will The Ollice of Undergraduate tance. stay. consis­Admissions will hold open 
"I think that tent this year houses for admitted students 
continued from page 1 
"Our need-based pack­

it is safe to beeause peer on April 10, 17 and 24. say that with ages going out are going schools such This weekend, admissions what is going to be competitive with as Harvard will kick off Spring Visitation on with the and Princeton Weekend for ethnic minority
other universities 

economy, our eliminated students from all over thn U.S., Office of aid packages. " early admis­follownd by the Heilly Visitation Finaneial Aid sions. There weekend for the most aeadmni­is totally might be eally talented studnnts,
Dan Saracino

involved and greater uncer­Saradno said.

Assistant provost

doing a great tainty as to The newest addition to this job with indi-whether stu­year's admissions programs vidual families who are con­dents who initially saw those will also be the llesburgh em·ned with the cost of educa­institutions as tlwir first choice In tern alional Scholar's pro­tion," he said. "Our noed-based schools will still consider Notre gram this upcoming weekend, packages going out are going to Dame comn lhn May 1 dead­wlwre 20 international stu­bn competitive with other uni­line. dmlts from Latin Arm~ri1:a will versities aid packages." "LOur yinld I might go down, be invited to expnrinnen Notm 
Admitted students, induding but Notre Damn still has one of Dame and stay with a current those who were acceptnd under the top ten best yields of any international studt~nt host, the University's non-binding university, and we are very Saracino said. narly action consideration plan, optimistic about our financial 
Contact Rohan Anand athave until May 1 to accept or aid progrnss and Notrn Damn's ranand@nd.edu

dedine their ofl'er of admission. strong performancn as a truly 




Write N 

Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,654.36 +391.47

.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,826 65 574 544,204,013 
AMEX 2,250~7~1i~,'F:+18,94 NASDAQ 2,362.75 +83.65 NYSE 9,088.49 +291.20 S&P 500 1,370.18 +47.48 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 121 65~~42.:;,[0+44.692 FTSE 100 (London) 5.852.60 +150.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +3.52 +4.64 136.61 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) +7.04 +1.75 26.62 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +4.28 +1.87 45.59 CITIGROUP INC (C) +11.30 +2.42 23.84 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +3.29 +0.113 3.545 13-WEEK BILL +6.27 +0.080 1.355 30-YEAR BOND +1.76 +0.076 4.382 5-YEAR NOTE +6.97 +0.172 2.639 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -.60 100.98 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -33.70 887.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.43 67.08 
Exchange Rates YEN 101.7150 EURO 0.6405 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0233 BRITISH POUND 0.5061 

IN BRIEF 
Senate seeks to advance housing bill 
Wi\SIIINGTON -Under growing pressure from voters to do something about the nation's home foreclosure crisis, top Senate leaders agreed Tuesday to at least start with a plan that can win the support of both Democrats and Republicans. 
The pact between Majority Leader Harry Heid, D-Nev., and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., ended weeks of partisan bickering over what to do about the crisis in the housing market and the toxic effect it's having on the economy. . 
There is considerable common ground on several steps that can be taken to improve the situation, but battles over how to structure the debate had threatened to produce gridlock. 
Heid agreed not to bring up a Democratic plan containing a controversial provision ­strongly opposed by Republicans and President Bush -to give bankruptcy judges power to cut interest rates and principal on troubled mortgages. That plan stalled a month ago. 
Fed approves JP Morgan acquisition 
Wi\SIIINGTON -The Federal Reserve on Tuesday deared the way for JP Morgan Chase &. Co. to acquire Bear Stearns' bank holdings. 
The approval allows JP Morgan to acquire Bear Stearns Bank &. Trust in Princeton, N.J., tim Fnd said. 
In a controversial move, the Fed last month baeked a $29 billion lifeline as part of JP Morgan's takeover of troubled Bear Stearns, the nation's fifth-largest investment house, which was on the brink of bankruptcy. The eompany had invested hoavily in risky mort­gage-backed securities that eventually soured with the collapse of the housing market. 
.JP Morgan is not required to obtain the Fed's prior approval to acquire Bear Stearns Cos., the Fed said in a brief statement. 
Bears Stearns Bank &. Trust operates in New Jersey and is the 45th-largest bank in the state, controlling deposits of approximate­ly $398 million, the Fed said. Upon comple­tion of this acquisition. JP Morgan would remain the country's third-largest bank, the Fed said. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

Congress pressures oil executives 
Companies argue record fuel prices are not their fault, consistent with industry 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Don't blame us, oil industry chiefs told a skeptical Congress. 
Top executives of the country's five biggest oil companies said Tuesday they know record fuel prices are hurting people, but they argued it's not their fault and their huge profits are in line with other industries. 
Appearing before a House committee, the executives were pressed to explain why they should continue to get billions of dollars in tax breaks when they made $123 billion last year and motorists are paying record gasoline prices at the pump. 
"On April Fool's Day, the biggest joke of all is being played on American fami­lies by Big Oil," Rep. Edward Markey, D-Mass., said, aiming his remarks at the five executives sitting shoulder-to-shoulder in a congressional ·hearing room. 

"Our earnings, although high in absolute terms, need to be viewed in the context of the.scale and cyclical, long-term nature of our industry as well as the huge investment requirements," said J.S. Simon, senior vice president of Exxon Mobil Corp., which made a record Several lawmakers noted they do more to develop are oil' limits to drilling. $40 billion last year. the rising price of gasoline alternative energy sources But Markey wanted to 
"We depend on high earn­at the pump, now averaging such as wind, solar and bio­know why the companies ings during the up cycle to $3.29 a gallon amid talk of fuels, Republican lawmak­aren't investing more in sustain ... investment over $4 a gallon this summer. ers called for opening more energy projects other than the long term, including the "I heard what you are areas for drilling to boost oil and gas -or giving up down cycles," he continued. hearing. Americans are domestic production of oil some tax breaks so the 
The up cycle has been very worried about the ris­and gas. money could be directed to going on too long, suggested ing price of energy," said What would bring lower promote renewable fuels Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, D­John Hofmeister, president prices? asked Rep. James and conservation and take Mo. "The anger level is ris­of Shell Oil Co., echoing Sensenbrenner of pressure off oil and gas sup­ing significantly." remarks by the other four Wisconsin, the committee's plies. 
Alluding to the fact that executives including repre­ranking Republican "Why is Exxon Mobil Congress often doesn't rate sentatives of BP America "We need access to all resisting the renewable rev­very high in opinion polls, Inc., Chevron Corp. and kinds of energy supply," olution," asked Markey, not­Cleaver told the executives: ConocoPhillips. replied Robert Malone, ing that the other four com­"Your approval rating is While Democrats ham­chairman of BP America, panies together have invest­lower than ours, and that mered the executives for adding that 85 percent of ed $3.5 billion in solar, wind means you're down low." their profits and demanded the country's coastal waters and biodiesel projects. 

Wall Street surges with early stock news 
Analysts believe there must be a February and tamer than many ana­
Associated Press 

recovery in bank and brokerages to lysts had predicted. Government data 
NEW YORK -Wall Street began the lead major stock indexes higher. Some on construction spending for February second quarter with a big rally of the biggest financial players had also came in better than expected. Tuesday as investors rushed baek into their sharpest moves of the year The Dow rose 391.47, or 3.19 per­stocks, optimistic that the worst of the Tuesday -Citigroup Inc. shot up 11 cent, to 12,654.36. It marked the credit crisis has passed and that the percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co. rose 9 eighth-biggest point gain ever for the economy is faring better than expect­percent, and Lehman surged 18 per­Dow, and the third time in two weeks it ed. The Dow Jones industrials surged cent. came close to or surpassed 400 points. nearly 400 points, and all the major "Investors have a difficult time mak­Broader stock indicators also gained indexes were up more than 3 percent. ing decisions about the stock market if sharply. The Standard & Poor's 500 
Financial stocks were among the big they don't have confidence in major index rose 47.48, or 3.59 percent, to winners after Lehman Brothers fmancial institutions, so there's been a 1,370.18-the index's best start to a Holdings Inc. and Switzerland's UBS lot of sideline cash," said Hichard second quarter since 1938. And, the AG issued new shares to help bolster Cripps, chief market strategist for Stifel Nasdaq composite index rose 83.65, or their balance sheets. With that upbeat Nicolaus. "The extreme conditions that 3.67 percent, to 2,362.75. news and a fresh quarter ahead of we've seen here over the past few The advance was in contrast to a them, investors appear quite willing to months has· been missing that confi­lackluster session on Monday, where make some bets that the worst of the dence ... but that appears to be chang­stocks managed a moderate gain in the damage from the nation's credit strug­ing, and we're seeing the response." final session of a dismal first quarter. gles has been felt. Moreover, the banks' Meanwhile, Wall Street got another Major indexes ended the first three moves buttressed the view that finan­boost when the Institute for Supply months of 2008 with massive losses, cial services companies are taking Management said its March index of marking the worst period since the aggressive action to improve their cap­national manufacturing activity rose to third quarter of 2002 when Wall Street ital bases and stave off the potential of a reading of 48.6 -indicating a con­was approaching the lowest point of a a collapse similar to Bear Stearns Cos. traction, but a slower one than in protracted bear market. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April2, 2008 
CHINA 
Dalai Lama, Tibet accused of violence 
Associated Press 
BEIJING -China has branded 

the Dalai Lama a "wolf in monk's 
robes" and his followers the 
"scum of Buddhism." It stepped 
up the rhetorie Tuesday, accus­
ing the Nobel Peace laureate and 
his supporters of planning sui­
cide attacks. 
The Tibetan government-in­

exile swiftly denied the charge, 
and the Bush administration 
rushed to the Tibetan Buddhist 
leader's defense, calling him "a 
man of peace." 
"There is absolutely no indica­

tion that he wanl'> to do anything 
other than have a dialogue with 
China on how to discuss the seri­
ous issues there," State 
Department spokesman Tom 
Casey said. 
Wu Ileping, spokesman for 

China's Ministry of Public 
Security, claimed searches of 
monasteries in the Tibetan capi­
tal had turned up a large cache 
of weapons. They included 1.76 
guns, 13,013 bullets, 7,725 
pounds of explosives, 19,000 
sticks of dynamite and 350 
knives, he said. 
"To our knowledge, the next 

plan of the Tibetan independ­
ence forces is to organize suicide 
squads to launch violent 
attacks," Wu told a news confer­
ence. "They elaimed that they 
lear neither bloodshed nor sacri­
fice." 
Wu provided no details or evi­
dnnee. lin usnd the term "gan si 
dui," a rarely used phrase 
dirnctly translated as "dare-to­
die corps." The ol'fieial English 
version of his remarks translated 
tho torm as "suicide squads." 
Wu said police had arrested an individual who he elaimed was an operative of the "Dalai Lama dique," responsible for gather­ing intelligonce and distributing pamphlnts calling for an upris­ing. 
The suspect admitted to using codn words to communicate with his contacts. including "uncle" for the Dalai Lama and "skirts" for the bannnd Tibetan snow lion flag. Wu said. 
Bnijing has mpeatedly accused the Dalai Lama and his support­ers of orchestrating violence in Lhasa, the Tibetan capital. Protests which began peacefully there on the March 10 anniver­sary of a 1959 uprising against Chinese rule spiraled out of con­trol four days later. 
Chinese o!licials have put the fjeath toll at 22, most of them Han Chinese; the government-in­exile says 140 Tibetans were killed. 
China also says sympathy protests that spread to sur­rounding provinces are part of a campaign by the Dalai Lama to sabotage the Beijing Olympics and promotn Tibntan indnpend­nncn. 
Tho 72-yoar-old Dalai Lama has condnmned the violenen and denied any links to it, urging an independent international inquiry into tlw unrnst. 
"Tibetan nxilns are 100 per­cent committed to nonviolnncn. Thorn is no question of' suicide attacks," Sarndhong Hinpoehe, prirnn rninistnr of the govnrn­men1-in-nxiiP in Dharmsala, India. said Tunsday. "But we fear that Chinese might masquerade as Tibetans and plan such attacks to giv1~ bad publicity to Tibetans." 
Experts on tnrrorism and secu­rity risks facing Beijing and the 
Olympics have not cited any 
Tibet group as a threat. 
Scholars said the claim of sui­
cide squads was a calculated 
move by China allowing it to step 
up its crackdown in Tibetan 
areas. 
'There is no evidence of sup­
port for any kind of violence 
against China or Chinese," said 
Dibyesh Anand, a Tibet expert at 
Westminster University in 
London. 
Instead, Beijing is "portraying 
to the rest of China and the rest 
of the world: these people are 
basically irrational" and that 
there was no room for compro­
mise, he said. 
Tuesday's accusations could 
also further divide the Tibetan 
government-in-exile and other 
groups like the Tibetan Youth 
Congress, which has challenged 
the Dalai Lama's policy of nonvi­
olence, Anand said. 
"This is a way of pressuring 
the Dalai Lama to renounce 
Tibetans who have created vio­
lence," he said. 
Andrew Fischer, a fellow at the 
London School of Economics 
who researches Chinese devel­
opment policies in Tibetan areas 
of China, dismissed Wu's warn­
ings as "completely ridiculous." 
What China is trying to do "is justify this massive troop deploy­ment, a massive crackdown on Tibetan areas and they're trying to justify intensification of hard­line policies," Fischer said. 
Drawing from a deep historical 
reserve of angry rhetoric, Tibet's 
tough-talking Chinese 
Communist Party boss, Zhang 
Qingli, recently called the Dalai 
Lama a "wolf in monk's robes, a 
devil with a human face, but the 
heart of a beast" and deemed 
the current conflict a "life-and­
death battle." State media has 
denounced protesting monks as 
the "scum of Buddhism." 
The campaign against the Dalai Lama has been under­scored in recent days with show­ings of decades-old propaganda films on state television portray­ing Tibetan society as cruel and primitive before the 1950 inva­sion by communist troops. 
The escalation of the rhetoric to inelude claims of possible sui­cide attacks may also touch upon another sensitive issue for China's communist leadership­unrest in Xinjiang, a predomi­nantly Muslim region to Tibet's north, and Beijing's tight security measures in the area. 
Last month, state media reported that a woman had con­fessed to attempting to hijack and crash a Chinese passenger plane from Xinjiang in what ofli­cials say was part of a terror campaign by a radical Islamic independence group, the East Turkestan Islamic Movement. The reports said the woman was from China's Turkic Muslim Uighur minority. 
While the United States has labeled the East Turkestan Islamic Movement a terrorist organization, the State Department alleges widespread abuses of the legal and educa­tional systems by the communist authorities to suppress Uighur culture and religion. 
Fischer said China has tried to change the "nonviolent, compas­sionate" image of Tibetans into one of violence and brutality to draw parallels to the pro-inde­pendence stance in Xinjiang. 


THE EST JOB ON 
CAMPUS? 
VISIT OUR JOB FAIR! 

Notre IJame 
ANNUAL FUND 

Thursday. April Jrd, 11 :00am-2:30pm LaFortune-Dooley Room 
The Development Department Phone Center is seeking students with excellent communication skills, enthusiastic attitudes, and a love for Notre 
Dame. 
·---·--·----·---------·-·-------------------------------·-·-····-····--·--·----· 

1 EVENING STUDENT CAllER ' POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni_ parents. and friends on behalf 
of Notre Dame's Annual Fund. 
• No experience necessary 
• Fun environment ; • Evening hours 

• 
Paid training 

• 
Merit pay increases 


• 
Summer and '08-'09 academic year positions available 


Questions? Contact Matt Young or laura 
Thesing, Program Managers of the Annual 
Fund, at phcenter@nd.edu or 631-3152. 
! i 
! 

CAMPAIGN STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni, parents, and friends on behalf of Notre Dame's Development Department. 
• 
No experience necessary 

• 
Fun environment 

• 
Day & evening hours 

• 
Paid Training 


• 
No solicitation calls 

• 
Summer and '08-'09 academic year positions available 


Questions? Contact Lori Rush, Phone Center Coordinator, at P..~J.Plrt!':\Rf.I_Q_,_~g_y or 631 -7935. 



Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 



Wednesday, April 2, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
DENMARK 
U.S. negotiates tnilitary defense deal 
Russians assured that sites will not be activated in neighboring Poland 
• 
Associated Press 
COPENHAGEN -Scrambling to seal a missile defense deal this weekend, the U.S. is offering guarantees to assure the Russians the system isn't a European military threat aimed at them. 
A key pledge: The U.S. won't activate new sites in Poland and the Czech Republic unless Iran proves itself an imminent threat . to Europe by test-flying a missile capable of reaching the continent. 
A broader but less-specific agreement seems assured when President Bush sits down with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday in the Black Sea resort of Sochi. That would be a "strate­gic framework" for relations between the two countries after Bush and Putin leave office. 
But the White House seems to think there could be a bigger breakthrough, on the defense sys­tem to guard Europe against a missile attack from Iran or else­where. 
The proposed limitation linked to Iran testing is one of several measures designed to assuage Russian security concerns. It's not yet clear whether they are enough to persuade Moscow to go along. 
"Obviously, we've got a lot of work to do to allay suspicions and old fears, but I think we're mak­ing pretty good progress along those lines," Bush said Tuesday. He spoke in Kiev, Ukraine, before flying to Romania for a NATO summit where missile defense ­including some Europeans' wor­ries about Russia's strong objec­tions -will be on the agenda. Bush would like NATO to announce its support. 
If Bush and Putin fail to settle 
Third-graders plot to kill teacher 
Children brought knife, handcuffs, duct tape to school as weapons 
Associated Press 
WAYCROSS, Ga. -A group of third-graders plotted to attack their teacher, bringing a broken steak knife, handcuffs, duct tape and other items for the job and assigning children tasks including covering the windows and clean­ing up afterward, police said Tuesday. 
The plot involving as many as nine boys and girls at Center Elementary School in south Georgia was a serious threat, Waycross Police Chief Tony Tanner said. 
School officials alerted police Friday after a pupil tipped off a teacher that a girl had brought a weapon to school. Tanner said the students apparently planned to knock the teacher unconscious with a crystal paperweight, bind her with the handcuffs and tape and then stab her with the knife. 
"We did not hear anybody say they intended to kill her, but could they have accidentally killed her? Absolutely," Tanner said. "We feel like if they weren't interrupted, there would have been an attempt. Would they have been successful? We don't know." 
The children, ages 8 to 10, were apparently mad at the teacher because she had scolded one of them for standing on a chair, Tanner said. 
Two of the students were arrested on juvenile charges 
Tuesday and a third arrest was expected. District Attorney Rick Currie said other students told investigators they didn't take the plot seriously or insisted they had decided not to participate. 
"Some of the kids said, 'We thought they were just kidding,"' Currie said. "Another child was supposed to bring a toy pistol, and he told a detective he didn't bring it because he thought he would get in trouble." 
Currie said the children are too young to be charged as adults, and probably too young to be sen­tenced to a youth detention cen­ter. 
Police seized a steak knife with a broken handle, steel handcuffs, duct tape, electrical and transpar­ent tape, ribbons and the paper­weight from the students, Tanner said. 
Currie said he decided to seek juvenile charges against two girls, ages 9 and 10, who brought the knife and paperweight and an 8­year-old boy who brought tape. He said all three students faced charges of conspiracy to commit aggravated assault, and both girls were being charged with bringing weapons to school. 
Nine children have been given discipline up to and including long-term suspension, said Theresa Martin, spokeswoman for the Ware County school sys­tem. She would not be more spe­cific but said none of the children had been back to school since the · case came to light. 
The purported target is a veter­an educator who teaches third­grade students with learning dis­abilities, including attention deficit disorder, delayed develop­ment and hyperactivity, friends and parents said. 
The scheme involved a division of roles, Tanner said. One child's job was to cover windows so no one could see outside, he said. Another was supposed to clean up after the attack. 
"We're not sure at this point in the investigation how many of the students actually knew the intent was to hurt the teacher," Tanner said. 
He said the teacher told detec­tives the children involved weren't known as troublemakers. 
"You can't dismiss it," Tanner said. "But because they are kids, they may have thought this was like a cartoon -we do whatever and then she stands up and she's OK. That's a hard call." 
The parents of the students have cooperated with investiga­tors, who aren't allowed to ques­tion the children without their parents' or guardians' consent, he said. Authorities have withheld the children's names. 
Martin told The Florida Times­Union of Jacksonville, Fla., that administrators would follow school system policy and state law in disciplining the students. 
CUBA 

Castro encourages consumer goods 
Associated Press 
HAVANA-Cubans snapped up DVD players, motorbikes and pressure cookers for the first time Tuesday as Raul Castro's new government loos­ened controls on consumer goods and invited private farmers to plant tobacco, cof­fee and other crops on unused -state land. 
Combined with other reforms announced in recent days, the measures suggest real changes are being driven by the new president, who vowed when he took over from his brother Fidel to remove some of the more irksome limi­tations on the daily lives of Cubans. 
Analysts wondered how far the communist government is willing to go. 
"Cuban people can't survive on the salaries people are pay­ing them. Average men and women have been screaming that at the top of their lungs for many years," said Felix Masud-Piloto, director of the Center for Latino Research at DePaul University. "Now after many years, the government is listening." 
Many of the shoppers filling stores Tuesday lamented the fact that the goods are unaf­fordable on the government salaries they earn. But that didn't stop them from lining up to see electronic gadgets previ­ously available only to foreign­ers and companies. 
"They should have done this a long time ago," one man said as he left a store with a red and silver electric motorbike that cost $814. The Chinese­made bikes can be charged with an electric cord and had been barred for general sale because officials feared a strain on the power grid. 
On Monday, the Tourism Ministry announced that any Cuban with enough money can now stay in luxury hotels and rent cars, doing away with restrictions that made ordinary people feel like second-class citizens. And last week, Cuba said citizens will be able to get cell phones legally in their own names, a luxury long reserved for the lucky few. 
The land initiative, however, potentially could put more food on the table of all Cubans and bring in hard currency from exports of tobacco, coffee and other products, providing the cash inflows needed to spur a new consumer economy. 
Government television said 51 percent of arable land is underused or fallow, and offi­cials are transferring some of it to individual farmers and associations representing small, private producers. According to official figures, cooperatives already control 35 percent of arable land ­and produce 60 percent of the island's agricultural output. 
"Everyone who wants to pro­duce tobacco will be given land to produce tobacco, and it will be the same with coffee," said Orlando Lugo, president of Cuba's national farmers associ­ation. 
The change is a sharp con­trast to the early days of Cuba's revolution, when the government forced or encour­aged private farmers to turn their land over to the state or form government-controlled collective farms. But without more details, it was difficult to tell the significance of pro­gram, which began last year but was announced only this week. 

"If this means all land that's not being used, like for private farmers, cooperatives and state farms, is available, that's positive," said Carmelo Mesa­Lago, a Cuba economics expert at the University of Pittsburgh. "Assuming, of course, they have the freedom to sow and sell whatever they want." 
Lines formed before the doors opened at the Galerias Paseos shopping center on Havana's famed seaside Malecon boulevard, and shop­pers wasted little time once inside. But there was no sign yet of computers and microwaves, highly anticipated items that clerks across Havana insisted would appear soon on store shelves, with desktop computers retailing for around $650. 
Cuba's communist system was founded on promoting social and economic equality, but that doesn't mean Cubans can't have DVD players, said Mercedes Orta, who rushed to gawk at the new products. 
"Socialism has nothing to do with living comfortably," she said. 
Lines outside electronics boutiques and specialty shops are common in Cuba because guards limit how many people can be inside at a time. But waits were longer and aisles more packed than usual at Havana's best-known stores. 
"DVDs are over there, down that aisle," an employee in a white short-sleeved shirt repeated over and over as shoppers wandered into La Copa, an electronics and gro­cery store across from the Copacabana Hotel. 
"Very good! DVD players on sale for everybody," exclaimed Clara, an elderly woman peer­ing at a black JVC console. "Of course nobody has the money to buy them." Like many Cubans, Clara chatted freely but wouldn't give her full name to a foreign reporter. 
Government stores offered all products in convertible pesos -hard currency worth 24 times the regular pesos state employees get paid. The government controls well over 90 percent of the economy and the average state salary is just 408 regular pesos a month, about $19.50. 
Still, most Cubans have access to at least some con­vertible pesos thanks to jobs with foreign firms or in tourism, or cash sent by rela­tives living in the United States. 
Graciela Jaime, a 68-year­old retired clothes factory employee, complained that widespread corruption and greed has created a class of rich Cubans. 
"Everyone wants to spend money and that is what's hap­pening," she said. "If every­thing they earned went to the state like it should, there wouldn't be as much corrup­tion as there is." 

differences on missile defense, their meeting still might be declared a success if, as expected, the two men say they have an understanding on the most important issues that Washington and Moscow should deal with as both capitals transition to new leaders. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Tuesday in Moscow the document setting out a "strategic vision of the future" should be adopted at the Bush­Putin meeting. It will touch on the tough issues in Russian-U.S. rela­tions, he said. 
U.S. officials have said that a "strategic framework," or agenda for further talks, is intended to highlight areas of agreement between the former Cold War foes -such as their efforts against global terrorist networks -and indicate that relations hold promise for the future. 
The framework probably would mention missile defense as well as future arms reductions negoti­ations, although it would not nec­essarily mean the two sides agree on solutions in those areas. For example, it probably would not include a Russian statement in support of U.S. missile defense in Europe but would say this is among the high-priority issues that future administrations should address, along with NATO. 
Putin is to be succeeded as president in early May by Dmitry Medvedev, and Bush will leave office in January. 
In remarks prepared for deliv­ery Wednesday in Bucharest, Bush highlighted his push for missile defense. 
"The need for missile defense in Europe is real and it is urgent," he said. "Iran is pursuing technol­ogy that could be used to produce nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles of increasing range that could deliver them." 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Olympic boycott a personal choice 
!'0. Box 779. Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 

Ass"!: MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre K.raBu[a Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Karie Kohler 
NEWS EDITOR: Hill Hrink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee GRAPIIIC.S EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('574) 631-747I FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.31-6900 obstwad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEf 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63I-454I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. 1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 6.11-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
Hecent events in Tibet have intensi­fied calls for a boycott of the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. The United States has seen increased pressure from human rights groups but broad bipartisan support 
Zach Einterz
for the Beijing 
Games is unlikely 
to change, and Bulletproof this past week­Ideas end, both Nancy 
Pelosi and Condoleezza Rice reiterat­ed that the U.S. would not pursue a boycott. 
For once, our government officials are doing something right; minding their own business and refraining from making a decision that isn't theirs to make. As with all things, the decision to boycott the Olympics should be a matter of individual choice, not government coercion. 
A boycott of the Olympics punishes athletes who have spent many years in training and made countless sacri­fices to get to the top of their sport. Amnriean athletes shouldn't be forced to abandon lifelong goals so that our political elite can satisfy their arro­gant opportunism. 
Furthermore, past experience has shown that Olympic boycotts do not bring about political change. The Soviet Union in 1980 and the U.S. in 1984 both emerged from their respective Games with an even gre~;tter sense of pride. A boycott of the Beijing Olympics by the U.S. would be seen by the Chinese people as an unjust attack on their country. It would likely strengthen the Chinese regime at home and fan the flames of nationalism. 
Even if the U.S. wanted to boycott the Games, it would have a hard time justifying it without sounding hypo­critical. Human rights activists argue that China's support for the Sudan and its unwillingness to pressure the Sudanese government to bring recon­ciliation to Darfur is reason enough for an Olympic boycott. China buys two-thirds of Sudan's oil exports and in turn, sells weapons to the Sudanese government. However, China's military and economic sup­port for Sudan is hardly different from our military and economic sup­port for repressive and unpopular governments in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and Pakistan. 

China is also repeatedly criticized for domestic human rights violations, including its suppressions of political dissidents, restrictions on freedom of the press, and discrimination against ethnic minorities. Yet as long as the 
U.S. authorizes unjust war, rendition, torture, capital punishment, and domestic spying, our rhetoric on human rights will sound a lot like self-righteous grandstanding. China's one-child policy is considered by many to be authoritarian and morally repugnant, but it is no less benign than the United States' sanction of the 1.2 million abortions that are per­formed in our country every year. 
Undoubtedly, China's abuses are of a greater degree than ours, but there can be no denying that America's for­eign policy tactics and failure to uphold basic civil rights has resulted in the loss of our moral credibility within the international community. Until the U.S. gets its own house in order, we will have trouble convinc­ing China to do the same to theirs. 
The absence of a government-man­dated boycott does not prohibit any­one from boycotting the Games under their own will. Corporations have the right to pull their sponsorship, indi­vidual athletes can choose to sit out, and sports fans all over the world have the right not to watch the Games. 
Several European politicians have already rejected invitations to attend the opening ceremonies. German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced on Friday that she would not be attending the opening ceremonies, while Nicolas Sarkozy and Gordon Brown are determining whether they will follow suit. These politicians understand that the decision to boy­cott the Games is an individual choice and they will not make their country­men suffer for their own politieal agenda. 
If the international community has learned anything from the unease surrounding the upcoming Olympies, it's that they should not have reward­ed China with the Games in the first place. Back in 2001, the IOC chose China as host for the 200H Olympics because they thought the Games would encourage openness. In the future, the IOC should wait until a country commits to openness, and then reward them with the Olympics. But for now, we should let the Games begin. 
Zach Einterz is a senior economics major. He still needs a job after gradua­tion. Contact him at zeinterz@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advercisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenr. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QuestiorlS rrgarding Obsm1er policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hinr 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J1Lc ()l.,,cr,.cr (USl'S ~')9 l-41)()0) is publt~u:d Mond11y thruugh Friday cx~cpt during 
C:X.llll ~nd V,Lc...tion ~riud~. Asul)',ctlptiun to The orncrvcr iH $100 fi:lr one at:<Kkmk yc~r; $~5 f"r mu: lll:rrtCiltcr 
The ONcrvc!t i' pubJi~hcd ar: POSTMI\bTER 014 Snud1 Dir\ing liall Send addm~ rorrectiom w: Notre Dotmt:, IN 46"5%-0779 ThcOh!OCrver Pttiodkal polltd.('.C! paid a! Nmre DJmt r.O.Ikiii;T/9 Qnd 11dditio1ul m~ilmg \lll'kc~. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nurre D;~me, IN 46'556..Jl779 

·nu: Ob5trvcr it-a member ot rhc Aum.JJ.ted Pl'fi.\. All reprnducriot1 n~us arc~ re.erved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL

News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Bill Brink Ellyn Michalak What are you most excited about 
Madeline Buckley Meaghan Veselik 
for football season? 

Gene Noone Griffin Dassatti Graphics Scene 
Jon Tenuta's arrival "Whoever tries to imagineMary Cecilia Stephanie DePrez Mike Haywood taking over play-calling perfection simply reve,[llS his own 
Mitsch emptmess.
duties Viewpoint Jimmy Clausen's new haircut 
George Orwell 
John Dailey 
author
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 page 11 
The Tyranny of Title IX 
On March 23, the University of Iowa regained its place in American collegiate wrestling. Behind Brent Metcalf, 2008 NCAA tournament Most Outstanding Wrestler, Iowa claimed its first team championship since 2000. Between 1975 and 2000, Iowa won an astounding 20 team titles, 15 of them under the leadership of coach Dan Gable, the leg­endary wrestler who won an Olympic 


Greg Yatarola

gold medal while not surrendering a single point during Dome and the tournament, at Domer a time when the sport was dominated by the Soviet bloc. Now the Hawkeyes reign again, led by coach Tom Brands, one of Gable's former wrestlers. 
Sadly, Notre Dame didn't do so well­no NO wrestlers advanced to the finals. That's because there are no NO wrestlers. NO wrestling was cut back in 1992, a casualty of the Education Amendment Act's Title IX, which requires that no per­son shall, on the basis of sex, be denied the benefits of any education program or activity receiving federal financial assis­tance. As written. the law is quite unob­jectionable. As implemented, though, it's been destructive and stupid. 
Judges, bureaucrats, and college administrators have interpreted the law to demand "statistical proportionality" ­so if a school's student body is 60% female, then 60% of its scholarship ath­letes must be too. Never mind that, from earliest childhood, boys are far more interested in athletic competition than girls are, or that everyone else is general­ly more interested in boys' competition too. 
The situation would be bad enough without football, which itself accounts for 85 scholarships. With that 'many scholar­ships on one side, it's hard to balance the ledger, especially since athletic directors have sometimes been unable to add women's teams because they can't attract enough interested girls to fill them. So schools often cut men's programs instead. 
The case of football shows how ridicu­lous this balancing act is. Football pro­grams, especially at places like NO, gen­erate revenue and publicity for their schools. Moreover, football scholarships often go to recipients whose families might otherwise struggle to afford col­lege. Can any of this be said of, oh, women's golf? Doesn't matter-to the NCAA, collectively affiicted with that mental disease known as political cor­rectness, there's no difference between giving a scholarship to someone like Chris Zorich to play a sport people actually pay money to watch, and who might suffer for years from injuries sustained in playing it hard, and giving one to a girl whose pri­vate high school had its own golf course. As for the justification I often heard bandied about in guys' dorms, that female athletes serve the important role of "comfort women" for the football team: even if this were true, the football team would perform better without such "com­fort". 
Obviously, I'm not entirely sold on ath-

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Vaginas burg 

I, like most of the Notre Dame community, eagerly anticipate the 71st and 72nd Viewpoint articles that will be published tomorrow focusing on the controversy surrounding the recent performance of the Vagina Monologues on our pure campus. This is a very impor­tant topic that needs to be discussed, for we all know that this issue significantly affects our daily lives. 
For example, few know that Eve Ensler herself orchestrated the suicide bomber attack 8 years ago on the U.S.S. Cole off the coast of Yemen. Also, it is not commonly known that the skit titled "My Angry Vagina" single-handedly brought down the housing industry, which sent this country spiraling into a recession. Clearly something must be done and we must act now! So what can you do? How can you stop Eve Bin Laden and her angry vagina? It's simple. All Notre Dame stu­dents are eligible to vote on May 6th in the Indiana Presidential Primary, as long as they have yet to vote in any other primary or caucus this year. 
Though the Republican race is pretty much over, Indiana will for the first time in 40 years play a crucial role in settling the Democratic race for the nomination. Pennsylvania seems to be leaning Sen. Clinton's way, while Sen. Obama will probably enjoy victory in North Carolina. This likely scenario leaves Indiana as the largest state remaining up for grabs. 
Both candidates understand the importance of this primary, which explains the countless number of cam­paign stops that will surely take place in our area dur­ing the next 4-5 weeks. You can fmd a copy of the regis­tration form at Indiana's Secretary of State website (http://www.in.gov/sos/electionsl}. After filling out the forrn, you can send it to the specified address yourself or contact me (mwells1@nd.edu) about campus drop-off spots. The deadline to register is next Monday April 7. 
Remember: By registering to vote, you are one step closer to stopping Ensler's Fourth Reich. Act now or else don't be surprised when you fmd out that Vaginasburg, Oklahoma has been declared the new nation's capital. 
Michael Wells semor Alumni Hall Apr. 1 

letic scholarships. For sports like football and basketball which earn money and press for the school, maybe, and even then I think the scholarships should be need-based. But if NO's going to give out other scholarships, then it ought to have a wrestling team. 
I don't have space for the defense wrestling deserves, and I'm no worthy apologist. But I do believe wrestling, more than any other mainstream sport, devel­ops those qualities that will help a boy someday become a good and noble man. Someone who doesn't even have what it takes to step out on a wrestling mat with­out his teammates, in front of many eyes, knowing he might get seriously hurt ­and even worse, terribly humiliated ­how can he be expected to do the right thing in life? Wrestling's hopelessly work­ing-class, God bless it, and wrestlers are vastly over-represented in the armed forces. For me, it was well worth the injuries, eating disorders, and cauliflower ear (no those last two aren't related!). 
NO needs a wrestling team and it needs wrestlers. But I don't expect NO to bring back wrestling because it's right, and I certainly don't expect NO to court the dis­approval of the federal government -the Church, sure, but not the Holy Government. So here's a solution. Make wrestling co-ed. Allow women to try out for the team. Of course, none will make it (those who would are encouraged to con­tact mere: breeding wrestlers), but it would be impossible to claim women were denied those scholarships on the basis of sex. 
I hope readers won't conclude I have some animus against women's sports -I don't. !.enjoyed going to women's soccer, volleybafi, and basketball games as an undergrad, and since she was tiny I've tried to push my niece into soccer (she's always preferred kittens and puppies). It's a hallmark of political correctness, though, that it pits one group against another. There's no inherent rivalry between wrestling and women's tennis. In a perfect world, wrestlers would pay no attention to women's tennis programs, like everyone else. But Title IX creates resentment where there was none before, just as "affirmative action" {what an exquisitely Orwellian term!) makes com­petitors out of minorities and, as Barack­our-hope-and-our-salvation would put it, a "typical white person" like me. Zero­sum class-warfare economics is another example. 
The Title IX problem is just going to get 
worse, as schools' student bodies become 
increasingly majority-female. More pro­
grams will be eliminated. Until NO cuts to 
the chase and re-names its teams the 
Peacing Multiculties, we're still the 
Fighting Irish. Wrestling's the only inter­
collegiate sport that even comes close to 
fighting. Let's bring it back to Notre 
Dame. 

Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus. He'd 
like to congratulate Indiana University's 
125-pound-class national champion, whose arm was ripped out ofsocket in ·the quarterfinals but who finished the 
match and went on to win the semifinals 
and finals. 

The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 
Defining pro-life 
Congressman Joe Donnelly's visit to the law school last week and the accompanying article in the Observer ("Donnelly expands pro-life definition," Mar. 
27) made the often-seen but critical error of expand­ing a definition to the point that it means everything -and therefore means nothing. Donnelly argued that school lunches, job creation, and welfare checks to pregnant mothers are just as much "pro-life" issues as abortion, embryo-destructive research, and euthanasia are. 
There is a certain appeal to his logic, since one can easily see that kids who eat have a better life than kids who don't eat, that families whose parents have jobs generally have better lives than those that don't, and pregnant women who get government support may choose less abortion less than those that don't. That appeal, however, evaporates when you take that logic to its conclusion. Are federal highway bills mak­ing highways more safe and efficient -thus prevent­ing accidents and encouraging job creation -there­fore "pro-life?" Are subsidies to farmers to grow corn "pro-life?" How about gun safety regulation? Warnings on cigarette cartons? Free trade (or protec­tionism)? 
You can literally attach a "pro-life" moniker to every good or bad or medium-rare idea that a politician has using Donnelly's definition. A "definition" with no lim­iting principle is no definition at all. Pro-life is a pretty general term if used in a vacuum, but in 2008, 35 years after Roe, 16 years after Casey, and in the con­text of the fight to preserve the right to live itself that has followed, it is not. It means ending abortion, euthanasia, and embryo-destructive research. It means stopping the destruction of life, not making 
those that are already here better. 
Does that make Donnelly's ideas wrong or evil? Certainly not. Maybe they are good ideas, maybe not. But they are not "pro-life" issues, and they should not be thrown up as being somehow equivalent or on the same scale of importance as those issues that are pro­life. Killing a child is not the same on the moral order as not feeding the child lunch. Supporting the Democratic Party today, whether in Congress or in the White House, continues to be a vote against the pro­life cause. A vote for a democrat is a vote for a House leadership that is intractably opposed to protecting life. House rules mean that the priorities of Pelosi's leadership dominates -denying access for any pro­,life bills to the floor. You can't install a party leader­ship who believes in abortion as a matter of "repro­ductive justice" and a fundamental right and expect to have a pro-life direction. 
Donnelly's "nay" votes are admirable, but it was his vote for Pelosi that created the necessity for such a vote -and foreclosed the possibility of a "yes" vote on any life-protective laws. Same goes for voting for a pro abortion president, as Obama and Clinton have both promised nominees to the Supreme Court who will continue to enshrine Roe. Pro-life voters would do well to remember that in November. 
Stephen Wallace second year law student offcampus Apr. 1 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
==============~========== 

By JAMES COSTA Scene Writer 
In his seventh solo offering, Bob Mould gives us "District Line." Well crafted, it is a welcome fol­low-up to 2005's "Body of Song," featuring more of the rocking and thrashing sounds that made Mould a legend in bands such as Husker Oil and Sugar. Teaming up with the explosive of Fugazi
energy drummer Brendan Canty, Mould uses "District Line" to make a triumphant return to the live band-sounding experience to produce a ten song record that is as animated, pulsing and unswerving as anything Mould has done before. 
What Mould does as a writer and musician is not so different from the tried and true hit mak­ing methods of almost any other successful rocker. He finds a few 
Mould uses "District Line, to make a triumphant return to the live band­sounding experience of Huster and Sugar to pro­duce a ten son record that is as animated, pulsing and unswerving as anyt­ing Mould has done before. 
catchy chords and melodies, writes emotive lyrics to go along with the music and then infuses his own soul and spirit into the words and tabs on the page to make the songs live and breathe on their own. 
At this point in his career, there is an added ele­ment to the recording on "District Line" that is distinctly Mould. After years of personal strife and confusion, Mould seems to be a happily adjusted gay American man in his late 40s. No longer struggling to keep his most private details out of the public eye, Mould now engages with his 

District Line Bob Mould 

Label: Anti 
Recommended Tracks: ''Stupid Now," 'Old Highs New Lows" 

music and his listeners in a liberating and excit­ing expression of freedom; freedom to become the person that one is intrinsically designed to be and to share the unique art that only that person can create. 
The first track on the record, "Stupid Now," is the throbbing rock track Husker and Sugar fans have been thirsting. The song gives voice to a man working out his clearly conflicting feelings 
about sharing and saying too much from the heart to someone who sadly does not care enough. 
The first· verse is delivered in a decidedly straightforward nature, with each following verse becom­ing more and more digitized and echoed. 
The words bound across the indelible space of the song, receiving no response from the one desired listener. Mould finish­es by belting out repeatedly· in a full shout, "Haven't I been enough of a fool for you? I Everything I say to you feels stupid now." It is 
raw rock-and-roll music, yet also deeply emotion­al and sad, which makes it rather distinctly bril­liant. 
A few of the songs can run the fine line of being a bit too cliche. The lyrics, while coming from an honest well of inspiration, do at times feel a bit junior high sentimental and sweet. One particu­larly enjoyable line, which is just a bit weak for Mould's, is found on the track "Old Highs New Lows" as he sings, "We lock the gaze tightly upon each other/ No others come near, no others come 
between." With so many depressing sentiments 
shared across the tracks of the record, such lyrics are a welcome, if momentary, respite from the obvious emotional tribulations being so honestly shared. 
Overall, it's a great record. It moves along with refreshing speed and musical punch, not allowing the listener much time to dwell on any one song or moment before being thrust into a new sphere of sound and lyric sensation. Mould has created a record that tells us its okay to be sad, just like its okay to sometimes be alone, especially when its not the shallow impulses of others, but only ourselves, who can bring us out of the darkness of melancholy and into the fresh light of new experience and new da. 

ful composers, and on one night, they will be on Notre Dame's campus. Not literally, of course, but rather through the skillful interpretation of the University of Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra. 
The performance, which starts tonight at 8 

p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the -DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, will also fea­ture work by Byrd, Tallis, Wagner and portions of Stravinsky's Mass. 
Photo courtesy of www.nd.edu/-chorale 
The Notre Dame Chorale is the official concert 

Members of the Notre Dame Chorale will present
choir of the University. It features an ensemble 


Mozart's Vesperae solemnes de Confessore
of 55 voices and ranges in its performances 


tonight at the DPAC.

from work from the Renaissance to modernity. Each semester, in addition to performing con­around the country, an evening concert during 
certs around the country, the group performs in Commencement Weekend and participation in conjunction with the Notre Dame Chamber -the Baccalaureate Mass. Orchestra. Alexander Blachly directs the group Every three or four years, the group travels in its entirety. The concert will also feature internationally to countries such as Italy, 
guest pianist Paivi Ekroth. France, Germany and New Zealand, where it is Blachly is the 1992 recipient of the Noah headed this summer. Greenberg Award, an award given to stimulate The group is known for a selection of intrigu­historically aware performanc-ing and impressive pieces from 
es and the student of historical some of the most talented and

The group is known for a

performing practices. He holds well-known musicians from all
selection ofintruiging and

a post-graduate degree in periods of classical music. For Musicology from Columbia impressive pieces from this show, the group will open
University. In addition, he is with the anthem "Sing
some ofthe most talented 

the founder-director of the Joyfully" by William Byrd,internationally renowned vocal and well-known musicians before moving on to "God grantensemble Pomerium. He from all periods ofclassi-with grace" by Thomas Tallis. assumed his current role in cal music. The rest of the program will 
1993, and has received much feature work by Beethoven acclaim during the ensuing 15 ("Aus Goethes Faust"), Brahms years. ("Die Mainacht"). Gioachino Rossini ("0 salu­
In addition to teaching several courses in the taris Hostia") and others. The concert will end Music Department, Blachly has also hosted a with the impressive "Vesperae solennes de three-hour classical-music radio show on the Confessore, K. 339" written by WolfgangUniversity's radio station. For his work with the Amadeus Mozart when he was only 24. 
Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra, Tickets are $10 for the general public, $8 for Blachly is joined by graduate assistant Jared faculty/staff, $6 for senior citizens and $3 for all Ostermann. students. The performance runs approximately
The Notre Dame Chorale's events include 

one hour with no intermission. 
-

campus concerts in both the Fall and Spring semesters, as well as a Winter Tour to cities Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
-
-

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
MLB 

Guerrero, Anderson lead Angels to victory 
Wang shuts down Blue Jays as New York claims record setting win in home opener at Yankee Stadium 
Associated Press  tion in a trade with the Chicago White Sox for short­ harmless -but clearly catch­able -sinking liner by Jason  
MINNEAPOLIS - Vladimir  stop Orlando Cabrera proved  Kubel in the second. Hunter  
<;uerrero and Garret Anderson  prescient when top starters  tried to make a shoe-top grab,  
got the Angels going, and the  .John  Lackey  and  Kelvim  but the ball popped out at the  
successful swinging didn't  Escobar wound up on the dis­ last second and was ruled a  
stop. Jon Garland  was given  abled  list  near  the end  of  single.  
quite a weleome.  spring training.  This came about a half-hour  
Guerrero and Anderson had  Anderson offered praise for  after Gardenhire presented  
six hits and live HBis between  Garland's sinkerball style,  the popular center fielder with  
them, and Garland breezed  which led to 17 groundball  his seventh Gold Glove award  
through his first start for Los  outs and helped retire 12 of  in a brief pregame ceremony  
Angnles with  a  IJ-1  victory  the first 13 Twins he faced. By  that prompted another stand­ 
over  the Minnesota Twins on  that time, Garland had  a  4-0  ing ovation.  
Tuesday night.  lead heading into the fifth.  Afterward, Hunter acknowl­ 
"I'm not going to assume  "Players stay in the game a  edged some weariness from  
that's going to happen every  little bit more when you have  all the extra attention.  
time, but if it does I would  a pitcher throwing strikes and  "It'll all fall into place for  
absolutely  love  it,"  said  keeping  the  ball  down,"  me," he said.  
Garland,  who  went  eight  Anderson said. "You have to  The Twins could've used  
innings and watched his team  be ready."  some  extra fielding practice,  
hammer out 15 hits.  Stifled by Livan Hernandez  too. In the fifth, Chone Figgins  
Torii Hunter had another 0­ in the opener, Los Angeles  hit a harmless grounder to  
for-4  night  for  the  Angels  bounced  back  with  three  new shortstop Adam Everett,  
against his old team, reaching  hard-hit doubles in the first  whose threw sailed wide of  
base only when a ninth-inning  seven  at-bats against Boof  first  base  for  an  error.  
pitch  from  Juan  Rincon  Bonser.  Guerrero  and  Guerrero drove in the fourth  
banged off his elbow. lie was  Anderson went back-to-hack  run with a two-out single two  
the only starter without a hit, but the two guys next to him  with theirs for a 2-0 lead in the first.  batters later. Everett, signed by the Twins  
in thf1 field. and in front of him  Minnesota  manager  Ron  explicitly  for  his  noted  
in the lineup, did plenty of  Gardenhire said he thought  defense, made amends in the  
-­ damage. Guerrnro went 3-for-4 with a walk and three HBis, and  Bonser "did pretty doggone good" after the early trouble. Guerrero, to be fair, is a tough  bottom of the inning by driv­ing in Minnesota's only run off Garland with a two-out single.  
Andnrson wnnt 3-for-5 and  out for anyone.  Delmon Young made a late  
drove in two. Mike Napoli and Casey Kotchman each hit solo  "Goodness gracious, I think he threw a ball almost in the  break on a line drive hit to left by Figgins, and the ball sailed AP  
homnrs.  dirt and the guy got a base hit  over his head for a double in Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter hugs manager Joe Girardi after  
Tho real star. arguably,  was  on it," Gardenhire said.  the  seventh  against  Jesse the New York's 3-2 win over Toronto on Tuesday.  
(;arland. who allowed just six  Hunter messed up in the  Crain. Figgins scored  on  a  
hits and one walk. !lis acquisi­ field, too,  on  an  ultimately  two-out single by Anderson.  Alex Hodriguez scored on  from 81 to 80.  
llideki Matsui's grounder in  It rained· again Tuesday in  
Yankees 3, Blue Jays 2  the seventh, breaking a  2-all  New  York,  but  the  skies  
The final opener at Yankee  tie.  eleared  about 75  minute,s  
Stadium ended like  so  many  Joba Chamberlain struck out  before gametime. ·· ·  ·  
that came before ­ with a vic­ two in  a  hitless eighth to the  Heggie Jackson was escorted  
tory by the home team.  delight of his polio-stricken  to the mound by fellow Hall of  
Chien-Ming Wang shut down  father, Harlan, who attended  Famer Yogi Berra to throw out  
the  Toronto  Blue  Jays  for  the game and cheered from  the ceremonial first pitch of a  
seven  innings, making Joe  his motorized scooter.  season  that marks the 30th  
Girardi a  winner in his rain­ Mariano Hivera worked  a  anniv~rsary  of' New York's  
delayed  debut  as  Yankees  perfect ninth for the save and  1978 World Series champi­ 
manager and sending New  handed Girardi the souvenir  onship.  
York to a record-setting victo­ ball from the final out. Girardi  A pair of Yankee Stadium  
ry Tuesday night.  took over this season from his  staples were missing from the  
After wet weather postponed  popular mentor. Joe Torre,  ballpark's 84th opener: long­ 
the festivities Monday, the  who guided the Yankees to  time  broadcaster  Bobby  
Yankees beat Hoy Halladay (0­ playoff appearances in all 12  Murcer and public-address  
1) to win their major league­ years at the helm.  announcer Bob Sheppard.  
best 11th consecutive home  Set to move next year into a  Mureer  is  regaining  his  
opener. That snapped  a  tie  new  $1.3  billion  ballpark  strength following  a  brain  
with the Pittsburgh Pirates,  that's under construction next  biopsy last month. lie had sur­ 
who  won  10 in  a  row  from  dour, New York improved to  gery in December 2006, four  
1945-54.  58-26  in  Yankee  Stadium  days af'ter being diagnosed  
Babe Ruth homered on the  openers. The club has won  16  with a rmilignant brain tumor.  
day the ballpark opened in  of its past 17, and 22 of 25.  Sheppard wasn't behind the  
1923.  With  owner  George  When the game became offi­ microphone  b·ecause  he's  
Steinbrenner and  his  son,  cial after the fifth inning, the  recuperating from  an  illness,  
Hank, a Yankees general part­ video board in right-center  and he was replaced by regu­ 
ner, watching from their suite  showed  a  tape  of  George  lar backup, Jim Hall. When  
above  home  plate,  Melky  Steinbrenner pulling a  lever  captain Derek Jeter stepped to  
Cabrera homered and made  as  the digital countdown of  the plate, however, he  was  
Angels second baseman Howie Kendrick throws to first during  two outstanding catches in  regular-season games remain­ introduced by a  recording of  
Los Angeles' 9-1 victory over Minnesota Tuesday.  center field.  ing at Yankee Stadium flipped  Sheppard's famous voice.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS

-

Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home  Notre Dame Staff member seeks  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- If you  
FoR RENT  for rent walking distance to college.  WANTED  house sitting/fumished rental through July 31 while home is being  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help.  or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted,  
Call 847-507-7444.  built. Call574-360·6919.  Call our 24 hour confidential hollins  
For rent: Two story house ready for  $14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT  at 1·800-No Abort or visit our web  visit  
- immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for  Large house available for 2009­2010.  WORK flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service. conditions apply, ages 18+,  PERSONAL  site at www.lifecall.org Summer In Maine: Males and  http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. shtml  
security. Four individually locked  Full renovations completed 2007.  574-273-3835,  females. Meet new friends! Travel!  
bedrooms, central station monitored  Close to campus. 4,000+ square  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Teach your favorite activity.  HAPPY BIRTHDAY,  
security system. six blocks from  feet, 5 bathrooms.  www. workforstudents.com  Do not go it alone. If you or some·  *Tennis*Canoe•water  
Notre Dame. bus stop in front of  MacSwain@gmail.com  one you love needs confidential  Ski*Swim*Saii"Kayak*Theatre*Vide  JACK RADIGAN.  
house. Laundromat next door, base- Child Care: Occasional evenings  support or assistance, please call  o*Ropes*Office*Pottery*English  
ment available for storage. new fur·  Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  and weekends for our twin daugh- Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  Riding*Landsports and more. June  YOU ARE THE BEST!!  
nace and central air, new kitchen  08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex"  ters, age 7. Looking for someone  more information, visit our website  to August. Residential. Enjoy our  
including appliances, large living  leases bluegoldrentals.com  who is responsible, energetic and  at:  website. Apply on-line.  WE LOVE YOU.  
room, free trash removal. Garage  enjoys kids. Good pay.  TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1­ 
available for car·extra.  Housemate sought. Private room.  Contact Paul at  http:1/osa. nd. edu/departments/preg­ 800-997-4347,  YOUR FRIENDS  
weithman.1 @ nd.edu or Maura at  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
Call 289·4071.  Call631·7897. $400 monthly.  ryan.61 @nd.edu  in The Observer.  www.tripplakecamp.com  AT THE OBSERVER.  







OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 CoMPI LED FROM THE OBsERVER'S Wl RE SERVJCEs page 15 

NCAA Men's Tennis ITA Rankings 

rank team average 
1 Virginia 86.50 2 Ohio St. 82.79 2 Georgia 79.34 4 UCLA 67.54 5 usc 67.19 6 Texas 67.14 7 Ole Miss 63.85 8 Tennessee 56.09 9 Florida St. 54.55 10 North Carolina 53.09 11 Florida 51.92 12 Tulsa 51.72 13 Pepperdine 48.57 14 Michigan 45.32 15 Baylor 42.13 16 LSU 41.77 17 Illinois 41.03 18 Texas Tech 38.57 19 Rice 36.45 20 Texas A&M 36.34 21 Oklahoma St. 35.63 22 Arizona St. 32.93 23 Washington 32.21 24 Alabama 31.81 25 Stanford 31.35 
previous 
1 2 3 6 4 5 7 12 10 9 8 11 13 14 18 19 16 17 22 21 23 15 20 24 
NR 
NCAA Women's Tennis ITA Rankings 

rank  team  average  previous  
1  Northwestern  90.98  1  
2  Georgia Tech  73.53  3.  
3  Florida  72.58  4  
4  Baylor  71.13  2  
5  Stanford  66.03  5  
6  California  65.45  7  
7  Duke  63.29  6  
8  usc  62.94  10  
9  UCLA  62.90  8  
10  Georgia  61.82  9  
11  Miami(FL)  56.18  14  
12  Arizona St.  51;9.4  .1$  
13  Vanderbilt  51.55  11  
14  Arkansas  47.90  13  
15  North Carolina  44.93  . )1t  
16  Fresno St.  44.67  16  
17  Tennessee  43.08"  20  
18  Florida Sl.  42.24  21  
19  Texas  41.19  17  
20  NOTRE DAME  40.13  19  
21  William & Mary  38.40  24  
22  Michigan  38.06  NR  
23  Clemson  36.74  NR  
24  TCU  35.39  22  
25  Kentucky  33.56  23  

MIAA Women's Tennis Conference Standings 

team conference overall 
Albion 3-0 10-1 Kalamazoo 2·0 7-4 Calvin 1-0 8-2 Hope 1-0 6-3 Alma 2·1 10-4 Tri-State 0-1 3-3 SAINT MARY'S 1-2 5-8 Olivet 0-3 1-7 Adrian 0-3 2-8 
around the dial 
NBA 
Indiana vs. Boston 7 p.m., ESPN 
Dallas vs. Golden State 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. -Bill Belichick insists there are no new revelations to come about Spygate. 
"I think they've addressed everything they possibly can address," the New England Patriots coach said during the AFC coaches breakfast at the NFL meetings, disclosing he was reinterviewed after the Super Bowl about alle­gations that former team employee Matt Walsh had illegal tapes. 
''I've addressed so many . questions so many times from so many people I don't know what else the league could ask." 
Commissioner Roger Goodell confirmed that the NFL spoke again with Belichick and other Patriots employees after last January's Super Bowl loss to the New York Giants. The league has been negotiating an agree­ment with Walsh that it hopes will get Walsh, a golf pro in Hawaii, to come for­ward with what he has. 
"We followed up on other things because certain things had been tossed out," Goodell said of the added round of interviews with Belichick and other members of the Patriots front office. 
This was the first time anyone disclosed that Belichick and other Patriots staffers were rein­terviewed after the Super Bowl, when the Walsh alle­gations surfaced. The first interviews actually came the day before the Super Bowl with player personnel director Scott Pioli; Stacey James, the team's vice president for media rela­tions; and video director Jimmy Dee. 

League officials subse­quently interviewed owner Robert Kraft and Belichick, as he disclosed on Tuesday. "I talked to four or five people," Belichick said, although he did not say if it was in person or by tele­phone. 
Spygate developed after the first game of the sea­son, when tapes of the New York Jets' defensive signals were confiscated from a Patriots employee on the sideline. Belichick was 
IN BRIEF Rodriguez to earn more 
than entire Marlins roster 
NEW YORK -Alex Rodriguez makes more this year than his hometown Florida Marlins. 
Boosted by his new deal with the New York Yankees, A-Hod tops the major league baseball salary list at $28 million, according to a study of contract terms by The Associated Press. The 33 players on the Marlins' opening-day roster and disabled fu.t total $21.8 million. 
"The Marlins? It's amazing," Rodriguez said. "And they still seem to find a way to be very eompetitive. They have a great pool of talent; they made some unbelievable trades, so they have great personnel peo­ple. To win two championships in 11 years, that's really admirable, and I'm very proud of that organization, being from Miami." 
For the first time in baseball hi<>t.ory, the average salary topped the $3 million mark. The 855 players on opening-day rosters and the DL averaged $3.15 million, up 7.1 percent from last year's starting average of $2.94 million. 

House urges Bush not to 
attend Beijing Olympics 
WASHINGTON -Fifteen House members, citing China's human rights abuses, on Tuesday urged President Bush to reconsider his decision to attend the Olympic Games in Beijing this summer. 
"It would be clearly inappropriate for you to attend the Olympic Games in China, given the increasingly repressive nature of that country's government," the lawmakers wrote in a letter organized by Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif. 
The letter was signed by 14 Democrats and Republican Dana Rohrabacher of California, a long­time critic of the Chinese govern­ment. 
The letter cited China's recent crackdown of protests in Tibet, the Beijing government's close economic ties with the government of Sudan and recent suppression of religious and human rights advocates. 
fined $500,000, the team was fined $250,000 and was stripped of its first­round draft choice. 
The Patriots ended up becoming the first team to finish the regular season 16-0. They won two playoff games, but were upset 17­14 in the Super Bowl by the Giants. 
The Walsh allegations came out two days before that title game, although Belichick said they weren't a distraction in the game. And he vehemently denied the Patriots taped a Rams walkthrough before that 2002 Super Bowl, which the two-touchdown underdog Patriots won 20-1 7. 
"''ve never seen a tape of another team's practice. Ever!" he said Tuesday. "Certainly not that one." 
Sutton resigns after poor
second season 
STILLWATER, Okla. -Oklahoma State basketball coach Sean Sutton resigned under pressure Tuesday fol­lowing a 17-16 season. 
Athletic director Mike Holder met with Sutton on Monday to discuss the 
-

state of the program. The move comes almost two weeks after Sutton completed his second season. 
In a statement released by the uni­versity, Holder called this a "sad day for me personally and this universi­ty." He said he and Sutton agreed on the decision and a national search ­for a successor will begin. 
A news conference was scheduled for later in the day. Sutton served as an assistant under father Eddie Sutton before taking the 
-

top job. His status has been a subject of speculation for much of the second half of the season, beginning when the Cowboys lost six in a row, the program's longest skid in more than two decades. 
-

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

UCLA's injuries leave room for new talent 
Associated Press 
I.OS ANGELES Ben !lowland's worst fears came true before UCLA played its first game this season. Only 10 scholarship players were avail­able and the coach was wor­ried about injuries depleting his lineup. 
Ilowland is known for want­ing to control every last detail about his team and injuries were something hn had no sway over. 
"It really does impact what kind of year you're going to have if you're able to stay healthy," he said Tuesday. 
The Bruins (35-3) overcame injuries to startnrs Darren Collison and Luc Hichard Mbah a Moute and reserves Lorenzo Mata-Heal and James Keefe, and now they're headed to a third consecutive Final Four on a 14-game winning streak. 
"It shows how strong and deep we are," Keefe said. 
Freshman Kevin Love nearly avoided the injury bug, hurting his back in the Pac-1 0 tourna­ment. But that seems a distant memory since Love has anchored the Bruins' NCAA tournament success. 
Mbah a Moute's lel't ankle is still hurting, although not enough to keep him out of Saturday's national semifinal game against Memphis (37-1). 
"Ever since my freshman year, this team has had people who can step up. We've had injuries a lot," he said. 
Collison missed the season's 
first six games because of a 
sprained left knee. He was stiU 
wearing a brace that limited 
his movement when the Bruins 
lost for the first time, by two 
points to Texas. 
Mbah a Moute missed a total of six games with a concussion and a sprained left ankle, which happened twice. Mata­Heal missed two games because of a strained groin and a concussion. lie's provid­ed a valuable breather for Love after being the starting center on last y{~ar's Final Four team. 
"We know how to respond to adversity, that's it," Collison said. "James Keefe stepped up in Luc's shoes when he was down.... It seems like we do that every year. I hope it sym­bolizes what we do for the Final Four." 
Michael Roll played in six games in December before re­rupturing a tendon in his left foot at the end of that month, causing him to redshirt the rest of the season. That forced Keefe into action after the sophomore thought he was going to redshirt and spend the season working to get back into condition from left shoul­der surgery in August. 
Now Roll is the cheerleader on the bench dressed in street clothes, while Keefe came up big with 18 points and 12 rebounds -both career highs -in an 88-78 victory over Western Kentucky in the West Region semifinals. 


Keefe had already hinted at what he could do when Mbah a Moute got hurt during the Pac­t 0 tourney. Keefe came in and scored eight points and defended well in a win over Stanford for the title. 
"Maybe if (Luc) doesn't hurt his ankle, we don't win against Western Kentucky because James is thrown in there with­out having the experience," Howland said. 
Keefe's performance earned him national attention, but he wasn't exactly a slouch before that. The 6-foot-8 sophomore arrived in Westwood as a McDonald's All-American, but the shoulder surgery set him back as did a lack of minutes. 

Titkm on sakt HOW at Morris ilox Offtc:e, 57'-fllS.9190 ond www.morriscvntG.'r.org, ond all Tk:kctmoat.r kxottona, www.tkketmcntcn.com 

Sunday A • 7:30PM The Embassy Theatre Fort Wayne. Indiana 
Ti<km on saki NOW at thv Embassy I
ilox OffJ(or, all Ti<kotmastw loc:atiom, .. thargco by phontl 160/424-1111 or www.ti<kotmastllr.com 


EARLY ADMISSION 
THEL 
N 
MER E 

DON'T BE LEFT BEHIND AS OTHERS STUDY IN LONDON IN 2009 APPLY NOW AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF 
-
EARLYADMISSION 
AND ASSURE YOUR PLACE FOR 2009! 
SUBMIT YOUR APPLICATION BY APRIL 5, 2008 FOR THE 2009 PROGRAMME AND YOUR COMPLETED FILE WILL BE REVIEWED AND A DECISION WILL BE MADE 
-
IN JUNE 2008 

APPLY ON-LINE VIA THE INTERNATIONAL STUDIES WEBSITE 
-
OR FILL OUT A HARDCOPY APPLICATION AND RETURN IT TO THE LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME OFFICE 
-
CONTACT: Liz Reagan 305 Brownson Hall 631-0622 Reagan. 9@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Non1inations for the 
Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean ofthe College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 1 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, Aprill4, 2008 


GOLF 
Woods and Ochoa 
easily comparable 
Associated Press 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. ­The comparisons between Tiger Woods and Lorena Ochoa are inevitable, and mostly accurate. 
Woods gave the PGA Tour a two-week head start in Hawaii, made his debut at the Buick Invitational and won by eight shots. Ochoa also skipped the first two LPGA Tour events in Hawaii, started in Singapore at the HSBC Champions and won by 11. 
Woods has won 18 times on the PGA Tour since the start of the 2006 season. Ochoa has 16 victories. They are No. 1 in their respective world ranking by more than double the mar­gin of No.2. 
And over the next two weeks, both are overwhelming favorites to win the first major championship of the year. 
But that's where the parallel paths come to a fork in the road. 
Woods has four green jack­ets from the Masters, not to mention a career full of posi­tive vibes at the majors. He captured the career Grand Slam at age 24, before he had completed four years on the PGA Tour. 
Despite her dominance, Ochoa arrived at the Kraft Nabisco Championship to face some demons. 
She loves Mission Hills, where she first played as a teenager. The affection she gets in the California desert rivals that of her native Mexico, with someone waving a red, white and green nag on just about every fairway. Ochoa sheepishly mentioned that she asked tournament officials for 100 tickets for her family and friends, and she was willing to pay for them. 
"I have great memories, and I have a lot of support from people that comes from Mexico and cheer for me," Ochoa said Tuesday. "It's just someplace that feels good. I'm ready to have a good week. I've been close a few times, and hopefully, this is the year." 
She is being modest about close calls. Ochoa should have won this major by now. 
Two years ago, she tied an LPGA major record with a 10­under 62 in the opening round 
and still had a three-shot lead going into Sunday until a meltdown on the back nine. Ochoa recovered with an eagle on the final hole to get into a playoff against Karrie Webb, who won on the first extra hole. 
Ochoa was tied for the lead going into the weekend last year and looked poised as ever until she missed the par­3 17th green, whiffed on a wedge, took three putts once she got on the green and took quadruple bogey that effec­tively knocked her out of the tournament. 
Moments like that are what makes winning even harder. 
The Kraft Nabisco is the only LPGA major that has been played on the same course every year, which makes it similar to the Masters in that respect -and only that respect. Augusta National does not have a Wienermobile next to the practice green. 
Geoff Ogilvy spoke recently about why the Masters has such a long list of players who never won a green jacket, and he mentioned the familiarity of the course breeding so much contempt. 
"There are demons that don't go away," Ogilvy said. "If you have a few close calls at the U.S. Open, you're always doing it somewhere else. If you have demons at Augusta, which everybody does, _guys always remember." 
Great as she is, Ochoa's biggest challenge will be to bury those memories. 
"I already erased them," she insisted. "I only feel good things about this course, and good vibes and good memo­ries. Of course, you're going to make mistake? and have a few bad holes, like what happened on 17 last year. I struggled on holes 13, 14 and 15. They were holes that I played over par, and I'm going to work on those this year and make sure I play that stretch in a positive way. 
"And I think that will really help get a good result on Sunday." 
What might help this year is no longer having to answer questions about winning a major. Even after she replaced Annika Sorenstam at No. 1 in the world at the end of the 2006 season, Ochoa had a reputation of being unable to win the big one. 
Storage College Partners 
We Pick Up! We Store! We Deliver! www.storagecollege.com E-Mail us at ndinfo@.storagecollege.com Simplified Summer Storage! 
-
-
-
-

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 2, 2008 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Parker scores 26, injures shoulder 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Even with an injurnd shoulder. Candace Parknr was still abln to lift Tenrwssee into another Final Four. 
Parknr seon~d 26 points and rel.urned after dislocating her lnf't should1•r to lead the Lady Vols out of a sPcond-half dnficit for a !i:~-4!i win over Tnxas A&M in tlw Oklahoma Cily Hogional final Tunsday night. 
Slw twien )pft the game· in the l'irst half with tlw injury and slw didn't return until about halfway through tlw sec­ond half. Slw seornd six of the Lady Vols' points in an H-0 run as tlwy ovPt'canw a 42-37 ddil:it. all while wearing a bral"n to stabilizn hnr left shouldnr. 
"I was just going to play as hard as I could and not to think about my shoulder and my situation," l'arknr said. "I didn't want this to bn the last timn that WP playNI tognthnr." 
Slw seornd only eight points in thn s11<:ond half. but it was nnough to push the Lady Vols (:H-2) ahnad whnn eombined with a sturdy defensivn effort that kPpt Texas A&M (29-H) seornless for a l'ivn-minute strnteh. 
Evon after returning from 
the locker room with the 
shoulder wrapped, she shot an 
airball on her l'irst jumper 
from the foul line and then 
couldn't convert a layup ofT a 
lob at the right bloek. 
She turned a second alley­oop attnmpt into a sueeessful layup, and that got the Lady Vols' run going. Shannon Bobbitt followed with two frne throws. and Parker hit two of hnr own to put Tennessee ahead 43-42 with 3:44 to play. She went 1-for-2 on two sue­eessive trips to thn foul line to stretch the lead to three. 
"People, sometimes they sen Candacn as morn of a finesse playnr but I think sometimes wlwn you sen finesse players, you don't realize just how mentally tough they arc until you sen thnm light through the adversity that she fought through tonight," Tennessee eoaeh Pat Summitt said. 
After a fren throw by the Aggies' Takia Starks, Parker lost the ball in the lane but was able to rneover and pass to Alexis llornbuekle for a dnep 3-pointer that gave the Lady Vols a 48-43 edge with 48.8 seconds left. 
"That was an interesting 3­ball." Summitt said. "The thing about Alexis is she wants it so mueh." 



----------------------. 
Wednesday, April 2, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL NFL 
Indiana hires Crean Goodell to decide Paanan's fate 
away from Marquette 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Indiana University will hire Marquette's Tom Crean as its bas­ketball coach and is expected to introduce him at a news confer~ ence Wednesday. 
University trustee Philip Eskew confirmed the hiring. Eskew said Crean had signed a letter-of­intent with the university and was meeting with his team Tuesday night. 
Team spokesman J.D. Campbell said a news conference had yet to be scheduled. 
The hiring comes near the end of a tumultuous six-week period in which former Hoosiers coach Kelvin Sampson resigned amid an NCAA scandal, interim coach Dan Dakich replaced him and then lost four of seven games. 
Dakich also suspended guard Jamarcus Ellis for disciplinary reasons for the Hoosiers' game at Penn StatP, and announcPd Tuesday that Ellis and guard Armon Bassett had been kicked ofT the team for missing two scheduled events. 
Crean, who led Marquette to the Final Four in 2003, will responsible for rebuilding not only Indiana's reputation as a national power but also its sullied image as a squeaky dean pro­gram. 
;:,;,

...' .. 0· 
( 
"I think he's a great choice," Eskew said. "He has a Big Ten background, a Midwest back­growld, he's recruited in the state of Indiana and he has an impec­cable record, so I think Indiana is on the road to recovery." 
Now the question is what kind of team will Crean inherit. 
Starting forwards D.J. White and Lance Stemler both finished their senior seasons, and it's uncertain whether Bassett and Ellis, two of the starting guards, will return after being punished for missing an appointment last week. When they didn't show 'Up to run laps the next day, Dakich decided to dismiss them from the team. 
On Monday, freshman Eric Gordon is expected to announce whether he will declare early lor the NBA. Most figure, he's leav­ing, which would leave Indiana without all five of its regular starters from last season. 
Outside the administration, the decision was greeted warmly, too. 
"I think it's a very good move," said Jared Jeffries, a former Indiana star now playing for the New York Knicks. "lie's proven himself to be a successful college eoach at this level, a very good recruiter, recognize talent. That's who we need at Indiana, we need somebody who is going to be sta­ble. a foundation for our futun~." 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. Suspended Tennessee Titans cornerback Pacman Jones might know by July whether he'll be playing NFL games in 2008. 
''I'll make a decision prior to the start of training camp," commissioner Roger Goodell said of possibly reinstating Jones, who was suspended for last season for violations of the personal-conduct policy. "I have seen some of his recent comments ... and some of those comments were encouraging. I have always said he has to accept responsibility for his actions." 
Jones stood outside the church doors at Word of Faith Ministries on Tuesday, passing out almost 500 boxes of food and toiletries to needy families , a church in an impoverished area on the west side of Atlanta where his aunt and uncle are members. He said the church was a perfect place to pay hom­age to a community that has given him the most support. 
Jones teamed up with Feed the Children, a nonprofit relief organization that delivers food, medicine and clothing to the poor. 
The troubled cornerback is trying clean up his image, hop­ing this good deed for his hometown of Atlanta will be another step toward showing he's worthy of reinstatement to the league that suspended him for numerous arrests. 

During his time away from the playing field, Jones said he has learned from his actions and cut out all the "knuckle heads" in his life. He just wants the chance to atone for his mis­takes, turning to his faith for guidance. 
"In the Bible it says, 'Let the past be the past and move on to the future,"' Jones said. "I think for my situation, God did every­thing for a reason. Yes, I made a lot of bad mistakes. And I owned up. to them. I want to tell the kids everything I went through, so they won't have to." 
Goodell, who includes Jones' status among a plethora of top­ics he tou,r;hed on at the owners meetings Monday, offered his most pointed comments yet on whether Jones' suspension will cross over into a second sea­son. 
Jones wants to play for the Cowboys and Dallas apparently wants to acquire him, but a source close to the l)egotiations has told ESPN's Ed Werder that trade talks have stalled over the issue of compensation. 
A Cowboys source didn't seem to be optimistic that a deal was imminent, but told ESPN.com's John Clayton, "we're the only fish nibbling." 
jones, the Titans' suspended cornerback, may not be rein­stated by the NFL before the start of training camp although if a trade happens, a source 
·l 

said, the commissioner might allow Jones to train at the new team's facility in order to give him a potentially good environ­ment. 
Goodell was going to allow Jones to train at the Titans facility during .the offseason, but revoked that privilege when it came to his attention Jones was at a strip club at the begin­ning of the year. 
The Titans are seeking a fourth-round pick in this year's draft and a fourth-round pick in 2009, according to the source. The Cowboys are so far unwilling to provide either, believing they are the only team pursuing Jones. 
A Titans source told ESPN.com's Matt Mosley that there is a feeling within the organization that Jones cannot be reformed and should be traded even though at least one Tennessee defensive starter says players would embrace Jones' return to the team. 
Jones said last week in a radio interview with Cowboys Hall of Fame receiver Michael Irvin that he wants to resume his career in Dallas. Jones intends to apply for reinstate­ment sometime before the April 26-27 draft. 
"Dallas, they know the conse­quences lof a trade] and the status ofthe player," Goodell said Monday. "I don't feel any obligation to do more than I said, to reconsider his status. I have made no commitment." 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields, off Willis Strilet 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 
Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser. closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet &Cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 




• Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 
Strict covenants enforced. 
Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
now leasing. 

-
---


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April2, 2008 
-
-
-
-
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Freshman Treece 
•
runs In Scotland 
"She will certainly be con­
By ALEX BARKER sidered a contender for one 
Sports Writer of the top three spots at the 
Olympic trials this summer," 
While the rest of her team­Connelly said. "Obviously she mates were participating in is very talented and works the Arizona State very hard, but the thing that Invitational. freshman long makes her so good is that she distance runner Marissa has a great mind for racing. Treece had her eyfls set on a She doesn't get scared or much bigger stage. flustered; she just goes out 
Treece, along with Notre and tries to beat people. Dame graduate Molly Huddle Ultimately, I believe that she ('05), travelled to Edinburgh, has the potential to be one of Seotland, to participate in the the top women runners in the IAAF World Cross Country U.S. over the next several Championships last Sunday. years." 
Tre<H:e 11nished 44th out of Following in Huddle's foot­65 competitors in the steps, Treece has already women's junior race even begun to make a name· for after gPtting herself on the eaught up in a national level massive fall with her due to slip­reeent s uc­
"If she keeps working 
pery condi­eess.
hard and competing, she
tions. "Marissa "Marissa will be one of the top ITreec1~] has didn't have collegiate runners in the gr~at poten.~ 
quite the race t 1 a I ,
coming .lJears. " 
that shn had Connelly said ho pnd for." about the Irish wonwn's Tim Connelly freshman. "If distanrn she keeps
Irish coach* 
Coach Tim working hard Connelly said. and com pet­"But hopnfully ing, she will she had a positive nxpnrinnen bn one of the top eollngiate that will be a gn~at motivator runners in the coming for her in the future." years." 
Treece earned a spot on the Treece's initial adjustment 
U.S. Women's junior tnam to to the collegiate level did not eompete in Seotland by fin­go as smoothly as she might ishing fourth at the U.S. have liked. Cross Championships on "She had mono in the fall February 14 in San Diego, and struggled with typical Calif. adjustments to college run­
lluddlc, twiee honored as ning that most freshmen go the Most Outstanding through." Connelly said. Performer at the Big East However, Connelly is not outdoor championships dur­worried about these prob­ing her Notre Dame career, lems in the future. fared well in the women's "She will be very, very good senior raee placing 23rd out this spring and in the years of nearly 100 participants. to come," he said. "In addi­
"Molly llluddlel was the tion to being very talented, most accomplished woman she has a great attitude and runner that we have ever had energy, with the potential to here at Notre Dame," be a great leader for our Connelly said. team." 
Huddle will now turn her attention to the Olympics this Contact Alex Barker at summer in Beijing, China. abarker 1 @nd.edu 
. .
MORRISSEY 
-MANOR­
;
• • 
. 
Find the medallion and win $300! 
Clue #3: .And now comes the time of frustration Instead of joyous jubilation Three threes guide the way Wait! Two-one-two HEY! Near lUm is the medal's location 
The Manor Medallion Hunt is a week long campus-wide search for a single three-inch medallion. The Medallion is located somewhere on the Notre Dame campus-not in a residence hall, church. or at the Grotto. A new riddle will appear daily in the Observer and at the Morrissey website: 
www.nd.edu/-rnanor 
Bdng the m<•dullinn to Mo.-rissey 001 bl'twl'en 9-10 PM to claim ynm· $300 pl'izl'!! 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles to play tvvo against Olivet 
Saint Mary's, sophomore Peterson perfect in conference play so far 

By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
After sweeping league oppo­nent Calvin Saturday, the Belles look to continue MIAA success against Olivet. 
The teams play a double­header this afternoon in Olivet, Michigan. 
The Belles won three of four games last weekend against Calvin and Hose-Hulman, bringing their record to 13-3. The team is 2-0 in eonference play. . 
"We always start well against conferenee teams," Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. "We had a goal of accom­plishing that again this year." 
The Belles owe much of their success to sophomore outl'ielder Ashley Peterson, who was named MIAA Player of the Week on Monday. Peterson, who is batting .517 ovnrall, went 13-for-16 last weekend, induding hitting her first home run of the season Sunday. She leads the team in every major ofTensivn catego­ry. 
"Ashley is just a consistent hitter who works hard on and off the field." Sullivan said. "She is very positive and she picks everyone up on the team." 
As a whole, the team has a .333 batting average against opposing teams. Other top contributors include sopho­more Maureen Healy, who leads the team with four stolen bases, junior Ashley Fusaro, and senior McKenna 
KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 

Junior Calli Davison pitches during the Belles 6-5 win over 
Calvin on March 29. 
Corrigan. 
Olivet (5-11) is led by junior shortstop Kacie Hosecrants ­a 2007 first-team all-MIAA nominee. The Comets, who placed firth in the M IAA in 2007, have yet to play a con­ference team this year. 
Junior Calli Davison (7-3) will start the first game for tlHl Belles, and Corrigan will start the second contest. Both pitchers have been strong so far this season. Davison has pitched complete games in all 

eight of lwr starts, and has 50 strikeouts in a total of 60 innings. Corrigan has five complotn games, and holds a 
2.96 EHA. 
Olivet, loeatod in southern Michigan, is about a two-hour bus trip. Sullivan said that though it is hard. to get ener­gized right after a long trip, the team always brings plenty of enthusiasm. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Core Survey winners! 
li

The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education would like 1 to congratulate the following students who were the ::~ winners for the Core Survey drawing: Mary McKeever, Rebecca Flynn and Rahul Shewakramani. 
We would like to thank all students who participated in the Core Survey. This year we had a record number of students complete the survey 3, 770 both undergraduate and graduate students. 
1: The Core Survey is conducted by the University of Illinois Carbondale and is designed to understand :j drinking patterns of Universities nationwide. 

Wednesday, April 2, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
BASEBALL 
Tuesday's game with Broncos postponed 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Tuesday's game against Western Michigan was can­celled because of a storm sys­tem that had passed through South Bend leaving behind rain and frigid ternperatures. As of now, a make-up date has not been announced and it is not certain if the game will be played. 
If the contest is to be played, however, it will most likely take place sometime in May. 
The Irish will take part in an exhibition game against the South Bend Silver Hawks, for the first time ever today at 
5:30 p.m. at Coveleski Stadium. The game is in honor of Irish head coach Dave Schrage's wife, Jody, who passed away after a long bat­tle with cancer in 2007. 
This weekend, Notre Dame will try to bounce back from a frustrating three-game Big East series against Cincinnati, in which the Irish dropped two of three. 
Starting Friday, Rutgers will travel to Frank Eck Stadium to face the Irish in another con­ference three-game set that ends Sunday. 
Junior David Phelps will take the mound the first game, fol­lowed by senior southpaw Wade Korpi, who will pitch on Saturday. 
In the series finale sopho­more righty, Eric Maust will attempt to close out the Scarlet Knights as the Irish look to advance in the league standings. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyres@nd.edu 


Purdue 
continued from page 24 
"We did have to switch a bit with the doubles, but I think Katie [Potts] will be fine in doubles," Louderback said. "She just had not played [dou­bles] in a while. Getting matches under her belt in doubles will help her out a lot." 
As for Rafael, she will cer­tainly be out for at least tomorrow's match but may return this weekend. 
"She's getting better. She won't be back [Wednesday] but hopefully Friday or Sunday," Louderback said. "We're hoping to get her to at least play doubles if not sin­gles. She's itching to get out there. " 

Rafael has played five times in singles, going 3-2 in the No. 6 slot, but contributes most in doubles, most often alongside one too many matches in the Krisik. That fall because pair is 6-5 for of the the dual sea­National
"Really, right now, we 
son. Indoors," he 
In addition to don ,t have that much said. "Really, 
Rafael, some of longer until the Big right now, we the players are don't have
East [tournament] and 
a little bruised that much or battered, they all really want to longer until but for the play.,, the Big East most part, [tournament], Louderback and they all
Jay Louderback 
does not plan really want to to schedule any Irish coach play." days off for his That one-players. game suspen­
"We will have to sit Kelcy sion was levied against Tefft Tefft once since she played and Buck who, by way of win-

-

ning the lengthy National Indoor doubles tournament, exceeded the maximum amount of matches allowed. Buck served her suspension earlier while injured, but Louderback has yet to sit Tefft. 
After today's match at Purdue, the Irish travel to Iowa City, Iowa to face the No. 45 Hawkeyes on Sunday. From there, the Irish return home for four home games in eight days beginning with Syracuse next Tuesday to close the reg­ular season. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 

John Paul II and the Jews 
Presented by ordained Rabbi Dr. David Dalin 
Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 7:30p.m. 
-

Thursday, April 3 
--

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April, 2008 
opportunities to dispatch of rounds of the tournament. ets in transition. early, collapsed as the game We Roofie Ourselves in con­Team 303 put up a valiant Lyons remained somewhat wore on. Frequent turnovers
Bookstore 

vincing fashion. effort, and sophomore Mark pleased with his team's per­and horrific shooting allowed continued from page 24 
We Roofie Ourselves, cap­Lyons remained confident formance despite the loss. the Monstars to set the pace 
-
tained by Matthew Quering, even as his team faced an 11-"ThP score isn't the best of the game. Owikoti-Pili led Loulan of Ain't Got No Big put up a good fight, but were 2 halftime deficit. indicator of what happened the Monstars and contributed Man Hands was already look­unable to get anything going "We need more Vitamin out there today," he said. to stout defense. ing ahead to the next round. on the offensive end. Water," he Members of "It was a vicious war of 
"Who's next?" he asked. For My Best Friend Leslie, s a i d . Here's the attrition," Hayes said. 
senior captain Braden Turner "Energy, Highlight were For the Salty Mo's, it was Kelvin Sampson's Fave Five set the tone early, instructing the yellow happy with the an unexpected loss. During 3, Everyone's Excited 0 his teammates to play with a kind. We "We need more Vitamin outcome as last year's tournament, the 
In a game cut short by an run-and-gun style to which could also Water. Energy, the yellow well as their scrappy group of Stanford injury, Kelvin Sampson's Fave We Hoofie Ourselves could use some level of play. sophomores were surprise
kind"
Five avoided never quite more bas­"Our shoot­Cinderellas, slicing through what could have adjust. The ketball ing was on lesser foes with astonishing been a trap constant skills, but Mark Lyons today," Kyle fury. game and pressure all we need Tennant said. The Monstars, comprised of
sophomore
advanced into "We've gone through from My is eight or "It was really freshman Dan Wodhouse, the next round. Best Friend nine hoops cold out, so we junior Hank Wirth, freshman
years ofpractice for 

Before the Leslie came and it's warmed it up Matt Delaney, Haes and
this one moment. " 

game, junior from every tied. I ourselves." Owikoti-Pili, fended off a late captain Kelvin player and guarantee we will come back Bonomo didn't take too Mo's run to seal the win. The Sampson's Fave led to sever­and win this game." much time to bask in the Monstars Solid defense and
Corey Arvin 

Five captain al steals and The guarantee did not pan glory of victory though. disciplined play contrasted
junior

Corey Arvin felt uncontested out, but Team 303 made a "We'll see you in the Tasty with the Mo's run-and-gun good about his layups. My game of it by hitting the 256," he said. offense. team's chances. Best Friend offensive boards and making Nick McFadden, coach for 
"We've gone Leslie used a few open jump shots before Monstars 21, Salty Mo's 16 the Salty Mo's, was fine· with through years of their defen-Here's the Highlight pulled The Monstars outlasted the the loss, and seemed to be practice for this one sive steals to aid their away for good with a 5-0 run powerhouse Salty Mo's 21-16 more interested in watching moment," he said. "We think offence and score the first 10 that ended the game. in a furious o t h e r we need to start being recog­points of the game. Freshman captain Steve display of games. nized as a favorite in this Junior Phil Kelpin, a trans­Bonomo established his pres­shooting skill "We were tournament." fer from Purdue, was a tow­ence inside early and also and athletic unlucky," he 
For Everyone's Excited, ering and dominant presence stepped out to hit several prowess. "Honestly. I think they said. "And captain Lauren Sharkey was in the middle throughout the open jumpers. T h e outcoached.
were intimidated by us, by
somewhat less confident. eontest. He grabbed Defensively, Here's the Monstars, led Yeah, I real­
"We're not going to win," rebounds Highlight by Stanford how well endowed we ly have no she said before the game and scored maintained junior Bruno were, ifyou know what I comment." began. buckets in an impene­Owikoti-Pili, Adcock
mean.
Arvin and company had the paint "We attempted some trable 2-3 kept the Salty earned the planned on dumping the ball seemingly at z o n e Mo's under dubious
alley-oops on these short 

in to junior big man Jim will. throughout their thumb Andrew Hayes honor of
rims unsuccessfully, but 

Bramanti. who Arvin claims Senior the game. with oppor­shooting 0­
senior 
is one of the best to ever play S e a n we're just saving those for Team 303 tunistic for-19 on the game. Unfortunately, that Wieland could not get defense and field goal
later rounds." 

strategy never got the chance dropped in the ball superior attempts to play out. some key inside, and rebounding. with 12 
Early in the contest, as shots from Braden Turner the few open "We ran them, we used our turnovers, while Hyan Kelvin Sampson's Fave Five outside, senior looks they got superior size, and were able Brellenthin lead the Mo's in nursed a 3-0 lead, Sharkey punishing from outside to dominate them on the scoring with 7 points. sustained a minor faee injury We Hoofie did not usual­inside," senior Andrew Hayes "I confine my scoring to the and was unable to continue. Ourselves ly fall. Here's said. "Honestly, I think they ladies," Adcock said. With no replacement players whenever they collapsed on the Highlight did a good job were intimidated by us. by present, her teammates Kclpin. extending themselves in their how well endowed we were, dneided to forf11it the eontest "Wn just capitalized on our zone, getting into passing if you know what I mean." Contact Chris Doyen and allow Sampson's Fave opportunities," Turner said. lanes and making several The Salty Mo's, who were cdoyen@nd.edu and Michael Five to advance. "We attempted some alley­steals that led to easy buck-able to hold a small lead Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
While showing coneern for oops on these short rims his opponent's well-being, unsuecnssfully, but we're just Arvin also appeared relieved. saving those for the later 
"I think we eaught a break rounds." hero," he said. "They were 

MEDIEVAL STUDIES 
playing some really good bas­Here's the Highlight 21; 
ketball bdore the injury." Team 303 7 
FALL 2008 CouRSES:
Here's the Highlight lived My Best Friend Leslie 21, up to their team name in its 
Artlmrian Literature We Roofie Ourselves 4 21-7 first round victory, dis­
Saints in Art & Jcons
My Best Friend Leslie used playing a level of organiza­

Reatling f1 Writing Latin Prose
stirling deftli1S~1 and an ability tion and communieation Early Cln·istian/Byzantine Art
to eapitalizc on fast-break rarely seen in the early ~lctlicval & Renaissance Husic-Hist I Italian l~enaissance The Reformation 1\Hlor England
Olivet eontinued in the doubles division. Top doubles pair 
Medieval Cities
Olivet 

King Arthur in History & Literature continued from page 24 
Gebert and Hurley defeated 
Olivet's Mummaw and Utberg 8­
Early Hetlicval Irdaml 1, moving their record to 6-7. 

Ancient f,j He<licval Philosophy 
on Saturday. llubino and Heed beat Gruber 
History of Catlwlicism
The Bnlles showed their and Schudder 8-1, and the duo 

Christian Theological Tra<litions I
strength in singlns by dominat­of Kosinski and Franea Peluso ing tho Comets. No.1 singles cJpf'eated Grill'es and Wolfolk 8-1 

Survey of Spanish Literature I FoR INFORMATION Camille to round out the 
Survev of French Literature I Gnbnrt dnfnat­Belles swePp. 
Metll Renaissance Italian Lit & C Linda Major
nd Olivd's "It was crucialfor us "It was crucial for 
715 N Hesburgh Library 
Roman Historv-Writino'
.. 
~
.J a e I y n us to win our dou­lmajor@nd.edu
to win our doubles,

-
Intro to Latin Vulgate
Mummaw 6-1, bles, which all three 
574-631-8645
which all three teams 
The Irisl1 Tradition I
6-2, moving teams did fairly eas­her record to did fairly easily. " ily," GebPrt said. 

Meclieval German Literature 6-7. No.2 Saint Mary's will 
Gothic Art (t? Architecture .lillian llurlny next corn pete this
Camille Gebert 

Ancient {1 Me<licval Political Theory
narned her Friday and
Belles co-captain 
lntro to Christian Lalin
11th victory or Saturday in the the season as Midwest 
lntrodHction to Old English she bnat Invitational. 
Dante-Divine Comedv .. 

-
Abbie Utbnrg 6-3, 6-1, moving "We need to get some momen­
Plotinus aml Proclus . hnr singlns meord to 11-2. No. 3 tum, but a couple days ofT from 

Allegory and Cosmology ~ 
Betsy Hood won over Celestre matches will refresh us," Gebert 

Spanish Golden Age Short N'
Gruber 6-0. 6-0; No.4 Jessiea said. "We've been working hard Kosinski dnfnatnd Katie GriiTes all season. and hopefully that 
Intro to Old h·ench 6-3, 6-2; No. 5 Lisa Hubino went hard work is going to pay off 
Dante I

-
6-l. 6-1 ovnr Leanne Sehudder; towards the end of the season. 
Early Englisl1 Tl1eatre and No. 6 Laura Arnold defeat­as we prepare for the confer­

Aquinas' Philosophical Theology 
f&a1MEDIEVAL
ed Kriston Wolfolk 6-2, 6-1 to ence tournament." 
Aquinas on Human Nature 
Ill INSTITUTE
complete the Saint Mary's 

Seminar: Art: The W<nll According to Hcrratl University of Notre Dame
sweep. Contact Meaghan Veselik at Saint Mary's domination of mveselOl@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, April 2, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
HEY MIKE, WHY 
WASN'T BLALK.. Dotr lr-.1 THE PAPER YcSTER.t>AY 1 

LOLLERSKATES 
/,r''BUD_--.
-i
IJeH'r Bud-Light Presents. Rea-Men (and Women) ofGenius 

Today we SQ!ute yw pathetic, vnfcrtun;ate, mh;erab1!l NO s!lnior. So what you e):perienced the worst fwtbal! ~~~sen for a ~nicr at ND ever?At least you've got the best Career Centet in the land, and stili oojob.. You've witness.ed T t1rtle Creek betome a re-spectable place to live and en<lurl!tl a barrage ofcity ordinarn::~ created h·r people tOOre (()(leered with your friends playing a gamt! of beer poog, than your hoi.ffit and car being broken into repeatedly. You've had the pt>ivilf!ge ofgetting s.hot, beaten, i!nd mugged; all prkes yov pay simply for trying to have a fun night out. You've attended footba1! g.ames that will go d<J\Wlin history forever, like USC's 'Bush Push' and Navy snapping their 43-game win streak <1911iost yov. Inevitably you'll resort to the fun senior fu.otba11 moments coosisting ofthe time5 you hild thrcwing mar5hmal!ows at halftime ilnd getting thrown out of games-Even Ctvb fever stuck it to yow guy$ by increasfrn;~ their drink prkes, be<iW'Sil th~ry know yov'rEt the kind of chumps-not to do ;;~nythint;~ elM& ona Thursday ni.ght Nevermind that there wasn't even a 'Show' this year or that:tou still don't have il commencement speaker, be~;au~ the Admintsttation hi!.'!> always looked outfor you in the past. Sotrade &pen a nice, t&ld Bu-d Light seniors, because the next time an undefclassmen aiesaoout his ooet i.n the hallwdy, ktlt:e him in the face becav:rewhen it comes togetting strewed, n<ibod)' has be>en sntwed h<~rder than yovt 
LINAPAEK

THE SINGLE LIFE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 -cone
-Cause of a skin 
35 Earthquake site rash 
39 Medium's claim 

7 Rug,_ so to speak 42 Fraternal org.
10 Bugle tune 14 Quenched 
431nterior 

designer's focus friend, in slang 47 Flaky sort 16 Miner's entry 
15 Very close 
51 Horror film 17 "Back to the 
staple
Future" subject 52 Parts of a19 Guadalajara Christmas Evegreeting service

20 Police dispatch, for short 53 Court org. 21 Hare Krishnas' 55 Hwys. wear 
56 Some doctoral 

22 TV station, e.g. 
exams 23 Eastern way 
57 Simon24 Old master's Wiesen thai's work quarry

25 Best suited 59 Opus __ ("The
26 Marine raptor Da Vinci Code"
28 Fans often have it group) 
31 Moonshiner's 60 Defaulter's loss setup 61 C-E-G triad, e.g. 33 Give a ticket 63 Some Feds 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

IT WAS CVt-JcEPTUAL WMEI)Y. SEE I'VE SuSMITTE!> A STRIF' FoR. biERY PAPER SIN<:£. JANUARY 2Do7_ WHAT iSETTER. Ai>RIL FDDLS. JoKE THAN To NOT HAN!> IN THE Ci>MIC­
FO~ TI-le FIRST n ME EVER? 
64 disadvantage 
65 It can precede the first words of 17-, 28-, 35-, 47­and 61-Across 
66 What matches are made of 67 It may leave marks 
68 Doesn't stick to the straight and narrow 
Down Homes with electronic gates. maybe 2 Some newsletter pictures 
3 Machine on a skating rink 4 Barely make, 
with "out" 5 Way around 
Paris 6 Far from klutzy 7 Hi sign? 8 Sews up 9 Styling aid 
1 0 "Omoo" island 11 Devoted fans 12 Enters helter­
skelter 13 Opening of 18 Having the right 
stuff 22 Stick on 25 Italian wine city 27 2003 Will Ferrell 
title role 29 Made a scene? 


WILLSHORTZ
.. 

Puzzle by Chuck Hamilton 
30 Army, navy and 41 Defensive wall 50 Alternatives to air force: Abbr. 'Vettes
44 Spanish capital 32 Prada and Fendi under the Moors 54 Race site since 1711
36 Food pkg~ 45 Not helter­markings skelter 57 Brussels-based 
37 Mauna 46 Lives org. 58 It's "stronger 
38 Brain scan 48 Parts of than dirt"
letters analogies 39 Offerers of arms 61 War room fixture
49 Automaker 40 "Puh-lease!" Ferrari 62 "Ben-
For answers, calll-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
DIDIER LEWIS 
...... 4008
..-... 
JUMBLE 
JJWJMIDJ1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DEUXE j
I [X I I 
<.92008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~;~~r~f'i [] 
GACHER 
[ J I 
www.jumble.com 
I YAUNES ± 
rJ r J 1 


Ans: "[XXIX J XJJI J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: BURLY MOLDY PARLOR ADRIFT Answer: What he turned into when he went to skydiving school -A DROP OUT 
HoRoscoPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Hannah Spearritt, 27; Jennifer Runyon, 48; Annette O'Toole. 56; Debbie Reynolds, 76 
Happy Birthday: It will be how you conduct yourself with environmental and humanitarian issues that will count. Speak up and you will gain confidence and raise awareness. The strength and courage to move forward will make the year ahead worthwhile. Your dedication, sincerity and manpower will lead to a better future. Your numbers are 12, 19. 24, 32, 42. 47 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Be bold and ask for what you want. You will be surprised how many organizations are there to help out when someone is in need. Sometimes you need to go outside your circle to get results. New relationships can be formed. 4 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't judge others or you will be judged in return. Pick up knowledge and skills so you are well informed about what interests you. A short trip will be valuable in terms of the people you meet or the lesson you learn. 2 stars GEMINI (May 21-june 20): Show your true feelings. Getting emotional will prove to others how much it means to you to follow the path you've chosen. This will encourage enthusiasm, inviting greater momentum and credibility to the table. 5 stars CANCER (june 21-july 22): You have plenty to contribute and, by doing so. you will put yourself in a good position. Positive changes are upon you, so don't shy away from something that could lead to exactly what you need to spice up your life. 3 stars LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Check your bank statement before you spend anything. You'll have to say no to anyone trying to borrow or asking for a handout. Emo· tiona! issues will arise with someone with whom you are trying to work. 3 stars VIRGO (Ang. 23-Sept. 22): Start a new hobby or put yourself in a situation that allows you to meet new people. Don't let anyone make you feel guilty for want­ing to enjoy life and try new things. Love is on the rise, so enjoy. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cL 22): Jealousy or criticism will work against you. Give others the benefit of the doubt. You can master something that will help you get ahead and also make some interesting new friends. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will work against you. It's probably got more to do with his or her own problems, not what you are doing. Focus on out­side participation. Get involved with new people who can stimulate your mind. 2 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your emotions lead you into temp­tation, arguments or taking a stubborn. nonproductive stance. It will be up to you to get whatever job you are working on done. Don't expect someone else to pick up the slack. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): There is no power play that you can't over­come and win. A challenge is exactly what will get you moving. Money will not be hard for you to obtain. A settlement, loan or agreement will turn in your favor. 3 stars AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be sure you understand what the people who count in your life are expecting from you. Use your imagination and you will come up with an inventive solntion. Think on your feet and act quickly if you want others to respect you and accept your decisions. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do what you think is right and not what someone who is trying to confuse you wants. As soon as you give someone the upper hand he or she will take over. Stick to your game plan and make the alterations that best suit your personal and professional needs. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are artistic, imaginative and a strong believer in helping others. You are accommodating, sincere, loving and intent on doing what's right. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor jun. eugenialasl.comfor confidenlial consultations 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHE=N TI-lE ME:C.HANIC INSTAL.L..ED THE= NE:W MUFFL.E:I<, IT WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
-
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Wednesday, April 2, 2008 page 24 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Squad tries for seventh consecutive victory 
By DAN MASTERTON 

Sports Writer 
The No. 20 Irish will put their six-game winning streak on the linn today in West Lal'ayette, Ind., against Purdue. 
The Boilermakers (3-101 are

-amidst a rough season but are corning ol'f' a solid win. After being swept 7-0 by No. 1 Northwestern last Tuesday, PurduP reboundPd to upend Wisconsin, 4-3 on Sunday. The Irish (13-7) took on the Badgers in February, but Notre Dame's victory was more decisive -the Irish swept Wisconsin as part ol' a three-game win streak. Purdue's singles players are 0-9 this season against ranked
-
opponents. They face a tough challenge in Notre Damfl's strong, dnep singles attack ­the Irish boast three ranked singles players with No. 38 junior Kelcy Tefft, No. 105 sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu, and No. 114 sophomoro Kali Krisik. 
Though Purdue has strug­glod on the season, Irish eoach Jay Louderback is not underestimating the Boilermakers. 
"We've lost to Purdue a few times over the last few years, and we've had so many elose matches this year that our kids arn smart enough not to overlook anybody," Loudnrbaek said. 
The unrankod Irish players' 
Boiling Point 


strong play gives the singles attack depth. Senior Brook Buck is on a personal five­game win str.eak, and junior Katie Potts has won two sin­gles matches in a row. 
Notre Dame's double play is just as strong as its singles, led by the No. 1 pair of Buck and Tefft and the No. 50 pair of sophomore Colleen Hielley and Ciobanu. No. 3 doubles 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
BigMan Hands' defense proves effective in vvin 
By CHRIS DOYEN and MICHAEL BLASCO Spons Writers 
Ain't Got No Big Man Hands 21 Dr. Tobias Funke's 100% Natural Good Time Family Band Solution 4 
Ain't Got No Big Man Hands ran all ovnr thn Family Band Solution en route to a con­vincing vietory. 
Bnf'ore the game, sopho­rnorn Hyan Kelley of Ain't Got No Big Man Hands was extrnnwly conl'ident. 
"I nxpect total domination," 

-
he said. "We'll bn happy with nothing less than a shutout." 
Ain't Got No Big Man Hands did not get the shutout they desin1d, but they did eome pretty dosn. 
Captain Kinran Bulger did a stellar job running his tnam's ol"l'onsfl, scoring buckets in transition and easily handing his teammates open looks. 
For the Family Band Solution and captain Brendan Hennessy. penetration was virtually impossible due to the eurtain-like defense maintained by Ain't Got No Big Man Hands for the entire game. The inability to get the ball inside highlighted the fact that the outside shots were not dropping for them. 
Ain't Got No Big Man Hands, however, found suc­cess both inside and outside. They had a decided advan­tage on the boards, and sev­eral players on the team were consistently able to drain shots from outside when given open looks. 
While the performance from Man Hands was domi­nant. Kelley was unsatisfied with the result. 
"We allowed four too many points in this game," he said. But with the win, Brandon 
see BOOKSTORE/page 18 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish ga111e cancelled vs. Cards 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's game Tuesday against Ball State was cancelled due to unfavorable weather con­ditions. No make up date has been announced. 
The Irish have only managed to play one home game so far this season, downing IUPUI 8-0 in 5 innings on Mareh 26. Notre Dame is most recently coming of a split doubleheader with DePaul this past weekend. 
Freshman pitcher Jody Valdivia was named Big East pitcher of the week for her 2-0 shutout against the Blue Demons. Valdivia is the second Notre Dame player to earn conference pitching honors, with junior pitcher Brittany Baragar winning the award earlier in the season. 
The next Irish home game is Wednesday against Toledo at 5 
p.m. at Ivy Field. 
The Rockets offense is led by senior Leslie Stong. Stong recent­ly broke Toledo's career home run record with her 20th dinger. She is currently hitting .388 on the season with 2 homers and 10 HBI. 
The Hockets, though, have been unable to find a pitching threat to match Stong's offense. The pitching staff has a 6.03 team ERA and gave up six runs in the first inning of their most recent game, a 6-0 loss to Kent State. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
has seen change as freshman Kristen Hafael is out with a an injury. 
At Southern Methodist last week, Krisik and Hielley teamed up at the No. 2 posi­tion to notch an 8-2 win while Potts atl'd Ciobanu did not play at the No. 3 position, winning by default due to the Mustangs short-handed lineup. 
Ciobanu rejoined Rielley at 

the No. 2 spot for the match against Indiana, picking up a win to improve to 13-1 while Krisik and Potts lost their match in a tiebreaker. 
Louderback has not eommit­ted to using just one lineup in Rafael's absence. He remains unsure exactly what he will do against Purdue. 
see PURDUE/page 21 
SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary's sweeps Olivet 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's finally got the conference win it had been looking for in its 9-0 sweep over Olivet on Tuesday. The Belles move their record to 5-8, 1-2 MIAA, and the Comets fall to 1-7, 0-3 MIAA. 
"We came out strong in all aspects of our play today," sophomore co-captain Camille Gebert said. "We gained a lot of experience from the tough competition last weekend, and it really showed today. As a team, we're playing more con­fidently." 
The Belles are coming off a winless weekend at the Jack Swartz Invitational at Wheaton College, Ill., losing to Olivet Nazarene and Wheaton College, both ranked teams. The Belles lost 6-3 to No. 16 in NAIA Olivet Nazarene on Friday, and 8-1 to Wheaton, ranked No. 28 in Division III, 
see OLIVET/page 22 


KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer Sophomore Lisa Rubino returns the ball during the Belles 5-2 loss to Albion on April 21, 2007. 





