--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 63 THURSDAY. DECEMBER 4. 2008 
Students mixed on Weis' return 
come here that's qualified to
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA and 

run the program. It's not like
JOHN TIERNEY we can get Urban Meyer."
News Writers 

Sophomore Kristin Gales agreed, and said that Weis' 
Despite losing 15 games in talents in the recruiting arena two seasons -the most loss­are perhaps a reason why his es for any Notre Dame coach job is, for now, safe. in that time period -Charlie "l am disappointed in how Weis will be retained as the this season went, but I under­head coach of the Fighting stand that there are many Irish for the 2009 s!:'ason. factors involved in retaining 
The decision has garnered or dismissing a head coach," mixed feelings from Notre Gales said. "Weis has proven Dame students. Some feel to be an excellent recruiter that impulsively firing Weis and while that is only one would be a mistake, especial­part of the job, it is a relevant ly if there are no high-caliber part of his job performance coaches available to replace and perhaps a reason for him. optimism in the future." 
"You don't want to be too Senior James Butler said 
quick about this," said Weis' recruiting prowess is a Michael Augsberger. a junior. key reason vvhy he should be "Look at the coaching market. There's no one that wants to see WEIS/page 4 
NDSP using cameras in Stadium 
Alert posted on scoreboard after the thrawing ofsnowballs, 1narshmallows during Nov. 22 game 
Residence Life, said that the By JOHN-PAUL WITT cameras are nothing new. 
News Writer 
"The Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) Department does If you're considering throw­employ video cameras for ing a snowball (or something crime prevention, safety and else) at a football game next security purposes in the stadi­season -watch out. because Ulll and elsewhere on campus you're probably on camera. and has done so for many 
Following the throwing of years -since about the early snowballs from the student 1990's," Kirk said, "NDSP con­section onto the field during trols the use of the cameras." the Nov. 22 Syracuse-Notre Although NDSP and the Dame game, the message "You Office of Residence Life often are being filmed for future dis­work together, the use of video cipline" was displayed on is normally restricted to mat­Stadium scoreboards. ters of more serious concern 
This was a surprise to many than violation of University students, but Bill Kirk, associ­ate vice president for see VIDEO/page 4 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Catholic TV televises Basilica Masses 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Once again, people do not have to be South Bend locals or students in order to celebrate Mass along with worshipers at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
CatholicTV, formerly called Boston Catholic Television, began airing the 10 a.m. Sunday Basilica Mass live last Sunday, according to Associate Director of Liturgy Fr. Peter Rocca. 
CatholicTV has been provid­ing Catholic television program­ming for 50 years and covers the East Coast, some Southern states and some of the Comcast eastern region, Rocca said. 
"I know it will be a big hit, so to speak, especially in the New England area [because] there are a lot of Catholics there. I think as the word spreads it will become a pretty well known Mass to watch," Ron~a said. 
Comcast, Verizon, Full Channel and HCN Cable providers in the New England area carry provide CatholicTV, Hocca said. 
CatholicTV can be accessed nationally on the Sky Angel IPTV and online at www.CatholicTV.eom, Rocca said. 
"We're very pleased that CatholicTV is doing this," Rocca said. 
The Hallmark Channel broad-
see MASS/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 

Grab 'N' Go options discussed 
Senators debate dining preferences revealed in recent survey 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News F.diror 
The Student Senate dis­cussed the expansion of Grab 'N' Go options in their weekly meeting Wednesday, after receiving the results of a recent survey eonducted by the 

Senate  Committee  on  
Hesidenee Life.  
Senate  Committee  on  
Residence  Life  Chair  Joy  

Hwang said Food Serviees rep­resentativPs Wf~re adamant that Grab 'N' Go food options 
see SENATE/page 4 


BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



Groups ask Board for trip funding 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
College Republicans attended the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Wednesday night in search of funds for their upcoming trip to the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC). 
The conference will be held Feb. 26-28, 2009 at the Omni Shoreham Hotel in Washington 
D.C. Seven students, including four executives will be attend­ing the event along with 6,000 other college students from around the eountry. 
Erin Horvath, president of College Hepublicans, would like to use this opportunity to bring more conservative speakers to campus. 
"I don't think the school does a good job of bringing both sides on campus, and so we are taking that responsibility on ourselves," Horvath said. 
She also believes the confer­ence will bfl a great chance for the students attending to net-
see BOG/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Who is responsible? 
Deans of the College of Arts and Letters, 
I am a sophomore PLS major who takes his education very seriously. Being a PLS sophomore, but desiring to study abroad next spring, I decided to take two seminars instead of one, 
the norm for all  
students in PLS.  
Each is a four- Eric Prlster  
credit course, put­ 
ting my credit total at 17 (ineluding  Sports Writer  
three other three- 
credit elasses), the  

total number that I am ·allowed as a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters. However, in preparation for graduate school (something that you have often criticized the PLS depart­ment for not doing), Professor Candida Moss, a Bible scholar, gener­ously offered to begin teaching me Biblical Greek, a course which is not offen~d by the University. In order to do so, I wished to sign up for a direct­ed reading course with Professor Moss, which would put me at 20 en~dit hours. 
With this goal in mind, I went into your ofl"iee ,:m Monday to apply for an overload. I spoke to a very nice woman at one of the desks in the main lobby of your o!'l'iee, who listened to an extremely abridged version of my plan for next semester. After hearing my plan, she went to speak to one of you. She returned about twenty-five seconds later with the answer that under no cireumstances are sopho­mores allowed to overload. 
Later that dav. a fellow Arts and Letters sophomore wPnt to your o!Tiee with a similar goal in mind. She accepted a job with ND Vision this summer, a program whieh requires its counselors to take a three-credit prep course in the spring semester before they take thP. job. If she were to take her normal course load and also take the Vision class, she would have eight­een eredit hours. or aecording to you, an overload. She also described her situation, and was given the same answer. Under no eireumstances are sophomores allowed to overload. 
What frustrates me about these Axperienees is that sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters are the only people who eannot overload. Juniors and sPniors in the same col­lege can. Sophomores in all other eol­leges can. Even freshman, who are in the jurisdiction of the First Year of Studies, are able to overload. Only sophomores in the College of Arts and Letters are not allowPd to cross the apparent pinnacle of a tolerable work­load-seventeen eredit hours. 
What frustrates me even more is the treatment I received in your office. I was not even given the opportunity to speak to one of you directly in order to plead my case. An important educa­tional decision was decided for me in a matt£~r of five minutes. As I was leaving your office, I noticed a sign on the wall which read "Students are our first priority." If this is truly the ease, then why do you have a rule that is so inflexible and condescending for those who wish to take responsibility for their own education? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarUy those of The Observer. 
Contact Hric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In the DPc. 4 a.rt.ide titlnd "Sources say Weis will n•rnain hnad coarh," an unnamed source was quoted as having told The Observer Monday Charlie Wnis would be retained as !mad 1~oad1 of the tiJotba.ll tnam. That sourcn t.old The Observnr this information on Tuesday, not Monday. The Observer mgrPts this mTor. 

The Observer + PAGE 2 Thursday, December 4, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT CHARLIE WEIS COMING BACK NEXT YEAR? 
"!think we  "There weren't  "He deserves  "I think he'll do  'Jis long as he  
should give him  any good  another year.  a betterjob. "  is recruiting  
a chance to  coaches out  He doubled our  Kerri Hanks as  
prove himself"  there and it  wins.  the new  
would cost too  quarterback. "  
much money to  
let him go  
anyways. "  









A student sells gifts and trinkets in Lafortune as part of the AVON fundraiser to support the Saint Joseph's County Spay Neuter Assistance Program. 
OFFBEAT 

Man uses candy cane to subdue attacker 
SACRAMENTO -A man using a candy eane lawn ornament fended off a knife-wielding neighbor who had been attacking holiday guests at a Sacramento home. Poliee spokesman Sgt. Norm Leong said the man used the two-foot-tall plastie ornament to subdue the attacker until offieers arrived. 
He said the 49-year-old suspect became intoxicat­ed, went over to a neigh­bor's home on Thanksgiving and began waving a kitchen knife at 
TODAY 
0::: 
U.l 
::z:: 
~ 
U.l 
3: 
-I 
ct 


u 
0 

HIGH 40
..J 

LOW 22 
people gathered on the lawn. 
He cut several peoples' clothing before one of them decided to fight back. 
Man accused of making son drive on beer run 
CAPE CORAL, Fla. ­Authorities in southwest Florida say an intoxicated man had·his 9-year-old son take him on a beer run. Cape Coral poliee arrested the 27 -year-old man last week, after see­ing a pickup truek drive onto a median. 
When officers stopped the truck, the man told 
from Press. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY 
~ 
HIGH 26 HIGH 25 LOW 22 LOW 18 
them he was teaching his son to drive. Officers say the father's speeeh was slurred, his breath smelled of alcohol and he unable to stand without swaying. Police said an open ease of Budweiser beer wa..<; in the backseat. 
The man was charged with eruelty toward a child and allowing an unlicensed minor to drive. He was released from jail on $2,000 bond. The man did not return a phone call seeking comment. 
Information compiled 
the Associated 
SATURDAY 
0.
***.* *
* * HIGH 27 LOW 16 IN BRIEF 

The Silent Night Silent Auction hosted by Pasquerilla East will take place in LaFortune Ballroom tonight from 6:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. Proceeds raised at the auetion will support Building for Tomorrow. 
Community Celebration of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will be held at UAW Local #5 at 1426 S. Main St. south of downtown South Bend. The Celebration will take place on Saturday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. 

Please bring a donation for the Food Bank. 
Members of Saint Mary's Women's Choir will perform at the College's 36th annual Madrigal Dinners this week­end. Performances are Friday and Saturday at 7 
p.m. and Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tiekets are $40 for evening performanc­es, $35 for matinee perform­am~es and $15 for children. 
Circle K. Knott Hall and the Class of 2009 will make fleece blankets to donate to eancer patients as part of The Aidan Projm~t. The proj­ect will take place Saturday from 11 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. in 
the  East  Wing  of  South  
Dining Hall.  
Notre  Dame  Women's  

Basketball team plays Purdue at 2 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Center. Call 574­631-7356 for tickets or visit the Athletic Ticket Office Web page. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 27 HIGH 32 LOW 16 LOW 24 
Atlanta 49 I 32 Boston 50 I 40 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 54 I 31 Houston 72 I 45 Los Angeles 67 I 55 Minneapolis 38 I 19 New York 49 I 38 Philadelphia 48 I 37 Phoenix 78 I 50 Seattle 51 I 46 St. Louis 46 I 27 Tampa 62 I 48 Washington 49 I 36 


'T'hursclay, December 4:, 2008 The Obsen;er + NEWS page 3 

HCC prof speaks at lastTheologyonTap 
By GUY GREGORY 
News Writer 

Mike Griffin, professor of Theology at Holy Cross College, spoke at Legends last night, as part of the final installment of the Theology on Tap series for the semester. 
Around 30 students attend­ed the talk. whieh spotlighted Thomas Merton and Dorothy Day, who are both known for being Catholic radieals. Griffin's main foeus was to show what these people have to teaeh students about the faith. 
Griffin's in-depth analysis of the two started with a brief biography about eaeh. 
Griffin said it was interest­ing that both Day and Merton were not raised to be Catholics but then beeame important ligures in the faith. 
lie said that Merton and Day both questioned certain prae­tiees of the ehurch. Dav saw the ehurch being used as an instrument t.o suppress soeia.l unrest. 1\:lerton 's biggest com­plaint vvas the · official approval of bishops found in 
Professor receives first Huston Sn1ith Prize 
to receive this award for a 
Special to The Observer 

manuscript contributing to Bradley Malkovsky, associ­religious understanding. ate professor of' eomparative "Brad has the unusual 
any orthodox Catholic litera­ture. 
Day and Merton held similar ideals and were in frequent eontaet with eaeh other. In l'a.et, Merton wrote stories for "The Catholic Worker.·· a newspaper started by Day. 
To learn more about Day and Merton, Mr. Griffin ree­ommended two biographies: ''Living With Wisdom: The Life of Thomas Merton" and "Love is the Measure: A Biography on Dorothy Day." Both books are written by Jim Forest. 
Theology on Tap oceurs about five or six times per semester. Speakers are typi­eally Notre Dame faeulty and last night marked one of the first times an outside faeulty member was the main speak­er. 
Griffin is also a member of the Catholie Peace Fellowship, which was founded by Merton. 
Due to the eold weather, next semester's talks will most likely take place at Coleman­Morse Lounge. 
Contact Guy Gregory at ggregory@hcc-nd.edu 



Jealousy a factor in Hudson deaths 
Prosecutor: brother-in-law envious that estranged wife zvas dating 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -The brother-in­law of Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Hudson killed three of her relatives -with a gun stolen from one of the victims -because he was angry his estranged wife. the star's sister, was dating another man, prose­cutors alleged Wednesday. 
William Balfour appeared in court for the first time in con­nection with the deaths and was denied bond. His attorney said authorities have no foren­sie evidence linking Balfour to the killings, but prosecutors said v\-itness statements and the suspect's own lies and threats helped lead them to him. 
Balfour was charged with murder Tuesday after being held for weeks on a parole vio­lation. The slightly built man, wearing a yellow jump suit. stood quietly Wednesday as prosecutor LuAnn Snow deseribed how he allegedly killed his 7-year-old stepson, Julian King, Hudson's mother, Darnell Hudson Donerson, and Hudson's brother, Jason Hudson. 
Snow said Balfour had been at the Hudsons' South Side home early Oct. 24 and eon­fronted his estranged wife, .Julia Hudson, about a birthday present he believed she had received from a. boyfriend. 
Balfour. Snow said, also had shown up to Julia Hudson's workplace earlier in the month to confront her about dating another man. 
"He told her at the time that her family would suffer if she saw other men,·· Snow said after Wednesday's hearing. 
Balfour threatened Julia 
Hudson again that morning at the home, Snow said, adding that Hudson did not take the threat seriously because he "had not followed through on any of those threats" before. 
The two left the nome togeth­er that morning, with Hudson 
driving away as she saw Balfour walking toward his ovvn car, aeeording to docu­ments prosf!eutors filed with the court 
But Balfour's ear broke dovvn and two acquaintanees gave him a ride to a gas station ­during which time Balfour told them he had a handgun, but had left it in his car, Snow alleged. 
In fact. the prosecutor said, the gun belonged to Jason Hudson and Balfour allegedly stole it during the summer. "Several people observed defendant with the gun in the late summer of 2008," Snow said. 
Balfour was taken baek to his disabled car after the trip to the gas station, "although he was offered a ride to other loca­tions," Snow told the eourt. 
In the stark language of a legal document she was read­ing from, Snow described what allegedly happened next: 
"Defendant then entered the home at 7019 S. Yale at gun­point," she read. "He shot Darnell D1merson several times while she ·was in the living room area. He then went into Jason Hudson's bedroom and shot him two times in the head." 
Jason Hudson, she said, was still in bed when he was shot. 
Balfour allegedly then took 7­year-old Julian and put him in Jason Hudson's white SUV. 
"Defendant shot Julian King in the head while the 7 -year-old was laying behind the front seat of the Suburban,'' Snow read. His body was found three davs later in the SUV 
Balfour's attorney. Joshua 1\.utnick. critieized the first­degree murder and home ima­sion eharges against his dient, saying no fingerprint, blood or other forensic evidence links the 27-year-old to the slayings. 
"There is no direct evidence of Mr. Balfour committing these crimes," he said, adding that a girlfriend who claims i~alfour confessed to her and asked her to provide him •vith an alibi is "highly suspeet." 
Snow said there is evidence linking Balfour to the crimes, including gunshot residue on the steering wheel of the ear that had broken down. 
Further, she said, Balfour has made statements to authorities that detectives have disproved. For example. while Balfour elaimed he used a translt eard to ride a train from the Hudson residenee to his home, "'T'he eard was last used two davs before the murders." Snow said. 
Balfour also does not appear on surveillance video of the train station he said he rode to. Snow said. 
Cell phone records and gas station surveillance video show Balfour was in the immediate vicinity of the Hudsons' home until 'shortly after 9 a.m., aeeording to' the court docu­ments. Snow said Balfour claimed he was at his West Side home at 10 a.m. the morning of the killings hut eell phone records show he did not return there until just bef()re 1 p.m. 

theology at the University of Notre Dame, has received the first Huston Smith Publishing Prize from HarperOm~ publishers. 
Malkovsky received the prize, which consists of a publishing agreement with HarperOne and a $25,000 advance against royalty, for his manuscript. "God's Other Children: The Many Religions and the Ouest for Understanding in Sacred India." 
The book is an aceount of an Indian journey and of Malkovsky's encounters, ref1ections and <'lmversations with Hindus, Muslims and Buddhists in a eountry con­vulsed by cultural ehan'ge. 
Ha.rperOne Pditors praised "the spiritual and theological refleetions woven into Malkovsky's narrative" and his emphasis on "the distinct beauty and wisdom of eaeh tradition as well as its eom­monalities with other tradi­tions of spirituality." 
John Cavadini, chair of' Notre Dame's theology department, said that Malkovsky's colleagues were "thrilled that Brad was able 
baekground of training both in Catholie systematic theol­ogy, and in. the religious thought of other traditions, espeeia.lly Hinduism, and therefore it is ultimately not surprising that it would be his manuscript that would be judged the best at fostering understanding among reli­gious traditions." 
Malkovsky, who holds degrees from the University of T'ubingen, Germany, and has studied Sanskrit and Hindu thought at the University of P.oona in Pune. India, teaches and writes about the doctrinal and spir­itual relation of Christianity to other religions, and his principal scholarly special­ization is the llindu­Christian encounter. He is the editor of "New PerspfH~t.ives on Advaita Vedanta" and the author of' "The Hole of Divine Grace in the Soteriology of Samkaracarya." He also is the editor of the Journal of Hindu-Christian Studies. 
The Huston Smith award is named in honor of the author of the bestselling book "The World's Reli.gions." 
I 
CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY &LESBIAN 


STUDENTS 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Eddie Velazquez at eve!azqu@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gaynesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at miaffert(Cilnd.edu 
Visit our web site at 

http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

page 4 The Obsnver + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 4, 2008 

Weis 
continued from page I 
retained. 
"It's a good thing because there's lots of good recruits," he said. 
But.ltH insists that Weis should g<'t another season with his top-tier recruits. "Thc~re's a lot of potential," lw said. "It's his team. and it's not like tlw players want to losn." 
Junior Kylynn Fontaine agreed that Weis's recruiting ability is a good reason to keep him. 
"For recruiting, it's a good thing that hn's staying," sh1~ said. "lie's really good at r('(TUiting." 
But recruiting isn't every­thing, according to Fontaine. 
"In terms of coaching. whatnvtH he's doing now isn't the right thing," she said. "l'pople expect us to be better that a .500 team." 
She suggested shaking up Weis' staff. 
"He might. nned to make some staff changes at some of thn offensive positions," Fontairw said. 
Freshman Sondy Corgan said that all of the blame for the Irish's disappointing sea­son eannot be plaeed square­ly on Weis' shoulders. 
"I don't know a lot about football. but I think they should give him a chanee to do better. lie's not the one on t.tw field throwing intercep­tions," Corgan said. 
Gales said that one of the biggest hurdles Weis will have to overcome next year is setting up a dominant ground game. 
"Tho biggest challenge will indude establishing a solid running game, an area Weis has struggled with for the past four years," Gales said. 
Junior Andrew McCorry said that Weis' job, while safe. will not stay that way for long, despite speeulations of his future with the Irish being guaranteed because of t.he large amount of money needed to buy out his con­tract. 
"The derision just delays the inevitable. If Weis doesn't take the team to a BCS game next season, whieh I really don't see happening, he's gone. No question about it," MeCorry said. ''To think that Wcis wasn't fired because of 
the  buyout  is  nonsense.  
Twenty  million  dollars  is  
pocket  change  at  Notre  

Dame." Other students agree that 
multiple meals at t.he same time. but student body vice


Senate 
president. Grant Schmidt said continued from page I dining hall representative told 
him ,;tlwrc was no room for did not replace the dining improvement on that one." halls as st.udonts' primary food Assistant Vice President for source. but were open to sug­Student Afl'airs Brian Coughlin gestions for improvement. said dining hall representa­
"Tlwy said thny wanted to t.ivl~s wouldn't allow students find a balance," she said. to swipe for multiple meals 
llwang also said it was bN~<msn "the dining hall budg­unreasonable to et. is built. aerept extrava­upon the idea gant options at that people tho Grab 'N' Co use only nine 
stations. "{I'we're gioen 14 of the 14 
"Wn will nevPr meals every
meals it shouldn't 

havn make-your­week." 
own sandvviehes matter when we use Brellenthin beeausP it takes them." said the Food too long and Services thc~re's not should inform
Ryan Brellenthln

1~nough space," students they slw said. Academic affairs chair only plan ro·r 
Senatt~ student senate the students 

Academic Affairs 
Commiii.IH' ehair 
Hyan Brollenthin 
said students 
would always go to the dining 
halls bneauso they provide a 
c:ommunity atmosphere. 
"Just the faet that the dining halls are places to cat will make people go there," he said. 
llwang said the survey results showed students want­ed healthier options, but their top suggestions for new items were Easy Mae and canned soda. 
Morrissey senator Austin lloller said ttwre wPre plenty or healthy options already available, inrluding salads and vr1get.able trays. 
"I think then' are tn10ugh healthy options," Holler said. 
O'Neill senator Kr'vin Kimlwrly said whiln healthy options are available, they often cost too many points. 
"No orw wants to get veg­etable trays when they rost thm1~ points," h11 said. 
Lewis senator Hobin Brown said hnr friends had com­plained about thH laek of Vllgan and vngetarian options. 
''I'm friends with two vegans and they're pretty upset their options are so limited." Brown said. 
Some~ sPnators eomplailwd that they could not swipe for who use nine 
of their nwals 
and students 
should be allowed to use their meals whenever they want. 
"If we're given 14 meals it shouldn't matter when we use them," he said. 
Student body president Bob Ht~ish said allowing students to use their meals at any time would force the University to increase room and board charges. 
"If we do suggest that, this would probably inerease rveryone's board," Reish said. 
The survey also inducted questions about lowf-,ring priees on Notre Dame's golf eourses, but most senators said thnir dorms weren't int!w­estml. 

because of all the high-pro­file recruits currently playing for the Irish, another disap­pointing season will not go over well with alumni. stu­dents, or fans. 
"I definitely will be upset if we lose more than two games next year.'' said Justin Siler, a sophomore. "The tal­ent is obviously there, so if we do not have a great sea­son next year, there is obvi­ously something wrong with the eoaching." 
McCorry agreed, and said that if Notre Dame has another mediocre season, tlwn, "At this time next year, we will all be talking about who the next eoaeh is going to be." 
Senior Mike Faron was harsher in his evaluation of Weis' performanee. 
"He's a bad coach," he said. 
Monetary considerations, especially in today's reces­sion, are also of eoneern to some students. 
"It's probably best (that Weis was retained] sinee it's rumored to be a $20 million buyout," sophomore Sean McMillan said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at hajicko@nd.cdu and John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.cdu 
wouldn't make them go out and play golf," Kimberly said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Hoish and Sehmidt announced ESPN College Gameday would be on the Notre Dame campus for the first time ever when the men's basketball team takes on the University of Connecticut Huskies on Jan. 24, 2009. 
"1 think everyone's kind of shifting to·wards basketball," Schmidt said. 
+The Senate passed a reso­lution ealling for printers to be plaeed in every dorm. The Campus Life Council recently passed thr same resolution. 
"This is a very simple resolu­tion promoting printers in every dorm,·· Siegfried senator Byan Ilawley said. "The rHa­son we need to get this done as quickly as possible is because they're diseussing the new contract for printer serv­iee." 
The resolution will now go to Exec.utive Vice President )ohn Affleck-Graves for approval. 
+Upward Bound Program Direetor Alyssia Coates visited the Student Senate to promote the Fr. Ted Fun Run/Walk, whieh will take place on Apr. 
26. 2009. Coates wanted the senators to advertise the pro­gram and the event in their dorms. 
"Our mission is to help stu­dents from the South Bend eommunity high schools get into college," she said. "And the way to do that is to use students like you." 
"Most people said that they Contact Joseph McMahon at would like lower prices but it jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
"A6i You Y'./ish" 
-WALLETS ·-SCARv'ES -PURSES -CHANGE
Imports 
-INCENSE PURSES 

LOADS OF SILVER & BEADED JEWELRY,. SILVER RINGS AND TOE RINGS. T.A.PESIRY WALL HANGINGS/ BEDSPREADS AND MUCI-t MUCH MORE 
LOW PRICES! GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! 
Gt,at;e•·naLa ·· e•olivia ... f'cr-u Mexico-T'h..-:li:and -india 
L.a F'onl"me-&>rir~Room ! Dec_ 1-6 (Sat.) 1 J ... spm M-F Eves 7:30--lOpm 
Proceeds from sales of jewelry guaranTee "the loving hands of Gua"temalar families 3 'times Their average salary. as well as funds for 1"heir educa-tion 

Mass 

continued from page 1 
casted the Basiliea Mass for six 
years until earlier this yt~ar, 
Hocca said. Due to financial 
considerations and restructur­
ing of Sunday morning pro­
gramming, the Hallmark 
Channel did not air the Mass 
af'l.er June 29. 
"Hallmark was doing some reformation, and also I think there were some l'inaneial con­siderations involved," Boeea said. 
Sinee advertisements were not sho,vn during the Mass, Hallmark did not make money from televising the Masses and had to show them very early on Sunday mornings. Although the earlier showing made it ''diffi­cult for our viewers,·· according to Hoeea. viewers still made the efl'ort to wake up and watch tho Mass. 
"When we went ofT the ait· in June. I got literally hundreds upon hundreds of notes from people," Roeea said. 
Roeea hopes that Hallmark will tape the Mass again because the channel reaehes people aeross the country. 
"We do hope to get a new con­tract with Hallmark beginning January 2010 beeause Hallmark has national coverage,'' Hocca said. 
A variety of Catholies and non-Cathoiics wateh the tele­vised Mass, particularly those who cannot attend Mass for a variety of reasons. Many view­ers have sent lett.Hrs to the Basilica about their nxperienees watehing the Mass on television. 
"We have people of' all ages and all backgrounds ... a lot of people who are elderly, who are confined to their homes because of sickness," Roeea said. 
Hocea said that he n~eeiwd a 

letter this week from an 0lderly 
couple that bas watched the 
Mass from their home in 
Tucson, Ariz. bncause the hus­
band has Parkinson's discasP. 
The televised Mass helped an elderly man grieve over the death of his wife earlier this year, Hoeea said. The eouple watched the Mass together every wePkPnd, and after his wife ·diPd in February, the man would hold her picture every Sunday while watching the Mass. 
"It was so helpful and encour­aging for him," Hoeea said. 
·Hoeca recalled another lettnr from a lady in prison who wrote that the television airing was the only way that shr1 eould par­tieipate in Mass. 
Hocca told The Observer he received a letter from a non­Catholic who stumbled on the televised Mass one day while ehannel surfing. After he start­ed watching the Mass week after week, the man became Catholie, Roe~:a said. 
The homilins. music and tho Basilica itself attract viewers to watch the Mass on television, according to Hoeca. 
"Evet·yone comments on the quality ;Jf the p1·eadting and of course the quality of the music," Hocea said. 
The University of Notn~ Dame Liturgical Choir, eomposed of 70 graduate and undergraduatH st.udents, provides music at the Mass. Dr. Gail Walton directs the ehoir and Dr. Andrew MeShane is the assistant dirl1e­tor 
"And of eourse, lhe Basilica is such a beautiful setting. It's hard not to be attracted to this Mass once you see it on telPvi­sion," Roeea said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edricol@nd.edu 


Video 
continued from page 1 
rules. 
"The cameras are not normal­ly used for f(JlJow-up on Stadium or University rule violations," Kirk said, "However, students ejeeted from the stadium for vio­lations of University rules may be sul>jeetPd l.o diseiplina.ry fol­low up by the Ofliee of Hesidence Life and Housing in aecordanee with UnivPrsity rules and regula­tions as dnsc.-ibed in duLa.e." 
While some snowball-throwing students may have been fright­ened by the warning on the scoreboards, it "was made by event management personneL not by NDSP," according to Kirk. 
Hequests for comment from NDSP and Cappy Gagnon, head usher at the Stadium. were directed to Kirk's oftiee. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, December 4, 2008 CoMPILED FROM. THE OnsERVER:s WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia to send warship down Canal 
PANAMA CITY, Panama -Hussia said Wednesday it is sending a warship through the Panama Canal for the first time sinee World War II, a short journey loaded with symbolic weight: the destroyer will dock at a former U.S. naval base, showeasing Hussia's growing inf1uenee in the region. 
Hussia appears to be relishing the idea of stopping at what: was long a symbol of U.S. global power; the Russian Navy announeed it would visit "the Rodman naval base·· -a name that the host nation. Panama has not used since taking over the base from the Unit0d States in 1<)99. 
The destroyer Admiral Chabanenko is selwduled to enter tlw Panama Canal on Friday morning and arrive late in the day at what Panama calls the Balboa Naval Base. 
"It is a sort of tit-for-tat for Russia's per­ception of U.S. meddling in Georgia, Ukraine and Eastern Europe." and has little military purpose. said Adam Isaeson, an analyst for the Washington-based Center for International Policy. 
Bombs fotmd in Mumbai train station 
MUMBAI, India-:-Police searching a mound of baggage abandoned amid the ear­nage of the attaek on Mumbai's main train station found two bombs Wednesday ­nearly a week after they were left there by gunmen -in a stunning new example of the botched security that has become a major issue in India sim~e the three-day siege. 
The discovery eame as Foreign Minister Pranab Mukherjee said India is "determined to act decisively" following the attaeks, say­ing the evidence was dear the gunmen came from Pakistan and their handlers are still there. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Six children seized from compound 
LriTLE HOCK, Ark. -Arkansas child ·welfare ollieials seized six more children Wednesday from the Tony Alamo Christian Ministries as authm1ties in Califomia visited another church compound, oflicia.ls said. 
Julie Munsell. a spokeswoman for the Arkansas Department of Human Services, declined to sav where or how the ehildren \\'ere taken into state custody. 
"I believe they are all in general good health, just like the others were," Munsell told The Associated Press. 
With Wednesday's operation, state officials have seized 32 ehildren associated with the jailed evangelist's ministries over stories of alleged beatings and sexual abuse. Alamo, 74. titces t~Jderal charges in Arkansas that he took children across state lines for sex. 
New church branch formed 
NEW YOHK -Theological conserva­tives upset by liberal views or u.s. Episeopa lians and Canadian Anglicans formed a rival North American province Wednesday. in a long-developing rift over the Bibln that erupted when Episeopalians consecrated the first openly gay bishop. 
The announeement represents a new challenge to tlw already splintering. 77­million-member world Anglican fellow­ship and the authority of its spiritual leade1·. Arehbishop of Canterbury Howan Williams. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Soldiers sue over chemical exposure 
INDIANAPOLIS -Sixteen Indiana National Guard soldiPrs sued the big defense contractor KBH Inc. on Wednesday, saying its employees knowingly allowf'd them to be exposed to a toxic chemical in Iraq five years ago. 
The fednral suit filed in U.S. District Court alleges the soldiers from a Tell City-based unit were expospd t.n a car­cinogen while protecting an Iraqi water pumping plant shortly after the 
U.S. invasion in 20()3. 
Richardson named commerce secretary 
President-elect Obama chooses New Mexico gm)ernor as his nezoest cabinet member 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -President­elect Baraek Obama st'lect­ed New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson as his eom­merce secretary Wednesday, naming a prominent Hispanic to his new Cabinet and calling him a leading­··eeonomie diplomat for America·· in troubled times. 
Hichardson's nomination brings to three the number of former campaign rivals Obama has welcomed to his team. Joe Biden is the viee president-elect, and Hillary Hodham Clinton will be the next secretary of state, pending confirmation by the Senate. 
At a Chieago news confer­ence, Obama praised Hiehardson's long resume. He served as United Nations ambassador and energy see­retary during the Clinton administration, and he is in his second term as New Mexico's governor. He also served seven terms in the House of Hepresentativcs. 
"During his time in state government and Congress, and in two tours of dutv in the Cabinet, Bill has seen, from just about every angle, what makes our economv work and what keeps ft: from working better," Obama said. 

The president-elect: seemed in a lighthearted mood as he made the announcement. struck an optimistic tone, indudes several women and remainder of Rkhardson's 
Asked about Richardson's saying: "I am more confi­blaeks. Richardson is the term, whieh runs through recent decision to shave his dent than ever that we have first Hispanic named to 2010. beard, Oba.ma joked that he everything we need to Obama's Cabinet:. In neighboring Arizona, was "deeply disappointed." renew our economy. We've Obama is considering Obama's selection of He guessed that Hichardson got the ingenuity, the tech­another Hispanie politieian. Democratic Gov. Janet decided to jettison the facial nology, the skill and eomrnit.­California Democratic Rep. Napolitano to serve as see­hair after his wife found it ment, we just need to put it Xavier Becerra, to be U.S. rotary of Homeland Seeurity scratchy. to work." Trade Hepresentative, will put the state in the 
Obama turned serious Richardson pledged -in aeeording to two hands of a Republican gov­when talking about the English and Spanish -to Democratie officials speak­ernor. economy, pointing to news work to renew the eeonomv ing on a eondition of Under Arizona law, that the country has been in when he is confirmed bv the anonvrnit.v ahead of an Seeretary of State Jan recession f(Jr a year and that Senate to take over. the announeement for the posi­Brewer. aHepublican. will manufacturing production is sprawling department that tion. take over from Napolitano. at a 26-year low. Said oversees the National New Mexieo's Lt. Gov. The president-eleet is Obama: "With each passing Weather Serviee, the Census Diane Denish, a Democrat, moving quickly to fill his day. the work our team has Bureau, economic devC'lop­will become the state's first Cabinet. having identified begun, developing plans to ment programs and more. female governo1· when ehoiees for more than half revive our economy, His appointment adds Richardson leaves to the positions since he was becomes more urgent.'' more demographic diversity assume his new post. elected the country's 44th 
Despite the crisis, he to a Cabinet that already Denish will take over for the president. 

CANADA 


Prime minister faces political crisis 
Associated Press 

TOFWNTO -Push has rome to shove for Prime IVIinister Stephen Harper. 
With a eonfidenee vote set. for Monday, Harper faees the possibili­ty of a parliamentary defeat that would send the eountrv toward a new election or give his opponents a chance to form a coalition gov­ernment. 
So thn Conservative prime minis­tC'r was taking his case to the Canadian public~ Wednesday night. and a cabinet minister suggested he would take the unprecedented slf'P of asking Governor General Michaelle Jean to suspend Parliament until next month -giv­ing him needed time to develop a stimulus package. 
Harper said his Conservative party is pursuing all legal means of stopping the opposition from top­pling his minority government and forming a coalition government. 
Harper's Conservative Party was re-elceted Oct. 14 with a strength­ened minority govprn.rnent, but the opposition has united to topple Harper because he has failed to present a plan for dealing with the global economic crisis. 
The move against him was also fueled by a proposal to scrap pub-
lie subsidies for political parties, something the opposition groups relv on more than the Corlservatives. Analysts have ealled the proposal a eolossal mistake that unifiPd the opposition against him. 
Although that proposal was serapped. tlw opposition has eon­tinned to seek his ouster by saying he had lost the trust and confi­dence of the 308 seat Parliament. 
Jean, ·who is the representative of Britain·s Queen Elizabeth Jl as head of state, holds a mostly cere­monial position. But it will ·be her deeision on whether to suspend Parliament. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, December 4, 2008 
Boy held captive escapes 
17-year-old climbs out windo·w after year of alleged imprisonment 
Assodated l'ress 
THACY, Calif. -Aft~r being hold caplivn for about a yPar, an mnaciaiPd and shaeklnd 17-ynar-old boy <~limb~d out a window in the homl' of his <~apl.ors and walked into a rwarhy gym in soarch of lwlp, polin~ said Wedrwsday. 
Authoritins wern still invosti­ga ting thP boy's alleged imprisonrntmt and abuse by a California couple, but details of his escape wer~ becoming dearPr, police said. 

Thn boy has lwen rnlmtsnd from a hospital and was in the custody of Child l'roteetive Snrvicos, Tr;u:y polien spoknsman Matt Hobinson AP 
This is the Tracy, Calif. home where police believe Kelly Layne Lau
said. 

and Michael Schumacher held a 17-year-old boy captive.
Law Pnforennwnt officers also worn trying to determine Since then, the boy's where­said 1wither thev nor Bamirez how thn aunt and one-time abouts were uokn;1wn until had attorneys. · guardian of thn tcwn know the Monday. when he entered the Schumacher and Lau turned cou pin accused of holding him fitness een ter. down interview requests from against his will for nearly a Police had said there wArn The Associated Press. Hamirez year. conflicting reports about how was still being questioned by 
Caron Hamirez was arrested the boy ended up at thn gym. police. Tuesday in Berhley, a day. The boy told investigators lw Lau and Schumacher's four after ttw boy walkPd into a had been chained inside a young children, two of whom gym and bogged managers to spurt utility vehiele that pulled were home when police hide him. lin was coven-HI in up to the home. After going arrived, were taken into pro­soot, had a drain on his foot inside tlw house, he climbed tective custody, authorities and was wearing only boxnr through a rear window and said. briPfS. jumped tlw fence between the Gym manager Chuek Ellis 
Police arn~sted a coupiP. who backyard and a titness center, said the teen was scared lived nnar the gym in Tracy the boy reported. someone was going to eome and bookPCI tht~m on suspieion "lie found his opportunity after him and asked to be hid­of torturn, kidnapping and and he took it. It's basi!'ally den. child abusn. Tra!'V is about 60 luek that this all occurred," The boy said he had been miles east of San i;raneisco. Hobinson said. lie also said held captive for nearly a year, 
llamirez, 43, had been tlu1 police officers were trauma­said Ellis, adding that he teen's guardian after ehild­tized by the boy's condition looked as if he was only 10 to wnlfarn officials took him from and tliat a ehaplain was 12 years old. · his abusive father thrnn or brought in to counsel them. Ellis said the Schumachers four years ago, police said. Kelly Layne l.au, 30, and requested during thn summnr Ham i r e z he r s P If was Iat~~ r Michanl Schumacher, 34. were to raiso the height of the wall arr·<1stnd for aiiPgtHIIy abusing arrested earlier TtH'sday and separating their home from thn boy, and lw was plaeed in were jailed in lieu or bail set the gym. They complained a Saeramento foster at nearly $1.2 million each. that tnenagms were sneaking home,whirh hi' rted in lain They were set to appear in through their yard to the gym 2007, polk<' said. eourt Thursday. Authorities to play basketball, he said. 
BOG 
continued from page I 
work. 
"Then~ will h1~ several speak­ers, very notable ones. President Beagan has spoken then~ in thn past. Sarah Palin will likely be in att11ndanee this year," Horvath said. 
Also diseussed during the mPeting was a eo-sponsorship for Phi Beta Epsilon, the honor soeiel.y for the math depart­ment, who is also planning a trip to a math conference in Washington D.C. from .Jan. ri-8, 2009. 
They will be attending lee­turns and confen~nces as well as rwtworking with other math­ematicians, Courtney Perry. pn\sident of the honor society, said. 
She said she hopns to have a ltwt.ure somnl.ime next semester to rlllatn what the group learnPd while on thn trip. 
Thn Sistpr·s of Nef'nrtiti atlfmd­ed Wednesday's meeting to ask for funds for the National Blaek Leadership Student Diverse Conference they hope to attend. 

The eonfnrence, running Jan. ')-11, 2008 in Washington D.C., will be an intensive interactive thrPe-day leadership experi­ence with other students and leaders. said l.aQuay Boone, president of the dub, said. 
Once the students return from the conference. they plan to have a workshop, panel, or event in order to relate what the group has learned, Boonfl said. 
In other BOG news: 
+E!Hetions commissioner Francesea .Johnson announced that she will propose changes to the student government nlection process at next week's meeting. She would like to move elec­tions back a few weeks from the second week of the semester to February. 
To-go Mugs will be sold in the Student Center Atrium during lunch and dinner hours today and tomorrow. Sarah Falvey, studnnt body vice prnsident, said. Mugs will be one for $8 or two for $15. and can be used to 




server.

carry drinks out of the Noble 
}Jk

Family Dining Hall. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at 
acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 

www.theteambus..com 
574-256-9956 1-877--TOUR BUS 

-
;\t hid tc'At·;nternit.· ( 1rtHlfl~ Fr;t1t:rnii~~..,.,Sornrily t iroups ( i roup 't.mHpany ( )utin~~ ('!iarh•r!'\ -~~ HI rs TIH·ah·r, '-.. ~onccrb Sp-orting f~\'l'flh Clmrcht•s,/Sdmnl ( kotlfts 
C ·nvenient. Safe. Reliable. 
THE ()BSERVER 




USINESS

Thursday, December 4, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 

Jones 8,591.69 +172.60 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,548 88 1,297 2,899,291,021 
AMEX 1,316.53 +46.361 NASDAQ 1,492.38 +42.58 NYSE 5,405.55 '~96.<50 S&P 500 870.74 +21.93 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,039.83 1114.35.73 FTSE 100 (London) 4,169.96 +47.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +2.40 +2.05 87.32 CITIGROUP INC (C) +8.31 +0.60 7.82 ULTRA FINANCIALS (UYG) +10.28 +0.51 5.47 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.84 +0.79 28.62 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.63 -0.017 2.676 13-WEEK BILL -70.00 -0.035 O.D15 30-YEAR BOND -0.56 -0.018 3.184 5-YEAR NOTE -2.39 -0.040 1.632 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.32 46.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.50 783.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.03 92.25 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 93.1850 EURO 0.7869 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2566 BRITISH POUND 0.6769 
IN BRIEF 
UAW makes concessions to Big lllree 
DETROIT -Worried about their jobs and warned that the cost of failure could be a depression. hundreds of leaders of the United Auto Workers voted overwhelmingly Wednesday to make concessions to the strug­gling Detroit Three, including all but ending a much-derided program that let laid-off workers collect up to 95 percent of their salaries. 
"Everybody has to give a little hit," said Rich BPnnett. an offieial for Loeal 122 in Twinsburg, Ohio, representing Chrysler workers. "We've made coneessions. We really feel we're doing our part." 
Union leaders also agreed to let the rash­starved automakers delay billions of dollars in payments to a union-administered trust set to take over health care for blue-collar retirees starting in 2010. 
In addition, they deeided to let the Detroit leadership begin renegotiating elements of landmark contracts signed with the automakers last year, a move that eould lead to wage eon­cessions. 
The vote came on the eve of congressional hearings on as mueh as $34 billion in loans that General Motors and Chrysler say are critical to their survival. Ford has said it mav be able to hang on through 2009 without additional cred­it. 
Trampled man's family to sue Wai-Mart 
GARDEN CITY, N.Y.-The family of a work­f.'r trampled to death in a "Black Friday" erush of bargain hunters at a Long Island Wal-Mart store filed a wrongful-death lawsuit on Wednesday, claiming store ads offf.'ring deep discounts "created an atmosphere of competi­tion and anxiety" that led to "crowd craze." 
The lawsuit claims that besides failing to provide adequate seeurity for a pre-dawn crowd estimated at 2,000. Wal-Mart "engaged in specific marketing and advertising tech­niques to specifieally atlrael a large erowd and create an environment of frenzy and mayhem and was otherwise careless, rf.'ckless and neg­ligent." 
Wal-Mart issued a statement saying it would cooperate with local law Pnforcement officials to develop stronger safety measures for the future. 
US automakers plead to Congress 
Big Three executives argue case for $34 billion aid plan, btd votes lacking 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­lmperiled automakers and their union worked ffwerish­ly Wednesday to sell a skep­tical Congress on a $34 bil­lion aid plan, promising labor eoncessions and restructuring. The Senate's Demoeratie leader said there still weren't enough votes to tap the $700 billion federal bailout fund to prop up the fmmdering Big Three. 
One dav before the chiefs of the ·auto eornpanies return to Capitol Hill to make their urgent cases for loans. Sen. Harry Heid, D­Nev., said the money vvas unlikely to come fro;u the Wall Street rescue fund. 
"I just don't think we have the votes to do that now," Reid told The Associated Press in an interview. 
The White Bouse eallcd Uw timing of his comments "interesting" corning on the eve of high-stakes congres­sional hearings Democrats demanded. 
"It's not hospitable," said Dana Perino, the White House press secretary. 
In Capitol Hill meetings, industry officials said the collapse of one or more of the Big Three carmakers eould greatly worsen the nation's recession and undermine the companies' ability to survive. 

"We're on the brink with the U.S. auto manuf~teturing industrv. We're down to their wages. The conces­vigorously opposing that Congress. months ieft," Chrysler's viee sions eould help mollify idea. Reid said he would rely on chairman. Jim Press, told some lawmakers who have Reid said the administra­Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., the AP in a separate inter­ctiticizcd the union's benefits tion could aet unilaterally to chairman of the Senate view. "If we have a cata­as too rieh when compared use a portion of the Wall Banking Committee, to strophic failure of one of with those of workers at for­Street bailout program for determine what kind of leg­these ear eomp<mies, in this eign-brand auto plants in loans to the automakers, but islation would be appropri­tender environment for the the U.S. the V\<1lite House has consis­ate. economy, it's a huge blow. It The Bush administration tentlv resisted that The autoworkers' conces­could trigger a depression." and auto-state Hcpublicans approach. sions are "a. step in the right 
The United Auto Workers and Demoerats are pushing "There's talk going around direction," he said. union, scrambling to pre­to help the automakers vllith now that the Bush White "I think it's too bad that serve jobs and benefits, aid from a different source: House rnav ask for" the sec­negotiated contracts agreed at an emergency a previously approved $25 ond $350 ·billion installment between labor and manage­meeting in Detroit to allow billion program that's sup­of the $700 billion financial ment are going to have to be the companies to delay pay­posed to be used to help industry rescue fund, llcid changed,".Heid said. "But it's ments to a multibillion-dol­them produee more environ­said. ' obvious to everyone -as lar, union-run health eare mentally advanced vehicles. But if Bush's team doesn't strong of a union guy as I trust and to seale hack a Environmentalists -and a.et, he said, "I think that we am -it's obvious that there jobs bank in which laid-off a number of powerful arc probably going to have has to he somfJ ehanges workers are paid most of friends in Congress -are to try to do something" in made." 

Experimental cotton poses no risks 
Associated Press dais at Monsanto Co., whieh grows Monsanto. 
the experimental eotton on a test Monsanto spokesman Lee Quarles 
WASHINGTON -An unauthorized plot, realized the mistake. said the crop was mistakenly har­strain of genetically modified cotton Monsanto officials notified the vested on Oct. 31, and the eompany was aceidentallv mixed in with government of the error on Nov. 10. learned about it eight days later other harvested eotton in Texas last "We're talking about a very small when field researchers went to month, but government officials amount, but nevertheless, a materi­cheek on it and discovered it was said Wednesday they do not believe al that contains a pesticidal sub­not there. It is grown in a research the ineident poses safety concerns. stance and has not been authorized plot adjacent to other cotton and 
About a quarter ton of the experi­for food or feed use." Flamm said separated by border rows. mental cotton seed engineered to on a conference call with repmters. "We've taken responsibility for contain a protein that produces a Flamm said most of the contami­this release and we're activclv pesticide was combined with about nated erop that was processed into working to resolve it in a ma.nne~ 60 tons of commereial cotton grow­animal feed had already been con­that's satisfaetorv with the USDA ing nearby, said Erie Flamm, a sen­sumed at cattle feed lots. Two and other agencies," Quarles said. ior adviser at the Food and Drug truckloads of the erop were deliv­Quarles said the protein has been Administration. ered to Mexieo, and U.S. offieials determined to pose no threat to 
The mixture was then stored have notified that country. humans and approved for use in 
along with 20,000 tons of commer­The FDA, Envi~onmcntal corn, but not yet in cotton. cial cotton seed in a warehouse. Protection Ageney and Agriculturn But onf' food safety group said the Nearly half the crop was proeessed Department are all investigating the incident shows the need for stricter into cottonseed oil and cotton meal incident to determine what enforce­governm.ent. regulation over experi­
to use as animal feed before offi-ment action is warranted against mental crops. 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT

page 8 Thursday, December 4, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

You've been tagged 
1~0. fiox 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining !!all, Notre Dame, IN 465S6 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 

AssT. M>\NAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
Ass·•~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
N!iWS EDITOR: Jcnn Merz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
ScENE EmTOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MAllY'S F.l>ITOR: Li1 llarrcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPlllCS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVliiUIS!NG MANAGiill.: Maddie Boyer 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: M;try Jess~ 
CoNTROLI.ER: Sraccy Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ('i74) 651-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6')27 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4S42 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631--1541 ohwte@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5.~13 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 63L-4S43 spons.l@nd.t·du SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sane.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-R!B9 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obst·rvcr is rht· indepcndcnr, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the l.Jnivcrsity of Notre Dame.du I~1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhc administration ofeirhcr instimrion. The Obscrvt•r reserves the right to rdi.tsc advcnist•mcms based on content. 
The news i> rt·pom·d as accurately and objccrivdy as pos;ibk. Unsigned t•dirorials represent rhc opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chit{ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, k·ncrs and columns present the vicv.--s of the autho" ;tnd not nece-ssarily those ofThe Obscrvt•r. 
Vitwpoinr space is availabk to all readers. The free t'xprcs.sion ofall opinions through lem•rs is encouraged. Letters to the Editor nutst lx· signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstions n:garding Ubstrvn-policits should be dirrcttd to liditor in ChitfChri< /line. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

lilt' ( )hNI'fVl't (US I'.) 'i111J l-41)(XJ) ~ l'uhli~l11'~1 M<md;ay chrnu,t::h M-itl.l)i nf.qu .luring t''-1111 :md 1'.1<.1111111 pcmuk 1\ \ullNriptinn Ill lt~o· ()!,:o,.;t11l"f" $)01) f1tr <>Ill" ,l,.".t<knll(' 
yt·.u; ~~~ (nr uiK "''tllntrr. 
'/l!c OhrC'O'('f if puhluh('d lit 
0:!•1 !inurh Dining I bll ~ud :address .:or~" ions ro; 
Notre l>o1mc. I~ -iM~(,.IJ779 Th( Obu-rvcr 
l'aiodiu.l J.">$t.1l(< po~id .u Satrt O.am<" Ptl. Bo•( 719 
and o~dditinn.tl mJiiiUj; olfkn. 024 South llining H~IJ 
Notte: D~mc. JN 46'iS6-0779 

The Oh.ervcr 1~ .t ml'mhcr ul 1hc Aum.:.~;~rM P1o1. All rcpmdu,;inn righrl> .1te rctoel\'r:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Jrnn Metz Lorenzo Reyes Beeky Ilogan Sam Werner Irena Zajkkora Fran Tolan Graphics Viewpoint Blair Chmnidlin Patricia Scene Fernandez Mark Witte 
Today I logged on to Facebook. I was kindly informed by the truly non-inva­sive Facebook feed that mv 600 or so friends had added 48 new-photo albums in the past week. Wow. That's a lot of pictures. I sup­posed that I shouldn't be too surprised; The Facebook statistics page notns that fourteen million photos are uploaded daily. 
Generally speak­ing, I am all for tf~chnology Who isn't? If something can be made more ellieient or more easily accom­plishC:'d, go for it. However. I am starting to see why some things are better left outside the grasp of technology. Photography is one of them. · 
Don't think that I am some sort of photography snob. I don't have the faintest idea how a photo is developed or why a dark room is actually red. In faet, I didn't even own a camera until this summer when my parents bought me a cheap Nikon to take abroad. But, as far as I can tell, buying a Nikon did­n't make me a photographer; it just madP mP a Nikon owner. However, I ean tell the ditl'erence between a good pic­ture and a bad one, a pieture that actu­ally does (as the elictu~ goes) tell a thou­sand words and one that doesn't. I'm afraid that Faeebook and digital eam­eras havH lf~d to far more of the latter and left more people unable or unwill­ing to look at their own or other's pho­tographs with any sort of critieal eye. This is not good for two reasons. The first is pragmatic. The second is more philosophical, if' a business major dares 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Should Charlie be fired? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
venture there. 
Praetically speaking, spending time uploading all or those photos actually takes quite a while. First, you have to put them ofT the earnera onto the com­puter. Then, you have to load each of them to Faebook. Then, if you are feel­ing particularly ambitious, you have to think of a fun, witty, interesting deserip­tion to each one, mostly trying to explain how this pieturP is dif1'erent than the last one. This part usually involves a number of exclamation points. Finally, you have to tag each person in each picture. Mtcr all, if you didn't do that, nobody would look at them, and what would be the point'? Let's be serious, most people are only really looking at albums they are in anyways. Spending all of this time put­ting hundreds of photos that are more or less the same poses, the same peo­ple, in difl'erent dorm rooms, houses, and apartments just doesn't seem a totally fulfilling way of spending time or expressing what's important in your life to others. 
This brings me to my second point. The unlimited storage of digital cam­eras and Facebook servers have caused people to lose feeling for what the moments that really should be pho­tographed are. They mistake every moment as a photo op. Instead of find­ing the one moment in a party that truly defines an evening (almost always when Journey comes on), kids are just taking 40 pictures and hoping one of them really does capture the essence of something. Cts tough to truly enjoy the party if you are too busy checking the photo you just took to see if it is good enough, or whether someone wasn't looking and you need to take another. 
Using the camera to take a few choice photos to remember or show off the experience is wonderful; taking photos instead of being in t.he experience is 


not. No matter how great an experi­
ence, viewing it entirely through a 2.5 
by 2.0 inch LCD screPn will completely 
diminish it. The famous photographer, 
W. Eugene Smith commented, "The world just does not fit conveniently into the format of a 35 MM camera." If a man who took famous pictures for Life magazine of WWII atroc~ities was sure that he eouldn't capture the essenee of life. who are we to be able to fit our life on a 128 MB memory card. 
My adviee for kieking this photo habit: set a limit and buy a disposable camera. I know this sounds completely stupid, but it's not. Consider that each camera has about 24 pictures. Each time you take a picture, you know you only have so many more. This forces onc1 to nmlly look for a moment worth remembering. For the price of onP digital camera, you could purchase almost fifteen high qual­ity Kodak single use cameras. Considering how often cameras are bro­ken, this isn't a bad prospert. Furthermore, with digital CDs these days, it is not hard to get them on your computer, and it makes the prospect of developing them much more exciting and special. With somP pradice, it might evc1n make you a better photogra­pher. 
Imagine Facebook without serial photo albums. Each pnrson loads an album of just 24 pictures covering a few weeks or months. The pictures arP spe­cial and spt~citic, focusnd on the best moments. These are the photos I would love to look at, eVfm if I'm not in them. 
Jason Coleman is a junior majoring in management. lie can be contacted at coleman. 70@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those (~{The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What we play is life. " 
Louis Armstrong 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT

Thursday, December 4, 2008 
page 9 
A life of procrastination 
Thanksgiving break is over and we are caught up once again in a new season. Days are short and gray as folks scurry across the frozen campus. The tone of this new season is different, and every­thing and every­
Fr. Gary

one seems to 

Chamberland

have changed. Some say the catchwords of this time are "Watch," Faithpoint "Wait." and "Be prepared!" I prefer, "Awake!" because this season has always meant one thing to me. "Gadzooks! The semester's almost over and there is far too much work to be done!" 
The Church calls this season Advent. It is a time to slow down, collect oneself and prepare for the coming of Christ both in our renewed celebration of his first coming into our world as a babe in a manger, and when he v.ill come again in glory to judge the living and the dead. As a lifelong procrastinator, I have always called this season Panic. While I love the idea of Advent, my mind is too often directed to other things. 
I was talking with my parents one Thanksgiving when I was in grad school. My mother opined that I must be excited that the semester was almost over. At her words. my stomach tightened and turned, leaving me certain that I was going to be sick. I could envision no Christmas break, only the mountain of under-researched papers still to be writ­ten. I tried to explain the reality of my immediate future and my mother laugh­ingly quipped, "Honey, you've never fm­ished a single thing in your life before the very moment it was due." Suddenly, my mind was flooded with images of a lifetime of procrastination: the quickly constructed diorama of Abe Lincoln's log cabin, the 4th grade book report serawled after-dinner the night before it was due, the science project display board with the glue still wet as I carried it to sehool. I realized that procrastina­tion was not merely a bad habit; it was a fundamental defect of my personality. It was who I was; it was my basic approach to life. · 
True procrastinators know that there is no real joy in delaying a project until 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

It's not arrogance, it's pride 
In response to the Dec. 3 column on their actions and force others to titled, "Notre Dame Arrogance," I com­believe that this is representative of pletely disagree with such a classifica­the entire group (snowballs anyone'?). tion. I am surprised that a fellow alum However I believe that Notre Dame is would take a stance that so often is not an arrogant institution. We strive mis eharacterized by people outside of to be the best in whatever we do and the extended Notre Dame familv. that goes for academics, athletics or 
To me the culture is one of tn'lmen­even graduation speakers. I don't dous pride, not arrogance. Going to think our arrogance has been pushed Notre Dame fulfilled a lifelong dream to the forefront but rather a desire to of mine and is something I will always succeed. This "football spectacle" was cherish. I believe that this pride is created by a desire to once again be rampant among fellow alums, current relevant in a passion that many cher­students, faculty or subway alum that ish. have at some point been associated What few might call arrogance l still with Notre Dame be it from growing hold to be pride. I am proud to be part up going to football games, watching of the Notre Dame family whether we the movie Hudy, or just being able to go 0-12 or 12-0 in footb~ll and believe visit campus. that it would take a lot to tarnish the 
I never look at myself as better than multitude of accomplishments that this anyone else based on where I graduat­University has achieved. ed from college but rather am hum­bled that I could be a part of some­Mark Connolly thing that I regard as special. There alum will always be situations where a scant class of'05 few create a negative reputation based Dec. 3 
Crying over spilled beer 
This past weekend, I got a ticket, that our band is superior to any other 
headed out to Los Angeles, but was hack band in the country. Would any 
not prepared for the unprovoked other opposing fan ever have a trom­
attack I would suffer minutes before bone player or any other band mem­
the game. ber attack them? Would the Band of 
While tailgating outside the stadi­the Fighting Irish stoop to the level of 
um, I enjoyed an adult beverage while spilling precious adult beverages just 
the USC "Band" marched on the road­to embarrass an opposing fan? No. 
way outside the Coliseum next to the This sunglass wearing, slow march­
tailgate I was attending. I watched ing, and two song playing sorry 
the supposed band march past us excuse for a band member could 
playing one of the two songs they never match our glorious individuals, 
know. held up my adult beverage, and so I can't blame him, but he did not 
yelled "Go Irish". have to stoop to the level of spilling 
The adult juice box in my hand my beer. My only way of surviving the 
ended up on the ground, upon a pile game in person. 
of broken glass doused in tears pour­In this, I salute our band for their 
ing from my eyes. The party responsi­ever present elass and talent and will 
ble for this travesty was not me, but a ever assert the primacy of the Band of 
member of the USC marching band. the Fighting Irish. 
I was stunned to say the least. I A Slightly Drunk Mike Smith Senior, 
couldn't move and was thankfully 
frozen and prevented from facing 
surefire jail time from hitting the 
sorry excuse for a trombone player in Michael Smith 
his stupid sunglasses that he was sen1or 
Wf)aring f'or a night game. Alumni Hall 
It became even more obvious to me Dec. 2 the eleventh hour. The time between now and that moment when there is no tomorrow is filled with the knowledge of that pending deadline. The interim is wasted on idle chatter and useless tasks. Days are not enjoyed nor is life lived robustly, because one knows there is work to be done. 
Procrastination is a life of wasted opportunities and half-realized projects. As a student, it translates into a career filled with the flush of excitement about an experiment or an idea without the time to run the data or push one's intel­lect to the limits. It is a sad way to spend an academic life; it is a tragic way to live the spiritual life. 
Spiritually, we are given seasons in life to slow down and reflect on the gift of God's grace, on the blessings we have received, and the new life we have in Christ's nativity, passion, death and res­urrection. We are given the opportunity to eut open our festering wounds of doubt so that they may be healed by the radiance of his light. We are called to awaken and prepare for his coming with aets of praise and thanksgiving. We are allowed to watch for his return with true vigilance, practieing love as we await Love. We can embrace the gift or sit idly by as it passes us by. The watching and waiting of Advent calls for anything but procrastination. Hather it need be spiri­tual calisthenics to exercise the faculties that \vill help us be attuned to and ready for the signs of his eoming in glory. When that day comes, there should be no panic or fear of too little time. For if we act on the gift today, the task will already be finished. 

Advent is intended to help us prepare for the biggest project of our lives. We can wait with the intention of starting tomorrow. but tempus fugit and the due date is coming. Or we can wait with Christian hope, awake, watchful and ready for the coming of the Lord. 
This week's Faithpoint is written by Fr. Gary Chamberland, CSC Professor of 11zeology at Notre Dame. He can be reached at gchamber@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer.. 

The sam_e football 
I am writing in response to yet letically in any number of areas. another alumnus who is unhappy As for the games being "annoying­with the institution they no longer ly stretched into a marathon," and attend on a daily basis. Mr. James losing the emotion and home field Gillen accuses the Notre Dame advantage due to a televised game; I administration of "prostituting the (and I hope and assume many oth­entire football experience" to NBC ers feel this way) have no problem without even mentioning the expo­with being given the opportunity to nential benefits that the University stay an extra 1-2 hours at Notre reaps from the media deal. Dame Stadium on a couple 
I have no experience or inside Saturdays each fall. Each "annoy­knowledge of the contract my school ing" TV timeout allows the best has with NBC, but after checking band, student section, and alumni the Notre Dame News and network in the country more of an Information Web site, I know the opportunity to play songs, cheer following: the Notre Dame Football loud. and be recognized for their program is listed as the most valu­accomplishments in between plays. able team in college football ($101 While Mr. Gillen wants the admin­million); the football program con­istration to "protect home football tributes $21 million towards aca­games for those who love them," demics at Notre Dame (equal to the I'm simply grateful that the admin­next 5 programs on the list com­istration is looking out for the finan­bined in their contributions to aca­cial, academic and athletic interest demics at their respective institu­of the entire University; and if I tions); and Notre Dame is able to have to sit through annoying keep all $9 million earned from the marathon games and receive a television revenue from NBC world class education in small part (Forbes 2007). because of a TV deal, I guess l can 
What I gather from this is that the manage that. NBC deal-has not onlv allowed Notre Dame far more exposure than any John Whitty other college program in the nation, junior but it has also allowed Notre Dame Stanford Hall to grow academically as well as ath-Dec. 3 

Declining a bo-wl bid 
I would hope that ND \vill seriously longer be with us. To our seniors, I say consider deelining any bowl bid this thank you for your dedication. To the year. The oft spoken arguments for underclassmen, I hope that two years accepting a bowl bid are additional vvithout attending a bowl ''Vill be used practices, recruiting exposure and a as a motivating factor for the duration reward for a job well done. The of your Notre Dame career. unspoken argument for accepting a The Notre Dame standards of intelli­bowl bid is money. gence, sportsmanship and athleticism 
Notre Dame does not need the will not be served by accepting a bowl money or the reeruiting exposure. The bid. Notre Dame has declined bowls in mediocrity displayed throughout the the past. This will not be setting a six and six season falls well short of precedent. even the most lenient description of a job well done. 
I am not convinced that the 20 Paul McDonnell practices in December have a tremen­alum dous carryover effect to the following class of'77 fall, especially since the seniors will no Dec. 3 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 10 
Thursday, December 4, 2008 

By JESS SHAFFER 
Assistanr Scene Editor 
The title, "Australia," is about as vague as they come, and yet it's painstakingly difficult to come up with an apt title for this epic film. 
Raz Luhrmann's direction is famous for the over the top "Moulin Rouge!" with its glittery depictions and musical numbers. But "Australia" is memorable in quite a different way. Losing his typi­cally gaudy approach, "Australia" takes on the daunting task of cinemati­cally addressing a marathon love story, racism, the plight of the aborigines, robber barons of Australian cattle herding and World War II. That's an awful lot of ground to cover, even with­in a 165 minute running time. 
But with the breathtaking backdrop of the Australian outback, somehow 
Australia 

Directed by: Baz Luhrrnann Starring: Nicole Kidman, Hugh Jackman and Brandon Walters 
the multitude of subject matters and the myriad of characters each get their due. This is a film that you definitely get your money's worth for, both in terms of its entertainment value and its atypical length. 
"Australia" follows Lady Sarah Ashley (Nicole Kidman). a snooty British aristocrat who journeys to the outback to investigate her husband's suspicious cattle business, which she suspects to be a cover for his extra­marital affairs. Her guide to Australia is Drover (Hugh Jackman), an uncouth eattle herder, who's more than rough around the edges. 
Upon reaching the ranch. Far-Away Downs, Sarah finds her husband mur­dered, allegedly by an aboriginal voodoo king, and her business in sham­bles. Nullah (Brandon Walters), a half­aborigine, half-white boy, lives on the ranch with his mother, a worker on the 
farm. He reveals to Sarah that Fletcher, the ranch's manager, is ruining the business intentionally to help Carne, the ranch's rival cattle business. 
Upon firing the under­handed Fletcher, Sarah, Drover, and Nullah become a sort of platon­ic family. Together, they lead an epic cattle drive across the outback to 

By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 
As the spirit of Christmas begins to blanket campus, one of Notre Dame's most diverse vocal groups offers a limited time porformance of classical holiday celebration. This weekend, the Notre Dame Choralo ushers in the Christmas soason with their 
pe.rl'o~rnance , ?.f G_eor.~e Fndenc Handel s Messiah. Composed of fifty-five mem­bers, both men and women, 
the Chorale is the otlidal con­cert choir of the University. With student participants 
ranging in age from f'mshmen to graduate students, the ensomblf' is one of the most divnrse on campus. Undnr the direction of Dr. Alexander Blachly, tlw Chorale focuses on the vocal composi­tions ranging from the Renaissance peri­od to modern times. 
The vocal company is accompanied by Notre Dame's Chamber Orchestra. This select ensemble feature one or two advanced musicians at each orchestral instrument. This weekend, the orchestra will offer its representation of "The Messiah" to its patrons. 
The piece that the Chorale will perform on Friday and Saturday is Handel's most renowned masterpiece. It was com­posed in the summer of 17 41, during the Baroque period. The German-born composer wrote the orato­rio (a musical piece com­prised of vocal and orches­tral arrangements) in the image of a libretto by Charles Jennens. 
"The Messiah" docu­ments the life and the Christian significance of Jesus Christ, focusing nspc>,­

cially on the passion. Though the oratorio was written during the Catholic season of Lent, it has become tradition to perform Handel's masterpiece during Advent. 
'The Messiah" is divided into three por­restore Far-Away Downs to its full glory. And of course, along the way they find love, hope, and adventure. Their story continues after their hefty droving, following their "family" through the trials and tribulations of shady cattle business dealings and WWII. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

Jackman, fill the lead roles well, though there is nothing exceptional in their portrayals of Sarah and Drover. In fact, these complex, compelling characters would have been just as good in anyone else's hands. Basically, Kidman and Jackman brought little to the roles outside of 
Full of twists and their star power. 
turns, tragedy and Full oftwists and turns, The truly great 
success, the story is tragedy and success, the story performance came almost as expansive from new comer,
is almost as expansive as its 
as its location. Most Brandon Walters. 
analogous to "Gone location. Most analogous to His portrayal of' 
with the Wind," "Gone with the Wind," Nullah was simple "Australia" manages and brilliantly
"Australia" manages to cover 
to cover tons of terri­genuine. His char­
tons ofterritory, while still 
tory, while still fol­acter and his tal­lowing a core cast. following a core cast. ent are the heart The film could have and soul of the used a bit more edit-film. ing; in "Lord of the Hings: Heturn of the While the story is detailed and King" fashion, there were about three lengthy, it is not dif'licult to follow. It's endings to the story. easy to become emotionally attached to 
Overall the story remains controlled. the characters, and this is perhaps the The characters remain consistent most appealing aspect of' the film. throughout, while not being static. Additionally, the amazing scenery and Additionally, Luhrmann creates a uni­cinematography contribute to create a formity and cohesiveness with his dis­delightful work. Though viewers should tinctive artistic touch that utilizes be forewarned of the film's length, it's themes of love, music, and social elit­an appealing story that's vividly ism. brought to life. It's an enjoyable epic 
There was little to complain about that's worth every penny to see on the concerning the casting. Appropriately, big screen. all the cast members, aborigine and white alike, are native Australians. H(~adlining superstars, Kidman and 
tions, each foeusing on a separate aspect of Christ's life. The first portion describes the traditional Advent and Christmas sto­ries. The second depicts the passion, res­urrection, ascension and spread of Jesus' word. Finally, the oratorio is a summa­tion of the Hevelation of St. John. 
The Notre Dame Chorale has chosen about fifteen separate songs from "The Messiah" to perform. The performance will last about and hour and a half, cul­minating with the celebrated "Hallelujah" chorus. This piece concludes the second of the three parts of the oratorio, but has been chosen to close the Chorale's per­formance because of its fame. 
The Chorale enthusiastically presents this show as an ideal introduction into the Christmas season. Featuring multiple student solos, the concert appears to be an excellent showcase of musical expert­ise. "Singing Handel's 'Messiah' puts me in high Christmas spirits," sophomore Chorale member Steve Santay said. "There are few feelings that can compare to when you hear the Chorale singing the 'Hallelujah' chorus." 
A sellout is expected for the second of the Chorale's three annual concerts. Though the music comes first, and the recognition of the club's determination and talent is paramount, the ticket sales are also of notable concern to the vocal group. 

Revenue from ticket purchases funds the Chorale's domestic and international tours. Having completed a summer tour of New Zealand and Hawaii, the Chorale is currently planning their annual winter break tour. This year, the club will travel to the Southern and Eastern United States, stopping in Memphis, St. Louis, Washington D.C., and Atlanta for per­formances. 
The Chorale, accompanied by the Chamber Orchestra, performs at H:OO 
p.m. on both nights in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tiekets are currently on saiH and can be purchased online, at the box oftiee or by calling 574-631-2800. Prices are $3 for students. $8 for staff and $10 for adults. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu. 
Handel's "Messiah, Notre Dame Chorale DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Tickets: $3 Students, $8 Staff, $10 Adults 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Thursday, December 4, 2008 
page 11 

The Coen Brother's follow up their Academy Award \vinning "No Country Men" with this farcical story or stolen CIA mation, infidelity, mistaken' killings and a lot buffoonery. Former CIA analyst and aJconcmc Osbourne Cox (John Malkovich) hm,; hi<> pt"msonal files copied off hi.;; eomputer by hi.;; aNoree-soot<~-• ing wife Katie Cox (rilda Swinton) who to her lawyer. VV1len the lawyer's rar•onhru~ict leaves them at the g}m Hardboilies, the files finds its \·vay into the hands ofemnlovee Feldheirner ffirad PitO who mio;;t.akes classified information. He teams up with employee Linda litzke (Franees McDorman) they attempt to blaekmail Osbourne. v\lhat is hilarious and ealamitous. Tickets are $3. 
By MICHELLE FORDlCE 
A<sisr.ant s,·ene Editor 

Finals week is gearing up. We aren't quite there yet, but suddenlv our to-do lists are filled with the last papers and exams or thfl semester. And we'll all need good fuel to 
·make it through! Here are some recipes to fight off the 
· hunger and hopefully give you 
;; a tasty break from the rush. This week's recipes: 
. Lemon Alfredo Pasta 

You've probably notieed that )pmon wedges are a frequent ingredient in these dining hall recipes. They are a good way to give a quick dash of tlavor or balance out other ingredi­ents, but in this pasta dish lemon takes on the starring roll. Mixed with a erearnv Alfredo saueo and parmesai{, lemon creates a tart, pleasant and flavorful pasta. 
Pick up three or four lemon wedges and a grilled chieken breast. 
Fill a bowl with short pasta and a ladle-full or two of the dining hall's Alfn~do sauee. 
Add a dash of red pepper tlakes and a bunch of panne­san eheese from the pizza bar. 
Shred tho chieken breast and mix it into the pasta. Squeeze the lemon wedges over the pasta and chieken. Add in a dash of salt and a buneh or pepper. Mix. 
Bread Dipped in Olive Oil 
Whenever you eat out at a good Italian 'restaurant, they 
always offer bread with the meal. Why not provide it for yourself in the dining hall? These directions are on the extraordinarily easy side, but it will help jazz up your din­ner. 
Piek up a hunk of good Italian bread. 
Fill a bowl with olive oil and a eouple dashes of balsamie vinegar. If you are in South, head to the spiee rack and add a eo uple dashes of Italian sea­soning and garlic powder. 
Dip and enjoy! 


Brownie Sundaes 
This is a simple eoncept, but one that is hard to beat. Warm brownies melting your cold ice cream ... what could be bet­ter? 
Piek up your favorite type of 

brownie, whether nut filled or M&M topped. Heat of the brownie in the microwave. 
Top with your favorite iee cream -traditional vanilla and mint are good options. 
Top with whipped cream, hot fudge, nuts (if you like them) and of course a cherry! 

Quick Tip 

Cheek out t.he waffle bar if it is open for extra iee eream toppings. Sometimes it will offer toppings (like whipped cream, nuts and syrupy fruits) that don't make it out to the ice eream area, espeeially at South. 
Have your own dining hall recipe? We would love to feature it! E-mail mfordice@nd.edu. 
page 12 The Obserz,er + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, December 4, 2008 
FooTBALL 


Cavaliers extend home streak against Knicks 
Trail Blazers ride Roy's hot shooting to win; Rondo earns first career triple-double in Celtics win vs. Pacers 
Associated l'ress 
CLEVELAND -The Clewland 
Cavaliers have never been better 
at home. 
LeBron James scorpd 2·1 points and then grabbed an early seat on the bPnch as the Cavs irnprovod to I 0-0 on their own floor for the first time in fran­chise history with their 14th win in 15 games. 118-82 over the New York Knicks on WednP.sday night. 
W(1aring repliea wine-and-gold uniforms from their 1970 expan­sion season, when they played at dingy Clnveland An~na, the Cavaliers built a 42-point lead in the seeond half and breezed to their sixth straight win. ThP-y also remained the Eastern Conferenee's only unbeaten team at home. 
ClevP-land opened 9-0 at home in both the 11)76-77 and 1991-IJ2 seasons at HichfiPid Coliseum. 
The 36-point margin of victory was C\pveland's largest in 171 games against Nnw York. 
With another blowout win, the Cavs, who have won their last nine gamAs by at least 11 point<;, improved to 15-:{ and continued the best start they've ever had. Right now, it doesn't matter where they play. 
"They'rfl really good every­where," Knieks first-year eoaeh Mike D' Antoni said before his team was roeked by Cleveland for the seeond time in a week. 
Mo Williams added 16 points, Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 14 points and 10 rebounds, and none of Cleveland's starters played more than 28 minutes. 
AI Harrington scored 20 points, Anthony Hoberson had 19 and David Lee 16 with 16 rebounds for the Knieks, who shot 39 p11reent and made 28 turnovers. 

The Cavs were so efficient, James didn't even play in the fourth quarter. He was pulled with 2:33 left in the third quarter but still managed six assists, five rebounds, five steals and made 10 of 10 free throws before kick­ing back and cheering on Cleveland's backups, who man­handled New York, too. 
The Knicks, eyeing James as a free agent in two years, must be wishing they could jump in a time machine and transport themselves to 2010. Along with injuries and the circus surround­ing guard Stephon Marbury's dismissal from the team, New York played the second half without starting guard Quentin Hichardson. 
Late in the first half, Hichardson was slapped with two quick technicals and ejected by referee Hodney Mott. 
Somewhere, assuming he was watching. Marbury must have smiled at seeing Hichardson get tossed. 
After all, it was Richardson who had criticized Marbury after a recent game in Detroit, when with Marbury in street clothes, the Knicks were forced to play short-handed. "I don't look at him as a teammate because teammates don't do that," Hiehardson said. 
The only moment of concern for the Cavs came in the third quarter when James was pulled down by Harrington on a break­away. 
Trail Blazers 98, Wizards 92 
Brandon Roy took over down the stretch Wednesday night, seoring 12 or his 22 points in the final 8 minutes to help Portland beat the Washington Wizards and extend the Trail Blazers' 

AP Boston guard Rajon Rondo goes yp for a rebound against Indiana's Troy Murphy during the Celtlcs' U4-96. 
winning streak to six games. 
The well-balanced Blazers put 
five players in double-tlgures: 
Roy, Greg Oden. LaMarcus 
Aldridge, Rudy Fernandez and 
Steve Blake. Oden, the rookie 
center who missed all of last sea­
son, finished with 13 points and 
10 rebounds for his sixth double­
double in the past 12 games. 
Antawn Jamison scored 22 
points and Caron Butler added 
16 fiJr the Wizards, who fell to an 
Eastern Conference-worst 3-13. 
Washington was coming oft' a 20­
point vietory at the New Jp,rsey 
Nets on Tuesday night, but still is 
seeking its first wini1ing streak of 
the season. 
Jamison's basket with 52 sec­
onds left pulled the hosts within 
92-90, and Roy responded, blow­
ing past defender DeShawn 
Stevenson at the top of the key 
and laying the ball in for a f(mr­
point lead with 35 seconds on 
the clock. 
Darius Songaila's 16-foot jumper got Washington back within two points, but he fouled Steve Blake at the other end, and the former Wizards guard made both foul shots to make it 96-92. Songaila then missed a jumper, Blake rebounded and was fouled, and the fans headed for the exits. 
Butler, the two-time All-Star who leads Washington in scor­ing, started despite bumping knees with a Nets player Tuesday. 
"He's fine," Wizards interim coach Ed Tapscott said before tipoff. "Banged and bruised, but not too bad." 
Perhaps, but Butler didn't score at all against Portland until the final minute of the first half, hitting a 21-foot jumper with 47 seconds left to pull Washington within 45-43 at the break. 
He opened the second half ·with a 20-footer to tie it at 45, part of a personal 12-point third quarter that kept the Wizards close. Still, the visitors took a 77-72 lead into the final period thanks in part to Fernandez's three-point play vvi.th 1.8 seconds to go. 
Washington began the fourth quarter with a 9-0 spurt capped by Nick Young's 3-pointer that put the Wizards ahead 81-79. Portland shot 0-for-6 in that stretch, not scoring a point in that quarter until nearly 4% minutes had elapsed. 
But that's when Hoy really began to assert himself, scoring seven points in a 9-2 run by the Blazers as they took an 86-83 lead. 
Hoy was honored Monday as Western Conference Player of the Week for his work from Nov. 24­30, when he averaged 20 points, 
5.3 rebounds and six assists 

while shooting 51 percent on field-goal attempts. 
He pretty much kept up that pace across the board Wednesday, shooting 9-for-19 and adding eight rebounds and four assists to his stats line. 
Celtics U4, Pacers 96 

Rajon Rondo notched his first career triple-double and Hay Allen se(wed 31 points, leading the Boston Celtics over the Indiana Pacers, on Wednesday night for their lOth straight vie­tory. 
Hondo scored 16 points, grabbed 13 rebounds and hand­ed out a career-high 17 assists. Kevin Garnett added 26 points and 14 rebounds for the Celties, who matched their longest win­ning streak since their 2007-08 ehampionship season, a 10-garne run from Feb. 24-March 12. 
Boston broke open the game in the third quarter with a 26-8 run over the first nine minutes, with Garnett and Allen combining for 14. 
Danny Granger led the Pacers with 20 points, while Troy Murphy ehipped in with 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
Hondo, who also added three steals, secured his triple-double with 10:32 remaining in the third quarter after he grabbed two oftensive rebounds and fi.lllowed with a nifty pass to Garnett for an easy layup. 
The Pacers chipped away at. an 85-61 deficit with 2:44 remain­ing in the third quarter after Granger nailed a pair of 3-point­ers and Murphy completed a three-point play to cap off a 21-5 run, cutting the lead to 90-82 with 8:54 remaining in the fourth. 

Boston responded with a I 0-0 run to put the game out of reach as Indiana failed to post eonsecu­tive vietories ove1· the NBA's top two teams. The Pacers edged the Los Angeles Lakers 118-117 Tuesday. 
The Pacers beat the Celtics on Nov. 1, handing Boston one of its two losses while foreing the Celtics into a season-low 34.6 percent shooting and a season­high 24 turnovers. The Celtics' only other loss since then eamc at home to Denver on Nov. 14. 
Hondo did the majority of his damage in the first half ·with 10 points, eight rebounds and nine assist.'>, leading Boston to a 57-51 halftime lead. 
Trailing by seven, Boston closed the first quarter with a 7­0 run for a 28-27 lead. The Celtics beat Indiana for the sixth tinw in seven home games. 
Boston hosts Portland on Friday. The Trail Blazers eome in with a six-game winning stnmk. 
Indiana, which has dropped eight of 11, travels to Cleveland on Friday before a rematch with the Celtics on Sunday, finishing what appears to be its toughest streteh of the season. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar the Norre Dame offi<·e, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per cl1aracter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds lor content wirhour is..~uing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CON­TACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS­ES.COM 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Campus Hous~ng. Call for Availability (574)243-2818 or (574)276-6118. 

Furnished 2·bdrm. house. Living room, kitchen, dining room, full bath. 6.5 blks to NO. $795/mo. Avail Jan. 1. Call605-397-8135 or 574­234-3007 or 574-261-4444. andersonNDrentals.com FREE COMCASTI 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted. visit http:1/osa. nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. For more information, visit our website at: http:1/osa.nd. edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml 
Words of wisdom from Mike Gundy 
I'm not going to talk about football today. I'm not going to take a question about the game. 
I'm going to talk about this article right here. Anybody hasnt read this article -I dont read it, but it was brought to me by a mother with children. 
I want to talk about this article. Three-fourths of this is inaccurate. Ws fiction and this article embarrasses me to be involved with athletics tremendously. That article had to have been written by a person that doesn~ have a child and has never had a child that's had their heart broken and come home upset! And had to deal with the child when he is upset! 

If you have a child someday. you'll understand how it feels. But you obvi­ously donl have a child. I do. If your child goes down the street and some­body makes fun of him because he dropped a pass in a pickup game, or says he's fat, and he comes home cry­ing to his mom, you'd understand. But you havenl had that. 
That's why I donl read the newspaper! Because it's garbage' And the editor who let it come out is garbage! Attacking an amateur athlete doing everything right! 
And then you want to write articles about guys who don't do things right and downgrade them, the ones that do make plays. 
Are you kidding me? Where are we at in society today? Come after mel I'm a man I I'm 40! I'm not a kid! Write something about me! Or the coaches. Don't write a kid that does everything right, that's heart is bro­ken. and then say the coaches say he was scared! That ain't true! That's not true! So get your facts straight! 





OUND THE NATION 
C ., } . . . .. t-., 1 . .. () ,... v ...,. . :· ., . s .. ,. ., ...,

Thursday, December 4, 2008 ( M.llLfD fRO, 1 . HE .. hS.ER FRS Vd Rf .. ER'v !Cb Page 13 
NFL 
USCHO.com Hockey Top 20 

team record pre Pious 
1 NOTRE DAME (40) 10·3·2 2 2 Boston College (1) 9·4·1 5 3 Minnesota (2) 7·2·5 1 4 Miami (OH) (2) 8·3-3 6 5 Colorado College 9-4·3 3 6 Northeastern 10·3·2 4 7 Boston University (1) 9-4-0 8 8 Denver (1) 9·5·1 9 9 Princeton (2) 9·2·0 7 10 Air Force {1} 13·1-0 11 11 Minnesota State 8·3·3 10 12 Vermont 9·3-2 13 13 Cornell 5·1·2 12 14 Michigan 9·7·0 14 15 Alaska-Anchorage 7-5·2 19 16 Dartmouth 6·4·0 20 17 Mass.·lowell 8·5·0 NR 18 Nebraska-Omaha 9·4·1 16 19 New Hampshire 5·6·3 15 20 Alaska 8·4-2 
USA Today Hockey Top15 

team record previous 
1 NOTRE DAME (33) 10·3·2 2 2 Minnesota (1) 7·2·5 1 3 Boston College 9·4·1 6 4 Miami (OH) 8·3·3 5 5 Boston University 9·4·0 8 6 Colorado College 9·4-3 3 7 Denver 9·5·1 10 8 Northeastern 10·3·2 4 9 Princeton 9·2·0 7 10 Air Force 13·1·0 11 11 Minnesota State 8·3·3 9 12 Vermont 9·3·2 13 13 Cornell 5·1-2 12 Associated Press a Fenway Park news eon· son in both of his years with club option fbr 2015 that is 14 Michigan 9·7·0 15 fercnce. '"Hopefully in the the club. voided if he's traded. 15 New Hampshire 5·6·3 NR BOSTON Dustin next six years '.Ve can win "He embodies just about Although negotiations 
Pedroia has a Rookie of the some championships." everything we look fbr in a began during the summer, Year award, an MVP. a Gold Heading into his third Red Sox player, and that the Heel Sox expected Glove and Silver Slugger year in the majors. the 5-makes this a great day fbr Pedroia to be in contention and, of course, a World foot-9 second baseman has the organization," general for tlw MVP award and Series ring. already joined Cal Hipken manager Theo Epstein said. made their offer knowing
NCAA Basketball 

And now he's got the big­Jr. and Hvan Howard as the "Dustin plays hard, first and that arbitration awards fbr AP Top 25 bucks contract befitting one only play~.1rs in baseball his­foremost, all the time. He \1VP winners ean be expen­of the most decorated tory to follow a rookie plays to v•.rin. He plays for sive. team po;nts previous young players in ba ..'ieball. award with an MVP. his teammates, not himself. A! 25. Pedroia saerifieed The Heel Sox second base­Pedroia led the AL with 213 "What's not to lilm? lf we -actually. postponed ­
1 North Carolina (72) 1,800 1 
man, who earned $457,000 hits, 118 runs and 54 dou­had 25 guys like him, we'd the chance for a free agent
2 Conneclicut 1,723 2 
last season while winning bles while batting .326 vvith be in good shape. I don't jackpot for an averagt'
3 Pittsburgh 1,592 4 
the AL Most Valuable 17 home runs, 83 RBls 20 think we'd be the Red Sox annual salary of around $7
4 Duke 1,526 7 
Player award. agreed stolen bases. right now without Dustin million and 'tht' chance to
5 Gonzaga 1,489 9 
Wednesdav to a S40.5 mil­l{e is the first AL second Pedroia.·· stay with the organization
6 Oklahoma 1,437 11 
lion. si"x-v0ar contract that baseman to win the MVP The elub e!Teetivelv that picked him in the sec­
7 NOTRE DAME 1,359 8 
could keep in Boston award since Nellie Fox in bought out Pedroia's arbi­ond round of the 2004
8 Texas 1,231 6 
through at least 2014. 1959 virith the Chicago tration vears and his tlrst draft.. He would be 32 when 
9 Purdue 1,086 10 
"I wanted to be here a White Sox. And the Red Sox two years or free agency the contract expires, if the 
10 Tennessee 1,016 12 
long time," Pedroia said at have reached the postsea-(2013-14); there is also a Heel Sox pick up the option. 
11 louisville 1,003 3 12 UClA 966 13 13 Michigan State 946 5 14 Xavier 902 16 15 Wake Forest 736 19 IN BRIEF 16 Syracuse 668 NR 
17 Villanova 570 20 ~tars' Avery apologizes for Leach nef;!otiating new Raptors dismiss head 18 Memphis 526 18 Inappropriate remarks deal witff Texas Tech coach Sam Mitchell 19 Arizona State 401 14 DALlA') -Suspended Dallas Stars LUBBOCK, Texas -Texas Tech 'J'ORONTO -l'he Toronto Raptors 20 Georgetown 388 21 agitator Sean Avery Ilew to New York athletic director Gerald Myers fired eoaeh Sam Mitehell on 21 Miami (Fl) 309 22 on Wednesday for a meeting vvith NIIL says the school is negotiating a Wednesday and replaced him with 22 Davidson 286 24 commissioner Gary Bettrnan, and gave contract extension with Mike assistant Jav Triano, one day after an 23 Florida 281 17 a likely sample of what he'll say by Leach, amid reports that the Hod embarrassitig loss at Denver.· 24 Baylor 272 NR apologizing for comments about his Haiders coach has met with the l\fitchell led the Haptors to the play­25 Marquette 221 15 former girlfriends. University of Washington about otis in eaeh of the last two seasons and 
"I would like to sincerely apologize the Huskies' top job. was honored as the NBA's eoaeh of the for my ofl'~color_remar~s to the I?re~.s !Vtyers couldn't confirm newspa­year for 2006-07. Toronto was off to a yesterday from Calgary. Avery satd. I per reports that Leach was in sluggish 8-9 start. duP in part to should not have made those comments Seattle this week to talk to UW h~juries. and I recognize that they were inap­officials. Mvers said Leach, General manager Bryan Colangelo 
around the dial 
propr.iate. named Big 12 coach of the year said 'fuesday night's 132-93 loss to the 
"It was a bad attempt to build excite­on Tuesday, didn't seek permis­Nuggets was thr final straw. Toronto ment for the game, but I am now sion for an intervit'w and that he allowed Denver to shoot 60 percent acutely aware of how hurtful rnv hadn't been eontaeted by from the field and the Nuggets' 37 actions were. I caused unnecessary Washington. · assists were thc most by an NBA team 
NCAA FooTBALL embarrassment to my peers as well as Leach didn't return a call seek· in regulation this season. The 39-point people I have been dose with in the ing eomment Wednesday. A per­difrerenee marked the liilh-worst loss past son who answered the phone h1 franehio;;e history.
Louisville at Rutgers 

"I apologize for offending the great Wednesday at IMG and identified "Obviously, last night's game was just 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 

fans or the NHL, the commissioner, my himself as one of Leach's agents an absolute kiek to 1l1e gut." Colangelo teammates, my coaching staff and the disputed that Myers has offcrrd a said. "When you look back it's a culmi­Dallas Stars management and 0'.\'TIPr­contniet extension. He deelinrd to nation of things. Expectations are high. ship." give his name and hung up. We want to win." 

page 14 Tbe Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 2008 
NFL 

Burress done for 
season, 
1\AST RUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. 
The Nt!W York Giants expPct 
Antonio PiPrcP to play in 
Sunday's game against 
Philadelphia whiiP the tPam 
gatlwrs information on thP linP­
backPr's involvemnnt in a shoot­
ing that led to the season-Pnding 
SUSfH\nsion of star recPiver 
Plaxko Hurrt!SS. 
Coach Tom Coughlin said 
Pien~n would practice 
Wednesday with tho Super Howl 
champions. 
"Each case is difl'erent, each is 
separate," Coughlin said when 
asked about tlw dPeisive action 
the Giants took against Burress 
on Tuosday-11ning and sus­
pending him for four games, the 
rpst of thP rngular season. 
Tlw team also plaeed Burress 
on the rnsNVP non-football injury 
list for· conduct detrimental to the 
toam, which mnans hn won't bn 
back for thE• playoiT.<>, either. 
Coughlin said there curr·ent.ly is 
no rwtld to consider potential 
punishment of Pien:c. the Giants' 
leadPr of dPfm1so. 
"Tlwre is no doubt we'll do th<' 
right thing." Coughlin addPd, 
"and that's no thn•at to tllP play­
nrs, they know that." 
Tho Ciants punishPd Burress a day afltlr lw was charg11d with two counts of illngal weapons poss11ssion. liP shot himself in tlw right thigh at a Manhattan ni~htdub Parly Saturday morn­ing. 
Pimce, who was with Burn~ss, has not talknd to police about his involvement since the ineident. Authoritins are trying to deter­mine whetlwr he tried to eover up the shooting; investigators impounded Pi11ree's Cadilla£: Esealade and are searching it f(Jr any blood or gun residm'. 
lie might face potential charges and a possible suspen­sion if he did. 
Coughlin said Wedm~sday that he usPd two words in diseussing the Burress' situation with the tParn -disappointment and sad­ness. 
"That sums it all up," Coughlin said. "I had a conversation with Plaxit:o. He was very humble. He was remorsPful. Obviously that doesn't changn anything. Hi1t you have to undorstand that he is part of our team and our concern is with he and his family's well being, and the ability or" him to get through this circumstance and tm lwaltl1y again." 
Th£1 Gianl<> handed down their decision on Burress after Dr. Seott Hodeo, a team physician, examined Burress and told them the ).,'Unshot wound would side­linn the :\1-year-old player f(Jr 4­to-6 weeks. 
The Giants (11-1l are deep at wide rHeeiver, however, with playt~rs such as Domenik Hixon and Sinorice Moss who can 

playoffs 
replace the man who caught the game-winning pass in the J7-14 Super Bowl win over the New England Patriots. 
It would he much harder to replace Pierce. 
Pierce smiled but declined to sptla k to ThP. A.ssoda!J~d Press on Wednesday morning when he reported to Giants Stadium about S a.m. 
Hunning back Ahmad Bradshaw was also in thfl dub, but not rwar the othm· two play­ers, his attorney said. 
Following the shooting, police say Pitwce drove Burress to thP hospital and retunwd to New Jprsey with Burress' gun in the glovp, compartment of' his bla£:k Cadillae Esralade. 
PiPrce's lawyer said Tuesday hP contacted prosecutors as soon as hP was hired by the line­backer on Monday. 
"After t.tw evtlnts in question, Mr. Pierce did what any other nmsonable person would do und1!r the cin:umstances. he hired rounsel," attorney MiehaPI Bachner said. He said he hasn't bPPn notilit~d that Pinren will bP charged. 
"Mr. Pierce. given the extraor­dinary circumstances of that evenirlg, actPd responsibly in try­ing to save what could have bePn tho lifP of a friend,'' BarhnPr said. 
Br·adshaw's attorney. Charles Stacy, said his client wasn't sus­pected of any wrongdoing. 
Both players said they were planning to spP<tk with the dis­trict attorney's office soon. 
Mayor 1\iiehael Bloomberg spok£~ out again about tho ease Tuesday. saying he talked to Giants president John Mara and NFL commissioner Hoger Goodell. He told them the law says "you see something, you got to call the cops. That's the thing you should do." 
l'oliee also plan to interview the people at New York­PresbytPrian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center who treated Burress and did not report the shooting, as required bylaw. 
Dr..Josvann Abisaab was sus­pended for not reporting Burress injury. She apparently arrived at the hospital at 2 a.m. to treat him. but it's not clear why she was called. · 
Giants spokesman Pat Hanlon said the team has no tie-in with Abisaab. 
"She is not...we have no rela­tionship with her... we do not know her," Hanlon said Wednesday. 
Abisaab could not be reaehed for eomment. She graduated from the University of Rochester School of Medicine and has no history of state diseiplinary aetion. She is afliliated with the hospital and specializes in inter­nal and emergency medieine. 
THE PER'FECT CHRISTMAS GIFT 
Celebrate the Holy Cross tradition with this rich, vibrant, daily meditation book. #The Cross, Our Only Hope...encapsulates so many hopes and dreams about the work of Holy Cross:' 
THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. 
President Emeritus, The University of Notre Dame 
Join Us for a 
SPECIAL HOLIDAY BOOK SIGNING 
by some ofthe contributors 
Friday, December 5, 2008 
2:00 P.M. -4:00 P.M. Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Books also available at Ave Maria Press ISBN: 9781594711626/ ~17.95 located across from Moreau Seminarv. I 

A
•m·

~ ave maria press-• Notre Dome, indiana • www.ovemariapress.com E·mail: avemoriapress.1@nd.edu • Ph: 1-800·282-1865 • fax: 1-800-282-5681 
AMinisliy of the lndiuna Province of Holy Cross 



RecyCle The Observer. 
Thursday, December 4, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

YOU CAN MAKE AWORLD OF DIFFERENCE. 
NATIONAL CLANDESTINE SERVICE CAREERS 


Be a part of a mission that's larger than all of us. Tile CIA's National Clandestine Service seeks qual~ed applicants 
to serve our country's mission abroad. Our careers offer rewarding, fast-paced, and high impact challenges in intelligence collection on issues of uitical importance to US national security. Applicants should possess a high degree of personal integrity, strong inlereer"Sonal skills, and good written and oral communication skills. We welcome applicants from various academic and professional backgrounds. Po you want to make a 
difference for your country? Are you ready for a challenge? 

AU applicants for National Clandestine Servtce positions muSct successfully undergo sevetal personal interviews, medical and psychological exams, aptitude testing. a polygraph interview, and a background investigation. Following entry on duty, candidates will undergo e:xteostve training. 
US citizenship required. An equal opporumity employer and a drug-free work force. 
For more information and to apply. visit: www.cia.gov 
THE WORK OF A NATION. 
Diane Penning 

Home for the Holidays 
South Bend Symphony Sunday, Dec. 7 
Jim Brickman 
Holiday Concert 
Pianist &Composer Monday, Dec. 15 
Upcuminl! Shuws 
Michael McDonald Sesame Street Livel 
Christmas Concert Elmo Makes Music 

Former Doobie Brothers Children's Show Tuesday, Dec. 16 Thur.-5un, Jan. 1-4 
Valais V()'Yale fvent 
NFL 

Minnesota judge blocks Viking suspensions 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS A Minnesota judge on Wednesday tern porarily blocked the NFL's suspension of Vikings stars Kevin and Pat Williams for violating the league's anti-doping policy, but the players' status for Sunday's game at Detroit remained uneertain, 
Hennepin County District Judge Gary Larson issued the temporary restraining order at the players' request, say­ing he wanted more time to 
hear arguments in  tiHJ  case,  
No  further  hearing  date  
immediately was seL  

The Williamses were among six players suspended for four ga.rnflS for testing posi­tive for a diuretic that can be used as a masking agent for steroids, They have argued that the substance containing the diuretic did-· n't list all its ingredients. 

Their attorney, Peter Ginsbprg, didn't elahn victory, instead saying, "It's a long hard road, It's going to take a long time for them to redaim their reputations," 
A message left by The Associated Press SPeking reaction from the Vikings was not immediately returned WPdnesday, · 
Dan Nash, an attorney for the NFL, told Larson before he issued the order that granting it would be unprece­dented and create a sideshow, disrupting the Vikings team and sending a message to other suspended players that they could file similar lawsuits, 
"This program (governing banned substances) would be thrown into disarray," Nash said, 
But Ginsberg said his clients' case is unique and 
they should be 
given the bene­
fit of the doubt 

and that league 'There is no merit to and continue scientists and playing until
this lawsuit and we 
lawyers had the issues arc
will promptly seek to
information fully addressed 
about thP sub­have it reversed. " in courL stance but with-The Vikings held it from are 7-5 and in
NFL Statement
players, 
The NFL argues that the league's policy on banned substances is collectively bar­gained with the players' asso­ciation and players are responsible for what is in their bodies, 
"This is one of the more dif­ficult cases I've had in 23 years." Larson said before signing the order, "If I make a mistake, I've got to decide on a temporary basis which side I'm able to make the mistake OIL" 
Larson said he would make himself available to reeonsid­er the issue "as quickly as you'd like me to hear iL" He also said he expected lawyers for the NFL, who participated in the hearing by phone. would take the issue to feder­al court in Minneapolis to get the suspensions reinstated, 
"There is no merit to this lawsuit and we will promptly seek to have the order reversed," the NFL said in a statement, 
Both Kevin and Pat Williams, who are not relat­ed, sat in the courtroom with their lawyers for Wednesday's hearing, which lasted more than two hours, Both declined comment afterward, 
first place in 
the NFC North. 

with the Williamses a big p~rt of their success, 
The two Pro Bowl tackles are the foundation of one of the league's top run defenses and leaders of a unit that has played a big role in the Vikings ascending to sole pos-­session of first plaee in the division for the first time in four years, 
"They're the first two guys here every morning at 7 o'clock working out," said Ellis Wyms, the backup to Kevin Williams, "You see the dedication that those two guys have to this team and this game, 
"It's not that way around the league with a lot of guys. A lot of guys in their position would be able to take days off and chill ouL Those ·guys have unbplievable dedication in what thev do," 
The ruling gives the Vikings a newfound hope that they may have the Williams Wall intact, at least for the imme­diate future, while they try to sew up the division title, 
"They'll get back and get their playbooks and start focusing on Detroit," Ginsberg said, 


page 16 Tbe Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 2008 
Weis 
continued from page 20 
Alarm wPnt ofT somewhere in 
the bowels of the sporting 
world and we all dug our 
claws in and hung on for dear 
life. After nearly two weeks of 
unabridged WPls Watch, we 
are linally right back whnrP 
we started. Some people arc 
happy, some are sad. and 
Charlin Wnis is the head foot­
ball coach at Notre Dame. 
If you thought the attention 
and public out•:ry was bad 
when his job was in jeopardy, 
imagine what it will be like 
now that it is secure again. 
BPforn the thousands of 
scn~aming parrots break out 
of their cagPs om~•~ again, 
thrcatoning to throw them­
SI~iv•~s into a wood chipper at 
thn thought of another snason 
with Charlie at the helm, tnt's 
tukn a dPnpPr look. 
Anyone who knows who Hudy is ean tell you that the past two seasons have been thP worst stretch in the pro­gram's history. Tlwy'll tell you about his inability to make adjustlm~nts or motivate his toam. Sonw 1wen complain about his arrogance. Would you really want a coach to tell you he stinks and his players don't stand a chance'? Show me any person in sports who doesn't think he's the best, and I'll show you someone who nnver will be. 
The Irish have fallen on tough times. but it didn't come out of nowhere. Last year after Notre Dame's :~8-0 drub­bing against USC, Pete Carroll told tho press that he saw this down year coming three years ago -while Weis was still busy •~ollneting jewelry in New England. 
The nay-sayPrs say Weis can't. develop talent. Every facet of the 2008 team was stronger and better prepared than in 2007. The defense gave up an average of one less touchdown per game this sea­son, and tlw offnnse averaged one more touchdown per game. 
If they make the same improvements next season, and there is no reason to think tlwy wouldn't, the Irish would win three of the games they lost this yPar. 9-3 ain't too shabby. 
Actually, the Irish were less than a handful of pl~tys away 
Please recycle The Observer. 

from 9-3 this s0ason. A pick 
six on the first throw of the 
sPeond half against North 
Carolina ean't be blamed on 
Weis. With a bum knee, he 
couldn't have thrown an inter­
ception even if he tried to. 
Neither can a blown coverage 
on lhP goal line against 
Syracuse or an overthrow in 
overtime against Pittsburgh. If 
the guys on the field make 
those plays, we would all be 
whistling a very different 
tune. 
A head coach is a lot like a 
president. People are going to 
eritieize him anytime anything 
goes wrong. Just look at Mr. 
Bush: At first glance it would 
seem that the man probably 
still wears Velcro shoes. He 
does have a degree from Yale 
and somehow managed to 
take residence on 
Pennsylvania Ave., he proba­
bly knows a thing or two that 
you and I don't. 
The same goes for Charlie. 
So, as you spend the next few 
weeks ranting in your dorm 
rooms, at the dinner table or 
in your elassrooms, remember 
he too probably knows a thing 
or two that you and I don't. 
Take for nx;unpln the end of regulation against Pittsburgh. With just OVI:'r a minute to go and tlw ball near midfield Weis was faced with a fourth­and-!. Instead of safely punt­ing the ball away or sneaking up the middle, the Irish called a play aetion fade route to GoldPn Tate. The pass was incomplete and suddenly your four years of play-calling on Madden Pootball greatly out­weighed his expertise. However. if Tate had hauled that pass in, something he's been known to do, Notre Dame would be in good posi­tion to at least drive into field goal range and win the game. Then it would have been good ol' Charlie-our favorite offensive genius. 
To gauge real improvement, judgments can't be based on a few missed plays or bounces that didn't go the right way. Perspective is kPy. This year Weis took a dismal 3-9 team and a strong recruiting class to 6-6. Wit.h a mediocre 6-6 team and another outstanding recruiting class on the way, · who knows what 2009 will bring. I'm willing to find out; luekily, so is Notre Dame. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Staying 
continued from page 20 
same priorities, do we see the same things that need to be tixed'?" 
Weis led the Irish to a 4-1 start this year before Notre Dame lost !bur of its last five to finish 6-6. He has a 28-21 record in his four years at Notre Dame. He coached the team to two BCS bowls in his first two seasons. but then lost a school­record 15 games in the next two. 
Swarbrick described a two­step proenss used to evaluate the program. First, determine how closely Weis' priorities matehed his. Should the two differ drastically, he said, he would decide whether the dif­ferem~es could be resolved. 
"But we didn't. We never did," Swarbrick said. "My list and his list were remarkably similar, and our views with where we need to go forward were very mueh in sync. In that sensn, it wasn't in doubt." 
Swarbrick didn't specifically say what needed to b£~ fixed. He said he did not consider any other candidates for the head coaching position. 

"Never talked to anyone else, never asked anyone else to talk to somebody:didn't engage somebody for that purpose ... whatever versions of that you can think of, we didn't do," he said. 
Swarbrick said he talked to a number of people, both inside and outside the program, and asked them for their opinions of how Notre Dame could improve the team. He talked to people involved with both college foot­ball and the NFL, he said. 
"You just talk to people," he said. "What are vour observa­tions'? What do you see when you look at us'? What do you think we ought to be focused on'? They're open-ended ques­tions that invite people with special knowledge and expert­ise to share their views with you." 
Swarbrick know after his Tuesday meeting with Weis that Weis would be the head eoaeh. Based on what they talked about in the meeting, Swarbrick said, he knew the two could agree on a plan. 
"Now we'll continue to build out that plan, we'll get more detailed about it and start to implement some things, but we knew at the end of that meeting 
that  we  were  on  the  same  
page," Swarbriek said.  
Swarbrick said  the  large  

amount of attention from the media, fans and alumni, while a healthy aspnct or the program, did not factor into the decision­making process. 
"They do and say what they do and say because they care so much," Swarbrick said. "And I think that's a great thing. I don't pay attention to it substantively. I don't look at it for advice or good idna.s, Wfl don't survey it to see how it's running." 
Swarbrick also said the possi­bility of a bowl bid did not impact the process, but he expected Notre Dame to go to a bowl, though he did not know where. 
"If we'n~ presented with a sit­uation that we think is right for the student athletes, that's con­sistent with providing a gn~at experience for them, not con­flicting with finals, et cetera. then we'II be eager to do it." he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

STUDY ABROAD THIS SUMMER THROUGH NOTRE DAME! 
Notre Dame will offer faculty-led programs in: 
Cape Town, South Africa Dublin, Ireland Paris, France Toledo, Spain Vienna, Austria 
SUMMER PROGRAMS INFORMATION SESSION 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 4, 7PM 125 DEBARTOLO 

Thursday, December 4, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

SATURDAY@ 10PM @MIDNIGHT 
6 



margot & the nuclear so and so's 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 4, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
per snt with 2.R1, despite play­ing in only 84 sets on the sea­son. 
"She's tough," Brown said. "And that's the reason she was in tlwre as the libero for us at tlw end of the year." 
Kaelin paced the team with 367 kills on the season and a .258 hitting percentage. Kaelin was coming back after missing the entire 2007 season due to injury. ller freshman year, Kaelin posted 318 kills but only a .188 hitting percentage. 
"I think Christina Kaelin came back from her surgery and was very good," Brown 
BEARDED ASSASSIN 

said. "Certainly [she was] a much better player statistically than she was her freshman year." 
Brown said that she was cur­rently meeting with each play­er individually to go over this season, but that the team would soon turn it's focus to 2009. 
"We're evaluating the sea­son," she said. "It's not like we haven't looked to next season at all, but I think while it's still fresh in our minds we're going over what we did this year." 
With only Croal and senior Justine Stremick graduating, the future certainly looks bright. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
Alumni Field. 
"Even though they were disap­pointed, they handled it very well, they handled it like sportsmen," Clark said. 'Their legacy may be that they helped next year's team. I know it's going to happen ­there's going to be a team that before very long will make it to the Final Four. I don't know when, but I know it'll happen sooner than later." 
Not all was lost, however, for a team Clark had often called his best at Notre Dame. The Irish captured the Big East regular­season title for the second straight year, a first in the pro­gram's history. 
"They played very nice soccer -as nice a playing team as I've ever had," Clark said. "They're a great group, and I don't know say he's got a good chance at being an All-Ameriean a'i well ­terrific senior year, but a terrific four years as well." 

Notre Dame's leading scorer, senior forward Bright Dike (12 goals, 29 points), could be grant­ed a fifth year of eligibility after not playing as a junior. Defender Cory Rellas and goalkeeper Andrew Quinn -who was Notre Dame's starter this season until suffering an injury on Oct. 29 ­may also apply for another year after not seeing any game action as freshmen. 
Whether it has some returnees or not, the nine-man senior cla'is L'i one with which Clark has cher­ished his time. 
'These guys are just all terrific guys and they have been fanta<;­tic," Clark said. "I just can't say enou?,h positive things about them. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


Belles 
continued from page 20 
Trine. Murphy also pulled down two rebounds. 
Fellow freshman Patsy Mahoney hit a key three point­er in the first half and had a total of nine points in the game. · The freshmen will have to help the team overcome the loss of Alison Kessler to gradu­ation. 
"Alison was a good player but we have seven new players this year," Beier said. "I think that we are a very different team and I can't wait to see when I've had a group with such a great attitude . . . All my teams have been very good, but in many ways they were a special group. They all came in very fit and worked their tails of[" 

Walk-on defender Terry Lee epitomized the work ethic of the senior class, Clark said. He called the 5-foot-9, 155-pound senior "one of the inspirations behind this team" because of the efl'ort he brought to practice on a daily basis. 
After back-to-hack all-Big East selections, senior defender Matt Besler was named a Preseason All-American heading into this year. He didn't disappoint, earn­ing individual weekly conference and national honors several times throughout the season while starting every game for the lri'ih. 
"Without question he'll be in the MLS combine and have a fair chance of being drafted," Clark said of Besler. "We know he's an Academic All-American, and I'd 
what we can do as we head into our conference games. 
The Belles are coming off of a successful Thanksgiving break that saw them earn one victory and a tough one-point loss in the Anderson College Tip-OtT Tournament. 
"I think that Wheaton win was great for us," Beier said. "It was frustrating losing another close game but I think that we are moving in the right direction. The games over break have helped us prepare well for our upcoming confer­ence games." 
The Belles were able to defeat Wheaton at home on Nov. 25 by a score of 81-78. 
Newsom was a force in the game against Wheaton as well as, notching her lirst double­double of the season. She and Beier eombined for 35 points, with Beier coming off the bench in the gamfl. · 
"I expect us to have more depth in our program this year," Henley said. "We need to improve our overall team defensP, and be more balanced in our offense from last sea­son." 
The Belles will look to keep up their winning ways when they host inter-conference foe Calvin on Saturday. Tip-off is set for 3 p.m. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaraO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Thursday, December 4, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

PAT GARTLAND

THE FORBIDDEN DOUGHNUT 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon
J11JJWIIDJ1JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. 

Sorry, I tripped to form four ordinary words. 
PROOD 
rJ 
1 

@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LALIV 
j
I I r 


THIS CAN HAPPEN 
www.jumbJe.com 
TD "MODELS." 
NORIPS ±) 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I [ I
..__...___.__--'""'--'.J'-"-~OJ__--' suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 

"[ I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: HANDY TAWNY REDUCE MYOPIC Answer: When the gangster went to prison, he became part of -THE "IN" CROWD 
CROSSWORD 
Across 41 Singer _ P. 68 Site of Ali's 1 Play place Morgan Rumble in the Jungle
6 Ballroom dance 43 Early 11th­century year 69 Salon job 
11 Chart-topper 44 Back at sea? 70 Cuts and pastes 
14 Sign of spring 71 TV awards 
15 Mountaineer's 
47 Actress Chase tool 
of "Now. 16 ET's ride Voyager'' Down 17 Play follower, Amniotic
48 For dieters usually 2 Play about 
51 Smidgen

19 Unruly do Capote 52 Shoot-'em-up 
20 Amateurish 3 Put on TV figure
21 .._economy is 4 Manage, barely always beauty": 54 Harmony, briefly 5 Jacob's twin Henry James 
55 Clobber. 6 G.l.'s helmet, 23 Buggy rider biblically 
slangily 26 Loofah, e.g. 7 Duke's sports 
56 Computer that 30 1 08-card game uses OS X org. 31 Start the pot 8 "Read Across 
58 Director Lee 32 Pest control America" grp.
59 What the starts

brand 9 Guy's partner 
of 17-, 26·, 37­

33 Spoil 10 Primrose family 
and 52-Across

35 Bibliophile's member 
are

suffix 11 Saroyan novel, 36 Tipplers 66 Crib cry with "The" 37 Circulatory 67 Burger topper, 12 "It slipped my 
system flow maybe mind!" 13 Letterman lists ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
18 IDona dust jacket 22 Acknowledges non verbally 
23 PC glitch 24 "Wheel of Fortune" buy 
25 Hoops coach with the most N.C.A.A. Division I wins 
27 Playful mockery 
28 Rural event on horseback 29 Work out in the ring 
THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld  
31 Commotion 34 Red Sox div. 3801d Dodge  42 Barnard grads 45 Bled, like dyes 46 "Deal or No  57 Wood-shaping tool 60 Suffered from  
39 Singer of the 1962 hit "The Wanderer'' 40 Guinness Book suffix 41 Tools for making twisty cuts  Deal" network 49 Fakes, as an injury 50 Weaponry 53 Leave alone 54 "Beat it!"  61 Here, in Paris 62 "I'm kidding!" 63 Deadeye's asset 64 Dryly amusing 65 Nintendo's Super_  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytirnes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Brian Bonsall, 27; Anna Chlumsk")', 28; Bruno Campos, 35; Holly Marie Combs. 35 
Harpy Birthday: Your ability to detach vourself from the past and the negative wil be your best asset for getting ahead tllis year. There are gains to be made and. although some of them may be at the expense of others. it's tune to make that de­cision. Your numbers are 4, 13, 24. 27, 31, 33. 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll19): Help others and, in the end. you will get something you least expect in return. Impetuous action will not get jobs done qtlicker. If you have to pusli others to help. you should do things on your own. **** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Everything has a price tag. so don't think someone is giving you so~ething for J?Oihin2. Make plans early or you may not reap the benefit of an enJoyable everung with someone special. ** 
GEi\IIINI (May 21-June 20): Let people know what you have to offer and pro­mote your services, skills and ideas. You will get interestin2 responses that can help you achieve some of your goals.***** ~ 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have to set a budget that will allow you to feel in control. Stress is something that you have to work hard to eliminate. Remember to look at the positive in your life, as well. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your ability to put things together, convince others to do things or to sell an Idea will be golden. A relationship will need nurturing. You'll fmd interesting gifts for the people you want to impress this season.*** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can get ahead enou2h to feel comfortable about taking time off at the end of ~e month. Someone you1ove will help you get things fllllslied. A change of plans will annoy some and please others. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 2.'-0ct. 22): Do what needs to be done and 2et on with your life. Not everyone will agree with you but that's OK, as long as yon base your deci­sions on what matters most to you.***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take what others say as the gospel. Find out for Yourself what's going on before you make a choice. Ifyou let your emotions get involved in your decisions, you will have to backtrack. Don't give in to bully­
mg.** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do vour research before vou go shopping. Knowing what and where to find an ilem· at the best J?.rice will"make your life easier. Someone you meet through work or school will take a greater interest in you. Trust in your creativity and-intuition. **** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. l9l: An experienced friend will come to you with an offer you cannot refuse. Look at the potential to stabilize your tinancial situa­tion. A settlement, rebate or surrender you are waiting for will come through. 
*** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Help is available as long as you don't let your emotions cloud issues and stop you from accepting what YOU need to move for­ward. Asking for a favor may put you in an inaebted position but it will be the best way to get what you want. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be the one to min a surprise. Talks will lead to arguments. so keep your beliefs a secret for now. Make personal changes in­stead of trying to mold someone else. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are inventive, innovative and intellecnial. You set goals and go after them. You pick sides and fight for your beliefs without remorse. 
Eugmia's Wi•b sires: eugenia/ast.com for conftdl'lltial consultations, myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's /Jlog. mtroa<Mce.com jol'fim 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Nan1e ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, December 4, 2008 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 

It's official: Weis to return 
Swarbrick met with Weis Tuesday in Calif. 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Ediwr 
Charlie Weis will remain the head coach of the football team, athl~tie din~etor Jack Swarbrkk announced WPdnesday. 
Swarbrick and Weis met in California Tuesday to discuss th~ season and the future or the football program. Swarbriek said tlw decision came as a result of a review of the football program. not directly regarding Weis' job status. 
"Thn issue bm:onws, tho out­come of that analysis f()r me. is the things that I see that WP ought to focus on, are they con­sistent with the coach's view'!" Swarbrick said in a phone intnr­vinw with The Obsnrver. "Are we on the same page, do we see the 
see STAYING/page 16 


Despite struggles, not all blame falls on Weis 
He's staying. 
You may now resume the conversations that you most likely 
dropped mid-sen­tence 12 days ago. Even before Notre Dame's embar­

rassing 24-Dan Murphy 23 loss to 
Syracuse on Nov. 22, Sports Editor there were calls for Charlie Weis' headset. Arter the loss. there w~re calls for his head. 
The Notre Uame Crisis 
see WEIS/page 16 
VOLLEYBALL 

Big East run highlights season that featured ups and downs 
before falling to Louisville in their losses being a five-set Brown did say. though. that said she saw several brightBy SAM WERNER the final by a score of 3-1 (25-thriller to then-No. 4 California. senior Mallorie Croal would spots on this year's t!.Jarn,
Sporrs Writer 

23, 28-26, 15-25, 25-22). The Irish proceeded to go 9-5 have helped the Irish in those specifically freshman outside 
"We finished strong, and in the Big East. good enough long matches. Croai went down hitter Kristen Dealy. sophomore 
For Notre Dame coach Debbie that's definitely an important for fifth plaee in the confer­with an ankle injury in the libero Megan Dunne, and junior Brown, the 2008 snason has thing," Brown said. "Even ence, but fifth-set struggles spring of her sophomore year, outside hitter Christina Kaelin. just been a series of ups and though we came only a couple continued to haunt Notre Uame and was hampered the past Dealy played in 116 out of downs. of points shy of winning the Big all year. The squad linished 2-·5 two years. The senior outside 117 sets this year and led the 
"It was a little bit of a roller­East tournament, we certainly in matches that went the dis­hitter played her last match in team in aces with 30. Brown coaster ride," she said. made strides in getting there. I tance, and just 3-7 in four-set Notre Dame's Oct. 21 loss to praised Dealy's all-around play, "Certainly we had some high felt that in our last couple of matches. In tilts that went the Long Beach State this season. speeifically her passing game. points, but we also had some matches, we just played a much minimum three sets, though, "[Croal] would have made a "We were hoping that she'd low points too. We'd have like higher level of volleyball." the Irish were 12-2. · huge difference," Brown said. be able to come in and do to have been more consistent The rollereoaster ride start~d "I think that was probably a "She's somebody that has big that," Brown said. "But the faet than it was." early for Notre Dame, who par­coincidence," Brown said of her game experience, she's very that she did, and just the load 
Brown said the highest point ticipated in four early season team's struggles in the fifth set. poised, and she makes players that she carried, especially the of the Irish season was the tournaments in Notre Dame, "I don't think it was the fact around her better. In elose passing load, was big for us." tnam 's Big East tournament Minneapolis and Moscow, that it was a five-game match. games she's somebody that Dunne led the team in digs run. when it beat Connecticut Idaho. The Irish went 5-7 in Certainly I don't think it was wants the ball." and top-seed~d St. John's these matches, with one of conditioning or fatigue." Even without Croal, Brown see BIG EAST/page 18 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Squad takes first home and conference victory 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's del'eatf1d Trine for its first. home and MIAA Confenmce victory of the season to bring their reeord 3-3 (1-0). 
"Our goal for this year is to win eonf'erenee," senior Nieoh~ Beif~r said. "We want to makn it to the finals of the conference tournament.." 
Ear.h or tlw last two Slli!SOilS the Belles have reached the Sf~mitinals of the MIA;\ tourna­mnnt. Tonight the Belles took a stl~p toward that goal with their X0-72 victory. 
The BellPs spmad the scoring around in the gamn against Trine. with sPnior l·:rin Newsom leading the way with 20 points, and nine rebounds. 

Junior Anna Kammrath also chipped in lO points and eight rebounds for the night. 
"Our freshmen need to learn our program and what we are trying to establish." Belles coach Jen Henley said. "We have a very talented young group that will have the oppor­tunity to contribute early for us." 
Some of that young group have had the opportunity to get their feet wet early this season. 
Freshman Kelley Murphy, scored six points, and made three key free throws down the stretch for the Belles against 
see BELLES/page 18 
MEN's SoccER 

Seniors suffer heartbreak 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
For a senior class that had reached the NCAA Sweet 16 in each of it.<; first three seasons. a Nov. 25 season-ending loss to Northwestern in the tourna­ment's second round was both shocking and shattering. 
"Tilis group of seniors really set their hearts on the Final Four." Irish coach Bobby Clark. "I just feel so sorry for the sen­iors. I don't know if I've ever seen a locker room more dis­appointed after ganw." 
The loss was the lirst -and only -at horne for Notre Dame (12-7-2) afkr a regular season during which thn Irish posted a 9-0-1 reeord at 
see SENIORS/page 18 






