..-----------------------~---­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Leaders must understand liberty, Barr says 
Libertarian politician speaks on lack ofleadership during visit to campus 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis had it right, former congressman Bob Barr said, when he said the greatest danger to liberty lurks in 
the minds of men  who lack  See Also  
understanding. Barr, the presidential candidate for the Libertarian Party, spoke  "Barr stirs libertarians on  
Friday at Washington Hall about the "vacuum of leadership" in the United States, a trend he  campus" page3  
believes manifests itself in the  

Democratic and Republican Party presidential tickets this fall. To fulfill the job of being president of the United States, leaders must understand liberty, Barr said. "America is not a military. America is not an econo­my. America is freedom, liberty and the job of the 

Colleges tohostint1 conference 
Collaborative event will focus on French­American themes 
ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
An international conference focused on the future of revo­lutionary studies will begin Monday at the University, as part of a collaboration of scholars from Notre Dame, Indiana University South Bend (IUSB), the Universite de Provence and the Universite de Toulouse. 
The conference, titled "New Paradigms for Revolutionary Studies: French-American Colloquium," features several Francophone and Anglophone scholars in literature, history and art, including Lynn Hunt, a Eugen Weber Professor of History at the University of California. Los Angeles (UCLA), who will deliver the keynote address. 
Hunt's lecture, titled "Hevolution and Subjectivity: Towards a New Paradigm?" will take place Monday at 7 
p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Tlw full conference pro­gram, with lectures held both in 100 McKenna Hall and at the lUSH Student Activity Center. is posl!)d on the con-
see EVENTIpage 4 

see SPEECH/page 6 

Presidential candidate details campaign goals 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Although Libertarian presiden­tial candidate Bob Barr, 59, receives far less media attention than the two major party candi­dates, Sens. Barack Obama and John McCain, he maintains the schedule of a prime contender. 
Barr finished giving a speech in Washington Hall shortly after 4 p.m., then rushed over to O'Shaughnessy to do an interview with NPR before leaving Notre Dame to speak at another college campus that evening. On his way to the radio interview, as the Notre Dame Marching Band began its Friday afternoon reper­
see BARR/ page 6 


Duncandedicatedwithmass, reception 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Residents and benefactors gathered with University offi­cials Friday to dedicate Duncan Hall, the first dorm built on the Notre Dame Campus since 1997. 
The Board of Trustees and the Duncan family, including hall benefactor Raymond Duncan and his wife, Sally Duncan, were invited to attend a dedication mass, hall blessing, and reception at the dorm, organized by dorm staff and residents. 
The Duncan family and Board of Trustees were also invited to a formal dinner with hall staff and hall gov­ernment representatives at South Dining Hall, following the dedication ceremony and reception at the hall. 
Assistant Rector Dan Allen said the events were a suc­cess. 
"It was a very positive reception overall," he said. "You could really see a sense of gratification on the faces of the Duncans. 
"It was nice to see how 
see DUNCAN/page 8 

FofUlll to address Exec. stipend 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's students with questions or concerns about the Student Government Association (SGA) budget discussed during last week's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting will have the chance to voice their opin­ions and find answers at an Open Forum for the SMC Student Body on the subject today at 5 p.m. in the Student Center Lounge. 
Senior Sarah Voss planned the event after hearing about the issues raised by members of BOG about the budget, specifically the $20,000 stipend the Executive Board allotted for themselves. 
The budget was prepared by executive treasurer Mo Weaver, and voted on by student body president Mickey Gruscinski, student body vice president Sarah Falvey, chief of staff Lauren Theiss, 
Student Activities B o a r d Coordinator { S A B ) Michele Peterson, Residence 


H a I I Gruscinski 
Association (IUIA) coordinator Maura Clougherty, Student Diversity Board coordinator Adriana Rodriguez and executive secretary Jenny Hoffman, who has previous­ly written for The Observer, and lays out the allocation of funding for the $243,040 which SGA received from the student government fees each full-time student pays. 
The budget is a recom­mendation for Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson and Director of Student Involvement and BOG advisor Patrick Daniel who will either approve or reject it, Falvey said Wednesday. 
The Executive Board can choose whether or not they wish to accept this money for their services to SGA and the student body. 
"Last year was the first year they did [take a stipend]." Weaver said at the meeting Wednesday. "They told us about it at the end of last year so it was something we needed to vote on. 
"This year we're looking at things like making 
see FORUM/page 9 


ND student reports rape 
Observer Staff Report 
The South Bend Tribune reported Sunday that a female student at the University was reportedly raped by a male acquaintance at an off-campus apartment early Friday. 
According to the Tribune, police said the victim was with the suspect at an off­campus apartment shortly after 1 a.m. 
The victim stated she was engaged in kissing and touching with the suspect, who is also a student at the University, according to the Tribune. 
The Tribune reported the victim said that the male suspect committed sex aets with her against her will and refused to stop when she said to. 
The victim went to Memorial Hospital in South Bend for treatment later that night, and police were called to investi­gate, according to the Tribune. 
The Tribune reported that no charges have yet been filed against the suspect. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



In another's shoes 
On Sept. I. Tlw Observ1w ran a story 
about An:hitecturP studenl'i who had 
the opportunity to almost literally be 
disablml fi>r a day. 

Some of' thmn became physically dis­
abled. They worn in wheel ehairs or had 
to use crutdws. 

Olhers had to wear blindl'olds in order 
to simulate blindness. 

I'll admit, at the timn, I felt bad for 
these studonL'i, and maybe a little smug. 
I was sncmtly glad I didn't have to do 
anything like that. 

Mandl Stirone 
Of' course, I was wrong about that, and the sad thing 

Assistant 
is: I should've seen 

News Editor 
it eoming. 

I'm taking a sign languagn dass this semester with three or my friends. 
I'll admit that when I sihrned up for it, I was just looking to finally have a class with my friends, and maybn learn some­thing that eould be dassifind as "eool." 
I probably should have known I would 
bn gdting morn than I bargained for. 
We arn going to be getting two out-of­class practiee a.ssihrnmenl'i to help us bdter understand "deal' eulturn." 
We an~ supposed to go into some pub­lie place, like aston~. and try to do sonwthing eompletnly ordinary, like buy something. For the first one we're not allowed to have an interprnter. For the sncond assignment, we are going to be allowml to have an interprntnr. 
We have to do the first assignment somntime this week. 
Now, I must say that I do like this dass. I'm aetually learning a lot and I can communicate using the language, sort of'. 
At this point I can really only ask somemw's name, where thny'rn from, and wlwther or not they like something. 
Oh, and we learnnd how to say w1~'rn hungry and thirsty, two very important things for college studnnts to be able to say. 
All that being said, the idea of going somewhere and trying to perli>rm some common function without the use of' my voiee while pretending I ean 't hear whatever poor soul I inflict myself upon. is far from my idea of fun. I get it, it's edueational, and I'm really going to get a l'eelli>r what this is like. 
llonestly though, I'm a little seared and slightly ashamed by this exercise. 
I ean probably predict what is going to happen because the way the person will most likely react 'vvill be how I would in the same situation. 
The dillimmee is I ean aetually hear them when they inevitably raise their voiee until they're shouting at me even though, were I actually deal', it would do them no good. I will both bn embar­rassed by their frustration and appalled bncausn I would probably li~nl the same way if our plaees were exehanged. 
I haven't done the exerdse yet, but I am alrnady thinking and feeling what it is probably aimed at making me think and feel. 
It makes me wonder how people with disabilities ean go though lifil without lashing out at people who react that way. Thinking of that, I am amazed that people do react the way they do. 
Why do we do that? 

The (liews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser(ler. 
Contact Mandi ,\'tirone at astiroO I @saintmarys. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer rt•gards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives filr rhe highest srandards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 6, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE CLIMBING HOLD? 

Sawyer Negro Viki Mair Jonathan Callahan Jose No Ayan Paul Dom Wlraset 
Senior Grad student Senior Grad student Grad student Grad student off-campus O'Hara Grace off-campus off-campus off-campus off-campus 
"Stopper." "Knee bar." "Jesus jug" "Undercling. " "Anything that "Pinch." gets me to the 
"Smoot" measurement's source returns to MIT 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. ­The father of a measure­ment known as the "Smoot" returned Saturday to be honored at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the school where he and his fraternity brothers invented it 50 years ago. 
Oliver Smoot was the shortest pledge in the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity in 1958 when its members decided to lay him on the Massachusetts Avenue Bridge. After discovering Smoot measured 5 feet 7, they marked the bridge in 
TODAY 
a:: 


league, Lamar University paleontologist Jim Westgate, visited her Bolivar Peninsula home after Ike hit. Together they found something unusu­al in Sisk's front yard: a 6­pound fossil tooth. 
Westgate believes the fossil is from a Columbian mam­moth common in North America until around 10,000 years ago. 
The tooth, which looks like a series of boot soles or slices of bread wedged together, is expected to be sent to the Texas Memorial Museum in Austin. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

those increments, with an eventually exhausted Smoot getting up and down for each new measurement. 
They soon determined the bridge was 364.4 Smoots long. 
Today, Google.com's calcu­lator function can convert any measurement into Smoots. 
Texas man finds giant tooth on property 
CAPLEN -A homeowner whose beachfront prop~rty in Texas was destroyed during Hurricane Ike has found a football-size fossil tooth in the debris. 
Dorothy Sisk and her col-
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI ::1: 

!ci: 
LLI 
3: 
....I 
c( (,) 0 


HIGH 71
...I LOW 53 


60 53 


73 55 

69 52 
..

top. 
IN BRIEF 
A lecture entitled "Environmental Brokers and the American Wildemess" will be given by Annie Gilbert Coleman, associate profes­sor and director or graduate studies, Department of llistory, tonight. It will be in 116 DeBartolo Hall at 
4:30 p.m. and is pmsnnted by the Americ<m Studies Department. 
NDVotes 'OS Pizza. Pop, and Politics: "Foreign Policy and National Security" will be pn~smt­cd by professors Mary Ellen O'Connell, Hobert and Marion Short, Law Sd10ol; Miehael Desd1, politieal seienm; m1d Joseph Boek, Kroc Institute l'or International Peac.e Studies. ll will b(~ held in tlw llesburgh Center Auditorium on Tues. at 5::~0 p.m. and i'i free <md open to the publie. This event is cosponsored by the Kf()(: Institute l'or International Peace Studies and tl1e Center for S<Jcial Cone-ems. 
Students can partidpate in Mindfulness and Relaxation Training. The 3-session dass will be held at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center from 4-5 p.m. on Wed. Come wearing loose, warm, com­fortabll~ dothing. It is co-sponsomd by the University Counseling Center and Rlll~"ports. StudenL'i can sign up via RecHegister on recsporl<i.nd.edu. Cost is $12.00. 
"The Mushf()()m Picker" a one­man play, performed by Patrick Dewane in the Philbin Studio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Wed. at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $10, $8 for faculty /stall: and $5 fbr seniors citizens /veterans' studenLs. It is presented by The Nanovic Institute for European Studies and Shakespeare at Notm Dame 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obsemer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsneu1s@ndedu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

67 
46 

HIGH LOW 

Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Barr stirs Libertarians on can1pus 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Junior Mark Flanagan and sophomore Ben Linskey think a lot more people at Notre Dame would vote Libertarian if they knew what libertarianism was. 
"I think there's a lot of people who either choose to be Republicans or Democrats because they don't understand what libertarianism is about," Flanagan said. "As of now, when I say I'm a libertarian or talk to people about libertarianism, their first question is, 
What is that?' And then I have to explain it to them." 
Flanagan and Linskey could be biased in their thinking, since they are the co-presidents of the Notre Dame chapter of the College Libertarians. But when they invited Libertarian Presidential candidate Bob Barr to campus on Friday, a substan­tial number of students showed up to hear him speak, filling most of the lower level of Washington Hall. 
Flanagan said it seemed as though people were engaged 
during the speech and liked what Barr had to say. 
Flanagan and Linskey estimat­ed that 50 to 100 Notre Dame students would vote Libertarian in the Nov. 4 presidential elec­tion. 
But Linskey said a lot of peo­ple who identify themselves as Republican or Democrat would be surprised at the disparity between their beliefs and what the candidates they support actually believe. 
Upon closer reflection, he said, some of these people might find the Libertarian Party most closely represents their views. 
"In this election," Flanagan said, "people would be more willing to vote Libertarian than in prior elections because of the failure of this administration, and because of the lack of choice with the major two candi­dates." 
But in the American political system, the choice is usually just that-between two candidates. Barr is not even on the ballot in every state. 
But saying you will not vote for a candidate who probably won't win is a circular argu­ment, Flanagan said. 
"If you never vote for some­one, then of course they are not going to win," he said. "So it has to start somewhere." 
A group of people has to start voting for the third party candi­date, so that other people will join them, he said. 
"That's why this election is important, to show that there is a substantial percentage that do want something different, and that they do need to listen to this," Flanagan said. 
Flanagan said the College Libertarians club has about 10 to 15 active members this year. 
Leading up to the presidential election, the club plans to par­ticipate in three public debates with the College Democrats and Republicans. They said they also plan to hand out copies of the 
U.S. Constitution and promote awareness about civil rights. Using the money allocated to the club from the University, Linskey said the club is planning to pur­chase various Bob Barr and Libertarian Party merchandise. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


ND students stage Gittno protest 
Demonstration meant to increase awareness qbout naval base prison 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Oad in orange jumpsuits, some with their hands bound and others with black hoods covering their heads, a few Notre Dame students stood imprisoned Friday inside a bar­rier of chicken wire at the base of tho flagpole on South Quad. 
The ali-day demonstration was intended to raise awareness and protest U.S. actions at the military prison at the American naval base in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, where persons alleged to be militant combatants are being held, said senior Catherine McKinney, the president of Human Rights-ND, the student chapter of human rights organi­zation Amnesty International. 
"The basic goal was to make it as shocking as possible," she said. 
Sophomore Mary Dewey was standing against the flagpole in an orange jumpsuit, with a black hood covering her head, at 2 
p.m. Friday as students, alumni, parents and visitors walked around South Quad. The experi­ence of being "imprisoned" for four hours was "pretty intense," she said. 
Most people who walked by wanted to talk more about the issue of the detention of prison­ers at Guantanamo, she said, but a fair number of people came up and argued with the demonstrators, asking if they support terrorism. 
"Our response to that is we absolutely do not support terror­ism," Dewey said, but that they do support human rights. Dewey said she does not think the Guantanamo Bay detention cen­ter is effective, nor does it make the United States more secure. 
"The way the United States treats so-called enemy combat­ants has a negative impact on our security here and around the world," she said. 
The main point of Friday's demonstration was to get people to talk about the situation in Guantanamo Bay, said sopho­more David Rivera, who was 
GEM Students gathered on South Quad Friday to protest U.S. actions at the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. 
standing inside the chicken wire in an orange jumpsuit with his hands bound and his feet bare. Torture, he said, is not an effec­tive tactic through which to obtain information. Following the terrorist attacks of 2001, people said the war on terror was a different type of war and the old rules don't apply, he said. 
"We can't, if we are going up against a new enemy, throw away our morals," he said. 
The demonstration was intended to protest two compo­nents of Guantanamo Bay -the alleged use of torture or mis­treatment as a means to illicit information from prisoners and the indefinite detention of detainees without due process, McKinney said. 
People who stopped by the table in front of the demonstra­tion were asked to sign a global petition sponsored by Amnesty International to end the mili­tary's use of Guantanamo Bay as a detention site. Those interest­ed could also sign letters to Indiana's two senators, Evan Bayh and Richard Lugar, asking them to create legislation or to back bills that called for the end of the United States' use of the detention facility. 
By 2 p.m., McKinney estimat­ed that 100 people had stopped by the table to talk to her or another demonstrator. 
For most people, McKinney said, Guantanamo Bay has fallen off their radar. with new issues, like the economy, the election, and the war in Iraq taking precedence. 
"We want to interject it back into the public discourse," she said. 
Guantanamo Bay has not been at the forefront of issues in the 2008 presidential election, she said, but she hopes the presi­dential candidates start talking about it, and that the next administration does something about it. 
"What we're looking for is action," she said. "Words are just words. We're looking for actions on behalf of political leaders." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
page 3 

Surgeon details caring for ex-football star 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Dr. Kevin Gibbons, a Notre Dame graduate and the neuro­surgeon that directed the con­troversial post-surgery care of Buffalo Bills' Kevin Everett, spoke Saturday morning about the process that allowed Everett to walk again. 
Everett sustained a potential­ly fatal hit last September, causing him to be carried off the field by an ambulance. He initially was unable to move his arms or legs, and needed emergency surgery, according to a press release from the Dr. Tom Dooley Society for Notre Dame Medical Alumni (Dooley Society). 
"After surgery, Kevin has a nearly normal spinal.cord," Gibbons said. 
At the lecture, Gibbons focused on the role of the media in explaining Everett's case and on clarifying what he said really contributed to Everett's recovery. · 
After surgery, Everett was treated with hypothermia, which is controversial in spine surgeries, said Gibbons. The media focused on this method of treatment and hyped Everett's case as miraculous. 
"There was so much misin­formation about Kevin Everett. All the major daily's went and ran with the story with a lot of hyperboles and misinforma­tion," said Hubbard. 
Gibbons spoke particularly about a story Sports Illustrated printed regarding Everett's recovery. He said the magazine said Everett could not move, was cooled off through hypothermia, and then sudden­ly he could move. 
Gibbons described it as a "eureka paragraph" in the story that was inaccurate. He clarified that Everett showed a small amount of movement before he was cooled down. 

Gibbons instead attributed Everett's successful treatment to factors like the nature of his injury, the promptness of diag­nosis and the hospital care he received. 
Sophomore Sophia Jackson, who is a pre-professional major and member of the Dooley society, attended the lecture. 
"It has affected other family members who look at Kevin Everett's story and wonder why their family member or they themselves didn't get that treatment, but in reality, the reason Kevin Everett got better was the fast treatment and the teamwork," she said. 
Gibbons was brought to Notre Dame by the Dooley Society, which brings a speaker to Notre Dame on every home football Saturday, said Dooley Society Secretary Bridget Hubbard, a '72 Saint Mary's graduate, whose son, an '02 Notre Dame ·graduate, took part in the founding of the soci­ety. 
Hubbard said the purpose of the lecture series is to provide a "continuing education" for medical alumni and give pre­professional students an oppor­tunity to meet Notre Dame alumni in the medical field. 
"We've actually been able to offer continuing education credits and doctors have to have a certain number of those to keep their practices cur­rent," said Hubbard. 
Dave Cockerill, a neurosur­geon and member of the Dooley Society, said the lecture "raise[d] the awareness of spinal cord injuries." 
"The basic story to take home from this is spinal cord injuries need to be treated urgently at a trauma center by I people who know what they're 
~ 

doing with a team approach," I Cockerill said. I 
i 
I 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at I smervosh@nd.edu 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides students grants for research in Europe. Discover ideas for research and how to develop them with expert advice from Nanovic Institute Faculty Fellows. 
Randy Coleman Alison Rice 
Art History RLL/French Thomas Kselman History 


r------------------------------------------------------------------------------­page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 6, 2008 


Sy111posiu111 exa111ines gender violence issues 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Knowlndge of an issun gives way to action, said Professor l.uzmila Camacho-Piatnro during her introduction of the leeture portion of the two-day Gender Violencn Symposium hnld at Saint Mary's, Thursday. 
The four-membnr panel discus­sion was held in Vander Vennet Theater in the Saint Mary's Studnnt Cnntnr from 5 to 7 p.m. 
lnfimnation of gender violnnce is spreading due to individuals taking a stand Camaeho-Platero said. A'i part of that stand, Edith Miguda, Yana llasmanova, Bettina Spencnr, and Linda S. Baechle each gave a talk dis­cussing a diflimmt aspeet of gen­der-related violence on Thursday. 
The first two speakers, Miguda and llasmanova, foeused on international gender issues, while Spencer and Baechle's talks wen~ more locally foeusnd. 
The first talk. ~-,riven by Miguda, an assistant professor of history at Saint Mary's, was entitled "Women and Violence in Electoral Polities in Afriea." 
She focused on the gender vio­lence -typieally against women -that occurs during eleetion poriods in African eountries. 
"The causes of this violenee stem from the intensn competi­tion of the eleetoral races," said Miguda. "It is a manifestation of historically unequal power between men and women." 
llasmanova. an associate pro­fessor of Slavic and East European Language artd Literature at Ohio State University led the second talk. 
ller presentation, "Traflicking in Women: HP-ality and Hepresentation" covernd human traflicking in Eastern Europn. 

Spencnr, the third speaker, spoke about pnrcnptions of sexu­al violence in tnrms of individu­als. 
Spencer, an a..<;sistant protessor of psychology at Saint Mary's,. 
Event 
continued from page 1 
fernnce's Web site, http://www.nd.edu/-eolloque/ The nvonts are frne and open to the public. 
The eonference also includes an exhibit of revolutionary­era drawings featured in the Snite Museum, on display through Oct. 19. An exhibit of rare books from the revolu­tionary period will be avail­able from the Special Collections of the llesburgh Library. 
"This is a historical event in that it unites Notre Dame and IUSB at the highest level of scholarly discourse," Julia Douthwaite, Notre Dame's assistant provost for interna­tional studies and professor of Homanee languages and liter­atures, said in a press release. "It's the culmination of a col­laboration I've been involved in with colleagues in France for the past two years and will bring people from around the world to participate in a bilin­gual conference held on both campuses." 
Senior Marcus Gatto is one of the students working on the conferenee. lie is a Homanee Languages and Literatures focused on three detp,rmining factors -racism, sexism, and classism -people use to form their perceptions on gender vio­lence and where they place the blame, whether on the victim or the perpetrator. 
She referred to several studies during her talk in which subjects were presented with a scenario of sexual assault and were asked to decide whether the blame was with the perpetrator or the vic­tim. The results of the studies demonstrated that the blame was more often than not placed on the victim of the crime and not the perpetrator, she said. 
The fourth and final presenter, Linda S. Baechle discussed how the justice system prosecutes offenders. 
"We have an illusion that there is going to be justice for victims," she said. "But it isn't like televi­sion where the cases are always solved and the perpetrators are punished." 
Baechle was one of the four panel members who participated in the discussion panel part of the Gender Violence symposium. She is the executive director of St. Joesph County's YWCA. During her talk, she shared the statistics of gender violence crimes and their judicial perse­cution in South Bend. The fmd­ings of the court watch were printed in Thursday's issue of the South Bend Tribune. 
She said fewer than a handful of the perpetrators of sexual crimes in South Bend during the past limr years had been convict­ed and that arrests are not often made. 


This talk especially affected some students in attendance, including freshman Marisela Garda. 

"I had the biggest reaction to 
}ffk' $ the last speaker's talk," said 
eJnmistakably Italian·\ Unbelievably Good
Garda. "The fact that there are almost no repercussions Lfor the perpetrators) really surprised 
me." 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyOI@saintmarys.edu 
Language Studies at lUSB and is partially supported by Indiana University's New Frontiers in the Arts & Humanities, funded by the Lily Endowment Inc., and adminis­tered by the Indiana University Office of the Vice Provost for Research and Notre Dame's Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
Transportation shuttles will be provided for the events taking place at IUSB on Tuesday. 
Contact Jenn Metz at 
jmetz@nd.edu 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 1332 Hilltop Rd. St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 



Observer. 
major and said he is "very excited. It should be a very interesting conference." 
The lectures, especially the keynote address, will be "focusing on the new direc­tions that the study of revolu­tion is taking, both in Fraqce and the United States," he said. 
Douthwaite is currently teaching a French Studies course titled "A Hevolution in Fiction," that Gatto said was catered specifically for the conference, and students in the course will be actively involved in the conference. 
The conference was organ­ized by Douthwaite and Lesley Walker, the chair of the department of World 
Tri-Color Tortellini, signature Sizzelini® and generous portions 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 6, 2008 CoMPilED fR01v1 THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Dubai to build tallest skyscraper 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates -With its world's tallest building nearing completion, Dubai said Sunday it is embarking on an even more ambitious skyscraper: one that will soar the length of more than 10 American football fields. 
That's about two-thirds of a mile or the height of more than three of New York's Chrysler Buildings stacked end-to-end. 
Babel had nothing on this place. 
"This is unbelievably groundbreaking design," Chief Executive Chris O'Donnell said during a briefing at the company's sales cen­ter, not far from the proposed site. "This still takes my breath away." 
Europe tries to save failing banks 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -Germany joined Ireland and Greece on Sunday in guaranteeing all private bank accounts, putting Europe's biggest economy at odds with calls for a unified European response to the global financial melt­down. 
The decision came as governments across Europe scrambled to save failing banks, work­ing largely on their own a day after leaders of the continent's four biggest economies called for tighter regulation and a coordinated response. 
Chancellor Angela Merkel said that no citizen should fear for the safety of their investments, speaking to reporters as her government held crisis talks on the collapse of a ballyhooed 35 billion (US$48.4 billion) bailout of Hypo Real Estate AG, the country's second-biggest proper­ty lender. 
German Finance Ministry spokesman Torsten Albig said the unlimited guarantee covered some 568 billion (US$785 billion) in savings and checking accounts as well as time deposits, or CDs. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Colorado frat house firebombed 
BOULDER, Colo. -Someone tossed a firebomb into a fraternity house about a block from the University of Colorado, setting off a brawl in a nearby alley that sent one man to the hospital, police said. 
The firebomb early Friday caused no injuries or significant damage, and residents had put the blaze out by the time firefighters arrived, police spokeswoman Sarah Huntley said. 
Huntley said it was probably not a hate crime, but more likely stemmed from a feud between the fraternity and residents of a nearby apart­ment or with another fraternity. No arrests had been made, and police had no individual sus­pects. 

Priests meet in California to surf 
HUNTINGTON BEACH, Calif. -He may not be able to walk on water, but when the mood strikes, Father Matthew Munoz can ride one gnarly wave all the way into the beach. 
So Sunday at dawn, on the white sands of the town where the U.S. Surfing Championships were born nearly a half­century ago, Munoz and some two dozen fellow wave riders paused to thank God for all the joy the oceans have provided them. 
Then, after the surfer's ceremonial blow­ing of a conch shell for good luck, the pas­tor of Orange County's St. Ir'enaeus Catholic Church shouted out a hearty, "Let's surf!" 
LOCAL NEWS 
Damaged hospital to reopen 
COLUMBUS, Ind. -Columbus Regional Hospital plans to resume surgical and inpatient services in late October, more than four months after the hos­pital was closed by flooding that caused more than $200 million in damage to the complex. 
The hospital will reopen those units on Oct. 27, with that week as a transition period before being ready to handle a full volume of surgeries and patients by Nov. 3, hospital CEO Jim Bickel said. 
The June 7 flood that hit much of central and southern Indiana heavily damaged the hospital's first floor and basement, which was filled by flood­waters, and forced its evacuation and closure. 



Volatile week ahead on Wall Street 
Investors expect uncertainty, instability despite approval of bailout bill 
Associated ·Press NEW YORK -The world's financial markets face an uncertain and possibly volatile week as investors await details about how the Treasury will implement the government's financial rescue package ­and watch for any further fall­out from the credit crisis around the globe. The markets have switched their focus to the world econo­my now that the $700 billion bailout plan has become law. And there's reason for their concerns -governments across Europe are rushing to prop up failing banks. On Sunday, Germany said it would follow suit with Ireland and Greece in guaranteeing all pri­vate bank accounts. Those steps are the latest sign that the troubles of U.S. banks, which have all but par­alyzed credit IIJ.arkets, are affecting the fmancial systems of other countries. Banks' hesi­tation to lend to one another and to many businesses and individuals is the consequence of the bad mortgage debt that the financial rescue is sup­posed to sweep up. But it's still unclear how quickly financial institutions will be able to hand that debt to the U.S. govern­ment and convince the mar­kets they are healthy again. Wall Street looked to contin­ue the volatility of last week when trading resumed Monday. Stock index futures 
ment." restore investors' confidence. granted by the financial res­
declined by more than 1 per­
Roberts said the Federal "If one doesn't work what cue, which President Bush 
cent late Sunday, pointing to a 
Reserve and other central are you going to do for an signed into law Friday shortly 
lower open. Dow Jones indus­
banks likely will continue to encore?" after the House passed a
trial average futures fell 176, 
move in as needed to help Roberts and other market sweetened bill on the second 
or 1.70 percent, to 10,188. 
shore up the markets. But he watchers say it's possible that try.
Standard & Poor's 500 index 
thinks bringing lasting calm to the Fed, and perhaps other "You're going to have a lot of
fell 19.3, or 1.74 percent, to 
credit markets and financial central banks, could cut inter­volatility and we're going to get
1,089.00, while Nasdaq 100 
institutions will take longer to est rates this week -ahead of a whole lot of nowhere in the 
futures fell 20.25, or 1.37 per­
work out than many observers the central bank's scheduled next few weeks," said Frank 
cent, to 1,457.25. 
predict. meeting at month's end -if Ingarra, co-portfolio manager
Doug Roberts, chief invest­
"This is much more expan­the credit markets don't show ·at Hennessy Funds. 
ment strategist at 
sive than anybody is assum­signs of life. With oil prices well Investors will be straining to
ChannelCapitalResearch.com, 
ing," said Roberts. "I think that off their midsummer highs and see how the Treasury goes
said the steps taken by govern­
this whole bailout bill is the indicators pointing to a slower about purchasing banks' debt 
ments abroad are welcome 
first step in a series of steps." economy, the Fed's worries and what prices the unwanted
because a broad response, not 
Still, he said policymakers about inflation are less than assets might fetch. If the gov­
simply the U.S. bailout, is need­
likely will try to hold off on they had been, making it easier ernment pays too little it risks
ed to help steady the world's 
moves like rate cuts until they to justify a rate cut. sending more banks into fail­
financial system. 
determine they have little With so many unknowns, it's ure by depleting their asset
"A lot of the actions that are 
choice. The fear, he said, is likely to be a choppy ride on bases. But paying too much
occurring overseas are good," 
that the market could be unim­Wall Street for some time as could artificially strengthen
he said. "What you really need 
pressed and policymakers the Treasury Department banks that made bad decisions 
now is stabilization and that 
would have few tools left to starts flexing the new powers in lending and hurt taxpayers. 
really comes from the govern-



Simpson guilty, awaits sentencing 
and storming into a room at a him. As spectators left the court­
Associated Press 
hotel-casino, where the group room, Durio collapsed and para­
LAS VEGAS-O.J. Simpson, who seized several game balls, plaques medics were called, court went from American sports idol to and photos. Prosecutors said two of spokesman Michael Sommermeyer celebrity-in-exile after he was the men with him were armed; one said. acquitted of murder in 1995, was of them said Simpson asked him to Jurors made no eye contact with found guilty Friday of robbing two bring a gun. the defendants. sports-memorabilia dealers at gun­The verdict came 13 years to the Judge Jackie Glass made no com­point in a Las Vegas hotel room. day after Simpson was cleared of ment other than to thank the jury 
Simpson, 61, could spend the rest murdering his ex-wife and a friend for its service and to deny motions of his life in prison. Sentenced was of hers in Los Angeles in one of the for the defendants to be released on set for. Dec. 5. most sensational trials of the 20th bail. 
A weary and somber Simpson century. She refused to give the lawyers released a heavy sigh as the Simpson's co-defendant, Clarence extended time to file a motion for charges were read by the clerk in "C.J." Stewart, 54, also was found new trial, which under Nevada law Clark County District Court. He was guilty on all charges and taken into must be filed within seven days. immediately taken into custody. custody. The attorneys said they needed time 
The Hall of Fame football star Simpson showed little emotion as to submit a voluminous record. was convicted of kidnapping, armed officers handcuffed him and walked ''I've sat through the trial," Glass robbery and 10 other charges for him out of the courtroom. His sister, said. "If you want a motion for new gathering up five men a year ago Carmelita Durio, sobbed behind trial, send me something." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 6, 2008 
Speech 
continued from page I 
commander-in-chief should be simply and prud1mtly to protect, ddend and rnovn forward free­dom." he said. 
Anwricans and the media, Barr said, arn sntting the bar too low for th1dr leaders. lie n~l"enmeed civil rights loader Martin Luther King. Jr.. who said "the ultimate nwasurn of a person is not wh1\re one stands in monwnts of ~~om­fort and convenience, but where orw stands in ti~ws of" challnnge and ~~ontroversy. 
Barr added: "Thesn arn not limns of comfurt and eonvnn­innen. Thorn arn !,'T!'at challenges out tlwre." 
Barr eritidzed tlw n~ennt presi­dnntial and vien presidential debates, which neither he nor his running mate were invited to take part in, as a poor means of testing whether people are quali­fied for the presidency. 
Barr asked the audience, which occupied most of the lower level of Washington Hall, to imagine, instead of Sen. Joe Biden, the Democratic vice presidential can­didate and Gov. Sarah Palin, the Hepublican vice presidential can­didate, if leaders like George Washington or Thomas Jellerson or Abraham Lincoln had been speaking. 
If tho players were ehanged, would they allow the debate to degnnerate into "sound bite" ideas. Barr asked, with more focus on body language and "a wink herP and a shrug there?" 
Barr said he didn't think so. 
There snems to be a concerted effort, Barr said. to lower the level of discourse. 
"We are denigrating the entire notion of what it means to be a political leader," he said. 
Appearing to allude to an answer Palin gave in Thursday's debate, Barr said a member of the Notre Dame debate team would be "laughed off the stage" if he or she said she was not going to answer the questions from the moderator or the oppo­nent, but instead would talk about what he or she believes is important. 
The point of the debates is to see how a leader performs out­side his or her "comfort zone," a necessary component of being a leader, Barr said. 
Americans need to question whether the candidates have the qualifications to be president. Barr said. 
"We seem as a nation, by and large. to be satisfied with simply whether or not we feel comfort­able with that person, whether that person can relate as we sit at the bar or stand at the side­lines watching our kids play hockey or soccer," Barr said. "Don't get me wrong. I like hock­ey." 
Americans need to judge their nation's leaders by history's stan­dards, Barr said, not just by the candidate's likeability. 
"That's what gets us into trou­ble sometimes," he said. "We elect leaders that we feel we can sit down and have a brewski with." 
Barr spoke for half an hour and then took several questions from the audience. Barr was invited to speak on campus by the Notre Dame College llbertarians. 
At the beginning of his speech. Barr joked around about ways he has been characterized in the media since he began his cam­paign for president. 
Barr, a graduate of the University of Southern California. said he's been described alterna­tively as grumpy, humorless and stocky, but recently, by Time magazine, as trim. 
Stepping out from behind the podium and opening his jacket, Barr quipp!\d: 
"Is this the body of a stocky Trojan or a trim one?" 
Barr. 59, represnnted the 7th District of Georgia in the U.S. House of Hepresentatives as a Hepublican from 1995 to 2003. In 2006, Barr announced he had joined the Libertarian Party. IIn was nominated at the Libertarian National Convention in May. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Barr 
continued from page I 
toirn. Ban took questions from The Obsnrvnr and nxplainnd the purpose of his third party run and P.xpressnd some doubt about a USC vietory over Notre Damn at their Nov. 29 match­up. 
With Obama polling at 50 percent and MeCain at 43 per­eent. according to daily track­ing by the Gallup Poll, Barr said he does not anticipate winning the election. 
"We hope to have a major impact, and evfm though theo­rntically we can win, I don't antieipate that happening," he said. "Although maybe I'll wake up on my birthday. which is Nov. 5, and I'll have won." 
Barr added: "It's very impor­tant to put the ideas out there, to provide a real ehoiee for Amerieans, to make sure they do have a real choiee, to make sure they don't have to vote for the lesser of two evils." 
lie said he hopes to do with his campaign what Hoss Perot did in 1992 with his eandidaey. That is. gain a signifieant por­tion of the popular vote so he 
caninfluencepublicpolic~ 
Although he doesn't believe he will emerge vietorious on Nov. 5, Barr also doesn't want Obama or McCain to win. 
"I would rather not see either of them," he said. "Both are threats to liberty." 
Obama will expand the gov­ernment. he said, and McCain, like President George W. Bush. will push for bigger government in terms of executive power. 
"Both of them are very bad," he said. So Notre Dame students should vote for Barr, he said. 
"The heart of why they eome to Notre Dame is freedom, lib­erty. The freedom of ideas. the freedom to excel, and you don't get that by voting for a party that is the Republican or Democrat Party that believes in government control," he said. 
His party, the Libertarian Party, is in favor of "tremen­dous freedom," he said. 
"We understand that America's greatness comes from the people, not from the government," he said. 
Barr explained his position on abortion, an important issue for many Ameriean Catholics. 
"I'm pro-life but I believe that the federal government ought to stay out of it," he said. 
"That's a decision that the p!~O­ple of each state ought to make for themselves." 
Several times in his speech. Barr seemed to allude to and critieize Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republiean vice presidential nominee. He said McCain's choice was "irresponsible." 
"I think it was based simply on polities and not on qualifica­tions. And that's not leader­ship," he said. 
Barr said he plans to focus his campaign efforts on Indiana, along with 10 to 12 other states, in the month leading up to the election, since polling has shown that these are states where he ean pick up a signifi­cant portion of the popular vote. 
Friday marked Barr's first visit to Notre Dame. He said the campus was "absolutely gor­geous." 
Barr, a graduate of the University of Southern California. deelined to make a prediction about the upcoming Notre Dame-USC football game. After USC lost to Oregon State, Barr said he's not so confident his alma mater will pull out a win against Notre Dame. 
"It's going to be. as always, a tremendously exeiting game," he said. 
He said he won't be able to make it to the game, which will take place at the Coliseum in Los Angeles, Calil". on Nov. 29. But he said he'd love to make it if his schedule permits it. 
"They truly are among the most exciting games in college football every year," he said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 






YOU~RE INVITED 
($1UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
The Law School 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, October 6, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
-157.47

Dow 10,325.38
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,201 74 2,2,50 2,514,026,219 
AMEX 



z~~~AQ &J.([~j~;~~~~!lil!tlailll~ 
S&P 500 1,099.23 -3.77 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 10,931.1:4-'.•>·;~"'cum FTSE 100 (London) 4,980.25 -+109.91 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.35 -1.51 110.34 CITIGROUP INC (C) -18.44 -4.15 18.35 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.55 -0.57 36.18 WACHOVIA CP (WB) +58.82 +2.30 6.21 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.05 -0.0020 3.6440 13-WEEK BILL -20.34 -0.12 0.47 30-YEAR BOND -0.75 -0.0310 4.1230 5-YEAR NOTE -0.78 -0.02 2.68 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.09 93.88 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -11.10 833.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.28 94.10 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 104.7800 EURO 0.7255 
IN BRIEF 
Firms selected for mortgage support 
WASHINGTON -The Treastrry Depar1ment has picked two fmancial institutions to manage a pro­gram it unveiled last month to provide support for beleaguered mortgage-backed securities. 
The government announced Friday it was hiring Barclays Global Investors of San Francisco and State Street Bank and Trust Co. of Boston to man­age its program to purchase mortgage-backed securities. Barclays Global Investors is a U.S. sub­sidiary of Barclays PLC, which has headquarters in London. 
The department has said so far that it plans to purchase up to $10 billion of the securities, which have been battered in recent months by the soar­ing number of defaults on home mortgages as the housing industry undergoes its worst slump in decades. 
Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson announced the program to buy mortgage-backed securities on Sept. 7 at the same time he announced the government was seizing control of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in a bid to stabilize the nation's troubled housing market. 
Fannie and Freddie, two publicly traded compa­nies, together hold or guarantee about half of the nation's mortgage loans. 
Citi blocked from buying Wachovia 
NEW YOHK -The fight over control of Wachovia intensified Saturday, as a judge temporarily agreed to block the sale of the bank by Wells Fargo, Citigroup announced in a news release. 
State Supreme Court Justice Charles Ramos issued the order blocking the sale of Wachovia Corp., which Wells Fargo & Co. had agreed to purchase in a $14.8 billion deal. 
Citigroup Inc. accused Wells Fargo of try­ing to cut off its earlier takeover offer of Wachovia's banking operations for $2.1 bil­lion in a deal struck with the assistance of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. On Friday, four days after that deal was struck. Wells Fargo said it was buying Wachovia. 
The litigation pits two of the largest remaining financial institutions against one another as the ongoing credit crisis leads the federal government to arrange marriages and sales among banking entities. 

Bank closures expected despite bailout 
Financial analysts anticipate more than 100 banks will fail within the next year 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Here's 
a safe bet for uncertain 
times: A lot of banks won't 
survive the next year of 
upheaval despite the U.S. 
government's $700 billion 
plan to restore order to the 
fmancial industry. 
The biggest question is 
how many will perish and 
how they will be put out of 
their misery -in outright 
closures by regulators 
scrambling to preserve the 
dwindling deposit insurance 
fund or in fire sales made 
under government pressure. 
Enfeebled by huge losses 
on risky home loans, the 
banking industry is now on 
the shakiest ground since 
the early 1990s, when more 
than 800 federally insured 
institutions failed in a three­
year period. That was dur­
ing the clean-up phase of a 
decade-long savings-and­
loan meltdown that wound 
up costing U.S. taxpayers 
$170 billion to $205 billion, 
after adjusting for inflation. 
The government's com­
mitment to spend up to 
$700 billion buying bad 
debts from ailing banks is 
likely to save some institu­
tions that would have other­
wise died, but analysts 
doubt it will be enough to 
avert a major shakeout. 
"It will help, but it's not 
going to be the saving grace 
because a lot of banks are 
holding construction loans 
and other types of deterio­
Wachovia Bank branch in 1990s and is now a finance Using statistics from the 
rating assets that the gov­
Miami. "But it sounds safer professor at Louisiana State S&L crisis as a guide, Mason 
ernment won't take off their 
than the turmoil out there University. "We just had a estimates total deposits in 
books", predicted Stanford 
right now." big party where people and banks that fail during the 
Financial analyst Jaret 
Not as many banks are businesses overborrowed. current crisis at $1.1 trillion. 
Seiberg. He expects more 
likely to fail as in the S&L We had a bubble and now After calculating gains from 
than 100 banks nationwide 
crisis, largely because there we want to get back to nor­selling deposits and some of 
to fail next year. 
are about 8,000 fewer today mal. Is it going to be pain­the assets of the failed 
The darkening clouds 
than there were in 1988. less? No." banks, Mason estimates the 
already have some deposi­
But that doesn't necessari­With more super-sized clean-up this time will cost 
tors pondering a question 
ly mean the problems won't banks in business, fewer the FDIC $140 billion to 
that always seems to crop 
be as costly or as unnerving; failures could still dump a $200 billion. 
up in financial panics 
banks are much larger than big bill on the Federal The FDIC's fund currently
despite deposit insurance: 
they were 20 years ago, Deposit Insurance Corp., the has about $45 billion -a 
Could it possibly make more 
thanks to laws passed in the government agency that five-year low -but the 
sense to stash cash in a mat­
1990s. insures bank and S&L agency can make up for any
tress than in a bank "I don't see why things deposits. The FDIC's poten­shortfalls by borrowing from 
account? 

will be that much different tial liability is rising under a the U.S. Treastrry and even­
"It sounds like a joke," 
this time," said Joseph provision of the bailout that tually repaying the money
said business owner 
Mason, an economist who increases the deposit insur­by raising the premiums
Mauricoa Quintero as he 
worked for the U.S. ance limit to $250,000 per that it charges the healthy
recently paused outside a 
Treastrry Department in the account, up from $100,000. banks and S&Ls. 

Downturn affects car dealerships 
Like the banks that have been col­the group's 20,770 dealerships to shut 
Associated Press 

lapsing under the weight of the credit their doors this year, up from previous 
NEW YORK -Hundreds of thou­crunch, auto dealers are highly lever­estimates of 300 to 400. sands of new cars and trucks that aged, making them some of its first About 430 dealerships closed last would have quickly made their way to victims, said Sheldon Sandler, founder year and 295 closed up shop in 2006, people's driveways a year ago are now of Bel Air Partners, a New Jersey­according to the NADA. stacking up on dealer Jots across the based frrm that helps car dealers fmd Car dealers get vehicles for their lots country, with potential buyers worried options when they want out of the through a practice called floorplan about whether they'll keep their jobs, business. fmancing, where the funds needed to be able to pay for gas, or qualify for a "Car dealers are like the canaries in pay for inventory are supplied by a car Joan. the coal mine," he said. "The energy lender. The longer the vehicle goes 
For auto dealers already suffering crisis had been affecting their revenue unsold and the higher the interest under the worst U.S. sales downturn for a while. And now with the credit charged, the more it costs the dealer. in 15 years, the increasing cost of the crisis. in some cases, banks are turn­Ray Ciccolo, president of Village credit they use to keep inventory in ing off their credit." Automotive Group in the Boston area, their showrooms means every Ford Paul Taylor, chief economist 'vith the said his financing costs have doubled Focus and Jeep Grand Cherokee with National Automobile Dealers in recent years. That's had a "disas­a sale sticker in the window is chip­Association, said Friday that dealer­trous" effect, he said, on his six dealer­ping away at dealers' razor-thin profit ship closures spiked in September, ships that sell Cadillac, Saab, Volvo, margins every day and threatening to prompted him to raise his forecast of Honda, Hummer, Nissan and Hyundai send more of them out of business. closures. He now expects 500 to 600 of vehicles. 
...-----------------------------­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 6, 2008 
make Notre Dame a better monies and also helped with the chance to meet the place. , the reception. donors.
Duncan 


continued from page I 
pleased they were." 

Duncan Hall vice president Torn Bacsik, a junior, said he thought the dedication mass was particularly moving, see­ing the entire Duncan family present and filling the Chapel of St. Walter of Pontoise. 
University president Father John Jenkins presided over the mass. and University vice 
Allen said he thought resi­dents were actively involved and wanted to meet and be able to personally thank the Duncan family. 
"We really stressed to the residents that this was our chance to say thank you to the Duncans for their generosity ... so the guys really bought into it," Allen said. 
Hesidents helped with the hall tours following the cere-
At the reception, Raymond and Sally Duncan were pre­sented with a dorm T-shirt and banner, and the residents posed for a photograph with the dorm's donors. 
Allen said he particularly enjoyed seeing the interaction between Hay and Sally Duncan and the hall residents, noting residents of most halls on campus -especially older dorms -typically don't get 
Duncan Hall residents dis­cussed what goals the resi­dents have for the hall and in school with the hall benefac­tors, Allen said. 
"Making that connection from the people in the portrait on the wall and the guys who live in the dorm was a pretty neat connection," Allen said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 





presidnnt of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman deliv­ernd the homily, Bacsik said. 
"It was striking for me," Bacsik said, to see the family gathered together and recog­nizn what they had provided to the University. 
Bacsik said the family's ties 
Study Abroad
to Notre Dame are deep. The family's history at Notre Dame 
.
1n

dates back to Haymond Duncan's fathPr, who graduat­ed in 1 9 12, and leads all the way to his grandson, Matt 
Angers, France Duncan, a frPshman living in Duncan llall, will graduate in 2012. 
In addition, a new dorm rivalry has risen out of the Duncan family's history at Notrfl DamP. Just as a connec­tion between the donors of 

Information Session 
Siegfried and O'Neill halls has led to a rivalry between those 
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 
halls, now there is a new rivalry between O'Neill and 
5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center
Duncan, as a friendship also exists between the two fami­lies, Bacsik said. 
The family is committed to Notrn Dame. Bacsik explained. 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 
"They'rn so invested in this school," he said, giving their 
More Information Available at www.nd.edu/-ois/
time, money and energy to 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


!sUMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS! 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 



Information Meeting: 
Monday, October 6, 2008 Room 131 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 25 for Summer 2009 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/ ~engineerI sumlon/apply.html 

Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 


For Bay, lesbian, Bisexual tJ Ouestirming Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. 0ctober 7 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 

The Core Council invites gay. lesbian, bisexual Squestioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allys, to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
~IJiti~OM! Is ~li!i~ iX~ 5~[enmi~1FM 'IS #.ss~l 
X '~ :': .,. .,_,, ',. ,. ' ' ' ' 
Visit 


No turtles, chicks or exotic ]?ets for children 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Warning: young children should not keep hedge­hogs as pets -or hamsters, baby chicks, lizards and turtles, for that matter -because of risks for disease. 
That's according to the nation's leading pediatricians' group in a new report about dangers from exotic animals. 
Besides evidence that they can carry dangerous and sometimes potentially deadly germs, exotic pets may be more prone than cats and dogs to bite, scratch or claw -putting children younger than 5 particularly at risk, the report says. 
Young children are vulnerable because of developing immune systems plus they often put their hands in their mouths. 
That means families with chil­dren younger than 5 should avoid owning "nontraditional" pets. Also, kids that young should avoid contact with these animals in petting zoos or other public places, according to the report from the American Academy of Pediatrics. The report appears in the October edition of the group's medical journal, Pediatrics. 
"Many parents clearly don't understand the risks from vari­ous infections" these animals often carry, said Dr. Larry Pickering, the report's lead author and an infectious disease specialist at the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
For example, about 11 percent of salmonella illnesses in children are thought to stem from contact with lizards, turtles and other reptiles, Pickering said. Hamsters also can carry this germ, which can cause severe diarrhea, fever and stomach cramps. 
Salmonella also has been found in baby chicks, and young chil­dren can get it by kissing or touching the animals and then putting their hands in their mouths, he said. 
Study co-author Dr. Joseph 
Forumt 
continued from page 1 

ground rules not just for this year but it'll continue in years to come," she said. 
While it is not specified in the SGA Constitution if the Executive Board can set aside a stipend for themselves, it is also not stated that they cannot, Falvey said Wednesday. The addition of a clause stating whether or not they can will be taken to the Constitution Oversight Committee and Falvey said she hopes it will be more explicit in the Constitution next year. 
Many BOG members expressed concerns that the stipend was voted upon by the students who will receive it and the fact that the stipend is com­ing out of student funds at the meeting, which Voss said were echoed by the student body. 
"Several students expressed to me their frustration," Voss said. "They wondered if the BOG and administration under­stood how they felt about the topic. Thus, the idea for an Open Forum was born so that all student's voices' could be heard." 
The Student Government Constitution states that "all Saint Mary's College students Bocchini said he recently treated an infant who got salmonella from the family's pet iguana, which was allowed to roam freely in the home. The child was hospi· talized for four weeks but has recovered, said Bocchini, head of the academy's infectious diseases committee and pediatrics chair­man at Louisiana State University in Shreveport. 
Hedgehogs can be dangerous because their quills can penetrate skin and have been known to spread a bacteria germ that ean cause fever, stomach pain and a rash, the report said. 
With supervision and precau­tions like hand-washing, contact between children and animals "is a good thing," Bocchini said. But families should wait until chil­dren are older before bringing home an exotic pet, he said. 
Those who already have these pets should contact· their veteri­narians about specific risks and possible new homes for the ani­mals, he said. 
Data cited in the study indicate that about 4 million U.S. house­holds have pet reptiles. According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, all kinds of exotic pets are on the rise, although generally fewer than 2 percent of households own them. 
The veterinarian group's Mike Dutton, a Weare, N.H., exotic ani­mal specialist, said the recom­mendations send an important message to parents who some­times buy exotic pets on an impulse, "then they ask ques­tions, sometimes many months later." 
But a spokesman for the International Hedgehog Association said there's no reason to single out hedgehogs or other exotic pets. 
"Our recommendation is that no animal should be a pet for kids 5 and under," said Z.G. Standing Bear. He runs a rescue operation near Pikes Peak, Colo., for abandoned hedgehogs, which became fad pets about 10 years ago. 
are members of the student government association and have the right to voice their opinion on the actions of these bodies," which is why Voss took it upon herself to plan the event as a concerned student, which has been publicized through a Facebook event. 
"The only thing I want to accomplish is to let students voice their opinions on the budgeting issue. I want stu­dents to know that the BOG and administrators should make decisions that are in the best interest of the entire student body," she said. "[I] simply asked to reserve the Student Lounge, acquired a few micro­phones, and send out invita­tions to students on Facebook." 
Voss said both Johnson and Daniel will be in attendance at the event, as will a few mem­bers of the SGA Executive Board. 
"Several members expressed great interest [in the forum] ... regardless of which side of the issue they stood on," she said. 
Johnson said she thinks a lot of questions about the budget and why last year's Executive Board was the first to take a monetary stipend for their serv­ice to the student body will be answered by the forum. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 10 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 6, 2008 
Egypt's top diplolllat sent to Iraq 
Associated Press 

BAC;IIDAD-Ehrypt snnt its f()r­ni!-{n minister to Iraq Sunday for the first time in nearly two decades in a sign of growing Arab acct~ptancn of the country's Shiite-lml government. 
In the north. I I pnopln indud­ing wonwn and children died during a U.S. raid on a housn in Mosul, wlwrn an nxtrnmist deto­natnd a suicide vest -a stark reminder that Iraq still faces sncurity challtmges despite the drop in violence. 
Egyptian Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said his visit was ainwd at helping Iraq face its "many challenges," including nxtremism. violmu:e and sectari­an hatrnd. 
"And we hopn that peace and security will prevail in Iraq," Aboul Gheit said. lin told reporters Egypt was ready to open a new embassy and help with reconstruction of Iraq's oil industry. 
It was tho first visit to Iraq by an Egyptian foreign minister since 11J1JO. when Prnsident Saddam llussein invadnd Kuwait and his rngime was largely shunned by Arab governrnnnL'i. 
The United States has been urging the mostly Sunni-run Arab countries to shore up rPia­tions with Shiitc-led Iraq as a counterweight to the inlluence of Shiite-dominated Iran. But the Arabs were rPiuetant during the height of Shiite-Sunni lighting, whieh mended last year alter the 
U.S. troop buildup. 

In rncent months. leaders of Jordan and Lebanon have visited Iraq, along with the !()reign min­ister of the United Arab Emirates, which has sent an ambassador. Hegional powerhouse Saudi Arabia has remained on the side­lines. saying it was waiting until security improves. 

Aboul Gheit's visit was note­worthy, however, because of Ehrypt's traditional role as a lead­ing Arab state and host of the Arab League. The Egyptians sent an ambassador to Baghdad in 2005 but he was kidnapped and murdered by al-Qaida in Iraq. 
"Egypt has lost a good citizen on Iraqi soil," Aboul-Gheit said. 'This has kept us a little bit away on the oflicial level." 
U.S. officials are anxious for Iraq to bolster its ties to the Arab world as Washington prepares do draw down its 140,000 troops next year. U.S. and Iraqi oflicials are negotiating a security deal with the Iraqis say would see the last American troops leave the country by the end of 2011. 
Although violence is down more than 80 percent from early 2007 levels, U.S. military com­manders warn that security gains are not irreversible because Sunni and Shiite extremists have been battered but not defeated. 
Those fears were underscored by the carnage in Mosul, the third-largest city where U.S. and Iraqi forces have been trying to months to drive out al-Qaida in Iraq and other Sunni extremist groups. 
American troops came under heavy gunfire after entering a house early Sunday looking for a suspected insurgent, the U.S. mil­itary said in a statement. 
As U.S. soldiers returned fire, a man inside the house detonated a suicide vest, the statement added. 
Court justices attend Red Mass before term 
Associated Press 

WASI-IINGTON -The law 
is a guide to an orderly 
society, an American cardi­
nal said an a church service 
Sunday that included five 
Supreme Court justices 
ahead of the start of their 
new term. 

At the annual Red Mass, Cardinal John Patrick Foley told an audience of govern­ment officials, ambassa­dors, academics and mem­bers of the capital's legal community about his deci­sion to attend seminary rather than law school. 
·Foley said he never regretted the decision ­assisted by his voluntary teaching of religious studies to special education stu­dents -but that he sees many similarities between his work and the legal pro­fession. 
"We both seek to chal­lenge people to recognize their dignity and to live according to it," he said. "We both consider law as a guide to a well ordered society. We both see law as a means in which people can be educated to perceive what is good and to strive for it." 
Four of the five Roman Catholics on the high court 
Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Antonin Scalia, Anthony 
Kennedy and Clarence Thomas -eame to worship at the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle; the fifth. Justice Samuel Alito, did not attend. They were joined by Justice Stephen Breyer, who is Jewish. 
The cardinal also related 
a story of a visit from Scalia 
and his wife, Maureen. 
Foley said he explained the 
legal subject of his disserta­
tion to the justice, who dis­
agreed with his theories. 

According to Foley, the argument ended when Scalia's wife said, "Oh, admit it Nino, the archbish­op is right." 
In his remarks, Foley expressed a wish that "all of us may see law as a reflection of' God's loving care." lie went on to pray for those doing the "extremely important work of formulating and applying law." 
The Red Mass long has been held at the cathedral by the John Carroll Society, a group of Washington pro­fessionals who are Catholic. 
The name of the service, which dates back centuries and is conducted to ask for guidance for those who seek justice, comes from the red vestments worn by the cele­brants. The service tradi­tionally is held the day before the Supreme Court's new term. 



Hacking the Vote 
138 DeBartolo 
7 p.m. 
Tuesday, October 7 
The Internet plays a major role in fundraising, communication, and grassroots political organiza­tion for this year's Presidential Election. Individual voters trust that electronic voting systems will preserve the secrecy of their ballots and protect the integrity of the democratic electoral process. Is this trust well-founded? In this talk, we will examine the risks surrounding the integration of technology into all phases of the political process: campaigning, fundraising, voting and privacy. 
Sponsored by: 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office ofInformation Technologies 


:.t

securetj~ 
CAPP/TBS 

Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 



Palin unleashes verbal fire 
Behind VP candidate's words, an attempt to call Obama into question 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -By claiming that Democrat Baraek Obama is "palling around with terror­ists" and doesn't see the U.S. like other Americans, vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin targeted key goals for a faltering campaign. 
And though she may have scored a political hit each time, her attack was unsubstantiated and carried a racially tinged subtext that John McCain him­self may come to regret. 
First, Palin's attack shows that her energetic debate with rival Joe Biden may be just the beginning, not the end, of a sharpened role in the battle to win the presidency. 
HOur opponent ... is someone who sees America, it seems, as being so imperfect, imperfect enough, that he's palling around with terrorists who would target their own coun­try," Palin told a group of donors in Englewood, Colo. A deliberate attempt to smear Obama. McCain's ticket-mate echoed the line at three sepa­rate events Saturday. 
"This is not a man who sees America like you and I see America," she said. "We. see America as a force of good in this world. We see an America of exceptionalism." 
Obama isn't above attacking McCain's character with loaded words, releasing an ad on Sunday that calls the Arizona Republican "erratic" -a hard­to miss suggestion that McCain's age, 72, might be an issue. 
"Our financial system in tur­moil," an announcer says in Obama's new ad. "And John McCain? Erratic in a crisis. Out of touch on the economy." 
A harsh and plainly partisan judgment, certainly, but not on the level of suggesting that a fellow senator is un-American and even a friend of terrorists. 
In her character attack, Palin questions Obama's association with Willip,m Ayers, a member of the Vietnam-era Weather Underground. Her reference was exaggerated at best if not outright false. No evidence shows they were "pals" or even close when they worked on community boards years ago and Ayers hosted a political event for Obama early in his career. 
Obama, who was a child when the Weathermen were planting bombs, has denounced Ayers' radical views and actions. 
With her criticism, Palin is taking on the running mate's traditional role of attacker, said Rich Galen, a Republican strategist. 
""There appears to be a new­found sense of confidence in Sarah Palin as a candidate, given her performance the other night," Galen said. "I think that they are comfortable enough with her now that she's got the standing with the elec­torate to take off after Obama." 
Second, Palin's incendiary charge draws l)ledia and voter attention away from the wors­ening economy. It also comes after McCain supported a: pork­laden Wall Street bailout plan in spite of conservative anger and his own misgivings. 
"It's a giant changing of the subject," said Jenny Backus, a Democratic strategist. "The 
problem is the messenger. If you want to start throwing fire bombs, you don't send out the fluffy bunny to do it. I think people don't take Sarah Palin seriously." 
The larger purpose· behind Palin's broadside is to reintro­duce the question of Obama's associations. Millions of voters, many of them open to being swayed to one side or the other, are starting to pay atten­tion to an election a month away. 
For the McCain campaign, that makes Obama's ties to Ayers as well as convicted felon Antoin "Tony" Rezko and the controversial minister Jeremiah Wright ripe for renewed criticism. And Palin brings a fresh voice to the argument. 
Effective character attacks have come earlier in cam­paigns. In June 1988, Republican George H.W. Bush criticized Democrat Michael Dukakis over the furlough granted to Willie Horton, a convicted murderer who then raped a woman and stabbed her companion. Related TV ads followed in September and October. 
The Vietnam-era Swift Boat veterans who attacked Democrat John Kerry's war record started in the spring of 2004 and gained traction in late summer. 
"The four weeks that are left are an eternity. There's plenty of time in the campaign," said Republican strategist Joe Gaylord. "I think it is a legiti­mate strategy to talk about Obama and to talk about his background and who he pals around with." 
In Pursuit of the Enemy 
4~~~~~~~ ~~·~ Toward a Literary and. Psychologi Definitiotl of. uman Evil 

A lecture by Vera B. Profit, Professor of German and Comparative Literature 


TUESDAY, .OCTOBER 7 7:00PM 125 DeBartolo Hall 
Nt~W" RI law-requires datingviolencelearning 
Burke family pushed for students to learn about abusive relationships in health class 
Associated Press 

NORTH KINGSTOWN, R.I.­Ann Burke saw signs of trouble with her daughter's boyfriend. 
He'd incessantly call her at night, keep her from her family, and, ultimately, physically abuse her during a tumultuous relation­ship that ended with her death three years ago. 
Burke's 23-year-old daughter, lindsay, may not have understood the dynamics of an abusive rela­tionship, but her death is helping to ensure that other young people do. 
A new law in Rhode Island called the lindsay Ann Burke Act requires all public middle and high schools to teach students about dating violence in their health classes. 
The initiative was spearheaded by Burke and her husband, Chris, who say schools should be obligat­ed to teach teens the warning signs of abusive relationships and broach the subject head-on so vic­tims feel empowered to get help and leave violent partners. 
"lfthis could happen to her, this could happen to anyone," said Ann Burke, a health teacher who runs a memorial fund to raise money for dating violence work­shops for parents and educators. 
One other state, Texas, man­dates unspecified awareness edu­cation on dating violence for stu­dents and parents, while several other states encourage it. But the Rhode Island measure goes fur­ther by requiring the topic be incorporated annually into the cuniculum for students in seventh through 12th grade. 
Burke says such education would have allowed her daughter to recognize the danger in her relationship earlier. Though her daughter left her boyfriend several times, she didn't change her phone number or have a plan for safely cutting off contact for good. 
She also believed she could be friends with her boyfriend if the romance ended. 
"I said, 'No, he said that to you before, lindsay. You can't just be friends,"' Burke recalled. 
Rhode Island Attorney General Patrick Lynch, who shepherded the proposal through the legisla­ture last year, said domestic vio­lence is a disturbingly common crime, yet education about it is scarce and haphazard. 
"You teach sex ed, you teach 'don't do drugs,' you teach 'don't drink,' you should also be teaching 'don't be a victim of domestic vio­lence,'" said Lynch, whose office receives about 5,000 eases a year. 
School districts are expected to start implementing the law this school year. By December, officials hope to have established a policy for re~·•ponding to incidents of dat­ing violence. 
The law is gaining traction around the country, with mem­bers of the National Association of Attorneys General unanimously adopting a resolution encouraging the education in their states. Nebraska's top prosecutor said he intends to submit legislation mod­eled after Rhode l'iland's law, and apparel maker Uz Oaiborne Inc. has helped promote it around the country. 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, October 6, 2008 
____--------======::-::============================= 
THE OBSERVER 
!'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining 11•11. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDI'IUR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fi11.patrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler Ass·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOit: Jenn Metz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink ScENF. EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz llarter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Marv Jesse 
AIWEin'ISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All DF.~IGN MANAGF.R: Mary Jesse CONTROU£R: Stacey Cill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('i74) 6.31-6900 obst-rvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF ('574) 631-4142 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsmc@'nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5.313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-'5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
('574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4'540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK ('574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
TltE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indcpcndem, daily newspaper published in print and onlint· by the studems ofthe University of Nurre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's Collc!(C-Editorial content, including adverrisemcms, is not governed hy policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advt·rtiscmcnrs based on content. 
"I 'he news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of tht· majority of the Editor in Chict: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns pre!iCnt the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe <>bserver. 
Vit-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through k-tters is encouraged. I.c:rrers to the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
Qu.-stiom rrgarding Obsm'rr policies should be directed to Editor in ChiifChris !-line. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
"11tc OIMrvcl lliSI1S '5'J'J 2-1UOO) It l"'bi,.Ju:d Momi~y tluuutth Fri•lay nccpt durutg ,·utn .~oml VJL,liUIIl period~. A ,ui~M·r•pmmlu The; l)h<crvcr •• $1tl() for one A(..IJ<:mk 
year; S'l~ fi~r flllt'"t'fflc:llcr 
l'hc oo~rtvt't i•publu.hctl .u I'OHMASTF.tt 024 ~uurh nuunjlll.lll ~nd .Kidrw cnrrcctinns ro: Nullc lhmc. IN -"61j1f•·0779 Thc:OI"-Crver Pt'tiudkill ptHiol.f.,'C p.uJ ,u Nmrc D.1mc 1~0. Box n9 ~nd .~oddmnnJI mJilin~~o ntlicn. 024 South Dining 11311 
Nom: I>.amc. IN 46".i'56·0779 

·nu.' Oh<K-1 vt'l 11 a mc:mhcr nf du:: A-..cl.&tnl rrat.. AU rqm~ludum n~lus are l't'-'ttvttl. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mandi Stirone Matt Gamber Aaron Steiner Sam Werner Irena Zajickova Michael Blasco Graphics Scene Andrea Areher Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 

What to do when Wall Street comes knocking at your door 
Thn $700 billion bailout bill has some nveryday Americans worried. Everyone is having a hard time scrounging up the money for their heating, food and gas bills. Politicians keep reminding us of' how the evils of Wall Street are hurting all of' us. So what do you do when Wall Street comes and asks for a few billion of what you have left 
?

over. 
I've put together a handy guide to help you out. It can be a pocket-guide, too, if you just rip this page out of The Observer and stick it in your pocket. Laminate it if you are particularly worried about how to deal with Wall Street, or if you live in tho New York area. 
First, What does Wall S'treet look like? Well. it has big, nasty, pointy teeth. the better to eat us with, my dears. Don't let the teeth alarm you. They probably just bnlong to its comb; Wall Street is very worried about its outward appearance. 
What time of day can you expect Wall Street to come around? Usually early in the morning-and always synchronized to Eastern Standard Time. Actually, it stays up through the middle of the night, as welL This requires constant vigilance on our 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
part! 
What does Wall Street want from you? Money! (Come on, that was too easy.) 
What language does Wall Street speak? Numbers. And politics. If you know the exact definition of' "points," then you're golden. If you don't, wel­come to Wall Street. 
What will Wall Street say to me? It will probably start with something friendly. Wall Street has v~ry relined manners, and usually addresses you politely. The conversation will be quick and to the point. Do not, under any cir­cumstances, hand over financial infor­mation. Wall Street may try to get an idea of your assets, but keep them well-hidden. 
/low should I conduct myself while conversing with Wall Street? It is best to remain vague and fake a limited knowledge of economics and the cur­rent financial crisis. Important! Wall Street itself does not understand exact­ly how Wall Street works. It will main­tain its friendliness if you let it believe it understands its inner functions. This is confusing for us as well as for Wall Street, but do not try to know more than the monster-it can sense bull like few others. 
What are some key words to beware op Blank check. Bailout. Overhaul. Stimulus Package. If Wall Street_uses any of these phrases, shut the door immediately and call Ben Bernanke. 
How can I protect my house against Wall Street? Well, don't do anything that requires a large capital invest-
OBSERVER POLL 
Who would you rather spend a night on the town with? 
Sarah Palin Cindy McCain Michelle Obama Mrs. Biden 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


ment, beeause Wall Street will see to it 
that you ean not get a loan. It is better 
to strip your house of any valuables, 
and keep the rest coven~d in hippie 
paraphernalia. 
Where should I keep my cash? In a flower pot. Living things may seare the boast away. But actually, now that I've told all of you that. Wall Street knows too. So just be creative. Hnmember, if you can hope, you can fight grned. If you didn't know that, listtm to the next presidential debatn. 
5)hould I give it any money? There are a few schools of thought on this one. Some believe appeasnnwnt will quell the beast and send it away to your neighbor less angry. However, it has been proven to only want more money if you give it anything at all. Perhaps give it a scratch-off lottery ticket as a way to move it to less harm­ful forms of gambling. 
Are my children safe? Don't worry about the kids. Just don't let tlwm play Monopoly anymore. 
And finally, if Wall Street comes and has money to give you, aecept it. Perhaps the monster ean be danger­ous, but if Wall Street's going to hnlp you profit, take advantage. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a junior History and German major. .S'he spends her time warning society ofits figura­tive enemies. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nece_sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifyou ever injected truth into poli­
tics, you would have no politics." 
Will Rogers vaudeville performer 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, October 6, 2008 page 13 
Presidential candidates lack effective economic rhetoric 
Both Republican presidential nominee· John McCain and Democratic nominee Barrack Obama should have learned by now that actions speak as loudly as state­ments on the campaign trail. Presidential rhetoric is unique and judged on likability, confidence and style as much as on con­

Gary Caruso 
tent. Yet, with 
Guest
months of campaign 
Columnist
experience behind them, both candi­dates have failed to respond to the eco­nomic crisis in a way that could have immediately assured a landslide victory in November. 

Granted, polls show movement towards Obama nationally and in several of the battleground states. In Florida, for exam­ple, Obama has risen to 51 percent during the past week. This rise is due to a slow bleeding of support from McCain rather than any surge by Obama. 
The common misconception in cam­paigns is that content -creatmg a catchy phrase like "main street over wall street" that easily crystallizes a thought -and rapidly responding to an opponent are the primary functions of communications. Ronald Reagan may have famously said in 1980 during his debate with President Jimmy Carter, "There you go again," but that phrase only culminated his campaign in the minds of voters. Reagan's tough persona resonated as loudly as his spoken rhetoric. 
Nearly two weeks ago, as Congress was about to consider remedies to prevent the nation's banking system from collapse, Obama took himself out of any leadership role by responding that he had a phone and to give him a call if he was needed. By contrast, McCain suspended his campaign to return to Washington, a bold physical rhetorical move which he did not match with his words. At the end of the day when congress.voted on a rescue package, McCain had the opportunity to refute Obama's premise about his superior judg­ment. Yet McCain failed because his actions did not match his words. 
McCain should have initially redefined what the media were calling a "Wall Street bailout" as a "main street rescue measure." He could have easily insisted that his Republican colleagues frame the argument as a recovery measure. McCain had the opportunity to show why his many years of Congressional experience would serve the public well in the White House by also pushing for stronger oversight lan­guage in the bill. 
Secondly, McCain should have never repeated the easy slogans coming from the White House. By repeating a week earlier that the "fundamentals of the economy are strong," McCain's sense of urgency and rush to return to Washington 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Graduates m_em_bers of Notre Dam_e fam_ily too 
Just a short response to "Our Pep Rally Manifesto" by Aidan McKiernan and Tristan Hunt (Oct. 3): As an alum from the class of 1990, I pretty much agree with everything the Sorin men have to say with the exception of the guest list and the insiima­tion that you are the only group passionate about Notre Dame football. Twice you say that if you are not a student at Notre Dame (band, student, team) you are not invited. You add that non-students are welcome, one sentence after saying they are not invited. Gee, thanks ... I graduated from Notre Dame 18 years ago. Given a choice, I would still stand and yell the entire game-and I still do, as much as I can. I snuck into the student section for years after I graduated and would probably do so today if I could get away with it. 
I stopped going to Pep Rallies years ago for exactly the rea­sons you cite and I applaud your basic premise. If the changes you desire come to pass, some alumni will stop attending. Others, like me, if welcome will take the afternoon off again and drive hours to attend, because it will be exactly what we want and what we remember about pep rallies. All that, assum­ing we really are welcome. There is another class of alumni, generally much older, that would thoroughly enjoy observing (even if not able or willing to participate) the kind of rally you desire. Turning your collective backs on them would be a slap in the face to all those that stood in your shoes throughout the decades and cheered the men in blue and gold on every snap, tackle and touchdown. 
Good luck in your endeavor, but just remember that Notre Dame men do not turn their backs on their own. 
Dan Molyneaux alum class of 1990 Oct. 4 

were out of character with his statements. He should have -and this is where most campaigns fail-spoken with conditional phrases. For example, to successfully repeat the White House, McCain should have said, "The fundamentals of the econ­omy are strong, but we may need to address a few segments to assure contin­ued strong sustainability." 
Thirdly, McCain needed to educate and easily explain the crisis in terms the public can understand, and then show optimism. Warren Buffet, Chairman Birkshire Hathaway summarized the situation recently on PBS's "Charlie Rose Show." Buffet optimistically said that the country works very well and our economic system has all the ingredients for a super future, it's just that the "athlete is on the floor" and needs to catch his breath. 
Buffet continued with the metaphor by saying that we must prevent a loss of con­fidence that credit and money will be there in the markets and financial institu­tions ... the issue is like oxygen. Ifit is available, we don't think about it. If it is gone,_ within five minutes it is the only thing to think about. So we lift the athlete from the floor and invest the blank check rather than spend it. The $700 billion res­cue package buys $2 trillion of face value mortgages. Only the government can sus­tain a long term hold on it and make a profit. 
McCain could have used similar lan­guage by saying that the rescue package buys at 22 cents on the dollar and over time can make money. It is a real estate bubble of fear and greed that we must address just like the Internet bubble of the '90s or the farm bubble in the '80s. Citing Buffet, 10 years from now Americans will be living better than now. 
Finally, once McCain suspended his campaign, he should have said that he would only attend the debate to discuss the situation with the American public and then return to Washington. Then, he could have taken credit for any consensus, and specifically for passage in the Senate. He would have been consistent with his actions. 
A month before an election is an eterni­ty in politics. McCain needs to stop the steady slip of support soon to be competi­tive in November. He must learn to walk and talk in unison, or he will suffer an electoral landslide loss. 
Gary Caruso, is a graduate ofNotre Dame's class of1973. He is a communica­tions strategist who serz1ed as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. He can be con­tacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necesarily those ofThe Observer. 
Save pep rallies: show up 
As one of the leprechaun mascots of Notre Dame, it may seem that I would take "Our Pep Rally Manifesto" (Oct. 3) so eloquently written by the Otters ofSorin College as a threat. The pep rally may be the most exciting opportunity that we get as leprechauns (I have yet to run out of the tunnel in front of 80,000 screaming fans so I will reserve my judgment) and the last thing we want to see is empty seats where students should be jumping around and screaming until they can't scream anymore. I am on your side though, and I think something needs to be done. 
While I applaud your audacity and your intentions, however, I think you are going about this the wrong way. Let me explain: Let's face it, this place is magical. Why is it magical? The storied tradition, the worldwide fame, the unparalleled atmosphere, the transformation that takes place every game day on campus, the many incredibly successful athletic programs that continue to impress while upholding the highest levels of academic integrity, the really, really good looking leprechauns and the pride we take in knowing that no other university in the world can compare to our beloved Notre Dame. But what is the single most important reason for the magic that fills this campus? What makes it all happen year after year? The students. As Domers, we carry that tradition and that magic on our shoulders, building upon it and passing it on to those who will join our family in the future. That is what pep rallies should be about, and that is where I agree with you. Every Friday as we prepare to take part in the greatest tradition in the world on the most sacred football field in the world, we need to come together as a stu­dent body and share in that mystical "Notre Dame Spirit" that only Irish fans can truly understand. 
So while your intentions may be good, and your wishes deserve recognition, I di<>agree with your approach. Rather than discourage attendance and create a rift in the student body, you should be encouraging more attendance and more solidarity between the students, the band and the team. Less than a quarter of the student body attended the last pep rally-just imagine ifeveryone showed up and got as rowdy as possible. It would be a truly awesome spectacle, the team would be blown away by our support and the JACC would provide a great venue. So I ask you, noble Otters, and all proud Domers alike, to please save our pep rallies. It is up to you, and only you can do it. Do so by showing up in record numbers, getting as rowdy as possible, and making it your show! Last time I checked, there is no script for the students (Believe me; I have actually seen the scripts). So get loud, stay loud and don't stop cheering and chanting throughout the entire rally. Ifyou do that, everyone in attendance will be swept up by the spirit that I know we can create. 
Consider this a call to arms for all Fightin' Irish fans, unite in the name of Our Lady and cheer her loyal sons onward to victory. GO IRISH! In the name of the Irish, Leprechaun Dan. 
Daniel Collins junior Alumni Hall Oct. 3 


Get facts before booing Titn McCarthy 
I write in response to Mike Kaneb's Oct. 1 Letter entitled "Boo Tim McCarthy." I see absolutely no reason why Kaneb would advocate booing Tim McCarthy as means of expressing his displeasure regarding the events of the past few weeks. Were Kaneb to have spent either 20 years living in South Bend or five minutes in the library, he would no doubt know that McCarthy retired from the police force in 1978 and has spent the time since in the service of Porter County, Ind., as a private business owner. I recognize that Kaneb seeks a target for his criticism, bul perhaps this criticism is better directed at individuals who may have actually been associated with the Indiana State Police, Indiana Excise Police, NDSP, and/or SBPD within the past 30 years. 
Jim Masters junior Fisher Hall Oct.3 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 14 
Monday, October 6, 2008 

The New York Times calls the Aquila Theatre Company's production of "The Iliad" a "performance of staggering power ... stunning, stirring and memorable theatrical experience." 
The company originally performed the Iliad at the Lincoln Center in New York City in 1999. 
In their vnrsion of the classic Greek myth, the warriors of old are reinter­preted as soldiers, inspired by a photograph of the D­Day landings entitled "Into thn Jaws of Dnath." 

ass1cs to Saint M 
By JORDAN GAMBLE Scene Writer 

With pared-down staging and classic material, the Aquila Theatre Company will take the stage in O'Laughlin Auditorium Monday with William Shakespeare's "Comedy of Errors" and Tuesday with Homer's "The Iliad." 
Both shows throw a modern twist into the classic tales. "Comedy of Errors," which Shakespeare set in Turkey, updates its look to the 20th century, with costumes straight out of "Casablanca." 
The set and costume design for "The Iliad" was inspired by the cover art of recent edition of the Homer master­piece, said the website for the compa­ny's touring representation, Baylin 
·Artists Management. Stanley Lombrado's 1998 translation, which was the basis for the play's script, fea­tured a photo from 0-Day, and Aquila took that as inspiration for the World War II look of the actors' army uniforms and the play's props and settings. 
Despite these artistic slants, the shows still retain the company's mission of the­atrical utilitarianism. Actors play sever­al roles in both shows and props and settings are sparse. This style allows the message and drama from the legendary authors of each performed text to shine all the more clearly. 
"With precision and unity of ensem­ble, Aquila articulates the human essence inherent in classical drama," says the website for Baylin Artists Management. 
The New York City-based troupe tours every year, visiting 60 to 70 cities with the aim of bringing classical theatre to the masses. This year, their national touring schedule includes many per­formances at college campuses like Saint Mary's College. 
Aquila also puts on a full season of shows in New York City, but a largo 
In "The Iliad," nine years have passed in the violent Trojan War without an end in sight. The commander of the Greek forces, Agamemnon, clashes with legendary warrior Achilles, and the wrath of Apollo strikes their forces with a deadly plague. 
A foundational myth in the Western canon, "The Iliad" is not to be missed. 
The Homeric epic is given new life in this production, where metal helmets replace ancient battle garb and mod­ern actors take their turn in this classic tale. 
amount of the company's output is edu­cational. 
Besides being the Professional Company in Residence at New York University's Center for Ancient Studies, Aquila hosts numerous theatre work­shops and performs for schools in inner city and rural areas that might not often see regular professional shows. 
One of Aquila's education programs, Shakespeare Leaders, takes students from schools in Harlem and the Bronx and teaches them the technique and discipline of acting and staging a play. The students then perform the full show for their local community and a New York City theater. 
The theatre company was founded in London in 1991 by Peter Meineck and moved to New York City in 1999. In the last 17 years, the company of American and British actors have put on over 60 different plays in their United States tours, New York City and London stages, and at international and Shakespeare theatre festivals in Greece and Los Angeles. 
If Aquila's record of past shows is anything to go by, the staples of classic theatre only continue to take in audi­ences. The company explains that eaeh incarnation of a show allows for new expression and creativity despite the material's age. 
"The technique is aimed to create an aesthetic environment where the per­former can create and recreate a role in a consistently changing theatrical atmosphere," Aquila's website said. 
Aquila has produced "The Iliad" and "Comedy of Errors" before, in national tours and off-Broadway productions from 1998 to 2000. The enduring themes of war and sacrifice from "The Iliad," and the still sidesplitting mistak­en-identity gags from "The Comedy of Errors," keep them perenniaJ favorites. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
This play is a Shakespearian masterwork in mistaken identity, slap­stick comedy and wordplay. 
The Aquila Theatre Company's productions of Shakespeare's text have played at the Edinburgh Festival and for the President and First Lady, representing the National Endowment of the Arts at the White House. 
In "The Comedy of Errors," two pairs of iden­tical twins find themselves in the same household in the ancient town of Ephesus, separated by a shipwreck. Antipholus of Syracuse and his servant, Dromio of Syracuse, are reunited, through a series of comedic mishaps, with their twins, Antipholus of Ephesus and his servant, Dromio of Ephesus. 
With accusations of theft, infidelity and even demonie possession, the play is filled with comedic elements and witty dia­logue. 
The New York Times said of Aquila's version: "no one who sees the rous­ing production ... will for­get a whit of it." 



MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 





NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, October 6, 2008 BSERVER Notre Dame 28, Stanford 21 
Career day 
Personal bests from Clausen and a host of others lead the Irish to a 28-21 win 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer Freshman wide receiver Michael Floyd celebrates after hauling in a 48-yard pass for a touchdown in the second quarter to give Notre Dame a 21-7 lead. Floyd had five catches in the game for a career-high 115 yards receiving. 
By LAURA MYERS  end Kyle Rudolph.  happy defense only had one  calling it out, saying watch the  the final three quarters.  
Spons Writer  The 48-yard reception was  sack on the season.  screen," Kuntz said. "I thought  "(The defense) got a beat on  
the longest in Floyd's short  The motivated defense sacked  he wasn't going to throw it  what they needed to do to slow  
Another week meant more  career  and  Rudolph's  five  Pritchard five times Saturday.  near me, but I ended up being  them down, because in the first  
career highs for Notre Dame. Sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen and freshman  catches and 70 yards were both career highs. "[Clausen] had another game  "When anyone bashes Notre Dame and our defense like that, they're going to pay for  ·  right in front of it, so I had to catch it or else it would have been bad for the rest of my  quarter we weren't slowing them down very much," Weis said.  
receiver Michael Floyd Sf1t per­ without an  interception on a  it," senior safety Kyle McCarthy  life."  Stanford opened up the sec­ 
sonal bests for the second week  day that when Stanford got  said. McCarthy  Along with the  ond quarter with a 14-play, 95­ 
in a row by connecting five down they were bringing it. times for 115 yards. Clausen They were bringing double had 29 total completions for safety blitzes. They were just three touchdowns and 347 dialing it up there at the end. I  finished the game with a team-high 14 tackles.  "When anyone bashes Notre Dame and our defense like  interception, Kuntz had a tipped ball, a fumble recovery  yard drive to tie the game at 7­7. After that, the defense set­tled in and the Irish began to pull away.  
yards, a career best, in Notre Dame's 28-21 win over Stanford.  think he really stood tall," coach Charlie Weis said. Clausen had plenty of help  The Irish fol­lowed the inter­ception with an  that, they're going to pay for it. "  and two sacks. "l think that he was more juiced  On the very next drive, Armando Allen ran four yards into the end zone for his second  
The Irish (4-1 l eclipsed their  from  his teammates on  the  80-yard  drive  than he normal­ touchdown  of the  game  - 
2007 win total only five games into this season with the victo­ry. Clausen said it's time for the  other side of the ball. Stanford received the opening kickoff and moved the ball 45  capped by a 21­yard touchdown reception by  Kyle McCarthy Irish senior  ly is for this game. He was more motivated.  another career high. Allen fin­ished with 33 yards rushing, 66 yards receiving, and 54 yards  
comparisons to stop.  yards before a  false start by  sophomore  Not that he isn't  on  kick  returns.  His  seven  
"Last year  was  last year.  offensive tackle Chris Marinelli  Armando Allen.  always motivated, but he was  receptions were also a personal  
We've moved on. This is a dif­ stalled their momentum. Two  On Stanford's next posses­ really ready to go," Weis said.  best.  
ferent team than last year," he  plays later, quarterback Tavita  sion, the Cardinal were once  "I think he played hard in the  Stanford put together a come­ 
said.  Pritchard threw an interception  again threatening, quickly  game and was disruptive for all  back with two Pritchard touch­ 
On third down late in the sec­ to senior safety David Bruton.  advancing 45 yards before a  four quarters."  down passes, but it was too lit­ 
ond quarter, Clausen launched  Marinelli became the object  false start by offensive tackle  Despite the extra motivation,  tle, too late.  
a  pass from the Stanford 48­ of controversy last week after  Ben Muth moved them back  the Notre Dame defense gave  Senior punter Eric Maust  
yard line that Floyd pulled in  he made comments degrading  five yards. Two plays later,  up  108 rushing  yards  to  pinned the Cardinal inside their  
for  a touchdown. He followed  the Irish football team and  Pritchard threw an interception  Stanford in the first quarter  own  5-yard  line  and  the  
that in the third quarter with a  Notre Dame in general. He  to senior defensive end Pat  alone. But the Cardinal were  
41-yard reception that set up a  added  a jab to Notre Dame's  Kuntz.  only able to pick up 53  more  Contact Laura Myers at  
touchdown for freshman tight  defense, saying that the blitz­ "Before the play we  were  yards on  the ground through  lmyers2@nd.edu  

play of the gameplayer of the game stat of the game quote of the game 
"... I had to catch it or else it would 
Michael Floyd's 48-yard touchdown
Jimmy Clausen 
5 

have been bad for the rest ofmy life" The sophomore quarterback showed 

catch 
sacks from the Notre Dame 
Pat Kuntz 

Clausen sbomb to one ofhishe is the real deal with 347 yards defense after recording only one 
Irish senior on his interception 
favorite freshman put the Irish up 2I-7 just before the ha{f 
passing and no interceptions. 
in its first four games. 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 6, 2008 

report card 
A 

8+ 8­8+ 
quarterbacks: Clausen's stats speak for themselves. More importantly, he played a mistake-free game and avoided prcssurn several times, mak­ing something out of nothing. 
running backs: The threP Irish baeks com­
bined lilr a totaJ of(,1 rushing yards. /\linn sawd them by hmding the team in 
rnenptions and w~tting to the end zone 
twien. 
receivers: h·nshrnnn Hudolph and Floyd worn lights out again and Grimes snnmml to bn back at full spnml. !\ pair of drops killed a latn drive. but other than that. they got t.lw job donn. 
offensive line: Clausen had plenty of' time to throw the ball ((Jr most of the day, but 1-U rushing yards on 27 car­ries was a stP.p backwards from the impressivP game over Purdun. 
defensive line: Toby Gerhart rushed fi1r 
I 04 yards. but five sacks, an intP.n:np­tion. and a fumblo rncovnry make this arguably thn bost game tho linmnen have had this yoar. 
C+ 
linebackers:!\ flurry of missed tacklns lod to 163 rushing yards filf the Cardinal. Smith and Fleming did both have sacks and the nntirn unit got good prt~ssure. 
B+ 
defensive backs: Bruton and McCarthy both had intorceptions and Sergio Brown pkknd up a sack. Lambert had 
troubh~ at times keoping up with the Stanlilfd rncoivers. 
D 
special teams: On lilllrth down from the 
1 0-yard line. Weis opted to kncp the 
field goaJ unit off thn field, enough said. MaLL'it's punl'i keep thorn [rom llunking. 
coaching: The Irish looked sluggish in the 
semnd half. but a win L'> a win. Oausen 
tmd the olli-mse have improved with 
each week.Weis made sure his team was 
lirnd up and ready to go. 
overall: Notre Dame has plenty of 
thing> to work on. They did top 
last yp,ar's win total alrPady so Irish
2.88 
liuJS should be counting their bJP.~>.....ing>. 
adding up the numbers 
Passing yards for quarterback Jimmy 347 Clausen. Clausen has set career highs lor passing yards in the past two games. 
1 0 9 
Pass attempts by Jimmy Clausen since his last interception midway through the second quar­ter at Michigan State. 
Consecutive wins for the Irish over Stanford. The streak dates back to a 
7
17-13 Cardinal win in 2001. 
39 
Years since Notre Dame has won a game on Oct. 4. Their last win came against Michigan State in 1969. 
First downs for Stanford during the third quar­
0 
ter. 
2002 The last time Notre Dame started 4-0 at home. The Irish started 8-0 that year before losing to Boston College. 
Votes that Notre Dame received in Sunday's USA Today Top 25 poll. 
11 
48 
Yards lost by the Stanford offense on Notre Dame's five sacks. 

DAN JACOBSfThe Observer 

Referees attempt to break up one of many scuffles between Notre Dame and Stanford during Saturday's game. Emotions were running high after incendiary remarks were made by a Stanford lineman earlier in the week. 
Trash talk fires up the Irish 
"The field sucks. The stadium sucks. I think the area sucks. We are going out there to mash them up and that's all there is to it." 
Those were the words of' 
Stanford tackle Chris Marinelli last Wednesday talking about his upcoming trip to South Bend. 
Open mouth, insert 22 feet. 


Along with Dan Murphy calling out everything 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame stands for short of Jesus Christ Himself, Marinelli also decid­ed to personally attack the Irish defense. 
"But on the same token it's going to go bad for them at one point and we are going to gash the [expletive] out of them, I promise you that. So keep bringing it, keep bringing it. They have one sack all year on 200 blitzes," he said. 
Five sacks later, over there so I decided to join them," senior defensive linemen Pat Kuntz said with a smirk. 
Kuntz had two sacks, an intercep­tion and a fumble recovery in what was arguably the 
"We didn't downplay it like a lot of people say they do," Irish linebacker Harrison Smith said. "We really took that to heart. We're not going to let 
anybody come into our house and talk like that to us." 

best performance of Kyle McCarthy, 
'7 hate to say
his career. But who led the team some might say his definitively what with 14 tackles and best performance happened. Our guy said also added an inter­came Friday after­ception, felt the
he got his helmet 
noon. same way. 
Kuntz spoke -ripped off" "It was a big fac­sort of-at Friday's tor. lie was com­pep rally. The plaining about
Jim Harbaugh 
details are a bit sacks and I think
Stanford coach 
hazy after a break­away $6 Salvation Army suit and a pair ofjean shorts, Kuntz promised his fans that he would rip some­body's head off on Saturday. 
"I didn't rip anybody's head off, I think that would've been a facemask penalty of some sort," he said. 
Kuntz claims he came up short on his promise, but he may have been closer than you think. 
"I hate to say definitively what happened. Our guy said he got his 
he probably "We really took that to helmet ripped off," would have want­Stanford coach
heart. We're not going to let
ed to shove his Jim Harbaugh said
anybody come into our

own foot in the about the skirmish garbage disposal house and talk like following the final he calls a mouth, play of the game.
that to us. " 

but there wasn't Kuntz was on the enough room outside of that with the entire Kyle McCarthy pile, spiking the Irish defense Irish senior ball after his fum­
already jammed down his throat. 
No one on Notre Dame had a com­ment before the game, instead the Irish decided to until the game start­ed wait to make their statement. They dido't quite make it. 
During pregame warm-ups before most fans had even filtered into their seats, the entire Notre Dame team gathered at the 50-yard line to wel­come Marinelli and his teammates to their beautiful field, beautiful stadi­um and beautiful area. 
"I was just trying to get ready to go and I guess all my teammates were 
ble return, but somebody appar­ently tried to finish the job. 
That skirmish capped ofT what was a highly physical, highly emotional battle that was no doubt fueled by Marinelli's comments. 
"Yeah. it might have contributed a little bit to it, you know," Irish coach Charlie Weis said following the game. 
The Irish may have refrained from comment prior to the game, but after coming away with the win they let Marinelli and the rest of the Cardinal know how they felt. 
we got live today 
and we won the ball 

game. I don't think he's talking anymore," he said. 
The Irish certainly spoke their minds, but they did it with class. The way you would expect someone from this team, this school or this area to do. They way you would have expected someone from Stanford to do. 
"There was a lot of talk going on between all of us. But it was just a battle ... good luck to them for the rest of the season," Kuntz said fol­lowing the game. 
Weis had a similar approach. 
"I know what he said. But it's not right for me to judge this young man. lie's not my guy. So I'd be out of line to do so," he said. 
The Irish response on and off the field is a perfect example of every­thing that was wrong with every­thing that Marinelli had to say earli­er in the week. 
The comments were probably the best thing that could have happened to Notre Dame this week. The defense came out with the intensity that this team is built around. 
And a quick note to Kuntz and the rest of the Irish defense, Marinelli graduated from Boston College lligh School, something to keep in mind for Nov. 8. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe writer and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd. edu 
Monday, October 6, 2008 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Clausen looks on top of his game 
By JARED )EDICK Sports Wrirer 
What a difference a year makes. 
Sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen seems to finally be coming into his own after surviving the woes of last year's 3-9 season. 
"We arc starting to see, especially in the last couple of weeks, his evolution and how things arc heading in the right direc­tion," coach Charlie Weis said. "He has come a long way from that kid we were playing last year in the Penn State game." 
Clausen threw 29 completions in 40 attempts for 347 yards with three touch­downs and no interceptions. The 28-21 win over Stanford was the first time in Clausen's collegiate career that he has passed for more than 300 yards, bettering his previous career best of 275 yards from last week against Purdue. 
"I feel good. This team feels good. The oiTensive line did a great job once again today, and the playmakers outside did a good job of making plays," Clausen said. "I am very confident in my ability to make every throw that needs to be made on the football field. I am not done yet." 
The Irish passing game dominated a Stanford team that was stacked to stop the run. 
'They pretty much felt like they could do what they wanted throwing the ball today," Stanford coach Jim Harbaugh said. 
Clausen and the Irish olTense were able to carry their momentum from last week's game against Purdue, a sign of maturity for a young team and an indicator that last week was not a fluke. Clausen and his receivers have connected for 622 yards and six touchdowns without an intercep­tion over the last two games. 
"We played a great half of football in the second half against Purdue," Clausen said. "Coach Weis stressed the impor­tance this week of being consistent. That's 

how we have to play each and every quarter to win games." 
Weis saw a player who could face down the pres­sure generated from a relentless opposing rush and still shine. 
"He makes a lot of big plays and he is very accu­rate," Weis said. "He came through with anoth­er big game with three touchdowns without an up and keeping him clean." 
The step that Clausen is taking to the next level of quarterbacks, according to Weis, is his newfound ability to go to his check-down receivers. This means dump­ing the ball off to players who are on 
"/ am very confident in my ability to make every throw that needs to be made on the football field." 
Jimmy Clausen Irish quarterback 
short routes when the opposing defensive backs drop deep. 
"I can't tell you how many times I have met with him at the beginning of the week and the end of the week and I just keep on saying: check downs, check downs, check downs, check downs," Weis said. "The first touchdown to Armando was a check­
interception on a day when Stanford was just bringing it. He really stood tall." 
An important component to his ability to stand up to the rush was the play of the Irish offensive line, which allowed only one sack. 
"We were really getting Jimmy [Clausen] a lot of time and keeping him off the ground, and it just got going," jun­ior offensive tackle Sam Young said. "Our receivers made great plays. I thought the line did a pretty good job keeping Jimmy down, and I could not wait for him to get to the sideline to tell him about it." 
The importance of check downs for a quarterback is something that Weis learned a long time ago during his years with the New York Giants. 
"When I was a very young coach in the NFL Phil Simms said to me, 'The differ­ence in the NFL between throwing for 3,000 yards and 4,000 yards is fire con­trol,"' Weis said. "I think it is a major step when a quarterback doesn't force balls down the field and is willing to throw it to his fire control." 
Sophomore running back Armando Allen appreciates this change in Clausen, as it gets him more involved in the action on the field. Allen had a breakout per­formance last week against Purdue when he rushed for 136 yards and a touch­down. Allen pitched in this week in the passing game by catching the ball a team­high seven times for 66 yards and a touchdown. 
"Check downs are always the last read, kind of an outlet," Allen said. "So once he started looking at it and noticed that there's nothing there, then you always throw it to your back. He did that today and everything worked out smooth." 
Harbaugh has noticed a huge difference in Clausen's play from last year, believing that he is seeing a much improved quar­terback. 
"He is very good getting to his second and third reads, throwing the ball accu­rately, and I am impressed how he is driv­ing the ball," Harbaugh said. "He is get­ting his legs underneath him and is get­ting set to make those throws. And he is putting them on the money." 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
•

scoring suinmary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  7  14  7  0  28  
Stanford  0  7  0  14  21  

First quarter Notre Dame 7, Stanford 0 
Armando Allen 21-yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 7:56 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 5:03 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 7, Stanford 7 
Toby Gerhart 1-yard run with 10:51 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 95 yards, 7:02 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 7 
Armando Allen 3-yard run with 6:12 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 73 yards, 4:39 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Stanford 7 
Michael Floyd 48-yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 3:40 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 48 yards, 0:58 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 28, Stanford 7 
Kyle Rudolph 16-yard pass from Jimmy Clausen with 4:30 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 75 yards, 4:22 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 28, Stanford 14 
Jim Dray 1-yard pass from Tavi Pritchard with 
10:06 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 72 yards, 2:48 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Stanford 21 
Doug Baldwin 10-yard pass from Tavi Pritchard with 6:00 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 36 yards, 2:02 elapsed 

statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

. return yards 

time of possession 


Floyd burns Pac-10 100-meter champ 
Samardzija in that way." the lyrics and compose the field goal in the second quar­By LAURA MYERS music for the song in 1908. ter and a 46-yard attempt in Sporrs Writer 
Just like the Shark In honor of the event, the the fourth. Walker is now 1­Speaking of Samardzija, marching band invited some for-7 in field goal attempts. 
-

Freshman Michael Floyd Floyd became the first of its former members to join Weis acknowledged that passing
had a career high in yards receiver to have back-to­them during the pre-game the missed kicks had an 
despite lining up across from hack 100-yard games since and halftime shows. effect on the momentum of Stanford cornerback Samardzija did it in 2006 the team. 
rushing
Wopamo Osaisai Saturday. against North Carolina and Sneak Attack "To miss those kicks is a 
Allen 9-36 Gerhart 13-104
Osaisai, a fifth-year senior, Navy. Floyd had 100 yards The Irish ran a fake punt little df)flating. I think the 
H. Smith 1-23 Kimble 10-61 
was the 2008 Pac-1 0 Track receiving Sept. 27 against for the first time in 2008 in first one, which was shorter, 
Hughes 8-16 Howell 3-17 
and Field Champion in the Purdue and 115 yard receiv­the third quarter. It was was more deflating to tell receiving100-meters and holds the ing Saturday. fourth-and-eight on the you the truth, to come out Stanford record in the event Notre Dame 33-yard line after a turnover and get no 
Allen 7-66 Whalen 8-91 with a time of 10.39 seconds. Wake up the echoes when senior Harrison Smith points," Weis said. "That's 
Grimes 7-60 Gunder 4-34 Floyd 5-115 Baldwin 3-42
"Not only is he making Saturday's game marked took a direct snap and something we're definitely 
Rudolph 5-70 Fleener 1-12
plays, but he obviously has the celebration of the 100th rushed for 23 yards and a going to have to address top 10 speed," coach Charlie anniversary of the Notre first down. because it's putting us in a 
tackling Weis said. "lie's a tall guy, Dame Victory March. disadvantageous situation." 
McCarthy 14 McNally 9 but he's deceptively fast. lie Brothers and Notre Dame Kicking himself 
Bruton 9 Osaisai 9 
reminds me a bit of (former graduates Michael and John Sophomore kicker Brandon Contact Laura Myers at 
Smith 6 Maynor 9 
McNeil 4 Snyder 8
Irish receiver Jeff) Shea collaborated to write Walker missed a 41-yard lmyers2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 6, 2008 

,. 
.: ; 

Tensions ran high long before the opening kickoffthis week with 
Stanli>rd supplying bulletin board material for the Irish defense. Notre 
Damn did tlwir talking on the field as a fired up unit came up with live 
sacks and lin1r turnovers in key situations. Both teams fought hard 
throughout the gamn but sophomore quarterback Jimmy Clausen and 
his host of young receivers proved to be too much for the Cardinal. The 
budding star thmw !"or thn~e touchdowns and no interceptions on his 
way to another reeord-breaking day. StanfiJrd made a late push to keep 
things exdting. but senior delimsive lineman Pat Kuntz put an exelama­tion point on his own earner day with a fumble recovery to end the game. -Dan Murphy 
Clockwise from top left: Brian Smith breaks through the line on one of many Irish blitzes. Running back Robert Hughes searches for daylight on one of his eight carries. Sergio Brown, 31, leads the team in the alma mater. Senior David Grimes hauls in a pass over the middle. Senior Pat Kuntz hits the dirt after his first career Interception. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

Monday, October 6, 2008 
page 15 

By JAMES DuBRAY 
Scene Writer 
Ex-Whiskeytown frontman turned infamous blogger and now writer, Ryan Adams brought his Cardinals tour to Indianapolis on Thursday. The show at the Murat Theatre was sold out with punks, yuppies, hipsters and preps all in attendance. 
Ryan Adams became somewhat famous for his second solo album, "Gold," which is largely considered to be his best work. "Gold" was released soon after 9/11 and notably featured the song "New York, New York." Much to Lost Highway Records' chagrin, the song became an anthem for America's wounded city. 
Adams must· have felt like Springsteen when his "Born in the U.S.A" was released, as his tune became a patriotic rallying cry despite the upside-down American flag on his album cover. Adams did­n't literally say that the U.S. had it coming, but the feeling was there. 
Compared to New York City, the beauty of Indianapolis is that every­thing is about eight minutes away. After a short drive and one whiskey coke in the theatre's lobby, Ryan Adams and his backing band, the Cardinals, began what would be a 26-song set. 
Adams didn't play "New York, New York," but the oft-covered "Gold" country tune "When the Stars Go Blue" did make an appearance. Adams' soft voice added to the beauty of the song. If Tim McGraw ever began to care about his singing voice, it would behoove him to give Adams a call. Adams also did a cover himself, slowing down and giving justice to Oasis's "Wonderwall." The Beatles wannabes, for whom Adams recently opened, would have been proud. 
Despite the inclusion of those two slower tunes, Adams largely used his collaborating Cardinals to put on a ripping and rollicking country rock show. Adams didn't touch an acoustic guitar all night, only once trading his electric axe for keys on "Rescue Blues." 
The show began with "Cobwebs" a song from Adams' forthcoming album, "Cardinology." Adams said very little to the audience directly during the show, but often spoke to his band members through a sepa­rate microphone that fed into the group's earphone system. After 45 minutes of constantly fidgeting with his earpiece, Adams stopped the concert to fix the technical prob­lem. Asking the audience for 10 minutes, the frontman promised to return with "the dream set list." 
Return he did, as Adams and the Cardinals spent the next hour and a half exploring songs from his nine solo albums. The set was heavy on beefed up versions of the 2007 release "Easy Tiger." 
With the major technical prob­lems largely fixed, Adams took off his leather jacket andjammedwith his band, who clearly are more of a collaborative force than they have ever been before. The most surpris­ing part of the concert-was how much and how loud the band rocked. 
"Easy Tiger" featured Adams as his most subdued since his "Whiskeytown" days, yet the Cardinals and their frontman clear­ly desire to explore· new territory on their forthcoming album. The two-and-a-half-minute "Off Broadway" morphed into an 11­minute country rock jam session, while the set ended with an even longer version of "Easy Plateau.'' 
''Easy Plateau," a song off of "Cold Roses," one of the three albums Adams released in 2005, left its alt-country roots behind, becoming a prog-rock exploration. The show ended with Adams screaming the song's title at the top of his lungs as smoke enveloped the band. · 
In articles, Ryan Adams often gets mentioned in the same breath as Conor Oberst. Yet, Adams is clearly in the process of growing. out of his too-cool-for-explanations, "hipsters only" phase. The high school dropout recently revealed that the true inspiration behind his three-album output in 2005 was a mixture of heroin and cocaine. Realizing that even Jim Morrison wouldn't have snorted that killer combo, Adams got sober with the help of girlfriend and Banana Republic model Jessica Joffe. 
This newfound piece of mind is clearly bleeding into Adams' live shows, which were once notable for their inconsistency. The old Ryan probably would have flipped out about the earpiece issue that occurred at the beginning of the show. The new Adams took the issue in stride, commenting that he was sorry, but it was almost impos­sible to sing because the feedback in his ear made him "sound like Darth Vader." The audience laughed presumably at the joke. Yet, some also must have been chuckling in delight at Adams' new­found maturity and musical direc­tion. 
Sobriety has never been so loud, crazy and brilliant. 
Contact James DuBray at jdubray@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 6, 2008 
NFL 
Manning, Colts rally in fourth to stun Texans 
Surprising Dolphins earn shocking win over Chargers; Titans remain unbeaten with win over Ravens 
Texans (0-4) ahead by 17 points consistency, we're capable of scor­
Associated Pnoss 
before losing two fumbles and ing more points and we have the 
HOUSTON -llnaded for anoth­throwing an interception. Texans players to do it," he said. "The idea er early-season loss, Peyton fans had wanted to see Schaub today was to get a little swagger Manning and the Indianapolis Colt<; replaced all season, and Rosenfels back ... I was proud of the guys for stagnd a stunning comeback was nearly flawless for three quar­never giving up and fighting 'til the thanks to a colossal collapse by the ters. Then came one of the worst end." llouston Texans. meltdowns in the history of the The Texans played the 100th 
Manning's late-game poise -young franchise. game in franchise history in their <md the lack of it fi>r Houston quar­After Manning found Santi for hurricane-damaged stadium with terback Sage Hosenfels -helped his touchdown, Indianapolis the retractable roof open; the roof the Colts scored 21 point<; in a late attempted an onside kick, but couldn't be repaired in time for span of 2:10. Two touchdowns Houston recovered. On the next Sunday's game. came thanks to fumbles by drive, Rosenfels ran right at defen­Rosenfels' miscues ruined good Hosenfi~ls, then Indianapolis inter­sive back Marlin Jackson, who days by rookie Steve Slaton and eeptnd Hosenfels' last-ditch come­upended him and kriocked the ball Andre Johnson. Slaton ran for 93 back attempt for a 31-27 win loose. Brackett ran it in to make it yards and two touchdowns and Sunday. 27-24. Johnson bounced back from two 
Manning thrPw two touchdown "For one play I made a really poor games with nine catches for passes, connecting with Reggie stupid mistake and that started the 131 yards. Johnson, who had 67 Wayne on a 5-yarder with 1:54 downward spiral," Rosenfels said. yards in the last two games com­remaining for the decisive point'>. "I feel like I let those guys down." bined, scored his first touchdown Unebacknr Gary Brackett returned Said Brackett: "I told those guys, of the season on a 5-yard reception a fumble by RosenfeL<; 68 yards for 'There's a lot of time left. just before halftime for a 17-10 a scorn in between Manning's TD Somebody's got to make a play.' It lead. throws. just happened to be myself." Mario Williams had two sacks as 
"All of our team played great On the ensuing drive, Robert he stayed in Manning's face most football today, played winning foot­Mathis sacked Rosenfels and of the day. Manning was 25-of-34 ball and I made those mistakes stripped the ball at the Houston 19. for 24 7 yards with two touchdowns that mst li>Otball games," RosenfeL<; Manning hit a leaping Wayne in and one interception. said. "There is no reason we the comer of the end zone, the play Williams still seemed to be in should have lost that game." was reviewed, and the call was shock after the game. 
But they did, in incredible fa<>h­upheld. ''I've never seen anything in my ion. Houston got back the ball with life like that," he said of the fourth "Hopefully we're going to raise revenge, but it sure helped ease 
"I thought we had that passion at almost 2 minutes remaining, but quarter. "For that to happen, I some brows. Hopefully people will the pain of that humbling setback. the end," said Colts coach Tony Hosenfels was int~rcepted by can't even remember seeing any­start to pay some attention." "It's hard to forget that one. Dungy. "But it was mi'ising during Mnlvin Bullitt. thing like that growing up. It's just Defending AFC West champion Obviously, it wasn't one of my bet­the middln of the game and we've The five-time AFC South champi­devastating." San Diego fell to 2-3 for the second ter days," Collins said. "Sure, I got to get that back somewhere." on Colts were off to their worst year in a row. The Chargers wanted to beat them, (but) I want­
Hookie Tom Santi caught the start since starting the 1998 season Dolphins 17, Chargers 10 remained winless in six visits to ed to go 5-0 most of all." other late score, a 7-yarder to 0-4 when Manning was a rookie. With the Miami Dolphins threat­Miami since a memorable overtime The Titans trailed 10-6 in the bring the Coil<; (2-2) within 27-17 Manning was looking for his team ening to score, running back playoff victory in January 1982. fourth quarter before Collins engi­with 4:04 to go. It wa'i his first NFL to get back on track with this Ronnie Brown waited in the single The single wing was less explo­neered the pivotal 11-play scoring touchdown. gan1e. wing for a direct snap, his grin visi­sive than in the Dolphins' win at drive. The march wa<; extended by 
Backup Hosenfels, playing for the "The encouraging thing is we ble through his face mask. New England, but running back a penalty against Baltimore's ill Matt Schaub, had the winless feel like we can find a little more Winning can be fun, as the Brown took a direct snap 11 times Terrell Suggs, who wa'> flaggnd fi>r Dolphins are discovering. on running plays that netted 49 a blow to Collins' helmet ­
Brown was still grinning yards and Miami's second touch­although the hit appeared to be lit­moments later when he reached down. Other formations were also tle more than incidental contact. the end zone. And he wore a smile effective -Chad Pennington thrnw At lea<;t that's how Suggs saw it. in the locker room after Miami for 228 yards, and Brown ran for "If anybody can go back and pulled off its second successive 125. show something I did illegal, then I upset by beating San Diego. "It's not about the formation," would be happy to say I messed up 
"We can compete, and we're Brown said. "It's about execution." and got what I deserved," he said. starting to realize that," Brown "We hit arms. It just goes to show said. Titans 13, Ravens 10 the referee ha'> too much power." 
The Dolphins won Sunday with Facing a rugged Baltimore It wa'i thn la'it of several personal ball control, a smothering defense Havens defense that still conjures foul calls in a game marred by and a few offensive frills. Brown unpleasant memories, Kerry numerous skirmishes. Tennessee scored the decisive touchdown Collins trotted onto the field need­was penalized 10 times for 78 from the single-wing formation the ing to mount an 80-yard touch­yards, including a pair of 15-yard Dolphins revived two weeks ago, down drive to keep the Tennessee infractions that fueled both and a goal-line stand in the fourth Titans unbeaten. Baltimore's scoring drives. quarter preserved a seven-point His first big play was to get hit in '!be Havens (2-2) were assessed lead. the helmet. Soon after that, Collins 11 penalties for 91 yards in a 
With back-to-back wins for the threw an 11-yard touchdown pass matchup between two teams that first time since November 2006, to Alge Crumpler with 1:56 left to once were, and seem to still be, bit­the Dolphins are 2-2 in the Bill rally Tennessee to a victory ter rivals. Parcells era. That's double th,eir Sunday. "We are the bad boys of li>otball. victory total for all of last season, The last time he started against They are always going to look at us when they went 1-15. the Ravens, Collins was thoroughly like that," Suggs said. "From the 
"We're proud of what we did, but ineffective for the New York Giant<; way the game was going, I think Baltimore's Ray Lewis tackles Tennessee running back LenDale it's just another step," defensive in a 34-7 loss in the 2001 Super tlw referee just probably wanted to White during the first half of the Raven's 13-10 loss Sunday. end Vonnie Holliday said. Bowl. This win didn't serve as feel in1portant." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK, 
$14.25 base-appt., flexible sched­ules, no experience needed, cus­tamer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835, 
www. workforstudents.com 
Financial Partner wanted. 
7% ROI plus 2.5 Pts. 100% secured w/real estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. Call 574­360-8707 or Email: 2heavn@com­cast. net 

FOR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. 
CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CON­TACT TED@ 574-233-6191 MSL 
#231736 Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct. in South Bend. 5 mins. to ND. Built in 2004. 3 bdrm, 2 bath. 1652 sq.ft. Vaulted great room, formal dining room, oak eat-in kitchen, all appli­ances, large 3-season room, first floor laundry. Finished basement plumbed for bath, egress window. Patio. $249,500. Handicap accessi­ble. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty Jack Egenhoefer. 57 4-280-7730 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPER­
TIES 
574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS­ES.COM 2 bdrms. 1 bath, basement, garage. Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274-2829. 

Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, central air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. 
Call Harold 574-315-7781. 


TICKETS 
Wanted: 

ND football tix for family. 574-251­1570. 
VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND 
football tickets. 

www.victorytickets.com. 574-232­0964. 

PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 

Spring Break 2009. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. Call for Group Discounts. Best Prices Guaranteed/ Best Parties! Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. Information/Reservations 1­800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631­7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. For more information, visit our web­site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml 
I looked out this morning and the sun was gone Turned on some music to start rny day I lost myself in a familiar song I closed my eyes and I slipped away 
Tessie is the Royal Rooters rally cry Tessie is the tune they always sung 




OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 6, 2008 CoMrrun FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE sFRVlCES page 17 

MLB 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team  points  record  
1  Oklahoma (51)  1,608  5·0  
2  Alabama (13)  1,537  6·0  
3  Missouri (1)  1,487  5·0  
4  lSU  1,444  4-0  
5  Texas  1,374  5·0  
6  Penn State  1,287  6·0  
7  Texas Tech  1,163  5·0  
8  usc  1,137  3·1  
9  Brigham Young  1,103  5·0  
10  Georgia  1,014  4·1  
11  Florida  977  4-1  
12  Ohio State  931  5·1  
13  Vanderbilt  833  5·0  
14  Utah  815  6·0  
15  Boise State  677  4·0  
16  Kansas  623  4·1  
17  Oklahoma State  565  5·0  
18  Virginia Tech  485  5·1  
19  South Florida  392  5·1  
20  Auburn  236  5·2  
21  Wake Forest  205  3·1  
22  North Carolina  196  4-1  
23  Michigan State  161  5-1  
24  Pittsburgh  121  4-1  
25  Ball State  97  6·0  
NCAA Football  
USA Today Coaches' Poll  
team  points  record  
1  Oklahoma (60)  1,524  5-0  
2  Missouri  1,404  5·0  
3  lSU (1)  1,398  4-0  
4  Alabama  1,339  6·0  
5  Texas  1,305  5·0  
6  Penn State  1,203  6-0  
7  Texas Tech  1,101  5·0  
8  Brigham Young  1,086  5·0  
9  usc  1,055  3·1  
10  Georgia  937  4·1  
11  Ohio Slate  893  5·1  
12  Florida  883  4·1  
13  Utah  793  6·0  
14  Vanderbilt  704  5·0  
15  Kansas  667  4·1  
16  Boise Stale  624  4·0  
17  Oklahoma State  523  5·0  
18  Virginia Tech  393  5·1  
19  Michigan State  273  5-1  
20  South Florida  267  5-1  
21  Wake Forest  247  3-1  
22  Northwestern  231  5·0  
23  Auburn  121  4·2  
24  Wisconsin  105  3-2  
25  California  98  4·1  
MIAA Women's  
Volleyball Standings  
Team  Record  
league overall  
1  Hope  9·0  18·3  
2  Calvin  6·2  12·4  
3  Alma  6·2  14-6  
4  SAINT MARY'S  5·4  12·6  
5  Adrian  5·5  9·9  
6  Albion  4·5  11-9  
7  Trine  3-6  6·11  
8  Kalamazoo  2·7  5·14  
9  Olivet  0·9  4·15  

around the dial 
MLB 
Rays at White Sox 
5:07 p.m., TBS 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -With plenty of power to go with their improved pitching, the Philadelphia Phillies are ready for anything in the NL championship series. 
Bring on the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
"I like our chances," Phillies manager Charlie Manuel said Sunday after Philadelphia clinched its first trip to the NLCS since 1993 with a 6-2 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
"I think we can hold our own with them. Actually, I think we can beat anybody in the National League, really," he said. 
Especially if the Phillies keep playing this way. 
After scuffling through the first three games of the 
NL  division  series,  
Philadelphia's  offense  
broke  out in  a  big way  

against the Brewers in Game 4 of the best-of-five series. Jimmy Rollins led off the game with a home run, Pat Burrell connected twice to break out of his postsea­son slump and Jayson Werth added a solo shot. 
Not to be overlooked, midseason addition Joe Blanton threw a gem, hold­ing the Brewers to one run after an eight-da}"lfayoff. 
'That took a Jot of pres­sure off of us," Rollins said of his home run. "We were up 1-0, regardless, no mat­ter how the top of the first ended. On the other side, of course, it's going to put a little more pressure on you because their guys are thinking, 'OK, well, we got to answer back."' 
The Brewers never could, and the Phillies rushed the mound at Miller Park after the final out, setting off a raucous celebration. Some Philly fans held up a ban­ner that read, "World Series Here We Come Fightin' Phillies." 
In the clubhouse, the Phillies sprayed each other with champagne and beer, 

IN BRIEF Edwards suffers early
concussion early in loss 
GLENDALE, Ariz. -Buffalo Bills quarter­back Trent Edwards went down with a con­CU'>!>ion on the third play of the game in a loss against the Arizona Cardinals on Sunday. 
Safety Adrian Wilson blitzed untouched and leveled the second-year quarterback, slamming him to the ground. 
Edwards, who had directed Buffalo to a 4­0 record, lay on the ground for several min­utes before being helped to the sideline. He was carted offthe field, and the Bills report­ed a short time later that he had a concus­sion. 
Edwards completed a 13-yard pass to James Hardy just before he was hit by Wilson. Former starter J.P. Losman took Edwards' place. 
"I just came from Trent," coach Dick Jauron said in his postgame news confer­ence. ''Trent was responding, but he was still a little groggy. Hopefully, he'll be fine as time goes by here. It's a good time to have a bye." 
Buffalo has next weekend off, then is home against San Diego on OcL 19. 
Stewart claims first 
season win at Talladega 
TALLADEGA, Ala. -Tony Stewart ended his frustrating winless season Sunday by earning his first Sprint Cup Series victory at Talladega Superspeedway when NASCAR ruled Regan Smith's last-lap pass was ille­gal. 
Smith was in second and trailed Stewart for the final three laps around Talladega, and the rookie made one desperate attempt to grab his first career victory by ducking inside of the two-time champion to attempt a pass. 
Stewart blocked, Smith dove below the yellow out-of-bounds line at the bottom of the track to make the pass, and beat Stewart to the finish line. NASCAR reviewed the move -a driver is allowed to make the pass if officials believe he was forced under the line ­and declared it illegal. 
Smith thought he was within the rules on the pass, and went with Dale Earnhardt Inc. president Max Siegel to defend himself to NASCAR. 
with Rollins wearing swim­ming goggles and a big grin as he searched for unsus­pecting -not to mention dry-teammates. 
Burrell was doused so many times it'll be days before his sweatshirt dries out, but he never stopped smiling. 
"I couldn't be more thrilled. You know, I don't think it's actually sunk in all that much yet," said Burrell, who has been with the Phillies since they draft­ed him in 1998. 
It will later this week, when the Phillies take on their old foe the Dodgers. Game 1 of the NLCS is Thursday in Philadelphia. 
Detroit Shock win third · 
WNBA championship 
YPSILANTI, Mich. -Wmning a gold medal in Beijing, a WNBA championship and the league finals MVP award. 
How does it feel, Katie Smith? 
"I mean, it's been OK," she said to laughter in the interview room Sunday after the forward led the Detroit Shock to their third WNBA crown in six sea­sons. 
The 76-60 win completed a three­game sweep of the San Antonio Silver Stars and came less than two months after the 34-year-old started for the gold-medal winning U.S. Olympic team. 
"It's been fun. It's just been a lot of fun," she said. 
Smith, who scored a team-high 18 points, was lifted from the game with time running out as coach Bill Laimbeer emptied his bench to the ear-splitting delight of the crowd. 
A few minutes later, she was sprinting back on to the court with her teanunates to celebrate yet another championship as confetti rained down. 
.. 
Monday, October 6, 2008

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Traveling to North Carolina? 
Notre Dame vs. UNC Football-10/11/08 
Call Sports Tours of Winston-Salem for game tickets or ground transportation (airport or hotel). 
AVOID THE HASSLE Call Sports Tours at 1-888-827-8538 Visit Website: www.sportstoursandtickets.com We have Buses, Limos, Towncars and Vans "When It Matters" 
The University of Notre Dame fAlL 2008 
Creative Writing Program Reading 
brian 
readslromhisnovel 
The Open Curtain
BVBnson 

MLB 

White Sox keep hope alive 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Thanks to John Danks and the White Sox, Chicago still has one team standing. 
Danks pitched another big game to save the season and well-trav­eled DeWayne Wise delivered a two-run double as the White Sox beat Tampa Bay 5-3 Sunday, trim­ming the Rays' lead in their AL playoff series to 2-1. 
Game 4 in the best-of-five matchup is Monday in Chicago, with Gavin Floyd facing Tampa Bay's Andy Sonnanstine. 
Less than 24 hours after the Cubs were swept out of the play­offs by the Dodgers, dashing Chicago's hopes for a crosstown World Series, the White Sox avoid­ed elimination before a black­shirted, white towel-waving crowd of 40,142 in their home park. 
"At least we play tomorrow," White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen said. "Like I say, we played against the wall before and came out of it." 
As for that other team in Chicago? "I could care less about the Cubs," he said. 
Danks, who beat Minnesota 1-0 last Tuesday in the tiebreaker for the AL Central title, shut down the Rays for 6 2-3 innings. 
"I was more nervous going into the Minnesota game than this game," he said. "Guys try to approach it like a game in June. I think that helps take pressure off us." 
The 23-year-old lefty gave up five hits and a run before B.J. Upton hit a long, two-run homer with two outs in the seventh that made it 5-3. 
After a single by Carlos Pena, Octavio Dote! threw a third strike past Evan Longoria. 
Bobby Jenks pitched the ninth, striking out Pena with a nasty curveball with a runner on for his fifth postseason save. He had four in 2005, including two in the World Series victory over Houston. 
The Rays are only the second team in major league history ­first in the AL -to make the post­season after having the worst record in the majors the previous season. Tampa Bay went from 96 losses to 97 victories and was try­ing to become the fifth team to sweep its first postseason series. 
After the Rays won 6-4 and 6-2 at home, the White Sox were revived at U.S. Cellular Field, where they were 54-28 this sea­son. 
"It's a bad assumption to think you are going to come in and beat up on them," Rays manager Joe Maddon said. "They are very good here." 
Matt Garza, pitching on eight days' rest, was popping his fast­ball in the mid-90s (mph) and try­ing to keep the homer-reliant White Sox off balance by changing speeds. The White Sox caught up with the 24-year-old righty in the fourth. 
Jim Thome opened with double off the center-field fence, Paul Konerko walked and Ken Griffey Jr. hit a sharp single that loaded the bases. 
Alexei Ramirez, who hit a record four grand slams as a rookie this season, hit a sacrifice fly to center for a 2-1 lead, and veterans Konerko and Griffey alertly moved up a base. Wise fol­lowed with a two-run, opposite­field double to left. 
Wise, who hit a three-run homer in the opener at Tropicana Field, had been designated for assignment by Chicago on May 31. But the White Sox brought him back from the minors in June, and he's seen increased playing time since Carlos Quentin went down with a broken wrist Sept. 1. 
Since his career began in 1997, the 31-year-old Wise has played in only 240 regular-season major league games and another 935 in the minors. 
Griffey had two singles. After he walked in the sixth, he was replaced by younger and faster Brian Anderson, who stole second and moved up on an infield out when Longoria made a nice play from behind third base on Ramirez's grounder. 
Wise grounded out, but Juan Uribe delivered another two-out single and the White Sox were up 5-1. 
Garza lasted six innings, allow­ing seven hits and five runs. 
Akinori Jwaumra, who h-it a two-run homer off Mark Buehrle in Game 2, gave the Hays a 1-0 lead in the second with an HBI infield single to first, beating Danks to the bag. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Jerusalem Summer Program 2009 
at Tantur Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, October 7, 2008 202 DeBartolo Hall, 5:00p.m. 
With Faculty Director Father Patrick Gaffney, CSC Associate Professor of -'~nthropology 



Deadline to apply for the Jerusalem Summer Program is November 15, 2008. First Year students, Sophomores, and Juniors may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu/,_,ois 
Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

The Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events presents the Aquila Theatre Company 
The Comedy of Errors 
by Wi!iiarn Shakespeare 





NATIONAL ENDOWMENT 
FOR THE ARTS 

AgrNtO,ltkmMIDWEST ffi~SC:'!l'\~ grc:-.at ~1rt. 

NFL 
Portis runs ra111pant as Redskins top Eagles 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -A few of the Washington Redskins were walking off the field, high-fiving, hugging and celebrating another road victory when they looked up at disgruntled fans and gave them another reason to pout. 
"There's a new Beast of the East," players shouted. 
That's no exaggeration. 
Clinton Portis ran for 145 yards and one touchdown, wide receiver Antwaan Randle El threw a TD pass and the Redskins beat the Philadelphia Eagles 23-17 on Sunday. 
Washington (4-1) has made it through the first five games under new coach Jim Zorn bet­ter than anyone expected. The Redskins went to Dallas last week and handed the Cowboys their first loss, 26-24. They've played all three division rivals on the road and their next three opponents -Cleveland, Detroit and St. Louis -are a combined 1-11. 
And Washington's offense did­n't commit a turnover for the fifth straight game. 
"I think the NFL was trying to throw us to the fire, to get rid of the 'Skins out of this division," Portis said. "I think that we play our best football with our backs up against the wall." 
The Eagles (2-3) are close to having to look ahead to next season. They were the only NFC East team to miss the placyoffs in 2007, finishing last for the sec­ond time in three years. With Donovan McNabb healthy com­ing into this season, they were hoping to make a run at the Super Bowl. Instead, they're buried in last place again. 
"I was embarrassed the last two weeks," McNabb said. "Two teams that we should not have lost to." 
DeSean Jackson had a 68­
yard punt return for a score, but the Eagles couldn't generate much on offense. Brian Westbrook, back after missing a game with an ankle injury, had just 84 total yards. 
Meanwhile, Portis piled up the yards against the league's best run defense. The Eagles had allowed just 53.8 per game on the ground. 
"Clinton Portis would say this. He doesn't do all that running by himself," Zorn said. "Our offensive line, they were coming off the ball, they were really doing a nice job communicating. It wasn't as though they were playing a real soft defense, either." 
Shaun Suisham kicked three field goals beyond 40 yards, helping the Redskins overcome a 14-0 deficit. Jason Campbell threw for 176 yards. 
About the only reason for fans to cheer came at the end of the game, when the Phillies beat the Milwaukee Brewers to advance to the National League champi­onship series. 
"It's going to be tough for us, but we're going to continue to fight," Westbrook said. "We're not going to quit." 
Portis ran in from the 4 to give the Redskins a 23-14 lead early in the fourth quarter. Washington started the drive at the Eagles 43 after a 28-yard punt return by Randle El and a personal foul penalty on Tank Daniels at the end of the play. 
The Eagles went nearly 30 minutes without getting a first down and had four straight three-and-outs until fmally put­ting together a long drive. However, they couldn't punch it in after reaching the 2. Westbrook was stopped for no gain and then lost 3 yards, forc­ing the Eagles to settle for a 23­yard field goal by David Akers that cut it to 23-17. 

The Quest Project Fall Lecture Series 
The Quest Continues ... 
The Practice ofSpirituality and the Practice ofMedicine: WOrlds Apart or Overlapping? 
Tuesday, September 30 4:00P.M. Little Theatre Moreau Center for the Arts 
Harold Koenig, M.D., M.HSc. Professor ofPsychiatry and Behavioral Sciences and Associate Professor of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center 


GNTERf{)R SPIRITUALITY SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE saintmarys.edu/spirirual ity (574) 284-4636 
Supported by the Saint Mary's College Endowed Fall Lecture Series and the John Templeton Foundation 
Free anti open to the public page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 6, 2008 

Falcons top Packers; Giants stay undefeated 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -With every rock-solid read and on-target spi­ral, Matt Hyan takes another step toward making everybody li1rget Michael Vick, Bobby Petrino and everything else in the Atlanta Faleons' ugly rocent past. 
The rookie quarterback turned in another sharp performance as the Falcons beat the Green Bay l'aekers 27-24 at Lambeau Field on Sunday, upstaging a gritty showing by Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers. 
It was the first road win of the season li1r the nnw and irnprovod Faleons (3-2), putting a tnam that is supposed to be rebuilding over llw .500 mark. Faleons eoaeh Mikn Smith had a li1nling during prngarno warmups that his young quartnrback wasn't going to get rattled on the road this time around. 
"lin said, 'lley, this is pretty cool,"' Smith said. ".Just nice, calm, cool and collPeted." 
And 1111idnnt. 
Hyan mmpl11tnd I(, of 2(, pass­es filr IIJ4 yards. two touehdowns and an interception. Falcons wide receiver Hoddy White 1:aught eight pass11s fi1r 1:~2 yards and a touchdown. while MichaPI Turner ran for 121 yards and a touchdown. 
Hyan stoln thn stage from Hodgers, who played hurt and play11d hard -but not quit11 well enough to avoid tho Packers' third straight loss. 
Hodgors started fi1r the Packers despite a sprained shoulder that kopt him out of praetien for most of the week. lie got better as the game went on, even as the signs that his shoulder was bothering him became more obvious. 
Hodgers hurt his shoulder at Tampa Bay last Sunday, and insisted during the week that the quarterback-record consecutive starts stroak hold by his prede­enssor, Brett Pavre. didn't place any additional pressure on him to play. 
Whil1~ Hodgers said his shoul­der was "definitely painful" on Sunday, it didn't stop him from pleading with coach Mike McCarthy to let him play. 
"I think Mike wanted to look into my eyns and see if I wanted to play, and I told him 'I want the ball. I want to be out there,"' Hodgers said. 'Then I just knew I was going to have to deal with the pain." 
Hodgers was 25-for-37 for 313 yards with three touchdowns and an interception, and nearly led the l'aekers t<i a late comeback. 
With Green Bay trailing 17-7 late in the third quarter, Hodgers drove the Paekers for a 50-yard field goal by Mason Crosby. Hodgers winced and held his arm al'tnr several throws. 
Then Hyan looked like a rookie fi>r the first time all afternoon. 
Af'tnr driving the Falcons to the Packers 12, Hyan had tight end Ben llartsock wide opHn in the nnd zone. But he throw a lollipop that was intercepted by Tramon Williams. 
"I guess that's part of the learn­ing curve, too," Hyan said. "You've got to get that ball out faster and make a better throw in those types of situations, because it's not often that you get a guy running like that, that open." 
Rodgers then threw a 25-yard touchdown pass to Greg .Jennings to tie the game at 17. 
But the Faleons answered with a 54-yard kickoff return by Jerious Norwood, leading to a 41-yard field goal by Jason Elam for a 20-1 7 lead. 
The Packers tried to answer but were undone by mistakes, including an intentional ground­ing call on Rodgers under heavy pressure from defensive end John Abraham. 
Giants 44, Seahawks 6 
The New York Giants are this year's New England Patriots ­so far. 
In a nearly flawless perform­ance, Eli Manning threw two touchdowns, Brandon Jacobs ran for two more and the unbeaten Giants scored on their first live possessions in a victory that embarrassed the Seattle Seahawks on Sunday. 
The win was the eighth straight for the Giants (4-0) dating to last year's playoffs, and it gave the Super Bowl champions their best start since 1990, when they post­ed a 13-3 record and also won the NFL title. The Giants rolled up 523 yards in total offense, their most since collecting 524 yards against Green Bay on Jan. 6, 2002, and limited Seattle to 187. 
"You want to win every game," Giants linebacker Antonio Pierce said. "That's not very realistic. 

It's only happened twice in the NFL, teams went to the postsea­son undefeated. If we can go undefeated in the division, that could be the best undefeated record we could have." 
When pressed about a compar­ison with last year's Patriots, whose only blemish was their Super Bowl loss to the Giants, Pierce downplayed the unbeaten record. 
"We're one of the top live, 10 teams in the league," he said in self-deprecating manner. "Some other guys have better special teams, better name players, bet­ter coaches, a lot of things. We're just one of the teams that is lueky to get to 4-0." 
Not only did the Giants get to 4­0, but they did so with leading receiver Plaxico Burress sus­pended for a game for missing a team activity on Sept. 22. 

They even did it after a bye week. New York had been 4-15 in post-bye week games. 
"We have been kind of soft after our bye week but we knew we had to come out here and play ball, because this team beat us pretty badly the last two times we played them," said Jacobs, who rushed for 136 yards on 15 carries. 
For the Seahawks, this was another drnadful trip east. They are 1-6 in their last seven cross­country flights and are 3-8 in their last eight road games over­all. 

Fremantle, Australia Information Meeting Wednesday, October 8, 2008 5:30PM 129 DeBartolo IStudents in the Colleges of AL & BA only ) Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 for Fall 2009 and Spring 2010 Apply Online: www.nd.edu/-ois  

Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
"You're going to have a tough time scoring points if
Split 
you're not serving it in," 

continued from page 28 
exciting to get to go back to your hometown and play," Brown said. "She just compet­ed really hard and rose to the occasion." 
Notre Dame fell behind early in the first set, allowing Louisville to take a 5-3 lead. The Irish chipped away, though, and tied the set 11-11. The teams battled back and forth until a Kaelin spike and a Jamel Nicolas ace swung the set in favor of the Irish. 
The next two sets were just as tight, with neither team securing more than a four­point lead. Notre Dame got the points when it counted, though, and secured a win to, momentarily, remain unde­feated in the Big East. 
''I'm really pleased how our team pulled together and made it happen," Brown said. 
Junior outside hitter Serenity Phillips saw her first action in two weeks after being out because of an injury. Brown said Phillips wasn't quite ready to play full speed, but the contributions she did make were critical to the Irish win. 
"What she could provide for us with her hitting and block­ing was really, really impor­tant," Brown said. 
It was a different story on Sunday, though, when Notre Dame was on the road again to take on Cincinnati. The Irish couldn't overcome 17 service errors, and fell to the Bearcats 3-1 (25-18, 25-22, 17-25, 25­22). 
Brown said. 
The total marks the highest number of service errors in a match since Sept. 1, 2007, when the Irish tallied 21 against Florida International. 
Notre Dame kept it close against the Bearcats, but was unable to get over the hump. In the first set, the Irish cut the Cincinnati lead to 19-17 before the Bearcats rallied to take the set. In the second set, the Irish cut a 21-14 Bearcat lead to 22-20, but couldn't notch any more points. Despite taking the third set, the Irish couldn't keep the momentum going, and the Bearcats closed out the match in the fourth. 
The play of Kaelin was the lone bright spot for the Irish, as she tallied a match-high 17 kills. 
After the match, Brown pointed to the service errors as the main reason for her team's loss, but didn't expect the trend to continue. 
"We just got in a little bit of a funk and we couldn't get out of it," she said. "But I think we are a very good serving team and we'll be back on track 
"We just seemed to lose a lit­tle bit of our confidence." 
At the end of the weekend, the Irish were tied with St. John's, Georgetown, and Pittsburgh at 3-1 atop the Big East standings. "I think it's going to be a very tight race," Brown said. "It's going to be a battle all the way to the end." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Relays 
continued from page 28 
Lutkus and sophomore Joshua! Nosal set the record with a time of 3:06.21. 
"This is a young team and we're a work in progress," Irish men's coach Tim Welsh said. 
night came in the 1000 freestyle relay, as the team of sophomore Lauren Sylvester and junior Zeina Shanata trailed in the middle of the race, but Shanata helped the team earn a gold medal with a late surge and the team fin­ished with a time of 10:23.89. 
Women's coach Brian Barnes thought the team's performance 
was a good 
building block 
to start the sea­"What we saw today were some very good glimpses of what is soon to come. Our energy and efforts were great." 


The women were equally dominant in the pool, winning all 12 events and setting a women's record with 280 points in the meet. The second place finisher, Ball State, came in 82 points 
son.

''This is a young team 
"We were

and we're a work in 
successful in progress. What we what we sought 
saw today were some to do but 
there's still a lot

very good glimpses of 
of work left to what is soon to come. do," Barnes Our energy and said. "There is a ton of poten­
efforts were great." 
tial here, and that's what Tim Welsh we're excited 
Irish men's coach 
about. We're 

behind the Irish with 198. 
The 200 medley relay team of freshman Colleen Fotsch and sophomores Samantha Maxwell, Kellyn Kuhlke and Amywren Miller set an event record with a time of 1:47.44. 
The Irish's closest race of the 
-learning where  
we  are  and  
now it's time to  
figure  out where we need to  
go."  

Both teams will have plenty of time off and will not return to action for another three weeks. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 6, 2008 
O.J. SIMPSON 
Simpson jurors did not need w-itnesses 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Jurors who 
eonvieted O.J. Simpson of armed 
robbery and kidnapping said 
Sunday that they did not trust 
witness testimony and instead 
rnlied on rncordings and other 
documented evidence to convict 
tim tin·mer liJotbaJl star. 
It might have bl~en a waste fbr 
proseeutors to give plea deal<> to 
several Simpson co-defendants 
in exchange !iJr their t11stimony, 
since the jury did not rdy on it, 
lim~man Paul Connelly said. 
Seven members of the 12-per­
son jury agreed to the extraordi­
nary news mnlimmce two nighl<> 
all11r the verdict wa<> announced 
because they said they were 
b11ing hounded by reporters. 
They answernd questions li1r an 
hour in the same courtroom 
:-;v~w~e. Simpson and Cl~tronce. 
C.J. Stewart were conv1etod of robbing two memorabilia dealers at hrunpoint in a hotnl room. 
Tho jury lbtnned mpoatndly to 
remrdings made by collnctibles 
doa.Jnr Thomas H.icdo -the host 
of thn hotel eonfrontation, who 
was granted immunity -and 
IClt they heard things that had 
not been fully transcribed by 
polien,juror MkhPIII~ Lyons said. 
But jurors eould not trust the erodibility of witnesses who were givnn plea deals, Lyons said. 
"We li~lt we could not rnly on 
that witness testimony," she said. 
Simpson, 61, was famously acquitted in 1995 of murdering his ox-wife, Nieole Brown Simpson, and her friond Honald (;oldman in Los Angeles. lie was latnr found liable for the deaths in a dvil 1:asn. lie had claimed in tho rohrn~ry ca<>e that hn wa<; try­ing to rndaim mpmentos stolen from him. 
The jurors all denied they wanted to punish Simpson for p<L<>t wrongs. One panelist, Dora Pettit, said she prayed for him bnlbre and alter the C<L<>e. 
"I think he's an ordinary man that made a bad dodsion," she said. "I prayed for him and Stewart and the attorneys. I don't have any ill feelings, and if they walked out tomorrow, so bn it." 
The jury also reaetnd to eom­plainl<; by Simpson's lawyers that thorn wore no blacks on the panel; both delimdanl<> are black. One juror indentifiod hersnlf in a court qunstionnairn a<> llispanic. 
"We've been paintml a<; an all­white jury who hates O.J., and that's just not true," l'nttit said. 
Jurors eonduded that without the rncordings, the prosecution might not have won convictions. 
"It would have been a very woak ease," Pettit said. Juror David Wiobnrg ehimnd in, "Yf~s. a wnak casn," and other jurors nodded in agreement. 
AskPd why they eonvkted Stnwart. whom some obsnrvnrs saw as a minor player. juror Tnrnsa Owens said: 'Tho thing that dinchnd it filr me L<> he drove the ear. lie walkod out with itmns. lie came out of that room with items that didn't belong to him." 
Said juror Consuelo Saldivar: "lin didn't leave. If hn walked in and saw what W<L<; going on, he could have walked out." 
lie thnn eontinu11d to partid­patn in a cover-up, jurors said, which made him a conspirator. 
Simpson's lawyer Yale Galanter told The Assoeiated Press narlier Sunday that the thr­mer lleisman Trophy winner is hoping for a new trial and a strong bid to reverse his convic­tion. lie is being isolated from other prisoners in the Clark County Detention Center for his own safety, and is allowed to see only family members and a few friend<>. hn said. 
Simpson will be held in the Clark County Detention Center until hi<> sentencing in December and then is expected to be moved to state prison. Galanter said he will pursue a request for Simpson to be released on bond during the appeal<> process. 
"lie's disappointed and a bit melancholy," Galanter said. 
Pettit. the juror, said she did not cam what sentence Simpson got. 
"If he walked out of there, I don't care," she said. "If he lives his litiJ happily ever after, I don't 
earn." 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles can't overcome errors 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Despite another strong defensive showing, the Belles collapsed under the weight of 18 errors, falling to confer­ence foe Alma in four sets at the Scots' Cappeart Gymnasium Friday. 
Saint Mary's (12-6, 5-4 MIAA) held Alma (14-6, 6-2 MIAA) to a pedestrian .210 attacking percentage, but offensive inconsistency plagued the Belles once again. 
Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek attributed her squad's offensive struggles to its youth. 
"We have been struggling through a few things offen­sively, primarily with just learning each other -new setters learning the tendencies and strengths of their attack­ers and attackers learning the same things about the set­ters," Schroeder-Biek said. 

The Belles stumbled out of the gate, dropping the first two sets 25-15, 25-21 while posting a .049 attacking per­centage. Saint Mary's mounted a 25-18 rally in the third set, but the Scots clamped down and closed the match with a 25-15 win in the fourth as the Belles' defense crumbled, allowing a .316 attacking per­centage down the stretch. 
Schroeder-Biek said her team has the talent to make a run in the MIAA but has had trouble putting all the pieces together. 
"We just need to turn up our game," Schroeder-Biek said. "It is there. [That'sl our focus -Ito] bring not only our skill but, our heart to the court." 
Junior hitter Lorna Slupczynski, led the squad in kills but committed a team­high 10 errors to finish the match with a .023 attacking percentage. Senior hitter Kaela Hellmann and sopho­more defensive specialist Meg Rose each turned in a solid defensive outing with 22 and 16 digs, respectively. 
Sophomore setter Dani Brink finished with 31 assists and a .300 attacking percent­age, while Slupczynski, Hellmann, Rose and Brink each finished with a service ace. 
Alma senior hitter Kim Gillhespy dominated offensive­ly, finishing with match-highs in kills {15), attacking per­centage (.324), and service aces (three). The Scots' defense finished with 91 digs and seven blocks, while setter Hannah Hewitt added 41 assists. 
The Belles return to action Tuesday evening when they take on conference-opponent Hope at home. The Flying Dutchman lead the MIAA with a perfect 9-0 record in confer­ence play. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

I 

Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's finishes fifth at Adrian tneet 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Junior Megan McClowry's sixth overall individual fin­ish in the 3-kilometer race led the Belles to fifth place at the Adrian Invitational on Friday. 
McClowry finished with a timeof11:37. 
"One of our goals for the team this year is to improve our finish in the confer­ence," McClowry said. "Last year we got fourth place, which was the highest place we had gotten, and we hope to better our place this year. One of my goals, along with some of the other girls is to consistently break the 20­minute barrier in the 5K." 
Freshman Hanna Vicary and sophomore Clare McVey were the next finishers across the line for the Belles in the 3K, finishing with times of 12:09 (20th) and 12:10 (21st), respectively. 
Freshman Arianne Rodriguez finished 25th with a time of 12:15 in the same race. Sophomore Kristy Kucharski finished in 36th place with a time of 12:55 to round out the Belles' scor­Catie Salyer led the way for the Belles finishing with a time of 25:22. 
Freshman Joanne Almond finished in 22nd place with a time of 25:31. 
Seniors Caitlin Brodmerkel, Alicen Miller and Becca Mason finished 27th, 35th, and 39th respec­tively. 
"So far my senior year of cross country has been all I could ask for and more," Brodmerkel said. "As usual, I absolutely love my team­mates. They are amazing women and they constantly provide me with the motiva­tion I need to keep me going. My goal for the team is to continue to improve throughout the season, as we have been." 
The team results were taken by combining the top­three finishers in both races. The Belles were in the middle of the pack of 10 teams, which included Calvin, John Carroll, Bethel, Cornerstone, Adrian, Schoolcraft, Goshen, Trine and Defiance. 
The Belles will head to the Manchester College Invitational on Oct. 18. 
ing. Contact Kate Grabarek at In the 6K, sophomore kgrabaOl @saintmarys.edu 
SMC SoccER 

SMC can't hold on vs. Hope 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
For the second time in as many weeks, a Saint Mary's second-half meltdown led to defeat at the hands of conference foe Hope College. 
The Flying Dutch scored an equalizer in the 70th minute to force overtime and netted the game winner a couple of minutes into the second overtime to seal the victory Saturday. 
The Belles (1-7-1, 0-2 MIAA) got out to a quick start as they have all season when senior for­ward Lauren Hinton scored her fourth goal of the season off a pass from junior Colleen Ferguson in the 18th minute. Saint Mary's failed to convert on any of its final six shots of the game. 
Junior Patty Duffy made 10 saves, but Hope's 20 shots even­tually overwhelmed the Saint Mary's defense. 
The game provided more of the same from the Belles, who have struggled in the second half all season. Saint Mary's has scored in every game this season but are allowing an average of two goals against per game. 
The Belles will try to snap their four-game losing streak when they take on Adrian College in Adrian, Mich., on Tuesday. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 


SMC GOLF 
Belles take second in Manchester 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's finished tied for second place in the Manchester College Fall Invitational, its last tourna­ment before the MIAA Championships next week­end. 
The Belles were led by sophomore Emily Gore, who shot an 82 for the one-day tournament, finishing fifth. The Manchester Invitational was only her second tourna­ment of the year. 
The B e lle s ' s e c o n d -b·e s t round came from freshman Natalie Matuszak, who fin­ished tied for sixth with an 83. 
The scoring was rounded 
out by another sophomore, Rosie O'Connor, who shot an 87 and finished in 12th place, and by the Belles senior cap­tain Perri Hamma, who fin­ished in a tie for 16th after shooting an 89. 
The Belles are now set to compete in the MIAA Championships, which will take place this Friday and Saturday at Bedford Valley 

Golf Course in Battle Creek, Mich. 
They will enter the tourna­ment in third place in the conference, only one stroke behind second place Hope College. The Championships will determine the season's champion for the MIAA. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 



page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 6, 2008 
Co01eback 
continued from page 28 
"You definitely wanted to make sure you win when you bring your alumnae back," Irish coaeh Randy Waldrum said. "We had so many key alumnae back ... You want to put out a product you can still be proud of so [the two wins] made it a very, very good week­end for us all the way around." 
After Notre Dame could not capitalize on its many chances early in the game against Marquette, Golden Eagles for­ward Danielle Martens broke the deadlock in the 60th minute. But the Irish, who were visibly angry after the goal, stormed back to take a 2-1 lead. 
"We just lsaidl. 'Let's settle it down, we got it,"' Hanks said. "And two minutes later we got a goal, so we couldn't have asked for a better way to come baek and respond. We did great and after we scored that first onn, we knew we'd come back and win. It was just a matter of tim11 for us." 
Bock's first goal cappnd off a run by Hanks down the lnft side of the field. I tanks stopped near the Marquette end line and sent a pass to Bock at the top of the penalty box. Bock, who had just one goal coming into the game, took one dribble to her right then Iau nehed a shot into the top right corner of tho net over tho outstrPtched hands of Marquette goalin Natalie Kulla. 
llanks said she was able to find Bock because tho two srm­iors an1 so comfortable playing with each other. 
"We've played together all four years so we feed off each other very well. So I couldn't ask for a better person to share my experience at Notre Dame with ... " Hanks said. "She knows how to finish and she did great today." 
Bock beat Kulla again less than two minutes later when she headed home a flip-throw from junior forward Michele Weissenhofer. 
"She's so good in the air and she's so physically strong," Waldrum said of Bock. "There's just not many players in the country that can handle her and they couldn't today." 
Hanks added an insurance goal on a penalty kick in the 88th minute. 
The win over South Florida Friday was not as tough as the come-from-behind effort against Marquette. 
Freshman forward Melissa Henderson scored her ninth goal of the season in the 20th minute to put the Irish ahead for good. Notre Dame did not allow the Bulls to take a shot on goal en route to the easy victo­ry. 
What's more, Waldrum said the resiliency his team showed against Marquette reminded him of the attitude of his 2004 national champion Irish squad. 
"I don't think there's many teams that would respond with things going against them like that," the coach said. "It reminds me an awful lot of the '04 tnarn that won the national championship ... It's the same mentality that that team had. It's just, 'We're gonna win."' 
Contact Fran Tolan at 
ftolan@nd.edu 

IPII louse 
Tuesday, October 7th, 2008 7:30pm Pizza and Wings RSVP by Monday the 6th 
We are located in the Old Security Building by the D6 Parking Lot (same building as Center for Social Concerns) 

women's team finishing with 88 points.
Hosts 

Senior Patrick Smyth paced the men's five-milecontinued from page 28 
race for the first 3.5 miles the Notre Dame Golf Course. before being overtaken. 
"Going into this race, you Smyth finished fifth with a know it's going to be fast time of 23:36. because·of the level of com­Sophomore Dan Jackson petition," Ferguson said. finished 34th for the Irish in 
Five of the men's teams 24:26, and sophomore Paul 
and eight of the women's teams that competed Friday were ranked in the top 30 of the U.S. Track and Field and Cross Country Coaches Association poll. 
The women finished 11th of 23 teams, while the No. 27 Irish 
men  tied for  
sixth  with  
Florida.  

Florida State swept the two 

titles, with the No. 26 men's ished 54th in 17:34. team finishing first with 81 The event was important points and the No. 3 for both teams to see what to 
Springer and freshman "We,re not too far Joe Miller finished
away from being 
43rd and
pretty good. You look 
44th, both in the runners' eyes with times of 
and you see that 24:32. 
For the
every single one of 
women,them felt they could sophomore 
have been five, I o Marissa 
Treece fin­
places higher. ,, 
ished 38th with a time Tim Connelly of 17:19 and 
Irish coach 

freshman Rachel Velarde fin­
expect of national competi­tion, women's head coach Tim Connelly said. 
"Our kids learned today what it was like to run at the national level," he said. 
Ferguson said the team accomplished its goals at the race. 
"We beat the teams we needed to," she said. "And we know what we're going to expect later in the season." 
Connelly said the team is right where it should be heading into more national races. 
"We're not too far away from being pretty good," he said. "You look in the run­ners' eyes and you see that every single one of them felt they could have been five, 10 places higher. Hopefully they walk away from this with a desire to improve." 
The men and women will compete Oet. 18 at the Pre­NCAA meet in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Have you participated in any TRiO programs? 
(Upward Bound, Educational Talent Search or McNair Scholars) 
If so, Notre Dame Upward Bound invites you to our Open House. 
We would love to connect with you! 
The College Connection for the South Bend Community 
122 Old Security Bldg. Office Telephone: 631-5669 Email contact: wisler.6@nd.edu 
Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME LEADERSHIP SPEAKER SERIES 


"Building a Career in a Global Economy" 
A presentation by Notre Dame alumnus Donald M. Casey 
Monday, October 6, 2008 6:30-7:30 p.m. at McKenna Hall Reception to follow at the Atrium from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 

If you are an undergraduate, MBA, or a graduate student, you won't want to miss. this important presentation to be given by Don Casey, who earned a bachelor's degree in finance, and an MBA from the University of Notre Dame. 
Don is Worldwide Chairman for the Comprehensive Care Group and a member of the Executive Committee for the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. During his fast-paced and dynamic career, he has held leadership positions in several Johnson &Johnson companies, with responsibilities that span the globe. 
From his personal experiences in marketing and general management, and from helping to develop the careers of numerous successful colleagues, Don brings insights and strategies for purposefully creating a strong career foundation that can help you leverage exciting opportunities in the global economy. 
The global reach of Johnson &Johnson Caring for the world, one person at a time... inspires and unites the people of We have more than 250 operating companies iri 57 countries employing 120,200 people. Johnson & Johnson. We embrace research and science-bringing innovative ideas, 
We invite you ft> explore 'Careers with the Johnson & Johnson. Family of Companies 
products, and services to advance the healthand well-being of people. Employees of the at careers.jnj.com. Make your own mark. 
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies work with partners in health care to touch the lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world. 
Our Family of Companies comprises:. 
BE VITAL 
careers:Jnj.com
• 
The world's premier consumer health company )i·· 

• 
The world's largest and most diverse medical devices and diagnostics company 


PHARMACEUTICALS • MEDICAL DEVICES AND DIAGNOSTICS • CONSUMER
• The world's third-largest biologics company 
INTERNSI:HPS, lEADERSHIP PEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS, FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
• And the world's sixth-largest pharmaceuticals company 
Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc. is a member CJohnson & Johnson Services, Inc. 2008. Johnson & Johnson companies are equal opportunity employers. of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. SMALL-COMPANY ENVIRONMENT/BIG-COMPANY IMPACT is a registered trademark of Johnson & Johnson. 
,·.·· f 

. ,_
,..'! ~ -~ 3 .~ ~ ~' ~ ~ 


.:~1f" ~.J. 
....... 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 6, 2008 
NFL 
Edwards knocked out in Buffalo loss 

Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. --Adrian Wilson nearly sat out Sunday's game against Bufl'alo because of a sore hamstring. The decision to let him play brought a painful, early end to Trent Edwards' day. 
Wilson's fierce hit on the third play of the game sent the Bills quart!~rbaek to the locker room with a concussion, and the Arizona Cardinals wont on to mnphatically hand Buffalo its first loss of the season, 41-17. 
"I had my mind made up this morning that I was going to play," Wilson said. "Coach (Ken) WhisPnhunt asked mn if I had a rol1~. what would it bn. I said I eould go on third down. That was my role." 
Kurt Warner bouneed baek from an awful wenknnd at the Meadowlands to pick apart the Bills' defense with short passes, completing 33 of 42 for 250 yards with no interceptions. Nine Arizona receivers had catches. The Cardinals had no lost fumbles or interceptions. 
"We're a tough team to beat whnn we don't turn the ball over," said Whisenhunt, whose team had seven turnovers a wnek earlier in a 56-35 road loss to the New York Jots. 
Warner threw three intercep­tions and fumbled the ball away three times in that game, so he spent the week hanging onto the football around the house. 
"I was actually. chasing my kids around and I had two hands on the football," the father of seven said, "or they were chasing me around trying to simulate the Buffalo Bills." 
Rookie Tim Hightower had touchdown runs of 17 and 2 yards for the Cardinals, who stand alone atop the NFC West. 
Tho Cardinals (3-2), without standout receiver Anquan Boldin, amassed 373 yards against what had been one of the stingier defenses in the league. Buffalo's offense con­tributed, too, fumbling the ball away three times in Bills territo­ry, resulting in 17 Arizona points. 
Buffalo had rallied in the fourth quarter to win its last three. The Bills were down 31­17 after three in this one, and it only got worse from there. 
Coach Dick Jauron painted as positive a face on the loss as he eould. 
''I'd mueh rather go into the bye week 5-0 than 4-1," he said, "but I'm willing to bet there's not a lot of people in this room that thought we'd be 4-1." 

Do you consider the word "motivated" an understatement? We thought so. 
It·,. lime for your hard WOI k to pay qft within an organilation that was once aqain named one of BusinessWeek's 50 Elf,-;t Pk•ce~ lo l auncll A Ca1ee1. WP.. offer <J collaborative. lnckJS!Vfl culture. With customl!ahle camefs, professronal <k•vt?loprnenl. und benefrts. And a cprnmllment to commumty. the environment. ilnd m<Jklng time for family. 
·.--·: li '_·tu;;·,. ! ~'JW tar Wlil V11l taf..G iU 
~ for an electronK: information pocket. text "NOTREDAME" to 7B573. ~ Visit us on the web at delaitte.C01111uslnotred. 
fJehmte Ill-' ~nd ll'i sub'i!(JJ;:.-tes are an equai•"Jp~}(Jrtunny employer. 
AlYJill ()(durttc I Dr.lc •ttl e n~f~!r') h1 une ~ lf' more nf Delottte rottche rohmatsu. a Swtss VerE!in, .'tnd Jt'i network of mmnbt=or fr.rrns, e.:~rh of whtch i!i a ~~~~J<llly -sep;~rate 
Jnd rndupurtdonl cnuLy Ploa'J.e ~e W'WW.Jclotttu.f'..~nllabout fa-a deWilcd d.ua~.:ription of U1e legal $lructureor Dcloittc Touche lo~tmdt:>u and its 
Deloitte.
nu:~mher ftnm. PIP.dSC '!P.C V'MJw.delcHtte.,ornltl"/rlr.,tJt f~,.y a detailecJ de5cnptlctrt of the legal ~rur.ture of [leloitte ll P .and tts substdtarte'). 
(;.·~pyrtnht. ~JOWl Dl)lollt'~ DtW!!Ioprrum1 ItC. All ~lqJ·th mserv~!<:l I 
Monday, October 6, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 
IBL.AC..K 006-PRESENTS: f3lCYU.E COM IC..S 



Legends of Reslife: 
0 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JUMBLE 
JEFF KNUREK 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

THE FAI<MEI<'S SIMPL-E PHIL-OSOPHY WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
rJ r I I I NETEOO ±
I [l J 
www.jumble.com 
REYHEB 

riJ I I Ans: rI I I JTO " rI I I I )" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: HASTY AFTER KOSHER TYPING Answer: What the hairdresser did for the long-haired brunette -"SET' HER RIGHT 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
Across  36 Russian peasant  66 "Buona  !"  
"That may be true, but ... "  wear 38 Chic  67 Puppet glue-ons  
11 " ... there are  40 No-nonsense cry·  Down  
evils to darken all his goodness": Shak. 15 Visit 16 _ Lernaris, early love of Superman 17 When a procrastinator tends to something 18 Exultant cry 19 Advance further? 20 Comic Boosler 22 Place of refuse  41 King's second 43 Diamond, e.g. 44 Like petty otis. 45 She had brief roles as Phyllis on ."Rhoda" and Rhoda on "Dr. Kildare" 47 Prize cup, maybe 48 Jazz pianist who played with Satchmo 50 Address south of the border 52 They're thick 54 Feast  1 Alexis, e.g. 2 Improve 3 Green's concern: Abbr. 4 Italian tenor Schipa 5 Routine responses? 6 Soap actress Kristen and others 7 Money machine mfr. 8 Knock around 9 Pier grp. 10 Roy Rogers's surname at birth  
26 Tons of fun  59 Ones going  11 Son of Elarn  
27 It's built for a  head to head  whose name  
trial 31 Shot putters'  60 Magazine that hands out  means "God the Lord"  
supplies? 33 Player of June in "Henry &June" 34 Title locale of  annual Independent Press Awards 64 Part of a rebel  12 Response to "I had no idea!" 13 Northeastern city named for a  Puzzle by Myles Callum  
five 1980s films:  name  Penobscot chief  35 Felix, e.g.  51 Like some  57 New Wave  
Abbr.  65 Little redhead  14 One concerned  37 Bete noire  instruments  singer Lovich  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  with the nose 21 Some of those who "hail the new" in "Deck the Halls" 23 Arrow of Light earner's program 24 Nostalgia elicitor 25 Cry "nyah,  39 Modem provider of fast service, briefly 42 Nugget holder 46 Light reddish­brown 49God commanded him to marry a harlot  53 Like some instruments: Abbr. 55 "What's Going On" singer, 1971 56 What you may call it when you're wiped out  58 Shore scavengers 61 Governing creative principle 62 Vietnam's Dinh Diem­63 It's most useful when cracked  

nyah!" 27 Engagement For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
breakers?
28 Outlaw band 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
member 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 291nsignificant sort 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
30 Saki story whose title character is 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). a hyena Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Clammed up solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kate Winslet, 33; Mario Lemieux, 38; Guy Pearce, 41; Steve Miller, 65 
Happy Birthday: You can accomplish a lot this year if you are forthright and hon­orable with your claims and promises. This is a unique and creative year for you. so don't slow down or give up on an idea that can make a difference to your cur­rent lifestyle. Keep things simple, stick to what matters and you'll see how far you go. Your numbers are 12, 16, 19, 21, 32, 41,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take a short trip or plan an adventure with a friend. Explore other cultures or lifestyles, beliefs and traditions and you will be able to incorporate some of what you learn into your own life, making it that much 
better. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An old acquaintance will remind you of goals you once had. It's a good time to return to your roots -you can learn a lot about 
yourself by reliving the past. Communication will lead to an offer to do some­thing that interests you. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be the one everyone turns to when bored or looking for a good time. Your energetic nature and desire to try new things will keep your popularity up and your options open. A proposal will be offered that suits you. *** CANCER (Jnne 21-July 22):Love iB in the stars and it will be next to impossible foryou to have a clear head when it comes to your personal decisions. A chance to partner with someone may cause complications at home but will work itself out. ***LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's a great day to kick back with friends and enjoy engaging conversations and a little bonding with someone you want to do more with. A sports event or activity will allow you to show off your skills and put you in a leadership position. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get bogged down with trivialities or people who don't get what you are trying to do. You will do far better with outsiders who have clear and fresh minds. Someone from your past will be interested in getting together. ** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Check out some new places. A great idea can be turned into a workable solution for some of the problems you have been dealing with at home. A change is in store and can help you get things moving in a much better direction. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Reconsider your professional choices. If the money isn't coming in fast enough, you may have to take drastic measures to overcome your debt. Any offers made in the past should be looked at again and imple­mented.*** SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. Someone will stop you in your tracks if you overreact or exaggerate. A sugges­tion made regarding work should be considered. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your money in a safe place. Talks will not make others see what you are up against, so don't bother. Instead, stay out of the line of fire by planning a qniet outing. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get involved in a cause or a demonstration that supports something you believe in. Your voice will be heard and you will be able to convince others to support your beliefs. An offer or a payback that was a long time coming should be yours. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Spend time nurturing a partnership or relationship that can make a difference to your future. Ifyou are drawing up a new agreement, hash things out reasonably and, if you are ready, make a commitment. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are loving, appreciative and giving. You are creative, com­petitive, determined, headstrong and in control. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroruivice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations, myspace.comleugenialastfor Eugenia's blog 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ___________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, October 6, 2008 
page 28 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Roaring back 
Senior Brittany Bock's two goals help top-ranked Notre Dame remain unbeaten against Marquette 
By FRAN TOLAN Associate Sports Editor 
When Marquette scored first and put the host Irish in a 1-0 hole Sunday, the Golden Eagles woke the sleeping giant that is lop-ranked Notre Dame. 
The Irish ( 12-0-0, 5-0-0 Big East) responded to the goal with two of their own in the ensuing four minutes of play. Senior co-captain Brittany Bock notched both scores in that span as Notre Dame came from behind for a 3-1 win. 
Senior forward Kerri llanks pieked up a goal and an assist in the victory, making her Notre Dame's all-time leader in points with 213. The tri­umph was the second of the weekend for the Irish, who had also taken down South Florida 3-0 Friday. At halftime of that contest, Notre Dame celebrat­ed the women's soccer pro­gram's 20th year by welcoming over 40 alumnae back to cam­pus. 
see COMEBACK/Page 24 

JESS LEE!The Observer Irish senior co-captain Brittany Bock controls the ball during Notre Dame's 3-1 comeback win over Marquette Sunday. Bock scored twice within four minutes of the Golden Eagles' go-ahead goal. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
ND splits 2 vveekend n1atchups 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Louisville native Christina Kaelin made the most of her homecoming Saturday, as the Irish went on the road and took down the Cardinals 3-0 (25-22, 25-23, 25-23). 
It marked the first Irish sweep in Louisville since 1986, and Notre Dame (8-8, 3-1 Big East) coach Debbie Brown couldn't have been happier with the big result against the conference foe. 
"I was really pleased," she said. "Obviously it was a really big, important game for us." 
Kaelin led the Irish with 14 kills in front of her hometown fans, posting a .344 hitting percentage. Brown said Kaelin, a junior outside hitter, was especially excited to play against the Cardinals. 
"I think it's always pretty 
see SPLIT/Page 21 

fOOTBALL 
Forn1er QB Theismann honored vvith O'Brien Award 
some very speeial individuals to "That was fun. I was the little to pass on both options and wfmt retiring at the end of the 200(J
By DAN MURPHY 
be grouped with." guy who just managed to stay north to play in the now-defunct season. TIHlismann now spends Sports Ediwr 
Former Navy and Dallas around and hang on," he said. Canadian Football League. his time playing as much golf as Cowboys quarterback Roger Notre Dame recruited 13 quar­"I ran into some negotiation he ean while working a<; a moti­
Fornwr Irish quartnrhack Joe Slaubaeh wa<> the first to receive terbacks that season, but problems with the Dolphins. The vational speakf1r for various Thnismann addnd anollwr award the honor in 2001. He was fol­Theismann said his size may have negotiations rnally screwed every­groups. to his trophy ea-;e last wnnk when lowed by IPgtmdary names such actually helped him. thing up li.Jr me," Theismann said. "It's a grnat opportunity to be he was named tlw 2008 Davey as Hart Starr, Terry Bradshaw "Back then, they just recruited "I have very few regret-;, but cer­ablp, to afl'p,d peopln's lives. Every O'Brien I.PgPmls Award n~dpient. and Arehie Manning. Notre the best athletes they eould, most tainly playing for Don Shula organization that I get to be 
Thn award, which was started Dame's Paul I Iornung was also on were quarterbacks and got would have been great." around I gnt to lflarn something in 2001, is givnn to a quarterback the list of recipients despite moved to other positions. I wasn't Theismann eventually found a new so it's an educational expnri­who has rnadn major contribu­spending most of his career as a tall enough to be a receiver or big horne with the Washington ence," Theisrnann said. tions to the game on and ol1' the hallhaek. enough to go on defense so I just Hedskins where he played until The Davey O'Brien Foundation linld 1mch year. Theisrnann played f(Jr the Irish stuck around," he said. perhaps the most famous leg will ollieially honor him in Forth 
"It's very spndal." Tlwismann in the late 1960s and was runner­Theisrnann also played varsity injury of all time ended his carep,r Worth, Texas, on Feb. 16. said. "You rnallv look at the com­up for the 1970 Heisman Trophy baseball for the Irish. He was in 1985. pany and the people that have Award -not too shabby for drafted by both the NFCs Miami The quarterback went on to received this before make it a someone who started his career Dolphins and MLB's Minnesota help ESPN with their coverage of Contact Dan Murphy at really gn~at honor. Those are listed at 6-foot-1, 14 7 pounds. Twins in 1971. Theisrnann chose the NFL for several years before dmurphy6@nd.edu 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 
Ferguson leads Irish efforts 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Writer 
Lindsay Ferguson wnars small gold shamrock ear­rings for good luck nvery linw she raei\S. But if she knnps improving, she may not ruwd to wear thorn any­morn. 
Fnrguson finished the thrPn-rnilP coursP in 17:0:~. 28 seconds faster than her timn on tlw same (',oursfl at thn Snpt. 19 National Catholic Championships. The 
Irish  hosted both  raees  at  TOM LNThe Observer  
Irish senior Patrick Smyth leads a pack of runners during Friday's  
see HOSTS/Page 24  Notre Dame Invitational.  


ND SWIMMING 

Men's, women's teams both clain1 top honors 
the 200-yard freestyle relay,
By MIKE GOTIMER 
the meet's first cvnnt. Thn 
Sports Writer 
team of junior .John Lyttle. 
freshman Marshall Sherman. 

Both Notre Dame's men's sophomore Thomas Van and women's teams captured Volkenburg and junior David first at this weekend's Dennis Anderson, set llw record with Stark Helays. a time ol' 1:25.02. 
The men's team scored a Lyttle was part of Notrn total of 255 points in the Dame's second reeord-brPak­meet, held at Notre Dame. ing performance in the last outscoring second-place event of lh1~ day, tho 400­Oakland University by 51 l'reestyle relay. The team of points. The team also set two Lyttle, junior Andrew meet records in the process. Hoffman, senior Danny 
Notre Dame's first record­setting pp,rformanee came in see RELAYS/Page 21 





