
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 80 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2008 

Super Tuesday vote to narrow field 
Twenty1our states to participate in largest number ofprimaries and caucuses ever held in one day 
By DAVIS RHORER, Jr. News Writer 
The remaining candidates competing for the Democratic and Republican presidential nominations will face their biggest hurdle yet in today's Super Tuesday primary and caucus elections. 
The previous primaries and caucuses this election season have sent delegates to numer­ous candidates on both sides of the political arena, failing to identify one "stand out" con­tender. With such close races, the elections today in 24 states could be a turning point for candidates seeking the nomi­nations. 
"This is the closest we've ever been to a national pri­mary" David Campbell, a Notre Dame political science professor, said Saturday. 
Notre Dame political science professor Peri Arnold echoed those sentiments. This year's Super Tuesday elections, so named because of the large number of primaries and cau­cuses held, marks the largest number of states ever to dis­tribute delegates in a single day in the approximately 30 years the United States has used the primary and caucus system, he said. 
"We haven't had an open race in a long time" Arnold said, referring to the absence of a "favorite choice" for the nomination in both the Democratic and Republican parties. Campbell said President George W. Bush's very low popularity level is a reason behind the current presidential race's competi­tiveness. 
"Winning early has not worked well [in this election]" Campbell said. 
He emphasized the potential shifts in popularity that have already forced some previous­ly well-known candidates out of the race. 
Arnold emphasized his sur­prise at the resiliency of the Republican Party, especially considering Bush's low popu­larity. 
"[This race] shouldn't be competitive," Arnold said. "All things would point to a victory for the opposition." 
While both Campbell and Arnold acknowledged the diverse group of candidates competing, Saint Mary's histo­ry professor Amanda Littauer 
see TUESDAY/page 6 

Protests held against Colombian kidnappings 
Delayed release oftwo hostages triggers worldwide marches; resentment builds against FARC 
By LIZ MILLER 
News Writer 
A protest against violence and kidnappings committed by a guerrilla group that began as a Colombian Facebook group in January expanded into a day of protest marches in over 100 cities worldwide Monday. Notre Dame's campus club Organizacion Latino Americana held a rosary in soli­darity with the marches Monday night in the Cavanaugh chapel. 
The largest guerrilla group in Colombia, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia IFARC), was established in 1964 by the Colombian Communist party. It is consider~d a terrorist group because of its kidnapping, narcotics trafficking and tradi­tional military action against the Colombian military. 
The Facebook group and worldwide protests were trig­gered in part by the delayed release of two political hostages, though popular sentiment against the kidnappings has been build­ing for decades. 
Organizacion Latino Americana (OLA) is trying to help students "become more aware of what's going on in Latin America," club president Carla Sanchez said. 
Club member Santiago Garces, a sophomore from Colombia who heard about the protest marches through Facebook, suggested the rosary service. 
"We have had 40 years of suf­fering and every story gets even worse," Garces said. ''I've heard people who were kidnapped tell their stories, there are no words." 
Garces lamented that class pre­
see COLOMBWpage 4 

ACE hosts First Lady at Catholic school 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
First lady Laura Bush visit­ed a Washington, D.C., ele­mentary school partnered with the Notre Dame-affiliat­ed Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) on Wednesday. 
Her visit to Holy Redeemer School took place during Catholic Schools Week, an annual celebration of Catholic schools and their contribu­tions to their communities and the nation. 
The ACE Magnificat Initiative has given Holy Redeemer School support and resources since it was nearly shut down two years ago, ACE Director for Education Outreach Aaron Wall said. 
The Magnificat Initiative partners the University and ACE with a Catholic school that is in danger of being closed down and gives schools the tools and resources to continue educating students, Wall said. These include training, marketing and finance expertise and funding. The partnership also makes ACE teachers and principles available to schools. 
Wall said the first lady's visit was an indication of ACE's success in Catholic schools nationwide. 
"Coming from an educator herself, it is great to [have Laura Bush] garner national attention for the ACE pro­gram," he said. "It gives us that recognition I feel we 
see ACE/page 6 


Members of Organizacion Latino Americana held a rosary Monday in Cavanaugh's chapel in solidarity with worldwide protests. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

OIT finds flaw-s with ENSsystem 
Students, staffmembers receive test notifications 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assisstant News Editor 
The Office of Information Technology tested the Emergency Notification System Friday to mixed results, an OIT official said Monday. 
The office sent students and staff members e-mails, text message and voice mails at 2 
p.m. on Friday. There were some delays in the system, and some of the text messages failed to reach their intended destina­tion, said Jay Steed, executive assistant to the chief informa­tion officer at OIT. 
"We had successes and some opportunities that weren't per­fect," Steed said. "There's always room for improvement. We have some pretty high stan­dards for delivery of these mes­sages. That's why we do the testing, to make sure we can get all t?,e tweaks out of the sys­tem. 
Steed said the system will require improvements and he considers it a top priority to make the system flawless. 
OIT is still compiling data from the test and is not ready to release specific numbers, although Steed said the office has an idea where the major problems occurred. 
"It's important for the University to communicate 
see SYSTEM/page 4 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Council discusses poster abundance 
Knott rector expresses frustration over number ofadvertisements in halls 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
Members of the Campus Life Council discussed the number of advertisements posted on campus at the group's Monday afternoon meeting. 

Sheena Plamoottil, head of the Task Force on Campus Environment, said the task force had discussed the num­bers of advertisements posted on campus at last week's Green Summit. 
Brother Jerome Meyer, Knott Hall rector, expressed his frustration with the num­bers of posters crowding wall space around campus. 
see CLC/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hey Skip, you're W"rong 
As a San Francisco 49ers fan, I didn't have a rooting interest in this year's NFL playoffs. Then Skip Bayless opened his mouth. 
Just after New England defeated the New York Giants 38-35 in Week 17, the loud­
mouth ESPN  Chris Hlne  
"analyst" went  
on TV and called out  Sports Editor  
Giants coach  

Tom Coughlin for playing his starters the entire game in an attempt to beat the then-undefeated Patriots. Bayless called Coughlin's decision one of the worst coaching decisions he's ever seen and said the Giants stood no chance in the playoffs because they were injured. lie said Coughlin missed an oppor­tunity to heal some of his players. 
Only Bayless didn't articulate his argument as calmly as I made him sound. Arms flailing, temper flar­ing, Bayless screamed that Coughlin was an idiot and had no chance to beat Tampa Bay in the first round, much less win the Super Bowl. Well, despite what Bayless would have you believe, Tom Coughlin knew his team pretty well. 
He knew if the Giants were going to make it through the best the NFC had to offer, and win the Super Bowl a few weeks later, they should see how they stack up against a team that was 1 7-0 and supposedly one of the best ever. And they almost won the game. 
So when the cantankerous Coughlin told his team in the locker room before every playoff game they could beat anyone, and they were the best team in football, they believed him. llis words weren't just hollow preaching that had no substance to back it up. When everyone in the locker room truly believes they are the best, that can overcome any injury. But Bayless failed to see that logic. Instead, Bayless decided he would usc air­time to slam Coughlin. Even after the Super Bowl, Bayless failed to admit he was wrong. How arrogant can one man get? 
Skip, you were wrong. Admit it. Congratulate Tom Coughlin, who clearly knows more about football than you do, and move on. It's peo­ple like Skip Bayless who give sports journalists a bad name and makes young people consider turn­ing away from the profession. He's confrontational just for the sake of being confrontational. He says peo­ple should be fired without even so much as an ounce of regard for their families, who just might be watching his program at home or who might hear about it later. And he criticizes in an unnecessarily over-the-top manner. It's one thing to be critical of someone, it's anoth­er thing to be just plain mean about it. 
I hope Bayless is able to keep his fa~ade of self-worth going the rest of his life, because if he ever catch­es a glimpse of what he has become, it will easily surpass the horror of having to admit he's wrong. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@ndedu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional puhlicarion and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT REGION OF THE U.S. HAS THE BEST FOOD? 


John Cogill 

senior offcampus 
"The five points in South Bend­Frankie's BBQ." 

Clarissa Banientos 
sophomore Lewis 
"California because ofthe Mexican food.'' 


Kyle Bocinsky 
senior offcampus 
"Georgia because everything tastes better when you lick it offyour fingers." 

Jordy Brooks 
senior offcampus 
"Georgia because everything tastes better when you lick it offKyle's fingers. , 

James Binco Teresa Henisey 
sophomore freshman Keenan Cavanaugh 
"New York "California 
because because it has everything is In-n-Out!" better in New 
York." 
IN BRIEF 

The ND women's tennis team will take on BYU today at 5 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Admission is free. 
There will be an alumni panel for Teach for America today at 7 
p.m. in 100-104 McKenna Hall. 
Ash Wednesday services will be celebrated in the Basillica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. on Wednesday. 
The "Lest We Forget: Two Years Arter Katrina & Rita" forum will take place Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Student Lounge. The event features an affected student panel for discussion and ticket giveaways for the upcom­ing World View Film Series show­ing of II Desert Bayou. II 
NDVotes '08 will host a Super Tiesday and early primaries analysis featuring political experts from the Univrsity Wedneday at 7:30 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
A campus-wide Lenten penance service will be held Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Basillica of the Sacred Heart. 
The student body primary election debates will be held Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the TV lounge of LaFortune in front of the Dooley Room. 
The deadline for Spring 2008 Intramural entries and fees is Thursday. Entries are due at Rolfs SportsRec Center. The badminton doubles fee is $5 and the floor hockey fee $50. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 
,1\?f~ 
\ \f\ k 

., :\,:~i_~L':., 1/ ~~ ~ 
~~ 
~~\.. ,/~ 
~llN~

~y 
HIGH 33 HIGH 32 LOW 21 LOW 18 

ABIGAIL WILKINS!The Observer 
Sophomores Cynthia Curley and Caitlin O'Connell sell carnations in North Dining Hall to benefit Pasquerilla West residence hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Grandmother allegedly 
hides cocaine In bra 
OAKLAND PARK, Fla. -Broward County authorities said a grandmother was arrested for hiding cocaine in her bra during a drug raid in Oakland Park. Eight oth­ers were also arrested Friday at or near the home of Henrietta Corvin Daise, 
62. Many of them were her grandchildren. Jail records show Daise posted $7,500 bail Saturday. 
The Broward County Sheriffs Office said deputies conducted a search warrant on her home and found Daise with powder cocaine 
TODAY 
a:: 

stuffed in her bra. Deputies also found 20 crack cocaine rocks, four grams of powder cocaine, marijuana and $1,000 in cash. 
Mississippi law would ban obese diners 
JACKSON, Miss.-A state lawmaker wants to ban restaurants from serving food to obese customers ­but please, don't be offend­ed. He says he never even expected his plan to become law. 
"I was trying to shed a lit­tle light on the number one problem in Mississippi," said Republican Rep. John Read of Gautier, who acknowl­edges that at 5-foot-11 and 230 pounds, he'd probably have a tough time under his own bill. 
More than 30 percent of adults in Mississippi are con­sidered it obese, according to a 2007 study by the Trust for America's Health, a research group that focuses on dis­ease prevention. 
The state House Public Health Committee chairman, Democrat Steve Holland, said he is going to "shred" the bill. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
LLI ::1: 


/~t&rvrf~
(~~Yb­
iljy:.
~ 
LLI 

b' 
~I ' ·7E::
···"t;>, /~·
3: 
~~ 
..... 
"Y)/fK
u<;.y· 
.' ... -~ 
-'\ 
' 

~ 
ct 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 44 HIGH 30 HIGH 30 HIGH 35
...I LOW 30 LOW 23 LOW 20 LOW 22 
Atlanta 72 I 54 Boston 47 I 35 Chicago 39 I 36 Denver 31 I 13 Houston 75 I 67 Los Angeles 64143 Minneapolis 24123 New York 56 I 38 Philadelphia 63 I 41 Phoenix 57 I 39 Seattle 43 I 37 St. Louis 50 I 47 Tampa 82 I 65 Washington 67 1 42 

----------------------------------------------------, Tuesday, February 5, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

National group honors Hesburgh 
University president emeritus receives higher education award 
Special to The Observer 
The National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU) has selected University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh as the 2008 recipi­ent of the Henry Paley Memorial Award. 
Hesburgh will receive the award with prerecorded remarks from NAICU President David L. Warren at the association's annual meet­ing Tuesday at the Hyatt Regency Washington on Capitol Hill. University President Father John Jenkins will attend and accept the award on Hesburgh's behalf. 
Since 1985, the Paley Award has recognized an individual who, throughout his or her career, has unfailingly served the students and faculty of independent higher educa­tion. The recipient of the award has set an example for all who would seek to advance educational opportunity in the United States. The Paley Award is named for Henry Paley, president of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities of New York from 1975 until 1984. 
One of the most influential figures in higher education in the 20th century, Hesburgh 
trustees and fellows, and the admis-"Father Hesburgh 's gift for sion of 
constructing a world­
women to 

changing vision and
undergradu­ate studies in bringing it to fruition has 1972. 
inspired all of us in
Hesburgh's 

higher education, as well
service to the nation and as countless others Church­
outside the halls of 
including 16 

academe."
presidential appointments and service David L. Warren to four 
NAICU president 
popes-has been recog­

and associa­tions nation­wide, NAICU reflects the diversity of private, non­profit higher education in the United States. NAICU mem­bers enroll 85 percent of all students attending private insti­tutions. They include traditional 
nized with the Medal of Freedom from President Johnson in 1964 and the Congressional Gold Medal in 2000. He is the recipient of 150 honorary degrees-the most ever awarded to one person. 
"Father Hesburgh's gift for constructing a world-chang­
liberal arts colleges, major research universities, church­and faith-related institutions, historically black colleges, Hispanic-serving institutions, single-sex colleges, art insti­tutions, two-year colleges, and schools of law, medicine, engineering, business and other professions. 




Prof nan1ed to political conunittee 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame political scientist Darren Davis has been appoint­ed to an ad hoc committee of the American Association for Public Opinion Research (AAPOR) to evaluate the New Hampshire primary polls. 
Polling taken the day before the New Hampshire primary indicated a 10-point lead for Sen. Barack Obama that turned into a 3-point deficit once results were tabulated. 
The AAPOR is the leading pro­fessional organization of public opinion and survey research professionals in the U.S., with members from academia, media, government, the non­profit sector and private indus­try. 
Drawing from the experience of the 1948 Committee on Analysis of Pre-election Polls and Forecasts, which incorrectly predicted the Truman-Dewey race, the AAPOR's ad hoc com­mittee will evaluate the method­ology of the pre-election primary polls and the way results are reported by the media and used to characterize the contests in pre-election press coverage. The committee will archive the data related to the 2008 primaries for future scholarly research and will evaluate how polls have been and can be optimally used in reporting. 

The committee also will review pre-election polls in the South Carolina and February 5 "Super Tuesday" primaries, which will provide additional evidence that may inform theories concerning the New Hampshire polls. 
A nationally recognized expert in public opinion, Davis special­izes in political psychology, polit­ical behavior, public opinion, research methods and racial politics. 

Third annual French 
film festival begins 
College shows award-winning movies using grant from FACE and other foundations 
served as Notre Dame's presi­dent from 1952 to 1987, dur­ing which time he established the University as one of the nation's leading institutions of higher learning. The two major changes during his tenure were the transference of governance in 1967 from the Congregation of Holy Cross to a two-tiered, mixed board of lay and religious 

ing vision and bringing it to fruition has inspired all of us in higher education, as well as countless others outside of the halls of academe," Warren said. "The NAICU is privileged to award him the 22nd annual Henry Paley Award." 
NAICU serves as the unified national voice of independent higher education. With near­ly 1,000 member institutions 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 

A series of well-known­French films is playing at Saint Mary's this week as part of the College's third annual French Film Festival. 
The movies will be shown with English subtitles in Vander Vennet Theater. 

The  films  are  highly  
regarded  in  the  French  
community,  said  Mana  

Derakhshani, French pro­
fessor and 
coordinator 
of the 
French pro­
gram. 
"We chose 

"We chose films that had
films that not reveal had been been somehow the rapist's somehow identity.
recognized by getting 
recognized After the
Academy Awards, or
by getting incident, Academy Ceasars [French Oscars] .the woman Awards, or is suspected
or the Euorpean Union
Cesars of witch­
Awards."
[French craft and Oscars] or forced into t h e Mana Derakshant exile. 
European The film
French professor
U n i o n Awards," she said. 
T h e department also takes recommendations from sen­iors studying French for which movies to include. 
The festival is made pos­sible through a grant from FACE, French American Cultural Exchange, and a number of other founda­tions, Derakhshani said. 
In years past, the events have attracted between 50 and 60 viewers each night. 
"Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff, as well as people from the Notre Dame community, local high school students and local community people attend," Derakhshani said. 

Admission is free and open to the public. Each screening will begin at 7 p.m. 
The film ".Brodeuses" will play Tuesday. The film involves a teenager who is forced to move out of her home because she is preg­nant. In order to support herself, she begins working as an embroiderer with an older woman and gains a wealth of knowledge. 
The film "Delwende, leve­toi et marc he" will play Wednesday. This movie involves the emotional struggle of a teenage rape victim who does 
"Paris, Je t'aime" will p I a y Thursday. This film includes 18 different stories of Paris and highlights different areas of the city. Each story is directed by a different 
director  and  evokes  the  
romance  and longing the  
city  is  famous  for,  

Derakhshani said. 
The final film, "Les ami­ties malefiques," will play Friday. This film follows the lives of French college stu­dents who try to emulate another student, but find that they are better off by themselves. 
Contact Katie Kohler kkohleOl @saintmarys.edu 

Best Value 1·n Town Con1e See Why/ 
,.. Inthrur/ Outtitwr Tennis a:DJ Basketball ,.. Free Ta:Dning ,.. Hea.teJ Ptrol ,.. Hela.zing Jacuzzi ,.. Ga.teJ Co:.m.m unity ,.. Co:.m.m unity Business Center ,.. Nu Applica.tio.n Fees for StuJents ,.. Clase tu everything_ __ far fro:.m ordinary! 





Castle1'oint 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
deserve that we are a for­ward-thinking group of edu­cators. It is great to be recog­nized by her... and it gives us a lot of validation to keep working in the future." 
The school's current teach­ing stall" includes ACE teacher Maggie Schroeder, who teach­es second grade and is in her second year of the ACE pro­gram, and Notre Dame gradu­ate Molly Walsh. The school's principal, Ben Ketcham, is also a Notre Damn alumnus and ACE graduate. 
IJoly Hndeemer School is in its first year of the five-year Magnilkat program. 
"It's only been f'ive to six months that we've been involved," Wall said. "This was a school that was ready to dose its doors. and it has made inennlible improve­ments. lloly Hednemer still has a long way to go. but rela­tive to what it was last year, it is excnlling." 
Wall said the most meaning­ful aspect of Bush's visit is its importance to the students. 
"The largnst impact is on the students at lloly Hedeemer, that someone like Mrs. Bush will take time out of their day Ito visit theml." Wall said. "The first lady offered to come, being that the school was in her back­yard. It was beautiful that she took her time." 
ACE ended the Catholic Schools Week festivities with a celebration at Holy Hedeemer School on Thursday evening to celebrate the school's sue­cess under the Magnil'ieat 

Syste01 
continued from page 1 
efTnctively and rapidly with the campus community, and we take it vnry seriously," he said. "We want to make sure that it works as fast as it possibly ean, so we still have to work out the tweaks." 
Steed said the University needs to revise the system it uses to snnd text messages to students. 
"One of the things that we found Friday eVPning after the test is that there was an issue with text rnnssaging capabili­ties," Stend said. "Wn know that some of the text messages did not go out." 
orr is currently meeting with Connect-ED. the vendor responsible for delivering the nwssaging snrviens for emer­gnney voice mail, text mes­sages and e-mail to discuss possibln solutions. "Connect­ED is saying that a number of text messages did not get dnliven~d at all, and that had to do with a problem in their eomputnr eode," said Steed. 

Every person who volun­tnnred cell phone infor·mation should have received a text mnssage. Under the old sys­tem, students had to sign up for text messages, but Steed said the Connect-Ed "has sinee changed the model to auto­matically opt 1werybody in that has provided a enll phone number so that they would receive a text rrwssagn." 
If students do not wish to rneeive a text message, they can choose to opt out of the systnm on the orr Web site. 
There were also delays in Initiative. 

Wall said several ACE grad­uates and Notre Dame alumni participated in the week's events. 
Holy Redeemer School is one of three Magnificat schools nationwide. The other two are St. Adalbert in South Bend and St. Anne in Chicago, which both started the pro­gram In 2006. 
The first lady's visit also coincided with President Bush's State of the Union pro­posal to oll'er $300 million in Pell Grants for Kids to aid to low-income students. The president also proposed the White House Summit on Inner-City Children, which Bush said will unite educa­tors, business leaders and philanthropists to raise awareness about private schools. 
"!The proposal] ean only stand to impact us positively ... and to give more students an opportunity to be enrolled in K-12 education," Wall said. "It's very exciting for us knowing that attention is going to be put on Catholic education. It would give us an opportunity to share the spot­light and share with others the good work that we are doing." 
On Thursday, U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings visited another ACE school, St. Peter Claver Catholic Central School in New OrlHans. 
Spellings called the school a positive example of the work Catholic schools have done in New Orleans sinee Hurricane Katrina. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
the e-mail system, Steed said. 
"OIT is also working on the issues regarding sending out the emails to the Notre Dame community, because it was not as fast as we had hoped and planned for," he said. 
While orr hopes the system will someday be flawless, Steed said there always will be somo errors. 
"At any given point a num­ber of contacts won't be reached because of data-entry errors or a third-party e-mail account no longer exists," he said. "We always have a per­centage of contacts that won't be roaelmd." 
Steed said he has seen no significant increase in the amount of people who volun­teer their eell phone informa­tion, though he said orr plans to put out advertising on cam­pus urging students to provide that information. 
"We'd love to see 100 per­cent partieipations with regard to cell phones," he said. 
Moreover, although the University had planned only one test of the system this semester, Steed said that the results might require OIT to perform another assessment. 
"There's a steering commit­tee with Connect-ED and we will determine the next test date when we meet again next week," Steed said. "We had hoped that we would only have to test once this semester to try to make sure we didn't dilute the effectiveness of the system, but given some of the results we may look into hav­
. ing another test this semes­ter." · 
Contact Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Colo01bia 
continued from page 1 
vented Notre Dame students from 
attending the mareh in Chicago. 
"Part of the responsibility I have as a Colombian is to do well in school so that when I go back I can be a better person," he said. 
One Notre Dame graduate stu­dent, Hubert George, has had personal experience with the kid­napping threats in Colombia. 
George's family moved from their home in Barranquilla, Colombia, to Miami five years ago after receiving increasing num­bers of threats from the FAHC. 
In Colombia, George's father had been ,a neurologist and mayor of the coastal eity of Barranquilla from 1995 to 1997. 
"In all that period, you always have threats," George said. "l had my bodyguard wait for me after school. It's not comfortable to deal with." 
After his brief political involve­ment, George's father went back to his medical practice. He con­sidered running for oflice again, at whieh point the threats increased. 
"My father got seared whenever they mentioned his child," George said. "They wanted to speak to him about his political agenda. 
"These people, to get their goals, they do whatever they want, and kidnapping is one of the means that they use to put pressure on anyone they want. Kidnapping, and the way they treat hostages, is against humani­tarian law." 
George compared the barbed wire-surrounded FAHC hostage camps to the concentration eamps of World War II. 
In order to escape encountering members of FARC, George's fami­ly moved to the United States in March 2003, when he was 20 years old. 
The family arrived as tourists and was granted political asylum within three months. 
"It was a very, very, very hard experience for me," George said. "It's not easy to deal with this big changes." 
The move was also difficult for 

George's parents, who had estab­
lished careers in Colombia. After 
30 years of practicing in 
Colombia, where he had been 
president of the Colombian 
Neurological Association, 
George's father is trying to enter 
residency in the United States. 
"That's something I admire," George said. "My mother was a philosopher and a lawyer in Colombia, but here she has noth­ing to do." 
George's brother is currently living in Sweden, where he helped to organize the protest march in Stockholm. 
"This mareh is to let people know that Colombians am against FARC's actions, against kidnap­pings, and it is to ask IFARCl to release those civilians that are not related with the war and gov­ernment," George said. 
Scott Mainwaring, director of the Kellogg Institute, said FARC and other guerrilla groups were formed throughout Latin America in the aftermath of the Cuban Hnvolution in 1959. 
The formation of FAHC was "nothing all that unusual," he said. 
"What is remarkable is how durable this group has been and how powerful it has become," he said. 
Not until the 1980s, with the group involved in illegal drug running, did "you get a gradual intensification of what had been an almost irrelevant, low-seale conflict," Mainwaring said. "At one point it was a grotesquely misguided idealism. Today there is clearly a significant dose of opportunism, money making and cynicism as well." 
Mainwaring said there have been human rights violations by all the guerilla groups, but pres­sure from the United States has prompted the Colombian govern­ment to reduce state involvement in human rights abuses. 
Colombian President Alvaro 
Uribe has made "a great 

improvement in the security sys­
tem of his country," Mainwaring 
said. 
OLA member Garces said 

gu«;lrilla groups have focused 
recently on improving their inter­
national appearance. 

'That makes you siek," Garces said. "Obviously it's people who are not informed about what's going on. They are misled in believing these people are free­dom lighters." 
The groups may have some legitimacy behind their aims, but not their means, Garces said. 
"The reasons the guerilla groups are f<>rmed -social injus­tice -are things that need to bn combated, but what it has turned into is a business of death," he said. 
Both George and Garces emphasized the significance of a unified movement. 
"If a lot of people are doing a mareh, it will be very dear to everyone that they are terrorist<;," George said. "Maybe that's not dear." 
Garces said the protests are "the first time that Colombia as a whole stands up and daims we're not going to put up with this any­morn." 
He emphasized the importance of the protests for national well­being. 
"I think everyone in Colombia has been stained by the war and the guerilla," he said. 
Garces said his family had a narrow escape with the guerillas. At his family's home eity of Cali, guerilla fighters entered a church during the Sunday Ma<;s and kid­napped all the parishioners. 
"Fortunately, my undes went to Mass on Saturday instead of Sunday," he said. 
Contact Liz Miller at emilie 1 O@nd.edu 
INFORMATION MEETING for JUNIORS and SENIORS interested in applying for a 
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP 
(for tu;o-three years rifstucfy at ()xjord) 

MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for tJJJOyears f!fstucfy in the United Kingdom) 

MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for oneyear rifstucfy in Ireland) 
Tuesday, February 5 5:00pm in 118 DeBartolo 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 1OS O'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
----------------------------, 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 5, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Children's home attacked in Kenya 
SUGOI, Kenya -Just a few hours after young­sters at a children's home in western Kenya fin­ished the soccer game, their fellow players turned on them. 
The attackers crept out of a cofli~e plantation, smeared with clay and armed with spears, machetes. bows and arrows. Then they burned and looted the home that served as the only refuge for 130 children with troubled pasts. One child heard an attacker mention President Mwai Kibaki, who is accused of stealing this country's Dnc. 27 election. 
The attack on the Sugoi-Munsingen Children's llome and School this weekend is one more example of the turmoil that has followed the dis­putml election. Prot£1sts quickly degenerated into clashes that killed more than 1,000 people. Much of the violence has pitted other ethnic groups against Kibaki's Kikuyu people, long resentPd for their dominance of business and politics. 
U.S. military accidentally kills civilians 
BAGHDAD-The U.S. military said Monday it accidentally killed nine Iraqi civilians during an opPration targeting al-Qaida in Iraq -the dead­liest known case of mistaken identity in recent months. 
In northern Iraq, Turkish warplanes on Monday bombed some 70 Kurdish rebel targets, the Turkish military said. It was the fifth aerial attack against Kurdish rebel bases there in two months. 
Also Monday, 15 suspected militants were killed in U.S. raids targeting a possible hideout for a senior al-Qaida in Iraq leader northeast of Baghdad, the military said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Boy Scout charged with mwdering family 
COCKEYSVILLE, Md. -Police say a 15-year-old Boy Scout charged with killing his parents and two younger brothers shot them as they slept, then returned a day later after spending time with friends to stage the discovery of their deaths. 
A judge denied bail for Nicholas Browning on Monday, though his attorney cited his strong aca­demic background and lack of a prior criminal record in seeking to have it set at $1 million instead. 
"I don't even think he's even been suspended from school," attorney Steve Silverman said. "Quite frankly, it's really quite shocking." 
Officials believe the teen had shot his father, mother, and brothers with one of his father's guns Friday, then tossed the handgun in some bushes and left. 


Nature-based recreation declining 
WASHINGTON -As people spend more time communing with their televisions and comput­ers, the impact is not just on their health, researchers say. Less time spent outdoors means less contact with nature and, eventually, less interest in conservation and parks. 
Camping, fishing and per capita visits to parks are all declining in a shift away from nature­based recreation, researchers report in Monday's online edition of Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
"Declining nature participation has crucial implications for current conservation efforts," wrote co-authors Oliver R. W. Pergams and Patricia A. Zaradic. "We think it probable than any major decline in the value placed on natural areas and experiences will greatly reduce the value people place on biodiversity conservation." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ball State police officer acquitted 
INDIANAPOLIS -A federal jury on Monday found a former Ball State University police officer was not liable for the shooting death of a drunken student. 
Jurors in U.S. District Court in Indianapolis deliberated about three hours before returning the verdict in favor of Robert Duplain. 
Duplain testified that Michael McKinney, 21, of Bedford, charged at him and he fired in fear that McKinney could lunge for his gun. Duplain said he didn't know at the time in November 2003 that McKinney was a lost, drunken college student at the wrong address. 
The 24-year-old rookie officer had been sum­moned to a residence after the student began pounding on a stranger's back door. 
Candidates in final countdown 

Republicans, Democrats make last push toward unpredictable Super Tuesday 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Buoyed by cheering crowds and bolstered by more than $1.3 million a day in TV ads, Democrats Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton raced through the final hours of an unpre­dictable Super Tuesday campaign across 22 states. The Republican raee turned negative on the eve of the busiest day in pri­mary history. 
"We're going to hand the liberals in our party a little surprise," boasted Mitt Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, criticizing John McCain for his positions on tax cuts, gay marriage and immigra­tion and predicting an upset win in delegate-rich California. 
McCain struck back a few hours later Monday with a television ad that showed Romney in a 1994 debate against Democratic Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, saying he was "an independent during the time of Heagan­Bush. I'm not trying to return to Reagan-Bush." 

Outwardly, McCain pro­jected confidence, not only about wrapping up the nomination but about November's general elec­tion as well. "I can lead this nation and motivate all down in Oklahoma at the the Hallmark Channel for West Virginia, as well as in Americans to serve a cause dinner hour and was Monday evening to air a a string of caucuses in greater than their self­scheduled to arrive in live town hall meeting from Western and Midwestern interest," he said while California for a rally just New York. states. campaigning at a fire sta­before midnight local time. The prize in each race But his task in several tion in New Jersey. All before flying through was a huge cache of dele­Southern and border states 
Unwilling to leave any­the night so he could attend gates on the biggest pri­-Arkansas, Alabama, thing to chance, both men the West Virginia state con­mary-season day ever. Georgia, Oklahoma and hastily rearranged their vention on Tuesday morn­In all, there are 1,023 Missouri -is complicated schedules to make one ing. delegates to the Republican by the presence of Mike more late stop in The Democrats were National Convention at Huckabee on the ballot. California, the largest state, spending unprecedented stake in primaries in 15 The former Arkansas with 170 delegates. amounts of money on tele­states, caucuses in five and governor was in Tennessee, 
After months on the road, vision advertising. Records the West Virginia state con­where he said Wal-Mart the wear on the candidates showed Obama and Clinton vention. Republicans knew long was showing, and the each spent $1.3 million last Several award all their before Wall Street that the schedules strained human Wednesday and have been delegates to the winner, economy was headed for endurance. increasing their purchases and McCain was favored in trouble. "They were paying 
Clinton's voice was raspy, in the days since. New York, New Jersey, more for their fuel and and at one stop, she strug­Obama spent about Connecticut, Delaware and more for their health care gled to control her cough­$250,000 to run a 30-sec­his home state of Arizona, and their kids' education, ing. · ond ad during the Super with 251 delegates com­but their paychecks weren't 
Romney had breakfast in Bowl in selected, less bined. going up enough to cover Tennessee, was in Georgia expensive regions. Clinton Romney hoped to counter all those things that were at lunchtime, was touching bought one hour of time on with victories in Utah and costing more," he said. 

ISRAEL 


Suicide botnber kills 11, fuels fear of border 
militants were inside Israel waiting was involved in rocket attacks on Associated Press to strike. Israel. In Gaza, gunmen fired in the air Speaking to parliament, Prime 
DIMONA -A Palestinian bomber and relatives of the bombers passed Minister Ehud Olmert said Israel is blew himself up Monday in this out sweets to celebrate the bombing. facing a "constant war" against Gaza desert town near Israel's nuclear An offshoot of Palestinian militants. "This war will continue. reactor, killing an Israeli woman and President Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah Terrorism will be hit. We will not wounding 11 people in the first sui­movement claimed responsibility, relent," he said. cide attack inside Israel in a year. threatening to complicate recently While Palestinian militants have 
Police killed a second attacker revived peace talks. carried out dozens of suicide bomb­after a doctor found a suicide vest Abbas condemned the violence ings since 2000, Monday's attack while treating him for wounds suf­from his West Bank stronghold. was the first in Dimona, a working fered in the blast. Israeli officials said peace talks with class town of 37,000 in the Negev 
The attack fueled Israel's fears Abbas would continue, but vowed to desert that houses Israel's nuclear that Gaza militants would exploit a push forward with the country's mil­reactor. The explosion took place in border breach with Egypt to sneak itary campaign in Gaza, which is a shopping center about six miles into Israel. Militants claimed the controlled by the Islamic militant from the facility. bombers entered Israel through the Hamas. Hours after the bombing, an Israeli officials dismissed sugges­porous Egyptian border, about 35 Israeli aircraft attacked a car in tions the reactor might have been miles· from Dimona, and said more Gaza, killing a senior militant who the target. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
"It's like people arc trying to outdo each other," Meyer said. "We're wasting trees like crazy." 
lie suggested the University erect pillars on which student groups could hang their posters, nliminat­ing the crowding of wall and window spaee. 
Lauren Sharkey, llall Presidents Council co-chair, suggested more discretion be used in the poster approval process and that 
smallnr posters be  eneour­ 
aged.  
l'lamootli I  echoed  
Sharkey's notion.  

"Heetors should submit a list of the size and number of posters appropriate for thnir halls," she said. 
·Brown concluded the dis­cussion by declaring that suggestions for the poster situation be handed over to Platmoottil's committee. 
Scott Vitter, Alumni Hall senator, and member of the Task Foree on Campus Environment, said his group is interested in labeling food products along with their 


Tuesday 
continued from page 1 
elaborated on this aspect. 
She questioned the media's emphasis on Hillary Clinton's sexuality and Barack Obama's race. 
"I think it is an empirical and political mistake to reduce the current rivalry between Clinton and Obama to 'sex ver­sus race'," Littaucr said Monday. 
Littauer focused on a recent survey eondueted by CNN where reporters asked black women in South Carolina whieh factor, race or sex, was a more important influence on their votes. 
"I would like to hear more from both candidatns about ... timn-tnstnd I>nmocratie issues" J.ittauer said, suggesting that undun emphasis was being placed on superficial qualitins rather than the real issues at hand, such as education, healthcare, welfare, immigra­tion and poverty. 
She echoed the angry senti­ments of some South Carolina women who stated that black women could vote based solely on issuns just as white men could. 

"Tho Obama-Clinton divide soems more determined by gn1wration than by race or sox," Littauer said, citing the captivation many younger vot­ers havn with Obama while older voters lend to trust Clinton's expertise. 
Diversity has also been an issue among the Hnpublican candidates. 
"The religiously observant are dustering togethor," Campbell said, referencing the largo support Mormon candi­date Mitt Homnny has reeeived from Protestant and Evangelical 
religious groups. 

Littaunr said tlw relatively moderate campaign of John McCain, who has not relied heavily on the "religious right" and the support of eonsnrva­tive nwdia and talk shows like othnr candidates have in the past. 
Whilo Campbnll said it would 

ingredients in the dining halls, as is the ease with 
E. coli lawyer profits from bad food 
salad dressings, which lists the complete nutrition facts. "This would empower stu­dents to make healthy deci­
Associated Press sions,'' Vitter said. The University has not 
SAN FHANCISCO -A girl fell
given a formal response to 
into a 40-day coma after eating
the CLC suggestion. 
a bad Jack in the Box hamburg­
Student government vice 
er. Fifteen years later, she is still 
president Maris Braun, a 
suffering ill efiects. That doesn't
member of the Task Foree 
bode well for a toddler who 
on Student Development, 
spent six weeks in the hospital in 
said the task force plans to 
2006 after eating E. coli-tainted
conduct a follow up of 
spinach from California. 
College lias Issues, the 
But both have lawyer William 
group which addresses 
Marler in their corner -and
issues involving alcohol 
that's no small consolation. 
awareness. She said the task 
The Seattle-based Marler is
force seeks to work with 
the undisputed king of food poi­
other student groups, like 
soning litigation. He has made 
peer education group Pillars. 
good money from bad food, ring­
Student body president Liz 
ing up more than $300 million in
Brown commenced the 
settlements for his clients in the
meeting by addressing the 
rapidly growing legal field of
resolution recommending 
food safety. 
improved residence hall 
"There is a sense of compla­
workout facilities CLC 
cency in the meat industry that
passed Jan. 21. This was the 
believes, 'Hey, we solved that
first resolution CLC passed 
problem and we don't have to
this academic year. 
watch it so much,"' says Marler,
Brown said Poorman has 
whose career has proved other­
not yet responded to the res­
wise. sympathetic clients -and the stringent safety procedures. He
olution but plans to look into 
The Centers for Disease media -to shame food produc­sent the lettuee industry a letter
it in the near future. 
Control and Prevention esti­ers into settling. in 2006 in which he called on mates that food poisoning each "I don't apologize for that," he growers to stop using irrigation 
Contact Katie Peralta at 
year afflicts some 76 million says. "The publicity helps gener­water contaminated with cattle
kperalat@nd.edu 
Americans; 300,000 require hos­ate ehange." and human feces, to wash fruits pitalization and 5,000 die. The past year has been a busy and vegetables more thoroughly, 


Many victims end up hiring  one for Marler's six-lawyer firm,  and to provide field hands with  
be likely that the nominees of both parties would be known by the end of the day, Arnold took a more cautious view. "The Democrats are very closely tied in the margin of error," Arnold said, indicating that both Clinton and Obama still had good chances of win­ning the nomination after Tuesday. Arnold also recognized the proportional distribution of delegates in mos.t Democratic primaries, meaning both ean­didates could walk away from some states with support. He said there was a greater chance the Hepublican nomi­nee would be known, espe­cially due to John McCain's perceived popularity in the Western and larger states and the "winner takes all" delegate distribution policy adopted by Hepubliean pri­maries.  Marler, who took his first food poisoning case in 1993, during the Jack in the Box E. coli out­break in the Pacific Northwest that sickened hundreds and killed four children. "Bill was certainly at the right place at the right time entering the field of food safety litigation," says Caroline Smith DeWaal, who is in charge of food safety at the nonprofit Center for Science in the Public Interest in Washington. "I see him in kind of a private attorney general role." Marler, 50, operates three dozen Web sites dedicated to food-borne illnesses. He is a tire­less blogger on all things food safety and appears in front of federal and state lawmakers and regulatory boards. The license plate on his wife's Volkswagen reads ECOLI. In all these cases, Marler has gone to trial just onee, winning a $4.6 million verdiet against a Washington state school district  which has about 1,000 active cases in all 50 states. The clients typically pay their lawyers 25 to 35 percent of their settlements. The targets of Marler's law­suits include the Topps Meat Co., which recalled 21.7 million pounds of its hamburger patties in September -the second­biggest U.S. beef recall ever -then went out of business. When Cargill Inc. recalled 840,000 pounds of beef patties the follow­ing month, it brought more law­suits by Marler. He is also suing ConaAgra Foods Inc., which recalled its Banquet chieken pot pies and Peter Pan peanut butter last year after they were found to be contaminated with salmonella. "He's a good lawyer and he does a fine job for his clients," says Leo Knowles, ConAgra's top lawyer. "He's passionate about food safety. At times he's a little bit overly dramatic, but I think he's genuine."  bathrooms. "These steps will help make our food supply safer and will enable us to keep our most vul­nerable citizens ­kids and sen­iors -out of harm's way," he wrote. "And, with a little luck, it will force one damn trial lawyer to fmd another line of work." Marler holds degrees from Washington State University and the Seattle University School of Law. He has no formal scientific training but has immersed him­self in microbiology and DNA traeing, and his firm has a scien­tist on staff on whom he relies. Marler handled about 150 cases from the deadly 2006 E. coli outbreak involving California spinach, settling roughly half those eases so far with compa­nies such as Dole Foods. Among the clients whose eases are still unresolved is 3-year-old Ashley Armstrong of Indianapolis, whose kidneys were so damaged she will have to take medication  
where 11 children got E. coli  Marler continually implores  for the rest of' her life and will  
Contact Davis Rhorer at  poisoning in the cafeteria.  the food industry to "put me out  probably need  a  transplant,  
Drhorer@nd.edu  Instead, he adroitly uses his  of business" by adopting more  according to her mother.  

'EAA11VlK<i 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application f01ms, go to: 
http://www..nd..edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008 

Sponsored by the Office of lnternationnl Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies & the Mendoza College of Business 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,635.16 -108.03
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,539 73 643 3,905,680,917 

AMEX NASDAQ 2 382.85 -30.51 NYSE . ""*" 9j~Q2;;,,[111iilll!iffillill!

S&P 500 1,380.82 -14.60 NIKKEI (Tokyo) ,@!r 1.3;,~~3~39 ·:•.•J!!l\~~~~:jl' FTSE 100 (London) 6.029.20 -3.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE YAHOO INC (YHOO) +3.35 +0.95 29.33 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.26 -1.76 137.82 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.85 -0.26 30.19 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.40 -0.64 44.95 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +1.19 +0.043 3.643 13-WEEK BILL +5.85 +0.120 2.170 30-YEAR BOND +1.30 +0.056 4.374 5-YEAR NOTE +0.98 +0.027 2.772 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.06 90.02 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.10 909.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.45 92.90 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 106.7350 EURO 0.6751 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9952 BRITISH POUND 0.5067 

IN BRIEF 
U.S. factories see rise in demand 
WASHINGTON -U.S. factories saw demand for their products rise in December by the largest amount in five months, a spot of wel­come news that failed to change the picture of an economy struggling to stay afloat. 
The Commerce Department reported Monday that orders placed with U.S. factories rose by 2.3 percent in December. That was an improvement from the 1. 7 percent gain posted in November and marked the biggest increase since July. 
The performance in December was slightly better than the 2 percent rise that economists were forecasting. 
Still, Richard Yamarone, economist at Argus Research likened the December uptick to "a candle in the hurricane." 
On Wall Street, stocks slid. The Dow Jones industrials lost 108.03 points to close at 12,635.16. 
Orders for "durable" -big-ticket goods, such as cars, that are expected to last at least three years -rose by 5 percent in December, up from a 0.5 percent advance in November. 
Bush's budget proposal creates deficit 
WASHINGTON-The record $3.1 trillion budg­et proposed by President Bush on Monday would produce eyepopping federal deficits, despite his attempts to impose politically wrenching curbs on Medicare and eliminate scores of popular domes­tic programs. 
The Pentagon would receive a $36 billion, 8 percent boost for the 2009 budget year beginning Oct. 1, even as programs aimed at the poor would be cut back or eliminated. Half of domestic Cabinet departments would see their budgets cut outright. 
Slumping revenues and the cost of an economic rescue package will combine to produce a huge jump in the deficit to $410 billion this year and $407 billion in 2009, the White House says, just shy of the record $413 billion set four years ago. 
But even those figures are optimistic since they depend on rosy economic forecasts and leave out the full costs of the war in lraq.shopping season. That was down sharply from a 1 percent gain in November. It was the weakest performance in this area since a similar 0.2 percent rise in June of last year. 


Yahoo to 'take time' reviewing bid 
Struggling Internet company considers unsolicited $41 billion offer from rival 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO Microsoft Corp.'s $41 bil­lion takeover bid appears to have backed Yahoo Inc. into a corner, leaving the struggling Internet pio­neer with the unpleasant choice of selling to a detested rival or pursuing other agonizing alterna­tives likely to require the help of an even fiercer foe, Google Inc. 
At least that appeared to be the consensus emerg­ing among analysts Monday as Wall Street awaited Yahoo's response to last week's unsolicited offer from Microsoft. 
Yahoo says its board is going to take its time reviewing Microsoft's bid along with other options that could keep the Sunnyvale-based company independent. 
"At the end of the day, I don't think they are going to be able to turn down Microsoft," predicted tech­nology investment banker Peter Falvey of Revolution Partners, echoing a widely AP 
Jerry Yang, CEO of Yahoo Inc., speaks at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas 
held sentiment. 

last month. Yahoo is deliberating over a potential takeover deal from Microsoft. 
But if Yahoo spurns Microsoft, analysts believe itself. To placate share­sell about $12.5 billion and Comcast Corp., it probably will have to holders, Yahoo probably worth of investments in reportedly have no inter­swallow its pride and would have to line up several promising Internet est in trying to top forge an advertising part­enough money to pay a companies, including Microsoft's bid. nership with Google if the special dividend or per­Alibaba.com and Yahoo Should Yahoo resist, alliance could win haps even take the compa­Japan. Microsoft could still turn antitrust clearance. ny private in a leveraged Like most analysts, up the pressure by draw­
Under this scenario, buyout. Askew still believes Yahoo ing upon its $21 billion in Yahoo would rely on Going private might be will wind up in Microsoft's cash and lofty market Google to run its search even more painful for clutches because the value of $285 billion to engine while joining thou­Yahoo's 14,300 employees world's largest software raise the bid. sands of other Web sites than a sale to Microsoft. maker appears to be a Despite its vast that depend on the To help repay the more determined bidder with resources, Microsoft Internet search leader for than $20 billion debt that more financial firepower expects to finance part of a steady stream of ad rev­would be incurred in a than just about every the Yahoo takeover with enue generated from text­leveraged buyout, Yahoo other conceivable suitor. debt, the company's chief based links that produce would likely have to fire The list of so-called financial officer, Chris commissions with every about 4,500 employees, or "white knights" willing to Liddell, said at a Monday click. 31 percent of its work come to Yahoo's rescue investment conference. It 
But getting Google's force, Stifel Nicolaus ana­appears to be dwindling. will mark the first time advertising help probably lyst George Askew esti­Several of the most logical that Microsoft has had to wouldn't be enough to mated Monday. Yahoo also candidates, including borrow money to finance trump Microsoft's offer by probably would have to News Corp., AT&T Inc. an acquisition. 


Super Bowl sets viewer ratings record 
NEW YORK-The 97.5 million viewers who saw the New York Giants' last-minute win over the New England Patriots made it the most-watched Super Bowl ever and second biggest event in American television history. 
Only the "MASH" series finale in 1983, with 106 million viewers, was seen by more people, Nielsen Media Research said Monday. Sunday's game eclipsed the previous Super Bowl record of 94.08 million, set when Dallas defeated Pittsburgh in 1996. 
This year's game had almost all the ingredients Fox could have hoped for: a tight contest with a thrilling finish involving a team that was attempting to make history as the NFL's first unbeaten team since 1972. 
But the Giants ended New England's bid for perfection, 17-14. Throughout the game, the teams were never separated by more than a touchdown. 
"You might like your equation going in, but you still need some breaks going your way," said Ed Goren, Fox sports president. The closeness of the game probably added a couple million viewers to the telecast's average; the audience peaked at 105.7 million viewers between 9:30 and 10 p.m. EST ­during the fourth quarter. 
Giants quarterback Eli Manning won bragging rights over his broth­er: Last year's win by Peyton Manning's Indianapolis Colts was seen by 93.2 million people, now the third most popular Super Bowl. Manning was set to appear on David Letterman's "Late Show" on Monday, but travel delays in Arizona pushed his appearance back to Wednesday. 
An eye-popping 81 percent of all TV sets on in the Boston area Sunday were tuned in to the game. In New York, the audience share was 67 percent. 
There were signs even before game time that Fox could be headed for a record. The opportunity for a team to make history with football's first 19-0 record was a powerful draw. The Giants and Patriots also had a tight contest in late December that drew strong ratings. 
The Giants' underdog run had also captivated the nation's largest media market, making up for the only potential weakness in the event as a drawing card: the lack of geographi­cal diversity in the competing teams. 
There were past Super Bowls with higher ratings, topped by the 1982 game between San Francisco and Cincinnati (49.1 rating, 73 share). That indicates a larger percentage of homes with televisions were watching the game. But since the American population has increased, along with the number of people with TVs, the actual number of peo­ple watching this year was higher. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

A primary concern 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT ElliTOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: ·l:te Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGliR: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrncd by policies of rhe administration ofeither instinuion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisemcnrs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of tht· authors and not nect'SSarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is avail;ble to all readers. The free t·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intormation. 
Qzmtions rtgarding Observerpolici~s should be dir~cted to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'111.; Oh.wrvcr (USPS "ll)'> 2-4UOtl) ~~ publud!c:cl Mumlay rhruu~h f:rid;,y t:X<..:Cf'l dunng uam aud v.KMinHJW:rtud•. A wl..;nprinn lOThl· Uh"ot'tV1:'t ,. $I Uti fur one aca\km•c 
vur:S'}5furunc:Km~tcr 
·n,c Oh:w:rvcr i~ puhlidlt(i ,., POSTMASTE!t IJ24 South ()ininj( 11.1.11 Send .utd~ currcctioru to: Nuuc O;~mt". IN -tMS6--0n9 The Ob.::rftr Poriudical f'!IUJ~ p.~id fll Nocrt D.unc P.O.Bcrxn9 11nd addnu•n41 Fll.Jiling ••tlkn. 024 St1uth Dining Hall 
Norn: Dame:. IN 461i'i6-0n'J 
Tho Oholervcr 11 11111cmbcr of the ~XLUcd l'n:fi. AJI rcproduc1iun rigfm .arc i't!crvtd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Karen Langley Bill Brink Becky Hogan Chris Hine Nikki Taylor Matt Gamber Graphics Alex Barker Matt Hudson Scene Viewpoint Chris McGrady Maria Stohler 
Aftp,r today, we might have a clear idea of which two candidates will be running f()r president in their respective parties. I hope we find, now or in the coming weeks, a strong candidate who can lead us out of Iraq, because this 
war is killing us. 
By "killing," I do not mean the dam­age the war does to our international image or the billions or tax dollars we spend on it. And I say "us" in reference 


to the military troops James Dechant 
from our own fami­
lies and communi­

tiP-s, too often rele­Foregone 
gated to an alien Conclusion sphere of society, too seldom conceived of as our neighbors and friends. What I mean is that soldiers from our own communities are killing themselves as a dirnd result of their time spent, at our government's behest, in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
Hecent statistics from the Army show that suicide rates among American sol­diers havn skyrocketnd in the past five years. Two thousand one hundred U.S. sol­diers tried to commit suicide in 2007, nearly six attempt<; every day. Back in 2002, before the Iraq War, there· were 350 suicide attempt<>-less than one a day. That six-fold increase over five years has given the Army it<> highest suicide rate among active soldiers since 1980, when such record keeping began. Traditionally, suicide rates are actually lower during periods of overseas deployment, which is part of what makes the rise so striking and unconscionable. 
There are soldiers our age -perhaps you know at least one -who go to Iraq and return to fmd their lives waiting to be resumed where they left ofl'. Only they, themselves, are irrevocably changed. Their egos splintered, their reflexes razor­sharp, their adrenaline systems unable to shut down, soldiers who faced combat find themselves experiencing hallucinations, 
sexual impotency and a loss of ability to 
communicate. They are haunted by 
depression and flashbacks and find even 
previously-stable relationships dif11cult to 
maintain. 

Failed personal relationships are the most common motive for military suicides. Troops are being sent back to Iraq for their second or third consecutive tour of duty {extended to 15 months by the Pentagon last year) with little rest in­between. Our· armed services thrust them back into the hell of combat, often f~tiling to diagnose their true aflliction: post-trau­matic stress disorder. Many times psyehia­trist<; diagnose soldiers with pre-existing personality disorders instead-meaning they were already troubled before their servicn and their involvement in the war had nothing to do with their eurnmt psy­chological condition. 
Several scandals havn bnen doeumented involving military offieers rnqmlsting such diagnoses, eommanders unwilling to sacri­fice pot1mtial troops with resources already stretched so thin. Ollicers also dis­courage seeking out eare in the first place, cultivating a machismo stigma against the "weakness" of psychological support. With time at home stint1~d and aid services unwilling or unable to help them cope with the horrors of war, is it any wonder troops have trouble sustaining relationships? 
Ever since soldiers began returning from combat, officials have lamented the severely under-equipped mental health services of the military. Some efforts have been made by commissions and Congress to improve the care given to returning sol­diers. President Bush highlighted the need to help our troops in his State of the Union address. Senator Jim Webb of Virginia introduced new legislation last Thursday aimed at improving the military's suicide prevention programs. 
Such calls for aid draw attention to the problem, but actual improvements require more than money. There is no corps of psychologists waiting in reserve to aid returning and active soldiers. Lowering the suicide rates will requirn a new stance 
on the way we treat soldiers -whieh 

might, I suggest, involve not going to war 
in the first place. 

Disputing the war's justifieation and debating the meril'> of continued military involvement, however, only addresses the military care issue obliquely. The suicide rates among troops will remain inextrica­bly tied to our involvement in Iraq, of course. but the problem has unfortunately become it<; own distinct crisis. 
Suicide rates among military members are still lower than oquivalent demograph­ics among civilians, yet more and more soldiers are turning to suicide. Our nation ignores this problem not just by prolong­ing the war in Iraq -though that is cer­tainly hurting-but by failing our troops in the earn we ofliw them. Put simply: Our highest authorities, civilian and military, have !~tiled our troops when they nnednd the eountry's help. We have sacrificed our values and rnorden~d our priorities. The nnnd to maintain military prnsenen has superseded eoneern filr the individual sol­dier. 
I want a candidate to emerge today who will make commitment to the mental health of' our troops a key platform issue. This needs to lw at the f(Jrelhmt of the elnction season. It gons beyond anti-war messages or sehemes to bring troops home. Even if the prnsident ended the war tomorrow, we would sen the effed.s on sol­diers for years. We need a dear plan to help those soldiers who gave so much, a path to recovery for our friends and rela­tives. 
We need more than a way out of Iraq ­we need a way forward for our troops. 
James Dechant hopes you could follow his convoluted train ofthought and would like to place blame on Wikipedia and the Internet in general. You can complain about his rambling diatribe by writing him atjdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What was your favorite Super Bowl commercial? Budweiser Clydesdales FedEx Pigeons Doritos Mousetrap Bridgestone Squirrel 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We are gonna need Ash 

Wednesday because we're gonna let 
it all hang out on Fat Tuesday. " 
Ray Nagin Mayor of New Orleans 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 5, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lent is upon us, and we have a mar­velous opportunity to improve how we approach the greatest problem that humanity has ever faced. 
According to climate experts, the world is on the brink of catastrophic climate destabilization if action is not taken immediately around the world to reverse the rate of carbon emis­sions which contribute to the green­house gases that promote climate change (see the reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; watch "wonderingmind42" on YouTube). Climate destabilization will bring about·more death and destruc­tion than we can imagine, hitting the poorest nations and peoples first, and profoundly affecting the survival of most if not all planetary life forms. Two of the major causes of green­house gases in the United States are animal feedlots (supporting our meat­eating habits) and coal-fired power plants, one of which Notre Dame has. 
Transpo trouble 
Many students rely on the Transpo trolley to get from Notre Dame to Saint Mary's College. Personally, I don't care how late it's running when it's transporting partying girls on weekends, but I rely on it for class, and I know many others do as well. I understand that inclement weather can cause delays, but in recent weeks the trolley has become completely unpredictable. It might stop at Regina Hall at 8:40a.m., or it might be there at 8:59 a.m.(as was the case this past week). Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are largely pedestrian campuses with notoriously inconven­ient parking. Since no pay service (other than a taxi) exists to transport students between campuses for class, I believe it is the responsibility of the schools to ensure that some semblance of a schedule is maintained. I'd be willing to pay 50 cents per ride if! knew the trolley would get me to class on time. I know many students, Saint Mary's and Notre Dame alike, who feel the same way. Come on, Transpo. Get it together. 
Kelsey Robertson sophomore Regina Hall Feb. 4 


Sports over kill 
This past Sunday evening, from about 6 to 10 p.m., I found myself in front of the TV watching the Super Bowl. Joining me were an estimated 105 million Americans who watched at least part of the game. With the U.S. population at about 300 million, that means that roughly 35 percent of Americans watched at least some of this event, plus millions more who heard or read about it. Football may be the most popular spectator sport in America, yet taken together with baseball, basketball, auto racing, soccer, hock­ey and a myriad of other sports, we get a clearer picture of a national obsession. One begins to wonder how much time the aver­age American spends watching, reading, talking or thinking about sports in a given week. And of course, Americans are equally crazed over playing sports, working out and staying in shape. I will say it now: There is nothing wrong with playing sports, exercising or watching a sporting event. Playing sports makes one healthier, builds teamwork and sharpens the mind. And watching sports is a cultural practice that builds camaraderie, creates unity and pro­vides excitement. And let's face it, playing and watching sports is really a whole lot of fun. 
But we're reminded of that ancient adage, "Everything in moder­ation." Sometimes when a good thing is pursued to excess, it becomes a bad thing. That is what I suspect may be occurring in the lives of millions of Americans who have made sports their No. 1 concern. Sports should be an important part of most people's lives, yet one would be hard-pressed to argue that it should be the primary priority. Perhaps all of us at Notre Dame and in America need to step back for a moment and assess what our values really are. It has been suggested that our priorities should include, "God, country, Notre Dame." To these, I humbly add family, friends and our professional and school commitments. Simply put, it has been shown too many times that whenever we invert these priorities, the results are disastrous. Sports are a lot of fun, but let's not make a sport out of life. 
Chris Spellman 
senior 
off campus Feb.4 

A call to conserve 
The times encourage us to trivialize the effects that one person or institu­tion can have on the world. When problems are complex, multivaried and overwhelming, we can fall prey to the deadly sin of acedia-callousness, indifference and apathy towards moral and spiritual excellence. In set­ting its sights too low, acedia becomes a sin against charity. 
Adopting a deep commitment to the common good, we at Notre Dame would review our practices, changing those that contribute to climate change. We would do everything in our power to decrease our carbon footprint individually and as an insti­tution. Notre Dame would use some of its endowment funds to move the cam­pus towards use of wind power and carbon neutral energy; build bicycle paths for constituents to get to cam­pus; promote vegetarianism at least occasionally (to reduce those feedlot effects) and vigorously support educa­tiona! and research initiatives to meet carbon neutral goals. And we would act with urgency -the window of opportunity is quickly shrinking. Such moves require vision, courage and perseverance, not only of Notre Dame's leaders but of us all-stu­dents, faculty, staff, alumni. 
Concretely for all of us it means fig­uring out how to restructure our lives so that how we live uses less energy (e.g., walking instead of driving across campus to a meeting, eating less meat, turning off power switches when not in use, unplugging vampire appliances that use energy when plugged in). This is not an individualistic venture, it requires us to work together, encourage one another and even call each other to account. Together we must share the burdens of changing lifestyle on every level -individual, community, institutional. 
Lent offers us an opportunity to practice reducing our gluttonous con­sumption of the earth's limited resources. We can practice new habits that lessen the cost of our lives for those elsewhere who chop down their rainforests for us and poison them­selves and the earth for our floral bouquets. 

Now is the time for the whole of the Notre Dame community to individually and communally adopt policies and practices that fulf1ll our moral quest to bring about the greater good. Whether the Notre Dame community takes the heroic path of leadership is up to you -to us, and our passion for goodness. The call to discipleship has never been stronger. The cost of ace­dia has never been greater. Life on the planet is at stake. 
Darcia Narvaez psychology professor University Energy and Environment Committee member Feb. 4 




EDITORIAL CARTOON 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 10 
Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
Top Ten Super Bowl Ads from USA Today 

#6
#1 


Bud Light

Budweiser 
Hidden Bud Light

Dog trains a bottles at aClydesdale wine-tasting party 


#2 
#7 FedEx Coca-Cola 
Pigeon carriers Coke brings can't compete together dueling with FedEx parade balloons 
#8 


··t P . M
. ·····.· .eps,r.....• ax 

MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
page 11 

By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 

On Sunday night, years of hard work culminated in an epic smack down between the titans. 
Of commercials, that is. 

Once again, the greatest advertising campaigns came together for a battle royal with the prize being that ever-elu­sive trophy, the consumer. Some watch for the football. some for the half-time show, but most everyone can agree the Super Bowl just isn't super without a rally of all the best commercials the industry rulers can bring. 
Budweiser brought its best game, with a series of commercials involving the abnormal effects of its beer, and why the magical beer is no longer available. 
Car companies went head-to-head, as Audi, GMC and Hyundai came on to the field with a take-no-prisoners approach. The Hyundai Genesis went 
all-out, with the narration surrounding 
style shots of the car announcing, 
"We're not sure what the USA Today Ad 
Meter will think of this commercial 
tomorrow, but we're pretty sure 
Mercedes, BMW and Lexus aren't going 
to like it very much." (Apparently no 
one did. It came out number 43 of 55 in 
the USA today rankings. which were 
published Monday.) 

The ultimate goal of any TV ad is, of course, to get your attention. This. is accomplished in a number of ways, the most obvious one being comedy. This -year's ads certainly didn't lack laughs, but many other tricks were pulled out 
to grab viewers' interest. 

The most jarring ad had to be for 
Careerbuilder.com, and it involved a 
woman's heart popping out of her 
chest, walking up to her boss and hold­
ing up a sign reading, "I Quit." The odd 
beginning ended up being a call to 
"Follow Your Heart," as the throbbing 
and astonishingly anatomically-correct 
heart bounced out of the office and 
started walking away. 
The No. 1 USA Today pick was a sen­timental favorite. Hank the Clydesdale reigned supreme by not only success­fully training to be a Budweiser horse to the Rocky theme (with the help of a Dalmatian). but also by wining the hearts of football watchers everywhere. This ad came relatively early in the game, but came out on top as the best commercial of the Super Bowl. 
Second place went to the disturbingly oversized carrier pigeons for FedEx. 
A screaming squirrel that looked sus­piciously like one of at Notre Dame wailed as he clutched his acorn, and he and his panicked forest friends took third place for Bridgestone. 
Fourth place went to the mouse with a passion for Doritos. This delightful number was set to the eternal "Habanera" from Carmen. A man came home and set a trap for the mouse using a crumb from a_ Dorito. He sits down and bites into a handful of cheesy chips as a human sized-mouse breaks out of the wall and begins to punch him. Classic humor, really. 
Overall, this year's presentation was­n't bad. GMC Yukon takes home the tro­phy for lamest commercial, with its naked stencil-drawn headless man pushing a circle up an incline as the narrator muses on about dreaming. pushing, changing and all the deep questions that he can think of. (We still have no idea what this has to do with the car.) 
Gutsiest commercial had to be the one for godaddy.com, with Danica Patrick unzipping her shirt and a voice telling you to go to the Web site to see the rest (with viewer discretion advised). 
Other highlights include Will Ferrell selling Bud Light, men falling for an ugly woman because she smells like Planter's Peanuts, and parade floats duking it out for a giant Coke bottle. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 



MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic  
who actually gets gunned down while  becomes Chuck's girlfriend as a cover,  Walker and Chuck throws everyone for  
By MARK WITTE Scene Writer  waiting for the send/receive process to complete. The contents of the email  a decision that stuns both Chuck's sis­ter and his friends, who find it hard to  a loop. Before the season ends, the love life  
flip Chuck's world upside-down.  believe Chuck could  of Chuck  goes  up  and  
NBC's  new  secret-agent comedy  When Chuck opens the message on  score  a  girl  with  down and in  numerous  
"Chuck," concluded its first season on  his computer, all of the U.S. govern­ Walker's  looks.  directions. Even Grimes  
Jan. 24. Unlike many major network shows that have been suspended or terminated due to the writer's strike, "Chuck" finished out its 13-episode season with back-to-back episodes,  ment's top secrets, encoded into one long reel of somewhat disturbing images, pop up on the screen and imprint themselves into the back of the mesmerized Chuck's brain. Needless to  Casey has a harder time fitting in. Forced to take up a job as a salesman alongside Chuck and  In today's unstable television industry, "Chuck" was a welcome whiff of  manages to survive Casey's scorching anger and score himself a few dates before the season's close.  
which included the agony of long-lost lovers, daring hotel window escapes, clever who-dun-it mystery and an action-packed ending. But it has been quite a journey for Chuck Bartowski. "Chuck" debuted on Sept. 24, 2007 in NBC's 8 p.m. time slot. "The O.C"  say, when Chuck woke up the next morning, he had a bit of a headache. As it turns out, Chuck's old room­mate stole the information off of a gov­ernment supercomputer known as "thtl Intersect" and shortly before sending the secrets to Chuck, he blew up the multi-billon dollar piece of equipment.  Grimes at the Buy More, Casey con­stantly appears on the edge of exploding into a violent ram­page, mostly at the foolish actions of Grimes, whose  fresh comic action this season, showing the world that even computer geeks can lead  The ratings for NBC's new comedy started out high, but slowly dwindled as the season progressed. It is debatable whether the decline is a result of the public's general frus­tration with the writers'  
creator, Josh Schwartz, helped write and produce NBC's new show this sea­ It doesn't take Chuck long to realize things inside his head have changed  pathetic, yet genuine attempts to move up  super hero lives.  strike or whether the show lost some of its  
son along with the help of rookie Chris  and that his brain has been upgraded.  in the world, as well  comic appeal as the sea- 
Fedak. who Schwartz credits for the  Chuck soon discovers he has the ability  as  woo  the  ladies  son wore on.  
show's original conception.  to  instantly recall the top-secret  (including Chuck's sister) make him  However, the final  two episodes  
We first met Chuck (Zachary Levi)  records and history of a person at the  comically laudable.  ended the season with more than one  
behind the Nerd Herd counter at the  sight of his or her name or face.  As the season progresses, threats  explosive bang. These two episodes  
Buy Mor~.  the show's version of Best  The CIA and the NSA soon locate  and attempts on Chuck's life come and  alone  may have  provided enough  
Buy, working as an electronics special­ Chuck and deploy agents to keep  an  go  as he and the agents do battle  impetus to warrant another season  
ist. At his side stood close friend and  eye on him while utilizing his abilities.  against numerous criminals from all  next year.  
salesman Morgan Grimes (Joshua  The attractive Sarah Walker (Yvonne  over the world. Chuck and Walker's  In today's very unstable television  
Gomez). Together they constituted the  Strahovski) and the ever-angry John  cover slowly transforms into more  industry, becoming increasingly rid­ 
most socially awkward pair in all of Los Angeles. Enter the intersect.  Casey (Adam Baldwin) enter Chuck's everyday world both at home, and with his doctor sister Ellie (Sarah  than just pretend as the two charac­ters struggle to come to terms with their growing feelings for each other.  dled with reality TV, "Chuck" was a welcome whiff of fresh comic action this season, showing the world that  
Chuck's status as a typical "Joe" was not to last long. In the show's pilot  Lancaster) and her overly suave boyfriend Captain Awesome (Ryan  About halfway through the season, the show takes a twist when Bryce Larkin  even computer geeks can lead super hero lives.  
episode, he receives a life-changing email from rogue CIA agent and for­mer college roommate Bryce Larkin,  McPartlin) at work. This provides the bulk of the show's comedy. The agents try to blend in. Walker  suddenly reappears on the scene, apparently back from the dead. His past connections with both Agent  Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu  

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 8, 2008 
NHL 

Parise's quick OT goal gives Devils 4-3 victory 
Doan's goal from on knees powers Phoenix to 4-3 overtime win; Oilers snap two-game skid behind Garon's 24-save shutout 
ancc. 
Associated Press 
After Staal pushed 

NEWAHK, N.J. -Zaeh Parisf~ Pittsburgh's lead to 3-1 4:30 seornd 37 seconds into overtime into the final period, Elias and to cap a furious lat1~ rally and Clarkson connected 1 :44 apart. lirt the New Jersey Devils to a 4-Elias got the rally going at 3 vietory over the Pittsburgh 9:37 when he sent a shot Penguins on Monday night that toward the net that hit defense­created a three-way tie atop the man Kris Letang in front and Atlantk Division. caromed past Conklin. Clarkson 
New Jersey trailed 3-1 in the tied it with his seventh of the third period and appeared season and second in two headed for its fourth loss in a games, getting to a rebound of five-game homestand, but Johnny Oduya's point shot and Jamie Langnnbrunner and popping it in at 11:21. David Clarkson scored less than That finally gave the record­two minutes apart to tie it. low crowd of 13,012 fans at the 
Parise won it with his 20th new Prudential Center some­goal, tipping a drive by Patrik thing to cheer about. Until then, Elias past Ty Conklin on the the loudest roar was in the first only shot of overtime. New period when the Devils posted a Jersey, Pittsburgh and congratulatory message on the Philadelphia all have 63 points scoreboard to the Super Bowl in the live-team Atlantic. champion New York Giants. 
Martin Brodeur earned his Each club had 10 shots in the 2Xth win of the season and was third period and both seemed crnditnd with an assist on the content to play conservatively winning goal. That made up for and get to overtime. his tripping penalty in the third The road team had won an p1~riod that led to Jordan Staal's NIIL-reeord tying nine straight power-play goal. in this series, including the first 
The Devils, who rneorded only five this season with New Jersey 14 shots through two periods, winning three times in mounted a quick comeback in Pittsburgh. The Penguins Petr Sykora and Ryan Malone headed to victory when T.J. in when Andrew Cogliano hit tho third that they didn't seem extended the run last Tuesday also scored for the Penguins, Hensick scored his second goal Pisani with a pass in front of to have in them through anoth­by beating the Devils 4-2 in who fell to 3-2-2 since Sidney midway through the third peri­the net. Joseph made the initial er lackluster home perform-Newark. Crosby's ankle injury. od to give Colorado a 3-2 load. stop but Pisani slid the rebound 
Evgeni Malkin had two assists It came at 9:52 when he under his pads. to tie Crosby for the team lead jammed the puck past Mikael The Oilers extended their with 63 points. Tellqvist after Jaroslav Hlinka lead with just 35 seconds 
centered the pass in front of the remaining in the opening peri­Coyotes 4, A valance 3 (OT) net. The goal wasn't allowed od as Geoff Sanderson took a 
Shane Doan was on his knees until a stoppage in play at 11:32 rebound behind the net and when he poked the puck and the officiating crew had a made a deft no-look feed to between Peter Budaj's pads chance to review the play. Penner, who beat Joseph with a with 1:37 left in overtime to hard wrist shot to his glove give the Phoenix Coyotes' a Oilers 5, Flames 0 side. come-from-behind win over the Mathieu Garon made 24 Edmonton made it 3-0 five Colorado Avalanche on Monday saves, and the Edmonton Oilers minutes into the second on the night. ended a two-game losing power play. Joseph allowed a 
The Coyotes forced the extra streak with a win over the big rebound on a point shot by period when Radim Vrbata Calgary Flames on Monday Jarret Stoll. Gagner's follow scored into a wide open net night. shot caromed off of llemsky with 3:11 left in the third peri­Fernando Pisani, Dustin and in. od. Vrbata took a pass from Penner, Ales llemsky, Steve Calgary had a chance to get Steven Reinprecht on a face off Staios and Sam Gagner scored back into the game early in the and slapped it past Budaj, who for Edmonton in Garon's fourth third· when Stoll took a double­never saw the pass and was still shutout of the season. minor for high-sticking, but the hugging the post on the right The Oilers' second win in five Flames were unable to put a side and not challenging the games moved them within six puck past Garon. shot. points of the eighth playoff spot A tight-tilled game nearly got 
The Avs were unable to capi­in the Western Conference. out of hand with seven minutes talize on a rare February home Curtis Joseph made his first gone in the third. game. They play just four of 14 start in goal for the Flames Flames forward Eric Godard games this month at the Pepsi after signing with the team last gave Garon a shove into the Center, where they're 18-9-1, month. He made 23 saves. post, sparking several alterca­the second-best home record in Calgary has dropped two in a tions. Joseph even skated tho the NHL behind Detroit. row after winning four straight. length of the ice before things 
It looked like the Avs were Edmonton took the lead 6:24 ealmed. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Large house available For rent: If you or someone you care about for 2009-2010. has been sexually assaulted, FoR SALE WANTED Full renovations Two story house PERSONAL visit completed 2007. ready for immediate occupancy or http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students Minor League soccer club looking Close to campus. next school year. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? shtml 
will love living here and parents will for part-time intern. Must have 4,000+ square feet, Off street parking includes motion 
love knowing their child is looked strong computer and communica­5 bathrooms. sensor light for security. Do not go it alone. ADOPTION· 
after and safe! Secure, upstairs, tion skills. Please send resume to: Four individually locked bedrooms, 
two-level furnished two-bedroom. ininvaders@aol.com or invader· MacSwain@ gmail.com central station If you or someone you love Catholic family will provide your 
two-bath condo unit with loft area. scoach@ hotmail.com monitored security system, needs confidential support baby with a life of unconditional 
One thousand twenty-two square Blue & Gold Homes six blocks from Notre Dame, or assistance, love, opportunity & security. 
feet of beautifully redecorated living Showing for 08/09,09/10 bus stop in front of house, Exp paid, Ally involved. 
space -includes 42' HD flat screen FoR RENT Now offering "flex" leases Laundromat next door, please call 1-888-833-8230. 
TV and parking spaces in front of basement available for storage, 
condo. Garages are available at an 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home bluegoldrentals.com new furnace Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­
additional cost. Parking lot surveil­close to campus, and central air, ONE WHO IS? lance cameras. pool. clubhouse, safe, cathedral ceilings. 522 Napoleon Street: new kitchen including appliances, at 1·7819. water and rubbish removal included fireplace, 2-car garage, 1·2 students. large living room, You do not have to be alone. 
as part of the ownership package. 1 Ox20 deck. deluxe appl. Newer ktchn,bath. free trash removal. For more information, We want to help. 
Only $180 per month exterior main­Bsmnt storage. Garage available for car-extra. 
tenance fees. Five minute walk or Avail. for Aug. 2008. Washer/dryer. Call289-4071. visit our website at: Call our 24 hour confidential hotline 
less to the Notre Dame campus, 5 blks W off NO Avenue. at 
shopping and restaurants. Less Call574-232-4527 or $570/mo+utl 5 bedroom house http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· 
than ten minutes to other hot spots just off Angela & 31. nant.shtml 1-800-No Abort or 
and mall by car. $200,000. Only 269-683-5038 or (219)629-5483 Available now & for next year. visit our web site at 
serious offers considered. 562· 733-2 baths & laundry. or see our bi-weekly ad in 
5166. 574-340-1844. Denise 232-6964 The Observer. www.lifecall.org 




OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES 
Tuesday, February 5, 2008 page 13 



NCAA Women'S··Basketball AP Top 25 Poll 
rank team record previous 
1 Connecticut 21-0 1 2 Tennessee 20-1 2 3 North Carolina 19-2 3 4 Maryland 23-2 5 5 Baylor 20-1 6 6 Stanford 19-3 7 7 Rutgers 18-3 4 8 LSU 18-3 8 9 California 19-3 10 10 Oklahoma 15-4 11 11 Duke 16-5 9 12 West Virginia 18-3 12 13 Old Dominion 18-3 13 14 George Washington 18-4 16 15 Pittsburgh 17-4 14 16 NOTRE DAME 17-5 20 17 Oklahoma Stale 17-3. 21 18 Kansas Slate 15-6 18 19 Ohio State 17-5 19 20 Utah 18-3 NR 21 TexasA&M 16-6 NR 22 Wyoming 18-3 15 23 Syracuse 17-4 22 24 Georgia 16-6 17 25 DePaul 16-5 23 
USCHO Men's Division I Hockey Poll 
rank team record previous 
1 Miami 25-3-0 1 2 Michigan 22·3-3 2 3 North Dakota 17-8·2 3 4 Colorado College 20-7·1 6 5 New Hampshire 16-1·1 7 6 Michigan State 18·6·5 5 7 Denver 18·8·0 4 8 NOTRE DAME 20·9~1 8 9 Boston College 12-6·7 9 10 Minnesota-Duluth 11·9~6 1t 11 Wisconsin 12-11-5 11 
12  Providence  12-9·3  
13  Clarkson  15-9·2  
14  Northeastern  12·8·3  
15  Minnesota State  13·10~4  
16  Ouinnipiac  15-1-4  
17  Mass.-Lowell  12-9-4  
18  Massachusetts  19-9·6  
19  Princeton  12-9·0  
20  Minnesota  12•12-6  


USCHO Women's Division I Hockey Poll 
rank  team  record  previous  
1  Harvard  19-1·0  1  
2  New Hampshire  23·3·1  2  
3  Minnesota-Duluth  24-3-1  3  
4  Minnesota  21·4·3  4  
5  Wisconsin  20·6-2  5  
6  St. Lawrence  20·7-1  6  
7  Mercyhurst  19-5-2  6  
8  Connecfieut  17-4-5  8  
9  Clarkson  18-6-4  9  
10  Dartmouth  12-7-4  NR  

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Florida at Tennessee 9:00p.m., ESPN 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Texas Tech coach Bobby Knight is congratulated by his son, Pat Knight, following his team's win over New Mexico State on Jan. 1. Knight resigned Monday as the winningest coach in major college basketball history with 902 career wins. 
Knightunexpectedly resigns frolll TexasTech 
Associated Press 

LUBBOCK, Texas -Bob Knight resigned Monday at Texas Tech, a stunning midseason move by the winningest men's coach in major college basketball. 
"He said he was tired and that it was best to go ahead and do it now," Texas Tech chancellor Kent Hance told The Associated Press. "I think Bob is through with coach­ing. I think he got to the point where it wasn't fun for him." 
Known as much for his fiery temper as his basket­ball brilliance, Knight gave no hint a change was com­ing. He will be replaced by his son, Pat, a Red Raiders assistant. 
The 6 7 -year-old Knight informed Texas Tech ath­letic director Gerald Myers of his decision in a meeting around noon, Hance said. Knight then called Hance and told him. 
"He thought about it Sunday all day and talked to his wife and decided 'This is something I want to do,"' Hance said. 
The Red Raiders beat Oklahoma State 67-60 on Saturday, giving Knight his 902nd victory. 
Knight was not available for comment Monday, said Randy Farley, a spokesman for the Texas Tech basketball program. 
The Lubbock Avalanche­Journal first reported the resignation. 
In September, Knight signed a three-year con­tract extension that runs through the 2011-12 sea­son. In 2005, Pat Knight was appointed his father's successor. 
Bob Knight has 902 career wins, more than any coach in the history of Division I men's basketball. Win No. 900 came last month against Texas A&M. 
Knight arrived at Texas Tech in March 2001, six months after being fired by Indiana for what school officials there called a "pattern of unacceptable behavior." 
In his first six years at Tech, he led the Red Raiders to five 20-win sea­sons, a first at the school. They are 12-8 this season. Texas Tech's next game is Wednesday night at Baylor. 
Knight passed former North Carolina coach Dean Smith as the winningest Division I coach Jan. 1, 2007, getting career win No. 880. To celebrate the milestone Knight chose "My Way" by Frank Sinatra, a mantra for how he navigated his personal and professional worlds. 
"Bob is kind of a funny guy. He always loved that song 'My Way,' and this is another example," Hance said. 

IN BRIEF Judge rules to let Vick keep
$20 million signing bonus 
MINNEAPOLIS -Jailed quar­terback Michael Vick can keep nearly $20 million in bonus money he received from the Atlanta Falcons following a rul­ing Monday by a federal judge. 
The Falcons sought to recover the bonuses after Vick pleaded guilty to federal charges in a dogfighting operation. The bonuses were paid from 2004­2007. 
A special master ruled in October that the Falcons were entitled to recover the bonuses. The Falcons argued that Vick used proceeds from a contract he signed in 2004 to finance his illicit activities. 
But U.S. District Judge David Doty of Minneapolis ruled that the Falcons' recovering the bonus money would violate the NFL col­lective bargaining agreement. 
Harkleroad, Davenport
lead U.S. to Fed Cup semis 
SAN DIEGO --Move over, Lindsay Davenport, and make room for another star on the U.S. Fed Cup team. 
Shaking off nerves, 22-year-old Fed Cup rookie Ashley Harkleroad rallied from a 4-1 deficit in the second set to beat Germany's Sabine Lisicki 6-4, 7­5 on a picture-perfect Southern California day to clinch the quarterfi­nal match on Monday. 
Harkleroad's victory followed Davenport's 6-1, 6-2 win over 19­year-old Julia Goerges in reverse sin­gles, sending the United States into a World Group road semifinal in April against defending Fed Cup champion Russia, which most likely will be led by Maria Sharapova. 
The United States finished 4-1 against Germany after Davenport and Lisa Raymond won the doubles 6-2, 6-0 over Tatjana Malek and Anna-Lena Groenefeld. 
Granderson signs five-year
deal to remain with Tigers 
DETROIT-The Detroit Tigers could have kept Curtis Granderson around for a while, retaining his tal­ents with one-year deals until he became eligible for free agency after the 2011 season. 
The Tigers, though, don't just wait around to make moves these days. 
Granderson and baseball's busiest team agreed Monday to a $30.25 million, five-year contract that includes a club option for 2013 that could make the deal worth up to $43.25 million. 
"The Tigers held all the chips and didn't have to do anything," Granderson said. ''I'm very happy with the way everything happened." 
Tigers president Dave Dombrowski is not known to give long-term deals to players before they are even eligible for arbitra­tion, but Granderson merited an exception. 

...-----------------------------------------------------------­
~­

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
SuPER BowL XLII 

Manning shines on biggest stage 

AP Giants quarterback Ell Manning, left, and defensive end Michael Strahan celebrate after beating the Patriots 17-14 on Sunday in Glendale, Ariz. 
Oft-criticized quarterback leads Giants to victory with a near-perfect, 83-yard TD drive 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE. Ariz. -Oh. well. 
nobody's pnrfeet. Except maybo 
Eli Manning. 
A masterful magician when 
the stakos were highest. 
Manning engineered one of the 
best drives in Super Bowl histo­
ry Sunday to holp the New York 
Giants squash the New England 
Patriots' run at history-making 
perfection with a 17-14 victory. 
In a game. and a finish. that showed precisely why the Super Bowl has become America's favorite spectacle. Manning led the Giants 83 yards in just more than two minutes. He capped it with a 13-yard touchdown pass to Plaxico Burress with 35 sec­onds left. to win what easily could go down as the best Super Bowl ever. 
"An unbelievable game and an unbelievable feeling," Manning said. 
"The greatest victory in the history of this franchise, with­out a question," said owner .John Mara. 
It was a scintillating closing ehapter to a crazy week that soemed to have everything: the perfect team; the upstart underdogs; the cover boy quar­terbaek in Tom Brady; the kid brother in Manning. 
America loves an underdog, and the Giants, with their stir­ring vietory, etched themselves as one of the best this game ­or any sport -has ever seen. 
The star was Manning, the scruffy younger brother of Peyton, who won his own Supor Bowl last year, and sat in the corner of a skybox for this one, squirming and agonizing over every play. 
Now both Mannings have a championship and a Super Bowl MVP to their names and Brady -well, he's still got the looks, the supermodel girl­friend, Gisele Bundchen, and three Super Bowl titles of his own. 
With the loss. New England finishes 1 H-1. and the 1972 Miami Dolphins remain the only team to go undefeated from the start of the season through tho Super Bowl. 
Their coach, Don Shula, was on hand. roady to congratulate the Patriots. Instead. he figured to be sipping•champagne, con­
tinuing a tradition the Dolphins 
have enjoyed every year when 
the last undefeated team finally 
gets its first loss. 
"What a great football game 
this was," Shula said. "What I 
learned today was how tough it 
is to go undefeated." 

!lis Dolphins remain alone thanks to Manning, whose 13­yard game-winner came four plays after he escaped a. cadre of Patriots engulfing him, threw the ball up for grabs -how, exactly, did he do that? -and watched receiver David Tyree jump and somehow pin it between his hands and his hel­met for the 32-yard reception. 
That kept the drive going, and it will be Manning's mas­tery that everyone remembers -not Brady's coolly efficient 80-yard touchdown drive moments earlier. 

This game was such a back­and-forth stomach-turner that it seems a great bet to break the record for Super Bowl view­ership (94.08 million) and give the advertisers their money's worth on the $2.7 million they spent for each 30-second spot. 
It might even force the water­cooler conversation Monday to be about football, not commer­cials or halftime shows. 

For the record, Tom Petty did a four-song halftime set, clos­ing, appropriately, with "Runnin' Down A Dream." 
Some highlights on the com­mercial side included Shaquille O'Neal as a winning jockey in a big horse race, Richard Simmons barely avoiding being squished on the highway and Will Ferrell playing a -well ­not-so-lit pro basketball player who also likes beer. 
Funny as those were, the best show was on the field. 
It was a tight, taut defensive battle for three-plus quarters -yet anything but boring. 
Then it was taken over by two quarterbacks -one already a star. the other yearn­ing to escape the shadow his father, Archie, and big brother, Peyton have cast over the fami­ly, and the sport, for many years now. 
Earlier in the week, Eli said it was flattering being compared to Peyton because "he's at the top of his game, and I'm still trying to get my game up to his level." 
Patriots perfect no longer 
With New England's 19-0 dreams derailed, serious questions now arise 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGH, Mass. -The only perfect thing about the Patriots was their record. 
Now they don't even have that. 
Dominant in the first half' of the season, they survived some close calls afterward. But that finally caught up with them in the Super Bowl and loft them facing an offseason of what-if's and what-will bes. 
What if' their offensive line studded with three Pro Bowl players had kept the team's most important player from being knocked down time after time in the most important game? 
Will Randy Moss and Asante Samuel leave'? 
Will Rodney Harrison, Tedy Bruschi and Junior Seau, the three oldest defensive starters, retire? 
And next time, will coach Bill Belichiek hang around until the end of the game instead of head­ing for the locker room with a second left and a security escort Tom Brady would have envied. 
The two-time Super Bowl MVP couldn't elude the steam­rolling pa..<;s rush of the New York Giants the way he does the paparazzi who stalk him on the streets of the city where the new Super Bowl champions will be honored at a victory parade Tuesday. 
Brady was sacked five times in Sunday's 17-14 loss, the most in his 92 games since the New York Jets did that in the third game of the 2003 season on Sept. 21, 2003. 
So the Patriots finished 18-1 and disappointed, not 19-0 and historic. That left the 1972 Miami Dolphins, who were 17-0, as the only NFL team to go unde­feated. 
Brady was a near unanimous choice for the league's MVP and was brilliant in the first eight games of the season. lie was not as good after that. 
His live worst passer ratings came in his last eight games, including the postseason. In the APC championship game against San Diego, he threw a season­high three interceptions. In the Super Bowl, he was uncharae­teristically inaccurate on some passes even when he had time to throw. 
''I'm sure we all could have done things better, but it's just part of competition," Brady said of the devastating defeat. 
New England won three Super Bowls in four seasons before falling short the next thme years -losing to Denver in a divisional playofl' game, to Indianapolis in last year's AFC championship game and to New York in the lat­est disappointment. 
After coming so dose la..<;t sea­son, the Patriots added receivers Moss, Wes Welker and Donte' Stallworth. They signed free agent Adalius Thomas for their aging group of linebackers. And they kept Samuel, designating the star cornerback a franchise player and signing him for one year after he held out for a long­term contract. 
The offense set several single­season records: 50 touchdown passes by Brady, 23 scoring catches by Moss and 589 total points. 
But the season began with off­field problems. 
Harrison, the hard-hitting safe­ty, was suspended for the first four games for violating the league's substance abuse policy. 
After the season-opening 38­14 win over the New York Jets, the NFL lined Beliehiek $500,000 and the team $250,000 and took away a first-round draft ehoice as punishment for videotaping Jets' coaehes on their sideline. 
That only lin~d up the Patriol'i. They were accused of' running up the score in some of their wins. 
But the Patriots shrugged oil' the critieism and kept focusing on the next oppommt. They won each of their first eight games by at lea..'it 17 poinl'i. 
Then the powerhouse that pulled away from opponents began letting them hang around. 
In their ninth game, they beat Indianapolis 24-20 on a touch­down with 3:15 left. In their 11th, they scored the go-ahead touchdown with 7:20 to go but needed two interceptions in the last four minutos to dineh the 31-2H win over Philadnlphia. 
The following week was the greatost of escapes. 
They trailed 24-20 at Baltimore and failed twice on fourth down in the la..'it two min­utes. But the first play wa..'i nulli­fied by a false start penalty against the Patriots and the sec­ond by a holding call against the Ravens. On the next play, Brady threw the winning 8-yard scor­ing pass to Jabar Gaffney with 44 seconds left. 
And, in the last regular-season game, the defense struggled in a 38-35 win over the Giant.<>. 
But how long could their good fortune hold out? 
Not long enough. 

• 
Heated Pool • Parasaifing 

• 
Private Balconies • 3 Beach Bars 

• 
Guest Laundry • Sundeck Bar 

• 
Gift Shop • Tattoo & Body Art 

• 
jet Ski Rentals • Island View 

• 
Beach Fron<t Restaurant 


Grill and Deli 
;Itt ~15(), ()()() 49· It r¥ 
fuPte fuvtPf ~ 
1400 Estero Blvd., Ft. Myers Beach, FL 33931 Reservations: 1-800-237-6133 Direct: 1-239-463-3111 


Tuesday, February 5, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Vitale set to return to booth 
ESPN announcer will return Wednesday after Dec. 18 throat surgery 
Associated Press 
Say something. Anything. Just do the very thing that made him famous. 
But Dick Vitale couldn't. Tears welled up in his eyes as he imagined his beloved career crashing to an end. 
Then the doctor suggested he count to 10. And with the simplest of words, Vitale heard his own voice again for the first time in weeks. 
ESPN's hyperkinetic college basketball announcer will call his first game in more than two months Wednesday after recovering from throat sur­gery. It was the cruelest of ailments for the man who yelled his way to becoming a household name. His treat­ment? A ban on speaking. 
"There was a moment there I thought I'd never be behind a microphone again," Vitale said Monday on a conference call, sounding a bit subdued but very much like himself. 
Told he could return to the air in early February, Vitale checked the schedule and found some serendipitous timing: He could make his comeback on the biggest of stages, the Duke-North Carolina game. 
Vitale wasn't allowed to utter a word between his Dec. 18 surgery and a Jan. 13 doc­tor's appointment. And when he got the long-awaited go­ahead, he opened his mouth and nothing came out. 
"I guess I was afraid of what I was going to sound like," he said. ''I'd heard rumors that your voice may not sound similar." 
Viewers might not have noticed anything the last few years, but the 68-year-old Vitale conceded he was "bluffing" his way through games. 
''I'm going to tell you, every game I was a worried, nerv­ous wreck about what was coming out of my throat," he said. 
He was always hoarse; his throat was constantly sore. After many a game, he was on the phone with his boss at ESPN, Dan Steir, crying. 
"That's how really down I was," Vitale said. "I can't go to the game and just enjoy doing the game and be excit­ed about doing the game and not worried about my damn throat." 
He went to several physi­cians, who said his problem was caused by acid reflux. Vitale finally got an appoint­ment with Dr. Steven Zeitels of Massachusetts General Hospital, a specialist who has treated Julie Andrews and Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler. 
Zeitels found ulcers on his left vocal cord and said there was a chance they were can­cerous. 
"That word scares the life out of anyone," Vitale said. 
The news was good: No cancer. Not speaking wasn't so hard, Vitale insisted, which becomes more believable con­sidering complications from the surgery resulted in blad­der problems that distracted him from his original ailment. 
Vitale communicated by 
scribbling notes to his wife, who had to try to decipher his "horrendous" handwriting. 
"I went through so many pens, it was unbelievable," he said. 
Doctors told him it wasn't a coincidence that somebody who puts so much strain on his vocal cords developed problems. Vitale is working with a voice coach to learn to speak more from his diaphragm. ESPN will adjust his schedule so he won't call doubleheaders or games on back-to-hack days. 
Vitale is conscious of avoid­ing traps like talking loudly to try to be heard over the din at a noisy restaurant. His doc­tors will attend Saturday's Georgetown-Louisville game so they can use a device that measures exactly how much of a strain Vitale is putting on his vocal cords. 
But what's going to happen Wednesday if a player goes soaring in for a dunk in the final seconds to send the game to overtime? 
''I'm going to be myself," Vitale said. Himself with the volume turned down slightly. 
"I think I'm going to try to let the microphone do more work," he said. 
For anybody wondering how Vitale will sound Wednesday, he noted he never was as smooth as a play-by-play guy to begin with. 
"I've always been raspy," he said. "Heck, Rod Stewart's raspy, and he makes millions of dollars." 
MLB 




Clemens will face steroid deposition 



Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Not one of Roger Clemens' flat-out denials about using steroids or human growth hormone was delivered while he spoke under oath. Now he gets that chance. 
The seven-time Cy Young Award winner is scheduled to give a deposition to lawyers from a congressional committee behind closed doors Tuesday, one day after his former New York Yankees teammate and workout partner Andy Pettitte delivered sworn testimony for about 2 1/2 hours. 
Both pitchers' private inter­views with staff members from the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee are part of preparation for a Feb. 13 hearing. That public session is expected to focus on allegations made in the Mitchell Report by trainer Brian McNamee that he injected Clemens more than a dozen times with performance enhancers. 
The 45-year-old Clemens ranks eighth in major league history with 354 career wins. He put off retirement yet again in 2007, returning to the Yankees in June and going 6-6 with a 4.18 ERA. 
"Roger is not going to take the Fifth Amendment," one of Clemens' lawyers, Rusty Hardin, said in a statement e-mailed by spokesman Joe Householder. "He is going to answer the com­mittee's questions truthfully under oath." 
McNamee is to appear Thursday. One of his lawyers, Earl Ward, said no decision had been made on whether he would submit to a deposition or transcribed interview. It is a crime to lie to Congress, whether sworn to tell the truth or not, so the distinction between the two has more to do with the format of the question­ing and the confidentiality of the transcript. 
Pettitte, who chose to be deposed, did not take questions from reporters afterward as he walked from committee offices to an elevator in the Rayburn House Office Building. Wearing a pinstriped gray suit and bright striped tie, Pettitte was accom­panied by his wife and three lawyers. 
"At the committee's request, Andy Pettitte voluntarily met with representatives of the com­mittee this morning, and fully answered all of the inquiries made of him in a sworn deposi­tion," two of Pettitte's lawyers, Jay Reisinger and Thomas Farrell, said in a statement. "Out of respect for the sensitive nature of these proceedings, and out of deference to the com­mittee's request for confidential­ity, we, on behalf of Mr. Pettitte, will not comment on the nature or specifics of his testimony." 
Staff members for the com­mittee declined to comment. 
McNamee told former Senate majority leader George Mitchell he injected Pettitte with HGH. Pettitte lent credence to Mitchell's findings by acknowl­edging two days after the report was released in Decrmber that he did try HGH for two days in 2002 to help deal with an elbow injury. 
The committee announced Monday it will hold yet another hearing Feb. 12, entitled, "Myths and Facts about Human Growth Hormone, B-12, and Other Substances." The commit­tee said medical experts will testify about the effects of such substances. 
A former Yankees teammate of Pettitte and Clemens, Chuck Knoblauch, spoke to committee staff Friday. The day before, an employee of the sports agency ­that represents Clemens and Pettitte went to Capitol Hill to be interviewed. 
McNamee said he injected Clemens with HGH and steroids in 1998, 2000 and 2001. Clemens has repeatedly and vig­orously denied that, including in a recorded television interview and a live news conference ­as well as through his lawyers. Clemens did acknowledge he received injections from McNamee, but he said they were for vitamin B-12 and the painkiller lidocaine. 
When Mitchell testified at a committee hearing Jan. 15, he was asked whether he was still comfortable with McNamee's credibility. 
"We believe that the state­ments provided to us were truthful," Mitchell said. 
McNamee also said he acquired HGH from former New York Mets clubhouse employee Kirk Radomski for Knoblauch in 2001 -and McNamee said he injected Knoblauch with HGH. Radomski pleaded guilty in April to federal felony charges of distributing steroids and laundering money. He is sched­uled to be sentenced Friday, then speak to committee staff on Feb. 12. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
NBA 

Hawks rebound from slow start to top 76ers 
Magic's Turkoglu picks up triple-double in loss to Mavs; Heat suffer 32-point loss, their 19th in 20 games 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Just when it 
senmed Philadnlphia might have 
an nasy timn with Atlanta, Josh 
Smith gave tlw Hawks a Jill and 
gavn the 7(HH"S something to 
think about. 
Smith blocknd six shots in the 
sn1:ond quarlnr. giving t.lw 
llawks monwnturn that c.arrind 
tlwm to a 96-91 win over tho 
l'hilad1dphia 7(~t•rs on Monday 
night. 
lin had ·19 points. nine assists 
and ninn block.-;, and his big snr­
ond quarter lil'tnd thn Hawks 
from a misNabln start. 
"Josh chang~~s tlw gamn with 
his blocked shots," said 7hnrs 
c.oac.h Mauricn ChPPks. "When a 
guy has ninn blocked shots it 
l'hanges tlw game dramatically. 
Jo:ven whnn lw donsn"t block a 
shot he has guys thinking about 
it when thny shoot, and that can 
mess up your oll"!msivn rhythm." 
The 76nrs outseored the 
llawks 15-0 on fastbrnak points 
and outrebounded Atlanta 23-5 
to take a 32-14 lnad in the first 
quarter. Smith's sncond-quarter 
rojeetions lin~d up thn llawks, 
who outscored the 76m·s R2-59 
in the final thren periods. 
"Josh got rnally aggressive, just really mado his presence 1"1dt in the paint," said Hawks cnntnr AI llorford. "lin changed thn gamn for us eomplntely. lie was carrying us in the second quartor." 
Smith and the othm starters 
struggled whiln falling behind by 
20 in the first quarter. 
"I understand when I came 
back in I had to change the 
game on the defensive end," 
Smith said. 
"When you block a couple of shots, it makes them second­guess shots." 
Smith, second in the league with 3.2 blocks per game, matched team records with the six blocks in the second quarter and eight in the first half. 
"It felt great just to come over and help my teammates," Smith said. "Some of them turned into fast breaks." 
Added Hawks coach Mike Woodson: "He changed the whole game. It's a shame that we put that kind of pressure on him.... We just have to lock in and take the individual chal­lenge to guard the ball. That's what we weren't doing, and he was covering up a lot of our mistakes." 

Smith also had four steals and six rebounds in the game. Smith's career high is 10 blocked shots as a rookie against Dallas on Dec. 1R, 2004. 
Josh Childress scored 21 points and Joe Johnson added 1 R for the I Iawks. 
Atlanta led 91-8R before turn­ing the ball over on an ofl"ensive foul by Horford with 1:20 left. Philadelphia rookie Thaddeus Young, a Georgia Tech product making his i"irst return to Atlanta, missed on the other end, and. a basket by Horford pushed the llawks' lead to live. 
!!orford then blocked a shot by Andre Miller, who scored 29 points. 
"AI Ilorford makes a great block on Andre Miller at tho ond, which was huge," Woodson said. "lin held his own and made the block and secured the ball. That was pretty much the gamn right thern." 
The llawks set a season high with 14 blocks, inducting two by Horf'ord. 
Andre Iguodala's three-point play with 19.5 seconds to go cut Atlanta's lead to 94-91, but Smith answered with two free throws. 
lguodala had 22 points. Young added 11 and Willie Green had I0. Samuel Dalembcrt had nine points and I J rnbounds. 
Tho Uwrs' big narly lead did­n't last long. The llawks outscored tlw 76ers 30-18 in the sn1:ond quarter to trail only 50­44 at halftime. 
Tho qukk turnaround stunned tho 76nrs. "I wish I could tell you what happened." said Dalombert. "It was two games," Cheeks said. 
Johnson's 3-pointer with 4 seconds left in thn third put Atlanta in front 72-70 heading into tho final quarter. 
Tlw llawks led 87-79 in the fourth but the Sixers answered with two baskets by Miller and a 3-pointer by Iguodala to close the lead to R7-R6 with 3:45 left. 
A drive by Johnson with 1:53 Iell pushed Atlanta's lead to 91­RR. 
Mavericks 107, Magic 98 
Coming off their worst per­formance of the season, the Dallas Mavericks got some extra practice in before playing the Orlando Magie on Monday night. 
It paid oil" with a win in which Dallas led from tip to buzzer. 

"We didn't want to leave any­thing in the gym tonight," Mavericks coach Avery Johnson said. "That's why I brought 
them to the gym at the last  
minute  for  a  quick  
shootaround."  

Josh Howard scored 28 points, Dirk Nowitzki had 20 points and nine rebounds and Jason Terry finished with 20 points for the Mavericks. 
Dallas overcame Hedo Turkoglu's first career triple­double -13 points, 13 assists and 12 rebounds -and 28 points from Dwight Howard. But Howard, the NBA's rebounding leader averaging 15, had only seven, and Orlando was outre­bounded 47-34. 
The Mavericks led by 13 at the end of the first quarter, and by as many as 19 in the first half. 
"We have to learn from this as a young group, coming to the last 25, 30 games before the playoffs," Turkoglu said. "Hopefully we'll try and be a stronger team." 
Orlando cut it to 83-80 on Rashard Lewis' 3-pointer with 
7:15 left, but the Magic went scoreless almost 5 minutes after that. Dallas rang off a 10-0 run to put the game away. 
The loss snaps a four-game winning streak for Orlando. The Mavericks, which had lost two straight, closed a four-game Eastern Conference road trip 2­2. 
Raptors 114, Heat 82 
Just when the Miami Heat thought they finally hit rock bot­tom, along came more indignity. 
Chris Bosh scored 24 points, Andrea Bargnani added 22 and the Toronto Raptors handed the hapless Heat their biggest loss of the season Monday night, a debacle that was never a con­test. 
The Haptors shot 66 percent through the first three quarters, jumped out to a 23-point lead in the first quarter and wound up 

the basket during Atlanta's 96-91 home victory Monday night. 
leading by as many as 39 in the around to see it; the arena that at a loss for answers. final minutes. hosts the team with the NBA's "We're going to have to do 
"It would be hard for us to worst record (9-37) had thou­some evaluation here," Hiley play much better," Toronto sands of empty seats. said. coach Sam Mitchell said. "Like my rookie year," Wade Anthony Parker scored 18 
In the other locker room, the said. points for the Haptors. Jose opposite sentiment existed. Chris Quinn scored 11 points Calderon had 11 points and 10 
Dorell Wright scored 17 and Alexander Johnson had 10 assists for Toronto, and Jason points, while Mark Blount and points and 10 rebounds for Kapono -in his first trip back Dwyane Wade each added 12 Miami, which committed 21 to Miami after the lleat chose for Miami, which has lost 19 of turnovers that led to 30 Toronto not to re-sign him in the offsea­its past 20 overall, 10 of its past points. And afterward, Heat son-scored 13 points on 6-for­11 at home. Not that many were coach Pat Riley simply seemed 10 shooting. 


Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, February 7 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an mformal gathenng at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and conl!denl!ahty is assured 

CURE COUNCtl 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

Tuesday, February 5, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's hOckey ties Northwestern in home finale 
Special to the Observer 
Despite playing most of the final period down a player, Notre Dame still managed to hang on to a 2-2 tie against Northwestern. 
The Irish were called for three defensive penalties in the third period and played most of the period down one man. Playing a strong penalty kill throughout the game, Notre Dame still riddled the net with shots, including a frantic rush at the end of the game when the Irish hit the pipes twice. 
Notre Dame scored first in the middle of the opening peri­od with a heads-up play by first-year player Tess Ryan. 
Northwestern answered in the closing seconds of the first period when the Wildcats rifled home a point-blank shot. 
Irish senior Casey Bouskill ,deflected a shot from senior Kara Brennan for a goal in the second period, but the Wildcats again answered on a power-play goal. 
Sophomore Megan Aimola registered 28 saves in her first game in goal for the Irish. 
Irish captain Kara Brennan summed up the emotions at the conclusion of the club's home season. 
"It's been a great four years of hockey, and it's really hard to see it end," Brennan said. "We're all looking forward to going out with a win next weekend in Chicago." 

Notre Dame's final game will be on Feb. 9 against the Frozen Snappers -a club team from the northern sub­urbs of Chicago. 
Women's Water Polo 
Notre Dame made a splash in East Lansing this weekend, winning its season opener in a tournament held at Michigan State. 
The Irish beat Illinois 11-4 Friday in their first game. Cristina Romano and Bridget O'Neill led the scoring with three goals apiece and Kristen Harchut had two. 
Saturday the Irish secured a quick 14-1 win over Lindenwood, with goalkeeper­turned-field-player Betsy O'Neill scoring a total of six goals. Goalie Maggie Hyde was solid, allowing the only Lindenwood goal on a late fourth-quarter floater. 
The second contest of the day pitted the Irish against a different kind of opponent ­the Chicago Area Water Polo club, a team made up of tal­ented high school players. Notre Dame won 10-5 with Horner leading the Irish offense with four goals. Betsy O'Neill returned to the goal for this game and recorded ninP saves. 
In the tournament champi onship game Sunday, the Irish needed overtime to beat Michigan, 5-4. The low-scor­ing game favored Michigan's style of play, and with three minutes to go in the game the Irish trailed 4-2. 
A pair of quick goals by Horner and Durkin tied the game and forced sudden death. 
On a crucial man-up oppor­tunity, Kennifer skipped the winning shot by the Michigan goalie, ensuring the Irish vic­tory. 
Ultimate Frisbee 
Notre Dame's A-team advanced to the quarterfinals in the 22nd annual Mardi Gras tournament before falling to Texas 14-12. 
The A-team was seeded No. 15 out of the 60 men's teams competing in the tournament. In its first game of pool play Saturday, the team came out slow against Minnesota and lost, 11-7. Although Minnesota gave it plenty of opportunities, Notre Dame failed to capital­ize. This gave the team plenty to adjust before its next game against Georgia Tech. 
Against the Yellow Jackets, Notre Dame fixed the mistakes and pulled out an 11-10 victo­ry, its first of the season. The win set up a third game against Wisconsin B. which the Irish won 15-8 thanks to the handling of junior Thomas Rivas. 
In the final pool play game of lhe day, the Irish faced North ; exas to determine seeding going into bracket play on Sunday. Notre Dame beat North Texas 11-5 after a fast start. The Irish came out firing and jumped on the Mean Green early with great defense from grad student Steve Kurtz. 
The A-team opened with a 
solid 13-9 victory over Wisconsin-Whitewater in the round of 16. The win advanced Notre Dame to the quarterfinals against national power Texas. The Longhorns were also coming off of a tough battle in the round of 16 and were slow to start the game. 
Notre Dame capitalized and .took an 11-9 lead thanks to great cutting from sophomore Andrew Schroeder. Texas, however, went on a late run to clinch the win. 
The Irish B-team lost to Texas A&M Sunday despite strong play from Shea Bettwy. Notre Dame defeated Truman State but lost to Iowa State Saturday, 13-8. Although freshmen Patrick Kozak and Tom Banaziak displayed good cutting speed, the Irish lost to Memphis. They managed to beat Texas-Arlington 13-11 in Saturday's final game. 
Ski 
Joel Sharbrough took first in slalom and finished in the top three in the giant slalom. Freshman Justine Murnane led the women's squad with top three finishes in both events as well. The team will compete this coming weekend at Crystal Mountain, Mich. 
Squash 
Javiar Palomo, Notre Dame's No. 1 player, won the 3rd Annual Notre Dame Squash Tournament, and the first prize -a squash backpack. Eighteen people participated in the tournament. 

NFL 
Brady, Moss vvill111iss Pro Bovvl 
Associated Press 
Tom Brady and Randy Moss  
pulled out of the Pro Bowl on  
Monday, a day after the New  
England Patriots were beaten in  
the Super Bowl.  
After throwing a league-record  
50 touchdown passes during the  
season, Brady was battered by  
the New York Giants during their  
17-14 win Sunday. He has been  
bothered by a tender ankle and  
was photographed in New York  
wearing a protective boot two  
weeks prior to the Super Bowl.  
Brady, who first injured his  
ankle against San Diego in the  
AFC Championship Game, was  
sacked five times by the Giants.  
He will be replaced by Cleveland  
Browns quarterback Derek  
Anderson.  
Moss, who caught a record 23  
TD passes from Brady during the  
APseason, had five receptions for  
Patriots quarterback Tom Brady tries to escape Giants defensive end62 yards and a TD in the Super  
Michael Strahan in New England's 17-14 Super Bowl loss to New York.Bowl. He will be replaced by dis­ 
gruntled Cincinnati Bengals  
receiver Chad Johnson.  Steelers defensive tackle Casey  receptions and had 1,106 receiv­ 
The Patriots said Brady and  Hampton takes Williams' spot on  ing yards, the most by a  
Moss each opted out because of  the AFC roster, his third-consec­ Cleveland tight end. He'll under­ 
ankle injuries.  utive trip to Hawaii and fourth  go another surgery ­his fourth  
San Diego tight end Antonio  overall.  since 2004 -on his right knee  
Gates and defensive tackle Jamal  Anderson, who began the sea­ after the Pro Bowl.  
Williams also decided to skip the  son as Charlie Frye's backup,  Winslow had postponed the  
All-Star game on Feb. 10 in  threw for 3,787 yards and 29  operation in anticipation of  
Honolulu.  touchdowns while going 10-5 as  replacing Gates, who sustained a  
Browns tight end Kellen  a starter. Cleveland was edged  toe injury during the playoffs.  
Winslow will go in place of  out of a playoff spot because of a  "We're excited the Browns will  
Gates, bringing the number of  tiebreaker.  have such a presence at the Pro  
Browns players in the Pro Bowl  Despite playing on bad knees  Bowl this year," general manag­ 
to six, the club's most since send­ and with a separated shoulder,  er Phil Savage said in a state­ 
ing six in 1994. Pittsburgh  Winslow led the Browns with 82  ment.  

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
Switch 
continued from page 20 
but our conlidenee has grown and we've been making shots and that just grows," Ayers said. "Everyone just has eonli­dence in us." 
Ayers showed that eonlidence in Notre Dame's overtime win over Providence on Thursday. In overtime, Ayers stepped up and drilled a three from the top of the key to give Notre Dame a five-point lead on its way to victory. 
"lAyers! has been playing with a little bit of a chip on his shoulder, which is very scary for opponents when a talented guy like Ryan Ayers is playing with a ehip on his shoulder," llillesland said. "I think it was kind of the reaction the eoaeh was looking for with the move." 
llillesland netted 10 points against DePaul, ineluding an eleetrifying baseline slam, but hasn't limited his offensive potential to driving and seoring in the paint. Against Providence, llillesland attempt­ed, and drained, a eouple of mid-range jump shots. 
"We just know that we have to attaek and pick our spots when they're there and eer­tainly we're always talking to !coach Breyl about being aggressive with our selection, to keep attacking and take care of the ball," lliffesland said. "We know that we need to con­tribute and take pressure ofT of guys like (forward! Luke lllarangodyl. or if [guard! Kyle IMcAlarnoy'sl not having a good shooting night." 
Against Providence, McAlarney f"inished with only eight points, but llillesland and Ayers stepped in to give the Irish a shot in the arm, combin­ing for 17 points. In Notre Dame's two Big East losses to Georgetown and Marquette, the only other times opposing defenses held McAlarney to 10 points or less, Hillesland and Ayers tallied 10 points com­bined in the two games. 
"They're huge for us," McAlarney said. "They do what they have to do for us to get the 
FreshiDen 
continued from page 20 
"They have fit in pretty well," Bayliss said. "You can't ignore them, they are very talented. Of our eight starters, four of them are freshmen. They have definite­ly established themselves." 
With their loss coming to the No. 1 Virginia on Jan. 22 at home, Bayliss still said the team is untested. 
"We will see how they han­dle it if the ranking falls," Bayliss said. "We'll see if' their perception changes." 
Along with Havens and 


win. Ryan's been great off the bench for us and scoring and Zach just needs to be aggres­sive. attacking the paint. Just coming in every day and doing their part has really helped us out a lot." 
But llillesland and Ayers' effectiveness isn't only meas­ured in points. The 6-foot-9 llillesland and the 6-foot-7 Ayers make for tough defend­ers, especially at the top of Notre Dame's 1-2-2 zone where they can use both their size and quickness to thwart shot attempts. 
Offensively, Hillesland can create mismatches against taller defenders with his ability to drive and dish, while Ayers has taken the ball to the hoop over the past few games more than he did earlier in the sea­son. 
"They're highly important," Irish guard Tory Jackson said. 
Roth, the Irish have a strong No. 1 doubles team in senior Sheeva Parbhu and junior Brett Helgeson. "They return as well as anyone in the coun­try," Bayliss said. "They sometimes break down at net, but have made great improve­ments. It will be interesting to see how the rest of the season plays out." 
Junior Santiago Montoya has also been a mainstay in the lineup for the first time this spring. Montoya has been playing with freshman Tyler Davis at No. 3 doubles. 
Bayliss said the team is deeper than last year. Montoya and sophomore Sean Corrigan traveled with the "They are two of the most important players in the Big East to me. They both play with two different styles, but they are two of the best players out there." 
Notes: 
+llarangody was named Big East player of the week for the second time this season. Last week, Harangody averaged 30 points and 14 rebounds in Notre Dame's two wins over DePaul and Providence. 
+For the first time this sea­son, Notre Dame is ranked in both the AP and ESPN/USA Today polls. In the AP Poll, Notre Dame received 224 votes, good enough for No. 22. In the ESPNIUSA Today poll, the Irish are No. 21 with 107 votes. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
team last year, and are now in the hunt for playing time. Bayliss said the team is 10­deep in terms of people who can win on a consistent basis. 
The Irish have two more big tests this weekend. Notre Dame will play Wisconsin on Saturday at 1 p.m. and Southern Methodist on Sunday at noon. Both matches will be at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALLARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES 
Sell Trips, Earn Cash ~ia~ 
&Travel Free ~vn
......,.,SfllVJ(f$ 
1-800-648-4849 
www.ststravel.rom 
BYU 
continued from page 20 
"She won 6-0, 6-0 and did it quickly," he said. "She didn't really let her opponent into the game at all." 
Tefft also contributed to a doubles match win over the Wolverines. 
"Kelcy and [senior! Brook [Buck] were down 6-1, but came back and won 8-6," 
Indiana 
continued from page 20 
Piane was pleased with the performance of his throwers. Three shotput throwers made it to the finals. 
Freshman Denes Veres has led the Irish throwers with top marks in the weight throw and shot pt.it respec­tively. Veres has started off his collegiate career strong, finishing in the top 10 at every meet so far. A multiple letter winner in track in high school, Veres attracted Notre Dame's attention when he became an all-state shot put­ter and set the county record mark of 60 feet, 10 inches. 
The middle distance run­ners also put in big finishes over the weekend. Junior Billy Buzaid earned a sixth­place finish in the 800 meters. Although he ran the 
Marionettes 
Thursday, February 7 
Louderback said. "Even though they were down big, they didn't panic." 
The pair of Tefft and Buck, the No. 3 doubles duo in the nation, has now won all three of their matches this season and are 14-2 overall. 
BYU was upset in its last match against Washington, 4­3, and as a result dropped 26 spots in the rankings. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 
500 meters in his freshman and sophomore seasons, Buzaid transitioned to the 800 in last year's outdoor sea­son. 
This indoor season, he's already qualified for the Big East tournament for the 500 and 800 meters 
Sophomore Cameron Eckert came in fourth in the 600 meter run, following up his stellar performance from the Notre Dame Invitational where he ran a Big East qual­ifying time for the 800 meters. Eckert also qualified for the Big East meet with his time of 2:29.83 in the 1,000 meter run. 
There are two more oppor­tunities to qualify for the Big East championships: the Meyo Invitational Feb. 8-9 and the Windsor Team Challenge in Ontario, Canada on Feb. 16. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
7:30P.M., Little Theatre 
The internationally acclaimed 
(ashore Marionettes redefine 
the art of puppetry. The 
program, Simple Gifts, is aseries 
of touching portrayals and 
poignant scenes from everyday 
life set to stunning music by 
such composers as Vivaldi, 
Strauss, Beethoven, and 
Copland. This performance is 
recommended for adults and 
children age eight and up! 



Tuesday, February 5, 2008 T'Je Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
TAK!fi PICTUii!EiS ANC> PUT THEiM. ON TH!fi INT!fili!NEiT-
C) li!EiSI.-IFEi TH!fi Glli!i-, li!EiSIAFEi TH!fi GUY WHO SH!fi WAS WITH, THEiN /i?EiSt..IFEi MY:5Eii-F FOii! HAVING SEieiN IT­
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
EMAHR j
I I r (] 
TREFER 
rJ (]
1 
A GOOD PL..ACE: 
www.jumble.com 
TO FIND A DATE:.
IPRAMCE± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I r J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
A rI I I JrI I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: TOKEN AGENT HECKLE DEAFEN Answer: Hemming dresses all day left the seamstress -ON THE "EDGE" 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
Across 37 Sch. named for 69 Cold war 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TWS DAY: Brandon "Bug" Hall, 23; Natalie lm­bruglia, 33; Oscar De La Hoya, 35; Alice Cooper, 60 
1 Sword handles a televangelist superpower 38 Life stories on 70 Sectional, e.g. Happy Birthday: This year, you will have added determination, drive and preci­
6 Worker's due 

sion. This is a great year for self-improvement, socializing, networking and getting 1 0 Wood-shaping film 71 Makeup maker on top of any legal issues, contractual dealings or partnership problems. Take the tool 40 Leak fixer Lauder initiative and you will surprise your peers, friends and family. Your numbers are 10, 13, 19, 27, 30,39
14 "One tor My 43 Toss in Baby" composer Down ARIES (March 21-April1!1): Be careful with whom you share your thoughts. 
44 Not e'en once 
You will be questioned, so be prepared to back up your suggestions with facts. A 

Harold Muslim pilgrim 
46 Inspiring sisters trip to visit or a phone call to an old friend will give you some uplifting ideas. 2 15 Horse course 2 Kitchen drawer? stars
47 "Merry 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Think outside the box and you will get much fur­
16 One of nine in 

Christmas" to 3 Visit from the ther ahead. Ifyou count on someone for assistance, you will be let down. You can golf Spaniards Blue Angels. make some serious changes to your lifestyle and to your own well-being. Don't get 17 "Merry 
angry, get busy. 5 stars 
maybe

51 "Lemon Tree" GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have a good idea that you can turn into 
Christmas" to 
something of interest to colleagues, peers and family. An investment may be 

singer Lopez 4 Readying for athe French 
tempting but, before you jump in, make sure it is sound. Time is on your side. 3 
drive

52 Third after delta stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): A partnership may need a little fine-tuning. Prepare 
19 Antique autos 5 Cold-shoulder

53 "Pow!" 6 Hit the jackpot excellent memory will count. Compassion and understanding will also help you 
20 Tipple to discuss your complaints or your ideas for improvement. Your experience and 
56 Federer and 21 Winter melon 
get your way. 3 stars 

Nadal 7 Guacamole
23 "Atlas Shrugged" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be more inclined to deal with relationships and 59 Collected ingredient personal matters but you should be focusing on business and getting ahead. A seri­
author Rand 

ous meeting can help you fmd your ground regarding a project you want to pursue. 24 Shooters' grp. Take the initiative. 3 stars 
62 Hgt. 8 Greek earth 64 "Merry 
goddess VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept-22): Socializing and networking will lead to some impor­
26 Genie holders 
tant changes that have to do with personal or business relationships. You can make

Christmas" to 9 Architects'
29 "Merry some vocational changes that will enhance what you know and do in the future. 5 Italians annexes stars
Christmas" to 
LIBRA (SepL 23-0eL 22):. Don't trust just anyone. You may need to look outside

Danes 66 Two capsules, 1 0 Car sat<>~_ 
your immediate circle of friends and family if you want an honest answer. Self­

perhaps device Puzzle by Nancy Salomon improvement projects or traveling for the experience or information will tum out well. 2 stars 36 "I can only _ 67 Terrier sounds 11 Prized positions 35 Piety 48 'The nerve!" 58 Continental SCORPIO (OeL 23-Nov. 21): A personal investment can be made but don't share 
much" 68 Animated ogre 12 Menagerie 33 Spar verbally 
currency what you are doing with loved ones. A chance to move up professionally is appar­
391t has 

49 Benzoyl ent if you put in the hours and show your dedication to what you are trying to 13 U.S.N.A. grad headquarters at peroxide target 60 Move gently pursue. 4 stars ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE N.Y.C.'s Time SAGITTARIDS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take your past into consideration and you 
18 TV's Warrior 61 Apollo astronaut
50 "Rats!" will have a better chance at choosing what needs to be done today. Change isn't
Warner Center 

Princess Slayton always necessary to get what you want. Think before you act and good results will 54 Split up follow. 3 stars 
41 Thurman of 

22 Thrilla in Manila 62 Campus e-mail 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 1!1): Every cloud will have a silver lining when it boxer "Dangerous 55 Knock-down-suffix comes to your getting what you want. Stand up for your rights, state your needs Liaisons" drag-out and formulate what you want in order to do what you are being asked to do. There 
25 It had a notable 63 Acapulco article 
is money to be made. 3 stars part in Exodus 42 Spa treatments 57 Corp. recruits, 65 Supersecretive AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The more you do for others, the more you will get in return today. Be the good Samaritan, the humanitarian and the one who is
27 Blender setting 45 Make balanced often intelligence org. 
understanding and compassionate. Changes you want to make at home will turn 28 Pronounces out well. 3 stars 
poorly 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a PISCES (Feb. 19-Ma.rcb 20): Look beyond what's rigbt in front of you and you 30 Waikiki welcome credit card, 1-800-814-5554. will get a better picture of what you are up against. Someone you are close to may have a hidden agenda but don't get upset --it is likely to be to your benefit in the 
31 Lively wit Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
end. Focus on what you can do for others. 4 stars

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
32 Chat room Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Birthday Baby: Yon are industrious, ingenious and imaginative. You always react chuckle 

with confidence, making you a strong contender. You form strong partnerships. 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 33 Sailor's behind 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 34 Bill tack-on solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The 0 bserver 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _______________ State ______ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 5, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Sw-itcheroo 
Lineup change pays off for surging Irish 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
.Juniors Zad1 llillnsland and Hyan Ayers said a change in tho lineup didn't affect how much they played. it afTncted how thoy playod. 
Beforn newly-rankf~d No. 22/21 Notre Dame's 90-80 win over Villanova on Jan. 26, Irish coach Mike Brey inserted llillesland into the starting lineup for Ayers, and both said they elevated their play in the 


thren games since the switch. 
"I was in a rut for a while and the change kind of refo­cused me for a bit," Jlillesland said after Notre Dame's 89-80 win over DePaul on Saturday. " ... It's not like a wholo bunch has changed, people are still playing their samP minutes and coming in and contribut­ing." 
Aynrs hasn't seen a signifi­cant dedine in minutes since coming ofT tho bench and is averaging 9.7 points over his last three games when he aver­aged just under live pnr game in Notre Dame's 11rst five Big East games. 
"I think we were kind of in a slump for a couple of games, 
see SCHWAPP/page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Doubles partners tnesh vvell 
By KATE GRABAREK Sports Writer . 
On a team with six fresh­man, one has separated him­self from the pack. 
Freshman Stephnn Havens has distanced himself from the five other freshmen on this season's squad. Havens and Andrew lloth made up the No. 4 doubles team for the early part of this season. 
"The doubles have been playing really well." coach Bobby Bayliss said. "They make a lot of balls, and have responded well. I am pleased with them overall." 
Roth has been a pleasant surprise for the Irish this sea­son. lie battled eye injuries early in his career and has stepped into a leadership role, Bayliss said. 
"He has a determined work ethic," Bayliss said. "He is a lot more accountable on the court. lie has a big heart, and can do a lot of things. lie will make his opponents work. While Stephen is pretty placid on court, Both is more fiery." 
Aside from Havens, the rest of the freshmen have made their presence felt. 
see FRESHMEN/page 21 


MEN'S TRACK 

Split squad scores big at IU Relays 

By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sports Writer 

Although Notre Dame didn't take its entirfl team to the Indiana Helays this weekend, the athletes that did travel per­formed well. 
"lWei had some good things happen. but we didn't bring evnryonn down," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "We took pri­marily sprinters and field events kids. We had the dis­tance resting for the upcoming meet this weekend, the Meyo Invitational". 
Sophomore Greg Kiley was the exception, running a 4:13 in the mile and qualifying for the Big East Conference Meet. 
see INDIANA/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
BYU presents chance to rebound 
By DAN MASTERTON 
Sports Writer 
Road-weary No. 12 Notre Dame begins its home sched­ule today against No. 54 Brigham Young after losing two or its first three matches on the road. Notre Dame (1-2) looks to win two in a row over the Cougars (2-4) after win­ning 5-2 last season in Provo, Utah. 
Notre Dame's 4-3 loss to Michigan last Thursday did not sit well with Irish coach Jay Louderback, but the team has had five days to recover and prepare for BYU. 
"We just didn't play well at Michigan," Louderback said. "Friday was so dose to the loss that everyone was still down. We had a better practice Saturday. I'm looking for [Monday] to be another good one to get everyone ready." 
In addition to the time off, coach Louderback is happy to be home. 
"It's been tough to beat us here. We definitely need to play at home," he said. "We had three in a row on the road to start. and I was hoping we'd be at least 2-1." 
Their match at Michigan helped prepare the Irish for BYU. 
"Playing at Michigan, their courts are faster, and they hit the ball fast and hard," Louderback said. "So playing BYU will be an advantage for us because these teams play similar." 

The Cougars' strength is their doubles play. Both the No. 1 team of Anastasia Surkova and Jennifer Miccoli and the No. 2 pair of Dolly Chang and Kristina Doerr are 4-0 for the dual season. 
"We lost the doubles point [to BYUJ last year, and they have the same team coming back," Louderback said. "They're tough and hit the ball big, so we'll work on doubles more lin practice on Monday I to get ready for them." 
Junior Kelcy Tefft leads the Irish, coming off a strong showing at Michigan. Louderback was pleased with her performance. 
see BYU/page 21 







