
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 74 MONDAY, JANUARY 28,2008 
Three halls receive racist letters 
Jenkins, Poorman warn students, condemn message; unclear why ND was targeted 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
After every resident of at least three Notre Dame dorms last week received racist letters, University offi­cials have reached out to the student body to condemn the message and warn that more letters may arrive. 
In an e-mail to the student body sent Friday, University President Father John Jenkins and Vice President for. Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman dismissed the 
Club 23 ow-ner still searching for buyer 
Two months after going on the market, off-campus tavern remains on Craigslist 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Off-campus tavern Club 2 3, which has been listed for nearly two months on popu­lar classifieds Web site Craigslist, has not yet been sold. 
Mahmoud Hussein said his establishment, the site of a shooting that seriously injured two Notre Dame stu­dents in August, remains for sale on the Web site. 
A search of craigslist.com Sunday night revealed that Hussein's initial advertise­ment, posted in December, has been replaced by an ad dated Jan. 22. The new advertisement is housed 
writer's claims as "blatant prejudice" and reiterated Notre Dame's stance on racism. 
The writer of the one-page letters -who identified him­self in the document as a man from North Dakota ­sent an envelope to each room in at least two resi­dence halls, addressing them simply to "Occupant," Jenkins and Poorman said. 
The Observer has since learned that at least one more dorm received the let­ter. Though Zahm, Lewis and Knott Halls were the only 
under the office and com­mercial listings on the South Bend and Michiana page of Craigslist. 
The asking price for the bar, located on 744 N. Notre Dame Ave., is $695,000 and will get the buyer the tav­ern's 2,500 square feet of space, the building itself, the 57-car parking lot, the 
furniture  inside  and  the  
establishment's  liquor  
license.  

Hussein said that he is in negotiations with "a few potential buyers." 
Hussein said several par­ties have expressed interest in buying the bar. He said that four groups are compet­
see CLUB 23/page 6 

confirmed recipients of the letter Sunday night, Jenkins, Poorman and the rectors of the targeted dorms said there is a possibility more of these letters may arrive in the next days. 
The letter, Jenkins and 
.Poorman said in their e-mail, "makes the false and abhor­rent argument that blacks are intellectually inferior to whites." 
In the letter, the writer claims that "on average, blacks are less intelligent than whites and the reason why is genetic." 
He cites various books and magazine articles to support his argument that putting more resources into predomi­nantly African-American schools will not result in "sig­nificant improvement" in these communities' levels of education. He further con­demns the United States' decision to give aid to African countries. 
In April 2007, the same man sent 354 letters to resi­dents in seven different dorms in Ohio State 
see RACISM/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERYER.COM 
Radical Islam exa111ined 
Writer: Muslims must take responsibility 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Muslims need to take respon­sibility for violence and oppres­sion perpetuated by radical fol­lowers of their religion, Chahdortt Djavann, an Iranian woman who moved to France and became a writer, said Friday at Notre Dame. 
T h e provocative novelist, whose writ-· ings include a pamphlet protesting the veil worn by Muslim women and a book criticizing radical Islam in Europe, delivered a lecture to about 50 students and profes­sors in O'Shaughnessy Hall. She spoke primarily in French and didn't hesitate to make politi­cally charged statements, including calling Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad a "psychopath." Her remarks were translated by French professor Catherine Perry. 
The problem with radical Muslims, Djavann said, is that "they don't see themselves as radical Muslims." She focused on the French word islamisme, 

see ISLAM/page 6 

Sociologist targets urban poverty 
Coalitions could ease ethnic tensions, help build community 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The key to combating the racial and economic ten­sions associated with urban poverty is to work to build coalitions that defy ethnic and socioeconomic barriers, said Harvard sociologist William Julius Wilson. 
Wilson's speech Sunday evening in DeBartolo Hall encouraged community col­laboration and commemo­rated the 25th anniversary of the Center for Social Concerns. 
"The American ideal of integrated neighborhoods is difficult, but not impossible, to achieve, but coalition building would at least have the potential to create inter­dependence, where groups can come together and rec­ognize they need each other to reach common goals," Wilson said. 
According to Wilson, it is an improbable goal to try to make neighborhoods com­pletely ethnically diverse, but that it is possible to ease ethnic tensions to the point where "diverse groups [can] live side by side in harmony, not in fear." 
Building community coali­tions is the best method for relieving ethnic tensions, Wilson said. 
Although he declined to give the names of any spe­cific neighborhoods, Wilson cited the example of what he called the "Dover" com­munity in Chicago, where white and Latino residents created a coalition to bring an end to the busing of stu­dents to schools in poorer neighborhoods. The coali­tion helped build new schools in "Dover" to solve the busing problem and also forged closer relations between whites and Latinos in the area. 
In addition, Wilson emphasized that the impact of urban poverty on the middle and working classes extends beyond race. Most city neighborhoods are con­cerned with the "prevalence of crime and other social dislocations in nearby ghet­to neighborhoods," he said. Middle-class neighborhoods are worried that that incoming residents of a lower socioeconomic status will bring high crime rates with them. 
see POVERTY/page 6 


Hine elected 2008-09 Observer editor-in-chief 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer General Board elected sports editor Chris Hine as the 2008-09 editor in chief Saturday. 
Hine, a junior history major and journalism, ethics and democracy 
minor from W e s t Pittston, P e n n . , joined The Observer as a sports writer dur­ing the fall 


of his fresh- Hine  
man year. He started by Interhall football  covering and since  

then has covered Notre Dame swimming, track and field, women's golf, women's ten­
nis, men's basketball and football. 
"I feel very honored and hope I can live up to the high standards of the editor-in­chiefs I've worked under dur­ing my time here," said Hine, who lives in Fisher Hall. 
As one of The Observer's two sports editors this year, Hine learned to manage a department and work with new reporters "to write the best stories possible, to make the best sports section that you can," he said. The posi­tion, he said, gave him the experience he needs to run the paper. 
"I have confidence in Chris's ability to lead The Observer next year," outgoing editor-in-chief Maddie Hanna 
see EDITORlpage 6 

page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 

Airing of 
•

grievances 
Lately, I've been thinking of things that annoy or frustrate me, things that have bonn happening to me as I go about my day. I have decided to share these with you, formatted in a trendy-yet-eoneisn top ten list, for 

your reading  
pleasure. So,  Christian Saganlia  
without fur­ 
ther ado, I present my own Airing of  Systems Administrator  
Grievanens.  

10) People who have cell phone convnrsations while "doing their business" in the bathroom. When I go to the porcelain throne, I go thnre to be alonn, to meditate. It is a placn of solitude and reflection, and the guy blabbing next to me on how drunk he got last night and who he hooked up with is not something I want to hear when I go into the bathroom. I live in a guys' dorm al'ter all, so I already hear enough of it. 
9) P11ople who do not say "Excuse me" and just shove their way through people. Come on people, this is just common decency. You will expend more energy shoving someonn than simply saying, "Excuse me." 
X) Peopl11 who block the aisles in between seats in a classroom. Do I havn to go through an obstacle eoursn to get to my seat? llell, next time I will bring my running shoes and stretch beforn r.lass. 
7) Pnopln who prnach tolerance until their eyes bleed and yet prac­tien anti-tolerance in regards to something they do not agree with ­this onn is about respect. Agree to disagrne, livfl and lflt live, and stop telling mn to be so open-minded. My brain might fall out. 
6) People who do not silence their phones in movie theatres after see­ing 10 different commercials/warn­ings to silenen their phones. There is a special place in Hell for your kind. 
5) Pnople who think Starbucks is the best coffne ever. Enough said. 
4) People who wear shorts and T­shirts in this God-awful, cold-as-the­arctic weather. It is below zero and these people are strolling around like it is the summertime with their shirts and shorts. Your attempts in being tough fail, epically. 
3) People who draw phalluses con­stantly on everything they see. It was funny the first time, during freshman year when we all got whiteboards. Okay, the joke's done; time to move on. Grow up, please. 

2) Snow, snow, snow, snow, snow, snow, snow, snow, snow.... 
1) And finally, people who make top ten lists like this. I mean, come on, who actually reads them any­way'! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Christian Sargardia at csargardi@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica tin and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 28, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT SINGER/BAND WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE PERFORM AT LEGENDS? 






Katie Halloran lindsey McAiarnen Isaac Reichman Nga Chu Man 
freshman Lewis  freshman Lewis  freshman Fisher  
"Dave Matthews Band."  "Daver  "Guster. "  


Photo courtesy of John Siegel 
Keenan Revue director John Siegel Ill watches performers act out a skit at tryouts this past weekend. The Revue is this Thursday, Friday and Saturday in the O'Laughlin Audtiorium at Saint Mary's. 
OFFBEAT 
Burglar steals crown from bishop's car 
ARLINGTON, Texas -A burglar who broke into a Greek Orthodox bishop's ear made off with quite a haul, but fencing one of the stolen items could prove difficult. 
Among the items stolen from Bishop Metropolitan Isaiah's car was a jeweled crown of gold and silver, which Isaiah estimated to be worth between $6,000 and $10,000. 
Isaiah, who is based in Denver and is bishop for the Northwest region of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese of America, 
TODAY 
a:: 
said he was dining with others at a restaurant when the break-in occurred. He said the car was parked in a well-lit spot. 
"We came out at 10 o'clock, and the window was smashed," he said. 
Brazilian carnival star eyes surgery record 
RIO DE JANEIRO ­Brazilian model Angela Bismarchi will dance near­ly nude ahead of a 300­person drum corps in next month's Carnival parade, hoping her sculpted beauty as a "percussion queen" will lead her samba group 
to the championship. But she has another goal in mind as well. 
In preparation for Rio's five-day Carnival blowout in February, she's having her 42nd plastic surgery ­dosing in on the Guinness World Record of 47 surgi­cal procedures held by 52­year-old American Cindy Jackson. 
"I always was vain," Bismarchi, 36, acknowl­edges at the medical elinic near Rio where her plastic surgeon husband has oper­ated on her 10 times. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
LLI ::J: 
~ 
LLI 



~~ 
•• 4 6

== 
..... 
~ 
<1: 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 40 HIGH 38 HIGH 21
...J LOW 35 LOW 36 LOW 19 
freshman Walsh 
"The Bee-Gees." 
IN BRIEF 

School Sector Manager for the 
U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) Rachel Gutte will deliver a lecture entitled "USGBC and LEED: Building Green on Campus and Beyond" at 4:30 today in 104 Bond Hall. She will discuss USGBC's National Green Sehool Campaign as well as the LEED for Schools Green Building Hating System. 
Prints from the Snite Museum of Art's eollection that foeus on artistic subjects from the 17th century will be displayed Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit, "Rembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the gold­en age of Dutch art, depictions of landscapes, portraits of ani­mals and individuals in non­aristocratic soda) and economic classes, and scenes of their everyday life. 
Women's basketball will play Providence Wednesday at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center arena. 

The film "In July" will be shown at 7 p.m. and again at 10 
p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets will cost $3 for students, $5 for faculty and staff, and $6 for gen­eral admission. 
Men's basketball will play Providence Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center arena. 
Men's hockey will play the 
U.S. Under-18 Team Friday at 
7:35 p.m. at the Joyce Center ice rink in an exhibition. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~~~ ~ 

HIGH 29 HIGH 27 LOW 22 LOW 23 
Atlanta 60 I 40 Boston 36 I 29 Chicago 48 I 39 Denver 46 I 17 Houston 69 I 62 Los Angeles 55 I 41 Minneapolis 40 I 15 New York 41 I 32 Philadelphia 44 I 30 Phoenix 61 I 45 Seattle 37 I 32 St. Louis 60 I 48 Tampa 68 I 47 Washington 47 I 34 
Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 3 


Parolee arrested for murder of student 
from her home. Police believe 
Associated Press 
the intended motive of the attack 
BOULDER, Colo. -A Wyoming was sexual assault. prison parolee has been arrested Police never gave up on the in the 1997 rape and beating case, and interviewed more than death of a University of Colorado 100 people to try to fmd Chase's senior after he was linked to the killer, Beckner said. case by a DNA match and other DNA taken from seminal fluid evidence, police said Sunday. found on Chase's body that was 
Diego Olmos-Alcalde, 38, was entered into a national DNA being held on $5 million bail on database, apparently recently, charges of first-degree murder, matched Olmos-Alcalde's, second-degree Beckner said. kidnapping and He said investi­
"As you might 
first-degree gators had other assault for the imagine our emotions information link­rape and killing ing Olmos-Alcalde
have run the gamut
of 23-year-old to the attack, but
since we first heard 
Susannah Chase declined to say of Stamford, ofthe DNA match what information. Conn., police Boulder County
with Susannah's 
said. Jail officials did 
case.
"The depart­not make Olmos­ment is ecstatic Alcalde available over this," police Statement from for comment by Chief Mark telephone. A jail
the student's family 
Beckner said. official did not 
Chase's family know whether praised investigators in a state­Olmos-Alcalde had an attorney, ment issued at the Sunday news and the prosecutor's office was conference. closed Sunday. 
"As you might imagine our Olmos-Alcalde, who is from emotions have run the gamut Chile, went to prison in Wyoming since we first heard of the DNA for a kidnapping in 2000 and match with Susannah's case. We was released to immigration offi­are delighted that a suspect has cials in July 2007, police said. been identified and apprehend­He failed to report to his nd," the family said. Wyoming parole officer and was 
Chase was walking home alone arrested Saturday by Boulder early Dec. 21 after an argument and Aurora police for violating with her boyfriend when she was his parole. Police served Olmos­beaten with a baseball bat and Alcalde with the murder warrant left for dead in an alley a block after his arrest. 
Bush calls for action economic plan 
President says bipartisan agreement on bill is 'important' 
would be a mistake to under­with those outside the country?
Associated Press 
mine this important bipartisan Also, whether to grant legal 
WASHINGTON -President agreement," the president said. immunity to telecommunica­Bush appealed on Saturday for "By working together, we can tions companies that helped the swift congressional action on an provide our economy with a government conduct warrant­economic rescue initiative and shot in the arm when we need it less surveillance. an electronic surveillance law most." "If this law expires, it will that soon expires. Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., become harder to figure out 
The White said Saturday: what our enemies are doing to House and "The White infiltrate our country. harder for
"While I understand 
House leaders House's coopera-us to uncover terrorist plots, of both parties the desire to add tion with and harder to prevent attacks reached agree­provisions from both Congress in on the American people," Bush ment on a sim­recent days is said. "We need to know who our
the left and right, it
ply drawn long, long over­enemies are and what they are stimulus pro­would be a mistake to due. And it's plotting. And we cannot afford gram, which undermine this encouraging. But to wait until after an attack to would provide let's hope it is put the pieces together." 
important bipartisan 
tax rebate habit-forming." The original FISA law
agreement."
checks to 117 But Dorgan, requires the government to get million families delivering the permission from a special court and give busi­George W. Bush Democrats' week­to listen in on the phone calls nesses $50 bil­ly radio address, and e-mails of people in the
U.S. president
lion in incen­added: "We need United States. The Protect tives to invest to do so much, America Act, adopted in August, in new plants and equipment. In much more. We need to fix the eased that restriction. Privacy his weekly radio address, Bush bigger economic issues that and civil liberties advocates say asked Congress to approve the threaten our it went too far, agreement as soon as possible. country's future." giving the gov­Some in the Senate, which Among those ernment far
"We need to know
will take up the measure after it issues, Dorgan more power to goes to the House floor next said, are the cost who our enemies eavesdrop on week, have signaled that they of the war in Iraq, American com­
are and what they 
want to broaden the bill. the mortgage cri­munications 
are plotting."
Democrats there want such sis and the trade without court things as an unemployment deficit. oversight. benefits extension, an increase The eavesdrop­George W. Bush Senate in home heating subsidies or ping law expires Majority Leader
U.S. president
higher food stamp benefits. Feb. 1. Among the Harry Reid, D­Bush suggested they could issues to be Nev., said derail the whole efl'ort, and he resolved are: How Saturday that warned against it. much oversight, and by whom, Bush's threat to veto a short 
"While I understand the of the government's surveillance extension of the intelligence desire to add provisions from of communications involving measure is "shamefully irre­both the left and the right, it people inside the United States sponsible." 


The Observer is accepting applications 
for the 2008-09 term for the following positions: 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor News Editor, Sports Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Scene Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, Graphics Editor, Advertising Manager, Ad Design Manager, Web Administrator, Systems Manager, Business Manager and Controller 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should be 12 pages long and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. Applications for other editorial positions should be at least five pages. 
All applications should be submitted this week to Chris Hine in The Observer office, located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions to Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu or Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 28, 2008 

Islain 
continued from page 1 
which translatPs as "lslamism." Thn term is usPd less in the U.S. than in Europe. where it is gen­erally defined as "political Islam," Djavann said. 
That definition implies that Islam, in itself. is not political, Djavann said, explaining that every religion has two sides: one spiritual, the other legisla­tive. In Islam. the legislative aspect is "much more power­ful," shn said. 
This emphasis on legislation has led the West to draw a par· allnl between lslamism and communism. Djavann said ­"a vnry big problem." 
"Tiw communists, they lealledl themselves commu­nists," she s a i d . 
"It's like the Middle Ages with the Inquisition.... I would be killed." 
Djavann said she considers blasphemy her "duty," because "the Muslim people should be more tolerant." While her par­ents were Muslim, and she credits religious thought throughout history as "a pro­moter of civilization." She calls herself an atheist. 
"Any belief is not sacred," she said. To her, belief "presuppos­es uncertainty." 
"What is sacred," she said, "is human life." 
After her talk, Djavann field­ed a number of questions: What criteria should be used to deter­mine what is and what isn't acceptable in the Islam reli­gion? (Her answer: "Human rights.") Isn't her perspective of Islam a modern interpretation? ("We don't have to 

"S t a I in "Stalin said, 'I am a say it's the said. 'I am problem of
communist' ... and the West 
a commu­interpre­
also named them as
nist' ... and tation.") thn West communists. But nobody /says] Are there 
also namnd '/am an Islamist,' in a Muslim n 0 
them as grounds
country.... /lslamism] is a 
commu­for toler­nists. But concept that doesn't reflect any ance in 
nobody reality in a Muslim country." Islam? 
lsaysl. 'I There am an are, she 
Chahdortt Djavann 
Islam ist,' said, since in a writer the Qur'an 
Muslim 

country." 
lslamism, she continued, is "a concept that doesn't reflect any reality in a Muslim country." 
Because of this disconnect, Muslim intellectuals often say lslamism has nothing to do with Islam, Djavann said. But she believes those intellectuals are ignoring reality. 
"No one says the Inquisition had nothing to do with Christianity," she said, adding that what happens during the history of a religion should be considered part of that religion. "Without recognizing the prob­lem, there cannot be a solution. ... What's happening today in tho world, in the Muslim eoun­tries, it belongs to Islam." 
Djavann also criticized the way Muslims view the Koran, the holy book of Islam. The book includes messages of love, hut also messages of war and jihad, she said. "Everyone takes 
what  he  
wants."  
Mus  im  

"What is written by a
thinkers should teach blamn radical human being can be children that 
Islam on criticized by it. We have "some people 
"problems of say the
the right to criticize the 
intnrpreta­Qur'an is the tion" of thll Quran." word of God, Qur'an, she some people said. But say no,"

Chahdortt Djavann 
Muslims also Djavann

writer
believn thn Quran is the dirnct word of God. 
"Why would God need humans to interpret his word?" shn asknd. 
The Quran was written by humans decades after the prophet Muhammad died. Djavann said, and "what is written by a human being can b1~ ciitieized by it. We have the right to criticize the Quran. 
"But if I say that in my Inative I eountry'?" She paused and feigned slitting her throat. 
preaches 

tolerance. But it also preaches war, she said. 
Another audience member asked if Islam can exist within a democracy. Earlier, Djavann had said "no religion" was com­patible with democracy, since "if that religion becomes the law, if that religion becomes the state, if that religion becomes political," the result is totalitari­anism. 
In terms of Islam within a secular, democratic society, Djavann said, "one has the right to be Muslim." But few Christians live in Muslim coun­tries, she noted. Islam is "not tolerant." 
Still, Djavann pointed to Western culture as the best model for how Islam should operate: personal religious beliefs within a secular society. "The best thing is education, pedagogy," she said. 
Schools in 
Muslim 
countries 
said. That 
way, there 

"can be dis­cussion, the religion can become moderate." But she said she was not opti­mistic that would happen. 
Djavann's talk was co-spon­sored by several Notre Dame departments, including the Program in French and Francophone Studies and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Racis01 
continued from page 1 
University, reported the school's student newspaper, The Lantern. The paper chose not to disclose the writer's name, which -as in Notre Dame's case -was 
included at the end of the let­ter. 
T h e Observer was not able to contact the man Sunday and is therefore n 0 t releasing his name either. It 
before delivering them to the residents' mailboxes. 
"I wish we could just throw all of this hateful mail away but since it was sent through the U.S. Postal Service, it must be delivered under fed­eral law," Colonna said in the e-mail. "Everyone has a right to say what they want 
in this country. 

"I wish we could just throw all ofthis hateful mail away but since it was sent through the 
U.S Postal Service, it must be delivered under federal law. " 
Corry Colonna Zahm hall rector 
I respect that rig h t , though I f i n d nothing in the letter the least bit worthy of our time 
o r respect. My sug­gestion to you all is to toss it in the trash as soon as 
you see the envelope in your mailbox." 
Like Jenkins and Poorman, Colonna also told the resi­dents of Z a h m that he did not 

bigotry would not be tolerat­k n 0 w "The prompt response by the Poorman ed at Notre Dame, an opinion w h y declined
administration to address the 
shared by the rectors of the Notre to com­
issue helped everyone to stay
dorms that were targeted. Dame­ment on When Corry Colonna, rector or Zahm calm and take the letters for this state­
ly not those of Zahm llall," Colonna said. "Please do not respond to the letter in any way. The individual who sent it clearly wants attention. Let's foil his hopes by ignor­ing him completely." 
Lewis rector Linda Cirillo said she agreed with the sen­timents expressed in Colonna's e-mail. They both said students in their halls have expressed disappoint­ment at the level of racism palpable in the letters, but ~veryone has remained calm. 
"To be completely honest, Father Jenkins and Father Poorman's e-mail really pre­pared our students well for the letters," Colonna said Sunday. "The prompt response by the administra­tion to address the issue helped everyone to stay calm and take the letters for what they are -offensive junk mail." 
Jenkins and Poorman said in their e-mail they were working with a U.S. postal inspector and officials at Ohio State to evaluate a course of action for t h e University. 
was not immediately clear why the man targeted Notre Dame, or how the dorms that received the letters were chosen. 
In their e-mail, Jenkins and Poorman immediately made it clear that such racism and 
of Zahm, was notified by his dorm's mail clerk about the letters, he sent the entire hall a follow-up to Jenkins and Poorman's e-mail. 
"It is with great disgust that I inform you that our hall is one of the halls that received the racist mailing for which you received an e­mail from the President about," Colonna said in his e­mail to the residents of Zahm 

in par­what they are ­
ticular 

had offensve junk mail. " 
b e e n target­Corry Colonna ed. 
Zahm rector 
"There is no reason that I can figure out why our hall according to or our University was Census. plagued with this mailing. I 
m e n · t Sunday. 
The let­ters were sent from Pembina, a town of 642 in N o r t h Dakota, 
the 2000 U.S. 

early Saturday morning.  reiterate to you that this let­ 
He· told them he informed  ter does not reflect the values  Contact Marcela Berrios at  
Poorman about the letters  of our institution and certain­ aberrios@nd.edu  



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 28, 2008 Co~\tP!tED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmr Sf:RV!CEs page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Protest leaves seven dead in Lebanon 
BEIRUT -Protesters angry about electricity rationing clashed with Lebanese troops Sunday in Beirut's worst riots in a year, leav­ing seven people dead, hospital and security officials said. 
Hundreds of Shiite Muslims opposed to the government rioted and burned tires, blocking some major roads in the Lebanese capital and its southern suburbs. 
Lebanese soldiers fired into the air to dis­perse the crowd, but it was unclear how the deaths occurred and whether the soldiers also intentionally fired on civilians. 
Egypt criticizes Gaza's Hamas rulers 
HAFAII. Egypt -In its first public criticism of Gaza's llamas rulers, Egypt complained Saturday of "provocations" during the Gaza­Egypt border crisis and said more than three dozen members of its security forces were hospitalized as a result. 
The border, which was initially breached by llamas militants, remained open for a fourth day, though Egyptian security forces blocked Gazans from driving beyond the border town of Hafah itself. 
E.gyptian border guards were now author­ized to return fire if attacked, said a security official speaking on customary condition of anonymity on the Egyptian side of Hafah. Over the past two days, 38 Egyptian security forces have been wounded --some seriously -aftnr Palestinians hurled stones and shot at them at the border, Egypt's foreign minister said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Developer proposes 16-mile tunnel 
OYSTER BAY, N.Y. --It would be the world's longest highway tunnel, running more than 16 miles under the west end of Long Island Sound. 
The cost is estimated at $10 billion -and it wouldn't cost taxpayers a dime. A devel­oper wants to build the tunnel with private money, recouping his costs by charging driv­ers $25 each way and by selling advertising. 
Developer Vincent Polimeni says the tun­nel between Oyster Bay and Rye on the New York mainland would let travelers going between Long Island and New England avoid crowded New York City highways and help alleviate traffic congestion. 
While not expected to be completed before 2025, the proposal received renewed atten­tion this past week when a state Senate committee held a hearing. 

Canines celebrate carnival season 
NEW OHLEANS-Carnival season in New Orleans is the prime time to see all the crazy people. Just add their dogs to the mix, as they did Sunday, and it becomes the annual Krewe of Barkus parade. 
Hundreds of dogs and their owners paraded in the French Quarter. Human and beast, alike, were dressed for the occasion. Popular outfits for the four-legged set included frilly collars and tutus, sweaters and hats. 
Amber Scott and her boxer, Roxy, were clad in she-and-doggie matching bumblebee out­fits. For Scott. it was her first venture to the parade, sponsored by the Krewe of Barkus and Meoux, which helps abused and homeless animals. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Some fear bill may lead to racism 
INDIANAPOLIS -Some members of the Indiana Hispanic community met Sunday with the sponsor of legislation to sanction companies that hire illegal immigrants, telling him the bill might lead to acts of racism against them. 
Some 100 members of the Hispanic commu­nity met at the Statehouse on Sunday with Sen. Mike Delph, H-Carmel. 
"We're not criminals. We just want a future," said Alejandra Laguna, a student at Ivy Tech Community College. "All my life I have lived in this community." 
The Senate Pensions and Labor Committee voted 10-1 last week to forward the proposal to the Senate floor, and Delph said it would be heard there no later than Wednesday. 
MEXICO 



Village women fight for the vote 
Town board tears up ballots from women; female mayoral candidate launches national case 
Associated Press 

SANTA MARIA QUIEGOLANI -Women in this Indian village high in the pine-clad mountains of Oaxaca rise each morning at 4 a.m. to gather firewood, grind corn, prepare the day's food, care for the children and clean the house. 
But they aren't allowed to vote in local elections, because -the men say -­they don't do enough work. 
It was here, in a village that has struggled for cen­turies to preserve its Zapotec 'traditions, that Eufrosina Cruz, 27, decided to become the first woman to run for mayor -despite the fact that women aren't allowed to attend town assemblies, much less run for office. 
The all-male town board tore up ballots cast in her favor in the Nov. 4 election, arguing that as a woman, she wasn't a "citizen" of the town. "That is the custom here, that only the citizens vote, not the women," said Valeriano Lopez, the town's deputy mayor. 
Rather than give up, Cruz has launched the first seri­ous, national-level challenge to traditional Indian forms of government, known as "use and customs," which were given full legal status in Mexico six years ago in response to Indian rights movements sweeping across But the male leaders are weren't accompanied by a cooking and milling the corn, Latin America. refusing to budge. "We live man. shaping the flour into flat 
"For me, it's more like differently here, senor, than Martina Cruz Moreno, 19, disks, and collecting the fire­'abuse and customs,"' Cruz people in the city. Here, said that when her widowed wood to heat the clay and said as she submitted her women are dedicated to mother sought government­brick hearths on which most complaint in December to their homes, and men work provided building materials women cook. the National Human Rights the fields," Apolonio to improve her dirt-floor, tin­During all-important vil­Commission. "I am demand­Mendoza, the secretary of roofed wooden home, village lage festivals, women are ing that we, the women of the all-male town council, authorities told her, "Go get expected to cook for all the the mountains, have the told a visiting reporter. yourself a husband." male guests. But instead of right to decide our lives, to Cruz has received some As a woman, Eufrosina joining them at the table, vote and run for office, support from older men, Cruz is not only barred from Cruz says, they are relegated because the constitution says who by village law lose their being mayor, but from par­to straw mats on the floor. we have these rights." political rights when they ticipating in the "community Clothes are washed by hand, 
Lopez acknowledged that turn 60. Some younger men labor" that qualifies male vil­and while most homes have votes for Cruz were nullified, also say the system must lagers as "citizens." Those some form of running water, but claims they added up to change and give women tasks include repairing it's often only a single spigot. only 8 ballots of about 100 more rights. roads, herding cattle, clean­Cruz decided to escape cast in this largely unpaved At a recent meeting of sev­ing streets and raising crops. that life after she saw her village of about 1,500 peo­eral dozen Cruz supporters, ''I'd like to see the men 12-year-old sister given to an ple. most of them voteless. here make tortillas, just for older man in a marriage 
Cruz says she was winning women in traditional gray one day, and then tell me arranged by her father. The -and wants the election to shawls recalled being turned that's not work," said Cruz, sister had her first child at be annulled and held again, down for government aid describing the hours-long 13, and has since borne this time with women voting. programs because they process of cleaning, soaking, seven more. 


Officials: Satellite could hit Earth 
cies are monitoring the situation," are being kept apprised of the situ­

Associated Press said Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman ation. for the National Security Council, The spacecraft contains hydrazine WASHINGTON-A large U.S. spy when asked about the situation -which is rocket fuel -according satellite has lost power and could after it was disclosed by other offi­to a government official who was hit the Earth in late February or cials. "Numerous satellites over the not authorized to speak publicly but early March, government officials years have come out of orbit and spoke on condition of anonymity. said Saturday. fallen harmlessly. We are looking at Hydrazine, a colorless liquid with The satellite, which no longer can potential options to mitigate any an ammonia-like odor, is a toxic be controlled, could contain haz­possible damage this satellite may chemical and can cause harm to ardous materials, and it is unknown cause." anyone who contacts it. where on the planet it might come He would not comment on Such an uncontrolled re-entry down, they said. The officials spoke whether it is possible for the satel­could risk exposure of U.S. secrets, on condition of anonymity because lite to perhaps be shot down by a said John Pike, a defense and intel­the information is classified as missile. He said it would be inap­ligence expert. Spy satellites typi­secret. It was not clear how long propriate to discuss any specifics at cally are disposed of through a con­ago the satellite lost power, or this time. trolled re-entry into the ocean so under what circumstances. A senior government official said that no one else can access the "Appropriate government agen-that lawmakers and other nations spacecraft, he said. 
~---~ 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 28, 2008 

Poverty 
continued from page 1 
"Society cannot continue to ignore soeial problems of ghettos because of their impact on the middle class," Wilson said. "[Neighborhoods[ are concerned about the 
immigration of lower income pop­ulations. with renters 
who  do  not  
share  the  
values  of  

homeown­nrs." 
W i Is on cited a neighbor­hood he 11 a m n d 
"Crovnland." also in Chicago, as an exam pie of socio-eco­nomic status creating divisions in the commu­
nity. "Groveland" was a pro­dominantly middle-and work­ing-class, African-Ameriean 1:ommunity that experienced some inf'lux of lower-elass individuals. 
"Families from nearby poor rwighbor!wods had begun to trickle in, and tlwir behavior was closely scrutinized," Wilson said. 
Many of the residents expressed fears about their new neighbors. and Wilson said that one resident of 

Club 23 
continued from page 1 
ing in final negotiations to acquire Club 23. 
lie blamed the holiday sea­son for delaying the sale and causing the buyers to be unable to "get the money~ together." 
''I'm not in a hurry" to sell the club, Hussein said. He said business has been "very good" and has not been affected by talks of the sale. 


Editor 
continued from page 1 
said. "lie has a wealth of groat ideas and an excellent relationship with the staff." 

Groveland was worried about the "riffraff coming in" when lower-class African­Americans entered the neigh­borhood. 
In eonelusion, Wilson said he supports the candidacy of Sen. Barack Obama, and argued that the senator has the ability to "successfully reach out across racially and political spectrums." That will 
"Society cannot continue to ignore social problems ofghettos because of their impact on the middle class. [Neighborhoods/ are concerned about the immigration oflower income populations, with renters who do not share the values of homeowners:" 
William Julius Wilson Harvard sociologist 
povflrty, such 
allow him to 
be "far more 
likely to get 
groups togeth­
er to generate 
a sense of 
interdepend­
ence to pursue 
collective 
goals," he 
said. 

Wilson stressed that urban poverty is not an iso­lated experi­enee, but rather, is something that affects society as a whole. The problems assoeiated with urban 
as crime, per­
meatfl the rest of society in the form of fear and appre­hension of those Jiving in poverty. 
It is only through working together to "address the needs of lower ineome urban black residents," Wilson said, that society can alleviate these fears and the poverty that eauses them. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
''I'm not going anywhere yet," Hussein said. 
Although it is not currently a term of sale, the potential buyers say they plan to keep Club 23 a bar, Hussein said. 
Hussein admits that the winning bidder will have to put additional investments into Club 23 even after they finalize the sale. 
"They'll have to put money into remodeling and give it a better look," he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne 1 @nd.edu 
During his tenure, Hine said he hopes "to bring an in-depth look at our campus and get people talking about what goes on at Notre Dame." 
Hine will take over as edi­tor-in-chief on Feb. 25. 
L~§T W~ r=()l:?f3~T: TW() ~~1:?§ Ar=T~I:? 1\ATI:?I~A "' I:?ITA 
I~T~I:?I:?AC~ .=:()I:?UM Wednesda-y~ r=ebr-ua.--y 43th ~.J() VM-7.()() VM Cl>leman Ml>r-se ~tudent Ll>unue 
12S'\''J) bY f"eb. 1st '"SVS@nd.edu ()f' fJ31-f3S4-1 
f"eatur-inQ /t._n Affected Student Vanel Uiscussi()n 





...A.ce»LII.stic P~rrc.rrr~~cw ...ce cwr11cl ...A.LIIte»grcwph Sigr11i...g Tuesday, January 29 7:00pm 

Free admission. wi1:h. purchase of the :new C:D,. 
Sticks and Stones~ 
from Orbit 1\/Iusic prior to the show. 


Town & Countrv Shoooin Center. 

-589 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, January 28, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,207.17  -171.44  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,376  72  1,809  610,637,442  
AMEX  2.1195.05  +11.86  

NASDAQ 2,326.20 -64.72 NYSE 8,827.50 i-114.15 S&P 500 1,330.61 -21.46 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,176.04 ~353;12 FTSE 100 'London~ 51869.00 -6.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -1.44  -1.95  133.04  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.05  -0.92  43.99  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -2.62  -0.73  27.18  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.93  -0.31  32.94  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.54 -0.056 3.584 13-WEEK BILL -3.48 -0.080 2.220 30-YEAR BOND -1.63 -0.071 4.282 5-YEAR NOTE -1.34 -0.038 2.789 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.30 90.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.90 910.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.25 85.88 
Exchange Rates YEN 106.7000 EURO 0.6814 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0098 
IN BRIEF 
Trader hacked for no personal benefit 
PARIS -Societe Generate said Sunday that a trader who evaded all its controls to bet $73.5 billion -more than the French bank's market worth -on European markets hacked computers and "combined several fraudulent methods" to cover his tracks, causing billions in losses. 
The bank says the trader, Jerome Kerviel, did not appear to have profited personally from the transactions and seemingly worked alone -a version reiterated Sunday by Jean­Pierre Mustier, chief executive of the bank's corporate and investment banking arm. 
But, in a conference call with reporters, Mustier added: "I cannot guarantee to you 100 percent that there was no complicity." 
Kerviel's lawyer said the accusation.s of wrongdoing against his client were being used to hide bad investments by the bank related to subprime mortgages in the United States. 
"He didn't steal anything, take anything, he didn't take any profit for himself," the lawyer, Christian Charriere-Bournazel, told The Associated Press by telephone. "The suspicion on Kerviel allows the considerable losses that the bank made on subprimes to be hidden." 
Officials said Kerviel was cooperating with police, who held him for a second day of ques­tioning Sunday, seeking answers to what, if confirmed, would be the biggest-ever trading fraud by a single person. 
White House expects support for aid 
WASHINGTON -President Bush's chief negotiator on an economic aid deal said Sunday the Senate should quickly get behind a plan or risk drawing the resentment of a frus­trated public. 
The president and House leaders have agreed on a proposal to provide tax rebate checks to 117 million families and give busi­nesses $50 billion in incentives to invest in new plants and equipment. The goal is to help head ofT a recession and boost consumer confidence. 
"I don't think the Senate is going to want to derail that deal," Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said. "And I don't think the American people are going to have much patience for anything that would slow down the process." 
Advertisers prep for Super Bowl 
Writers strike makes Sunday's game more critical for major marketing powers 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The story lines are unabashedly goofy. Cavemen invent the wheel to transport a beer cooler made of stone, and a car buyer enlists the help of a tribal warrior in case he needs some extra negotiating lever­age at the dealership. 
For most of us, Super Bowl ads make fine entertain­ment. But for the advertisers who make and buy them, Sunday is white-knuckle time. 
The blogging boom has created crowds of armchair critics; the price for a 30-sec­ond spot is up again, to $2.7 million; and a writers strike has wiped out many other opportunities to reach mass audiences by putting script­ed dramas like "Desperate Housewives" on hold. 
Even against odds like these, many major market­ing powers and even a few first-timers couldn't resist the opportunity of reaching more than 90 million people in a single shot -something that's increasingly hard to do in any medium. 
Advertisers still love the Internet for its ability to deliver measured results from click-throughs and carve audiences into tiny segments. But only the largest of television's by the possibility of the New measure the upswing in traf­it began repositioning "events" -such as the England Patriots making his­fic to Web sites after an ad is Planters beyond the $3 bil­Super Bowl, the Olympics, tory with an undefeated sea­broadcast. lion packaged nuts business the Oscars and the Grammys son, and advertisers have a The Super Bowl continues to compete in the $20 billion -have the muscle to pull in lot on the line. The place­to draw new advertisers, market of salted snacks, tens of millions of people in ment is great if they have a including Planters packaged which includes potato chips, real time. winning ad, not so great if nut company, part of Kraft pretzels and popcorn. 
"There are so few media the ad tanks. Last year's Foods Inc., as well as Those attract fairly differ­vehicles out there that reach viewership of 93.2 million Cars.com, an online auto ent age and gender groups, that size audience that was close to the all-time classified advertising compa­says Allan Lindsay, senior there's still a big value in not record of 94.1 million set in ny co-owned by the newspa­director of marketing for only reaching so many peo­1996, and many believe that per publishers Gannett Co., salty snacks at Kraft. Nuts ple but in such an engaging record could be surpassed McClatchy Co., Tribune Co., tend to be bought by adults manner," said Andy this year. Washington Post Co. and 45 and older, while salty Donchin, director of national The results from online Belo Corp. snacks tend to be bought by broadcast at Carat, a major advertising often confirm the No neophyte in the adver­people ages 35-55, and men buyer and planner of adver­value of hitting big audiences tising world, Kraft decided a more than women -just the tising. with TV, Donchin said, Super Bowl spot was well kind of people who watch 
Add the extra buzz created because advertisers can worth the money last year as the Super BowL 

IRAN 

Fuel rationing sparks oil black market 
approach others who have high gaso­adequate refineries, it must spend
Associated Press 

line quotas, such as taxis or vans. more than $3 billion a year to import 
But in this city on the Persian Gulf, gasoline for domestic consumption. 
BANDAR ABBAS -Each day, the the boulevard officially named There are more than 7 million pri­boulevard in this port city derisively Pasdaran Avenue after Iran's elite vate cars in Iran eligible for the sub­dubbed "OPEC Street" is lined with Revolutionary Guards operates as an sidized gasoline, which the govern­dozens of vendors selling plastic jugs open-air black market in broad day­ment makes available in limited of black-market gasoline to desperate light. Its new nickname is meant as a quantities under the fuel rationing drivers who haggle over the price of a sneer by Iranians, bitter at the irony system. tankfuL that their country, a leading member The new system began in May with 
Iran is the world's fourth-largest of the world oil cartel OPEC, has a 25 percent hike in the subsidized producer of oil. But its government resorted to rationing. price of gas, from roughly 30 cents a imposed gasoline rationing last year "Every taxi driver and anyone who gallon to 38 cents a gallon. Then in in hopes of trimming extensive gov­needs gas knows where OPEC Street June came the actual rationing, ernment subsidies. That has created is," said Jabbar Dehqani, a 27 -year­aimed at reducing demand and thus a booming black market across the old with a stand of gasoline jugs on easing government subsidies that cost country -feeding Iranians' discon­the roadside. ''I'm happy-the num­billions each year. tent with the economic policies of ber of my customers is increasing day The government could have raised hardline President Mahmoud by day." prices further to cut subsidies, but Ahmadinejad. Iran produces 4.2 million barrels of that would have been highly unpopu­
In the capital Tehran and other crude oil each day and sells 2.5 mil­lar with the public. A slight increase cities, the black market thrives lion barrels of it to other countries, in prices in May sparked attacks on around gasoline stations and mostly making it OPEC's second-largest pro­gas stations. So small price rises and at night as drivers looking to buy fuel ducer. But because the country lacks rationing was a compromise solution. 


page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 28, 2008 

Obama calls win a 'turning point' 
Associated Press 
BIRMIN<;IIAM -Democrat 
Barack Obama said Sunday 
that his landslide win in South 
Carolina's presidential primary 
marks a turn in political histo­
ry, showing that a black candi­
date can appeal to voters of all 
colors and in all regions. 
The Illinois senator told a 
raueous crowd of more than 
9,000 here that his big victory 
Saturday disproved the old 
notion "that if you get black 
votes,: you _can't get white 
votes, and vtee versa. 
"We're going to write a new 
chapter in the South, we're 
going to write a new chapter in 
American history," he said dur­
ing his (>4-minute speech to a 
capacity erowd at the 
University of Alabama at 
Birmingham baskntball arena. 
The crowd was roughly two­
thirds blaek and one-third 
white. 
Earlier Sunday he made a 
similar argument, responding 
to eomments by former 
President Clinton that some 
interpreted as an effort to 
diminish Obama's win Saturday 
over Hillary Hodham Clinton. 
Bill Clinton noted that Jesse 
Jackson won the South 
Carolina primary in 1984 and 
1988. Jackson never became 
the party's presidential nomi­
nee. 
Obama, speaking during a television interview, said "there's no doubt" that Jackson set a precedent for blacks seek­ing the presidency. But he noted that was two decades ago. 
"I think that what we saw in 
this election was a shift in 
South Carolina," he said, with 
implications "all across the 
country. I think people want 
change. I think they want to get 
beyond some of the racial poli­
tics that, you know, has been so 
dominant in the past." 
Obama resisted being drawn into a spat with the Clintons, even though he suggested they are part of a political past the country is ready to leave behind. 
"I think that Bill Clinton did important work back in the 1 990s," he said. "The question is, now we're in 2008, and how do we move it forward to the next phase?" 
"I think that in the '90s, we got caught up in a slash-and­burn politics that the American people are weary of," Obama said. 
"Now, that is not the Clintons' fault," he said on ABC's "This Week." "It is all of our faults, in the sense that we've gotten into these bad habits and we can't seem to have disagreements without being disagreeable." 
Later, speaking with reporters during a flight from Georgia to Alabama, Obama said, "I think the country wants to look forward. and that has always been the central thesis of our campaign." 
lie said Hillary Clinton will have an advantage in the sprawling racn on Feb. 5, when D1~moerats vote in 22 states, because of her nearly universal name recognition. "It presents more of a challenge for us." he said. bm~ause he nemls time for voters to get to know him. 
Obama declined to directly eondemn Clinton for urging that Dmno1~ratic Party oflicially recognize delPgati~S awarded to the winner of Tuesday's largely ignored Democratic primary in Florida. The national party has said it will not sanction Tuesday's results because the state insisted on scheduling its presidential primary too early in the year. Clinton said she will travel to Florida on Tuesday. 

"All the candidates made a pledge that we would campaign in the early states and we would not campaign in Florida and Michigan," Obama said. "I will abide by thB promises I made." 
As Obama campaigned in Georgia and Alabama, party officials confirmed that Massachusetts Sen. Edward Kennedy planned to endorse him Monday in Washington. Obama was endorsed during the weekend by Caroline Kennedy, the senator's niece and daughter of the late President Kennedy. 
I 

You've worked hord on your educ<1tion, now let GE he!p you build your career. GE hos o vJm!d-rcnowned readership t.roining proqrorn ond wos nomed Best Company for 
L,,.,..J,..r"" f)\/ ("f.,:·er £vnc·J·t1''P tvt,~n('·"ir.,b ·,n ·z·•J0 7 1A}o ·!r'·v·!··t'::.
CYU~ ~ ~-) ,... ~~ .......-"'C....t y,,,. ;s,..l;::J .~(. .. ~ ~~ ; J ··\" 1 .. \; ..,,, . ~ 
you to invest in yourself with o career in enqineering, finance, manufacturing. soles ond marketing, human resDurces, or 1nformotion technology. 
California pounded by heavy rain 
Inclement weather forces roads to close, spurs fears offlooding 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Fast-mov­ing thunderstorms brought new waves of rain on Sunday to Southern California, following days of drenching weather and heavy mountain snowfall and raising fears of mudslides and flooding. 
The worst of the storm was over, and Monday promised to bring a spell of clear weather, forecasters said. 
"Things will start to die down as the night goes on," said National Weather Service fore­caster Ryan Kittell. 
Up to 3 inches of rain had fallen by early afternoon in val­ley and coastal areas since nightfall Saturday, with about 4 inches in the mountains, fore­casters said. Wind gusts of 30 to 50 mph were reported in some areas. 
Officials said the rain brought a threat of serious slides on hill­sides stripped of vegetation by 
I 



irnO(J!r: ,tion ot \A/ork 


last year's wildfires. Mud and minor rock slides prompted authorities to shut a highway through a burned area near San Diego. Voluntary evacua­tions were called off Sunday night in heavily burned Modjeska Canyon in Orange County. 
The Los Angeles County and Orange County flre departments were on standby for possible flash floods and slides. Flash flood watches remained in eflect through Sunday night for Los Angeles, Ventura and San Bernardino counties. 
To avoid overflow, the flood gates at the Big Tujunga Dam in the San Gabriel Mountains were opened Sunday, releasing 500 cubic feet of water a second. 
Department of Public Works spokesman Gary Boze said the controlled flooding was routine during heavy storms. 
In downtown Los Angeles, Sunday's basketball game between the Cleveland 
Cavaliers and the L.A. Lakers was delayed 12 minutes after wet rain gear left by roofing company workers on a catwalk led to a steady flow of water on to the Staples Center court. 
The Santa Anita race traek in Arcadia, meanwhile, canceled horse races for the sixth day this month because of wet con­ditions on the synthetic track. 
The storm system also soaked parts of Northern California and snow foreed the closure of the main artery between Sacramento and Heno, Nev., CalTrans ollicials said. 
Eastbound Interstate 80 was closed Sunday night, about 50 miles northeast of Sacramento. Westbound traffic was being held at the Nevada state line. 
Highway 92 was reopened Sunday aftflr being shut down for a few hours between Skyline Boulevard and Half Moon Bay south of San Francisco after the storms knoeked down trees and power lines. 
Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
INDONESIA 

Former President Suharto dead at 86 
Associated Press 
JAKAHTA Former Indonesian President Suharto, a Cold War ally of the United States whose brutal military regime killed hundreds of thousands of left-wing political opponents, died Sunday. He was 86. 
Although he oversaw some of the worst bloodshed of the 20th century, Suharto is credited with developing the economy and will be buried with the highest state honors Monday at the family mausoleum. 
President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono and others from the country's political elite prayed over his body. Yudhoyono declared a week of national mourning and called on Indonesians "to pay their last respects to one of Indonesia's best sons." 
Suharto loyalists, who run the courts, calJed for forgiveness and a clearing of his name. But sur­vivors want those responsible for atrodties to be held account­Papua, according a local human rights group. Another 15,000 died during a 29-year separatist rebellion in Aceh province. 
Suharto's five successors as head of state all vowed to end the graft that took root under his regime, yet it remains endemic at all levels of Indonesian society. 
With the court system para­lyzed by corruption, the country has not confronted its bloody past. Hather than put on trial those accused of mass murder and multibillion-dollar theft, some members of the political elite consistently called for charges against Suharto to be dropped on humanitarian grounds. 
Some noted Suharto also over­saw decades of economic expan­sion that made Indonesia the envy of the developing world. Today, nearly a quarter of Indonesians live in poverty, and many long for the Suharto era's stability, when fuel and rice were affordable. 
On Sunday, 

hundreds of 
able. "When Indonesia does mourners ­"I cannot some weeping
finally go back and redo
understand -flocked to
history, [its people] will 
why I have to the family forgive realize that Suharto is home in down­Suharto town Jakarta. 
responsible for some of
because he "I felt
the worst crimes against 
never admitted crushed when I his mistakes," humanity in the heard he had said Putu Oka died. We have
2oth century." 

Sukanta. who lost a great spent a decade man," said in prison Jeffrey Winters Mamiarti, a 43­because of his associate professor of politi­year-old hous()­left-wing sym­cal economy Northwestern keeper. "It used pathies. to be easy to
University

Suharto was finally toppled by mass street protests in 1998 at the peak of the 1997-1998 Asian financial crisis. 
His departure from office opened the way for democracy in this predominantly Muslim nation of 235 million people, and he withdrew from public life, rarely venturing from his com­fortable Jakarta villa. 
Suharto ruled with a totalitari­an dominance that saw soldiers stationed in every village, instill­ing a deep fear of authority across this Southeast Asian archipelago that stretches across more than 3,000 miles. 
Since being forced from power, Suharto had been in and out of hospitals after strokes caused brain damage and impaired his speech. He died of multiple-organ failure after more than three weeks on life support at a hospi­tal in the capital, Jakarta. 
Poor health -and continuing corruption. critics charge -kept him from court after he was chased from oflice. 
The bulk of killings occurred in 1965-1966 when alleged commu­nists were rounded up and slain during his rise to power. Estimates for the death toll range from a government figure of 78,000 to 1 million cited by U.S. historians Barbara HartT and Ted Robert Gurr. who have published books on Indonesia's history. 
During Indonesia's 1975-1999 occupation of East Timor. up to 183,000 people died due to killings, disappearances, hunger and illness, according to an East Timorese commission sanctioned by the U.N. Similar abuses left more than 100,000 dead in West find jobs. Now 
it is hard." 

But critics say Suharto squandered Indonesia's vast natural resources of oil, timber and gold, siphoning the nation's wealth to benefit his cronies, foreign corpo­rations and family like a mafia don. 
Jeffrey Winters, associate pro­fessor of political economy at Northwestern University, said the graft effectively robbed "Indonesia of some of the most golden decades, and its best opportunity to move from a poor to a middle class country." 
"When Indonesia does finally go back and redo history, [its people] will realize that Suharto is responsible for some of the worst crimes against humanity in the 20th century," Winters said. 
Those who profited from Suharto's rule made sure he was never portrayed in a harsh light at home, Winters said, so even though he was an "iron-fisted, brutal, cold-blooded dictator," he was able to stay in his native country. 
Like many Indonesians, Suharto used only one name. He was born on June 8, 1921, to a family of rice farmers in the vil­lage of Godean in the dominant Indonesian province of Central Java. 
When Indonesia gained inde­pendence from the Dutch in 1949, Suharto quickly rose through the ranks of the military to become a staff officer. 
His career nearly foundered in the late 1950s, when the army's · then-commander, Gen. Abdul Haris Nasution, accused him of corruption in awarding army contracts. 
KENYA 

Fighting escalates over vveekend 
One month later, nation faces worst ethnic crisis since 1963 
Associated Press 
NAIVASHA -Gangs of youths armed with machetes and clubs fought running bat­tles with police on Sunday and burned tribal rivals alive in their homes in western Kenya, pushing the death toll from a month of escalating ethnic vio­lence to nearly 800. 
Sunday marked exactly one month since the Dec. 27 disput­ed president election that sparked the violence that has transformed this once-stable African country, pitting long­time neighbors against each other and turning towns where tourists used to gather for lux­ury holidays into no-go zones. 
It also complicated the task of former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the latest interna­tional mediator trying to pro­mote talks between President Mwai Kibaki and his chief rival, opposition leader Haila Odinga. The two met Thursday for the first time since the election. 
Kibaki and Odinga remain far apart on how to resolve the cri­sis, the worst the country has seen since its 1963 in depend­ence from Britain. Kibaki has said he is open to direct talks with Odinga, but that his posi­tion as president is not nego­tiable. Odinga says Kibaki must step down and new elections are the only alternative. 
The clashes have mainly pit­ted other ethnic groups, which support the opposition because 

Tne Associated Press People flee to safety under police guard during clashes in Naivasha, near Nairobi, Kenya, on Sunday. 
they feel marginalized, against Kibaki's Kikuyu people. 
Kikuyus were the main vic­tims in the initial eruption of violence, with hundreds killed and more than half of those driven from their homes belonging to Kibaki's tribe. Now, however, it appears the Kikuyus are looking for revenge. 
"We have moved out to avenge the deaths of our broth­ers and sisters who have been killed, and nothing will stop us," said Anthony Mwangi, hefting a club in the western town of Naivasha. "For every one Kikuyu killed, we shall avenge their killing with three." 
The fighting spread Sunday to Naivasha, 55 miles north­west of Nairobi, a previously quiet tourist town with a stun­ning freshwater lake. 
At least 22 people were killed in the town over the weekend, said district commissioner Katee Mwanza. At least five of them were burned to death in their homes, said Willy Lugusa, a police official. Others were hacked to death with machetes, a local reporter told The Associated Press. 
Kikuyus torched the homes of Luo rivals in the center of Navaisha. Police, apparently overwhelmed, did not inter­vene. Gunshots rang out into the evening. 

U.S. re-focuses on vvar initiatives 
Bush administration seeks to concentrate on Pakistan, Afghanistan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In a shift with profound implications, the Bush administration is attempting to re-energize its terrorism-fighting war efforts in Afghanistan, the original target of a post-Sept. 11 offensive. The U.S. also is refocusing on Pakistan, where a regenerating al-Qaida is posing fresh threats. 
There is growing recogni­tion that the United States risks further setbacks, if not deepening conflict or even defeat, in Afghanistan, and that success in that country hinges on stopping Pakistan from descending into disorder. 
Privately, some senior U.S. military commanders say Pakistan's tribal areas are at the center of the fight against Islamic extremism; more so than Iraq, or even Afghanistan. These areas bor­der on eastern Afghanistan and provide haven for al­Qaida and Taliban fighters to regroup, rearm and reorgan­ize. 
This view may explain, at least in part, the administra­tion's increasingly public expressions of concern. 
At a Pentagon news confer­ence last week, Defense Secretary Hobert Gates said that while the U.S. respects the Pakistani government's right to decide what actions are needed to defeat extrem­ists on its soil, there are rea­sons to worry that al-Qaida poses more than an internal threat to Pakistan. 
"I think we are all con­cerned about the re-establish­ment of al-Qaida safe havens in the border area," Gates said. "I think it would be unrealistic to assume that all of the planning that they're doing is focused strictly on Pakistan. So I think that that is a continuing threat to Europe as well as to us." 
The Pentagon says it has fewer than 100 troops in Pakistan, including personnel who are training Pakistan's paramilitary Frontier Corps in the western tribal region tion officials have said they would send more U.S. forces, including small numbers of combat troops, if the Pakistani government decided it wanted to collaborate more closely. 
It is far from certain that 
U.S. combat troops will set foot in Pakistan in any sub­stantial numbers. On Friday, Pakistan's president, Pervez Musharraf, said his country opposes any foreign forces on its soil. "The man in the street will not allow this -he will come out and agitate," he said. Musharraf said the U.S. instead should bolster its 
combat forces in Afghanistan. 

along the Afghanistan border.  "/ think we are all concerned about the  The top two U.S. intelligence officials made a  
The U.S. mil­ re-establishment of  secret visit to  
itary has used other means, including aeri­ al-Qaida safe havens in the border area. "  Pakistan in early January to seek  
al surveillance  Musharraf's  
by drones, to  Robert Gates  permission for  
hunt Osamabin Laden and  U.S. secretary of defense  greater involve­ment of  

other senior al-Qaida lead­ers believed to be hiding near the Afghan border. Ground troops on the Afghan side sometimes fire artillery across the border at known Taliban or ai-Qaida targets, and U.S. officials have said special operations forces are poised to strike across the border under certain circumstances. 
In recent days, administra-
American 

forces in trying to ferret out al-Qaida and other militant groups active in the tribal regions, a senior 
U.S. official said Saturday. Musharraf was said to have rebuffed an expansion of an American presence in Pakistan at the meeting, either through covert CIA mis­sions or by joint operations with Pakistani security forces. 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 28, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF M.1ddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING Em fOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIJCS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.~ 1-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 63 1-)323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
'me. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
('\74) 63 I -8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is d1e independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du L~c and Saint Mary's 
Colk-ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements ba~ed on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority ofrhe hlitor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and nor nt•cessarily rhose ofThe ()bserver. 
Vitwpoinr space is available ro all readers. Tbe free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor rnusr be signed and musr include contact inlc>rmarion. 
Questions regarding Obsl!rVer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l11c UI)'!Crvt'r (USI1S ~99 l-4000) i~ puhiU.hcd MonJ.1y throu~h flrltl.1y cxt:ept <lurinf,l t"Xlllll omd v,a,;;uiunltCru,W. A l!J~npnun to ·1 hr U(M<Crvrr i~ $100 fi,runc .u:-:~Jcmil Ytar: .$55 fur unc Klllntcr. 
The OllKrvcr a. publidle<..i .u: roSTMASTER Ul<1 South Diniu~ Hall Send .~dJn:~ currroions to: 
None D;unc, IN 46.ii'i6-0779 TheObscrvtr 
f>cri,.Jical pt~t.~gc p.ud .u Nmrc 0.1nu: P.O.Boxn9 and o~ddition.:tl m~uling offko 024 Sourh Dining HJJI 
Nutrc DJtnc, IN 46';'ih-ll779 
The Oh"~r h .a mcntbcr of the ~!!::d Pres:-;. All ~prf,ducdon nghn ;&1'1! rt11crved. 
nity outreach and social justice pro­grams in the city-it's not all about football and parties. Whether it's because of our lack of political engage­ment, ignorance of the vibrant social outreach programs, the curmudgeonry of an aging population (the over-45 age group is the fastest-growing population segment in South Bend) or some com­bination of those and other factors, the perception of Notre Dame students as a whole is neutral, at best. 
Unfortunately, because our self-su11i­cient community is separate from the city in morP respects than location, it doesn't seem likely to change. We have the opportunity to study at one of the finest institutions or higher education in the country, but then~ is nothing that says we have to limit our experience simply to the campus itself and the opportunities offered through the University. There are things worth doing that don't involve chain restau­rants, strip malls and liquor stores­even if they do take us outside of our sheltered lives. (And despito what impression you might have, it's more likely than not that you can go down­town without getting mugged or worse.) But so far, it seems like tho majority of us don't make the effort to look beyond Notre Dame, and mutual ambivalence, or ignorance, has been the result. Until we realize that there is a world worth visiting outside the University's grounds, we will continue to barely notice it and because nothing about the Notre Dame experience forces us to, ours is just another chap­ter in the long and problematic history of town and gown relationships. 
Darryl Campbell is a first-year graduate student in history. He can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
The city outside the Notre Dame bubble 
One of the first things you see when you arrive at the South Bend airport is a sign insisting that the South Bend!Michiana area is "Notre Dame and a Whole Lot More!" It sums up the relationship between Notre Darryl Dame and South Campbell Bend pretty well ­acceptance that Speak Up, Notre Dame is in Please fact the big draw for the South Bend area, but an underlying insistence that there really is something else worth seeing out here. 
The St. Joseph Hiver is not the only thing that separates Notre Dame from South Bend. Most of the University has an ephemeral relationship with the greater Michiana area. Most students still consider themselves residents of their hometown who are just itinerat­ing here for four years or so; many don't bother to change their license plates or register to vote here, and I imagine that there are more than a few whose only knowlndge of South Bend, exclusive of Notre Dame, extends to the airport and a handful of fast food or delivery places. Between residence halls, dining halls, football games, Legends, the Debartolo Performing Arts Center and LaFortune, it's certain­ly possible to eat, drink, shower, sleep and entertain yourself for all four years and never once set foot off campus. We even have our own police and fire department, zip code and power sta­tion. Notre Dame is, for all intents and purposes, a self-sufficient community; there's nothing really anchoring it to South Bend. 
South Bend, on the other hand, could not sever ties with Notre Dame without losing a central part of its identity. The sign at the airport, for starters, would have to go; the College Football Hall of Fame would find it difficult to justify its 
existence; the 'Backer would lose one of its core constituencies. The University itself is the largest single employer in the county and impacts the local economy to the tune of $830 mil­lion annually. On home football week­ends in particular, it seems like South Bend exists solely to be an extension of the stadium parking lot. Many busi­nesses live and die based on their con­nections to the University, whether they sell Notre Dame merchandise, because they appeared in Rudy, or because they depend on the business of students. In short, without Notre Dame, South Bend might be just another declining Rust Belt city like Gary, with a stagnant economy, rampant crime, drug problems and the emigration of its al'lluent population into the suburbs. 
Because the dependence is not mutu­al, but one-way, it's no surprise that South Bend's official attitude towards Notre Dame appears ambivalent. On the one hand, the city has recently approved commercial space to build the Eddy Street Commons. On the other, the Common Council introduced, and then hastily withdrew, legislation to clamp down on off-campus parties by requiring permits -a plan police officials questioned because they doubted the enforceability of the pro­posed ordinance. At the same time, that it took a regulation targeted at stu­dents to start a dialog between the Council and student body representa­tives didn't disspell the idea that we are disinterested in the wider commu­nity. Some of the issues that hold the attention of the greater Notre Dame community -football records, coursepacks, pie in the dining halls ­seem remote or even frivolous when compared to the issues facing the city: violent crime, property taxes, the revi­talization of downtown and the meth epidemic. At the same time, much of the student body takes part in commu-
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Joseph McMahon Fran Tolan Are you more excited about the Rohan Anand Lorenzo Reyer 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
Emma Driscoll Alex Barker 
camouflage night or blackout 
Graphics Scene ''To make mistakes is human; to 
Jared Wafer Tae Andrews night? stumble is commonp_lace; to be able to laugh at yourself is maturity." 
Viewpoint Lianna 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at William Arthur Ward 
Brauweiler poet
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
----------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, January 28, 2008 
page 11 
U-WIRE 
Float like a butterfly, sting like a pacifist 
When I was 11 years old, I participat­ed in the first fist fight of my life ­exclusively on the receiving end. 
My antagonist was one of the tougher kids from the working-class neighbor­hood in which I Michael grew up. And tough 
Borshuk
doesn't begin to describe him; as an Texas Tech's adult he went to Daily Toreador 
prison for attempted murder. 
The forum for our fisticuffs was the schoolyard at the end of my street. It began like this: The other guy came up and demanded money; when I didn't have any, he said I had to fight him. 
Stunned by this imperative, I mostly stood still while he punched me in the face for what seemed, obviously, like a really long time. He left my lip swollen and my eye a bit blackened. To this day, there's a small bump on the back of my head where my skull repeatedly hit the red brick of the schoolyard wall. 
The incident, of course, sent my fami­ly into hysterics. My parents threat­ened to move us to a more refined neighborhood. Thankfully, in retro­spect, this didn't occur. 
They urged me to take karate les­sons. When my grandfather arrived, as a representative of the notoriously bruising wing of our family -he was a career cop and his older brother, a boxer, once fought Joe Louis-he asked only this: "You've got a decent build. Why on Earth didn't you fight back?" 
Now, my answer-inarticulate in the face of what seemed like such a men­acing question -should have been, "Because, for the life of me, I can't imagine closing my fist and striking 
another person with it." Instead, I 
sulked away, momentarily anxious 
about why I couldn't just belt someone 
in the chops, as he might have. 
All these years later, I still can't 
imagine punching someone in the face. 
Granted, I entertain the idea rhetori­cally sometimes, as a touch of hyper­bole when I'm especially frustrated by behavior with which I take issue. 
Targets of my overstated, completely unserious, ''I'd like to punch him/her in the face!" have included Ann Coulter, jerks who cut me off in traffic, Toby Keith, various members of the pitching staff from my beloved Detroit Tigers in the 2006 World Series and a host of others. But this is all ball game really -a bit of hot air when I'm exasperat­ed. In the abstract, when trying to explain my philosophical makeup, I call myself a pacifist. That is, I don't believe there is any kind of conflict that can't be resolved through diplomacy, dia­logue and mutual compromise. Less ideally, I just don't think the idea of using my fists -or whatever else -to cause somebody else physical pain ever could seem appealing. · 
And really, does anybody except for the scary, pathological minority think otherwise? Do you, dear reader, like the thought of punching somebody in the face? Do you wish to punch some­body in the face? 
Speak up now, I say, if so. Let your true colors be known. Though I warn you, get ready for the inevitable detain­ment to follow. Anybody who finds pleasure in violence needs to be locked up. Isn't that how we preserve a civi­lized society? 
So, given that so few people I encounter, when asked, will openly admit to having any desire for violence, then why don't more people proudly announce themselves as pacifists? Why is it that some people react with such snap dismissal when I characterize myself in this way? 
At best, critics of my pacifism seem to type me as a starry-eyed idealist, ill­equipped to confront the brutal reality of this dog-eat-dog world. 
At worst, though, they regard me in terms I consider much less flattering ­as though my refusal to fight physically under any circumstances confirms me as some cowardly Caspar Milquetoast figure. 
In my eyes, though, a commitment to non-violence is undoubtedly the ulti­mate form of strength. It depends on two great articles of faith, after all: a witnessing of the humanity of all others you encounter and a belief they will witness your humanity in turn. 
And in response to the inevitable counter-point I anticipate -"Sure, I don't want to be violent, but somebody else probably does, and I will have to defend myself with violence in response" -I propose all of us simply agree to a pledge that states we will never use violence against anybody else. We all will act in good faith. Everybody will act with a personal con­viction against bloodshed. We can dis­mantle military forces in turn. We'll melt down firearms and turn them into gun-metal blue statues celebrating our newfound universal peace. 
Is that incredulous snorting I hear in response to this idealistic proposal? Does it depend too much on a magni­tude of faith you can't endorse? 
But nationalism depends on large leaps of faith. Really, why else should I, as an Ontario-born Canadian, care much for other Canadians I've never met out on Prince Edward Island? Religion -as potent a social force as any -depends on incredible leaps of faith. 
As a one-time Catholic, I spent years accepting the miracle of transubstanti­ation. Given that all of us are already chin-deep in the improbable mechanics of faith as it is, let's add one more front and all sign my pacifism pledge today. 
And after all, as I like to joke with friends, if you don't agree with my faith in nonviolence, doesn't that implicitly give me permission to sock you in the jaw? 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 25 edition of The Daily Toreador, the daily newspaper at Texas Tech. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
AF1rn M~C4 QlJIET CONID\PlA~ON, ~~ W\Yr [(I~ TO Wl~DRAW MY ~N~DA-



Well, The Dude abides 
Before I begin, I should offer brief dis­claimers to those readers who might be quick to judge: First, I am neither easily impres­sionable nor overly sentimental. Second, I am by all accounts critical of most things. And lastly, this column is about a film. It is not a John Cropper review, but rather a reflection, so those who Ohio State haven't seen the movie University's in discussion will likely Lantern be lost. 
With that said, I can comfortably go on. I have modeled my life and personality after a single fictional film character. 
Now comes the explanation. 
Most "cult classic" films come and go with­out much more than a Criterion Collection release, forever immortalized on the DVD racks of self-righteous 20-somethings. But some manage to create a subculture of fans so devout in their viewership that all other films pale in comparison. 
"The Big Lebowski" is one such fllm. Its title character, Jeff "The Dude" Lebowski, is a fic­tional persona who has spawned a rabid fol­lowing and maintains a messianic status for me and others almost 10 years after the film's 1998 release. 
So when I read that Studio 35 was showing the fllm Sunday, along with a beer tasting (courtesy of the good folks at Columbus Brewing Company), I could all but hide my giddy reaction. 
And it was while lounging in the theater that I realized just why the movie strikes a chord within me each time I watch it. 
It's not the winding (and ultimately unim­portant) plot outline. It's not the stellar cast of actors, all veterans of other Coen brothers' films. It's not even the endless amount of one­liners or possible bumper-sticker slogans throughout the movie. No, it's The Dude's ability to shrug at any situation, his content­ment with doing nothing at all, and his lack­adaisical quest, if it can be called that, for simplicity in life that draws me and other fans toward him. He's a pacifist with no political motivation. He's a hippy without a finger to wag. That is to say, The Dude abides. 
Other movies by Joel and Ethan Coen, the Oscar-winning directorial team responsible for a handful of the best movies throughout the decade, manage to marry dark comedy with drama successfully, but none has creat­ed a buzz similar to "Lebowski." The biggest indication of this is Lebowski Fest, a memori­al festival featuring bowling (the movie's pri­mary focus), live music, movie trivia and look-alike costume competitions. Originally started in 2002 in Louisville, the annual festi­val has since expanded domestically to Los Angeles and New York and now globally to London and other cities in Europe. Then, of course, there's Dudeism. 
Dudeism is the most recent addition to the cult hysteria surrounding the movie, but it is arguably the most productive thing to come from such an unproductive character. 
Briefly put, Dudeism is the half-jokingly written philosophy of The Dude. It advocates a simple and happy lifestyle, a go-with-the­flow outlook, and the renouncement of stress and vanity -and a healthy dose of White Russians and Creedence Clearwater Revival. A Dudeist would align most likely with the beliefs of a Taoist, and humorously enough it is the creator of Taoism, Lao Tzu, who is credited with being the first and ultimate Dudeist. 
I remember reading the Dudeist creed, titled "The Tao of the Dude," at dudeism.com a few years ago, but it wasn't until Sunday's viewing of the movie that I re-read it, this time intently and with reason. 
Like an epiphany, I now I have an explana­tion for my indifference and what some wrongly label apathy. 
I'm a Dudeist, man. And if it says so on Facebook (it does), it must be true. 
This column first appeared in the Jan. 25 edition ofThe Lantern, the daily newspaper at the Ohio State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Monday, January 28, 2008 
AP Manchester United's Wayne Rooneybattles for the ball. 
By this time, it is safe to say that the foot­ball season is coming to a close. All of the college bowl games have been played, and the Super Bowl is less than a week away. The Pro Bowl doesn't really matter, so it's time to shift priorities elsewhere. Most stu­Corbin Hicks dent'> only view the other relevant sports 
Scene & 
as hockey and basket­

Heard
ball, but I'm here to 

unearth a true "dia­mond in the rough." Let me talk to you all about the other sport known as football, and this little compntition called the UEFA Champions Lea~:,rue. 
The Champions League is a knockout tournament featuring teams throughout Europe in an effort to crown the best team from a bevy of countries. Befixe I go too far, lnt me explain who gel<> entry into such an nxclusive competition. Soccer leagues fea­ture teams only lrom the home country. In other words, teams from England play only teams from England. Through the course of these domestic leagues, standings ("tables") are formed and the stnmgth of the coun­try's competition cormlates to the nun1ber of entry slots into the Champions League. Well-respected leagues in England, Spain and Italy have more entrants than their counterpart<> in Ukraine and Belgium. The tournament is divided up into groups of 

By STEPHANIE DePREZ Scene Writer 
Kate Nash walks a fine line between Brit pop and indin !wart. Most albums coming out of the Unitml Kingdom today am infbc­tious, enjoyable and produce a few straight-to-the-airwaves London hiL'i. This is certainly the case with London subur­banite Kate Nash's "Made of Bricks," but she manages to break frne of the industrial pop sound that one has come to expeet from Brit pop and tap into something that is far more organic and quite possibly appealing to liws across the pond. 
Nash grnw up ouL<>ide of London. After 
Made of Bricks 
Kate Nash Label: Polydor Records 
attending the BHIT School for Performing Arl'i and Technology, she auditioned for the Bristol Old Vic Theatre School and was rejected. She began writing songs with witty lyrics and a somewhat cynical view of everyday life. Uly Allen, an Pstablished Brit pop songstress known fbr her catchy R&B flare, put Kate Nash in her top-eight on MySpace, and soon Nash was flooded with profile views. She eventually released a sin­gle and was picked up by Fiction Hecords. She llew to the top of the Pops in the United Kingdom and her album "Made of Bricks" was No. 1. It has since been released here in the United States. 
There is certainly no harm in a quick spin through "Made of Bricks." The frrst 
tra1:k is a pointless intro, but 
every other song has some­
thing that makes it stand out, either in the f()fm of a melod­ic hook or else in the unex­pected subject matter. "Foundations" is the single 
that has made a mark (how­
Recommended Tracks: "Foundations" and 
ever distant from its United
"Mariella Birds" 
Kingdom success) in 

Ameriea. It is textbook catchy with its piano riff and syn­thetic drumbeat, but an hon­est listen to the lyrics is enough to make you laugh out loud. Nash jumps efl'ort­lessly between complaining four, and the teams battle it out twice against each group· member. The top two seeds proceed into the Round of 16 in the Champions League, the third-place team gets automatic entry into the UEFA Cup, 
Europe's consolation prize, and the fourU1 
place team gets to crawl back to their 
domestic league with their tails between 
their legs. 

Next begins a series of matches that determine who reaches the final. which is playPd with much fanfare and prestige. The winner of the Champions League not only gets a fancy trophy and medals worthy of an Olympic winner, but it also receives a multi-million Emo pursp that ean be used to help the dub get even better. ThereforP, the stakes are raised to a ridiculously high level. and teams always try to put their best foot forward in U1e Champions League, regardless of their domestic filrm. 
In no other sport does a team truly deserve the title of world champion. I've always found it hilarious that the NFL, NHL, MLB and NBA titleholders are deemed "world champions" even though they only play teams from the United States and Canada. Although one may argue that the level of competition by U1ese otlmr teams would not be even because of the supposed­ly huge talent disparity, but as Appalachian State has shown us, anything can happen during the heat of battle. The soccer world 
about her day-to-day life to providing her own color commentary on it. It's also a bit of a novelty to hear her speak in that oh-so­eareless British accent. 
Strong caution must go with the track "Mariella," because one listen will leave it stuck in your head for hours. This story of a grade-school girl who breaks all conven­tion is annoyingly addicting. "Birds," the original B-side of Nash's first single, is a true indie gem. This sunny love story pro­vides a nice breath in the middle of the album. "Pumpkin Soup" is an upbeat tune that almost expects whoever is listening to it to sing along. Every song has a distinct sound and a redeeming faetor, making the album as a whole not a bad experience. 
The route Nash took to success is a testa­ment to the changing ways of the music industry. Her fame came first from her MySpace page, not unlike another self­made songstress, Colbie Caillat. Caillat was brought to fame purely by popular appeal, with hardly a middleman to speak of. 
Although Nash may not be making a musical breakthrough, she certainly pro­vides 40 minutes of pleasant distraction. ller reflections on life are not revolutionary, but her work reminds us that anyone with a piano and some heart ean make a bit of music that matters. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
even gives teams from outside of Europe the chance to eompete against these so­ealled heavyweighL'i through U1e Club World Cup. The Champions League winner plays in a knoekout tournament with the best team from Africa, Oceania, A<>ia, and South Ameriea. These regional winners are all determined through tournament<> similar to the Champions League in format. 
There is no speculation about what would happen if U1ese two teams were to meet. A top team from Germany will know exaetly how it matches up with a top team from France-beeausn they will have the oppor­tunity to play eaeh oU1er and determine a winner. And if a tnam from Seotland man­ages to win the 1mtire tournament, it will see how it matdws up with the finest that Brazil and Australia have to olli1r. 
There arn no preseason rankings or advantages placed on p11rennial winners: the only way to rnach the final is through beating the eompntition. Turkey's Fenerbahce, the equivalent of llawaii, has as much a chance at the grand prizn a..o;; Heal Madrid. Maybn our friends over at the BCS could take a couple of pointers from the people who have got it right. 
. -~. _,. •.". :-.._ ,__ ...."-.:.:-....-;.~-.7":;~ 
ThP vTfJiL's e.i:pri'!ssPd in this columii are those oftlze author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Corbin flicks at clzick..c;2@nd. edu 
Photo courtesy of liverpool.com Kate Nash breaks through with her latest CD, "Made of Bricks." 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, January 28, 2008 
page 13 

Most will remember him for his Academy Award-nominated performance as Ennis Del Mar in "Brokeback Mountain," but I will always remember him as Patrick Verona, the misunderstood bad boy of a preppy high school in "10 Things I 

Hate About You." I Cassie Belek always mourn celebri­ty deaths, but this 
Scene &
death is different. 

Heard
Heath Ledger is my first celebrity crush to die. 

Of course, my own feelings are inconse­quential compared to those of his family and friends, who are mourning him deeply right now. My heart especially goes out to his daughter, Matilda Rose, who must grow up without her father. But if Ledger's death doesn't concern me, then why is this 21­year-old girl from Kansas so sad? 
Maybe it's because I used to have pictures of him on my bedroom door. Maybe it's because my best friend Caitlin and I used to watch "10 Things I Hate About You" on repeat just to see him smile. Maybe it's because I had lengthy discussions with my friends at slumber parties over which hair color suited him best. Maybe it's because I was so angry when his character died in "The Patriot" because I wanted to see him get his happy ending. 
Mer a week, the immediate shock of with "Brokeback Mountain." And most recently, Ledger had the difficult task of reinventing the Joker in the latest Batman film, "The Dark Knight." I know that he had a lifetime of Oscar nominations in his future. 
As sad as it is for family, friends and fans, it's amazing to think of the extent of the consequences of an actor's sudden death. Ledger was six weeks into the filming of "The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus" with director Terry Gilliam and co-star Christopher Plummer. The future of that film (with an estimated $30 million budget) is in jeopardy since the studio-soundstage filming was just about to begin. Meanwhile, rumors are circulating that Ledger hadn't completed any post-production work on "The Dark Knight," an involved process essential to any film, especially to those packed with special efl'ects. Director Chris Nolan and Warner Bros. executives have yet to comment or make a public statement. 
We still do not know Ledger's cause of death, but evidence i<> now pointing away from a drug overdose and toward natural causes, which is an apparent disappoint-insisted that he would not have committed suicide and they pleaded to be left alone. It may be too much to ask the media to stop sensationalizing a tragic death, but just because Britney Spears and Amy Winehouse are complete messes, that does­n't mean everyone is. 
In the end, does it really matter what his cause of death was? The fact remains that a daughter has lost a father, Hollywood and Australia have lost an amazing actor and a fan has lost a teenage crush. My heart will still melt whenever Ledger sings "Can't Take My Eyes Off of You" in "10 Things I Hate About You," but I will probably never be able to watch that movie in the same way ever again. I'll get that same sad feel­ing I get every time I watch James Dean in "Rebel Without a Cause." I'll be watching, knowing that I'll never get to see his movie star smile again and knowing that a bril­liant film career was tragically cut short. 
_-;-·
The views expressed in Scene & Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

By JIMMY COSTA 
Scene Writer 
In 1998, Levon Helm lay in a hospi­tal bed. Stricken by throat cancer, he underwent a torturous regimen of treatments, including chemotherapy and surgery, to beat the disease before it could kill him. 
He survived, but it was feared that the old lead singer of The Band would never sing again. Yet last year, the Holmes Brothers released a record featuring Levon and daughter Amy singing on one track. This was a wel­come surprise to those who thought 

-with his coarse, old,
Recommended Tracks: "Dirt Farmer," "Blind 
sweet voice now filling
Child" and "Single Girl, Married Girl" 
the spaces left for him by the lives of his parents and neighbors many years ago. 
A poignant and tender mix of traditional south­ern backcountry songs including the traditional 
Dirt Farmer 

Levan Helm label: Vanguard Records 
the elder Helm's career was dead. While the voice was a bit thin and coarser than it'd ever been, it main­tained its integral character and affecting depth that defined Helm throughout his career. 
"Dirt Farmer" is Levan's first record since being diagnosed with cancer. Mainly comprised of cover songs, the disc is a powerful demonstration of homage to his parents, who taught him how to use music to grasp beauty and solace in life's most difficult and broken experiences. 
The record is also a stirring offer of gratitude and appreciation to the music that he grew up with and is now blessed to play again so many decades later. 
Indeed, the songs seem to come straight from the back porches and road­houses of the Arkansas that Helm knew as a child "Blind Child," the Stanley Brothers standard "False-Hearted Lover Blues" and A.P. Carter's cheeky "Single Girl, Married Girl," the record gives them all new arrangements. These arrange­ments allow a fresh take on timeworn tunes, giving the listener a lesson on the roots of American music while creating a sound that is entirely con­temporary and relevant in today's music scene. 
To support the cover songs are a few original songs written by various friends which fit into the overall sound and feel of the disc. If there was ever any doubt about where The Band's Americana roots came from, a listen to this disc will dispel them. The roots of this record run deeper into the soil of rural America than any old oak in the Appalachians. 
Helm has always had an incredibly expressive voice, and on "Dirt Farmer" that comes to forefront. While his voice cannot carry the way it did on some of The Band's best songs, Helm uses it more emotively than he ever did in his pre-cancer days. 
Maybe it's a compensation for his lack of volume, but he's now trusting in its ability to carry a song. It is sim­ply Helm at his best, singing wonder­fully swaggering renditions of emo-
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 
tionally powerful songs by one of the most distinctive voices in popular music. 
There is an inherent honesty to his voice that ensures songs a sense of authenticity that would have likely been lost had anyone but Helm been singing. 
For instance, the title track, which features Levon singing of the trials and misfortunes of a sharecropper who cannot harvest anything from the ground except stones and dirt, actual­ly sounds like the singer has shared in the life of the farmer. 
Helm's drawling howl is heavy with the outrage and sorrow of someone with a deep connection to the land and those who live by it and the heart­break of being unable to find a life in the ground that is meant to nourish and sustain. 
The best part of "Dirt Farmer" is that, after a few listens, it is clear that it is not just a good album for a man recovering from throat cancer. Rather, it is a good album -period. He sings his songs with great care, with hon­esty and, most importantly, with brave love. 
Contact Jimmy Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 28, 2008 
NBA 

Barbosa's fourth quarter leads Suns over Bulls 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-Shots were llying in all directions. 
They hit the rim. they hit the backboard. They seemingly hit everything but the bottom of the net until Leandro Barbosa got going early in the fourth quarter and buried the Bulls again. 
Barbosa led the deeisive run, Amare Stoudemire scored 24 points and the Phoenix Suns pulled away in the fourth quar­ter to beat Chicago 88-77 Sunday. 
"I always like to be aggres­sive," said Barbosa, who scored 
13. "I saw the space for me to go to the basket and I made the shot, so I was happy." 
Last season, he buried a 3­pointer with 1.5 seconds left to lift the Suns to a one-point win at the United Center. This time, he started a 12-0 run in the fourth with a baseline drive and two 3-pointl'rs, sending the Suns to their sixth win in seven games. That allowed Phoenix to exhale after three difficult quarters and a trying week. 
The Suns needed a last-sec­ond jumper by Stiawn Marion to beat Cleveland on Friday after losing at Minnesota two nights earlier. Back spasms kept Grant Hill on the sideline against Chicago, and atrocious shooting made this game closer than it should have been. 
The Suns won despite finish­ing with their second-lowest point total of the season and going 5-of-25 on 3-pointers ­after hitting 17 against Cleveland. 
Stoudemire hit 9 of 16 shots, while Marion added 15 points and 11 rebounds. But they got little help for most of the game. 
Steve Nash finished with 14 points, even though he did not score until he hit a 3-pointer midway through the second quarter. 
"We played hard," Stoudemire said. "It was a scrappy game. There are going to be a lot of loose balls, a lot of long rebounds. You've just got to have the heart to get those type of wins." 
Kirk Hinrich did all he could to keep the Bulls in the game, finishing with 31 points -the second time in less than a week he scored more than 30. 
''I'm just trying to be aggres­sive," Hinrich said. "[I'm] trying to make a conscious effort to 
take the ball to the basket, try­ing to make plays." The Suns made just enough and finished 3-1 on this trip. 
"It was a tough trip," Nash said. "We don't match up well with Minnesota. We had a tough win at Cleveland. It was a difficult game for us to play, early on a Sunday. Overall, we'll take it." 
Stoudemire said: "It's defi­nitely a successful trip, even though we lost one. We'll take it. It's definitely a positive for 
us." 
The Suns held the Bulls to 
34.7 percent shooting, and coach Mike D'Antoni believes his team deserves more credit for its defense. 
"Nobody will give us credit," he said. 
It's easy to overlook, consid­ering the Pacific Division lead­ers came into the game averag­ing a league-high 110 points. They were facing a team that was 0-17 when allowing 100 or more, and Chicago was also shooting a league-low 42.3 per­cent. 
Yet, the Bulls put up a fight even without Ben Gordon and Luol Deng, who sat out again because of injuries. 

SMC SWIMMING 

Belles drop third straight 
practice that was really looking and Daday recorded a season­By PETE REISENAUER ahead towards our conference best time in the 500 freestyle. 
Sports Writer 
meet with very little rest or "People in swimming will focus on anything before then," understand that doing this dur­Saint Mary's was unable to Dombkowski said. ing an unrested mid-January stop the bleeding Friday, falling Some of the Belles posted dual meet is huge and means to nationally ranked Calvin and their best times of the year in some great things when our extending its losing streak to the loss. The all-freshman 200-championship meet comes three meets. yard medley around in about three weeks," 
Calvin posted relay of Heggie Dombkowski said. vietories in nino Williams, Casey Dombkowski also has high
"We had a great day
or the first 10 Niezer, Caroline hopes for the Belles' only home events and ofpractice Saturday Arness and meet of the year, which is this recorded a 131-L a u r e n weekend.
morning. and we are 
IJIJ win over Saint Hartman fin­"We had a great day of prac­
looking forward to
Mary's. The ished in a tice Saturday morning, and we Bnlles' record fell our home meet on school-record are looking forward to our to !i-5 in dual friday night again time of 1:55.03. home meet on Friday night meets and 2-:~ in The group best­again Kalamazoo,"
Kalamazoo."
MIA/\ competi­ed the previous Dombkowski said. "Again, it's tion. while Calvin record of not really at this point that we improved to 4-1 Ryan Dombkowski 1 :S!i. 73, which can afford to look much away overall and 3-0 was posted in from our training to focus on a
Belles coach 
in the MIM. the 2003 sea-singe dual meet, but hopefully 
Despite the son. the motivation of our only home loss, Belles coach Hyan The 200 freestyle relay team meet of the year will lead to Dombkowski was impressed not only won the race, but it some great performances." with some of his swimmers' also posted the Belles' best time The Belles have already post­efforts, and said he feels very in the event in the last five ed a school record for dual good about his team's chances years with a markof 1 :43.70. meet wins with five. filr the rest or the year. Mary Kate Daday and Molly 
"The team swam great on Schall posted personal-best Contact Pete Reisenauer at Friday after a hard week of swims in the 1,000 freestyle, preisena@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 

Benninger continues rapid pace, beats 111ark 
meter dash, while also nabbingBy PAT STYNES 
the top spot in the 200-meter 
Sports Writer 
event. 

Thrower Greg Davis al<>o show­
Senior Kurt Benninger is run­cased the underclassmen's talent. ning like a man possessed. To Davis, a freshman, easily took first start the season, he torched the place in the weight throw event field in the Indoor Opener and ran with a distance of17.48 meters. the second-fastest 3,000-meter "The underclassmen have really time in the nation. stepped up this year," Piane said. 
This weekend, Benninger "It is great that the younger guys showed his speed once again as arc getting experience, but to the All-American ripped olT a have them contributing the way 
4:02.90 mile, which beat the they are is even better." NCAA provisional mark of 4:04. Irish junior Billy Buzaid led the His strong showing helped the squad of the middle distance run­Irish to a 52-point victory over ners, winning the 500-meter race second-place Michigan State in with a time of 1:03.80. Buzaid had the Notre Dame Invititional at already narned a Big East cham­Loftus. pionship qualification in the Blue 
"Kurt has been solid fi1r a long and Gold Invitational, but Friday's time," Irish coach Joe Piane said. time was almost a second better "Along with the other upperclass­than his earlier time of 1:04.50. men, he has been a strong leader An Irish athlete took top honors on the team." in nine dill'crent evenL<>. The team 
In the short distance events, will next compete Friday at the freshman Miklos Szebeny contin­two-day Indiana Invitational. ues to impress. For the second week in a row the I Iungarian run­Contact Pat Stynes at ner took first place in the 60-pstynes@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Fabulous condo walking distance to Notre Dame, open concept, com­pletely remodeled, granite counter· tops, bamboo hardwoods, Wi·Fi, approx. 1,350 sq.ft., 2 bedrooms, 2 baths. Kristi Ryan, Re/Max 100, 574-532-2071 

FoR RENT 
705 ND Ave. 3 Bedroom $1,000.00. 273-4889 Available 08/09 3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus, safe, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2·car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340·1844. 
Large house available for 2009· 2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet,5 bathrooms. MacSwain@ gmail.com 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 ND Ave., walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, W/D, off street park­ing. Call620·704-4663. 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09, 09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 

PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800·No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1 -7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
A warm heart-felt THANK YOU to the students who came out in the freezing minus·degree weather and served donuts and col· fee to the 4 a.m. to 12:30 building service staff. 
"You feeling alright? I'm not feeling too good myself, no Yes sir, you feeling alright? I'm not feeling that good myself, no." 
"I doni need a whole lots of money. I doni need a big fine car. I got everything that a man could want, I got more than I could ask for. I doni have to run around. I doni have to stay out all night. cause I got me a sweet ... a sweet, Iovin woman, And she knows just how to treat me right Well my baby, shes alright, Well my baby, shes clean out-of­sight. Doni you know that shes ... shes some kind of wonderiul. Shes some kind of wonderiul ... yes she is... " 





OUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wtRE SERVICES
Monday, January 28, 2008 
page 15 
PGA
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atfantlc Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
New Jersey 28-18-3 59 125 115 Philadelphia 27-16-5 59 160 138 Pittsburgh 27-18·4· 58 143 133 NY Islanders 24-20·6 54 124 
141 NY Rangers 24-21-6 54 124 129 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Ottawa 31-15-4 66 174 145 Montreal 26-15-B 60 154 136 Boston 25-19-5 55 129 133 Buffalo 21-21-6 48 142 139 Toronto 20-23·8 48 142 164 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Carolina 24-24-4 52 158 170 Washington 23-22-5 51 147 156 Atlanta 23-25·4 50 141 175 Florida 22-24-5 49 130 147 Tampa Bay 20-25-5 45 145 168 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Detroit 37-10·4 78 174 110 Columbua 25-20·6 56 128 126 Nashville 25·20·5 55 146 138 St. louis 22·19-7 51 123 136 Chicago 23-23-4 50 139 143 
Western Conference~ Northwest Division 
team record pts. GF GA 
Minnesota 28-19·3 59 138 138 Calgary 25·17-8 58 146 143 Vancouver 26·19-5 57 131 121 
question about the outcome. Ryuji Imada matched the may have to regroup a lit­
Colorado 26·20·4 56 138 138 Associated Press 
Woods opened with a 40-best score of the final round tle."
Edmonton 23·24-5 51 140 158 
SAN DIEGO, Cali.-Tiger foot birdie putt, threw in a with a 67 and was the run­Then again, it might not Woods joined the King, and 60-foot birdie just to keep a ner-up. matter. Western Conference, Pacific Division left everyone else at the four-deep gallery from Woods returns to Torrey Woods has won his last Buick Invitational feeling falling asleep, and only Pines in June for the U.S. two PGA Tour events by
team record pts. GF GA 
like paupers. looked mortal when he Open, and if this week was eight shots, and this was the 
Dallas 28-20-5 61 154 138 
In his most dominant start made three straight bogeys any indication, it could be ninth time in his career he 
San Jose 2].15-7 61 139 119 
to a season, Woods built an toward the end of his another long week for his has won by at least eight. 
Anaheim 27-20-6 60 135 137 
11-shot lead Sunday until round. peers. The world's No. 1 "I wanted to go out there
Phoenix 26·21-2 54 135 134 
his game and the fickle All that did was affect the player now has won six and make no bogeys and
los Angeles 20·29-2 42 143 169 
weather turned cold on the final margin, not the name times as a pro at Torrey shoot something under back nine. A birdie on the on the trophy. Pines, and his comment that par," Woods said. "I got half last hole gave him a 1-Woods finished at 19-the Grand Slam is "easily of it right." under 71 and an eight-shot under 269 to win the Buick within reason" looked every The 71 ended Woods' victory, giving him 62 for his Invitational for the fourth bit of that. streak of 14 consecutive career to tie Arnold Palmer consecutive year, tying a "What he's going to do is rounds in the 60s, dating to 
NCAA Men's Basketball on the PGA Tour list. PGA Tour record for con­screw the U.S. Open up for the second round of the ''I'm sure that there are secutive wins in a single everyone else," Fred Deutsche Bank
ESPN/USA Today Poll 
many, many more coming tournament. Woods is the Couples said. "If he had Championship. He has fin­team record previous in the future," Palmer said. only player to own such a shot 10 or 11 under, the ished no worse than second "There isn't any question streak at two events, having USGA would have said, since the British Open in
1 Memphis(21) 11·0 2 
about that." also won four in a row at 'Well, maybe we have it in July, when he tied for 12th
2 Ki:msas(10) 18·0 3 
Just like there was no Bay Hill. the right spot.' Now, they at Carnoustie.
3 Duke 15·1 5 4 North Carolina 18·1 1 5 Tennessee 16·1 7 6 Washington State 16·1 8 IN BRIEF 7 UCLA 16·2 4 8 Indiana 16·1 10 
9 Georgetown 14·2 Djokovic beats Tsonga to MJlle:r: takes over top spot Ovechkin, East edge West
6 wm Australian Open With VIctory in NHL All-Star game
10 Michigan State 16-2 11 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Novak CHAMONIX, France -His hip so ATLANTA -Marc Savard made
11 Wisconsin 15·2 17 
Djokovic started making peace with sore he questioned if he could ski, Atlanta feel like home all over again.
12 Texas 14·3 19 13 Vanderbilt 14 the crowd as soon as he lifted the Bode Miller won a super-combi With hockey luminaries such as
17·2 14 Butler 17·2 12 trophy. Sunday and took over first place in Sidney Crosby sitting at home, . ,.. 15 Mississippi 15·2 15 After beating Jo-Wilfried Tsonga 4-the World Cup overall standings. Savard stepped on up. The Boston 6, 6-4, 6-3, 7-6 (2) Sunday night to Miller won for the fourth time Bruins forward scored the winning win the Australian Open for his first this season and catapulted from goal with 20.9 seconds left Sunday Grand Slam title, Djokovic knew a third to first in the standings, night to lift the Eastern Conference little public relations was in order. overtaking previous leader to an 8-7 win over the West. True, he had kept the Rod Laver Benjamin Raich of Austria. Real early it looked as though it
around the dial Arena crowd in stitches last week "I was wondering this morning if would be a night for the West when with his Maria Sharapova imperson­I could ski," Miller said. "I fell Hick Nash scored the first of his ation. But Djokovic also had upset Saturday during the slalom prac­three goals a record-quick 12 sec­Roger Federer in the semifinals and tice. I have a bruised left hip." onds into the game. But the East now had eliminated Tsonga, who He has been racing in pain since took charge with five straight, was riding a great wave into the title Thursday when he crashed during including two by Alex Ovechkin ­
NCAA MEN's BB 

match. downhill training. The New Crosby's rival for top player in the "I know the crowd wanted him to Hampshire star led after the NHL. Louisville at Connecticut win more," Djokovic said. "That's downhill and finished in a com­Yet in the end, after the West 
7 p.m., ESPN OK. It's all right. I still love you guys bined time of 2 minutes, 34.58 erased a 5-1 deficit to go ahead 7-6, -don't worry. I'm very, very happy seconds after the slalom." Savard -a former star for the host that I won my first Grand Slam here, The aim in slalom for me is sim­Atlanta Thrashers -brought the so hopefully we'll see you here on ply to finish," he said. "If I take · local fans out of their seats to cheer this stage a lot more often." risks, I'm out." for him again. 

Monday, January 28, 2008 
-· 


.... . 

Welcome to More. 
start training for $70K­finish running your own district. 
One year. That's what it takes to prepare our District Managers for success. More than training, it's an exclusive hands-on experience complete with salary. A learning opportunity that immerses you in our day-to-day operations, and teaches you our business inside and out. At ALDI our investment in you begins with ensuring you're heading in the right direction. 
The responsibility. The success. And the rewards. Welcome to More. 
Sign up for an interview through GO IRISH by Tuesday, February 5, 2008. Interviews will be held on Wednesday, February 20, 2008. 
Discover more at ALDI.us/careers 
ALDI is an Equal Opportunity Employei 
Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

SlNCt 18~7 
NlEI\CY 
HOME 
RlR DmS&CliUS 

Would you like to work with kids after graduation? 
The MercyWorks faith-based service program at MtTcy Home for Boys & Girls seeks highly motivated men and women who wish to acquire social service experience while making a difference in the lives of hurting children. Benefits include room and board, health insuranc~, professional training and supervision, loan forbearance and an AmeriCorps Education Award. 
For more information contact the Mercy Works Program Manager at J12-738-9526 or visir li>:_)~:,~_,lpen:vhome.nrg. MercyWorks Staff with be on campus on Wednesday 
MercyWorks will on Campus on Wednesday a1 the Winter Career & Internship Fair 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Vanderbilt upsets Irish vvith late singles surge 

By LORENZO REYES 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was ahead on the road against No. 16 Vanderbilt and looked as if it would move to 2-0 on the season. But the Commodores fought back Saturday to take the last two sin­gles matches and upset the No. 9 Irish 4-3. 
Vanderbilt improved to 5-0 on the season, with each win coming against a ranked opponent. 
The Commodores are sure to move up in the rankings, and rightfully so in the eyes of Irish head coach Jay Louderback. 
"Vandy's a good team," Louderback said. "They belong in the top 10. It was tough for us to go on the road and play them. We had our chances but they played well." 
Despite the loss, Louderback saw some positives -specifically in coming from behind to take the competition-opening doubles point. 
Vanderbilt evened the match with a straight-set 6-1, 6-4 victory by junior Courtney Ulrey over Irish sophomore Colleen Rielley. Rielley dropped to 7-4 overall and 1-1 in dual matehes. 
The rollercoaster feel of the match continued as Irish junior Kelcy Tefft upended Commodores senior Taka Bertrand 6-3, 6-1 to give the Irish a 2-1 lead. Tefft improved to 6-3 overall and 2-0 in dual matches. 
The Commodores drew even at 2-2 when Irish sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu dropped her match to Vanderbilt senior Amanda Taylor 6-4, 6-2. Ciobanu now stands at 12-5 overall and 1­
1 in dual action. 

Irish junior Katie Potts pro­pelled Notre Dame to a 3-2 lead when she took down freshman Keilly Ulery in straight sets 7-5, 7­5, bringing her dual match record to 2-0 and 9-1 overall. 
Notre Dame needed to win only one of the final two matches, but the Irish couldn't capture the needed victory. 
Vanderbilt took the final two matches as Commodores senior Caroline Ferrell defeated Irish sophomore Kali Krisik 6-2, 6-4. The result of the match came down to the final singles ·contest, in which Vanderbilt sophomore Catherine Newman prevailed over Irish senior Brook Buck 4-6, 6-3, 6-2. Buck now stands at 4-6 on the year and 0-2 in dual matches. 
Louderback said his team struggled in singles play partly because of the performance of some of the Irish veterans. 
"We won two of the singles matches," Louderback said. "What we need to do is play bet­ter at the top of the lineup. Cosmina lost a tough one at No. 1, while Brook's match was a long and close one at No. 2. Colleen lost a winnable match at No. 3. 
"If we can play better at the top of the line-up, our chances of win­ning will be better." 
Notre Dame will conclude its three-match season-opening road slate against No. 23 Michigan Thursday in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

Opener 
continued from page 24 
stretch," Corrigan said. 
Robert Morris, which is in just its fourth season as a var­sity squad, put forth a strong effort but failed to find much success against the Irish. 
"They're still a growing pro­gram," Corrigan said. "I think they tried to force a few things early that didn't help them." 
The Irish displayed a bal­
anced offensive attack, and also had many defenders mak­ing plays. 
"We executed well on a lot of things we had worked on," Corrigan said. "We saw that we did those things pretty good and are ready to take on more." 
Notre Dame has a final tune­up Sunday with an exhibition against Bucknell before begin­ning the regular season Feb. 16 against Loyola. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, January 28, 2008 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Lopsided vvin sends seniors out in style 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
Notre Damn shellacknd Big Ew>t rival West Virginia on a day dedieated to sending the team's seniors out of tlwir last home meet in style. 
The 249-116 Irish victory improved the Irish to 4-7 on the season and put thmn at 2-l against Big 1\m;t foes. 
Bmtting West Virginia as badly as they did was a good sign for the Irish. 
"West Virginia is very good," Irish eoach Carrie Nixon said. "They have a lot of great under­dassmen and should be one of the better teams in the confer­ence." 
The seniors soaked in thfl moments of their final rngular season meet at Holl's Aquatic Center, as did Nixon. 
"This was the Jirsl class I had worked with for four straight years, lirst as an assistant and then <L'> their head mach." Nixon said. "This is the first group that we all went through tlw whole journey together." 
The Irish earned the top spot<; in 17 out of 20 event<;. Thirtmm of the victories came in individ­ualnvenL'> and fi1ur in relays. 
West Virginia served as a final tune-up for the team, as the Irish needed to get as much work as possible on their teeh­niques and timing before post­season competition. 
Notre Dame clocked in the top three times in both the 200-yard freestyle and the 100 breast­stroke. 
Surging junior Christa Riggins 
(1 :50.36) won the 200 freestyle and was followed closely by fel­low Irish freshman Lauren Sylvnster and junior Casey Wagner. 
Frnshman Sam Maxwp,JI ( 1 :02.61) won the 10 breast­strokp, for the fourth eonseeutive meet. Freshmen Amywren Miller and Lizzie Gormley rounded out the top three for thn evnnt. 
Thn Irish divers also farnd well against the Mountainners. They narned the first and see­ond spots in both the 1-meter and the 3-meter dives. 
Sophomore Natalie Stitt took first place in both the 1-metm 
(306.89) and the 3-meter 1315.00) dives. She was followed in both events by freshman t11ammatf1 Heidi Grossman, who earned scores of 276.60 in the 1-meter and 295.21 in the 3­meter. 
The Irish now have a long break before the Big East Championship in the Nassau County Aquatic Center in East MPadow, N.Y., from Feb. 20-23. They will be pursuing their 12th eonseeutive Big East title. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S TRACK 
Victory in last event seals a tie against MSU 
By ALEX BARKER and 
ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writers 
The Irish women's 4x400­meter rnlay team won the last event of the Notre Dame Invitational Friday at the Loftus Sports Center to clinch an over­all tie with Michigan State in the Invitational. 
Down by thren points to the Spartans with one event remaining, Notre Dame needed a win and a Michigan State third-place finish to pull even with the Spartans. The Irish relay team triumphed with a season-best time of 3:52.61, and they received help from Marquette, who edged out Michigan State for second place -allowing Notre Dame to slip into a tie with the Michigan State. Both squads finished the meet with 118 points. 
Still, Irish coach Tim Connelly said the competition did not reflect his•team's capability. 
"We still have a very long way to go to bP at full strength and dose to our full potentiat," Connelly said. 
Junior Anna Weber's domi­nation of' the throwing events was crucial to Notre Dame's success. Webnr got the meet started for the Irish by coming from bPhind to win the weight throw competition on her final attempt. ller winning toss of' 61 feet, 11 inches was not only a earner-long, hut it also quali­
tied her for the NCAA champi­
onship meet. 
Weber also finished strong for the Irish, taking the shot put title in the second-to-last event of the meet with a sea­son-long throw of 45 feet 10 inches. Teammate Jaclyn Espinoza also recorded her season-high mark in the shot put, finishing third and earning points that proved critical in the Irish comeback. 
Notre Dame's long-jumpers took the top three spots in their events, led by junior Alyissa Hasan, whose jump of 18 feet 9 inches was good for first place in the event. Sophomore Jaime Minor finished second with a leap of 18 feet 6 inches, and junior Mary Saxer came in third with a jump of 18 feet 3 inches. 
Connelly said the Irish will not let up anytime soon. 
"The big focus for us will be to continue to improve and continue to compete hard," Connelly said. "If we compete well against better competition, our times will continue to drop and we will start to work our way into a position where scor­ing well at the conference meet becomes realistic." 
The team will return to action Friday at the Indiana Invitational in Bloomington. Ind. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu and Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Hope bests Belles in clutch 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hung tough with 
the No. 1 team in Division Ill 
for all 60 minutes of Saturday's 
game. 
Unfortunately, hanging tough 
did not end up being enough, as 
the Belles lost to No. 1 Hope 
(17-0, 9-0 MIAA) 82-73 at the 
Angela Athletic Center. 
Though the Belles entered the 
game 0-21 all-time against the 
Flying Dutch. the first half 
looked promising for the home 
squad. Saint Mary's gained a 
10·4 lead early in the game, 
and after sophomore forward 
Anna Kammrath's layup put 
them up 16-14 with 9:08 to go, 
the Belles rode their lead into 
the locker room at halftime. 
Senior guard Alison Kessler, 
the reigning MIM player of the 
week. scored 10 of her team­
high 21 points before the break. 
Coming into Sunday's game, 
Kessler said. nerves were not a 
problem for the Belles. 
"We were very excited to play Hope and we knew that we could play with them," she said. "At halftime, we had even more eonfidence because we were up." 
The second half began with a barrage of scoring from the Flying Dutch, who turned their three-point halftime deficit into a 49-40 lead in just under five minutes. Senior guard Jordan Boles, who scored 10 of her game-high 27 points in those live minutes, led Hope's surge. 
The lead fluctuated a bit before a Boles three-pointer gave Hope a 10-point cushion with 8:34 to go in the game. But just as quickly as they'd lost the lead to begin the half, the Belles came storming back, with two Kessler free throws cutting the deficit to three with 

6:37 left. 

Though the lead eventually reached 10 again, the Belles regrouped once more. Junior forward Erin Newsom's jumper with 2:14 left in the game brought the score to 74-71. Unfortunately for the Belles, this was their last attempt at a comeback. Hope hit a few clutch free throws as the Belles could not get any of their last­ditch three-pointers to fall. 
Despite the loss, which was their second in a row, the Belles got another solid performance from their leaders. Kessler backed up her 21-point outing with seven assists and seven rebounds. Junior guard Katie Rashid netted 13 points. Kammrath finished with 12, and Newsom contributed 11 points and nine rebounds. 
Saint Mary's will look to rebound Wednesday night when the Belles head to Olivet. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 

Heat-Binding Course Packets PRINTING available on binding Produced & sold by OCL Services 
Pick-up and Delivery Service Available on Campus 
FAST+ FRIENDLY+ REASONABLE PRICES Full-Service On-Campus Locations: 301 O'Shaughnessy (copv30l@Jnd.cdu) 631-5632 235 Uccio Hall (dccioctr.Iw:>nd.cdu) 631-6672 
'*Nm'' offering charges to Student Accounts 
OPEN MONilAY through FRIDAY+ 8-5 Pl\1 
Methods of Payment Cash + Chccl\: + VlSA + Mastt.•rCard + FOAJ>AL + Student Account 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA\·1E• 
COLLEGE OJ' ARTS ANO l.E'ITEltS 
Design, Copy & Logistic (DCL) Services Serving our Notre Dame Community 
Quality Color Quality Black/White Copies & Transparencies Copies & Transparencies 
F~txes Scanning Personal & Departmental Black/White & Color 
Posters/Flyers/Brochures Comb-Binding Printing & Designing Various Sizes & Colors 
Quality Paper Choices Colors/Weight/Non-Acid 
Laminating Various sizes 
Cutting Services 
up to IT' 

-----------------------------------, 
Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame beats Mountaineers on senior day 
Squad took early lead, dominated afternoon competition; junior Michael Bulfin breaks school record on 3-meter board 
By CHRIS DOYEN and 
ELLYN MICHALAK 
Sports Writers 
Victory never felt so sweet for Notre Dame's seven seniors. 
Notre Dame led after the morning session and dominated the afternoon session of the Shamrock Dual Meet Invitational Saturday en route to a 214-150 victory over West Virginia on senior day for the Irish. 
The seniors went out on a high note while swimming in front of a home crowd for the last time. 
"Everybody likes to win," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "But I think probably the most impor­tant thing for us yesterday was to swim well and have fun. We like being at home." 
The Irish snagged six individ­ual titles along with a record­breaking dive by junior Michael Bulfin in the 3-meter board. Bulfin broke the school-record with a score of 393.37. 
The Irish swept the 200-yard freestyle, ·securing the top six spots. Sophomore John Lytle won, followed by sophomore Patrick Lloyd, senior Rob Seery, freshman Robert Kingery, fresh­man Steven Brus and freshman Joseph Deters won the 1,650 freestyle in 15:57.12 and took the top spot in the 500 freestyle. 
Notre Dame also captured all four point-earning positions in the 200 butterfly, and it domi­nated the day's relay races. Notre Dame earned the top two spots in the 800 freestyle and 400 freestyle, and the Irish won the 200 freestyle relay. 
In the same diving event in which Bulfin set the school record, senior Sam Stoner came in second, followed by freshman Wesley Villaflor. 
On the 1-meter diving boards, Bulfin, Stoner and senior Steven Crowe earned the top three spots, respectively. 
Welsh said he was happy to defeat the Mountaineers, who won the Shamrock Invitational last year. 
"[West Virginia] has a smaller roster than they did last year," Welsh said. "Nevertheless, we wanted to see how we match up with them, and it was good to come out on top." 
The Irish are now 4-1 in the series versus the Mountaineers. 
The Irish will next head to East Meadow, N.Y., on February 20-23 to compete in the Big East Conference Championship. The Irish have finished in top four of the tournament each of the past 10 years. Notre Dame won the title in the 2005-06 season before a second place finish last year. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALLARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES 
Sell Trips, Eam Cash 
&Travel Free 


1·800-648-4849 
www.sl$lravel.rom 
11!1!

Aim 
I 

At Ernst & Young, we encourage you to shoot for the sky. You'll gain invaluable experience helping us deliver quality services to world-class clients, and with each new challenge, you'll take another step towards a great future. Next stop: the top. 
Move on up to growth and success. 
Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers and our Faceboolccom group. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 28, 2008 
FENCING 
Irish fall to rival Ohio State at NYU 
By KEN FOWLER Spons Writer 
Hound 1 goes to Ohio State. 

The Buckeyes, Notre Dame's bit­ter rivals. went 12-0 and in the process topped the Irish in both tho men's and wom"n's eompnti­tions Saturday at the NYU Duals, t.hn most important team event of the rn~-,ru lar season. 
"Ohio Statn, it looks at this point as the strongest team in the nation," Notrn Damn eoaeh .Janusz B1~dnarski said. "By night. by day, Uwy havn a lot of seniors." 
The Notre Damn women, ranked No. 1 in the first U.S. FPndng Coadws A'isodation poll. lost to thn Bueknyns and to Columbia, linishing the eompeti­tion third with a record of 4-2. The Irish mnn. rankml No. 3, lost only to Ohio State -and by a single bout. 
"This year is still open, but we an~ not having a separation from thn mmpntition," BI'Clnarski said. "We are not the strong1~st at this point, hut we an• not the weaknst." 
Tlw Buckeyes topp1~d the Irish women 15-12. and Columbia beat the Notre Damn women by the same seo rn. 
The Irish fimced without sopho­more epeeist Kelley llurlny, who eompetnd in Europn as part of her push to make thP U.S. Olympir. t1~am fi1r thn 200X Beijing Games. Vanessa Hosa, who fenced in llurley's absence, went 0-3 against the Buckeyes; she would have 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
and did not give up any real seoring chances. 
"It was good sign for us to come out and play a strong l'irst period," Thang said. "We hadn't been doing that at the beginning of the year." 
And Notre Dame didn't stop after the l'irst period. Senior captain Mark Van Guilder, freshman Calle Hidderwall, and junior Christian Hanson added goals before the final horn sounded. 
With the outeome no longer in doubt in thn third period, the play took on a more 
.-physical tone. Bowling Green forward Todd Mellrath took an apparent cheap shot at Irish goalin Jordan Pearce 
X: 11 into thf~ pnriod. Notre Damn senior Brock Sheahan stood up for his teammate. sparring with Mellrath. Both players rncnivnd two-minute roughing penalties. 
Thn violence escalated nine minutns later. wlwn Sheahan was whistled for a slash on Mellrath. !'lavers from both tnams excha.nged blows in front of Bowling Green's bench. Whnn all was said and done, six players rPenived I0-minute miscon­duct penaltiHs for their involvement. 
"I think that something should havP benn done !after l'narco was run overt." Jackson said. ··our team will protect <Ill~ ~oalie if the ref­eree doesn t. 
Though Jackson expected the emotions to spill over to Saturday night, only two 
needed a 2-1 mark for the Irish to win. 
"We should look a little bit stronger on the women's side," Bednarski said of an Irish squad with I Iurley's pmsence. "But who kno~s? Even a great fencer can lose. 
Bednarski said the mixed results were indkative of the strong level of competition among the nation's top schools. Besides Ohio State and Columbia, top-1 0 teams from St. John's, Yale and Northwestern also eompnted in New York. 
"It's very tough competition," Bednarski said. "It's very tough. We simply were lighting to the end in all the crucial competitions." 
The Buckeyes men's and women's squads will probably take over the No. 1 national ranking. Columbia, meanwhile, went 4-1 on the women's side and 2-3 in the men's competition. 
Ilistory indicates that Saturday's result might not predict how the season-ending NCAA Championships in March will turn out. The Irish had great difficulty with the Buckeyes in 2007 but fin­islwd l(mrth to Ohio Statn's lillh in the title competition. 
"It's not final. We will probably have diflimmt msult'i in the NCAA competition," Bednarski said. "But, believe me, it's not easy. 
"We have a lot of work to do.... But, you know, let's fence. We'll see." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
penalties were called in the first period of the second game, neither for excessively violent conduct. 
Notre Dame's newfound 
power-play spark continued 
as the Irish netted another 
two goals with the man 
advantage, both from fresh­
man Ben Ryan. 
Ryan put the Irish up 1-0 
4:33 into the first period after he slammed home a rebound of a Kyle Lawson slap shot. 
After freshman Jan Cole beat Falcon goalie Jimmy Spratt on his glove side to put the Irish up 2-0, Bowling Green mounted a comeback when forward Dan Sexton beat Pearce on a shorthand­ed breakaway at 11:58 of the second period. 
But any Falcon hopes were quickly put to rest by Ryan, who tallied three points total on the night. Hyan received Kissel's pass all alone on Spratt's right side and buried a shot under the crossbar. 
An empty net goal from sophomore Kevin Deeth wrapped up the scoring for the Irish. who said they are relieved to have regained their offensive rhythm. 
"We're pretty exeited," Thang said. "To finally get some goals is a big sigh of relief." 
Notre Dame will be in action again Friday when it takes on the U.S. Under-18 National Team in the Joyce Center. The Irish do not have another CCHA game until facing off' against Ferris State on Feb. 8. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

St. Thomas Aquinas 
('Lessonsfrom Aquinas on the War in Iraq" 
Featuring Professor Tilnothy Renick Chair, Dept. of Religious Studies, Georgia State University Author ofAquinasfor Armchair Theologians Saint Mary's College • Notre Dame, Indiana 
-t~J­

Welsh Parlor, Haggar College Center 
SAINT 

Tonight at 7:00P.M.
MARY'S 

Free and open to the public
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

This Symposium is sponsored by the joyce Mclv1ahon Hank
www.saintmarys.edu 

Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology. 
00479 Chilie_qtrad-ND_v4.indd 1  Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 271.1330 • Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to clo:>e.  1/23/08 3:19:14 PM  


Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


Otl SALE tiOW! 
STEVE" CORTIS 
HfiPMA 


Uv'l In This Moment Tour Sunday Horch 9 • 7:00PM Morris Pvrforming firts Cvntvr Ott SALE ttOW! 
CtiU~Ct1 G~OUPS WELCOME 
574/Zl5-9190 

Villanova's late charge, the Irish built the lead behind
Wildcats Charles 
McAlarney's sweet shooting. continued from page 24 The junior guard was 1 0-of­
continued from page 24 
16 from the field and 5-of-9 court press, which had been on 3-point attempts. 
Charles was also able to suffocating throughout the "I was aggressive the 
work well against Notre second half. Ayers found an whole game," McAlarney 
Dame's attempts to double­open Luke Harangody under said. "I didn't want to turn 
team her because of a lack of the basket for an easy dunk down any shots. I just want­
execution on Notre Dame's and a lead the Irish would ed to go for it." 
part. not relinquish. McAlarney said he enjoyed 
"We knew we had to double­"They were pressing hard playing at Philadelphia's 
team her to stop her and we and they cut it to six when I Wachovia Center, which has 
weren't able to get the other got that last dunk so that an NBA-length 3-point line 
person down there," McGraw was a big play," Harangody as well as a college line. He 
said. said. "Ryan was able to get made several jumpers from 
McGraw took the blame for the ball up-court and that behind the professional arc. 
her team's inability to stop was a big play for us." "Not too many other people 
Charles down low, saying she The dunk can step out 
should have worked more on was one of that far," 
preventing the 6-foot-4 sopho­several sec­McAlarney 
more from getting the ball. 
"Evryone did their job 
ond-half slams said. "It's kind 
Charles said playing down for the sopho­and that,s what we of a challenge 
low was just a big part of more forward, need to get those big for me ... to 
Huskies coach Geno who had one keep stepping 
Auriemma's game plan all sea­
wins. 

over Villanova back." 
son. forward Dante The Irish 
"Coach [Auriemma]·always Cunningham Kyle McAiarney gave up 80 
tells the post players to be three minutes Irish guard points but held 
aggressive in the lane and 
earlier. Harangody received a pass from senior Rob Kurz and put it in despite being fouled by Cunningham. Cunningham fouled out on the play, and Harangody converted the free throw to put the Irish ahead 76-62. 
"That was a big part of the game," Harangody said. "Rob gave me a great pass and luckily I was able to fin­ish." 
Irish coach Mike Brey said Harangody's presence allowed the Irish to spread out the Wildcats defense. 
"We were able to play inside-out off of Harangody," Brey said. "When we can do that, we're really pretty good and can play with just about anybody." 
Harangody finished with 25 points and 10 rebounds. But while the big man's play was the key to holding off have been called on Barlow's layup attempt. 
"That play really affected the morale of the team," she said. "We lost it for a few minutes there and that's something that we need to learn --to weather that storm a little bit better." 
Barlow said she remembered 
UNt:AN 
ALL the play but didn't know for certain if she was fouled or not. 

The game seemed to start off as a game of one-on-one between Allen and Huskies 

Virginia 
continued from page 24 
to Cavaliers freshman Sanam
pplications Available 
Singh, giving the Cavaliers a 3-1 edge. Anderson was serving for the
for men interested in 
first set at 5-3, but couldn't hang on 
and lost 7-5, 6-1. 
Vtrginia's No. 1, senior Somdev Devvarman, clinched the win for the Cavaliers when he defeated Irishjunior Brett Helgeson 6-4, 6-3. 
"Helgeson had a tough match 
applying to live in Duncan Hall 
to complete your application visit 
against Toledo [on Jan. 20] that he learned from," Bayliss said. "Their
homeu nderthedome. nd. ed u 
No. 2 ran everything down, and 
before Thursday, February 7, 2008 
forced Brett to come in." 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Learn more about Notre Dame's newest living option 
orlh.nd.edu 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building 1 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
Irish senior Andrew Roth fell to Cavaliers senior Trent Huey 6-7 (4­7), 6-2, 6-3 in the day's longest match. Roth battled back after being down 5-2 in the first set and won it in a tiebreaker. Huey was able to regain his composure and dominate the la'it two sets. 
"Roth can really make you work," Bayliss said. "Once he sinks his teeth into a match, he doesn't let go." 
The Irish held early leads in all three of the doubles matches but freshman guard Maya Moore. At the first official timeout, with Connecticut leading 15­11, Moore had scored all 15 Huskies points and Allen had nine of Notre Dame's. 
While Allen remained a pres­ence in Notre Dame's offense the rest of the night, Moore dis­appeared, finishing with only those 15 points she scored in the opening minutes of the game. 
One reason for Moore's drought was McGraw's switch from a standard 2-3 zone to the triangle-and-two and box­and-one defense to try and stop the guard from getting any more easy looks. Moore said she has to play better when going up against unconvention­al defenses like the ones she saw Sunday night. 
"I think I should find other ways to score when they are throwing those different types of defenses at me," she said. "I have to find other ways to be productive offensively like crashing the boards for offen­sive rebounds." 
Despite giving up 81 points for the second consecutive game, McGraw said she feels her team has improved consid­erably on defense, especially when compared to its game against Tennessee on Jan. 5. 
McGraw also said she no longer feels her team is "the worst defensive team in the Big East" --her sentiment after the Irish lost 81-80 on Jan. 22 against DePaul. 
"I think we see that we're more of a zone team," McGraw said. "We had some success with the zone tonight so I think 
we need to look at that tonight."  
Notes +Freshman  forward  

Devereaux Peters had her first collegiate double-double Sunday night, but still thought that she could have played bet­ter. 
"I still have to work on my fouls," she said. "That's a major problem for me. I feel like that's really hurting the team a lot." 
+Sunday night's game was a sellout -the second this sea­son for Notre Dame and the fifth in team history. The first this season was against Tennessee on Jan. 5. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


Reynolds, the 
reigning Big 

East player of the week, to 13 points on 5­of-13 shooting. 
"He got some buckets at the end of the game but I thought we did a great job on him," Harangody said. "Going into the game, that was probably our main con­cern." 
Kurz scored 12 points and Ayers chipped in 10 points off the bench for the Irish. Sophomore point guard Tory Jackson added nine points and seven assists while com­mitting just two turnovers. 
"Everyone did their job and that's what we need to get those big wins, McAlarney said. "Everyone contributed and that's really what we need down the road." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
dominate as much as you can and that's what I did," she said. 
Connecticut was able to maintain a healthy lead throughout most of the second halfbecause of its defense. 
The biggest scare Notre Dame gave Connecticut in the second half came at the 8:28 mark when the Irish were down by 12. Irish guard Ashley Barlow drove hard to the bas­ket and attempted a layup, which was blocked by Huskies forward Charde Houston. The Huskies took the ball down the court on a fast break when Montgomery pulled up from behind the 3-point line and nailed a shot that put Connecticut up by 15 and forced Notre Dame to use a timeout. 
McGraw and Auriemma both said the play was a big momentum swing that helped decide the outcome of the game. 
McGraw said the play was also big because a foul could couldn't earn the doubles point. 
Parbhu and Helgesonjumped out 
to an early 3-2 lead over 
Devvarman and Huey, the nation's 
best doubles team. The Cavaliers 
took the match by a score of8-4. 
The Irish duo of Tyler Davis and 
Santiago Montoya had an early 2-1 
lead at the No. 3 doubles position. 
However, Angelinos and Cavaliers 
sophomore Lee Singer were up for 
the challenge and continued 
VIrginia's dominanm in rolling to an 
8-4 victory. 
"I am pleased with the doubles," 
Bayliss said. "!No. 3] doubles did a 
great job; they make a lot of balls, 
and responded well. I am also 
pleased with our No. 2 team [Roth 
and Havens]." 
Roth and Havens fell into an early 

hole by suffering two early breaks of 
serve. 'They dropped their match to 
Inglot and sophomore Houston 
Barrick. 
This wa'i only the 11th time the 
Irish have faced the No. 1 ranked 
team in the nation. With the loss to 
the Cavaliers, the h'ish fall to 1-10 · against No. 1 ranked teams. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 28, 2008 

...,_ Celebrity intern club.* 
pwc.tv/©frTill
Newbies now playing on www.pwc.tv/ch1 
*connectedthinking 
C 2008 PrlcewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PrlcewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limHed liabimy partnership) or, as the context requires. the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which Is a separate and independent legal entity. ·connectedthinklng is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Monday, January 28, 2008 TheOI:m"ve-+T 0 DAY page23 
BLACK DoG 
TH~E E IS MIS"S AME-Rtc.A'
, THEJ::E SHE-IS', You]t. I'!>E/t.L. .. 
C..oi'J'-'-A.TVI..AToo"-'5, J<.ii!.STEN! AS MISS AM~ICA Yo" Wl~I­HAVE THE orPo~t.T'vrHTY To WoRK. ON ISSVES oF ,,...,o~''"'"=• 
T~ So<-ll>Tl'· ~--­
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

RICH PROTIVA& ANDYSPANGLER 
Y6AH W61V6 A(...(... HAD OU12 (...OW POINTS-1461.-1.-1 ONC6 :r W6NT OV612 TO Dlt-t.-ON DI2UNK AND SAID I WAS AN 1<:-A-..lUST SO I COUI.-D 11CONf'ISCAT6 11 At-!.-TH6112 t-IQUOI2­
I HAD S6NT SIX GUYS TO 1<:6St..lf'6­


59 Groups of spies 
60 Fails to keep pace 
61 Without: Fr. 
Down "I ___ sorry!" 2 Hawaiian cookout 3 Homeowners' burdens 4 Like clocks with hands 5 Shipment to a steel mill 6 Home of the Cowboys, 
familiarly 7 "Sad to say ... " 8 _judicata 9 Spread out 
ungracefully 1 0 Isle of Man's locale 11 Rumba or samba 12 Mystery writer's award 13 Swiss city on the Rhine, old-style 18 Dwellers along the Volga 
19 Working stiff 
23 French city 
where Jules 
Verne was born 
24 Alaskan city where the lditarod ends 
25 Angers 26 Raises or lowers a hem, say 
WILL SHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
~00~ 


-
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
VERPO 
1 

rJ b
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc 
~~~tf~t) 

ENTELG lu(J I 
www.jumble.com 
REHAWL 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ 1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: rI I ] " rI I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's l Jumbles: JOLLY RUMMY MURMUR HYBRID Answer: What Junior used when he helped Mom with the dishes -"DRY" HUMOR 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Tamlyn Tomita, 42; Alan Cumming, 43; Bridget Fonda, 44; Cris Collinsworth, 49 
Happy Birthday: You will know exactly what you need to do to get what you want this year: Don't press fo!Ward with a negative attitude that will leave you with regrets. Concentrate on what will bring you the highest rewards. This is the time to step things up a notch and sprint to the finish line. Your numbers are 6, 
15, 21' 24, 28, 43 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't overstep your bounds by meddling in other people's affairs. Put your time and effort into your own relationships. A short trip will lead to an interesting purchase or information. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If there is something you want, someone _you want to meet or a trip you want to take, now is the time to engage. Don't get mvolved in a group or an organization that is asking for your soul, emotionally and finan­cially. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make headway if you push your own ideas. Do your research and put extra effort into your presentation and you will be able to win over some of your most difficult critics. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are likely to make mistakes if you let someone talk you into something you don't feel good about doing. A secret dealing with someone will excite you but will make you feel guilty. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money is heading in your direction from a particularly unusual source. You can tum one of your ideas into a profitable commodity. Someone you respect in your field will help you if you ask for assistance. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should put a little thought into your future voca­tion. You can make some moves if you answer jobs posted on the Internet or you work on your resume. Love and romance are in the stars so leave time to meet someone new or to nurture your current relationship. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't count on getting any help. Ifthere is something you really want to do, go it alone and you will be pleased with the results. If you expect too much from anyone, you will be disappointed. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stick to the tried-and-true. Ifyou take a chance on someone or something you are unfamiliar with, it won't work to your '!'lvantage. The stable, responsible people who have never Jet you down are the ones who will help you fmd your way. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The more you delve into the possibilities by viewing what others are doing in other geographical locations, the easier it will be to put your finger on what will work for you on your own turf. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are in a good position whether you know it or not. A conservative deal will be the one that has the greatest potential even though something a little different may tempt you. Don't Jet your emotions slow you down or hold you back. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Try something you've wanted to do for some time. You'll surprise yourself and everyone watching as your ideas and hard work unfold. Now is the perfect time to make a residential move, alteration or change. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be asked to keep something a secret. Be honest about your position and whether or not you can do what's being asked of you. Someone you work with may overreact. Be careful how you proceed. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are curious, channing, aggressive and emotional. You know when to take action and when to hold back. You are a brave, caring peacemaker. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor jun. eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations 
--:; 

CROSSWORD 
Across mater 5 Letter-shaped structural piece 9 Lesser-played half of a 45 4 Elementary 
particle 5 Vex 6 Gucci alternative 
17 Upstate New York city and 

37 Leaves port 38 Bygone U.S. gas brand 39Mother_, 1979 Peace 
Nobelist 41 Napkin's place 42 Former 
president of Harvard 45 Kodak, Pentax and Nikon 48 The ''L" in S.&L. 49 Is wild about 
50 Mythical island that sank into the sea 
54 Comic who played Robin Williams's son in "Mork & Mindy" 
56 Auto route from Me. to Fla. 
57 1930s migrant 58Smell_(be suspicious) 

27 Passionate 39 Garbage 31 Time before 
40 Besmirches 
talkies 

43 Mountain ridges 
32 Banned orchard 

44 Powerful rays 
spray 

45 Louisianan of 
33 Letter carriers' 

French descent 
grp. 

46 Get of one's 
35 Broad-minded 

own medicine 37 Pago Pago 47 Pre-stereo resident recordings 
50 Paul who sang "Put Your Head on My Shoulder" 
51 Tiny branch 
52 Tehran's home 
53 Coneordes, briefly 
55 "You've got mail" co. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, January 28, 2008 
page 24 
-
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Philadelphia flyers 
Irish get first league road win at Villanova 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Junior guard Kyle McAlarney scored 30 points and Notre Dame held off a late rally by No. 18 Villanova Saturday for a 90-80 victory, its first Big East road win of the season. 
The trish were blown out in their first two conference road games against Marquette and Georgetown but were in control for most of the contest against the Wildcats. 
"I think we've learned how to play on the road a little bit the past two games," McAiarney said. "We took those two losses to heart. We didn't want that to happen to us again." 
Notre Dame led comfortably for most of the second half. but Villanova guard Scottie Hcynolds drove to the basket for an easy layup with 49 sec­onds !crt to cut Notre Dame's lead to 84-78. 
On tlw next Irish posses­sion, junior forward Ryan Ayers broke the Wildcats full-
see WILDCATS/page 21 

AP Irish forward Luke Harangody pulls down a rebound during the second half of Notre Dame's 90-80 win over Villanova Saturday at the Wachovia Center. Harangody scored 25 points in the game. 
HOCKEY 
Squad breaks out of scoring slump, reaches 20-win mark 
bounces, which we haven't Dame 20 on the season, swatted away by Bowling starting to come in."
By SAM WERNER 

been getting for the last marking the first time the Green defenseman Tim Thang added another 
Sports Writer 
three weeks," Notre Dame Irish have had back-to-hack Maxwell. The third try was power-play goal at 18:58 of coach Jeff Jackson said. "It 20-win seasons in the pro­the charm for the Irish as the first period to give Notre 
Notre Dame broke out of its felt good to get a few goals in gram's 40-year history. sophomore Ryan Thang Dame a 3-0 lead. Erik Condra IPngthy offensive slump this the net." Sophomore Dan Kissel took received Maxwell's attempted had put the Irish up 2-0 with weekend, beating Bowling In the process, the Irish a shot from the left circle clear in the slot and slammed a laser from the right circle Creen h-1 and 4-1 in the (20-9-1, 13-6-1 CCHA) busted that was saved by Falcon it past Eno to put the Irish up that banged off the crossbar .Ioyce Center. The 10 goals out of an 0-for-39 power-play goalie Nick Eno 8:23 into the 1-0 and end the power-play and over Eno's glove. are two more than the Irish slump that extended back to first period of Friday night's drought. The Irish outshot Bowling had seored in their previous a 7-0 thrashing of Princeton game. Junior Erik Condra "We were doing the simple Green 16-2 in the first period six games combined. on Dec. 8. attempted to put home the things," Thang said. "It's just 
"We got some lucky The two wins give Notre rebound, but his shot was hard work and they're finally see OFFENSE/page 20 
·­
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fall to No. 1 UConn 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
With 11:12 left in the first half, Irish center Melissa D'Amico nailed a baseline fade­away jump shot to bring the Irish level with No. 1 Connectieut at 21-21. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, that was the last field goal it would hit in the next 10:52. 
The Irish uventually fell to the Huskies 81-64 Sunday at the .Ioyce Centnr. 
The top-ranked Huskies took control defnnsively in the first half and pounded th11 ball inside to center Tina Charles as part of a 22-6 run heading into the intermission. 
Irish guard Charel Allen (5-of­14 shooting for 11 points) said the Connecticut defense clamped down during that run, forcing Notre Dame to take bad shots. 
"Their defense was great. A lot of shots I took I was rush­ing," she said. "A lot of them I just didn't hit, but [Irish coach Mufl"et McGraw] wanted me to eon tin ue to shoot." 
The Irish held strong early in the Connecticut run and man­aged to stay within seven points for two-and-a-half minutes while Huskies guard Renee Montgomery -who averages 12 points and four assists per game-sat on the bench. 
But McGraw said her team failed to take advantage of the opportunity. 
"That was when -with Montgomery out of the game ­that we really needed to make a run," McGraw said. "And that's where you just got to find some­body to score and unfortunately we couldn't find anyone." 
After four Irish free throws brought Notre Dame back to within live points, the Huskies offense found its footing by rely­ing on Charles in the post. 
Charles -who finished with a game-high 22 points in addi­tion to eight boards and a block -took advantage of Notre Dame's triangle-and-two and box-and-one defenses and dom­inated in the low post. 
see CHARLES/page 21 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
Laxers feel good about 
• 

scnnunage 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sporrs Writer 

Notre Dame began its first competition of the year Sunday by putting on an impressive performance in an exhibition against Robert Morris. 
The Irish, ranked fifth in the Lacrosse Magazine preseason poll, controlled the scrimmage from the outset. While score was not kept for the contest, Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said the team "got up early" and never let up. 
Corrigan said he was pleased with the team's overall per­formance against the Colonials. 
"We haven't had a chance to break down the film yet, but I thought we did a pretty good job of playing at a good level and playing there consistently," he said. 
With several players unable to play in the scrimmage, the Irish showed their depth with many players contributing on both ends. 
"It's nice to know we have guys ready to step in and give us that depth down the 
see OPENER/page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team drops match to top-ranked Cavaliers 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame fell 5-2 to No. 1 VIrginia at home on Sunday, but sen­ior Sheeva Parbhu was a bright spot for the Irish. 
Parbhu defeated Cavaliers junior No. 3 Dominie lnglot 6-1, 6-1, which tied the match at a point apieee after the Irish dropped the doubles point. Parbhu took a 3-0 lead in the first set and continued tO roll from there. 
"Parbhu was an All-American la'>i year," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "He is one of two players we have that can play [number] one singles." 
To compliment Parbhu's victory, freshman Stephen Haven<> pulled out a close mateh li>r the second singles win lor the Irish. 
Havens fell behind llarly, but went on to win 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. 
Fellow freshman Daninl Stahl did not have as much luck against Virginia senior Teddy Angelinos, falling 6-1, 6-3 at No.6 singlns. 
"St;lhl needs to work on keeping the ball out of the middle of the r.ourt," Bayli'i'> said. "Havenc; needs to f>iay in the rallins longnr, and use his shot<> to hi<; advantage." 
Irish freshmm1 David Anderson Iilli 
see VIRGINIA/page 21 
--------------------. 

ER NSIDER 
OTHE 
Monday, January 28, 2008 BSERVER Winter Career Expo 2008 

wednesday
january30 

12:00 -2:30 prn 
diversityreception 
a networking opportunityfor students and organizations embracing diversity 
monogram room, joyce center· 
all are welcome to attend 
4:00 -8:00 prn 
career& internship fair 
joyce center fieldhouse 
student 10 required 

findoutrnore! 
The Career Center 
careercenter.nd.edu 
UNJVERS!TY OF NOTRE DAME 
event. c;OI.Ieg~:~·~~-miijit~F·:ialdi!DIIills :"-.IJ...:cimS,
'~"<' X>"r.v >'• /'',~'=::;' *'-~'.-..J"",, ''*},,,,J';:$'"='*~),~ ', :L~ ,, ~, :;E,: .,::~Q4~'~,~~'.(,, ''" ',:,t"' ,',• '~,';:,'-')'~~~ft._.:..;~',) :;!-'.;' ""'!; ,.,.,.., :' 

page 2 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 28, 2008 
wednesday
winter 
. careeran: fair 

1nternsh1p 
& diversit receptio 
12 PR1 -2:30 PR1 
diversity reception 
How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a resume that markets your background and skills 
• 
Visit The Career Center in 248 Flanner Hall during walk-in hours from 1 -4:45 pm daily for a 15 minutes resume review 

• 
Stop by "Resumes on the Run" .January 22nd, 24th and 29th from 11:30 am-I :30 pm in LaFortune 


2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Attend a "Preparing for the Career Fair" workshop 

• 
Determine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list ofcompanies attending the fair on Go IRISH and compile your "Top 10" list ofcompanies to visit 

• 
Review the position descriptions on Go IRISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission statements, annual reports, and new products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking, relationship-building skills 

• 
Develop your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, I'm ..( introduce yourself, your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is..( demonstrate knowledge ofcompany) 

• 
I'm interested because ..(explain your interest in company) 

• 
I can ..(match your skills with their needs) 




3. What to do the day of the fair 
• At the fair: 

• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies ofyour resume in a portfolio/folder to Gate 3 ofthe Joyce Center 

• 
Scan your ID when you enter 

• 
Review the map ofemployer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview 

(i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the position, l am interested in speaking with you or one of your colleagues further. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule at The Career Center?") 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the fair 
• 
If you obtain an interview: 

• 
Prepare by researching the company, it's indus­try, it's competitors, and the job or internship description on Go IRISH 

• 
Review The Career Center's Interview Guide and be sure to practice sample interviewing questions available online 

• 
Ifyou have a web cam, practice interviewing using "Interview Stream" at http:// careercenter.nd.edulfor-undergrads/resumes­cover-letters-interview 



• 
Within 3 days ofthe fair, send an email thank-you to the recruiters with companies of interest from which you collected business cards 



The Career Center 
t!NlVERSil'Y Of NOTRE 
Tuesday, January 29th Em pi oyer Presentations 
Rothstein Kass  :1.2:00 pm  
Boeing Company  5:00pm  
UNITE HERE  7:00pm  
Museum of Contemporary Art  7:00pm  
Relay Worldwide  8:00 pm  
Weber Shandwick Worldwide  8:00 pm  
National Space Biomedical Research Institute  8:00 pm  

For information on other Information Sessions this week, please log into Go IRISH, click on the 'Event' tab, click on 'Information Session' tab. 
Remaining Workshops 
Resumes on the Run Monday, January 28 
3:00-5:00 pm 104 0'Shaughnessy 
Sophomores-Preparing for the Career Fair Monday, January 28 7:30-8:00 pm G-20 Flanner Hall 
Writing Your First Resume & Cover Letter Monday, January 28 
8:00-8:30 pm G-20 Planner Hall 
Resumes on the Run Tuesday, January 29 
11 :30-1 :30 pm Dooley Room, LaFortune 
Walk-in Hours In The Career Center Monday & Tuesday 1 :00-----4:45 pm 248 Planner Hall 
For more information on writing your resume, preparing for an interview, and much more: http://careercenter.nd.edu 
Notre Dame Rm LaFortune 258 Fitzpatrick :1.25 DeBartolo 
:1.:1.6 DeBartolo 
:1.3:1. DeBartolo :1.3:1. DeBartolo 
:1.38 DeBartolo 
Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 3 
If you obtain an interview the day following the fair, are you prepared? 
Follow these steps and you are well on your way to landing that job or internship. 
Begin by reviewing your resume Think about the skills you want to highlight and how you • Use the STAR technique + have developed them. Be specific. ! to help you answer interview questions : 
+ SITUATION-Class project, student activity, volunteer experience, job +
Utilize Go IRISH to learn more about the specific job or internship posting 
+ TASK -Goal, problem to be solved, improvement to be made + 
• 
Login to Go IRISH (top right hand corner ofcareercen­ter.nd.edu) with your NetiD and Password : AcTION -Planning & implementing to reach goal, problem solving used : 

• 
Click on "Jobs/Internships" and hit Go IRISH jobs from the pull down menu 


•+ REsuLT -The outcome, influences, changes •+ 
• In the box labeled "Keywords" type Company Name, and click "Search" 
Always prepare questions to ask the interviewerConduct company and Industry research 
1. 
To what extent will I detern1ine my work objectives? 

2. 
Describe the rotational training program associated with this posi­


The Vault Online Career Library 
tion/internship. What career paths have others generally followed 
https:jI careercenter2.nd.edu/ cslibrary.php 
after completing the program? 
Contains insider company information, advice, and career man­
3. As an intern, what kind ofprojects will I receive? 
agement services. Includes an extensive selection ofcareer, 
4. What characteristics best describe individuals who are successfulindustry, and employer guides and articles. 
in this position? CareerSearch 5. Where could a person advance who is successful in this position? 
https:/I careercenter2.nd.edu/ csllbrary.php Within what time frame? Provides access to a networking database ofover 2 million com­6. How is job performance evaluated? panies nationwide. Search for information on a particular com­7. What has been the professional growth track for other students pany, industry, or location using a variety of search options. who have been recruited by your company over the past 3-5 
years?

Factiva Company news, financial Information, and more http:/jwww.library.nd.edu Dress for success with business formal attire 
Men~

• 
Click on F 


• 
Select Factiva • Wear a suit-Jacket and trousers. Dark, solid colors are best 

• 
Once in Factiva, select the Companies/Markets-Company (black, navy, dark gray). Quick Search tab • Wear a pressed white or blue collared shirt. 

• 
Click on Company • Be sure your shoes are polished. A void wearing gym shoes. 

• 
Type in the name • Choose a tie that compliments your suit. Be fairly conservative with the pattern. 


Market Insight 
• It is key to have your clothing pressed. 
Contains excellent Industry information 
• Have your hair well-groomed and brushed. 
http:/jwww.llbrary.nd.edu 
• Click on M and Select Market Insight 
Women: 

• Once within Market Insight, select Industry from the top • Wear a suit with a jacket and skirt or pants. Try to wear conserva­toolbar tive colors. It is important to not stand out for the wrong reasons • From the pull down menu, click appropriate industry and (i.e. a skirt too short or an inappropriate color such as fuchsia).
select Go! 

• Choose a collared shirt or top with a modest neckline. Avoid tank 
tops or camisoles. Review potential interview questions and come • Light perfume is a nice touch {the key word being light). up with possible answers using examples • Wear a hairstyle that is neat and well-groomed. Avoid fly aways 
or hair blocking your eyes.
I. Why are you interested in our organization? 
2. What work experience has been the most valuable to you 
Remember to always.••
and why? 

have a firm handshake and
3. 
Give an example ofa problem you have solved and the process you used. maintain good eye contact. 

4. 
Describe a situation in which you had a conflict with an­You only have one chance to make a first impression! other individual and how you dealt with it. 

5. 
What idea have you developed and implemented that was particularly creative or innovative? 

6. 
How did you choose to attend Notre Dame and how did you select your major(s) in ? 

7. 
How do you think you have changed personally in the past Interview Preparation Resources 

(5) years? at 

8. 
Tell me about a team project of which you are particularly proud and your contribution. careercenter.nd.edu 

9. 
What types of situations put you under pressure and how do you deal with the pressure? 


~ 

I 0. Describe a leadership role you have held and tell me why you committed your time to it. Short Interview Preparation Workshop video 
II. What challenges are you looking for in a position? download accompanying powerpoint 
12. 
What three trends do you see in the future for our industry? 

1
3. Tell me about yourself. 


14. 
Why do you want to work in (career field)? Interview Guide 

15. 
What is your greatest strength/weakness and how will it affect your perfonnance in this program? 

16. 
Why should I hire you? 


Interview Stream 
(There are many more sample questions in our 
using a webcam, conduct a 
lntervieH' Guide) 
virtual mock interview 

page 4 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 28, 2008 
You're smart, youlre prepared, and above all, you're responsible. And you want to work for acompany who's responsible, too. Thafs where Uberty Mutual comes in. For us, responsibility means letting you actively apply what you've learned to a 
-position where your contribution really counts. It means providing you with the training, on-the-job experience, and support so that you can succeed. It means professional growth and promotions based on your contribution. And, it means fostering aculture of integrity and upholding our distinct mission to help our customers live safer, more secure lives. 
For more information visit us at the Winter Career and Internship Fair on January 30th and online at www.libertymutual.com/getstarted 
Inclusion is the answer. Liberty Mutual is an equal opportunity employer. 
Responsibility. What's your policy?" 
Libertx 
Mutual. 
'=ffll'if~ TruePartn.ers· 
111111 C 0 N S U L T I N G 
Just like the top achievers who define excellence at the University of Notre Dame, True Partners Consulting is dedicated to the highest standards of excellence-and to providing the best career opportunities for accounting graduates. Our world-class firm is the fastest-growing tax company in the United States and the leading next-generation tax-consulting services firm for good reason: we value talent, independence and opportunity. We pride ourselves on hiring, training and retaining intelligent problem solvers. To further your career and our success, True Partners Consulting is committed to knowledge sharing and ongoing training. 
You'll find that our setting is somewhat more casual than some of the largest firms-and a bit more fun. You can work collaboratively with both senior-level talent and clients, gain exposure to a variety of tax practices, and determine your own career path. And the E career advantages are amazing: 
0 
v 

• Competitive compensation and benefits, including overtime pay for all hours worked
•
><

('\) • Casual atmosphere
1:) 

• Career-advancement potential 
I c.. 

• Training opportunities 
Combine your strength with ours. Make the most of your career, at True Partners Consulting. To learn more and apply, visit us at: 
www.tpctax.com 


Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER page 5 






Liberty Mutual 

Liberty Mutual ranks 95th on the Fortune 500 list of largest 
U.S. corporations based on 2006revenue,andisthe sixth-largest property and casualty insurer in the U.S. based on 2005 direct written premium. Liberty Mutual Group today employs over 39,000 people in more than 900 offices throughout the world. We were recently named by Business Week as one of the "Best Places to Launch Your Career." 
Liberty Mutual Group oper­ates through four strategic business units --Personal Markets, Agency Markets, Commercial Markets and Liberty International --with no single unit contributing more than 30 percent of net premi­um written. 
<<< 
COMPANY DESCRIPTIONS 
Citadel Solutions 
Citadel Solutions LLC, launched as an independent subsidiary of Citadel Investment Group LLC in 2007, brings together leading experts in hedge fund opera­tions, financial control and technology to offer hedge fund administrative services. 
The Citadel Solutions team is at the forefront of shaping processes within the capital markets, taking leadership positions in industry working groups and continuously driv­ing improved workflow. This passion for process is a cor­nerstone of our culture and represents the close partner­ship between our people, our technology and our clients. As a result, our technology is continuously updated to sup­port best practices and we believe in perpetually strengthening our team with the best talent available to deliver the highest levels of service. 
UNITE HERE 
UNITE HERE is a progres­sive trade union representing approximately 440,000 work­ers in the hotel, textiles, industrial laundry, gaming and food service industries in North America. These service industries employ large num­bers of women, people of color and recent immigrants. UNITE HERE is committed to raising the living and working conditions of the people who do some of the most "invisi­ble" work in North America: the workers who serve food in cafeterias, wash hospital sheets and clean hotel guest 
rooms. 
UNITE HERE is hiring for the following positions: paid Summer Intern (6 weeks), Organizer, Research Analyst, Community Organizer, Boycott Organizer. 
WTAS 

WTAS LLC was formed in 2002 by 25 former public accounting firm partners who were collectively driven to build a world-class tax and consulting firm. WTAS now has thirteen offices and employs over 400 employees in six different service lines. WTAS is one of the largest­and most respected-national independent firms offering tax, investment advisory and valuation services to public and private corporations and partnerships, private equity funds, tax-exempt organiza­tions, high net worth individu­als, wealthy families and their related entities. For more information about career opportunities within WTAS, please contact us at career@wtas.com 
What type of mark will you make? 
The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, the vvorld's most comprehensive and broadly based manufacturer of health care products, vvill soon be visiting your campus. Come visit .:Johnson a. ~ohnson on .:January 30th! 
Diversity Reception, proud Platinum level sponsor! Wednesday, .January 30, 2008, 12:00 -2:30 pm Joyce Center, Monogram Room 
Winter Career Fair Wednesday, January 30, 2008, 4:00 -8:00 pm Joyce Center, Fieldhouse 
To learn more about career opportunities or to apply, go to ini.com/careers, 
Also, check our calendar of events to learn vvhen vve vvill be at your school. Make your ovvn mark... BE VITAL 
SMALL-CX)MPANY ENV1R<.'",)NMENT/Bl(?;-C<.'",)MPANY IMPACT' t~; a n~~gist:..;?lr~~d trad-E~nHn·k <>f Jt:3hnson & .John~:;on. ;'f:';> <.·.:opyright Johnson P.o~: Johnson Serv1c.es, lnc.. 200·7. Equal (_)pportunfty Employet·. 
!.1'\ .. 
i ~ 
I 
i' "! \! 
I
'v j l 
f 
0 / I 
l. '· ./ /
i ~I I ~ 

page 6 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 28, 2008 



/
> 

I ) : 
I J
! 
(\
. \ I A i 
i ~ i ' l
\\.j 
\. 

·~·.· 

ACE is proud to be a part of the Winter Career and Internship Fair 

Come and talk to ACE teachers about their experiences! 
00 
0 0 
~ 
NIBCO 

Since its founding in Elkhart, IN, in 1904, four generations of family leadership have developed NIBCO into a worldwide manufacturer of flow control products for resi­dential, commercial, industrial and irrigation markets. Today, NIBCO is still privately owned by the Martin Family and NIBCO associates. We have 
12 manufacturing plants and 2 distribution centers through­out the United States, Mexico and Poland, employing more than 3,000 people. Sign up with us today, we lo_ok forward to adding you to our team! 



Looking for Leaders 
NIBCO is a global leader in the manufacture and technology of flow-control products, and we are looking for enthusiastic talent to join our team! 
We are currently looking to Rll positions far Sales Trainee and Retail Account Executive. 
Your future at NIBCO can be anything you want it to be, and we will give you the tools you need to be successful in a stimulating work environment. 
Visit the NIBCO booth at the 2008 Winter Career Fair on Wednesday, January 30th and talk to the NIBCO team! Students can also submit resumes through the career center at Go IRISH. 
~-----------------------­
Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 7 

Aon is a global leader in risk management, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital consulting and outsourcing with more than 43,000 employees in more than 500 offices in 120 countries worldwide. We integrate customized services, leverage expertise across industries and apply business knowledge to our clients' strategic goals. Aon helps clients anticipate how change intersects with opportunity. Each of our clients has unique business needs, so we have developed expertise for a complete range of business processes, products and industries. 
This Spring, we have opportunities available nationwide in our Early Career Development Business Internship Program for the following tracks: Actuarial, Aon Consulting, Corporate Strategy, Human Resources, and Aon Risk Services. 
For more information about Aon Corporation, visit our website at www.aon.com. 
Make sure to drop off your resume on GO IRISH by 11 :59p.m. on Wednesday, January 31, 2008. All majors welcome to apply. 
Aon Corporation 

Aon is a global leader in risk management, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital consulting and outsourcing with more than 43,000 employees in more than 500 offices in 120 coun­tries worldwide. We integrate customized services, lever­age expertise across indus­tries and apply business knowledge to our clients' strategic goals. Aon helps clients anticipate how change intersects with opportunity. Each of our clients has unique business needs, so we have developed expertise for a complete range of busi­ness processes, products and industries. Aon's account and relationship managers form a "comprehensive perspective of our clients' organizations, matching our expertise to their business strategy. 

i ' 
t ~.:\ .,::..,­

:~ 

If vcu wunt tile sJ me commitment to your caree~. consider RSM MeGlad rey. 'Ne're the accounting, tax. and bu~ iness consulti rHJ firm fo~ profess onals on lhe move. Like you.. 
'1·~ o:fici.:I .:. :::::ot nt n g :.:.>: .:. nd t .1 :;in·:·!;:; 
RSM McGiadrey I McGiadrey& Pullen 
::y,osul:i'"l·~l f rm ·:." II'CO 1-'(~A o"' A'fC'rka. 
Cl!r:iliet: Putl i:: >.o:::unlimls 




page 8 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 28, 2008 
Academy Prep Centers 

AmeriCorps is the domestic 
version of the Peace Corps 
and generally comprises 
recent college grads who 
want to give a year or more of 
service to nonprofit organiza­
tions. Academy Prep is a 
growing network of private 
middle schools for students 
who qualify for need-based scholarships and have the ability and desire to succeed 
in a rigorous academic pro­gram. AmeriCorps teachers serve a vital role at Academy 
Prep. They teach classes, supervise activities, and work closely with students and pro­fessional teachers. In exchange for their invaluable service, AmeriCorps volun­teers live in rent and utility­free furnished apartments, receive an approximate $620/month stipend and health insurance, and a $4,725 education award. 
THINKING ABOUT TEACH FOR AMERICA, THE ACE PROGRAM, OR 
OTHER SERVICE TEACHING OPPORTUNITIES? 


Academy Prep 
Ceoter of Tampa 

WANT TO CHANGE THE LIVES OF AT-RISK MINORITY STUDENTS? CHECK OUT 
AMERICORPS TEACHING OPPURTUNITES 
WITH ACADEMY PREP CENTERS IN SUNNY FLORIDA! 
Opportunities available in Tampa and St. Petersburg 
STOP BY OUR TABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME DIVERSITY RECEPTION AND CAREER AND INTERNSHIP FAIR ON WEDNESDAY, JAN. 301h, AND/OR 
CONTACT: Kristy Craig, ArneriCorps Teacher Manager, 727-420-7468, kcraig@acadernyprep.org www.acadernyprep.org 
PricewaterhouseCooper 

The PricewaterhouseCoopers 
(www.pwc.com) network of firms provides industry­focused assurance, tax and advisory services to build public trust and enhance value for its clients and their stakeholders. More than 
142,000 people in 149 coun­tries across our network share their thinking, experi­ence and solutions to develop fresh perspectives and practi­cal advice. As part of this global network, employees of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP ("PwC") have access to unparalleled knowledge, training, and technical resources around the world. 
I i 





Ill 
I 




u 
* 
For the sixth year in a row, PricewaterhouseCoopers was voted the #1 ideal employer in our profession in the Universum Undergraduate Survey of business students. 
visit pwc.com/lookhere 


*connectedthinking PRlCEWA1i:RHOtJ.sE(roPERS fa 
© 200'7 PricewaterhouseCoopers I..LP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers l..LP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. •connectedthinking is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). 

Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 9 

.. -...... 
::. ~ ,;; ,~ ~:::~».::::os.;l;,
-
..._~~

• 

Looking to start your career? Gentex Corporation has just the right opportunities for you to launch your engineering degree. When you're at Gentex, it's not just the innovative technology and advancement opportunities that make it a great job-it's our culture that sets us apart. 
See it to believe it-stop by our booth at the job fair! 
Entry Level Engineering Opportunities 
Gentex Corporation develops, manufactures and markets proprietary electro-optical products-products combining photoelectric sensing devices with related electronic circuitry. Specifically, we make rearview mirrors that sense glare and correspondingly dim, and smoke detectors that "see" smoke and signal an alarm. 
WhyGentex? 

• 
High-tech automation equipment 

• 
State-of-the-art tools for design 


GENTEX 
• Hands-on learning 

CORPORATION 
• Future advancement opportunities 
____gpportun.ity@-wof~
• 
Profit-sharing bonus opportunity 

• 
Clean, air-conditioned environment 

• 
Located near the beautiful shores of Lake Michigan 


Stop by and visit our job fair booth to learn more about this exciting opportunity! 
Gentex is an equal opportunity employer. VIsit us online at www.gentex.com 
Gentex Corporation 

Gentex Corporation develops, manufactures and markets proprietary electro-optical products combining photo­electric sensing devices with related electronic circuitry. Specifically, our two product lines are smoke detectors that see smoke and signal an alarm: rearview mirrors that sense glare and correspond­ingly dim. Founded in 1974, Gentex operates out of 4 facilities in Zeeland, Ml and currently employs 2,800 employees. Gentex has expe­
rienced consistent, double­digit growth over the decade, with this growth expected to continue. To learn more about Gentex, visit our website at www.gentex.com. E.O.E. 
-
I believe that 
talented people make 
all the difference in 
the world. 

One of the best things I like about working 
ar Enterp1ise is that there's so much focus 
on everyone's individual abilities and 
achievements. lt all has to do \Vith an 
overriding entreprenemial philosophy that 
says that your success is truly up to you. 
This means that there's no one standard 
formula for doing things around here. 
[t also means that t'm working alongside and 
learning different things from a \vide group 
of talented people every day. It's great to be 
at a company where everybody's differences 
-whether they be business philosophies or 
cultural ideals .;;;. are not only accepted, they're part of the veryfabri!C o[our success. 
w;, W:::~> 

:~···L nterprise
JmJ. ..c' 


\Ve are an equal opportunity emp.loyer. M/F/D/\: 
Ifyoq h~y~ e~p~fii;!ISS\iJJ.til.f!.te~\·9~111~ Or ctintact:J~rti.t¢ t,,,$~rtn~~h¢~nh · · 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car is the 

largest car rental company in 
North America and arguable 

the world. We are a $11.7 bil­
lion company with more than 
1.1 million vehicles in our rental and leasing fleet, more than 74,000 employees and over 10,600 locations in the U.S., Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and Ireland. 
What company best represents me? 
I believe this one. 

L..________________________________________ ----­
page 10 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER Monday, January 28, 2008 
-

Monday, January 28, 2008 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER page 11 

Monday, January 28, 2008 
page 12 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 

' ' ' ..\ 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
•. 
' 
I 
I ­
t 
' 
' ­
' 


A s-pectat Thc;t~~ you to our Corporate s-poV\tsors! "'PLATINUM"' 
iD ERNST& YOUNG
accenture 
Quality In Everything We Do
High performance. Delivered. 
> Deloitte. 
Goldman 
'.-., 



-=::, 


Sadls 
TARGET: 


CapitaliQ 
A Division of Standard& Poor's 

Raytbeo~ 

~GOLD~ 

~M&TBank 

Western & Southern 

'Willi!? Financial Group® ftfollett. 
~ILVER"' 
Hill and Knowlton, Vanguard, Fifth Third Bank, Alcon Labs, P&G and Countrywide 

The Diversity Reception is a networking event designed to allow students to connect and build relationships with organizations that embrace and promote diversity. Faculty and Staff are encouraged to attend! 
Wednesday, january 30, 2008 The Diversity Reception Noon -2:30pm precedes Winter Career and Internship Fair 4pm-8pm at the joyce Center. 
I 
~ 


i!ff I "ftt f*D!iti!I!R t~;:, '::~-~:~o"r';;-c,
<..& . j . , ..... .. . ....EU. ,_. ~~,.;,:..tJ:C~,.,.,w_...,., .."'i 




