------~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
' j 
j 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SMC security adresses recent safety concerns 
Gariepy meets with students to discuss incident at Regina Hall 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's director of security Dave 
Gariepy and assistant director of security Stan 
Klimczak addressed concerned Regina Hall 
residents about security issues and concerns in 
at a meeting in the North Lounge of the hall 
Thursday evening. 
"There was a lot of concern ... about the man 
on the roof," Gariepy said. "There's a lot of 
basis for concern with the way security 
responded [to that incident]." 
Gariepy, referring to the trespasser who 
escaped custody after making his way onto the 
roof of Regina Hall April 5, alluded to the 
seemingly slow response to the incident from 
Saint Mary's Security detailed in the article 
"Slow Security response raises questions" in 
the April 17 edition of The Observer. 
see SECURITY/page 4 

Seniors report trespasser at on-campus apartments 
By MANDl STIRONE Assistant News Editor 
While many Saint Mary's students have voiced concerns about Saint Mary's secu­rity, some Opus Hall residents have recently come forward with positive feed­back about it. 
Opus, a seniors-only apartment com­plex, is located on-campus behind Madeleva Hall. 
Seniors Haley Nickell and Molly Pfister were in their first floor quad's living room when their third roommate asked if either of them had seen a suspicious man walk­ing around outside the building. 
Pfister and Nickell both went into their separate bedrooms and saw the same man, they said. 
"He continued to walk around and just 
see OPUS/page 6 


From Old2Gold to benefit non-profit agencies 
ND community to donate gently used dorm room belongings for citywide yard sale held near stadium 
70,000 square feet of the stadi­Students will be able to donate "We had somewhere in the from other designated areas inBy EMMA DRISCOLL um concourse on May 24, said a wide variety of gently used neighborhood of 3,900 to 4,000 and near residence halls during 
News Writer 
Frank Parker, Manager Central belongings to the sale. -shoppers last year," Parker said. the day, Parker said, and each Receiving. "You name anything that stu­Last year's sale generated residence hall also has a desig­
A'i the academic year draws to All proceeds from the yard dents could have in the resi­over $43,000, Parker said, nated area for wood from lofts. a close and students move out of sale will benefit South Bend dence halls, and I'd venture to All residence halls will have Students are requested to their respective dorms and off­area non-profit agencies. say that there's at least one of barrels to collect non-perishable remove nails and screws from campus residences, they should "Students take anything that them at the sale," he said. food items and cleaning sup­wood to ensure staff safety. not worry about the waste of they have -personal items that Items such as stackable stor­plies, and twelve trucks will Parker said the volunteers throwing away their gently used they have -that they either no age containers, clothes, shoes, drive to residence halls to pick from non-profit agencies all belongings, or about to whom longer want or just want to bikes, computers, printers, toys up other larger items, such as over the South Bend area come they ought to donate. donate, to non-profit agencies to and sporting goods are typically furniture, this weekend and to the sale to help with its setup. 
Starting this weekend, stu­help the community, and they sold, he said. during certain evening hours "Last year we had thirty-nine dents can make donations to put it out for our staffs to pick Members from the community, until May 21, according to agencies that were involved, and From Old2Gold, a citywide yard up and take to the stadium," Parker said, also come to shop Parker. sale that will occupy about Parker said. at the From Old2Gold yard sale. Trucks will also pick up items see YARD SALE/page 3 

Students tnake longest spoon train 
Group of 127 breaks world record on quad 
By ELIZABETH KUHN News Writer 
A group of 127 Notre Dame students broke the record for the World's Longest Spoon Train in the middle of South Quad Thursday afternoon. 
.Junior Charlie Mahoney origi­nally proposed the idea to his friends as a joke, but the scheme slowly gained credence until finally he and fellow ski team member Joel Sharbrough decided to make the biggest spoon train ever. 
"We obviously loved spooning in the first place, so we just thought why don't we be the best spooners we can be? And it just spiraled into something 
Students gathered on South Quad to form the World's see SPOON/page 3 Largest Spoon Train Thursday afternoon. 


Musicians compete in Battle of the Bands 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 

Notre Dame will conclude its week-long AnTostal celebra­tion Saturday at 8 p.m. with a competition between 10 stu­dent bands vying for musical superiority at the annual Battle of the Bands . 
This year's Battle of the Bands features the largest number of contestants in com­petition history. 
"Something that really sur­prised us about this year's competition was the number of entries we received for the Battle," said junior Clint Simkins, co-programmer of campus entertainment for the Student Union Board (SUB). 
Sixteen bands submitted demo CDs to SUB, the largest number of applicants to date. A panel of SUB committee members and Legends repre­sentatives listened to each sub­mission and narrowed the field to the 10 best acts, Simkins said. 
"We planned on choosing six to eight bands, but all of the submissions were top quality, so it was hard to even narrow it down to ten," said sopho­more Mallory Davidson, co­programmer of campus enter­tainment for SUB. 
Davidson said SUB wanted to host a wide variety of music types for the Battle. 
"Bands were chosen based on the quality of the songs they put on their submission CDs," Davidson said. "We really tried to make sure that a wide vari­
see BANDS/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 25, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


You live, you learn 
They say the eollege experience isn't so 
much about what you learn in class, but 
what you discover about yourself along 
the way. I always thought that was just 
an excuse for Notre Dame slapping 
another few 
thousand onto Kara King 
tuition each year, 
but after this Viewpoint Editor 
semester I'm 
beginning to see 
some Iogie to that argument. 
Some of the most important lessons 
arcn't necessarily those your professor 
intends. So here's a little glimpse into 
what I've diseovered this past semester. 
Pro lessors don't appreeiate it when you 
do the crossword puzzle in class. To be 
fair, I rnalizod this bd"ore I came to Notre 
Dame, but the only previous victims from 
my lack of attention were my grades. 
Oh how the times have ehanged. A eer­
tain finance professor, whose name may 
or may not rhyme with Slaekermann, 
took matters to a now level of pain and 
humiliation with his recent aerial assault 
on my face. 
I guess he's kind of an evil genius in 
that regard. I mean, if I were paying 
attention. I could have easily ducked or 
attnmptnd to catch the football that so 
rudely intnrruptmJ my puzzling. Instead, 
I was Inn to dnal with the Marsha Brady­
osquo consnquences. 
Lesson learrwd. I now wait until after 
dass to pick up my daily copy of The 
Observer. 
Finance has actually provided me with 
countless sw:h lessons in paying atton­
tion. Perhaps it's thn obvious bribery in 
tho form of freo beverages. Bribery is 
soriously underrated as a means to an 
end. 
So is frnn money randomly distributed 
to provo a point. I'm not sure I remnm­
bnr what the point was. but I do remnm­
bor money being thrown to tho ground. 
And for all these (unintended) linaneial 
lessons, I've discoverml even morn out­
side of DeBartolo 129: 
75-minutn classes an~ too long, espe­cially in eoursns that am unfathomably miserable. But at least you can unite in your desolation. 
And, if you're willing to suiTer that extra 25 minutes a day, you can have your Fridays free to go out there and gain even morn collegiate experience. 
Hico's is the best-kept secret that shouldn't bn a secret. The food is deli­cious, fast and cheap. 
TiVo is the best invention known to 
man. It's the only way I've found to pro­
crastinate procrastinating. 
St. Patrick's Day should always be dur­ing the school year. If we can have it twice again. that'd bn an added bonus. 
"lnnptitude" is in the eye or the behold­er. 
But if you ask me, The Irish Hover call­ing you inept senms to suggest you're on the right track. Especially if, in criticizing you, they reveal their own if,'llorance. 
Oh wait, it's The Hover. It's not like 
they'ro revealing anything new. 
Looking back, I can't believe I'm. almost hallway through my four years of irrnsponsibility. llopnfully you can learn something from my mistakes. II' not, I hope you at least found some amuse­nwnt in thmn. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not rwcessarily those (~{The Observer. 
Contact Kara King at kking5@nd.edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer re!\ards itself as a professional publication and strives f(>r the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU BE THE BIG SPOON OR THE LITTLE SPOON? 



Caitlin Hildebrand  Andy Masak  Conor Byrne  Kevin Dacey  Tim Malecek  Matt Walz  
junior Lewis  junior Dillon  junior Morrissey  sophomore Stanford  sophomore Alumni  sophomore Alumni  
"Little spoon  "Big Spoon  "Junior because  "Matt Wilsey  "Little spoon  "Either as long  
because a little  because  ofMike  is always big  because there's  as I'm with  
fork would  everything's  Ellerhorst and  spoon and Joel  no responsibility. "  Tim. "  



OFFBEAT 

Legally blind man pum­mels home intruder 
INDIANAPOLIS -A legally blind man beat up an intrud­er and held him at kniJepoint until police arrived at the man's eastside home, author­ities said. Allan Kieta, 49, told police he was at home Monday morning when his small dog began barking and he encountered the man. "I opened the door and just ran into him. I had him pinned in the laundry room and just kept pummeling," said Kieta, a former wrestler in high school. lie said he grabbed the intruder by the belt and 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0::: IJJ :::z::: 
~ 

3: IJJ ..... 
<C 
0 






0 

HIGH 70 HIGH HIGH 57
...J 
LOW 60 LOW LOW 38 
60 50 
60 40 
HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 78 I 59 Boston 61 I 48 Chicago 76 I 58 Denver 62 I 30 Houston 85 I 71 Los Angeles 83 I 51 Minneapolis 47 I 45 New York 74 I 52 Philadelphia 78 I 53 Phoenix 91 I 61 Seattle 57 I 41 St. Louis 77 I 63 Tampa 84 I 58 Washington 78 I 56 
dragged him into the kitchen, where he put a knife at the man's throat and tried to dial 911. "Being visually impaired, I couldn't get the buttons because I was using my left hand," he said. "It took me about 20 tries." 
Woman finds 8-foot alliga­tor in kitchen 
OLDSMAH, Fla. -And some people get jittery about mice in the kitchen. 
Authorities say 69-year-old central Florida woman found an 8-foot long alligator prowl­ing in her kitehen late Monday night. 
Sandra Frosti says the gator must have pushed through the back poreh screen door and then went inside through 
. an open sliding gJa..qs door at her home in Oldsmar, just north of Tampa. It then apparently strolled through the living room, down a hall and into the kitchen. 
A trapper with Animal Capture of Florida removed the alligator, whieh was cut by a plate that was knocked to the ground during the chaos. But no one inside the house was injured. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 
"Noche de niiios -a night for Panamanian children," a benefit event, will be held today from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Student Lounge. Tickets are $5 at the LaFortune Box Ollice and $7 at the door. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play tonight against Saint John's at 6:05 at the Frank Eck Baseball Stadium. 
Men's Soccer will play the Mexico Under-20 National Team today at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. Tiekets arn free for stu­dents. 
Women's Laerosse: Big East Semifinals will be held today at 
7:45 p.m. against Georgetown in the Notre Dame Football Stadium. 
The band "The Starting Line" will perform Friday at Legends at 10 p.m. as part of the Student Union Board's AnTostal festivities. 
The Notre Dame Battle of the Bands will be at Legends Saturday at 8 p.m. 
La Alianza will sponsor the Latino Formal Saturday at 9 
p.m. 
at the College Football Hall of Fame. Transportation is available from Main Cirele at 9 

p.m. 
running continuously until 


2:20 a.m. Tickets are $10 for a single and $15 for eouples. 
Sorin College will sponsor its first theatrieal performance "Rumors" on Sunday at 8 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets arc available at the door for $5. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 45 53 LOW 30 33 

hurt." bigger in Texas. " Margaret Sharbrough is Knoedler" always little with Chiluto in the middle" 
I Observer 
Sophomore Matthew Callanan practices in a dress rehearsal of the Farley Hall Player's production of "The Last Five Years" on Wednesday. The show runs tonight and Saturday night in Washington Hall at 7:30. 
Friday, April 25, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Spoon


Sorin College to sponsor 
continued from page 1

Neil Silnon' s ''Rumors'' 
By KATIE PERALTA Assistant News Editor 
Sorin College will sponsor its first theatrical event this week­end with a performance of Neil Simon's farce "Rumors." 
The show will be performed on Sunday and Tuesday nights at 8 in the LAB theater on the third floor of Washington Hall. 
Proceeds from the event will benefit Saint Jude's Primary School in Jinja, Uganda, through Sorin's 
show alongside Maltese. 
Although this is Sorin's first fundraising the­atrical event of its kind, Maltese hopes such shows con­tinue in the future and to per­haps initiate a "theatre for charity" on campus. 
"The event will hopefully be produced once every year on a much larger scale for a longer run time," Maltese said. · 
The cast, which features freshmen through senior actors, has been in rehearsal for three weeks for the two spooners were part of the tie" on the front and "Big" online group, a number of on the back, with spoons on them were recruited to join both sides. as they walked past on the Though some students quad. present accused the Student 
"It's fun to be outside, hav­Activities Office (SAO) of ing a good time and doing refusing to sponsor the event something a little crazy," as the result of too much sophomore physical contact, Kelly Rice SAO coordinator said. "And for the Student if I had to Union Board be a uten­"It's fun to be outside, (SUB) Amy Geist sil, I would stated that it
having a good time 
definitely actually was in
and doing something 
be a the original draft spoon." a little crazy. " of the program. Other stu­"Unfortunately, d e n t s though, it was
Kelly Rice 
echoed never actually
sophomore
Rice's submitted as a enthusiasm request to our for the office, as all of event. the other events 
"It's defi-run by dorms and nitely the biggest event in SUB were," Geist said. As a my four years here," senior result, said Geist, the event Kyle Bocinsky said. had to be removed from 
Coordinators said plans for AnTostal programs and the event grew since the posters. idea's inception about a For some spooners, they month and•a half ago, and declared the giant train as included a Facebook event, the highlight of their year. an order of 80 T-shirts and "It was the greatest after­an attempt to be on an offi­noon ever," said Kevin cial AnTostal event. Dacey, a sophomore. 
The bright blue T-shirt, designed by junior Liz Contact Elizabeth Kuhn at Keedy, sports the word "lit-ekuhnl@nd.edu 
and a half hour performance, Maltese said. 
Maltese and fellow senior Michael McConnell are the only two Sorin residents acting in the show, but 10 other actors also perform in the comedy. 
Sorin sophomore Will Staruk will operate the show's sound system. 
According to Maltese, the play features four couples at the dinner party of their friends' lOth wedding anniver­
huge," event coordinator Sharbrough said. 
As ski team spoon co-cap­tain with Kerry McGuire, he planned and advanced the idea for the event. 
Spooning occurs when two people lay on their sides fac­ing the same direction so that they fit snugly together. 
"It's not immoral at all," ski team junior Katie Rehberger said. "It's a way to unite the campus." 
Students began to accumu­
established 'The event will hopefully fund, said 
be produced once every
Sorin sopho­
more John year on a much larger 
Maltese, co­scale for a longer director of the 
run time." 

s h 0 w . Sophomore Chelsea Moore John Maltese directed the co-director 
late on South Quad around
sary. 

4:30 p.m., though it took
"The play 
about thirty minutes for
is filled 
enough students to make a
with hilari­
train long enough to beat the
ous slap­
previous record of 98 peo­
stick come­
ple.
dy, misun­
"We are still in the process
derstand­
of contacting the Guinness
ings, mis­
Book of World Records,"
taken iden­
Sharbrough said. "We expect
tity, drunk­
that it will take at least six
enness, 
more weeks."
marital dis­
Most of yesterday's partici­
putes, vari­
pants learned of the record­
o u s 
breaking train though their
injuries, a 
friends or the massive
car accident and a surprise 
Facebook group. While many
ending," Maltese said. 
The set for the show is the 
largest ever to be used in the LAB theater, featuring five doors and a second story, Maltese said. 
The event is open to the Notre Dame community and tickets are available for $5 at the door. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 




Faculty &Staff Appreciation Event 
ApriI 28th and 29th 
All Notre Dame Faculty and Staff will receive an additional So/o* off all regular and sale priced merchandise at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Varsity Shops in the JAC, and at the Notre Dame Clearance Center on Ironwood. 
Receive a tall Starbucks coffee from the Irish Ink Cafe with your faculty or staff ID at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore on 4/28 or 4/29. Limit one per person. 
* 5% discount is in addition to your everyday 20% discount. Faculty or Staff ID required. May not be combined with any other offer. Valid in-store only. Excludes "the shirt", textbooks, gift cards, diploma frames, class rings, previous & online purchases, computer hardware & software, calculators, Steiner Memorabilia, Lladro, Waterford, & professional references. See store for further details. 

Thank you for your continued support throughout the year and for making us your bookstore of choice. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574)631··6316 • www.nd(atalog.com 

/ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 25, 2008 


Security 
continued from page 1 
"The elaims made by stu­dents to a large degree are absolutely aecurate," he said. 
The e-mail inviting Hegina residents to the meeting said there is an "ongoing investiga­tion about the ineident" and all residents were encouraged to attend the meeting to "find out what security had done" regarding the case and what steps have been taken to make sure that it does not happen again. 

Gariepy said "When we make bit of experi­security has ence. She's
mistakes -even ifit's 
investigated the trained offi­
not our mistake -we
incident further cers and and found some want to learn from it served as discrepancies and make sure they're assistant 
between the security
not repeated. " 
reports lilnd by director at a the responding different col­orticer and the Dave Gariepy lege." concerns voiced Saint Mary's • Gariepy by the anony­said security
director of security
mous source quoted in the April 17 article. 
"Our initial reports didn't indieate [that security! had to come a second time before they searched the roof," he said. "To us, reading the report, we read it as the roof had been checked on the first time." 
Gariepy said the initial responding officer saw the man on the roof and made a deci­sion about the situation. 
"The oflieer explained that she madn a bad judgment call," he said. "Another call came in that diverted her attention and because of what she had assumed she went to help the other call. By the time our offi­cer went up on the roof [the suspect] had made his escape." 
He stressed there should not be any men on the roof after dark, and the construction tak­ing place on the roof of the building has been completed so there should be no ladders near the building at night either. 
"There shouldn't be roofing contractors up there after dark," Gariepy said. 
"We explained that to the officer who responded. It's a 
relatively 
new officer 
with quite a 
is making 
changes in 
response to 
the situation so that such an occurrence does not happen again. 
"That's not the way we would respond to the situation and that's not the way we want our officers responding to it," he said. ''We want to make sure that security is responding ade­quately to your calls for help." 
Kliczmak said the most important thing a student can do to help keep campus safe is to call seeurity about suspicious activity. 
"Don't assume that someone successful artists." 
One competitor, senior Robbie Hazen, acknowledged the impor­tance of getting to play at a venue like Legends. 

"Battle of the Bands is a great opportunity to play in front of a large crowd on a big stage," Hazen said. "It also allows you the opportunity to collaborate with other musicians on earn­pus." 
Hazen competed in the Battle of the Bands the past several years and said he is looking for­ward to giving a unique perform­ance this year. 
Winners will be awarded at the end of the show with first place winning a $200 gift certificate to Guitar Center, a Mishawaka music store. Second and third place will win $100 and $50 gift certificates, respectively. 
Perhaps more important to the musicians than the prize money are the bragging rights. 
"All the bands are really tal­ented but everyone wants to take first place," Hazen said. 
Admission is free for all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
else is going to !make the call]; don't assume that it's nothing," he said. "If we don't know about it there's no way that we're even going to have a chance to catch anybody." 
Kliczmak said students should never hesitate to call security. 
"If you do not get an ade­quate response the next morn­ing call myself or Dave [Gariepy]," he said. "We do not cover anything up. We've made a mistake, we can do better." 

Kliczmak said security is encouraging students to give their name and number when they call because they want officers to be able to respond to the student after they have investigated the activity that is reported. 
"We're encouraging our guys to make contact with the per­son who made the complaint. You should be called back and explain what was found, that's just good police work or securi­ty work," Gariepy said. 
The incident, Gariepy said, will be used in a positive man­ner as a method of training for the Department of Security. 
"When we make mistakes ­even if it's not our mistake ­we want to learn from it and 

Bands 
continued from page 1 
ety of genres were represented by our final selections" 
Chosen to battle it out, in order of their appearance Saturday, will be Sound City, The Substitutes, Red Beer, Threat Level Midnight, Space Cowboy, The Super Soul Fighters, Robbie Hazen, M.O.B.B., Vote For Us and From Wall St. to Hollywood, Davidson said. 
Each band will play a fifteen­minute set, Simkins said, and ballots cast by audience mem­bers will decide the winners. 
Simkins said the top three places will be determined by bal­lot only, emphasizing the impor­tance of students coming out to support their favorite bands on campus. 
"SUB is hoping to provide stu­dents with some quality enter­tainment as they watch their fel­low classmates duke it out for the fame and glory," Davidson said. "But we also aim to provide the bands with the opportunity to play a live show at Legends, which has been the host to many 
make sure they're not repeat­ed," he said. 
The two said they want stu­dents to be safe in the choices that they make. Gariepy stressed walking in groups if they walk to the Grotto after dark or utilizing the escort service available. 
"We encourage good safe decisions and safe transporta­tion options," he said. 
Contact Liz Harter at 
eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

that have volunteers working." 
From Old2Gold is in its fourth year at Notre Dame, but was modeled on Penn State and the Centre County United Way's Trash to Treasure, a similar project in which students donate items that are sold at a yard sale in Penn State's football stadium, Parker said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Yard Sale 
continued from page 1 
and they come in throughout the month of May to sort all of the items, price them, get them set for display," Parker said. "And all the proceeds that we gain [from the yard sale] are divided up between the agencies 

Visit the NEW website for the Office of Vocations 


SOMETIMES 
at vocation.nd.edu to learn more about the discernment isn·t so easy Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Who knows ... you may be called. 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 25, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE Ossr:RVER's WIRE sr:Rvrct.s page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. announces anti-malaria initiative 
UNITED NATIONS -Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon will announce a global initiative on Friday aimed eliminating deaths from malaria, a tropical scourge blamed for killing a million people a year. 
In a video message for a World Malaria Day event at U.N. headquarters, Ban said the initia­tive will offer indoor spraying and bed nets treated with long-lasting insecticide "to all peo­ple at risk, especially women and children in Africa." The video was obtained Thursday by The Associated Press. 
It will also ensure that public health facilities have access to efTective malaria treatment and diagnosis, that health workers are trained to deal with the disease, and that research into its eradication is encouraged, Ban said. 
"The aim is to put a stop to malaria deaths by ensuring universal coverage by the end of 2010," he said. 
Sarkozy asks E.U. for Olympic boyc!ott 
PAHIS -French President Nicolas Sarkozy said Thursday he will push for a European Union-wide agreement on whether to boycott the opening ceremony of the Beijing Olympics. 
Sarkozy has said he could boycott the cere­mony in response to China's crackdown on demonstrators in Tibet last month, but he has softened his tone since a rash of protests broke out last weekend in front of French-owned supermarkets throughout China. 
If no progress is made before the Aug. 8-24 games, he said he would try to seek "a united position" among the EU's 27 member states. France will hold the rotating EU presidency at that time. 



NATIONAL NEWS 

Man sentenced in oil-for-food case 
NEW YORK -An Iraqi-American business­man who admitted helping Saddam Hussein's government in the oil-for-food scandal was lined $300,000 and sentenced to probation by a judge who said he provided substantial assis­tance to the U.S. government after his arrest. 
"He was a terrific witness," U.S. District Judge Denny Chin said Thursday as he bestowed leniency on Samir A. Vincent, who could have faced years in prison. 
Vincent. a 67 -year-old naturalized U.S. citi­zen from Annandale, Va., testified at two trials, including one that was interrupted when Texas oilman Oscar Wyatt Jr. pleaded guilty to con­spiracy. Vincent, an oil trader, had occasionally accompanied Wyatt on his meetings with high­ranking Iraqi oflicials. 
Census Bureau scales back test run 
FRESNO, Calif. -The Census Bureau has sealed back its dress rehearsal for the once­a-decade national head count, raising fears that thousands of soldiers, immigrants and other hard-to-reach people will go uncounted when the population survey is conducted in 2010. 
"It's like sending up a rocket for a moon shot and not doing the final test on how to land," warned former Census Bureau Director Kenneth Prewitt, who oversaw the agency during the 2000 count. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Candidate proposes state audit plan 
INDIANAPOLIS -An external audit of state government would be performed and voting hours would be extended under a government restructuring plan presented Thursday by Democratic candidate for gov­ernor Jim Schellinger. 
"We must find new and different approaches to organizing and delivering government to lower the cost and increase efficiencies," said Schellinger, an Indianapolis architect who is competing with former U.S. Rep. Jill Long Thompson for the Democratic nomination for governor in the May 6 primary. 
Hepublican Gov. Mitch Daniels has no pri­mary opponent. 
Schellinger said Indiana needs a compre­hensive review of government at all levels, with state and local officials working togeth­er to decide what improvements are needed. 

Local accused of school attack plot 
Authorities detain teen after finding more than 100 knives, illegal snakes at his home 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -A 16-year-old boy is accused of plotting an attack on his high school, prosecu­tors said Thursday, alleg­ing that he discussed plans by e-mail with another person to carry out simultaneous "Columbine-like mass murders" in two states on Sept. 11, 2008. 
Authorities detained the teen Tuesday on an initial charge of intimidation, St. Joseph County prosecutor Michael Dvorak said Thursday. His office was preparing charges of con­spiracy to commit murder after authorities found more than 100 knives at his home, Dvorak said. 
Authorities also found several illegal snakes at his home in Mishawaka, about 10 miles east of South Bend, Dvorak said. The boy was being held Thursday at a juvenile detention center. 
A school officer investi­gating an unrelated threat at Penn High School dis­covered Internet postings in which the teen dis­cussed his support for the Columbine shooters, Dvorak said, a reference to the 1999 massacre at a suburban Denver high school in which two stu­dents killed 12 classmates person's intended target propane tank bombs and prosecutors wrote in a and a teacher before com­may have been. for a reference guide on motion filed in federal mitting suicide. The pair also wrote how to make explosives court. 
School officials ques­about researching how to and other dangerous The teenager is in the tioned the teen about his obtain weapons and make devices, Dvorak said. The Chesterfield County jail. postings and learned he explosive devices. The teen also searched for He was arrested April 19 had exchanged e-mails teenager, a freshman, 9mm guns, he said. and faces several state Sunday with an unidenti­asked the other person to A juvenile court hearing and federal charges, fied person in which they help him obtain a TEC­was scheduled for Friday including attempting to discussed conducting DC9 9mm pistol, stating it to determine whether the use a weapon of mass "Columbine-like mass would be "awesome" if he teenager should remain in destruction. That charge murders" at the same could use the same custody. carries a possible life sen­time on Sept. 11 at Penn weapon us·ed in the Meanwhile, prosecutors tence if he is convicted. and another location, Columbine shootings, in Columbia, S.C., sought Authorities have said Dvorak said. Dvorak said. a mental evaluation for an Schallenberger's parents 
Teresa Carroll, spokes­Police searched the stu­18-year-old accused of called police because he woman for the Penn­dent's locker, backpack, planning to bomb his high had ordered ammonium Harris-Madison School home and laptop comput­school. nitrate, which was used in Corp., said the other loca­er and found notebooks in Ryan Schallenberger the deadly Oklahoma City tion was in Ohio. which he wrote about should be examined to bombing in 1995. 
Dvorak declined to give killing a large number of determine whether he Michael Meetze, any information about the people. They found he had understands the case Schallenberger's public person the teen corre­searched the Internet on against him or can help defender, declined to com­sponded with or what the Monday for how to make with his defense, federal ment Thursday. 


Cosby, judge lecture on parenting, values 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -A Georgia judge who kicked whites out of his courtroom while he lectured black defendants is getting a comedian's help in deliver­ing his stern message. 
Bill Cosby joined Superior Court Judge Marvin Arrington at a· forum Thursday night for at-risk youths from the Atlanta area. Both men are black, and Cosby himself has made waves by criticizing the black com­munity. 
The comedian spoke to the pre­dominantly black audience at Benjamin Mays High School about the importance of education and fam­ily. 
"Families: where old people put the rules out without profanity," Cosby told the invitation-only gathering of about 500 people, including teenagers judged by juvenile authori­ties as being "at risk." 
Cosby lamented a culture of drugs and permissive sex. 
"The problem with teenage preg­nancy is the planning of it. There was no planning," he said. 
"Let's get with these teenage chil­dren and their sex and having sex. I'm telling you, you've got to talk to your children." 
He dismissed critics of his approach who have said that he is airing dirty laundry. 
"That's crazy," he said. "There are black people who have to walk around this dirty laundry." 
Arrington said Cosby contacted him two weeks ago and said, '"I want to come to Atlanta and help you with your fight to try to turn these young people around.' 
"These young people are worth saving," the judge said. 
Arrington recounted a litany of criminal defendants who come before him in court, including young men who kill during drug deals and a father who slept with his daughters. 
"Somewhere, you can cannot toler­ate this uncivilized conduct," Arrington said. · 
The judge has admitted he should­n't have made white people leave as he tried to scare straight some young black men at the March 27 court ses­sion. He said he wanted only to get the defendants' attention without dressing them down in front of whites. 

-------------------~-­
Friday, April25, 2008 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
security left, they said. "They encouraged us to

Opus 

close our blinds and make sure all of our windows
continued from page 1 

were locked," Nickell said. 
kind of stand outside the windows of our bedrooms," Nickell said. 
The third roommate who had originally seen them man called security and reported the incident as the man continued walking around Opus, they said. 
")Security) said they'd be right over," Nickell said. 
While they were waiting for security to come, the man 
had walked all 
"/ know I feel safer 
the way around 
knowing Security is 
the back of the building, Pfister around and hopefully said. 
this particular 
"I went to the 
instance was
lobby to see where he was nothing." going and he got in a big 
Molly Pfister 
sketchy truck 


senior
and left," Nickell said. Saint Mary's 
That was when the third roommate called security back to inform them that the man had left. Security told them, however, they were going to ~~orne check things out anyway, she said. 
"They ~~am~~ over within five rninut1~s and came into our apartment and had us show tlwrn wlwrn the man had been as well as had us desuibe him and his truck," slw said. 
Tlw roommates wer1~ then reassured of their safety and given advice for ensur­ing that tlwy were safe af'ter 

Pfister also said security officers arrived quickly and did a check of the entire outside of the building after leaving their apartment. 
"I saw them outside look­ing around our windows where we had seen the man," she said. 
In addition to checking Opus Hall, security did a search of the campus for 
the ·man, Nickell said. 
"They told us they were going to cir­cle Saint Mary's a few times to see if the~ saw anyone sus­picious or the truck we h a d described," Nickell said. 
According to the Saint Mary's secu­rity report 
filed on April 16, the man was described as a "white male standing near a win­dow and bushes at Opus Hall around 11:55 p.m.," Director of Security Dave Gariepy said. 
While the caller was still on the phone with security, a second student saw the man getting into a "maroon colored Chevy style pickup," and left via Douglass Hoad, he said. 
"Two officers responded quickly but the vehicle had 
already left," Gariepy said. 
All officers on duty that night were alerted and told to watch for the man or his pickup truck, but he was not seen on campus again, he said. 
"It is unknown whether this person was here for legitimate reasons or some­thing other," he said. 
A security alert was not issued to the campus because the situation was investigated and it was ascertained that there was not a continuing or immi­nent threat to campus, Gariepy said. 
"[I won't] send an alert message and have everyone all stirred up about some­thing we can't identify as a continuing or imminent threat," he said. 
Both Opus Hall residents stated that they felt security did a good job in handling the situation, they said. 
"I know I feel safer know­ing security is around and hopefully this particular instance was nothing," Pfister said. 
Nickell also pointed out that the incident occurred the night before The Observer ran part one of the two-part series on Saint Mary's Security, entitled "Slow Security Response Raises questions." 
"I think it's important for people to know that this all happened before that arti­cle was run," she said. 
Liz 1/arter contributed reporting to this article. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
EGYPT 



Hamas deals 6-month cease-fire with Israel 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -The Palestinian group Hamas is proposing a six-month cease-fire with Israel, saying it will stop fir­ing rockets out of Gaza if the Jewish state simultaneously lifts its blockade of the coastal strip, Egypt's state run MENA news agency said Thursday night. 
The report followed a day of closed meetings between Hamas leader Mahmoud Zahar and Egypt's intelli­gence chief, Omar Suleiman, who has been mediating between Israel and the Islamic militant group in hopes of halting their fight­ing. 
Hamas has taken a much softer stance the past week, but any deal appeared dis­tant. While Egypt clearly is acting as a communications channel between the two sides, Israel insists it won't negotiate with l-lamas, which it considers a terrorist group, as does the United States. 
llamas officials, who previ­ously have called for Israel to first lift its blockade before any truce, could not be reached by The Associated Press late Thursday to comment on the MENA report. There was no immediate reaction from Israel. 

MENA's report came two days after senior members of Hamas said the group was willing to accept a truce lim­ited to the Gaza Strip, drop­ping a long-standing demand that the West Bank be included in a halt to fighting with Israel. 
Israeli officials responded to those comments by saying Israel would keep up military pressure on Hamas as long as the group threatened Israeli civilians, an allusion to near daily rocket salvos at towns in southern Israel and recent militant attacks on border posts. 
The llamas representatives said Tuesday that the group's position would be laid out Thursday during the meeting with Suleiman. 
"We have affirmed the group's approval of a truce in Gaza Strip ... that could be expanded to the West Bank and would be set at six months," Zahar was quoted by MENA as saying after the meeting. 
"Thn truef) should be aeceptP.d by both sides," Zahar added, saying a condi­tion was that Israel "simulta­neously lif'ts its blockade of Gaza and reopens" the bor­der, including the Hafah erossing betwenn Egypt and Gaza. 

Friday, April 25, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,848.95 +85.73

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
AMEX ,w, "''2J)II1~2Jgf't;t~rz22,8!J NASDAQ 2 428.92 +23.71 NYSE 9:2so.2:"l~2.'~~.r. S&P 500 1,388.82 +8.89 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13;763.29 +222.42 FTSE 100 (London) 6.050.70 -32.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
FORD MOTOR CO (F) +11.70 +0.88 8.40 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.44 +0.60 138.32 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.90 +0.42 47.27 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +3.60 +0.92 26.45 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +2.60 +0.097 3.827 13-WEEK BILL +1.67 +0.020 1.220 30-YEAR BOND +1.32 +0.059 4.544 5-YEAR NOTE +5.04 +0.149 3.104 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.24 116.06 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -19.60 889.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.95 77.20 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 104.3500 EURO 0.6374 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0137 BRITISH POUND 0.5064 

IN BRIEF Sales, prices of new homes plunge 
WASHINGTON -Sales of new homes plunged in March to the slowest pace in 16112 years as a two-year housing downturn extend­ed into the start of another spring sales season. The median price of a new home in March compared to a year ago fell at the fastest clip in 38 years. 
Sales of new homes dropped by 8.5 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 526,000 units, the slowest sales pace since October 1991, the Commerce Department reported Thursday. 
The median price of a home sold in March dropped by 13.3 percent compared with March 2007. the biggest year-over-year price decline since a 14.6 percent plunge in July 1970. 
Housing, which boomed for five years, has been in a prolonged slump for the past two years with sales and home prices falling at especially sharp rates in formerly hot sales areas. 
Some analysts said they believe the slide in sales may be close to ending although they said any rebound is likely to be slow and anemic with priees continuing to fall, possibly until this time next year. 


Study: Crackdown may cost $1 billion 
WASIIINGTON -The government's plan to crack down on illegal workers could cost employers more than $1 billion a year and legal workers billions in lost wages, a study commis­sioned by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce says. 
Those costs are enough to trigger a federal law that would require the Homeland Security Department to analyze more thoroughly the ell'net of' its proposal, said Richard Belzer, a con­sultant hired by the chamber to do the study. It was madn available to The Associated Press on Thursday. 
Tho department's proposed "no match" rule would require employers to fire workers who can't rnsolve mismatches between their name and Social Security number. The chamber opposns the proposal. 
Bnlznr's study will be among public comments submitted to the I Iomeland Security Department on tho proposal. The department could adopt the proposal alter reviewing the comments. 



THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Ford turns a surprising profit 
Strong sales to Europe, South America help offset weak U.S. car and truck numbers 
2,096 81 1,251 161,722,172 

Associated Press  
DEARBORN, Mi'ch. - 
Ford Motor Co. surprised  
Wall Street on Thursday  
with a $100 million profit  
in the first quarter as  
strong results from  
Europe and South  
America helped offset the  
impact of a slumping U.S.  
economy that cut car and  
truck sales in its main  
market. Its shares rose  
almost 6 percent in morn­ 
ing trading.  
The No. 2 U.S.-based  
automaker also said its  
latest round of early  
retirement and buyout  
offers netted 4,200 hourly  
workers, fewer than Ford  
had targeted.  
It was Ford's first prof­ 
itable quarter since the  
second quarter of 2007  
when it made $750 mil­ 
lion. Ford reported a full­ 
year loss of $2.7 billion  
last year. and it cautioned  
that the rest of this year  
will be tough.  
"The remainder of 2008  
will be a challenge but we  
are cautiously optimistic  
despite the external chal­ 
lenges," CEO Alan Mulally  
said in a statement. "Our  
plan is working." AP  
Ford also lowered its Ford's logo hangs over the tails of unsold 2008 Taurus sedans at a Ford dealership in  
industrywide U.S. vehicle the southeast Denver suburb of Centennial, Colo., on April13.  
sales forecast for the full  
year to a range of 15.3  veyed by Thomson  Mark Truby said Ford  lion, including worker  
million to 15.6 million. In  Financial had predicted a  may offer additional buy­ buyout and early retire­ 
January it had expected  loss of 16 cents per share.  out and early retirement  ment costs and the cost of  
full-year sales of 16 mil­ Its shares rose 43 cents,  packages on a plant-by­ reducing its dealer ranks.  
lion.  or 5.8 percent, to $7.95 in  plant basis to further  Ford said it made $257  
Ford says it earned 5  morning trading  reduce its blue-collar  million pretax in South  
cents per share in the  Thursday.  work force.  America, up from $113  
January-March period.  The profit came despite  Ford reported first  million a year ago. In  
Dearborn-based Ford lost  a $45 million pretax loss  quarter revenue of $39.4  Europe, it made $739 mil­ 
$282 million, or 15 cents  in Ford's core North  billion, down from $43  lion, compared with $219  
a share, in the same peri­ American automotive  billion a year ago due to  million in the first quarter  
od last year.  market. That was an  the sale of its Jaguar­ of last year.  
Excluding special items,  improvement over a $613  Land Rover and Aston  Volvo had a pretax loss  
the company -said it  million loss in the year­ Martin units. Excluding  of $151 million, compared  
earned $525 million after  ago quarter, driven by  the sale, revenue would  with a profit of $94 mil­ 
taxes, or 20 cents per  $1.2 billion in cost reduc­ have been up slightly, the  lion a year ago. It was the  
share. That beat Wall  tions that helped buffer a  company said.  first quarter the company  
Street's expectations.  U.S. sales decline.  Special items for the  broke out earnings for the  
Thirteen analysts sur- Company spokesman  quarter totaled $416 mil- Volvo unit.  

Microsoft's third -quarter profits drop 
expectations. Analysts surveyed by Windows fell 24 percent to $4.02 bil­
Associated Press 

Thomson Financial forecast a profit of lion. Microsoft said it has sold 140 
44 cents per share. million Vista licenses since the operat­
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. said But investors, chewing over the ing system launched over a year ago, Thursday its fiscal third-quarter profit company's guidance and a drop in including 40 million since its last fell 11 percent from a year earlier, sales in the divisions that produce update in January. when the software maker reported Windows and Office, sent shares Even taking into account the tough more than $1 billion in deferred rev­down $1.47, or 4.6 percent, to $30.33 comparison to the year-ago quarter, enue tied to delays in the launch of in after-hours trading. when Microsoft booked $1.67 billion the Windows Vista operating system. Earlier in the day, the stock had in deferred Vista revenue, Parakh 
The earnings report didn't affect the gain~d 35 cents, or 1.1 percent, to said sales in the segment sank more software maker's stance on its bid to close at $31.80. than expected. In part, he attributed buy Web portal Yahoo Inc. Revenue edged up to $14.45 billion the miss to PC shipments, which did­
In a conference call, Chief Financial from $14.4 billion in the year-ago n't grow as fast as Microsoft had pre­Officer Chris Liddell broke from the quarter. Analysts were looking for dicted. standard discussion of results to say $14.4 billion in sales. The shortfall may also have come Microsoft is prepared to go hostile or "Despite a difficult economic envi­from the effect of software piracy in walk away from its offer if Yahoo ronment, it was a very good perf()rm­the quarter. The company's crack­doesn't agree to a deal by this week­ance," said Liddell in an interview. down on unlicensed software boosted end. Sid Parakh, an analyst for McAdams Microsoft's revenue above and beyond 
Microsoft said its net profit for the Wright Ragen, called the quarter PC shipment growth in the first and three months ended March 31 fell to "generally OK," with better than second quarters of the fiscal year, but $4.39 billion, or 47 cents per share, expected earnings per share but in the third quarter, Liddell said a from $4.93 billion, or 50 cents per fourth-quarter guidance that came in spate of sales of computers with unli­share, in the same period last year. "a little weak." censed software in China cut into the 
The results still beat Wall Street's Sales in the division responsible for top line. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 25, 2008 


5 people killed in van crash 
Tractor-trailer flips car carrying mentally disabled people to the zoo 
Associa1ed Press 
EIGIITY-FOUH, Pa. -A trac­
tor-trailer slammed into a van 
carrying mentally disabled people 
on a trip to the Pittsburgh Zoo, 
flipping it onto il'i side, crushing it 
against a building and killing five 
people. 
Witnesses told investigators the 
van stopped at an intersection 
and then pulled right in front of 
the semi on a rural highway. 
Crews worked for several hours 
Thursday to remove all the bod­
ies from the van. Seven people 
were injured. 
The accident happened about 
9:45 a.m. in Somerset Township, about 30 miles south of Pitl<>burgh, minutes after the van had left a group home in Bentleyville. 
"I just think it's one of those terrible, sad freak accidents," said Lynne Loresch, executive director of the Mental Health Association of Washington County, the group home operator. 
Loresch said the van was the second of two taking group home residenl'i to the zoo. The first van arrived safnly, but the group was told to return home, where they learned of the erash. 
Threfl residents of the group home and two staff members were killed. The six other people in the van -all residents -were taken to hospitals. The tractor­trailer driver was treated at a hospital and rnleased. 
Authorities said they did not believe the tractor-trailer had bmm speeding. State transporta­tion•ollidals haulnd it from the scene and plannnd to inspect it. 
The tractor-trailer is owned by Stocker Trucking Co. in Gnadenhutten, Ohio, and was driven by Stephen House, 44, of Uhrichsville, Ohio. A man who answernd the phone at Stocker Trucking dedinod to comment. 
The van was pinned against a cinderblcH:k storage building owned by a home gas-and oil­dnlivery business; a eorner of the building partly collapsed. 
The van was knocked onto its side and pushed roof-first into the building, causing the vehicle's roof to cave in, statfl police Troopnr Frank Lewis said. 
'1\vo of' the dead were removed by paramndics shortly after the aceident, but the bodies of the driver and two residents had to be cut from the wreckage, Washington County Coroner Tim Waren said. 
Killed were the driver, Sheryl Maiolini. 53. of Charleroi; staff member Mary Watkins, 43, of Ellsworth; and residents John 
Write for News. Call Bill at 631-5323. 

Maise, 61, Richard Paquet, 43, and Julie Hugus, 41. 
Maiolini was a five-year employee with a "superb" driving record, Loresch said. 
The injured residents included three men and three women, who range in age from 48 to 58 years old. 
Two of them had returned to the group home by late after­noon, Loresch said. The others were expected to survive and had injuries that included head, neck and spinal injuries and broken bones, Loresch said. 
Loresch said people in the van that crashed are from the facili­ty's enhanced personal care home, whose residents aren't locked down around the dock. 
Most of the home's residents have schizophrenia or bipolar disorders. Some are there volun­tarily, while others had been at Mayview State Hospital and are making the transition toward more independent living, Loresch said. 
Authorities had no immediate theories about why the van pulled into the path of the truck on state Route 136. 
Jefi Breen of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation's Washington County maintenance office said state officials were aware of safety concerns at the intersection of the two-lane high­way and Brownlee Road, from which the van pulled out. The department had studied the intersection and planned an upgrade, he said, though he wouldn't provide specifics. 
"We will look at it again and see if we will move this project ahead of other projects," Breen said. 
Motorists on Brownlee Road, which travels north and south, must stop at the intersection of Route 136; motorists on Route 136, which travels east and west, do not have to stop. 
Before Thursday, there had been 15 crashes but no fatalities at the intersection over the past five years, said Rich Kirkpatrick, a PennDOT spokesman. 
Carnival 

' 

Of ~ 


your password! 
You maybe sharing more than you bargained for. 
to Fiction 

I. "(J,.!,l}y 
I 
liu1al ,L R-t;;te 
"· .""'" \'<!U! C:->1:!-!ahc Co-c( is 1.. o-,•e 

·~ ~ 

. . ....... ~ .... 
--.-.;.;_ -.-··
-
..­
·--·•'..!.'
.=:::=:-­
,_.,. ..~



·-·-...::..· -... 
·~-= 
~a 
_,.~ 


~ ~
.................. ... . . ... .. 
se-cure.nd.e-du 

----·---------~-­
Friday, April25, 2008 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Welcome to your new Manhattan lifestyle. With a great downtown location, these oversized apartments have living spaces that are easily shareable. . 
Rent here and avoid an upfront broker fee and a security deposit. We'll even give you $1 ,000 off your first month's rent to help you settle in. • 
Make moving to New York easy. 
l Bedrooms from l2,800 (convertible to a 2 bedroom) 2 Bedrooms from lJ,600 (convert;ble to a 3 bedroom) 
3 Bedrooms from ~5,350 (co~vertible NO BROKER FEE APARTMENTS 
888.20 l .5944 
stuytown. com 
1··--c ·~J ')ff;.-. ·.:_! r;.--.• Ave. (-:Jt 1·-, -,!, rk--,.A N'; 10()<:;0 
-"
IL·-.·A­-···--·---·L· 

to a 4 bedroom) 

stuyvesant tov;n 
love your spoc:e 
VIETNAM 
Orphanages accused of fraudulent adoptions 
Associated Press 
HANOI -Vietnam ha..<> failed to police its adoption system, allow­ing corruption, fraud and baby­selling to flourish, the U.S. Embassy says in a new report obtained by The Associated Press. 
The nine-page document describes brokers scouring vil­lages for babies, hospitals selling infants whose mothers cannot pay their bills, and a grandmoth­er giving away her grandchild ­without telling the child's mother. 
''I'm shocked and deeply trou­bled by the worst of the worst cases," said Jonathan Aloisi, deputy chief of mission at the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi. 
Vietnam's top adoption official called the concerns "groundless." Bribery of orphanage officials may occur, but serious offenses such as baby-selling or kidnap­ping are not a problem, said Vu Due Long, director of the Department of International Adoptions. 
The dispute comes amid a boom in adoptions from Vietnam. Americans -including actress Angelina Jolie -adopted more than 1,200 Vietnamese children over the 18 months ending March 
31. In 2007, adoptions surged more than 400 percent from a year earlier, with 828 Vietnamese children adopted by American families. 
While China remains the most popular overseas country for adoptions, a growing number of Americans are looking to Vietnam, which has fewer restric­tions. The wait for adoption approval has also gotten longer in China after authorities there tightened rules. 
U.S. adoption agencies active in Vietnam said that despite some cases of wrongdoing, most adop­tions in the country are ethical. 
"Our experience has been a good one," said Susan Cox, vice president of public policy with Holt International Children's Services, based in Eugene, Ore., which has operated in Vietnam since the 1970s. "We are con­cerned about any unethical prac­tices, but I would not agree that these cases are indicative of adoptions in Vietnam." 
Another adoption agency, Families Thru International Adoption, of Evansville, Ind., said that corruption exists everywhere and it is up to the adoption agen­cies to screen who they work with in Vietnam and other countries. 
"There's always somebody that is trying to do something under the table, and when there are children involved, the results are even more horrific," said pro­gram director Salome Lamarche. "As an agency, we have a respon­sibility to be very careful who we work with in a country and to only work with organizations that work in a morally responsible manner." 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 25, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

1~0. Box 779, Noue Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDI'ffiR IN CHIF.F Chris Hine MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler Ass·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Nrws EDITOR: Bill Brink VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hinc 
ScENF. EI>ITOR: 'Etc Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOil: Jessica Lee GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADV!mTISING MANAta;R: Jessica Conez 
AD 01'.\IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7·i71 
FAX 
(~74) 631-Ci927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.31-6900 ohst•rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) Ci31-4541 nhsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) (iJI-5323 nhsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
()74) 631-)303 vit•wpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

Here's to you 
Seniors, 

With each singing of the Alma Mater these past 4 years you've proudly proclaimed "Love thee Notre Dame!" and we know you do. When you look back on your life under the dome, you won't bn disappointed with the memories. But let's face it, the "best­f'our-years-of'-your-life" haven't always been easy. Th(~ Class of 2008 has bf\en through a lot together, and for The Observer's final editorial of' the 2007-08 year. we would like to reflect on some of those rougher moments. Because everyone knows "that which doesn't kill you makes you stronger," right? 
First, football. Yes, we know you wince a little at the word. Arter all, Notre Dame football has treated you unkindly. You started out at one of its darkest 
the campus expands and upgrades so freshmen can get out of converted study lounges and into real rooms. You've coped with the loss of Casa del Hio, whoso absence leaves a gaping hole in South Bend's Mexiean dining repertoire. 
You've scofl'ed at scores of students and alumni who hav1~ voiced their opinions in this Viewpoint section, creating argu­ments that were both nonsensical and of dim importance at the same time. 
You've handled the revoking of one of' your most self-evident libm·ties -your ability to serve yourspll' at the stir-fry line ­with aplomb, and even turned it into an environmentally friend­
ly act by allowing the food to be reused. 
But for all that's chang(\d at Notre Dame during 
hours, the firing of' Tyrone Willingham after three 
your four years here, you've most importantly short and uninspiring years. Charlie Weis came helped to ntrry on the traditions of service and in, raising hopes and coaching the team to two generosity that the University is famous for. BCS bowl games. Irish football had surely You were hnre when llurrieann Katrina hit tho 
"returned to glory!" 

Then, last season: crushing disappointment. Bning shut out by Michigan and Southern Cal during a 3-9 sea­son doesn't lnavn a nice aftertaste as you graduate. 
On the bright side, you saw the rise of Notre Dame hockey as th(lY readwd the national championship, a seemingly impossi­ble feat for a tnam that had only won fivn games a f'ew seasons earlier. Mnn 's basketball won every home game the last two seasons. Bookstore Basketball continues to be a huge success, with over (>40 teams registernd this past year. Not so bad after all. 
Still, thern's more to lif(J than just sportS: even at Notre Dame, and you've dealt with issues both big and small. 
You saw Fr. John Jenkins become the new University presi­dent -not something every Notre Dame student experiences. Along with Jenkins' inauguration came the controversy over "The Vagina Monologues," which, whether you're for them or against them, assures you that the University will not cut cor­ners in dealing with educational opportunities. 
You've lived with endless cranes, backhoes and piles of dirt as 
Gulf' coast, and you collected donations and organ­ized trips to the lower ninth ward to hnlp people begin to mbuild their lives. 
You have mournnd tho dnaths of fellow students, both hnrn at Notre Dame and across tlw country al. Virginia Tech and Northern Illinois. Though you may not have known thorn, your selfless sympathy and generosity in response was certainly appreeiatnd by the familins and friends who lost a loved one. 
You have boon leaders, nwntors, tutors, H.A.'s, eoadws, peers and friends, shaping the lives of' those around you. You've helped organize and sponsor the Holy llalf Marathon, as well as hundreds of' otlwr charity and fundraising 1wents on campus. taking your Catholic values beyond tho dassroom and even into the future as you postpone potPntially lucrative earners in the name of service through the ACE, Teach for America or over­soas travel programs. 
So, when you come back for football games and alumni week­ends, look back on your colloge years with a sense of pride and S(~curity, knowing that you have a left an impressive legacy at Notre Dame, and it will always be intact. 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indt•pt·ndmt, daily newspaper puhlished in print and online by the studmts of the University of Notre Dame du LK and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contmt, including advertisements, is not govenwd by policies of tht· administration ofeither irl5lirution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse adV<'rtiscments based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprc'Sent the opinion of rhc majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries. lcrters and columns present rhc views of rhc authors and nor nt'Ct·ssarily those ofThc ()bscrver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. Tht· tree expression ofall opinions through lcrters is mcouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact int(mnation. 
Qumiow 17garding Obst'rver polici(s should br direct(d to Fditor in ChiefChris Hinr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11l(' ~ ll~:<oCIWI (US\I!'i '?9 l-4tMMI) u l"lhl~w:cl Munday thruugh l-'rkby n(t:ptcllltlll(.l cum ;nul V.ll.ltlnll pcrwd• A~h·t~:npttun tn '!111: lJh!oC.'rvrr ~ $1110 fur •lllt'ol[..kltmi.: yur;S55fnrUIKIICIIIOICT 
llte Ob.c~r !\ puhli•hnl ~~-POSTMASTER 
0,24 ."mulh DiuinK ll.rll Send Jddrrt• cutrectioru. TO: 
Nntn-llo~.mt, IN -IM'56-0779 ThtObt.~:rvcr 
f'rrindic~ fM1111Jge po~.rd ;u Nntre D.m~ r.o s.:•• n9 ;nul ilddtuunJI m.ulrnK ~tflkcs. Ol4 Smuh Dining ~!all 
Nmre Dame. IN o1MS6.0771J 
'flte ( )htiCJY\"f j, !I m~mbcr ut rhc AIRKwed r•ro.\. All rcptoducuun fl~hu. AfC rr:tcrved. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Stuff I could take or leave 
In response to Tim Loftus' "Grind My Gears" (April23) and Eleanor Bradley's "What Floats My Boat" (April 24), I present to you "Stuff I Could Take or Leave." 
Pom squad ... make your own waffles-ehh, they take awhile to make ... Hum Hunners on Wednesday nights -I suppose if it's some­body's birthday, I'll go ... sports other than football-yea, not real interested ... Holy Cross College ... Memorial Day-it's no 4th of July . .. 4-star reeruits-I guess we have to fill the squad up somehow ... lnsideND-meh ... Meerkat Manor-comme-ci, eomme-t;a ... global warming-not too concerned ... Sbarro -I guess if' I was buzzed ... Flipside events-I guess if I was drunk ... Eucharistic Processions-I guess if'l was hammered ... planetarium at the Jordan IIall of Science -pnrhaps if' science wasn't boring ... the yearbook-doesn't strike my fancy ... Microsoft Vista ... Peace Studies-don't "get" it ... the Library -I guess it has a cool mural of Jesus ... Canada-blah ... Chester A. Arthur ... full-rear nudity -I guess it's okay? ... lloly llalf Marathon­good for you, buddy ... grad students ... the MTV Movie Awards-real­ly? ... Midnight drummer's eirde-it was cool the first time ... free events at the IWAC-at least the bathrooms are nice ... Bill Paxton ... Barracuda spam-meh ... Knott Hall-I guess we're pressed for room on campus ... War on Terror-not a big deal anymore ... PigTostal ... personal hygiene -not a priority ... Loyal Daughters -is that real? ... Kansas City-both sides ... Cooper Manning. 
And that, my friends, is "Stull' I Could Take or Leave." 
Rob Arseniadis Matt Barcus Chris Wilson Andy MacKrell semors oil'campus April24 
m:; 

'Aeven bother re~t~15f this section? 
·••••'fk••··

ekwbBx yes1or no). 
mit aLetter to the Editor will read). 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Katie Peralta Michael Bryan 
Madeline Buckley Jared Jedick AsWey Charnley Pete Reisenauer Brian McKenzie Scene 

"The devil is compromise. " 
Viewpoint Mark Witte 
Kara King Graphics 

Henrik Ibsen Mary Jesse Norwegian playwright 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, April 25, 2008 
page 11 
No apologies for this senior class 
It would be easy to lose sight of the good yet to come for this year's graduat­ing seniors by focusing on the wars overseas, rising gasoline prices, an unpopular president they have known since throughout their teens or a faltering job mar­ket. Not this year. Not this class. They are my "bros" since they will attend Notre Dame reunions during the same five-year intervals that I attend. So in May, they enter my world -one made personally pleasant or miserable indi­vidually by each of us. 
The late humorist and syndicated columnist, Art Buchwald, was fond of telling seniors during a chaotic year like 2008 that he was proud his generation was leaving them a perfect world. For decades his humor was uplifting to his readers. Ultimately, he wrote his last column which the newspaper held for more than a year before he died of kid­ney failure. In it he wrote, "Each of you has, in your own way, contributed to my life." Yet in actuality, it was Buchwald, even after his death when his final words appeared in print, who helped ease the anxieties of others by explain-ing his choice to refuse to continue dial­ysis. 


Seniors will learn how to face the world as the years pile on their shoul­ders. Since my graduation, I learned that much of the joy or anxiety of others depends upon each individual's sense of sharing. Many may know that Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis will join other college head football coaches in late May for a visit of our military troops serving in Iraq. These coaches simply did not one morning wake up and wonder how they could share com­fort and good will with the troops. One of my Notre Dame classmates, Mike Whalen, worked for months organizing the initiative with several other Domers currently serving as senior officers in various branches of our military servic­es. 
Whalen is the type of forceful soul whose outlook of life comes from facing the horrors of death during his own mil­itary service during the Vietnam era. He is the earthly version of a guardian angel who smokes cigars. Whalen has scolded University admissions officers when they failed to recognize the genius of a current Notre Dame student they initially rejected whose world wide web accomplishments and fame are as popu­lar as Harry Potter. Whalen unleashed his many talents to assist a soldier about to unjustly face criminal charges brought by a zealous military prosecutor 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Unnecessary sense of entitlement 
I am very excited for Ms. Bradley about the many things at Notre Dame that float her boat ("You know what really floats my boat?," April 24); this school has provided me with an array of opportunities as well. However, while I share the pride of attending this institution with Ms. Bradley and many other students here, I hope that I do not share the haughtiness and borderline arrogance that her letter seems to emanate. 
I was honestly excited tr read Bradley's Hammerstein-esque list of her "favorite things." It did bother me that she told those on this cam­pus who are willing to engage in debate to "shut up." Since when do debate, clever sarcasm and an occasional tongue-in-cheek letter con­stitute "ripping on Notre Dame and each other?" 
Bradley's list contained some examples that, I hope, are not repre­sentative of the student population here. "The concept that at home my friends ask if I am even going to be graduating on time, and my. friends here assume that I am, and then ask what I will be doing next year" is an arrogant statement, not a confident one, and it is every bit as judgmental as the "entitled" students that Bradley references. "The fact that most outsiders hate our school because·, honestly, they're just jealous" is worse; not only does it set Notre Dame up to be an untouchable institution and a paragon of exclusivity, but it also gives those who know nothing about this school an excellent reason to hate it. 
I believe that Notre Dame, like any other organization, has many strengths and many weaknesses. But I would like to think that one of its strengths is its ability to form students who represent the school after graduation with honor and dignity, not cattiness and spiteful­ness towards those who are not members. 
Bradley's letter is a "diatribe" not unlike many of the other letters that she sees fit to respond to. Pride in one's institution and, more importantly, in one's own personal accomplishments is admirable; a false sense of entitlement and arrogance brought about both by one's ego and by one's collegiate standing is not. 
I really hope I'm not reading too much into this letter (and I won't address in depth the assumption that most student's parents fund their $40,000 or more annual bill, since that may have been an inno­cent oversight on your part), but it bothers me when students use a sense of entitlement to carve out their own identities. I am very happy for you that you have had a successful career at this school, and I wish you great success in your future career. I welcome your respons­es, and I sincerely hope that you can prove my reading of your letter wrong. 
Finally, I will give you the last word, as I definitely agree with one of your finer points: Notre Dame is "an experience that will undoubtedly influence the rest of your life." 
Greg Abbracciamento sophomore Morrissey Manor April24 

who refused to allow any consideration of that soldier's post traumatic stress diagnosis. Whalen is but one of many students graduated from Notre Dame who are uniquely operating in the real world beyond our ivy-covered walls. 
Graduating seniors this year have suf­fered through one of the most humbling football seasons in modern history. That suffering certainly qualifies them to wear sandals at graduation as a symbol of their humility. Moreover, the hockey team barely fell short of a championship and others like the Irish team at the National Student Case Study Seminar, for example, also placed second in that academic and professional competition. Yet, many teams won Big East honors through thrilling moments. Having played on the Lyons Hall softball team and lost to Planner Hall in the campus interhall championship, I learned to how to win other championships later on Capitol Hill and in local leagues. Sometimes being part of the hunt is more important than bagging the fox. 
Seniors this year are thrust into a world of special circumstances like my class during the Vietnam War. At rare moments in history we are called upon, as Norman Lear says, to be a reborn American. This graduating class is called upon to strive like Abraham Lincoln to search for a constant rebirth of democracy. They soon will learn how to be a force to change the world for the better either gregariously like Whalen or more humbly through individual efforts as a volunteer at food banks, homeless shelters and other charitable organizations. While each approach is distinctly different, marching loudly in military boots or walking quietly in san­dals both achieve a humanitarian goal. 
Lawrence Ferlinghetti wrote a moving poem in-which he best describes the task ahead of graduating seniors: 
"I am waiting for a rebirth of wonder, and I am waiting for someone to really discover America, and I am waiting for the American Eagle to really spread its wings and straighten up and fly right, and I am waiting for the Age of Anxiety to drop dead ... and I am perpetually awaiting a rebirth of wonder." 
It is nearly time for the Class of 2008 to leave campus on their own quest of wonder. Indications are that the boots and sandals on the ground are prepared for the journey. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column usually appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Recycle as last resort 

Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. This catch phrase rings like "an apple a day" or "stop, drop and roll." It seems, though, that the first two steps of this trio are often quickly forgotten. 
Now don't get me wrong, I support recy­cling, and, as a resident of Cavanaugh Hall, I look upon our "Trash is Art" Recyclemania trophy with fierce pride. But with the contest over, and St. Ed's and Walsh left wishing they'd stolen a few more bags of cans from BP, I think Notre Dame is called to bigger and better things. 
Did you know that 96 billion pounds -over 25 percent-of America's food goes to waste each year? Or that Americans go through 28 billion plastic water bottles each year? While recycling is clearly preferable to adding to landfills, even more energy is saved when people reuse what they use, and use less to begin with. 
In honor of Earth Week, I ask each member of the Notre Dame community, tree-hugger or not, to commit to these ten very simple tips for conserving energy and decreasing waste. 
1. Your computer should sleep when you do. 
Those 4 a.m. instant messages are not that important. 
2. 
Take a walk, take a bike, take a bus. Avoid driving whenever possible, and consider a hybrid when you hit the real world. 

3. Take shorter and cooler showers. 

4. 
Tell Subway you don't need that plastic bag that you'll get your sandwich out of three seconds later. 

5. 
Bring a mug to get your coffee. Some places will even save you some Flex points for doing so! 


6. Print double-sided. 
7. 
Get a mesh grab-and-go bag and give up on the paper ones. 

8. 
Get a water filter instead of buying bot­tled, and drink from a reusable container. 

9. 
Only take what you will eat at the dining hall, and choose locally grown products. 


10. Then, and only then, please recycle! 
Michelle Byrne 
JUniOr 
Cavanaugh Hall April25 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Friday, April 25, 2008 

formula; namely, O'Neill. 
"It is common for the girl's dorms "O'Neill has used same boat for sev­to have multiple boats. The guys are eral years. There are tallies on the more competitive and generally focus side of the boat that show that the 
Thirty-two homemade boats will all their energy on one boat," he said. boat has won 4 or 5 times," Clary race across Saint Mary's Lake tomor­While some boats are pretty basic, said. row. vying for the coveted honor of made out of wood and caulk, many The fun and excitement encompass­
inning the 22nd annual Fisher people get creative with their build­ing the Hegatta is thn fl~sult of 
Hngatta. ing materials. " major organizational feat. NDSP. the Many boats will survive the waters <)ne year, some girls made a boat South Bend Fire Department. and . nd reach the other side, while with mats from the game Twister, South Bend's Water Safety Unit are 
inevitably some while another group all involved in the event, Clary said. nlueky crafts will created a boat with They partake in the event as a pro­
"O'Neill has used same boat
make the bottom of 'root beer' kegs," he caution, bringing in scuba gear and the lake their perrna­for several years. There are said. Clary also patrolling tlw water in motorboats. nent home. The pointed out that in But the event is just as fun for tlwm ·
tallies on the side of the
sailors and the spec­the past, awards as it is for the students.
boat that show that the boat 
tators will make up have been given out "They love it. Last year, one of the the crowd for has won Jour or five times. " for "Most Creative [firemen] brought his son, and hn just Fisher's signature Boat." road around in the motorboat with ·dorm event. However while everyone," Clary said. .
Drew Clary 

"Usually about ten boat building mate­Along with the safety precautions.
Regatta Co-Commissioner 
to twelve hundred rials run the gamut, the commissioners are also in charge people show up." not all of them stay of handling the money to be sent to Hegatta co-commissioner Drew Clary alloat. the charity. Every year, the Hegatta said. "We serve tons of food that is "Last year, Sorin's boat sank right benefits the Andre !louse, a lloly generally gone in an hour," he said. at the starting line," Clary said. Cross Organization serviee organiza-
Jay Farraher organized Fisher "There must be a fair tion in the Phonnix Hall's first regatta in 19S7. A fresh­number of boats at area. man at the time, Farraher and some the bottom of that Every
Many boats will survive the 
friends sought to create an event that lake." donates $40 to united the men of Fisher Hall, while Fisher. though, has waters and reach the other enter their first raising money for charity at the same learned in past years side, while inevitably some boat. If they choose me. what works best in to entnr additional
unlucky crafts will make the 
"We wanted to achieve [an event! creating a fast and boats, each one will the level of Bookstore Basketball. buoyant boat. Clary's bottom ofthe lake their cost $30, Clary said. nTostal and the Keenan Heview," freshman year, the permanent home. The dorm will also Farraher said in an e-mail. Twenty­Fishermen built a sell tee shirts prieed wo years later, Farraher is happy to boat that was about at $10 to raise 
e that Hegatta has grown into an 500-600 pounds. "It money. The eosL ofr vtmt that hundreds was a monster. but putting on the event, namely the cost f students attend really cool, like a ·of food, is covered by dorms funds 
, ach year. "! am very party barge," he and sponsorships.
Clary's freshman year, the
roud of the fact said. "We have a tight budget so we hat the Hegatta is Fishermen built a boat that However, the beast expanded our sponsorship this year," till going strong," was about soo-6oo pounds. of a boat required Clary said, stating that Catering by 
said. 22 men to carry it Design will donate about half of the
"It was a monster, but really 
Haee day will find out to the lake, and food, and that Papa Johns will be
cool, like a party barge, "he
ats made of every by the time the boat supplying gift certificates to the 
eeivable material said. was steadily cruis­race's winners. ined up on the ing across the The day of the race starts at 7 a.m. hore, ready to take water, Fisher's for the commissioners. They will 
n their opponents. There will be opponent had already crossed the fin­make sure everything is in place 
nywhere from two to eight people ish line. But Clary and his dormmates before waking up the rest of the dorm ·per boat, with each boat entered into have learned from their mistake, this at 11 a.m. to finish preparations. At 
ither a male or female bracket, year Fisher's boat considerably noon the grill will be firnd up. Finally, Clary said. The objeetive is to build a smallPr. at 1:00 pm, the races will-commence. fast and effieient boat that will get While some dorms like Fisher and the team across the lake before the Sorin try to learn from past mistakes, Contact Madeline Buckley at opposing team, advancing them in other dorms have a tried and true mbuckley@nd.edu 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

---------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, April 25, 2008 





By MARK WITTE Assistant Scene Editor 

"I've got a singular impression that things are movin' too fast," sings Matthew Callanan's character Jamie Wellerstein. It might be a comment on thA show's one-act structure, but "The Last FivA Years," by the Farley Hall PlayArs, which opens tonight at the Mainstage in Washington Hall, is over and done before you know it. But that might not be a bad thing. 
The show is directed by junior Connor Nowalk and stars a pair of singing sophomores, placing Carolyn Rose Sullivan as Cathy Hiatt, an actress who can't seem to catch a break, alongside Callanan's character, a budding novel writer. 
WrittBn by Jason "The Last Five Years" appears in spotlight on Hobert Brown and first the other side of the
Farley Hall Players 
produeBd in Chicago in stage -a flashback ­
Washington Hall 
2001, "The Last Five talking on the phone Years" does what its Friday and Saturday. with an agent. He title suggests, recount­learns that his career is
7:30p.m.
ing five years in the taking off. The spotlight
Tickets $6 for
relationship of Jamie switches back to Cathy and Cathy, five years in Students, $8 for non­and she begins to yell at whieh the eouple come him, "You and you and
students 
togethp,r and fall apart. And it does so in a sin­gle act. 

But the musical also does something interesting with the story's chronology. It starts at both the beginning and the end. 
When Cathy first takes the stage, five years have spanned and her relation­ship with Jamie is over. Lost and hurt, she sings, "Jamie's over and where can I turn." But then Jamie takes the stage and the story rewinds back to the beginning, where Jamie, on his first date with Cathy, sings a eomical little ditty about being Jewish and in love. From there, Jamie's story progresses forward in time with his career, while Cathy's tale, and career, slides back­ward. 
The show has an impressive amount of singing. "Obviously vocal stamina has been a challenge," Nowalk said, "But its something we knew we were going to have to work on from the beginning, so we got it working from the start." 
Between the two of them, Callanan and Sullivan sing fourteen different pieces before the end of-the one-act, and with no more than a few moments rest between songs. 
As well, each piece has a different feel and style. With violinist Joe Edmonds and pianist Mark Wurzelbacher playing in the baek­ground, Callanan and Sullivan sing through a number of musical genres, expressing their character's love and frustration with one another. 
Cathy's second song begins as a quiet little reflection on a pier, but quickly becomes an aceusatory rant as she berates Jamie for leaving her alone while attending to his rising literary eareer. In the middle of her song, Jamie 
nothing but you I Miles and piles of you I Pushing through win­
dows and bursting through walls I En route to the sky I And 1..." 
The funniest part of the play might be when Cathy sings sarcastically about 
spending the sum­ The funniest part ofthe play  about sharing "the  
mer separated from Jamie. "I could shove an ice pick in my eye I I  might be when Cathy sings sarcastically about spending the summer separated from  next ten minutes" and "the next ten years," the charac­ter's two stories  
could eat some fish  Jamie. "I could shove an ice  intersect,  with  
from last July I But it wouldn't be as awful as a summer in Ohio," she sings.  pick in my eye I I could eat some fish from last July I But it wouldn't be as awful as  Jamie proposing and marrying Cathy. The story's structure then  
And if that image doesn't prove her  a summer in Ohio," she sings.  reassumes its sepa­rate ways, as Cathy  
point,  she  goes  progresses back­ 

onto to sing, "I could get a root canal in ward to the beginning, and Jamie mov­hell, but it wouldn't be as swell as this ing more rapidly toward the end. summer is gonna be." "The Last Five Years" is a play about 
"The Last Five Years" is a show communication and its breakdowns. Nowalk has been looking forward to The anxieties of separation the play 
putting on for a long time. "It's been one of my favorites. The first song I heard was 'The Next Ten Minutes' and I was like, 'That is a great song,"' Nowalk said. 
"The Next Ten Minutes," which comes on the heels of Cathy's Ohio diatribe, is the first time in which the two charac­ters direetly interact in the same chronological space. Singing 
MARY JESSE I Observer Graphic 

-
addresses are things Nowalk feels stu­dents will be able to relate to. "People can relate to it, the feelings that come up, and it's just a great show. It's not an experience that you want to miss." 
Moreover he feels the show is an excellent showcase for the east. "[The play] shows off the talent here at Notre Dame. We have two incredibly talented performers, singers and actors as well as a violin and piano player." 
But Nowalk said he feels the play does something else. 
"I think that musical theater has a lot of connotations. A lot people think they have a good idea of what it means," he said. "This is a different possibility of what musical theater can be and I think it's a success." 
The Farley Hall Players' show isn't terribly long, and that might be its strength. It dives into the lives Jamie and Cathy, taking the audience along for a ride amidst their love, fear and separation, before coming to a close. And it's a ride, which if experienced, surely won't be regretted. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
Jamie Wellerstein (Matthew Callanan) sings about all the women he has had Carolyn Rose Sullivan and Matthew Callanan perform one of many musical· to suffer through en route to meeting Cathy Hiatt in "The Last Five Years." numbers during a dress rehearsal Wednesday night in Washington Hall. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 25, 2008 
MLB 

Athletics cruise to lopsided victory against Liriano, Tvvins 
Tigers break out for five homerun performance to complete sweep of Rangers, hand Texas seventh straight 
b1~eause they pitdwd mn tough.
Associated Press 

I'm surn thnir game plan was not 
OAKLAND-Frank Thomas to give in because tlwy knew I won in his r«>turn to Oakland. missed a whole week. so they Bajai Davis got thrnn hits in his threw somn sliders and breaking Ath!Ptics dnhut. balls and ran the ball in on me. 
Ynt it was Donnin Murphy who I'm just happy wn got a big win." 
ddiwrnd all t.lw pownr. Davis was daimed off waivers With two nPw and familiar from the San Francisco Giants on f<u:ns in tlw starting lineup, the Wednesday and appeared in his 
... A's jumpPd on Mimwsota startPr first game, getting a single in the l'ranrisco l.iriano for six runs in first, a triple in the fifth and thn first inning on the way to an anotlwr base hit in the sixth. I 1-2 vidory owr tlw Twins in the Murphy honlPred to lert to start rubbnr ganw Thursday. the nrth, Davis tripled. tlwn Kurt 
Murphy hit solo shots in th1~ Suzuki hit an HBI double to ehase fifth and sixth innings li1r his first Brian Bass. and sncond honwrs of the season "Our ollimse was really rolling and first canwr multihomnr today," A's manager Bob Coren gamn. Thomas razzml him about said. "I think Frank in thnre it aftnrward. drawing a couple of walks really 
"lin was giving me a hard time helped." -'Oh. it's that easy. huh'?"' Liriano was done aftnr Davis' Murphy said with a grin. first single and just 35 pitehes in 
Mikn Sweorwy -whose play­a first inning that lasted 29 min­ing time will probably diminish utes. The left-hander, who is with the addition of Thomas -struggling mightily to command had a two-run double ofl' the wall the strike zone aftnr returning in left in the fourth, a day after from Tommy John surgery in connecting for his first home run November 2006, allowed six runs in 40 games. and five hits, walked three and 
"Looking at the lineup, in the 3-didn't have a strikeout. after batting .056 (1-for-18) in 12 lost seven straight. move to third base. "I don't know 4 holes you have Mike Sweeney "He just had no eommand in games for the Giants before they "We knew this was going to be after that." and Frank Thomas -that's pret­the zone," Minnesota manager designated him for assignment a good lineup," Tigers manager The Hangnrs have lost 12 of 14. ty good," Murphy said. "I had a Hon Gardenhire said. "I don't April20. Jim Leyland said. "Now we're Thursday's loss ended a nine­feeling we wern going to seore think he has a lot of eonlidence ''I'm excited about what we're getting some big hits from the top game road trip. some runs." right now. You build confidence doing over here," Davis said. "It's of the order, and we're also get­"It will bn good to go home and 
Emil Brown hit a two-run sin­by going back out there and nice to get out there and get ting a lot from the bottom guys. see if we can get something glo as the A's batted around in pitching, and he'll do that. The hits." That's what happens -hitting going," Texas manager Hon the first and chased Liriano (0-3) kid couldn't get out of an inning." Carlos Gomez hit a solo home gets contagious." Washington said. "Detroit has a aftor only two-thirds of an inning. It was the shortest outing by a run leading off .the game for the Ordonez isn't surprised that the great lineup, and if you give them Thomas drew a five-pitch walk TWins starter since May 30, 2002, Twins, one day after Gardenhire Tigers offense has come alive. an opportunity, someone's going and came around to score and when Brad Hadke lasted only sat him for the first time all sea­"It was just a matter of time," to take it." Davis singlnd in the No. 9 spot one-third of an inning against the son following an 0-for-5 showing. he said. "Now we'll get into our For the second day in a row, that inning as the A's staked Angels before leaving with an Rookie Oakland first baseman momentum-our rhythm. We're Detroit's hitting was enough to starter Greg Smith (2-0) to a injury. Daric Barton got his first day out going to start winning." overeome a bad outing by a key comfortable lead. "I just have to get better from of the starting lineup all season, Leyland, though, faces yet pitcher. After Kenny Hogers only 
The Big Hurt agreed to terms where I started," Liriano said. "I and Sweeney played first before another injury shuffie after left lasted 3 1-3 innings in a 19-6 with the /\s after being released was feeling good in the bullpen Barton entered in the sixth. fielder Jacque Jones bruised his win, Jeremy Bonderman needed Sunday by the Toronto Blue Jays but when I got out there every­knee when he bumped into the 111 pitchers to get through 4 1-3 and went 0-for-3 with two walks, thing changed. I don't know what Tigers 8, Rangers 2 fence in the fourth inning. Jones innings. rnceiving a warm welcome baek it is. I have to put that aside and Magglio Ordonez and the joined Carlos Guillen (knee) and Sonderman only allowed two from the crowd. lie returned to work on some things, try not to Detroit Tigers are starting to hit Gary Sheffield (shoulder) on the hits, but hit a batter and walked the cleanup spot as designatnd walk so many guys." the way they hoped. Staying bench. a earner-worst seven. hitter. whieh will be his regular Smith allowed two runs on healthy, that's the tricky part. Jones said that he didn't expect "I was joking with Kenny that role again for Oakland after he seven hits in seven innings, Ordonez hit two of the Tigers' to miss much time, but Guillen he and Hondo were taking years was a catalyst in the team's 2006 struck out three and walked one five home runs Thursday and was having trouble walking oil' my life," Leyland said. playoll' run and AL West champi­in his first career appearance Detroit finished off a convincing around the clubhouse after foul­Zaeh Miner, though, followed onship. against the Twins, helping three-game sweep with a win ing a pitch off his knee the day with 3 1-3 hitless innings after 
"I didn't feel out of place. lt Oakland win for the filth time in over the Texas Hangers. before. entering the gamn with a 13.06 rnally felt like I just left," Thomas six games. The Tigers outscored Texas 37-"I don't think there's any EHA.. said. ''I'm happy to be back. I'm Davis' hit in his first at-bat was 10 in the series and have won chance· for tomorrow," said "I felt like I owed the starters at happy to shake the rust ofl' today only his second of the season four in a row overall. Texas has Guillen, who is scheduled to least one game like that," he said. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 Soutb Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. Tbe Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

DIRECTOR OF MUSIC AND WOR·  Large house available for 2009·  8 bdrm, 3 full bath house for 08·09.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
..  FoR SALE  SHIP St. Mary Catholic Church, Defiance. Ohio. a welcoming commu· nity of worship and service, dedicated  FoR RENT  2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus.  Great area. Close to campus. $250 per student.  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love  
Subaru 99 Forester/great condi·  to the faith formation of all its mem- Blue & Gold Homes Showing for  4,000+ square feet.  574-250·7653.  needs confidential  
tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6.500.  bers. seeks a Director of Music and  08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex"  5 bathrooms.  support or assistance,  
234·2104.  Worship. As a member of Pastoral staff, the applicant must desire to  leases bluegoldrentals.com  MacSwain@ gmail.com  PERSONAL  please call Sr. Sue Dunn,  
Condo For Sale. Close to ND. Quiet  work in a model of collaborative lead·  For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D.,  Staying in South Bend this summer?  OP,  
community-beautifully cared for.  ership and provide direction of an  student neighborhood, central air, new  Need a place to live? 1 017 E.  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME·  at  
Contact Paul @  active and well formed parish liturgi·  appliances, very nice. 289·4071.  Washington St. (cross street Eddy St.)  ONE WHO IS? You do not have  1-7819.  
574-993·5858.  cal ministry commission. The appli- Great Location · Less than 5 mins from  to be alone.  For more  
cant must be self-motivated, flexible,  1 OR 2 Bdrm apt.in historic neighbor- campus. 6 spacious rooms available &  We want to help.  information,  
WANTED  knowledgeable of Catholic Liturgy, skilled in organ and keyboard accom­ hood. One mile to ND. Laundry & security. $510/mo. Call574-532·8718.  2.5 bathrooms. Contact Shannon at straeger@nd.edu for details on sub- Call our 24 hour  visit our website  
paniment and able to provide direc·  leasing.  confidential hotline at  at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart·  
New student needs good laptop.  lion to choirs, cantors, musicians and  54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3  1-800-No Abort  ments/pregnant.shtml  
574-993·8733.  liturgical ministry teams. Salary com- bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Nice house  or visit our  or see our  
petitive and commensurate with edu·  near ND, behind Nicks Patio.  for rent 1/2 mile from ND. 2 or 3 bed- web site at  bi-weekly  
SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE·  cation/experience. Position open  Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage,  rooms and 2 full baths, 1-car garage,  www.lifecall.org  ad  
APPT. flexible, no exp. nee. cus·  beginning July 1 , 2008. Send  $725/mo. $250 security deposit.  washer/dryer, and fenced yard. Rent  in The Observer.  
tamer sales/service, cond. apply,  Resume and 3 References to: Rev.  jimc343@yahoo.com  includes water, trash, and yard care.  If you or someone you care  
ages 17+, positions available  Timothy M. Kummerer 715 Jefferson  Call Darin at 574-631·2721.  about has been sexually assault·  Real men don't throw poop.  
throughout  Ave., Defiance, OH 43512 Phone:  3 bdrm homes & 1 bdrm apts.  ed,  
us &  419·782·2776 Fax: 419·782·1958  Close to ND. Call Jose 574·514·  3 bdrm 1 bath home, garage, new  visit  Are  
Canada.  email: tmkstmary@defnet.com Web  0900 or email:  appliances. Close to ND. $800/mo  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/ra  any of the comics ever  
www.workforstudents.com  Page: www.stmarydefiance.org  greatlakespg@ gmail.com  plus utilities. Call 286·4063.  pe.shtml  funny?  


----~--­

---------------------------------------------------------"""l 
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 25, 2008 CoMP[LfD FROM TH F OnsERVEn:s WIRE SERVICES. page 15 
' 


MLB 

American League, East Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Boston 15-9 .625 128 119 Baltimore 12-9 .571 89 90 NY Yankees 12-10 .545 100 102 Tampa Bay 10-11 .476 103 93 Toronto 10-12 .455 102 92 
American League, Central Division 
team record perc . RF RA 
Chicago WS 11·9 .550 107 81 Minnesota 10·12 .455 78 96 Kansas City 9·11 .450 64 92 Detroit 10-13 .435 119 128 Cleveland 8·12 .400 94 91 
American League, West Division 
team record perc . RF RA 
Oakland 14-9 .609 109 82 LA Angels 14-9 .609 116 103 Seattle 11·11 .500 100 90 Texas 7·16 .304 92 142 
National League, East Division 
team record perc. RF RA 

13·8 .619 101 104 NY Mets Florida 
11-9 .550 95 79 Philadelphia 
12-11 .522 109 100 Atlanta 10·11 .476 105 81 Washington 6·16 .273 78 114 
National League, Central Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Chicago Cubs 15·7 .682 135 98 St. louis 13·9 .591 103 87 Milwaukee 13·9 .591 105 93 Houston 11·12 .478 108 104 Pittsburgh 9·12 .429 95 133 Cincinnati 9·14 .391 95 111 
National League, West Division 
team record perc. RF RA 
Arizona 15·6 .714 128 79 Colorado 10·12 .455 97 113 LA Dodgers -9·12 .429 91 82 San Francisco 9·13 .409 70 105 San Diego 9·13 .409 74 106 
Golfweek's Men's Golf Rankings 
team record Eoents 
1 Alabama 117·11-1 10 2 Georgia 107·21-0 9 3 usc 110·17·1 9 4 UCLA 89-15-1 8 
5 Oklahoma State 100·24 9 6 Charlotte 106·18-1 9 7 Stanford 86·28 9 8 Florida 97-42-1 10 9 Georgia Tech 90-38·2 9 10 Florida State 100·32·1 10 11 Tennessee 105·37-3 10 12 South Carolina 111·40-2 10 13 Chattanooga 130·30-4 11 14 Duke 84·36·3 10 15 UNLV 113·32-2 10 16 Texas A&M 86·51·1 10 17 Auburn 93-43-3 10 18 Clemson 92-44·1 10 19 UCF 95-45·3 10 20 Louisville 103-48·3 11 21 East Tennessee 72-57·2 9 22 Arizona State 76-52·2 9 23 Wake forest 88·48·5 10 24 Michigan State 87·34·2 10 25 Indiana 110·35-11 
around the dial 
NHL PLAYOFFS 
Rangers at Penguins 7 p.m., Versus 
Stars at Sharks 
10:00 p.m., Versus 
NBA 


Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Larry Brown wants one more stop on his nomadic coaching career. 
Brown resigned as Philadelphia's executive vice president Thursday with the intent to pursue a coaching job at the NBA or college level. 
Brown has been a win­ner at almost every team from the ABA to the NBA to the college ranks, yet hasn't coached since a bitter split with the Knicks and then-team president Isiah Thomas after one dismal season in New York in 2005-06. 
"He has the taste of 
coaching back in his mouth," said Brown's agent, Joe Glass. "It would be refreshing to have a situation going that he could enjoy, rather than the last one, to say the least." 
Glass said Brown, who won an NBA title with Detroit and a college title with Kansas, would not rule out returning to either level. 
Brown rejoined the Sixers last season as con­sultant and was hired in January 2007 as a VP more than three years after he quit his coaching job to take the same position in Detroit. The 67-year-old Brown 
IN BRIEF Goodell ready to punish
the Patriots if necessary 
NEW YORK -Roger Goodell is fully prepared to crack down again on the New England Patriots if his meeting with Matt Walsh uncovers a tape made of the St. Louis Rams' final walkthrough practice before the 2002 Super Bowl. 
"Taping a walkthrough is much different from what I punished them for," the NFL commissioner said Thursday at a meeting of a group representing the Associated Press Sports Editors. 
After more than two months of negotiations, lawyers for the league and Walsh, the former New England employee, finally reached agreement Wednesday on terms that will allow him to talk Goodell. They include an agreement by the Patriots not to sue Walsh and to pay his legal expenses and his air­fare to New York from Hawaii, where he is now a golf pro. 
resigned as coach of the 76ers in 2003 after six often-turbulent seasons in which he helped rebuild a struggling fran­chise. 
The Hall of Fame coach had a contentious rela­tionship with Allen Iverson, but the two worked together despite several disputes, and reached the NBA finals in 2001. They lost in five games to the Lakers. 
"Larry was born to coach and this is some­thing he and I talked about when I took the job here back in December, so it comes as no sur­prise to me," 76ers presi­dent Ed Stefanski said. 
Ortiz jersey sold for 
$175,000 at cliarity auction 
BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox jer­sey secretly buried under the new Yankee Stadium in a failed curse attempt sold Thursday for $175,100 in a charity auction. 
The bid from Kevin Meehan, the owner of lmperialcars.com in Mendon, Mass., was the highest of 282 for the battered No. 34 David Ortiz jersey. 
"I actually thought it was going to sell for more money," said Meehan, who bid only in the final moments of the weeklong eBay auction that ended at 12:30 p.m. "I have three young boys that I take to the games and they would have killed me if I didn't buy the shirt. " 
The Yankees jackhammered the jer­sey out from under two feet of con­crete earlier this month, then donated it to the Jimmy Fund, the Red Sox's official charity that is affiliated with Boston's Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. 
• 
Brown rarely attended games or even practices in his second stint. He returned to the organiza­tion to help out his friend and former team presi­dent Billy King, and con­sulted when the 76ers traded Iverson to Denver last season. Not long after Iverson was gone, Brown was promoted. 
Brown has been King's mentor since he hired him as an assistant coach in Indiana. When Brown came ·to Philadelphia in 1997, he brought King with him as vice presi­dent of basketball admin­istration. King became team president after Brown resigned in 2003. 

Gambler ~_leads _Ruilty to betting onlixed NffA games 
NEW YORK -A professional gambler pleaded guilty on Thursday to making bets based on inside tips from former NBA referee Tim Donaghy. 
James Battista told a judge in fed­eral court in Brooklyn he hatched a scheme in late 2006 with another old friend of Donaghy, Thomas Martino, to pay the referee thou­sands of dollars for the information while Battista was "engaged in the business of sports betting." 
Battista's lawyer had notified the court last week that his client want­ed to go to trial rather than plead guilty to charges of defrauding the NBA, as Martino .did earlier this month. But he changed his mind after prosecutors offered a last­minute deal allowing him to instead plead guilty to a lesser charge of conspiring to make illegal bets, said the lawyer, Jack McMahon. 
..-------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 25, 2008 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles travel to Albion for first leg of MIAAs 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
After a bumpy start to its season, Saint Mary's begins the first round of MIAA tour­nament play today as they take on Kalamazoo in Albion, Mieh., at H:30 a.m. 
"Based on how well we've been doing lately as a team, I know we are ready to lay it all on the line this weeken_d," sophomore co-captain Camille Gebert said. "If we want any hope of doing well, we are going to have to play confi­dently, as we have in the later part of our season. I have high expectations for our team in this tournament, as I'm sure we all do." 
The MIAA tournament runs today and Saturday at Albion and nearby Spring Arbor University. Teams will com­pete in the opening rounds today and Saturday with the tournament final being played on Sunday. 
Saint Mary's singles and doubles have both shown irnprovenwnt over the course of' the s1mson. Coming into the season with only two return­ing sophomores and eight f'rnshmen, the Belles had a rough start. Losing thfl~e o[ its first four conference matehns, Saint Mary's turrwd the sea­son around and stepped up its play. 
II e a cl i n g i n to tlw to u rna­lliPnt, llw Belles are presently fourth in tlw MIAA with a 1·onf'ererH"I' record of 5-:{, and I 0-9 oVPrall. Saint Mary's has also been showing a lot more ronsistency in recent mateh­e s . w i n n i ng tlw Ias t f'i v e matdws. This past week1~nd the Belles defeated eonf'Pr­enee rivals Kalamazoo and Alma 6-:{ and S-1. fl~spnetivP­

ly. 
Saint Mary's hopes its recent momentum will carry over into the tournament this weekend, in both their dou­bles and singles. Leadi-ng the Belles this season for doubles has been the No. 1 duo of Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley, who ended the regular season at 10-9, 6-2 MIAA. 
At the front for Saint Mary's singles this season is Gebert, currently is at 11-8, 5-3 MIAA. Following Gebert is Hurley, whose strong debut season has helped the Belles in scoring many of their wins this spring. Hurley went unde­feated in MIAA play, going 8­0, and 17-2 overall. At No. 3 singles for most of the season has been Reed, whose gone 10-8, 5-3 MIAA. 
Up first for Saint Mary's is a team they beat 6-3 this past weekend, Kalamazoo. If they defeat the Hornets, the Belles will take on the winner of Albion and Tri-State, and if they lose they take on the winner of that match. 
"We play Kalamazoo first round, who we just beat on Saturday," Gebert said. "I know we can get past them, in which we'll be playing the one or two seed, Albion or Calvin, neither of whom are out of our rnach." 
Saint Mary's has high hopes for the conference tourna­mnnt, nspneiaffy after their recent succnssns, consisteney. and momentum. 
"As long as we play likll we know how to play, we will suc­ceed," Gebert said. "It should be a fun weekend. lots or ten­nis, and lots of talent. We'll see what kind of potential WP havn, I'm very optimistic." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiche!> Meat Di~hes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts n.tra~: lentil Soup & Garlic Paste 
Come Dine \Vith Our rumily And lk Our Friend! 
115 Dixie Way North, So11til BCild 
(574) 277-7239 
-~~ 
' --~.. 
SMC GoLF 

Squad -competes for NCAAs 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will put their season on the line this weekend as they continue the MIAA's conference tournament this weekend in Marshall, Mich. 
The Belles currently sit in second place after the first round, just 18 strokes behind Olivet. 
Saint Mary's has proven over the past couple of weeks that it can compete with the best teams in Division III, and hope to automatically qualify for the NCAA Tournament with a first place finish in the conference tournament. 
Since the first round of the quali11er, the Belles have fin­ished second at the Vassar Invitational and sixth at the Illinois-Wesleyan Spring Fling. 
At the Spring Fling, the team's improvement was noticeable as Saint Mary's fin­ished only 7 strokes behind Olivet and shot the same score as the Comets on the final day. 
Leading the Belles' spring charge was freshman Hosie O'Connor and senior captain Katie O'Brien. 
In the Vassar Invitational, O'Connor finished second over­all, one shot off the lead, in the individual standings..Reigning conference MVP Katie O'Brien, who has led the Belles all sea­son, finished in 16th place. 
In the Illinois-Wesleyan tour­nament both women posted totals of 163 placing them in a tie for 17th overall. 
If the Belles fail to pull ahead of Olivet this weekend, their NCAA Tournament hopes still won't be extinguished. The top teams who do not receive the automatic bid from their con­ference tournaments will be thrown into a pool where a selection committee will decide which teams will join the auto­matic bids in the championship. 
Based on their previous results, the Belles have a good chance of being selected if it were to come to the selection committee. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

The UPS Store 
"May Move Out" '08 NOTRE DAME 
MONDAY -THURSDAY AND SATURDAY 
10am-5pm 
FRIDAY 
8am-5pm 
FLANNER CIRCLE: WELSH FAMILY HALL Monday, May 5 -Saturday, May 1 0 Thursday, May 15 -Saturday, May 17 Monday, May 19 
LYONS BASKETBALL COURTS Wednesday, May 7 -Saturday, May 1 0 
$1.00 off Shipping PER BOX FREE PICK UP Pickup is free, but no discounts will be accepted with pickup. PERMANENT LOCATION Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23 Hours: M-F 9am -7pm, Sat: 9am -6pm 574.277.6245 
~fnntlOufln n CrtJwtll 
At Notre Dome Federal Credit Union, we not only offer 
ovariety of options to assist you with the financing 
of your educational goals, but we provide personal service every step of the way. 
We'll answer your questions about our many student loon options, help you decide which one is right for you, plus we'll tell you­about the various discounts we offer. 
It's not just your education, it's your future. 
Friday, April 25, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 


"' Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher 
Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
Start your MCAT.prep here and finish it anywhere! 
Plus enroll with Kaplan in April and get MCAT Verbal Edge free-a S499 valuef 
Tuesday, April 29! 
*** To find out more about how you can start your class in South Bend, and finish your class in any Kaplan Center, please call (574)272-4135! 
MCAT course prices are going up $50-enroll now to beatthe price increase! 
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/mcat 
'Mo.:AT hi a .-.gltlfared trlldttmllrlc d the ~all on of ,&.meru:an Medial! Colleges tThllll olf~r !JPPIIU Cl!lly 10 Mc:Ar Cla"SrOOITI Course. ~T Online C:ourse., « MCAT P!ivate Tutomg Progfflms cannot be combined wlth anydtler ofl'er Tobii•IQibllll 'jQU.fTIJsterudland~flVIMfl.dl t.etweenAprt 1st 2008,at>dA(Iol30th. 2008. tc~5.~drm.>tchon.!iapJ:II':I' For compt~e.guanmle~ell~ity~~-~~~nt"S,'l\d lo:aptesiQOI'I\Itl$il M-~20(0 
HIGHER MCAT SCORE GUARANTEED-OR YOUR MONEY BACK! 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles to take shot at regular season crovvn 
By LAURA MYERS Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's plays its last reg­ular season game before the conference tournament Saturday afternoon, taking on first-place Tri-State. 
The Belles (22-7 overall, 11-3 MIAA), currently third in the MIAA, have already reserved their spot in the upcoming con­ference tournament. But, with two wins on Saturday, it would be possible for Saint Mary's to become regular season champs. 
The tournament, which begins May 1, is held at the home field of the regular sea­son winner. 
Taking two against Tri-State will not be an easy task, howev­er. The Thunder (26-4, 10-2) have only lost two MIAA games, one against conference co­leader Alma and the other against fourth place Hope. They put together an 11-game win­ning streak earlier in the sea­son extending from March 22 to April 5. 
Belles coach Erin Sullivan said she wants the team to do well, especially because the doubleheader finishes the Belles' season at home. 
"A good fmish of our regular season would be a great moti­vator for the post-season," said Sullivan. 
Saturday is also senior day for the Belles. Pitcher and third baseman McKenna Corrigan, the only senior on the team, will be honored for her commitment to the program. 
Corrigan has been a powerful force for the Belles all season. On the mound, she is 11-0 with a 3. 94 ERA in 81.2 innings pitched. At the plate, Corrigan holds a .330 batting average with 29 RBI and a conference­leading five home runs. 
"[Corrigan] has been a fantas­tic leader for us all season and I am going to miss her love of the game, dedication and personali­ty so much," Sullivan said. 
Sullivan added that Senior Day is an extra motivation for the rest of the team. 
"[Corrigan] deserves a good couple of games in her last time playing here," Sullivan said. 
Sophomore Ashley Peterson may also have something to cel­ebrate Saturday. The Belles' most productive offensive play­er has 51 hits on the season, two shy of the Belles' record. 
Peterson leads the MIAA in batting average (.510), slugging percentage (. 790), on base per­centage, and is tied for the con­ference lead in hits. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


StoreYourStun
lverthe Summerl 
call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2169 

6482 Brtck Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 

-----~­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 25, 2008 
NO SOFTBALL 

Notre Dame nets win and tie 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Thn rain didn't quite hold ofT long enough. and the second game of' Notre Dame's double­hnadnr with Loyola-Chicago was called in the bottom of' the seventh of' the second game with the score tied at two apiece. Notrt~ Damn won thn first tilt 4-:~ in extra innings. 
Despite the win and tin, Not r ~~ I> am n eo a c h Deanna (;umpf was not happy with the rnsult. 
"We played with a team we s h o u I d h a v ~~ do rn in ate d." Cumpf said. "Wn made this day a lot hardl'f than it should have been." 
Notre Dame 4, Loyola-Chicago 3 
Tlw Irish overcame four errors, three by l'n\shman shortstop KatiP Fleury, to bmtt Loyola in night innings in ganw one. 
Not r ~~ D a 111 e got on the board f'i r s t against tlw Hamblers. scoring in the bot­tom of' tlw first inning whPn senior lel"t fiPidPr Sarah Smith, who had doubled to lnrt-cen­ter, scon~d on a Christine l.ux singlP. 
Loyola camP b;wk to tiP the gamP at onP in thP fourth inning. and strurk again in tlw firth. 
Tlw HambiPrs used two hits and two Irish Prrors to plate two more runs and take a :~-I lead. 
"It's always tough to giv1~ up runs," Bargar said. "Whnther they're earned or unearned. I've just got to keep doing what I've got to do to make this team win." 
Notre Dame bounced right back with two runs of' their own in the bottom of the inning. Amy Solava entered the game for Krista Crosson to pitch for the Hamblers, and struggled immediately. With Fleury on second and Smith on first, senior second base­man Katie Laing hit a long fly ball to center field. Schober caught the ball, but promptly

·..:. 
dropped it on the exchange, allowing Fleury to score and Smith to advance to third. Two batters later, Ellis beat out a weak dribbler down the third baseline, and Smith scored on tlw play. 
Neithnr team could push across a run in the sixth or seventh inning, and the game advanced to extra innings. 
Playing under international tin-breaker rules, each team started with a runner on sec­ond in the added frame. 
Arter holding Loyola-Chicago scoreless. Kohan started at sneond f'or the Irish in thn bot­tom of' the inning, and movnd over to third on a wild pitch. Ellis then hit a grounder to shortstop llalny Ambroseh. but Ambroseh l'ell while trying to make thn throw to the plate, and Kohan slid homn to givn Notre Dame the win in extras. 
Bargar pitdwd all eight innings for thn Irish. allowing no narnnd runs and striking out thnw wilh 115 pitches. 
Notre Dame 2, Loyola-Chicago 2 
Loyola got on thn board lirst in tlw bottom half of tho twin­billing, putting up an narly run in tlw top or the first inning. 
Loyola seratclwd out anoth­nr run in thP sncond inning. 

After a single, bunt single, and walk loaded the bases, fresh­man pitcher Jody Valdivia just barely nicked Loyola's Kristen Melrud to push across the run. Valdivia struek out the next batter. but was then pulled by Gumpf. and Bargar went back in to pitch. Valdivia finished having pitched one and two­thirds innings, giving up three hits and two earned runs. 
While the Hamblers had scored their runs playing small ball. thn Irish camn back with some clout of their own in the bottom of' the sncond. Lnading of thn inning, Lux blastnd an opposite field shot over the fence in left and Notre Dame had cut the lnad to 2-1. Thn Irish kept threat­ening, but eouldn't score, leav­ing thn bases full in both tlw second and the third. 
"We worn in position to seore a lot of' runs." Cum pi' said. "And we noed peopln to step up and take eare of' that." 
In the bottom of' the sixth the Irish came up with anoth­er cluteh hit when they need­ed it most. With Marrone on first, freshman right fielder Brianna Jorgensborg ripped a shot to the left-eenterl'ield gap. just past the outstretched fielder's glove. Marrone came around to score easily on the play, but Jorgensborg was called out trying to stretch it to a triple on a close call at third. 
Hain started falling in the bottom of' the seventh inning and, with Fleury on first, the umpirns spottnd lightning and called the game, ending it in a 2-2 tie. 
Bargar finished five and one-thirds innings pitched and gave up only three hits and no runs, while striking out four. 
The Irish next take on Providence in a doubleheader at Melissa Cook Stadium on April 26. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
NBA 

Raptors 111ake it a nevv series against Magic 
Associated Press 

TORONTO -With a quick start and quality point guard 
play,  the  Toronto  Haptors  
turned  the  tables  on  the  
Orlando Magie.  

T.J. Ford scored 21 points, Jose Calderon had 18 points and 13 assists. and the Haptors beat the Magie 108-94 on Thursday night, cutting Orlando's lead to 2-1 in their first-round playofl" series. 
"That was the most important game of the season so far and we played like it," Chris Bosh said. "We stepped up to the challenge." 
Ford shot 2-for-17 in the first two games of the series, but looked confident and eomf'ort­able in this one, splitting time almost equally with Calderon. 
"The way those guys played reminded me of just how good those two can be when they're both on their game," Haptors eoach Sam Mitchell said. 
Dwight Howard had 19 poinb and 12 rebounds for the Magi<\ while IIndo Turkoglu added 26 points and Bashard Lewis seored 19. 
"Hight from tlw get-go, the Haptcli'S wnrn outstanding," Magie coach Stan Van Gundy said. "Their point guard play was phcnornnnal and probably the key to thn gamn f(Jr thnm." 
Jamario Moon had 11 points and 10 rebounds in his return to the starting lineup for Toronto, whiln Bosh and .Jason Kapono naeh s1:ored 15 points and Anthony Parker 10. 
The Haptors finished 12-for­34 from 3-point range and snt playoff highs l'or points in a game and a half (61). 
(;ame 4 is Saturday allnrnoon in Toronto. 


The Notre Dame Alumni Club ofMN invites you to Legends this Friday 
from 4:30-6ptn for FREE food and FREE drinks! Come and network and 
· get your name on the Club's list. Door prizes will be given away too: "The Shirt," MN Club Merch., O'Neill Brothers CDs, and MN gift certificates. 
Feel free to come and go anytime between 4:30-6pm. We will be located on the left side ofLegends (the restaurant portion) on the upper tier in the back. Stop by! 
Friday, April 25, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Runners go to Hillsdale for relays 
Meet is last chance for Irish to qualify for Big East tournament 
By ALEX BARKER Sports Writer 

The final opportunity for Irish athletes to qualifY for the Big East outdoor championships next weekend is the Hillsdale Relays, beginning today in Hillsdale, Mich. 
Distance coach T!Ill Connelly is looking forward to this weekend's opportunity, but is satisfied with the number of runners that have already qualified for the Irish. 
"We have several athletes whom I believe are capable of still qualifying for the Big East meet," he said. "But overall I would say that the number of Big East/NCAA qualifiers that we have to date is about what we expected." 
Last week's meets produced a number of new qualifiers for the Irish. 
Freshmen Kelly Langhans and Natalie Johnson both qualified to compete in the NCAA regional meet with their times last week in the 800-meter run. 
Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson also met the NCAA regional mark in the 3000-meter steeplechase event. 
Junior Alyissa Hasan had the best meet for the Irish last week, setting school and personal records in the pentathlon with a total score of 5,509 points. Her Notre Dame record also gave her an automatic qualification for the NCAA Regionals in May. 
The Irish will also send two throwers, junior Anna Weber and sophomore Jaclyn Espinoza, to the Drake Relays this weekend in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Both of these women have already qualified for the NCAA Regional meet in their respective events and travel to Iowa with the goal of improving their marks fac­ing off against tougher competi­tion. 
The Irish will also use this weekend to get some of their ath­letes some much needed rest after competing at meets in each of the past two of weekends. 
"This is a really tough time of year for most students with finals approaching, and our athletes are nQ exception," Connelly said. "Sometimes just a weekend of not traveling pays big dividends. Many of our kids have traveled and competed a lot in recent weeks." 
Looking ahead to the Big East meet next week, Connelly has a simple goal for his team: improve­ment. 
"We hope to improve on our indoor finish at the conference meet, with a top three finish our ultimate goal," Connelly said. "With such a young group, that would be a nice improvement." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish travel to two big national races 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame Men's Track team is headed to two of the biggest track meets in the country. 
The Drake Relays, held in Des Moines, Iowa, hosts many competitive athletes all the way from high school to Olympic competitors. There have been 14 world records, 45 American records and 59 collegiate records set at this meet. Similarly, the Hillsdale Gina Relays boasts multiple ranked collegiate teams. 
The Drake Relays will prove to be a great environ­ment for tough competition for the Irish. Sophomore Balasz Molnar and senior Austin Wechter will S'tart 

• CALL 5'14-8311-735& • CLICK 011 WWW.UIID.COM.I'TICKETS 
• OR STOP BY THE liD STADIUM TICKET OFFICE 011 GAMEDAYS 
things off in the 400-meter hurdles, seeded in the top heat. 
Along with his teammates, senior Adam Currie will look to improve his time for the men's 800-meter open. Several high-seeded Notre Dame relay teams will partic­ipate in the meet as well. 
For the Hillsdale Relays, the Irish look for one more chance to qualify for the Big East tournament. 
Notre Dame throwers will compete against some of the best in the country. 
Freshmen Greg Davis and John Belcher and junior Jeff Mensch are seeded high in the hammer throw prelimi­naries. In the high jump, jun­ior Blair Macjina is seeded third. Sophomore Matt Schipper and junior Brian Mahon will look to qualify in the men's pole vault. 
Running events will start with senior Mike Popejoy and freshmen Ryan Jacobs and Paul Springer in the Men's 5000-meter open. 
Senior Bob Kueny and jun­ior Billy Buzaid will compete in men's 400-meter dash. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 

..... 
ROWING 
Teamheads 
off to Big Eastregatta 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish rowing team will travel to the Big East cham­pionships this weekend in Oak Ridge, Tenn. 
Notre Dame enters the competition after a strong performance in last week's Charles River Challenge. The team won four of five races 
on  the  weekend  against  
Dartmouth  and  Boston  
University.  

Notre Dame enters the con­ference championships as the favorite, with the team's varsity eight team ranked No. 6 in the Collegiate Rowing Coaches Association/US Rowing poll. 
The only other ranked team competing is No. 18 Louisville. The Irish will face off with seven other Big East opponents Sunday in Oak Ridge. 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 25, 2008 
NBA 

Wizards rout Cavaliers, close series gap to 2-1 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -LeBron 
.James was serenaded with 
chants of' "over-rated!" as he 
stood at the free throw line late 
in the third quarter, the latest 
humorous twist in an ongoing 
saga that had somehow snared 
-yns, bnlinve it or not -one of' 
his son's favorite rappers into a 
front-row snat 111~ar tho hasknt. 
.lanws couldn't hnlp but laugh. 
lin was so distracted he missed 
the fn~e throw. Didn't really mat­
ter. By then. the Cleveland 
Cavaliers wnrP trailing by 28 
points. a stunning revnrsal from 
Came 2 to Carne 3 in tlwir first­
round snrit•s against the 
Washington Wizards. 
Maybe it was the rww haircuts 
sported by four Wizards players. 
Maybe it was tho prnsPncn of' 
Soulja Boy. MaybP it was sight of' 
Colin l'owl'll in a "White Out" T­
shirt. Or just tho 1:omfort of 
bt~ing honw. Or the inspiralion of 
having Cillwrt i\n•nas in tlw 
starting lirwup. even though lw 
limpml out of' tlw ganw in tlw 
first half. 
i\etually, th..re wPre plenty of' 
n~asons the Wizards routed tlwir 
playoff' rwnwsis, 108-72 in a 
Thursday night party at tlw 
Vnrizon CPnter. DeShawn 
Stevenson, who starl!~d tho 
"overrated" talk and invited 
Soulja Boy to tho game, had a 
"ean't-f'nel-my-f'ace" 19 points. 
Caron Butler 117 points) and 
i\ntawn .Jamison {15) also found 
thnir ganws. .James didn't havn 
his. And, yns, thosn 15 first-half' 
Cleveland turnovers had a lot to 
do with it, too. 
"It was a good old f'ashiorwd 
lw hind-kie king." Cl.-ve I and 
mach Mike Brown said. 
Tlu~ victory took thn Wizards oiT the ropes by cutting Cleveland's l•~ad to 2-1 in tho first-round snrins. Washington will also host Came 4 on Sunday, when eoaeh Jo:ddie .Jordan's play­ers will havn thn conlidnnen of knowing they arnn't dnstinnd to lw f'orevnr lwxed by .James and Co. Cleveland had won eight straight playoff' ganws against the Wizards, including a first­round sweep a year ago. 
"I don't know about the rapper and haireuts," .Jordan said. "But I think the fans and the way wn played kind of' came together." 
Onn game after setting a fran­chise playoff record with a 30­point win in Game 2, the Cavaliers set another team post­season mark by losing by 36. The margin of victory also set a Wizards franchise playoff mcord. 
The Wizards took eontrol with a pair of 9-0 runs in the first half. They led 49-33 at halftime, and the Cavaliers never thn~at­ened to make a game of it in the seeond half. 
But, oh, the subplots! 
The erowd's big chant was a rnfnrenee to Stevenson's daim that .lames was "overrated" fol­lowing a Wizards' vietory over tho Cavaliers last month. James said responding to that remark would be like Jay-Z responding Lo Soulja Boy -a hip-hop mogul answering a on•~-hit wom!P.r. 
Stnvnnson had to cal his words after Gamns I and 2, but he had Soulja Boy dancing in the aisle Thursday night while going 5-of­7 on :~-pointers. After making his shots. Stevenson ran down the court waving his hand in l'ront of his nose, tlw "ean't-fenl-my­l'ace" gesturn that Cleveland's Damon Jones mocked in Game 2. 

"II' I was disrespected as an artist, I would have came, too," Stevenson said. "I felt like Soulja Boy felt disrespected, and he came to support the Washington Wizards." 
So will the rapper, whose music was played on the sound systom during the game, bn baek for Came 4'? 
"We got to get him here," Stevnnson said. "We won with him. Me and Gil are suporsti­tious, so we have to get him back." 
What was James' response to all this? first, he said the Wizards' 1·.rowd wasn't nnarly as intimidating as the Detroit fans in last year's playofl's. 
And as for Soulja Boy? 
"My son knows every last dam~n Soulja Boy dons and every last song he ever made," James said. "So if my son was watch­DnShawn-LeBron rivalry, James The Wizards tried to force worked. Boond heavily every ing, lw enjoyed it." had a good laugh. James, who scored 32 and :~0 time he touched the ball, the 
Wlwn it was suggested that "Thorn's no DeShawn-LeBron points in Games 1 and 2, to Cavaliers i\11-Star couldn't get this might be part of a budding rivalry," he said, laughing again. shoot morn from outside, and it into a llow. 




BATTLE FOR BIG EAST SUPREMACY! 1 
vs. ST. JOHN'S 
FRIDAY ® 6:05PM 
EARLY FANS RECEIVE AN IRISH BASEBALL LAUNDRY BAG 
SPONSORED BY: 
~ 

~~!~~.2~~~ 
!:>?41~!')-V· .....~:: wwv.·•w:c«:•.;.<>~ 


SATURDAY® 3 30PM 
FIRST 200 FANS RECEIVE AN IRISH BASEBALL SHIRT 
SPONSORED BY: 

SUNDAY® 
EARLY FANS RECEIVE AN IRISH BASEBALL PUZZLE 
SPONSORED BY: 

---c------------------­
Friday, April 25, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Red Storm. 
continued from page 24 
ful at keeping his pitches in the strike zone, not allowing many free passes and inter­changing between his fast­ball, changeup and breaking ball. 
Maust will likely take the mound for the series finale on Sunday. 
Phelps will probably lead off the three-game set Friday, looking to improve on his 5-3 career-record against the Red Storm. He also takes his 
3.38 ERA to the mound to go with his team-high 57 strike­outs this season. 
The junior has only allowed one homerun all season, and is second in the squad among the starters for opponent's batting average at .250. 
Korpi comes into the sec­ond contest with five wins as well, to go with a pair of loss­es. His 4.29 ERA has steadily declined after a pair of shaky starts earlier in the season. One area Korpi has to improve in is his control. The senior has allowed 27 walks this year -15 more than the next closest pitcher. 

For Notre Dame to pick up some key victories this week­end, the Irish bats will have to keep doing what they've been up to in the past month -manufacturing runs on hits and small ball. 
Sophomore centerfielder 
A.J. Pollock leads the team with his .397 batting average, 60 hits, 33 RBis and 18 stolen bases on 19 attempts. Hitting from the three-hole, Pollock has benefited from ·base runners in the lineup before him setting him up with chances to drive in runs. 
One of these players has been sophomore designated hitter David Mills, who has 
found his groove from the two spot, picking up Big East Player of the Week honors last week. Mills is second on the squad with a .376 aver­age, and sports an on-base percentage of .408. 
The sophomore also has been a team player this sea­son, picking up 15 sacrifice bunts thus far, allowing run­ners to advance and score runs. 
The power in the lineup comes from junior first base­man Evan Sharpley, Ryan's brother. The junior has a team-high nine homeruns and is third on the club with 30 RBis, to go with his .351 average. 
After the St. John's series, the Irish will return to action against Mississippi Valley State on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
FSU 
continued from page 24 
title. Junior Brett Helgeson earned tournament Most Valuable Player honors. Helgeson is the second straight Irish player to win the MVP award-2007 grad­uate Stephen Bass earned MVP honors last year. 
Senior captain Sheeva Parbhu and freshman Dan Stahl made the all-tourna­ment singles team along with Helgeson. Parbhu and Helgeson, and senior Andrew Roth, and junior Santiago Montoya made the all-tourna­ment doubles team also. 
"Stahl had a great tourna­ment," Bayliss said. "He has really made a lot of improve­ments overall in his game. I was impressed by the way he served for the match against University of Southern Florida [in the championship match]." 
The Irish will have an uphill battle against the Seminoles this weekend. 
"Florida State has been in 

Come home to 

Welcome to River Bend-a place where healthy, active lifestyles 
the NEW and harmony with nature combine to create the home you've always dreamed of. In this exclusive, gated community, you'll enjoy your O\Vrl secluded spot in the woods. yet have easy access to cultural events, educational opportunities, and some of the finest shopping and dining in Michiana-all just minutes from your doorstep. 
RIVER BEND OFFERS: 
Secure living within a natural environment. A sustainable, green approach to development--·-including 
low-density housing to protect the mature forestation, and restrictions against the use of toxic chemicals ~tnd pesticides. Natural hiking trails for your active life. l\ft:ander through the 
woods and over rolling terrain to find yourself on the banks of 
the beautiful St. Joseph Ri\rer. Community boat dock, so you and your family can enjoy time on the St. Joseph River. 

Idyllic private estates, 22 lots ranging in size from 2.5 to 8.5 acres with 8 Rivet frontage lots available. 
CaU today to learn more: 574-255-2914 or 269-687-7343 For lot plans and other details, visit "'""'\.v.NaturalLivingatRiverBend.com 
RiFer Be11d. Designed nitb Nature. 

the top 10 this season," Bayliss said. "We know that we have a chance to be in the match, but we will have to play a great match up and down the lineup." 
Florida State features three ranked 'singles players in their singles lineup, the leader being No. 15 Jean­Yves Aubone. Aubone has twelve wins over ranked opponents this season. 
"They had a rough match against Miami," Bayliss said. "That hurt their ranking and they fell in the rankings this week." 
This weekend will mark the seventh time the teams have met. The Irish have won the last four meetings between the two teams. 
With Parbhu's combined five wins this past weekend, he is one win away from 200 wins for his career. His next win will make Parbhu only the fourth player in Notre Dame history to reach that milestone. The list includes current assistant coach Ryan Sachire, David DiLucia and Andy Zurcher. Parbhu is fifth in singles wins with 121, and tied for fourth with 78 dou­bles wins for his career. 
"Parbhu is a great student," Bayliss said. "He will proba­bly go pro after this season, and then pursue his medical degree in the future. He has a high GPA as well." 
Bayliss noted the amount of 4-3 wins the Irish earned early in the season, and how Notre Dame's luck has changed in recent weeks. 
"We earned a lot of 4-3 wins early in the season and rose to No. 9 in the rank­ings," Bayliss said. "We have lost a lot of the close matches lately, but we have picked up a little bit since." 
The Irish will play the Seminoles on Saturday with matches beginning at 1 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Do you vvant to boost your resume with some marketable skills? 
The Conopu~er 
Applicali~.'ns Pr~~gra17z 
(CAPP) 
vvvvvv_nd.edu/-capp 

Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free ilimes subscriptio11 for reflective listening on your iPod.  
Jl"l)))))) ) M www.ndp . rayercast.org  Type "ndprayercast" on the iTunes search engifle, -or-log onto www.ndprayercast.org Hear it here this week: Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. Songs of the ND Folk Choir • Psalms • Homilies • Prayers • Meditative music Weekly rebroadcasts of the Sunday 11 :45am Litu1gies  


page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April25, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
gamns, inducting a 10-8 win at Georg1~town (1 0-5, 3-2 Big East) on April12. · 
"It's a huge confernnce rivalry, so I'm nxpncting it to be a tough game," Coyne said. "We think we match up really well. Over the last few years, it's been one of thosn back-and-forth type series, so the f'aet that we jumped out to a little bit of a lead on them in thn first half wa..•:; surprising. I'm thinking it's going to be a one or two goal game." 
Freshman Shaylyn Blaney led the Irish attack in their first meeting with the Hoyas, scoring thre1~ goals while junior Jillian Byers, the program's all-time leading scorer, wa..<> held to one. Junior goalie Erin Goodman made 15 saves in the game to secure the win. 

Byers (61 goals), Blaney (35 goals) and senior captain Caitlin McKinney (35 goals, 21 assists) will look to jump on Georgetown early again, while sophomore Gina Sciascia (15 goals, 29 assists) will serve as the offense's main distributor. 
The Irish have won six of their last eight dating back to the home loss to Syracuse, and one of those losses came at No. 1 Northwestern on April 9. Ever since losing two of three over spring break in California, Coyne said her team has played much better and consistent lacrosse. 
"We had our ups and downs on the California swing, but those games have really helped prepare us for this opportunity," she said. "If we don't know what we're about and we don't know what it takes to win, we're not going to do it. We've played enough games to where we know our team and we know our strengths." 
Though Coyne said wins against Georgetown tonight and Cornell on May 3 might get the Irish an at-large berth into the NCAA Tournament, she expects her team to be solely focused on accomplishing a goal it set at the beginning of the year. 
"Our best chance of controlling our own destiny is to win the Big East; that way everything is taken care of," she said. "We want to win. It's not about finish­ing second. That's what we want, and I think we're going to do it." 
Notre Dame's game is sched­uled to begin 45 minutes after the conclusion of the first semifi­nal between Syracuse and Rutgers (7-9, 2-3 Big East), which is set to start at 5:30 p.m. The winners will meet for the Big East championship in the stadium at noon on Sunday. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edn 
Mexicans. "Notre Dame is one of thn
Mexico 

premier college teams so it continued from page 24 should be a great little com­
parison for us," Clark said. very seriously because they " ... This is the culmination of are professionals trying to our spring season. It should stay with the national team." be a good measuring stick for 
But the Irish finished last us." season as the No. 6 team in the NCAA and look to remain Contact Lorenzo Reyes at unbeaten against the lreyes@nd.edu 
P:ropel'ty fo:r Rent 
2008-2009 School Year 
ll'isb Cl'osslng 
Townhome 
4Bedrooms 3 and 112 Bathrooms 1 Block from Campus 
But despite all this offensive says he'll certainly be thinking firepower, Corrigan said the about come game time.
Buckeyes 

Irish -who haven't given up "We don't do a big senior continued from page 24 double-digit goals all season day presentation on game day, -will be stressing a more but it's always a big game for Notre Dame has outscored defensive strategy against the our seniors, it being their last their opponents 153-82 this Buckeyes. game at home. This has been season, mainly due to the "This is a very good off'en­a great senior class. They've efforts of a few consistent ·sive team.... They've got six been tremendous for us," he offensive stars. Junior attack­diiTnrent guys offensively who said. "We've got a guy at man Hyan 11ofT leads the team are doing a lot for them so I every spot who's not only with 32 goals, and is followed think !the defensive end isl played an important role for by fellow junior attacker where it'll start for us. We us but has been a leader. Even Duncan Swnzny with 19 and Iwnd to play a smart, disci­the guys who aren't playing snnior midl'itdder Michanl plined game on both ends of take tremendous pride in our Podgajny and sophomore mid­tho field without losing team they work hard and fielder Grant Krebs, each with aggrnssiveness and I think they're selfless in their contri­
17. Snnior attackman Alex that'll serve us well," he said. butions." Wharton rounds out the top Corrigan also noted that this rive with 16 goals and also would be the last home game Contact Griffin Dassatti at leads the team with 23 assists. for the senior elass, a f'aet he gdassatt@nd.edu 
Call: Jack Pryor Cell: 214·957·3278 Hcnn.e: 972-624-5007 


~ z 
_,...., 

IN]The Nanovic Institute > ,..., 
'-' 
:::!:: 

;::;
v. 

'/l
.....; 

L..=!J for European Studies :;"j 
;,w :­
':/) 

:.r 0:::
-. ­
._, 
:::!:: 

:::c Announces the Winners of Research and Travel Grants for 2007-2008. z 
(.,; < c::::: :;; 
-. :::c 

z 
-' Congratulations to Undergraduate students z >
N 
-

< ,.....
v: John Hennessey (France) The R. Stephen and Ruth Barrett Family Grant for Best Proposal ._. X
'.r. 

Mary Ann Barge (United Kingdom, Russia) The Katie A1urphy l'v1c/'v1ahon Grant for Russian and East-Central European Studies ~ 
c::::: 

..;;;..
Anna Jansons (Latvia) The Katie Murphy McMahon Grant for Russian and East-Central European Studies ?' 
;: 0::: 
,....._
._,
Katherine Mohrig (Hungary) The Katie Murphy McMahon Grant tor Russian and East-Central European Studies 
> 

;::; 
-

< ,....
·.r; -. 
c::::: Colleen Anderson (Germany) Monica Garcia Blizzard (Italy) George Mandarakas (Greece) 
... 

<-Alice Ciciora (Ireland) Courtney Hofman (United Kingdom) Katherine Schilling (Netherlands) > 
--$:-
...., Emily Doll (Germany) Ryan Lash (United Kingdom, Ireland) Perry Shoemaker (Spain) 0::: 
~ 

,.... ...... 
:-' 

to Graduate students ;::; -. 
0::: 
;::; 
L. z 
,...
Sara Brarnsen (France and England) Matthew Eggemeier (Germany, Belgium) James Regier (Germany) ._, 
:::!:: 

0:::
Eleonora Buonocore (Italy) Jennifer Juszkiewicz (United Kingdom) Maria Rogacheva (United States) :::c Chris Champan (England) Harry Karahalios (Italy) Thomas Stroka (Italy) '-'
-" > :::!:: William Dowdy (Hungary, Austria, Jason Miller (United Kingdom) Brandon Vaidyanathan (Italy) ­
M
-
~ Czech Republic, Slovenia) Melinda Nielsen (United Kingdom, Italy) Jessica Weaver (UK) ·:.;. ~ 
~ 
-

z ::::::
... 
··~ 

-
~­
;c. .... 
-...;
and to Graduate Fellowship Winners 
7 
..;;.. 
-:::c 

-. Martina Cucchiara (The Dominica and Frank Annese Fellowship in Graduate Studies)· :::;:; 
-' :-""'! 
~ Michael Driessen (The Paul G. Tobin Dissertation Fellowship) ::;::; 0
z 

.-.._, Kathryn Gardner (The Paul C. Tobin Dis.r;ertation Fellowship) 7\ ;....
C: ._, 
v.
z 

,..... "": ._,
For more information about Nanovic Institute grants and funding for students, visit http://nanovic.nd.edu. '"' 
~~~ OH Stl Jl:Jd lN 1VS<1JN3 tlO'L:l· ..LS3HVlD OH · NOHSI.l·VAGflH ·DfNlS'UH·>I.!Ni\CHIH OCJ ·3JlN·H~JilllHN!CJ3 ·VNOT:iJU VH ·N3 ~V HN3d0J 
Friday, April 25, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLACK DoG 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


LOLLERSKATES 

DIDIER LEWIS 

THE SINGLE LIFE 

LINAPAEK 

WILLSHORTZ  
65 Ready to receive  
visitors, say  
66 Held  
67 Beguiles  
Down  
One known for  
finger-pointing  
2 "It's the truth"  
3 M.I.T.'s class  
ring, familiarly  
4 Long green box?  
5 Informal  
demurral  
6 Touch  
7 Post-W.W. I  
conference site  
8 Setting for some  
columns  
9 It's issued to  
several stations,  
briefly  
1 0 Caterpillar  
product Puzzle by Kevin G. Der  
11 Caterpillar hairs 37 Small, round 43 In up to one's 52 Twins' name at  
12 Raise, as a sponge cake neck the 1984  
steering wheel topped with fruit Olympics 
45 Interstellar13 Long Branch and whipped matter 54 "I Lover''  
Saloon visitor 14 Escorts after  cream 39 Takeoffs  46 Some spuds  (1979 John Cougar hit)  
greeting 18 Earth personified 23 Bond girl player Shirley 25 Choose not to  40 Direct 41 They may be received by free subscriptions  47 LaGuardia and others 49 "How then he now seer:­John 9:19  57 Bygone crown 59 Brain component 62 Gambler's place 63 Fort Worth sch.  
pick?  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a28 bricks credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
30 Like some Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaysimilarities 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 33 Preacher 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Beecher 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 35 Like the Julian Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young calendar solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

3!JJW1MbrR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GLUHC jI I [ (] 
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
~r~flxJ 
RECUPS

rrJ [] 
www.jumble.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 


WHE:N THE: C~W LINeD UP FOR HAIRCUTS, THE: SUBMARINE: BE:CAME:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A "r I I rI I xJ" rI I I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  SILKY  FUROR  (Answers tomorrow) OCCULT PARADE  
Answer:  What a boxer will fight for that a woman  
has-A PURSE  

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kelly Clarkson, 26; Eric Balfour, 31; Barbra Streisand, 66; Shirley MacLaine, 74 
Happy Birthday: Focus on health and wealth this year. Relationships may need some adjustments. Your dedication and practical nature will be a winning combmation. Take a look at an old situation and you will have the discernment to know how you should handle something you face now. Your numbers are 13, 22, 29, 37, 45, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Down time away from home will do you good. A new adventure will spark enthusiasm regarding an idea you once wanted to pursue. Mix your professional dealings with pleasure and you will score big. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Kids, elders and others you feel responsible for will help you out for a change. Money is heading your way but not through circumstances that you expect. Don't let uncertainty hold you back. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you have a good idea, talk to someone in a position to help. Money and work should be your focus, although love is likely to surface. However, a brief encounter will result in feeling shortchanged. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Speak of your plans, invite people to join you or push for a passionate eveninli with someone you love. It doesn't matter what you do--go about it honestly and wtth determination and you will succeed. Don't let someone fickle ruin your day. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): Seize any opportunity you have to embrace something you enjoy doing. Falling for someone who can influence your future frofessionally is not a good idea. However, love is in a high cycle, so good things wil happen. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If someone is trying to make your life difficult, it's time to put an end to it. Precise communication will do the trick and, like it or not, whoever gets in your way will be sorry. Tum something you enjoy into a routine activity. 2 slars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look at the big picture, not the trivial little things that can 
consume your time. Give whatever you are working on a creative spin and you will 
grab the interest of someone you've been trying to spend more time with. Put effort 
into your home. 4 stars 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A last-minute change can be expected. As long as you 
aren't caught off-guard, you can handle whatever comes your way. Just because some­one else doesn't want to do what you are doing doesn't mean you can't. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21}: Doing something creative will give you peace of mind. An emotional issue can be dealt with if you do so delicately but, if you let matters spin out of control, it will be impossible to fix. A love connection and a signifi­cant decision can be put into play. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't share secrets with anyone who may use them against you. Money, investments, fixing up your home or getting a loan or grant are all looking good if you start the process today. Spend time with family. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A new position or pastime will bring in extra cash. A closer bond with someone you care about can be achieved if you talk about old times and the memories and events you have shared together. Don't get angry with someone you work with. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more erratic you are or the people around you are, 
the more difficult it will be to get things done. Settle down and get everyone on the 
same page. You need to get involved in a physical activity that will help you burn off 
steam. 2 stars 

Birthday Baby: You are magnetic and will handle whatever comes your way for good or for bad. You are a troubleshooter and the go-to person, the one everyone looks up to. 

-= 
CROSSWORD 
Across Los Angeles's Tower 7 They're seen around some cakes 15 Alaska's 
Sound 16 Mom's partner? 17 What a toaster 
may hold 19 Un article defini 20 Modern greeting 21 Plays intensely. 
in jazz slang 22 It often follows something 

• 24 Doesn't toss 26 Fictional upper class 27 One who doesn't chew the fat? 29 Find for 
(match) 31 TV's Spike, once 32 Bygone 
explosive 
34 Dungeons & Dragons race 
36 "The White House," for "the presidency," e.g. 
38 Abba's style 42 Rootless sort 44 Lombardia's 
capital 45 Game with sticks 48 Got on 50 Dog-_ 51 It's mild and a bit 
nutty 53 Racket string material 55 Coil. elective program 56 Serenade, as the moon 58 Noted fifth­century invaders 60 Regrettable E.R. status 6i Refrain from eating pasta? 64 Where to find Nancy 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, April 25, 2008 
page 24 
BASEBALL 

Weathering the storm 
Irish try to stay atop Big East vs. St. fohn's 

-By LORENZO REYES Sporrs Writer 
Now that No. 24 Notre Dame has backed up its first week as a ranked team with a pair of non-conference wins, it's time for the squad to take

-· its recent consistent play to the Big East. But things aren't going to get any easier for the Irish. In the path lies St. John's, who is second in league play, trailing the Irish by a game. Notre Dame (27-10-1, 12-3) will host the Hed Storm (29-9, 11-4) at Frank Eck Stadium for a three-game series that begins tonight at 6:05, and wraps up with a Sunday afternoon contest at 12:05. Earlier in the week, fresh­This weekend, the Irish momentum and remain atop 4-1 record to go with his 2.66 man starting pair Brian turn to their league pitching the conference standings. ERA, just .20 points better Dupra and Hyan Sharpley rotation composed of junior Maust enters the weekend than Sharpley's mark. The pitched in solid back-to-hack David Phelps, senior Wade with the team-high in wins soph~more has been success-performances over Chicago Korpi and sophomore Eric and the lowest EHA of the State and IPFW respectively. Maust to try to maintain their starting pitchers. He boasts a see RED STORM/page 21 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
NDtoface G'Tovvnin Stadium 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

The No. 10 Irish will become Notre Dame's first women's varsi­ty team to compete in Notre Dame Stadium when they take on No. 7 Georgetown in the semifi­nals of the Big East tournament at 7:45 tonight. 
"It's a tremendous honor for us to have the opportunity to play in Notre Dame Stadium," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "It's amazing. I think the players defi­nitely appreciate and understand what it means to have this oppor­tunity to compete in thP stadium." 
Notre Dame (11-5, 4-1 Big East) enters the four-t(~am con­ference tournament as the No. 2 seed. After losing their Big East opener to top-seeded Syracuse (13-2, 5-0 Big Ea.'>t), the Iri'>h won their remaining four conference 
see BIG EAST/page 22 
MEN's SoccER 

Notre Dame hosts friendly with Mexican Under-20 tea111 
against the Mexico Under-17 get them to come play us." more evenly distributed this the team's two-match tour.
By FRAN TOLAN 

team before defeating the Clark said he expects the year. "Not many people go into 
A~sociate Sports Editor 

Under-20 squad last year. friendly match to fill up the "We're hoping to get a lot of Bloomington, Indiana, and 
Irish coach Bobby Clark bleachers at Alumni Field. students in the stands. We'd win like that," Clark said. 
Notre Dame versus ... said the series with Mexico But, believe it or not, that like to see more of a home­"That just shows the enormity Moxico? began after Notre Dame might hurt the Irish more spun crowd to give the United of our challenge." 
That's right, the Irish will women's coach Randy than it helps them. States team -Notre Dame -Clark said Mexico presents take on the Mexican Under-20 Waldrum began setting up "It's always a big crowd. We a chance," Clark said. a stiffer challenge than most national team today at 7 p.m. games with the Mexico usually get about 3,000 peo­Even though the Irish have of his team's regular oppo­at Alumni Field. women's national team. ple in our little stadium," played well against the nents. 
This marks the fourth "Handy Waldrum actually Clark said. "The trouble is, Mexican teams in the past, "They arc very, very good. straight year Notre Dame has had the connection with their it's always mostly a Hispanic Clark said the match will be Technically, I don't think we facnd off against a team from team and we thought this was crowd. It always feels like anything but a cakewalk for face anyone better than across the United States something the men should do, we're playing in Mexico City." Notre Dame. Mexico picked them," he said. "They take it southern border. In 2005 and too," Clark said. "It's a big But the Irish coach said he up a 2-0 win at Indiana 2006, the Irish notched wins game for us that we actually hopes the crowd is somewhat Tuesday in the first game of see MEXICO/page 22 

,_ MEN'S lACROSSE 
Laxers battle Ohio St. for No. 1 seed in GWLL 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Wrict·r 
In their final horne game of the season, Notre Dame has one last shot at a No. 1 in next week's Great Western Lacrosse Lnague tournament. 
That shot comes Sunday at noon, when the No. 7 Irish (1 0­2, 3-1 c;wu.) take on No. 13 Ohio Statn (9-:{, 4-0 GWLL). 
"We 1111ed to win this game." Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "If we win this game, we'll be the No. 1 seed going into tho IGWLL) tournament this weekend. If we lose this game we're going have to beat )Ohio State) and Denver." 

The Irish, who are coming of three wins in five days over Quinnipiac, Lehigh and Air Force, should be extremely tired after having to travel across three different times zones. But, according to Corrigan, his team is far from jet-lagged. 
"It was a challenging week­end but we did what we need­ed to do and we got into the games and didn't allow our­selves to get worn down athlet­ically. In terms of managing everything it was interesting, but we got back, got a little time off and they're fresh and ready to go," he said. 
see BUCKEYES/page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Team travels to No.13 FSU 
After Big East title, squad faces Seminoles in regular season finale 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Spores Writer 

After capturing their second straight Big East title in Tallahassee, Fla., last week, the Irish will return to the Sunshine State looking for similar success against No. 13 Florida State.­
"The win was great," head coach Bobby Bayliss. "We have won the title for the fourth time in the last five years." 
For the second straight year, Bayliss obtained the Big East Coach of the Year 
see FSU/page 21 





