-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 43: ISSUE 20 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER22, 2008 

Columbian president given ND award 
Celebration marks Kellogg's 25th anniversary 
interim director Ted Beatty said. 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
The award carries a $15,000 

Assistant News Editor 
prize as well as a $15,000 matching grant for a charity of 
The Kellogg Institute for the recipient's choice, which International Studies awarded was presented to Fundaci6n its prestigious Notre Dame Prize Colombia Presente. Both for Distinguished Public Service awards are funded by the Coca­in Latin America to Cesar Cola Foundation. Gaviria Trajillo, the former Gaviria said he was honored president of Colombia, during a to receive the award and ceremony celebrating Kellogg's pleased with the work of the 25th anniversary Friday. Institute in Latin America. 
"The Kellogg Institute has "Well I'm very proud to be spent 25 years developing a rep­honored and to receive this utation for the study of democ­award from the Kellogg racy in Latin America, and Institute. This is a very presti­here's somebody who spent 40 gious university, and the Kellogg years of his career, not studying it, but living it," the Institute's see KELLOGG/page 6 
MSU loss disappoints students, ND fans 
guess I shouldn't be surprised
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
after last year," senior Luke 
News Writer 
Derheimer said. Junior Andrea Teske made the 
Hundreds of students made the trip to East Lansing as part of the trip from South Bend to East band. She said that the team still Lansing, Mich., to support the played better than it did last year Irish in Saturday's football game and that it played with heart. against the Michigan State "Sometimes, things don't go in University Spartans. Although our favor," Teske said. fans enjoyed the game day, many For Teske, the team's perform­were disappointed with the Irish ance this year is still giving her loss. hope. 
"The game day itself was fun, "It was disappointing that we but it was a really disappointing didn't win ... I don't really have game," senior Tracey Janesheski any less faith that we're going to said. win more games than we're 
Some students felt that the going to lose this year," Teske game reminded them of the said. team's performance last year. She said the team seems to be 
"I did not enjoy driving three hours to watch our team lose. I see FOOTBALL/page 8 



Run benefits cancer awareness 
Three-and six-mile event attracts increased participants Saturday 
By KELLY DAVIS News Writer 
Members of the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross com­munities ran and walked in the 25th Annual Domer Run Saturday to benefit Ovarian Cancer aware­ness and education, race director and assistant director _of facilities, special events and family program­ming, Jeff Walker said. The run, which is held on a designated away football weekend each fall, started at 9 a.m. in front of Moose Kraus drive near the stadium tunnel. 
Walker said race participation increased by 15 to 20 percent this year. He credited the growth main­ly to online registration, which was instated this year. Although RecSports did not have participant numbers finalized by Sunday, an 
see RUN/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ROTC 



trains in Michigan 
Bi-annual exercise held at Fort Custer 
By ROBERT SINGER News Writer 

Army ROTC cadets returned Sunday afternoon from a weekend-long field training exercise at Fort Custer, located just outside. the town of Battle Creek, Mich., according to an e-mail from Cadet Mike Howard. 
The event, held twice a year in the fall and spring, focused on developing skills in three main areas: naviga­tion, combat, and leadership, according to the email. The purpose was to provide the cadets in attendance --46 from Notre Dame, 4 from Saint Mary's and 2 from Holy Cross --with practical expe­rience that reaches beyond the classroom, Howard said. 
"In general, the idea is to improve upon what we do in class, to put meaning behind what we do in class," sopho­more Kyle Hanratty said. "For juniors and seniors, it's a good way to get experience in the field." 
According to Howard, the training exercise will go a long way toward preparing Army ROTC juniors for their Leader Development and Assessment Course next 
see ROTC/page 3 


'The Quad' social network site to debut 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 

This week, a new Web site made exclusively for college students and meant to be an enhancement of college life will be launched midweek said Jason Schutzbank, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of College Tonight Inc. 
The site, which was previ­ously called collegetonight.com, will become thequad.com accord­ing to co-founders Zach Suchin, President and Chief Exeutive Officer of College Tonight Inc., and Schutzbank. 
According to the current Web site, collegetonight.com, the site "promotes actual social interactivity rather than the sedentary lifestyle nearly all 'social networks' relegate its users to behind a physical computer screen. It is what social networking should have evolved into by 2008, but has not." 
The two co-founders said The Quad is a service specifi­cally made to make life easier for other college students. 
"In conceptualizing all these things, these are all things that I've personally gone through and experienced a need for," said Schutzbank. 
Suchin graduated from .Emory University in 2006 and Schutzbank will graduate in 2009. 
"It is not something that was built by a bunch of 40-year­olds in a room," Suchin said. 
Thequad.com will consist of four main aspects: The Scene, 
see WEB SITE/page 9 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 22, 2008 
~SIDE COLUMN 

Sex and free vvill 
I spent a good portion of my Frosh­0 experience listening to talk about how accepting Notre Dame is of peo­ple with di!Terent beliefs. But some­where along the way it was slipped in that if students were caught hav-Sarah Mervosh ing sex, they would be "sepa­rated from the 
News Writer 
Univorsity." 
I almost started 
laughing when I 

heard this. I didn't understand how 
the university could tell us not to do 
something that is completely legal 
and within our rights. 

I now understand that because 
Catholicism does not believe in sex 
before marriage, we are asked to 
respect that belief by abstaining. But 
I define respect as speaking and act­
ing in a way that allows others to live 
their life peacefully. Ilaving sex 
would not interrupt anyone from 
abstaining. 

Furthermore, the Catholic faith does not believe in reincarnation, but the University would never "sepa­rate" my llindu roommate for prac­ticing her beliefs. In fact, the University would encourage her to do so. 
Sex, like faith. is a personal choir:e. And I believe that the University should let us make that choice. 
Disallowing sex is both na"ive and ultimately detrimental. People are going to have sex if they want to have sex and should not be seen as bad people for doing so. 
Not selling forms of birth control on campus is not going to stop people for having sex. It will only make it more likely that a female will get pregnant. 
And this is where it gf~ts weird. The University says we can't have sex. but if a girl gets pregnant. she will not be dismissed. Instead. the University will support lwr. l agree that she does need support. but she could have used it a lot more back when she should have been buying condoms, but couldn't find them on campus. 
I applaud Notre Dame and the Catholic Church's good intentions and their own high morals. But I ask them to accept that we cannot con­trol anyone else. 
What is right for one person might not be right for someone else, and we cannot ask others to abide by our own belief system. We also cannot judge others for having a different belief. After all, wasn't it Jesus who said that he who is without sin may cast the first stone? 
Therefore, we should instead focus on ourselves. It needn't concern you that the couple down the hall is hav­ing sex. Instead, focus on your life and how you can become a better, happier person. We should also sup­port others on the path that they choose to follow. If someone chooses to have sex, they need our support throughout the entire process, not just when things get bad. 
God created sex. God also created free will. I simply ask the University to allow us to exercise this free will, and most importantly, give us your support to learn and grow along the way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact 5)arah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due ro a rqxming ermr in rhe Sepr. 19 tx!ition ofThe ()bservcr, the inrorrt'Ct name fur rhe NDSP crime preven­tion officer was pmvidt~!. Her ror=t nmne is Kcri Kci Shilrdct. Also. due roan editing error, the headline ofrhe St'Pt· 19 anicb.l tided "freshman class lacks diversiry" was ;Ul inaccumte description. "lbe Observer regrets rhcsc errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU DISCOURAGED BY THE FOOTBALL TEAM'S LOSS SATURDAY? 





Grayson Duren 
Freshman Keenan 

"Slightly discouraged, but there's a silver lining. Now our quarterback will become more aesthetically pleasing." 
OFFBEAT 

Woman arrested for tending bar naked 
DELHI, Ill. -Here's a tip: Bartending nude can get you arrested. 
Sheriff's deputies doing a routine check this week at a southern Illinois bar say they discovered a not­so-routine sight. Authorities allege that 33-year-old Janet Brannon was naked while serving bar patrons at the Cabin Tavern in Delhi (DEL'-ee). 
Brannon was arrested and charged with misde­meanor public indecency. She was freed on $8,000 bond. 
Dan Krcmaric 
Senior Dillon 

"Yes, and I'm glad I didn't make the road trip." 
IN BRIEF 

The event "Freedom With Friends" will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's. Alumna Justine Ray, '08 will lead a discussion on how women can support each other with body image and eating concerns. 
The Ford Program is spon­soring African Underground Tuesday in LaFortune Ballroom. A screening of the film "Democracy in Dakar" will start at 7 p.m. followed by a panel discussion with the filmmakers. Live international hip hop, featuring groups from West Africa, will play until11. 
The event "Love Your Body and the Planet!" will be held Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Saint Mary's Student Center Lounge. Joanna Livieratos will discuss living in ways that are healthy and sustainable. 
The Ford Family Program in Human Development Studies and Solidarity opens Thursday at 4 p.m. with a lec­ture by Oxford University economist Paul Collier, author of the award-winning book "The Bottom Billion." The lec­ture, which is free and open to the public, will take place in the Hesburgh Center audi­torium with a reception to follow. 
Rescheduled due to rain, Cirque du Lac, hosted by Lyons Hall, will take place Saturday from 1 -4 p.m. on South Quad. The carnival will benefit Hannah & Friends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


79 
53 
Charles Janini 
Fresman Dillon 
''I'm more encouraged by Purdue's struggles with Central Michigan." 
Erin Wash 
Senior Off campus 

"No! The Irish are still back, baby!" 


Organizers think they hit the mark, with 292 trucks participating. The procession included flatbeds, wreckers and 50-ton rotators. 
The trucks departed from Shea Stadium in Queens and cruised down a couple of highways before finishing at an abandoned airport tar­mac to spell out "New York." 
The previous world record was a parade of 83 tow trucks in August 2004 in Washington state. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

She was the only bar employee working at the time, so the tavern was closed Thursday. 
No telephone listing can be found for Brannon, and the Jersey County sheriff's department doesn't know whether she has an attorney. 
NY tow trucks set world record for parade NEW YORK -Talk about towing the line. 
Nearly 300 tow trucks rumbled through New York City on Saturday in an attempt to smash the world record for the largest parade of its kind. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

..... 
< 
(.) 



0 

..... HIGH 79 65 HIGH 81 
LOW 56 52 LOW 56 



Atlanta 81 I 61 Boston 60 I 45 Chicago 79 I 59 Denver 80 I 53 Houston 88 I 67 Los Angeles 77 I 60 Minneapolis 79 I 65 New York 71 I 54 Philadelphia 77 I 57 Phoenix 100 I 78 Seattle 57 I 46 St. Louis 81 I 59 Tampa 89 I 75 Washington 82164 
-------------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
summer. 
To improve their ability to navigate terrain, cadets were given a set of coordi­nates to find with only the aid of a compass, map and their ability to memorize landmarks and count their steps -or in ROTC jargon, "terrain association and pace count," Staff Sergeant Greg Abbracciamento said. 
"The most c·hallenging part of it was that there wasn't much visibility dur­ing the land navigation por­tion of it," said sophomore cadet Colin Raymond. 
To simulate the unpre­dictability of combat, cadets practiced carrying out mis­sions that could randomly unfold in various ways, according to Howard's email. 
Abbracciamento explained these combat scenarios. 
"All the missions have contingencies. For example, during one leg, we were ordered to execute a recon mission. Instead of just observing, we were ambushed, and the enemy threatened to kill the POW. That required a lot of nego­tiation on the part our squad leaders," he said. 
Abbracciamento also described one of the drills designed to foster teamwork and leadership. Known as "leader reaction courses," these drills put cadets from each class in charge of lead­ing their squad through an obstacle course, he said. 

Special to The Observer 

Scholars, jurists and advo­cates from around the world will gather at Notre Dame for an international conference to discuss church-state rela­tions and religious liberties Monday and Tuesday in McKenna Hall. 
• The conference provides an opportunity for participants representing Australia, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Italy, India, South Africa, Ukraine and the United States to engage these complex issues from comparative per­spectives. 
Panelists will consider hypothetical narratives by applying their own consti­tutional traditions and explore the possibility of con­vergence across national boundaries. The conference broadens its perspective fur­
"Those were a lot of fun. It was nice to meet people 
ther with a panel addressing Everyone had a chance ·to and the activities went real­
global trends in the jurispru­lead a team within a time ly well." 
dence of religious liberty. frame of 30 minutes. For "You're up from long 
The conference will con­example, we were POWs in hours from 6 in the morning 
clude with a keynote address an enemy camp. We had to till midnight," Hanratty 
Sept. 23 at 4 p.m. in the get over the wall unscathed said. "It's physically chal­
McKenna Hall auditorium. using nothing but a ladder, lenging and mentally chal­piece of string, and a pipe," lenging when you're leading he said. a squad training exercise, 
Cadets were pleased with when you're in control and the outcome,· although the must have leadership pres­weekend was challenging. ent." 
Freshman cadet Ruth Ryan said, "It was good to get Contact Robert Singer at some practical experience. rsinger@nd.edu 
Holy Cross Village at Notre Dame invites you to a special 
dedicated to our college and university neighbors 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23RD • 4 P.M. TO 6 P.M. 
Educational, spiritual and cultural opportunities are an important focus of our 
continuing care retirement community. Find out why many retired professors, 
alumni and their parents have decided to make Holy Cross Village their home. 
Enjoy refreshments and tour our new community. 
For more information, please call (574) 251-2235. 
r-$1 Holy Ovir Villag• at Notre DfUTU is a continuing CIUt 
~ retiremmt rommuniJy sponsored by the Brothers of 54515 State Road 933 North • Notre Dame, IN Holy Ovir and managd by the Franciscan Sisters 
AT NOTRE DAME www.holycrossvillage.com
ofChicago Service Corporation. 

Event to examin~ church-state ties 
Titled "Protection of Religious Feelings in Liberal Democracie~: Reflections on the Experience with the Danish Cartoons," the address will be delivered by Dieter Grimm, a former jus­tice of the German federal constitutional court. Kenneth Ripple, a judge serving on the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, will offer a response. 
The confererrce will serve as a tribute to Donald P. Kommers, the Joseph and Elizabeth Robbie Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame until his recent retire­ment. He served as a mem­ber of the faculty since 1963 and a member of the Notre Dame Law School faculty. since 1976. 
The conference is spon­
sored  by  Notre  Dame's  
Nanovic  Institute  for  
European  Studies,  Law  

School, Office of Research, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts, College of Arts and Letters, and Program in American Democracy. 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 22, 2008 
' .

-.,.­
; 



*~Elkhart 1!ltJ W County Rd. 6, (In front ofWai-Mart), (574) 262-3510  *Mishawaka/South Bend University Park Mall, (located in the Food Court)  ~Servicio En Espafiol  
*~Cosh~n 4568 Elkhart Road, (Off Hwy 33, near Meijer), (574) 875-9317  (574) 243-8069  *Open Sunday  
*Mishawaka 4170 Grape Rd., (574) 252-2328  

tTwo-year service agreement required. IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Discounts available to eligible students of colleges or universities with aqualified AT&T business agreement ("Business Agreement"). $100discount requires anew two-year agreement on aqualified voice plan of $39.99 or higher and adata plan of $30.00 or higher (text messaging plans or features do not qualify). $50 discount requires anew two-year agreement on aqualified voice plan of $39.99 or higher. $100 dismunt and $50 discount rnay not be combined (with one anothe~. Discounts may not be combined with any other discounts. Equipment discounts only available with new activation. iPhone not available for discounts. You may erther r'P.<:eive the equipment discount availilble under the Business Agreement or current standard equipment promotion. Service subject to corresponding Business Agreement, Terms of Service, and applicable rJte plan brochures. Coverage not available in aU areas. Subscriber must live and have amailing address within AT&rs owned network coverage area. Up to $36 activ. fee applies. Unlimrted Nationwide Mobile to Mobile wi!h one-year agreement Equipment Promotions: Offer valid 8/15/08 -10/15/08. Devices suiljec1 to avaiti)bility. Limit one device per qualified activation. Sales tiLX applies to price of unartivated equipment Only available in select Af&'l owner! retail stores. !:arty Termination Fee: None ij cancelled in the lirst30 days; thereafter up to $H5. Some agents impose adcl'l fees. Service provided by Ar&l Mobility. (~)2008 Al&T lnt<:llectual Property. An rights reserved. AT&T, the AT&T logo, and all other marks contained herein are trademarks of AT&T Intellectual Property and/or AT&T affiliated companies. AU other marks contained herein are the property of their respective owners. 
11111111111111111111 
RLL25DRIHP081408101508' 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 22, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. soldier accused of killing Iraqi 
CAMP SPEICHER, Iraq-Military prosecu­tors accused a U.S. soldier Sunday of taking an Iraqi detainee to a remote desert location, stripping him naked, shooting him in the head and chest and then watching as anoth­er soldier set fire to the body with an incen­diary grenade. 
The allegations were made at the opening hearing to determine whether there is enough evidence against 1st Lt. Michael C. Behenna for a court-martial. He has already been charged with premeditated murder of his prisoner, Ali Mansour Mohammed. Prosecutors also accuse Behenna of trying to cover up the killing. 
Iran cautions against attacks 
TEHRAN -Hard-line Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad warned Sunday the military would strike back against anyone tar­geting his· country's nuclear facilities, during a parade featuring a banner calling for the end of Israel. 
The military parade displayed various types of Iranian-made missiles, such as Shahab-3 and Ghadr, and included a truck carrying a huge banner saying "Israel should be eliminated from the universe" in both English and Farsi. 
"If anyone allows himself to commit even a tiny offense against Iran's legitimate interests, borders and sacred land, our armed forces will break his hand before he pulls the trigger," Ahmadinejad said during the parade. 
The phrase "legitimate interests" is Iranian parlance for the country's nuclear program, which the West says is a cover for developing nuclear weapons. Iran, which denies the charge, already is under three sets of sanctions by the U.N. Security Council over the issue. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Palin greets thousands in Fla. 
THE ·VILLAGES, Fla. -Sarah Palin played it safe Sunday on her first trip as John McCain's running mate to the battleground state of Florida. 
She went to perhaps the easiest place in Florida to get a large Republican turnout, stuck mostly to the themes she's hit since the Republican convention and took no questions from reporters or the crowd. 
But she was welcomed like a star, with tens of thousands cramming into a plaza and nearby streets in this enormous retirement community about an hour north of Orlando. Some waited more than five hours in 92­degree heat to see her speak for 23 minutes. 
Obama preps for first debate 
CHARLOTTE -Democratic presidential nominee Barack Obama undergoes three days of preparation this week for a crucial foreign policy clash with John McCain in the first debate of the general election campaign. 
Aides say it will be an opportunity for Obama to demonstrate proficiency in an area where polls have shown voters give the edge to McCain, a 26-year Washington veteran who promotes his tics to leaders around the world. 
Obama will head to Florida to prepare for Friday's event at the University of Mississippi. 
If Obama can hold his own on foreign policy, it could ease those worries, aides said Sunday as they tried to lower expectations for the first-term Illinois senator. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Food stamp fraud found at Gary store 
GARY. Ind. -A Gary convenience ston'l owner has been indicted in an alleged food stamp fraud scheme. 
The 24-count fnderal indictment alleges that 52-year-old Mark Prusinski of Wheatfield paid customers at Mark's Food Mart about 65 per­cent of the face value of their food benefit debit cards issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. then redeemed the cards himself at full face value. Prusinski is scheduled to appear Oct. 2 in U.S. District Court in Hammond on charges of wire fraud and money laundering. 
PAKISTAN 

Al-Qaida may be linked to attack 
Explosion at Pakistani Marriott kills more than 50; no group claims responsibility 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -Taliban militants based near the Afghan border and their al­Qaida allies are the most likely suspects behind a massive truck bombing at Islamabad's Marriott Hotel, officials and experts said Sunday. At least 53 died in the explosion, including two 
U.S. Defense Department employees and the Czech ambassador. 
The truck sat burning and disabled at the hotel gate for at least 3 1/2 minutes as nervous guards tried to douse the flames before they, the truck and much of the hotel forecourt vanished in a fearsome fireball on Saturday night, according to dramatic surveillance footage released Sunday. 
The attack on the American hotel chain during Ramadan, among the dead­liest terrorist strikes in Pakistan, will test the resolve of its pro-Western civilian rulers to crack down on growing violent extrem­ism which many here blame on the country's role in the U.S.-led war on terror. 
While no group has claimed responsibility, the scale of the blast and its high-profile target were seen by many as the signa­ture of media-savvy al­Qaida. 
Interior Ministry chief for Pakistan's tribal areas, ed. Pakistan, which this year Rehman Malik said "all said that while the attack A Pakistani intelligence emerged from nine years of roads lead to FATA" in had "all the signatures" of official, speaking on condi­military rule, and destroy it<> major Pakistani suicide an al-Qaida strike, home­tion of anonymity because already fragile economy. attacks -referring to grown Taliban militants he is not authorized to Gilani also claimed that Federally Administered probably had learned how speak on the record to the bomber attacked the Tribal Areas, where U.S. to execute an attack of such media, said investigators hotel only after tight security officials worry that Osama magnitude. were examining just that prevented him from reach­bin Laden and al-Qaida No. Al-Qaida was providing theory. ing Parliament or the prime 2 Ayman al-Zawahri are "money, motivation, direc­Pakistani Prime Minister minister's office, where hiding. tion and all sort of leader­Yousuf Raza Gilani said the President Asif Ali Zardari 
·Mahmood Shah, a former ship and using the Taliban attack was an attempt to and many dignitaries were government security chief as gun fodder," he suggest-"destabilize democracy" in gathered for dinner. 

SOUTH AFRICA 
President resigns after power struggle 
state, paving the way for Mbeki's said "categorically" that he had never 
Associated Press 
nemesis, Jacob Zuma, to take over interfered in the work of prosecutors. 
CAPE TOWN -South African after the elections. He said that included "the painful President Thabo Mbeki told the The ANC has a huge majority and is matter" of' the Zuma case. Zuma has nation Sunday that he had resigned, expected to romp to victory in the been under a cloud for the past eight having lost a power struggle to a rival polls despite its upheavals. years from allegations relating to a tainted by allegations of corruption "I am convinced that the incoming big arms deal. but poised now to lead the country. administration will better the work A senior ANC official, Matthews 
In a somber but dignified speech done during the past 14-and-half Phosa, said the party had asked the focusing on the successes and short­years so that poverty, underdevelop­Cabinet to remain on the job. comings of his nine-year presidency, ment, unemployment, illiteracy, chal­"We want the Cabinet to stay," Mbeki said he had submitted a letter lenges of health, crime and corrup­Phosa said. "We want stability and to the speahr or Parliament "to ten­tion will cease to define the lives of we want them to stay ... but we can­der my resignation from the high many of our people," Mbeki said. not enforce things upon them," he position of President of the Republic Mbeki, 66, lost the final battle in said on South African television. of South Africa." the long struggle against ANC Early indications were that most 
He said he would stand down at a President Zuma, his former deputy, Cabinet ministers had agreed to stay, date to be determined by Parliament, on Saturday. Mbeki was pressured to including Finance Minister Trevor which will convene in the coming quit after a judge threw out a corrup­Manuel, who is important to investor days to select an interim president to tion case against Zuma earlier this confidence in South Africa. serve until next year's elections. month on a legal technicality and Phosa also said the party wanted 
National Assembly speaker Baleka implied that Mbeki's administration Mbeki to continue as mediator in Mbete, who is also chairwoman or the had put political pressure on prose­Zimbabwe, where he recently per­African National Congress, is widely cutors. suaded President Robert Mugabe to tipped to become the interim head of In his television address, Mbeki share power with the opposition. 



page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 22, 2008 
Kellogg 
continued from page 1 
Institute is very well known in the 
acadnmk world for all the work it 
has donn in Latin America," he 
said. "Democratic issues are very, 
vc~ry important, and I am happy 
that this univnrsity is interostnd in 
democratic issuns in Latin 
Anwrka." 
In his accPptanee speech. Caviria said Latin Anwrican eountrins would continue to need lwlp in developing democratic govnrnnwnts through "political globalization." 
"Latin Anwrica m~eds solidarity. The political systems of many countries IWPd hPip," he said. 
Gaviria served as president of Colombia from 1990 to 1994 and as head of the Organization of American States (OA."l) from 1994 until 2004, where he developed a reputation as one of Latin Ameriea's great advocates for Democracy. 
"It was n~ally under his leader­ship that the OAS bncamn a vnry important actor for democracy in our hemisphern," Beatty said. 
University President Emeritus Ted llesburgh, who along with Edmund .Joyce helped found the Kellogg Institute, said Gaviria was well deserving of the award because of' his work with OAS. 
"I think OAS is a very, very important part of the whole hemisplwm," he said. 'The OAS isn't a pnrfi1ct group, and like all such things it has had a lot of problems, but I think it's absolutely important that we have the OAS in Washington, D.C., right next to the White House." 
Gaviria's task has often been diflicult, having been faced with and overcoming violent threats and intimidation by drug cartels. 
"This someone who started his political career very early and has devoted his entire career to working filr democratic politics, often in Columbia in very diflicult eircumstances where political 
Run 
continued from page 1 
estimated 550 to 575 competitors either ran the six-mile or three­mile racn, or walked two miles, he said. 
"One thing that makes this race unique is that it a thmn-mile and six-mile instead of 5K and 10K," said Walker. "Twenty-five years ago, kilometers weren't typkally used to measure race distances. Very much like Notre Dame, it is traditional." 
Before tlw race began, recently ordained priest and Notre Dame Law School Dean Emeritus Dave I.ink said a blessing over the run­ners in memory of his late wife, Barbara Link. Link, a Notre Dame alumna, battled ovarian cancer before lwr death in 2003. The race was held in memory and honor of both Link and Huth Boutelle. a fi1rmer member of the Domer Hun Committee who died or ovarian cancer in 2006. 
The American Cancer Society estimates that approximately 23,400 nnw cases of ovarian can­cer are diagnosed and 15,000 women die of ovarian cancer each year acm1·ding to the infilrmation­al pamphlet provided at tho run. The ovPrall 5-year survival rate fill" wonwn with ovarian cancer is only bntween 35 and 49 percent, according to thP pamphlet. 
Tlw mo1wy raised from the reg­istration fi~es and donations will bn given toward the cause. As of Sunday night, no figures WPn~ available, a HncSporl'> rnpresenta­tivn said. 
The course. availaht(~ in map 
violence and conflict were very 
prevalent," Beatty said. 
James McDonald, counselor to 
the University president agreed, 
calling Gaviria "one of the most 
courageous advocates for democ­
racy in America." 
Although Gaviria retired from the OAS four years ago, he still holds a gmat deal of influence in Colombia and has continued to work for democraey in the rogion. 
For Ilosburgh, the night also marked the incredible growth of the K(~llogg Institute. 
"!Tho Kellogg Institute I was a dream, of course. But when we started it, we didn't have any money," he said. 
Aller securing $10 million from the estate of Helen Kellogg, Hesburgh and Joyce fimnded the institute that would eventually develop into one of the leaders in researching world peace. 
"They now have over a $100 million endowment. I think it's the best institute of its kind in the world," llesburgh said. "That's the kind of' thing a Catholic uni­versity ought to do. And we have wonderful people running these institutes and participating in the research, so 1 can't think of any­thing more fitting for a Catholic university to do than to work for world peace." 
The matching prize to Fundaei6n Colombia Presente was presented by Rodrigo Calderon, vice president of public affairs and communications for Coca-Cola Latin America. 
Calderon said the organization played in major role in helping Colombia establish a more demo­cratic society. 
"It is in this context that Fundaci6n Colombia Presente was created in 1993, and it has reformed Colombian society by raising the awareness of social needs," he said. "It is my great pleasure to hand this year's grant to l<undaci6n Colombia Presente." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
form online at the RecSports Web site, took runners around Main Circle then over to Saint Mary's Lake, where the three-milers and six-milers split off. The three-mile course went in front of main build­ing, along main quad, and finished in front of Hesburgh Library. For the first time this year, the six-mile course, instead of doing two laps on the three-mile route, ventured east along Twyckenham and Edison roads. "I wanted to experi­ence the challenge of the Domer Run," sophomore Andrew Mrugala said. Having never run six miles consecutively before, Mrugala said he entertained him­self by "singing the fight song over and over again in my head." 
Sophomore Chris Harvan partic­ipated in the three mile run this year. 
lle said he ran because "it:; for a good cause and I had participated last year," and he wanted to "just go out and have an enjoyable run with friend<>. really." 
After completing the run or walk, participants were given a complimentary pancake break­fast, courtesy of Legends. and T­shirl'i, Walker said. Traditionally, the Domer Hun t-shirt features "a view of the dome and a represen­tation of running," said Walker. This year's white, gold and teal shirl'i fulfilled the practice. 
A'> added incentive lor students to participate, a pizza party and hall poinl<> will be given to the hall with the highest representation. The winning hall was yet to be detenninnd Sunday night, Walker said. 
Contact Kelly Davis at kdavis 14@nd.edu 

INFORMATION SESSIONS: 
. 
ay, Sept~mber 2..3, 2008 5'.·=~··0·"'.· .
_;;;#. m"" 




117 Ha~:-~~TJ~~' J ... 
$:30 p..m* . 129 Hayes-Healy 
il: .../}M#~~¥.: .. 
APP~ICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15,2008 N AVAILABLE AT www.nd.eduf-ois

• University of Notre Dame 
• Office of International Studies Presents 
• Study Abroad Programs in 

Angers, France Information Sessions 
Wednesday, September 24, 2008 5:30p.m. Or Tuesday, October 7, 2008 5:30p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy Center 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Academic Year 2009-2010 Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 More information available at www.nd.edu/""ois/ 

:21criimfo 
.. 

TH_E OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, September 22, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 11,388.44 +368.75

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,877 27 388 836,534,034 


NASDAQ ~~?Z~:~9~r .....·~z~..so 
•'.~e:<E••·· •iii~il1It1!1&1ti1 !:! .•·.··.·~.·.•·".• ·o·.··.·••·.·.•.·.~.. .... .. ..·.•.·.•.?.•·..·.·.•.•.1.'·.··.·.·.•.• ·!...•.•...Mfl...•.·.·.··......•. ·.·.•.·.•.. .... ·.·.. .•. •. ·.•..•.·.1.••.. .. :zA%•···.·..H..•.·.·····........ .
•.· ·
•·v:l:ai ·=··· •. ·'''''~'=~:=m:~=.:.'i».tm:=m~mn:{=:~~====·=·=· o.·o"'_:.~c~:z:::..••..·····.·.:... .. ••·.···.·.·•···•·....•.·.•.•·.f·.·.·J.J.l.',,.. ..·.~.· .•.•.•....••..•.... •.. •·•·.•·1.•• •. ···.•.•......•...•'.n········... ... ·.•.·.·.··.····.·.··· 
S&P 500 1,255.08 +48.57 

···IV~Ifl(a··(TE'JI<yo~r·•·· ··· a;;t;;I!O~~~ •·)FtJiill 
FTSE 100 (London) 5311.30 +431.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
AMER INTL GROUP INC (AIG) +43.12 +1.16 SPDR S&P (SPY) +3.97 +4.74 SPDR-Financial (XLF) +12.91 +2.56 CITIGROUP INC (C) +24.02 +4.00 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +9.66 +.3320 13-WEEK BILL + 1214.29 +0.85 30-YEAR BOND +6.15 +0.2530 5-YEAR NOTE +19.39 +0.4860 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
Exchange Rates 
YEN EURO CANADIAN DOLLAR BRITISH POUND 
+6.67 
3.85 
124.12 22.38 20.65 
3.7690 
0.920 4.3660 2.9930 
100.65 
-32.30 874.00 +1.00 91.00 
106.7450 0.6909 1.0484 0.5462 

IN BRIEF 
Tests find chemicals in Nestle milk 
HONG KONG -The Hong Kong government says its tests have found melamine in Chinese­made Nestle brand milk. 
The government said late Sunday it found the industrial chemical in Nestle's Dairy Farm brand pure milk for catering use. It said the milk was made by Nestle's division in the Chinese coastal city Qingdao. 
But the statement said the tests only found a small amount of melamine and that the milk does not pose a serious health risk. 
It recommended, however, the milk not be fed to young children. 
More than 6,200 infants have become sick and four babies have died in China after being fed melamine-laced baby formula. One toddler has become sick in Hong Kong -the first vic­tim reported outside the Chinese mainland. 
Bush pushes for Colwnbian trade deal 
WASHINGTON -President Bush and Colombian President Alvaro Uribe renewed their push on Saturday for Congress to approve a free-trade deal before lawmakers leave town to campaign for re-election. 
"It's in our economic interest that we continue to open up markets in our neighborhood, partic­ularly with a nation that is growing like yours," Bush told Uribe in the Rose Garden. "And yet we can't get a vote out of Congress. I've been asking the Democrat leadership in Congress for a vote, and they've consistently blocked the vote." 
Congressional Democrats say they are delay­ing votes on trade deals involving Colombia, Panama and South Korea until the Bush admin­istration resolves questions about the impact on 
U.S. jobs and other issues. But time is running out on the legislative calendar. The Colombian pact was negotiated in late 2006. 
Bush urged lawmakers to reconsider their opposition, but seemed resigned that it might not happen on his watch. Bush called Uribe an "honest man" who has responded to U.S. con­cerns about crime in Colombia and has been successful in reducing homicides, kidnappings and terrorist attacks. 

Bailout excludes household help 
Paulson resists provison to aid individuals, calls for 'clean and quick' action 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is resisting a Democratic push to add additional help for house­holds to the $700 billion bailout bill. 
Paulson said Sunday that because financial markets remain under severe stress there is an urgent need for Congress to act quickly without adding other measures that could slow down passage. 
"We need this to be clean and to be quick," Paulson said in an inter­view on ABC's "This Week." 
Paulson resisted sug­gestions being made by Democrats that the pro­gram be. changed to include further relief for homeowners facing mort­gage foreclosures and to include an additional $50 billion stimulus effort. Some Democrats have also suggested capping compensation of execu­tives at firms who get the bailout help. 
Paulson said he was concerned that debate over adding all of those proposals would slow the economy down, delaying the rescue effort that is so urgently needed to get financial markets moving again. 
"The biggest help we can give the American people right now is to stabilize the financial system," Paulson said. 
However, Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said that he believed there would be changes to the three-page Paulson plan and that agreement could be reached quickly. 
Schumer said that he was pushing to get a pro­vision where the govern­ment would receive stock warrants in return for the bailout relief and for creation of a government oversight board to super­vise the huge operation, which under Paulson's 


AP Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson appeared on several Sunday talk shows to discuss the finance crisis. He is shown here on "Fox News Sunday." 
plan would be run out of the Treasury Department. He said Paulson seemed receptive to changes when he had discussed his ideas with him. 
"I have told him ... we need changes related to housing, we need to put the taxpayer first ahead of bondholders, share­holders," Schumer said on "Fox News Sunday." 
Paulson said in the interviews that he had been talking to other gov­ernments about the need for them to offer similar relief because the current financial crisis is global. 
"The credit markets are still very fragile right now and frozen," Paulson 

said in an interview on NBC's Meet the Press. "We need to deal with this and deal with it quickly." 
Paulson said that the nation's outdated regula­tory system for financial markets must be over­hauled but the first job is to get the most sweeping rescue package since the Great Depression passed by Congress in coming days. 
Paulson made the rounds of the television talk shows on Sunday to stress the need for speed in getting the bailout package approved. The administration was nego­tiating the details of the proposal with members of Congress with the expectation that it can be passed in the next week. 
Paulson said that "it pains me tremendously to have the American tax­payer put in this position but it is better than the alternative." 
Both Paulson and President Bush have argued that the alterna­tive would be credit mar­kets that remain frozen, meaning that businesses will fail because they can't get the loans they need to operate and the economy will grind to a halt because consumers won't be able to get loans to make the purchases that keep the economy moving forward. 


Judge: Lehman can sell units to Barclays 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -A bankruptcy judge decided early Saturday that Lehman Brothers can sell its investment banking and trading businesses to Barclays, the first major step to-wind down the nation's fourth-largest investment bank. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck gave his decision in a courtroom packed with lawyers at the end of an eight-hour hearing that extended into the wee hours, capping a week of financial turmoil. 
The deal was said to be worth $1.75 billion earlier in the week but the value was in flux after lawyers announced changes to the terms on Friday. It may now be worth closer to $1.35 billion, which includes the $960 million price tag on Lehman's Midtown Manhattan office tower. 
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history Monday, after Barclays PLC declined to buy the investment bank in its entirety. 
The British bank will take control of Lehman units that employ about 9,000 employees in the U.S. 
"Not only is the sale a good match economically, but it will save the jobs of thousands of employees," said Lehman lawyer Harvey Miller of Weil, Gotshal & Manges. 
Barclays took on a potential liabili­ty of $2.5 billion to be paid as sever­ance, in case it decides not to keep certain Lehman employees beyond the guaranteed 90 days. But observers have said Barclays' main reason for acquiring Lehman is to get its peopl~ and presence in North America, making widespread layoffs less likely. 
"It's unimaginable to me that they can run the business without peo­ple," said Lehman's financial adviser, Barry Ridings, of Lazard Ltd. 
Barclays had little competition to land the deal. 
Miller said that before it filed for bankruptcy, Lehman had negotiated with just one other bidder, Bank of America Corp. BofA instead announced Monday that it would buy Merrill Lynch & Co., saving it from a fate similar to Lehman's. That deal was originally valued at $50 billion. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 22, 2008 
games," Derheimer said. "lackluster in general." "I really like going to away might have had a chance, but Senior Kate Erdle said she felt "People left the game feeling games ... You kind of feel like an gradually things got more
·-Football 
continued from page 1 
growing together and that it gives her a lot of hope for next season. 
Derheimer disagreed and felt that the team's performance against the Spartans left him with less to antieipate from the rest of the season. 
"I guess it takes the anxiety out of [the rest of the season]. I don't have to hang on every play ... I ean relax now and enjoy the that the atmosphere was upbeat before the game started and got a lot quieter as the game pro­gressed. 

"The mood just went downhill and everybody just got real quiet the rest of the game. There was also kind of an aspect where I felt like the crowd was still trying to get the team back in it," she said. Erdle said that the crowd's confi­dence was high after the first touchdown. 
Erdle said that the game was like they didn't see too much," she said. 

Erdle said that she knew that the game would be close so that the results were not "all that sur­prising." 
"Overall it was a lot of fun, I just wish the game could have been a little better," she said. 
Teske said that she enjoyed the day at MSU and that the experi­ence of being at an away game is different from watching the team from the Notre Dame stadium. 
outsider, so you have to cheer really loud," Teske said. 
Senior Tracey Janesheski said she felt like the team lost momen­tum in the second half of the game. 
"It looked like a different team [than last week]," Janesheski said. "It looked like we were out­playing Michigan State for the first half. Then it was like some­thing was missing in the second half." 
Early on it looked like the team 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 25 -4:00 PM HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES KELLOGG 

INSTITUTE 
depressing, she said. 

"It was pretty promising when it was 13-7. Then it got a lot qui­eter in our section," Janesheski said. 
Janesheski attended the Alumni Association's tailgate before the game and said she enjoyed the camaraderie between the Notre Dame fans, she said. 
"There were a lot more Notn'l Dame fans than I thought there would be," Janesheski said. "You would start talking to other Notre Dame fans even if you had no idea who they were. You could still bond on the fact that you were wearing The Shirt or a Darius Walker jersey," she said. 
Janesheski said she did not encounter any significant prob­lems with MSU fans while at the game. 
"It wasn't as hostile as people made it sound to be before the game, it was just afterward when [MSU fansJ knew they could gloat to us that they started getting unfriendly," Janesheski said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 






Perth, Australia 
Information Session 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,2008 5:30PM 138 DeBartolo Hall 
For ALPP and ANTH College of Science College of Engineering Students 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 APPLY ONLINE: www.nd.edu/rvois 


-----------~-------------------------------------­
Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer + NEWS Page 9 
Web site 
continued from page 1 
The Shop, Academics and Greek life, he said. 
These four aspects are essentially "the four ends of the quad," said Suchin. 
"The reason we call it 'The Quad' is because the quad is the heart of the campus at most schools. The quad in this case represents to us the cen­ter of college life," he said. 
The Scene will be the social aspect of The Quad, and is what collegetonight.com used to be, said Suchin. 
It is a place where students can see what their friends are doing or events that are going on in the area, he said. 
The Scene is not meant to replace the popular social net­working site, Facebook.com, he said. 
"We aren't naive. We don't think people are going to leave Facebook and come join another site. I wouldn't do that myself," said Suchin. 
There are problems with Facebook, specifically the Web site's growth to include mem­bers outside of college, he said. 
"Facebook has become something that is much bigger and a lot of ways better for the adult, but not necessarily for the college student," he said. 
The Quad will have new fea­tures and tools that Facebook doesn't provide to members, he said. 
"Let's say, you want to know what the specials are at Steve's Bar and Grill, you could get a text message telling you what it was," he said. 
Junigr Sarah Rodts, who had not heard of The Quad, said she feels that the timing of the Web site's launch is good. 
"They're lucky it's coming out now because everyone· is fed up with Facebook," she said. 
Rod ts said she doesn't like the new Facebook and is inter­ested in "another way to con­nect with people socially." 
Freshman Bobby Abdo thought that the new Web site might have potential, but that it would have to gear towards Notre Dame. 
"If it actually provides a service different from Facebook, more specific to Notre Dame, I'd definitely use it," he said. 
Junior Katie Weber also said that she was fed up with Facebook and that she believes that others are as well. 
"I think people will be really receptive to something differ­ent," she said. 
Other students, like fresh­man Kaye Lushutka, said she felt that students wouldn't want put forth the effort to become familiar with the new Web site. 
''I'm ·already so used to Facebook, so it would be easi­er to use what you're familiar with," she said. ·"It would be more effort to learn how to use the new system. It would save more time just to use what you already know. You already hav~ a good way to talk to peo­ple. 
The academic aspect of the Quad is made to make school­work. especially group work, easier for college students said Schutzbank. 
For example, he said if four students need to work on a PowerPoint project, they can log onto the academic side of the Quad and work on it together and it will edit in real time. 

Group projects aren't always ·the easiest thing to do," said 
Rodts. "if you can get things 
done online, that's awesome." 
The Shop is the retail side of the Web site, whose primary focus is on selling beer pong tables, which are called "quad pong," said Schutzbank. 
"They are pretty durable and yo·u can completely customize them. It is shipped to you with­in two weeks," said Schutzbank. 
A buyer does not need to be 21 years of age to purchase a table, he said. 
"We call them multi-purpose tables so you can use them for anything, but they are regula­tion size beer pong tables," said Schutzbank. 
Lastly, Greek Life focuses on making it easy to keep busi­ness records and create social events for fraternities and sororities, Suchin said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 


DNA sheds light on first Americans 
Associated Press 
PAISLEY, Ore. -For some 85 years, homesteaders, pot hunters and archaeologists have been digging at Paisley Caves, a string of shallow depressions washed out of an ancient lava flow by the waves · of a lake that comes and goes with the changing climate. 
Until now, they have found nothing conclusive -arrow­heads, baskets, animal bones and sandals made by people who lived thousands of years ago on the shores of what was then a 40-mile-long lake, but is now a sage brush desert on the northern edge of the Great Basin. 
But a few years ago, University of Oregon archaeol­ogist Dennis Jenkins and his students started digging where no one had dug before. What the team discovered in an alcove used as a latrine and trash dump has elevated the caves to the site of the oldest radiocarbon dated human remains in North America. 
Coprolites -ancient feces ­were found to contain human DNA linked directly to modern­day Native Americans with Asian roots and radiocarbon dated to 14,300 years ago. That's 1,000 years before the oldest stone points of the Clovis culture, which for much of the 20th century was believed to represent the first people in North America. 
The idea that coprolites con­tain valuable information is not new, but extracting DNA from them is. When the find­ings were published this year in the journal Science, they plopped Jenkins and his col­leagues in the middle of one of the hottest debates in North American archaeology: Just when did people first come here, and how did they get here? 
For many years the prevail­ing view was that the Clovis people walked from Siberia across a land bridge exposed by the Ice Age to Alaska and spread south through an ice­free corridor down the center of the continent exposed 10,000 years ago by warming temperatures. 
The Paisley coprolites indi­cate people had found another way, perhaps crossing the land bridge but then walking down the coast, or even crossing the ocean by boat, the way people went from New Guinea to Australia thousands of years earlier. The findings kill the suggestion some of the earliest Americans came from Europe. 


FREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY> one of our homemade French buns then smothered with onions. mayo, 
turkey & provolone, jammed into 
Onion. lettuce. allalla sprouts. tomato, mayo. sliced 
lettuce. tomato, & our homemade Real applewood smoked ham and bacon with lettuce.cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
Italian dressing. tomato & mayo. what could be better! 
WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 
1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  54570 N.IRDNWDDD DR.  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.277.8500  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOftN'S!''® @ 
®1985. 2002, 2003, 2004,2007.2008 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE. LLC ILL RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The light To Make Any Menu Changes. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 22, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Tell me about your politics 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay tirzpatrick Kyle West 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Karie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGIN<; EDITOR: Oeirdre Krasula 
N1~s EDITOR: Jenn Metz 
VIJ:WPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy 
Bill Brink 
SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz llaner 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6jl-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-'5j03 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
('i74) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
snlC.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obspboro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.nilsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is tbc independent, daily newspaper 
published in prim and online by the students ofthe 
Univcrsiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
Collegt-. Editorial comem, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
insrirurion. The Obst•rver reserves rbe right to refuse 
adwrrisemenrs based on conrent. 
The news is reponed as accurJtely and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, ·Assistant Managing Editors and deparrmenr cdirors. Commenrarics, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Lt·ttcrs to the Editor must he signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questiom rrgarding Obsrmi!T po!icieJ should be directed to !iditor in ChiefChris Fline. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

IIll" Oh<w.·rva {lJSI1'\ '\•l•) '·4110o: ,, ,•11hlahcd Mnmlav thruu,;h 1-ri<by t?rt...Cpt durin}!. 
• um .m.l YJ~-aunn IJ'Cfl<l\1~ t\ \Ill!!!, npwm hJ llu: Uh-.crv~;r ill StnU lur <lrlf ac.~Jcuu~ \'·.u, $'\') fnr um: .cnu"'t~·r 
1h<" ~ ll'f<oervr:r i• puhti~I1Ctl .u l'tlHMA.ITER 
0.24 !\ourh llinlnJ ll.tll Scr111 .tdclrcb currt'~tilllli to: Nllfrc lJ.1uu:. IN ih'i'if•. On'J lheOI~rvct 1\onmlk~IJIO.,t.l~ J'.lltl.u Not!'\' D.tmc 1~0 n"x.n9 .uul .tdduuuulm.lilllt.-ollicn. t11·1 Snurh Dining ll.dl 
~our: D.unc, IN 46'i'i6·0719 

·n,~· ()hwrwr ts ,, ntcmhcr of tilt.: A.~ICI.JI«i Ptnt.. All rcpt<tduttlttllll~huo~.rc 
rocrv.:-9. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mandi Stirone Dan Murphy Aaron Steiner Alex Barker 
Graphics Sam Werner Andrea Areher Scene Viewpoint Analise Lipari Lianna Brauweiler 
Have you ever had anyone just ask you a fully open-ended question other than when professors lay the 11oor open to get you to think for yourself? In that circumstance, you know what the reading was about, you know the general topic of discussion. 
But when you aren't ready, when you're just having a normal conversation with a friend, these are the times that try men's souls ... or okay, maybe their intellects. People's intel­lects. 
I was hiking through the Austrian Alps the other day Uust rubbing it in for all of you who find the new west quad change in . elevation exciting) and a fellow hiker of mine asked me one of these ques­tions. She is actually American, so I was lucky enough to explain myself in English. It was a straightforward question -one I don't get very often at Notre Dame-where everyone assumes a certain amount of back­ground knowledge and then goes from there. 
"Jackie," she began (that's my name, even though your eyes may already have made the trip back to the top of the page), "Do you feel like talking about politics?" 
Do I feel like talking about politics?! Is Lou Holz going to pick Notre Dame to win next Saturday? I decided to go for the polite route, however. 
"Well, yeah, but what are you think­ing?" I needed some direction. A little bit of help. 
"Anything. Everything. I really don't 

Jackie Mirandola­Mullen 
Guest Columnist 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Gosh. I'vebeen 
sobusy wreckrng 
all tny fmances 
I forgot tofeed 
YotL hoW about 
a trtllton rn bad 
hovses and a 
bunchof 'iOlK£? 

OBSERVER POLL 
Are you going to the Forum? 

Yes No That will be a game time decision. 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

know that much about politics, and I want to be able to base my vote on something. Just tell me about McCain and Obama. I want to know anything I can." 
Talk about the motherload. A gift, yet a challenge. An opportunity where someone wants to shut up and just lis­ten to what you have to say. It's so unique that you have to be a little careful, lest you ramble and never touch upon the points you are actually trying to make (Note: resist the urge to compare such rambling to this article). 
I had no idea how to approach this. How do you put together years of classroom experience, your parents' political views, Internet articles and friends' rants and apply them collec­tively to two candidates, in what is becoming the identifying historic pres­idential election of our generation? Then there's the obligation to be real­istic, but your covert urge to slyly goad their newly-emerged political consciousness to the side of your per­sonal tendencies. I'm admitting the bias to you, beloved reader, only because I am writing on the Viewpoint pages. Otherwise, I'd be a total blank slate like all the other objective jour­nalists. 
After she posed the question, I natu­rally stumbled for a minute (not down the mountain, no worries, bitte), but then I regained my stature and started on a 30-minute question-and-answer session about Conservatives, Liberals, healthcare, environmental policies, the military and financial crises. I quickly became introspective, espe­cially about those basic questions that no one pushes on you when you're at a University -what do I know about the war in Iraq that I wasn't hand-fed by politicians or the media? How can I explain why we need to change our energy infrastructure in two sen­tences? When you start on your famil­iar rant, then someone presses you 

with, "But what will Obama do to 
change that?" and you don't have an 
answer, then aren't you just as unin­
formed as the "uniformed masses" 
about which every political junkie 
complains? 
Someone once told me that for caus­es and ideas that you truly believe in, you should have an "elevator conver­sation" ·prepared. That when someone asks you why you spend the majority of your life devoted to . you should be able to say in 60 seconds why your time spent is worthwhile. You may risk sounding like a broken record, but it's better than being a James Michner book on tape. 
So think about it. If it was a class, you could go home and write it down on an index card. Why are you voting a certain way this fall'? How will your vote better our nation? Platforms are unreliable; promises can easily be bro­ken. Theories, thought processes and political character are accurate repre­sentations of what a candidate might do once in office. Here in Europe, it's easy to see the importance of positive international ties in an increasingly global society. When you're out of the bubble, when you're not in the Ameriean academic universe, there is no presumed knowledge on which you can fall back. You have to really be able to answer those open-ended questions. 
So tell me about your politics. 
Jackie Mirando/a Mullen is a junior German and History major, currently studying in lnnsbruck. Austria. She opposes offshore drilling. but only because she doesn't want to bore the ocean. She can be reached at jmiran­do@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necesarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The danger from computers is not 
that they will eventually get as 
smarl as men. but we will 
meanwhile aqree to meet them 
halfway." 

Bernard Avishai contributing Editor of Harvard Business Review 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, September 22, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Notre Datne not truly a place where ''learning becotnes service to justice'' 
Pope Paul VI, in Populorum Progressio, states that when one gives to the poor, "you are not making a gift of what is yours to the poor man, but you are giving him back what is his. You have been appropriating things that are meant to be for the common use of everyone. The earth belongs to everyone, not to the rich" (par. 23). Hence, when Fr. Jenkins at Wednesday's Town Hall Meeting claimed that "the Catholic mission of Notre Dame should be seen as 'a guide, something that makes the university distinc­tive,"' yet the majority of our campus workers, those who scrub our toilets, desks, floors and dishes still fall under the poverty level or make a wage that is less than livable. How are we "embracing the dignity," as Jenkins says, of our campus workers? When the wage difference between the highest-and lowest-paid employee on campus is 1:49 (Living Wage Report from 2007), how are we working as a family for the com­mon good of everyone? 
Maybe, then, it is time we stop calling "renovations to the Basilica of the Sacred Heart" (John Affieck-Graves) "a hallmark of Notre Dame" and our Catholic character. Maybe it is time we start actually putting into practice what Paul VI commands us as Catholics to do and start handing back to workers at Notre Dame what is truly theirs. 
It is great and commendable that the University has implemented a new program where employees can take classes while employed at the university, but when will we address the deeply rooted social inequal­ities that exist right in our own backyard? When will we, instead of committing ourselves passively and eas­ily to lives of "service to the world," commit ourselves to an active life of change where "learning becomes service to justice" and not passivity? Where we ques­tion why the people who actually serve our community in our dorms, academic buildings and dining halls are standing in line at food banks or in line at grocery stores with food stamps? Or why they sleep on the floor of a basement in a home not their own so they can feed and educate their children? How long are we going to cover up this injustice with sugar-coated words and nice luncheons at the new Irish Green? 
I am a student at this university, I am an employee at this university and I am a member of this family. Hence, I say with great disappointment that I am ashamed of how my family -this university-is liv­ing out what we call "Catholic character." To me, Catholic character is not spending millions repainting the golden dome or refurbishing the basilica, but rather making sure the least among us are dignified and not forgotten or exploited. So until our actions are equivalent with our words, I remain strong in my statement when I say I am ashamed today of my uni­versity, of myself and of my fellow Notre Dame family members for not doing more to genuinely use our voic­es to dispel injustice and implement justice in our own home, our own family and our own university. 
Alicia Quiros junior off-campus Sept. 18 

Colllpassion the true spirit of Notre Dallle 
When my autistic son was severely depressed, I called on Maura and Charlie Weis for support. My son is a huge Notre Dame fan. His grandfather taught here and I graduated from Notre Dame. When I told my son the new coach and his wife had a special needs daughter named Hannah, he listened. I told him, you need to look at the Hannah and Friends Web site with me. 
The Weis family is going to change our community, especially how people view people with different abilities, as Maura Weis so fondly refers to them. Coach Weis took time out of his hectic schedule, (because his wife asked him to) to boost the morale of a lost autistic young man who was caught in between two worlds. He is so high functioning, that he longed to be that neurotypical honor role student on the high school football team. That autumn day, my son no longer was autistic; he had only abil­ities-to be one-on-one with Coach Charlie Weis, his mentor. 
Yes, I believe they got the right coach to do the job. No doubt in my mind. The University should be proud that some­times it's not always about football or getting the perfect job. It is about edu­cation, compassion, making the world a better place to live, uniting racial differ­ences and educating the poor and the mentally challenged. 
So whether the Irish are up or down on their luck, when you paint your body blue and green or wear the Golden Dome on your head, you are also cele­brating the spirit of a much bigger pic-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ture which I believe is what Notre Dame is all about. The Weis' are building a home for our true unsung heroes and heroines, who cannot make a life for themselves, go to college or even some who cannot even wash their own bod­ies. The Weis family is building them a home in which they can grow old and fill their time with fun things to do, sur­rounded by love every day. They will be respected, cared for and celebrated. If you spend time with these gentle souls, you will learn more about God, Heaven and why you are fortunate enough to share the planet with them. They only know love and want to be your friend. Unfortunately, they have learned fear, cruelty and indifference. 
Yes, I believe they got the right Coach to do the job. No doubt in my mind. The true Spirit of the Irish is in helping those who cannot help themselves. One day you may give birth to a Downs baby, or your son or daughter will be confined to a wheelchair from an auto accident. My education from the University of Notre Dame and from my parents helped me deal with what I thought was a tragedy. I educated myself on autism and tried everything possible to help my son make sense of our world. I see what a true blessing my son is. I am honored God chose me to help raise an angel, against the odds. I did win overall. 
Katherine Robinson Coleman alum class of 1978 Sept. 19 


U-WIRE 


The opiate of the people 
One of the most frequently quoted statements of Karl Marx is: "Religion is the opiate of the people." 
In context, Marx was speaking of religion as a condition that arose to help humanity cope with its struggles. He believed that calling on mankind to give up religion would mean calling upon them to give up the conditions of life 
that require what he saw as a coping mechanism. 
There is a measure of ambiguity about the usage of
Shane Nassiri 
opium in the statement because in Marx's day, opium was legally available and widely prescribed. Daily In any case, the metaphor of opium can be seen as Toreador Marx's view of religion as being a painkiller and some­thing that dulls the mind.
Texas Tech 
More than a century and a half later, I would like to 
amend Marx's statement to better fit our modern American context: Politics is the opiate of the people. What do I mean? There is this false optimism that somehow our political process will offer 
the cure for all that ails our society. Ifwe only elect the right candidate, we can solve the problems we face. What ensues is mostly an attempt by either candidate to cast the other as a wrong choice that will bring certain doom. 
This year is more of the same. In the end, there are no substantial differ­ences between either John McCain or Barack Obama that will result in any real discernible outcome for the American people. 
You will either get more war in Afghanistan or more war in Iraq. You will either get more spending on expansive government programs or more corpo­rate welfare. Both will push for more regulation on financial institutions without addressing the subsidies and easy credit offered by the government to many of these institutions. Both will offer more aid to countries such as Georgia while aggressively posturing against Russia and Iran. 
The only real division that can be drawn between these candidates is con­cerning social and moral issues, most of which have no business being in the federal domain. That is where people line up to make their stand, fighting for the "heart and soul" of the nation. 
This is the opiate of the people. They are drugged into believing that these are the issues that will guarantee the future vitality of our nation. They are corralled into voting booths to support the candidate that supports their issue, or vote against the candidate that opposes their issue. 
I cannot count the number of times I've talked to Republican-voting people who curse those "liberal Democrats," or how many times I've listened to Democrat-voting people curse the Republican policies. 
The reality is that most people are not Republicans and Democrats; they are anti-Republicans and anti-Democrats, and they vote accordingly. They are convinced by the campaigns not to vote for what they believe in, but to vote against what they do not. 
This is what is passing for democracy in our nation, and the people are dis­tracted by the false feud that exists between the two parties. 
That is not to say that we do not need the voices of Democrats and Republicans, but we do not need them to be our only voices, especially when much of what they are saying is the same. 
Until we can break the stranglehold these two entities have on our politics, we'll never see true "change" in this country. 
It is an uphill battle, for sure, but one that is definitely worth fighting, for the sake of principle, and to "secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity" as our Founding Fathers put it. 
And yet, we still find ourselves taking the opium every election cycle, hop­ing that somehow this dose will do for us what the last dose didn't. Here's to hoping we'llleave the bottle on the shelf the next time around. 
This editorial first appeared in the Sept. 19 edition of the Daily Toreador, the daily paper at Texas Tech. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
RECAP: THE FIRST Two SEASONS OF "HEROES" 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Scene Writer 
"Heroes" is a complex science fiction series that incorporates an abundance of unique characters. When "Heroes" premiered in the fall of 2006, ordinary characters were first discovering that they had extraordinary powers. 
Some of these ordinary people chose to ignore their abilities, like Nathan Petrelli (Adrian Pasdar), a politician running for office who can 11y. Others embraced their abilities and sought understanding, like Nathan's younger brother Peter Petrelli (Milo Ventimiglia). Peter is like a sponge, absorbing the powers of those around him. 
Then. there are heroes like Hiro Nakamura (Masi Oka), once a bored office worker who now knows he was meant for something greater. To fulfill his destiny as a hero, he uses his abili­ty to bend space and time. Still others were trying to be normal, like teenage cheerleader Claire Bennet (Hayden Panettiere), who can heal herself even after 'death.' 
This premise soon expanded to pres­ent an intricate mythology surround­ing the genetic mutations that give these individuals superhuman abili­ties. As "Volume 1: Genesis" began, random people across the world were discovering that they had secret abili­ties. Dr. Mohinder Suresh (Sendil Ramamurthy) searched for truth in the scientific work of his father, a geneticist who mapped the superhu­man gene. After his father was killed, Mohinder struggled to understand the secrets he left behind. 
A greater mystery surrounded the characters' lives in the form of 
Linderman (Malcolm McDowell), the leader of a seemingly evil corporation known to the public as the Primatech Paper Company. 
The first season centered on the infamous tagline "Save the cheer­leader. Save the world." Several char­acters worked to prevent Sylar (Zachary Quinto). an evil villain who slices open people's heads in order to steal their powers, from killing Claire. Much of this plotline was fueled by paintings that depicted the future, including one image of the destruction of New York City by bomb. Presumably, if the heroes could save Claire, then they would prevent New York from certain doom. 
Episode 20 in season one was excep­tionally brilliant. Titled "Five Years Gone," it sent I-liro and his best friend Ando (James Kyson Lee) five years into a future in which they failed to stop the bomb. The ramifications of their failure were widespread -­Nathan, now President of the United States, was persecuting people with powers as "terrorists." 
When Claire finally confronted Nathan, he was revealed to be Sylar masquerading as the eldest Petrelli brother. When Peter discovered the deception, an epic confrontation fol­lowed, and the episode concluded with 
· 1-Iiro returning to the past and vowing to kill Sylar. In the season one finale, the heroes banded together against Sylar, who was presumed to be the "bomb" that would blow up New York City. In an uncharacteristic plot twist, Peter, not Sylar, was discovered to be the bomb. When he lost control of his abilities, Nathan flew him into space to save New York, saying, "You saved the cheerleader, so that we could save the 
Monday, September 22, 2008 

world." This caused Peter's subse­quent amnesia in Season Two, as well as Nathan's depression and alcoholism over the possible death of his brother. 
"Volume Two: Generations" began four months after Peter and Sylar's confrontation in New York. Viewers knew that the heroes were plolting to defeat Sylar and save the world, but the second season quickly became more complicated. A new villain entered the picture, Adam Monroe (David Anders), an immortal man first introduced to viewers in an earlier time-traveling episode. 
In the second season linale, Monroe sought to get his hands on the danger­ous "Shanti virus," which was being held at Primatech Paper. Through an episode foretelling the future, viewers learned that the virus would kill 93 percent of the world's population. Monroe tried to convince the amnesiac Peter to help him gain the virus, but Nathan and another hero, Parkman (Greg Gunberg), foiled his plan. 
Using his powers of teleportation, I-liro buries Monroe alive in a Japanese cemetery-the perfect pun­ishment for the immortal villain. Peter, finally regaining his senses, destroyed the killer virus strain. 
There were various other plotlines in the second season, but few reached their full potential due to the writer's strike last year. 
"Heroes" weaves a complex web of mysteries and surprises, more of which are expected in season three. Before the third season premieres tonight at 9 p.m., a brief recap of sea­sons one and two, including interviews with the cast, will air on NBC. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 

HEROES FACE NEW VILLAINS IN TONIGHT'S PREMIERE 
several more episodes. A fellow "Veronica Mars" alum, Francis Capra, will also guest star. 
With complaints of season two being lackluster in action and storylines, 
expect  the  unexpected  this  time  
around.  
SPOILEH  ALEHT:  The  first  few  

episodes inelude Sylar opnning the head of a beloved hero and explaining whether or not he actually eats brains. Mrs. Petrelli, Nathan and Peter's moth­er, reveals a secret that may drastically change the show. Nathan will somehow find God, and Peter's personality will grow and develop. lliro has his mind wiped; Peter and Sylar might work together; and, in a look into the future, Sylar has a child whose mother is already well known to viewers. Another eclipse will deeply affect the heroes' powers, and viewers will finally under­stand why Maya (Dania Hamirez) is a crucial character. 
One promotion for season three teas­es, "Good will battle evil. Choose a side." Tune into NBC tonight at 9 for the premiere to decide for yourself. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 
By CAITLIN FERRARO Scene Writer 
Tonight, "Heroes, Volume 3: Villains" will make a two-hour debut with reve­lations that will redefine familiar char­acters and potentially shake up the 1mtire series. 
Last season, viewers were left with the attempted assassination of Nathan Petrelli (Adrian Pasdar) as he was about to publidy announce that he, among others, had special "super" abil­ities. The premiere episode, "The Second Coming," picks up right after that tumultuous incident, answering the lingering question: Who shot Nathan? Though fans might be bom­barded with new plot twists when sea­son 3 opens, creator Tim Kring assured viewers that lingering matters from past seasons will be resolved by the second week. After a disappointing sec­ond season, audiences wait in hope that the wonder and fun of the original season will be back tonight. 
Several east members have hinted that some of the individuals we view as "heroes" could be villainous, and vice versa. This season, several characters will struggle with their identities including Peter (Milo Ventimiglia), Sylar (Zachary Quinto), and Mohinder (Sendil Ramamurthy). 
In the second hour of the premiere, "The Buttnr11y Ell'ect," a dozen villains with unimaginable power are unleashed after "the company" is attacked. The heroes are in for a dan­gerous run with these new villains, as cast members have commented that Sylar is hardly the worst of their ene­mies. While much attention will be paid to our original heroes, these twelve new figures will definitely make an impression. 
The additional characters will also have novel, incredible abilities. Expect the mysteries to continue with new per­sonalities like Flint, the German, the Speedster and puppet-master Erie Doyle. 
But have no fear, faithful "Heroes" fans -the main cast will be working together much more this season. 
The duo behind Adult Swim's hit show "Hobot Chicken," actors Seth Green and Breckin Meyer, will guest star this season. Kristen Bell ("Veronica Mars") will resume her role as Elle Bishop, and will most likely appear in 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, September 22, 2008 
page 13 
By SZYMON RYZNER 
Scene Writer 
After an award-winning year for their film "No Country for Old Men:" Joel and Ethan Coen have made their return to comedy in "Burn After Reading." The fra­ternal filmmakers have a long history in Hollywood. ranging from dark comedies to more serious projects. 
The Coen brothers have been in the business for more than two decades, but have been interested in film since their youth. Joel got his first shot in the indus­try working in film editing with director Sam Raimi on his film "Evil Dead." From there, with the help of Raimi, the Coens were able to write and direct their own first film, 1984's "Blood Simple." Like many of their future project.'>, "Blood Simple" paid homage to various past films that they enjoyed, combining horror and noir aspects. 
Their next film, 1987's "Raising Arizona," was a comedy starring Nicolas Cage and Holly Hunter. With its comedic timing and unique style, it developed the Coens' style. With outlandish characters and dark entertaining plots, "Raising Arizona" depicted a couple that so des­perate for kids that they kidnapped one. 
The pair's filmmaking careers contin­ued with 1990's "Millers Crossing," a gang-oriented noir. The duo followed that project with 1991's "Barton Fink,'' the 
How do you fit the Coen brothers into a definitive genre? . 
Are their films merely dark satires interjected with a rush of nail-biting sus­pense, or gritty shoek-and-awe thrillers that leave audiences laughing one moment and gasping in shock the next? It seems a grave injustice to even try and fit the Coen brothers' films into a genre, for their work is unlike anything else in the film industry. 
As they have proven time and time again, from the opening scene in "Blood Simple," all the way to the closing moments of "No Country for Old Men," the Coens transcend Hollywood. Their newest film, "Burn After Reading," a return to their Fargo-like brand of cruel, dark humor with ever-elevating momen­tum is no different. 
The question is: is "Burn After 
Burn After Reading Directed and Written by: Joel and Ethan Coen 
brothers' ode to writer's block. ln "Barton Fink," they further mastered their sense of the bizarre with a brilliant, character­driven storyline chock full of symbolism and allusions to such films as "The Shining" and "Eraserhead." 
The brothers are well known for their classic 1996 film. "Fargo." "Fargo" was a crime thriller with dark comedic ele­ments mostly set in Brainerd, Minn. With · characters ranging from stupid goons to desperate car salesmen, the Coens were once again merciless to the characters they created and effectively created a memorable plot built on their various failures. With "Fargo," the Coens proved themselves to the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Collectively the duo received seven Academy Award nominations that year, and the film came home with two Oscars. 
"Fargo" was followed in turn by their most popular comedy, "The Big Lebowski." The story of "The Dude" and his escapades has entertained audiences since the film's release in 1998, earning a permanent place within cult filmdom. 
More recently, the Coens released "0 Brother, Where Art Thou?" a bluegrass­tinged comedy loosely based on the clas­sic Greek myth "The Odyssey," 2003's ''Intolerable Cruelty," a romantic comedy, and "The Ladykillers,'' a remake of a 1955 film. Their most recent success was 2007's "No Country for Old Men," an epic 
as a a thriller veiled as a comedy? 
To say that "Burn After Reading" fea­tures big-name aetors is a vast under­statement. It is in faet a huge A-list vehi­cle starring the likes of George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Tilda Swinton, Coen brothers favorite Frances McDormand, J.K. Simmons and John Malkovic. The plot, which is meticulously crafted, starts when ex-CIA agent Osborne Cox (John Malkovich) loses a CD containing his memoirs. 
Two dimwitted, over-the-top gym employees (Frances McDormand and Brad Pitt) wind up finding the CD and blackmailing Cox tor it. To make matters worse for Cox, his wife (Tilda Swinton) is having an affair with sex-addict Harry Pfarrer (George Clooney). 
From there the film progresses in such a brilliantly inauspicious way, with dark humor painting the corners while the characters' paths cross and double-cross each other, allowing the film to twist and turn in such a way that it is intricate and engaging, yet understandable to mass audiences. 
"Burn After Reading" appears to be the Coen brothers' most commercial project, which seems prudent following the mas­sive success of their last film, "No Country for Old Men." It features a well­measured mix of satire, cringe-worthy violence (a Coen trademark) and a plot­line that allows for an edge-of-your-seat 
adaptation of Cormac McCarthy's novel of the same name. The film three Academy Awards and cemented the brothers' place in the history of American film. 
The brothers are known as much for their techniques as· they are for their films. Examples of such trademark stylis~ tie elements include similar casting choic­es, strong dialogue, and a fond apprecia­tion for old films. Many of their films star the same actors, including Francis McDormand, Steve Buscemi, John Turturro, John Goodman and George Clooney. The characters in their films are also usually strange or off-kilter, either in their mannerisms or speech. The Coens also have a tendency to set their projects during time periods in which the charac­ters are facing extraordinary crises. The wit and banter they write for their char­acters is often quoted and cited, and their character work is some of the best in the fllm industry. 
The Coens have successfully made a wide range of films while dabbling in a variety of genres. With several new films planned for the future, including an adaptation of Michael Chabon's novel "The Yiddish Policemen's Union," fans of film can look forward to many more "Dudes" and Anton Chigurhs on the big screen. 
Contact Szymon Ryzner at sryzner@nd.edu 
portantly, seem to be genuinely enjoying the selves, which is a breath of fresh air today's film industry. lt also doesn't hurt that tliC entire cast hits the ball of the park, especially John and J.K. Simmons, who regrettably didn't get enough on-screen time. 
Although entertaining and well made "Burn After Reading" is by no means the upper echelon of the Coens' works It's no "No Country for Old Men," should the two films be compared to other. The reason being that "Burn Reading" is, in its purest form, a hearted movie with a darkness hidden beneath its surface, while "No Country" and the Cocos' similar movies are dark films with only a hint of daylight hidden beneath the surface. The film is better compared with "The Big Lebowski" or "Fargo," not measuring up to either. Only because it's the Coens and not some run of~the-mill Hollywood director does "Burn After Reading" not shine as a truly great film. Following up one of the est films in recent history is no and while the Coens certainly don't pure cinematic gold for the third time the celebrated careers, they do, make for a 97 -minute roller coaster of a movie that most definitely is the price of admission. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 22, 2008 
NFL 

Dolphins snap Pats' regular season win streak 
Defense leads Eagles to injury-filled win over Steelers; Browns' Anderson struggles in loss to Ravens 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGH, Mass. -Fans booed the Patriots. Many left early. The record winning streak of their favorite team was ending with a stunning domination by the lowly Dolphins. 
Ronnie Brown scored a team­record four touchdowns rushing and threw for another -with four of the scores coming on direct snaps to the running back -as Miami shocked New England 38-13 Sunday. 
"It's brutal, man, brutal," Patriot<; defensive end Ty Warren said. 
The loss ended the Patriots' NFL mark of 21 straight regular­season wins that began after a 21-0 loss to the Dolphins on Dec. 10, 2006, in which Tom Brady, now sidelined for the season with a knee injury, was sacked four times. It also ended New England's chance for a second straight unbeaten regular season. 
The Dolphins, who lost their first 13 games last year and fin­ished 1-15, won for just the sec­ond time in 22 games. It was the first victory for new coach Tony Sparano, and it was a stunner. 
"That was fun. It was obviously a pretty emotional deal," he said. "They executed the game plan on both sides of the ball to perfec­tion." 
The Patriots kept getting fooled by the same trickery: six direct snaps resulting in four touch­downs after the Dolphins didn't use the play in their other two games. 
"When they get settled, they're pretty fundamentally sound as a defense," said Brown, who scored on runs of 2, 15, 5 and 62 yards. "So we wanted to give them something to adjust to." 
The Patriots never did. 
"I don't know why in the world we couldn't stop that play. They just came in and beat our butts," safety Rodney Harrison said. "You've got a bitter taste in your mouth. The only way to get rid of that bitterness is to come in and work hard. You get bitter and you get better." 

The Patriots didn't have Brady to lead a winning comeback as he's done 28 times in the fourth quarter. They had to rely on Matt Cassel and an offense missing running back Laurence Maroney to a shoulder injury, and that was far from enough. 
Brown gained 113 yards on 17 carries and the Dolphins out­gained the Patriots 461 yards to 216 in both teams' last game before their bye week. 
Miami's Chad Pennington went 17 -for-20 for 226 yards. Cassel completed 19 of 31 passes for 131 yards with one touchdown, one interception and a lost fum­ble. 
"We have to go out and regroup," Cassel said. "It is a learning situation for me playing from behind." 
Both New England (2-1) and Miami (1-2) have changed dra­matically since last season. 
Brady was lost for the year in the first quarter of the opener, and Cassel made his first start since high school in a 19-10 win at the New York Jets. Pennington is one of 27 Dolphins who were not on the team at the end of last season. 
After the Dolphins punted on their first series, the former Jets quarterback led them on drives of 74, 79 and 77 yards, ending in Brown's first three touchdowns. The Patriots managed just two field goals by Stephen Gostkowski, covering 37 and 44 yards, and trailed 21-6 at half­time. 
The Patriots got tricked again when Brown took another snap, rolled out and threw a left-hand-

AP Steelers quarterback Ben Roethllsberger Is sacked by Eagles defensive end Trent Cole in the first half of Philadelphia's 1&6 win. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

ed pass to Anthony Fasano for a 
19-yard touchdown as Miami 
opened a 28-6 bulge in the third 
quarter. 

"You should have seen his last 
pass in practice," Pennington 
said with a smile. "It wasn't very 
pretty." 

The Patriots' play was down­right ugly. 
"Believe me," coach Bill Belichick said of Brown's pass, "there were a lot of other prob­lems besides that." 
Cassel then threw his first touchdown pass of the year in 11 quarters of play when he con­nected with Jabar Gaffney for 4 yards. 
The Dolphins got that back with a big, and familiar, play: a direct snap that Brown carried 62 yards to the final touchdown. 
Eagles 15, Steelers 6 

Ben Roethlisberger had a bandage on his throwing hand and winced while dressing. Considering he was persistently chased, battered and stomped by the Philadelphia Eagles, the dam­age could've been worse. 
With Brian Westbrook sidelined and Donovan McNabb hurting, the Eagles did it with defense. 
A swarming D had nine sacks, forced a safety and got three turnovers, and Philadelphia beat ing hand on the last sack and the big plays by the defense. 
the Pittsburgh Steelers Sunday. 
was replaced by Byron Leftwich Anderson had another trying"We can't thank them enough when the Steelers got the ball day in an effort to generate somefor how they played," running with just over 2 minutes left. offense for Cleveland, which was
back Correll Buckhalter said. 
Coach Mike Tomlin said X-rays picked by many to be a contender"They bailed us out." 
on Roethlisberger's hand were in the AFC North. Anderson wentJust six days earlier, Philly's negative and he's expected to 14-for-37 for 125 yards, wasdefense couldn't stop anybody. 
play next week. sacked five times and threwThe Dallas Cowboys moved the "You've got to give it to them," three interceptions. 
ball at will in a 41-37 victory last Roethlisberger said. "They are a "We didn't execute and prettyMonday. 
very good team. They got after much gave them 14 points offBut this unit was rejuvenated 
us." turnovers," he said. ''I'm justagainst the Steelers (2-1). 
frustrated. I expect more out ofRoethlisberger had no time to Ravens 28, Browns 10 myself."

throw and Willie Parker couldn't The Baltimore Ravens were The Browns (0-3) have scored
find any room to run. Juqua 
struggling to score, and then only two touchdowns in their
Parker had 2 sacks as the Eagles Derek Anderson came to the res­three defeats. The last team to
kept blitzing Roethlisberger, 
cue. reach the playoffs after losing its banged him around and eventu­Unfortunately for the Cleveland first three games was the 1998
ally knocked him out of the 
Browns, Anderson is their quar­Buffalo Bills. 
game. 

terback. "I don't know whether we're"Defensively, it was a phenome­Baltimore turned two of trying to live on the success wenal job," coach Andy Reid said. 
Anderson's interceptions into a had last year, but it's not work­"They were coming off a game pair of touchdowns during a 50-ing," coach Romeo Crennel said.
they were disappointed in their second span of the third quarter, "So we're going to have to do aperformance. To rebound like and the Ravens further damaged lot better, or this thing is really · that, I'm proud of them." 
an already agonizing season for going to get away from us."
Clinging to a 10-6 lead, the the Browns with a victory Back from a knee injury, WillisEagles pinned Pittsburgh at the 6 Sunday. McGahee rushed for 64 yardsfollowing a 54-yard punt by Sav Ed Reed returned one of the and a touchdown for the Ravens,Rocca. Three plays later, 
interceptions 32 yards for a who were forced to take last
Roethlisberger was under heavy score, and Le'Ron McClain scored week off when Hurricane Ike pressure when he threw the ball his first two NFL touchdowns on postponed their game ataway in the end zone for a safety. 
a pair of 1-yard runs-both dur­Houston.
On Pittsburgh's next posses­ing a 21-point third quarter that Maybe it was the layoff, butsion, Brian Dawkins made a fly­enabled Baltimore (2-0) to turn a Baltimore looked sluggish ining sack, swatting the ball out of 10-7 halftime deficit into an 18-falling behind 10-7 at halftime.
Roethlisberger's hand and recov­point lead. But the Ravens took the lead forering at the Steelers 18. David "I knew it was just a question good by taking advantage of aAkers kicked a 31-yard field goal of when," said Baltimore line­turnover on the Browns' firstto ice it. 
backer Terrell Suggs, referring to possession of the third quarter. 
Roethlisberger hurt his throw-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Home Game Rentals. If you or someone you care about Beautiful, Private apartments. has been sexually assaulted, visit WANTED FoR SALE Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of TICKETS PERSONAL http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/csap amenities. Only 4 miles from I STUDENT WORK, CONDO FOR SALE. Campus. $500 thurs-sun. Call Wanted: ND football ti~ for family. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Joyce @574-339·9241. 57 4-251·1570. not go it alone. We have many Spring Break 2009. 
$14.25 base-appt., flexible sched· CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CON· resources in place to assist you. If ules, no experience needed, cus-TACTTED@ 574·233-6191 HOUSES FOR LEASE VICTORY TICKETS you or someone you love needs Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. tomer sales/service, conditions confidential support or assistance, Call for Group Discounts. Best apply, ages 1 8+, MSL#231736 09·10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2·10 Buy-Sell ND football tickets. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1·7819 Prices Guaranteed! Best Parties! 
BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT www.victorytickets.com. 574·232· or Ann Firth at 1·2685. For more Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, 574-273·3835, KRAMER PROPERTIES 0964. information, visit NDs Pregnancy Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. FoR RENT Resources website at: Information/Reservations 574·234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS· Need Purdue tix & parking pass. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· 1·800·648-4849 or www.workforstudents.com House near ND. 574-310-3663. ES.COM 574-276·8507. nant.shtml www.ststravel.com 




OUND THE NATION 
-~-----l 
. 
Monday, September 22, 2008 CoMrrLFD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 
NCAA Football APTop25 

team points record 
1 usc (61) 1,621 2·0 2 Oklahoma 1,484 3·0 3 Georgia (2) 1,475 4·0 4 Florida (1) 1,442 3·0 5 .lSU 1,363 3·0 6 Missouri 1,360 4·0 7 Texas 1,174 3·0 8 Alabama 1,132 4·0 9 Wisconsin 1,091 3·0 10 Texas Tech 962 4·0 11 Brigham Young 919 4·0 12 Penn Stale 891 4·0 13 South Florida 798 4·0 
.

14 Ohio State 790 3·1 15 Auburn 785 3·1 16 Wake Forest 711 3·0 17 Utah 574 4·0 18 Kansas 555 3·1 19 Boise State 363 3·0 20 Clemson 300 3·1 21 Vanderbilt 242 4·0 22 Illinois 224 2·1 23 East Carolina 201 3·1 24 TCU 117 4-o· 25 Fresno State 105 2·1 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches' Poll 

team points record 
1 USC(56) 1,517 2·0 2 Oklahoma (2) 1,424 3-0 3 Georgia (2) 1,388 4-0 3 Florida (1) 1,345 3-0 5 Missouri 1,284 4-0 6 lSU 1,247 3·0 7 Texas 1,143 3-0 8 Wisconsin 1,041 3-0 9 Texas Tech 944 4·0 
Associated Press before coming out for a cur­A loss would have officially before New York moves next 
10 Alabama 839 4-0 
tain call. When the game ended New York's run of 13 year into a $1.3 billion 
11 Brigham Young 931 4·0 
NEW YORK -After all was over, he walked to the straight playoff appear­palace rising across the 
12 Penn State 818 4·0 
those championships in this mound and addressed the ances, and a Boston win street.
13 Ohio State 744 3·1 
celebrated place, all those crowd while surrounded by Monday night against So it ended as it should
13 South florida 721 4·0 
unforgettable moments, the his teammates. Oeveland would still do the have, after the Babe opened 
..

15 Wake.Forest 678 3-0 
New York Yankees weren't "We just want to take this trick. But on a beautiful the ballpark on April 18,
16 Auburn 650 3-1 
about to be knocked out of moment to salute you, the Bronx night dripping with 1923, with a home run in a
17 Utah 528 4-0 
the playoff race on a night greatest fans in the world," history and nostalgia, the 4-1 victory over the Red Sox
18 Kansas 506 3-1 
Jeter said. Yankees refused to ruin the that sent the Yankees onlike this. 
19 Clemson 378 3-1 
Mariano Rivera finished Then the Yankees took a grand festivities. their way to the first of a
20 Boise State 265 3-0 
what Babe Ruth started 85 lap around the field, waving Johnny Damon and Jose record 26 World Series
21 Illinois 233 2-1 
21 Oregon 114 3-1 
years ago, and New York bid their caps to the fans as Molina homered to back championships. 
farewell to fabled Yankee Frank Sinatra's "New York, Andy Pettitte (14-14), a fit­New York finished 4,133­24 Fresno State 117 2-1 
23 TCU 151 4-0 
Stadium with a 7-3 victory New York" blared over the ting winner after he helped 2,430-17 at Yankee over Baltimore on Sunday sound system one last time pitch New York to four Stadium, originally built in night that prevented post­in this park. World Series titles and six 284 days for $2.5 million. It season elimination -at Security officers got busy, AL pennants from 1996-was the first sports venue to least for a day. too, with police on horse­2003.• be called a stadium, the 
Derek Jeter was pulled back lining the field to make Joba Chamberlain worked team noted. 
25 Vanderbilt 103 4-0 
MIAA Women's 

with two outs in the ninth sure treasured artifacts did­1 2-3 hitless innings and "I feel like I'm losing an inning and jogged off the n't start disappearing before Rivera closed out the final old friend," Reggie Jackson
Volleyball Standings 

field to a raucous cheer the ballpark does. regular-season home game said. ''I'm glad I was here." 
Team Record 

league overall 
IN BRIEF 

1 Hope 6-0 11-3 2 Calvin 3-1 9-3 
Sharks center breaks X-rays n~g_ative on Hamilton hopes to ~et 
leg, out for two months Westbrook, MRI to follow Belgian victory reinstafed 4 Adrian 2-2 6·6 
3 Alma 4-1 12·5 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Sharks center PHILADELPHIA -Eagles running PARIS -Lewis Hamilton hopes to 5 SAINT MARY'S 2-2 8·5 
Torrey Mitchell will be out at ieast two back Brian Westbrook strained his get his Belgian Grand Prix victory
6 Albion 2-3 . 9-7 
months after breaking his left leg Sunday ankle in Philadelphia's 15-6 win over reinstated when he appears before a
7 Kalamazoo 2-4 5-11 
during the second practice of San Jose's Pittsburgh on Sunday and will have FIA appeals court Monday. 
8 Trine 1-4 4-9 
training camp. an MHI on Monday. The hearing at governing body
9 Olivet 0-5 3-11 
Mitchell, who had 10 goals and 10 Eagles coach Andy Reid said X-rays headquarters in Paris was sparked by assists as a rookie last season, broke on the ankle were negative but the McLaren's decision to appeal the both major bones in his lower leg when team would do more tests. Formula One leader's 25-second time he crashed into the post while driving to Westbrook did not speak with penalty, given when the British driver the net during a scrimmage. He was reporters but was on crutches in the was judged to have gained an advan­scheduled to undergo surgery Sunday locker room after the game. tage by cutting a chicane on his way
around the dial 
night. Westbrook appeared to get hurt to the victory at Spa this month. 
San Jose doesn't expect Mitchell to while hurdling a teammate on a 2-The victory went to Hamilton's return to the ice until mid-November at yard run early in the second period. main championship rival Felipe the earliest, keeping him out for at least He limped off the field and was Massa of Ferrari and narrowed the the first five weeks of the regular season. attended to on the sideline before championship gap to two points.
NFL 

Mitchell was expected to center the walking to the locker room. He did not Hamilton's lead over Massa was Sharks' third line this season. but his return. down to one after last week's Italian
New York Jets at San Diego 

injury will open a roster spot for the The Eagles scored on the posses­GP
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

defending Pacific Division champions. sion, with backup running back McLaren bosses were expected to Former San Jose forward Jeff Friesen is Correll Buckhalter hurdling a defend­join Hamilton, who flies to Singapore competing for a jo8 alongside several er to get into the end zone after taking for F1 's first ever night race on prospects. a pass from Donovan McNabb. Tuesday. 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 22, 2008 
RYDER CUP 

Americans win first Ryder cup since 1999 
Anthony Kim shoots a 30 on the front nine, Weekley makes five birdies and an eagle, Mahan sinks 60-foot birdie putt 
the Hyder-Cup with a 16?-11? over Miguel Angel Jimenez "They just took an every­ed in European blue.
Associated Press 

victory, their biggest margin gave the Americans the final thing-to-gain attitude into this It was the largest margin of 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Boo over Europe in 27 years. point they needed. "I had a competition," Azinger said. victory for the Americans since Weekley traded his beloved This Ryder Cup was all about pretty rotten look on my face "And I couldn't be happier." 1981. beer for champagne, filling role reversal. during this press conference. This truly was a team effort. Despi_te his misfit collection of flutes for fans who turned the It was the Americans who And now, I'm pretty damn Kim set the tone with a 30 on stars -from the baekwoods familiar European chant "Ole, played as a team, with Azinger happy." the front nine that demoralized Weekley to the street-smart Ole, Ole, Ole" into "No way, no splitting them into three pods of Perry, the 48-year-old native Garcia. Weekley galloped off Kim -perhaps no one made a way." personalities and keeping them son who dreamed of playing a the first tee using his driver as greater impact on the U.S. vic­
Phil Mickelson draped an together from the time they Ryder Cup before a Bluegrass a toy horse, drawing laughter tory than Azinger. American llag over his shoul­arrived at Valhalla. crowd, delivered a 3-and-2 vic­for his antics and cheers for his It was his idea to overhaul ders as he sauntered up the The biggest putts belonged to tory that was part of an early five birdies and an eagle he the qualifying system, which he 18th fairway. U.S. captain Paul the Americans, whether it was push that swung momentum holed from the bunker. felt was keeping the Americans Azinger sprinted up the stairs Hunter Mahan making one toward the U.S. team. Mahan, who criticized the from fielding their best team. to the clubhouse balcony at from 60 feet across the 17th "I figured this was going to Hyder Cup earlier this year as a He also doubled his captain's Valhalla, grabbed the biggest green or Kentucky native define my career," he said. "But money-making machine, was picks, and those four players bottle of bubbly he could lind Kenny Perry making just about you know what? It made my the only player to go all five produced one-third of the 
~ and joined a party that plays everything in the defining career." matches without losing at points. out every two years at. the moment of his career. J.B. Holmes, legendary in Valhalla. His match was the And those six U.S. rookies? Hyder Cup. They even found someone to these parts for making his high only one to reach the 18th They went 9-4-8. Finally, it was the Americans' get under Sergio Garcia's skin school team in tiny green, all because of a 60-foot "I poured my heart and soul turn to celnbrate. -Anthony Kim, who refused to Campbellsville as a third-grad­birdie putt from Mahan that into this for two years," Azinger "I never tried to think about concede anything, revved up er, showed off his awesome slammed into the back of the said, his voice cracking. "The what the outcomn might be, the crowd and handed Europe's power with two final birdies cup on the 17th hole. players poured their heart and and I started to dream about it best Ryder Cup player his that set up the Americans for He wound up with a halve soul into this for one week. a little bit today, thinking this biggest loss. victory. against Paul Casey, and a new They desArved it. I couldn't be could actually happen," Azinger The biggest change of all? For all the birdies and spec­appreciation for thi~ event. happier." said with the shiny gold frophy Those were Americans hud­tacular shots over three inspi­"It's an incredible, incredible European captain Nick Faldo at his side. "It just feels great to dled around Azinger on the rational days at Valhalla, the experience," said Mahan, who won't get on· that easy. have it baek on our soil.~ stage at closing ceremonies, Ryder Cup ended with hand­went 2-0-3 and tied a U.S. . The British press blistnred Tho Americans didn't need a stretching to touch that 17 -inch shake. record for most points as a cap­him for benehing Garcia and mirade putt or an amazing ehalice. Jimenez conceded a short par tain's pick. "I wish every golfer Westwood -the most suceess­comeback like tlwir last victory "Their team was more of a putt, giving Furyk a 2-and-1 could experience this, because ful European tandem -on in 1999. European team," Padraig victory and the Americans the 'it's amazing." Saturday, the flrst time either They didn't even need Tfger Harrington said. 14? points they needed to show Ben Curtis and Chad of them had ever missed a Woods. They sure got a European they can win on golf's biggest Campbell, the final player match in the Hyder Cup. Even Strong as a team. equally result. stage -and without Woods, picked for this U.S. team, won more peeuliar was putting mighty on their own, they rode "I've been on the other side out for the year with a knee the final two matches against three of his strongest players at the emotion of a nag-waving wiHm they made the winning surgery but staying involved by Lee Westwood and Harrington the bottom of the lineup -Ian erowd and their Kentucky putt and it's no fun" said Jim text messaging Azinger for a lopsided score that for the Poulter, Westwood and herons on Sunday to take back Furyk, whose 2-and-1 victory throughout the final day. last three years had been post-Harrington. 

Welcome to 21st century student apartm_ents. 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME 
Brand new, contemporary, furnished apartments now leasing for Fall 2009. 
• 
Two bedrooms 


• 
Private, full bath in each bedroom 

• 
Furnished 


• 
Includes 42" flat panel HDTV 

• 
Laundry room with washer & dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 

• 
Walk to campus 




lti_shRo\iVApartments.com 574.277.6666. 
. . ······. 

·· Justeattof Btirdattsfill Variess.·Ju$t·noru-, 6f Between the Buns Restaurant 
luxury apartments
IIIrish 

ROW NOW LEASING FOR FALL 2009 
Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Tuesday, Sept. 23 through Friday, Sept. 26 at 7:30 and Sunday, Sept. 28 at 2:30 
The Univer,:sity of Notre Dame Department of Film, Television, and Theatre presents for the 2008-2009 Theatre Season 
-~ 

DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Philbin Studio Theatre 
$12 General Public • $10 Faculty, Staff, and Seniors • $5 Students 
For tickets, call the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Ticket Office ~UNIVERSITY OF ~NOTRE DAME

Did you see us at the Career Fair? What did you think? 




NFL 
'Boys reveal'secret weapon' in victory 
Seldom-used receiver Miles catches TD pass 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -On an uncharacteristically quiet night for Terrell Owens, the Dallas Cowboys leaned on their defense and running game -then unleashed little-known wide receiver Miles Austin to put away a 27-16 victory over the Green Bay Packers on Sunday night. 
Marion Barber ran for a career-high 142 yards and a touchdown, and rookie Felix Jones added a 60-yard touch­down run in the second quarter. Austin, a backup who plays mostly on special teams, sealed the win with a 52-yard touch­down reception in the fourth quarter. 
"Just taking advantage of the double-teams on T.O. and (Jason) Witten," Austin said. "It's an advantage to me to have them on the team because they're going to take a lot of the pressure off me. I'm just going in there and trying to make plays when I can, and I'm fortunate enough that the coaches have trust in me, and the quarterback trusts me to give me the ball." 
Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo, who grew up in Burlington, Wis., was 17 -of-30 for 260 yards and Owens was held to two catches for 17 yards as Dallas (3-0) joined the reign­ing Super Bowl champion New York Giants as the NFC's only undefeated teams. 
"He played great," Romo said of Austin. "He did a great job, and we're excited to have him." 
It was the Cowboys' first win at Lambeau Field, and it came with former Packers stars such as Bart Starr and Paul Hornung watching from the sidelines. It also was a bump in the road for new Packers starter Aaron Rodgers, who completed 22 of 39 passes for 290 yards. However, he wasn't able to put together consistent scoring drives against Dallas' defense after standout performances in his first two games this season. 
"The Dallas Cowboys are far­ther ahead than we are right now, and that's the facts," Packers coach Mike McCarthy said. 
Rodgers scored on a sneak to cut Dallas' lead to 27-16 with 
2:11 remaining, but the ensuing onside kick was touched by the Packers before it traveled 10 yards and the Cowboys got the ball back_ 
Green Bay (2-1) trailed 13-6 at halftime, but Rodgers connected with Donald Driver on a 50-yard pass early in the third quarter that set up a field goal to cut Dallas' lead to four. 
Romo answered with a 63-yard pass to Austin to set up first-and­goal at the Green Bay 3. Barber found the end zone two plays later for a 2-yard touchdown run that put Dallas ahead 20-9. 
Romo again turned to Austin to put the game out of reach in the fourth quarter, tossing a 52-yard touchdown into double coverage down the right sideline to give Dallas a 27-9 lead with 9:17 remaining. 
The long passes to Austin were two of the Cowboys' few down­field plays all night. The Packers held Romo to nine completions for 75 yards at halftime. Owens caught two passes in the first half, then was silenced in the second. 
Packers cornerback Charles Woodson stuck to Owens all night, with significant help from the safeties. The Packers' pass defense played most of the game without star cornerback Al Harris, who went to the locker room with cramps just before halftime. 
But with Green Bay's defensive backfield preoccupied by Owens, Dallas got consistent production from Barber and a big play from Jones. 
With the Cowboys trailing 6-3 midway through the second quarter, Jones broke free for a 60-yard touchdown run that gave Dallas a 10-6lead. 
The Cowboys had a chance to add to their lead just before half­time, but Romo was sacked on a second-and-4 play at the Packers 5-yard line and had to settle for a field goal. 
Romo had another misstep in the red zone in the first quarter, throwing an interception in the end zone to safety Nick Collins. Collins ran the ball back 61 yards, setting up Mason Crosby's field goal that put the Packers ahead 6-3 early in the second quarter. 
Cowboys cornerback Adam Jones started the game with a big play, stripping the ball from running back Ryan Grant on the Packers' second play from scrim­mage and returning it to the Green Bay 14-yard line. That set up the Cowboys' first field goal. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 22, 2008 
NFL 

Scobee's field goal lifts· Jaguars over Colts 
355 South Willowbrook Road • Suite D • Coldwater. M/ 49036 (Next to Walmari/Radio Shack) Open: Monday-Friday 10am to 7pm -Saturday lOam to 4pm (517) 278-4655 
any postgame party. The victory allowed Jacksonville (1-2) to avoid the franchise's first 0-3 start in five years and get out of what would have been a huge hole against the five-time AFC South champs. 
Instead of being two games behind Indy, they've drawn even with the Colts (1-2) and now hold the first chip in the tiebreaker. 
But it took far more than Scobee to shrug off their biggest nemesis. 
David Garrard impressively evaded the Colts' pass rush to buy more time and find receivers during the final 67 seconds. 
The powerful running tandem of Maurice Jones-Drew and Fred Taylor, who each topped 100 yards despite being nicked up with minor injuries, got the offense out of neutral for the first time this season. Jacksonville had the ball for more than 41 minutes. 
Unknown fullback Montell Owens just happened to be in the right place at the right time when Garrard's pass appeared to be tipped and fluttered toward midfield. Somehow Owens cradled it in his arms for a 10-yard gain and a first down. 
And, of course, there was Scobee. 
"That thing was drilled," Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio said. "It would have been good from 65 yards." 
Scobee disagreed, noting he had the distance but was a little 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Josh Scobee savored evnry part of Sunday's victory celebration. 
Evnn the wrnstling match with the ball boy. 
Scobee, who produced Jacksonville's only other win in Indianapolis with a 53-yard lield goal in 2004, did it again Sunday by making a 51-yarder with 4 seconds left to bnat the dreaded Colts 23-21. And this time, he took the ball. 

"My holder went to give me a high-five and I took off run­ning," said Scobee, who left the ball from his other winning kick in the Indianapolis locker room and never got it back. "I tried to get the ball from the ball boy and he didn't recognize me. lie wouldn't let go of it, so I had to rip it away from him." 
Just like he snatched a second straight comeback out of the Colts' grasp. 
The ramifications of Scobee's kick may last far longer than concerned it may not stay inside the right upright. 

''I'll take 51, that's good enough," he said. "It's too close to the pole to be kicking it from any further." 
Still, it didn't appear Jacksonville would need Scobee's long kick to win it after a marathon drive that con­sumed more than 12 minutes to 
Taylor carried 26 times for 121 yards, while Jones-Drew ran 19 times for 1 07 yards and one score and caught four pass­es for 59 yards. In all, the Jaguars ran for 236 yards and kept the ball for more than 41 minutes. 
Manning was 15-of-29 for 216 yards with one TO and two 
interceptions, 
and the Colts 

open the fourth quarter. But as the  "/ kept telling them, 'Just believe.' I told  ran only 48 p l a y s . Jacksonville had  
Jaguars know all  the offensive line to  48 carries, the  
too well, minutes is eternity  two an for  get them offmy back."  second-most in franchise histo­ry.  
Peyton Manning,  "We had plen­ 
who  nearly  David Garrard  ty or chances to  
staged his second straight improba­ Jaguars quarterback  stop them, on that drive and  
ble  comeback.  on drives before  

The two-time league MVP ran that," Colts coach Tony Dungy his first play of the fourth quar­said. "Their guys make guys ter with less than 2:30 to go, miss, and they made us miss and in 86 seconds, he had given today." the Colts a 21~20 lead when The Colts looked like they Joseph Addai scored on a 2-would finally get back in sync yard run. when Manning opennd the game 
Garrard followed that with his with a 4-yard TO pass to Marvin impersonation of Manning, get­Harrison. It was Harrison's first ting an assist from an 11-yard score in more than 12 months. pass interference call when a But Jacksonville rallied with fourth-and-1 throw fell incom­Hashean Mathis' 61-yard inter­plete with 25 seconds to go. ception return for a score, an 
"On the sideline, I said, 'This incredible 34-yard run by Taylor is our time now,"' Garrard said. to set up Jones-Drew's 6-yard "Just believe. I kept telling TD run and, of course, the win­them, 'Just believe.' I told the ning kick. offensive line to get them ofl' my "I had no doubt Scobee had back." the leg for it," Garrard said. 
Jacksonville won thi.s one the "There was a lot of energy in old-fashioned way. that kick." 
Uganda In ormation Session • Interested in Africa? .•. .. ,. . .-~ • Interested in challenges and issues of developing nations? M t~ Interested in Sub-Saharan Post Fort.fortal Conflict Transformation? " Kampal , f Ent Don't miss this study abroad Mbarara opportunity through the School for* International Training (SIT)! Information Session: Semester and Summer Options. Wednesday, September 24, 2008 Room 217 DeBartolo 5:30PM APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ALL SESSIONS IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008  

Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Top teams meet in Calvin for Invite 
McClowry' s personal best leads the Belles 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's ran a tough race this weekend at the Calvin Invitational, finishing ninth amongst a strong field of competitors. 
The Belles were up against three of the top teams in Div. III according to the USTFCC­CA polls: No. 2 Calvin, No. 10 Case Western and No. 20 University of Wisconsin­Oshkosh. 
The field also included sev­eral teams that are ranked nationally in Div. II including No. 3 Grand Valley State, No. 6 Ohio Northern and No. 8 Baldwin Wallace.. 
"It was a 
pretty more
"One ofour goals this 
stacked race McVey also 
with some year is to improve upon finished with ranked Div, our finish in the times of 
III teams," 21:09, and
conference.''

Belles coach 21:16 for the Jackie Belles. Bauters said. Megan McCiowry "One of our "It's not nec­Belles junior goals for the 
essarily about seeing the team place well so much as seeing them work on the things we've been talking about and hopefully with the caliber of the meet, have some really great times." 
The Belles traveled in packs on Saturday with their top five runners all finishing within 35 seconds of each other. 
Junior Megan McClowry led the Belles to the finish line once again this season with a time of 20:22 -a season best for McClowry. 
"The difference for me this season is due to summer training," she said. "I was able to come in with a good base and then my teammates have helped push the pace at workouts this season." 


McClowry has been the front runner in each of the races the Belles have compet­ed in this season. 
Freshman Joanne Almond and sophomore Catie Salyer finished within a second of each other with times of 20:29, and 20:30 respectively. 
Senior co-captain Cailtin Brodmerkel was close behind that pair by running her own personal best time of 20:32. Fellow senior Erin Seidelmann also set a person­al record and finished with a time of 22:59. 
Freshman Arianne Rodriguez rounded out the top five runners for the Belles with a time of 20:57. 
Freshman 
Hanna Vicary 
and sopho­
Clare 
team this 
year is to 
improve 

upon our fin­ish in the conference," McClowry said. "Last year we got fourth place, which was the highest place we had got­ten, and we hope to better our place this year. One of my goals, along with some of the other girls is to consis­tently break the 20 minute barrier in the 5k." 
While McClowy and her teammates did not break the 20 minute barrier in this race they will be hosting the MIAA Jamboree this coming week­end on Saint Mary's campus. The men's race will begin at 5 p.m., with the women's race beginning at 6 p.m. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaOl@saintmarys.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish lose in finals of tournatnent 
Team beats Liberty, UC Irvine at home 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 

The Irish took down Liberty 
and UC Irvine before falling 
just short against Western 
Michigan this weekend at the 
Golden Dome Invitational. 

Junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin led the Irish (5-7) with 40 kills on the weekend. Against Liberty, the Louisville native posted a · .733 hitting percentage, lOth­highest in Notre Dame histo­
ry. 

"Kaelin was outstanding the 
first two matches, for sure," 
Notre Dame coach Debbie 
Brown said. "She carried a 
huge offensive load for us, 
and she's one of those players 
who wants the ball every 
time. She's aggressive and 
mixes up her shots." 

Kaelin said it was just a 
matter of fundamentals. 

"I was really working on 
keeping the ball in front of 
me and taking nice, high, 
aggressive swings," she said. 

Friday night against the 
Cairo Information Session 
Flames (9-4). the Irish put in a dominating performance, winning 25-10, 25-20, and 25-17. Notre Dame played a nearly flawless offensive game, committing only one hitting error the entire match. The Irish were almost equally as dominant on the defensive side, holding Liberty to a .090 hitting per­centage. Chelaine McCarty led the Flames with 11 kills. 
The next night, UC-Irvine (5-8) put up a better fight, but the Irish again prevailed, and once again it was Kaelin leading the way. 
The all-tournament team honoree posted a match-high 17 kills against the Anteaters, good for a .533 hitting per­centage. 
In a match Notre Dame won 25-22, 25-23, 25-23, UC­Irvine certainly staged their fair share of rallies, forcing 31 ties and 11 lead changes. The second set was even tied 23-23 before a pair of Anteater errors swung the match in favor of the Irish. 
After two convincing wins, the Irish looked to complete the weekend sweep against Western Michigan. They got off to a good start, winning 
~ Study Arabic, Middle East Politics, Egyptology, Business, Science, Engineering, and more in the heart of the Arabic world 
~ Academic year and semester options 
~ Study at the American University in Cairo 
~ Make contacts in the modern capital of the Middle East 
~ Experience modern life in the desert 
Tuesday, Sept. 23 5:30PM 231 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2008 

the first two sets 25-16 and 25-17. 
Something happened after the second set, though, and the Broncos came out firing in the third. After falling behind 8-4, Western Michigan ripped off a 15-3 run to stake a 19-11 lead that they never relinquished, taking the set 25-16. 
The Irish appeared to right the ship when they claimed a 7-3 lead in the fourth set, but again the Broncos rallied to claim a 11-10 lead. Notre Dame probably had its best chance to close out the match when they trailed by only three late in the set, but the Irish couldn't complete the comeback, and lost the set 25-20. 
Two key blocks by senior Justine Stremick gave Notre Dame hope in the fifth set when they trailed 12-9, but, again, the Irish couldn't fin­ish the job, falling 15-9. 
"I think as much as any­thing, Western turned it up after the first two games," Brown said. "They played a lot better." 
After the second game, the Broncos focused on loading up the middle, which, in turn, opened up seams on the out­side, Brown said. 
Brown also said that she wouldn't say much to her team after the match. 
"Everyone's down already so we don't need to blast them," she said. "We know it's not what we wanted to do." 
This weekend concluded preseason play for the Irish, who have competed in tour­naments in Minneapolis and Idaho, as well as two in South Bend. 
Notre Dame begins Big East play next weekend with a Friday night matchup against South Florida in Tampa. Brown said her team was full of potential, but heading into the conference season, she wasn't sure if they always capitalized on that potential. 
"We keep getting these glimpses of what we can do, and then we stumble," she said. "I think that our confi­dence probably isn't as high as it could have been if we had finished out strong [against Western Michigan]." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 22, 2008 
NCC 
continued from page 24 
improvement bnforc the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. :3. 
"The pack slipped apart after two miles," he said. "We will run with more experience· in two weeks." 
The Irish women had a good day as well. capturing first in the team category with a near­perfect 21 points. Dayton, the second-place team, finished with 107 total points. 
Junior Lindsay Ferguson took first in the 283-woman field with a time of 17:31 on the three-mile course. Sophomore Marissa Treece finished second with a time of 17:53. 
"I felt really good the whole race," Ferguson said. 
Ferguson and Treece pulled in front almost immediately, and ran together for the first two miles bnfore Ferguson took oil'. 
"!Treece) did really well," lierguson said. "We work really well together, it's awesome that she was right there." 
The pair reversed roles from the 2007 NCC when Treece fin­ished first and Ferguson fin­ished second. 
Freshman Rachel Velarde fin­ished fifth, senior Becca Bauman finished sixth, sopho­more Abby Higgins finished sev­enth, and junior Emily Wauford finished tenth for the Irish. 
Women's head coach Tim Connelly was not entirely pleased with the race, even though the Irish had seven run­ners finish in the top 11. 
"Lindsay did well, a whole pack did well," he said, but "it wasn't what we wanted to see. The Notre Dame Invitational is a whole different world, and we've got to get a lot better before then." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Irish sophomore Paul Springer runs to a first place finish at the National Catholic Championships on Friday at Notre Dame. 
Dike 
continued from page 24 

Donohue put Notre Dame ahead for good and tied him with Donohue and junior mid­fielder Michael Thomas for the team-lead with four goals. 
Thomas made it 2-0 when he drilled a free kick from the left side low toward the far post, and junior forward Tamba Samba capped the scoring with his first career goal early in the second half. 
"It was a very good offensive performance," Clark said. "The big thing today was the play of [sophomore forward] Steven Perry and Tamba Samba... They came on for the first time this season [andl I feel they really stamped their authority in a game, and that was terrific." 
Perhaps more impressive for the Irish was the continued dominance of their defense. Quinn recorded his second straight shutout and third of the year in just Notre Dame's seventh game. 
Quinn made a career-best eight saves and has now allowed just one goal over the last four games, all against Big East teams. The Irish beat South Florida 5-0 on Sept. 7 during the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament in a game that did not count toward the conference stand­ings. 


The Irish have allowed seven goals in seven games but only four over their last six. 
"[Central defenders Matt) Besler and [Aaron] Maund also deserve special mention today," Clark said. "[Syracuse is] a huge team and a very physical team. I thought both Maund and Besler handled that physical challenge superbly." 
After five straight home con­tests, the Irish begin a three­game road stretch that begins Friday at Cincinnati in a Big East mateh. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Ghecl{outQur new blog at o bsetversports blog.21cr.info. 
Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Slupczynski led the way with 13 kills, while senior Kaela
Belles 
continued from page 24 
Watson also had a solid game with nine kills and a pair of block assists of her own. Sophomore Meghann Rose helped carry the defense with 27 digs. 
The nail-biting victory put the Belles into the third place match for their final contest of the tournament. Callaudette, who narrowly escaped their morning match against Rose­Hulman, came out flat-footed as Saint Mary's rolled over them in the first two sets to gain a 2-0 advantage. 
The Bison collected them­selves and evened the match with two hard-fought wins in the next two sets as the nor­mally stout Belles defense crumbled. Saint Mary's stamped out any notions of a Callaudette rally with a domi­nating 15-7 final set to clinch third place. 
Four different Belles had at least 10 kills in the victory. 
Hellmann added 11. Watson and Kurczak both had 10 kills to round out the Saint Mary's attack. Freshman Danielle Brink contributed a solid effort with four kills in 12 attempts, 25 assists, six digs, a service ace, and two solo blocks. 
Schroeder-Biek said she was pleased by the team-wide effort. She has emphasized emotion and teamwork in the play of her young squad. 
"What I think it comes down to is connections," Schroeder­Biek said. "We need to stay connected with our teammates, we need to celebrate our suc­cesses on the court and pick each other up when we are down. We need to connect as teammates before we can expect to really compete as a team." 
The Belles return home to host Kalamazoo College for an MIAA match on Tuesday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 

JESS LEE/The Observer 

Junior tight end Will Yeatman runs through drills during a prac­tice on Aug. 23. Yeatman was arrested on Saturday night. 
Yeatman has two catches for six yards so far this season. He
Arrest 
·is currently second on the continued from page 24 
depth chart behind freshman 
Kyle Rudolph. Colic has not yet Weis said in a statement, played. according to The Chicago Sun­Times. 
Contact Bill Brink at Police took Yeatman and wbrink@nd.edu 
Colic to St. Joseph's County jail, but the AP said neither stayed there until Sunday night. 
Yeatman was arrested earlier this year for driving drunk on campus. He pled guilty to drunken driving and reckless driving and entered a year-long probationary period. If he had completed the probation, the state would have moved to drop a criminal recklessness charge, the AP reported. 
The University suspended Yeatman from athletics for the spring semester. Yeatman also plays lacrosse for the Irish and is regarded as one of the top attacks in the nation. Yeatman was named LaxPower's Rookie of the Year in 2006 along with his first team All-Conference honors. 
Colic's father, Mike Colic, Sr., was a defensive lineman for Notre Dame and played for the Houston Oilers, Philadelphia Eagles and Miami Dolphins. He is now a co-host of ESPN Radio's "Mike and Mike in the Morning." 
Colic's uncle, Bob, also played for Notre Dame, and his younger brother Jake is a sen­ior in high school who has com­mitted to play for the Irish. 
The Irish dominated DePaul test. 
for the duration of the contest, "We struggled a little early; 
amassing a 24-2 advantage in they were really pressuring and continued from page 24 shots taken. However, only attacking us well," Nuber said. 
when Hanks capitalized on a Freshman forward Melissa 300th win with the Irish return pass from Notre Dame Henderson struck first for the because he did not name an sophomore midfielder Erica Irish, converting a header on a interim head coach for the Iantorno did the Irish punch cross from sophomore defender Penn State game. Notre Dame one in. Julie Scheidler in the 18th assistant coach Ken Nuber said "It was a great giVe-and-go," minute. Hanks put in yet anoth­that the players had their head Nuber said. "Erica [lantorno] er goal less than two minutes coach in mind as they posted high on the 18-yard line later. The senior's initial effort remained undefeated. and took a pass from [Hanks] failed but she stuck with the 
"All of our hearts are with and held it and when she gave play and eventually hit the ball [Waldum] and his family," it back, it was just a great· fin­into the back of the net. Nuber said. "That was definite­ish." "She did a good job of holding ly in the back of everyone's Nuber said the Irish were the defender off her; the ball head in that game." unlucky not to score until so was served in and her first shot 
When Hanks slammed home late in the second half. with her right foot got a left-footed shot in the 78th "It's a very difficult place to blocked," Nuber said. "But she minute against DePaul, not only play; it's a very small, Astroturf got it again and put it in. It was did she provide the Irish with field," Nuber said. "[DePaul] just another example of her the only goal played with a very working hard for a goal." of the game. defensive posture, Irish junior forward Michele The senior especially as it got Weisenhofer provided insur­
Unbeaten 

"She's been great her 
from Allen, late in the game. ance for Notre Dame when she Tex., also whole career;·she's ... I would say hit home a volley that Nuber became the just an incredible they weren't nec­called the "goal of the day." fourth Div. I essarily playing "Erica [Iantorno] served it
player."
player to post for a tie but I think across and Weisenhofer was 70 goals as they would have getting pulled down by a well as 60 Ken Nuber been happy with a defender who was pretty much assists. The Irish assistant coach tie." waterskiing on the back of her score also After notching jersey," Nuber said. "The ball gave Hanks their first Big East was about waist-high and she 200 career win against the just hit it in." points and tied the Notre Dame Blue Demons, the Irish flew to After another successful record for game-winning goals Penn State and took care of weekend, the top-ranked Irish with 19. business in their final non-con­will get ready to return to 
"She's been great her whole ference game. action at Alumni Field Friday career; she's just an incredible Notre Dame held off several night against Louisville. player," Nuber said. "A lot of early Penn State chances our goals are the result of all before notching three first-half Contact Fran Tolan at the hard work she puts in." goals to take control of the con-ftolan@nd.edu 

Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring sernester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


GRAM 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 22, 2008 117. O'Shaughnessy, 5:00p.m. 
With special guest Tom Kellenberg, Executive Director and Public Policy Professor, Washington P:rogram 
Deadline to apply for Fall2009 or Spring 2010 is November 15,2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251, www.nd.edu/-wp 
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 22, 2008 

Monday, September 22, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

THE DOME PIECE 

JUMBLE 

JJWJWIID11IE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PLITO 

[IJ I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ROGGE jI I ( () 
PRUMBE 

1 
rJ 
\VWW.jumble.com
tSUDSIC I

J rJ (J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

WHE:N THE: TATTOO ARTIST PUT A BUTTE:RFLY ON HE:R LEG, SHE WAS--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer:"[ I I I I I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  ENEMY STEED SPLEEN VOYAGE Window-shopping with his wife left him - 
"GLASSY" EYED  

CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Encl. with a Univ. military 
manuscript program 32 *Z, 5 Samsung and alphabetically Sony products 
35 "Livin' La 8 In unison Loca" 
13 Type that leans: 39 Former Montreal 
Abbr. 
team 14 Hurry 
40 Sea, to Debussy

15 High point of a story 41 Like Robin Hood's men
16 •t981 film starring William 42 Trace of smoke Hurt and 
43 *Painted Kathleen Turner highway divider 

181f all goes exactly 45 Arno, ·_, amat 
according to 47 Collection of
plan 
scenes 19 Peter Pan lost 
48 Call for help 

his 20 Thomas 
49 *Touchdown site Edison 
52 Sticky stuff 22 Fed. auditing 
54 Here-there link 

agency 23 List ender: Abbr. 55 Eye part 25 •Hoopster's 57 Setting for many 
complete miss a fairy tale 
27 AJC meas. 61 Title girl in a 30 Night before a 1983 Kool & the holiday Gang hit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
S H 0  T CI L 0 IC K  M S N B C  
T  E N U RIA BIL  E  A L  E R 0  
G R A B.SEIA T  R E S  I  N  

E 8 S E N R 0 C K E T T E R A T S S T IE N 0 I P L 0 Y A R I • S T AIT ~ ~ S E N S R I CIH A R D~· A p 0­D A KI0 T A S 0 N A F IA S T 
L IE,..!.. 5 
K 1 P AIR K A 

A S H Y T A C 0 M A • K Y L G 0 E S 0 S A-AY A W L H A R M 0 N I C M U N R 0 A R M 0 R M c1p 1H E R s o N S T A K E 0 H 1I0 IS T A T E 
T 0 N E S V I P I P IA S S E S 
63 Jerry Garcia fan ... or what each part of the answers to the starred clues can take 
65 Sedated. perhaps· 
66 Follower of Mar. 
67 Adolescent outbreak 
68 Poet William Butler 
69 Moms 

70 "Say .......... (pourer's request) 
Down 1 Barbecue dish 2 From a different 
perspective, in chat room lingo 3 "Look what I did!" 4 Outlaw partner of Bonnie 
5 Motion made by fans in a stadium 
6 By way of 
7 __ good 
example 8 Hitching posts? 9 Bro or sis 
10 The end, to Euripides11 Vocally twangy 
12 Shower with 
praise 15 Expensive topping served with a tiny spoon 17 Monopoly 
purchases 21 Team game with infrared-sensitive targets 24 "I'll try to think of something ... " 26 Cut at an angle27 
~~~~~~· as a 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Paula Gamache 
28 Ride that's 41 "The Wind in the 53 "Shucks!" hailed 
Willows" 56 Funnyman 
amphibian
29 Mail carrier's Sandier grp. 43 Sail material 
58 Engineers' 33 November 44 High-m.p.g. school, briefly birthstone vehicles 
59 Lois of the Daily 
34 Countdown start 46 Hershey's bar Planet with coconut 
60 Place of bliss 36 Bearded flower 
49 Take pleasure in 
62 Take-home pay37 Early 007 foe 50 Nary a soul 
64 Org. monitoring 38 Affirmative votes 51 Euripides' genre industrial wastes 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800·814-5554. Annual subscriptior~s are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joseph Mazzello, 25; Nicole Richie, 27; Liam Gallagher, 36; Faith Hill, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Put your undivided attention on love and romance. Plan a day trip that will leave you with good memories. You may spend more than you should but, once in a while, it's worth it. A new development will bond your re­lationship. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do what you can to help others. Your contribution should not be a financial one but instead one of time and knowledge. You will hook up with someone who has an interesting proposal you cannot turn down. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Everything is subject to change if you are willint~ to work on something that can lead to professional enhancement. Expand your skills or put your talents to the test. It can lead to a higher income and greater status. 3 stars 
CANCER (Jnne 21-Jnly 22): A secret affair may be hard to resist but, before you decide to go there, consider the consequences. Finish what you started at home. If that entails breaking up with someone, do so before you decide to get involved with someone else. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love, entertaining and planning a nice time for your friends, family and lover is the way to go. Let your generous nature capture the at­tention of the people in your life. Promote and present and the payoff will come. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't do anything that might link you to a question­able group of people. Someone may lose respect for you if you suggest doing some· thing dubious. Talk to someone you trust to set you straight about what you are con­sidering. 2 stars 
LWRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel opportunities must be put into play. The J?<!Ople you meet along the way will motivate you to follow throngh with a creative tdea. You will be tempted to change your location geographically to snit your lifestyle and needs. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make any adjustments to your living arrangements or decor. Expand your home working space, allowing you more freedom to come and go as you please. Love is in the stars but don't consider a secret affair. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. Zl): Don't give in to pressure but don't push your luck with someone who has authority over you. A day of relaxation, spending time with a friend or lover is your best bet. Don't get goaded into making a decision you aren't ready to make. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be cautious when it comes to the possibilities that others throw at you. You are better off sticking to your own agenda and strat­egy. Someone you are intrigued by will take you for a ride if you believe everything he or she tells you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Network with people who may have an interest in a deal you are working on. A romantic encounter with someone very dear to your heart will unfold. Don't rush love and it will go the distance. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Don't trust your own judgment about someone new. It's easy to make offers but following through is not so easy. Don't commit to any­thing that may stand in the way of something else you want to do. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have drive and willpower and know how to wiggle your way in and out of anything. You know how to mix old with new and come up with some­thing unique. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjor jun. eugeTtia/ost.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City----'-------------State ____ Zip______ 
THE OB-SERVER 
PORTS
Monday,September 22, 2008 
page 24 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Add it to the list 
Hanks continues to pile up records in win 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
The hits just keep on coming for KHrri Ilanks and No. 1 Notre Dame. A week after becoming the sixth player in NCAA Oiv. I history with 60 career goals and 60 assists, the senior forward scored two more goals and added several additional mile­stones to her rnsume. 
What's more, the Irish won their first Big East game by downing DePaul 1-0 Friday and defeated No. 16/17 Penn State 3-1 Sunday. The successful road trip ran Notre Dame's record to 8-0-0, including 4-0-0 away from home. 
The wins were bittersweet for the team, though, as head coach Randy Waldrum was not with Notre Dame Sunday due to a death in his family. 
Waldrum got credit for his 
see UNBEATEN/page 21 


FOOTBALL 
Golic, Jr., Yeatn1an arrested 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Police arrested junior tight end Will Yeatman and fresh­man center Mike Golic Jr. Saturday night, along with 39 others, at an ofT-campus party, the Associated Press reported Sunday night. 
Yeatman, 20, and Golic, 18, were charged with consuming alcohol as a minor, Sgt. AI Taylor of the Indiana State Excise Police told the AP. Members of Notre Dame's soc­cer and lacrosse teams were also arrested, the AP said. Excise, South Bend and St. Joseph's County police were all involved, The AP reported. 
"I was made aware of the sit­uation early this afternoon and am currently looking into the matter," Irish coach Charlie 
see ARRESTI page 21 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish shutout tvvo Big East opponents for vvin and dravv 
Syracuse (4-1-2, 1-1-0 Big East) era! goals tonight. He caused effort go right into Kitson's one diving effort in the secondBy MATT GAMBER Sunday. havoc up there." hands from 18 yards out. overtime that kept the game
Sports Wri rer 

Despite out-shooting St. The Irish dominated posses­Kitson's most crucial save tied. 
John's 22-10, the Irish couldn't sion and pressured the St. came early in the second over­"Quinn came up with two 
No. 3 Notre Dame held a pair breakthrough in the Hed John's defense, but Red Storm time when he, tipped sopho­vital saves," Clark said. "It was of Big East opponnnts scoreless Storm's Big East opener. Senior goalkeeper Neal Kitson made more midlielder Jeb Brovsky's a good team performance. All as the Irish (5-1-1, 2-0-1 Big forward Bright Dike led the 11 saves to thwart several header over the bar, preventing the players that played were East) eontinued their live-game Notre Dame attack with six strong.chances for Notre Dame. what may have been the game­very solid." unbeaten strPak dating baek to shots, with four of them on tar­Four minutes into the second winner for the Irish. After his several near-misses a season-opening 3-0 loss to get. half, Kitson deflected Dike's "Full marks to St. John's," Friday, it didn't take long for Akron Aug. 29. "I thought it was a very, very first near-goal high over the Clark said. "They're a tough, Dike to get the Irish on the 
The Irish played No. 5 St. strong performance and I crossbar. Six minutes later, resolute team and that's why board Sunday af'tnrnoon. John's (6-0-2, 1-0-1 Big East) to thought we were very unlucky Dike's deep free kick ricocheted they're undefeated." His goal in the third minute a scoreless draw Friday bnforfl not to come out with the victo­off the crossbar. Notre Dame senior keeper from junior midfielder Dave getting goals from thrfle differ­ry," Irish coach Bobby Clark Midway through the second Andrew Quinn tied a career ent players in a 3-0 victory over said. "Dike could have had sev-half, Dike had another strong high with five saves, including see DIKE/page 20 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles take third in Calvin 
Slupczynski garners All-Tourney honors 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 

After winning three of their last four matches, ineluding two conference victories, the Hellos came into the DePauw Invitational sharp and deter­mined. 
Saint Mary's (9-4, 2-2 MlAA) scratelwd and clawed its way to a third place finish at the tournament, finishing 3-1 on the wnnknnd, with junior Lorna Slupczynski earning All-Tournament honors for the second time this season. lleidnlbnrg College cruised to a first-place finish, besting three of four opponents in straight sets to claim victory at the DePauw University­hosted tourna!T\ent in Greencastle, Ind. 
While the Belles' defense has been outstanding all sea­son long, the squad has strug­gled at times offensively. Saint Mary's head coach Julie Sehroeder-Biek was proud of her team's offensive consis­tency over the weekend. 
"We have been struggling through a few things of'fen­sively," Schroeder-Biek said. "Primarily with just learning each other, new setters learn­ing the tendencies and stn~ngths of their attackers, attackers learning the same things about the setters. Over the weekend, we worked very well together. and our attack was strong." 
On Saturday, the Belles split their first two bracket match­es. Saint Mary's brushed aside North Central in four sets (25­14, 20-25, 25-21, 25-15) before dropping a closely fought match against eventual runner-up DePauw (27 -25, 21-25, 25-23, 25-21 ). 
The Belles triumphed over Anderson in their final and crucial bracket match Sunday morning, rallying from an early deficit in the live-set vic­tory (17 -25 25-16 25-17 23-25 15-13). Senior Cathy Kurczak led the offense for Saint Mary's with 13 kills, two serv­ice aces, and three block assists, while emerging play­m·aker sophomore Jacee 
see BELLES/page 21 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Springer vvins Invite, team finishes second 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 

Sophomore Paul Springer had the power of the Holy Spirit with him on Friday. Carrying a sign that read "Hun for Jesus!," Springer left his competition in the dust to take home first place in the National Catholic Championships at the Burke Golf Course at Notre Dame. 
Springer, who completed the five-mile course in 24:54, helped his team to a second place finish just behind overall winner Duquesne University. Duquesne squeezed out a 45-44 victory for the win. 
Springer and freshman team­mate Joe Miller pulled ahead of the pack at the three-mile­mark, along with two Duquesne runners. Miller finished in sec­ond place with a time of 24:58. 
"We wanted to get to the front of the pack, which we did," men's head coach Joe Piane said. 
Of the seven men who ran for the Irish, only Springer had ever run in a collegiate race before. In total, Notre Dame ran two sophomores and live freshmen. 
"IMillerl had a real solid race. We fed off each other," Springer said. 
Piane said he is ecstatic with Miller and sophomore Hyan Gamboa, who finished sixth. However, he saw room for 
see NCC/page 20 






