
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Slow security response raises questions 

LIZ HARTER!The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Ladders left by COI}­struction workers are left propped against Regina overnight; A red truck like the one the trespasser used to gair1 access to Regina's roof is parked near the building; The Saint Mary's Security emblem on the side of its security cars. 

Regina Hall's trespasser's escape creates doubts about efficiency of campus safety measures 
By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
This is the first article in a two­part series examining student concerns of security policies at Saint Mary's College. Part two will run next Thursday. 
With the recent number of security problems that have occurred on both the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame campus­es in the form of burglaries and trespassers, many College stu­dents have raised questions about the effectiveness of Saint Mary's Security. 
"The only functions I see !Saint Mary's) Security performing are making sure students get from parking lots and Notre Dame to their dorms safely, ticket cars for parking violations and provide a lost and found," junior Jessie Sobczyk said. "Maybe they have other purposes, but I don't know about them." 
The Saint Mary's student hand­book says that "members of the Department of Safety and Security will act in the best inter­ests of public safety, respecting the rights of all members of this community and its guests" and director of Security Dave Gariepy said all members of the staff are fully trained. 
There are 28 security person­nel employed by the College, he said, with three officers per shift and a fourth who drives the escort vehicle, Blinkie, at night. 
But even with these assurances of a secure campus, there are many students who think the security department isn't operat­ing to its fullest potential, includ­ing a student who said Security "brushed off' her and the safety of Regina Hall residents with their reaction to a security alert raised on April 5. 
She said it took two phone calls to Saint Mary's Security for Security respond to her claims that a "suspicious ... white man 
see SECURITY/page 4 


Conference to connect disciplines with Faustian themes 
Scholars from Cambridge, Columbia, UPenn, ND will explore Faustian influences in literature, science, film, philosphy 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Scholars will connect disci­plines ranging from literature to physics at an academic conference Friday and Saturday, as one of "Faust at Notre Dame's" concluding events. 
German and Russian pro­fessor Robert Norton, who 
will speak at the conference, said that visiting and Notre Dame professors will show how Faustian themes relate to their academi·c fields and in some presentations, how these themes remain relevant in today's society. 
"One of the [best) things of the Faust [theme) is it's not confined to a single culture or a single theme," Norton said. 

'Entourage' analyzed in wom.en's issues debate 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Men Against Violence (MAY) teamed up with several differ­ent campus organizations and departments Wednesday to present "The (Un)lloly Trinity: Entourage, Media, and Men," an event that examined the por­trayal of relationships between men and women by the media by taking a look at the popular tnlevision series r.F.ntourage." 
Thn event opened with a screening of the "Entourage" episode "Three's Company", fol­lowed by a question-and­answer session with a panel of faculty and students. 
Matt Storin. former editor of the Boston Globe and adjunct professor of American Studies and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy served as modera­tor. The panel included Dr. Eileen Botting, director of the Gender Studies program; Dr. Agustin Fuentes, associate pro­fessor of Anthropology; Dr. Cathy Kaveny, law and theology professor; and Father Mark Poorman, theology professor and vice president of Student AfTairs. The panel also included two students: freshman Maggie Molitor and senior Michael Redding, a political science and philosophy major and president of MAY. 
Storin opened the conference 
see ENTOURAGE/page 8 
Mathematics professor Alex Hahn, who organized the conference, said a group of Notre Dame faculty members began searching in November 2006 for a variety of academ­ics with a background in Faust. The conference will feature six presenters, including Norton, and guest speakers will come from the University of Cambridge, the University of Chicago, Columbia University, Northeastern University and the University of Pennsylvania. 
"We were looking for pow­erful scholars who had pub­lished substantial treatises on these themes, [such as) liter­ature, history, science, phi­losophy and film," Hahn said. 
According to Norton, his presentation will cover the influence that German intel­lectual Johann Gottfried Herder had on Johann Wolfgang Goethe, who would eventually go on to write Faust. Norton said that Goethe was a law student when he met Herder, but Herder helped convince him to choose poetry and writing as his vocation. 
"He had a great influence 
see FAUST/page 6 



ROTC holds Pass in Review 
Student cadets, midshipmen receive awards, salute Jenkins at ceremony 
By ELIZABETH KUHN News Writer 
University President Father John Jenkins watched more than 300 members of the ROTC program march and salute him and other commanding o!licers during the annual Pass in Review ceremony at the Joyce Center Wednesday. 
A staple of the program's tra­dition at Notre Dame, the cere­mony provides members of the Navy, Army and Air Force ROTC branches with an oppor­tunity to demonstrate their pre­cision and discipline. The regi­ments' reviewing officer, 
see ROTC/page 6 

HY PHAM!The Observer The commanding officers of the ROTC branches stand to watch the units march and salute at the Pass in Review ceremony Wednesday. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

English and 

vvet 

LONDON -It took thrno months and 
a bucket's worth of' water, but yester­
day I developed a stilT upper lip. 

Since January I have been living in 
London, but I think my American citi­
zenship has been 
obvious, at times Kaltlynn Rlely 
painfully so. 
I lowever, I wanted Assistant 
to immerse myself' News Editor 
in the culture, so 
I've <:hanged some 

of' my bf~havior and habits so I don't 
stiek out quite so badly. 
Now, I only wear tennis shoes ­

trainers -when I'm exereising, and 
not when I'm just walking around the 
city. I don't say soecer; I say football. I 
go t.o google.co.uk, not google.eom. 

But as soon as I open my mouth and 
rnvnal my accnnt, the game is up. And 
I'll nevnr got usnd to the unspoknn rule 
that no onn talks on the Tube. Also, try 
as I might, I just don't enjoy drinking 
tea. 

Sincn I am doing an internship here, 
two days a week I am tlw sole 
Anwrican in a building full of' mostly 
Brits. On those clays, I am far more 
aware of' my obvious Amnriean-ncss 
than on tlw days when I lllll in the 
classroom building with UO other 
Not.rn Damn sl.lHlPnts. 

YestPrclay, onp of' my co-workers 
ducked into tlw of'f'ice wlwre I was 
working to takP nw to lunrh. I grabbed 
my coat, and we !waded out tlw build­
ing toward tlw restaurant to mont up 
with a man who f'rPqw•ntly dons work 
f'or t.hn organization. Wn were planning 
on spending tlw lunch talking about a 
project I had been doing for thnm. 

l.iz and I wen~ walking down the 
st.rnnt. toward tlw mstaurant, when all 
of' a suddnn, snemingly from out of' a 
cloudless sky, I was completely 
drenelwd by a downpour of' water. 
Dripping, I looked up, and saw that 
water had poured out of' a spout in the 
building, all over my head. Liz had 
doubled over laughing, and three girls 
sitting on the bench across the street 
wero laughing as well. As soon as I 
was sure I hadn't just been doused by 
sewage, I laugh1~d. too. 

I've found Notre Dame's Career 
Conter very helpful in the past, but if 
they give advice about what to do 
when, on your way to a business lunch, 
you find your hair and eoat soaking 
wet because you've walked under a 
drain, I haven't seen it. I did what I 
could to dry ofT, and then Liz and I con­
tinued on to our lunch meeting with 
.lim, where we mentioned what had 
happened, to explain my drenched 
appearanee. 

Later, on our way back from lunch, with my hair dry, we passed by the same building where I had showered earlier. I made sure to steer clear of the water spout. Liz mentioned she was imprnssed by the way l had taken it in stride, and then, Jim, who is Scottish, threw in his two penee. 
"How vnry English of you," he told 
me. 

A quick recovery from a sudden, unexpectnd downpour and my immer­sion into British sodety is complete. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards i1self as a professional publication and mives for !he highes! s1andards of jounulism a! all limes. We do, however, recognize 1ha1 we will make mis1akes. Ifwe have made a mis1ake, please comac1 us a1 631-4541 so we can correc1 our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 17, 2008 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE ANY KIND OF DINING HALL FRIES, WHAT WOULD YOU BE AND WHY? 








Josh Bartrom  Christina Zoccoli  Desiree Zamora  Colin Reimer  John Haravan Ill  
junior  junior  senior  junior  junior  
Dillon  McGlinn  Walsh  Dillon  Dillon  
"Sweet potato  "Curly, so I could  "Seasoned,  "Krinkle Cut,  "Seasoned,  
fries 'cause no  spring into the  because I've  'cause they're  'cuz I'm hot  
one would want  ketchup."  been here for  like regular  and loved by  
to eat me. "  four years. "  fries only  everyone.  
different."  


ly odorless and colorless in its natural state. 
The utility started getting calls Monday night and through Tuesday had logged some 850 com­plaints. By law, the eompa­ny had to send crews to each home to make sure the problem was just too much mercaptan and not an actu­al gas leak. 
NFG officials say crews did find small leaks at a few homes but, in most cases, the extra mercaptan was to blame for the smell. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

charged with illegal posses­sion of wild animals and could be sentenced to up to a year in jail. 
Gas company's customers have smelly problem 
EHIE, Pa. -National Fuel Gas Distribution Corp. crews have been busy with a smelly problem in about 850 Erie-area homes. The gas company says too much mercaptan was added to natural gas, prompting hun­dreds of calls from residents concerned about gas leaks. 
Mercaptan is a substance added so people can "smell" natural gas, which is actual-
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
c::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!;t 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
u ~ 


-I 0 HIGH 70 HIGH 56 HIGH 60 HIGH 55 LOW 50 LOW 43 LOW 40 LOW 43 
IN BRIEF 
The play "The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlowe play about a professor who snlls his soul to the devil. will be pnr­formed April 17 and 1H at 7:30 
p.m. in the Deeio Mainstagc Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Author Barbara Fiend will deliver tlw 24th annual Madelcva Lcctu1·e entitled "Awe-l'illed Wonder: The Interface of Sdenec and Spirituality" on tonight at 7 in the Little Theater in Mo.-eau Center for the A1·ts on Saint Mary's Campus. 
The Class of' 200S is hosting a Beer Tasting event at Legends tonight f'rom 5-7::m. 8 dill'ernnt beers will be samplod and f'ood will be served. The seniors only event eosts $10 at the door. 
"The Shirt" will be unveiled Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Co-host of Mike and Mike in the Morning Mike Golie will be the guest speaker. Festivities begin at 4:30 
p.m. and "The Shirt" itself will be revealed at 6 p.m. 
Flipside is hosting "The Office" trivia night Friday at 10 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Teams of five can sign up 9:30 p.m. 
Community Alliance Serving Hispanics (C.A.S.H) is hosting "A Night in Latin America" in the La Fortune Ballroom from 6:00-9:00 p.m. on Sunday, April 20 to benefit St. Adalberts and No More Deaths (Donation of $ 6). 
. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

0, f\"
-\'i:'lj~
""'<}--·· ';I
·;,.,/· \~ 
'~{ '_;;.... 
....,...,,. ,_ 

~rt~ 

HIGH 67 HIGH 73 LOW 45 LOW 53 
Man raises lion in back yard until neighbors complain 
BUCHAREST, Homania ­Romanian media say a man was rearing a lion in his back garden until neighbors decided they had heard enough roaring and called police. 
Hompres state news agency said police found a eaged 3-year-old lioness, as well as two deer, a stag and two peacocks roaming the garden of the man's home in the southern village of Pietrosita. 
The agency's report Wednesday said the 28­year-old man is being 

Atlanta 73 I 45 Boston 59 I 40 Chicago 65 I 49 Denver 51 I 27 Houston 79 I 65 Los Angeles 84 I 55 Minneapolis 56 I 39 New York 70 I 43 Philadelphia 71 I 39 Phoenix 82 I 58 Seattle 53 I 42 St. Louis 72 I 55 Tampa 78 I 50 Washington 73 I 43 
Thursday, April 17, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

STUDENT SENATE 



Off-catnpus Dom.er Doll~s discussed 
By CLAIRE REISING News Writer 
The Student Senate discussed the possibility of using Domer Dollars at off-campus locations at its meeting Wednesday. Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said he wanted the Senate's input before contacting potential restaurants and stores. 
Schmidt introduced four options for the Senate to discuss: using Domer Dollars off campus, receiving a discount from stores or restaurants for using Dorner Dollars, using Domer Dollars for food delivery and receiving stu­dent discounts off campus with­out using Domer Dollars. He said that Domer Dollars would be lim­ited to stores that do not sell alcohol or tobacco products. 
"Some of the advantages are to get students immersed in the community ... the convenience of being able to use your ID [and] the flexibility of food options," Schmidt said. 
It would also benefit off-cam­pus students or those without easy access to ATM machines, he said. 
Despite the advantages, Schmidt mentioned some possi­ble drawbacks to the off-campus use of Domer Dollars, such as taking students away from cam­pus life. And students who have debit cards may not view off­campus Domer Dollars as a necessity, he said. 
Campus Technology chair Devin Fee stressed the need to consider how much this initiative would cost. 
"The infrastructure to build the system is going to cost the University a lot of money," he said. "It's going to cost the busi­nesses a lot of money to go out there and do it." 
Some senators said that stu­dent discounts may be more helpful that using Domer Dollars. O'Neill senator Kevin Kimberly said that at his Hall Council meeting, the majority of people favored discounts. 
"Last night I brought this up at the Hall Council. . . and it was an overwhelming response that they would rather have student dis­counts than Domer Dollars, either for delivery or for [pur­chase]," he said. 
Rather than use Domer Dollars at restaurants and stores, Carroll senator Nick Ruof suggested using them to pay for taxis and spare students the inconvenience of carrying dollar bills. 
Lewis senator Robin Brown, however, said this may cause stu­dents to favor cab companies that accept Domer Dollars, allowing those companies to increase their prices. 
"It could almost put a monop­oly on taxi companies," she said. "Then, only taxi companies that are willing to go through this process ... would be in charge of it." 
The Senate also elected liaisons to other student organi­zations during the meeting. Austin Holler, Patrick Kane, Michael Sayles and Katie Weber, from Morrissey, Dillon, Sorin and McGlinn Halls, respectively, will serve as Senate liaisons to the Council of Representatives, with Brown as an alternate. 
Welsh Family senator Kaitlyn Maloney, Lyons senator Catherine Flynn and Keenan senator Gus Gari were elected to the Campus Life Council, with Cavanaugh senator Robin Link as an alternate. 
Howard senator Stephanie Mulhern was elected as liaison to the Judicial Council, which regu­lates student government elec­tions. Knott senator Greg Salter and Pasquerilla West Senator Megan Sennett will work with the Financial Management Board, which allocates funds to student groups. 
In other Senate news: 
+ 
The Senate passed a resolu­tion proposing an amendment to the Student Body Constitution to "reorganize the structure of The Shirt Project." One aspect of the amendment would make the president of "The Shirt" an enu­merated position. A student can only hold one enumerated posi­tion, to prevent over-commit­ment and conflicts between dif­ferent jobs' responsibilities. 

+ 
Professor Thomas Noble, Faculty Senate liaison, an online Teacher Course Evaluation sys­tem will be implemented next fall. 


Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 


Interface of science, faith to be analyzed 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Internationally known author and lecturer, Barbara Fiand, S.N.D.deN, Ph.D., will speak tonight in Little Theater at Saint Mary's College at the 23rd annual Madeleva Lecture. Her talk will be an abridged version of her lec­ture entitled "Awe-filled Wonder: The Interface of Science and Spirituality." 
Fiand will address concerns about how recent discoveries in physics affect traditional and often-treasured spiritual beliefs, said Dr. Kathleen Dolphin, direc­tor of the Center for Spirituality. 
The lecture will also deal with the idea of an expanding con­sciousness as discoveries in quan­tum physics and cosmology are made and how that relates to the idea of God. 
"Barbara Fiand claims that we are faced today with a collapsing world view," Dolphin said. "Her primary work is to help people make a transition from the old and familiar to the new and sometimes frightening. She sees our time as an exciting opportuni­ty of profound love and freedom." 
The topic of the lecture is espe­cially timely as Saint Mary's recently received a grant of $100,000 from the John Templeton Foundation to explore the religion/science interface, Dolphin said. Both the grant and the Madeleva Lecture are run through the Center for Spirituality. 

"This is an exciting year for Saint Mary's College," said Dolphin. "Dr. Fiand is one of today's key thinkers exploring issues in science and religion. She has a great deal of experience in philosophy of science, theology, and spirituality. This year's nomi­nating committee made an excel­lent choice in selecting Barbara Fiand." 
The Madeleva Lecture series is sponsored by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Each year a speaker is chosen by a committee consist­ing of the Center for Spirituality director, faculty members, a com­mittee of sisters, and past Madeleva lecturers, Dolphin said. 
The lecture series was created in 1985 to honor former SMC president Sister Madeleva Wolff who began a pioneering program in theology. 
Fiand is a Sister of Notre Dame de Namur, and she teaches at the Institute of Pastoral Studies at Loyola University in Chicago. She is the author of eight books and numerous articles. The full ver­sion of her lecture will be avail­able for purchase following the talk, Dolphin said. 
The three-day New Voices Seminar will also run in conjunc­tion with the Madeleva Lecture. This project is aimed at gathering women scholars to add depth and reflection to furthering the Catholic tradition. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at 
ntayloOl@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
"I was told something to the Regina front-desk worker what dent said. "Security should not Gariepy said the security alert ell'ect of 'Well, I know they are was occurring and asked that she have brushed off my first call and was not distributed on campus
Security 

doing some work on the roof, so call the Security Department as should have arrived within that until the Monday following the 
continued from page 1  he is probably just a worker, but we will send somebody out to do  well. The student said she saw the  5-10 minutes it took from the time I called until the time [the  event because there was immediate threat to studenL<>.  no  
with a shiny, bald head" was  a  spot check shortly' [by the  Security Department physically  man] got on the roof."  "The alert was sent as a pre­ 
walking  on  the road  behind  security dispatcherl," the student  check the roof though the man  When asked about the stu­ caution to inform the campus of  
Hegina at 11 p.m. on April 5.  said.  had escaped sometime between  dent's allegations of a  slow  the suspicious activity from the  
The Saint Mary's student, who  According to a security alert  the time she went to the front  response to the first phone call  weekend and to request commu­ 
is  a  resident of Hegina llall,  issued to Saint Mary's about the  desk and when the security  placed about 10:50 p.m., Gariepy  nity members to call when activi­ 
rnquested ancmymity for fear of  event on  April 7, the initial  guards climbed to the roof.  said he did not know if they were  ty such as this is spotted," he  
her safety from the man whom  responding officer saw a male  "[The front desk worker[ said  accurate or not.  said. "The alert was not sent  
she saw on the roof.  who  fit  the  the situation had been cleared,"  'The student did not come for­ sooner as no immediate or con­ 
The  Observer  description the  she said. "[I] told her that they  ward to speak to me and our  tinuing threat was identified to  
respected her request for anonymity in order to give a more  "If [Security} hears of a suspicious man near a residence hall  student had given Security and called for backup, which  definitely did not catch the man so she called [Security! again and they said they were 'in the mid­dle of something' and would call  records indicate that only one call was received with officers responding quickly," he said. Gariepy did not specify whether  warrant sueh an alert." Gariepy said he is willing to investigate the student's daims that the situation was handled  
detailed aecount or Saint Mary's Security's response to this incident.  ... they need to make tl'lat their first priority and rush  arrived shortly thereafter. Gariepy said Security  her back later." The alert said "there should not be anybody working on the roof of buildings during nighttime  Saint Mary's Security received a call about 10:50 p.m. or at 11 :04 p.m. While the student said she  incorrectly and the security report filed is inaccurate but to do so the student must step for­ward to make the accusations  
Another Hegina Hall resident who cor­roborated the stu­dent's account also asked to remain anonymous for fear  everyone available to the scene." Regina Hall resident  responded quickly to the student's call. The student said she saw a Saint Mary's  hours unless Security has been made aware ofit." The student did not think the  "I think Security needs to be a bit more diligent and  doesn't know why the man climbed onto the roof she said she is worried he may have been trying to enter the  herself. "If our reporting of the incident is not accurate I am happy to investigate further," he said. "l would need the testimony from the complainant to properly con­ 
of her safety and li~r  Security guard  man was a con­ courteous to the  building.  duet a thorough investigation of  
fear of disciplinary aetions from Saint Mary's Security. "Whenever a car would drive  arrive at approximately 11:10 p.m. when she parked her car on the south side of the building and  struction worker because he was not wearing  students ofSaint Mary's. I know a lot  "I feel that if I wouldn't have called [Security] he  her accusations." Senior Jeney Anderson said she thinks Security needs to  
down [Augusta Drivel he would move up against the building, so I knew he didn't belong," said the student who plaeed the calls to Security. The student then said the man tried climbing onto a construc­tion truck parked near the hall.  walked north while looking at the roof. The student said the man saw the security guard and ran toward the south side of the roof, away from the ollicer and looked back toward the Security car. ''I'm guessing he saw that it was a Security ear because he lit­ workman's attire. "He had no tools, no flash­light and was wearing normal clothes," she said.  ofgirls who won't call [Security} when they should because they do not feel like 'putting up' with them."  could have entered through unlocked or even broken into locked windows and entered into the secured part of Regina, where resi­dents live," she  change their attitude towards students when they eall for assis­tance. "I think Security needs to be a bit more diligent and courteous to the students of Saint Mary's," Anderson said. "I know a lot of girls who won't call [Security]  
At about 10:50 p.m., she placed a  erally ran to the front of the  The  student  said, referring to  when they should because they  
eall to Security and spoke with a dispateher. However, according to the student, this first eall was  building," she said. The student lost sight of the man. Saint Mary's Security said they don't  said she was dis­appointed with Saint Mary's  Jeney Anderson senior  the fact that a Saint Mary's I.D. card must be used to  do not feel like 'putting up' with them."  
not answernd promptly.  know who the man is and there  Security's reac­ access  the  area  Look for the second article in  
The man then dimbed onto the  has been no additional informa­ tion time to her first phone call  where students live.  this series next Thursday.  
construction vehide and the onto  tion indicating the man is still on  placed at 10:50 p.m.  Gariepy said the roof and cam­ 
an awnirig and used the awning  Saint Mary's campus.  "If [Security] hears of a suspi­ pus were patrolled after and the  Mandi Stirone contributed  
to propel himself onto the lower  The student then left her room  cious man near a residence hall  suspect was not located.  reporting to this article.  
roof of Regina Hall. The student  on the second floor and informed  ... they need to make that their  "There was no additional sus­ 
called Security again at 11 :04  the residents on her floor of the  first priority and rush everyone  picious activity reports to indicate  Contact Liz Harter at  
p.m.  situation. She  then told  the  available to the scene," the stu­ [the man] was still here," he said.  eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu  





CLEARANCE TENT SALE 
Receive an additional 25o/o off the lowest ticketed price on all merchandise 
2DAYBDNLY 

Saturday April 19th from Sam -Spm Sunday April 20th from 1Oam -3pm 
HAMMES
THE CLEARANCE TENT IS 

NOTRE DAME~ ?j
LOCATED AT THE SOUTH END 



BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER
OF THE FOOTBALL STADIUM NEAR GATE 8 
phone; (574} 631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 







ORLD·&NATION 
Thursday, April 17, 2008 Co1>v1PILED FROM THE OBsERVER's W[RE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
India prepares for Olympic protests 
NEW DELHI -Thousands of police patrolled central New Delhi, guarding against anti-China protests for the Olympic torch relay Thursday in India, the heart of the world's Tibetan exile community. 
About 100 Tibetan exiles tried to breach the security cordon Wednesday around the Chinese Embassy, and police dragged away about 50 of them, loading them into police vans-but not before they manage to spray paint "No Olympics in China" on a street near the embassy. 
After decades of frosty relations, New Delhi is trying to forge closer ties with China, and Indian officials are desperate to avoid the chaos during torch runs in London, Paris and San Francisco. 

Admitted Nazi hit man faces charges 
BERLIN -A German prosecutor has filed new murder charges against an admitted Nazi hit man who has avoided jail for nearly six decades despite being convicted in the Netherlands of killing civilians in reprisal for resistance attacks during World War II. 
Dortmund prosecutor Ulrich Maass told The A'isociated Press on Wednesday that the charges involve the 1944 murders of three Dutch men while lleinrich Boere was a member of a Waffen SS death squad. AP was first to report last month that Maass had quietly reopened the case by beginning his own investigation of the 86-year-old Boere. 
Boere has acknowledged involvement in the killings. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush announces climate change plan 
WASHINGTON -President Bush called for a halt Wednesday in the growth of greenhouse gases by 2025, acknowledging the needed to head off serious climate change. 
The plan came under fire immediately from environmentalists and congressional Democrats who favor mandatory emission cuts, a position also held by all three presidential contenders. 
Bush in a Rose Garden address for the first time set a specific target date for U.S. climate pollution reductions and said he was ready to commit to a binding international agreement on long-term reductions as long as other countries such as China do the same. 

Supreme Cow1 approves lethal injection 
WASHINGTON -U.S. executions are all but sure to resume soon after a nationwide halt, cleared Wednesday by a splintered Supreme Court that approved the most widely used method of lethal injection. 
Virginia immediately lifted its moratorium; Oklahoma and Mississippi said they would seek execution dates for convicted murderers, and other states were ready to follow after nearly seven months without an execution in the United States. 
Voting 7-2, the conservative court led by Chief Justice John Roberts rebuffed the latest assault on capital punishment, this time by foes focusing on methods. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Michelle Obama defends husband 
INDlANAPOUS -Michelle Obama fought back Wednesday against criticism that her husband is elitist, painting the presidential candidate as an ordinary man \Vhose family once lived on food stamps and saying they both understand the plight of working America. 
"He reached out to regular folks," she told a crowd of about 700 people at a westside Indianapolis middle school, the second stop of a three-city Indiana campaign swing ahead of the state's May 6 primary. 
"His view of fundraising was $23 is just as important as $2,300.... The grass roots support lor Barack looks like every segment of society," she said. 
Her husband has drawn fire from Democratic rival llillary Clinton since he told donors at a pri­vate San Francisco fundraiser that blue-collar voters "cling to guns or religion" because of bit­terness about their economic lot. 
Pope Benedict addresses bishops 
Pontiffdiscusses clergy sex abuse scandal and importance ofreligion in Washington 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Pope Benedict XVI moved Wednesday from a jubi­lant White House visit where he defended reli­gion in the public square to a contemplative prayer service at a national Roman Catholic shrine, where he was expected to tell bishops that they must heal the suffering caused by clergy sex abuse. 
Benedict arrived at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception to deliver remarks to hundreds of 
U.S. prelates during aves­pers service. 
It was the end of a heady day for Benedict, who drew an enthralled crowd of 13,500 people to a South Lawn arrival cer­emony at the White House earlier in the day. The event turned into an 81st birthday party for the pontiff, complete with singing and a cake pre­pared by the White House pastry chef. 

But the warm feelings didn't stop the pope from gently nudging the U.S. in a White House speech to use diplomacy to resolve international disputes. And differences on other issues also were appar­ent. well as the manipulation steered away from the "The preservation of 
"America has tradition­of religion to justify war itself to focus prima­freedom calls for the cul­ally shown herself gener­immoral and violent acts rily on worries for the tivation of virtue, self-dis­ous in meeting immediate against innocents." Christian minority in the cipline, sacrifice for the human needs, fostering It also said the leaders Muslim-majority country, common good and a sense development and offering "touched on the need to Perino said. Other topics of responsibility towards relief to the victims of confront terrorism with included human rights, the less fortunate," he natural catastrophes," the appropriate means that religious freedom, fighting said. "It also demands the pope said. "I am confident respect the human person poverty and disease in courage to engage in civic that this concern for the and his or her rights," a Africa, the Israeli-life and to bring one's greater human family will reference White House Palestinian dispute, deepest beliefs and values continue to find expres­press secretary Dana Lebanon and terrorism. to reasoned public sion in support for the Perino could not explain. Wednesday's session debate." patient efforts of interna­Benedict has been criti­marked the 25th meeting In brief remarks on the tional diplomacy to cal of harsh interrogation between a Roman Catholic South Lawn, Bush showed resolve conflicts and pro­methods, telling a meeting pope and a U.S. president, off America, ticking off mote progress." of the Vatican's office for conferences that have what he said are its best 
Benedict and President social justice last spanned 89 years, five virtues, calling it a nation Bush spoke alone in the September that, while a pontiffs and 11 American of prayer and compassion Oval Office for 45 minutes country has an obligation leaders. and one that is the most after the ceremony, and a to keep its citizens safe, Benedict told the appre­"innovative, creative and joint statement said the prisoners must never be ciative crowd that religion dynamic country on two "reaffirmed their total demeaned or tortured. belongs in the public Earth" but also among the rejection of terrorism as On Iraq, the discussion square. most religious. 

GAZA 

Fighting leaves over 20 Palestinians dead 
Associated Press appeared to be honoring an informal in the same area. Two bystanders also 
truce, though punctuated with died. 
GAZA CITY, Gaza -Israel struck Palestinian rocket attacks, some Other cameramen who rushed to the hard against targets in Gaza on Israeli airstrikes and border skirmish­scene said they saw the Reuters jeep Wednesday, killing at least 20 es. on fire, and Shana's body lying next to Palestinians in a day of heavy fighting That changed dramatically it. They said that his jeep was marked that also saw three Israeli soldiers die Wednesday with no apparent trigger, "press" and that the cameraman was in a Hamas ambush. indicating the relative calm was more wearing an identifying flak jacket. 
Among the Palestinian dead was a coincidence than plan. As colleagues rushed toward Shana, news cameraman. In the day's deadliest attack, an another missile was frred, said Wissam 
The surge in violence came after a Israeli helicopter fired four missiles at Nassar, a photographer with the Maan relatively quiet month and threatened targets near the Bureij refugee camp news agency. "There was an airstrike. to unravel an Egyptian effort to medi­in central Gaza, witnesses said. At We were thrown back, myself and ate a cease-fire between Israel and least 12 Palestinians, including five another person." Ham as. children aged 12-15, were killed, said Dozens of Palestinian journalists 
Wednesday's death toll was the high­Dr. Moaiya Hassanain of the converged on the hospital where est since an Israeli military offensive in Palestinian Health Ministry. Shana was pronounced dead. early March that killed more than 120 Reuters cameraman Fadel Shana Shocked, many still carrying their Gazans, including dozens of civilians. was killed while filming Israeli tank cameras, they wept and leaned on Since then, Israel and Hamas movements, apparently in an airstrike each other for support. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
.hmkins, then thanks them for tlwir snrvi1:e and confers s1wnral awards -consisting of' ollicers' sabnrs -on the top cadets from each unit. 
"Wn are proud to have you here at Notre Dame," Jenkins told the units. "This is a day of' enlnbration for all of your hard 
theshirt.nd.edu 

work and accomplishments. While only some receive awards today, you are all deserving." 
Besides the 13 individual awards that were handed out (mostly to senior students who s1~rved in leadership positions during the 2007-08 year), Jenkins also awarded the Tri­Military Commander's Cup to the Navy branch. 
A year-long com­petition between the program's three branches, the remember that their ultimate goal should be to promote a ~ori.? with "peace rooted in jus­tice. 
"It is critical that you become people of high eompetence and expertise, but also moral depth," he said. 
The Navy band Great Lakes 
began the ceremony, playing John Philip Sousa's "Stars and Stripes Forever" in 
anticipation of
"It is critical that you 

Commander's Cup Jenkins' and aims to develop become people ofhigh the other com­eadets and midship­competence and manders' men physically, appraisal of
expertise, but also 

mentally and the corps. morally, according moral depth." Upon a brief to the ROTC Web but powerful site. bugle call,
Father John Jenkins 

Individuals GPAs, each block of
University president 

participation in cadets and 
community service and pnrli>rmance at intnr-branch games and fitness drills determinn eaeh branch's cumu­lative score. 
By encouraging healthy athlet­ic competition, camaraderie among the units and leadership in the community, the Cup is preparing the program's cadets and midshipmen to assume high responsibilities in both the mili­tary, their workplace, the com­munity and the government, the Wnb sitn said. 
Jenkins touched on this mis­sion during his address by com­missioning the units to protect Chn nation and urging them to 
midshipmen 
snapped to 
attention 
showing the discipline it acquired throughout their year. 
Notre Dame is one of few uni­versities to have students partic­ipating in all three branches of ROTC and the Marine Corps, a division of the Naval Corps. 
Each division has its own stu­dent commanders and special­ized instructors, and they all share director of Campus Ministry Father Richard Warner as ehaplain. 
Contact Elizabeth Kuhn at ekuhn1 @nd.edu 

Faust 
continued from page 1 
on Goethe in terms of awakening Goethe to the importance of German speaking, cultures art and German history," he said. 
Moreover, Norton said he will discuss how Herder contributed to Germany's distinct "Faustian" culture, which is "not compatible with some of the fundamen­tal ideals of the European Enlightenment," such as ideas of equal­ity, democracy and govern­mental organi­
Norton added that Sergre's presentation will center on physicists in Copenhagen who performed a parody of Faust that addressed developments in physics and science's moral bounds. 
"The question is whether they should pursue what's scientifically possible, as a scientist ought, or not !pur­sue itl for moral and ethical reasons because they real­ized the disturbing poten­tial of nuclear fission," he 
said.  
Hahn said that one  can  
connect  the  
risks  one  

takes when pursuing 

zation. "One of the !best] nuclear To connect physics to
things of the Faust 
Faust with Faust's story.
!theme] is it's not
today's world, "Nuclear Norton said confined to a single physics is, in that two pre­a way, a bar­
culture or a single
sentations will gain with the
theme."
encompass devil," he modern said. themes: Robert Norton The confer­Cambridge once will take
professor
Prol'essor p I a c e
German and Russian 
Nicholas Boyle's "Wagering on Modernity: Goethe's Eighteenth Century Faust" and University of Pennsylvania Prol'essor Gino Sergre's "Faust in Copenhagen." 
Boyle will discuss "the Faustian wager and rela­tion to questions on moder­nity," Norton said, and according to an abstract of the discussion, will explain how Goethe's Faust is a "modern, post-Christian" figure. 
throughout 
the day on 
Friday and 

Saturday in room 210 in McKenna Hall, and Friday's agenda will also inelude a prosentation on performing the opera Faust 1859 at Notro Damo by director Mark Beudert and Professor Scott Pratt of the University of Oregon. 
Tho schedule can be found online, at http://www.nd.edu/-faust. 

Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 




The Shirt 2008 
·-····--·-···-····-······--·····--·····················--···-····-·-·--·········----­
FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 2008 $15.00 
·-····--·---· -·--··-----···-·-··--·---·--·· ····-··-·---­
The Shirt To Be Revealed 
Friday, April 18, 2008 , The Shirt 2008 will be officially unveiled at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Highlights of the event are listed below. In the event of rain, the Unveiling Ceremony will be held inside of the 
Harnmes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
FREE BRATS & VitatninWater@ 4:30PM 
free food before the cerernony, while supplies last 
UNVEILING CEREMONY@ 6:00 PM 
featuring jpeech by Mike Golic and ~fficial unveiling 
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH ND ID 
pay just $11.00 for The Shirt when you show your valid Notre Dame Student !D. Friday onb, limit 2. 


Thursday, April 17, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,619.27 +256.80
:Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,813 71 551 4,260,362,877 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 NIKKEI ~fd~Q' ;\ llii}~iOliiill!!i~lii::;Jrl!iljll~ FTSE 100 (London) 65046.20 +139.30 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +2.71 +3.61 136.85 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.79 +1.23 45.37 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -+2.70 +0.67 25.46 INTEL CP (INTC) +5.83 +1.22 22.13 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +3.53 +0.126 3.696 13-WEEK BILL +1.36 +0.015 1.115 30-YEAR BOND +2.72 +0.120 4.525 5-YEAR NOTE +5.86 +0.156 2.820 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.14 114.93 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +16.30 948.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.80 78.15 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 101.8400 EURO 0.6270 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0004 BRITISH POUND 0.5070 
IN BRIEF 


Drug company cuts more than 500 jobs 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drug maker Eli Lilly and Co. plans to cut up to 500 jobs to streamline the manufacturing of some insulin products and the osteoporosis drug Forteo. 
The Indianapolis-based company offered a "voluntary exit program" to about 2,000 employees in central Indiana on Wednesday with a goal of trimming its work force by up to 500 people, spokesman Phil );3elt said. All the cuts will be made through the voluntary program, he said. 
"There's no plan right now to supplement it with a layoff or anything like that," he said. 
The voluntary program includes a sever­ance package based on the employees' length of service. Belt declined to offer more details. 
The actions come a month after the com­pany ended its development program for inhaled insulin. But Belt said productivity improvements drove the cuts. 
Proposal benefits bumped fliers 
WASIIINGTON -Like almost everything else related to air travel in recent weeks, gov­ernment proposals unveiled Wednesday ran­kled airlines and could be bittersweet for an already sour traveling public. 
Under one new rule, passengers who get bumped off overbooked flights will be eligible to receive twice as much compensation from 
U.S. airlines. But ticket prices are expected to spike as a result of another rule designed to ease congestion tied to the New York-area's clogged airports. 
The latest government action comes on the heels of maintenance-related investigations that unveiled a cozy relationship between car­riers and regulators. and led to the grounding of hundreds of planes and the grumbling of thousands of upended passengers. 
The industry has its own bittersweet sce­nario to stomach. Although there's never been a safer period in history to travel on domestic airlines,• they are buckling under record fuel prices and have fewer options available to ease financial losses. 
----~ 
i 
THE OBSERVER I USINESS I 
page 7 




Wall Street rallies after credit crisis 
Quarterly results from JP Morgan Chase and other industrials encourage investors 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rallied Wednesday after better-than-expected quarterly results from JPMorgan Chase and two other Dow Jones industrials raised investors' hopes that companies and the economy are indeed recovering from the protracted global credit crisis. The Dow rose more than 250 points as investors shrugged off any concerns about oil passing $115 a barrel for the first time. 
A market anxious about corporate earnings and their effect on the economy was relieved after JPMorgan Chase & Co., Coca-Cola Co. and Intel Corp. all topped first-quar­ter projections. The three companies are among dozens posting quarterly results Wednesday. 
The battered financial sector advanced after JPMorgan beat analysts' expectations despite a 50 percent drop in quarterly profit. The nation's third­biggest bank, which is in the process of acquiring ail­ing Bear Stearns Cos., reported $2.6 billion of write-downs tied to its loan portfolio. 

"You have a combination of JPMorgan and all these other strong earnings out there from a broad range Investors have been grow­pointed to widespread looked more attractive. The sectors, and that's helping ing more confident in recent weakening amid a softening yield on the benchmark 10­the buying we're seeing," weeks that the Federal labor market. year Treasury note, which said Todd Salamone, direc­Reserve's efforts to boost But neither those factors moves opposite its price, tor of trading and vice pres­the economy and the trou­nor a new trading high of rose to 3.71 percent from ident of research at bled credit markets are $115.07 for a barrel of oil 3.57 percent late Tuesday. Schaeffer's Investment working. Wednesday's earn­on the New York Mercantile Gold prices rose, and the­Research. "There's an ings reports bolstered that Exchange damped the mar­dollar was mostly lower unwinding of all the nega­sentiment. ket rally. against other major curren­tivity that we saw ahead of Along with earnings Oil prices rose after a gov­cies. the earnings season." results, Wall Street ernment report showed "The market has been 
Salamone and other ana­weighed sluggish economic crude inventories fell unex­worried about the U.S. con­lysts have been hoping that reports on inflation and pectedly last week, the sec­sumer being flat on his back strength in corporate earn­housing that were mostly ond straight weekly decline. for some time and the high ings would act as a catalyst within expectations. The Light, sweet crude settled price of oil feeds into for a significant rally; the Federal Reserve also up $1.14 at a record that,"said Kevin Gaughan, market has managed a released its Beige Book $114.93 a barrel on the portfolio manager and equi­choppy ascent since hitting report, an outline of region­Nymex. ty strategist at Wells Capital lows in early March. al economic activity that Bond prices fell as stocks Management in Milwaukee. 

Coca-Cola defends support of Olympics 
Isdell how Coca-Cola planned to since the flame embarked March 24
Associated Press 

address the concerns raised. on its 85,000-mile journey from 
ATLANTA -Coca-Cola gave "I don't believe that stopping the Ancient Olympia in Greece as part of investors Wednesday good news on torch run is in any way over the long­its 21-stop, six-continent tour. the profit front, then stood by its sup­run going to be the right thing to do," The torch relay is expected to end in port of the Summer Olympics in Isdell said. mainland China on May 4. The Beijing Beijing as vocal shareholders inside Pressed to agree to use the compa­Olympics start Aug. 8. and protesters outside the company's ny's influence to put pressure on the Earlier Wednesday, Coca-Cola annual meeting questioned the bever­Chinese government and Olympic offi­reported that its first-quarter profit age maker's business practices. cials, Isdell said flatly, "We are not a rose 19 percent due to acquisitions 
The company believes the torch political organization." and overseas growth, offsetting unim­relay as part of the run-up to the China was cited in Coke's earnings pressive results in its home North Olympics should continue, Chief report as a growing market for the America unit that were affected by Executive Neville Isdell said. company. fewer people going out to eat because 
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola is a corpo­The IOC has said it will review plans of fuel prices and the slowing U.S. rate sponsor of the torch relay. for the remainder of the Beijing economy. 
The relay has been disrupted in Olympic torch relay and consider The results beat Wall Street expecta­Greece, Istanbul, London, Paris and scrapping the international portion of tions. San Francisco by protesters opposed the event for future games. The world's biggest beverage com­to China's policies in Tibet and overall International Olympic Committee pany said its profit was $1.50 billion, human rights record. There has been officials have expressed concern about or 64 cents a share, in the three­no trouble at recent stops in the disruption caused by anti-Chinese month period ending March 28. That Argentina, Tanzania, Oman and protests during the relay. compared to a profit of $1.26 billion, Pakistan. The IOC has said there are no plans or 54 cents a share, a year earlier. 
At Coca-Cola's annual meeting in for canceling the rest of the relay, Excluding one-time items, Coca-Cola Wilmington, Del., a shareholder asked which has been a magnet for protests said it earned $1.58 billion. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
Sunday Open House 10am-5pm 


Come meet Chris Zorich this Sunday from 1 -3 pm at the fastest selling community in Michianal 


TRAVIS ALLEN!The Observer VIce president of Student Affairs, Father Mark Poorman, center, speaks about the media portrayal of attitudes toward women. 
Entourage 
continued from page 1 
with a few words regarding his time at Notre Dame. He attended Notre Dame before it beeame co-educational. 
"I went to Notre Dame at a time when it had no gender relations. There was only one gender. Since then, I've been making up .for lost time," joked Storin. 
After the episode screening, the panel members fielded questions from audience mem­bers and expressed their -own views on "Entourage" and men. 
"This show is about a very real phenomenon of male bond­ing; they like to travel in packs that are very male-centered, with women on the margin," Botting said. 
Botting also compared the four central characters and their agent to a family, with each playing different familial roles. 
"In this show, as in Ilollywood, females are pretty much eye candy, they're periph­eral. It automatically relegates all females to a lesser role," Fuentes said. 
llis words directly applied to the episode shown, in whieh two women propose having mutual sex in a "threesome" with a central character. 

"There aren't any strong female characters," Molitor agreed. 
"I have "to give thanks to this project for introducing me to a show I would probably not have sought out on my own," said Poorman to audience laughter. 
Kaveny commented on the immaturity of the four central characters, asking, "What comes after this for these char­acters?" 
She asked audience members to compare their adolescent relationships to the relationship between Abigail and John Adams as seen on the show "John Adams." 
"What would need to be true for these guys for them to have that kind of relationship?" she asked, expressing doubts that any of them could have such a relationship. 
"We're hoping to have stu­dents think more about gender issues. give them some food for thought," said Molitor of her involvement in the project. "It's interesting to see the interac­tions between men and women." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Stonebridge Villas at Edison Lakes Ranch Villas starting in the 190's 
625 Dublin Drive Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Call 574-247-0770 or e-mai1Jim@g90re.com 
Directions: Take Edison Road east, cross over Main Street at The Varsity Club then go one block to Park Place and turn right. The entrance to our community is just 200 yards down on the right side ofPark Place. 

l 

Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish Crossings Townhomes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east of the ND athletic fields, off Willis Street, these three and four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, induding a 42" flat panel HDTV. 
Geared for today's college student, and larger than an apartment, these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser. closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
large deck 


• 
Two-<.ar attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 


Strict covenants enforced. 

Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for Fall Semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261.3338 or email us at diane@irlsh<rossings.com. 


Join til 

Thursday, April 17, 2008 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Images show police armed for raid on polygamist retreat 
Associated Press 
SAN ANGELO, Texas -Police wore body armor, toted auto­matic weapons and were backed by an armored person­nel carrier for a raid on a West Texas polygamist retreat, pho­tos and video released Tuesday show. 
Four still photos and a slice of video were released to The Associated Press by Bod Parker, spokesman for the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, which owns the raided Yearning for Zion Hanch near San Angelo in Eldorado. 
Sect members took the photos and video during the first few days of a seven-day raid that involved police agencies from six counties, the Texas Rangers, the state highway patrol and wildlife officers. Authorities were looking for a teenage girl who had reported being abused by her 50-year-old husband. 
A sect member whose wife shot the video said sect mem­bers got the impression that state officials "were doing something more than they said they were going to do." The man declined to give his name for fear that speaking out would cause problems for his children, who are in state cus­tody. 
Tela Mange, a state Department of Public Safety spokeswoman, said officers are trained to protect themselves. 
"Whenever we serve a search 
warrant, no matter where or 
when, we are always as pre­
pared as possible so we can 
ensure the operational safety of 

the officers serving the war­
rant, as well as the safety of 
those who are on the property 

in question," Mange said. 
The armored car was precau­tionary and designed to remove 
The Temptationst 

someone from the property, not to force entry onto the ranch, she said. 
Parker said rumors have cir­culated since the 1950s that the FLDS would respond with vio­lence to threats on their way of life. "It's never been substanti­ated at all. Nobody who knows these people could possibly believe that," he said. 
"It's not in their nature," he said. 
Parker said that if there was any suggeston that the FLDS would respond to police with violence, there would have been a cache of firearms found during the raid. "Instead they responded by singing and pray­ing," he said. 
While there were hunting rifles at the ranch, search war­rants filed in district court in Tom Green County don't show that police seized any weapons. 
Eldorado is about 200 miles the FLDS ranch April 3, carry­ing a warrant seeking a 16­year-old girl who claimed she was trapped inside the church retreat and had been beaten and raped by her husband. The search also revealed that a soaring white limestone temple at the ranch held a bed where officials believe underage girls were required to consummate their spiritual marriages to much older men. 
More than 400 children -all of whom lived in the large, dor­mitory-style log homes -were seized in the raid on suspicion they were being sexually and physically abused. They are being held in the San Angelo Coliseum and are awaiting a massive court hearing Thursday that will begin to determine their fate. 
FLDS members carefully doc­umented the raid in notes, video and still pictures of police 

southeast of Waco, where fed­eral authorities tried to arrest Branch Davidian leader David Koresh for stock­piling guns and explosives in 1993. Four feder­al agents and six 
members  of  
Koresh's  sect  
died  in  the  
shootout  that  

ensued. After a 51-day standoff, Koresh and near­ly 80 followers died in an inferno that the govern­ment says was set by the Davidians but 
"Whenever we serve a search warrant, no matter where or when, we are always as prepared as possible so we can ensure the operational safety of the officers serving the warrant, as well as the safety ofthose who are on the property in question. , 
Tela Mange spokeswoman Department of Public Safety 
and child pro­tection workers talking with families, but much of that material was seized when police executed one of two search war­rants on the ranch, Parker 
said.  
"  We  '  v  e  
known from  a  

little bit of experience to document it and prepare to have that pre­sented in court or wherever it's to our ben­efit," said the 

that survivors say started when FLDS member who declined to authorities fired tear gas give his name. Law enforce­rounds into their compound. ment in Arizona and Utah raid­Law enforcement surrounded ed FLDS sites in 1935, 1944 
Mannheim 
& The Four Tops Steamroller 
Motown Legends[;; 11FreshAire Con 
Thursday, April17 Friday, April1 ......... 

UP€f)miRSI § 
and 1953. 
The 416 children held by Texas authorities had been accompanied by 139 women until Monday, when officials ordered all the women away except for those whose children are under 5. 
The mothers have complained the state deceived them, reveal­ing the plan only after they and their children boarded buses from historic Fort Concho, where they had been staying, to the larger San Angelo Coliseum. State officials defended that decision Tuesday. 
Texas Children's Protective Services spokeswoman Marleigh Meisner said officials decided that children are more truthful in interviews about possible abuse if their parents are not around. 
"I can tell you we believe the children who are victims of abuse or neglect, and particu­larly victims at the hands of their own parents, certainly are going to feel safer to tell their story when they don't have a parent there that's coaching them with how to respond," Meisner said. 

-Bm.eHt dinne:t• "'i.th burritos~-pupusas, churros,. chips and saba, virgin margaritas,. and much morel 

-Ente.r'tai:nm.ent galore: live music, dancing. trivia, prizes (including gift certificates to Chipotle), and a PINATA[ 
-Tickets are only $6 and all proceeds wUl go to St, Adalbert's Parish and No More Deaths! 
4 BR/1.5 BA Tri-Level in Great, Desired Neighborhood 2 Car Garage (Detached) NEW Windows, Roof, Siding-2007 Central Air and Furnace< 10 years old Taxes below $1,000 with exemptions Asking $115,000. Home must sell. Bring all offers! 
(574) 287-7395 -or-rjtraz@alumni.nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 17, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Stressing out with God 
P.O. Box 779, Norr< Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notr< Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAl;JNG EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
A.~S'I~ MANAl;JNG EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWI'OINT EmTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Hine 
SCENF. EmToR: T1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EI>ITOR: Li1. Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GI!AI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
Al>VERTI.\ING MANAGF.R: Jessica Cont:'L 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTRO!.UR: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(174) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.H-4541 obsmt#nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vitwpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
l'HE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverri.sements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right 10 refuse adwrtisements based on content. 
·1 'he news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of tlw majority ofthe Editor in Chict; Managing Editor, A.s_,istant Managing Ediwrs and department editors. Comrnentarit-s, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not nect'SSarily those ofThc ()bscrver. 
Vicwpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is cncouragea. Letters to the Ediwr must be signed and must include contact information. 
QuNtions rrgarding Observerpolicies sho11/d be dirrctd to Editor in ChiifChris Hinf. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'lh: 0h'ol:t¥l'f (llSJ".; '\1)9 2-40Ufl) ,.,,uNudiC(I Mund>~y rhmu~h Frido~y ntc:pt during ..:um .md v.H.<tliulljiC:IiuJ!'I. A BUil!l.l:nrunnmThc Oll<K:rvrr u SIUO ti.n nnt ;~~mit: 
)'c:'AI; $')C, fur unt:Jc;'/lll"''ICI 
·ntc 0\wcrver 11 puhli\hcJ Jl I'OSTMAHER 
UH Snuth DintnK Hall Send Jtldre .., cmrcctiilm m: 
Nmrc n.~mc, IN oifl~"ifi-On9 The OhM:rvcr 

llrnutlk~IJ•n''"F p.1.t1l "' Nor~ 0.1mc r.o.&~~:ni'J .md .:u.lditio>n.tl m.tilutK offica. 021 South Dmiug II.UI Nouc D•mc, IN 46';56-0779 
'llu: OllM:f"YC'I tl 11. member af the A»>.KI.ltfi:i Pn:a. All rqm>ducuun ttg.hu. arc re,..;:rvctl. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
It was at the Dillon Hall Mass at 
10:30 Sunday night when I first saw it. I opened the Eucharist with the Sign of the Cross, and as I looked up in greeting-"The Lord be with you" -it was staring back at me. Late-Fr. Lou DeiFra semester fatigue. And stress. You 
Faithpoint
mumbled "And also with you" with an energy and interest that reminded me of my last PLS Seminar before Senior Week -not a good time to assign The Brothers Karamazov. So, I mentally cut my homily in half, and doubled my volume, but the mes­sage was clear -"Father, we love Jesus, but unless lie's writing my papers this week, please keep it short!" 
I've always found it hard to know what to pray for during stressful days -and the last weeks of the semester are almost inevitably stressful -some of the most difficult days of the year. I often find myself, on days when the heat is on and I'm behind, sending up prayers or desperation -prayers that ultimately only feed my stress, and of course produce no paper-completing miracles. Days of performance­induced stress offer a particular spiri­tual challenge, and the way to meet that challenge is never clear. 
Why is it so hard to pray confidently during stressful times? Perhaps because, though Jesus does offer us a way of peace, it is not a simplistic way. On the one hand, Jesus continu­ally offers us words of comfort, like "Come to me all you who are bur­dened, and I will give you rest. For my burden is light." And many other con­soling words and images -Jesus calms the storm or "Do not let your hearts be troubled" and the like. 
But this is only part of his message. Pop spirituality books take snippets like these and offer whole "Guides to a Peaceful Life" from them-ignoring the Gospels' equally prevalent refer­ences to Jesus' sleepless nights, ardu­ous itinerant preaching, and the daily self-sacrifice he asks of us: "If you wish to follow me, be prepared to take up your daily cross." 

So, how to pray during stressful days? llow to take Christ's words of consolation seriously ("Take courage, for I have conquered the world"), allowing llim to calm our hearts ... While also hearing his call to the work and self-sacrifiee that ile invites, even needs, us to engage ("The harvest is plentiful but the workers are few"), allowing our hearts to embrace the challenges of our daily Jives? 
Perhaps one answer, which is not nearly as simple as it sounds, is to try not to allow either of these two reali­ties -Christ's consolation and Christ's call -to eclipse the other. The overemphasis of Christ's consola­tion, without any nod to his call to work on His behalf, leads to escapism -and often procrastination. And this, of course, just leads to more stress, rather than breaking us out of the stress cycle. On the other hand, the overemphasis of Christ's encourage­ment to sacrifice, without any experi­ence of Christ's constant and uncondi­tional love for us, can lead to an overblown sense of the work before us, a distorted view of why this work is important, inner anxiety, and even eventual burn-out. So, neither empha­sis on its own seems to bring true peace. 
We need to search for prayer that both reassures and provokes. That both calms and inspires. Helieves and strengthens. Puts our work into a proper perspective, and also awakens our desire, and galvanizes our energy, to engage the work. This is not easy or straightforward prayer. 
As always in prayer, our primary image of God is extremely determina­tive here. If we see God primarily as the Great Escape, someone to whom we run to make our troubles disap­pear, we set up the near-certain result of disappointment and increase of stress. Jesus constantly searches in prayer for the presence and eonsola­tion of his Father, and we ean see the peaee and boldness with which this Presence tills Jlim, espeeially at stressful moments. Yet, in these prayers, Jesus rawly asks llis Father to do things that make his life easier. Hather, He asks for the reassurance of God's presence and elarification of' God's will, or often asks the Father for the ability to complete works that relieve other people's sufferings. This understanding of his work as fitting into the plan of God, and as ultimately benefiting others besides himself, brings Jesus peace. 
If. on the other hand, our primary image of God is a Divine Taskmaster, who demands and aecepts only our continual excellent performance while contributing little to the endeavor­and for my fellow perfectionists, this is always a temptation-we run the risk of praying to a God who is merely a projeetion of our own ambitions, or other authority figures in our life. That our stress is not relieved by such prayer is hardly surprising. But this God too is not to be found in the prayers of Jesus. 
Jesus' prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane is a beautiful example for our purposes. For it seeks peace with­out escapism -"Father, if this cup can be taken from me . " Yet, it also asks for the perspective and hope that makes his work meaningful: "But reassure me of your will, and knowing that this work is in your plan, and will serve others, will be enough to give me P.eace and strength to carry it out. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director of Bible studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Mandi Stirone  Ellyn Michalak  
Marcela Berrios  Alex Barker  
Katlyn Smith  Sam Werner  Which do you prefer?  
Graphics Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint  Scene Cassie Belek  Blue Gold  "Political correctness is tyranny with manners."  
John Dailey  Pigtostal  Charlton Heston  
actor  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 17, 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The pragmatically pro-life party 
Instead of spewing propaganda and mean-spirited attacks. let's have a concrete discussion on how to make abortion really stop. That is, I implore fanatical pro-lifers to stop calling pro­choicers murderers or perpetrators of a modern holocaust. At the same time, fanatical pro-choicers should stop calling pro-lifers misogynistic or doctrinaire. 
Instead, we can all coalesce around a goal of trying to prevent people from ever wanting or thinking they need an abortion. This is not difficult, but does not begin with a simple law. Before explaining this, let's begin with why a simple law will not work. Suppose John McCain wins in November, various Supreme Court justices retire, staunch pro-lifers take their places and Roe v. Wade is over­turned so that all forms of abortion are now illegal. All is good right? Well, we must also take into account that during his first 4 years in office McCain has also kept us in Iraq and maintained a top-down fiscal policy. This in turn has further deteriorated our public school system, and made healthcare less available to children and the poor. 
Indeed, McCain was given the lowest rating of any senator by the Children's Defense Fund before becoming a pres­idential candidate. So in a grand irony, children are being sharply neg­lected after birth now instead of before. What's worse though is that their mothers, who have been denied a good education or any perceivable way to achieve success, are ten times more likely to want an abortion. Is there any evidence to back up this kind of picture? 
The 1990's marked a huge decline in abortion rate by every possible measure (see Center for Disease Control statistics: www.cdc.gov/mmwr/preview/mmwrht mllss5212al.htm). This was due to a coincident drop in teenage pregnancy. Tracing back further the decline we find at the same time public education was being heavily funded and student loan interest rates were at big time lows. These contribute<;! to less hope­lessness among teenage girls who dropped out of school less. On the other side, abortions by non-teens also dropped as people became more hopeful for their and their children's futures. So it would seem that sup­porting basic rights like education and healthcare leads to a more holistic solution. 
I conclude by pointing out a little parallel. We would all agree that stop­ping terrorists from crashing air­planes into our buildings would be a good thing. However, trying to go around the world shooting every potential terrorist is not the way to achieve this. Instead we should think about what American policies tend to build up the infrastructure of the world's poorest countries so that peo­ple are not desperate enough to join a radical terrorist group. Republican policies, at least recently, tend to be short-sighted. 
Andrew Dreyfuss graduate student off campus April16 

Electoral College needs to go 
As the primary season drags on and the election is upon us, I can't help but think of who our next president will be. It will bound to be a close election. If it is going to be so close, what if the worst happens again -we elect a president who did not win the popular vote. We are electing the "Leader of the Free World," but yet he or she could possibly not be elected demo­cratically, that is, by a majority. Isn't this a bit hypocritical? A majority of Americans did not get who they voted for. They were essentially cheated. 
Voting is our most important right as we are participating in our govern­mental process. Shouldn't it be fair? Shouldn't my vote count if I am a Republican in New York or California? Should I even bother voting if I am a Democrat in Texas? Why should the election be decided by the few lucky swing states? I believe the candidates running for president should appeal to all Americans, in every state, not just those states that are undecided. 
The Founders created the Electoral College for two reasons: one, because they did not trust the citizens to make an informed decision and two, because they thought since the U.S. was such a big country too many candidates would be nominated from each state and there would not be a majority candidate. I think this system is com­pletely outdated. 
First, we as citizens are intelligent and can make an informed decision as to who our President should be. We have evolved as a people to put greater trust in the masses, not the elite. 
Secondly, we are a unified nation and have a party system, both of which can produce a majority nomi­nee. All the Electoral College is doing now is infringing on our rights as Americans; it is violating our right to have a government run by the people. George W. Bush from 2001-2004 did not technically represent the will of the people since he was elected by the minority. Some argue that the Electoral College keeps campaign spending down since candidates only have to go to certain states. I believe our rights are more important. 
If you want to continue with this dis­cussion, go to the Pi Sigma Alpha Academic forum: "Should the Electoral College Be Abolished?" on Monday, April 21st at 5 p.m. in the Sorin Room in LaFortune. Four political science professors will be on the panel, includ­ing Dr. Peri Arnold, Dr. Louis Ayala, Patrick Flavin and Dr. Josh Kaplan. 
Maggie O'Connor junior Pangborn Hall Aprill6 

Thank you, 
student athletes 
Dear NO Student Athletes, 
I want to personally thank all of those student athletes that participated in the "Fit for Fun with the Irish" at the Michiana Family YMCA. Those Athletes who were at this special event showed their enthusiasm, spirit and caring to each of the young people who came through the doors of the YMCA on Saturday, April12. 
Special thanks to Harold Swanagan for all of his help in securing all of the ath­letes and his special help with the event. Notre Dame Athletes represented the four character values of the YMCA, Caring, Respect, Honesty and Responsibility, in the way that they handled themselves at this special Michiana Community Event. 
The Notre Dame Family should be very proud in the way that these athletes represented the University. Thank you all for being such great role models for our young people. Go Irish. 
Thomas J. Coxey Executive Director Michiana Family YMCA Aprill6 

Swinging for the Lord 
As we enjoy spring at Our Lady's University, we feel that there is something missing here, and it's something that really needs to be addressed. You've prob­ably already realized it on your own. If not, let us enlighten you: Notre Dame needs a swing set. Take a moment and consider the vital role that a swing set plays at a Catholic university. 
Part of what many of us value about Notre Dame is the strong sense of com­munity on our campus. But look at what is happening around you. People spend less time outside in God's creation, and more time tucked away in stinky dorm rooms. "Weee" is being replaced with "Wii." A swing set (or two or three) could help stem this tide of inactive, isolationist behavior. 
All you need to do is look at how perfectly having a swing set aligns with Catholic Social Teaching. 1. The Principl_e of Human Dignity -Each person has a claim on membership in a community (a.k.a. the Notre Dame family, a.k.a. the new civilization oflove). In the same way, each person at Notre Dame has a claim on the use of a campus swing set. 2. The Principle of Association-Every person is not only sacred but also social. A swing set with three swings is the perfect symbol of community, reminding us of the eternal loving community of the Holy Trinity. 3. The Principle of Participation-The swing set will tran­scend every barrier of language, race, and culture. John Paul II said so, and he is infallible. 4. The Principle of Preferential Protection for the Poor and Vulnerable-It's free, and it's fun. 5. The Principle of Solidarity-We are one human family gathered around a swing set; you push my back, I'll push yours. 
6. The Principle of Stewardship-Not only does swinging protect God's cre­ation (what greener form of recreation is there?), but each upswing brings you closer to the Lord. 7. The Principle of Human Equality-We're transcending barriers ... one size fits all people. 8. The Principle of the Common Good -As a sense of community is eroded, concern for the common good declines. 
It's only a few weeks until graduation, but we think this cause is worth invest­ing in without any further delay. Let us commit as a campus community to the procurement of a swing set. How about it Class of 2008? Notre Dame ... Fighting for a Swing Set. What would you fight for? 
Jessica Brock and Joni Michaud law students off campus April IS 
Frozen Four 
congratulations 
I would like to offer a hearty congratulations to Coach Jeff Jackson and the entire hockey program on a phenomenal season. I was lucky enough to attend the Frozen Four matches in Denver, and I wish I could properly convey the emo­tion of these thrilling contests. 
This team embodies the fighting spirit for which Notre Dame is so famous. How great it was to see our Irish so strongly supported, and that includes the terrific support from the 'other' NO-North Dakota. Kudos, also, to easily the best pep band of the Frozen Four teams. 
A sleeping giant has been brought out of his slumber, and Notre Dame hockey has arrived. I cannot wait to attend future Frozen Fours and cheer on our Irish. Go Irish! 
Patrick Reymann alumnus Class of 1987 April16 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, April 17, 2008 
British politics continue to fascinate ND Parliamentary interns 
STUDENTS LOOK BEYOND AMERICAN POLITICS 
By BOB COSTA 
Scene Writer 
Politics is a hot topic on the Notre Dame campus in 200'8. Yet, not all of the discus­sions are about Senators Clinton, Obama and McCain. For a small group of Notre Damn juniors and seniors. many political conversations an~ spent debating the legacy of Tony Blair or the political influence of Oasis on British culture. 
Bc1ycmd campus activi­
ties, Notre Dame students . "My favorite days Notre Dame's Parliamentary are involved in a myriad of were spent discussing internship program. political experiences 
politic~ and British

around the globe. What Gaining appreciation 
life with office staff

may be surprising to some Patrick Kaiser, a senior is that eight to 10 Notre and friends in majoring in political science Dame juniors each semes­and economies, worked for
Parliament." 

ter are interning in the Alun Michael, a Labour MP. llouse of Commons in "My favorite days were spent London as part of Notre Patrick Kaiser discussing polities and British Dame's London Program. Senior life with office staff and friends 
in Parliament," said Kaiser. Kaiser had 
Don't know what the House of Commons is? It's that British legislative body shown every week on C-SPAN -chock full of green­upholstered leather chairs -where politi­cians are funnier and louder than the sometimes tame C-SPAN drama of the U.S. House and Senate. In Britain, politicians boo and jeer each other publicly when they're angry. It's more like a pantomime and less like "The West Wing." 
Meeting the Prime Minister 
Junior Natassia Kwan spent last semester as an intern for Labour MP {Member of Parliament) Claire Curtis-Thomas in 
London. Kwan wasn't making coffee and copies during her London expe­rience; she was meeting with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown to talk public policy. 
Kwan spent much of last semester working on a project involving the group "Engineers Without Borders," spearheaded by Curtis-Thomas, an engi­neer herself. Prime Minister Brown was inter­ested in learning more details of her project. Kwan said she was not flxpecting Brown to shake her hand, out of protocol, but the Prime Minister, clad in a dark-suit with specks of grey in his hair, smiled and extended his hand warmly. 
"Gordon Brown was so nice," recalled Kwan. "I would like to think it is because I looked very professional with my business suit and designer scarf, clutching a large stack of papers and cradling a laptop in my arms," she said, laughing. 
Experiences like Kwan's are 
not out-of-the-ordinary in 
the special opportunity to ers on a continua
"The interaction with
attend a reception at 10 basis allowed me tc Downing Street when Tony British politicians, staff fully witness an< Blair was Prime Minister workers and voters on a experience Britisl last year. "I was able to hear culture and world·
continual basis allowed me
Blair speak and watch him view from new lens· interact with his friends in a to fully witness and es," said Yoshida. social setting, a side of poli­experience British culture H a h u ties the public rarely sees," Shewakramani, a sen
and worldview from new
said Kaiser. ior, interned for Davie
lenses.
Senior Dorea Jackson, Kidney MP in fat who interned for Ian Cawsey 2006. Shewakraman MP. said the internship gave Stephanie Yoshida said that Notre DamE her a greater appreciation London Progra
Senior 
"preti 
"/ was not simply a 
visiting student and 
Wuristbutla~ohadan 
inside perspective on the policies that affected every day life for British citizens." 
Dorea Jackson Senior 

and invited Kwan and her boss to his pri­vate parliamentary office in the House of Commons. 
Brown spoke briefly to Kwan about her studies at Notre Dame before delving into 
for both the tends to bP 
British and American political systems. 
"I was not simply a visit­ing student and tourist, but I also had an inside per­spective on the policies that affected every day life for British citizens," said Jackson. 
Jackson even had the opportunity to visit her MP's local constituency and be interviewed on local radio to explain the con­cept of Thanksgiving to 
Brits. 

Luke Derheimer, a junior, interned for Celia Barlow MP, a Labour Party politician. "The best thing for me," said Derheimer, "was the chance to attend the debate on the 
Queen's speech opening Parliament for th1 year, which was l"illed with funny storiB and witty exchanges." 
Learning new fields 
Senior Kathleen Sullivan, who internet for Shona Melssae, a Labour Ml', wa; inspired to study a now fiPld during he: internship. 
"Shona came in with the 1997 all-women Labour "This inleT short-lists, which wore 
of the im
extremely controversial," 
Notre
said Sullivan. "I looked into that controversy and internal ended up writing my sen­
students' f.
ior thesis on women's abil­ity to represent women in government." Dr.« 
Senior Stephanie Assistant Yoshida worked last 
UndE! 
spring for Liam Byrne MP, an Immigration Minister in the Labour government. 
"The interaction with British politicians staff workers and vot 
insular" since mo students "don't get to interact with ordin Londoners unless they have internships." 
Shewakramani was able to have len discussions with Kidney and ministers including Hilary Benn MP, Minister fo International Development at the time. 
"I was fascinated by the fact that as senior minister (Kidney] was traveling i coach class, without any security," reeou ed Shewakramani. "People gave him a lo of privacy. It really changed my percept of ministers and democracy -I'm fro India where all ministers have entourage of 20-30 people wherever th go, without a private moment on publi transport." 
Exploring International politics 
Dr. Cornelius ()'Boyle serves as 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
!hursday, Aprill7, 2008 
page 13 
Director of Notre Dame's London Program and has mentored many classes of Parliamentary interns. 
"This internship program is part of the internationalization of Notre Dame," said ()'Boyle. "It gives an international perspec­tive to students' political imaginations." 
O'Boyle noted in our interview that the internships are not just meant 
ip program is part for political sci­ence majors,
Jm'za~wn'auzal~wn of 

but have gone to English, Program of Liberal Studies, economics and pre-med majors, too. 
Suzanne Fox, a junior major­ing in theology and pre-med, 
interned in fall 2007 for David Mundell, the lone Conservative MP from Scotland. Sc~otland b!lgan a process of separation from England after the 1997 general elec­tion, often called "devolution." Fox was able to observe the often complicated rela­tionship between England and Scotland up­close. 
"I got lirst-hand experience with devolved politics," said Fox. "To put it lightly, I was thrown in head-first. By the end, I felt as though I had a very deep experiential grasp for what 'devolved' politics really looks like and what Scottish independence would mean for both England and Scotland." 
"[MP Mundell] and I would often swap views on the upcoming American election, favorite restaurants, plays, and films," said Fox. 
A "special relationship" 
Winston Churchill, the former British Prime Minister during World War II, once famously said that the friendship between Britain and America was a "special rela­tionship." 
For Notre Dame's many classes of parlia­mentary interns, that "special relationship" is redelined each year, said O'Boyle. 
"Brits have an enduring fascination with America," said O'Boyle, a Brit himself who previously spent many years on campus teaching at Notre Dame. "That fascination takes dil'ferent forms and shapes. It's gone from 'realpolitik' to cultural symbiosis." 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal @nd.edu 

new records lately and James Costa has remained largely 'Out of the eye of the 
Scene &
press, he has created 
Heard 

a blog. It's complete with home videos recorded on his digital camera, numerous photographs of' himself at home and wandering around New York City and even a few video productions with new music playing in the back­ground. 
Unfortunately, Adams has already decided to end the blog. However, unlike the video itself is quite typical of the style for the blog. It begins with little puppets named Wilson and Barnabus talking to each other on the screen, then it pans to Hyan seated in a chair as he flips through a notebook of new lyrics. Settling on the page he likes, he sings a stirringly simple and beautiful tune about lost love and the sad possibility of having to face life with a perspective rooted more in sorrow than joy. 
He sings, "All these streets I walk I they go I I live alone and in to bed I go again I I wish I could tell you just how I felt I I don't pray I I shower and say goodnight to myselfI And when I close my eyes I I feel like a page with a crossed out name." 
It's vintage Adams, recalling the "Heartbreaker" and "29" records that so 
masterfully documented a 
sense of misfortune set to 

time when he disabled Access Ryan Adams' beautiful music. his YouTube account, he Just before ending the 
blog at

has not deleted the blog blog, Adams also included 
www. dradamsfilms. com 
address and almost all a list of facts about him­
the information and media is still accessible. 
He cites the reason for disabling the account as: 'The sad truth is this blog, it's what happens when one day you don't have that person you talk to everyday anymore. They leave. And you get desper­ate. And pathetic. And you don't know who to talk to. Life goes on without you. That is what this is. This is a horrible loneliness. I hate it. I hate it so much I do it every day. So I quit." 
In case you're curious, the person that he doesn't have anymore is ex-girlfriend Jessica Joffe, a model for Banana Republic and a New York City writer. The couple split in January. 
While the ending to the blog has a decidedly melancholy spirit to it, there were plenty of light and happy moments that can still be seen. For example, Hyan called the blog "Foggy" and seemed to truly feel affectionately towards it. He even dedicated one of his new song videos called "Crossed Out Name" to Foggy. The self. A few were aimed at 
correcting long-mistaken public misconceptions about himself, including that he dated Alanis Morrisette and Winona Ryder and kicked someone out of a concert for yelling a request for the Bryan Adams song "Summer of '69." Furthermore, Adams writes that he has only dated five women in his life, has been sober for two years and is going deaf. The little bits of information are rare glimpses into the life of an artist who has become more and more private over the past few years. 
Hopefully he leaves the blog up forever. It provides a nice break from the day to have the chance to witness creativity in action from one of music's most prolific and genuine artists. So visit his blog. It's worth the time. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact James Costa atjcostaJ@nd.edu 
.­

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
MLB 

Webb stifles Giants, D-backs score easy win 
Bourn's horner lifts Astros to narrow win over the Phillies; Braves lose to Marlins, drop third consecutive game 
Stephen Drew in the fifth. 
Associated Press 

"It's just a fine line," Zito 
SAN FRANCISCO -The way said. "I feel good about the way hn was going and getting quick I'm throwing and have to stick outs, Brandon Webb thought with that." for sure hn would finish the Zito worked around Chris ganw. Young's leadoff single in the 
Wnbb pitched another gem first, then walked the first three and. for the first time, has batters of tho second to load
-
bngun a snason by winning his the bases and draw boos. The first four starts. Barry Zito on 2002 AL Cy Young winner with the othnr hand has lost his Oakland had only four total opening four starts for the first walks in his first three starts. time. AftHr Chris Snyder struck out, 
Webb and the Arizona Drew hit a shallow tly ball that Diamondba1:ks beat Zito's San kept the runner at third. Webb Franeisco Giants 4-1 on followed with his first hit of Wndnnsday in a matehup fea­2008 on a 2-0 pitch. Zito threw turing a pair of formnr Cy 38 of his 105 pitches in the Young award winners who inning. s1wm to be headnd in diffp,rent "It was a big inning for us, no dirnetions. outs, bases loaded," Webb said. 
"That's a good start," Webb "Being up there with two outs, I said. "It makes you fep,J confi­had to try to do something." dnnt." Zito allowed three earned 
Wnbb hit an Parly two-run runs, live hits and five walks in single and made it stand up. six innings _ and he has yet to Tlw 2006 NL Cy Young winner go more than six innings. Zito's gavn up three hits over eight 21 career April defeats are his innings and won his sixth most of any month and it's still straight outing since last his only losing month. 
....._ 
September. 

The sinkerballer struck out Astros 2, Phillies 1 the side in the first inning, Hoy Oswalt was back to his throwing 10 of his 11 pitches old self. mixing in nasty off­for strikes. IIe got through both speed pitches with a sharp fast­Wesley Wright struck out the troublesome. prising Florida. Jacobs hit his the fifth and sixth innings on ball. side in the eighth and Doug Hudson's fastball hit only 85 sixth home run, and Luis only live pitches each time, and Oswalt snapped out of an Brocail finished for his first mph. And Mike Jacobs hit it Gonzalez added a two-run wound up with live strikeouts. early funk with seven strong save sinee earning one with over the wall. pinch-hit homer, his first since 
"With 62 pitches through six innings, Michael Bourn hit a Texas in 2005. Valverde could­With Hudson unable to gener­1992. innings, I felt I was going to fin­tiebreaking solo homer and the n't proteet a 3-0 lead Tuesday ate his normal velocity, the The Marlins are last in the NL ish this thing, but I kind of got Houston Astros beat the night. He allowed two homers Florida Marlins took advantage in ERA but 9-0 when seoring at out of syne," Webb said. "A Philadelphia Phillies and a game-winning RBI dou­and beat the struggling Atlanta least four runs. They lead the eouple really quick innings, I Wednesday night. ble while recording just one Braves Wednesday night. NL East despite the lowest pay­was able to make pitches when "He was vintage Roy," Astros out. Hudson departed after only roll in the majors. they were swinging early." manager Cecil Cooper said. "He Valverde had a bullpen ses­three innings trailing 4-1. "It's a good win for us," 
Brandon Lyon finished for his kept the ball down, had a nice sion before the game, so "I felt all right physically," he Gonzalez said. "It keeps us third save in live chances. breaking ball and his fastball Cooper held him out until the said. "I just couldn't get any­rolling. We beat a pretty good 
Webb put Arizona ahead with was crisp. He pitched real next save situation. thing behind the ball. It was a pitcher tonight." his single in the seeond. Eric well." "He's our closer no question weird feeling. My heater's usu­Hudson usually throws in the Byrnes had an HBI double in Bourn connected off Kyle about it," Cooper said. ally a lot better than that." low 90s, but his fastball stayed the fifth that extended his hit­Kendrick {1-2) in the fifth The Phillies sorely missed Hudson (2-1) endured his in the 84-to 86-mph range. ting streak to 12 games, and inning to help beat his former 2007 NL MVP Jimmy Rollins, first poor start of the season, Cox and his staff, already deal­Orlando Hudson followed with teammates a night after the who was out of the starting allowing six hits. Manager ing with a wave of injuries, a run-seoring bloop single as Phillies scored four runs off lineup for the seventh straight Bobby Cox pulled the right­kept asking Hudson if some­Arizona improved to 11-4. eloser Jose Valverde to win in game because of a sprained left hander after only 58 pitches. thing was wrong. 
"We've done a little bit of the bottom of the ninth. ankle. Rollins won't return until "It was just one of those "J didn't know what to tell everything. To not just do it in Oswalt (1-3) finally looked Saturday at the earliest nights when his arm was kind them," Hudson said. "Nothing one fashion makes you feel that like a three-time All-Star because he's heading to of dead," Cox said. "I thought it was hurting.... Next time I'll on any day you have a ehanee instead of the worst pitcher in Oakland, Calif., to attend a might be a good time to give throw harder." to win," I>iamondbaeks manag­the NL. The right-hander gave funeral for an uncle. him a break." Hudson said his problem may er Bob Melvin said. "It's taken up one run and live hits to snap Rollins ripped a two-out sin­The Braves lost their third in have been a recent bout with everybody we have offensively a three-game skid and beat the gle as a pinch hitter in the a row and fell to 0-7 in one-run the flu. He lost for the first time to get us to the point we are, Phillies fur the sixth straight ninth inning. He hobbled to games. They're 2-7 on the in seven eareer starts in Miami, including Brandon Webb time. Oswalt came in first or first base and was replaced by road. where he had been 4-0. His today." tied for first in the league in pineh-runner So Taguchi. "How does the saying go? EHA rose from 2.14 to 3.38. 
Zito, the Giants' $126 million losses, runs and hits allowed. Brocail then struck out pinch­'You can't win the division in Jacobs, who came into the left-hander who went a career­"Hopefully I turned it hitter Greg Dobbs to end it. April, but you can lose it,"' left game tied for the NL lead in worst 11-13 last year, is still around," Oswalt said. "I felt fielder Matt Diaz said. "We home runs, hit a two-out homer searching for consisteney. After better. I wasn't overthrowing. I Marlins 6, Braves 5 have to make sure we don't do off Hudson in the third inning. Webb's two-out, two-run single, feel when I have my eurveball, I Tim Hudson threw as hard as that." It was only the second homer he recorded seven straight outs should be able to get to the he could, and for the Atlanta Mark Hendrickson (3-1) won allowed by a Braves starter this before a leadoff single by eighth or ninth inning." Braves, the result was doubly his third start in a row for sur-year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 l.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE· $74,500! Updated 2BR, Finished For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to 1 OR 2 Bdrm apl.in historic neigh-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? APPT. flexible, no exp. nee, cus-Lower Level! N.D., student neighborhood, central borhood. One mile to NO. Laundry Do not go it alone. 
NOTICES tamer sales/service, cond. apply, Minutes to Campus & UP Mall, air, new appliances, very nice. 289-& security. $510/mo. Call574-532-If you or someone you love needs ages 17+, positions available Bookcases, Hardwood floors, 4071. 8718. confidential support or assistance, throughout US & Canada, Fenced yd + more! please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­
BElGER MANSION in Mishawaka -www. workforstudents.com Sweet Home! Bobbie Van Osdal C-DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease 2008-3 bdrm homes & 1 bdrm apts. Close 7819. 
7 rooms available for grad week-21 Jim Dunfee Realty 574-235-2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest & most to NO. For more information, visit our web-
end. All private baths. www.beiger-Summer daycare in my home for 3075. private. Call Diane 574-261-3338. Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email: site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­
mansion.com or call574-255-6300 children ages 5 & 8. greatlakespg@ gmail.com ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-
Ron. Need dependable. energetic stu-Subaru 99 Forester/great condi-OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: Nice weekly ad in The Observer. dent available M-F. 7:30-5:30, tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6,500/2 house for rent 1/2 mile from cam­$250/wk. 247-1258 or jkerwin@ 34-2104. pus. 3 bedrooms and 2 full baths, If you or someone you care about
PERSONAL

PERSONAL memorialsb.org A/C. Must see! Call Darin at 574-has been sexually assaulted. visit 631-2721. http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-shtml
FOR RENT

New student needs good laptop. 54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend 3 ONE WHO IS?
FoR SALE
574-993-8733. bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house You do not have to be alone. We PEACE Patrick! 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for near NO, behind Nicks Patio. want to help. Need reasonable. dependable lawn-Condo For Sale. Close to NO. Quiet 08/09,09/10 Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage, Call our 24 hour confidential hotline care person. Call Sue 233-7719 or community-beautifully cared for. Now offering "flex" leases $725/mo. $250 security deposit. at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web 
lv. message. Contact Paul @ 574-993-5858. bluegoldrentals.com jimc343@yahoo.com site at www.lifecall.org John Rowley IV for President 2025. 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 17, 2008 
ESPN.comjUSA Today Softball Top 25 

rank team record previous 
1 Arizona State 46-3 2 2 Alabama 41-2 3 3 Florida 46-2 4 4 UCLA 36·5 1 5 Michigan 38·4 5 6 TexasA&M 39-6 6 7 Arizona 29-12 7 8 Stanford 37-7 8 9 Tennessee 40-7 10 10 Houston 37-5 11 11 Oklahoma 35-11 9 12 Fresno State 39-8 12 13 Northwestern 23-10 14 14 Long Beach State 31-11 15 15 Hawaii 31-11 16 16 LSU 32-12 13 17 North Carolina 40-8-1 17 18 UL Lafayette 31-10 21 19 Virginia Tech 32-11 20 20 Washington 25-14-1 23 21 California 34-16 22 22 San Diego Stale 30-13 18 23 Georgia 35-16 19 24 Mississippi Slate 35-15 24 25 DePaul 27-12 25 
ESPN.com/USA Today Baseball Top 25 
rank team record previous 
1 Miami {fl) 30-3 2 Florida Stale 31·3 3 Arizona Slate 30-4 4 North Carolina 29·7 5 UC Irvine 23-6 6 Wichita State 27·5 7 Rice 27-10 8 TexasA&M 30-6 9 Nebraska 25·6'1 10 South carolina 25·10 11 Missouri 25•9 12 California 23·9·2 13 Georgia 23•12 
::<#:·

14 Vanderbilt 24·10 15 Texas 23•12 
10 16 Stanford 17·11-1 15 17 Ole Miss 24-12 18 18 Oklahoma Slate 23-10 25 19· Virginia 29·9 24 20 Coastal Carolina 28-7 22 21 San Diego 27-11 NR 22 Cal State Fullerton 20-12 20 23 Kentucky 26·8 13 24 Florida 24-12 21 25 Long Beach State 19-14 16 
MIAA Women's Softball Conference Standings 
team conference overall 
Alma 8-1 18-6 Tri-State 5-1 21-3 SAINT MARY'S 6·2 17-6 Hope 5·3 19-8 Adrian 6·4 18-14 Olivet 4-5 9-16 Albion 3-9 12-13 Calvin 3·9 9-20 Kalamazoo 1-7 2-16 
around the dial 
NHL PLAYOFFS Washington vs. Philadelphia 7 p.m., Versus 
Calgary vs. San Jose 10 p.m., Versus 
MLS 

Columbus Crew vs. D.C. United 7 p.m., ESPN2 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
PGA 
page 15 

standing behind the 18th green remarked, "He just won two tournaments with one round." 
Indeed, Woods went on to an eight-shot victory in his 2008 debut, the first of four straight victories this year. 
But it was not necessarily a pain-free affair. 
"Tiger has been experienc­ing pain in hls knee since the middle of last year, and when he had it looked at by hls doctors, arthroscopic sur­gery was recommended," _,. said Mark Steinberg, Woods' agent at IMG. "Tiger has played through the pain in the past, but knew it would be better for him to have the procedure done as early as possible." 

Associated Press 
The U.S. Open figured to be the closest to a sure thing for Tiger Woods in the majors this year, but maybe not anymore. 
Two days after his quest for a Grand Slam fizzled at the Masters, Woods had arthroscopic surgery on hls left knee for the second time in five years and will miss at least four weeks while he recovers. 
The announcement, which Woods made Tuesday night on his Web site, was a sur­prise to everyone except those around him. 
"He's been having a lot of trouble," swing coach Hank Haney said. "He doesn't talk about stuff like that. He does­n't want to use excuses, you know? I don't think it affect­ed his play. It affected his practice a little bit." 

Tuesday's surgery was performed in Park City, Utah, by Thomas Rosenberg, who also operated on Woods' left knee in December 2002. Woods also had surgery in 1994 on his left knee to remove a benign tumor. 
"I made the decision to deal with the pain and schedule the surgery for after the Masters," Woods said on his Web site. "The upside is that I have been through this process before and know how to handle it. I look forward to working through the rehabilitation 
IN BRIEF Massu defeats Querrey in 
Oay Court ChampiOnship 
HOUSTON -Nicolas Massu rallied to beat fourth-seeded Sam Querrey 5­7, 6-4, 6-4 Wednesday and advance to the second round of the U.S. Men's Clay Court Championship. 
The Chilean and Querrey traded breaks early in the third set but Massu, who is ranked No. 108, broke the American in the ninth game to serve for the match at 5-4. Massu won four straight points to claim the win. 
Querrey, ranked No. 50, hit a return of serve long to end the match. 
"It could have gone either way there," said Querrey, who got only 44 percent of his first serves in. "I didn't serve my best. Other than that it was pretty good. I'm not too disappoint­ed." 
Top-seeded James Blake was scheduled to play Japan's Kei Nishikori, a wild card entry, in a first­round match Wednesday night. 
process and getting back to action as quickly as I can." 
But he will not be able to defend hls title in two weeks at the Wachovia Championship. And he most likely will miss The Players Championship the week after, one of only three non­majors he has never missed since turning pro. Provided rehab goes as expected, Woods hopes to return at the Memorial on May 29. 
The U.S. Open begins June 12 at Torrey Pines, where Woods has won six times in the Buick Invitational. Such is hls dominance on the cliff­side course north of San Diego that when he opened with a 67 on the South Course this year, a caddie 

USADA to launch body
chemistry tests 
CHICAGO-The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency has launched the opening phase of a voluntary pilot program it hopes will improve the accuracy of doping tests. 
The anti-doping agency will pro­file the body chemistry of 12 partic­ipating athletes using a series of blood and urine tests, and those measurements will be used as a baseline for subsequent tests. 
The program was described to The Associated Press by two people familiar with it, but who did not want to be identified because final details are still being worked out. 
At a news conference Wednesday, track -athletes Bryan Clay and Allyson Felix each announced they were part of the project, called "Project Believe." 
Cyclist Kristin Armstrong had previously told AP she was asked to join a USADA pilot program. 
Pats' Wilfork raising money
for diabetes researcb 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -Vince Wilfork's father was so weak from dia­betes that he couldn't walk. So the boy who would grow into a 325-pound nose tackle would carry him to the bathroom. 
Then, just before his sophomore year in college, hls father died of com­plications of the disease. David Wilfork Sr. was48. 
Vince has seen the devastation _ physical and emotional _ that diabetes can bring. So the New England Patriots nose tackle will spend the first day of the NFL draft at his annual bowling party and fundraiser for research into it. 
''I'm very blessed. I'm pretty healthy, my wife's pretty healthy, my kids are healthy," Wilfork said. "Seeing a kid go through what I've seen my father go through for 12 or so years, that's very touching to me. I've made it my point to do something about it." 
Thursday, April 17, 2008 


Close by campus, Martin's has what you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar New Sandwich Express mode-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh daily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Ponini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts mode fresh daily in store College logo cakes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, just like homemade ATM, stamps ond·packoge shipping services Party supplies 
Toll Road 


martini' 
Count On Us! 
www.martins-supermarkets.com 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Thursday, April 17, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

South Bend Plymouth Elkhart 
1440 Nappanee Street

52803 U.S. 33 North ~ 2021 North Michigan ~ 4852 Western Avenue 2037 U.S. 31 2715 Cassopolis Road 
834 E. Beardsley Street~ 2171 South Bend Avenue 

La Porte 
3413 South Main Street~ 121 W. LaSalle Avenue 

1434 East Lincoln Way ~ 11131reland Road 
1012 State Rd. #2 West 
Other Area Locations 

~ 3403 Portage Avenue Southwest Michigan 1436 West Plymouth Street, Bremen Mishawaka ~ 2035 S. M-139, Benton Harbor 12757 State Road #23, Granger ~ 5809 Grape Road ~ 1945 Pipestone Road, Benton Harbor ~ 806 South Heaton St., Knox 903 Spruce Street, Dowagiac
S' 2801 Lincoln Way East 1205 East Market Street, Nappanee
2701 South 11th Street, Niles 608 West Talmer Ave., North Judson
Goshen 752 LaGrange, South Haven 5202 East 1200 North, Syracuse
~ 1709 Elkhart Road 4626 Red Arrow Hwy., Stevensville S' 1911 Lincoln Way East ~ 2051 Washington Ave., St. Joseph 10013 West U.S. Hwy. 30, Wanatah 4014 Elkhart Road 3733 North M-140, Watervliet ~ 2920 Frontage Road, Warsaw 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish begin Big East title defense 
Ian 

Senior Andrew Roth winds up for a return during Notre Dame's 4-3 loss against William and Mary on April 6. 
weather.
By KATE GRABAREK 
"When you throw in the 
Sports Writer 
wild card of 85-90 degree 
heat, it is difficult to predict 
The No. 33 Irish will look to ·how any of the teams will do," retain last year's Big East title Bayliss said. "Naturally, South as they open the tournament Florida will be tough at in Tampa, Fla. today. home." 
The Irish earned a hard With the exception of fought victory over confer­Louisville, the Irish have yet ence rival Louisville on to face any Big East oppo­Sunday by a score of 4-3. The nents this season. Bayliss match featured the top two noted that South Florida is teams in the Big East. While tough team with many experi­the Irish clinched the match enced players and Louisville early, they lost a couple of is talented and capable of close three-setters. winning the tournament. He 
"I am optimistic that we can also feels the Irish are in a play consistent and aggressive position to recapture the title. doubles," coach Bobby Bayliss The Irish lost to Michigan said. "Couple that with a this past weekend, who had strong middle lineup pres­been ranked in the top 10 ence, and if we achieve this nationally throughout the sea­we will be tough to beat." son. 
Freshman Dan Stahl came "I believe we responded to up with two big wins this past the loss to Michigan very weekend, and will continue to well," Bayliss said. "They are be relied on to help even out a veteran squad with good the balance in the lineup balance top to bottom. We Bayliss said. played a strong match but lost 
"The talent level of the all the three setters." freshman is pretty good," Overall Bayliss is pleased Bayliss said. "They remind with this year's team and the me a lot of last year's seniors way the season has played at this stage." out. Bayliss noted that the 
Early in the year the Irish freshman came in and formed won many close matches but a very strong bond with the lately struggled in several rest of the team. matches down the stretch. While the Irish will look for Bayliss noted that the squad the freshman to pull out some beat a number of quality close matches and show some teams early in the season and maturity this weekend, they now the close matches have also have some reliable veter­added losses to its record. He ans to help pull through. also noted that the team has "We are counting on our regained some confidence veterans to lead the way," now heading into the tourna­Bayliss said. "Sheeva [Parbhu] ment. is playing at a consistent 
Because of the unpre­level, and Brett [Helgeson] dictable South Bend weather, has made some great strides. the Irish have not had much On top of them Andrew [Roth] experience playing outdoors played as well against this season. This weekend's Louisville as he has all year." tournament will be played in Tampa where the Irish play­Contact Kate Grabarek at kgra­ers are not accustomed to the baO1@saintmarys.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Fonner UK guard to take over at OSU 
Cowboys name UMass' Travis Ford next coach 
from Big East school Providence, and UMass athletic director John McCutcheon announced that Ford had agreed to a new contract. Six days later, Ford was preparing to move on. 
Oklahoma State's last major coaching search also ended with a Kentucky connection, with Eddie Sutton returning home to his alma mater and prodaiming himself clean after running into trouble with NCAA violations and alcoholism. 
The Cowboys went to the NCAA tournament in 13 of the next 16 seasons _ including Final Four appearances in 1995 and 2004 _ before the elder Sutton stepped aside following a drunk-driving accident in 2006. 
The Cowboys ended that sea­son with a first-round loss in the NIT under Sean Sutton, who had played for his father at Kentucky and Oklahoma State before becoming an assistant on his coaching staff. That season and the next two all ended with first-round exits in the NIT. 
Upon announcing Sean Sutton's resignation, athletic director Mike Holder ealled him a victim of the expectations set by his father. 
Ford, though, also has strug­gled to get into the NCAA tour­nament on a regular basis. As a coach, his only appearance in the NCAAs came in his final year at Eastern Kentucky in 2005. 
Oklahoma State originally pur­sued Kansas coach Bill Self for the position, but he turned down his alma mater last week and instead signed an extension to remain with the national cham­pion Jayhawks. 

Associated Press 
OKLAIIOMA CITY Oklahoma State will turn to another coach with Kentucky ties to restore postseason sue­cess to its basketball program. 
Massachusetts coach Travis Ford, a former Wildcats guard, agreod Wmlnesday to coach the Cowboys. Oklahoma State con­firmed the hiring and planned a Thursday news conference to formally introduce him. 
Ford will replace Sean Sutton, who resigned under pressure April 1 after leading the Cowboys to first-round NIT loss­es in his only two full seasons as head coach. 
The 3H-year-old Ford led UMass to a 25-11 record this season and an appearance in the NIT championship game, whern it lost to Ohio State. I le directnd tlw Minutemen to a 62­35 mark in three seasons, induding NIT bids the past two seasons. 
But his roots run back to Kentucky. 
lie grew up in Madisonville, Ky., and started his college ~~arner at Missouri before trans­ferring to Kentucky after Eddie Sutton left the school and eventually returned to Oklahoma State, his alma mater. 
Ford then got his first major head coaching position at Eastern Kentucky and guided the losing program to its first NCAA tournament appearance in 26 years. lie parlayed that first-round loss to Kentucky in 2005 into the Massachusetts job, and it app!;ared as recently as last week that he would remain with the Minutemen. 
Ford turrwd down a job ofl'er 
_.4 · 
~.......JJllf"fIlleIJ s 
NBA 

Detroit ends season with victory 
Orlando starters rest during blowout victory over Washington 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -Chauncey Billups looked up from his chair in Detroit's crowded locker room and addressed the days ahead. 
"The real season," he said, "is about to start." Playoff time. For the Pistons, that's all that matters. 
With its reserves playing most of the minutes, Detroit closed the regular-season Wednesday night with an 84­7 4 win over the Cleveland Cavaliers, the team that beat the Pistons four straight times last season and denied them a trip to the NBA finals. 
One year earlier, the Pistons didn't reach their goal of a title when they were eliminat­ed by Miami. 


Billups can't imagine com­ing up short again. 
"We know what it's like to lose, and how we've lost the last two seasons," he said. "Hopefully we won't have that feeling again." 
For the finale, LeBron James rested his back _ and sat on his scoring title. Cleveland's All-Star forward spent the game in street elothes, resting up for a first­round matchup with Washington. 
Rookie Aaron Afflalo scored 15 points, Jason Maxiell had 13 and Rodney Stuckey 12 for the Pistons, who will meet the Philadelphia 76ers in the first round starting Sunday. 
Wally Szczerbiak, who has struggled to find his shooting touch since coming to Cleveland in a trade, scored 18 points to paee the Cavaliers. Delonte West, another of the newer Cavaliers, added 11 points and Dwayne Jones had 10 rebounds. 

Apply Today 
AP Pistons' guard Richard Hamilton, left, goes up for a layup dur­ing Detroit's 84-74 win over Cleveland Wednesday. 
Not wanting to risk injury to James or center Zydrunas Ilgauskas, Cavaliers coach Mike Brown didn't activate his two best players so they'd be ready for the Wizards. 
Although he didn't play, James finished the season as the league's scoring champion _ a first for a Cavaliers player. The 23-year-old averaged 
30.0 points, 7.9 rebounds and 
7.2 assists, becoming the first player to average those stats since Michael Jordan in 1988­89. 
James, Jordan and Oscar Robertson are the only play­ers to average 30-7-7 in a season. 
All those stats will be mean­ingless beginning this week­end, when the Cavaliers attempt a second run at the Eastern Conference champi­onship. 
"We're ready," Cavs guard 

Limited Space AvailaiJie!!! 
*Offering 6, 9 &12 month leases! *Gated Community with Night Watchmen! *Free Application Fee for Students! *Close to campus! *Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball Courts! *Free Tanning/Fitness Center! *Community Business Center/Free Internet! *Heated Pool! *Now leasing for 2008-2009! *Close to everything.. .far from ordinary! 
1.801.1. Cl.e-vel..a:.nd Rd _ South Bend, IN 466.3 7 .P.ho.ne: l574) 2 '12 -81.1.0 Fax: l5'14) 2 '12 -81.1.4 
Yn~V _ cppj _Cl(lfil" 
Daniel Gibson said. "We know what it takes and we can't wait to get it started." 
Magic 103, Wizards 83 
The Orlando Magie paid 
more attention to the guy try­
ing to make a half-court shot 
for $100,000 than their coach 
during a third-quarter time­
out Wednesday night. 
They couldn't be blamed. The game didn't matter to them or the Washington Wizards, anyway. 
J.J. Hedick scored a career­high 18 points and Marcin Gortat had a career-high 12 points and 11 rebounds, lead­ing the Magic to a victory in a meaningless regular-season finale for two playoff-bound teams. 
Both teams rested their stars. Gilbert Arenas, Caron Butler and Antawn Jamison didn't play at all for the Wizards. and Orlando coach Stan Van Gundy pulled Dwight Howard after the first quarter, then Rashard Lewis and Hedo Turkoglu at halftime. 
"We wanted to obviously limit the minutes on some of our main guys and get a lot of minutes for some of the other guys," Van Gundy said. "And they played real well on top of 

it... Andray Blatehe Jed Washington with 20 points and 11 rebounds, while Nick Young scored 14. Darius Songaila, Roger Mason and Oleksiy Pecherov each scored 10 points for the Wizards, and Pecherov had a career-high 10 rebounds. Lewis had 15 points in 17 minutes. Redick, a Magic fan favorite who rarely gets off the bench, was 0-for-5 from the field to start, but finished 7 -for-14. Turkoglu seored 11 points and Keith Bogans added 10. The Magic, the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference, will host the No. 6 Toronto Raptors in the first round of the playoffs, while No. 5 Washington will play at No. 4 Cleveland. "Our young guys had a chance to play a little bit, and now it's time for the big dogs to start hunting," Washington coach Eddie Jordan said. "The playoffs start and our top eight or nine guys seem to be ready and healthy." 

Thursday, April 17, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

~,.._.,..,../'./' 

JOIN US AT DINNER ON THURSDAY, APRil 11TH, FOR DHICIOUS HERSHEY'S ENTREES AND DESSERTS, THE LAR,EST SUNDAE BAR YOU'VE EYER SEEN, AND ACHANCE TO WIN HERSHEY'S PRIUS! 
Chili con Cocoa Chocolate Iced Coffee Chocolate Bliss Warldorf Salad Grilled S'mores Waffie Sandwich Thai Chicken Pizza Thai Noodles Cocoa Honey-Glazed Carrots Roasted Vegetables Toffee Crusted Chicken Breast Hershey's Tacos Herb & Chocolate Roast Pork Cocoa Spice Dusted Tilapia Pineapple Bread Pudding Oatmeal Toffee Cookie Hershey's Premier White Chips 
& Macadamia Cookie Cakey Chocolate Chip Bar Kaleidoscope Treats Double Chocolate York Peppermint Patty Sauce Chocolate Fountain Peanut Butter Chocolate Swirl Cheesecake Reese's Peanut Butter Carrot Cake Easy Bake Brownie Pie 

with Strawberry Cream Topping 
N*RTH 
FOOD COURT 

NHL 
Staal's goal pushes Rangers past Devils 
Crosby, Malkin lead Penguins to series sweep 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Marc Staal scored his second straight game-winner. This time he did it into the right net. 
The rookie defenseman pushed the New York Rangers within a win of the second round with a good old slap shot. The timing couldn't have better. 
Just three days after a puck clipped his skate and went in for New Jersey's winning goal in overtime of Game 3, Staal snapped a tie with 3:13 left to give the Rangers a 5-3 victory over the Devils and a 3-1 series lead Wednesday night. 
"You couldn't get much lower than last game. To silence 20,000 people is not a good feeling," Staal said of New York's 4-3 home loss in Game 3. "This is unbelievable to get them back on their feet." 
No tricks or funky screens were needed to beat Martin Brodeur and the Devils this time. Staal's official first NHL playoff goal was the result of simply putting the puck on net. 
"I was thinking shoot right away," Staal said. "I tried to shoot it to the far post and it just went in." 
The 21-year-old Staal bounced back quickly. He had help in the form of text mes­sages from his NHL-playing brothers -Eric of the Carolina Hurricanes, and Jordan of the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
"They said don't worry about it," Staal recalled. "All the guys were understanding about what happened and what kind of goal it was." 
Scott Gomez had two goals and, Martin Straka and Chris Drury also scored for the Rangers, who could end the series Friday with a win at New Jersey. New York took the first two games there before split­ting two at home. 
ATTENTION FACULTY & STAFF 
EARN $500 PROFIT WITH NO INVESTMENT! CALL TODAY FOR DETAILS 
234-5650 

PREFERRED TICKETS 
Straka also made the pass to Staal to set up the winning shot. The play resulted from a miscommunication between Devils forward Patrik Elias and defenseman Colin White. 
"I don't know what hap­pened," Elias said. "I had time, I had the puck on my stick. It's the second time that's hap­pened in the series. A bad mis­take at a bad time." 
Penguins 3, Senators 1 
The Pittsburgh Penguins were on the happy side of the tradi­tional handshake line at the end of this year's playoff series with the Ottawa Senators. 
Evgeni Malkin and Jarko Ruutu scored second-period goals, leading Pittsburgh to a win over Ottawa on Wednesday night to complete a four-game sweep of their first-round series. 
Sidney Crosby scored into an empty net with 7. 5 seconds remaining and had an assist, and Marc-Andre Fleury made 21 saves for the Penguins, who got their first sweep in 16 years and their first playoff series win since 2001. 
"It feels great," Crosby said. "Obviously it was a different sit­uation last year and we defi­nitely went through some learning experiences there, but we responded well here in the first round." 
The young Penguins were knocked out of last year's play­offs in five games by the Senators. Ottawa went on to make its first Stanley Cup finals appearance in modern fran­chise history, losing in five to Anaheim. 
"They handled us pretty well last year," Crosby said. "They were physical and they were hard on us and to be able to come back this year and learn from our mistakes and be bet­ter for it and get a win here feels good for sure." 


5x10...$169 +DEP 10x10...$219 +DEP 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
NIU 
continued from page 24 
"The moment of silence was very special. That's when it really hit me that I'm glad we're here doing this." 
The game got off to a rough start for the Irish and fresh­man starter Hyan Sharpley, who struggled with his control 

"The moment of
early. After 

Notre Dame silence was very went down its special."order in the top of the first, the 
Dave Schrage 
Huskies loaded the bases with Irish coach 
none out in the 
bottom of the inning. 
Northnrn Illinois designated hitter Jason Behm then laced a sin­gle up the middln to put the II uskies on the board 1-0. Sharpley managed to retire the next three hittnrs, but not before allowing another run to scorn on a sacrifice fly. 
Northern Illinois lefty Matt Jernstad was effective early, holding thn Irish seoreless through thren innings and 
taking the 2-0 lead. Notre Dame brokn through in the fourth, how­ever, beginning with a double from junior see­ond baseman .Jeremy Barnes. Senior outfielder Hoss Brezovsky followed with a deep double to the right field 

"/ was lucky enough to hit /a home run/ in a big league ball park, it's a dream come true" 
Jeremy Barnes Irish second baseman 
win, pitching 
Eastern Conference and a first­
scoreless 
round playoff matchup with 
innings in 
Orlando locked up, the Haptors 
the sixth and 
used their starters sparingly. 
seventh with 
Ford made the most of his 
two strike­
time, shooting 7 -for-9 -and 6­
outs. Senior 
for-8 while scoring 16 in the 
pitcher Tony 
first quarter. Chris Bosh fin­
Langford 
ished with eight points in 15 
pitched a 1­
minutes. 
2-3 eighth 
Andrea Bargnani came off 
inning and 
the bench and scored 13, while 
junior Kyle 
Kris Humphries added 14 
Weiland 
points for the Haptors (41-41}. 
wall, but Barnes could only advance to third on the play. Senior catcher Scan Gaston blasted a single up the mid­dle to drive home both run­ners and tie the game at two. 
The Huskies were able to regain the lead in the bottom of the inning, using smart base-running to capitalize on Irish mistakes. NIU outfielder Danny Heed sin­
to give the 
Huskies a one-run edge. 
Notre Dame rallied back in the top of the fifth. Sophomore center fielder 
A.J. Pollock drove in senior shortstop Brett Lilley on a sac fly after Lilley had led off the inning with a double. 
Barnes then decimated a two-out pitch over the right field wall, giving the Irish a 4-3 lead on a solo shot esti­mated at 368-feet. 
"I wanted to go out there and stick with a good approach," Barnes said. "I was lucky enough to hit [a home run! in a big league 

NBA

ballpark, it's a dream come true." Freshman Evan Danieli relieved Sharpley in the hot­
Bulls, Tho111as dominate Raptors
tom of the fifth, and like 
Sharpley, struggled to main­tain his control. Danieli 
Associated Press 

walked the first batter he faced and then hit two more 
CHICAGO -Long after the Huskies batsmen to load the 
final buzzer sounded, Ben 

Huskies Minogue 
long run under the ball but could not make the catch, allowing Barnes to advance all the way to third on the error. Barnes then came home to seore the winning run on a Brezovsky ground­out. 
Sophomore reliever Stephen Mazur picked up the 
secured the win in tho ninth to pick up his sixth save of the season. 
Barnes led the Irish offen­sively, going 3-for-4 with an HBI and three runs scored, including the winning run. 
"It seems like a different 
guy steps up every night, 
tonight it 
gled with one out, "It's a sign ofa good stole second, and 
team when many
advanced to third 

players can lead the 
on a fielder's 

choice. Heed then team each night." came home to score on a wild 
Dave Schrage 
pitch by Sharpley 

Irish coach 
motivation every game. 
bases. Northern Illinois then tied the game at 4 on a sacri­fice fly. 
The score remained 4-4 until the top of the eighth, when Barnes led ofT with a deep fly to the warning track in right-center. center fielder Pat was able to make a 
was Barnes," Schrage said. "It's a sign of a good team when many players can lead the 


Gordon was waiting for reality to hit. 
He expects it to smack him now that this dismal season is over and the Chicago Bulls are playoff spectators instead of contenders. 
"It's very bitter," he said. "It's just tough to swallow." 
While the Bulls entered what figures to be a busy offseason, the Toronto Raptors turned their focus toward the playoffs after finishing the regular sea­son with a 107-97 loss at Chicago on Wednesday night. If they get more performances like this from T.J. Ford, they'll be in good shape. 
Ford finished with 18 points in 18 minutes, but Tyrus Thomas scored a season-high 26 to lead Chicago in what might have been interim coach Jim Boylan's last game with the Bulls. 
With the sixth seed in the 
"I just wanted to come out and be aggressive," Ford said. "Try to get my mind-set ready for the playoffs." 
Toronto kept all but one of its starters -Jamario Moon -on the bench the second quarter, but all five were back when the third quarter began. They were on the sideline late in the peri­od when Chicago rallied from six down to grab a 76-75 lead, and the Bulls pulled away from Toronto's reserves in the fourth. 
While Thomas finished one shy of his career scoring high, rookie Aaron Gray set career­highs with 19 points and 22 rebounds. But Chicago's core players -Luol Deng, Kirk 
PLS? 

team each Probably Law School? 
night." 
Weiland said the team's win­ning streak provides 
heading into 
Hinrich and Gordon -did little as a woeful season came to a merciful end. 
Now, the makeover starts. 
The Bulls' first move could be dismissing Boylan, who's scheduled to meet with general manager John Paxson on Thursday. He went 24-32 after taking over for the fired Scott Skiles in late December, and Chicago finished 33-49 follow­ing three straight playoff appearances. 

"It's definitely something we take pride in. Every time you hit the field, you know a target is on your back," said Weiland. 


The Irish will put their win­ning streak on the line again 
Our students say: 
this weekend with a three­game series against Big East 
"Ask not what your education can do for 
foe West Virginia in Morgantown. 
you, but what you can do to better your 
Contact Michael Bryan at 
education. PLS may be the answer." 
mbryan@nd.edu 
THE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES Small Classes. Great Books. Curious? Stop by the Office 215 O'Shaughnessy Hall Visit the website: http://pls.nd.edu Application deadline extended to April 28th 


Thursday, April 17, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
CLARK COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT 
Las Vegas, Nevada 
Seeking TEACHERS and HEALTH SERVICE PROFESSIONALS for the
CCSD~ 

2008-2009
CLARK COUNTY 
SCHOOL J:>JSTRJCT 

school year 
For Health Service Professionals inquiries: Speech Pathologists 
702.799.7437 
Occupational Therapists 
702.799.7441 
School Psychologists 
702.799.7465 
Nurses 
702.799.7443 
Excellent Benefit Package Mentoring For New Employees No State, County, or City Tax 
For Teacher Inquiries: 
702.855.5414 
Interviews are conducted at various locations nationally, daily in 



Badgers 
continued from page 24 
homerun was her only hit of the day. 
Sophomore outfielder Ashley Ellis had two hits and two runs and junior DH Beth Northway had two hits and one RBI. 
The first three innings appeared to be a pitching duel between junior starting pitcher Brittney Bargar and Wisconsin pitchers junior Leah Vanevehoven ( 4-19) and sopho­more Letty Olivarez. 
Things started off bleak for the Irish. Bargar (21-8), who allowed five runs (12-33; 2-10 Big Ten) in the top of the fourth, created a 5-0 deficit for the Irish, reminiscent of their shutout loss just a day before. Only two of those runs were earned, as Bargar went the dis­tance, striking out six in the win. 
The Irish had no problem responding, however, coming up with six runs on six hits in the bottom of the inning, sparked by Kohan's lead-off home-run and followed up by the homeruns from Lux and 
SMC WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Belles host Bulldogs for conference match 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's continues con­ference play this afternoon as the Belles host the Adrian (5­11, 2-5) for their third con­secutive home match. Saint Mary's (8-9, 2-3 MIAA) defeated conference foe Tri­State 8-1 this past weekend, and beat cross town rival Bethel Tuesday 7-2. 
With each match, Saint Mary's has shown improve­ment in both the doubles and singles divisions. On Saturday against Tri-­
State, Saint made her fifth
"We played strong 
Mary's won appearance at ..• 
two of the doubles Tuesday, so No. 6 singles for 
three doubles, hopefully we can Saint Mary's, and swept the defeating Frey in 
start the match off
singles play. a tie-breaker The Belles fol-again by getting third match 10-8 lowed up three wins in after losing her Tuesday by first match 2-6,
doubles."

winning all and winning her three doubles second 6-2. matches, and Lisa Rubino "We played going 4-2 in Belles co-captain strong doubles 
singles play. 
The No. 1 doubles duo of sophomore co­captain Camille Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley won their 8th match as a pair with their 8-2 triumph over Bethel juniors Bree Oles and Jade Walus. Gebert and Hurley moved to 8-8, 4-1 MIAA as Saint Mary's top doubles team. The No. 2 doubles pair of sophomore co-captain Lisa Rubino and freshmen Betsy Reed beat Sherra Milender and Lindsey Dixon 8-3, while freshmen Jessica Camp and Franca Peluso stepped up for the Belles in the No. 3 doubles spot for their second match as a pair. Camp and Peluso won 8-5 over Carrie Edison and Serena Frey. 
Saint Mary's singles main­tained the momentum they gained in the victory over Tri­State as they defeated Bethel 4-2 to win the division. No. 1 
singles Gebert bea.t Oles 6-0 in one set before Oles removed herself from the match due to shoulder prob­lems. At No. 2 singles, Hurley won her 14th match of the season, defeating theWalus 6­0, 6-2. No. 3 and No. 4 singles for Saint Mary's weren't as successful. No. 3 Reed lost 6~ 1, 6-2 to Edison, while No. 4 freshman Jessica Kosinski was defeated 8-6, 6-1 by Milender. No. 5 singles Rubino kept up her consistency as she defeated Julia Horn 6-4, 6-2 in her seventh singles win of the season. Freshman Laura Arnold 
Tuesday, so 

hopefully we can start the match off again by getting three wins in dou­bles," Rubino said. "Then we have to keep the momentum going for our singles match­es." 
Keeping up momentum has been Saint Mary's top priority in their recent competitions, and will be especially impor­tant in today's match. The Belles face conference rivals Kalamazoo (10-7, 4-2 MIAA) and Alma (11-6, 3-3 MIAA) this Saturday and Sunday. 
"We hope to keep our momentum going for our next few matches, and then for the conference tournament," Rubino. "We have to keep playing the way we have been to get a few more wins this season." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Fleury. 
Freshman Erin Marrone started at catcher for the Irish for the first time this season, adding another RBI in the inning with her single to center. 
Lux's sacrifice fly added a run to the Irish tally, allowing junior pinch-runner Christine Farrell to score. Another Irish run immediately followed resulting from Northway's two-out RBI double. 
Kohan put the game away for the Irish in the sixth with her three-run back-breaking homer, allowing Fleury and senior outfielder Sarah Smith to score. 
The Irish will re-enter Big East conference play on the road on Saturday and Sunday against Louisville (23-15; 9-3 Big East) and South Florida (36­13; 11-1 Big East), the number one and two teams in the Big East. The double-header against Louisville will be tele­vised nationally on CSTV at noon, and the games against South Florida can be seen regionally on Catch 47 Sports 
TV. 

Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 17, 2008 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
through No. 6 seeds in the tournament. 
The victims include No. 41 Louisville, No. 46 South Florida, and No. 66 DePaul are ranked nationally. Combined, the Irish won their five conference matches 32-3, including shutouts against DePaul and Marquette. 
The Irish have rebounded from a rough start to put together an impressive regu­lar season. After losing two of their first three on the road, the Irish got back on track. 
"We felt like we could have won those matches, so the kids have worked hard, espe­cially at the end of the year going into the NCAA's and the Big East [Tournament]. The big thing has been the hard work and that a lot of the kids have been around the last few years and played in a lot of big matches," Louderback said. 
Postseason experience is an advantage the Irish will hold over their less experienced opponents. 
"Making the quarterfinals in the NCAA's the last few years and the experience they have gotten in all the big matches will be key," he said. 
The team arrived in Florida, the site of the tournament for the fourth straight year, late last night. Since the Irish have been regulars at the tournament, they have a bit of a routine. 
"Our kids are familiar with 
THURSDAY 
1() J»nn-------------------­
Late Night ND 
12 ann-------------------­
Poker League 
FRIDAY 
1() J»nn-------------------­
Todd Barry 
12 ann-------------------­
Luau Nightclub 
SATURDAY 
~ J»nn--------------------­
Minus the Bear 
12 ann-------------------­
Best of the 90's 
Nightclub 

NO COVER 
www.legends.nd.edu 

the courts and surroundings and everything," Louderback said. "The last three years we have gotten into a good rou­tine with when we eat, where we eat, and the timing of everything." 
While doubles has definitely been the team's strength for the season with nationally top-ranked duo of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft, the team has also made a routine lately of dominating singles play. 
The newest polls recognized the impressive individual play, as Notre Dame will enter the postseason with three ranked singles players: No. 44 Tefft, No. 84 sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu, and No. 89 Buck. 
The tournament rankings placed fourth-seeded Marquette in Notre Dame's half of the bracket. Louisville is the second seed, sharing the bottom half with third­seeded South Florida. 
The Irish will play their quarterfinal match on the Varsity Courts at South Florida this Friday morning at 9 a.m. against either Rutgers or Pittsburgh. If they advance, their semi-final match will be at 9 a.m. on Saturday. The final match is scheduled for 9 a.m. on Sunday. 
There is also a consolation bracket set-up, but Notre Dame does not plan on being a part of that. The Irish have their sights set on taking their third Big East title in four years. "We're excited to get there and play," Louderback said. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Squad falls to Vanderbilt 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
For the second straight year, No. 8 Notre Dame couldn't han­dle No. 13 Vanderbilt despite coming off a big win over con­ference rival No. 9 Georgetown. 
The Commodores (11-4, 3-1 American Lacrosse Conference) held the high-powered Irish (1 0-5, 3-1 Big East) attack in check for most of the game, never trailing in their 9-6 victo­ry at the Loftus Center Wednesday afternoon. Junior attack Jillian Byers led Notre Dame with three goals, while senior Caitlin McKinney, Alicia Billings a·nd Shaylyn Blaney each scored single goa.ls in the loss. 
Notre Dame entered the game with a 13.5 goals-per­game average and one of the nation's top scorers in Byers, but Vanderbilt goalkeeper Brooke Shinaberry continued her hot play, saving more than 50 percent of the opposition's shots for the sixth time in seven games. 
The Commodores got on the board by scoring the game's first two goals in the opening five minutes before the Irish were able to knot the score at 3-3. Vanderbilt scored twice to enter the half with a 5-3 advan­tage. 
The visitors scored twice more for a 4-0 run and a 7-3 lead before Byers scored twice in a matter of minutes. The Commodores extended their lead to 8-5 before slowing the game down with a patient offense that spread the field and chewed the clock. Each team scored once more time to reach the final 9-6 tally. 
Carter Foote scored three times to lead the Commodores, who managed the victory despite losing the turnover bat­tle 16-10. 
Last season, a Notre Dame loss to Vanderbilt began a three-game slide from which the Irish never recovered. Coach Tracy Coyne's squad will look to avoid that same fate beginning Sunday, when the Irish travel to Piscataway, N.J., to take on Rutgers. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber @nd.edu 
Podgajny 
continued from page 24 
we met and played along side each other. The memories I have from high school lacrosse are some that I will never forget." 
Upon his high school gradua­tion, Podgajny faced several solid offers to play lacrosse from top universities, such as Princeton, Penn State and Notre Dame. Despite his Polish last name, Podgajny comes from an Irish Catholic family, and has always dreamt of attending Our Lady's university. 
Beginning in 2001, the Major Lacrosse League now consists of 10 teams nationwide. 
But for now, the senior wants to concentrate on fulfilling his team's goal for the remainder of the season -to win the rest of the games on the schedule, the conference tournament for the second year in a row, and fmally, the national championship. "My experience at Notre Dame has been remarkable. Having made friends and memories for life, I could not imagine life any differently," he said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
"It has been a dream of mem­bers of my family for me to attend Notre Dame. After receiving recruiting interest, my family and I came to visit Notre Dame for the first time after my junior year in high school," he said. "I felt home the minute I stepped on campus." 
Now nearing his college gradu­ation, the finance major might have another tough decision to make. 
"After graduation, I will be working as an associate for SEI Investments in Oaks, Pa.," he said. "If I am presented with the opportunity to play in the MLL after college, I do plan to play lacrosse." 


Thursday, April 17, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

Puzzle by Pamela Amick Klawitter 
36 Poetic 42 Some colony 52 Farewell in 41­conjunction members Down 37 Bullish order on 
53 Ruler in aWall Street 43 Small shoots kaffiyeh38 Deems in court 
44 Heath plants 
54 Pinball sound39 Horoscope figure 45 Out of fashion 55 Home of Pearl
40 Animal that howls City
46 "Jackson" 41 Home of Galilee 59 loss 
47 Draft contents
Galilei 60 Start of many International 48 What nouns and Latin AJ)lerican Airport verbs must do city names 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAM by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knure
JJWJWriD)1l!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to .each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
RIMEN 
I [J (] 
©2008 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. 
fi;~l I I

tTRAUGI j 
WHAT THE C..OUPU:
] [I 
GOT IN THE
www.jumble.com 
l-IGHTING STORE.

I DEPHUL j 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form ·the surprise answer, as 
1 
ri [J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A" (IxII I J" r I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: GRAVE OBESE CRABBY SUBMIT Answer: When vandals used spray paint on the steps, police said it was -A STAIR "CASE" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Martin Lawrence. 43; Jon Cryer, 43; Ellen 
Barkin, 54; Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, 61 

Happy Birthday: Don'tlet your anxiety or disappointment lead you down the wrong path. This is a year to excel if you concentrate on work and acComplishments. Prog-· ress, learning and putting what you !mow into play should be your goal. Look to the future with optimism. Your numbers are 12, 20, 23, 32, 34, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll19): Don't stop because there is something you'd rather do. Put in the hours required to advance, not to have fun. Focus on your talents and get se­rious about what you do and advancement will be yours. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't lake matters too seriously, even if a change in plans occurs. As long as you don't make a fuss, the tables will turn and you will come out on top. A chance to network will allow you to get the opinions of people who count. 5 stars 
GEMINI {May 21-June 26): Someone may be out to make you look bad. Take a cau­tious approach and say little if you want to avoid conflict. A love interest may be in­triguing but, if it will hinder what you are trying to accomplish in any way, take a pass for now. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Sometimes you have to allow changes in your life in order to get past something or someone who is blocking you. If you can adjust some of your personal arrangements at home, you will feel better about yourself and your future. Take control. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): No matter what you do, you will attract a lot of attention, so think carefully about your actions. Love is on the rise and you will be tempted to get involved in a partnership that could have many different facets. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time to do things a little differently. You've been too predictable in the past and, if you want to stay on top, be a little erratic for a change. You'll keep your competition and acquaintances guessing. 3 stars 
LmRA (Sept. 23-0et. 22): Don't tell your s=ets or your true thoughts about others or situations for the time being. Evaluate what others think and do before you reveal your position. Too much, too soon will be your downfalL 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oet. 23-Nov. 21): You will meet someone who impresses you if you attend an event that has to do with helping others or a cause you believe in. The changes you make to accommodate a new belief or lifestyle will work well for you in the future. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec:. 21): Don't count on anyone making promises or talk­ing big about what be or she can offer. Chances are exaggeration will be behind what's being offered. Do things yourself if you want them done to your specifications. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money is beading in your direction. If there is a deal on the table, close it and you will come out on top. Don't let love cost you but don't pass up what's being offered either. 5 stars 
AQUARIDS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone will be more serious than you regarding a partnership. Don't make statements that will lock you into doing something you may not want to do. An emotional situation will be up in the air and bard to decipher. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): When it comes to love or business partnerships, a change of plans or feelings is apparent. Stay on top of what everyone involved is de­manding. If the slakes get too high, back away and work with entirely different people. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have pride, a powerful presence and the patience to hold off until the timing is right. You are intelligent and precise and th1s will lead to great popularity and leadership responsibility. 
BLAcK DoG 

ANOTHER UNFUNNY COMIC 
CROSSWORD 
Across York successor 6 Country addresses, for short 10 Part of an Einstein equation 14 It might start "By the way ... 15 Lake _, south of London 16 Word with black 
or fire 17Twig broom 18 Turner of 
"Somewhere I'll Find You," 1942 19 Not yet final, in a way 
20 "American Idol" judge who wastes money? 
23 -d'Oise (French department) 
25 Directly 26 Eskimo-_ language family 
27 Nodding picture? 32 The anesthetic 
lidocaine, e.g. 33 Obligation 34 Barely makes, 
with "out" 35 George who once led the 
C.I.A. 37 Part of the foot 41 Prefix with 
normal 42 feed 43 Geologist? 48D'_ 
(according to: Fr.) 49 Jon Stewart asset 50 Spanish 30­Down 51 Moment after a 
bad pun? 56 Affluent, in Acapulco 
57 Poker cry ... or an apt title for this puzzle 58 Some family histories 

61 Quaint exclamation 
62" No Sunshine" (1971 Grammy-winning song) 63 Fraternity letter 64 Start of North Carolina's motto 65 Binge 66 "Lazy" one 
Down 
Pop-top feature 2 Consume 3 Bump 4 Cause for 
opening a window 5 Fix up 6 Late-inning pitching, maybe 
7 Assault with a grenade, as a superior officer 
8 Actress Merrill of "Desk Sef' 9 Diploma feature 10 Crib plaything 11 Sci-fi figures 12 Didn't play 13 Italicize. say 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
e.g. 22 Mouthing off 23 Reprehensible 24 Out of control 28 Empty talk 29 First name in 
late-night 30 Primary figure 31 Fruitcake 35 Mary Tyler 
Moore headwear 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tht!rsday, April 17, 2008 
page 24 
-
BASEBALL 
N 0 plays for charity at U.S. Cellular Field 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Wrirer 
CIIIC/\GO-After playing a level abovn their opponents ovor tho past month, il was only fitting that the Irish extended their winning stroak at a venue usually rosorved for tho next level ­
U.S. Collular Field. home of tho Ch ieago Wh ill~ Sox. 
Notre Dame won their tenth straight game Wednesday, defeating Northorn Illinois 5-4 Wednesday in a sper.ial matchup organized by lluskies coaeh Ed Mathey and Irish coaeh Dave Sehrage, who spent four years eoaching at Northern Illinois. 
4,600 won~ in attnndanee at U.S. Cellular to see the Irish battlo the lluskies. with proeecds from the game ben­of'iting the Northern Illinois Fobruary 14 Sr.holarship Fund. The monoy raised will be used to establish sr.holar­ships in momory of the vic­tims of the tragic shooting this ynar on Northern Illinois' eampus that injured ~~students and killed six. 
Sehrago said the game was nspoeially emotional for him givon his years coaching the lluskies and the events that oeeurred this February. 
"It hit me hardest standing there at home plate with both teams," Sehrage said. 
see NIU/page 20 

Ten spot 
At top, Wally Atkenson, right, of Palos Park, Ill., bows his head during a moment of silence before a charity baseball game between Northern Illinois and Notre Dame on Wednesday, April 16, 2008 in Chicago. 
The Irish defeated the Huskies 5-4 and raised money for NIU charities on the anniversary of the VIrginia Tech shootings. 
At right, senior outfielder Ross Brezovsky rounds the bases during Notre Dame's 6-1 win over Toledo Tuesday. 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Podgajny finishes final year 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
Sports Writer 
Senior Michael Podga,jny wasn't always aware of his innate laiTOSSO abilities. 
"I grew up in a basnball family, with my father as the eoaeh and older brother as the star player," Podgajny said. "I followed those footsteps." 
The Ridley Park, Pa. native now serves as a crucial member to the No. 11 nationally ranked Irish squad. Appearing in 37 gamns and starting since his freshman year, Podgajny earned All­Ameriea ar.eolades his junior sea­son and has compiled 70 points for his team (43 goals and ~7 assisl'i). 
After lacrosse beeame popular in the Philadelphia area, Podgajny deddod to give thn sport a shot. 
"My father suggested that I play, and I instantly fell in love with the game," he said. "So I began play­ing lar.rosse during 5th grade." 
Podgajny went on to attend Hidley IIigh School where he lnd his team to three consecutive Pennsylvania slate champi­onships, bneamc an /\11-/\meriean laerosse player his senior year, and was named MVP during the ~(X)3 season. 
"One of my best memories from high sehool was playing against [my! current teammate and room­mate Hoss Zimmerman at the Boy's Latin School tournament," he said. "That was the first time 
see PODGA]NY/page 22 

===========================================================---­
ND WoMEN's TENNIS 

Squad travels to Florida, begins Big East tourney 
By DAN MASTERTON Spons Writer 
The No. 17 Irish travel to tho Tampa this weekend, looking to reclaim the Big l~ast Tournament Champi­onship as they take on tho Univorsity of South Florida. 
Tlw Irish won the tourna­ment in ~005 and ~006, but host South Florida took tho title in ~007. 
NolrH Damn (1 X-H) went 5-0 in Big East play this year and reeeived a first-round bye as tlw tournanwnt's No. 1 seed. Tlw Irish await tlw winrwr of to d ay's 1) a . m . m a t e h -u p betwcwn No. X Hutgnrs ( 13-X) and No. IJ Pill (11-7). 
Notre Dame eoarh .lay Louderback rneognizes that No. 1 sneds have nowhere to hide. 
"I'm sun~ they are all gun­ning for us. We're the highest ranked team nationally lin the Big East!. so everyone is going 

to be excited to get a chance 
to play us," Louderbar.k said. 
The Irish have yet to face either team so Louderback and his players will be scout­ing thn match. 
"They play in the morning (today]. so we'll get a chance to see them. We don't know much yet about either one of them," said Louderback. 
Hutgers brings a three­game winning streak into the tournament and went 7-4 in eonference play this year. The Scarlet Knights will try to knoek off Pittsburgh who earned the highest conference tournament seed in sehool history this year. 
The Irish have faced and steamrolled the best the Big East has to offer this year. The fivn eonferenen oppo-· ncnts that Notre Dame has faced and beat are the No. ~ 
see BIG EAST/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish clobber Wisconsin 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish blasted their way out of a slump with a one-hit­ter 11-5 win over Wisconsin Tuesday. The stellar perform­ance at Melissa Cook Stadium included 13 strikeouts and four home runs. 
The three home runs in the fourth inning were the most ever by"the Irish (27-13; 7-3 Big East) in a single inning, and the four in the game is the most for the Irish this year. 
Junior third baseman Linda Kohan hit two clingers in the game, one in the fourth and the other in the sixth. Kohan came in with three hits and four HBis on the night. 
Also going the distance for the Irish were freshman short­stop Katie Pleury and sopho­more utility player Christine Lux. Flnury finished the day two-for-two with two runs and two HBis, and Lux's two-run 
see BADGERS/page 21 







