
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 102 MONDAY MARCH 17. 2008 

Male close to earning SMC degree 
Building attendant Morales listed as student in directory, College says credits only transferable 
By LIZ HARTER St. Mary's Editor 
Building attendant Lou Morales has been taking advantage of a Saint Mary's College policy that allows all College employees to take one class per semester for the past five semesters. Now. he claims that he is the first male student enrolled at Saint Mary's. 
"I've taken everything for credit," Morales said. "Basically, I'm working toward a degree." 
Morales cited the fact that he was listed as a student and not a staf'f member in the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College telephone directory. 
"If you look under staff fin the directory] you won't find my name, but if you look under students you will find me," he said. 
However, Lorraine Kitchner, the College Registrar, said that Morales is not able to earn a degree from the College due to Saint Mary's policy of not allowing men to graduate, but he can earn grades and credits that may be trans­ferable to another institu­tion. 
Kitchner said Morales is no different than any of the 
see MORALES/page 3 

Students hold St.. Patrick's Day festivities 
Irish holiday celebrated on campus, event not during spring breakfor first time in three years 
year. So much so, that the University often schedules Spring Break during St. Patrick's Day. 
"I always pray that [St. Patrick's Day] is over Spring Break," said Bill Kirk, the vice president of Residence Life and Housing, at a meeting of the Community Campus Action Coalition last month. Kirk warned the South Bend Common Council that St. Patrick's Day is often a time when many students choose to binge drink. 
However, because Easter falls so early in March this 
see ST. PATRICK/page 6 


By JOSEPH MCMAHON Assistant News Editor 
St. Patrick's Day, the feast day of the patron saint of Ireland, provides millions of Irish-Americans with a time to celebrate their heritage. Over the past several decades, it has grown into a nation-wide festival, including the biggest parade in the world in New York City, where everyone is Irish, at least for the day. 
At the University of Notre Dame, where students refer to themselves as the Fighting Irish, St. Patrick's Day is one of the biggest party days of the 
College to increase tuition 5 percent 
By SARAH MAYER News Writer 
The Saint Mary's College Board of Trustees approvPd a 5 pPrcent tuition increase for the 2008­2009 academic year that will raise tuition to $27,600. Room and board will increase three percent to $8, 895. 
College Vice President for Finance and Administration for the College Laurie Stieknlmaier said the increase in tuition will cover most of a proposed 6.5 per­cent average increase in faculty salaries. 
"The reason for the higher increase in faculty salaries for · the fiscal year is to bring our fac­ulty salaries more in line with comparable small liberal arts institutions," she said. "The increase in tuition will allow us to keep pace with market faculty salaries." 
According to Stickelmaier. Saint Mary's has maintained low costs compared to other small liberal arts colleges, who will increase costs an average of 6.9 percent. 
"For the last four years we've had 4 or 5 percent tuition increases compared to other institutions that have had 6 to 8 percent increases," she said. "We've been able to do this by using improved efficiency, pro­
. see TUITION/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND vice president to retire 
Kaesebier worked 17 years as general counsel 
By BRIAN MCKENZIE 
News Writer 
Vice president and general counsel of the University of Notre Dame Carol Kaesebier announced her retirement on Thursday. 
Kaesebier 

has worked at the University since June 1988 and held the position of general counsel 


since July 
Kaesebier

1991. 
As general counsel, Kaesebier managed all of the University's legal issues. 
"I oversaw all legal issues for the University, including employm.ent issues and con­tract negotiations related to employment, construction or business matters," she said. Kaesebier said that one of her main projects this year has been providing legal services related to the Eddy Street Commons development. 
"That's a very complex set of transactions," she said. "We're working with a developer to bring in new retail outlets and restaurants and apartments. This site will provide a great 
see KAESEBIER!page 4 

Friar discusses health, spirituality 
Sulmasy supports views on healing with cancer patient's story 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Franciscan friar Daniel Sulmasy spoke about the simi­larities between administering health care and living a spiri­tual life Friday at McKenna Hall. 
Sulmasy said that, while he expects most people to dis­agree that medicine is a spiri­tual practice, he finds an "infi­nite space that exists between [physician's] hands and the bodies of the patients that [they] touch" and that there is a "transcendent healing pres­ent in that space." 
Sulmasy said that the dis­tinction between spirituality and religion is important in understanding the role of spir­ituality in health care. 
"In one sense, spirituality is broader. ..[it isl the character­istics and qualities of one's relationship with transcen­dence," he said. "By contrast, a religion is a specific set of beliefs about transcen­dence ... obviously not every­body has a religion." 
Sulmasy said that to heal individuals wholly, it is impor­tant to look at how disease affects them spiritually in addition to physically. He related the story of a patient diagnosed with lung cancer last fall to support his view on the connection. 
The patient had met 

Sulmasy previously at a con­~rence and had been impressed by his lecture. "I know I can't be cured, I want a doctor for when things get bad," the patient said to Sulmasy. 
Sulmasy began treating the patient and making house calls -something that he had not done in a long time -once the patient was too sick to come to the hospital. l-Ie continued to treat the patient despite his personal dislike of the man and his neediness. 
"What did he want from me?" Sulmasy asked his audi­ence. "After all, I have to tell you, I really didn't like him." 
see ETHICS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, March 17, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Happy Saint Patrick's D~y 
As we all celebrate our Irish heritage 
today, the feast day of St. Patrick and 
the anniversary of his death, I think 
many of us forget what we are cele­
brating and how it is celebrated out­
side the traditional festivities on many 
college campuses. 
St. Patrick wasn't Irish at all. He was 
born in Britain to a wealthy family 
around 387, and his real name was 
Maewyn Succat. At sixteen, he was 
captured by. Irish raiders attacking his 
family's estate. Maewyn spent six 
years in captivity as a shepherd away 
from people, deepening in his 
Christian faith. 
After more than six years, he had a 
dream in which a 
voice he believed Meghan Veselik 
was God's told 
him to leave 
lJ Sports Writer 
I re Ian d . , e 
walked over 200 
miles to the Irish 
coast before escaping back home. 
Once back home, he experienced a 
second revelation in a dream where an 
angel told him to return to Ireland as a 
missionary. lie started religious train­
ing, was ordained a priest, took the 
name of' Patrick, and was sent to 
Ireland to minister the Christians 
already living there and to convert 

other Irishmen from their native 
pagan religion. 
March I 7 has been observed as a 
religious holiday by the Irish for thou­

sands of' years but has moved on to 
become much more. Sine!~ it usually 
falls in Lnnt. Irish families would tradi­

tionally go to church in the morning 
and celebrate in the afternoon. The 
Lenton ban against eating meat was 

waived and pnople would drink, feast 
on Irish bacon and cabbage, and 
dance. 
The first St. Patrick's Day parade look place in New York City, not in Ireland. Irish soldiers serving in the English military marched through the city on March 17, 1762. In 1848, a number of' New York Irish aid societies decided to unitf1 their parades and formed one New York City St. Patrick's Day Parade. Today it is the largest parade in the U.S., with more than 150,000 people involved. 
Obviously, one or the most important figures of St. Patrick's Day and the Irish in general is the leprechaun. The Irish originally called these figures "lobaircin," meaning "small-bodied fellow." In Celtic folktales, these little figures were often cranky tricksters protecting their legendary treasure. The inclusion of these figures in the celebration of Saint Patrick's Day is actually credited to the film Darby O'Gill & the Little People, released by Walt Disney in 1959. Giving a view of the leprechaun as a cheerful, friendly ligurn is an American invention which then spread to become a symbol of Ireland and St. Patrick's Day. 
In the end, you may just view today as a reason to go to class drunk, or go out and celebrate with your friends. But in case you did read all of this, I hope you learned a little more about today, and happy St. Patrick's Day! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Meghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives fc>r the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correcr our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU CARE THAT THEY MOVED Sr. PATRICK'S DAY TO LAST SATURDAY? 

Mike Westrate Susan Seago Sean Mallin Zachary Przystup Caitlin O'Neill Anthony Salpino 





grad student senior junior senior off-campus off-campus Keough off-campus 
"It's just "Who moved St. ''I'm not Irish ''I'm raging another day Patrick's Day?" enough to care.,, both days, so it for work.,, doesn't matter 
,,
to me. 


Notre Dame hockey fans heckle the Ferris State University goaltender after the fifth Irish goal in a 6-3 Notre Dame win on Saturday. The victory tied the playoff series that the Irish would eventually win, allowing them to advance to the CCHA semifinals. 
OFFBEAT 
Student punished despite saving school bus 
SEASIDE, Calif. -A 15­year-old girl who stopped an out-of-control school bus she was riding on was handed a Saturday deten­tion instead because she was skipping school. 
Marina High School stu­dent Amanda Rouse was on a bus with 40 elementary school students Wednesday morning when the driver fell out of her seat after a turn and hit her head. 
Rouse jumped up and applied the brakes, bringing the bus to a halt after strik­ing two parked cars. No one 
TODAY 
a: 

was injured. 
She said had asked the bus driver for a ride because she felt sick at school. 
"She is in trouble with school because she· made the wrong decision," said Rouse's grandmother, Sally Correll. "But I can't help but believe that she was where God wanted her to be." 
Great-grandmother foils purse snatcher 
SANTA FE, N.M. -An 83-year-old great-grand­mother thwarted a would­be purse snatcher with a gas nozzle and an iron grip. 
Bernie Garcia said a young man approached her at a gas station as she was buying fuel for' her van and asked for money. When she told him she had spent all her spare change on gas, he tried to grab her purse. 
She fought back, spraying his shirt with some gaso­line. Both of them kept hold of the purse, and he pulled her to the ground and dragged her a short dis­tance until another man confronted him. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


LLI ::z::: 

/'{;:()11
N\A
'%-\...-···-.
~ 

~ )-~
LLI 
'SY . ­
·-; I.-*' 
lp ' 
~' .·~

3: 
•• ~ 4 
..... 



~-.12~
·. t'A_j

• $ ••
~7\f~
<
(.) 0 

HIGH 47 HIGH 40 HIGH 54 HIGH 41
...I LOW 40 LOW 36 LOW 36 LOW 31 
Atlanta 67 I 47 Boston 34 I 26 Chicago 45 I 39 Denver 36 I 27 Houston 79 I 69 Los Angeles 70 I 47 Minneapolis 38 I 30 New York 49 I 31 Philadelphia 52 I 34 Phoenix 66 I 48 Seattle 50 I 41 St. Louis 58 I 55 Tampa 82 I 62 Washington 50/ 41 
junior senior 
Lewis off-campus 
"No, I'm "It's a plot by 
enraged." Fr. Poorman to keep students from drinking on a Monday." 
IN BRIEF 
The Student Activites Office will host the St. Brackets Day Basketball shoot-aut, where students can compete to win a chance for a private NCAA men's basketball National Championship game-watch party for the winner and 25 friends. It will be held at the Fieldhouse Mall today from 4 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Cynthia Hobin will deliver her lecture en titled "New Discoveries about the Ancient Maya: Peopling the Past" today from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. in Hesburgh Center auditori­um. 
The Notre Dame men's baseball team will play Central Michigan at 5:05 p.m. today at the Eck Baseball Stadium. 
Campus Ministry will host a campus-wide Stations of the Cross Tuesday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. A pro­cession to the Basilica will depart from the Grotto at 7 p.m. 
The American Cancer Society Club of Notre Dame will host the Relay for Life Kickoff Tuesday from 7 to 
8:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Ballroom. 
The film "Persepolis," which tells the story of a young girl living in Iran during the Islamic Revolution, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURDAY FRIDAY 

••••~ 

HIGH 43 HIGH 43 LOW 28 LOW 26 
-----....,.----------~-----------~-­
Monday, March 17, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
just because you let a man at 5 a.m. on Tuesdays and exclusively on taking cours­that's just how I feel." graduate. We give honorary Thursdays because he has to es in the major." Morales said he likes the

Morales 
degrees to men all the time. make up for the hour and a He said he has problems small class numbers at the continued from page 1 I myself would just as soon half that he is in class those getting into some of the gen­College, which is part of the 
not have any fuss made. days. As long as he makes eral education courses reason that he loves being a other men who take trans­"[I could] Get up the time because many of the first student in them. ferable credits at Saint up there the that he spends year students try to get as "I went to IUSB; there
"{! could] get up there 
Mary's (such as Notre Dame day of com­off the job, many as possible done in you're a number," he said. men who take education mencement, the day of building serv­their freshman year so they "This is so different. I know courses), and she is not wipe off the commencement, wipe ices is very fill up quickly. the professors, some of them aware of any special chairs with accommodat­Morales has to receive are my friends."
offthe chairs with 
arrangements for him that everyone else ing to his advanced permission from. The students who are also will allow him to receive a in building everyone else in build­course sched­professors to be able to reg­enrolled in Morales' degree from the College. services, put on ing services, put on ule he said. ister for their course Arthurian Literature class "Technically, I don't know my cap and He is an because they have the right appreciate what Morales
my cap and gown and 
if I can graduate," Morales gown and go English litera­to refuse to allow Morales to adds to the class. said, citing the same policy get my diploma, go get my ture major take a class, though he has . "I think it's awesome hav­as Kitchner, "but I'm then take off diploma, then· take off and is cur­not encountered a professor ing a male in an all-female enrolled, I have a grade my cap and rently enrolled who has done so yet. school," freshman Julie
my cap and gown and
point average and every­gown and start in Rosalind "Almost all of the profes­Hagopian said. "I love hav­thing." folding chairs start folding chairs. ,~ Clark's sors I have ing him here." Morales said that he just and putting Arthurian talked to are 
"I think it's awesome Morales said 
wants to be treated like any them away just Literature pleased to he enjoys
Lou Morales 

other student. He actively like I normally class. have me in the having a male in an working with

SMC building attendant 
participates in many d0. " In the 1970s class," he said. all-female school. I the students at extracurricular activities Morales said Morales took "So far all the the College in
love having him 
and recently attended an that, even if his degree courses at Indiana students are the classroom
here.,,
open mike poetry reading won't say "Saint Mary's," he University South Bend and pretty happy to and outside of for students. still wants to estimates that he is a second have me there it. He worked One of his graduate. semester junior in terms of too." on a group

Julie Hagopian 
poems is "Everyone will have "If worse credits when he adds the 15 Morales said project for his

SMC freshman 
being pub-comes to worse he has received from the he offers a dif­religious stud-
known that I took all 
lished in the I'll probably College to those he took pre­ferent perspec-ies course and
the classes at Saint
student liter­end up graduat­viously. tive and contribute to class­came in after work to meet ary magazine Mary's. I don't think ing from Holy He thinks that it will take es in ways no other student with his group and prepare "Chimes." they've ever had a Cross College, him about four more years can. He said he read Marx a presentation with his 
In two but I will still taking one course a semes­in his religious studies class group.
situation like me.,, 
years, consider that I ter to meet the requirements and, instead of Marxism and "I purposely made sure Morales said graduated from of his major in English communism being just theo­that someone else was in that he is Lou Morales Saint Mary's," Literature, but is working ries, he offered his view of charge of the group," he going to have Morales said. on taking the general educa­what growing up with said. "One thing I like to

SMC building attendant 
to start look­"Everyone will tion requirements as well. Russia as a Communist make sure of, this is a ing at schools have known "I took calculus, history, power was like, something women's college, and women to transfer his credits to if that I took all the classes at political science, philosophy not even his professor, who should be leading the dis­he cannot graduate from Saint Mary's. I don't think and sociology at IUSB," was younger than him, could cussion. While I participate,. Saint Mary's. they've ever had a situation Morales said. "That leaves do. I make sure that women are 
"I would love to say maybe like me. I'm just taking another semester of reli­"I contribute pretty well in doing the leading in classes Saint Mary's ..yill let me advantage of the opportuni­gious studies and two class," he said. "I've read a and in groups." graduate," he said. "You can ty that is offered me." semesters of a language for lot, which helps, especially always make the argument Morales normally works 7 my [general education in English literature. It's my Contact Liz Harter at that it's not a co-ed college a.m. to 3 p.m. but comes in courses]. Then I can work major, I should do well in it, eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 


Is it secure? 
Shred to be sure! 
Look for the shredding bin in your ND Residence Hall 

sec:ure..nd..edu 
page 4 The Observer +NEWS Monday, March 17, 2008 





Astronauts assemble robot 
'Dextre' designed to complete human tasks in spacewalk 
working machine. to being drastically altered or 
Associated Press 

"Good work guys." astronaut even delayed. For nearly two 
CAPE CANAVEHAL -The Hobert Behnken called out to days, a cable design flaw pre­space station's gigantic new his colleagues after they vented NASA from getting robot. Dextre. rose like -hooked up the first arm. power to Dextre, lying in Frankenstein from its trans­"We've got a one-armed mon­pieces on its transport bed. port bed early Sunday, ster now." The second arm It wasn't until the astronauts enabling spaeewalking astro­went on soon afterward. gripped Dextre with the space nauts to attaeh its 11-foot Linnehan and his space­station's mechanical arm arms. walking partner, Michael Friday night that the robot got 
With a tug from spacewalk­Foreman, had to use a pry bar the power it needed to wake ing astronaut Hichard and brute force Saturday night up and keep its joints and Linnehan, Dextre's body was to get one of the robot's arms electronics from freezing. rotated up 60 degrees, an off the transport bed, where it "Dextre is doing much bet­idnal position for plugging in had been latched down for ter," said astronaut Garrett its arms. The robot looknd as launch. Two of the bolts Heisman, who performed the though it was sitting up. wouldn't budgo, even when first spacewalk with Linnehan 
"It's really eerie out here. the astronauts banged on on Thursday night. It's pitch black and there's just them and yanked with all their "When he's all put together, this big white kind of might. he looks a lot like a person," humanoid-looking thing below "We're really having to get he added. "He's got two arms, me," Linnnhan said. medieval on Mr. Dextre," a body, a head, and he is 
Dextre's hands were Foreman observed. designed to do basically the· attached to its arms during Finally, the bolts gave way. same things that we do on a the l'irst spacewalk of' But by then, the astronauts spacewalk." Endeavour's international had fallen an hour behind in At the same time, Heisman spaCf) station trip. This time, their work. considers Dextre a little scary astronauts connected the arms The nighttime spacewalk -and monstrous-looking. Before to the shoulders. representing expected to last into the wee the flight, he likened it to the bulk of the walking and hours of' Sunday -came close Frankenstein coming alive. 
of Notre Dame's increase in tuition, Stickelmaier said, "N<itre


Tuition 
Dame's increases have no impact 

continued from page 1 on our decision-making process." 
According to Stickelmaier, rais­ductivity, and best practices to ing tuition is a lengthy <tnd time­reduce or maintain costs. Saint consuming process. Aftp,r consid­Mary's tuition and room and ering enrollment numbers, costs board increases of tuition and have not been fees are then going up much "For the last four discussed in more than the relation to
years, we've had four 
rate of inf1ation, finaneial assis­
or five percent tuition 
as measured by tance, endow­the Higher increases, c;ompan!d ment income, Education Price and room and
to other institutions 
Index." board costs. The
that have had six to
Grants for revenue and financial need eight percent costs arc then and merit-based <:aleulated to see
increases. 
scholarships are if the total expected to would match 
Laurie Stickelmaier 
increase 9. 7 per-the increase in cent with 90 per-Vice President of Finance tuition. 
cent of Saint and Administration "These calcu­Mary's students lations are con-receiving some tinually refined form of finaneial aid. until the budget fi1r the upcoming 
In addition to boosting faculty year is approved by the College's salaries and increasing financial Board of Trustees at its April aid, the tuition increase will ben­meeting," Stickelmaier said. efit administrative salaries and Stickelmaier has received no improve benefits. It will also help complaints about the tuition cover rising energy and medical increase from panmts yet. costs. 
Although the announcement of Contact Sarah Mayer at the increase comes on the heels smayerOl@saintmarys.edu 


Kaesebier 
continued from page 1 
new opportunity for students and faculty." 
Shn has also benn responsi­
ble for reviewing new student 
policies "to make sure that 
they comply with our current 
rules and rngulations." 
"We also make sure that 
they are fair procedurally ­
that's very important," she 
said. 
Although her retirement will go into effect on October 1, her replacement has yet not been named. In a statement, University President Fr. John Jenkins, the University's presi­dent, statnd that the university would carry out a national search to name a successor. 
"I don't think that the search has even begun yet," Kaesebier said. 
She deeided to retire because she and her husband wanted to move to Alabama to spend more time with their two daughters and six grand­children. 
"Both my husband and I have a lot we wanted to do that we haven't been able to because both worked a very busy sdwdule," she said. 
Kaesnbier said that she also wanted to spend time doing volunteer work with the group Earthwatch. 

"Earthwatch is a group that deals with all sorts of environ­mental issues," she said. "Usually they send volunteers somewhere to do work, wlwther that's ensuring that turtles are able to hatch or !wiping provide water systems to developing countries." 
When asked what advice she had for her replacement, Kaosobier said that "the University is a very complex organization. So, when the general counsel looks at issues, there always very many factors at play," she said. "By contrast, a compa­ny's perspective usually focus­':s o~elusively on the bottom lrnn. 
Sh1\ also said that she hoped her replacement would be opon-minded and fair. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adtnissions staff, the counselor is expected to 1nake an impotiant contribution to the recruihnent and selection of the first-year class by 1nanaging relations \vith the prospective applicants, their parents~ high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and co1n1nunication \Vithin the geographic area, assessn1ent and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infom1ation sessions. Additional responsibilities \\rill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrolhnent. 
An1ong our candidates~ \Ve \vill specifically seek an African American Recruitment Coordinator. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \Vith all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 

Essential qualities include strong con11nunication and organizational skills, enthusiastn, diplon1acy and the \villingness to \vork long hours, including 1nany evenings and Saturday mo111ings. 



Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after April 1. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2008. 

Please forward your resume to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions 220 Main Building Attention: Alisa M. Fisher, Senior Associate Director 
-------------------, 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 17, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
9 killed by Albanian explosion 
TIRANA -Rescue teams worked into the night Sunday to try to locate nine people still missing a day after a chain of massive explosions flattened an Albanian ammunition dump and hundreds of nearby houses, killing at least nine and injuring nearly 300. 
Defense Ministry spokesman Igli Hasani said the operation would continue "for as long as needed," but rescuers-assisted by U.S. military explosives experts -were hampered by large quantities of unexploded artillery shells. 
"The search operation will continue into the night with limited groups of experts," he said. 
Saturday's explosions in the village of Gerdec, about six miles north of Tirana, scattered shells over 2,500 acres, I-Iasani said. 
Prime Minister Sali Berisha said the explosions were an accident: blasts triggered during work to destroy excess ammunition stockpiled during Albania's Communist past. 
Conservatives lag in French elections 
PARIS-Partial results in France's municipal elections on Sunday showed President Nicolas Sarkozy's conservative party headed toward defeat and losing control of key cities, a new setback for a leader beset by sinking support. 
Sarkozy's prime minister insisted, however, that the government would forge ahead with a sweeping reform program despite demands for a change from opposition Socialists buoyed by the early returns. 
"You can't change a great country like ours in a fnw months," Francois Fillon said. "Tenacity is needed to reform." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Spitzer may have violated Mann Act 
NEW YORK-Among the charges Gov. Eliot Spitzer could face in the call-girl scandal that has cost him his job is one that has been brought against a slew of other prominent men in the past century. 
In court papers, Client 9, identified by law enforcement officials as Spitzer, paid for a prostitute to take a train in February from New York to Washington and have sex with him at an upscale hotel. 
Spitzer has not been charged with a crime, but four people accused of running the prosti­tution operation that authorities say he used have been charged with violating the Mann Act, a federal law that bans carrying women or girls across state lines for "prostitution or debauchery, or for any other immoral pur­pose." 

Wmter storms damage national parks 
YAKIMA, Wash. -Hundreds of trees blown down by wind exceeding 100 mph. Roads and campgrounds washed away by swollen rivers. Damages still unknown to be repaired on backcountry trails. 
Winter storms have devastated the Pacific Northwest's popular national parks each of the past two years, causing dam­age that has run into the millions of dol­lars. 
After last year's enormous repair effort in nearby Mount Rainier National Park, the major repairs this year are taking place in Olympic National Park, which offers visitors miles of Pacific coast in addition to craggy alpine peaks and forested lowlands. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Sexes separated in juvenile hall 
SOUTH BEND -A judge who stopped sending female offenders to a state-run juvenile center because he felt it lacked sufficient staffing and adequate services said he's cautiously optimistic about promised changes. 
The Indiana Department of Correction announced last week that it will stop housing both boys and girls at the Indianapolis Juvenile Correctional Facility by the end of March after boys are relocated to the Logansport Juvenile Correctional Facility and other sites. 
St. Joseph Probate Court Judge Peter Nemeth wrote an open letter to Gov. Mitch Daniels in December complaining that girls at the Indianapolis facility were being "warehoused" and not adequately supervised. 
CHINA 

Tibetan protests hit provinces 
Demonstrations force mobilization ofsecurity forces; Dalai Lama decries "cultural genocide" 
Associated Press 
TONGREN -Protests spread from Tibet into three neighboring provinces Sunday as Tibetans defied a Chinese government crackdown, while the Dalai Lama decried what he called the "cultural genocide" taking place in his homeland. 
Demonstrations widened to Tibetan communities in Sichuan, Qinghai and Gansu provinces, forcing authorities to mobilize security forces across a broad expanse of western China. 
In Tongren, riot police sent to prevent protests set off tensions when they took up positions outside a monastery. Dozens of monks, defying a directive not to gather in groups, marched to a hill where they set off fireworks and burned incense in what one monk said was a protest, according to an Associated Press reporter at the scene. 
In a sign that authorities were preparing for trou­ble, AP and other foreign journalists were ordered out of the Tibetan parts of Gansu and Qinghai provinces by police who told them it was for their "'safety." 

Meanwhile, police in the influx of Chinese migration Center for Human Rights Tibetan protests are forc­Tibetan capital, Lhasa, into Tibetan areas and and Democracy and the ing Beijing to pursue sup­searched buildings as a restrictions on Buddhist London-based Free Tibet pression while on the run, · Monday deadline loomed practices -policies that Campaign. The claims from town to town and for people who took part in have generated deep could not be confirmed. province to province a violent anti-Chinese rese.ntment among Sunday's demonstrations across its vast western uprising last week to sur-Tibetans. follow nearly a week of region. Sunday's lockdown 
. render or face severe pun­Tensions also boiled over protests in Lhasa that in Tongren required police ishment. outside the county seat of escalated into violence imported from other 
Speaking from India, the Aha in Sichuan province Friday, with Tibetans towns, the locals said. Dalai Lama, the spiritual when armed police tried to attacking Chinese and The Chinese government leader of Tibetans, called stop Tibetan monks from torching their shops, in the attempted to control what for an international inves­protesting, according to a longest and fiercest chal­the public saw and heard tigation into China's crack­witness who refused to lenge to Chinese rule in about protests that erupt­down on demonstrators in give his name. nearly two decades. ed Friday. Access to Lhasa, which his exiled The witness said a Complicating Beijing's YouTube.com, usually government claims left 80 policeman had been killed task, the spreading readily available in China, people dead. China's state and three or four-police protests fall two weeks was blocked after videos media has said 10 civilians vans had been set on fire. before China's celebrations appeared on the site were killed. Eight bodies were brought for the Beijing Olympics Saturday showing foreign 
"Whether intentionally to a nearby monastery kick off with the start of news reports about the or unintentionally, some while others reported that the torch relay, which will Lhasa demonstrations, kind of cultural genocide is up to 30 protesters had pass through Tibet. montages of photos, and taking place," the Dalai been shot, according to Though many were small scenes from Tibet-related Lama said, referring to an activist groups the Tibetan in scale, the widening protests abroad. 



Bayou forsaken after Katrina 
ticulating passionately and flashing a cane took the last wind out of us," said 

Associated Press toothy grin as she glided down the Louis Thompson, known as "PU." bayou in a boat. "The government -Thompson commanded the commu­GRAND BAYOU, La. -When Ruby that's our hurricane right now that nal boat, a banana-yellow water taxi Ancar talks about her fishing village we're in." tied up since the storm. "It was a on the bayou, she says a divine hand Before Katrina, Grand Bayou and its school boat, medical boat, grocery has protected her Atakapa-Ishak kin­25-odd families of Atakapa-Ishak boat, just about everything else boat," folk for generations. American Indians lived in a parallel he said. But Grand Bayou is forsaken these world, in concert with moon cycles Grand Bayou's state of despair days, 30 months after Hurricane and migrations of shrimp. This living resembles that of the Lower 9th Ward, Katrina washed over it and dragged museum, where there are no roads 40 miles away in New Orleans. Both one of Louisiana's last authentic out­and everyone travels by boat, is facing are lifeless. Both are poor. Both were posts of bayou culture into a world extinction. colorful enclaves of traditional defined by insurers, money lenders, Post-storm government aid has been Louisiana culture. building code enforcers and govern­nearly nonexistent, villagers said, They are exhibits in a pattern ment auditors. leaving the entire village unable to emerging since Katrina struck on Aug. "We're facing a greater hurricane return to their homes. 29, 2005: The widening gap between now than we did with Katrina, with "We were hanging onto that little vil­rich and poor in rebuilding.ities have the bureaucracy," Ancar, 60, said, ges-lage out there, but I think the hurri-to do a lot with economic challenges. If 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 17, 2008 
St. Patrick 
continued from page 1 
year. students are on campus for the nvent for thn first 

time in three but I know it's 
for it. 
"/ always pray that 
In February, a call between
years, and going to be fun 
many students St. Patrick's Day is for St. Patty's 
Sulmasy and the patient's 
home nursing staff confirmed
are planning on over spring break." Day." 
that the patient was dying.
spnnding th1~ Some students 
"I visited him for the last
day celebrating. said that they
Bill Kirk 

time that night," he said.
Senior Vijen celebrated the 
Residence Life and holiday on 
The next morning, Sulmasy
Patel said that 

he and other Housing Associate Vice Saturday -the 
said he took a walk on the 
beach and could not stop
seniors were President day the Vatican 
organizing a 
makeshift St. 
Patrick's Day parade that 
would take place at 1 p.m. 
tomorrow. 
"We're doing a parade. We 
arranged a bunch of instru­
ments, like peopl1~ who used to 
play trumpet and instruments 
like that." hn said. "Wn'rn hav­
ing a little party during tlw 
day. and at I p.m. w1~'re going 
to proceed to <:ampus from our 
house. We're going to go 
through somn of' the classroom 
buildings and tlwn )wading to 
South Dining IIall." 
Patel said that hn was 
inspired when lw !ward that 
his roomnuttn's older brother 
organized a parade live years 
ago. 
"One of' my roommate's older 
brothers had a parade five 
years ago. So tlwy gave us this 
idea and then we ran with it," 
he said. 
In addition. Patel said that a 
deep appreciation for paradns 
was kindled in him by his fam­
ily. 
''I've always b1Hm fascinated with parades. My grandfath<~r. my father, we all love parades," he said. 
Sophomore Steve Bold creat­ed the 'Facebook event "Official," a parody of tho University of Illinois's "Unofficial" St. Patrick's Day during the first week in March. So far, H39 students have joined the event, something Bold didn't initially plan for. 
"A bunch of my fri1mds know people down at the University of Illinois and they always havn that 'Unofficial' evnnt <wery y1mr." he said. "A bun~:h of us just started it as an inside joke that here wn are at Notrn Dame, we'rn thn Fighting Irish and we'n~ going to be here for St. Patrick's Day." 
lie said that "Ofl1eial" helps boost school spirit and pro­vides a time for Notre Dame students to celebrate their Irish lwritage. 
"It's kind of our holiday at Notre Dame considering that wn are the Fighting Irish and it's good to build some sehool spirit and somn pride," hn said. 
llowever. Bold warned against t.hn !wavy bingo drink­ing that is oftnn assoeiated with St. l'atriek's Day. 
"Wo wore by no means encouraging pnopln to start drinking in thn middle of tho day," ho said. "It was morn to go out. and havn fun." 
Othnr pnoplo around campus an~ eelnbrating St. Patrick's Day by starting some new tra­ditions. Freshman Michanl Dnlach said that he and his friends played a game of 16­inch softball in addition to tak­ing part in othnr fnstivities. 
"Wn played somn 16-ineh softball. It's a Chicago sport that my buddies and I play back home-it's just a big ball so no orw has to use gloves," lw. said. "Wo dncided we'd start a St. Patty's Day tradition and wo'll be playing every St. Patriek's Day. We had a good time." 

Delach said that he would be taking part in festivities 

Ethics 
tonight, despite Tuesday class­es. 
continued from page 1 ''I'm probably going out later that night," he said. "Monday's 
Despite his personal feelings, aren't usually 
Sulmasy gave the patient his big party night, 
beeper number when he asked 
thinking about the patient ­Patrick's Day to 
moved St. 
even thanking him for teach­in Ireland. 
ing him about his own needs, For other students, however, 
as well as his role in the celebrating St. Patrick's Day 
patient's final months. must take a backseat to school 
After his narrative, Sulmasy work. Freshman Anna Claire 
reiterated that spirituality is Marrone said that she would 
"so far out of what people have to spend the night study­a calculus exam and


ing for skip the festivities. 
''I'll be studying for my calc test," Marrone said. "So, no, I won't be going out." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



C7;;;
rc

I TurtleCreek 
j AFARTMENTS I 
I
!So clost to campus yow. can llltar the sho•ds ••d see the 1. ts ! 
' 

~ I7urnished Studio Apartments l ! One Bedroon1. Apartn1ents l.wo Bedroom One Bath Apartments ~ Two Bedroo1n One and a Half Bath Apartn1ents with Fenced in Patio
i 


TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES 
<:>Tan for FREE at Fun Tan 
<>Heated Pool and Hot Tub 
<;> Pet Friendly<> On Site Security 
52555401 
Be part of a team 
E~rn 
seem to think is important four books. about medieine, !but that] llis lecture, these things are so central to Health Care people, ... not just to cope, 
"[Spirituality is/ so far
but just in 
making sense out ofwhat people seem 
of it." to think is important Sulmasy, a 
about medicine, !but] 
professor of 
these things are so
medicine and the director of central to people ... not the Bioethies 
just to cope, but just in 
Institute of' 
making sense ofit. " 
New York Medical College, also Daniel Sulmasy 
holds the 
director, Bioethics Institute 
Sisters of 
of New York Medical College 
Charity chair in ethics at St. 

Vincent's Hospital in Alumni Continuing Education Manhattan. He is the editor-in­Office. chief of the journal "Theoretical MediCine and Contact Emma Driscoll at Bioethics" and has written edriscol@nd.edu 
.,_ 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive 
South Bend, IN 46637 

Phone: 574-272-8124 

(112 bJock east of campus on Vaness Street) 
Fax:574-273-6921 w-vv.....,.,_..,,.,_.~ ......,.........,.\>V".....,.,..,.,.4·r_,..,.. ,,.,.,_...i v. e "'fu rlle Cr-e,,,,.,,,,·t:'!...-..·..........k.t:'o xn "' ..... ....
....,..,.,.,..~-········'················'"'''",.__ .......-~­

. '•• '··''· 


~~,,~n~ cheer experience necessary ,, 
~ ..,., ~·-'·
...., 


your Monogram , · · · 

Cheerleading and Leprechaun Tryout Information Meeting MARCH 18,2008 AT 5:30P.M. 
Joyce Center Gym 2 above Gate 10 
entitled "Is 
a Spiritual Discipline?" was a part of' the 23rd annual Notre D a m e Medical Ethics Conference. 
The lec­ture was sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture and the Alumni Association's 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, March 17, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 11,951.09 -194.65

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 567 72 2,794 1,055,942,658 
2;285.61 y 53.49 2,212.49 -51.12 8,635.92 +19E24 1,288.14 -27.34 


······o.oo 
-60.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -1.55  -2.04  129.61  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -1.84  -0.79  42.25  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -2.83  -0.70  24.00  
BEAR STEARNS COS (BSC)  -47.37  -27.00  30.00  

Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -3.20 -0.113 3.421 13-WEEK BILL -13.85 -0.180 1.120 30-YEAR BOND -2.38 -0.106 4.348 5-YEAR NOTE -6.74 -0.169 2.340 


Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.12 110.21 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.70 999.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.73 80.08 
Exchange Rates YEN 97.8400 EURO 0.6378 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9892 

IN BRIEF 

China exports international businesses 
Amid the torrent of clothes, electronics and toys surging out of China comes a little-noticed export: international companies. 
For centuries, individual Chinese have sought their fortunes abroad, creating Chinatowns around their restaurants and shops. Now, Chinese firms are going global, pushed by a government turned capitalist, pulled by untapped markets and armed with bundles of money from a thriving economy back home. 
Auto plants are popping up in Latin America. A sprawling commodity bazaar promises a provincial Swedish city new life. A car parts distributor is snapping up ailing companies in the U.S. Rust Belt, a TV factory hums in South Africa and a high-tech firm is landing contracts to revamp the Persian Gulfs telecommunication networks. 
Jusf as the earlier arrival of Japanese com­panies changed U.S. manufacturing, over time Chinese companies could affect how their Western rivals approach innovation, competi­tion and business itself. 

Technology helps blind perform jobs 
NEW YORK -Technology and training have improved to the point that blind people can adept­ly perform a dazzling array of jobs -soon to include the governorship of New York. The biggest obstacle still in their way, advocates say, is the negative attitude of many employers. 
The most recent available statistics suggest that only about 30 percent of working-age blind people have jobs. That figure was calculated more than 10 years ago, but the major groups lobbying on behalf of blind Americans believe it remains accu­rate despite numerous technological advances. 
"Most people don't know a blind person, so they assume that blind people are not capable of doing most jobs when in fact that's not true," said Chris Danielsen, spokesman for the National Federation of the Blind. 
Exhibit A. for the moment, is David Paterson, the legally blind lieutenant governor ol' New York from Harlem who will be sworn in Monday as governor, replacing scandal-tarnished Eliot Spitzer. 



Companies make emergency deal 
JPMorgan Chase buys Bear Stearns to avert bankruptcy, financial crisis 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Just four days after Bear Stearns Chief Executive Alan Schwartz assured Wall Strflet that his company was not in troublfl, he was forced on Sunday to sell the investment bank to com­petitor JPMorgan Chase for a bargain-basement price or $2 a share, or $236.2 million. 
The stunning last-minute buyout was aimed at avert­ing a Bear Stearns bank­ruptcy and a spreading cri­sis of confidence in the global financial system sparked by the collapse in the subprime mortgagp, market. Bear Stearns was the most exposed to risky bets on the loans; it is now the first major bank to be undone by that markPt's collapse. 
The Federal Heserve and the U.S. government swiftly approved the all-stock buy­out, showing the urgency of completing the deal before world markets opened. The Fed also essentially made the takeover risk-free by saying it would guarantee up to $30 billion of the troubled mortgage and other assets that got the nation's fifth-largest invest­ment bank into trouble. 

"This is going to go down ond quarter. The acquisi­business, which completes expected to again cut its in very historic terms," said tion includes Bear Stearns' trades for big investors headline rate by as much Peter Dunay, chief invest­midtown Manhattan head­such as hedge funds. as a full point to 2 percent. ment strategist for New quarters. At almost the same time "Having taking Bear York-based Meridian Equity JPMorgan Chief Financial as the deal for control of Stearns out of the problem Partners. "This is about Officer Michael Cavanagh Bear Stearns was category, and the strong credit being overextended, did not say what would announced, the Federal action by the Federal and how bad it is for major happen to Bear Stearns' Reserve said it approved a Reserve, we would antici­financial institutions and 14,000 employees world­cut in its lending rate to pate the market will behave for individuals. This is why wide or whether the 85-banks to 3.25 percent from quite differently on Monday we're probably heading year-old Bear Stearns name 3.50 percent and created than it was Thursday or into a recession." would live on after surviv­another lending facility for Friday," Cavanagh said. 
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ing the Great Depression, big investment banks. The Some analysts expected it said it will guarantee all two World Wars and a slew central bank's official meet­to be a brutal day for global business -such as trading of recessions. He told ana­ing is on Tuesday. Before stocks, nevertheless. and investment banking -lysts and investors on a the emergency move to Shortly after the news until Bear Stearns' share­conference call that lower the discount rate, broke, Japan's benchmark holders approve the deal, JPMorgan was most inter­which is the rate at which Nikkei stock index plunged which is expected to be ested in buying Bear banks lend each other more than 3 percent in completed during the sec-Stearns' prime brokerage money, the Fed was widely morning trading. 


Paulson defends Federal Reserve 
bank's intervention was "the right crisis threatening to drive the coun­
Associated Press 

decision," he said. try into the first recession since 
The treasury chief sidestepped 2001. 
questions about what would have Consultations about the Bear 
WASHINGTON -The Bush admin­happened if the Fed had not ridden Stearns situation continued through istration will "do what its takes" to to the rescue, whether other firms the weekend and involved the stabilize chaotic markets and mini­are on shaky ground and the possi­Treasury Department, the Fed, finan­mize the economic damage, Treasury bility of additional bailouts similar to cial institutions and others. "I've Secretary Henry Paulson said Sunday Bear Stearns'. been very involved, you know, been after a tumultuous week capped by At the same time, however, Paulson on the phone for a couple days right the government rescue of a teetering sought to send a calming message now helping to work through this," investment bank. that the administration is on top of Paulson said. He offered no details. 
All eyes now are on Wall Street as the turbulent situation. "The govern­Economists increasingly believe the leading financial advisers prepared ment is prepared to do what it takes spreading fallout from a severe cred­for a Monday meeting with President to maintain the stability of our finan­it crisis has pushed the country into Bush and the Federal Reserve weighs cial system," he said. "That's our pri­recession. The situation has led to another deep interest rate cut ority." record-high home foreclosures, Tuesday to stem even more deterio­Bush planned to meet on Monday forced financial companies to take ration. with his advisory panel on financial multibillion losses from bad mort­
Paulson, in a series of news show markets, whose members include gage-linked investments and rocked appearances, defended the Federal Paulson and Fed Chairman Ben Wall Street. Reserve's extraordinary step Friday Bernanke. The panel on Thursday "No one is debating the fact that to provide emergency financing to recommended stricter regulation of this economy has slowed way down;" one of Wall Street's most venerable mortgage lenders as part of a broad Paulson said. "We feel it, we know it, firms, Bear Stearns Cos. The central effort to prevent a repeat of a credit the American people know it." 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 17, 2008 


Crane falls across city block 
Five dead, rescuers continue search through rubble 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Hnscuers dug through dPbris Sunday for throe people still missing in the rubble and wreckage Io f't w he n a c o n s t r u 1: t i o n crane topplnd like a trlle across a city block and killed at lnast four construction workers. 
Among the missing wore two workers and a woman who was staying in an apart­ment at a townhouse flat­tennd by thn crane. 
"Each passing hour, things 
get a little more grim," Fin~ Commissionnr Nicholas Scoppetta said. Twenty-four others were injured, indud­ing 11 first responders, said Mayor Michael Bloomberg. Eight remained hospitalized Sunday, officials said. 
The crane rose 19 stories 
"It is unacceptable for the Department of Buildings to say yesterday that the 13 open violations on this construction were ... business as usual.". 
Scott Stringer Manhattan Borough President 
and was attached to an apartment tower under con­struction when it broke away Saturday and toppled like a tree onto buildings as far as a block away. 
On Sunday, crews CIH1tin­ued to remove pieces of the crane and piles of d11bris from the damagnd buildfngs as neighborhood residnnts and a Manhattan borough oflieial raisnd concerns about city inspections at the apart­mllnt tower. 
"1 warned the Buildings Department on March 4 that it was not sufficiently braced against thn building," said Bruce Silbnrblatt, a retin.Jd contractor and vice president of the Turtle Bay Neighborhood Association. 
Hetircd ironworker Kerry Walker, who with his wife lived in the top-floor apart­ment of the four-story town­housll and left minutes 
before the collapse, had com­plainlld that the crane appnared dangnrously unsta­ble, his stepson said. 
"lie knows all about cranes and said this one had no braces, everything was too minimal," John Viscardi said. "lin told one friend on the phone that 'if you don't hear from me, it's because the crane fell on my house."' 
City officials said the crane was inspected Friday. At day latm·. it was being lengthened with a new section, a proeess known as "jumping," when it 
fell. 
Bloomberg said mechani­cal failure or human error may have .caused the accident. "As far as we can tell, all proce­dures that were called for were being fol­lowed," he said. 
Bloom berg said that about 250 
cranes are operating in the city on any given day, and the accident should not alarm New Yorkers living near high-rise construction sites. 
"Do I think that you should worry if there's a crane aeross the street? No," Bloomberg said. "This is such a rare thing that I don't think we should worry about it." 
The city had issued 13 vio­lations in the past 27 months to the construction site where a 43-story high-rise condominium was going up. "Every large construction site has violations," Bloomberg said. 
Manhattan Borough President Scott Stringer said Bloomberg should form a multi-agency task foree to insp11ct major construction projects. 
"It is unacceptable for the Department of Buildings to 
say yesterday that the 13 open violations on this con­struction sitn were ... busi­ness as usual," Stringer said. "We can't keep going on like this." 
Killed were construction 
workers Wayne Bleidner, 51, 
of Pelham; Brad Cohen, no 
age or address available; 
Anthony Mazza, 39; and 
Aaron Stephens, 45, of New 
York City, poliee said. 
The missing woman had come from Miami to cele­brate St. Patrick's Day and visit a frien'd who lived in the brownstone, said John LaGreco, owner of Fubar, a saloon on the ground floor. 
She was in her friend's sec­ond-floor apartment at the time of the collapse, he said. ller friend was rescued, he said. 
On Sunday, the Heliance Construction Group, the pro­ject's eontractor released a statement expressing sympa­thy to the families of the dead and the injured and said it was cooperating with government investigators. 
Heliance said it had sub­contracted different parts o( the job and that New York Crane owned the crane. A telephone message left with New York Crane Sunday was­n't returned. 
The collapse comes amid a building boom in New York City and follows a spate of construction accidents in recent months, including a few involving cranes. 
In 2006, a 13-f'oot piece of a crane mast that was being dismantled fell and crushed a taxi cab. 

Obmna strategists attack Clinton's accountability 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Strategists for Barack Obama pressed an attack on Hillary Hodham Clinton over accountability and 11thics on Sunday, demanding that she release more documents on income taxes and foundation donors. The New York senator's eampaign pushed baek, accusing her rival of stepping up personal attacks. 
"This is a tried and true tech­nique of the Obama campaign that has repeatedly shil'ted nega­tive when they fmd the momen­tum working against them," said senior Clinton strategist Mark Penn. He suggested the Obama eampaign was trying to "deflect public opinion from their losses in Ohio and Texas" and faced with Clinton strength in Pennsylvania. 
Obama communications direc­tor Robert Gibbs called on Clinton to release full post-White House tax returns; disclose all congres­sional "earmarks," or pet projects she had inserted into spending bills; and to release all docu­ments pertaining to activities to the Clinton Foundation and Clinton Library, including a list of donors. 
"What is lurking in those doeu­ments?" Gibbs asked as the two campaigns had dueling phone conference calls with reporters. "There are gaps that need to be filled," said senior Obama strate­gist David Axelrod. 
Obama was heading for Pennsylvania on Monday to cam­paign, with stops later in the week likely in North Carolina and Oregon. Clinton prepared to give a speech on the Iraq war on Monday in Washington. 
The Obama campaign's attaek on Clinton came after a weekend 
in whieh the Illinois Democrat 
sought to ease publie concerns 
about his ties to an indicted 
Chkago chwnloper and to inllam­
matory statements by his lbrmer 
pastor. 
In interviews with Chicago newspapers, a TV appBarance and a Saturday speeeh in Indiana, Obama disavowed racially tinged comnwnL<> by Hev. Jeremiah Wright. who was Obama's pastor for nearly 20 year~ bd(Jro retiring recently. 
Obama also worked to distance himself from Antoin "Tony" Hczko, a former fundraiser for the candidate who is eurrently on trial in Chicago on corruption r.harges. 
Obama's team asserted that Clinton was continuing to shield financial doeuments from public scrutiny at the same time sh£) was calling for greater aecounta­bility. 
Clinton has said she will roleasc tax returns for the years al'ter her the end of her husband's presi­dency before the April 22 pri­mary in Pennsylvania. 
When asked if the request for tax information is what they are calling personal attacks, Clinton spokesman I toward Wolfson said: "When you accuse somebody of being disingenuous and question their integrity and their honesty, as they are doing, that constitutes a personal attack." 
As to P11nnsylvania, Obama strategist Axelrod rejected a sug­gnstion that their campaib'll was all but giving up on the state and foeusing its energies on primaries that come later where they expect to do better. 
'"We arc going to eontest vigor­ously in Pennsylvania," Axelrod said, noting that Obama would be there on Monday and Tuesday. 


10)  What happens down in Mexico does NOT have to stay in Mexico.  Gc ttf>  
9) 8)  Cathedral ceilings are straight pimp. Washer and dryer for souvenir tees.  BREAK!  
7)  2 Large bedrooms, but sorry, no maid service this time.  
6)  2 Full bathrooms to remove sand from unwanted places.  
5)  Dishwasher big enough for CANCUN 2008  
yard drink and shot glass memorabilia.  
4)  1 ,200± square feet of space for SB '08 reunions  
3)  Short walk to campus perfect for burning off  
those extra Spring Break calories.  
2)  Mardi Gras-like balconies.  
1)  A place to go and hide if your parents ever see  
you in one of those "spring break videos".  
Stadium Club Condominiums  
18127 Bulla Road  
574-243-7530  
stadiumcluhcondos@sbcglobal.nct  

www.notredamecondos.com 

AFTIR 

Monday, March 17, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 



McCain visits officials in Iraq 
Senator meets with Iraqi, U.S. military, diplomatic personnel on trip 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Sen. John McCain, the likely Republican presidential nominee, arrived in Baghdad on Sunday for a visit with Iraqi and U.S. diplo­matic and military officials. 
The trip by McCain, who has linked his political future to 
U.S. military success in the nearly five-year-old war,. coin­cided with the 20th anniver­sary of a horrific chemical weapons attack in northern Iraq. 
McCain met with Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh and planned to meet with Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq, according to the U.S. Embassy. Further details of McCain's visit, which had been anticipated, were not being released for security reasons, the embassy said. 
Before leaving the United States, McCain, one of the foremost proponents of the March 2003 U.S.-led invasion, said the trip to the Middle East and Europe was for fact­finding purposes, not a cam­paign photo opportunity. 
But he expressed public worries that militants in Iraq might try to influence the November general election. 
"Yes, I worry about it," he sai.d, responding to a question during a campaign appear­ance in Pennsylvania. "And I know they pay attention, because of the intercepts we have of their communica­tions." 
McCain, the senior Hepublican on the Senate 
Armed Services Committee, was accompanied by Sens. Joe Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut, and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., two top sup­porters of his presidential ambitions. 
The weeklong trip will take McCain to Israel, Britain and France, and include his first meeting with British Prime Minister Gordon Brown. He also is expected to meet with French President Nicolas Sarkozy, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and other Israeli officials. 
His focus in Iraq was thought to be the drop in sec­tarian violence and U.S. and civilian casualties since last summer. Exactly what was discussed, however, remained unclear since numerous tele­phone calls to aides traveling with McCain went unan­swered. 
Elsewhere, Kurds in north­ern Iraq commemorated the anniversary of the chemical weapons attack in Halabja, near the Iranian border, with solemn observances. The streets were empty and heavi­ly patrolled by Iraqi security forces. 
Saddam Hussein ordered the 1988 attack as part of a scorched-earth campaign to crush a Kurdish rebellion in the north, which was seen as aiding Iran near the end of its war with Iraq. Saddam was executed for other crimes against humanity before he could face trial for the attacks. 
McCain's trip to Iraq is his eighth. Last November, he met with Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki during the U.S. Thanksgiving holiday. 
On a visit last April, the Arizona senator criticized news reports he said focused unfairly on violence, and said Americans were not getting a "full picture" of progress in the security crackdown in the capital. 
McCain was combative toward reporters' questions in the heavily guarded Green Zone, and responded testily to a question about his comment that it was safe to walk some Baghdad streets. He later acknowledged traveling with armed U.S. military escorts. 
Violence has dropped throughout the capital since, with an influx of some 30,000 additional U.S. soldiers sent to Iraq last year. The U.S. mili­tary has said attacks have fall­en by about 60 percent since last February. 
Still, violence continues in some parts of the country, according to reports from police officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they weren't author­ized to speak to the media. 
On Sunday, a parked car bomb exploded in western Baghdad's Mansour neighbor­hood, killing one person and wounding two others. Two civilians and nine others were wounded in Mosul when a sui­cide bomber detonated his explosive vest, police said. A roadside bomb killed another person in the northwestern city. 


Pleasejoin us for cocktails & Hors d:oeuvres to introduce the Notre Dame and Saint Marys Faculty and Staffto the fastest selling community in Michiana 
March 20th and 21h 2008 5:00pm to 8:00pm 
Beer & Wine will be served Hors d'oeuvres provided by ~:~~~~.~E,~P..~.~-~,~­
RSVP appreciated 
RSVP by March 12 to be entered in the drawing for a $50 Gift Card 
jim@g90re.com or 574-247-0770 
stonebridgecondos. net 




STONEBRIDGE VILLAS 
at Edison Lakes 
Ranch Villas starting in the S190s 
VATICAN CITY 


Pope calls for peace 
after bishop's death 
recall the suffering and
Associated Press 

death of Jesus Christ. 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict said Rahho's dedi­Benedict XVI issued one of cation to the Catholic Church his strongest appeals for and his death compelled him peace in Iraq on Sunday, to "raise a strong and sor­days after the body of the rowful cry" to denounce the kidnapped Chaldean Catholic violence in Iraq spawned by archbishop was found near the war that began five years the northern city of Mosul. ago this week. 
The pope also denounced • "At the same time, I make the 5-year-long an appeal to Iraq war, say­the Iraqi peo­ing it had pro­ple, who for
"Enough with the
voked the com­the past five 
plete breakup slaughters. Enough years have of Iraqi civilian with the violence. borne the con­life. sequences of a
Enough with the 
"Enough war that pro­
hatred in Iraq. " 
with the voked the slaughters. breakup of Enough with Benedict XVI their civil and the violence. social life,"
Pope
Enough with the hatred in Iraq!" Benedict said to applause at the end of his Palm Sunday Mass in St. Peter's Square. 
On Thursday, the body of Archbishop Paulos Faraj Rahho was found near Mosul. He had been abducted on Feb. 29. 
Benedict has called Rahho's death an "inhuman act of violence" that offended human dignity. 
On Sunday, Benedict praised Rahho for his loyalty to Christ and his refusal to abandon his flock despite many threats and difficulties. 
He recalled Rahho's death as the Catholic Church opens Holy Week, the most solemn week in the liturgical calen­dar in which the faithful Benedict said. 

He urged them to raise their heads and reconstruct their life through "reconciliation, forgiveness, justice and coexistence among tribal, ethnic and reli­gious groups." 
The Vatican strongly opposed the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq. In its aftermath, Benedict has frequently criti­cized attacks against Iraqi Christians by Islamic extrem­ists. Last year, he urged President Bush to keep the safety of Iraqi Christians in mind. 
Benedict is due to preside over a memorial service at the Vatican on Monday in honor of Rahho. Typically, the pope only presides over such services when a cardi­nal dies. 
IRAN 


Conservatives hold n1ajority in election 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad declared victory Sunday in Iran's parliamentary elec­tions, saying the people had voted to reject the West after nearly complete results showed conserva­tives holding their majority. 
But the conservatives are split. Ahmadinejad's hard­line allies won the largest share of the votes, but a powerful bloc was formed of supporters-turned-critics of the president's fiery, con­frontational manner and his handling of the ailing econ­omy. 
Reformists, who seek greater democracy in Iran and closer ties with the West, appeared likely to at least retain the small bloc they held in the outgoing parliament. 
Reform leaders called the r.es ul ts a success, even though their candidates could not run in at least half the races. The unelect­ed, cleric-led Guardian Council disqualified most ­including the most well­known candidates -for insufficient loyalty to Islam and Iran's 1979 revolution. 
The results will likely mean a stormy parliament for Ahmadinejad if his crit­ics try to force him to change his economic poli­cies or end what even con­servatives see as his monopoly on decision-mak­ing. 
The new parliament also could boost the chances of a conservative challenger emergfng to run against him next year when he comes up for re-election. A possible contender is Ali Larijani, a new member of parliament who quit as a top nuclear negotiator after differences with Ahmadinejad. 
Despite the differences among the conservatives, they all support the rule of Iran's ruling clerical estab­lishment, led by supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. 
Their key priority appeared to be to prevent the reformists, who seek to limit the clerfcs' political powers, from using wide­spread discontent over inflation and unemployment to make major gains in Friday's vote. 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, March 17, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINF.SS MANAGER )Jy fitzpatrick Kyle West 

A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre KrasuJa 
Ni!WS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine 
SCENE ED!lOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EmTOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'I IICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERI"ISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) (J.~ l-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6Jl-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(5711) (,j 1-1>900 observadQi>nd.c·du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63l-4'i42 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63l-4'ill[ obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5.\13 
NEWS DESK 
(57-1) 631-5.32.3 obsnews.l@nd.t·du 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-530.3 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.!@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and onlint· by tht· smdmrs of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial cortent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contt'nt. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt-d editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chit{ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentarit"S, letters and columns present the views of rh,· authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bscrver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lcrtcrs is encouraged. l.c.·ttcrs m the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qursrions rt!gflrding ObsmJn-policits should he dirrcted to t:ditor in. C"hiefChris Hine 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'llu: UIJM"rvrr (LJSI'S '\•.N l-40CKI) ,, publt.slt<:d Muml;~y d111111~h FriJ.ty cxt:t:pt durmg cum .uui vo~unnn ~JCri.t~h A,ui.,Hipt•nn ru ·n"' Ulto.ervcr '' $1110 liu unC' acJ(Icmk 
yc:.u; S'lSiilfiiJICJICIIIClllt'l 
Thr OI15Crvcr i1 puhlidtctl Jl POHMA!>TER OH Snuth OinmK II all Send Jddrn\ oorrcctmn~ to: Nonc llo~me. IN -16~1)t,..on9 Thc:Ohscrvtr 
l'c:rlodi..:a! pmu~~ P"!'l,u Nmrr D.mM' P.O UmcTJIJ lind ~d.{iri•lnJimJIIIIlK offica. ()24 Suuth DinmJ.: 11:.11 Nntre Dame, IN 46"i'.i6-0779 
l'hc: ~ )ll\erVrr h J mcruhcr ''lrhr AwM.:tJtC'.! I'~\, All u•ptrll.lu~·rnm n~hh ~rc n:.\ttvcd. 
The play's the thing 
Judging by the dialog, such as it is, in the Viewpoint section, spring is apparently the time of year to air out perennial grievances over the University's Catholic mission, whether or not certain dra­
Darryl

matic productions 
(no, this doesn't refer Campbell 
to Letters to the 
Editor) fulfill that Speak Up, 
mission and whether Please 
the University is let­
ting that mission erode. 
According to the University, Notre Dame's Catholic identity depends on the "intellectual interchange" between Catholicism and the totality of human seholarship and thought "through free inquiry and open dis­cussion," a majority of Catholie facul­ty and the development of "disci­plined habits of mind, body and spir­it." The rationale is, of course, that any retreat from this stated mission, however small, will ultimately lead to the seeularization of the University and thn loss of what makes Notre~ Damn so unique. 
Thus we might imagine that the rPasons for the prohibition or sane­tinning of the eharged events described above would elearly stem from this mission statement. Let's begin at the beginning, then. Father Jenkins' 2006 banning of the Vagina Monologues rests on an administra­tive technicality: The play is "ineon­sistcnt with the fundamental values of a Catholie university," and producing it would be tantamount to the University sponsoring it in some sense -they may as well have had the Board of Trustees putting on the play, aeeording to that line of reasoning. 
Even the most verbose critics of the deeision were more eager to raise the specter of militant political correct­ness than point out that the adminis­tration was sidestepping the issue and instead using a loophole to weasel its way out of a difficult posi­tion. 
Last Monday, Father Jenkins took a stand in favor of open and free dis­cussion, conducted in dialogue with Catholic thought. "It is an indispensa­ble part of the mission of a Catholic university to provide a forum in whieh multiple viewpoints are debat­ed in reasoned and respectful exchange," he wrote, and once again okayed the play, simultaneously open­ing the floodgates of criticism. 
llcre, once again, is the University's mission statement. "No genuine search for the truth in the human or the cosmic order is alien to the life of faith." That. seems to me to be a pret­ty good ease against categorical cen­sorship of the Monologues. People might find them distasteful, banal, even inimieal to their way of life (and tlwy might not), but in a community whose mission is to look at the world through an intersection of Catholie teaehings and the totality of human ereativity -artistic:, seholarly and otherwise -we should be free to see and judge for ourselves, especially in conjunetion with the many points of view of the Notre Dame eommunity. 
There is, however, something to be lost by the categorical denial of artis­tic expression, especially when the administration uses a technicality to weasel out of taking a firm stance. It seems more insulting than anything that the voices clamoring for the ban­ning of the Monologues don't trust students to make their own judg­ments for themselves, and instead preempt any dialogue about the play altogether. However provocative the play is, at least with the attached panel discussion we can approaeh it as an intellectual exercise and judge its merits in the sort of open forum that the mission statement of the University values. It is no more dan­gerous to the University's Catholie identity than the discussion of atheis­tic or irreligious ideas in the class­room. There doesn't have to be a zero-sum competition between open discussion and Catholic identity. Surely those faeulty members who disapprove of the play are doubting neither their own ability to engage students in conversation nor the abili­ty of students to makP their own judg­ments. 
The fact that Notre Dame is a uni­versity puts us in a unique position. An educational institution doesn't deal in reeeived morality-thnre are plenty of places to find that. Instead, it allows its students to adively takl~ part in their personal growth, whnther inside or outside the dass­room. It's the difference between a leeture and a seminar: No mattnr how good a lecture is, isn't it more fulfill­ing to be abln to take part in a con­versation about a topic, and by doing so, engage with it'? 
Darryl Campbell is a first-year graduate student in history. /Je can be contacted at dcampbe6@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

OBSERVER POLL
News  Sports  
.Joseph McMahon  Alex Barker  
Claire Hcising  I.orenzo Heyes  Who will go further in this year's  
Emma Driscoll Graphics  Meghan McMahon  NCM tournamAnt?  
Jarnd Wafer  Seene  Men's Baskntball  
Viewpoint  Cassie Bclek  Women's Basketball  
Lianna  
Brauwniler  Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at  
www.ndsmcobserver.com  

Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"How many cares one loses when one decides not to be SOT";,elhing but to be someone. 
Coco Chane! fashion designer 

page 11 

Offer 'better' alternatives 
As a Notre Dame basketball fan and a concerned alum, I feel compelled to respond to what I consider a great insult made by your administrators in the Mar. 14 article, "NDSP inconsistent with 'Breytopia."' Is it possible for your admin­istrators, namely Bill Kirk, to answer simple questions and be accountable for their decisions without running off a litany of excuses that site "safety" or "security" as principle motives for enforcing inapplicable rules? Newsflash: Providing a reasonable answer to a viable question is not the same as putting together vague words into a statement -this is what your administrators and university spokes­people did last week when they lent no real insight into why they stood behind NDSP's decision to ban excited fans from lining up pre-game for general admission seating. It's like feeding a dog a full colon and calling it a steak and then expecting him to believe it's a steak. 
The main reason why this all bothers me is that when I came to my.first ho'me basketball game in fall 2001, the atmosphere in the Joyce Center was laughable. Over the next four years -with the support of the athletic depart­ment, winning seasons provided by the team, Coach Brey's enthusiasm, Student Activities' funding and initiative on the students' part-we created a home court atmosphere that rivals the nation's best college basketball programs. It took all ofthese key components and none of it would have been achieved without all ofthem. Now your administrators seem to think that enforcing a silly, inapplicable rule is more important than maintaining this lofty status (being undefeated at home the last two seasons says a lot). 
Here is my thesis: If Bill Kirk (or any other administrator) says that there are "better," "safer" or more "secure" ways to show support for your team than assembling hours or even days prior to gametime (while they still support utiliz­ing a general admissions seating scheme), then I say tell students what it is exactly you would like for them to do. It's very easy to say that things can be better, but until you actually figure out anything that supports this team, this program and this university, I refuse to give credence to that argument. 
Along with other students, I spent a lot oftime and ener­gy working with the groups mentioned earlier to build the excitement to where it is now. At no time did anyone from the Office of Residence Life and Housing offer any words of encouragement, support or "better" ideas to aid us in the cause -which is a noble one and one which is in line with the mission ofthe university. In no way is it appropriate for that office or administration to criticize operations afoot which are neither unsafe or insecure. In my estimation, the only thing that is insecure in all ofthis is that office's ability to control the lives ofstudents at Notre Dame and that is exactly why they chose to make an example ofthese hard working students who do more than most to support their team, their program and their university. 
Drew Updike alumnus Class of2005 Mar. 16 

Sarcasm 
During the spring semester ofmy freshman year, the Vagina Monologues challenged my Catholic values, and my values definitely lost. Even after 18 years ofmasses, Catholic schooling, and a good home upbringing, my world shattered. After attending the performance, I stopped going to mass and instead began engaging in all kinds ofsexual activity with anyone and anything. I had countless abor­tions, became an alcoholic and, worst of all, failed theology. Twice. Sure, I had seen SUB movies showcasing people doing things that would definitely get them at least kicked out of Notre Dame (parietals) and probably the Catholic church (murders), but they never phased me. However, upon sight of the Vagina Monologues, my faith crumbled into nothingness. All of the priests in the world could not have prepared me for it. How dare Notre Dame force me (yes, I was dragged to the performance by NDSP) to engage in this terrible production that would completely destroy my faith? I came here to grow intellectually as well as spiri­tually, but have found it impossible to do so after watching such a blatant display of open female sexuality. The Vagina Monologues must be stopped, or the Catholic church may collapse. 
Meghan O'Donoghue junior Badin Hall Mar. 13 

A<> the start of the Bookstore Basketball tournament draws closer, dreams of a Cinderella run by a little known team are born. The largest five-on-five outdoor basketball tournament in the world has its handful of great, good, and yes, pretty awful basketball players. But the one thing the tournament does not have is the 3-point shot. 
In a sport dominated by big men, the 3-point shot allows the smaller sharpshooter to become a deadly threat from behind the line. While the big men shoot their jump hooks and lay-ups inside, the smaller guards bomb treys from the oul<>ide. In NCAA basketball, the 3-point shot was added in 1986 and next season the 3-point line will be moved a foot back. 
Today, when a shot is made from beyond 19'9", the bas­ket count<> as three points. Anything inside this range is two. In pickup basketball, the three is two, and everything else is one. But in Bookstore Basketball, this aspect ofthe game is mysteriously disregarded, levying a heavy advan­tage to bigger teams. No longer can the guard shoot a three from a foot behind the 3-peint line and have it be worth more than the pathetic big man lay-up. It's all worth one. This makes sense right? The shot 6 inches away from the basket is worth the same as the one made from 21 feet away. When Shaq nearly pulls the hoop down with a dunk. it is worth the same as Kobe's fade away 3­pointer from the top ofthe key. It seems to make perfect sense to the Bookstore Basketball organizers. Every other league in basketball has the 3-point shot, but for some reason it is not included in Bookstore. 
Imagine telling the Notre Dame basketball team that the 3-point shot just counts as two. Kyle McAlarney would prob_ably break down and cry for a week. Ryan Ayers and Luke Zeller would give each other a long, sobbing hug. Tory Jackson would celebrate, but that's beside the point. No 3-point shots for the Notre Dame basketball team would mean more losses and no NCAA tournament. Sorry Reggie Miller, those back-to-hack 3-pointers you hit against the Knicks with 15 seconds left actually did not tie the game. You lose. Sorry Gilbert Arenas, those clutch 3­pointers you hit at the end of games to win do not actually count as three. You lose too. 
So, Bookstore Basketball organizers, I want to thank you. Thanks for taking away the one thing the shooting guard does best and giving the already freakishly tall big man another advantage. Thanks for taking away a Cinderella run by a small team because they can shoot the lights out. No really, I do not know how to express such an overflowing feeling of emotion. Maybe in the tournament I will dribble down the court, point to you in your red fleece with the clipboard, pull up from behind the 3-point line (there is a reason why it's called that) and drain a long range bomb for you. And yeah, buddy with the clipboard that should be worth two, not one. 
Kevin Snyder sophomore Sorin Hall Mar.l6 
Sheen doesn't deserve Laetare Medal 
As a high school senior deciding where to make my home for the next four years, I chose Notre Dame for many rea­sons. Chief among them was my beliefthat Notre Dame was far more than a great academic institution and a storied athletic powerhouse. I believed that it truly stood for something. The commitment to the values and ethics championed by our university is what I believe sets us apart from many other schools around the country. 
However, I believe Notre Dame's mission conflicts with the recent decision to award actor Martin Sheen the Laetare Medal for his "humanitarian work." The Laetare Medal is annually awarded to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals ofthe church and enriched the heritage ofhumanity." Apparently, Sheen illustrates the ideals of the same church we belong to and enriches humanity by consistently condemning American pol­icy at home and abroad by: Signing the "Statement of Conscience" ofNot In Our Name, a radical anti-war group that has continually protested American response to the 9/11 attacks and for combating militant Islam; promoting a ludi­crous conspiracy theory that claims President Bush, not Osama bin Laden, is responsible for the loss of over 3,000 lives at the World Trade Center and Pentagon; supporting ANSWER, a socialist/Marxist group that has praised terrorist organizations such as Hamas and Hezbollah, and extreme left-wing environmentalist organizations such as the Earth Island Institute; finally, touring Nicaragua during the Cold War in support ofthe anti-American Sandinista government. 
Father Jenkins, a man for whom I have a tremendous amount ofrespect, said he "welcomes the opportunity to lift up [Sheen's] example for our church, our country and our students." Jenkins uses several examples to describe Sheen's "accomplishments," noting (among others) Sheen's stance on "the waging of unjust war [in Iraq],"-or what Sheen spoke of as "the dogs ofwar slouching toward Baghdad." It would be nice ifSheen would remember that the only rea­son he is able to say such outrageous things at all is because ofthose "dogs ofwar," by which I mean American soldiers, fighting overseas. Frankly, I am disappointed Notre Dame eould not have found another Catholic "genius" to bestow such an honor upon than one with so many questionable views and inexcusable stances. 
Jay Rowley freshman Morrissey Manor Mar.IO 
Save sex for marriage 
Recent Letters to the Editor have brought up the issue of sexuality and its proper expression in our lives. I know many readers will disagree with the following assertion, yet despite its controversial nature, I've found that it makes the most sense and is the most helpful for living a contented life: Sex is designed for marriage. When two people are publidy and privately committed to one another in the bond of marriage, when they have the sta­bility needed to create their own family, when their love has been found to be lasting and undying, then and only then does sex live up to its full potential. 
Despite this, sex certainly remains very pleasurable outside of marriage. Yet without the lifelong commitment, love and openness to children that marriage provides, it is cheapened. To a much lesser degree, it is a bit like opening up your Christmas gift on Dec. 22, or eating lots of dessert before dinner. Christmas gifts are pleasurable to open early, yet they offer more pleasure and more meaning when opened at Christmas. Dessert is very tasty when eaten before dinner, but much more satisfying at the end. Granted, sex is much more important than Christmas presents and dessert. 
A bit of reflection shows that sex is designed for three purposes: to give pleasure to the couple, to create deep bonds between the couple, and to bring about the con­ception of children. Any sexual activity outside of mar­riage, whether pre-marital sex, extra-marital sex, mas­turbation, etc., cheats one of the true meaning ofsex. It may seem hard to believe, but sex between two married people who love one another and have opened their hearts and homes to children really is better, more mean­ingful and more satisfying than sex away from marriage. Of course ifthis is true, this puts us unmarried college students in quite the dilemma. Do we fight the heroic struggle of saving our sexuality for our future spouse, knowing the rewards will be great, or do we cheat by enjoying it now, either a bit or a lot? To do the former is in no way easy, but neither is accomplishing other lofty goals like getting into Notre Dame or winning a national championship. I know this letter won't change everyone's mind, but at least be open to the ideas that sex really is best when in the context of marriage and that saving yourself for your spouse really is worth the challenge. 
Chris Spellman 
semor 
off campus Mar. 13 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Monday, March 17, 2008 
Owner serves up new cu1s:me 
By TAE ANDREWS Scl'nl' Ec.liror 
Jim Herter knows the ins and outs of tlw restaurant business. That's becausn he's benn working in one, in some capacity or another, li1r the past 35 years. Aftnr starting with part-timn and summer jobs while he was still in sehoul. Herter took a job with Taco Bell from 1<JHO-HH. working his way up from an hourly employee in 1980 to the position of' District Manager in I 1J8f1. lie left th11 company two years later for the position of busi­ness manager with Notre Dame Food Services, where he remained for 17 years bdore leaving to start Hieo's Filling Station in December 2005. 
Over the course of his career, llerter has travelPd far and wide in the pursuit of' culinary perfection. Him's Filling Station reprnsents his latest vnnture into the restaurant industry. The name says .it all. 
"I was looking to partner with a local Arby's franchisee to develop somn rngional franchisn restaurant r:oncnpts that were up and coming in thn national restaurant picturn," llnrter said. 
Aller tossing around ideas, Herter decided that his own ideas might work hnst and set out to create his own restaurant. llis partner sup­plied a vacant spaen in an Arby's that had dosPd a year earlier. 
"llis name is Hiehard, so 'Hieo' poppml into my head -short, sim­ple and rnprPsnntativn," he said. "Br~sides, 'Hicardo' sounded too mueh like a Mexican restaurant and wn want to be known for all 
the  cultures  of  the  Gulf'  and  
Cariblwan.  
"It took on a  life of its own after  

that. What beeanw very fitting was tile Latin nwaning of' rko (richl. lltl really beeanw a manifestation of' thr• rich culturns and <:uisines and also tlw personification of' my trav­nling and adwnturing spirit." 
Bather than pigeonhole his uniquP collection of' culinary olrnr­ings into Llw category of' Moxiean food, llnrtnr dnserilms his dishes as "MesoAnwri<:ano." 
"Wo havn those familiar Southwnstorn items that rival or lwttor Llw national brands way out in Mishawaka." lw said. "but we arP dnddndly dilli~nmt with all'ord­ahln otlwr itnms from Meso AnH'rir:a. WP usn that term loosely to dolirw a gpographical arna." 
That gnographical area encom­passns a varidy of' flavors drawn from rul,turns spanning tho Anwriean Southwnst to Latin Amnri1:a to tlw Caribbean. 
In Bi<:o's, Horter has brought hack many of those l'lavors and assnm biPd tlwm u ndP r orw roof. And whiiP lw may have gone to gnmt longths to prorun• rww dishes and rPcipos, lw strPssos that he docidf'd to lo<·atf' his rnstaurant. rlosn to nunpus so Notr<' Dame stu­dPnts wouldn't havo to. "The eon­V<'nionef' and proximity to campus IisI im porlllll t to INotrP Danw stu­dents who froqunnt Biro's!." lw said. 
In Hieo's [:illing Station. Notre Damn students now have a new orw-stop shop for all things Mesr1Amnrkan. 
Contact Tac Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
Mcnda Cancur. ..
• 


(IUd.td dd C;!r•u,•n
• MEXIco· 
Chctum.:tl
• 


~l'li:tc-Ck\•
. 
' 

na;tl.l ' .rhm·:-;.·. * J~tlmopan ·.. 
• t·llti(:rrct 
BELIZt:: 

HIGH-OCTANE 
f t~ • '

ti.:n·.ma .,. 
* 
Move over Chipotle-there's a new sherifl' in town. Hico's Filling Station-where they don't actually pump gas-is the new head-honcho 'round these parts. The restaurant's weapon of choice? Flavor. 
Rico's Filling Station, a self-described MesoAmerican Grill, employs so many ditl'erent tastes, and uses them so well, that other 
Chris McGrady 

area restaurants can hardly ,__1compare. I was spoiled growing 
Scene & /Ieard

L. :-~:'up in Colorado, where tiny t .• 'taquerias serve up food full of flavor and spice. At these little _;;.restaurants, they understand there is a difference between · creating spice with flavor, and just plain heat. While some of Rico's dishes may not be "conventional fare," thny understand 
how to use this principal and that is what makes it head and shoulders 
the food. 

I started trying thre cado steak good. The slightly spi gumbo w standing. I cious, with hearty bea ers, but th seasonings its food. So (who open< out a samp 
above many other plao1s. Not to Hours: mention, there isn't a single item on 
Monday-Thursday, IO:JO a.1: 
the menu over six dollars. Not one 
Ji'riday-Saturday, 10:30 a.m.
-this is music to a college student's ears. .S'unday, 12 p.m.-8 p. 
What you first notico about Hieo's · are the colorful surroundings. Thn 
lSI..A-:ii> pfV~Ils ar~ J?aint_ed .~rightly and f'e~tu_re paintings by local artist LA lHJJfHnan MilcmovJ(:. I he restaurant IS 1mpneeably dnan, and 
' 


,_.. ® . 

.... ~· i 
Photo courtesy of maps.google.com 

Rico's Filling Station is located in the Campus Shoppes at 1841 South Bend Ave. 
)• ~~ '··
1~plfHo.·· 

1,,,·R(. ·:'tA:r,Af"t~ 

I 

PREPARED FRESH 
hate piekl. this sandw prise, surp Andouille: Cajun mus cheese. Th 
Next. Is< tos. The p< of seasonil the way it beans, ric• sometinw · rice, this b which wor you a ton< other pia<:< this wav. T 
I wou.ld 
Next we both ofwh llerter ma 
spiee I wa1 of grilled of seasoni 
Last, I w tries, crisJ Tlwy have with a gnn strawberr 

Perhaps others is t first name. Working al 

• 
r.1 r 


.---------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, March 17, 2008 
page 13 
.,__:·_' 
··W&··· 

jJJJ~,t~,! 8 t~ t10f. 
'··'· JJ~lA5 

'~.r~"B J io u ~1 ~!J ~··~ l 
__:' -.~ ­

with a little something to prime my appetite, difl'erent kinds of soup-a black-bean, an avo­
and a gumbo. All three of these soups were very tvocado steak (a special that day) had a smoky and ~y flavor and big, hearty chunks of steak. The ; equally good. The black-bean, however, was out­am no big fan of legumes, but this soup was deli­
a great Mexican-inspired flavor and plenty of ns. All three soups were served with oyster crack­lse had even been coated with a special blend of , hinting at the detail Rico's employs in so much of 
far, so very, very good. Next, owner Jim Herter 
.d the restaurant on Nov. 30 oflast year) brought 
e of two of the restaurant's signature dishes-the Cubano sandwich and the Andouille sausage sandwich. The Cubano sandwich accounts for 25 percent of Hico's total sales, and for good rea­
.-9 p.m. son. It features shredded pork and 10 p.m. ham. Hico's signature two-cheese 
l. queso sauce, crisp dill pickles, and a homemade mustard sauce. all on pressed bread. Here's the thing-I 
· on my sandwich and I hate mustard. But I loved ch. All of the flavors work perfectly together (sur­ise) and it makes for quite the tasty treat. The 
,andwich is slightly spicy, and is served with a ,ard (amazingly, !liked it again) and shredded is may have been my favorite thing on the menu. empled one of the carnitas (shredded pork) hurri­rk was tPnder and juicy and just the right amount 
g. Perhaps the best thing about the burrito was vas made up. It features just the right amount of , lettuce and cheese. Unlike at Chipotle. where you bite into your burrito only to get a mouthfpl of 1rrito had the flavors completely in proportion, ;ed remarkably well. "If you want me to, I can give f rice and beans and make the burrito as big as s, and I will," Herter said, "hut I think it is better he Jlavors all work together. and it's better." ave to agree. e tlw jambalaya and the Jamaican jerk chicken, ,r,h wnre very well done. I asked for them spicy, but le sure to tell us we could control just how much 1ted. They were each served with a generous slice rmtd. Once again. Bien's impressed with their use .g and both of these dishes were excellent. ,Ls abln to S(tmple the churros-straw-like pas­iT on the outside and gooey delicious in the middle. ,plain. strawberry, and caramel and arc served ~rous dollop of whipped cream. I was partial to the . but I have to admit they were all delicious. thll last thing that sP.ts the restaurant above the ,p owner. Herter knows most of his eustomers by and greets them with a smile when they come in. 
mgsidn his wife. he'll come by and ask you how 
• ~ 1 • 

GumbO., Cup $2l59 Quart $12.99 
. . ... 
:. cubarKisandwich ~~,; -$5.79 
·Pi'essegBread, Shredded Pork, Ham, Queso Sauce and Dill Pickle Slices w/ Mustard Sauce 
Adouille Sausage Sandwich 
_,


~t~""' Grilled Spicy Sausage, Shredded Cheese, Lettuce, Tomato, Oniori and Cajun Mustard 
Jambalaya $5.49 Smoky Ham, Chicken, Sausage, Tomatoes, Onion. Peppers and Rice with cajun Seasonings 

Jamaican Jerk Chicken $5.49 An Island Favorite: Spicy Chicken Pieces w/ Jerk Seasoning over Rice and Toasted Bread Carnitas Pork Moist and gently shreds of pork lightly seasoned 
Queso Sauce $1.89 

$1.49 
Graphic 

Rico's Filling Station offers a variety of Meso-American food at reasonable prices students can afford. 
your food is, and fix anything that's not right (which isn't like­ly). When I went back the next day with my friends (yes, I went back .. ,and then once more the next day), he came by our table and brought us all a complimentary round of chur­ros. That's just the type of guy he is. 
All in all, Rico's Filling Station is an amazing restaurant, and was criminally empty while I was there. It is located close to campus (just across the parking lot from Between the Buns on South Bend Ave.) and serves up some of the tastiest food I have had in my four years here. They serve up beer and wine, and even have drink specials. So if you are looking for great, inexpensive food, close to campus, where ND students are more than welcome-Rico's Filling Station is just the place. ­
The views and opinions expressed in Scene & Heard are those ofthe author and do not necessarily reflect those ofThe Observer. 
Co_ntact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
-


t I ~ 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 17, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hansbrough, UNC capture ACC title again 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLOTTI·:. N.C.-One by 1111 e, North Caro I in a's players climbed onto the platform to snip a pifH:e of' the not to celebrate th11ir Atlantic Coast Con f'e r n tl c n tournarn11nt championship. Tlwrn wert) plenty of' smilns and laughter. yet the victory party senmPd somehow sub­dued. 
Al'l<H all, the top-ranked Tar llenls l'igure they have biggnr drnams still to chase. 
"Wo just go to the point where we realized we reached a goal," junior Marcus Ginyard said. "But at the same time, we know tlwrn is morn for us." 
That attitude hovered over their 8(J-81 win over Clemson in Sunday's tournament final, a victory that locked up tlw overall No. 1 seed in the NCAA f'inld of' 65 while giving the program a record 17th ACC title. Th11 Tar lleels got another strong-willed pcr­f'ormancp, inside from All­America Tyler Hansbrough 

~-and a stellar outing on the 
perirnetp,r from Wayne Ellington to outlast the Tigers for a third time this season and s.,!ose a tough tourna­ment run in which North Carolina didn't win a game by more than 12 points. 
Now North Carolina (32-2) can turn its attention to liv­ing up to the lofty expecta­tions that have followed the Tar Heels all season, even as they allowed themselves the small indulgence of' a busi­nesslike celebration. 
"We didn't dance around and climb on top of back­boards and things like that," North Carolina coach Roy Williams said. "It was a great feeling and a very satisfying feeling for us." 
North Carolina opens the NCAA tournament in Haleigh against the winner of the opening-round game between Coppin State and Mount St. Mary's 
Ellington finished with 24 points for North Carolina, which has won consecutive ACC tournaments for the fifth time. Hansbrough was named the tournament's most valu­
able player after finishing with 18 points and 11 rebounds while scrapping inside the entire game against the third-seeded Tigers (24-9), following up on his 26-point day that includ­nd the last-second jumper to boat Virginia Tech 68-66 in Saturday's semifinals. 
Ellington, a 6-foot-4 sopho­more, continued his season­long torture of Clemson. fin­ishing 1 0-for-13 from the field to go with four rebounds and four assists. In January, he had a career-high 36 points and hit a last-second 3-pointer to give the Tar Heels' a 90-88 overtime road win. A month later, he fin­ishnd with 28 points as North Carolina rallied from 15 points down to beat Clemson 103-93 in double overtime, a loss that dropped the Tigers to 0-53 all-time in Chapel Hill. 
This time, Ellington hit his first five shots to outduel Clemson's K.C. Rivers in a back-and-forth game that was in doubt until the final seconds. 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish lose Big East opener in OT heartbreaker to Syracuse 
Orange attack Katie Rowan with Syracuse tying it at 13-though you probably should­struggles over spring break.
By MATT GAMBER 

put away four goals in the 13 with 6:39 to play. n't, you kind of go into do-or­"I think we've come along
Associate Sports Editor 

first half to extend the "We knew it was going to die mode, and when the ball way since the California Syreause lead to 7-3 with 13 be a possession game," keeps bouncing toward them, week. and I think we've No. 12 Notrn Damn opened minutes left to play. Coyne said. "We both have it gets hard to get that edge." proven that we can play with Big East play with a heart­Notre Dame scored four very high powered offenses, Despite being out-shot 35-the top teams," Coyne said. breaking 16-13 ovnrtime loss unanswered goals over the so I think when you face two 27 -including 17-6 in the "So I think it's just about to No. 6 Syracuse yesterday next five minutes to knot the teams like that you know it's second half -the Orange refocusing over these next in thn Lof'tus Center. game up. but Syracuse going to be high scoring and were the more efficient team, couple weeks. We have a lot 
Senior captain Caitlin struck right back, scoring every possession's going to scoring on all three of its of big games on our sched­McKinney led the Irish (5-3, three more times to take a count. free-position opportunities. ule, a lot of ranked teams on 0-1) with four goals and two 10-7 halftime lead. Syracuse played in over­Syracuse was heavily penal­our schedule. We have the assists. as Notre Dame over­"I think sometimes you time the way the Irish did for ized throughout the match, Big East tournament, and we carne a three-goal halftime have to assess your oppo­much of the second half, and committing 27 fouls to Notre have a lot of things we can del'ieit with a dominating nent, so going into the game Notre Dame never mustered Dame's 15, but the Irish focus on in terms of working seeond half efl'ort that fell we thought one thing and so much as a shot on goal in were only able to convert on to get better." short in the extra periods. then I think we made some the two three-minute bonus five of it;; 10 free-position But the Irish are not mov­
"Well, !the loss! stinks adjustments," Irish head periods. The visitors eon­shots. ing past the Orange yet. because we came back and coach Tracy Coyne said. "I trolled the opening draw and The Irish controlled the "The good thing to come when we were in the huddle, think when we adjust we .scored on its initial posses­first four draws of the second out of' it is that we'll be play­I really think everyone truly usually do pretty well." sion of the first overtime, half but were outdrawn 8-3 ing them again in the Big bnlieved wn were going to Those adjustments, espe­and then the Orange buried from there -a frustrating East tournament in our sta­win it." MeKinney said. "We cially those to improve Notre the Irish by finding the net statistic for Coyne, who has dium," McKinney said. "I had tlw heart and the effort, Dame's draw control. paid off twice more in the second. been forced to reemphasize think the generated emotion that was all there. but some­in the second half, as the "I think with overtime, it's the importance of the draw and rivalry will only [serve times I feel like you don't Irish made the Orange a lot of emotion and momen­control during the intermis­us well] when we go against catch a break in certain situ­offense a non-factor by con­tum, and the ball was bounc­sion of Notre Dame's last two them again, so let them have ations, and we didn't catch trolling possession for 12 ing a lot to them," McKinney games. this one but they're not get­one today." straight minutes and scoring said of the Irish's inability to Not all is lost for the Irish, ting the next." 
The Irish and the Orange four straight goals to take an pounce on any groundball though, as they showed (5-1. 1-0) traded scoring 11-10 edge. The teams trad­opportunities in overtime. "I resiliency and marked Contact Matt Gamber at runs throughout the game. ed goals from there, though, think in overtime, even improvement from their mgamber@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3j>.m. at the Notre Dame office: 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
-CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­273-3835, www.workforstudents.com 
Need babysitter for 2 kids. Flex hrs. Good pay. Solid Catholic family. Email: mbrammer@ sbcglobal.net 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 

FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574-234-2436 OR KRAMER­HOUSES.COM 
3-4 bdrm, 3 bath home close to campus. sale, cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008. Call 574-232­4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340­1844. 
For rent: Two story house ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four indi­vidually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, {lew furnace and central air, new kitchen including appli­ances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car­extra.Call 289-4071. 
5 bedroom house just off Angela & 
31. Available now & for next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232-6964. 

HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 ND Ave., walk to campus. 3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5. Central Air, new appl., carpet, WID, off street parking. Totally Renovated in 07.Free Summer Storage. Email jason@ jakesfireworks.net 
PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­site at: http:l/osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Adopt: Active. young, loving couple, teacher and business owner, wish more than anything to raise your newborn with care, warmth and love. Expenses paid. Please call Josette and Tim 1-800-418-0230. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
CORRECTION: The or9 they call slampiece is not Aaron's seed as previously suggested. However, the search for him is still underway. New evidence suggests that he might have been at main circle late Saturday night. Lightweight. 
Where did all the Jelly go? 
Ohio State didn't make the tourney. South Alabama, Temple, and Villanova did. Therefore, South Alabama, Temple, and 'Nova > OSU 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 17, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 15 
Men's College Basketball Final Poll 
ESPN/USA Today 

team  record  votes  
1  North Carolina  32-2  767  
2  UCLA  31-3  735  
3  Memphis  33-1  728  
4  Kansas  31-3  682  
5  Wisconsin  29·4  630  
6  Tennessee  29-4  616  
7  Texas  28-6  581  
8  Georgetown  27-5  538  
9  Duke  27-!)  535  
10  Butler  29-3  499  
11  Stanford  26-7  476  
12  Xavier  27-6  373  
13  Louisville  24-8  358  
14  Drake  28-4  310  
15  Notre Dame  24-7  309  
16  Vanderbilt  26-7  246  
17  Connecticut  24-8  239  
18  Purdue  24-8  218  
19  Pittsburgh  26-9  216  
20  Michigan State  25-8  1.94  
21  Washington Slate  24-8  149  
22  Clemson  24-9  123  
23  Davidson  26-6  108  
24  Indiana  25-7  106  
25  Marquette  24-9  106  

National Hockey Leauge 
Standings 
Western Conference 

team record points 
New Jersey 42·24 90 Montreal 40-24 89 Carolina 39·30 83 Pittsburgh 41·24 89 Ottawa 40·26 87 NY Rangers 37-26 83 Boston 37-27 83 Philadelphia 35·28 80 Buffalo 34·28 79 Washington 35·30 78 Florida 35-31 78 Toronto 35-31 74 NY Islanders 32·34 71 Atlanta 31-35 70 Tampa Bay 29-35 66 
Eastern Conference 

team record points 
Detroit 47·20 100 San Jose 42-21 93 Minnesota 38·26 84 Anaheim 41·25 90 Dallas 42-27 89 Calgary 37·25 84 Colorado 39-28 84 Vancouver 36·26 82 Nashville 36·29 80 Phoenix 36-31 71 Edmonton 36·32 77 Columbus 32·29 75 Chicago 34·32 75 St. Louis 29-32 69 Los Angeles 28·39 62 
last ro 
6·3·1 7-3-0 8-2-0 6-3·1 4-5-1 7-2·1 3·4·3 4-3-3 4-4-2 7-3-0 7-2-1 6-3-1 2-8·0 2-4-4 4-5-1 

last ro ·· 
4-5·1 9-0·1 4·3·3 7-2·1 5-5·0 5-3-2 8-2-0 4-4·2 4-6·0 5-5·0 8-2-0 5-3-2 4-5·1 1-8·1 2·5·3 

around the dial 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Selection Special 7 p.m., ESPN 
ARENA FOOTBALL LEAGUE Colorado at Dallas 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE Avalanche at Wild 7 p.m., VS. 

PGA 

Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Tiger Woods made a 25-foot birdie putt on the final hole Sunday to win the Arnold Palmer Invitational by one shot, extending his PGA Tour win­rting streak to five and keep­ing intact a perfect season in golf. 
In his biggest challenge since this streak began seven months ago, Woods outlasted 45-year-old Bart Bryant and won with a birdie putt on the final hole for the first time in seven years. He turned· and slammed his cap to the ground, letting out a roar to celebrate his 64th career victory, tying ·sen Hogan at No. 3 on the PGA Tour list. 
"I turned a mediocre tour­nament into a good one," Woods said. 
Woods closed with a 6­under 66 and won Bay Hill for the fifth time in his career, becoming the first player in PGA Tour history to win four tournaments at least five times. The others are the Buick Invitational, Bridgestone Invitational and the CA Championship, where he plays next week at Dora! as the three-time defemling champion. 
No wonder some are starting to question whether he will lose again. 
Bryant felt hopeless, no different from so many other victims of Woods. He hit all 
IN BRIEF Last-place Georgia wins 
SEC title, tourney bid 
ATLANTA-Georgia completed its remarkable run through the Southeastern Conference tourna­ment on Sunday, building a big lead in the first half and holding on to beat Arkansas 66-57 in the championship game, earning its first trip to the NCAAs since 2002. 
[A] devastating tornado, which rumbled over the Georgia Dome and wreaked havoc downtown, forced a postponement of Georgia's quarterfinal game against Kentucky. 
The revised schedule, which was vehemently opposed by Felton, forced the Georgia-Kentucky win­ner to play two games on Saturday. Amazingly, the Bulldogs knocked off the Wildcats for the first time ever in the tournament, then came back six hours later to beat SEC West champion Mississippi State. 
the right shots on the back rtine to keep pressure on the world's No. 1 player, and was sitting in the scoring trailer when he heard the loudest cheer of the after­noon. 
"That's why he's Tiger Woods," Bryant said. "He has an incredible way of pulling off the shot or the putt when he needs to. He's done it before. He'll do it again." 
Not since Bay Hill in 2001 against Phil Mickelson has Woods won a PGA Tour event with a birdie on the 72nd hole to win by a shot, and this was so meartingful that Woods ripped off his cap and slung it to the ground, something he has never done. 
"I kept telling myself, 'I've done this before. I did it against Phil, and this time it's a little bit deeper into the green and the putt has a little bit more break and it has a little more grain. I've done it before, and I can do it again."' 
And he did. 

Woods has won six straight times worldwide, which includes a thrilling rally in Dubai last month. 
His average score dur­ing the PGA Tour streak is 66.13, and his dominance is such that he now has more career victories than Mickelson and Vijay Singh combined. 
Two wrecks at Bristol 
give Burton first victory 
BRISTOL, Tenn. -Tony Stewart should have won the race. And when he didn't, it gave Denny Hamlin a clear shot at victory. 
But the Joe Gibbs Racing drivers failed to seal the deal -again ­at Bristol Motor Speedway, and Jeff Burton and his Richard Childress Racing teammates were there to capitalize. 
Burton scored his first victory at Bristol Motor Speedway, leading teammates Kevin Harvick and Clint Bowyer to the first 1-2-3 sweep in RCH history by pouncing when the JGR drivers faltered at the very end Sunday. 
Busch's power steering failed, causing him to crash while he was leading midway through the race. Then llarvick wrecked Stewart with two laps to go, setting up a two-lap overtime sprint to the fin­ish. 
Badgers hold off Illini to 
claim Big Ten conference 
title 

INDIANAPOLIS -Wisconsin won the Big Ten tournament with stout defense, and coach Bo Ryan said 
·­

that's what will carry the Badgers if they make a deep run in the NCAA tournament. 
Brian Butch scored 12 points, and No. 8 Wisconsin beat upstart Illinois 61-48 on Sunday to sweep the Big Ten regular-season and tournament titles for the first time. 
Wisconsin won all three games against the Illini this season by double digits, and will enter the NCAA tournament on a 10-game winning streak. .... 
Illinois would have been the sec­ond team to qualify for the NCAA field With a losing record this sea­son. 
The Illini also would have been the lowest seed to win the Big Ten 

Monday, March 17, 2008

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 

SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary's falls to Division II foe 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Wri1er 
Saint Mary's 11~11 to 4-4 on the ymtr this weekmHI wlwn it lost to Division II Indiana Wesh~y<m this Saturday. 6-3. Tho No. 16 Wildcats move to 2-1 for the spring season. and 14-1 for the year. 
Saturday's match was the lirst liw the Bellns since corning back from spring break, and their first dual match of the spring. Saint Mary's coach Chuck Hubino was looking for Saturday to give his team another dmnee at eompet­ing against a strong team bPI'ore the Belles take on conference foe Albion to open their MIM sea­son. 
"I think we benefited as a team from the mateh against IWU," sophomore Camille (i!~bert said. "They wen~ a very solid team, and we steppml up our games, despite our foss. All of the mateh­~~s worn tight, and it's just a mat­ter of getting over the hump. Playing a toam of that ealibor is good preparation for our first MIAA dual matd1 on Tuesday." 
Ono of Saint Mary's goals for Saturday was improving its dou­bles play. an an~a tlw young Bdlns squad struggled with over hmak. 
"WP delinitPiy still nnnd work on our doubles." Gnhnrt said. "Our singlns matclws tak1~ ~~are ol' tlwmsnlvns. llowover. in dose team matdws, gPtting tlw dou­bles points will be !Ttwial." 
Thn pair ol' sophomore Lisa Hubino and freshman Betsy Heed worn tlw only sur.1:essful doubles duo for tlw Belles on Saturday. 
MEN'S GOLF 

ND ties for 12th at Schenkel Invitational 
By PAT STYNES Sports Wri1n 

i\ftnr produeing his best por­forrnan!:n in rwarly two years at the USC Collegiate Invitational last week. junior Josh Sandman might havo outdone himself yet again. 
Sandman shownd why he narrwd all-Big East honors last year as he posted another irnpmssivn performance at the Sdwnkcd Jo:-Z-GO Invitational with a score of 212 (4-undnr par). !wiping Notre Dame finish in a tin for 12th place with a eombinml seorn of 888 (24-over par). 
The strong finish placml them ahnad of rival Michigan State, who is ranked No. 15 in the c:ountry. Alabama finished with first place honors with an impressive seore of 849 (15­bolow par). 
Individually Sandman tied for sixth overall, just four shots behind individual champion (inorge Bryan IV from South Carolina. The junior's perforrn­anee singlnhandeclly improved thn Irish from a 16th-plaee lin­ish to a 12th-place mark. Needloss to say, Sandman has done an impressive job replac­
ing last year's co-captain Cole Isban. who gracluatnd last spring. 
lsban's school-record career stroke average of 73.76 is in danger of being broken if Sandman ean consistently finish as strong as he has been doing 
Sophomore Carl Santos­Ocampo finished second on the toam with a solid 222 (6-over par). The underr.lassman has been somewhat overlooked this past year, yet he currently is fourth-best on the team in terms of stroke average, and is quietly becoming a top-flight player. 
"Carl is another example of what our program is about," coach Jim Kubinski. "He is making progress and gaining consistency with his changes. Carl impresses in many ways but is bit underrated at times. It's only when you add up the score at the end of the day that players realize how competitive he is. I expect more that this season." 
The team's next event is the National Invitational Tournament at the Arizona National Golf Club March 23-25. 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 
earning their third win together and took down Wildeats Eva Delk and Lisa Massey, 8-4. Hubino and Heed are now at 3-3 as Saint Mary's No. 2 doubles pair. 
Sophomore Camille Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley, the No. 1 doubles pair for the Belles, lost 8-4 on Saturday, moving them to 3-!i for this spring. No. 3 doubles of freshmen Jessica Camp and Jessica Kosinski lost 8-6 to Wesleyan's Courtney Kooyers and Laura I I elm, putting them at 4-4. 
On the singles side, Saint Mary's had a stronger showing, but not by much. No. 1 singles Gebert defeated Wesleyan's Sarah Bauss 6-2, 6-2. putting her singles record at 4-4 on the sea­son. Freshmen .lillian Hurley kept up her momentum from spring break, where she went 6­
1. Hurley overcame Wesleyan's Julia lledgebeth 6-3, 5-7. 6-3, bringing her to 7-1 overall for singles. That was the Belles' last win Qn the day, as freshmen Bend, Kosinski, Camp and sopho­morn Hubino all fell. 
Saint Mary's pn~pares to start their eonferenee season this Ttwsday at Albion, last season's MIAA eo-champion. 
"It was a challenging tnam to play for our first match, post­spring break, IHJwever we held our own," (iebert said. "We might not have won on papor, but wn are starting to gradually pull Pwrything together, and the improvenwnt is starting to show. I am nxdtecl to sen what we ean do within our eonlimmcn." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesciO I @saintmarys.edu 
NO SOFTBALL 

Bats spur Irish to four victories 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
After relying heavily on its pitching staff for the first part of the 2008 sea­son, Notre Dame's offense broke through in a big way, giving the team a 4-1 reeord on the weekend in the Lowcountry Softball Invitational at Charleston Southern University. 
The Irish carried a three­game winning streak into the invitational, and they used that momentum to pick up eonvincing victories in Friday's games against Towson and Charleston Southern. While the of'fen­sive output was impressive in both games, the pitching staff held up its end of the bargain as neither oppo­
nent  was  able  to  notch  an  
earned  run  in  Friday's  
action.  

Notre Dame 7, Towson 0 
The opening matchup against Towson ended in a victory for Notre Dame. Junior Brittany Bargar, fresh off being named Big East Pitcher of the Week, turned in another solid per­formance, going five innings-while giving up only four hits. Christine Ferrell relivP-d Bargar and allowed only onn hit in hnr two innings of work. 
Fo-ur of the seven runs 

against Towson resulted from two-run homers ­one from sophomore Ashley Ellis and the other from sophomore Christine Lux. Senior Katie Laing had two hits and scored two runs, and freshman Erin Marrone contributed an HBI double. 
Notre Dame 16, 
Charleston Southern 2 
In game two on Friday, the Irish jumped on Charleston Southern early on with an eight-run see­ond inning, whieh was as much as freshman pitcher Jody Valdivia would need in the contest that ended after five innings. Lux launched two home runs in the game, while Laing came up with five hits and five HB!s to lead the potent Irish offense. 
Notre Dame 5, Campbell 0 
Bargar returned to the eirele Saturday morning and was once again nearly flawless, pitching a com­plete game shutout to lead the Irish to a victory over Campbell. 
Leading the way for the offense was senior Sarah Smith who had two HBI sin­gles. The offense managed ten hits in the game, all of which wnre singles. 
Towson 6, Notre Dame 2 
The Irish would suffer their only loss of the week­end in the next game, a defeat in a rematch with Towson. Notre Dame took a 1-0 lead into the fifth 
inning,  but that lead  was  
erased  by  a  six-run  fifth  
inning  put  together  by  

Towson that included a base clearing double by Towson's Nina Navarro and two errors by the Irish defense. Valdivia took the loss despite pitching a eorn­plete game and striking out eight batters. 
Notre Dame 10, Charleston Southern 2 
The Irish rebounded quickly and elosed out the weekend on a high note, defeating Charleston Southern one more time. In the top of the third, the Irish used nine hits to post ten runs and wipe out a 2-0 Charleston Southern lead. Freshman Sadie Pitzenberger notched a sin­gle, a triple and two runs scored in the dncisive inning. Bargar was domi­nant once again, allowing only one earned run on four hits and striking out six. 
Notre Dame will be back in aetion Wndnnsday as t h n y t r a v 1d t o We s t e r n Mirhigan for a double header. Thn first game is set to begin at 3:30p.m. 
ContactChrisDoyenat cdoyen@nd:edu 

Monday, March 17, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish easily defeat WMU 
By DAN MASTERTON 
Sports Writer 
No. 23 Notre Dame made it look easy, sweeping Western Michigan 7-0 on Saturday to extend the Irish win streak to three dual match. 
During the streak, Notre Dame (10-7) has won 20-of-21 match points and 26-of-27 matches. 
The sweep began with the Irish winning their fourth straight dou­bles point. In a minor lineup switch, junior Katie Potts teamed up with sophomore Kali Krisik rather than freshman Kristen Rafael, a lineup Notre Dame has used a few times before. 
Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback made the change to get his players different reps and give him flexibility with lineups. 
"We just wanted to get Kristen some singles and Katie some dou­bles. Coming up, we're going to need each of them to play in sin­gles and doubles," he said. 
The lineup tweak worked seamlessly as the pair triumphed 8-1. 
Senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft, the No. 1 doubles team in the nation, improved to 3­0 as the nation's top-ranked pair. Their 8-5 win clinched the dou­bles point for Notre Dame. 
Sophomore pair Cosmina Ciobanu and Colleen Rielley won the final doubles match 8-4 to keep the momentum on the side of the Irish. 
Singles play started off strong with Rielley, coming off a tough loss in an abbreviated match against Illinois, cruising to victory. The sophomore blanked Western Michigan's Emily Dudzik, 6-0, 6­0. 
_ 

Louderback was impressed with Rielley's resilience in bounc­ing back strong. 
"She was not too happy about losing at Illinois, and she wanted to go out and win. She was the first one off the court. It was a fast win," Louderback said. 
Next off the court was Rafael, playing from the No. 6 position often filled by Potts. The fresh­man won her match 6-0, 6-1 to notch her third singles victory of the dual season. As a team, the Irish players in the No. 6 slot are 15-2. 
Ciobanu clinched the match for Notre Dame with a 6-0, 6-2 win, and Buck continued the trend of first-set shutouts, also winning 6­0,6-2. 
No. 113 Krisik improved to 3-0 since becoming nationally ranked. The sophomore defeated the Broncos' Ashley Moccia 6-3, 6-3. 
The toughest point for the Irish was the last one. The Broncos' No. 120 Kerstin Paul pushed Tefft but ultimately failed to take a set. 

No. 39 Tefft battled through ties and lead changes to prevail with · a 6-4, 7-5 victory, improving her singles record to 15-3 for the dual season. 
"[Paul] is a big, tall kid who's had some great wins. She hits a big ball and comes up and volleys really well. It was good match," Louderback said. 
The Irish are now amidst an eight-day layoff, and besides hop­ing his team stays hot, Louderback is also hoping for some good weather. 
"We're hoping to get outdoors as much as we can. We're at Texas A&M Saturday, and it will be outdoors for sure. So we are going to try to get some work in," Louderback said. 
The Irish face the Aggies on Saturday, March 22 at 1:30 PM as part of a two-game trip to the Lone Star State that also includes a match at SMU. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 

INDOOR TRACK 
Three Irish Athletes natned All-Americans 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO and 
ALEX BARKER 
Spans Writers 
Notre Dame earned three all-American honors -two men and one woman -and obtained 36th place on the menn's side at the NCAA Indoor National Championships at Fayetteville, Ark., this past weekend. 
Senior Kurt Benninger earned his sixth all-American honors with his fifth-place fin­ish in the 3,000-meter race with a time of 8:03.61. He added to his long list of accomplishments in the NCAA meet including a fourth place finish in the mile and the anchor leg of the distance medley relay (DMR} in 2006. 
Junior Patrick Smyth also ran in the race running to a 13th place finish overall with an 8:10.33 time. 
Senior Jake Watson earned his second consecutive all­American honors in the mile with a time of 4:05.51. In a close finish, Watson ended up sixth in the race, missing fifth by .01 seconds. 
Watson was quite pleased with his performance, but realizes that there is still room for improvement. 
"The improvement over last has been incredible. My knowledge of championship racing has gone up tenfold," Watson said. "In that way I was happy with my race, although I believe there are some things I could have done better, which means there is still a lot of room for improve­ment." 
The senior spoke about the strategy behind the race that enabled his opponents to per­form as well as they did. 
"I thought the guys who got second and third [Jake Morse of Texas and AJ Acosta of Oregon] raced very well," Watson said. "I did not expect them to race as smart and as well as they did but I also knew they were both very tal­ented so for them to place that high was not out of the question." 
The DMR finished ahead of their seed, even with junior Dan Clark replacing Benninger in the anchor leg. The DMR team of Clark, soph­omore Blake Choplin and sen­iors Austin Wechter and Adam Currie finished in 1Oth place with a time of 9:45.51. 
Benninger and Watson earned four and three points respectively to have the first Notre Dame top-40 finish in the last seven seasons. 
Alyissa Hasan was the only Irish woman to compete at the NCAA meet this weekend. 
She made up for that lack of quantity by posting a quality performance on the biggest stage of the season at the NCAA Championships. 
The 5-foot-9 junior became Notre Dame's first-ever multi­event All-American by finish­ing eighth in the pentathlon. 
Hasan scored a school­record and career-best 4,069 points, breaking her previous record of 3,969 set at the Akron Open earlier this sea­son. 
The NCAA Indoor Track and Field Championships mark the end of the indoor track sea­son, as the Irish will now begin preparation for the out­door season that begins March 27 with the Arizona multi-events Invitational and the Arizona State Invitational. 
Looking ahead to the out­door season, Watson has set a series of goals, regarding where he envisions himself developing to close the year. 
"For the outdoor season I am looking to be in the top 
five at the 1500 meters in the NCAA, and to make the finals of the 1500 meters at Olympic trials in July," Watson said. "The 1500 outdoors will be a little bit of a tougher event, due to some more athletes coming to run it who were not around indoors or ran other events indoors, but I think the training I will do between now and then will prepare me very well and I will be ready." 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu and Alex Barker at abarker 1 @nd.edu 
The Riley Prize lll Art History and Criticism 
The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current N-otre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the cotnpetition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. 
Rules governing the competition are available 1n the Art Department Office, 306 Riley HalL 
Two copies of the submission n1ust be delivered to the Art Department Of1ice by 4:00 PM, Tuesday, Iv1arch 25th to be eligible. 
A student nzay only submit ONE entry. 
ROCKY MOUNTAIN HIGHS 

.-. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 17, 2008 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish drop two at Blue-Gray 
By MIKE GOTIMER Spons Writer 

This weekend, No. :HJ Notre Dame traveled to Montgomery. Ala., to eom­pntn in the Blue-Gray Tennis Classic. Against some of' the lop 1~ompnlilion in thn coun­try, thP Irish droppnd two or tlwir three matchns on the wnekend. 
Notre Dame 4, North Carolina State 3 
Thn Irish bPgan competi­tion on Thursday against North Carolina State. The maleh was tightly contested, as f'ivn of' thn six singlns matdws wnnl to thrne sets. Notre Dame clinehnd the match wlwn freshman Tyler 
I> avis won in l h n No. (> sin­gins slol. 
The Irish won the doubles point against the Woll'pack despite a loss from the Irish pair of' junior Brntt Helgeson and senior Slweva Parbhu. 
Tlw Woll'pack tlwn won the f'irst singles match to tie the scorn at I. The Irish followed that loss with two singles wins from Helgeson and Parbhu to make the scorn 3­1, and Notre Damn seemed to be on the way to an easy win. 
But Irish senior Andrew Hoth droppnd his match at 
the No. 3 slot and Irish fresh­man Dan Stahl lost at the No. 5 slot to even the match at 3­
3. The two losses set the stage for Davis's clincher. 
Davis defeated Woll'pack freshman David Chermak in three snts. Davis won the f'irst set 7-5 but dropped the second set in a tiebreak. Davis rallied from a 3-2 deficit in the third set to secure a 7-5 win. 
Tulsa 4, Notre Dame 0 
In the second round on Friday, No. 8 Tulsa defeated Notre Damn with relative ease. Because of rain delays, the singl1~s matches wern played first, and the doubles were only to be played if nec­
~~ssary. 
The Irish woes started early as Tulsa junior Arnau Brugues• upset national No. 17 llelgt~son in straight sets, 6-4, h-:{. The loss was only llelgeson's sixth of the sea­son and only the third to a lower ranked opponent. Irish freshman Stephen llavens then lost for the sec­ond straight day, 6-4. 6-2 in tho second singles match to Tulsa senior Will Gray. 
Tulsa picked up its third singles point when Hoth fell to Tulsa freshman Viktor Kolik, 6-3, 7-5. 
Davis put forth a valiant, thren-snt effort against Tulsa 
junior Ross Cunningham. Davis dropped the first set 7­5, but he rallied to win the second set 6-3 before he fell in the third set 6-4. 
Boise State 4, Notre Dame
3 . 
After the disappointing loss to Tulsa, thA Irish dropped a close one to No. 33 Boise State. 
The loss was Notre Dame's first 4-3 loss of the season, and they had been 5-0 in 4-3 matches prior to the loss. 
The Irish won the doubles point, but they quickly found themselves in a hole after Boise Statl~ won the first three singles matches. Faeing a 3-1 deficit, the Irish rallied behind three set vic­tories from llelgnson and Hoth. The rally ended, how­ever, al'ter a thrilling three set match in which Stahl dropped the third set in a tiebreaker. 
After this week<:md's action, the Irish sit at 10-5 on the season. The losses to Tulsa and Boise State were Notre Dame's first consecutive loss­es of the season. 
The Irish look to return to the win column when they travel to Kentucky on March 25. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at nigotimer@nd.edu 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
ND bounces back to blovvout Dart111outh 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI Sports Writer 
Using a balanced attack that included 12 different scorers, Notre Dame bounend baek from their first loss of the season by beating Dartmouth 19-7 last Saturday. 
The Irish (5-1), ranked No. 7 in the most rec1mt Niknllnside Lacrosse poll, came out firing early on in the contest, which was held at The Lovntt School in Atlanta. Junior attack Hyan I loll' scored just 18 seeonds into the first quarter and began a Jive-goal run for thn Irish. lloll"s goal, the first of his thrne, was li11lowed up just ovnr thrne min­utes later by senior midlielder Michael Podg<~jny, who scored the lirst of his game-high four goals on an assist from junior attack Duncan Swezey. 
It wasn't until the beginning of the second quarter that the Big Green got on the board thanks to sophomore Josh Gillam. Gillam's goal, his first of the season. sparked a 3-0 Dartmouth run which brought the score to 5-3. This was the closnst Dartmouth would get, and the Irish separatncl them­selves with a potent oiTcnsive flttaek. 
The Irish began the second half' much likn they did the first, with three straight goals, one caeh for Podgajny, Ilol'f and senior midf'ielder Taylor Clagett. From thnm, tho tnam was able to limd oil' three sec­ond half goals from the Big Gn•nn. thanks ip large part to a 5-0 run to close out llw li1urth quartnr. 
All told, Notrn Dame out-shot Dartmouth 49-30 and won 21 of the eontnst's 21) fa1:1~-oll's. 
The Irish will look to take their ofl'ensive balanen to Colorado Springs. Colo., whnre they face Air Foree next Sat~rday. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 



\Vhat are you doing next sun1mer? 
May 13, to June 14, 2009 


General Infonnation Session for sumn1ers of2009 and 2010 Two sessjons to choose from 
@''"Tuesday, March 18th at II :45 in ~1cndoza's Jordan Auditorium cu"Tuesday, March 181h at 5:00 in DeBartolo Room 136 
TAKE~ ADVANTAGE OF 
EARL YADMISSION 
i 
'!

SUBMIT APPLICATION BY APRIL 5, 2008, FOR 2009 PROGRAMME i 'YOUR COMPLETED FILE WILL BE REVIEWED AND A DECISION WILL BE MADI: BY JUNE, 2008 YOU CAN APPLY 'l'WO WAYS: 
I) ON-LINE VIA I'HE INTERNATIONAL STUDIES WE;;BSITE 
OR 2) FILL OUT ATIARDCOPY APPLICATION AND RETURN TO LONDON SUMMER PROGRAJ\.1ME OFFICE 
CONTAC-./,rl··.. l.Jtz. Reagan 305 Brownson Hall 631-0622 Reagan.9@}nd.edu 

Monday, March 17, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
TOUR GUIDES 
NEEDED 
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions intends to hire new guides for the summer o8) fall o8 and spring 09 sessions 

Applications are available for pick up now: 220 Main Building 
Please return hy· ·?{P· m on 1~uesday,. AurH L 
• . ··• '!" . . ' ¥' ·, ~ <I< §<!< <!<•":[ ~ ·.
Q}.leSttons? E-mrul Bet.·· G1udacesst: egnldtce@!n<!.edu 
Intensity 
continued from page 24 
of-three CCHA quarterfinals, Sunday's sight would have been near impossible to imagine. Notre Dame limped into its playoff series against one of the hottest and most underrated team's in the nation one week removed from a bye and two weeks removed from a split with Western Michigan-the worst team in the league. 
Ferris State wasted little time kicking the Irish while they were down Friday night, taking a 2~0 lead early in the first period before eventually winning the game and taking the 1-0 series lead. 
It didn't look good. It looked like Notre Dame's five seniors were lacing up their skates Saturday night for the last time. 
But then something happened, something kicked in for the lrish in the second game, and the Notre Dame that owned its oppo­nents in the first half of the sea­son suddenly reappeared. The lrish drove Bulldogs into the sheet like ice picks, and the offense ­led by defensemen _:__ hit the back of the net with a fury they hadn't possessed since before Christmas. 
Irish freshman defenseman Ian Cole played like the first-round draft pick he is, scoring two gQals and an assist. Notre Dame enforcer Christiaan Minella, rein­serted into the lineup for Saturday's game, made sure the front of his jersey was the last thing most Bulldogs saw before their helmets were introduced to the ice. 
And after the last buzzer sound­ed, Irish coach Jeff Jackson was on a microphone, thanking Irish fans for their heart, noise and dedication. The lrish had destroyed Ferris State 6-3 to even up the series. 
It was only a prelude for Sunday night. With the season on the line for the Irish -a loss meant not only 
an early exit from the CCHA tour­nament but also their removal from any consideration for the NCAA Tournament-the pre­Christmas Notre Dame team showed up for a second night in a row. 
Cole once again proved the hero and offensive catalyst, scoring the winning goal only 52 seconds into the second period to power the Irish to the semifinals at Joe Louis Arena with a 2-1 win. 
Notre Dame outskated Ferris State from the first period on, beating them to pucks in the cor­ner and pushing the bounces in its favor. The Bulldogs bench was­n't nearly as deep as Notre Dame's and their fatigue showed by the end of the second period in both Saturday and Sunday's games. Even without right wing Erik Condra, who left the game with an injury eight minutes into the first period on Sunday, the four Irish lines held Ferris State to 
· a lone first period goal on Sunday. The Irish played the last two games of the series with a passion that was missing in the first game, which showed time and again when the referee blew the play dead. On Saturday, and for the first period of Sunday's win, the Irish and Bulldogs fought in front of their goalies, along the boards and in front of the benches. All the fighting led to numerous coincidental minors, but it also showed that the lrish were tired of getting pushed around. They pushed back, and after Irish goalie Jordan Pearce was mobbed by celebrating teammates Sunday, it was the fans turn to push. The glass swayed back and forth, the student section no longer seemed partly empty, and the lrish were headed to The Joe with new life and another shot at the NCAA dance. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 
1111 

t 1r ti 
. 

r t r r~~ 
Introducing EY Insight, a new careers website experience where it's easier than ever to find your way to opportunities for real growth and success. Meet rea! EY people and get a first hand look into their lives at EY 360"'; explore your real career possibilities with Picture Yourself: find real advice and interview tips at !ntervie\V Insider, . 
It's like a roadmap to your future. 
Visit us at wwvv.ey~com/u.s,/ey!nsight 

Monday, March 17, 2008

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
Perris State managed to double the high stick. and, at 16:54 of the period, Cole Adam Miller, who came across its lead 4:24 later. After a flurry Jaekson was visibly upset with took a pass from Condra at the Pearce's face and beat the Irish
Bulldogs 

of shots on Pearce, Ferris State referee Keith Sergott, but to no right circle and shot over netminder to the inside post. 
continued from page 24 
Jordan Pearce said. "It's going to be exciting to go out there and actually play on the ice myself, playing a top opponent with the Mason Cup on our minds." 
With both a conference title and, most likely, their spot in the NCAA Tournament on the line, the Irish know they need to play like the team that advanced to Detroit-not the one that almost gave the chance away. 
"We control our own destiny," head coach Jeff Jackson said .• ''I've been talking to them all wonk about the importance of trying to build a championship culturo hen~. and we're trying to overeonw obstacles.... Everybody's playing to get to the nnxt lnvel." 
Ferris State 2, Notre Dame 1 
Notre Dame came out Friday night looking like a team that hadn't played a gamn in two wonks -which it hadn't. A slop­py, turnover-filled first period spnllnd doom for the Irish, who gavn up two goals before even rogist1~ring a shot on goal. 
"It was really disappointing," senior captain Mark Van Guilder said. "l think we were a little bit too jacked up bd'orn the game. Wo kind of hit a wall when we came out in the first period." 
Cody Chupp got tho Bulldogs on the board first at 4:0S in the lirst period. After Cole gave up the puck in tlw slot, Chupp found himself all alorw in front of Pearce, who had 26 saves on the night. Chupp proenedod to fire a snap shot that went over Pearce's glovn, oil' tho crossbar, and into the net. 
forward Justin Menke got the puck in the low slot and, with Pearce out of position, tapped the puck into the goal. 
"The first ten minutes of the game were the difference," Jackson said. "They were in· much better game shape than we were and it showed." 
At 13:21 of the period, the Irish got first shot on Bulldog goalie Mitch O'Keefe, who tallied 25 saves in the game. Notre Dame generated some offensive momentum late in the period and, just 11 seconds before the first intermission, cut the Ferris State lead in half. With a 6-on-5 advantage due to a delayed penalty call, Irish forward Kevin Deeth earried the puck all the way up the ice and found for­ward Ben Hyan in the slot. Ryan slid the puck between O'Keefe's legs to halve the Bulldog lead. 
The late goal seemed to inspire the Irish, who looked like a com­pletely different team after the first intermission. Notre Dame began to creatn sustained oll'en­sive pressure but had several good scoring chances foiled by O'Keefe. 
"I thought tonight [O'Keefe] did a really good job," Bulldogs coach Bob Daniels said. "Espedally those couple of spurts in the second and in the third when they carried the edge in play." 
With just over 11 minutes to play in the second, Ben Hyan appeared to tie the game for Notre Dame. After the puck was knocked down by a ferris State high stick, Hyan controlled the puck in the slot and quickly fired a shot past O'Keefe. But the ref­eree had blown the play dead on 
avail; the goal did not count, and 
the Irish still faced a 2-1 deficit. 
For the remainder of the game, 
Ferris State settled into a very 
tough defensive style, and the 
Irish only managed a handful of 
scoring chances for the rest of 
the night. 
Notre Dame 6, Ferris State 3 
In a tilt that saw 33 penalties called, Notre Dame defeated Ferris State handily to even the series at 1-1. 
"It was a very chaotic game, to say the least." Jackson said. "But that's the hardest we've compet­ed in a while." 
Notre Dame took a 1-0 lead 
9:53 into the period thanks to a 4-on-4 goal from freshman for­ward Calle Ridderwall. After cor­ralling a Van Guilder rebound, Ridderwall deked around O'Keefe and sent a backhander over the goalie's stick and into the net. 
"lie's been coming and coming and coming," Jackson said of RidderwaiL "Calle's gotten better in the last two months and hope­fully he's going to be a huge part of our team in the future." 
Despite a combined six power plays in the period, neither team lit the lamp, and the Irish went into the locker room with a 1-0 lead. 
However, at 7:15 of the second, Cole gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead. Cole executed a give-and-go with defenseman Kyle Lawson, and then unleashed a snap shot into the top corner of the net. 
Ferris State cut the lead to 2-1 at 11:11 of the period on a Mike Fillinger power play goal, and tied the game at 13:29 thanks to junior Corey Couturier. 
The Irish responded quickly 

O'Keefe's glove, off the crossbar, 
and in. 
Condra and Hyan added insur­ance goals for the Irish, but Zach Redmond scored at 16:45 of the third to make it 5-3. Lawson capped off the scoring with an empty net goal at 18:24 ofthe final period. 
Eighteen penalties were called against the Bulldogs and 15 on the Irish. Notre Dame had 10 power play attempts and Ferris State 7. Jackson refused to com­ment on the officiating or the fact that Sergott is a Ferris State alum and played for Daniels in the mid 90's. Jackson said he thought the increased penalty count was due to a more intense style of play. 
"It's an emotional environ­ment," Jackson said. "But we have to make sure that our disci­pline's better tomorrow night." 
Notre Dame 2, Ferris State 1 
Thanks to Pearce's 24 saves and goals from Kissel and Cole, the Irish took the rubber match, never trailing in the contest that earned them the right to defend their CCHA title. 
Kissel got the Notre Dame offense started quickly, scoring just two-and-a-half minutes into the opening period. Huth belted a slapshot from the point that forced O'Keefe to leave the entirn right side of the net exposed, and White found Kissel, who put it home for a 1-0 lead. 
The Bulldogs struck back less than two minutes later on a four­on-four situation. O'Keefe stuffed two Irish chances, and Ferris State caught the Irish offguard as right wing Justin Lewandowski received an outlet pass up the left side before dishing it off to center 
"After that first goal, I'd say the puck got a lot bigger," Pearce said. "I knew I couldn't let up any more if we wanted to win, so I had to bear down and do what I had to do to keep the puck out of the net." 
Later, a serum occurred in front of the Ferris State net that put a player from each team into the box. Just as the resulting four-on-four ended, Condra was checked hard at center ice, where he remained for a few sec­onds before being helped off, and he did not return. 
After the Bulldogs' next shot went wide, the Ferris State shoot­er's skate connected with Pearce's mask, causing a fight inside the Irish net. 
With two minutes to play in the first, a Hidderwaal goal was waved ofl'. Jackson said the refer­ees told him the replay official showed the officials the wrong replay, creating the confusion. 
Less than a minute into the sec­ond, Cole scored what would prove to be the game-winner after receiving a set-up from Hyan and Lawson in the middle of the Ferris State zone. With a dear path to the net in front of him, Cole delivered a hard wris­ter that beat O'Keefe stick-side for a power play goal and a 2-1 advantage. 
"It was really just kind of a bro­ken play," Cole said. "Afterwards, it was unbelievable, especially being tied like that. It was one of those things you dream about as a kid, stepping up and scoring the game-winning goal." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu and Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

''Si\LESlAN LIFE IS \lERi:,. ...~PEALJN(~ T() YOUNG 1\'IEN VVH() SEEK TO lVIl\KE A DIFFERENCE IN THIS vVORLD." 

1 \\rite fhh to e~;,·oa_r~~~,v· HH!St: }'QHtt~ men ''t~o much hkt mt dm'ing IH) t!.me Ai ~OH't' Damt: yt~Hrned for sn:nte·thihg IH.HlY Hmu .JW'ii ~l j~Jl•, vdw :n:ur.nt~it t.\n· u r:ttH.ug h~ sernt; tv g'vt MH ;: tt had fur <llht:r·"· Vim;! Uipi"t'htHy hH' {~WSt'; \NfW ho~H~ fo KNTt' :J\ilm!l }l('i'['~t' .ud Lri11g th JH f:hYii('i' fi) J·e~,;;n&. 
HL ·~'m g!l."au HouFm d&-"iS of '(~i atht sHH '! ~{•!~W£:,h H.f•O a.~ fV'?lr>. A.htr gr·:v5nsflHit fi'tHn Noit'f; .Da:m~· T f~mtld my:'<tJf in n ~AnHU hH'i'U in c:html w·Hd<illf; as !l iny missiotw.ry '>'tii.h the S.-tkf.>hmg !J St. Soim. l~"~"etJ. \Vrwn l itpplit d f'trr n )'Tar >'!f StT'\rl{ t <i.tH~ e"H:l\ lld'ot {'; j' !rH HH' China,, rhnew \ t:t·> !.itW: oibtm~ the S~iltshnh, ht.W bdng :tt'vttHd illtnl l~H a -;fF•i'! tim<" it w:;-; ·~~1!::vy HJ :~>te ~~·h;:H thdr Hf~~ \+t-ts aH ahtnd, 
1. MNm r·e~tli:te<i ·1Nh)'' this ~K\Jtlj) ~•t nH·.n.. tlH::q: Sah':s:h.uJ prit >is 1UM~ broHu:J:s, wu-·e tht• St:Tom~ bq§ttt 1\:lit?i•.m\ on!tr ~u !ht ('fmrdt 
S:11>r·sf~m Hh-h 'ery ~tppea~lng to yum g rn~~n who sed.-; ~{· mat:t-a difft•rt:ur.~· iu thh '1>'1/HI.'fd. !2hti!t'~'ianfi, \'\hednc Hn uv:n f H:(Hkrd vdth m c:hiva, KrH''e;t, 4.1:' !hJ~ OHi:''' T W•Jt:k ~)\ !dl mn'i· ir; !:he 'ih!.i4'>~i. the fOt' J'*U.P!; tH·oph~, ~':..ak:'>hms !Ht{:l tht you~h ">Yb•·.n: th*:J nn~ >Jf, iu ~d~~)<)h., _yotH!:l tt-Hlt>Y'V K~:tl'l"ih.es ~.nd every-w!v::rt: fist-h.1 tHtHetH, ~ale;;;l.iUJS ti'n: H !lh: t!HXi :;~l!OhM ~hN¥1 to ;Jfier ?~ !4;1't:ilt prt'>tlk't HI :'<OH.llg fwOpk ktHiing Utld fH'tparing rhem to b~: good C'bz·.isHans :a.nd hoUit'<t ('ltil:<:m;., 
~",;;. ,Jo..hn Hoss,o, ltmndit!' (~f Ha.· S:uesh-m~ wa;.; •kdm·(~d Htt> p~~~xvu •>t iht: >OHHg fH:t~tU!~t ,Jf b]f, t'im·k fO'f' l'Oor ~md ~HHW·h:~~; -,~}HU~;;t;t:en;. H.t• 1Humh·d thr S:de:<~hms to nmthme Cihl':'< Wfd'~< hh' the ytnm~~. H \'>'•WL, dull iW\~· ~l:Hdtts L~4 nntnt.nes. .John .\.Hen. \-::H.H:Mn. ~·oiTt:\"JWUdnH fvr lh<· >hlt!.o~t~:l~ f'~u:twfk P:t"~~m--t<T" wr!ttil: (~f HH::m., ··'file S~!k~hm;; :Hi' f>('t'H })S l'f~iHlS~ly r•dhdt!(: ... VHf. 'fttt:nlK1gk~J ~lmdVH£(W&, imt dO\'I!l1-·f.f~--NU'fh fhlSflU1: *.md tdtM.'H.ttH'S1 and Jif.enen:t.Hy with Jl g.onrl $t~nst ~)f lmmfn> . , • Htt· S~tkshm 
For mon' information: ~\\VW ~tlle~iiilnvncitH~nl~~~om 
ri\Htm~i HlOdd is:: :l;{~!id, m'Hmdov C:MlWUf jtiety; >Ut ·h!·llH.'·irtathes· F m;-tiJ· ~ah or a;:aotcrmJ comntitntrn! to fiH yotmJ!. tite-{HHH\ ~nHi lh {:dWGtHon; aml a smm.n~ bumt.•. (9'73) '761 0:?.01 (,lose.nc:,;-; t~' the peoph·.•• 
I -n·~uLJohn Alit•n s :utide :t~lHmt the Sah·s~ans visit: vv~;rking '-"Vit~~ thtt Sale1iatts fwt dtauge~i tH;• m't. J a.m no>,v prepat'}ng to jo~:n. thuH ntH! N.mJ:i.nu(: SL .~o!m B~¥S<'O''> wori.;: of rea.d<i.ug QU( to tlWAt'
!Hi t) : .· i 1! a l .i ill!!~ c t~Ut ttlLtLtl!.!tLLQ_L-o Li4.li!JH rl ~ 
vdw an~ ;m.m~ ,.pwJ jNHH'. H' ym~ h~l'V(' HN'· ft~~ tJH• ''ho!.y temphiHtmn to
~lgn:W 6.3~)0 6.lttrg 

q:nre ( hi'ist in thh:: v.a5 .. d~eek us wuL 
Monday, March 17, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Finals 
continued from page 24 
respect between two of the tourna­ment's top performers. 
"The kid's an awesome kid and an awesome fighter," Sulliwm said. "Once you're done in the ring and everything's settled, it's just cool to share a moment with a kid who you've trained so hard with and have just gone through a war with." · 
But still, despite all the pair's mutual admiration, there's no denying Sullivan's disappointment. 
"It's devastating to lose some­thing that I've poure'd so much into," he said. "That fight, it hurts to lose something like that because you keep thinking about all the lit-tie things you could have done dif­ferently that might have changed I the outcome]. 
"Maybe in 20 years I'll look back and it'll be a positive experience, but man, it hurts right now." • 
130: Chris lzzagUire def. Matthew Conti 
In a very fast-paced opening fight, senior veteran Izzaguirre was able to hold off freshman Conti in the finals, picking up a split deci­sion victory. Conti came out aggres­sively with quick punches right off the bat, but the fight was eventual­ly slowed by a number of wrap ups in the first round, and neither established a dear advantage. 
"I was a bit worried," Izzaguirre said of the decision. "You only remember being hit, not hitting the other guy." 
Conti came out strong in the sec­ond, landing a good combo against the ropes to start. However, Izzaguirre was able to counter, coming out and landing a couple of strong right hooks throughout the second and third round .. 
"I kept telling myself, 'This is my last fight, thi'> is my last chance to prove it,"' Izzaguirre said. 
138: Chris Hartstein def. Bobby Powers 
Hart<;tein used a fast start and a strong finish to defeat Powers, a novice boxer . 
"At the end, he was getting tired, so I was able to counter his jabs with straight righL<; over the top," said Harl<;tein, who lost in the finals as a freshman a year ago. 'That's how I won the fight." 
As he did throughout the tourna­ment, HarL'itein began the fight on the offensive, going right at the taller Powers. A left jab-right hook combo sent Powers stumbling back in the first 10 seconds, but the freshman responded by landing several blows to keep it dose. 
In the second round, Powers was able to pick his spots, taking advan­tage of Harl<;tein's aggressiveness and using his reach to land jabs as Hartstein went for the knockout with a few big right hooks. 
The third turned into a wrestling match as both fighters showed their fatigue by being content to go for the wrap-up instead of the big blow. The fast-paced first round caught up to both boxers, and even when Hart<;tein went on the offen­sive, he used Powers' body to brace himself. Still, only Hartstein was able to mount any attack whatso­ever, and it gave him enough points to win in a split der.i'>ion. 
"I was alright !going into the fight], and I was more nervous last year," HarL<;tein said. "Going into the third, my corner said I had to win the round, and I oame out strong and did it." · 
146: Tim Thayer def. Mark Costanzo 
Continuing what he has done throughout the tournament, Tim Thayer was able to effectively use his right power punches against Mark Costanzo. Thayer rode the strategy to a unanimous victory. 
"I got a little aggressive with [the right hand! going for the knock­out," said Thayer. "But I was able to bounce back in the third round." 
It was a match that showed con­trasting styles. Costanzo had the edge in speed and agility, while Thayer showed the advantage in power. Thayer was able to land his right hand often enough to cause a standing eight count for Costanzo. But Costanzo was able to counter right back, cornering Thayer and landing punches at the end of the second. 
155: Alex Gonzalez def. Mark Bennett 
Alex Gonzalez only had one fight leading up to his final bout against Mark Bennett. Some would think the extra rest would be an advan­tage for him, but Gonzalez didn't think so. 
"Everyone had a week off any­way," said Gonzalez, referring to the week of spring break that land­ed between the preliminary rounds and the semifinals. "The biggest thing was that I had a lot of spars coming in [during practice]" 
Because of that, Gonzalez was able to overcome his lack of ring time and cruised to a unanimous win over Bennett. After an even first frame, Gonzalez went on the offensive in the second round, knocking Bennett's headgear loose and giving him a bloody nose. He landed numerous right hooks throughout the late second and early third round. More uppercuts from Gonzalez in the third led to multiple standing eight counts and all but sealed the win for Gonzalez. 
157: Jim Devereaux def. Jordan Bucci 
Round one started off as a little bit of a dance, with both fighters feeling each other out. Bucci was able to get close a couple of times and land a few punches to the body. 
Round two saw a flurry of attacks from Bucci, which Devereaux was able to fight off with his superior reach. Devereaux countered with a few combinations to Bucci's head. 
The third round saw both fight­ers taking the offensive with the hopes of taking control and earning the decision. 
"Winning my division of the Bengal Bouts feels great," Devereaux said. "It mainly took a lot exercise and a focus on the fun­damentals that the captains teach all year that enabled me to be suc­cessful. The final was a very dose match, but I was able to use my left to stay out of trouble. Bucci came hard all two minutes of each round and it was a fun match." 
161: Dan Rodgers def. Matt Hopke 
Dan Rodgers was able to over­come hi<; fatigue and finish strong in order to gain a unanimous victo­ry over Matt Hopke. Hopke came in with the advantage, being both tall and left-handed and it was expect­ed that Hopke could keep Rodgers away because of that. However, an even first with a lot of energy and movement left both fighters gasp­ing for air late in the second round. 
With both fighters noticeably tired, Rodgers was able to slip underneath Hopke's punches in the third and get close to the lanky lefty. He landed enough punches in the third to take clear control of the · fight and cruise the rest of the way to victory. 
166: Joseph Meares def. Charlie Gough 
Meares began the fight with some powerful rights to the side of Gough's head. Gough attempted to use his jab to keep Meares at arms length. Meares connected on a vicious right hook to Gough's head, which had Gough stunned. 
Once the fight recommenced, Meares backed Gough up to the ropes with a flurry of fists and knocked him down. Gough kept telling the referee that he wanted to continue, but the referee refused and then ended the fight a minute and a half into the round. 
"Wmning a championship in the Bengal Bouts is such an honor," Meares said. "I've never seen hard­er work ethics in my life, and I've been around a lot of sports and many great athletes. I have to give a lot of credit to Charlie as well, the ref was ready to stop the fight but he kept saying 'Let me go. Let me go.' I was really impressed by that, I'd hope that in the same situation I would have half the guts he showed on Friday night." 
170: Bernardo Garcia def. Ben O'Brien 
Freshman Bernardo Garcia was able to fend off veteran Ben O'Brien to come out on top in a unanimous decision. Garcia's main weapon was a punch not often seen by the amateurs in Bengal Bouts-the uppercut. 
"Actually, I came into the fight not thinking that I was going to throw any uppercuts," said Garcia. "It opened up, so I used it." 
Throughout the fight, Garcia was able to land his uppercut anytime O'Brien came in close. O'Brien attempted to counter by throwing quicker, straighter punches later in the fight, but he could never find a consistent counter that could stop Garcia from throwing the upper­cut. 
O'Brien made a comeback attempt in the third, but tl1e early lead of Garcia was too much to overcome in the end. 
170: Mike Lee def. Andres Villalba 
Lee came right at Villalba, trying to surprise him with some quick combinations out of the gates. Villalba countered by landing sev­eral blows on Lee's body, as he began to back down Villalba into the corner. The second round began with a flow from both fight­ers, with Villalba taking the brunt of it. Villalba was momentarily stunned while the ref made sure he could continue. 

Lee stayed on the offensive and backed Villalba into the ropes, knocking him to his knees. Villalba continued to absorb punishment until the end of the round. 
The third round saw Lee contin­ue to attack, with Villalba counter­ing with a few combinations. Things slowed down towards the end of the round with both fighters tiring. 
"It was an unbelievable honor to win in a program as outstanding and rewarding as Bengal Bouts," Lee said. "Andres is a great fighter with fast, strong punches and a great all-around guy. It was weird going into the ring with a good friend like tlmt, but I caught him with a few punches that made him dizzy and knocked him off his game-plan." 
189: Alex Lough def. Leo Rubinkowski 
Sinillar to the 161 finals, the 189 final match featured a tall left­bander, Leo Hubinkowski, against a shorter right-hander, Alex Lough. Much like in the 161 finals, the short righty won in a unanimous decision, despite his disadvantages. 
"I knew he was going to be tough since he is so tall and left handed," Lough said. 
"I was able to stay out of his range and block most of his punch­es and then get inside and land combos," Lough said. 
Throughout the fight, Lough was able to use his power advantage and push Rubinkowski into the cor­ner and against the ropes. But, Rubinkowski was generally able to fight his way out of trouble without too much damage. 
The fight appeared about even until the late third, where Lough backed Rubinkowski against the ropes one final time and landed a big combination ending with a strong right hand. 
206: Andrew Lorenz def. Pat Burns 
The fight began with Lorenz coming out fast and attacking Burns with all he had. Burns absorbed the punishment, waiting for Lorenz to tire. Lorenz took Burns to the ropes twice before Burns started to counterattack, landing several blows to Lorenz's head. 
Round two saw things slow down and both fighters settled in. Lorenz took Burns to the ropes multiple times again, but Burns continued to make him pay the price for every step. Both fighters continue to land solid hooks to the opponent's head. 
The end of the fight consisted of both figh~ers attempting to gain some last minute points by landing a few punches. Showing fatigue, both fighters began to lean against each other as the final bell ranK, but the damage was already done, and Lorenz picked up the decision. 
"I was a little bit more under control than Andrew [Lorenz] was," Burns said. 
"I le landed a lot more punches than I did. He didn't fall into a pat­tern and there was nothing for me to exploit. He just out-fought me.'' 
Heavyweight: Will Bourroughs def. Kevin Crepeau 
Bourroughs came into the heavy­weight finals with two victories under his belt, both by knockout. Though freshman Kevin Crepeau did not end up on the mat, the ref­eree stopped the fight in the third round, giving the match and the championship to Burrough'>. 
"I was able to catch a rhythm. I exploited his punches and hit him pretty hard," said Burroughs. 
Crepeau, a talented rookie, sim­ply could not match up to the size or power of Burroughs, a law school student. Crepeau was able to counter some of Burroughs' combinations early on, but as the fight wore on, Burroughs was able to land his big right power hand. He caused a number of standing eight counts, and after the third, the referee decided that Crepeau could not continue and gave the win to Burroughs. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu and Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 17, 2008 
Second 
continued from page 24 
women's sabre, and sophomore 
Kelley llurley won gold in women's 
epee. 
Borrmann won 18 of her 23 pool 
bout-; to linish in the top four and 
advance to the two-round tourna­
ment for the individual crown. 
Them, she defeatnd Wayne State's 
Karolina Budna in the semifinal 
and Ohio State's Siobhan Byrne in 
the championship bout. 

"Getting to the top four was nerve-racking," the freshman said. "After I made the top four, I was just like, 'I got this far; no point in being nervous now."' 
Hurley, the 2007 national run­
ner-up, erased a two-touch deficit 
in the final nine seconds of her 
bizarn~ semifmal bout against Ohio 
State's Alexandra Obrazcova to 
advance to the title contest. 
The re((~ree issued yellow-card 
warnings for passivity to each of 
the fimc:ers in the second of three 
:~-minutn periods. With the score 
tied in tlw third period, the mferee 
once again found the fencers to 
have violated the rules meant to 
encourage action and, according 
to national feneing rules, sent the 
bout into a one-minute final peri­
od. 

I lurlny won the draw fiw priority in that pc~riocl -meaning if the score rc•mairwd tied at the end of the minutn of action. she would earn the victory. But Obrazcova took a 7-!i lnad and held it thnrc wlwn tlwre was a stoppagn of action with nirw snconds rmnain­ing. After the rnfi~ree n~sumed the bout, llurlny closed to 7-6 with thrm~ seconds !ell and tied it at 7-7 with only onn sc~cond remaining. Whnn time ran out with the score knotted, llurley advanend to the final. 
She them beat Heka Szele of St. 

John's to eapturc~ the title. 
The tournament began Thursday with 14 boul<; for all 72 fencers in the three women's draws. Ohio State raced out to a strong lead, but Notre Dame chipped away Friday behind Hurley's ncar-perfect perform­ance. 
The sophomore lost her first three bout-; on Thursday but got oil' to a quick start Friday -liter­ally. I ler teammates woke her up at 8:15 a.m. -an hour after her alarm was supposed to wake her -and she scrambled to make the tc~am bus to Ohio State's French Field I louse. 
For llurley, that was quite all right. "I ldt so much better with an extra hour of sleep." she said. 
By Friday a.llPrnoon, Ohio Statn led Notre Dame 101-98, and Columbia W<L<; a distant third with 82 pool bout victorif~S. 
Irish junior Adrienne Nott fin­ishnd lhurth and frnshman I layloy Heese was 11th in foil. Fellow freshman Ewa Nelip took the bronze medal and classmate Eileen Hassett was fifth in women's sabrn. 
Notre Dame erased Ohio State's lead early Saturday, and the teams exchangnd the lead much of the afternoon. 
When Sunday arrived, the Buckeyes clung to their two-bout lead. 
Ohio Statn's two male epeeists­Ja-;on Pryor and Sean Harden ­were in a group of three with Penn's Bcmjamin Wieder. That trio faend the trio of lri-;h senior Greg I toward. Irish junior Karol Kostka and evnntua.I individual champion Slava Zingc~rman of Wayne State in Sunday's first round. 
Tho Irish and the Buckeyes ewnly split their matehcs against 1-mch other. but Notre Dame entered the lead thanks to ZingPrman's virtoriPs over both Ohio State npePisl<; and the wins of' I toward and Kostka over Wiednr. 
Denver 
continued from page 24 
forward Will Thomas, one of only 16 Division I players to average at least 15 points and 10 rebounds per game this sea­
The Irish contingent in atten­dance -including fencers who didn't qualifY and the women who had finished competing-set off a ruckus with loud chants and hollers that drew a nnar deafening retort from the Buckeye squad, throe score strong. 
The reaction to those early bouts paralleled the reality of the fenc­ing: Notre Dame could strike early, but this wa<; Ohio State's day, and the Buckeyes would take control. 
Ohio State stormed back and separated itself over the next two rounds from the Irish. The Buckeyes' surge -along with Notre Dame's inexperifmce-gave Ohio State the decisive margin for the national title. 
"Our team didn't stand the pres­sure that they are getting in the lead now," Bednarski said. 'They couldn't finish." 
At 11 :4 7 -little over an hour after Notre Dame's jubilant start to the finale -Pryor clinched the title for the Buckeyes with a win in epefl. 
Howard and Kostka both fin­ished with 13 victories, but Howard earned eighth place ­and second-team All-American honors -thanks to his edge over Kostka in overall touch differential, kn~,WU in fencing as the "indica­tor. 
Irish freshman Barron Nydam earned sixth and junior Billy Thanhouser took 13th in men's sabre. Freshman Steve Kubik took eighth in men's foil, and classmate Zach Schirtz was 11th in that event. 
"It was a very tough competi­tion," said Bednarski, who admit­ted to hiding his emotions during the final two days to set a cool example for his team. "One of the toughest I've had in my life." 
Total Points 
Ohio State 185, Notre Dame 176, Columbia 158, Penn State 155, St. John's 145, Harvard 101. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

son. "We just wanted to Big East tourna­But Irish worry about our ment, but sopho­
point guard more forward
mindset. ... You gotta
Tory Jackson Luke llarangody said Notre be hungry." said their focus is Dame is more squarely on the concerned with upcoming week­
Tory Jackson 
its own play nod.
Irish guard 
than its oppo­"That was a dL-;­
son due to a university suspen­sion fiJr possession of' marijuana. 
"I was very excited the whole day," McAlarney said. "I was very excited considering where 1 was la<;t year, missing out on this whole experience." 
The Irish are coming ofl' a loss to Marquette in tl1e quarterfinals of the 

nent. 
"We didn't really want to worry about who we played," he said. "We just wanted to worry about our mindset. ... You gotta be hungry." 
Jackson's backcourt-mate Kyle McAlarney will make his first appearance in the Big Dance after mL<;sing the end of last sea-; 
appointment for us 
to lose in our first game there in New York," Harangody said. "But I think ... it would be better to make a run in thi-; Tournament than in the Big Ea<;t tournament." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Are you graduating? 
It's time to order your Personalized Graduation Announcements! March 18th & 19th 
9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. LaFortune Student Center, Dooley Room 
Order a Graduation
• 
Visit us online at www_jostens.com/college 

• 
Order your Graduation Announcements Package and Save! 


CONNECTED FOR LIFE® 
MB0<H:l4-7627A • <2(1(>a ,JtlN-tHnS), lm. All fltHh~~ I'Ht~,rv~d 
lawrence s. Cunningham. John A. O'Brien Professor University of Notre Dame 
· Michael E. lee, Assistant Professor of Theology, Fordham University 

BLAcK DoG 

Monday, March 17, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

You're fired. you lazy... 
......_.. "-I 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LOLLERSKATES 
THE SINGLE LIFE 

LINAPAEK 


69 Where "you can do whatever you feel," in a hit 1978 song 
Down 
Outdated 2 Recent: Prefix 3 The Reds, on 
scoreboards 4 Words on a Wonderland 
cake 5 Steamed 6 Muffle, as a 
sound 7 U.F.O. fliers 8 Kind of well 9 Michaels of 
"Saturday Night 
Live" 

10 "Happy Days" cool cat, with "the" 
11 Country north of Namibia 12 Dictation takers 
13 Shredded 18 Greyhound vehicle 
19 TV spots 
22 Grp. funding 19­Down in campaigns 
23 Just slightly 
24 Swerve 
26 "Nobody doesn't like" her, in a slogan 29 -a-brae 30 Stir up 
32 Lindbergh's classic flight, e.g. 
33 Fitting 

35 Actress Cannon 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Dave and Tracy Mackey 
36"How was 45 Clinton cabinet know?" 
member Hazel 38 Duke or earl 
46 Gasoline unit 39 Restroom door 
48 Weather map word line 

40 Chapters in history 
51 Tic--toe 43 Austin Powers, 52 Cattle branding 
e.g. tools 44 Perry Mason, 53 Lighter and pen 
e.g. maker 
54 Perfectly pitched 56 A polar bear might be found 
on one 58 Valley 60 Actress Mendes 61 '60s conflict site 62 Tolkien creature 63 F.D.R. initiative 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 
JJlJJW®IbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
ELLIB 
1 
rJ I ·I 

@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KIRPE 
I I I [] 
NUCLUR 
I I I (] 
www.jumble.com 
I ELDAHN j
I I r () 
Print answer here: rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: IDIOM AUDIT GRASSY TETHERSaturday's 
Answer: When the city slicker tried milking a cow, the result was -AN "UDDER" MESS 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LIST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Judah Friedlander, 39; Lauren Graham, 41; Ber­nardo Bertolucci, 68; Jerry Lewis, 82 
Happy Birthday: Let your creative juices flow and they will lead you in a very unique and prosperous direction. Now is the time to take all your past experience and put it to good use. Mef!d fences and start fresh. Opportunity will come through the contacts you make while helping others. Ultimately, you will find it easy to move forward. Your num­bers are 6, 14, 18, 27, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will be on edge, waiting for things to go wrong or backfire. Your overreacting will cause the biggest setbacks, so refuse to let anyone or any­thing get to you. Anger, jealousy and stubbornness will work against you. 2 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Take action and start the ball rolling. If there is someone you want to hook up with, put in a call or, if you want to make changes to your home or update your look, today is a great time to begin. Aim for whatever target you set. 4 slllfR ;­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There may be too much going on for you to stay in control. Give your undivided attention to what's most important to you. If you spread yourself too thin, you will fall short of your goals. Criticism can be expected. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you when there is so much going your way. Love, intrigue, travel and a multitude of exciting activities should lead to a very interesting day. Get out and get moving. Plan a passionate evening that will please the one you love. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep everything aboveboard. You don't want to be caught in a lie or questioned about something that may not have been done to proper specifications. Tread carefully, especially around partners or those who can influence your future. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Doors are opening and favors will be granted. Mingle, run your ideas by friends, socialize and take an active role in your community. Love is in the stars and, if you put a little effort into making someone happy, you will get the same in return. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will cause a ruckus if you are too friendly with too many people. Loyalty will count for something today so don't play with other people's emotions. A personal loss is evident. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A creative twist will give you the edge you need. Don't let someone's emotional hold on you stop you from continuing with your plans. False infor­mation may deter you from doing what's right. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you let others meddle in your affairs, it will work against you. Keep your personal thoughts and plans a secret. When the time is right, you can move forward without criticism. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can stabilize your position, your finances and your plans to secure your personal and professional life. You will have some interesting ideas that, if launched properly, can make you a handsome profit. Someone from your past is still interested in a future with you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Forget about the things you can't change and put work and responsibilities on the backburner for a moment. Regroup and rethink your strategy. If you are creative and inventive, you will have a much better chance of achieving your goals. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Roll out the red carpet for your friends and invite people over for some recreational fun. Yollf hospitality will help position you for deals, projects and future consideration. Love is in the picture and a passionate end to your day is likely. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are helpful, caring and persistent. You are friendly, engaging and in­credibly charming. You know how to get what you want. 
El!_g~nia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfq_r_fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

-... 

CROSSWORD 
Across "_ upon a time 
5 Like a score of 10 out of 10 10 Speedy 14 "Star Wars" princess 15 Dated yet trendy 16 Knowing of 17 "See you again!" 
' 20 Longtime CBS and NBC newsman Roger 21 Touchdown destination 22 Blacktops 25 Tricky curves 27 Bud's partner in comedy 28 Had dinner 29 B'rith 30 Coarse file 31 "Veni, vidi, vici" speaker 34 The "R" of NPR 37 "See you again!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

41 Henry Blake's rank on "M'A'S'H": Abbr. 
42 Many IM recipients 44 Letterhead design 
47" Green" (Kermit the Frog song) 
49 Snooze 50 In the style of 51 Mah-jongg 
pieces 53 Domineering 55 The dole 57 Chief Norse 
deity 59 "See you again!" 64 Suffix with sock 65 Ship-related 66 Lawman Wyatt 67 Former Cub 
Sandberg 68 Entrap 

ONE: RE:SULT OF BE:ING RILED. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, March 17, 2008 
page 24 
FENCING 

Buckeyes spoil NCAA Championship dreams 
stormed back Friday and was Notre Dame seem ready to parry the Buckeyes captured the nation­hinted, anything short of a national
By KEN FOWLER 

within thron bouts of the Buckeyes and riposte with favored Ohio al title with a decisive 185-176 title is at least a disappointment-
Senior Sports Writer 

aftnr two oftl10 event's four days. State. edge over tho freshman-laden 1wen lilr the squad with frnshmen The Irish seized the momentum The toams dueled fin~ position, Irish. oeeupying seven of its 12 spots in 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Notre and took the load Saturday with but, just as Bednarski suspectr1d "Our loss today -I will say it is the NCM Championships. Damn eoaeh Janusz Bednarski tho bnginning of the men's compe­would happen, someone eventual­not a loss," Bednarski said. "I will Still, the Irish had their success­knew sonwthing-or, rather, tition, only to hand control back ly gave. say it shows where we are. We arc es. somnonn-had to give. over to the host Buckeyes by that Unfortunately for the Irish, it the second best team in the nation. Freslmmn Sarah Bon·mann cap­
Ohio Stat11 had takon an early allernoon. was 1l1em. How long it takes us to be first, tured the individual title in lead Thursday in the NC/\1\ !\n emotional start to the final Ohio State torll through its oppo­that is the question." Championships, but Notre Dame rounds early Sunday then made nents, Notre Dame faltered and For thi<> Irish team, as BPdnarski see SECOND/page 22 
HocKEY 

Biting the Bulldogs 
Irish upend Ferris State Heart, passion both in best-of-three series present in series win 

The North Dome was barely
By MATT GAMBER and SAM 
threP-quartPrs full Sunday night, 
WERNER 
but its high, opnn spaces were 
Spons Writers 
rocking like an Original Six rink. The student section was inter­
Finally, Notrn Dame can spersed with bnmtlw. 
the brown 
/\f'tl'r rm:ording a sub-.500 
splotches of mcord sinen Christmas during a , 
empty seat<>. 
disappointing SI1COIHI-half, and but after 
af'tnr losing Friday's opem~r to Notre Dame 
Forris State in the bnst-of-three executed iL<> 

CCI 1/\ quarterfinal serins. much­last penalty malignnd No. 12 Notrn Damn kill with less 
(24-14-4) has finally earn11d the than two 
W11okmul gdaway it's hnnn fight­minutes left, ing for sincn October. 
the Joyce 
With wins on Saturday and 
CnntP.r 
Sunday nights. thn Irish eame seenwd to 
back to takn the s11ries and have the 
advancP to I>Ptroit's .Jon Louis capacity of /\rena. wlwrn they get a chaneo the Stadium. 
to defmul tlwir confernnen title. 
For the second straight year, the "(;rowing up as a kid, I was a Irish arP headed to The Joe. 
big !Colorado! /\valanrhn fan, so For thosP who saw the Irish 
I'd always watch the /\valandw losP 2-1 to Ferris Slate on Fridayplay at Tlw Jop," junior goalie WU YUE!The Observer night in the lirst game of the best-

Irish freshman forward Calle Ridderwall shoots on goal against Ferris State in a 2-1 Notre Dame win on sec BULLDOGS/page 20 Sunday. The victory propelled the Irish past the Bulldogs in the quarterfinals of the CCHA playoffs. see INTENSITY/page 19 Kyle Cassily 

Senior Sports Writer 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Teatn picks up a 5-seed, -will face George Mason 
By FRAN TOLAN Spons Writl'r 
Notrn Damn's hopns wero a mile high Sunday altl'r the Irish learned thny will head to lknvnr for tlw n~gional portion or the NCAA Tournamnnt. 
"Wn'rn gonna go to Dmwnr and lnt it rip in tlw Hocky Mountains," Irish mad1 Mikn Brey said. "We'm not holding baek. I think that's how this group has playml most of 

• 
tlw ynar-attacking and going liw it." 
Tlw Irish are tlw No. 5 in the Charlotln rPgion and will take on Colonial /\thll!tic Confnrencn champion c;eorg1! Mason -the No. 12 sePd -in tlw first round Thursday. 
If Notre Dame can dnfeat the l'atrioL-; tlwy will move on to play Saturday against nitlwr Washington State or Winthrop. I .ast year, Winthrop knocknd tlw Irish out of tl1n Tournament in the lirst round of play. 

"I feel like we'll just approach the gamn a littiP bit dilli!mntly Ithis ynar]," senior captain Rob Kurz said. "I !bel like having played in the Tournament last year, I think we know what wn nend to do to be a little bit more successful and to win a first-round game.... I feel like our expnrience last year roally helpnd us." 
Two seasons ago, Georgn Ma<>on gave nnw meaning to the term 'Cindomlla tmun· when they made a run to thn Final Four a-; the No. II snod. 
"Wn understand with George Mason you havn a tmun that has rnmnants or a Final Four run, a to am that knows how to win," Brny said. "Basically, it's liko a Big East gamn, preparing lilr tl1is bas­kntball toam." 
Tho Patriots are led by senior 
see DENVER/page 22 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Perez becomes 3-time champ 
By MATT GAMBER, ANDY 
ZICCARELLI and JARED 
)EDICK 
Sports Writers 
Perez narrowly defeated Sullivan by split decision in this highly anticipated match-up of reigning ehampions that certainly lived up to iL-; billing a<> the "light ol'the night". 
"I felt pain. My lungs were burning and it hurt a lot," said Perez, a junior who ha<> now won titles at 130, 140 and 149 pounds. "It was definitely my toughest light ever. lie did what he had to do to win the light, but it was just my night. I ean't describe it in words; all the hard work just paid oil'." 
Tho smaller, quicker Perez established an early advantage, landing the light's lirst few shoL'i with a couple of big right hooks. Sullivan responded, connecting on a few left-right combos that put Pnroz on the defensive but didn't appnar to rattle him. 
"lie's a hard kid to light, and he 

I Junior Kris Perez parries a jab from senior captain Lawrence Sullivan in Perez's championship victory Friday. 
probably took me out of my light !plan] a little bit bncause of how quick and strong he is," Sullivan said. "I thought I could slwd his punches just with my hands, so I didn't move as much and staynd more relaxed than I probably should have." 
Once the light ended, not only did the lighters share an embraen (as is common bntwnl'n two box­ers who have trainnd together for several months), but Sullivcm abo walked over to Perez's corner a-; the scores wern bning tabulatnd in another demonstration of the 
see FINALS/page 21 





