
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Bob Barr to speak at Notre Dame 
Libertarian Party's presidential candidate will discuss failure ofleadership in America 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Former Congressman Bob Barr, the Libertarian Party's candidate for president, will speak at the University Friday, per the request of the Notre Dame College Libertarians. 
The subject of his speech will be "America's failure of leadership in the 20th century," Barr said in an e-mail to The Observer through his cam­paign's deputy press secretary. 
Sophomore Ben Linskey, the co­president of the Notre Dame College Libertarians, said the club decided last week to contact Barr to see if he would speak at Notre Dame. The Barr campaign told them the candidate would be in Illinois next Saturday, so on Monday the College Libertarians contacted the Notre Dame adminis­tration to obtain approval for the event. University President Fr. John Jenkins' office and the Student 
see BARR/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Prof. examines religion's affect on -well-being 
By TARA SCANNELL 
News Writer 
Associate professor of medicine at Duke University Harold G. Koenig, M.D., said he is a strong advocate for the influ­ence that spiritual and religious life has on the health of patients in the hospital. 
Koenig spoke on "The Practice of Spirituality and the Practice of Medicine: Worlds Apart or Overlapping?" as part of the Saint Mary's Quest Project: Women Exploring the Science/Religion Interface. 
Koenig, who has had no theological training, said spiritual and religious needs are not being adequately met in hospitals based on the numerous studies he has conducted at Duke. 
"The whole idea of caring for the sick originated from religious teachings," he said. "The first hospitals were built and 
see RELIGION/page 6 


SMC tealll 
goesdigging 
for cancer research 
By BRIDGET MEADE News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Volleyball team is hosting "Dig for the Cure," an event designed to raise money for breast cancer research, during its game against Trine University tonight at 7 p.m. 
Varsity players have been soliciting donations from College students, faculty and staff for a flat donation or pledge of a specific amount for every dig the team makes dur­ing the Trine match for the past week and will continue to take them at the game. 
Head coach and interim director of athletics and recre­ation, Julie Schroeder-Biek said she got the idea to have an event like this from the American Volleyball Coaches Association. Volleyball coaches in the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) dis­cussed the idea at a meeting over the summer and Schroeder-Biek decided she wanted to bring it to Saint Mary's. 
The entire varsity team ral­lied together to raise pledges for the cause, she said. 
see DIG/page 4 

Jenkins runs with ROTC cadets 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
About 200 cadets from the three branches of ROTC joined University President Fr. John Jenkins at 6:30 a.m Tuesday to participate in a 2.5-mile run Tri-Military Run across campus, senior Army cadet and public relations liaison, Mike Howard said. 
"[The run] is just basi­cally to foster good rela­tions between the services and to work together," he said. "And to have one event where the President of the University can come and address everybody." 
Senior Heather Jackson, the commanding cadet in the Army ROTC is the Army's Tri-Mil representa­tive and helped plan the run. She said Jenkins is asked to participate each year because the purpose of the run is not only to unify the branches of mili­tary, but also, to unify ROTC with the University. 
"[Jenkins] always talks about how he always loves to come because he thinks 
see ROTC/page 6 


Haiti group calls for student action, awareness 
Speakers discuss political, economic unrest 
discussion's goal was to raise awareness about Haiti in order to increase the suc­cess the Class of 2009's clothing drive for the Haitian people, Wash said. 
The discussion was led by Jean Marc Bissou, a Haitian lawyer who earned his degree from Notre Dame, Fr. Tom Streit, a research assis­tant professor in biological sciences who has done work in Haiti, and Brennan Bollman, a senior Biology and Peace Studies major who spent seven weeks in Haiti over the summer. 
The group passed out 
see HAITI/page 4 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

Haiti Working Group dis­cussed the food shortages, poverty, and political and economic unrest in Haiti. calling for action from Notre Dame students during a lec­ture entitled "Why Haiti?" in McKenna Hall Auditorium Tuesday evening. 
"As Americans, as very ptivileged people, we are often ignorant to what is going on in other parts of the world or even the pover­ty that surrounds us," Erin Wash, a member of the class council for 2009 said. The 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Bartman's 2nd chance 

h'ditors Note: This is tlw first of a two­
part series that will conclude with an 
I'Xtended _qloat when the Cubs clinch their .first World .")eril•s title since 1908. Date: '17JIJ. 
It's that time of yflar again, Steve 
Bartman. 
You know, that time of year wh<m the 
Cubs are in the posl'>ea<;on, expnctations 
are as high as 
(insert hrrossly inap­Matt Gamber 
propriate analogy 
hnre), and it a.ll goes Associate 
to hell faster than Sports Editor 
you can say "fan 
interfimmm". 
But this year's installment of the 
"Lovable I AISflrs" appears ready to take on 
all comers: Dodgors, Phillies, Angels. Red 
Sox. billy goats. black cats and, yes, 
Bartman himself. 
Moisns /\lou. Uw Cubs ldUinldnr who lost 
the battle with Bartman li1r the now-disin­
tehrrau~d litu~li.JIIhul ball (how a proli~ssion­
al baseball player who "toughen-s" his 
hands tho way ;\lou reportndly does can 
lose that tussh~ IA1 a consultant with gooly 
glasses and even goofier headphones is 
boU1 beyond me <md beside U1e point}, has 
exonerated Bartman. 
The snnsibln mnmbnrs of Cubs Nation 
have donn Uw same. So haw~ I -though 
<L'> someone who put a hole in a door dur­
ing Game 7 of the 2<Xl:J NLCS. I no longer 
consider myself" "sonsibh~". 
Just be<~ause people "lilrgivn" (debat­
able), that doesn't mean they li1rget. But if 
tlw Cubs do somehow win the title (more 
debatableI. those Wrigleyvillo junkies 
might celebrate just long emmgh li1r mem­
orios of you Ul linally litde. 
Bartman, you can't lot Umt happen. 
So, Stnvn-0, consider U1is OcuJber your ro-eoming out party, if you will. I havn a li~w ideas lcJr your live-year annivnrsary encore prnsnntation that just might stop those Cubbies (because the Dodgers sure c.an'O: 
l I Woar an Alex Gonzalez (the Cubs shorl'>Ulp truly Ul blame li1r the 2<Xl3 eol­lapso bm~ausn hn botched a sum double­play ba.ll) jnrsey, sarcastically honoring the man who trind to steal your glory just min­UU)S a.ller you burst onto tho scene. Better yet. paint his mune and number on your barn back -you're a celebrity, alter all. so show some skin. 
2) llijack the microphone during the famed "Seventh Inning Stretch". Who's singing donsn 't matter -it's time for you to steal the show. Fumble the lyrics for good mea'iure. 
3) On your way back !rom belting out "Hoot. root, root lbr the Dodgers". grab the umpne oil" the hna.d of Ron Santo (the Cubs lng~md and radio broadca<;tnr) and make a display or rolling it down an aisln. It won't shock anyone, but it might send those 75­year old Sanu1-loving female ushers run­ning filr a souvnnir long enough lbr you tAl sneak down to the lower levels fi1r your nnxt stunt. 
4) You've spnnt too much time in the stands -get on the field, that's where all the action is! Go crazy -tackle Ryan Dmnpstor (don't mess with Big Z) as he johJS tAl thn mound. do a jig with fellow ND alum Jdl' Samardzija, tickle that life form Sweet Lou Pininlla's hiding under his jer­sey, anything to cause a ruckus. It's what you do best. 
You only get so many chances tAl make your mark, Steve. You made the most of 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at m_qamber@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer re~ards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives t(Jr the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, reco~nize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631 -4 54 I so we can correcl our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 1 , 2008 QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW WOULD YOU PUNISH THE GUY WHO MADE US DO THIS AT MIDNIGHT? 







Chris lmmormino Greg Vallejos Mary Hancock Melissa Gates Sue Daly 
senior senior senior senior junior 
Zham off-campus off-campus LeMans PE 
"Did you ever "''d steal his "Chinese water 'Td spread a "Tar and 
, , 
see the South identity. That torture. nasty rumor. feather him on 
Park with Scott would show Tenorman? him.'' Something Like that. 

Man arrested after excessive horn blowing 
GLENS FALLS, N.Y. ­Sometimes, blowing your own horn is too much of a good thing. 
Glen Falls police said an upstate New York driver who was stopped for blowing his vehicle's horn excessively was charged with driving while intoxicated. 
Glens Falls police said Hodney Northey told them he was blowing his horn on a downtown street dotted with bars to let "people know he was in town." 
Officers on duty noticed, pulled Northey over late Saturday and found his blood 
TODAY 


0,,,,,,,
...J 
,,,,,,,

c( 

CASEY CARNEY/The Observer 

Senior Jim Nugent discusses Catholic social teaching with assistant professor of theology Dr. Margaret Pfeil yesterday during the The Gospel of Life Fall Break Seminar class. 
OFFBEAT 
Beverly Hood said she was inside when she first saw the mountain lion lying on her porch Monday. Hood said the lion hissed at her, but she wasn't scared. 
She called 911, animal control and the Wyoming Game and Fish Department and reported that she had a bothersome "big cat." A dispatcher told Officer Mike Ableman that it was a house cat. 
A game warden tranquil­ized the mountain lion and the animal was relocated. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


CJ 
0 
HIGH 57 HIGH 47 HIGH 60 HIGH

-I 
LOW 43 LOW 33 LOW 37 LOW 
alcohol content was point-23 percent, nearly three times over the amount for legal intoxication. 
Northey was charged with aggravated DWl. a misdemeanor, and ticket­ed for excessively blowing his horn. 
Cop expects house cat, gets cougar 
CASPER, Wyo. -A police officer didn't think much of a call to shoo off a bother­some "kitty cat" at a Casper home on Monday. But after the officer arrived at the home, he ran for cover after seeing a male mountain lion weighing 80 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
e 
the Fieldhouse Mall.'' 

IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary's is hosting a Symposium on Gender Violence today and tomor­row. The symposium begins tonight at 5 in the Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center with the movie "Take my Eyes" by writer and director Iciar Bollain. The Spanish film is about a wife and husband locked in an abusive mar­riage. On Thursday from 5-7 
p.m. in Vander Vennct Theatre there will be a panel or four scholars who will address the issue of' gender violence from diverse per­spectives. 
Cathie Black, President of Hearts Magazines and author of "Basic Black: The Essential Guide for Getting Ahead at Work (and in Life)," will deliver a lecture titled "Speaking of' Success: A Basic Black Guide to the Circle of' Life" at 7 p.m. tomorrow in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The lec­ture is part of the Berges Lecture series and is pre­sented by the Center for Ethics and Religious Values and Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. 
The Vice Presidential Debate will be broadcast in the Coleman M .. rse Lounge Thursday. The debate begins at 9 p.m. but snacks will be served before hand. The Notre Dame Debate team will provide analysis and com­mentary after the event. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
GAME DAY SUNDAY 



HIGH 
70 

LOW 
45 

Atlanta 74 I 57 Boston 66 I 56 Chicago 61 I 47 Denver 81 I 47 Houston 85 I 60 Los Angeles 87 162 Minneapolis 591 44 New York 80 I 61 Philadelphia 72 I 63 Phoenix 100 I 76 Seattle 75 I 53 St. Louis 64 I 46 Tampa 86 I 71 Washington 73 163 
Wednesday, October 1, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses survey questions 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The Council of Hepresentatives (COR) discussed questions for the upcoming stu­dent census, which is designed to ensure that student govern­ment is addressing issues that students care about, at its meet­ing Tuesday. 
"These results will definitely have a direct impact on how student government proceeds for the next couple of months," student body president Bob Heish said. 
"We want to help the student government better represent students," Heish said. "Are our deals and our initiatives on track with the larger student body?" 
The survey will be useful to provide proof of student interest in a particular issue when stu­dent government is talking to the administration. 
"We'II use this as kind of like a support," Heish said. 
In the COH review of the pro­posed census question, Heish encouraged CDuncil members to ask "is that question going to help us in our initiatives?" 
Senate student outreach com­mittee chair Sarah Hodts is organizing the survey, which students will have the opportu­nity to take through the Web site Surveymonkey.com. 
The census itself will not be end of the discussion about a particular issue. 
COR also approved Adam Steinbach, a finance major from Knott Hall, as the Student Government Executive Controller for the 2008-2009 term. 
Steinbach was originally in the running for the position last year, but he did not receive the appointment at that time. The position opened again recently, and Reish nominated Steinbach to fill the vacancy. 
As controller, Steinbach will be responsible for the manage­ment of all student government and senate committee funds. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Entrepreneurship club hosts speaker 
Tom Suddes, founder of a company that assists non-profit groups, gives advice to students 

"Some of the committees will have secondary surveys based on these questions," Rodts said. "The committees have the opportunity to have another sur­vey if they need more results based on these answers." 
Some COH members said they thought the questions in the census were designed to elicit a particular response. 
Student body vice president Grant Schmidt said the ques­tions were designed to be fair. 
"In no way are we trying to get student.<> to answer one way or the other," he said. "If we find out what we're doing is stuff people don't care about, we won't continue with it." 
By LIZ O'DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Entrepreneurship Society hosted a speech by Tom Suddes, who gave tips on how to become a successful entrepreneur Tuesday night. 
''I'm challenging you to think big," he said. "You do what you need to do to be able to get stuff done." 
Suddes, founder of the group For Impact, an organi­zation which seeks to assist nonprofit groups change their approach to raising money, began his presentation by linking students to one anoth­er with a rope and encourag­ing the pairs to try to escape the tangle. He let the students struggle for a few minutes and told them they needed to learn to think differently, just like entrepreneurs. 
In addition to the first "test" of the night, Suddes had the students participate in four others that ranged from trying to find the simplest way possi­ble to balance an egg to trying to interpret business plans sketched out on napkins. 
"My goal tonight was to try and excite you, and get you thinking about the opportuni­

. 
ties that exist in being an entrepreneur," he said. 
Suddes has been involved in helping a plethora of nonprof­it groups, which were diverse in both interests as well as geographic location. In addi­tion to founding For Impact, he has founded 18 other organizations. In 1996, he won Success Magazine's "Join Our Revolution" Entrepreneurial Poverty­Fighting Contest, which had as its prize a 23-day world­wide trip to help 3rd World Micro Entrepreneurs. 
The Suddes Group, also founded by Suddes, is part­nered with For Impact, an organization that seeks to assist nonprofit groups change their approach to rais­ing money. The Suddes Group was created by Suddes as a way to help nonprofits, one at a time, make the transition to raising even greater amounts of money. Derived from this, For Impact wa-s spawned in 2001 as a joint effort between Suddes and Nick Fellers to educate large quantities of people about their new strate­gy. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
~ 
I 
. ' 
I I I 
j ' 
I 



NOW ACCEPTING
, 




''So, 
\'m thinking of\ b 
Notre Dame students interested in starting a new club must submit a proposal by October 31, 2008. Details on proposal contents may be found on the SAO website: 
sao.nd.edu/studentgroups/listing 
Questions? Contact Mary Kate Havlik at mhavlik@nd.edu, or by calling 631-7308. 
I iii 
IAIJJIJ.EDU 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 1 , 2008 
Barr 
continued from page 1 
Activities Office (SAO) approved the speaking engagement. 
"Everyonn from the Office of tiH1 President and SAO was really helpful and friendly and did a lot to makn it happen, so we are really grateful for that." Linskey said. 
Following the Dnmocratic and Hnpubliean conventions, thn Univnrsity SPill letters inviting thn Democratie and Hnpublican ticknts to speak at Notre Dame on a substantive issue, Assistant Vice Presidm1t for News and Information Dennis Brown said. but no such l11tters WPrP sent to any third party candidates. llowevPr. all political candi­dates must adlwrP to the same rule that thn spPaking engagn­nwnt address a substantive issue ratlwr than fundion as a campaign rally. 
Barr said this will be his first visit to Notre l>anw. 
"I receivml a gracious invita­tion from tlw Collnge I.ib11rtarians of Notre Damn who w11re vnry nnthusiastic and persuasive," Barr said in an o-mail. 
Barr will SJHHtk at 3 p.m. Friday in Washington llall in what Linskey dnscribed as an "educationally-oriented evtmt." Studehts, faculty and staff are invited to attend. 
The doors to the hall will open at 2:30 p.m. Friday, and frne tickets will be distributed at the door. Tlw venue can seat over 500 people, Linskey said. 
"I'm extrem11ly nxeited," l.inskny said. "I think it's going to be gn1at. It's really exciting to have a presidential candi­date eomP to our campus." 
Linskey said he is planning to vote for Barr in the 200S presid1111tial election. lie said h11's been "disillusionnd" by th11 two major American politi­cal parti11s, and he pointed to Barr's desire to end the Iraq war in a responsibh1 way, his support of civil lib11rties and his opposition to the propos11d bailout of Wall Str1111t as rea­sons why Linskey supports Barr for pr11sident. 
"I think Barr is thn b11st choice in the rac11." Linsk11y said. 
Through his deputy press 

secretary, Barr said he think,s 
his platform has a "wide 
appeal." 
"I believe my platform of smaller government, less gov­ernment spending, lower taxes, greater civil liberties and support for our free mar­ket system will have a wide appeal on Election Day," Barr said. "If voters want a true change from politics as usual their only choice will be me on Nov. 4." 
Barr will speak at Valparaiso University in Indiana Friday evening following his appear­ance at Notre Dame. 
Barr, 59, was nominated at the Libertarian National Convention in May. 
Barr represented the 7th District of Georgia in the U.S. Ilouse of Hepresentatives as a Hepublican from 1995 to 2003. In 2006, Barr announced he had joined the Libertarian Party. 
During his tenure in Congress, Barr served as a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, as vice­l:hairman of the Government Heform Committee and as a mnmber of' the Committee on Financial Services. 
Barr was one of the man­agers appointed by the House of Representatives in 1998 to conduct the impeachment pro­ceedings for President Bill Clinton. 
Prior to his election to the 
U.S. House, Barr worked in several positions including as an officer in the Central Intelligence Agency, the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia, anti-drug coordinator for the Department of Justice, Southeastern United States, the head of the Public Corruption Subcommittee for United States Attorney General and the president of the Southeastern Legal Foundation. 
Sinee leaving Congress, Barr has practiced law and run a consulting linn. 
Barr received a Bachelor's degree from the University 'bf Southern California in 1970. 
In an e-mail, Barr said he will not be able to attend the Nov. 29 Notre Dame -USC game. 
"But I predict it will be a grnat game," he said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Dig 
continued from page 1 
"I knew it was a good cause, and I just really wanted it to be a success for our team and for Saint Mary's," junior team captain Lorna Slupczynski said. 
Slupczynski raised nearly $400 and 20 pledges from friends, family and faculty members. 
The Noble Family Dining Hall is hosting a picnic near the soccer field in conjunc-
Haiti 
continued from page 1 
papers with the basic facts about llaiti. a small country that shares an island with the Dominican Republic east of Cuba. It has a population of almost nine million and its official languages are French and Creole. 
Bollman began the discus­sion by showing a film about food riots that have occurred in Haiti in the past few weeks. The movie showed people being forced to eat "cookies" made of dried mud, dirt, and water in order to sustain them­selves. 
In 2006 and 2007, the United 

a t i o n helped inspire Bollman's interest in the country. 
"The Haitian people are incred.ible, really friendly," she said. "They are very 
Nations 
"They probably did 
(UN) took 
an interest need a security force to 
in the high lend strength to the rate of 
local police, but then on 
gangs and 
the other hand you had
crime in Haiti and these poor civilians began a 
being terrorized." 
stabiliza­tion mis­sion in the 
Brennan Bollman country, senior Bollman s a i d . 

tion with the home soccer game at 4 p.m. and the fes­tivities will be moved to Angela Athletic Facility at 7 p.m. 
Pink will be the theme of the night with pink cotton candy, pink lemonade and pink desserts available inside, according to flyers posted around campus. 
Fans are encouraged to help "pink out" the gym by wearing their own pink clothing or by purchasing pink shirts the team has been selling in the Dining Hall for the last week. 
Pink stadium blankets are 
.also bning sold at the Saint Mary's Bookstore in honor of the "Dig. for a Cure" cause. All proceeds will go towards Breast Cancer Research. 
Fans are also encouraged to fill out pink sheets to honor those who have lost their battle with cancer or who are currently fighting it. The sheets will be hung up around the gym for the month of October. 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeadeO1@nd.edu 
raids, she said. to access them. slw said. 
"They probably did need a Bissou discussed possible security force to lend solutions Haiti could pursue. strength to lie spoke of the local the need for police, but international 
then on "The Haitian people are hnlp such as the other incredible, really friendly. finances from 
hand you the United
They are very aware of
had these Nations. 
poor civil­their situation Countries ians being and their rights." eontinun to terror­offer help but ized," she do not follow
Brennan Bollman
said. through, he This situ­said. The
senior 
aware of their situation and their rights. Although the individual suf­fering is a defi­nite issue, the structural vio­lence is a problem. There is a lack of opportunity and health care in the country." 
Hospitals in 
However, the UN was terror­Haiti have elosed and now it izing citizens during these is difficult for people in need 

United 
Nations and 

other eoun­trins proposed that Haiti receive $10 million in linan­cial aid; however, only two pereent of that has been given to the country. 
"It is unacceptable that in this century, a country in the Americas is facing extreme poverty," Bissou said. 
Streit said he thinks the University should offer aid to II ai ti. 
"I think that Notre Dame with so many rangns of tal­ent, internst, and nnthusi­asm, Notre Dame could per­haps offer Haiti some things, some ideas, some areas of expertise we have here on campus," he said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
Digital Visualization Theater 
Room 100, Jordan Hall of Science 
Free Public Sh.o 
New;~ 
,. c ' ' 
Call 

631~5"3~~ 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October I, 2008 COMPJLED FROM Tr-·lE 0BSERVER'S-WIRE SERViCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
3 killed by missile in Pakistan 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Security officials say a suspected U.S. missile strike has killed at least three people and wounded six in a Pakistani tribal region near the Afghan bor­der. 
Two officials said Wednesday the missiles struck a home just before midnight Tuesday near Mir Ali, which is a main towns in North Waziristan. 
The two, who commented on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to media, did not say how they knew the U.S. carried out the strike. It fol­lowed several similar attacks in recent months by U.S.-led forces targeting al­Qaida-linked militants. 
Pakistani military spokesmen were not immediately available for comment. 
Nobel literature head dismisses .U.S. 
SWEDEN -Bad news for American writers hoping for a Nobel Prize next week: the top member of the award jury believes the United States is too insular and ignorant to compete with Europe when it comes to great writing. 
Counters the head of the U.S. National Book Foundation: "Put him in touch with me, and I'll send him a reading list." 
As the Swedish Academy enters final deliberations for this year's award, per­manent secretary Horace Engdahl said it's no coincidence that most winners are European. 
"Of course there is powerful literature in all big cultures, but you can't get away from the fact that Europe still is the cen­ter of the literary world ... not the United States," he told The Associated Press in an exclusive interview Tuesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NYC mayor seeks a third term 
NEW YORK Mayor Michael Bloomberg has decided to try to reverse the term-limits law he had long support­ed so he can seek a third term next year and help the city emerge from financial turmoil, a person close to the mayor who has been briefed on the matter told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
Bloomberg made the decision over the weekend and will announce it Thursday, according to the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the announcement hasn't been made. The person said the mayor has been wrestling with the decision for the past couple of months. 
SanFran health plan upheld 
SAN FRANCISCO -San Francisco's landmark universal health care program can continue to operate, after an appeals court ruled Tuesday that it does not violate federal law. 
The unanimous ruling by a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals overturned a lower court decision that the program, dubbed Healthy San Francisco, had placed an undue finan­cial burden on struggling businesses. 
Healthy San Francisco is the first plan in the country to offer universal coverage, and requires companies with at least 20 workers to provide health care or give part of each employee's hourly salary to the city as a fee to help off..<;et the pro­gram's estimated $200 million cost. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Human skeleton auctioned 
TIPTON -A human skeleton is making the transition from apparent Halloween decoration to research too I. 
The skeleton, nestled in a black coffin draped with fake spider webs, sold for $500 at an auction Tuesday. 
Richards' Auction Gallery sold the unique item to a Tipton resident who agreed to donate it to a forensics center for research, said Anita Mattingly, fiancee of auctioneer Tim Hiehards. 
Presidential voting underway in Ohio 
Voters begi.n casting ballots in pivotal state that could determine the election 
Associated Press. 
CLEVELAND -In the state that may again determine the presidency, voters started cast­ing ballots Tuesday as Barack Obama -struggles to thwart a John McCain victory in Ohio four years after it tipped the election to President Bush. 
Both candidates visit often while spending millions of dol­lars flooding TV and radio with advertisements, mailboxes with literature and even voicemail with automated phone calls to get supporters to the polls, par­ticularly during the one-week window in which people can register and vote in one swoop. 
Early participation appeared light; officials in the state's largest counties that are home to Cleveland, Cincinnati, Toledo and Dayton each reported sev­eral hundred ballots cast by afternoon. Many of those who voted cited convenience. 
"I wanted to avoid the traffic and the people," said Charlene Glass, 49, of Oeveland Heights. A first-time voter, she backed Obama and expressed her enthusiasm for a black candi­date. In Dayton, Terri Bell, 49, chose McCain because of his experience and his military service. "I have a lot on my plate. I wanted to do this early," she said. 

At stake: 20 electoral votes ­perhaps, the presidency itself. AP Most recent state polls show a Bernard Bowens of the Service Employees International Union holds a sign while dead heat; others give McCain 
taking part in a march down Broad ·street in Columbus, Ohio, on Tuesday. 
an edge. National surveys show Obama slightly ahead if not Bush won in 2004 that he could servative, deeply divided state? cultural America and taken it more. The disparity under­lose Ohio and still reach the 18 Obama got shellacked here by for granted that we're going to scores the difficulty Obama is electoral votes he would need if Hillary Rodham Clinton in the vote the other way." having in closing the deal in this he carries all the states Democratic primary: She car­Linda Ward, a nurse from pivotal state. He's a first-term Democrat John Kerry did in ried 83 of 88 counties as white, western Ohio, has tried to per­senator from Chicago with a lib­· 2004. Still, winning Ohio itself working-class voters flocked to suade others to take a critical eral voting record and would be could do the trick. her economic populist message. look at McCain but hasn't had the country's first black presi­Every factor is at play in Ohio. Therefore, Obama is copying much luck. "Not my neighbors, dent. Thus, every question will be Gov. Ted Strickland and Sen. not my friends. This area is a 
In all, 270 electoral votes are tested. Sherrod Brown, Democrats who very conservative one," she said. needed for victory. Among them: Can Republican went into Republican areas and Voters like Diane Ferguson, a 
Ohio is crucial to McCain's McCain overcome his links to boosted turnout to narrow GOP nursing home director in south­electoral strategy. Bush narrow­the deeply unpopular Bush and margins. east Ohio, typify Obama's trou­ly won the state, and a loss for a weakened state party and pre­"Democrats too often have bles. She says she likes Obama McCain here would be very diffi­vail in a state that suffered large forgotten about places like this," but isn't sure she can vote for cult to make up with victories losses of manufacturing jobs said former Mississippi Gov. Ray him. She's troubled by his early elsewhere given that the politi­and large numbers of Iraq war Mabus, an Obama supporter resistance to wearing a flag pin, cal landscape favors Democrats deaths? Can Democrat Obama who recently met with some two his race and a resume that and several other key states are overcome voter concerns about dozen rural voters in London in looks thin to her. tilting toward Obama. his voting record and race western Ohio. "They have for­"It's a hard decision," she 
Obama, however, now leads among the many blue-collar gotten about small-town , said. "I don't know if we're McCain in enough other states workers in this culturally con-America, rural America, agri-ready for that one." 

IRAQ 

Iraqi forces win more control, lose lives 
during the Islamic fasting month of been ordered to deploy to Iraq next sum­
Associated Press 

Ramadan, which ends Tuesday for Sunnis mer, the Pentagon announced Tuesday, in a 
BAGHDAD -The number of Iraqi secu­and Thursday for most Shiites. move that would allow the U.S. to keep the rity forces killed in September rose by But even as Iraqi security forces are tak­number of troops largely steady there nearly a third to 159 compared with the ing the lead and violence in the country has through much of next year. same period last year, Associated Press fig­plunged some 80 percent over the past 15 There are now about 150,000 U.S. troops ures showed Tuesday. U.S. troop deaths for months, cautious Pentagon leaders have in Iraq. At least 4,176 members of the U.S. the same period fell by nearly 40 percent to resisted calls for more rapid and hefty military have died in the Iraq war since it 
25. troop pullouts. Instead, top commanders began in March 2003, according to an AP 
The figures are a sign that U.S. military is insist the security situation remains fragile, count. increasingly relying on the Iraqis, including and the improvements reversible. In the latest attack on U.S. troops, an U.S.-allied Sunni fighters, to take the lead One potential source of conflict comes American soldier was killed by small-arms in operations so they can assume responsi­this week, when the Shiite-led government fire Tuesday in northern Baghdad -one of bility for their own security and let the begins to assume authority over tens of only eight U.S. deaths during fighting in Americans eventually withdraw. thousands of Sunni fighters who turned September. The rest were a result of non­
Overall civilian casualty figures remained against al-Qaida in Iraq. combat incidents, including seven who died relatively low despite a spate of deadly Six U.S. Army brigades, a National Guard in a helicopter crash and several in vehicle attacks in Baghdad and surrounding areas unit, and three military headquarters have accidents. 
..---------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October I, 2008 
create a "unified front" of the entire HOTC group, Jackson
ROTC 
continued from page I 
the IWTC is a really great presence on the campus and he likes to support it," said Jackson. 
.Jenkins said he has been participating in the run for three or four years and hopes to participate 

said. 
"We ran in our respective units. Air force was at the front. Army was in the middle and Navy was at the end," senior Army cadet Stephen Iacovo, but the groups had time to interact before, after the event, and while it was being planned. 
"We definitely 

again next all talked. We year wlwn he "/The run] is just introduced our­
addressed the basically to foster selves there and 
cadets af'ter kind of chatted
good relations 
the run. during our run," "lie said that between the services Blomstrom said. he was rnally and to work Iacovo said proud of the this year's run
together. And to have
fact that the was the more 
University had one event where the vigorous than 
us there and President ofthe any they have the participated in.
that we, University can 
men and "This year
address everyone." 
women of the was actually armed servie­better than the ns, would past years
Mike Howard 
become lead­because the
senior 

ers in the speed at which United States we ran was military and are going to more upbeat so it seemed like Notrn Dame," junior Army people wanted to be out cadet Hichard Blomstrom there," Iacovo said. said. But Iacovo added, "It was 
.Jenkins said that there is "a enjoyable as much as running lot of spirit among these can be enjoyable." guys" and that it was "a pleasure to be out here." Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
The run is also meant to smervosh@nd.edu 
"It's not surprising there is showed that a religious per­much depression in the med­son has better mental health
Religion 

ical setting," he said. "If you -significantly better mental continued from page I look at rates of depression in health -regardless of what hospitalized patients, it's domain you're looking at," he founded by the Church." close to 50 percent." said. 
It wasn't until the 20th cen­In a study done at Duke Koenig stressed that given tury that the separation of Hospital, 40.1 percent of the evidence spirituality and hospitals and religion arose, patients said religion play in he said. At this time, hospitals they used reli­a patents men­became increasingly based on gion the most "Many patients are tal and physical the scientific and the spiritual among ways health, hospitals
religious and would
needs of patients were they cope. need to being ignored. Koenig pre­like it addressed in doing more to 
"What's really new is that sented materi­their health care. , meet the needs we have a nursing profession al from multi­of their that is not part of a religious ple studies patients. 
order that is caring for the supporting his Harold G. Koenig " M a n y sick," Koenig said. "Even claim that the Professor of Medicine at patients are many of the physicians, at spiritual and Duke University religious and least in this country in the religious would like it early colonies, were minis­needs of addressed in ters." patients had a direct impact their health eare," he said. In a Harvard University on their physical and mental "This doesn't mean all study done on hospitalized health. patients, but a good two­cancer patients, Koenig said "When you have low reli­thirds of patients would like that 80 percent of these gious attendance you have their religious or spiritual patients said their spiritual low levels of well-being," he needs addressed as part of 
needs were not being met. said. "As you get higher your their health care." 
"We are in a health care well-being goes up with your To counter the lack of reli­profession that is focused on religious attendance." gious and spiritual needs the technological that is not Koenig said patients with being met by hospitals today, addressing the spiritual higher religiosity recovered Koenig recommended that all issues in patients care." about 50 percent faster than hospitals take a spiritual his­Koenig said. those with lower religiosity. tory upon admission. Despite 
Koenig said many patients Before the year 2000. there being a eurrent requirement turn to spirituality and reli­were 724 quantitative studies for accreditation, few hospi­gion to deal with the fear, done in regards to a patient's tals actually do, he said. uncertainty and loss of con­religious involvement and trol that accompanies being mental health, Koenig said. Contact Tara Scannell at hospitalized. "Of those 724 nearly 500 tscannOl@saintmacys.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Monday, October 6, 2008 Room 131 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
!sUMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS! 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN 
Information Meeting: 
Application Deadline: November 25 for Summer 2009 
Application On-line: www.nd.edu/-engineerI sumlon/apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS

Wednesday, October 1, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  10,850.66  +485.21  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,790  47  705  1,857,829,290  
AMEX  1,786.89.  +27.97  

NASDAQ 2,082.33 +98.60 NYSE 7,532.80 +328.79 S&P 500 1,166.36 +59.<)7 NIKKEI {Tokyo) !l~409~;114\1i'8[8i],; FTSE 100 (London) 4.902.45 +83.68 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
WACHOVIA CP (WB) +90.22 +1.66 3.50 SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +4.14 +4.61 115.99 NATL CITY CP (NCC) +28.68 +0.39 1.75 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.88 +1.09 38.91 
-0.84 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +5.37 +0.195 3.827 13-WEEK BILL +100.00 +0.45 0.90 30-YEAR BOND +3.46 +0.144 4.305 5-YEAR NOTE +9.66 +0.263 2.986 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.27 100.64 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.60 880.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 93.75 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.3200 EURO 0.7091 
IN BRIEF 
Bailout stall causes global volatility 
LONDON -Volatile world stock markets showed mixed reactions Tuesday to U.S. law­makers' rejection of a $700 billion economic res­cue plan, with global investors turning from sell­ers to buyers as the day progressed. 
Asian stocks fell but some finished above their lows of the day and European stocks ended mostly higher, recovering from early declines as hopes emerged President Bush would successful­ly push for the package to be reconsidered. 
Latin American stocks. meanwhile, rebounded strongly in tandem with a recovery on Wall Street. 
Britain's benchmark stock index, the FTSE 
100. dosed up 1. 7 percent after falling by as much as 3 percent earlier in the day. Germany's benchmark DAX index rose by 0.41 percent, while the Paris CAC-40 ended up 2 percent. 
Russia's regulator, meanwhile, was forced to halt regular trading for two hours in its two major markets on Tuesday morning after stocks plunged in the opening minute of trading. But shares recovered and closed up for the day. 
In Ireland, the volatility was massively upward, as the government guaranteed all the deposits and borrowings -worth around 500 billion euros ($717 billion) -of six of the country's major lenders. Ireland's ISEF Index of financial shares surged by as much as 25 percent on the back of the guarantee, before settling to a rise of 
7.9 percent. 
Consumer confidence up in Sept. 
NEW YORK -A private research group says Americans' confidence in the economy unexpectedly improved in September. 
The reading still hovers near an historic 16­year low and does not fully reflect the finan­cial meltdown that has rocked both Wall Street and Main Street in recent days, howev­er. 
The Conference Board said Tuesday its Consumer Confidence Index is at 59.8, up from a revised 58.5 in August. Economists surveyed by Thomson!IFR expected a reading of 55.5. The level remains about half of what it was a year ago and ncar the lowest since the index registered 54.6 in October 1992 when the economy was coming out of a reces­sion. 
Bailout sought with better safety deposit 
Senate leaders attempt to resurrect $700 billion Wall Street rescue plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In a sur­
prise move to resurrect 
President Bush's $700 billion 
Wall Street rescue plan, Senate 
leaders slated a vote on the 
measure for Wednesday-but 
added a tax cut plan already 
rejected by the House. 
Majority Leader Harry Reid, 
D-Nev., and GOP Leader Mitch 
McConnell of Kentucky 
unveiled the plan Tuesday. The 
Senate plan would also raise 
federal deposit insurance limits 
to $250,000 from $100,000, as 
called for by the two presiden­
tial nominees only hours earli­
er. 
The move to add a tax legis­
lation -including a set of pop­
ular business tax breaks ­
risked a backlash from House 
Democrats insisting they be 
paid for with tax increases 
elsewhere. 
But by also adding legisla­
tion to prevent more than 20 
million middle-class taxpayers 
from feeling the bite of the 
alternative minimum tax, the 
step could build momentum 
for the Wall St. bailout from 
House Republicans. 
The surprise move capped a 
day in which supporters of the 
imperiled multibillion -dollar 
economic rescue fought to 
bring it back to life, courting 
reluctant lawmakers with a 
variety of other sweeteners 
including the plan to reassure 
Americans their bank deposits 
are safe. 
Wall Street, at least, 

regained hope. The Dow Jones and some $78 billion in renew­be willing to go along. including presidential nomi­
indu<;trials rose 485 points, one able energy incentives and Still, the House is where the nees John McCain and Barack 
day after a record 778-point extensions of expiring tax problems are, and leaders Obama, endorsed the change. 
plunge following rejection in breaks. In a compromise there were scrounging for So did the agency that runs 
the U.S. House of the plan worked out with Republicans, ideas that might appeal to a the program. 
worked out by congressional the bill does not pay for the few of the 133 Republicans Within hours of the candi­
leaders and the Bush adminis­AMT and disaster provisions and 95 Democrats who reject­dates' separate statements, 
tration. but does have revenue offsets ed the proposal on Monday. Federal Deposit Insurance 
Before Reid and McConnell's for part of the energy and Senate Banking Committee Corp. chairman Sheila Bair 
move, lawmakers, President extension measures. Chairman Christopher Dodd, asked Congress for temporary 
Bush and the two rivals to suc­That wasn't enough for the D-Conn.. told reporters, ''I'm authority to raise the limit by 
ceed him all rummaged House, which insisted that told a number of people who an unspecified amount. That 
through ideas new and old, there be complete offsets for voted 'no' yesterday are having could help ease a crisis of con­
desperately seeking to change the energy and extension part serious second thoughts about fidence in the banking system, 
a dozen House members' votes of the package. it." He added, however, Bair said. 
and pass the $700 billion plan. The Senate move seems "There's no game plan that's She said the overwhelming 
The tax plan passed the aimed at jamming the House been decided." majority of banks remain 
Senate last week, on a 93-2 into accepting the deficit­The idea drawing the biggest sound but an increase in the 
vote. It included AMT relief, $8 financed tax cuts. Conservative support was to raise the feder­cap would help ease a crisis of 
billion in tax relief for those hit Democrats won't like the idea, al deposit insurance limit, now confidence in the banking sys­
by natural disasters in the but some Congress-watchers $100,000 per account, to tem as well as encourage 
Midwest. Texas and Louisiana, suspect most Democrats might $250,000. Several officials, . banks to begin more lending. 

Home prices tumble 16 percent 
Associated Press is slowing, a possible silver lining. index lags other key housing indicators. NEW YORK-A closely watched index Between May and July, for example, August data on new and existing home released Tuesday showed home prices home prices fell at a cumulative rate of prices and sales showed the real estate tumbling by the sharpest annual rate 2.2 percent -less than half the cumula­recession is still in full swing. ever in July, and though the monthly rate tive rate experienced between February Last week, the National Association of of decline is slowing, there is no turn­and April. Realtors said the median sales price of around in sight. But there's "no evidence of a bottom," an existing home fell 9.5 percent to The Standard & Poor's!Case-Shiller 20-said David M. Blitzer, chairman of the $203,100 last month, the largest annual city housing index fell a record 16.3 per­index committee at S&P. price decline on records dating to 1999. cent in July from the year-ago month, Las Vegas prices plunged the most at The median home price of a new home the largest drop since its inception in nearly 30 percent, with Phoenix diving fell 5.5 percent to $221,900 in August, 2000. The 10-city index plunged 17.5 29 percent and Miami, 28 percent. Prices the Commerce Department also said last ·percent, its biggest decline in its 21-year in the seven cities in the Sunbelt all fell week. history. between 20 percent and 30 percent from The Case-Shiller numbers have yet to Prices in the 20-city index have plum­a year ago. reflect the effects of the recent turmoil in meted nearly 20 percent since peaking in Only seven cities showed positive or the financial industry. Mortgage rates July 2006. The 10-city index has fallen flat returns from June to July, down from have been on a roller coaster, and the more than 21 percent since its peak in nine that showed month-over-month confidence of homebuyers and sellers June 2006. gains in June. Atlanta, Boston, Dallas, has surely been eroded by the record No city in the Case-Shiller 20-city index Denver and Minneapolis all posted posi­778-point drop in the Dow Jones indus­saw annual price gains in July -for the tive returns for three months or more. trial average Monday and the govern­fourth straight month. Though the Case-Shiller is a widely ment's failed $700 billion Wall Street However. the pace of monthly declines watched gauge of market conditions, the bailout. 
--~------­
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, October I, 2008 
SOMALIA 

Pirates celebrate 
on hijacked boat 
Associated Press 
OGADISIIU -Somali pirates said Tuesday thny celebrated a Muslim holiday aboard a hijacked freighter and denied reports that three comrades were killed in a shootout on the vnssel, which is being elosely watdwd by a half-dozen U.S. warships. 
The hijacking of the MY Faina -laden with 33 Soviet-made T­72 tanks, rifles and heavy weapons that U.S. defense oiTI­eials have said included rocket launchnrs -was the highest­profile aet of piracy in the dan­gllrous waters this year. The U.S. Navy has said it wants to keep the arms out of the hands of mili­tanL<> linked to al-Qaida in impov­erished Somalia, a key battle­ground in tim war on terrorism. 
The pirates are demanding $20 million in ransom for the ship, which they boarded Thursday in the Indian Ocean off the Somali coast. There was a crew of 21 Hussians and Ukrainians aboard, but the captain latPr died. 
U.S. oflidals said 40-50 pirates worn involved. but only about 30 worn on thn ship iL<>eif. 
A Kenyan maritime official dted an unconfirmed report that thren of the pirates worn killed Monday night in a disputn over whether to surrender. Spnaking on condition of anonymity bncausn hn was not authorized to talk on the rneord, a U.S. oflicial in Washington said he bnlievPd that report was true. But the I'Pnlagon had not confirmnd the rPport by late Tuesday. 
A spokesman for the pirates said tlw shootout report was false. 

"We arn happy on the ship, and WI' are cPinbrating" Eid al-Fitr. which marks the end of Harnadan, spoknsman Sugule Ali told Thn Assoeiatnd Press by satnllitn tnlnphotw. "Nothing has 
c.hanw~d." 
"Wn didn't disputn over a sin­gin thing, let alorw havn a shootout," Ali said. 
Attnmpts to contact him latnr Tuesday failed. A man answering his phone said Ali was "very tired" and was asleep. 

The vessel, anchored off the central Somali town of llobyo, is surrounded by U.S. warships and helicopters. Moscow has dis­patchnd a warship to the scene to protect the lives of the Hussians aboard the captive vessel. 
Piracy is a lucrative criminal racket in the region, bringing in tens of millions of dollars a year. There have been 24 reported attacks in Somalia this year, aceording to the International Maritime Bureau. 
Defense Department spokesman Geoff Morrell said oflieials are working on securing the region's waterways but he gave no details. He told reporters at the Pentagon that the piracy issue "has drawn the attention of high-ranking people within this building." 
Morrell said he had no infor­mation to confirm there had been a gunfight on the ship and that three. might have been killed. 
The destroyer USS Howard and several other U.S. ships have surrounded the Faina at a dis­tance of about 10 miles -some­times closer. Helicopters watched from above. 
U.S. Navy oflicials from the 5th Fleet said they have allowed the pirates to resupply the ship with food and water, but not to unload any military cargo. 
Ukrainian news agencies have said the ship's operator is Tomex~ Team, based in the Black Sea port of Odessa. A Hussian-bascd ship register indicates that Tomcx Team is a subsidiary of the Faina's owner, Panama­basl~d Waterlux AG. 
The U.S. fears the arms may end up with the militants who havn been waging an insurgency against the shaky, U.N.-backed Somali transitional government since late 2006. when the Islamic fighters were drivnn out aftl'l' six months in power. More than 9,000 people, most of thorn civil­ians, havn been killed. 
Social services agency questioned 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A Maryland woman suspected of killing and freezing her two daughters was convicted of a misdemeanor and had past financial prob­lems, but was still able to adopt the girls and collect a monthly stipend for their care even after their deaths, oiTicials said. 
The disturbing case has advocates questioning how the District of Columbia's troubled social services agency evalu­ates potential adoptive and fos­ter parents. 
Henee Bowman told investi­
gators the frozen child-sized 
remains police found in her 
basement freezer over the 
weekend were those of her two 
daughters -age 9 and 11 ­
both adopted from D.C. 
Bowman, 43, is suspected of 
killing them and has been 
charged with first-degree child 
abuse in the beating and neg­
lect of a third adopted daugh­
ter, who is 7. 
She was a foster mother to all 
three before adopting them in 
2001 and 2004. 
"There is pressure across the board to get those adoption numbers up," Richard Wexler, executive director of the National Coalition for Child Protection Reform, said Tuesday. "My question is: Did the D.C. workers have the time to look at it case by case'?" 
It is the latest tragedy linked to the D.C. Child and Family Services Agency, which has been reeling since the January discovery of the decomposing bodies of four young sisters in a home that had a past report of abuse. 
In the Bowman case, oflicials in D.C. and Maryland say they had no information about any abuse, either before or after the adoptions. But Bowman had a 1999 misdemeanor con­viction for threatening to hurt someone, according to court records. Bowman also appeared to be l'inaneially unstable, filing for bankruptcy in 2000 and in 2001. 
It is unclear when Bowman became a foster mother. Bankruptcy could disqualify a person from becoming one, said D.C. council member Tommy Wells, a former soeial worker. Bankruptcy might not 

automatically keep a person 
from adopting, but it should be 
considered, he said. 

Calvert County deputies made 
the gruesome discovery or the 
frozen remains Sa'turday in 
Lusby, about 50 miles southeast 
of Washington. Bowman has 
been jailed on child abuse 
charges related to the surviving 
daughter. 

After adopting the three "spe­
cial needs" children -a broad 
category that includes any child 
over age 5 -Bowman received 
a monthly stipend of about 
$2,400 from a federal program 
for adoptive parents, D.C. 
Acting Attorney General Peter 
Nickles said. He said Bowman 
apparently was being paid even 
after the children had died. 

Before Bowman was allowed 
to adopt, she was cleared by 
the FBI and police and passed a 
background check, which 
includes a home study, oiTicials 
said. Bowman worked as an 
appointment scheduler at a 
surgery center in northeast 
D.C. a couple times, the last ending in 2000, a spokes­woman said. 
"She had a stable home, her 
health evaluation, all of those 
things checked out," city gov­
ernment spokeswoman Mafara 
Hobson said. 

Bowman's background was 
checked by a contractor, the 
Baltimore-based Board of Child 
Care of the United Methodist 
Church. The organization's 
president did not immediately 
return calls seeking comment 
Tuesday. 

Nationally, many social serv­ices agencies have probation­ary periods, during which workers visit homes before adoptions are final, said Wexler. Ilowever, that might be waived if an applicant had · already been obserV£~d as a fos­ter parent, as was the case with 
Bowman, he said. 

D.C.'s child welfare system has been under increased scrutiny since January, when the four sisters' bodies wnre found in a southeast Washington row house. Their mother, Banita Jacks, has bonn chargnd with murder. Tho chil­dren were not adoptnd. Six CFSA social workers wen~ limd for not adequately responding 
to a report of abuse at the 
home months before the chil­
dren were found. 
The agency is evaluating its 

adoption process and thn 
Bowman case, CFSA Interim 
Director Hoque Gerald said in 
an e-mail. 
Marcia Hobinson Lowry, executive director of Childmn 's Hights, said the New York­based advocacy group has long had concerns about whether D.C.'s child welfare agency ade­quately supervises private con­tractors. The group brought a class-action lawsuit against ·the city nearly 20 years ago that eventually forced the child wel­fare system into receivership. 
In July, Children's Hights sought to hold the city in eon­tempt for failing to make ade­quate progress. Lowry said work done by ·contractors was one of the concerns. 
Wexler, of the reform group, said he worries that D.C. social workers might have been under pressure to hastily final­ize adoptions because of pay­ments -up to $R,OOO per child -that state and local govern­ments get from the fnderal gov­ernment for adoptions. 
Gerald said D.C. received an incentive award only in 2004, the year Bowman adopted the two younger girls. 
Charges against Bowman in the deaths could come out of Montgomery County, which includes Hockville. Bowman has told Calvert County detec­tives that she brought the remains with her when she moved to Lusby from Hoekville in February. Investigators Tuesday searched the Hockville home for evidence, said spokesman Lt.. Paul Starks. 
New charges will not be filed until it is clnar exactly where the girls diPd. Authorities arc also awaiting autopsy results to formally identify tho victims. 
Calvert County deputies found the remains wlwn they went to Bowman's homo with a search warrant to investigate what happnnnd to tho youngest daughter, who was found wan­dering tho neighborhood, injured and hungry in a blood­and fnces-soaknd nightshirt. Bowman adrnittnd boating her with a "hard-henled shoo," olli­cials said. 
INDIA 
168 killed in temple stampede 
Interested in Law? 
Associated Press 
.JOI>IIPUH-Thousands of pil­grims panicked by false rumors of' a bomb starnpedr~d at a llindu tnrnple in western India on Tuesday, killing at I Past 1fiH poo­pII\ in tlw crush to es<:apP. 
Television f'ootagP showed doznns of bodins lying on thn side­walk. while nnarby lhmtic people t.riPd to revive unconscious devo­tnns, slapping their faces and pressing on their chest<>. 
One child sat on tlw ground nnxt to thn body of a woman, rubbing her lim1head and crying "Mother, Mother." 
The disaster oceurred just as the doors of the temple were bdng opmwd for worship at dawn lilr morn than 12,000 people cnle­brating a kny llindu filstival in thn historic city of Jodhpur in Hajasthan statn. 
The chaos began with false rumors of a bomb, said lhtmesh YyiL'i, a pilf.,rrim who W<L'> standing in line. 
Tensions are high because India has been hit by a spate of bomb attacks. The latest explosions Monday night in the western cities of Malegaon and Modasa killed six people and wounded 45. 
Devotees had broken coconuts as religious offerings and so the temple's 11oors were slick with eoeonut milk, causing pilgrims to slip and fitll as they scrambled to escape, Vyas said. 
Other pilgrims had crammed a narrow 1 V2-mile path leading to the temple, leaving little room for those fleeing to escape. 
The ehaos was made worse by the fact there was a power outage at the time. Some pilgrims slipped on the ramp leading to the shrine, the Press Trust of India news ageney quoted Director-General of state Police K. S. Bains as saying. 
At least 168 people were killed in the stampede, Naresh Pal Gangwar, the district collector, told The Associated Press. Officials said 100 others were injured. 
It was the third disaster this year at religious events in India, shocking Hindus as Tuesday marked the first day of Navratra, a nine-day Hindu festival to honor the Mo.ther Goddess. 
Deadly stampedes are a rela­tively common occurrence at tem­ples in Inctia, where large crowds -sometimes hundreds of thou­sands of people -congregate in small areas lacking facilities to control big gatherings. . In August, 145 people were killed when rumors of an ava­lanche sparked a stampede at a hilltop temple in northern India. 
Jodhpur is some 180 miles southwest of the Hajasthan state capital of Jaipur. 
The temple is located inside the 15th-century Mehrangarh fort that overlooks the town. The fort is one of the town's biggest tourist attractions with its huge walls, ornate interiors and views over­looking Jodhpur. 


Attend the 2008 ND Law Fair 
October 10, 2008 JACC 11:00-3:00 
Representatives from over 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 1, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
SOUTH KOREA 
U.S. envoy to offer 
•

arms compromise 
Associated Press 
SEOUL -The chief U.S. nuclear negotiator with North Korea will propose a face-saving compromise during a trip ·Wednesday to the isolated com­munist nation to try to salvage the derailed disarmament pact, 
U.S. officials said. 
Envoy Christopher Hill said his 
goal was to persuade North 
Korea's Vice Foreign Minister 
Kim Kye Gwan to agree to 
Washington's demand for a veri­
fication system to account for the 
North's nuclear arsenal. But he 
acknowledged it would be a diffi­
cult task. 
The North has rejected U.S. 
requests on verification and 
accused Washington of not living 
up to its end of the deal and 
removing North Korea from a list 
of state sponsors of terrorism. It 
recently reversed the process of 
dismantling its nuclear facilities. 
"We are in a very difficult, very 
tough phase of negotiations," Hill 
told reporters Tuesday night after 
meeting with his South Korean 
counterpart, Kim Sook, to discuss 
ways to persuade the North to 
return to the disarmament 
process. 
In Washington, a senior U.S. 
official said Hill is bringing a new 
face-saving proposal that would 
have North Korea agree to a veri­
fication program and submit it 
first to its Chinese allies. The offi­
cial spoke on condition of 
anonymity because Hill has not 
presented the proposal. 
The U.S. would then provision­ally remove North Korea from the terrorism sponsors list. That would edge around the current impasse, in which the U.S. says it won't remove North Korea from the list until it signs up to the ver­ification measures while the U.S. says North Korea must act first. 
U.S. officials said they were not sure North Korea will agree to the idea and if they do, whether what they present to the Chinese will be acceptable to Washington. 
Hill's trip to the capital, 
Pyongyang, comes amid reports 
that autocratic North Korean 
leader Kim Jong Il suffered a 
stroke in August, prompting con­
cern that his prolonged illness 
could destabilize the Korean 
peninsula. North Korea denies 
that Kim, 66, is ill. 
Kim's disappearance from the 
public eye coincided with an 
about-face on the 2007 nuclear 
deal painstakingly negotiated 
among six countries -the two 
Koreas, the U.S., China, Russia 
and Japan. 
North Korea alarmed the world in 2006 by testing a nuclear device and a series of missiles, including one capable of reaching as far as Alaska. It then agreed to dismantle its nuclear program in 
exchange for energy aid and 
other concessions. 
The regime began disabling its 
nuclear processing plant in 
Yongbyon in November, and blew 
up a cooling tower in June in a 
dramatic display of its determi­
nation to carry out the process. 
Just steps away from complet­
ing the second phase of the 
three-part process, Pyongyang 
abruptly reversed course in mid­
August and stopped disabling the 
plant. 

After confirming it had begun 
restoring the nuclear reprocess­
ing plant and testing an engine 
ignition, the regime last week 
ordered U.N. nuclear inspectors 
to leave the country and said it 
planned to restart the plant. 
Experts say it could be up. and 
running within months. 
"What they have been doing 
obviously goes counter to the 
spirits of what we've trying to 
accomplish because all of the dis­
ablement -shutdown and dis­
ablement -was for the purpose 
of abandonmenC of its nuclear 
program, Hill said. 
At issue is Washington's 
request that the North agree to a 
verification system to account for 
its nuclear arsenal as a condition 
for removing North Korea from 
the list of terrorism sponsors. 
The detailed, four-page outline 
of the verification process that 
Washington seeks calls for a 
thorough inspection, soil sam­
ples, interviews with scientists 
and possible involvement of the 
United Nations' nuclear agency. 
Notoriously reclusive North 
Korea objects to having to prove 
its declaration of nuclear facili­
ties, saying verification was never 
part of the disarmament-for-aid 
deal and is a unilateral move to 
disarm them. 
U.S. officials say the proposed verification is standard and has been used by other countries to account for their nuclear pro­grams. 
The U.S. official in Washington 
said Hill plans to go word-by­
word through the proposed veri­
fication protocol to try to address 
the North's concerns although 
previous such efforts did not 
work. 

"I know they are reluctant. ... 
Let's sit down and have a conver­
sation and see if we can resolve 
this matter," Hill said earlier 
Tuesday, before his meeting with 
the South Korean negotiator. 
The trip to Pyongyang will be Hill's third to North Korea since December. He is scheduled to drive into the North from the heavily fortified Demilitarized · Zone on Wednesday, officials 
said. 

Pyongyang, about 60 miles from the border that divides the two countries still technically at war, is several hours' drive from the DMZ. 
Men1orial faces budget issues 
World Trade Center rail station's funding problems stalls other projects 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The glittering, 
steel and glass domed rail hub 
had seemed for years to be the 
only thing that was going right 
at ground zero. 
Lately, not so much. 
The World Trade Center rail station -a planned architec­tural masterpiece with steel ribs jutting like a bird's wings from the dome, a retractable skylight and a vast, naturally lit con­course -is currently hundreds ·of millions of dollars over budg­et and five years behind sched­
ule. 
The delays are creating a 
domino effect, slowing construc­
tion of the Sept. 11 memorial 
and most other projects on the 
problem-ridden 16-acre site. 
The Port Authority of New 
York and New Jersey, the own­
ers of ground zero and the 
agency building the hub, is 
expected to announce another 
re-design of the project this 
week along with new cost esti­
mates that put the price tag at 
around $3 billion, more than 
$500 million over its original 
budget. 
But reports prepared for the 
federal government -which is 
funding the terminal with post­
Sept. 11 money -show that 
problems managing the project 
were foreseen at least two years 
ago. The transportation consult­
ant reports warned of manage­
ment problems, cost overruns 
and delays at the hub going 
back to 2006, less than a year 
after construction began. 
The rail terminal would 
replace a PATH commuter rail 
hub that was underneath the 
trade center's twin towers 
before Sept. 11, 2001, and a 
temporary station that opened in 2003. The PATH trains take commuters between New York and New Jersey. 

The design by Spanish archi­teet Santiago Calatrava has won praise. It was called "the single note of optimism in a cesspool of cynicism and politics" in a New York Times architecture review in 2004, and perhaps a more moving Sept. 11 tribute than the memorial. 
The hub would also include high-end shops and under­ground concourses connecting passengers to more than a dozen subway lines. Business leaders have said the terminal would attract corporate tenants to the five planned skyscrapers and the fmancial district. 
Because the hub is located in the middle of ground zero, its problems affect a maze of inter­connected skyscrapers, the memorial, city streets and vehi­cle security center planned for the site. 
The federal consultant reports assessing risks on the project are prepared every three months for the Federal Transit-Administration, which funded the hub with an initial $1.9 bil­lion grant. 
In July 2006, the report by the Carter & Burgess consultants concluded the hub had less than a 10 percent chance of being on budget. Every three months, the consultants issued new reports that estimated delays as high as 15 months. By early 2008, the consultants said it was less than 5 percent likely to be on budget. 
Failure to make timely deci­sions, delays in procuring con­tractors, constant design changes and the extra cost of paying staff for a longer-than­expected job were repeatedly cited as indicators of budget and schedule problems in 18 months of reports reviewed by The Associated Press after a Freedom of Information Act request. 
"This is a large, schedule­driven project with an aggres­sive design schedule," the report read in July 2006, referring to "rushed," incomplete design documents that were causing delays. 
"Delays have been experi­enced during construction of the early work packages, for exam­pie, due to lack of firm sched­ules provided to contractors and slow processing of change orders," read a notation made in four separate reports filed last year. 
A report dated last fall said a "lack of timely, proactive deci­sions by senior management" could cause further delays. 
Experts said the reports show longtime oversight problems at the complicated project. "It probably does raise some red flags," said Jeffrey Zupan, an 
. engineer and senior transporta­tion analyst at New York's Regional Plan Association. Port Authority spokesman Stephen Sigmund said the agency acknowledged problems with the project in a June report, "and have since moved forward with a new way of doing business on the site in close coordination with the (fed­eral government) and other partners. And we are producing positive results." Sigmund said the agency has a new executive director and a new director of capital construe­tion in charge of the hub and the trade center site, but the changes weren't made specifi­cally because of issues with the rail hub. 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 10 Wednesday, October I, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
I~O. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Solllh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46SS6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hinc 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay l:itzpatrick John Donovan 
A~ST. MANAGING EI>ITOR: Katie Kohb 
Ass·1~ MANAiaNG Eorrol!: l leirdrc Krasula 
NEWS EmTOR: Jcrlll Mcrz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King SPORTS EDITORS:. Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz llartcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
All lJF.~IGN MANAGER: Mary jesse 
CONTROIJJ-:R: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS AI>MINISTI!AT<>R: Mike Moriarity 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6'.>27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohsavad&:ilnd.t:du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 651-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.ll-4'i41 obsmeGilnd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6J 1-5.323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('i74) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
('i74) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONLJN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily ntwspaper published in prinr and online by the srudents of the University of Notrt· l )ame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contcm. including advertisements. is not governed by policies nf rhe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refi.rse adwrtisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chic{ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Cornrnmwries. letters and columns present the vitws of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ()bscrvcr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free cxprt·ssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. L<·ttcrs to rht· Fdiror must be signed and must include ,·ontact int(mnarion. 
Qtu!stirms nxarding Oburver policies should be dirt!rted to Editor in ChiefC'hris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tlw t li~"'-rvrr {USPS ..,99 2-4!1011) i•ptthll'h~d M1ttnl~y thruup:h PriJ.ty cx<..cpt thutng u;utt .\I ttl v.t~·.umu J>~.'rlltd~. A •ttl~'ICrtprt••ll nt'l1tc llhm:rvt"r 15 $1 ()0 fur unc .tculcmil year; $'i'i fur un~·~~~:mc..,tn 
rlu:: t lh~rvet i• ptthh}lu:d .u !'US I"MA>TEI< 014 S.>tuh Dinmg t l.tll ~mi .tddrt.'i! com:ctiom. to: 

· Notre O.unt, IN 4r,')'if1.on9 "llte0h$Crvtr l'erir~tlu.:al pt).\(.11<1.' p11id 011 Noltt Dlmc eo l3m:n9 ~11d ~ddiru•u~l uuiliug u/flt;Q. (l24 South Dining 11.111 Noue !Jame. IN 46'jS6-on9 
Tht' Oh!!erver i1. o1 nu::U1l)el ol the A.wncu1c:d PJ"e~..,, AU H.'J.>rt>tlm:tim1 nghb ate rt~crvt:d. 

Unnecessary criticism 
Kevin Kimberly ("Stop the chop," Sept. 

29): 
While I and seemingly most of the stu­dent body agree we shouldn't do the chop, I'm not so sure it was necessary to denounce Florida State University and its students like you did. Notre Dame students "have more class" than that. 
Go Irish. 
Whitley Esteban sophomore Lewis Hall Sept. 29 

Alma mater should be enjoyed by all 
Yes, I am a curmudgeon from the elass of 1975. 
First, the "We are ND" chant, ("Another 'copyrighted' cheer,'' Sept. 30) has been around for deeades. It is not an infringe­ment of Penn State's techno version of a 
Thinking while drinking 
As I turned 21 this weekend, having spent nearly a month in a new country boasting of the much touted younger drinking age, I took time to reflect on how much I'd have loved to be sitting at the Friday's baek in South Bend, Katherine enjoying a tasty Khorey and legal Mudslide, as it's 
Both Sides 

been about three 
Now 

years since I first drank legally outside the U.S.. and, though Guinness tastes much bettm now than it did then. drinking it in publie's beeome so passe, and yet my eurnmt drinking habits are ... 
I've lost you. 

You're thinking, "Urn, limy best friend/roommate/cousin/significant other/favorite lacrosse player just got armsted two weeks ago. Isn't it a little too soon to be hitting us over the head with this?" 
Or. "Oh no. Someone's seriously bring­ing this one up again? Can we please read about a new controversy for <mee?'' 
Or. "Mmm, Mudslides." 

Or else, having witnessed that first sen­l<~nee, you're still in a state of traumatic shock and can do no more than vaguely wonder whore you can lind the riumber for Comma Protection Services. 
*** 

Bear with me a little while before you turn the page. Yes, you're about to read yet another artide on alcohol. But I promise that throughout this one, you, your friends, your intellect, your Mudslides and the commas will remain safe and unmaligned. 
And the reason for this safety is my belief that your drinking is, for the most part, your business. It is your very own personal deeision. 
The problem is how often that deeision is believed to be a simple one. *** 
Alcohol, of course, doesn't always have to be complicated. The occasional Mudslide with an old friend comes to mind, or else the higher-end beer you bought just for the 2006 MSU game and then clutched anxiously the whole way through. Or the $9 white wine you sip alongside your very first Castle Point Hotpot (a.k.a "Guess How Many LnflovPrs We Can Fit in the Same Wok?") Or, in my case, sips Qf my grandmother's sherry on a Sunday afternoon as we waited for the pot roast to finish cooking and she helped me with my Caleulus homework. 
But those instances of simplicity are also situations in which the main focus isn't actually drinking, but rather friend­ship or football or food or those assign­ments full of idiots who were so con­cerned with the height of the impending lampposts that they never realized they were about to walk smack-dab into them. Alcohol, when it's truly nothing more than a supplement to other aspeets of life, need not bn handled with much more than basic common sense. 
Drinking as its own leisure activity, however, raises complications for the thoughtful individual. 
You know, for instance, that to maxi­mize the benefits of the drinking experi­ence, you need to ask yourself many questions before beginning. Like, "What?" And "Where? With whom? !low much?" Or in some cases, "Do I feel it's worth my breaking the law? If so, how do I not get caught?" 
, But most importantly, for all of us, is the question of "Why?" And, as someone has previously pointed out here in Viewpoint.,"Because every other American college student has so much fun blacking out twice a week" is not a legitimate reason to drink. In fact, it's the anti-legitimate reason. The stronger rea­sons are· the ones we each discover for ourselves-those that we're absolutely sure fill our own needs, and, more importantly, sit well with our eon-sciences. 

Of eourse drinking ceases to be a pure­ly personal choicn as soon as it takns on extra-personal efl'eets. A momnnt, please, to prnaeh: consideration for othnr people should be a priority in one's drinking choices. The safety and welfarn of those • around you (and yoursnlf) are givnns, but this consideration applies to more mun­dane ell'ects too. Ask yoursnlf'if you real­ly want to be that guy in thn clwap beer keg eostume who stands outside th11 Lad ins' Hoom at the I Iallownnn SYH and yells incoherent, smni-eomplirwmtary obscenities at every woman who walks past. 
Yns, dud11. Somn stranger remembers you, two years on, as that guy. Now, I'm truly curious: was it worth it? 

*** 

My current drinking habits am mutml, I guess. Not necessarily because of early legal drinking, but just bncause that's what works bnst f{u· me. 
A lot of trial and error, and not a little experience. went into this deeision. I remember, for instance, how awhile ago, I went to onn particularly swnaty-aired dorm room party in whieh the samn five songs were being playnd on repeat the entire night, and now whnnever "))ani California" eomes on thn radio, I think of Stanford Hall, and I change thn station. 
But I'll stop before more eommas get hurt. You decide your aleohol policy for yourself. provided the elemnnts of your decision go beyond yoursnlf. 
You, with regard to aleohol. have the right to make yourself as sick as you'd like. But please don't miss the toilet. 
Now, enjoy your Mudslide. 
Katherine Khorey is an English major and Russian minor spending her junior year abroad at Trinity College, Dublin. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ga111eday cheers debated 
song originally copyrighted in 1999. 
Yet, more importantly, I wish we could have the Alma Mater played for the whole stadium. It is filled with graduates of Notre Dame. We love the Alma Mater. We also pay quite a bit for our tickets, too. The recent "tradition" of playing the Alma Mater at the end of the game in front of the students is somewhat of a slight to the rest of us in the stadium, who have earned the right to sing that wonderful song. 
Let's honor all of Notre Dame by having the Alma Mater played so that the whole stadium can hear, sing and feel part of the Notre Dame family. 
Thanks, (and I am so tired of being an 
"N"). 
Frank Keres alum Class of 1975 Sept. 29 

"We are NO" not stolen While I am sure that Piyush Hanade ("Another 'copyrighted' cheer,'' Sept 
29) is conscientious in his desire to preserve a Penn State tradition. I believe he is mistaken in his time frame. The "We are ND" ehant dates to at least the 1970s ... I cannot be sure that the wonderful folks in Happy Valley didn't eome up with it first. 
I would wager, though that the cheer travelled east first. According to popular movie eulture, wn may have borrowed it from Marshall University. 
I d<i not think we need to relinquish it to Penn State, no malter how snap­py their uniforms. 
J.M. Christ alum 
Class of 1980 Sept. 30 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Liz llarter Matt Gamber Madeline Buckley Sam Werner 
Who won the political debate? 

Hobert Singer Mike Gotimer Graphics Scene 
McCain "My favorite thing is to !JO where
Mary Cecilia Michelle Fordice 
I've never been.
ObamaMitsch Viewpoint I didn't watch 

Kara King Diane Arbus 
U.S. photographer
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Duncan does not disappoint 
The men of The Penthouse would like to to square one and they were accepting appli­address a few of Emily Rankin's thoughts cations. The final three, determined by what presented in 'Duncan Disappoints' (Sept. 30). I'm sure was an 'impartial' judge, were the 
Firstly, The Penthouse was named last · Duffers, the Dragons and the Highlanders. Spring, and this Voting began, and I would not have 
have a suspicion that the Ouncan Penthouse 
write-in for Doughnuts selection of any changed with the 
(contributed to in large by:1ao Oum~an Ha!J 
The Penthouse) actually mascot. We're 
''The hcst rnnm !)IJ campu~" -Tlte Ohtier,;er 
took the majority, but the classy that way. 
Fe..,.turt->~:Secondly, I can't too'' Pn:>jednr ·.n:·. Privatt:-Showt:r~ Se~:ts 24 
powers that be 

believe you'd be so base as to sug­gest the men of Duncan Hall are any more mature than the rest of Notre Dame's campus. We all wanted to be doughnuts! 
However, from day one, any conversation regarding doughnuts or pastry parapherna­lia in general was stamped out immediately by the hall staff. Something about copy­rights... 
Anyway, the quest for a mascot was back announced at Hall Council that we would be the Highlanders. 
Oh well. Rankin, you can't say we didn't try. Please stop by The 

Penthouse some time and we'll show you 
that Duncan definitely does not disappoint. 
Noah Franske 
JUniOr 
Duncan Hall Sept. 30 

'Open letter' out of place 
John Griel ("An open letter to the ND football team," Sept. 26), your views on drinking are tragically misguided and it is not your place to ask our football team to "not drink until the off-season." 
The players need our support, not a stu­dent masquerading as a pretentious pater­nal figure. Your description of alcohol's effects is absurdly distorted. You claim that the day after drinking, "if we aren't physi­cally sick, we are fatigued and irritable." When drinking in moderation, this is rarely the case. 
It seems as though your only experience with drinking is the frat-like "bro bonding" you either sideline or succumb to on week­ends in your dorm. Our football players are allowed to have a beer on the week­ends. 
You also claim our football team "can't expect (their) 95 percent to best someone's 100 percent." Congratulations, you did a flawless job proving that 95 is less than 
100. However, you fail to recognize the likelihood that other football teams are not at your definition of "100 percent." Do you really think Notre Dame is the only school with football players that drink? 
Your argument is based on the fact that our players have a "commitment to excel­lence." From this, you argue that since drinking takes away from their being in peak physical condition, it is reprehensi­ble. Are you saying they should be con­demned for every action that compromises their fitness? Should they be held account­able for not getting proper sleep during the week? For eating Taco Bell? How about not blotting the grease off their pizza? 
Finally, I would like to comment on your reference to the player on the back of The Shirt. Yes, he is wearing the number 12 because we are going for our 12th national title. However, there is a bigger reason why you, me and the rest of the student body don a shirt with the number 12 on it. It is because we are the 12th man on the football team. 
Let's start acting like it. 
Sean Pennino 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Sept. 29 

Voting offers best form_ of protest 
Why vote? 

Why bother, especially in today's world of complicated issues, deceitful politi­cians and a seeming decline in American freedom? 
The decision not to vote ("Don't vote," Sept. 29) is an extreme one, no matter what the situation. You can be morally opposed to policies held by both candi­dates, but still support and vote for one of them. 
The US Conference of Catholic Bishops advises Catholics to weigh the impor­tance of various issues, and that is what we urge all students to do this November. It is the nature of representative democ­racy to compromise, and Americans will have to compromise if anything is to be accomplished. 
Refusal to negotiate on issues, or to vote period, makes it difficult to see your views cause any change. 
It is true that Americans are facing dif­ficult decisions this November. However, we disagree with Plonka's assertion that "The liberty and freedom this country was founded on, consistently paid lip service by politicians and citizens alike, have consistently eroded (when not denied altogether) since that foundation." 
If one disagrees with government poli­cies, voting is one's first method of protest against those actions. Someone will be elected, and if you sit out the debate, you have little to no effect on the process. 
Even if you believe the presidential candidates to be unsatisfactory, perhaps consider voting for a third party candi­date; this may have more of an effect than altogether abstaining. 
If you, like Plonka, feel you cannot in good conscience vote for anyone in the presidential race, there are still local and state elections that are just as important. 
There will be officials elected this fall, and it is up to you to make your voice heard. 
Joe Stranix senior Dillon Hall Ally Brantley. 
senior 
off campus Sept. 29 

Unions necessary on catnpus 
On Sept. 2, a group of one hundred students, workers, faculty and com­munity members gathered at Notre Dame to celebrate the labor rights enumerated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). While UDHR is cause for celebration, ,J1l;le speeches at this event offered a critical eye, demand­ing a collective voice for Notre Dame's workers. Last May, a need for this voice became obvious when three building service workers pre­sented a petition to Staff Advisory Council, signed by 216 workers around campus, and were told that they needed 2000 for the petition to mean anything. The subject of the petition was a vacation policy, changed several years ago without meaningful consultation with the workers whom it affects. The peti­tion called for a new policy that would make it easier for workers to plan their vacations: a simple request, rejected flatly. 
No existing body on campus repre­sents the concerns of workers. How, then, can labor rights be achieved? UDHR offers some guidance in Article 23(4): "Everyone has the right to form and join trade unions for the protection of his interests." Catholic Social Tradition unambigu­ously supports trade unions. For example, Pope John Paul II, in Laborem Exercens (20), calls trade unions an "indispensable elements of social life". 

In the past, Notre Dame has claimed to uphold this right, while arguing that unions are unnecessary. On April 20, 2006, John Aflleck­Graves, the Executive Vice President, said, "there is nothing a union can accomplish for them that cannot be accomplished through an open and honest relationship such as has tra­ditionally prevailed between the University and its employees." 
The vacation policy issue demon­strates that this relationship is nei­ther open nor honest. The University's handling of this issue is emblematic of its suppression of a movement that has been fighting, issue by issue, for over three years now, to address working conditions. Unions are necessary at Notre Dame to realize these goals: to provide all its workers with just wages, fair treatment, and most importantly, a collective voice. 
Nick Krafft 
senwr 
Stanford Hall Sept. 29 

Quidditch played before 
Regrettably, your article "Gryffindor defeats Slytherin on Stepan Fields" (Sept. 29) betrays a lack of awareness of the Quidditch culture on campus. 
A group of students known unoffi­cially as "Quidditch Undergraduate Association For Fantasy-Loving Enthusiasts" (QUAFFLE) has been playing Quidditch on Notre Dame's campus since last spring. 
We admire and approve the enthu­siasm of Mushenheim, Fullard and all of those who played with them on Saturday (Getting onto the stadium scoreboard? Brilliant!). We wish to extend an invitation to those players and all other interested Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to join QUAFFLE for our next match. 

We will be found this Friday, Oct. 3, on South Quad in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall from 3-6 p.m. playing a match under the official Intercollegiate Quidditch Association rules, or as close to them as we can get and still have fun with the num­ber of people who show up. 
Players will be meeting at the flag­pole to form teams. For more infor­mation on past QUAFFLE exploits or Land-Based Quidditch in general, please search Facebook groups for "ND Quidditch" or "Intercollegiate Quid ditch Association." 
Elizabeth Ann Dillon junior Breen-Phillips Hall Sept. 29 

Rem_ove Sept. 11 footage 
I want to preface my request by stating that I have the utmost respect for Notre Dame professor and former Treasury Under Secretary Jimmy Gurule, whom the University featured in the latest installment of its "What Would You Fight For?" ad series. As an alumna, I applaud his work on behalf of the University to mentor students in the field of international criminal law. 
That said, as a New Jersey native, I am appalled that in producing Saturday's television ad about Prof. Gurule's work investigating terrorist finance networks the University demonstrated such ill-regard for the families affected by the Sept. 11 attacks. To so casually air graphic footage of Flight 17 5 crashing into the World Trade Center during the ad's opening sequence showed a horrific lapse in judgement by the administration. 
As a journalist, I recognized we as society are increasingly desensitized to images of war and violence; but the Sept. 11 families do not have the luxury of turning a blind eye. Seven years after losing their loved ones to terror, they are now losing them to time. The last place they should have to relive their loss is during a nation­ally-televised football game on an otherwise carefree Saturday after­noon. 

I am ashamed of the University's negligence in airing the attack footage, and I ask that it edit the ad to the extent possible out of respect for the families that still grieve. 
Borrowing a line from Prof. Gurule, we have a responsibility to build a better society. The University should find a way to do that, honor­ing the memory of the dead, without offending those they left behind. 
Michelle McCarthy alum Class of 2006 Sept. 29 

..-----------------~~------------------------~~-----­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 Wednesday, October I, 2008 

By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"Edges" is a show made up of snapshots. There is no enveloping plot, just miniature sto­ries found in each song. They are linked by a loose theme, found in the opening and closing songs, of the fearful prosp.ect of what you might lose on the way to discovering who you are; the cast sings, "Do I really want to see? Do I really want to mess it up to know?" There are admittedly rough spots in the acting, directing and score, but for the most part the actors make you want to hear what their char­acters have to say, and the show is without a doubt an enjoyable performance. 
The show revels in simplicity. The music, mostly Broadway-style pop with a jazz edge, is all vocal and piano, no orchestra or band. The lyrics are often quirky and light. There is no substantial set. All this gives the show a con­versational quality; the characters are sup­posed to be talking to the audience more than performing for them. 
The show, like all of the Pasquerilla East Musical Company's productions, is produced, directed, and performed by students. It is a four man show, featuring Kelly Hunt, Michael Clark, Brian Davenport and Molly Lamping. It is directed by Lindsay Schanzer, assisted by Musical Director Nicholas Shaneyfelt. 
The show works best in its irreverent moments. "In Short," excellently performed by Davenport, takes every song longing over a lost love and turns them on their head. The character may be pining, but that doesn't keep him from expressing what we are all really thinking in that awkward break up situation: "I hope you die." "I Hmm You," might have been saccharine, but Lamping and Clark play with the cutesy lyrics in a way that makes them endearing instead, as they depict a cou­ple tiptoeing their way around the dreaded L­word. (The bars of "If I Loved You" from 
• 
.. 

Carousel in the introduction to the song were a smart touch by the composer as well.) "Caitlyn and Haley," is a funny and meaningful take on how two sisters feel as they slowly grow apart; Haley sings, "Caitlyn is bad now," while Caitlyn responds, "Haley is a baby," but they both want their sister back. Bunt and Lamping cap­ture the dynamic between an older and younger sister beautifully. "Be My Friend," performed by the entire cast, captures the ironic and addictive nature of The Facebook. 
There are also some successful moments among the more thoughtful songs. "I Once Knew," performed by Clark, takes some time to build, but eventually blossoms into a touch­ing cry of a son to his mother, as he asks, "So hold on, hold fast, hold tighter for me." Lamping captures the vulnerability o "Perfect" <.J.S she depicts a girl trying to cpn­vince her~'elf that she can be perfect, if only she doesn't have to be lonely, and carries ''I've Gotta Hun,." which is a complete contrast to "Perfect" in it's obsession with independence, with strength. Hunt captures the melancholy and confusion of "Lying There," which debates the differences between passion and comfort, love and wanting. 
Some songs were more forgettable. Most o the audience will be able to relate to, "Boy With Dreams," but perhaps its theme of a col­lege student with dreams that will be fulfilled soon is a bit too familiar. "Ready to Be Loved," is catchy but not novel. The lyrics of "Part of Painting," are interesting, but the performance needed more focus. 
"Edges" is a success for PEMCo as they branch out into smaller, non-traditional musi­cals. The directors and the cast did a great job interpreting material that doesn't have the maturation of a professional production behind it and shaped an enjoyable show. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE


Wednesday, October 1, 2008 page 13 



By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Editor 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company is back for the 2008 season with "Edges," a song cycle production written by two graduates of the University of Michigan, Benj Pasek and Justin Paul. "Edges" marks a new venture for PEMCo, as their mainstage productions are schedule to stage in the spring semester of each academic year. With the addition of a fall show, the stu­dents participating in PEMCo are helping to expand the arts scene at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"We had a number of reasons for choosing to add a fall show to our season," Connor Nowalk, a senior producers, said in an e-mail to the Observer. "Primarily we, as a company, feel strongly about the promotion of the arts, both in general and here at Notre Dame. By providing more opportunities for performers and audience members alike, we hope to both contribute to and shape the arts scene at Notre Dame." 
For those new to the ND-SMC arts landscape, PEMCo is a musical theater company that was originally founded in 1997 by Pasquerilla East resident Kelly McGann. "[McGann) organized a group of friends to perform 'Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,' using a chil­dren's chorus from the South Bend Area," Nowalk said. "Interestingly enough, some of those children go [to Notre Dame] now and have performed in PEMCo shows since." 
Since that first performance of "Joseph," the company has expanded its scope and its reper­toire. Recent shows have included "Ragtime," the company's 2007 mainstage production, and "Kiss Me, Kate," the mainstage show performed in February of this year. For Mary McLaughlin, a fellow senior producer, "Hagtime" was an especially memorable experience. "There was a lot of controversy surrounding the show, given some of the content," McLaughlin said in an e­mail to the Observer. "We ended up holding an academic forum, where we invited several prominent African American professors and mentors to join a panel and speak about some of these issues on campus. " 
McLaughlin cites the forum and the show together as signs of the effect that the arts can have in campus communities. "It brought our cast very close together, and I think we really made an impact on a lot of people on campus." 
This year's mainstage show will be "The Producers," one of the largest undertakings in PEMCo history. The rights to the popular Mel Brooks hit were only released recently, and, "This is one of the funniest, most popular Broadway musicals ever written," Nowalk said. "We are so thrilled to be able to perform it as our mainstage show this February. We have a lot of talent -especially young talent -and an extremely knowledgeable production staff, so this is not going to be a show you are going to want to miss." "Edges," the latest addition to the PEMCo schedule, marks a departure for the company in some ways. "Bringing in a show like 'Edges' opens up the market for a style of musi­cal theater which has been little performed at Notre Dame," Nowalk said. "Smaller, more inti­mate musicals have only recently become popu­lar." 
Nowalk cites the differences between a typical mainstage show, which is a much larger pro­duction, and a show like "Edges" as a chance to engage with a different kind of theater. "Because of the size and style of the main stage show ... we didn't really have an opportunity to tap into this new genre. We hope that through 'Edges' and future fall shows, we will be able to expose theater lovers to this wonderful new realm in the musical theater world." 
McLaughlin cites the strength of the PEMCo team, particularly director Lindsay Schanzer and musical director Nicholas Shaneyfelt, as key to the strength of "Edges" as a production. "I can't say enough about Lindsay and Nicholas. Nicholas has been such a valuable member of PEMCo over the years, with his incredible musi­cal gift, and Lindsay, only a sophomore, has already made such a tremendous mark on the company, both with her onstage talent and her gift as a director." 
It was Schanzer, McLaughlin mentions, who first approached the PEMCo "Edges" last year. [Schanzer] came to us with this idea last year as a freshman, and we're really happy to see her take leadership in PEMCo." 
Contact Analise Lipari at 
alipari@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 1, 2008 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Locker just wants to play 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -Ultimately, 
.I ake Locker doesn't want to 
be a spectator. 
Washington's star quar­
terback said Tuesday he'd 
bo willing to play a differ­
ent position in the coming 
weeks while his broken 
right thumb heals, as long 
as it's determined such a 
move would help the team 
and not risk additional 
injury. 
''I'm definitely open to it. I'd rather be playing than sitting over on the side­lines," Locker said on Tuesday, speaking for the first time since his injury. "Whatever is in the best interest of this team, whether it's playing or not, I'll give it a shot." 
Locker had surgery Monday to stabilize his thumb, which he broke in the second quarter of last Saturday's 35-28 loss to Stanford, on a play where Locker was the lead blocker l'or a reverse that went for 27 yards. Locker believes his thumb caught on the defender as he went to make a cut block. 
llis return to playing quarterback would likely be in six to eight weeks, but dnpnnding on how the thumb heals he could play a dil'fernnt position in a few wneks wearing a east. 
The question remains if risking Locker to additional pounding and injury at another position is worth the possible short-term gain for an 0-4 Washington team needing an stunning turnaround to salvage its season and likely save the job of' coaeh Tyrone Willingham. 
Locker was an all-state defensive back in high school and was recruited by a number of schools to play dol'ense. Offensive coordi­nator Tim Lappano refused to address the situation Tuesday saying, ''I'm not going there." 
"I understand that. (It's) definitely something that would factor into the deci­sion, I feel," Loeker answered when asked about the physical punish­ment of' another position. ''I've told you guys before I don't want to live life scared or tentative. I want to enjoy it and have fun and I believe the best way for me to do that is to be on the field no matter where it 
is." 
Locker has been Washington's best offensive 

CLASSIFIEDS 

talent for the last two years, setting a modern Pac-10 record for yards rushing by a quarterback last season with 986 yards along with 13 rushing touehdowns. 
The sophomore is the Huskies' leading rusher this season with 180 yards on 56 carries, and has thrown for 512 yards. Redshirt freshman Honnie Fouch will be the Huskies starting quarterback indefinitely. Willingham has called talk of Locker ehanging posi­tions "premature," but has­n't ruled out the possibility. 
"Our first focus and con­centration, should be to get him healthy and make sure we have done everything to put him in position to play quarterback," Willingham said during the Pac-10 coaehes conference call Tuesday. "And if it looks like there is a short-term period where there is some-
WANTED 
STUDENT WORK, $14.25 base­appt., flexible schedules, no experi­ence needed, customer sales/serv­ice, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835. www.workforstu­dents.com 
Financial Partner wanted. 7% ROI plus 2.5 Pts. 100% secured w/real estate. 35 Yrs. Experience. References. Call574-360-8707 or Email: 2heavn@comcast.net 

FoR SALE 
CONDO FOR SALE. CLOSE TO ND. PLEASE CONTACT TED @ 574-233-6191 MSL #231736 
FoR RENT 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 SCHOOL YEAR. 2·10 BDRMS AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-234·2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
thing he can do to help the football team, then you do that. But it would be inap­propriate for us to have those talks and those dis­cussions right now. We need to make sure the focus is on getting Jake healthy." 
Locker knew· something was wrong with his thumb immediately when he could­n't unbuckle his ehinstrap. He rushed for 2 yards on the next play, then badly overthrew a wide open receiver. Once Loeker released the ball, he knew he'd done more than just bruise his thumb. 
"I had no eontrol over the ball," Loeker said. "My thumb didn't help me at all throwing the ball, so I knew something was wrong." 
Locker will be in a soft east for the next two weeks, after which time he will be re-evaluated and a better timetable for his return should be available. 
2 bdrms, 1 bath, basement, garage. Walk to Notre Dame. (574)274· 2829. 
Gorgeous Completely Rehabbed House, 4 bedrooms, 3 full baths, washer dryer, dishwasher, new stainless steel appliances, 3 car garage, central air, beautiful light fixtures, deck and front porch. Marble entryway. All new. 2 miles to ND. Available immediately, fourth month free or flat screen TV installed. $1180 per month. 
Call Harold 57 4-315-7781. 
MLB 

Cliff Lee, Brad Lidge win comeback avvards 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPIIIA -Brad 
Lidge has a shot to cap his 
perfeet season with a World 
Series ring. Cliff Lee should be 
ready to clear room in the tro­
phy case for a Cy Young 
Award. 

First, the two pitehers 
received a different honor 
Tuesday when they were 
selected Comebaek Players of 
the Year. 

Lee was 22-3 with an 
American League-leading 2.54 
EHA for the Cleveland Indians 
and could be their second con­
seeutive Cy Young winner. He 
went 5-8 with a 6.29 ERA last 
year and was demoted to the 
minor leagues. 

Lidge was a perfect 41-for­
41 in save opportunities as the 
NL East ehampion 
Philadelphia Phillies' eloser. In 
2007, he eonverted just 19 of 
27 for the Houston Astros and 
lost his spot as an elite eloser. 
"I never lost confidenee in 
myself, no matter what the 
years were like or the results," 
Lidge said. "I always felt I was 
going to come back and pitch 
to the best of my ability." 
Lidge hopes he can remain perfect in the playoffs, starting Wednesday when the Phillies open the best-of-five division series at home against Milwaukee. 
"If we weren't in the play­offs, this season would not be a suecess for me," Lidge said before the Phillies worked out. 
The 31-year-old Lidge reclaimed his reputation as one of the most reliable reliev­ers in the game. After two up­and-down seasons in Houston -following Albert Pujols' mammoth homer off him in the 2005 playoffs -Lidge responded with the best year of his seven-year career. He was on the mound Saturday when the Phillies clinched their second straight division title and there's no one else manager Charlie Manuel wants on the mound with the game on the line. 
"Where could we go get any­body better? He's been that good," Manuel said. 
Lee, an 18-game winner in 2005, was nearly as flawless this season for the Indians. No one knew what to expect from Lee after he won a three-way competition for the final start­ing spot during spring train­ing. 
He was hurt last season, demoted to the minors and rel­egated to a relief role when he returned. Lee was even left off the Indians' postseason roster. 
Now, Lee is the favorite to 
follow ex-Indians teammate CC 
Sabathia for the AL Cy Young 
Award. 
"I've never seen a season 
like that," Cleveland manager 
Eric Wedge said. "From start 
to finish he was incredible. 
There were real reasons for it. 
He worked hard physically to 
get back." 
Lee was Cleveland's first 20­
game winner sinee Gaylord 
Perry in 197 4. He joined Perry 
along with Hall of Famers Bob 
Feller, Bob Lemon, Early Wynn 
and 20 others who have worn 
a Cleveland uniform in the 20­
win elub. 
''I'm sure he's going to be 
busy this winter," Wedge said. 
Lidge's 2007 season wasn't nearly as awful as Lee's. While he did lose his closer's role and missed a month with an injury, Lidge still went 5-3 with a 3.36 EHA and averaged 
11.8 strikeouts per nine innings. 
"It's kind of a little weird for me, Lidge said. "I was tremendously honored. But I had a (3.36) EHA last year. I didn't think my year was that bad." 
Lidge worked hard to return to form once his eareer started to unravel in the 2005 postsea­son. His fall as an elite eloser in Houston was often blamed on Pujols' stunning shot during the NL championship series. Pujols crushed a three-run homer off Lidge with two outs in the ninth inning to send St. Louis to a 5-4 win in Game 5 that put Houston's pennant plans on hold. 
The Astros clinched the series in Game 6 behind Hoy Oswalt, but Lidge lost two games in the World Series to the Chicago White Sox. 
"It was never quite as dra­matic as it was made out to be," Lidge said. "I don't have anything to prove at all. I've pitched in a lot of games. I've had far more good games than bad games in the postseason. I know that some people may not remember that, for what­ever reason." 
Lidge allowed only one earned run and saved three games in the 2004 and '05 division series and the 2004 NLCS. He needs to be that sharp this Oetober for the Phillies to beat the Brewers, get out of the NLCS and advance to their first World Series since 1993. 
"Of course, I'd like to get back and win the World Series and have that be the last image in my mind for the post­season," he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Home Game Rentals 
Beautiful, Private apartments. Sleeps 4. Fully furnished, lots of amenities. Only 4 miles from Campus. $500 thurs-sun. Call Joyce 57 4-339-9241 . 
TICKETS 
Wanted: 
ND football tix for family. 574-251­1570. 

VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell ND football tickets. www. victorytickets.com. 
574-232-0964. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/csap 
I 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or some­
one you love needs confidential 
support or assistance, please call 
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at (574)631· 
7819 or Ann Firth at 574-631-2685. 
For more information, visit our web­
site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­
• ments/pregnant.shtml 
To my Sensei: Electropop hot An addiction when I can't stop I may be your sweet spot Take me to your candy shop -Tita 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 1, 2008 COMP!LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

NFL 
Women's Volleyball AVCA Top 25 

team  points  record  
1  Penn State  1500  14·0  
2  Nebraska  1440  12·0  
3  Texas  1366  8·2  
4  usc  1286  7-2  
5  UCLA  1230  10·2  
6  Stanford  1218  11·2  
7  Hawaii  1126  11-2  
8  California  1106  12·1  
9  Washington  1033  11-1  
10  Florida  929  10·1  
11  Oregon  826  11·3  
12  Colorado State  807  11·1  
13  Minnesota  174  12·2  
14  Wichita State  707  14·0  
15  Pepperdine  642  12·0  
16  San Diego  612  10·2  
17  Kansas State  554  13·2  
18  Purdue  474  10·4  
19  Illinois  406  10·3  
20  Wisconsin  249  10-4  
21  Brigham Young  224  9·3  
22  Michigan  204  13-1  
23  Santa Clara  147  8·3  
24  Cal Poly  108  7-6  
25  Arizona  89  11-2  
NCAA Football  
USA Today Coaches' Poll  
team  points  record  
1  Oklahoma  1,520  4-0  
2  LSU  1,399  4-0  
3  Missouri  1,398  4·0  
3  Alabama  1,350  5·0  
5  Texas  1,310  4·0  
6  Penn S1ate  1,146  5·0  
7  Brigham Young  1,054  4-0  
8  Texas Tech  1,047  4·0  
9  usc  990  2·1  
10  Georgia  888  4·1  
10  South Florida  888  5·0  
12  Ohio State  854  4-1  
13  Florida  832  3-1  
14  Auburn  776  4-1  
15  Utah  684  5·0  
16  Kansas  555  3·1  
17  Wisconsin  521  3·1  
18  Boise State  446  3·0  
19  Vanderbilt  351  4·0  
20  Oregon  286  4·1  
21  Fresno State  280  3-1  
22  Oklahoma Slate  229  4·0  
23  Connecticut  180  5·0  
24  Virigina Tech  161  4·1  
25  Wake Forest  148  3·1  
MIAA Women's  
Volleyball Standings  
Team  Record  
league  overall  
1  Hope  7-0  16-3  
2  Alma  5·1  13·5  
3  Calvin  5·2  11·4  
4  SAINT MARY'S  4-3  11·5  
5  Albion  4·3  11-7  
6  Adrian  3·5  7-9  
7  Trine  2-5  5·10  
8  Kalamazoo  2·6  5·13  
9  Olivet  0·7  4·13  

around the dial 
WNBA 
Shock at Silver Stars 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
, 


Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif.-The Oakland Raiders fired Lane Kiffin on Tuesday­just four games into his second season, ending a public feud with owner AI Davis that had been sim­mering since the start of the year. 
The Raiders promoted offensive line coach Tom Cable to interim head coach. 
Kiffin had a 5-15 record since being hired last year, losing his final game 28­18 on Sunday to San Diego. 
The decision to remove Kiffin was as much about his frequent criticisms of Davis' franchise as it was the team's performance on the field. Those critiques reached a peak when Kiffin distanced himself from the defense after a blowout loss in the season opener, saying that was under coordinator Rob Ryan and Davis' control. 
However, during a news conference Tuesday, Davis also critiqued several of Kiffin 's coaching and per­sonnel decisions. Among other things, he said KifTin objected to the Raiders using the first pick in the 2007 draft on quarterback JaMarcus Russell. 
The Raiders said Kiffin was fired for cause, mean-· ing they will likely try not 
IN BRIEF Benf,!als sign former Bears 
firsr rounder Benson 
CINCINNATI -Running back Cedric Benson signed Tuesday with the Cincinnati Bengals, who needed another runner and were undeterred by two alcohol-related arrests in Texas that prompted the Chicago Bears to let him go. 
Benson will take the spot of run­ning back DeDe Dorsey, who was placed on injured reserve Tuesday after hurting his hamstring in a 20­12 loss to Cleveland. Chris Perry is Cincinnati's starting running back. · 
Benson was Chicago's first-round pick in the 2005 draft out of Texas. He started 12 games for the Bears from 2005-07, running for 1,593 yards and 10 touchdowns. 
He missed five games with an ankle injury last season, but had a career-high 674 yards. Benson was arrested in May on charges of boat­ing while intoxicated and resisting arrest, and again in June on a drunk­en driving charge in Austin, Texas. 

to pay him for the remain­der of his contract. He signed a two-year deal worth about $4 million with a team option for 2009 when he took over last year. Kiffin 's agent Gary Uberstine had no immediate comment. 
The firing, first reported by ESPN and NFL.com, comes a day after the St. Louis Rams let go of Scott Linehan, marking the sec­ond firing at the quarter point of the season. The last time a coach had been fired this early in the sea­son was when Davis got rid of Mike Shanahan after four games in 1989. 
The Raiders did not immediately announce a 
Haslett restores Bult!_er as 
Rams starting quarterback 
ST. LOUIS -St. Louis Rams quarter­back Marc Bulger ducked the media last week, afraid of what he might say after getting benched by Scott Linehan. 
Bulger got his job back Tuesday, the biggest development of new coach Jim Haslett's first full day in charge of the winless team. The highest-paid player in franchise history, who ran the scout team ofl"ense last week, also broke his silence. 
J3ut he exercised care, declining sev­eral opportunities to torch his former coach. Linehan was fired on Monday after four straight lopsided losses to start the season and was 11-25 overall in two-plus seasons. 
Backup Trent Green started Sunday's 31-14 loss to the Buffalo Bills in Linehan's final game as coach. Bulger was back with the starters in practice Tuesday, and Haslett said he'll be the starter the rest of the season. 
The Rams have a bye week before playing at Washington on Oct. 12. 

replacement for Kiffin, but there are plenty of candi­dates on staff. including Ryan and receivers coach James Lofton, who both interviewed for the job when Kiffin got it in 2007. Offensive coordinator Greg Knapp, running backs coach Tom Rathman, offensive line coach Tom Cable and advance scout Paul Hackett also could be possible choices. 
Kiffin's job security was in question as far back as January, wben a dispute with Davis over whether he could replace Ryan as defensive coordinator led to the owner sending his coach a letter of resigna­tion to sign. 
Yankees sign Cashman 
to 3-year extension 
NEW YOHK-Brian Cashman fig­ures he has more work to do with the New York Yankees. After a sus­tained run of success, he wasn't about to leave on the heels of a failed season. 
Cashman is staying on as general manager of the Yankees, agreeing Tuesday to a three-year contract that runs through 2011. 
New York missed the playoffs this year for the first time since 1993. Cashman took over as GM in 1997 and his current deal was set to expire at the end of October. 
He was expected to re-sign, espe­cially after Yankees co-chairman Hank Steinbrenner told Cashman earlier this season that the team wanted him back. But there had been rumblings that Cashman might be interested in running another club -perhaps one with­out such a vocal, hands-on owner­ship group. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 1, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Former IU coach rebuts allegations 
Associated Press 
Knlvin Sampson believes Indiana has it all wrong. 
A day al'ter the school accused Sampson and his staff of withholding information and eoncealing impermissibln phone ndls, thn former Indiana coach rebutted those allegations Tunsday in a tersely worded one-paragraph statement sent out by his publicist, Matt Kramer. 
"In no way did I ever hide or withhold information from Indiana University's compliance department. I vehemently deny the infernnce that I madn and concealed impf~rmissibln calls," Sampson's statfmwnt said. "The NCAA has never alleged that I initiated any illegal phone calls to rncruits while serving as the hnad coach at Indiana. I always provided Indiana with every­thing they requested. including all dor;,uments and phone records. 
Athletic department spokesman J.D. Campbell said the university would not com­mont on Sampson's statnrnnnt. 
The back-and-forth battle of words continues the saga· that startnd in October, when athlet­it: director Hick Greenspan first announced the impropnr phone t:alls had bt~en discoverml dur­ing an audit of the basketball program's phone records. 

Initially, the school called them secondary infractions, and Sampson forfeited a pay raise and agreed to an exten­sion of the NCAA-imposnd sanc­tions that followed him from Oklahoma to Indiana. 
But when it became clear that Sampson had participated in three-way calls and had been connected to recruits when another coach passed the phone to players, thn NCAA charged Indiana with five major violations. The NCAA said both violated the penalties imposed on Sampson from his previous phone-call scandal. 
Sampson was also accused by the NCAA of providing false and misleading information to investigators, something he has repeatedly denied. 
Eventually, the NCAA dropped one major count to a secondary infraction, and Indiana con­curred with the NCAA's assess­ment on all four charges. 
Then in June, Indiana got a surprise when the NCAA allnged another major infrac­tion -failure to monitor. 
That prompted Monday's 
. release of the school's response, in which the university said all but four calls could not have been dntected earlier because Sampson and his stall' had con­cealed them. 

The Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events presents the Aquila Theatre Company 
The Comedy of Errors 
by William Shakespeare 




NATIONAl 

ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS 
r\g~c.1tnmivnMIDWEST !~!'>f''f\'l-"\I{H.:O.~t..IJI. 

FIOI 


The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 


• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 2nd 
5:30 PM -129 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15,2008 
Wednesday, October 1, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
O.J. SIMPSON 
Judge to release surveys 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -The judge in the O.J. Simpson armed rob­bery-kidnapping case plans to release redacted jury question­naires once the trial ends and is defending her decision not to release the full surveys imme­diately. 
"If juror questionnaires were released during this trial, there is a substantial probability that the defendants' right to an impartial jury would be preju­diced by the publicity that releasing such would gener­ate," Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto argued in a response filed Tuesday on behalf of Clark County District Court Judge Jackie Glass. 
Masto was responding to an emergency motion filed earlier this month by media organiza­tions asking the Nevada Supreme Court to review Glass' decision not to release the questionnaires. 
The Associated Press and Stephens Media LLC, the owner of the Las Vegas Review-Journal, are seeking immediate access to the ques­tionnaires completed by the 12 jurors and six alternates seat­ed in the case. 
They also sought access to the blank questionnaires dur­ing the jury selection process. 
Glass initially refused both requests, saying she had prom­ised 500 prospective jurors that their answers would be 
"kept in confidence, under seal." 
She later amended the deci­sion, opting to release a blank questionnaire after the jurors and alternates had been sworn in. 
Glass' latest shift to releasing completed questionnaires at the conclusion of the trial ren­
ders  the  media's  motion  
"moot,"  according  to  the  
Tuesday filing.  

Donald Campbell, lawyer for the news outlets, said he want­ed a court ruling. 
"This is a matter in which Judge Glass stated we had no right to intervene. We want that decided under Nevada law," Campbell said. 
In its filing, the media argued the public has a right to the information. 
"Prohibiting access to the completed questionnaires runs afoul of the First Amendment's guarantee of access to voir dire proceedings in criminal trials and precludes the media from reporting newsworthy events in a timely manner," the docu­ment said. 
Simpson is accused of rob­bing two memorabilia dealers at gun point in a Las Vegas hotel room. The 61-year-old former football star and co­defendant Clarence "C.J." Stewart have pleaded not guilty to armed robbery, kid­napping and other crimes. 
The prosecution rested Monday and court was closed Tuesday. The case could go to the jury this week. 
The 26-page, 116-question surveys were used to identify prospective jurors with biases and to reduce the jury pool. The questionnaire asked potential jurors if they knew Simpson was once acquitted in the murders of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ronald Goldman, and to describe their opinions on that case. Completed ques­tionnaires also provide a juror's age, education level and race. 
Glass' filing notes the signifi­cant publicity surrounding both Simpson trials and said releasing the questionnaire before the case concludes "would add unnecessary fuel to the potential jury tampering fire." 
It cites three Web site taking bets on the verdict and argues "the fact that money is being wagered" increases the incen­tive for tampering with the jury. 
Campbell said such a con­cern does not rise to the stan­dard set by state law. 
"The reported threat that off­shore bookies might engage in an effort to contact the jurors, there's absolutely no showing of that in the record, and even if there were, it would not rise to the level of a compelling state interest under established Supreme Court dogma," he said. 
MLB 

Cubs renevv Pinella's contract through 2010 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Manager Lou Piniella plans to stick with the Chicago Cubs for a while. 
The Cubs picked up their $4 mil­lion option on Piniella's contract for 2010 on Tuesday, a day before the NL Central champions open the playoffs against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The 65-year-old Piniella guided the Cubs to a 97-64 record, the best mark in the league. 
'Tm thankful and I look forward to a couple more years," he said. "I should be tired, but as long as I have the passion, why not?" 
Cubs general manager Jim Hendry announced the move as the Cubs worked out at Wrigley Field. 
"We like each other from a busi­ness end and from a personal point-of-view, so it's not hard," Hendry said. "So it's a nice thing. Lou's happy about it. He's good to go." 
Piniella said the club approached him about his deal 10 days ago, but he shelved the talks to focus on clinching the division title. 
"We left it at that," he said. "Because I was focused on getting the team into the playoffs," 
Piniella signed a three-year, $10 million deal with a club option after the Cubs went 66-96 in 2006 under Dusty Baker. Sweet Lou has been a wild success in the Wmdy City, going 182-141 and leading Chicago to consecutive playoff appearances for the first time since 1906-08. 

That streak famously ended with the Cubs' last World Series cham­pionship. Now, they're trying to end a 100-year drought. 
Piniella hinted again that 2010 would probably be the end of a managing career that dates to 1986, when he briefly managed the New York Yankees. He won a World Series title in 1990 with Cincinnati, had an extremely suc­cessful decade in Seattle, and a brief, star-crossed turn at home in Tampa Bay. 
"I said basically I'm not going to be a lifer," Piniella said. "So I would think it would be very close, yes." 
Piniella, who has 1, 701 career wins, raised some eyebrows about his future when he told a New York newspaper a week ago, "I don't know how much longer I want to do this." 
But Hendry, who has grown close to Piniella, doesn't think the manager is ready to quit. 
'Tve had a couple of conversa­tions with him behind closed doors and he's never given me any indi­cation that was true," Hendry said. "It's a tough job, it's a grind, and he's 65 years old. Obviously, he still has a passion to Vlin and get after it every day. He definitely wants to do it. If it works out and it's longer than that, so be it, too." 

World VIew 1s an initiative from the Office of the President to promote constructive dialogue about issues of race, class, ethnicity. religion, and gender through the arts. 


~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office ofthe President 

ADEBARTOlO 
~ PERFORM NG ARTS CENTER 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wedne,sday, October 1, 2008 
MLB 

White Sox earn playoff berth with 1-0 win 
lie hadn't been to the playoffs 
since 2001 with Cleveland. 
Griffey, who came to the White Sox in a trade with the Beds so he could have a chance at playing in the postseason, cut down Mir.hanl Cuddyer with a nice throw in the fifth. GrifTey, who like Thome, is 38, will be making is first postsea­son appearance since 1997 with Seattle. 
"lie did a heck of a job," Thome said. ''I'm so happy for him, too." 
Bobby .Jenks worked a per­f'net ninth for his 30th save in 34 chances. Center fielder Brian Anderson ended it with a diving eateh of Alexi Casilla's blooper. 
Soon after it was over, Pinrzynski, Danks and Nick Swisher grabbed a microphone on the field and addressed the delirious crowd. 
"That's a battle between friends," Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen said, referring to the rival Twins. "We just got the last laugh." 
Danks, pitching on three days' rest for the first time in his earner and with just one win in his previous seven starts, held the Twins hitless through thn first four innings on a 56-degree night. Cuddyer led ofT the firth with a double and movnd to third on Delmon Young's fly to center. 
When Brendan Harris hit a lly to Griffey in shallow eenter, Cuddyor took ofT for the plate. He crashed into Pierzynski, who held onto the low, two-hop throw from Griffey while tag­ging Cuddyer for the out. Pierzynski then popped up and showed the ball as the crowd of 40,354 -mostly dressed in 
black -roared. 
Danks (12-9) delivered in the 
biggest came of his brief 
career. lie won a duel with 
Blackburn ( 11-11), who retired 
13 of 14 before Thome led off 
the seventh with his long 
homer. 
The White Sox hosted the game because they won a coin flip earlier this month and what an advantage it was: Chicago went 8-2 against the Twins at U.S. Cellular Field this season and 1-8 at the Metrodome. 
It was the eighth one-game playoff in major league history and the first in the AL since 1995 when Seattle beat the California Angels 9-1 to win the AL West. Playing for the Mariners in that game was Griffey and Chicago bench eoaeh Joey Cora. 
A late-season slide by the White Sox began at the Metrodome a week ago. The White Sox entered a three­game series with a 2?-game lead in the division but the Twins pulled off a sweep to take over first place. 
Chicago came home and lost two more to the Indians but was able to stay dose because the Twins dropped two in a row to the Hoya1s at the Metrodome. On Sunday both teams won, leaving Minnesota's lead at a half­game. The White Sox had to beat Detroit in a rain-delayed makeup game Monday to force Tuesday night's tiebreaker. 
"We bounee back every time we are against the wall," Guillen said. 
Their styles arc different. The White Sox relied more on power, the Twins on speed. But going into the game they not only wore 88-74, they had identical marks at home (53­28), on the road (35-46) and in their division (43-29). 


"That probably says we should be playing this game," Minnesota manager Hon Gardenhire said before the game. 
The Twins endured the departures of star center field­er Torii Hunter and aee Johan Santana by using speed with young players such as Denard Span and Carlos Gomez, sound fundamentals that are taught throughout their system and clutch hitting. 
Joe Mauer went 0-for-3 Tuesday night but still won his second AL batting title at .328. 
Justin Morneau, who drove in 129 runs, slumped in the final week. 
The White Sox overcame late injuries to surprising star Carlos Quentin, who was lead­ing the AL in homers when he broke his right wrist by hitting it on his bat in frustration Sept. 1, and third baseman Joe Crede, who had back problems. Neither is expected baek for the playoffs. 
Veteran pitcher Jose Contreras struggled at times, but when he was lost with a ruptured Achilles' tendon in August, Chieago's rotation was stretched. All four remaining starters were forced to go on three days' rest at least once in the final weeks. 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Thanks to Jim Thome's bat and Ken Griffey .Jr.'s arm, the AL Central has a winner at last: the Chicago Whito Sox . 
.John Danks pitched eight innings of two-hit ball on short rnst, Thomn homered and (;riiTny throw out a runner at thn plato with a tough tag by 
A.J. Pinrzynski. helping Chicago beat tlw Minnesota Twins l-0 in a 163rd-gamn tiebn~akor for the division titln Tunsday night 
Tho Whit.-Sox joined thn crosstown Cubs in the postsna­son. tho l'irst time since 1906 that both Chieago tnams are in. And just like the Cubs did whnn they elinched the NL Central crown, snv1~ral White Sox playnrs came back on the l'inld af'tor tho final out and spraynd fans with champagnn. 
Next up for the South Sidnrs, a first-round matrhup with the surprising Bays. Game 1 is Thursday at Tampa Bay, which won thn AI. East. 
"Look at this," Thome said as thn crowd roarod all around him. "This is what it's all about -Oetobor basnball." 
The Whitn Sox got a huge boost Tuosday from two of thnir oldest players: Thome and GrifTey, both longing for thoir first World Snries champi­onship. 
Tlwrnn 's long drive on a 2-2 pitch from rookie Nick Blackburn elearml two rows of shrubs in center field, traveling an nstimatnd 461 feet to snap a scornless tin in the seventh. It was the 541 st homer for Thome, who raised his right l'ist as he rounded first base. 


The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Seeking Balance in Life" 
Cathie Black President of Hearst Magazines and author of Basic Black: The Essential Guidefor Getting Ahead at Work (and in Life) 
Thursday, October 2, 2008 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

Footlo11gs. HONEST! 

P~u·ticiJl ating Lon1tions Induding: 1706 Soutb Bt-nd Avt-* I)O\\'l.lt0\\'1.1 US 31 N * SR 23 (1]:• Ironwoo(l *lTP l\Inll *Indhnt Rillgt-* \Vall\I~u·t 

Fi\'e 
Doll~li.. 



---------~------------~--­

Wednesday, October 1, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS . page 19 

Trine 
continued from page 20 
Junior hitter Lorna Slupczysnki heads the Saint Mary's offense with 192 kills on the season (3.15 kills per game), while also tallying 17 4 digs for the Belles. Slupczynski has emerged as a leader both on and ofT the court for Saint Mary's, earning All­Tournament honors twice this sea­son. 
"Lorna is putting together a fine career," Schroeder-Biek said. "Her teammates really feed off her energy and on-court play from the 
Mandarich adtnits to steroid use at Mich St. 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Former NFL draft bust Tony Mandarich says he used steroids at Michigan State and faked a drug test before the 1988 Hose Bowl. 
lie also said during an interview on "Inside the NFL" that will air Wednesday on Showtimc that he did not use steroids in the NFL but was addicted to alcohol and painkillers. 
Mandarich, whose autobi­ography will be released in March, said he provided a fake urine sample to evade 
outside hitter position. The oppo­nents know she is one of our stronger players and Lorna is going to have to continue to raise her game." 
Klileping the offense running is freshman setter Dani Brink, who as emerged as a key player for Saint Mary's after the Belles' lead­ing setter last year, Amanda David, graduated. Brink has accounted for o"ver three-quarters of Saint Mary's assists this year, totaling 387 on the season. 
The match begins tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Mike Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
detection before the '88 Rose Bowl in which Michigan State beat Southern California 20­
17. Mandarich said he could­n 't confirm a report that other players did the same. 
The offensive lineman was the No. 2 overall pick in 1989 by the Packers. He lasted just three years with Green Bay amid rumors of steroid use. 
"I got to the point where it was a struggle to work out three or four times a week because the priority of get­ting high was above the pri­ority of working out," Mandarich said in the inter­view. 
University of Notre Dame 
Office of International Studies Presents Study Abroad Programs in China (Beijing, Shanghai & Hong Kong) Information Session 
Wednesday, October 1, 2008-5:30 p.m. 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 For Academic Year 2009-2010 Fall 2009 or Spring 2010 More information available at www.nd.edu/"'ois/ 

Friday, October 3 
&Saturday, October 4 
Signing at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Friday, October 3 from 2pm -4pm Saturday, October 4 from 1 Oam -12pm 

Dick Vitale's Fabulous 50 Players and Moments in College Basketball 
For 30 years, Hall of Famer Dick Vitale has been synonymous with the best of college basketball. His enthusiasm, knowledge, unique turn of phrase and passion have set the bar for the best in hoops coverage. Now Vitale weighs in with his top 50 players 
and moments during his 30 years at ESPN from the best seat in the house. 
A perfect gift for the holidays--stop in and get your copy signed by Dick Vitale! 
Yeah, Baby! 



0700KB091 008A 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 1, 2008 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Notre Daine claiins top slot in Boulder 
By ERIC PRISTER Sports Writer 
Monday's record-setting second round gavn the Irish a healthy lead heading into Tuesday's final 18 holes, and Notre Dame took can~ of business to take top team honors at the Heather Farr Memorial in Boulder, Colo. 
The Irish held ofT second­plaee finisher Texas Tech to win by f'ive strokes. 
Senior captain Lisa Maunu and sophomore So­Hyun Park led the Irish by f'inishing tied for fourth overall with a 5-under par 211. 
Maunu finished all three rounds under par. Park shined on the 36-hole Day One. starting with a 2­under 70 in round one, fol­lowed by a sehool record six-under 66. 
"I was happy that IParkl could get off' to a good start," Irish eoaeh Susan Holt said. "She just played really solid." 
Two other Irish golfers, junior Annie Brophy and sophomore Katie Conway, seored under par in a round to earn Holt's praise. 
"That's a good situation to have," Holt said. "We have a lot of depth and we aren't relying on the same people every day to shoot low scores and carry the load. All five of' our players are capable of' stnpping up and coming through when we 

·need them." 
Brophy's second-round 71 
helped Notre Dame to a 
school-record 7 -under and 
Conway, after neither of her 
first two rounds were 
counted, finished strong by 
tying for the team lead in 
round three with a two­
under 70. 
"She played as an individ­
ual last week at Michigan 
State and from the way she 
played there was able to 
work her way irttb the top 
five," Holt said. "It paid ofT. 
Katie's a good player. She's 
eertainly capable of putting 
up those type of numbnrs." 
Frnshrnan Becca Huffer 
scored in all three rounds 
forth~ Irish, opening with a 
75 and finishing with back­
to-hack 74s. 
Holt looks to last week's 
tournament as the learning 
experience that helped her 
team perform at a high 
level in lleather Parr. 
"They realized that they 
need to be prepared and 
ready to play every day," 
Holt said. "I told them that 
they needed to stay focused. 
I think that they carried it 
through this whole tourna­
ment, and they saw the 
results of doing it." 
The Irish will take a two­
week break before heading 
to West Lafayette, Ind. to 
compete in the Lady 
Northern Tournament host­
ed by Purdue University. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
SMC SoccER 

Belles hope to bounce back 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's returns to the field Wednesday to take on Illinois Wesleyan with the hopes of rebounding from the drubbing it was handed by Olivet College. 
The Belles will try to avoid com­ing out slow again, as they did against Olivet. The team started out sluggishly in its previous match, in part because of an 11­day layoff' between matches, and it was never able to recover from a 2-0 first half deficit. 
"The players seem energized to get on the field and prove them­selves," coach Ryan Crabbe said. "They trained very hard on Monday and Tuesday to prepare for this upeoming match, and I believe they want to put Saturday's game behind them." 

Despite a disappointing season last year and a modest 5-4-0 record this season, Illinois Wesleyan has been a consistent program for much of the past decade, recording 11 10-win sea­sons between 1996-2006, indud­ing three seasons with 14 or more victories. Dating back to 1994, Saint Mary's has only two wins against Illinois Wesleyan, the most recent of which came in 1999 when the Belles. defeated the Titans 1-0. 
The Belles and Titans have met in a non-conference match in each of the past three seasons. The teams ended in a double overtime 1-1 tie last year, but Illinois Wesleyan dominated Saint Mary's with consecutive 4-0 vkto­ries in their 2005 and 2006 match ups. 
But the Belles are confident they can play well against the Titans today. 
"We have looked to make some ehanges that might better suit our personnel," Crabbe said. "I am confident this team will step up and meet the challenge of tomor­row's game." 
To be successful against the Titans, the Belles hope to avoid falling into a hole like they did against Olivet. The offense has struggled to seore in bunehes this season, as the team has just eight goals in seven matches thus far. 
The mateh begins at 4 p.m. at Saint Mary's. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

SMC can take first place with -win 
By MIKE BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's squares up tonight against Trine University in an MIM match at the Belles' Angela Athletic Facility. 
With a win, Saint Mary's (11-5, 4-3 MIM) would slip past Albion into sole possession of fourth place in the conference. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Biek has said her squad's emotion anrl teamwork was key to the Belles' winning ways. 
"More than anything else I want this team to believe in them­selves," she said. 'They have a lot of ability. If they can come together as a team and play as one cohesive unit, we will be in position to be a top team in the league standings." 

The struggling Thunder have dropped nine of their last 10 matches while their offense has tallied an awful .168 attacking percentage over that stretch. 
·Senior outside hitter Sallie Richardson leads the team otlen­sively and defensively with 247 kills, accounting for 4.84 kill'> per game along with a .259 attacking percentage, in addition to her team-leading 229 digs (4.49 digs per game). 
Saint Mary's has won four of its past five matches, along with four of five MIAA bouts. While the Belles have struggled at times offensively, posting a workman­like .209 attaeking percentage as a team, they have held opponents to 
a .161 attacking percentage with a smothering defense led by sopho­more defen..<>iV<~ specialist Meghann Rose and senior hitter Kaela Hellmann (234 and 194 digs, respectively). 
see TRINE/page 19 

Dublin, Ireland University College Dublin Trinity College 
Fall 2009, Spring 2010, ·AY 2009-2010 


Thursday, October 2, 2008 5:30PM 131 DeBartolo Hall 
INFORMATION and ORIENTATION MEETING with Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-NaugiJton NO Center, Dublin and Andrew Hoyt, Campus Minister 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2008 Applications Available Online: www.nd.edu/-ois 
TRiO Alumni! 
Notre Darne Upward 
Are you:

Bound Program Is having 
• An u p'llllard 

an Open House 1"or all TRIO 
Bound aluiTIInl? 
alumni. 
-A IVIcNalr Scholar alun"'nl? 

Tuesday. October 7th 7:30pm 
Please Join usl 

RSVP 63:1:-5669 
or wl:sler.G®nd .edu 

Located in the Old Security 
Building""lth Center for 
Social Concerns 

Serving 1:he South Bend Comt'T'luni1:y 
MASS 
IN THE AFRICAN AMERICAN TRADITION 
<A.K.A. REJOICE! MASS) 

SUNDAY. OCTOBER 5TH 
9:00P.M. COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER CHAPEL OF OuR LADY 
CCI lOll{. PRACriCE BEGINS AT ll:l51'M IN TilE CHAI'EL ALL ARE WElCOME!) 
PIZZA AND FELLOWSHIP TO FOLLOW! 
C-M 
C11mpus Mlnlstr)" 
fOR INFORMATION. CONTACT jUDY MADDEN AT 631-8508 OR JMADDFN2@NO.[DU 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~
. ­

Wednesday, October I, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
The Irish will be giving back network of Northern Indiana, in several ways with the the sixth-highest total raised
Cure 
event. Coach Debbie Brown by participating programs. continued from page 24 has pledged to donate five Brown said that her team's 
dollars for every participation 
"It was pretty special last dig h~r team was important year," Croal said. "Because it notches against "/think there's maybe because breast was right when she was going the Panthers, cancer such a
a little bit ofextra

through the heart of her and said her universal issue, treatments, and it was nice to players have motivation just to but also see how everyone really sup­been asking for really perform well because of ported her." pledges as well. Croal's person­
and support that 

In addition to their "They're ask­al experience.
cause.

fundraising efforts, Croal said ing roommates, "It's obviously her teammates were there for friends, fami-a pretty big emotional support when she lies, to just get women's issue,"
Mallorie Croal 

needed it most. · involved that Brown said.
senior outside hitter

"They've just been like you way," she said. would want any friend to be," Pink Dig for she said. "They've been there the Cure T-shirts are also cur­for me when I wanted to talk rently on sale at the Hammes about it, and when I wanted Bookstore, and fans that wear to just forget about it." the shirt to the match will be 
Obviously. this year's Dig for admitted for free. the Cure will also have a spe­Brown's team will also be 
cial meaning for  taking  the  
Croal.  court in special  
"I think it has, obviously, that personal eon­neetion for me,"  "It's just a fun way to give back by doing what we do best."  white and pink uniforms donated by Adidas, which  
she  said.  "It's  will  be  auc­ 
just a way to give back to everybody who  Mallorie Croal senior outside hitter  tioned off after the match. Brown said  
was  so  helpful  that the special  
and  so  under- uniforms gave  

standing throughout what my her team a boost last year. family went through and what "We got into it when we my mom went through. It's a walked out on the court with way for those who are close to the pink jerseys," she said. me, my teammates, my coach­"Just that feeling that you're es, and everyone involved contributing to something with the program to support that's a lot more important that fight for a cure." than a volleyball match is a 
Croal, too, was excited to good thing, and I think that contribute to the cause that the team definitely felt that saved her mother's life. last year." 
"It's just a fun way to give Last year, Notre Dame back by doing what we do raised over $6,000 for the best," she said. Susan G. Komen grassroots 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
"Last year, as well as this year, they're coming in very strong with a very good record," Clark said. "From our standpoint, what's happened in the past is in the past -it has nothing to do with what's going to happen. They're a very good team so far this year and I would imagine it will be a very tough game." 
Notre Dame's defense has been a major strength, as the Irish are allowing just .89 goals per game. But even they might have trouble slowing down a Wolverines attack averaging 
2.30 goals per game. 'Til tell you better tomorrow," Clark said with a laugh about how his team would stop Michigan's offense. 'They're an excellent team, they're scoring a lot goals, and that's something you've obviously got to deal with. 
"But we've got players that I think can deal with it. Just as importantly, we've got to find ways to get the ball in the net ourselves." 
Notre Dame will have to rebound from Sunday's heart­breaking 2-1 overtime loss to Louisville. The Irish were whis­tle-d for a penalty kick in the final minute of regulation, which the Cardinals drilled to send the game to extra time. 
Louisville then put home the game-winner in the 95th minute, breaking Notre Dame's seven-game unbeaten streak 
"And being a 
women's team, it just seemed like it was a really good thing for us to do, but also it was hitting home a little bit closer for us as a team." 
Brown said that her goal was to double the $6,000 the team raised last season. 
As for Croal, despite her extremely personal ties to the cause, she said that at the end of the day, it was all about playing volleyball, with a little added incentive. 
"I think that once the match starts it's the same [as any other]," she said. "You always focus on the task at hand. But I think there's maybe a little bit of extra motivation just to really perform well and sup­port that cause." 
Notes: 
+ More information on Susan G. Komen For the Cure a"nd the Dig for the Cure pro­gram, including pledge forms, can be found at und.com. 
Contact Sam Werner at swemer@nd.edu 
and snapping a 15-game Big East regular season unbeaten streak that dates back to last season. 
"You just have to rebound, it's as simple as that," Clark said. "With our schedule and the game we play, you have no time to sit and feel sorry for your­selves -you've got to get on with it. From our point of view, the guys know we were a little bit unlucky, but that's soccer." 
Originally scheduled for 7 
p.m. on Michigan's campus in Ann Arbor, Mich .. the game was moved to 4:30 p.m. at Eastern Michigan's Scicluna Field in Ypsilanti, Mich. Construction is ongoing for the Wolverines' new U-M Soccer Complex. 
Contact Matt Gamber at . mgamber@nd.edu 


MONDAY, OCTOBER 6TH 7-8:30P.M. @THE JACC 
MEET THE 3RO RANKED 2008 IRISH 
HOCKEY TEAM. ENJOY FREE FOOD AND 
liSTEN TO GUEST SPEAKER BRIAN BURKE, GM OF THE ANAHEJM 
SENIOR CAPTAIN ERIK CONDRA 
Frosh 
continued from page 24 
collegiate career. Older play­ers, Weis said, are assigned to watch over and help freshmen during practice starting in the summer. Senior quarterback Evan Sharpley, for example, looks after freshman quarter­back Dayne Crist and makes sure Crist knows what he's doing. 
Freshmen also have a chance to show their skills on Thursdays, when the team practices earlier. Near the end of practice, Weis said, the younger players, normally rel­egated to the show team, will practice against one another. Crist, tight end Joseph Fauria, wide receivers John Goodman and Deion Walker, running 


ThursdGy Odobirr 1, 1008 • 7:30 pm 
Thcz St<atcz ThczGtrcz K<al<am<a:zoo. Hlchig<an 
Tlc:kvts on sal"' now crt Statv Thvat,.. Box Offtc:<>. all Tic:ke>tmast...-locations. charge> by phon<> Z69f373-7000 or online> 
\NW1N_tldc.cztmostczr.c:om 
G.......-al szz.so of sho"" 

back Jonas Gray, cornerback Jamoris Slaughter and others get a real practice environ­ment. 
"We make sure all of the guys don't get stale just being .t on the show team all the time," Weis said. 
Note: 
+Weis said right guard Trevor Robinson would not supplant Chris Stewart, but would see more playing time because of his recent perform­ance. 
"We're not trying to unseat somebody that doesn't deserve to be unseated but at the same time, Trevor is playing well enough to make sure that we get him on the field." We is said. · 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
FridGy Odobvr 3, 1008 • 7:30pm 
Emczns flo<lltorlom B<all St<atcz Onlvczrslty Honclcz. ln<ll<anG 
Tic:kvts on salv now crt Emvns tkket offtc:<>. and all Tic:k<Ztmast...-locations. C::hargv by phon<r 765/641r3131. 
or oniiiiCZ' W\N\N_tlckCltmostCH_c:om_ lnformGtlon or 
5339 N. Main St, Mishavv11ka, IN 46545 (Between Jimmy .Jclms and Starbuclt') Open: Monday-Friday lOam to 71)1l1Saturday lOam 104pm (574) 243-%34 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 1, 2008 
just had to put them in a posi­Bishop found receivers good of an athlete Bishop is." coach Keith Creasy dneidnd to tion to make a play." Krysten Williams and Laura The Purple Weasels know roll the dice, electing to go for
Inter hall 

Afterwards, the Lions were Giezeman with quick passes, they must emerge from their two points instnad of playing for continued from page 24 ncstatic about handing poking holes in the PW next game with a victory to the tie. Cavanaugh their first defeat of defense. Bishop ran the ball in reach the playoffs. On the two-point try, deGroot talent," Celchion said. "We the SI11LSOn. the end zone from two yards "We're undefeated, but ties dropped back in the pocket and
' knew that if tlw ofTenso exe­"That was a big win, we out to complete a nine-play don't do anything for us," delivered a fade into the corner cutod, we would scoro. knew that was the team to drive and give the Ducks a 6-0 Davies said. "We have to takn of the end zone, where fresh­Tonight, they went out and beat in our division and it lead going into halftime. care of the ball, make better man Lauren Millnr made a dilli­executed." gives us lots of But the decisions, and get a 'W."' cult catch to give the 
Lyons started with the ball momentum," Purple Shamrocks a 14-13lead. after halftime and pieknd up Connell said. "We're undefeated, Weasels (1-0-McGlinn 14, Pasquerilla East 13 The Shamrocks defense then right where it ldt ofT. Connell The Lyons 2) offense It has just been that kind of picked ofl" Lynch for the second
but ties don't do

connednd on a hook and lad­coaches, however, came alive in season for straight series
anything for us. We

der that ended up in sopho­were quick to the second Pasquerilla East. to seal the victo­
"Our defense and
rnorn Neva Lundy's hands for a point out the have to take care of half, as good On a eold, rainy ry. 30-yard gain. On the next play, importance of blocking and Tuesday night, offense both stepped Despite open­
the ball, make better 

Connell hit Lundy again for a staying focused. precise routes the Pyros (0-3) ing the game
decisions and get a their game up in the 
20-yard touchdown to put "From here on by the saw McGlinn (2-with a 60-yard 
~w,,, 

second half Because
Lyons up 14-6. out, we just need .receivers 1) snatch victory touchdown and 
Cavanaugh responded on its to stay away from began to wear from the jaws of ofthat, we're 2-1 dominating the next possession with a 60-yard being compla-Cara Davies down the Duck defeat with a 14-instead of 1-2." first half, touchdown ·run on an option cent," Haley said. . defense. 13 comeback vic­Pasqunrilla East 
play to the right side. The "Now we need to Pasquenlla West captain Senior quar­tory. just couldn't Chaos could not complete the practice even .,:; terback Davies T h e Keith Creasy close out the two-point attempt and trailed harder because we have a tar­found a rhythm, evading Shamrocks, trail­McGlinn coach game. 14-12. get on our backs." Howard tacklers and putting ing 13-0 with five "After playing After a three-and-out by the the ball on the money. She minutes left in such a good Lyons offense, Dunn led her Pasquerilla West 6, Howard 6 connected with junior receiver the game, were the beneficiar­first half, it's really a shame we offense onto the field with five Howard's playoff prospects Cynthia Curley on a 12-yard ies of a controversial pass inter­could not pull this one out," PE minutes rnmaining. Cavanaugh dimmed Tuesday night, as the touchdown pass, tying the ference call on Pyros captain coach Pablo On Luna said. "We drove to the 10-yard line Ducks were unable to pull of a game 6-6. Tara Pillai, who seemed to be in got a little complacent at the bnforn losing the ball on win against Pasquerilla West Timely defense prevented perfect position to knock down end and it cost us." downs to a resilient Lions and settled for a 6-6 tie. either team from scoring the errant pass. The Shamrocks hope this will defensll. The aggressive lloward (1-2-again, as neither team gave up Instead of the game ending on become a season-defining game "The composure of our 1) defense came out with any big plays. McGlinn's fourth down, Sarah for a team that, with the talent­defnnse after that long run intensity in the first half. The The Howard defense was led deGroot and the Shamrocks ral­ed deGroot, looks to bn a major kept us in the game," Connell Ducks forced back-to-hack by the strong play of the lied, cutting the lead to 13-(, threat for the rest of the season. said. "Nobody panicked, they interceptions from PW quar­defensive line and Laura with a 10-yard touchdown 'This is a really great win for did what they were sup-posed terback Cara Davies. Giezeman, who caused havoc strike. us and I'm really proud of the to do land stopped them!." "The safeties did a great job in the secondary. With the Pyros only needing girls," Creasy said. "Our Another three-and-out set up of reading the quarterback," On thr, PW end, the agile to run out the clock. quartr,r­defense and offense both tlw final Cavanaugh comeback Ducks captain Kayla Bishop Jordan Johnson had another back Caitlin Lynch, who had stepped their game up in the opportunity. But again. the said. "The pressure from the strong performance, recording played solidly all game, threw second half. Becausn of that, Lions' dnfnnse stayed strong as defensive line was greal." two of the three PW sacks. an ill-fated pass right into the we're 2-1 instead of 1-2." llenderson intercepted Dunn The momentum from the "Jordan had a great game as outstretched arms of McGlinn with 32 seconds lnft. defense carried onto the offen­usual," PW captain Davies defensive back Casey Contact Charlie Spokes at "We've gut a team of play­sive side of the ball, as Bishop said. "She pressured the quar­Hobertson. cspokes@nd.edu, Chris Masoud makers," Lyons defensive led the Ducks downfield on terback all night. which is say­After another touchdown toss at cmasoud@nd.edu and Tim coach Hick Haley said. "We their second drive. ing something considering how three plays later, Shamrocks Lang at tlangl@nd.edu 
Beach 
continued from page 24 
respedahln s1:orns of 291 and 290 to their first round 288, tlw scoring average plummot­ed from 297.S I in the opening round to 2SS.45 in thfl later rounds at the ·6,6:~9-yard Poppy llills Coif Club, and Notrn Dame simply could not keep up. Although the Irish led the field with 173 pars, they worn unable to card birdies on the par fives and fnll back in the field dnspitn tlwir consis­
tnrH:y. Notre Damn 
1: o a c h .I ames Kubinski mnphasized his confidence in his young squad, in spite of its struggles. 
"They have a groat dnal of physieal talent," Kubinski said. "Thny just need to realize and believe il. That takes tinw. Wlwtlwr it's fall or spring, this 

"They have a great deal ofphysical talent. They just need to realize and believe it ... Whether it's fall or spring. this team will begin to show its talent level at some point this year." 
Jim Kubinski Irish coach 
team will bngin to show its tal­nnt level at some point this year.: I'm vnry confident in that. 
Irish junior Doug Fortnnr. whose first-round 69 led the fie I d, nnislwd tied for sixth plaeo. lin tallind scores of 70 and 73 in addition to his first­round scorn to end the tourna­ment with a 1-undnr 212. Sophomore Jnff Chnn trail1~d his teammate by six strokes, l"inishing with a 5-over 218 
(74. 72. 72). good nnough for 2:~rd ovnrall. 
Junior Carlos Santos-Ocampo and freshman Max Scodro naeh finish1~d tied for :~Oth, shooting (HJVer 219s (75, 72, 72 and 71, 76, 72, resplle­tively). Santos-Ocampo made headlines recently for his play at the U.S. Amateur Open, becoming the first Notre Dame golfer to qualify for match play in 35 years. Seodro was a late addition to the tournament roster, making the squad on the back or his top-live linish at the John Dallio Memorial last week. 

Sophomores Connor Alan­Lee and Tyler llock rounded out the Irish effort. Alan-Len carded an S-over 221 (74, 73, 
74) to fin ish 42 nd overall, while IInck contributed a 12­
over 225 (75, 77, 73) to finish 58th overall. 
Kubinski's young squad has stumbled in its first two tournaments, with the Irish having finished 1Oth in the USF Olympic Club Intercollegiate early this month, but the coach took the results in stride. 
"You're not sure what you 

have, or have to work on, until you start competing. I look at Ohio State's football learn barely beating Ohio at home in their first game or Applachian State at Michigan last year and it just reaffirms that thought. It's tho same here. We'll be fine." 
The thren-round score of S69 lind for the 12th lowest total in school history. Notre Damn returns to the links on Monday when it hosts the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
PGA TOUR 

Cart allowed for qualifying 
Request granted to Compton after his second heart transplant 
Associated Press 
Erik Compton has the heart. lie just doesn't have the stami­na. So the PGA Tour is going to help him out. 
Just four months after the second heart transplant of his life, the former Georgia All­American learned that oflicials have granted his request to use a cart during qualifying sehool to earn his tour card. Thr, South Florida Sun­Sentinel first reported the story Tuesday on its Web site. 
"I feel really good about the news," Compton said, accord­ing to the Sun-Sentinr,l. "It takes a lot of stress off me, and it gives me a realistic chance." 
Compton, 28, will play the first stage of qualifying from Oct. 21-24 at Crandon Golf at Key Biscayne, Fla. Ile is a for­mer No. 1 junior golfer who won on the Canadian and Hooters Tours and played on the Nationwide Tour. 
Compton told the newspaper that he has also been granted a waiver to use a beta blocker, which is on the PGA Tour's list or banned substances, because he needs it as part of his med­ication protocol. • 

Heart disease causnd Compton to have a heart transplant at age 12. Transplanted hearts last an average of 11 years, but his survived for 16. Then in October 2007, Corn pton su f­fered a near-fatal heart attack while fishing. lie was stabi­lized, but it was only a mattnr of time before hr, would need a new heart. 
In May, he was hospitalized again for observation and given medication to help his heart function. lie was about to go home with a nurse that would provide 24-hour care when a new heart became available. 
The Compton case stands in sharp contrast to that of Casey Martin. A birth defect in his leg prevented him from walk­ing the course, but he had to sue the tour to use a cart. 
While his ease went through the courts, Martin was granted the right to usc a cart at the 1997 Q-school. lie played tho Nike Tour in 1998 (won a tour­nament) and tied for 23rd at the U.S. Open. lie earned his PGA Tour card for 2000 by fin­ishing 14th on the Nike rnonny list in 1999 but failed to keep his card. In 2001, hn won his suit that went to the Supreme Court which allowed him to use a cart under the Americans With Disabilities ;\ct. 
lie's now the gulf coach at the University of Oregon. 
With his second new heart in his chest, Compton has begun playing golf and working out, trying to regain the strength th_r-operation sapped. 
"''ve been busting my butt in the gym," Compton said, according to the newspaper. "Hopefully, I'll get stronger and stronger." 
For now, he's not strong enough to eompete while walking the eourse. But he's doing his part to get there. 

"Nobody's going to hand me anything," Compton told GolfWorld in the beginning of September. "''m going to have to go out and work and get good again, get my body in shape, and that's going to take some time, for sure." 


Wednesday, October 1, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 

THE VIRGIN MARY 

Info 

Basic Information 
Networks: Bethlehem 
Relationship Status: It's Complicated •Nith Joseph 
and the Holy Religious Views: Jewish-Conservative 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Across 31 Mosey along 56 Enthusiastic Town known for 34 Walnut or willow 57 Gift-giver's trio 
witch trials 35 Oozy roofing 60 Frilly material 6 _-friendly 
material 61 Pint, inch or 10 Jane Austen 36 Grass-eating trio second heroine 62 Bird on the
40 One of the 14 Politicia(l who Great Seal of 
Manning wrote "The 
the Unitedquarterbacks StatesAudacity of 41 Giant birds of 
Hope" 63 Ran away from 
lore 15 Senate errand 64 Turner of 
42 Brain sections 

runner "Peyton Place," 
43 Pedestrian's 195716 Authentic intersection 65 Sticks around 

17 Fortune-seeking warning trio 
46 Soccer Hall of Down19 Formerly Farner Hamm They're always 20 Hrs. in a Yankee 47 Exclamations of underiootschedule annoyance 2 Put up with 21 Mimicked 48 Took a load off 3 Coffee22 Feels sorry for one's feet concoction24 Hits the roof 52 Respectful 4 Aid provider to 26 Brought to ruin tribute the critically 27 Barely make, 54 War on drugs injured, briefly 

with "out" fighter Puzzle by Lynn Lempel 5 "Nonsense!"
28 Peru-Bolivia 55 China's 29 Casual eatery 38 Minor hang-ups 50 In a weak 
6 Increased
border lake Chairman manner
30 Obedience 39 Highway or7 Uttered 

51 Sniffers ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Omelet 
school sounds byway 
44 Sent to another 5250%31 In the sack ingredient team 53 Football-shaped 

32 Venus de 

9 Peaceful 45 Jokester 54 Dresden denial 
interludes 33 Trio on the run 
46 Painter Chagall 58 Cell's protein 10 Titillating 
34 Hammers and 48 December list producer 11 Trio at sea hoes keeper 
59 Item with a brim 12 Riot-control 37 Appreciative 49 Alpha's opposite or crown spray 
13 Draft picks in 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a pubs credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 18 Fencing sword Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
7:+-::-t-'-+':-t::--1 23 Amin of Africa Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
25 Peddle past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).
-=+=-=+=+=+=-+=-R 

26 Food regimens 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 28 Racecourse solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________ ___ Address City _______ State ____ Zip_______ 
pagc2:1 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff KnurekJJlJJM&~rn. Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
MYLAN 
j
I I [ I I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ALLEG 
j
[J r II 

RILIXE WHE:N THE: MANAGE:r< LE:T OFF 5 TE:AM,
1 
www.jumble.com 

HE: WA5 --­

EXCOBI rJ ± 


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 

"(IIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: NOISE PANSY SYMBOL KETTLE 
Answer: What it takes to become a ballroom 
dancer -LOTS OF "STEPS" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Kieran Culkin, 26; Lacey Chabert, 26; Jenna Elfman, 37; Marty Stuart, 50 Happy Birthday: Emotional issues will rise to the surface this year. Don't procrastinate-­action will be your only recourse. Show that you are a strong contender and leader. Es­tablish your position, be precise in your delivery and don't waffle. Success will be based on how in sync you are with your plans. Your numbers are 7, 15, 17, 29, 34, 44, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Relationships will take more time and effort if yon want things to run smoothly. Arguing will not lead to any sort of resolution. Helpful advice will come from someone who bas known you a long time. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can count on your friends. Don't go overboard with your plans. Keep things simple. A short trip or group get-together will lead to accom­plishment and knowledge through the process of working with others. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be an expert speaker as usual but you won't be able to fool others with your rhetoric for long. Relay facts and provide proof. Use your Gemini cbann but be upfront as well. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-JuJy 22): Do something special for the ones you love. Put a little cre­ative thought into bow you can make self-improvements that will lead to a better life, solid partnerships and greater comfort. Arguing will lead to sorrow. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Show your strength of character and refuse to let anyone take advantage of your generous nature. Ifyou are trying to impress someone by agreeing, you will probably give the wrong impression. Ifyou have a dispute, talks will be the ouJy way out 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Check out what everyone else is doing before you make a decision or a move. Consider applying for an interesting position that becomes available. Spending time with younger or older family members wiJI build a closer relationship. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let personal indiscretions stand in the way of your pro­ductivity. Put everything you've got into getting ahead. Don't let someone from your past disrupt your life or cost you financially. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Ocl 23-Nov. 21): Emotional mind games will cause confusion. Be ready to make a move or change quickly in order to avoid getting in the middle of someone else's problems. Don't assume anything or react to what you are told ontiJ you have all the facts. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get involved in a cause you believe in. This is a per­fect time for give-and-take. Take the first step and be a good will ambassador. Your tal­ents will be noticed and offers will come your way. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't chat about what you want to do, take action and turn your idea into something tangible. Past acquaintances can disrupt your life if you let them in on too many of your secrets. Keep your distance from anyone likely to steal your 
spot 2 stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to set the record straight with someone you love and take your rightful position in the family. If the conditions you are living nnder are making you anxious or costing you emotionally, financially or physically, you must move on. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): You may be the one who isn't reading the legal documents correctly. It's a must that you take care of health issues, tests. settlements or legal matters quickly so you can move on to something more stimulating. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a polite and diplomatic way of dealing with others. You are ahead of your time and always looking for something new to stimulate your mind and help you get ahead. 
Eugenia's Web fll~:r: attroad\•ice.comforfim, t:ugeniolast.comfor ronfi.dential consult01ioru, myspace.comfeugeniaJtUtfor Eult:nia':s blog 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, October 1, 2008 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL 
Playing for a cure 
Senior Mallorie Croal will have extra incentive to competefor funding for breast cancer research 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wri rcr 
When Mallorie Croal takes the court for the Irish on Oct. 12, she'll be taking on more than tho Pittsburgh team on tho other side of the net. 
Croat and the rest of the Irish will be trying to spike breast cancer as they take part in the Susan G. Komen Dig for the Cure. 
This is the second straight year Notre Dame will partici­pate in the event, which ineludes 164 college and high school volleyball programs across the country and raises money for the Susan G. Komen For the Cure fund for breast cancer research. The group has said it hopes to raise over $250,000 from this year's Dig for the Cure. 

The event will have a spe­cial meaning for Croal, whose mother is a recent breast cancer survivor. After being diagnosed in Dec. 2006, Croat said her mother underwent two rounds of chemotherapy, followed by multiple surger­ies and radiation treatment. 
"It was about a full year of treatment," Croal said. "But she's doing great now. She's done with treatment, and she's getting her hair back." 
Croat said that doctors are confident her n'lother will make a full recovery. 
Last year's Dig for the Cure, a 3-0 win over Rutgers on Oct. 6, was especially emo­tional for Croal and her mother, who flew out from her home in California to attend. 
see CURE/Page 21 


MEN'S GOLF 
ND slides into 7th as scores fall 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
After leading through the first round, Notre Dame stum­bled to a seventh-place finish with a 17-over 869 at the Saint Mary's (Calif.) Invitational in Pebble Beach, Calif. 
The University of San Francisco cruised to a first­place finish with a 3-over 855, five strokes over second-place finisher Wisconsin at the Saint Mary's (California)-hosted event. USF junior Domingo Jojola claimed top individual honors with a 6-under 207. 
While the Irish added 
see BEACH/Page 22 
FOOTBALL 

'Recla111ation project' turning in tangible results: vvins 
By BILL BRINK Sports Editor 
Thern's no way to measure how mueh of Notre Dame's suc­cnss this season stems from its ~~motion. but at 3-1, something is driving the team. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said he thought that success created morn confidence in his players. 
"This has been a rndamation projoct we have been working on," Weis said in his press eon­l(~rence Tuesday. "Whether it be nmotion and whether it bP conli­dence, wn've spent a lot of time as a team, coaches and players, working on these intangiblt~s." 

Weis said younger players gain confidence quickly in light of success on the field. It was necessary, he said, to keep them from getting cocky and feeling that they can "show up" and win games. 
"We already know that we are not good enough to do that," Weis said. "We could lose to anybody on the schedule if we just show up." 
The team can avoid trap games easier, Weis said. because of its struggles last sea­son. 
"Every game is a new game. So you know, that's why when we go to play against Stanford, you don't have to say, well, they 
are going to feel pretty good about beating Purdue and not show up for Stanford," Weis said. 
Hunning back Armando Allen, whose 136 yards and a touch­down against the Boilermakers helped the Irish beat Purdue, has been atop the depth chart for most of the year, but showed improvement in practice, Weis said. 
"We watched him in practice every single day, and all he's done from the day he got here until now is continue to get bet­ter and better," Weis said. "So it's just a matter of time and it's just that the time finally came." 
Weis said more players buy 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Non-conference test awaits 
By MATT GAMBER A<Sociate Sports Fdirot 
Tonight's game against Mir.higan might bn a non-eon­fnrmlr.n tilt. but it will bn one or No. X Not.rn l>anw's biggest gamns. Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
"It's a hugn ganw," Clark said. "Thn Big TPn is one or tlw strongest ~~onfnrences in the country, and it's very important when it eomes to sending !for llw NCAA tournanwntt." 
Notre ()a rn n ( h-2 -1 , ;{-1 -1 ) holds a f1-0-I all-time record against thn Wolvnrinns (6-2-2, 0-1-1 Big Tnn). including last year's :{-0 honw victory, but C I a r k is n 't o v t~ r I o o k i n g a Michigan tnarn that roturns 18 lettermen from last year's squad. 
see MICHIGAN/Page 21 into the system now than previ­ously. More players embrace the "Dive right in" mantra that Weis preached in the preseason, he said. 


"All of those toe-in-the-water guys, there's a lot less of them around now, and most of them have already taken a dip, and I think that's a good thing because it kind of goes hand in hand with having some suc­cess," Weis said. "The more that you have in, the easier it ends up being." 
Whether they dove in or not, the freshmen have stolen the show so far this season. Wide receiver Michael Floyd has 16 catches for 218 yards and two touchdowns. Weis said Floyd's ability to learn the playbook helped in his development. 
"He's been picking it up pretty quick, quicker than most people would," Weis said. "Normally you would say a season, but some people just pick it up a lot faster and he happens to bn one of them." 
Other freshmen have made their presence known. Defensive end Ethan Johnson got his lirst start against Purdue, corner­back Robert Blanton returned an interception for a touchdown and tight end Kyle Hudolph caught his first touchdown of his 
see FROSH/Page 21 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Lyons 'D' 111akes late stop to top Cavanaugh 
By CHARLIE SPOKES, 

CHRIS MASOUD, and TIM 
LANG 
Sports Writers 

With Cavanaugh's unde­feated season on the line and 37 seconds left, there were 46 yards between Chaos quarterback/captain KatiH Dunn and another win for the defending champions. 
But Caroline Henderson had something to say about that. 
Lyons pulled out a hard­earned 14-12 victory as the defensive back intercepted a Dunn pass and set up her offense to kneel-out the clock. 
Henderson's pick capped off a good night for the Lions. 
"We did the same things we've been doing all year," Lyons coach Matt Gelchion said. "We've gotten better as the year has gonn on. Tonight, the girls did it all." 
Cavanaugh (2-1-1) opennd up the scoring in the first half with a screen pass from Dunn for a touchdown on fourth down from the 2-yard line. An intercnption return to the end zone on the nxtra point from Lyons captain Claire Connell made the scorn 6-1. 
Lyons responded ncar the end of tho first half with a touchdown run from Connell. Tho PAT gave Lyons an 8-6 edge. 
"Our offense has a lot of 
see INTERHALL/Page 22 





