
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Pope's visit spurs discussions of Catholicism 
University professors contemplate meaning of Catholic education 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Only days after Pope Benedict XVI made his first trip to the United States, Catholic educators at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are pondering what it means to "witness truth and professional­ism" in their institutions. 
On April 17, University President Fr. John Jenkins and Saint Mary's College President Carol Ann Mooney were among those in attendance at the pope's address in Washington D.C. regarding academic freedom and Catholic identity. 
"It wa.'i a reaffirmation of that commitment [to truth and reason]," Jenkins said in a statement to the South Bend Tribune. 
Benedict made no speeifie references to any college or university in the address, but eneour­aged Catholic educators to seek the truth and uphold Catholic teachings. 
see POPE/page 6 

Students find inspiration, hope for the future in papal actions, talks 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Pope Benedict XVI visited the United States for the first time since being elected to the papacy in 2004 last week. 
The pope's talks during his visit focused on immigration, Catholic education and the Church's sexual abuse scandal. His universal message of hope resonated among Catholics nationwide, and even among Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Junior Susan Bigelow said she was touched by the fact that the pope took the time to meet with so many people throughout his visit. 
"His willingness to meet with diverse groups of people -sexual abuse victims, immigrants and teachers -has really shown how diverse we are," she said. "It was an affirmation that the American Catholic Church is a place of 
see STUDENTS/page 4 


University gathers to mourn student's death 
Former Zahm Hall rector Fr. Parrish delivers the homily dt a Mass to commemorate the life of junior Andrew Bunikis 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
Friends, family and classmates gathered at the Basilica Tuesday night in memory of Andrew Bunikis, a Zahm junior from Phoenix who died in a bus crash in Thailand last Friday. 
Bunikis had taken the semes­ter off to eontinue his work edu­cating ehildren in northern Thailand. 
University president Fr. John · Jenkins presided over the Mass. In his greeting, he expressed feeling of "sadness" and "loss." Jenkins also welcomed Bunikis' immediate family -his parents AI and Caroline and his sister Michelle -who attended the memorial service. 
Former Zahm Hall rector Fr. Daniel Parrish, who was the dorm rector when Bunikis was on campus, delivered the homily at the memorial. He also men­tioned Bunikis' family. 
"Our hearts are heavy as we remember the life of a man who was taken from us too soon," Parrish said in his homily. "Our hearts are breaking tonight with Andrew's family." 
Parrish described Bunikis as a truly caring young man who served the people of Thailand "whom he had grown to love." 
He emphasized the theme of the cross and what it means to carry its burden. 
"We find ourselves tormented by this tragic death," Parrish said. "There is no getting around it. Tonight, we know the cross." 
However, Parrish said Bunikis' life is an example of someone who did all they could to spread hope. 
"We come together in this plaee to declare against the darkness of the night the bril­liant light of Christ," he said. "[Andrew's mission] was to bring hope to all he met, from South Bend to Thailand." 
Current Zahm Hall rector Fr. Corry Colona, who lived down the hall from Bunikis, offered 
see MASS/page 4 


Business contest names winners 
Gigot Center gives grad students, professor grand prize of $10,000 
By PUJA PARIKH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies announeed the winners of the eighth annual McCloskey Business Plan Competition and the seventh annual Sustainable Soeial Venture Plan Competition on April1R. 
"The MeCloskey Competition is intended for traditional entrepreneurial ventures that have not yet been launehed or are at the earliest stage of launeh," program manager Melissa Paulsen said. "The Soeial Venturing or Social Entrepreneurship combines entrepreneurship with a soeial mission or purpose." 
Graduate students Brian Dunn, Christopher Dunn, Mary Beth Williams and electrical engineering professor J. Nieholas Laneman won the grand prize of $10,000 with their business, Rfware. 
Rfware is a software radio that "makes a new generation of electronic communieation devices possible -radios that ean be adapted to almost any current and future wireless 
. protocol with a sim pie software upgrade," according to the eompetition broehure. Brian Dunn, who was desig­nated leader and CEO of Rfware plans to use the prize money his team earned to launch the pro­gram. 
Graduate students Shelia Powenski, Anita Allen, Brad Annis, Heather Annis, Brendan Cooper, Edward Powers and Chris Ziener were awarded the Sustainable Soeial Venture Plan award with their program, Medxcycle. 
Medxcycle collects unused consumable medical items and uses medical equipment that would otherwise be disearded in the United States and resells the equipment to underserved countries. 
Powneski got involved in the competition beeause she's inter­ested in entrepreneurship. 
"[I] used the business plan competition as a crash eourse 
see CONTEST/page 4 


Juniors run Web site to buy and sell books 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
Students in the Mendoza College of Business have a new option to sell their textbooks at the end of the semester: DormBooks.com. 
Co-founded by juniors Andrew Matasic and Karol Grzesiak, DormBooks.com is a Web site facilitating the buying and selling of used business textbooks. 
The Web site buys baek text­books for more than the book­store offers and resells them to students at a lower price, the pair said. 
"In addition to beating [the bookstore] on price, we're also more convenient since we go right to the [student's] dorm room to pick up the books and deliver the books," Matasic said. 

He said they offer the delivery service because students should not have to stand in line during finals week and worry about losing money reselling their textbooks to the bookstore. 
Currently, Dormbooks.eom employs 15 Notre Dame stu­dents who serve as pickup agents for the Spring 2008 buy­back period, which runs from May 6 to 13. 
When one of these agents picks up a textbook from a stu­
see BOOKS/page 4 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Old before 

After reenntly visiting my grand­
parents on a rare woekend trip 
home, I found myself envious of 
them. 

Needless to say, this jBalousy of 
the lifo of my 

SO-year-old Madeline Buckley grandma is a 
News Production 
very strange 
Editor
feoling. 
Apparently tho 

elidu1 stating that youth is wasted 
on tlw young rings some truth. 
Throughout the visit, all I could think about was the mountain of homework that I had waiting for me when I retur01~d to campus. While I was obsessing over the numerous tests and papers due throughout the eoming week. I watched my grand­ma pack for Florida after rnturning home from a nice broakfast out with some frionds. 
At that moment, rntirnment seenwd a joy. Old agn is a small price to pay for tho lif'e that my grandparents arn leading. 
While some pnopln struggle through retirenwnt, expnriencing the hardships of monoy problnms and old age, my grandparents love being rntired. Hntirement nnablns tlwm to jnt ofT to Florida for a month to partake in walks on thn bnach and poolsidn happy hours with their condo friends. with no throat of deadlinns. papers or working for a paycheck. Tlwn, wh1m they return from Florida, they will conw back to a lifn of golfing, reading and visiting with friends. 
Meanwhill~. I would return from a 
rushed weekend visit to throe tests 
and two papers along with the loom­
ing threat of finals. 

Somehow schoolwork has driven 
mn to pathntically wish I were old 
and retirml. 

However, my grandparents paid their dues. My grandfather worked as an engineer for 40 years before retiring while my grandmother raised a family of three. They also went through eollege, though unlike me, they had to struggle for means to pay tuition. And now, their retire­ment is not without the pitfalls of knee surgeries and medical bills. 
Still, it must be a great feeling to live devoid of work and school, a feeling well-deserved after an aceomplished and successful life, although there is something wrong with a 19-year-old wishing she were 80. 
But soon I will turn in the last paper of my freshman year. turn in my last artiele for the paper, and take my last nnal. 
After that, I believe I will experi­enee a feeling somewhat akin to my grandparent's retirement. There really is no better feeling than the weight lifting off your shoulders af'ter completing a job well done. In a mere two weeks, I will eomplete my freshman year of eollege, and I will be able to proudly look back on a mostly suecessful freshman year and look ahead to a summer of free­dom and fun. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at rnbuckley@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer reF,ards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT EVENT WOULD YOU ADD TO ANTOSTAL? 



Alena Christensen Michael O'Connor Brier Steenberg Joseph Murphy Sarah Walorski 
sophomore senior sophomore senior senior McGlinn Carroll Dillon off-campus off-campus 
"Water balloon "Free scooter "Skeet "Britney "Apple bottom 
,

fight., day." shooting. Spears?" jeans day." 



ing a drug deal that went bad. 
Nassau County Police said Christopher Canonico, 23, of Seaford, called at 8:19 
p.m. Wednesday to say he had just been robbed in North New Hyde Park. 
Police said Canonico was set up by two women who agreed to buy heroin at a loeal gas station. While they were sitting in Canonieo's car, a third person with a gun came up to the car and robbed him of $340, a eell phone and wallet. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Police arrest two In India for allegedly stealing sperm 
MUMBAJ, India -A labo­ratory technician who allegedly tried to make a quiek buek by stealing sam­ples from the Indian sperm bank where he worked has been arrested after a doctor tipped ofi' police, authorities said Tuesday. 
The employee allegedly stole the sperm from a sperm bank in the western eity of Aurangabad, and tried to sell 101 vials of it to a doctor in Mumbai for about $625, Aurangabad police chief Krishna Lal Bishnoi said. 
The doctor declined and called police, who arrested the lab employee and a rela­tive, Bishnoi told The Associated Press. 
"The doctor contacted police because they (doetors) usually refer patients to infertility clinies for treat­ment. They are never approached with sperm vials on sale," Bishnoi said. 
Alleged drug dealer calls police to report robbery 
NORTH NEW HYDE PARK, N.Y. -A Long Island man had to know he would be arrested when he called police to report he had just been robbed dur-

IN BRIEF 
Students for Environmental Aetion will hold a Vegetarian No Waste Dinner in the Coleman-Morse Lounge at 5 
p.m. today. 
Magicians Brian Brushwood and Jonny Zavant will perform tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom from 8 to 1 0 as part of the Student Union Board's AnTostal festivities. 
In honor of William Shakespeare's 444th birthday, the Cushwa-Leighton Library is presenting a poetry reading by studnnt ponts of English 323 tonight at 7::~0. 
The Kro-c lnstitutn for International Peaee Studies will host a lecture Thursday enti­tled "Sharpening Sanctions' Effectiveness" at 12:30 p.m. in the Heshurgh Center. 
Women's Lacrosse: Big East Semifinals will be held Friday at 7:45 p.m. against Georgetown in the Notre Dame Football Stadium. 
The band "The Starting Line" will perform Friday at Legends at 10 p.m. as part of the Student Union Board's AnTostal festivities. 
The Mendoza College of Business is will host a lecture Friday "Terrorism: Looking Ahead Patterns of the Past" at 
10:40 a.m. in Jordan Auditorium. 
The Notre Dame Battle of the Bands will be at Legends Saturday at 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

60 40 

HIGH 62 LOW 45 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
c::: 
LLI ::r::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 73 HIGH 63
..... 
LOW 45 LOW 35 


HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 76 I 56 Boston 72 I 49 Chicago 61 I 46 Denver 75 I 41 Houston 86 I 71 Los Angeles 66 I 53 Minneapolis 71 I 40 New York 73 I 51 Philadelphia 74 I 51 Phoenix 89 I 63 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 79 I 58 Tampa 81 I 63 Washington 73 I 54 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses iTunes for non-class lectures 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 
The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the possibility of making all lectures not affiliated with courses available online as pod­casts on iTunes U at their meet­ing Tuesday. 
Making them available as podcasts will allow all students and staff to listen to lectures and forums that they cannot fit into their schedules. 
"There are a lot of things that students want to attend, but they can't," student body presi­dent Bob Reish said. 
Uploading the lectures as podcasts is simple and relative­ly cheap, Morrissey senator Austin Iloller said, 
"I believe it's just a matter of recording it and then upload­ing," he said. "The fees are minimal." 
Class of 2011 president Cynthia Weber said Notre Dame should not only offer non-class lectures but also course and lecture content as podcasts. 
"I think absolutely we should pursue podcasts as a beginning and then go to iTunes U," she said. "We bring something real­ly unique to the table as a Catholic university." 
Heish said one example of an event that could be uploaded as a podcast would be "The (Un)Holy Trinity: Entourage, Media, and Men," which took place last week and examined the portrayal of gender rela­tions in the media. 
Some COR members voiced concerns of the difficulty get­ting professors and speakers to agree to allow the University to upload their lecture online. Weber, however, said this should not be a major stum­bling block. 
"If I was giving a lecture I would jump at the opportunity to put it online," she said. 
In other COR news: 
+COR members briefly fol­lowed up last week's discussion on the Notre Dame Clothing Haiti Project. Hall President's Council co-chair Erin Walsh said she was able to meet with some alumni over the weekend and discuss specific plans. 
"We came up with some real­ly good ideas on how to make is a joint alumni-student project," she said. 
Wash said she would attempt to organize a clothing drive, possibly before the end of the semester, and then arrange to have the clothes flown to Haiti next year using an empty cargo plane. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@ndedu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Multiethnic celebration approved 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 

The Saint Mary's Board of 
Governance (BOG) approved two 
co-sponsorships at their meeting 
Tuesday. 

The first proposal came from 
former student body president 
Kim Hodges. She was seeking 
funding for a Multiethnic Senior 
Celebration event on May 3 at 7 
p.m. in Dalloway's. 

After attending the Latino and 
Black graduation events held at 
Notre Dame, Hodges said she 
wanted to do something like 
that at Saint Mary's, she said. 

"We don't have the numbers to 
do specific graduations like [at 
Notre Dame] so I thought of a 
multiethnic graduation," she 
said. 

Her reasons for wanting to hold this event were not just because of Notre Dame's cere­monies; she said she is also con­cerned with the lack of legacies ·at Saint Mary's from "alumni of 
color," she said. 

''I'm sure all of you can name 
one person on your hand... 
somebody that came to Saint 
Mary's," she said. "That's not the 
case for alumni of color, students 
of color at this college. It's just 
not happening." 

The plans for the event include 
a keynote address from 1999 
black alumna, Tysus Jackson, 
Hodges said. 

The event will be honoring and recognizing 12 multiethnic sen­iors for their support and hard work over the past four years, she said. 
"I think that it's important that we celebrate all the endeavors that our girls have had since they've been here," she said. 
Senior biology major Olyenka Bilyk also requested a co-spon­sorship for partial reimburse­ment for her participation in the Experimental Biology Conference in San Diego. 
At the conference, Bilyk pre­sented her senior comprehensive project to scientists from across the nation, she said. 
She also was able to attend lectures and meet other scien­tists, which she said gave her crucial knowledge for the Saint Mary's biology department, she said. 
"I can impart this knowledge to fellow Saint Mary's biology majors and students," she said. "I can also help bring this knowl­edge to the Saint Mary's biology department and help them become more competitive in their research." 
Both co-sponsorships were approved by the board. 
In other BOG news: 
+Student body president and vice president Mickey Grusinski and Sarah Falvey began working to extend the Student Center hours for finals week, Grusinksi said. 
They have also tried to create a stress free atmosphere in the Student Government Office dur­ing that week. There will be col­oring books and games available 
to students, Falvey said. "We're also going to try and have snacks up there," she said. 
They are also hoping to have a masseuse for a few hours for "stress release," Falvey said. 
+Admissions commissioner Kristle Hodges asked BOG mem­bers to help her look for student ambassadors for next year. 
"We love to take first-year stu­dents and sophomores," she said. 
Ambassadors are required to give one to two tours a week, participate in official visit days on campus, and are sometimes asked to host prospective stu­dents overnight, meet with prospective students for lunch, Hodges said. 
+Women's issues commission­er Becki Faunce announced that there are events for the National Week of Silence taking place this week. 
There will be a National Day of Silence Panel on Thursday at 6 
p.m. in Dalloway's, she said. The panel will include students and professors who will be talking about Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (LGBTQ) issues. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Do you want to learn about Web page programming and development? 
CAPP30380 W'eb Developn1ent: 
XI-ITJ\4L & JavaScripr 
Summer, 2008 

The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture Presents 




Dr. Marian Crowe 
University of Notre Dame 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 103 Hesburgh Center 7:30 PM 

For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 23, 2008 

Books 
continued from page 1 
dent's dorm room. he or she deeides how much the book is worth and writes the customer a dwck litr the full amount. 
(;rzesiak said hn eamn up with thn idmt f(tr DormBooks.com a<> a l'rnshrnan wlwn he purchasnd a book from his roommate and resold it online litr a profit. 

Matasic and (;rezesiak decidnd to usP thn Internet to cn~ate their husirwss and e-mailnd tlwir l'rinnds and classmates to inlbnn thmn of the spr·vkn in the fall of· 2006. 
A loan from Crznsiak's father lwlpNI tlw co-linmdnrs buy books from students during tlw llrst smnester. 
Students haw responded posi­tively to I>ormBooks.mm, Matasic said. 
In iL'i four sernnsters operating. t.lw businnss has sold over 1.500 

tnxtbooks and saved students thousands or dollars, the pair said. 
The pair submitted the DormBooks.eom business plan to the McCloskey Notre Dame Business Plan Competition last fall. The eompetition, an initiative of the Gigot Center for Entrnpreneurial Studins at Mendoza Collnge of Business, awards prize money to entrepre­neurial students for outstanding nnw business plans. 
DormBooks.com advanced to the round of six finalists and Matasic and Grzesiak were awarded a $2,000 third place prizn this pa-;t wenknnd 
"We were surprised at every singln level of thn competition." Mat<L'iic said. 
Matasie and Grzesiak hope to expand DormBooks.com campus wide next fall, ollering the service to studnnL<; in all m<~jors and even­tually otlwr mlleges in Indiana. 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

Mass 
continued from page 1 

words of remembrance at the end of the service. 
He said Bunikis was "very kind and had a speeial energy about him" and was "very determined." 
Colona said when Bunikis told him he was nervous about being in Thailand for Christmas, Colona "encouraged him to not focus on the home­sickness but to find value in his experience there, to pick a moment and make a full senso­ry memory of it." 
In an n-mail to Colona, Bunikis dnsc.ribnd how he had brought American Christmas traditions to his school in Thailand. lie stutl'ed stockings with candy, decorated with streamers and Christmas lights and taught the kids how to make gingerbread houses. 
"I did my best to identify what I was feeling in all five senses -it was a good way to remember a happy moment," Bunikis said in the e-mail. 
Colona said Bunikis's work in Thailand perfectly described the type of person he was. 
"Andrew cared about oth­ers," he said. "His happy moment was completely inter­twined with bringing joy to the people around him. lie set out to make a difference in their lives by sharing his creativity and enthusiasm with others." 
Colona also said Bunikis would keep notes posted around his room. While some were simpln reminders about tests and sporting evnnts, oth­ers were morn ambitious like "learn Cantonese" and "learn to play piano." 
"Andrew bnlifwed that lw would accomplish thosn bigger tasks and he planned to accom­plish them, just like he plannnd to take a test or do his laun­dry," he said. "I never saw the notes myself. but I hope that one of them said, 'make a dif­ference in the world,' and another one 'Give to those in need,' bncause Andrew certain­ly accomplished those things in his life." 
Colona concluded by saying that Bunikis' life should serve as an nxample to others, and has certainly impacted his own. lie said he has already made his own note -"Believe like Andmw believt~d." 
"I encourage all of you, whoso lives Andrew toudwd, to make a note for yourself. one that Andn~w would have appredatnd," he said. "I really think Andrew would enjoy that, and that way, a part of what Andrnw's lifo stood for will con­tinue to bn part of your lifo, and Andrew's spirit, through you, can <:ontinuo to touch peopln." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Students 
continued from page 1 
wondnrful diversity." 
Bigelow said that she was impressed by the way Benedict addrnssnd the issue of immigra­tion during his visit. 
"Just the fact that he was in Nnw York and didn't skirt the issue said a lot,'' Bigelow said. "We should be protneting immi­grants rights and their families and I think it was really impor­tant that he addressed that." 
Bigelow said the pope's trip to the United States showed his "sorter side" to the public, despite the fact that he is usual­ly characterized as more aus.­tero in comparison to his late pmdm:nssor Pope John Paul II. 
"I grow up with .John Paul II, who is so charismatic, and I had always seen Benedict as more reserved. I think that ever since hn's bonn pope he's bonn show­ing his softer sidn,'' she said. "It's cool that America was real­ly abln to encountnr the compas­sionate side of the pope." 


Contest 
continued from page 1 
in starting tlw husinnss," she said. "I know I could not do it on my own and <TPatnd a team of individuals with a variety or skills to round out the rest of thn tnam." 
(;raduatn studnnt .Jnnnifer Martini was awardnd the run­nor-up spot in thn compntition for tho company Mibospi. 
"Mibospi is an acronym for 'mind, body, spirit,' and it is a linn of nxclusivo luxury yoga aeeessorins that makn women l'nnl individual, fominirw and fashion-forward,'' Martini said. "Wn had sevnral advisors from tho fashion, retail and manu­l'aeturing industry that providnd us with guidance and continue to lwlp us as we dnvnlop our busirwss." 
Martini's team of four started working on tlwir husinnss von­turn in August. 

Shn said this was most evident in his willingness to meet with tho victims of the Church's sexu­al abuse scandal, which was somnthing she had not expected during his weeklong trip. 
"This was the first time vic­tims of the sexual abuse scan­dals had been met by a pope," Bigelow said. "This shed a lot of light on the pope as a leader who genuinely desires reconcili­ation with this painful past." 
The fact that the pope spoke in support of immigrants' rights and sexual abuse victims in America was great because he was able to bring that unifying message to a country that needs a lot of unity, Bigelow said. 
Sophomore Colleen Moran also said that she also was sur­prised that Pope Benedict was willing to meet with sexual abusn victims. 
"I wasn't expecting the com­ments on the sexual abuse scan­dal because he neglected before to eomment on it, but it was one of' most pressing issues for the Church and I was pleased to sec he did comment on it,'' she said. 
Additionally, Moran said that 
"Tlw four of us live in four diiTen~nt cities and three differ­ent time zones. We have beon working together since August and didn't meet in person until the night before tho competi­tion,'' she said. "We had spnnt eountloss hours on e-mail and eonl'nn~nco calls to get us ready for tlw competition. It was so nxeiting to finally meet in per­son." 
Martini said even though her team didn't win she is glad she participated in the competition. 
"We were the runner-up so we wore a bit disappointed as we hoped to win the competi­tion,'' Martini said. "However. tho experience and feedback was invaluable. The two days on campus were amazing and gave us additional validation that our idea for this business could work. It was such a thrilling experience, and not orw wo will soon forget." 
Contact Puja Parikh at pparikh@nd.edu 


Write for News. Call Bill at ·631-5323. 
the pope's visit was a unique opportunity for Americans to gain a bettor understanding of the pope and his ministry. 
"Since Home is on the European continent, it can snem like the hierarchy of Church is rather distant to the American people, having the pope come to us makes it feel much more like a personal mlationship," Moran said. · 
Moran said she thought the Pope's address to the United Nations General Assembly last Friday was particularly perti­nent. 
'The pope's address to the UN was an important reminder of Church's stance on the high value of human life, and that normative national sovereignty should not take precedence over the protection of human life and dignity," Moran said. 
She said she was also impressed by the pope's efforts to reach out the people of other faiths. 
"His visit to a synagogue in New York was important because it showed that the Church is committed to working with other faiths," she said. 
The pope's visit to a syna­gogue in New York was the first time a pope had ever visited a Jewish house of worship in the United States. 
Junior Jack Kiley said the theme of the pope's visit, "Christ our Hope," resonated through­out the Benedict's time in the country. 
"The main thing that stood out to me aside from the theme of 'Christ our Hope' -the mes­sage of hope and renewal for Church in America -was his address to the youth in New York," Kiley said. "It really res­onated with me when he said, 'Take courage."' 
Kiley said the pope's message of hope was crucial for the American Catholic Church. 

"There has been a lot of talk about losing vocations, so it was important for Benedict to come with the theme 'Christ Our Hope,' and say that if we put our hope in Christ, Christ will take care of the Church in America,'' he said. 
Kiley also said the week's events helped him better under­stand the pope as leader of the Church. 
"I think before he came to America a lot of people won­dered about who he was," Kiley said. "When he came here he showed that he's an incredibly holy and intelligent man who has deep faith and deep com­passion and cares about his Chun~h-that surprised me and I really liked that." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 

An E:ve(lingof Pra.Yer from Around the World 

.~,~cjoin us for an eveningof 
Zen Meditation 
as P.art ofa seri~s exploringthe beliefs and practices ~f the world>s great f...:aith traditions. 
Guided b,y Dr. Thomas Petersen 
Wednesda_!:j, April 2~rd 
Coleman-Morse 

7--.7:+,pm 

Spt-msored b_y: . 
<...:ampus Minisb-:!;J> t'<..Jc~ Ciraduate Residences, Graduate Student Unson, !ntet·nabonal Student Services & Acbvities, Interfaith f"..e!!owship and ND Muf>lim Student A<>S<.x:iation 
C-M 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 CoMPILED FROlv1 THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Zimbabwe's neighbors block shipment 
JOHANNESBUHG, South Africa-Zimbabwe's regime got a taste of the international isolation critics say it deserves, with its neighbors uniting to block a shipment of Chinese arms to prevent them from being used against Robert Mugabe's opponrmts. 
Union, church and human rights leaders across southern Africa rallied against allowing the Chinese freighter An Yue Jiang to dock at ports in any of landlocked Zimbabwe's neigh­bors, and they were bolstered by behind-the­scenes pressure from the United States. 
In the end, governments usually unwilling to criticize Mugabe barred the ship at a time when Zimbabwe's government is being accused of cracking down on dissenters. 
On Tw~sday, church leaders in Zimbabwe said people were being tortured, abduct11d and mur­dored in a campaign of retribution against opposition supporters following the March 29 election, and urged international intervention. 
Suicide car bomber kills 2 Marines 
BAGIIDAD -A bomb-rigged truck exploded at a checkpoint Ttmsday m~ar the western city of Hamadi. killing two U.S. Marines and wounding three otlwrs in an apparent strike by al-Qaida in Iraq in one of its former strongholds. 
At least one civilian also died and two dozen were injurod in the blast, the latest in a string of recent strikes in areas whero local Sunnis have joim~d U.S. forces to battle al-Qaida. 
Hamadi is the capital of Anbar province, which was onco held by insurgents. But it has been relatively peaceful since local Sunni tribal leaders joined forces with the U.S. military against tho terror movement. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Chicago sees increase in violence 
CHICAGO -Nine people were killed in 36 shootings over the weekend in Chicago, reflecting what some community leaders say is a deadly breakdown in discipline among gang members after a crackdown over the past few years put many of their leaders behind bars. 
"The older guys in the past looked out for the little ones. Now they're all locked up." said Nick Stames, a social studies teacher at Crane Tech lligh School on the city's gang-ridden West Side. "There's no sense of discipline in the projects. Everybody's doing their own thing." 
Now there is growing fear that Chicago could be in for a long, bloody summer. 
Wall Street Journal editor resigns 
NEW YORK -Marcus Brauchli is stepping down as managing editor of The Wall Street Journal just four months after Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. bought the paper, the 'company announced Tuesday. 
Brauchli, who had been in the post for just under a year, will stay on as a consultant to News Corp. A search for his replacement will begin 
immediatf~ly. 
Brauchli didn't go into detail about his decision to leave, telling the Journal's staff in an e-mail that with the ownorship change to News Corp. complete, "I have come to believe the new owners should have a managing editor of their choosing." 
LOCAL NEWS 


Pregnant bank teller shot in robbery 
INDIANAPOLIS-A pregnant teller and the twins shn is carrying survived after a masked robber vaulted a counter, shot hnr at close range and grabbnd cash from her drawer at a bank rwar a statn police post Tuesday. 
The bullnt entered the abdomen of the woman who is fivn months prngnant but missPd both fetusns, Indianapolis Mayor Greg Ballard said aftnr returning to th1~ robbery scnnn from thn hospital where the woman had surgnry. 
"Angry is rPally what I am. This is just braznn," said Ballard, who took office in .January after bning elnctnd partially on the stn•ngth of an anti-crimn platform. 
About two hours artPr the 9:30 a.m. rob­lwry, police detained and questioned two tnnnagors who wnre trying to enter nearby Warrpn Cnntral lligh School, said Police Chid Mirhanl Spears. 

Bush continues to support NAFfA 
President warns that migratory pressure from Mexico could increase without group 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS President Bush chastised lawmakers on Tuesday for letting international trade deals falter in Congress and criticized Democratic presidential contenders for wanting to scrap or amend the vast North American free-trade zone. 
At the clese of a two-day summit, Bush, along with Mexican President Felipe Calderon and Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Ilarper, stood solidly behind the North American Free Trade Agreement. Under NAFTA, trade between the U.S., Canada itnd Mexico has swelled from roughly $290 billion in 1994 to an estimated $1 trillion by the end of this year. 
"Now is not the time to renegotiate NAFTA or walk away from NAFTA," Bush said. "Now is the time to make it work better for all our people. And now is the time to reduce trade barri­ers worldwide." 

The summit was over­shadowed by Tuesday's Pennsylvania Democratic presidential primary race between Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, who have threatened to pull the U.S. out of NAFTA or renegoti­"If you do away with killing the deal. "Democrats stand ready ate it to push for more pro­NAFTA, there's going to be Not only will Pelosi have to work with the president tections for workers and a lot of Mexicans, more turned her back on a U.S. to bring the Colombia Free the environment. Mexicans out of work," ally, Bush said, she will Trade Agreement to a vote 
With fears about job Bush said. "It will make it fuel anti-U.S. sentiment in in the House, but the tim­security already being harder on the border. Latin America and embold­ing has to be that of fanned by downturns in "So people who say, en leftist leaders like America's working fami­the economy, trade has 'Let's get rid of NAFTA' Venezuela's Hugo Chavez. lies, not the timing of the become a key issue of the because of a throwaway "She's going to have to president," she said in presidential election. Bush political line, must under­explain why the voices of response. argued that NAFTA has stand this has been good false populism have been Asked about the state of fostered prosperity in all for America and it's also strengthened, why anti­the U.S. economy, Bush three countries and that been good for Mexico and Americanism could flour­said: "We're not in a reces­Clinton and Obama are Canada." ish," the president said, sion. We are in a slow­wrongly using anti-trade Bush said he was less "when America turns its down." messages to lure working worried about the future of back on a strong leader" ''I'm obviously concerned class voters. Free-trade NAFTA than the pending like Colombian President for our consumers," the opponents say expanded trade deals he wants Alvaro Uribe. president said. He was international trade helps Congress to ratify with In Washington, Pelosi asked whether the rising businesses, but threatens South Korea, Panama and accused Bush of taking a cost of gasoline will erode 
U.S. jobs and keeps wages Colombia. Bush singled out partisan potshot. She said the potential positive from growing. House Speaker Nancy the United States must impact of the $168 billion 
Bush warned that with­Pelosi, D-Calif., saying if address its own economic economic stimulus pack­out NAFTA, migratory she doesn't schedule a vote weaknesses before signing age passed by Congress, pressure from Mexico on Colombia she will have any more trade pacts but he did not answer would be worse. to take responsibility for abroad. specifically. 

UN reports Darfur conflict worsening 
Associated Press receding, to the point where peace in sion, and we facing many obstacles," 
Darfur seems further away today than said the U.N.-AU force's envoy, 
UNITED NATIONS -The conflict in ever," said John Holmes, undersecre­Rodolphe Adada. "But eventually, with Darfur is deteriorating, with full tary-general for humanitarian affairs. the help of some donors, we could be deployment of a new peacekeeping The conflict began in early 2003 in a position to achieve maybe 80 per­force delayed until 2009 and no when ethnic African rebels took up cent of the foree by the end of this prospect of a political settlnment for a arms against Sudan's Arab-dominated year." war that has killed perhaps 300,000 central government, accusing it of dis­The mission faces major problems in people in five years, U.N. officials said crimination. Many of the worst atroci­putting troops into a very hostile envi­Tuesday. ties in the war have been blamed on ronment, Adada said. It still lacks live 
In grim reports to the Security the janjawend militia of Arab nomads critical capabilities to become opera­Council, the United Nations aid chief allied with the government. tional _ attack helicoptprs, surveil­and the representative of the peace­A joint U.N.-African Union peace­lance aircraft, transport helicopters, keeping mission said suffering in the keeping force took over duties in military nnginners and logistical sup­Sudanese region is worsening. TeJlS of Darfur in January from a beleaguered port. thousands more have been uprooted 7 .000-man AU mission. But only about Holmes said furthor progress in from their homes and food rations to 9,000 soldiers and police officers of deploying the joint peacekeeping the nePdy are about to bn cut in half, the authorized 26,000 have deployed. force, known as UNAMID, would lwlp they said. "We are late and we are trying to protect civilians and possibly humani­
"We continue to see the goal posts speed up the deployment of this mis-tarian convoys. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
Pope 
continued from page 1 
Thn pope addressnd between 
:mo and 400 people. adding an 
intimate quality to thn speech, 
Mooney said. 
"This was not a large crowd. We 
were only about nine rows deep," 
shn said. "We were all anxiously 
awaiting and when hn came in, it 
was elnetrilying." 
For those not in attendance, 
however, tho message resonated 
through both campuses. 
For theology profnssor Timothy 
Matinova, the William and Anna 
.Jean Cushwa Director of the 
Cushwa Center for the Study of 
American Catholieism, the Pope's 
message was not one of' dirncted 
change, but more of advice on 
how to improve the current status 
of' Catholic institutions. 
"Ao.; I hnard it, he wasn't saying 
do X. Y. and Z. it WlL'i an admoni­
tion to pay attention and continue 
to do the good work ... But you're 
never linishnd. You can always do 
bntter to guard the Catholic char­
actor and identity in universitins," 
Matinova said. 
Ao.; presi(llmt of a Catholic col­
lngn, Mooney heard Bnnedict's 
message as one of hopn for tho 
futuro of Catholic institutions. 
"The primary thing I took away 
from it W<L'i his encouragmnnnt to 
all of us to rnalize what important 
work we're doing and his grate­
fulnnss to all of us li>r doing that 
work," shn said. "It was an elo­
qulmt and uplifting expnrience." 
Moonny, along with othnr edu­
cators. did not know what to 
~~xpnct from thn spnnch. 
"At onn point, he said that bdng a Catholic institution isn't dnpnndnnt on statistics or ortho­doxy. It is more about the spirit of the plaen whom people nm:ountnr the living c;od ... it WlL'i a kind of optimism that our faith gives us and the hope we can communi­eate to others because of our faith," shn said. "I think he was absolutely right ... it is a spirit that infusns Itho institution I and leads p1~ople to lwpd'ulness." 
Defining Catholic Identity 
Lawrencn Cunningham, the .John A. O'Brien Professor of Theology at Notrn Dame, was sur­prisnd with Benedict's eneourag­ing words amidst renmt critieism of Catholie institutions li1r recent eonlli1:Lo.; bntwmm Catholic identity and acadmnic l'n~Pdom. 
"I think the most interesting thing about the talk is the nneour­agmnnnt that hn gave to Catholic nducators. You have to remember hn wao.; speaking not only to uni­versity and college presidenlo.;, but also to all people in Catholic edu­cation," he said. "I very much admirn mu:ouragement li1r priesLo.; and sisters and brothers to contin­ue important ministry in the church." 
Cunningham also noted the importance of recognizing and defining a sd10ol's Catholic id(mti­ty. 
"I Bnrwdktl said that schools ought to be vnry firm in the identi­fication of sehools ao.; Catholic. And I think that, of course, goes with­out saying. I think for example, what is singular about Notre Dame'? It is a Catholic university," Cunningham said. "That gives fur­ther encouragement to kind of reflect upon, how we best articu­latn that idea." 
Cunningham also echoed Bnnndiet's point that universities are more than just statistics. 
"You cannot meao.;ure a Catholic university purely by reason of nurnbnrs. For example, the demo­graphies of the student body at Notre Damn according to tho books is H5 to H7 percent Catholic. Georgetown is 50 percent of a lit­tin less. Sophia University in Tokyo is lnss than I 0 percent. Dons that make it less Catholic than Georgetown or Notre Dame'?" 

Numbers, while important to the composition of the institution, cannot be the sole determinate in its Catholic identity. 
"You can't use numbers to equatn with ideals." 
Rev. Hichard McBrien, a theolo­gy professor at Notre Dame, said it's the rnsponsibility of the mem­bers of a Catholic institution to maintain its Catholic identity. 
"The point is that a particular number of Catholic faculty and studenlo.; does not itself make an institution Catholic. At the same time, there must exist a critical mass of faculty. students and administrators to sustain and enhance Catholic character," he said. "There must exist a commit­ment that permeates all aspeclo.; of life of the institution -not just the academic, but also the liturgical and spiritual." 
Academic freedom 
In light of the performance of the "Vagina Monologues" at Catholic colleges across the coun­try, inducting Notre Dame, and the recognition of pro-choice clubs and other actions deemed anti­Catholic at colleges and universi­ties across the country, Pope Benedict articulated his stance on academic freedom and the place it holds in university life. 
"He reafiirmed academic free­dom and in afiirming it, said fac­ulty has the freedom to pursue truth through caref'ul analysis that leads them to find it," College president Carol Ann Mooney said. "He emphasized that if we're should not be ignored. 
"I think that's probably an over­ly generous way -making a much more subtle point, and the subtle point was this -you can­not make academic freedom an absolute value," Cunningham said. "It always has to bn seen in the context of the pursuit of the 
Catholic, we have 'The point is that a truth and the a particular mis­larger truth that
· particular number of
sion and obliga­the Catholic faith tion to give stu­Catholic faculty and holds. Academic dents Catholic students does not freedom has to be doctrine as well." understood in the
itselfmake an
While the Pope context not only in did not target any institution Catholic.·· the larger pursuit specific violations of truth, but in of Catholic doc­Catholic institu­

Pope Benedict XVI 
trine for the sake of academic free­dom, Cunningham said he worries about the relationship between the Vagina Monologues and Notre Dame 
"Not that I was much in favor of the Vagina Monologues ... My biggest objection-it becomes kind of code word to identify Notre Dame. In the big scheme of things, the Vagina Monologues are basically minor league." 
During his address, Pope Benedict asserted that Catholic values trump academic freedom, however, academic freedom 


sharing more than you bargained for. 

tion, the truth as 
it comes out of both our encounter of faith and reason . . . There are no limits to academic freedom." 
McBrien focused not on the competition between Catholic identity and academic frnedom, but their similarities. 
"There is no inherent opposition between the teachings of the Church and academic freedom. If there is any discrepancy at all, it is between the requirements of aca­demic freedom and particular interpretations of church teach­ings," McBrien said. "In other words, the differences are matters of theology, not faith." 
Implications of the visit 
Pope Benediet's visit to the United States had many important implications for the future of Catholicism, McBrien said. 
"It was a great success. The Pope showed himself to be a non­threatening, warm and engaging person, contrary to the impression that many Catholies have had of him because of his many ynars a<> hnad of the Congregation for the Doctrine of Faith," he said. "His talk to Catholic edueators was, a'i prndicted, free of scolding, warn­ings, or harsh demands. It was essnntially a positive address with which few Catholic university fac­ulty or administrators could take serious issue." 
Matinova, too, saw both the speech and the visit as an unex­pected surprise to many Catholics. 
"It is a great boost forward, a moment of encouragement. It is a good positive effect, a shot in the arm for Catholicism in the United States." 
Bill Brink contributed to this report. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 

.·-~ 
.,...,.,.. ~· ,....~ .. ' . 
-· ·-·.~ .. ~ .... ··~ 
=;;.------:-=-..=. 
....... ,..,._ 
;:.--~,;;;::;:::r---­
,.._. ........ 





secure •..~ 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,720.23 -0.82
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,469 88 1,870 3,422,844,284 
AMEX 2,352.85 NASDAQ 2,376.94 -31.10 NYSE 9,227.91 . ~s4.3z·; S&P 500 1,375.94 -12.23 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,547.82 -tO,OOl;1 FTSE 100 (London) 6.034.70 -18.30 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.44 -0.61 137.94 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.49 -0.70 46.34 
NATL CITY SP (NCC) +3.81 +0.23 6.26 
FINANCJAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -1.38 -0.36 25.70 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.22 +0.008 3.720 13-WEEK BILL -1.18 -0.015 1.255 30-YEAR BOND -0.02 -0.001 4.475 5-YEAR NOTE -+ 1.06 -+0.031 2.957 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.89 119.50 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +7.60 925.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.95 74.55 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 102.9750 EURO 0.6258 <jiANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0081 BRmSH POUND .05010 
IN BRIEF 

Yahoo Inc. first quarter profits rise 
SAN FRANCISCO -Yahoo Inc. delivered first­quarter results that surpassed analysts' modest expectations, but the performance might not be enough to fortify the Internet pioneer's defense against software maker Microsoft Corp.'s takeover bid. 
The Sunnyvale-basp,d company said Tuesday that it earned $542.2 million, or 37 cents per sharP., more than triple its profit of $142.4 mil­lion, or 10 cents per share, at the same time last year. 
Most of the first-quarter improvement stemmed from a non-cash gain of $401 million recorded to recognize Yahoo's stake in the par­ent company of Alibaba.com, a leading e-com­merce site in China that went public last year. 
If not for the Alibaba windfall, Yahoo would have Harned 11 cents per share, comparable to its profit at the same time last year, on an apples-to-apples basis. 
The results were 2 cents above the average earnings estimate on the same basis among analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. 
H1Mmue climbed 9 percent to $1.82 billion. 
Whirlpool suspends 39 workers 
INDIANAPOLIS -Smoking can be hazardous to your health, and it's turning into a bad career move, too. 
A Whirlpool Corp. factory in Evansville, Ind., suspended 39 workers who had signed paper­work claiming they don't use tobacco after they were seen smoking or chewing tobacco on com­pany property. Now. some could be fired for lying, company spokeswoman Debby Castrate said. 
Rising health care costs are turning employers across the country into nannies. Annual health care premiums are rising more than 10 percent a year. and many companies are fighting this by trying to encourage healthy living, said Indianapolis benefits lawyer Mike Paton. 
"I can't think of a client of ours who has not shifted their focus to controlling the cost of their health care plan," he said. 
Many employers have developed wellness pro­grams to motivate employees. Others ask employees to state on benefits forms whether they use tobacco, Paton said. 




THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Government releases fuel plan 
Gas prices and global warming call for environmentally-efficient vehicles 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The next generation of new cars and trucks will need to meet a fleet average of 31.6 miles per gallon by 2015, the Bush administration proposed Tuesday, seeking more fuel­efficient vehicles in the face of high gasoline prices and con­cerns over global warming. 
Transportation Secretary Mary Peters outlined the plan on Earth Day, setting a sched­ule that was more aggressive than initially expected by the auto industry. It responds to a new energy law that requires new cars and trucks, taken as a collective average, to meet 35 mpg by 2020. 
"This proposal is going to help us all breathe a little easier by reducing carbon dioxide emissions from tailpipes, eutting fuel con­sumption and making driving a little more affordable," Peters said. 
New cars and trucks will have to meet a 11eet-wide average of31.6 mpg by 2015, or about a 4.5 percent annual 

. increa<>e from 2011 to 2015. In 2015, passenger cars will need to achieve 35.7 mpg and truckS will need to reach 28.6mpg. 
The rules were designed to push eompanies to boost fuel efficiency aeross their entire lineup. Manufacturers will The plan is expected to ing faith in the American standard and automakers have different requirements save nearly 55 billion gallons auto industry's ability to are prepared to meet that for cars and truckS of differ­of oil and reduce carbon reform," said Hep. Edward challenge," said Dave ent sizes based on vehicle dioxide emissions by 521 mil­Markey, D-Mass., who sought McCurdy, president of the sales. Collectively, the fleet of lion metric tons over the life the higher standards. Alliance of Automobile new vehicles will need to of the new vehicles built Automakers opposed Manufacturers, which repre­meet the rules. between 2011-2015. It will increases to the regulations sents General Motors Corp., 
Among individual manu­add an average cost of $650 in previous years, but sup­Toyota Motor Corp., Ford facturers, passenger cars per passenger car and $979 ported a compromise version Motor Co. and others. built in 2015 by General per truck by 2015. of the legislation in Congress. In keeping with the new Motors will need to average Environmental groups and The changes would require law, however, automakers 
34.7 mpg, Ford's cars will their allies in Congress, who the industry to implement will continue to receive a 1.2 need to reach 35.5 mpg and have criticized the Bush more than half of the fuel­mpg credit for producing Toyota's cars will have to administration's handling of efficiency requirements by flexible fuel vehicles which achieve 34.6 mpg. the requirements, said they 2015 and push them to build run on ethanol blends, but 
For light trucks, GM will were mostly encoun1ged by more gas-electric hybrid cars the credit will begin phasing need to reach 27.4 mpg by the proposal. . and diesel-powered trucks out in 2014. Environmental 2015, while Ford will have to "After years of fighting a andSUVs. groups have called it a loop­average 28.8 mpg and Toyota fuel economy increase, the "Congress has set an hole, noting that few vehicles will need to hit 28 mpg. Bush administration is show-aggressive, single, nationwide actually use E85 ethanol. 


ENGLAND 

World Food Program foresees problems 
Associated Press sometimes violent protests across the major rice-growing pr~ject. Indonesia's 
Caribbean, Africa and Asia. government needed to revise its annual 

LONDON -Hation cards. Genetically The price of rice has more than dou­budget to respond. modified crops. The end of pile-it-high, bled in the last five weeks, she said. Unrest over the food crisis has led to sell-it-cheap supermarkets. The World Bank estimates food prices deaths in Cameroon and Haiti, cost 
These possible solutions to the first have risen by 83 percent in three Haitian Prime Minister Jacques global food crisis since World War II, years. Edouard Alexis his job, and caused which the World Food Program says "What we are seeing now is affecting hungry textile workers to clash with already threatens 20 million of the more people on every continent," police in Bangladesh. poorest children, are complex and con­Sheeran told a news conference. Former U.N. Secretary-General Kofi troversial. And they may not even solve Hosting talks with Sheeran, lawmak­Annan said more protests in other the problem as demand continues to ers and experts, British Prime Gordon developing nations appear likely. "We soar. Brown said the spiraling prices threat­are going through a very serious crisis 
A "silent tsunami" of hunger is en to plunge millions back into poverty and we are going to see lots of food sweeping the world's most desperate and reverse progress on alleviating strikes and demonstrations," Annan nations, said Josette Sheeran, the misery in the developing world. told reporters in Geneva. WFP's executive director, speaking "Tackling hunger is a moral chal­At streetside restaurants in Lome, Tuesday at a London summit on the lenge to each of us and it is also a Togo, even the traditional balls of corn crisis. threat to the political and economic meal or corn dough served with veg­
The skyrocketing cost of food staples, stability of nations," Brown said. etable soup are shrinking. Once as big stoked by rising fuel prices, unpre­Malaysia's embattled prime minister as a boxer's fist, the dumplings are dictable weather and demand from is already under pressure over the now the size of a tennis ball, but cost India and China, has already sparked price increases and has launched a twice as much. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
---~=-================================================================================= 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
Ass-1; MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
As~n; MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Ntws EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
-SI'ORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: l.iz Harrer 
PHOTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
AI>VERI"ISINt; MANAGER: jes.•ica Cortez 
All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('i74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6.31-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.31-6900 observad@>nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4141 ohsme@lnd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @lnd.cdu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@lnd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online hy the stt1denrs ofthe University of Notre l )ame du Lac and Sainr Mary's ( :Ollegc. Editorial com em, indudinr; adverrisemenrs, is not governed by policit'S ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Obst·rver reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chic!: Managing Editor, Ao;sistam Managing Editors and dcpartmcnr editors. Coll)menrarit-s, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The fTet' t·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lt•tters to the Editor must be signed and must include cnntact intimnation. 
Questions nxarding Obsfmn policies should be dirrctrd to Editor in ChiefM,tddie Hatma. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l'lu: ( llm:1n·• {t 1\P't i•J•J 2-4UOU) 11 puhli.IJcd Mmlll.&y 11lruutth rti.l..:y O(.CJH duung ,.K.nn .1nol ¥.&~\1111111 ~'Clio..!~ A •utKo:npwm 10 '111C' l)h'\t'1'11Cf I" $11111 tiJT nuc al.o~tlo:mk yt.lr; s~~ ,;lftll11' '«'tnt"'lcr. 
·1 he Oh.c:rvcr •~ puhlhh<d .u PO~'TMASTER O.Z1 Smnh Ominjt!, ll.all .)(ond ;addrcs.~ currtcti<lll.\ to: 
Nmrc: IJJmc, IN 4b'!ic.i6-0779 The: Observer 
Prrimlk•l pml.&j:r p.ud .u None D:m1r 11.0 8oKn9 .tuJ .11.ldmuuo~l mJJhng olfl.cn Ul4 South Dming 1-bll 
Nutre D.unc, IN 4M~6-0779 
!"he llhwnrr u." mcmhcr of •ht ~>CJ,ucd Pre.. All tc:"p!IH.hu..llun r•.:lu,. are racrvcd 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Liz Harter Lorenzo Reyes Madeline Buckley Laura Myers Gene Noone Scene Graphics Stephanie DePrez Mary Cecilia Viewpoint Mitsch John Dailey 

The Pope on Catholic school identity 
Pope Benedict XVI's address to Catholic educators requires extensive analysis. We can mention here only a few of the aspects pertinent to Notre Dame. 
The Pope reject­
Charles Rice 
ed a merely statis­
tical eoncept of 
Catholic identity: 
Right or 
"A university or 
Wrong?
school's Catholic identity is not sim­ply a question of the number of Catholic students ... Catholic identity is not dependent upon statistics. Neither can it be equated simply with ortho­doxy of course eontent." Some at Notre Dame will spin those statements to minimize eoncem about the sinking of the number of Catholic faculty below the fifty percent mark or about the haphazard exposure, if any, of Notre Dame students to orthodox course con­tent. For Benedict, however, the irrele­vaney of mere statistics evidently means that it is not enough to count the faculty who, for whatever reason, cheek the "Catholic" box. "Catholic identity," he said, "demands and inspires much more: namely that each and every aspect of your learning com­munities reverberates within the eccle­sial life of the faith. Only in faith can truth become incarnate and reason truly human, capable of directing the will along the path of freedom (cf. Spe Salvi, 23). In this way our institutions make a vital contribution to the mis­sion of the Church and truly serve soci­ety." 
This obviously means that a Catholic university cannot isolate itself from the "ecclesial life" of the Church: "A partic­ular responsibility therefore for each of you, and your colleagues, is to evoke among the young the desire for the act of faith, encouraging them to commit themselves to the ecclesiallife that fol­lows from this belief. It is here that freedom reaches the certainty of truth. 

In choosing to live by that truth, we 
embrace the fullness of the life of faith 
which is given to us in the Church." 
On this point, that "the fullness of the life of faith ... is given to us in the Church," Notre Dame has a problem, of its own making. The President, Fr. Jenkins, and the Provost, Dr. ·Burish, initiated a new process of dialogue in their April 2 "statement on the ration­ale for hiring faculty who will enhance our Catholic mission." The statement went on for six pages about keeping Notre Dame "truly Catholic" without once mentioning the Catholic Church. That is like explaining how to play baseball without mentioning the ball. The new dialogue process will be inter­minable and fruitless, as have been all its predecessors. 
The incoherence of this dialogue project arises from Notre Dame's dogged adherence to an abstract relic of 1960s ideology. In 196 7, officials of the leading Catholic universities met at the Notre Dame retreat at Land ()'Lakes, Wise., and declared that: "To perform its teaching and research functions effectively, the Catholic uni­versity must have a true autonomy and academic freedom in the face of authority of whatever kind, lay or cleri­cal, external to the academic commu­nity itself." 
That claim of autonomy from exter­nal authority is phony. Notre Dame, like all universities, willingly submits to dozens of governmental and non­governmental authorities including, of course, the NCAA. The only "external authority" Notre Dame will not recog­nize appears to be the Catholic Church. The Notre Dame brand of academic freedom, for example, is hardly consis­tent with Benedict's: "I wish to reaf­firm," he said, "the great value of aca­demic freedom. In virtue of this free­dom you are called to search for the truth wherever careful analysis of evi­dence leads you. Yet it is also the case that any appeal to the principle of aca­
demic freedom in order to justify posi­
tions that contradict the faith and the 
teaching of the Church would obstruct 
or even betray the university's identity 
and mission; a mission at the !wart of 
the Church's munus docendi [teaching 
office or function] and not somehow 
autonomous or independent of it." 
Interestingly, Benedict reaffirmed, without explicit mention of it, the prin­eiples of Ex Corde Ecclesiae, the 1990 Apostolic Constitution on Catholic Universities. Ex Corde requires of the Catholic university "a recognition of and adherence to the teaching authori­ty of the Church in matters of faith and morals." 
A !ina! quote from Benedict causes regret that no one asked him about the Vagina Monologues: "Teachers and administrators, whether in universities or schools," said Benedict," have the duty and privilege to ensure that stu­dents receive instruction in Catholic doctrine and practice. This requires that public witness to the way of Christ, as found in the Gospel and upheld by the Church's Magistnrium, shapes all aspects of an institution's life, both inside and outside the class­room." It would be difficult to imagine the man who spoke those lines finding academic merit in the Vagina Monologues. 
The problem is truth-in-labeling. Notre Dame, in its fundraising, profess­es to be Catholic. But it defines that term by its own interpretation. An appropriate name for that mind-set is Protestantism, except that Protestants have the integrity not to call them· · • selves Catholic. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. lie may be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite Antostal Event? 
KrL<>py Kremes on the Quad Quarter dog eating contest Tie-dye shirts Other 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The fact that man knows right f!om 
wrong proves his intellectual 
superiority to the other creatures; 
but the fact that he can do wrong
proves liis moral inferiority to any 
creature thaf cannot." 
Mark Twain American Author 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
China reaping what 

it has sown 

In response to the commentary titled Olympics Symbolize Peace {Apr. 18) I felt compelled to point out some glaring omis­sions and hypocrisy. The authors Yue and Lili take issue with recent protests associ­ated with the tour of the Olympic torch calling the protests "unacceptable." In the sense that it is unfortunate that this cere­mony has been characterized by political protests rather then celebrations of athlet­ic excellence, we both agree. 
However, it is clear that the authors have no understanding of why China's hosting of Olympic Games generates the type of political activity that we are see­ing. In particular, I had a problem with the hypocrisy concerning their complaints about the media coverage and the call for the games to be apolitical. Yue and Lili complain about "some media coverage being seriously distorted." This seems incredible to complain about given the wide-scale censorship that the Chinese government practices. Since the Chinese government strictly controls foreign media access to Tibet, practices wide-scale inter­net censorship at home, and regularly imprisons those who attempt to speak out it seems odd for one to complain about alleged "media bias." 
Another problem was the authors' state­ment that "the Olympics are not about politics." While in an ideal world this would be true, but reality paints a com­pletely. different picture. Berlin before WWII, the killing of Israeli athletes at Munich, and the boycotts for the Los Angeles and Moscow games clearly shows that politics are deeply engrained with the Olympics. To think because China is host­ing the games that politics should be dis­missed is naive. It's ironic that the authors on one hand call for the games to become apolitical, but then make the argument that abandoning calls for a boycott will lead to China to open politically strikes me as extremely hypocritical. 
In closing I agree with the authors' sen­timents that the Olympics should symbol­ize peace. However, when the government that hosts the games is complicit in wide­scale human rights abuses both at home and abroad (Darfur and Myanmar/Burma come to mind) then it becomes very understandable why some people feel the need to protest what they see as a gross misrepresentation of what the Olympics symbolize. I would suggest that the best way for the authors to achieve their goal of a torch ceremony and Olympic Games free of protests would be to pressure their government towards increased political freedoms and respect for human rights, but then I realize that is not such a good idea as many of the students in Tiananmen Square found out. So in the end the Chinese government has reaped what they have sown to the detriment of its own citizens and the international com­munity. 
Robert Brathwaite graduate student offcampus April22 

You knovv what really 
grinds my gears? 

After almost four years of observation, wonder and silent judgment, and in thanks to the many contributions of close friends (either by idea or example), I present to you a Peter Griffin-inspired rendition of ... "You Know What Really Grinds My Gears?" ... when people have an unnecessary sense of entitlement ... when people make out on the track in Rolfs {at 11 a.m.... that's right, you just got called out) ...when people unnecessarily abbrev ... the Hammes Bookstore ... when girls carry those ridiculously huge and won­derfully impractical bags into the dining hall while getting their food (seriously? get the hell out of my way!) ... obliviousness and inconsideration ...when people cut the line at Fever {party foul) ... professors who unnecessarily bring their politics into the classroom ... people who chew with their mouth open ... reality shows that portray how pathetic people are (Flavor of Love, Rock of Love, the Gauntlet, Pick-Up Artist, the Hills, etc.) ... when people pretend not to remember talking to you at the bar the night before ... when the Observer prints the same crossword two days in a row ... when professors {or admin­istrators, for that matter) make attendance a requirement (ifl can learn just as much by not coming to· class, upon whom is that a reflection?) ... the bureaucracy of SAO ... PigTostal ... that little undercover Indiana State Excise policeman with the backpack and backwards hat ... Hillary Clinton ... people who call for the prohibition of alcohol at Notre Dame ... when people care more about their taxes than they do about justice, humanity and responsibility ... arrogance ... fake baking (yet, I strangely appreciate the effort involved in presenting a perfectly tanned and groomed body for the purpose of donning a Borat thong) ... girls who misrepresent themselves to get a guy to like them ... when peo­ple care more about the Vagina Monologues and the morality of alcohol consumption than they do about China, Tibet, Sudan, the Iraq War, the next Potus, the failing health care "system," people denying the Holocaust, the environment, etc ... drivers who don't use their turn signals when turning ... when guys grunt/hiss/generally make noise when they're working out (seriously? We know you're lifting bud, keep it together) ... waiting lists ... straight-brimmed hats ... the word "Pink" on clothing (for that matter, guys who wear pink as well) ... every application that you can think of for the idea "someone else will take care of it" (e.g. the dishes) ... when people initiate a conversation with you and then proceed to talk endlessly about themselves ... and lastly, when we forget the experi­ence of things that have fallen by the wayside or don't get to experience them at all (Rally in the Alley, Budweiser sponsoring Antostal, Boat Club, Corby's actually being on Corby's, St. Patrick's Day at College Park, Dis-0 as it used to be, SYR's in dorms, the flowerbed entrance to ND, Fever being cheap, a National Championship in football, funny team names for Bookstore, actually finding a parking spot on campus) ... 
And that, ahem, is what really grinds my gears. 
Tim Loftus senwr offcampus April16 


Don't criticize Ine or I just Inight cry 
I love Notre Dame. I love walk­ing around campus and being able to reflect what is going on in the world. Sometimes it makes me cry. So it is with lots of thoughts and experiences in class that I sit here and try to tell everyone what I think is a going on. 
There is a major problem with the student body here. It is the problem of ignorance mixed with close-mindedness. A person who is ignorant does not need to remain so. It is the problem of those who refuse to recognize that there is the possibility of dif­ferent views in the world. That people have multiple explana­tions for what is going on in the world. 
You don't need to Ghange your views, but be open to the possi­bility that there are different views. I urge the student body to do research on both sides of all issues that you believe in. On both sides of issues that are most close to your heart. I want to believe in the goodness of peo­ple. I believe that people love. 
It is hurtful to be told in class that I am a hypocrite. Yet, it is important to take someone call­ing you a hypocrite to look at why they would say that to you and others in your class. The problem for some people who will go and say you are being hypocritical is that they take bits and pieces of what you say and ignore the rest. This is why I want to tell the student body to look at the whole picture. Look at what you can do for the world. It is our responsibility to go out and do something. 
There was recently a film series and conference on geno­cide. From this I could not help but feel pain for what is going on. Speaking with my room­mates, I realize we are on the path to do something for the world. We all have that opportu­nity, especially here at Notre Dame. We must take those opportunities and take them. Do the research and love life, all of life. Be open to what is out there in the world. Stop being ignorant and stop the close-mindedness present when you ignore what you hear in classes. And most importantly remember that you are loved, no matter what. 
Christina Shakour junior Welsh Family Hall April22 


Olympic boycott only 
hurts athletes 
In agreement with the April18 column by Yue Li and Lili Ji enti­tled "Olympics symbolize peace," I believe it is necessary for those protesting the upcoming Olympic Games to evaluate the implica­tions of such an action. 
Not only is it correct to say that the Olympics are not about poli­tics, but what many appear to have forgotten is what the Olympic Games are about: the athletes. These individuals have dedicated countless hours to bet­tering body, mind and soul in aims of participating in this timeless, incredible and (supposedly) unit­ing experience. Then what hap­pens? Just because the Olympic Games happen to find place in a country whose historical and recent conduct we reject, we throw a fit, forgetting that, although it is true that this event serves as a great opportunity for China to illustrate her character, the vast majority of the Olympics has nothing at all to do with the Chinese. 
The eventual outcome -and it's only getting worse -is that the separation between a govern­ment's foreign policy and its com­mon citizens is horribly perverted. We have wheelchair-bound Chinese paralympian Jin Jing being mauled as she's wheeled down an avenue in Paris and, while we're on the subject, world leaders such as French President Nicolas Sarkozy boycotting the opening ceremonies. Is this for real? 
Of course, boycotting the Olympics is nothing new, as coun­tries have previously refrained from attending when quite con­venient, namely in 1965 and 1980. But again, who is losing by our boycotting? Presumably, nation A boycotts nation B to pain nation B such that nation B will now stop doing whatever it is that nation A condemns. Unfortunately the pain is -in some cases literally -on the athletes more than anyone. 
Ben Hechler 
JUlllOr 
Alumni Hall 
April18 



.-------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
-~­

Adventures in London: 
lover, is twofold. Firstly, there's enters Lothlorien called, surpris­
It was the most 

money (and a socialist govern­ingly enough, "Lothlorien." (Visit ment's arts council -thanks, ridiculous, cheesy, over­the show's website to stream Welfaw State!) to back up arts ini­the-top thing that I've "Lothlorien" if you're really that tiatives. Secondly, the museums are curious. l The song is more than a
probably ever seen, and
usually fren. Most shows aren't ter­little ridiculous, especially for its ribly priend. minus the exchange I loved every minute. potential singing-in-the-shower 
it it-I've always wanted to be a cultural sophisticato. You know, to be that kid -tho one who goos to the opera and likes it, or finds meaning in the puzzles of modern art. And to some extent, 
I'd like to think that I am. Earlier this semester I attended a performance of Mozart's "Die Zauberlliite" (say that live times fast), or "The Magic Flute," and fell in love with Papageno, 
Sarastro and Co. (Granted, it was a required per­formance for my Opera in Britain class, but that's a peripheral detail.) I even went to the opening of a Dadaism -read: "challenging" -exhibit at the Tate Modern. and pretended to "get it" when I saw I>uchamp's autographed urinal. 
The beauty of being in one of the world's cultural and financial capitals, when it comes to indulging your inner arts-
rate. Point being, I've had many an opportunity to indulge those artsy internsts and add some points to my poser quotient. 
But somntimcs. I don't want to be a cultural sophistieatc~. Sometimes I don't want to exercise my mind. challenge my perenptions or push my bound­aries. Somntimes, I just want to have a bloody good time. 
Whieh is why, last Thursday night, I bucked tra­dition, sense and evnry review I've read or heard and saw the "Lord of the Bings" musical. 
"Hnally, Analise? Hnally." I know, I know. To answer a few preliminary questions you might have: Yf~s. thnre is, in fact, a Lord of the Hings musical playing in the West End. It was in Toronto and over an hour longer first, and now runs in the theater in Drury Lane. Yes, there are dancing llobbits and Elves and Dwarves, oh my. No, Viggo Mortensen does not play Aragon (for which I'm both mi elisa nted and, for his sake, 

Analise Lipari 
Scene and Heard 

factor. However, when Galadriel 
randomly appears (Is she spirit'? Is she matter? Is she totally unnecessary? Yes, yes and yes) during a major battle scene and onc:e again starts singing operatically about "Lothlorifm" amidst the hordes of Ores, you're a stronger woman that I am if you don't choke on the hysteri­cal laughter you just stifled. 
But even if it didn't exactly add to the develop­ment of my cultured sensibilities, I'm still singing the songs in my head. Awesomely bad it may have been, the show did leave me with some eternal nuggets of wisdom. like "May the hair on your toes never fall out." 
Amen, Frodo. Amen. 
The views expressed in Scene and 1/eard are those ofthe author and not necessarily lhose of The Observer. , 
Contact Analise 

·.-... 

thankful). And yes, I really did see the play, in all of its show tune-belting, One Hing-wearing glory. 
And to be honest? It was the most ridiculous, cheesy, over-the-top thing that I've probably ever seen, and I lovod every minute. 
The show's production budget is well over £12 million (read: that's a whole Iotta Dwarf gold), and it definitely shows. The stage itself centers on con­centric rotating platforms in the floor that can rise and fall individually at the push of a techie's but­ton. The costumes are epic, and the songs are ... 
well, they're catchy as all heck, even when they're terrible. The Bag End, Prancing Pony and Minas Tirith sets were definite highlights, as was tlw Balrog sequenee in the Mines of Moria. It was a "no holds barred, no Hobbit left behind" kind of night. 
Of course, there were points -more often than net -when I had to avert my eyes out of pain. 
Galadriel initially sings a Celtk-y, 
epic song when the Fellowship 
~---~----~--~--------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
page 11 

By KELLY O'SULLIVAN Scene Writer 
Watch out Notre Dame, things are about to get fierce. Christian Siriano, the winner of the fourth season of Bravo's hit TV series "Project Runway," is coming to campus tonight to talk about life as one of the country's hottest new designers. 
Siriano, 22, is the youngest win­ner in the fashion design show's ment in New York City that didn't even have a 1 proper bed, as the designer claimed to rathecl use his money for clothes and his space as a, work area. After this fact was made known in one of the last episodes of the season, W Hotels gave Siriano a bed to help furnish his living area. 

Since the exciting conclusion of "Projecti 
Runway's" fourth season, Siriano has remained a1 in the spotlight more than anyl previous winner. He has met with 1 
history. Growing up in Maryland, Siriano has me with Victoria Beckham and Heidi he worked in a salon in Annapolis Klum for fittings, and basi
Victoria Beckham and

and attended the Baltimore­appeared on several talk showsj School for the Arts. There, Siriano Heidi Klumfor fittings, to recount his time on the showl was able to focus on fashion and has appeared on and his life since fashion week._, design as his course of study, Siriano is also scheduled to make
several talk shows to

which gave him a strong founda­a cameo on the May 1 episode of
recount his time since 

tion for what was to come. ABC's "Ugly Betty," playing him­Followi11g gradu<;ttion, Siriano fashion week. .self. 
moved to London where he attended American InterContinental University, later interning at both Vivienne Westwood and Alexander McQueen. These internships provided Siriano with invaluable experience and opportunity, especially since the designer has named McQueen as his favorite designer and one of his strongest fashion inspirations. 
After being cast on the fourth season of "Project Runway," Siriano immediately proved to be a top contender. He won four challenges, the most of any individual of the season, and earned a spot as one of the show's three finalists. With this honor came the opportunity to create a twelve-piece collection to be shown in Bryant Park during New York's fashion week. 
Victoria Beckham, guest judge for the finale, along with regular judges Heidi Klum, Michael Kors and Nina Garcia, praised Siriano's Musketeer-inspired collection, which prominent­ly featured ruffles and voluminous tops. Siriano was not only named the overall winner of the show by the judges, but was also voted "Fan Favorite", an honor decided by viewers. 
Siriano was glad to accept the prizes that came with his victory, which included $100,000 to start his own label and a 2008 Saturn Astra. 

Siriano's distinctive character 
and flair also seems to have 
made an impact on the writers of NBC's "Saturday Night Live," which in a recent episode featured a skit about a fictitious Bravo show called "Fierce: The Hot Mess Make-Over Show." Amy Poehler, sporting flat-ironed hair and familiar glasses, played Siriano, and used his catchphrases "fierce", "tranny" and "hot mess" to excess to parody the always-entertain­ing comments of the "Project Runway" winner. 
"Project Runway" mentor, Tim Gunn and his, show "Tim Gunn's Guide to Style" were also par­odied in the skit. Gunn, who has guided hopeful designers through all four seasons of the "Project Runway," has been especially praiseful of Siriano. Gunn stated in a March 2008 inter­view, "I really believe he is his generation's Marc Jacobs. I really do. We have found America's, next great fashion designer." 
By speaking to any "Project Runway" fans on campus, you can quickly sense the excitement for Siriano's appearance, which leaves many anxious to find out just what kind of entertaining· they are in for. The lecture will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
Contact Kelly O'Sullivan at kosulli2@nd.edu 
-
-
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 
MLB 

Cedeno's grand slam lifts Cubs over Mets 
Milwaukee defeats St. Louis in 12 innings on Gabe Kapler's game-winning single; Gagne blows fourth save of year 
thing the Cubs have not won 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 23, 2008 

Associated Press  in 100 years.  
CIIICAGO -A day al"ter  "As long as he doesn't talk  
Honny C.edmw told reporters  'World Series,' I'm happy,"  
thn Chicago Cubs arn "think­ Cubs manager Lou Piniella  
ing about thn World Snries,"  said.  
ho reeantod.  Tho left-handed Lilly (1-3)  
''I'm going to takn it back,"  retirnd his first 10 batters and  
Cndeno said. "I go too fast."  lowered his EHA from 9.16 to  
Cedeno swung as if he wants  7.30 after allowing a run, four  
to help thn Cubs get there,  hits and four walks over six  
hitting a grand slam and driv­ innings. He struck out four  
ing in five runs in surging  and combined with three  
Chicago's H-1 win over the  relievers on a l'ive-hitter.  
New York Mets on Tuesday for  "You hear guys talking,  
its 13th victory in 16 games.  whether they went 0-for-4 or  
Ted Lilly won for the first  whatever the case was,  
time in five starts. helping the Cubs to their best start over - they're talking about us win­ning games," said Lilly, who  
20 games since the days of  15 games a season ago. "That  
Don Kessinger and Hick  made it a little bit easier for  
Heuschel.  me to swallow given the fact  
The Cubs, who a season ago  that I was going out there and  
started 7-13. had 14 hits and  not giving us quality outings.  
improved to 14-6. their best  We were winning games that I  
record at this point since  wasn't pitching. That made  
1975.  my load a little bit easier to  
Cedeno, who almost was cut  APbear."  
at the end of spring training,  Chicago's Ronny Cedeno swings on a grand slam Tuesday In the 8th Inning of the Cubs' 8-1 winNew York was outscored 15­over the New York Mets. 
has started the past two  2 in the two-game series and  
games with Hyan Theriot, the  has lost three in a row follow­ on base and we need the guys  he exhaled. "It was definitely  Schumaker that put runners  
usual shortstop, out because  ing a five-game winning  in the middle of the order to  a little bit out-of-the-blue, but  on the corners with no outs.  
of back pain.  streak.  drive them in. It's not one guy  I'm just looking forward to  Gagne got Rick Ankiel to  
Cedeno drove in Chicago's  Slugger David Wright said  or another."  going down there and joining  chase a pitch for strike three,  
first run in a three-run fourth,  everyone on the team is  Manager Willie Randolph  the team now."  and Pujols hit what appeared  
then hit his first career grand  accountable.  bemoaned the lack of bats  It was a fitting end to a  to be a a tailor-made double­ 
slam in the eighth against  "Offensively now we're just  and the Mets decision-making  downright wacky game that  play grounder to third base­ 
Jorge Sosa for a 7-1 lead.  not clicking," Wright said. "A  on defense.  included another oddity:  man Bill Hall.  
Cedeno, who has 10 HBis in  few of our regulars weren't in  "There were some lack-of­ Slugger Albert Pujols playing  But second baseman Rickie  
his past four games, also had  there today, but we just can't  focus kind of plays. You can't  second base for the first time  Weeks couldn't turn it, allow­ 
a key hit in Monday night's  get anything going offensively  make mistakes like that,"  in his big league career. lie  ing Izturis to tie the game at 8  
win, which led to the giddy  right now. We need the guys  Randolph said. "Our bullpen  had lobbied Cardinals manag­ and costing Gagne his second  
talk of a World Series, some- at the top of the order to get  is struggling a little bit right  er Tony La Russa to play  straight save opportunity.  
now and in this series, if you  shortstop after Cesar Izturis  "I just had a bad throw,"  
give them extra outs like that,  was forced to leave the game.  Weeks said.  
it makes it very difficult. The  "I told Tony I wanted to play  Gagne has blown four saves  
Cubs are playing well and  shortstop, and he told me he  in 10 tries this season, but  
have swung the bats well all  preferred for me to go to sec­ manager Ned Yost said Gagne  
series. But when you give  ond," Pujols said. "It some­ is his guy.  
them opportunities like that,  thing I don't want to do every  "We dido 't turn the double  
you end up paying for it to say  time, but in that case it was  play for him," Yost said. "He's  
the least."  an emergency."  facing the best hitter in the  
All of it unfolded as the  National League, worked him  
Brewers 9, Cardinals 8  Cardinals rallied from a five­ and got him to hit in a double  
Gabe Gross stole second and  run deficit off the Brewers'  play, we just didn't turn it. It  
sped horne with the game­ beleaguered bullpen before  should've been over right  
winning run. He might as well  Kapler singled off St. Louis  there."  
keep running to Tampa Bay.  closer Jason Isringhausen (1­ Izturis left the game  
Gross scored on Gabe  1) to end the game.  because he couldn't grip a  
Kapler's single with one out in  Milwaukee gave up four  ball. X-rays were negative.  
the 12th inning in the  runs in the seventh off three  So, in the bottom of the  
Brewers' victory over the St.  different relievers. It still led  ninth, the Cardinals sent  
Louis Cardinals on Tuesday.  8-7 when Eric Gagne made  Aaron Miles to short, Pujols to  
After the game, the team  his fifth appearance in six  second from first, catcher  
announced Gross had been  days in the ninth.  Jason LaRue to first and  
AP  traded to the Rays in a deal  He immediately got into  Yadier Molina, the final posi­ 
Brewers' Gabe Kapler, 33, Is co ngratulated by teammate Craig  for minor league pitcher Josh  trouble, hitting Izturis with a  tion player on the bench,  
Counsell after driving In the win ning run In the Brewer's 9-8 win  Butler.  pitch on the right forearm and  came in to catch. St. Louis  
over the Cardinals.  "Some day," Gross said as  allowing a single to Skip  carries 13 pitchers.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

DIRECTOR OF MUSIC AND WOR-1 OR 2 Bdrm apt. in historic neigh-Staying in South Bend this sum-SHIP St. Mary Catholic Church, borhood. One mile to ND. laundry mer? Defiance, Ohio, a welcoming com­FoR SALE & security. $510/mo. Caii574-532-Need a place to live? 1017 E. PERSONAL
WANTED 

munity of worship and service, dedi­B71B. Washington St. (cross street Eddy 
cated to the faith formation of all its $74,500! Updated 2BR, Finished St.) Great Location -Less than 5 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE­members, seeks a Director of Music Lower level! Minutes to Campus & Blue & Gold Homes Showing for mins from campus. 6 spacious ONEWHO IS? APPT. and Worship. As a member of UP Mall, Bookcases, Hardwood 08/09,09/10 rooms available & 2.5 bathrooms. 
Pastoral staff. the applicant must floors, Fenced yd + more! Sweet Now offering "flex" leases bluegol­You do not have to be alone. We flexible, no exp. nee, customer desire to work in a model of collab­Homel Bobbie Van Osdal C-21 Jim drentals.com Contact Shannon at want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­sales/service, cond. apply, ages orative leadership and provide Dunfee Realty 574-235-3075. straeger@nd.edu for details on dential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or 
direction of an active and well For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to subleasing. visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 17+. positions available throughout formed parish liturgical ministry Condo For Sale. Close to ND. Quiet N.D., student neighborhood, US & Canada, commission. The applicant must be community-beautifully cared for. central air, new appliances, very Large house available for 2009-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
self-motivated. flexible, knowledge­Contact Paul @ 574-993-5858. nice. 2010. Full renovations completed www. workforstudents.com able of Catholic Liturgy, skilled in 289-4071. 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ Do not go it alone. If you or some­
organ and keyboard accompani­Subaru 99 Forester/great condi­square feet. 5 bathrooms one you love needs confidential New student needs good laptop. ment and able to provide direction tion/AWD/Ieather/CD/121 K/$6,500. 54717 Terrace Lane, South Bend support or assistance, please call 574-993-8733. to choirs, cantors, musicians and 234-2104. 3 bedroom 1 bathroom ranch house . MacSwain@gmail.com Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For 
liturgical ministry teams. Salary near ND, behind Nicks Patio. more information, visit our website Summer daycare in my home for competitive and commensurate with A Brick House For Sale By Owner! Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car garage, OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: at: children ages 5 & B. education/experience. Position 2 Minutes North of Campus. $725/mo. $250 security deposit. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­
open beginning July 1 , 2008. Send $118,000.53097 Oakmont Central jimc343@ yahoo.com Nice house for rent 1/2 mile from nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Need dependable, energetic stu­Resume and 3 References to: Rev. Drive. Ca11571-225-9376. Email: ND. 2 or 3 bedrooms and 2 full in The Observer. dent available M-F, 7:30-5:30, Timothy M. Kummerer 715 archfao@yahoo.com 3 bdrm homes & 1 bdrm apts. baths, 1-car garage, washer/dryer, $250/wk. Jefferson Ave .. Defiance, OH 43512 Close to ND. and fenced yard. If you or someone you care about 
Phone: 419·782-2776 Fax: 419-has been sexually assaulted, visit 247-1258 or jkerwin@ memori­782-1958 email: Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email: Rent includes water, trash, and yard http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. alsb.org tmkstmary@defnet.com Web Page: FoR RENT greatlakespg@ gmail.com care. Call Darin at 574-631-2721. shtml 
www.stmarydefiance.org 

--~-----­




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
ESPN.com/USA Today Softball Top 25 
rank  team  points  previous  
1  Arizona State  495  1  
2  florida  470  3  
3  Alabama  466  2  
4  UCLA  441  4  
5  Michigan  425  5  
6  TexasA&M  400  6  
7  Stanford  365  8  
8  Arizona  336  7  
9  Oklahoma  331  11  
10  Tennessee  303  9  
11  Fresno Stale  299  12  
12  Northwestern  291  13  
13  Houston  284  10  
14  North Carolina  221  17  
15  Long Beach State  216  14  
16  LSU  181  16  
17  UL Lafayette  180  18  
18  Virginia Tech  157  19  
19  Hawaii  119  15  
20  San Diego Stale  110  22  
21  Washington  91  20  
22  California  83  21  
23  Mississippi State  54  24  
24  Massachusetts  47  NR  
25  Nevada  35  NR  

ESPN.com/USA Today 
Baseball Top 25 
rank team points 
1 Miami(Fl) 772 2 Florida Stale 725 3 North Carolina 715 ~4 Arizona State 653 5 Rice 629 6 TexasA&M 557 7 Wichita State 515 8 Nebraska 514 9 South Carolina 503 10 Missouri 448 11 UC Irvine 419 12 Georgia 409 13 Vanderbilt 346 14 Oklahoma State 345 15 California 330 16 Stanford 323 17 San Diego 294 18 Coastal Carolina 272 19 CS Fullerton 208 20 Virginia 173 21 Kentucky 154 22 Ole Miss 125 23 Michigan 118 24 Arizona 109 25 long· Beach State 83 
previous 
1 
2 4 3 7 8 6 9 10 11 5 13 14 18 12 16 21 20 22 19 23 17 
NR NR 
25 

MIAA Women's Softball Conference Standings 
team  conference  overall  
Tri-State  10·2  26·4  
Alma  9·2  19-9  
SAINT MARY'S  9·3  20-7  
Hope  9·5  23·10  
Adrian  6·6  18-16  
Olivet  6·9  11-20  
Calvin  5·9  11-20  
Albion  4·12  13-16  
Kalamazoo  1-11  3·21  



around the dial 
NBA PLAYOFFS Atlanta vs. Boston 8 p.m., TNT 
Houston vs. Utah 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB BASEBALL New York vs. Chicago 8 p.m., ESPN 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRF. SERVlCES 
NFL 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. -Jake Long seemed at ease in his new role as the NFL's No. 1 draft pick, leaning into a news conference microphone to talk about his mean streak while his mother sat in the corner, nodding as she smiled. 
The Miami Dolphins were grinning Tuesday, too. They signed the Michigan left tackle to a five-year contract with $30 million guaranteed, and they'll select him with the top pick in the draft Saturday. 
The deal allows the Dolphins and Long to avoid a possible holdout. 


"It's really important for us to know Jake is going to be on the field for us on time when training camp begins in July," coach Tony Sparano said. "That was critical." 
Long's total contract package is for $57.75 mil­lion, said a person famil­iar with the negotiations who didn't want to be identified because the Dolphins declined to reveal terms. Last year's top pick, JaMarcus Russell, signed for $61 million with the Oakland Raiders but missed all of training camp before reaching a deal. 
Long becomes the high-
IN BRIEF Kevin Garnett named NBA 
defensive player of the year 
WALTHAM, Mass. -When Kevin Garnett starts screaming. the Celtics' defense stops struggling. 
For all his assets _ athleticism, intensity, intelligence _ it's the ability to communicate with team­mates that he considers the key to Boston's skill at shutting down opponents. 
"I talk. I understand how defense works," he said after being selected the NBA defensive player of the year Tuesday. "Communication's probably the biggest thing when it comes to defense." 
An outstanding defender throughout his previous 12 sea­sons, all with Minnesota, Garnett won the league award for the first time by a wide margin one day before Boston takes a 1-0 lead into Game 2 of the first-round series against Atlanta. 

est-paid lineman in the NFL and a 6-foot-7, 315­pound cornerstone in a rebuilding project for the new Dolphins regime led by Bill Parcells. Last sea­son Miami went 1-15, and the offensive line has been a chronic problem in recent years. 
"Jake was our guy from the beginning," general manager Jeff Ireland said. "Jake Long was on the top of our board for a long time. There wasn't a whole lot of debate. We thought it was a very good fit with the Miami Dolphins." 
With many other needs as well, the Dolphins were interested in trading 
Brendan Hayw:ood escapes
suspension for flagrant foul 
WASHINGTON -Washington Wizards cenier Brendan Haywood was so steamed over his lack of play­ing time in last year's playoffs series against the Cleveland Cavaliers that he left the court before the final game was over and removed the nameplate above his locker. 
In this year's rematch, Haywood has very much made a name for himself. In highlight shows across the land, he's The Man Who Shoved LeBron James. 
"I've been criticized normally for not fouling," Haywood said. "This is actually different ground for me." 
Under orders to give James a rough time in the paint, Haywood took the bruiser's act a bit too far when he pushed James with both hands while the Cavaliers' megastar was airborne during a layup attempt in the third quarter of Cleveland's Game 2 victory Monday night. 
page 13 
the top pick for multiple lower choices. When no suitors surfaced, they began negotiations last week with Long's agent, Tom Condon. 
"It's such a great honor to be the No. 1 pick," Long said. "I don't think it has sunk in yet. It's some­thing every kid dreams about. I'm just real excit­ed that it happened. Now I'm coming to a great place." 
Long flew to South Florida with his parents Tuesday morning for the news conference. The Dolphins said they didn't conduct contract talks with any other potential picks. 

-
-
WADA drops appeal of U.S. 
arbitration agrunst Jenkins 
LONDON -American sprinter LaTasha Jenkins can compete again after the World Anti-Doping Agency dropped its appeal of a US arbitra­tion ruling that cleared her of a posi­tive drug test. 
The decision makes it official that Jenkins is the first athlete to beat the 
U.S. Anti-Doping Agency on a drug charge. The two-time world medalist tested positive for the steroid nan­drolone at a meet in Brussels, Belgium, in July 2006. 
A three-person U.S. arbitration panel had ruled against the USADA in December. It said results of her test were compromised because both European labs testing her sample violated international standards that require the tests be run by two dif­ferent technicians. 
At the time of the ruling, USADA had been 36-0 against American ath­letes in front of arbitration panels. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
MLB 
Cle111ens 
-was not at 
houseparty 
Associated I>ress 
LOS ANCELES .loso Cansneo reaffirmed Tunsday that Hoger Clnmtms did not atlnnd a party at his houso that has bneome a focal point ol' a fndtmtl investigation. 
Cansneo was interviewed by l'ndnral agents and answered a series ol' questions about a variety of subjects and about his knowledge of steroid use in baseball, said his attorney,

-
Crngory Enwrson. Tho former AL MVP was qunstiorwd about his new book, "Vindkated." and "sorno of tho issues that have arisen narlinr in tht~ (Congressional) lwarings," Emerson said. "lie answered fully and to tlw best of his knowledge," the 
attorlli~Y said. lin said nothing nnw of signifieancn was dis­cussed. 

-Tlw IIJ1JS party at Cansnco 's homo bnrame an issue hncausn llrian Mc:Namen, Clnrnnns' former trairwr, has said ClnmPns spoke with Cansnco and soon afterward approadwd the trairwr about using pPrl'ormance-Pnhaneing drugs. Cl!Hlwns says he did not attend the party. and Canseco col'l'oborated that in an afTi­davil to Congress. Canseeo stood by that affidavit during his interview on Tuesday, Emerson said. "Hoger was probably one of his closest buddies, has been to .lose's house bcforn," the attorney said. "Jose's absolutely certain Hoger was­n't there (at the party in ques­tion), and he remains 100 per­cent committed to that aff'i­davit." Photos that show Clemens in Canseco's pool have surfaced, but they are undated. Canseco has long been con­sidered a whistle-blownr about the use ol' steroids in baseball, with his 2005 book titled, "Juiced." Major League Baseball and federal investiga­tors havP begun to give some of his claims more credibility. "When this (Cansneo's claims) first came out, Jose was shunnPd by players and by Major Lnagun Baseball," Emerson said. "Now they've found that there is a substan­tial arnoun t of erodibility. "The (latest) book is an attornpt to really expose Major Lnagun Baseball, not any par­ticular players for their posi­tions. I think he's been telling thn truth and told llw truth today." Canseco has confirnwd that .Josnph l>ion of Miami is tho trainer "Max" he wrote about in his latest book. Canseco clairnnd that Dion was a slnroids dealer he introduced to Alt~X Hodriguez. l>ion, first identif'ind as "Max" by Sports Illustrated on its web site, strongly denind tho allngations, saying he hates stnroids and is "1 00 per­cent" against their usn. Hodriguez s~tid he knows Diem, but lin has repeatedly denied using pnrformancn-enhancing drugs. Canseco has said he has no knowledge of drug usn by Hodriguez. 
NFL 

Seahawks release former MVP 
Associated Press 
KIHKLAND. Wash. -The Seattle Seahawks released former MVP Sh<tun Alexander, just 26 months after he signed a $62 million contract as the franchise's cornerstone. 
Seahawks president Tim Huskell said Tuesday the team released Alexander unconditionally hours after the running back passed a physical. It's been a rapid fall for the 30-year-old. When he signed that mammoth deal, he was coming ofT an MVP snason in 2005 and a Super Bowl appearance. Now he's looking for work, coming ofT of two unimpressive and injury filled seasons. 
"Yeah. it's sad, really," Huskell said after announc­ing a move that had been expectPd in Seattle for six weeks, since the signings of free agent running backs Julius Jones and T.J. Duckett. "He's been such an 

upstanding guy through my whole tenure here. I don't think we have that Super Bowl run if it wasn't for Shaun. 
"It shows you have tough this game is, how ever­changing it is, how you can't play forever.... You just can't do it." 
Alexander will try again in 2008. The three-time Pro Bowl run ncr, whose last two seasons have been his worst, said he is not retiring. 
"I will be playing for anoth­er NFL team this fall, and doing everything I can to contribute," said Alexander, who ran for just 716 yards in 13 games last season _ his lowest total since he replaced Hieky Watters as Seattle's lead back in 2001. 
"I am healthy, energized and looking forward to beginning the next chapter of my NFL career," he said. 
"My family will remain in the Seattle area, and when my days in the NFL do even-tually come to an end, I plan to retire here. Our hearts are woven into the fabric of this community, we are blessed to be part of it, and we enjoy contributing to it in every way we can. Thank you, Seattle." 

The Seahawks were wait­ing for Alexander's broken 
left wrist to heal before releasing him. lie played the l'inal 15 games of the regular season plus January's play­offs wearing a east on that. Tuesday morning doctors declared the 19th overall draft choice in 2000 fully healthy to partieipatn in minicamps this spring. 

FREE CL I N I QU E GIFT 
YOURS WITH ANY CLINIQUE PURCHASE OF 21.50 OR MORE. A $50 VALUE. 
*FREE CLINIQUE 7-PC. GIFT Only at Macy's. Everything you need for a gorgeous spring look, plus a cosmetics bag in your choice of Pink or Purple. A $50 value, your free gift includes: 
·Different Lipstick in Raspberry Glace ·High Impact Mascara in Black ·Long Last Lipstick in Beauty . • Clinique Colour Palette 
• Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion • Cosmetics bag in your choice of Pink or Purple ·Liquid Facial Soap Mild 
Quantities limited. Offer good while supplies last. One per customer, please. 
Clinique. Allergy Tested. 100% Fragrance Free. 


the magic of 
*

*macys
macys.com 
Free gifts are av~Jile~bie while supplies la-;t. Quantities limited. One per <:ustorner, please. Allretur ned merchandise must ln<.lude free it ern 'jf yift. Value price~ are ba-;~c'tl on pc•r-ounce price ot· itern(s) previuusly offered. lldv(•rtiS<'d iterns may not be availahiP at your locallv1acy·s. and sel<•r:tions may vary by store. ~lure offers don't apply on rnacys.C\.>111. and l!ldcy~.<:<Jrn offer' don't apply in ~tore. We are not ""~prm-;Jbie lur typoyr aphical error\. 
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MENS GOLF 
Irish end 
• 

season In fourthplace 
Marquette shoots ten over par to gain title 
By PETER REISENAUR Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ended its season with a fourth-place finish in the Big East Tournament, completing what was a good, but at times frustrating season for the Irish at the Traditions Golf Club in Hebron, Ky. 
The Marquette Eagles took the title, shooting a 10-over par to beat out Louisville who finished up with a 12 -over par for the tournament. The Irish were able to l'inish in fourth place amongst the 12 teams at the Tournament this weekend. 
Sophomore Doug Fortner, a solid performer all year long for the Irish, finished three-over par for the tour­nament with a 219. He fin­ished the tournament in fourth overall, helping him earn his first career all­conference honors, and cap off' an impressive year for the second year golfer. 
Junior Josh Sandman. the most consistent performer all year long for the Irish had another strong tourna­ment this week. He did not have his best final round but still earned a second all-Big East honor, and also l'inished in the top 10 of the tournament, making him the first Irish player to finish in the top 10 since 1980. Sandman was able to finish the tournament at four over par and tied for seventh place in the tour­nament. 
Sandman also was able to finish the year off with a 
73.1 stoke average and 
72.41 in the spring season, which gave him an individ­ual berth to the NCAA regional. 
The other impressive fin­isher for the Irish was a freshman in Dustin Zhang. He showed improvement throughout the year, and in the tournament, finishing in 18th place in the tourna­ment despite a 77 in the first round. lie finished eight over par for the tour­nament, and the Irish hope that he will be one of the future stars for their team. 
All in all, the Irish were happy with their season, although they were at times a little inconsistent. They hope to improve upon that inconsistency next year, and hopefully come up with a Big East title. 
Contact Peter Reisenanr at preisena@nd.edu 
WOMENS GOLF 

Irish win third straight Big East title 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer 
After dominating the compe­tition through the first two rounds of the Big East Championship Tournament, No. 25 Notre Dame cruised through the final round to cap­ture the program's third con­ference title in six years. 
The Irish lead throughout the three-day tournament, which was held at the par-72, 6,080 yard Elk Run Golf Club in Batavia, Ohio, and shot a final round-best 302 to clinch the victory. Notre Dame sophomore Annie Brophy earned medalist honors for the first time in her career, leading the field with a 6-over par 222, while Irish freshman So-Hyun Park shot an 8-over par 224 to finish sec­ond. Overall, four Notre Dame golfers finished in the top five of the field. Brophy reaffirmed the importance of the team effort in the victory. 
"To win conference as a team is great because we've worked really hard for this," Brophy said. "As an individual, it also feels great. We all played really hard. We played one hole at a time. I know that sounds cliched, but it's true." 
Behind the Irish (899), No. 28 Louisville (908) and Cincinnati 
(908) rounded out the podium ahead of the seven-team field. Notre Dame shot the three low­est team rounds of the tourney (296, 301, 302), while Cardinals freshman Sara­Maude Juneau shot a third­round, even-par 72 to stake out the lowest 18-hole score of the week. 
The young Irish squad thor­oughly outplayed the competi­tion, with every Notre Dame golfer finishing in the top 15 overall. Behind Brophy and Park's 1-2 fmish, junior captain Lisa Maunu and sophomore Kristin Wetzel carded twin 11­over par 227s to finish tied for fourth. Maunu led after the first round, but bogeyed four of her final seven holes of the tournament to slip to fourth. Freshman Katie Conway added a final-round 77 to her previ­ous scores to finish a respectable 17-over par, tied for 15th overall. 

The conference title caps an Irish season marked by unprecedented success. Notre Dame, who opened the 2007­2008 season with three straight tournament victories, have fin­ished in the top five in nine of ten tournaments this season, with the Big East Tournament win being their fifth first-place fmish. Freshman So Hyun Park, ranked No.14 in the country, has led the Irish, her scoring average of 73.12 a program­record; she also recorded two first-place finishes this season. Junior captain Lisa Maunu has contributed three podium fin­ishes, including one first-place finish. Notre Dame head coach Susan Holt attributed the tour­nament victory to the team's consistent success throughout the season. 
"Everything they've done this year has been a momentum builder for this week," Holt said. "They had pressure on them because they were the teani to beat coming in. I was just really proud of them because they really hung in there. It was a good team effort with the way the scoring worked out. They all played a role and we needed all of them to show up and they did." 
The Irish hit the links again May 20 for their final tourna­ment, the NCAA Championship in Albuquerque, New Mexico; the squad earned an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament through the Big East tourna­ment victory. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 


The Notre Dame Alumni Club ofMN invites you to Legends this Friday from 4:30-6pm for FREE food and FREE drinks! Come and network and get your name on the Club's list. Door prizes will be given away too: "The Shirt," MN Club Merch., O'Neill Brothers CDs, and MN gift certificates. 
Do you want to boost y<.:'lur resurne wit.h sotne rnarketable skills? 
T~•e C£~1np111er Appfica,-;~,,,_.,. Progra''' ('CAPP) 
www.nd.edu/-capp 

Feel free to come and go anytime between 4:30-6ptn. We will be located on the left side ofLegends (the restaurant portion) on the upper tier in the back. Stop by! 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
NBA PLAYOFFS 

Paul dishes 17 assists in win over Mavericks 
Howard has second straight 20-point, 20-rebound game as Orlando ekes past Toronto, takes a 2-0 series lead 
have not won sinee Januar'y
Assodated l'ress 
1 CJCJS. But that streak will 
NEW OHU:ANS -Dirk end if the Mavericks don't Nowitzki skippPd out to tlw figurn out how to slow down pnrimntnr. joining Jason Kidd Paul and a supporting cast as thny attnmptnd to trap that has been playing with Chris Paul. enormous confidence sincn 
Paul promptly lnt tlwm thn Hornets stormed back know tlwy wpr·n in for long from a 12-poinl hole to win night. knif'ing into thn lane on the snries opener. tho dribbln and dropping in a "We'll lake a look at some prntly l'loatnr. things, but we've got to have 
As brilliant as Paul was in a bnller I'!Tort," Dallas coaeh Iris playoff dPfHtl last w<wk­Avnry Johnson said. "We've nrHI. his nncorP was bPltnr. got to go home and gel some 
Paul had :12 points and a horne cooking.... They pro­franchisn playotT-n~cord 17 tected tlwir home court; we assists. lnading Nnw Orleans havn a chancn to go home 
t.o a 127-I 0:1 victory over tlw and do lht> same thing. Likn l>allas Mavnri<"ks on Tunsday l'vn bPen saying all along, night that gavP tlw llornnls a thny arn a No. 2 send that 2-0 IPad in thPir first-round dns<~rvt's to be No.2 and sPrins. wn'vn got to play much bnt­
T l111 o I d r P <" o r d w a s I S ln r." assists, snt by Muggsy Boguns Nowitzki led Dallas with 27 in JIJ1H. points, but spent most of llw 
"Sitting LhPrP watching night looking frustrated, Chris n•ally dPvnlop into llw yPlling at no onn in particu­hPst point guard in this lar after he threw one pass lnagun, it's amazing to ·watch out of bounds. Brandon Bass how lJp's rPally risPn his was another bright spot for garnP to anolhnr lnvPI," Dallas, muscling inside for 1C) llornnts coa<"h Byron S1~olt points. Heservn .Jason Terry said. "But that's what groat added 16 points and Josh playnrs do. liP's dnfinitnly Itoward scored 10. orw of tlw bnst on this lnagun "We just got outplaynd and right now." outfought. Thny outworked 

I> a v i d W 11 s t s c o r <HI 2 7 us on both ends of the l'loor," easily split or dribbled runner in the lane, an ofl'­atnly got thn ball hack after points and Pnja Stojakovil: 22 Terry said. "We have to play around double-teams. scor­balance l'loater off the glass Orlando's Knyon Dooling was for N11w OrlPans, which took a lot harder and just fight. ing six points and assisting and a pull-up jumper. putting called for an offensive foul on a doubiP-digit load in thn We have a lot of guys with on eight baskets in the first the llornets in tlw clear. the inhounds pass. sncond quartnr, led by as pride in this locker room. quarter. When asked if there was a Toronto isolated Bosh for much as 25 in the third and Whnn you lake a bull kieking His crossover, between-the­way for Dallas to stop him, the last shot, but it was no novnr looked baek. like that, you can only dig legs and behind-the-back Paul replied, "I'm sure there good. 
Tyson Chandler had his deep and come out swing­dribbles set up an array ol' is, but to me, I hope not." · lloward was the f'irst player second doubl11-doubln of the ing." running floaters, fades and "One thing I've learned in nnarly 40 years to record snri11s with 10 points and 11 The Mavs hoped Kidd jumpers. lie found West for through this season and eonsecutivn playoff games rnbounds, dnspite playing would be a bigger factor in several open jumpers and a watching these games is that with at least 20 points and 20 with foul trouble. Morris this game, but he finished dunk. He twice found you have to be aggressive," rebounds. The last was the Pnterson addnd 12 points and with only seven points and Chandler for alley-oop dunks. Paul continued. "If I just sit San Francisco Warriors' Nate rnservn guard .Jannero Pargo eight assists. Johnson, how­The Hornets shot a whopping back and let them trap me, Thurmond in the 1 CJ6S-(J9 had I 0 for Nnw Orl1ians, evfH, deelined to single out 71 percent and set a fran­then they succeed in what playoffs. whieh was 10-of-IS on :1-Kidd or anyone else. chise playoff reeord with 39 they had to do. I know I have The game was· mueh more pointers. with Stojakovie hit­"It's not one person," he first-quarter points. to pick my spots when I get physical than Sunday's series ting S-of-7. said "It's a team game and "They put the ball in Paul's the ball and let other guys opener. Turkoglu was called 
"They worn going to try collectively the team has to hands. We tried to trap him go, but at the same time I for a l'lagrant foul in the sec­some gimmick stuff" against do a better job on both some early, but if West is have to be aggressive and ond quarter defending Bosh. Paul. West said. "It was key ends." going to be wide open at the attack and that's what we The Haptors star had just that w11 had the eon fide nee After Paul's dazzling 35-top of the key, he's making did." stolen a pass and had a dear with tlw ball out of his hands point, l<l-assist performance the shot," Nowitzki said. "It's shot at the basket when for us to make plays. Pnja hit in Game 1, Johnson said the tough to get the ball out of Orlando 104, Toronto 103 Turkoglu caught up with him, shots, Mo was able to hit Mavs would throw more dou­his hands if the shooters are Dwight Howard had 29 pushing Bosh hard to the sonw shots. It really disrupt­ble-teams at Paul, hoping to shooting like that." points and 20 rebounds, his ground. ed what they were trying to get the ball out of the star Dallas got its deficit briefly second straight 20-20 game, Howard picked up a techni­do." point guard's hands. back to single digits behind and the Orlando Magie beat cal in the third quarter jaw­
The series now moves to The strategy backfired 16 first-half points from the Toronto Haptors on ing with Delfino after the Dallas, where the llornnts badly from the start. Paul Nowitzki and 10 from Tuesday night for a 2-0 lead making a layup, plus the foul Howard. in their first-round playoff on the guard in the third 
But the Mavs hurt them­series. quarter. selves with seven turnovers Chris Bosh had 29 points The Haptors took.their first in the seeond period, which and 10 rebounds for Toronto, lead of the series in the third the Hornets converted into but missed a 19-l'ooter with quarter, using a 7-0 run to go 10 points, often in transition, 1.9 seconds left that eould ahead fJ4-SCJ. Orlando was 0­as they widened their lead to have won the game. Jason for-5 to start the quarter, but 67-51 by halftime. Kapono seored 20 points, regained an 81-71 lead after 
Whatever adjustments the Jose Caldnron had 1S and Nelson's two 3-pointers and M·avs made at the break, Carlos Delfino added 16 for Howard's buekel that prPeed­their plight only got worse. the Haptors. ed his technical. 
Paul seored six quiek points Jameer Nelson and Hashard Fo r t h e s (H: o n d s t r a i g h t on two free throws, a driving Lewis eaeh scored 1 S for game, Toronto got buriPd in layup and a running l'loater, Orlando. lledo Turkoglu a double-digit deficit in tlw thnn Slojakovic hit two made the go-ahead layup and opnning minutos, this time jumpers, the second for his f'inished with 12 points and from inside. Orlando was 
fourth 3 of the game, giving nino rebounds. only 1-of-S on :~-pointnrs in New Orlnans an S0-5H lead. Toronto, whieh trailed most thn period al'tr1r a 9-of-11 
Peterson then got involved or the game, look a 1() 1-100 perforrnanen in c;amo I, but with two 3s and jumpnr, and lead with 1:04 lnfl on lhren opnnnd a 2(J-S load on thn llornnts, who shot (J4 consneutivn 3-pointnrs, one Nelson's slash to tlw buckPt perennt through lhnw quar­from Delfino and two by X:04 into tlw ganw. ters, led CJ0-(J6 after West Calderon, plus a fren throw Thn Magie had fivP dunks scored while backing in on by Dnlfino. in lhl' first six minutPs _ Bass. But Turkoglu drovP lhP including thn1n in a row on 
Bass, a foreo inside during lanP for an acrobatic layup to l'ast bn~aks otT a stnal ftwo by this gamo. responded with put Orlando back on top, Turkoglu and cJJiP from ninP points during the 102-101, llwn sank two fnw LPwis). rnmaindnr of thP pnriod, throws to push tlw lnad to ThP Raptors. who tiPd a making it 91)-79 !wading into threP points. DPII"ino rnadn fran<"hisP playol'l' low with tlw final pnriod. another layup to makP it eight turrwvPrs in GamP I. 
Early in t.hn fourth. Paul I 0 4-I 0 3 w i t h 1) . h s tH~ o n d s had that many in tlw l"irsl 1:~ scorPd six quirk points on a IPrt, and tlw Haptors imrnndi-rninut.Ps. 



Wednesday, April 23, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles head to Kalamazoo 
Saint Mary's can secure a spot in the MIAA playoffs with series sweep 
By LAURA MYERS Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's (20-7 overall, 9­3 MIAAI travels to last place Kalamazoo (3-21 overall. 1-11 MIAAI today. in a quest to secure a placp, in the MIAA playoffs. The Bolles are cur­rently in third place, and the top four move on to tho post­season. 
If tho Belles sweep the IlornPts, they will clinch a spot in the tournament. 
Coach Erin Sullivan said she is confident with the team's position with only four games left to play. 
"I feel great about where we arc right now," she said. "We couldn't be happier." 
The Hornets are coming off two 8-0 losses to Tri-State, with two hits in each game. They have lost f'ive straight games. 
Despite its losing record, Sullivan said her team is not taking Kalamazoo lightly. 
"On any given day, any team can win," she said. 
The Belles are coming off of a successful weekend. when they won three of four games on Friday and Saturday. They have either swept or split every doubleheader they've played this season. 
Senior pitcher McKenna has overpowered opponents for plays Kalamazoo. Corrigan, who will start the most of the season. Sophomore "We will go out and continue second game, went 4-for-7 Ashley Peterson, who leads the to play our hardest," she said, with four RBis and three runs team with a .484 batting aver­"and hopefully secure a confer­scored in the two games she age, is also an important factor ence tournament berth with started over the weekend. Her in the attack. two wins." record is a perfect 11-0. Sullivan said that the team's 
Corrigan is a major contribu­approach to pitching and hit­Contact Laura Myers at tor in the Belles' offense, which ting will not change when it lmyers2@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(57 4) 234-2436

I· 



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April 23, 2008 
Dantley 
continued from page 20 
in a sensn. lin gave some great speeches." 
34 years later. Dantley finds himself on the Nuggets side­line. But, as an assistant coach, he sees his role as less of a motivator and more of a tnacher of fundamentals. lie also trios to eneouragn his 
Cougars 
continued from page 20 
Schrage was impressnd with Lilley's all-around performance in tho game. 
"Brntl Lilley had a grnat day, he got hit by a pitch, mad1~ a diving catch in a clutch situation, and had a homor." said Schrage. 
Mills tlum hammerod a pitch to tho wall in eonter field, spneding around the bases for a triple. A Pollock sac fly plat1~d Mills li1r the third run of the inning, extending to lead to 4-0. 
The Cougars answered back in tho top of sixth. finally touching up Dupra fin· filUr hil<; and two runs in the inning to cut tim Irish lead to 4-2. 
Notre Damn broke the game open in tho bottom of the inning with seven runs, chasing Goya from the game. Lilley singled home two runners for his third and fourth RBI on the day, and senior left fielder Ross Brezovsky extended his hitting streak to 17 games with a single. 
With the lead already extended to 8-2. junior first baseman Evan Sharpley hit his team-leading ninth home run of the year with two aboard. Sharpley crushed the first pitch he saw from Cougars junior reliever Patrick Hernandez far over the 380 foot sign in right eenterlield to give the Irish a nine run lead. 
Sophomore outfielder Braden Ashdown added a run to the Notre Dame lead with a solo shot over the left field fenee, the first homer of his career. 
Dupra struck out five and scat­tered seven hits in his seven innings of work, picking up his second win of the season. Sophomore reliever Evan Danieli finished otr the Cougars, striking out four and holding Chicago State 

scoreless  over  the  final  two  
innings.  
Schrage  said  he  was  very  

impressed with the performances he received from his young pitch­ers in the game. 
"Brian was able to throw three pitches for strikes, he's really becoming a pitcher," Schrage said of the freshman. "I was really pleased with how Evan Danieli threw the ball the last two innings, he threw with some good velocity and I was very impressed." 
The Irish will faee another non­confernnce opponent today, travel­ing to Fort Wayne to play IPFW at 7:30p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Purdue 
continued from page 20 
ending double play on thn lineout of Purdtw junior infielder Katie Mitdwll and a tag-out to end the inning. 
The bats stayed silent for the Irish all game, with the only hits coming from senior l1d'tfielder Sarah Smith. senior second base­man Katie Laing, junior designated hitter Bnth Northway, and fresh­lll1Ul catdwr Erin Marrone. 
"The mental approach of our hitters W<L<;n't that great li1r the ofl'­spend pitches we were facing," Lemire said. "We wnm trying to hit the pitcher's strength instead of waiting f(Jr good pitches." 
Things li~ll apart for the Irish in the seventh, when the Boilermaknrs were abln to string some offense together. Purdue sophomore catcher Jenna Alexander walked to open up the inning and was advanced to sec­ond basn on a sacrifice bunt by sophomore outfielder A'ihley Barr. A single from junior outfielder Christina Trauger into center field scored pinch-runner sophomore second baseman Amy Butcher from second to end the game. 
"Bargar's only downfall was the lead-ofT walk in the seventh," Lemire said. 
Notre Dame 3, Purdue 1 
"It feels great to get a win," Lmnin1 said. 
Tho second game against the Boilennakers started oil' with some much needed ollense, when junior third b<L<>eman Unda Kohan came through once again for the Irish when they needed it most with an HBI in the first inning, scoring Fleury who had singled and stolen seeond base. 
"We have relied on Kohan to come up in the clutch for us all year," Lemire said. "And she came through for us again today." 
The Irish added to the lead in the top of the third when Smith put herself into scoring position by sin­gling and stealing second base. 'l'hlm Laing came to the plate and was able to got an RBI single to plate Smith. 
Freshman Jody Valdivia (8-6) earned the start for the Irish, and responded to the impressive per­formance of Bargar with a strong outing of her own. Valdivia went 
4.2 innings with four hits, an earned run, two walks, and four strikeouts. 
"Valdivia had a great game and kept her pitch-count down," Lemirn said. "She only had a cou­ple walks and we're really proud of her." 

The Boilermakers brought the score back to within one with a solo homerun from junior short­stop Candace Curtis in the third inning. That would be their only run of the game, however, as Bargar came on in relief in the 
fifth. 

Adding an insurance run in the seventh inning was an HBI single from Fleury that brought junior pinch-hitter Stephanie Mola home. That score would hold up, giving the Irish the split. 
Lemire would like to see the team pick up the intensity as the team nears the Big East and NCAA tournaments. 
"Our biggest challenge is to play with the mentality that it is tourna­ment time," Lemire said. "We need to settle into our own and pick up the intensity." 
Thursday's game against Loyola­Chicago that begins at 5 p.m. is fireworks night at Melissa Cook Stadium. The Irish will look to start getting into posl<>eason mode in the double-header. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 
"We're scoring 14-15 goals a game, but not just one person is doing the heavy lill.ing. Everyone is contributing to the team's ollimsn." 
Senior goaltender Joey Kemp recordml nine saves with only two goal'> in lilly minutes of play to aid Notre Dame's dnli\nse. 
"Del'ensiw~ly we played great," Corrigan said. "We held them to two goals until later in the game, which put us in a great position to win." 
The Irish didn't hesit.ate to ignite their oll'nnsive attack. Sophomore midlieldnr K1\lly McKnnna seored at the 1I :46 mark in the first peri­od to rn~gin a 7-0 run . .Junior mid­fielder Dan (;ibson. sophomore rnidlielder (;rant Kmbs, Wharton, and I licks wont on to noteh liJUr goals within two and a half min­playnrs to be self-motivated. 
"Sometimes you get excited, but pros are difl'erent than col­lege," he said. "I wasn't [an emotional! kind of player any­way. I played the same every gamn." 
Dantley, who is responsible for the Nuggets' big men, said the biggest change between coaching and playing is that he has to keep track of the progress of all his players, rather than just worrying 
utes, and the Irish ended the peri­od with a commanding 5-0 lead over the Faleons. 
The Irish improved their lead to seven at the start of the second period when Hoff and Wharton scored. Air Force fmally got on the board with 5:27 remaining in the period, scoring baek-to-baek goals to cut thP deficit to five. The Irish retaliated when senior midfielder Michael Podgajny and freshman midl'ielder Zach Brenneman seored, allowing the Irish to enter halftime with a 9-2 lead over the Faleons. 
The Irish carried their successful ollensive tactics into the third peri­od oul<;coring the Falcons 2-0 with goals lrom 1-Iofl' and I licks. 
Junior midl'ielder Peter· Christman and lrnshman midfield­er Billy Maloney tallied the final two Irish goals of tim game in the lhurth period. The Faleons seored the final three goals of the game designating resulting in the day's about himself. 

"Coaching you have to worry about all the players on your team," he said. "Playing, you just worry about yourself." 
The Nuggets trail the Los Angeles Lakes one game to none in their first round playoff series. The series continues tonight at 10:30 in Los Angeles. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
final score of 13-5. 

The Irish continue their season Saturday, hosting conferenee oppo­nent Ohio State. 
"Right now Ohio State is playing as confidently as anybody in the country," Corrigan said. "They are very athletie and play very aggres­sively at both ends of the field. It's going to be a great game we're very excited." 
The match will end the confer­ence season for the Irish and will begin at 12 p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium. 
"If we win the next three games, not only are we going into the tour­nament but having played very well at the end of the year when it eounl<;, but we're also putting our­selves in a great position," Corrigan said. "But right now all we need to do is beat Ohio State, and that's all we're focusing on." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

Store Your Stun
Over the su~r~merl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2769 
6482 B~ck Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd. & US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 

Wednesday, April 23, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLACK DoG 
f'Eot>LE, VIC-TORIA'S SECREo-T 's ~Lf ~FITS A~ I)DwN (2-"7., ANI) I THINK WE )I.L.L KNow WHY: WE.'vE BE.:.bME. Toe SEX(. 
LOLLERSKATES 
NO, <;HE'S V<>T POII'.!T. \./OMEN !>ON'T WANT To BE 
O&lELTIFIEJ> TH~liG'H SKIMP"( CI-C>iHING-. 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
VICTORIAN SECfZET 
DIDIER LEWIS 

The Power of BIG Sunglasses. 
Men, do not be fooled. 

LINAPAEK
THE SINGLE LIFE 



Answer: One might say that the movie stars turned the demolition derby into a -"SMASH" HIT 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Francis Capra, 25; Eric Mabius, 37; Ryan Stiles, 49; Jack Nicholson, 72 
Happy Birthday: Home, family and your own well-being should take top prior­ity this year. If change is necessary, make it happen instead of thinking about it. Don't give in to pressure to contribute to something that isn't going to make a dif­ference to your life or environment. You be the judge. Your numbers are 9, 21, 25, 30, 44, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You'll be thinking too big and trying to do too much and that will be your downfall today. You have to keep your emotions down and your common sense up in order to finish well whatever you are doing. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Nothing can stop you once you've made up your mind. Take action at home and you will spark others to take part in your plans. Feeling good about your lifestyle and surroundings will make a difference to your morale. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): Someone will try to take advantage of you. You may be tempted to take an impromptu trip or to delve into something totally dif­ferent. Don't let too much change scatter you. Focus will get you ahead today. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Social events, networking or taking on a new hobby should all be at the top of your list but don't do any of the above because someone else wants you to. Do things for your benefit and knowledge. 5 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is someone_yon shouldn't trust just waiting to put you in an awkward position. Let others go first for a change. You are far better off knowing what you are dealing with rather than having to do damage control later on. 2 stars VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): Home, family and loved ones should all take prior­ity over helpmg someone you aren't close to get ahead. Pull everyone you care about together for a worthwhile activity. Plan an entertaining time that will help build a close bond. 4 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Temptation is likely to get to you. At least be smart and put your money in a safe place. The Jess you have to be frivolous with or to give away, the better. Don't let someone you Jove or are trying hard to impress bamboozle you. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Listen to what everyone else says before you share your opinions. Someone in a senior position or who can alter your life negatively will do so if ~ou leave the wrong impression. Prepare to rework some­thing that raises complamts. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't get so emotional you miss the point or you don't get things done. Put whatever is not working off to the side and move 
ahead with the plans that will bring positive results. Someone may question your true feelings. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll want to do everything for everyone and in a lavish way that will leave a long-lasting impression. Go the distance and do 
whatever is needed to win popularity and favors. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't look for excuses or someone will stand up 
to you and question your lack of responsibility. You have to deal with issues in­
stead of running from them. It may not be easy but, once you follow through, you 
will feel much better about your future. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take an idea you have and develop it. You will 
soon have something tangible to work with and people interested in what you are 
doing. There is money to be made if you invest m your own ideas, plans and 
future. 5 stars 

Birthday Baby: You are serious-minded, stubborn and dedicated to following through with your plans. You are loyal, steadfast and a great friend. You are emo­tional and relentless in love and in war. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=t-=-t~:::...r:-1 
1-'-'-lf-'-1~-'+"+;;;.... •lit-"+'+'+"+-+-+"'~ 
--'-+-'+"+"-+-'-1 


-
JUMBLE 

JlllJMmiE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KAYWG 
[XJ I I 
1£>2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
K~~~~-l)
[ J I
tHARTTO IIJ I www.jurnble.com NURTAT j  (]  
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  BASIN  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
WHE:N THE: PHONY TRAP~ ARTIST FE:L-1.-INTO THE: NE:T, HE: WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) CHESS MARLIN HIATUS 
CROSSWORD 
Across Convenience. store sign 4 "Coming soon" 
messages 
10 Churls lack it 
14 Constrictor 
15 Convincing, as 
an argument 16 Confess openly 17 c 19 Cosmos legend 20 Celebrity 
biographer Hawes 21 Charlotte of "The Facts of Life" 23 Canape topping 24 Coleridge, for one 27 Curved motorcycle part 29 Criticizes harshly 30 Concluding appearance 32 Clive Cussler's Gold" 33 Coal scuttle 
34 Conked out for good 
37 Completely wowed 38 Columnist Hopper 
41 Comedy series award, maybe 
42Con (animatedly, in music) 
43 Countless years 44 Commuter's choice 45 Collects one's winnings 49 Creature at SeaWorld 
50 Clarify 
52 Closely related 
53 Comic strip prince's son 54 Civil rights org. that became a governing party 55 Clerk, to a bus. owner 58 Cole Porter's Do It" 
60C 
65 Critic James 
66 Come aboard, in a way 
67 Comfy retreat 
68 Cartoon explorer 
69 Cowley and Keats 70 Coach in Little League. often 
Down "Charlie's 
Angels" airer 2 Come head 3 Cause damage 
to 4 Cuts for agts. 5 Circumambulate 6 Cruel person 7 Coloratura's 
home, with "the" 8 Consequence of a solo homer 9 Cremona collectibles, for 
short 10 Choose 11 c 12 Crayon choice 13 Coarse wool 
fabric 18 Concentrates on specific 
achievement 
22 Conceit 
24 Cassandra's father 25 "Capitalism" rock group_ Boingo 
26C 27 Crossest 28 Committed to 
the truth, in court 30"Can it!" 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Larry Shearer  
31 Cry of grief  47 Chief  57 Credit  
35 Capua friends  48 City near  application figs.  
36 "Chimes of  Cleveland  59 Coral  
Freedom" songwriter  50 Course before an entree  61 Cardinals, on scoreboards  
39 Crosby's "So "  51 Competitor of Ragu  62 Count up  
40Cape_  55 C.I.A. betrayer  63 Casserole  
46 Captors of Patty  Aldrich  morsel  
Hearst: Abbr.  56 Catch sight of  64 Close  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minl:lte; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 23, 2008 page 20 


.... 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

30 years after ND, Dantley finds success in coaching ranks 
Notre Dame," Irish coaeh Mike Olympies and won the Gold throw line. "I remember when we wonBy CHRIS KHOREY Brey said of Dantley's introduc­Medal game over Yugoslavia. "He was one of the best ever the game how excited the stu­
Senior Spons Writer 

tion. He went on to a 15-year career to draw fouls," Phelps said. dent body was," Dantley said. Dantley played forward for in the NBA and played for "He had a natural instinct to "UCLA was definitely the best It's been quite the spring for the Irish under coach Digger seven different teams. draw fouls." team. They were the team back Adrian Dantley. Phelps from 1973-76. lie was Brey said he thought the Hall Dantley, however, said it was­in those days." 
Tho former Notn~ Dame star, Notre Dame's leading seorer in of Fame waited too long to n't so mueh skill as luck that Dantley said Phelps fired up who is now an assistant eoach 1974-75 and 1975-76, averag­induct Dantley. lie said the for­got him to the line so often. the Irish squad with a rousing for tho Denver Nuggets, has his ing around 30 points per game ward's career was good enough "A lot of guys were dumb and pep talk before the game. team in tho NBA Playoffs and in both seasons. that he should have been in the fouled me," he said. "Everything was different for was indueted into tho Naismith "lie was one of the great Hall "10 or 15 years ago." Dantley said his best memory that game," Dantley said. "llis Memorial Basketball Hall of ones to ever play here," Phelps Phelps said what he remem­at Notre Dame came in 1974, pep speech pumped the guys Fame on April 7. said. bers most about Dantley was when the Irish upset UCLA 71-up. He was like Knute Hoekne 
"It's really powerful for our After eollege, Dantley played the forward's ability to draw 70, ending the Bruins' 88-game basketball program and for for the U.S. team in 1976 fouls and convert at the free winning streak. see DANTLEY/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Declawing the Cougars 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Entering Tuesday's game ranked fi1r the first time this season, No. 24 Notre Dame looked every bit a top-25 team in a 12-2 route of Chieago State at Eek Stadium. 
Freshman Brian Dupra gaw1 up just two runs in seven innings and the lrL'>h ofl'ense exploded for seven extra base hits in the win, induding three homeruns. 
Chieago State entered thP away game with a woeful 4-32 reeord, but the Cougars hung with the Big East leading Notrn Dame through the first li1ur innings. 
"This is probably the best Chieago State t1mm I've played against in ten years," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "I give them a lot of1:redit." 
Notrn Dame manufactured a run with some small ball in the bottom of tho first. beginning with senior leadofl' hitter Brntt Lilley getting plunked by the 100th hit by piteh of his ~~arner. Tho short.,top then stole third base after advaneing to snwnd on a sac:rilic~e bunt by sophomore designated hit­tnr David Mills. Sophomore outlieldnr A.J. Polloek then lined a pitch into centerfinld to drive home Lilley and put the Irish on thn board 1-0. 
Cougars snnior pitcher Chris Goya managnd to keep Notre Damn quint f(Jr the next thrno innings, and appeared to be in eontlmtion fi1r his first win of the snason with his team only down a run. 
Thn Irish brokn through against Goya in the filth, howev­nr. punishing the Chicago State pitcher with three extra­basn hiL.,. Frnshman eatehnr Cameron McConnell doubled to lnad ofr thn inning, and l.illny then blasted tho first pitch from Goya over the right field fimee for his sm~ond homPr of the year. 
see COUGARS/page 18 


MEN'S LACROSSE 
Laxers make it three straight 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Wri tcr 
No. 7 Notre Dame earned its third straight vietory Tuesday, defeating Air Foree 13-5 and improving iL" record to I 0-2, (3­
1). 
The Irish squad was lnd oflen­sively by senior attack Alex Wharton. sophomore attaek Neal I licks and junior attack Hyan Iloll', nach tallying two goals apiecn. Ten dillhrent Irish players rneord­nd goals during the mateh up, and Irish roach Kevin Corrigan attrib­utes some of his tl•am 's suceess to ib ommsivn divnrsity. 
"We'vn had different people S!~oring each game and that's reaJJy !HlCOUraging," he Said. 
see BUCKEYES/page 18 


PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer Senior attack Alex Wharton prepares to shoot in a 14-6 win over Denver April15, 2007. 

SOFTBALL 
Irish split doubleheader against Boilermakers 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame split its Tuesday afternoon series with Purdue, los­ing the first game 1-0 in a pitchers' duel that was decided in the Boilermakers' last at-bat before returning the favor in the late game, 3-1. 
Purdue 1, .Notre Dame 0 
Junior starting piteher Brittney Bargar (22-1 0) put in a strong per­formance for the IrL"h (30-1 6, 9-5 Big East) in the loss, doing what it took to get the Boilermakers (31­
17) out until the final inning. Bargar pitched 6 1/3 innings allowing live hits, four strikeoul<;, two walks and one earned run. 
"She had a really solid game," assistant coach Iizzy Lemire said. "She kept the ball down well and a had a great game overall eontrol­ling the hitters." 
In the second and sixth innings Bargar worked out of jams to keop the score knotted at 0-0. 
The second inning saw runners on second and third bases with two ouL" before Bargar was able to induee a kc1y groundball. 
An error eommitted by fresh­man short<;top Katie Fleury in the sixth allowed Boilermaker runners to take position on seeond and third with only one out. Bargar responded by earning an inning 
see PURDUE/page 18 






