
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Waller explains financial crisis 
New study space 

Professor says subprime mortgage mess will be hard to resolve 
By KAITLYNN REILY Associate News Editor 
The Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune was filled to the brim Thursday night with peo­ple interested to hear Notre Dame economics professor Christopher Waller explain the subprime mortgage mess and financial crisis or, as he wrote on a PowerPoint slide, "what in the hell just happened." 
Waller, the Gilbert F. Schaefer Chair in Economics, will be join­ing the Federal Reserve in St. Louis as senior vice president and director of research next summer. He spoke for nearly an hour. and he ended by saying that the current financial crisis 
see ECONOMY/page 6 

available for finals 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Writer 
The Career Center's inter­view rooms in Flanner Hall, as well as North Dining Hall and South Dining Hall, will be available as study space for the first time during finals week this semester. 
The opening of these rooms is a response to student con­cerns about a lack of guaran­teed group study spaces, stu­dent body vice president Grant Schmidt said. 
"From what I understand, a lot of students are excited 

I 
about this availability. I defi­

Economics professor Christopher Waller explains the roots of the nitely believe that it will be 
recent financial crisis in the Montgomery Auditorium Thursday. useful," he said. "Our goal is 
simply to provide students with the best accommoda­tions for their study plans during the exam schedule." 
Schmidt and Academic Affairs Committee Chair Ryan Brellenthin worked with the Advisor Committee on Academic and Student Life lACASL) and the Career Center. 
"We wanted to strive for a location, particularly during exam week, for students to be able to get together to pre­pare as a group," Schmidt said. 
Schmidt met with Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Ann Firth and 
see STUDY/page 4 

VOLUME 43: ISSUE 64 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5. 2008 

Reish helps develop new Web site 
Social network collegegovs.com opens lines ofcommunication between 118 student governments 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Student body president Bob Reish opened lines of communi­cation between 118 student body president<> of national universities to discuss issues relevant to all schools, such as town and gown relations and smoking bans on campuses, through an online social networking forum. 
Reish said the project began when he contacted Princeton's student government while researching for his campaign last semester and learned that the then-student government vice­president, Josh Weinstein, also had the idea to create a social networking site for student body 
Notre Dame efforthelps'poorestofpoor' 
Collected items totaling 2,000 pounds transported via airlift to Dominican Republic, Haiti 

ByJENNMETZ News Editor 
Two United States Air Force C-130s took off from Youngstown, Ohio, today, headed for the Dominican Republic. 
Their cargo: 50,000 pounds of clothing, in part collected by students, fac­ulty, staff and alumni of the University, to help the 'poorest of the poor' in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. 
The Notre Dame effort, coordinated as part of a 

presidents. The two collaborated to create the site collegegovs.com. 
"We only met because of that instance. We both had a shared vision for our student govern­ments," Reish said. "We started brainstorming and the social net­working site started." 
Weinstein, now Princeton's stu­dent government president, said he had considered the idea, but did not formulate plans until he and Reish jointly started the proj­ect. 
"Bob and I actually both came up with very similar ideas at dif­ferent times but neither of us moved forward with it until we 
see REISH/page 6 

project called "Poorest of the Poor: A Call to Solidarity -Round Table Discussions and A Clothing Drive for Haiti," con­tributed 300 boxes of cloth­ing, totaling 2,000 pounds, senior Greg Podolej, a member of the Haiti Working Group, said. 
The drive began Sept. 30 and lasted until Nov. 9, when student volunteers helped sort and load the clothing onto a truck head­ed for Youngstown, home of Dr. Paul Wright, a 1972 
see HAITI/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Hall hosts Christn1as celebration 
Carroll's annual event spreads holiday cheer 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
Students. faculty and com­munity members will gather outside Carroll Hall tonight 
for  the  11th  annual  "A  
Carroll  Christmas,"  the  
dorm's signature event.  

"[The goal of this event is] to spread Christmas cheer by singing loud and clear for all to hear," Carroll Hall presi­dent Kevin Jakopchek said. 
With the organizers of "A Carroll Christmas" anticipat­ing the largest crowd ever, the event's budget was increased 50 percent this year, from $2,000 to $3,000. 
Among the reasons for the increase· in budget was the addition of a heated tent on the Carroll lawn. 
"Due to ever expanding attendance we needed to add a heated tent for more space," Jakopchek said. 
The ceremony includes the blessing and lighting of Carroll's Christmas tree, along with a five-song set by the a capella group Big Yellow Taxi. 
Following the outside por­tion of the evening, atten­dees are invited into the dorm to partake in more fes­tivities. 
"After the lighting ceremo­ny, the party will move inside 
see CARROLLIpage 4 


~----------------------------------~ 
page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 Friday, December 5, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


To Chevy, vvith love 
I got the news Thursday morning that 
one of the longest relationships of my 
life was coming to an end. 
A friend sent me the link to the 
Washington Post article, and my heart 
sank as I read of your imminent end. 
Your own Web site had no such 
announcement, and 
I wonder if the pain 
Kaltlynn Rielly 

is too overwhelm­
ing for you to 
announce yourself 
Assistant News 

that you are leaving 
Editor 

me. The article said 
you could not com­
ment. 
The Post's headline -"Capitol One to 
buy local banking icon Chevy Chase" ­
broke my heart. 
Times are tough, I know, but I thought 
you were going to be okay. When other 
banks around the country failed, you 
seemed to remain resolute. I trusted my 
money with you. I knew you would keep 
it safe. 
But I read that you are unable to sur­
vive the current financial crisis, and 
that within the first three months of 
next year, Capitol One will buy you, for 
a sum of $520 million in cash and stock, 
acquiring the 250 branches that have 
bordered the highways and byways of 
my youth. 
I read that your branches will be 
"rechristened under the Capitol One 
logo." But I'll always remember your 
beautiful brick buildings, your white­
columned porticos, your large red signs 
and your plentiful ATMs. 
And I'll never forget our good times 
together. 
The first time I was aware of the con­
cept of banking was at one of your 
branches. My Girl Scout troop was given 
a tour, and we all received little Chevy 
Chase duffel bags. I used mine for 
sleepovers and soccer practices until it 
was worn. 
Growing up, I placed every check I received, for birthdays, for graduations, for First Communion, in my Chevy Chase Bank savings account. Per my parent's rules, I could not take the money out until I went to college, but you kept it safe and my money grew, if only a little, with interest. 
My friend's mom worked for you when I was younger, and one time, she took us to see an Orioles game from your box seats. Those were the days. 
The summer before I left for college, I opened a checking account, and received my first Chevy Chase Bank check card. You've watched as I've turned in different paychecks from dif­ferent jobs. You let me withdraw money from ATMs when I studied abroad, with no extra fee. 
And this summer, when my check card was close to expiring and I was afraid I would not receive my new card before I left to return to school. I called you, nervous. You told me you would send it to me right away, and two days later, I received my brand new card in the mail. 
I didn't know at the time it would be the last new Chevy Chase Bank card I'd ever receive. 
After I learned that Capitol One would soon buy my beloved bank, I opened my wallet. What's in my wallet? 
My Chevy Chase Bank check card. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Reily at kreily@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjounalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correc£ our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU LIKE TO DO IN THE SNOW? 







Brenden Andrew Brett Strand Lisa Floren Ryan Kavanagh 
freshman grad student senior freshman Duncan Duncan Lyons Duncan 
"/ like to throw "Sleigh rides. "! like to wear "Tackle snowballs at Only sleigh mittens-! don't Tiffany." cars. rides." touch snow without them. " 

ALLISON AMBROSEfThe Observer 

Students begin the Jingle Jog In front of South Dining Hall Thursday night. They ran to raise money for the Student Alumni Club. 
OFFBEAT 
NJ woman sues Pa. sports bar for toilet seat break 
ALLENTOWN, Pa. ­A woman is suing a Pennsylvania sports bar and restaurant, saying she got stuck inside a toilet bowl for 20 minutes after the seat broke. 
Kathleen Hewko of Delran Township, N.J., says she was in the bathroom at Starters Pub near Allentown when the handicapped toilet seat she was sit­ting on cracked and dumped her into the bowl. 
Hewko says in her lawsuit filed in federal court in November that she had hip surgery prior to the Nov. 19, 2006, incident and was re -injured when the seat broke. 
The lawsuit names Starters and Kohler Co., the company that made the toilet seat. 
Representatives from both companies said they couldn't com­ment. 
Forget socks, adopt a koala for Christmas 
SYDNEY -They're cute, they're cuddly 

and, in these times of financial woe, they make an affordable festive gift that's also good for the soul ­adopt a rescued koala. 
The "Adopt a Wild Koala Program" has be1;1n in operation for 15 years and is a major source of fund­ing for The Koala Hospital, the world's only medical facility dedicated to the care and preservation of the animals. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..I c( 
(,) 



0 
...I 
LOW 20 LOW 15 LOW 7 

IN BRIEF 
Badin Hall is hosting A Conscious Christmas today from noon to 5 p.m. They will be selling Fair Trade goods from Nepal. 
Community Celebration of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will be held at UAW Local #5 at 1426 S. Main St. south of downtown South Bend. The Celebration will take place on Saturday from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Please bring a donation for the Food Bank. 
Members of Saint Mary's Women's Choir will perform at the College's 36th annual Madrigal Dinners this weekend. Performances are Friday and Saturday at 7 
p.m. and Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets are $40 for evening per­formances, $35 for matinee performances and $15 for children. 
Circle K, Knott Hall and the Class of 2009 will make fleece blankets to donate to cancer patients as part of The Aidan Project. The project will take place Saturday from 11 a.m. to 
2:30 p.m. in the East Wing of South Dining Hall. 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball team plays Purdue at 2 p.m. Sunday in the Joyce Center. Call 574­631-7 356 for tickets or visit the Athletic Ticket Office Web page. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mailed detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 27 HIGH 30 LOW 20 LOW 18 
e.
**•. 
0.
* ..v, •• 
* *<It"·* 

Atlanta 50 I 39 Boston 41 I 32 Chicago 25 I 16 Denver 40 I 12 Houston 55 I 41 Los Angeles 69 I 53 Minneapolis 26 I 9 New York 40 I 32 Philadelphia 41 I 32 Phoenix 74 I 51 Seattle 47 I 34 St. Louis 38 I 22 Tampa 77 I 57 Washington 43 I 33 
Friday, December 5, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Chrisbnas program helps those in need 
By ALICIA SMITH News Writer 
Students and faculty members, as well as clubs and organizations at Saint Mary's, can "adopt" a fami­ly or an individual as part of the program and purchase Christmas gifts for them as part of the College's 12 Days of Christmas. 
During the 12 days, participants also rai'ie money to donate to their families. 
The program, run by the Office for Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE), began on Dec. 1 and will continue until Dec. 12. 
"We adopted 15 families and 15 individuals." Carrie Call. director of the OCSE, said. "Usually, we take about this number because we've found it's manageable given the nwnber of people at Saint Mary's College involved and the amount of money we can raise. " 
This year, the College adopted more families than usual. Call said, in order to "try and alleviate some of the pressing need that local agencies are experiencing due to the poor economy." 
Families were chosen from the Salvation Army. the College's part­ner Title 1 schools and an organi­zation called Grandparents as Parents. Some individuals came from Mental Health America and REAL Services. 
Throughout the event, the OCSE is hosting multiple fundraising functions. Each residence hall will participate in a fundraising event called Penny Wars. Candy grams, T-shirts and mugs are also being sold during the 12 days. On Dec. 12, the College will hold a Craft Show and Sale, which will also ben­efit those in need. 
Although the program promotes helping ihese families during the holiday season, there are also other events on the schedule, Call said. 
"The event is not meant to be just about gift giving. It's also meant to be an educational time to learn about traditions like Posadas and Kwanza and to engage in opportu­nities for spiritual reflection," she said. 
Each day there will be a different event that takes place at the College, such as a holiday dinner where children and residents from the Center for the Homeless will join the students for a meal. Other events include ornament decorat­ing, vespers services, card decorat­ing, bell ringing for the Salvation Army, gingerbread house making and a cookie decorating party. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Madrigaldinner to beheld at College 
Choir hosts three-night event, renaissance themed performances 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
This weekend, the Saint Mary's Madrigal choir, along with students, staff. faculty and community volunteers, will host the 36th annual Madrigal Christmas Dinner. 
The three-night event fea­tures four separate renais­sance-themed performances and meal productions, said the Leighton Chair of Music and director of the Madrigal choir Dr. Nancy Menk. 
While the event originally showcased a co-ed choir for two matinee and two evening shows, the program switched over to an all-women choir about four years ago due to trouble finding male volun­teers, Menk said. 
The 24-member Madrigal choir is composed by Saint Mary's students at all levels and in various fields of study, she said. 
There are also student and faculty servers, actors, trum­pet players and crew, she said. 

Other participants, like the Andrews University Early Music Ensemble, who are playing the part of The Royal Consort, come from outside of Saint Mary's, Menk said. 
The menu for the dinner, provided by Saint Mary's/Sodexho Dining Services, consists of roast beef au jus at the evening showings, and stuffed Cornish game hen at the matinees. 
There are also roasted potatoes, glazed carrots, a winter salad and bread. 
In addition to the adult courses, last year, a chil­dren's menu and children's ticket price of $15 was intro­duced. 
"Now they have chicken fin­gers," Menk said. 
The new menu and ticket option were implemented to try and draw more children to the event, Menk said. 
"Kids love it," she said. 
Though this is the 36th appearance of the dinner at Saint Mary's, it is Menk's 25th performance. 
Menk said she enjoys per­forming, but her favorite part 
of the dinner is when the boar's head is brought out. 
The traditional song that is sung during this, The Boar's Head Carol, had to be arranged differently after the choir became all-women, she said, so she asked a composer from Alaska, Grant Cochran. to modify a four-part male arrangement to a four-part female arrangement for the choir. 
"It's always fun to watch the people's faces as we pass the boar's head around on a platter," Menk said, "It's a really traditional part of any Madrigal dinner." 
The Madrigal Christmas Dinner has become an impor­tant part of the Christmas celebration for many South Bend residents, Menk added. Some people bring office groups to the dinner, while others make it a family tradi­tion, she said. 
"There are people who make it a part of their annual holiday traditions," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at mstiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Christopher's coming to SMC 
Auditorium Saturday and
By MEGAN LONEY 

Sunday.
News Wrirer 

Christopher's Christmas is the tale of a young mouse 
The Christmas Spirit is that attempts to bring the joy coming to Saint Mary's of the holiday season to his Moreau Center for the Arts scrooge of a great uncle. this weekend when the Chris Sallak, who is in 
Werbrouck School of Dance will present Christopher's Christmas in O'Laughlin 

charge of the marketing and media for events happen­ing in the Moreau Center, said it is important for Saint Mary's to be involved with communi­ty organiza­tions. 
"I think it is very important that we host community events at Saint Mary's," Sallak 
"! think it is very 
Sallak said. important that we Approximately 
500 people are

host community 
expected to events at Saint attend each 
performance of

Mary's.,, 
Christopher's 
Christmas this 
weekend.

Chris Sallak 
"Some Saint


head of marketing 
Mary's students and media for do attend the event, however

Moreau Center 
said. "Hosting these events provides the community an opportunity to see why Saint Mary's College is a special place and hopefully encour­age them to come back for another event or even to attend Saint Mary's as a stu­dent." 
This is not the first time the Werbrouck School of Dance has worked in collab­oration with Saint Mary's to put on performances. The 
company has been having shows at Saint Mary's for at least 15 years. 
"I think that the long term partnership demonstrates the dedication and profes­sionalism of our staff, the love of the arts by the College and the desire to assist the community," 
the majority of 
the patrons are 

from the sur­rounding community," Sallak said. "Some patrons make this a yearly Christmas tradi­tion while others are coming to see their child or grand­child perform." 
Show times will be Saturday from 7 p.m. to 9 
p.m. and a matinee perform­ance on Sunday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Please recycle The Observer. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 5, 2008 


Carroll 
continued from page I 
where we will have cookies, hot choeolate and cider as well as a choeolate foun­tain," said Jakopehek. "We will also have Christmas karaoke, card signing for our troops abroad and Santa and his elves will be available for pieture tak­ing." 
Along with the planning the nvents of the evening, 
"/The goal of this
members of halls and the planning event is/ to spread LaFortune," 
committee Christmas cheer by Jakopchek 
have been said. "We also
singing loud and
working to had table 
decorate clear for all to hear. " tents on every Carroll to table at South ensure its Dining Hall,
Kevin Jakopchek 
decorations LaFortune
Carroll Hall president 
arn the best 
they have ever been. Traditional Christmas adornments, such as wreaths, garland, and paper snowflakes, will decorate the dorm, in addi­tion to an eight-foot inf'lat­able Santa. There will also be lights strung around nearly every possible place within the vicinity of Carroll Hall. 
"There will be lots of lights," Jakopchek said. 

Study 
continued from page 1 Director of Food Services 
Dave Prentkowski before up to a week in advance," Fall Bn~ak to finalize the Brellenthin said. "That is use of the dining halls as something that cannot be study space. said about LaFortune, the 
The east side of South library, or just about any Dining Hall other study will be avail­space on cam­
"One ofthe nicest 
able for study. pus." 
In North features about these The Career Dining llall, Center has
rooms is that they are 
one room on m a d e
able to be reserved up 
the south side arrangements will be open to a week in so that stu­for quiet advance." dents may study while access the the other will building and
Ryan Brellenthin
serve as a restrooms group study Academic Affairs chair with student 
space. Each of thesn rooms will be open Dec. 14 through Dec. 19, between 9 p.m. and 2 a.m. Student Government will pay the security costs of the two dining halls during these hours. 
The Dining Halls may be used as study space during spring semester finals if Student Government sees a large turnout and positive response from students, Schmidt said. 
ACASL, which has been addressing the issue of study spaces since last year, began to consider the usc of the Career Center in early November, Brellenthin said. 
University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman and Career Cnnter director Lee Svete organ­ized the use of the rooms 
and  at most  
tables  at  
North Dining IIall."  

As Notre Dame prepares for Christmas, many dorms are taking time to decorate their extoriors as well as their interiors. The men of Carroll feel that their event will raise Christmas spirit around campus "immeasur­ably," Jakopchek said. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
with the help of Brellenthin, who advised them about student needs. 
"One of the nicest features about these rooms is that they are able to be reserved 
Jakopchek said there would be around 1,000 peo­ple in attendance. This is partially due to the multiple ways the men of Carroll publicized the event. 
Jakopchek said they cre­ated a Faeebook group to invite massive amounts of people to attend. The organizers also printed off over 1,200 flyers to hand out to the student body at various locations around campus. 
"We had 1,200 flyers and candy canes that will be 
distributed ... 
at the dining 
IDs. 
Students must call the Interview Center to reserve a room in advanee. If the program continues in the future, Brellenthin said ACASL will explore online reservation options. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Gooks bought <lfld sold 

• 
:~.s.ooo Hardb,tck and Paperback books in slO<.k 


• 
Out-of-Print SNn:h service 

• 
Appraisals large and sma!! 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday1 027 E. Wayne South Btmd, IN 46617 232-H444 

Haiti 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame graduate who began collecting clothes for those in impoverished coun­tries after meeting Mother Teresa. 
Erin Wash, a member of the Class of 2009 Council, discussed the idea of a drive bringing together the joint efforts of students and alumni at a conference last April, as reported in an Oct. 28 Observer article about the clothing drive. 
In addition to the clothing drive, the project featured lectures and the showings of two documentary films to help raise awareness of the situation in Haiti. 
Podolej said collection boxes were placed in vari­ous loca­t i o n s 

"We all want thank
around campus­the students, faculty, including 
staffand alumni who 
dormito­

helped donate." 
ries, din­ing halls and aca­Gregory Podolej d e m i c 
member 
buildings. 

Haiti Working Group
Students at Notre Dame, he said, "made a tan­gible contribution" to the clothing drive, and alumni returning to campus during the football season also made an impact. 
Collection boxes were also placed in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, which offered a 20 percent-off coupon to those who made donations, Podolej said. 
When the boxes arrived in Youngstown, they were added to the 48,000 pounds of clothing Wright had pre­viously collected. 
The Observer was given a copy of a letter Wright wrote 


the with pilots, land 
Santiago, both 
clothing] down. " 
in the Dominican Republic. At Gregory Podolej the two air­member ports, repre­
Haiti Working Group 
sentatives from the 64 Rotary Clubs in the Dominican Republic will unload the cargo and plaee the boxes of clothing on trucks to be taken to distri­bution locations, like churches and mission cen-
Notre Dame students help sort the 2,000 pounds of clothing collected in the Stepan Center this November. 
to the Air Force, expressing his gratitude for its help in 
the delivery of the 
clothing. 

"The Air Force 
was instrumental in 
helping take [the 
clothing] down," 
Podolej said. 

The letter said 
one of the planes, 
manned with four 
pilots is destined 
for Santo Domingo, 
while other, 

"The Air Force was
three 

will instrumental in in helping take [the 
the drive: "We all want thank the students, faculty, staff and alumni who helped donate," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
ters that serve the poor. 
About one-third of the donations will help those in need in the Dominican Hepublie and the rest will be sent to Haiti. 
Wright himself will travel to Santo Domingo Dec. 7, and remain in the Dominiean Hepublic to develop a medical clinic to serve the poor. 
Podolej, students one of the many 
from the Haiti Working Group and Student Government who worked together on the project, expressed his gratitude to all of the members of the Notre Dame communi­ty who made a contribution to 


Friday, December 5, 2008 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prime minister closes government 
OTTAWA -Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper shut down Parliament on Thursday in an unprecedented attempt to keep his government in power, fending off a no-con­fidence vote he was all but certain to lose. 
Less than two months after winning re-elec­tion, Harper successfully asked the unelected representative of the head of state for the power to close down Parliament until Jan. 26, hoping to buy enough time to develop a stimu­lus package that could prop up the economy. 
"Today's decision will give us an opportunity -I'm talking about all the parties -to focus on the economy and work together," Harper said after the private meeting. 
Governor General Michaelle Jean, who rep­resents Britain's Queen Elizabeth II as head of state, granted the unusual request to suspend parliament. 1\ad she refused, Harper would have had two choices: step down or face a no­confidence vote Monday he was sure to lose. 
Cholera epidemic strikes Zimbabwe 
HARARE, Zimbabwe -Zimbabwe declared a national emergency over a cholera epidemic and the collapse of its health care system, and state media reported Thursday the government is seeking more international help to pay for food and drugs to combat the crisis. 
The failure of the southern African nation's health care system is one of the most devastating effects of the country's overall economic col­lapse. 
Facing the highest inflation in the world, Zimbabweans are struggling just to eat and find clean drinking water. The United Nations says the number of suspected cholera cases in Zimbabwe since August has climbed above 12,600, with 570 deaths, because of a lack of water treatment and broken sewage pipes. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Teenage workers charged with abuse 
ALBEHT LEA, Minn. -Two teenage girls who worked at a nursing home have been charged with abuse, accused of taunting, spit­ting on and groping the breasts and genitals of residents who suffered from Alzheimer's dis­ease and other dementia disorders. 
According to the criminal complaint, filed Monday, 19-year-old Brianna Broitzman and 18-year-old Ashton Larson laughed earlier this year as they spat in residents' mouths, poked and grabbed them, and at times mocked them until they screamed. 
Broitzman and Larson, who worked as part­time aides at the home, have been charged as adults. 
No one answered the phone Thursday morning at Broitzman's home. There was no information in court records on attorneys for either teen. 
Couple charged with torture 
STOCKTON, Calif. -A California couple has been charged with kidnapping and torturing a 17 -year-old boy police say they sometimes kept shackled in their home. 
The boy's one-time guardian, who also stayed in the couple's home with the teenager, was also charged with similar abuse allegations. 
Kelly Layne Lau and her husband, Michael Schumacher, both of Tracy, are charged with 13 count•; related to the alleged abuse. The former guardian, Caren Ramirez, is charged with 10 counts. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man sentenced 17 years for tax crimes 
INDIANAPOLIS -A Chesterton man has been sentenced to more than 17 years in prison for federal tax crimes. 
A federal judge sentenced Timothy Shawn Dunn to 17 years and 6 months in prison. Dunn will also be liable for about $315,000 for unpaid taxes, penalties and interest. 
Dunn owned a Highland financial advisory business called Moneyfacts. Authorities say Dunn and live other defendants were part of a scheme to market and sell sham trusts through the Aegis Company. The Aegis Company was based in Palos Hills, Ill., but is now defunct. 

added that Fleury had wrongly assured Guiffre and Spano that it was legal for children to use the Uzi under Massachusetts law. 
"A Micro Uzi is made by and for the Israeli Armed Forces and is intended to meet the operational needs of Israeli Special Forces," Bennett said, noting that the weapon has a rate of fire of 20 to 25 rounds per second. "It is not a hunting weapon." 
Thomas Drechsler, an attorney for the club, said it continues to extend its "deepest sympathy" to the Bizilj family, but denies any wrongdoing. He said nei­ther the club nor any mem-

Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. ­Three men, including a small-town police chief, were indicted Thursday on involuntary manslaughter counts in the gun-fair death of an 8-year-old who acci­dentally shot himself in the head with an Uzi that a prosecutor said he never should have been allowed to handle. 
The club where the fair was held also was charged. The fair had promised shooters would have certi­fied instructors in an adver­tisement, but District Attorney William Bennett said the child, Christopher Bizilj, was supervised by an uncertified 15-year-old boy. 
Christopher, of Ashford, Conn., lost control of the 9mm micro submachine gun as it recoiled while he was firing at a pumpkin Oct. 26 at the Machine Gun Shoot and Firearms Expo at the Westfield Sportsman's Club in western Massachusetts. 
Pelham Police Chief Edward Fleury was charged because he owns the spon­sor of the gun fair, COP Firearms & Training. Two men who brought the auto­matic weapon to the show, Carl Guiffre of Hartford, Conn., and Domenico Spano, of New Milford, Conn., also were indicted. 
An involuntary manslaughter conviction carries a maximum 20-year prison sentence and $1,000 fine. The term could be five years or less for someone with no prior convictions. 
Fleury and the club also were indicted on four counts each of furnishing a machine gun to a minor. A conviction on each count is punishable by up to 10 years in prison, up to $10,000 in fines and the loss of a firearms license for at least 10 years. 
Bennett said prosecutors know of at least four chil­dren, including Christopher, who fired automatic weapons at the fair. He her gave the Uzi to Christopher or any chil­dren, and weren't in the immediate area when the accident happened. 
"The club is disappointed by the indictment," he said. "The club's intention is to plead not guilty and the club denies they participat­ed in any criminal act." 
Fleury, Guiffre and Spano did not immediately return calls for comment. 
The machine gun shoot drew hundreds of people to the sporting club's 375-acre compound. An advertise­ment said it would include machine gun demonstra­tions and rentals and free handgun lessons. 
"It's all legal & fun -No permits or licenses required!!!!" reads the ad, posted on the club's Web site. 
"You will be accompanied to the firing line with a Certified Instructor to guide you. But You Are In Control -"FULL AUTO ROCK & ROLL," the ad said. 
The ad also said children under 16 would be admit­ted free, and both adults and children were offered free .22-caliber pistol and rifle shooting. 
Christopher's father was 10 feet behind him and reaching for his camera when the child fired the weapon. 
IRAQ 



Two soldiers killed by suicide bombs 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Suicide bombers killed 17 people -including two American soldiers -and wounded more than 100 in a string of blasts in two Iraqi cities Thursday as a timetable for withdrawing all U.S. troops won final government approval. 
The brazen attacks in areas where the U.S. military has struggled for years to maintain order raised ques­tions about Iraq's ability to ensure its own security as the U.S. scales down its own combat role under the newly ratified U.S.-Iraqi security pact, which calls for an American withdrawal within three years. 
Iraq's three-member presidential council signed off on the pact Thursday, removing the last legal bar­rier so that the agreement can take effect Jan. 1. 
But the latest bombings underscore the fragility of Iraq's recent security gains, adding new urgency to U.S. efforts to train and equip an Iraqi security force capable of maintaining order after American troops have gone home. 
The two Americans were killed when a suicide driver detonated an explosive-laden car near an Iraqi checkpoint in the northern city of Mosul, military spokesman Lt. Col. Dave Doherty said. Iraqi police said eight people were wounded, most of them civilians. 
But the deadliest attacks occurred in Fallujah, the country's most heavily guarded city and once the symbol of Sunni Arab resistance to the U.S. occu­pation. 
Truck bombers struck within min­utes of each other outside the concrete barriers surrounding two police sta­tions in different parts of the city, killing 15 people, wounding more than 100 and shattering nearby buildings, police and hospital oflicials said. 
An al-Qaida front group, the Islamic State of Iraq, purportedly claimed responsibility for the attack in a state­ment posted on a militant Web site. 
~_......----------------­
1 
I 
I 
I page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 5, 2008 
sonably well," Waller said, so early suecess led to high ratings
Econo01y 


Reish 

from ratings agencies. continued from page 1 Firms like Goldman Sachs 
continued from page 1 bought insurance against default is 1-{oing to take a Ion!-{ tinw to from thn company American 
made the decision to work fi!-{urn out complntPly. International Group (AlGI. 
together on the initiative," "It's going to takn months and Changes in government hous­
Weinstein said. ynars to fully undnrstand the ing polieies in 1992 meant 
The social networking site had ramifications, llw impacts and Fannin and Freddie had to use 
several problems initially, Heish thn cost of this," Wallnr said. funds to serve poor households, 
said. They did not have a web­But to begin to undnrstand and hy 2005, they had to dedi­
master to manage the site and it what happPnPd, Wallnr wnnt all cate over half of their lending to 
was not being utilized by stu­tlw way back in tinw to bPforn low-income families. 
dent'i, he said. tlw (;n~at DeprPssion, rnfnrem·­"That may bP a socially laud­
"We had the site, but no one in!-{ tlw Jimmy StPwart lilm. "It's ablt~ goal, but you might start 
was using it," he said. a Wonderful LifP." thinking, 'I'm giving a lot of 
In order to jumpstart usage of Prior to tlw 1930s, if somnone loans to very low-income peo­
the site, Reish and Weinstein wantml to buy a homn, he would ple,"' Waller said. 
moved the discussions from col­go to a bank. and thn bank In 2000, there were around 
legegovs.com to Google Groups, would 1-{ive a loan fi1r fivt~ years. 200,000 subprime mortgages 
an application offered by Google Tlw pPrson rnceiving tlw loan issued, and by 2005, there wern 
allowing members to create would pay off' intnrnst and pay 2.25 million subprimfl mort­
groups for online communica­oiT thn prineipal. At the nnd of gages issued. 
tion. vey indicated 72.8 percent of thny are trying to expand the tho fivn ynars, thn person would In 2005-2006, the home own­
Reish said they found contact students consider possible disci­scope of the site to includn ask for anothnr five-ynar pnriod, ership rate hit about 70 percent, 
information for student body plinary consequences before aspects like buddy lists, school and tho bank would roll thn loan and it was "lauded as a great 
presidents, invited them to the calling Notre Dame Security profiles and database snarrhes, ovnr. social achievement," Waller said. 
group, and now the group mem­Police (NDSP) or residence hall all of which would only be avail­This works well if t~vnrything is But it would lead to the hcms­
bers receive e-mails when peo­staff for help, he said. abln to student body prnsidenl'i. stabln. Waller said. ing bubble, as house prices dou­
ple post discussion topics. "I think [the sitel will hnlp us "Basically we want to be But if tlw markets become blfld in less than seven years. 
"In the last few days, we have provide a Good Samaritan poli­exdusivn, but at the same time, unstabln, a bank might be Mortgage payments inereasnd as 
gotten a erazy amount of hits," cy. That's an issue we are facing not elitist," Rnish said. unabln to keep up the loan. If housing prices increased, and 
he said. "Now we are starting to now," he said. IIn said the site will lead into onn bank goes undnr, it ean homeowners were lel't with little 
see the fruits of our labor." Heish said several study body his bigger goal of creating an inspire a run on othnr banks. equity to weather downturns in 
Wellesley College, Wesleyan presidents have detailed their intnreollegiate college council, This is a phnnomenon uniquf1 tho market, he said. 
University, University of experiences with a Good which was part of his eampaign to financial firms, Wallnr said. So investment banks took big 
Wisconsin, Dartmouth College Samaritan policy. platfi1rm. "If Mcl>onalds is going to go bets on mortgage-backed securi­
and Clemson University are just "[Student body presidents at] "We arn talking about continu­under, nobody says, 'I'm not ties dun to their perceived prof­
a few of the schools involved, high profile colleges are saying, ing relationships outside of going to eat at Burgnr King any­itability and low default proba­
Heish said. 'We've done it and it's been suc­Notrn Dame," he said. "Personal morn,"' hn said. bility. 
Weinstein said the group is cessful,"' he said. connnctions make a dillimmce." A systnmie eollapsn in the But the banks highly leveraged 
already creating discussion, and Other topics that have been Weinstein he said the site can finaneial services system can themselves, and so, when the 
student leaders are sharing discussed in the online forum really benefit the sehools lead to a soda( housing disaster, housing bubble burst, they were 
ideas. are compensation for student involved, nspeeially as it pro­and so in the (;mat Dnpression, wiped out. 
"The listserv has already government members, sustain­gresses in the l'uture. 40 pnrennt of homes wnre fore­"Then1 was a time we had an 
allowed for great communica­ability and student activity fees, "We hope to encourage the dosnd on. industry called investment 
tion and is really picking up Heish said. participating schools in the list­In the United Statns eurn~ntly, banks, and they don't exist any­
steam, now with 118 members," While the Coogle Group for­serv to encourage their student only about three percent of morn," Waller quipped. 
he said. mat is working right now, Heish government ofl'icers to use homes are foredosnd on, Waller Priees fell for homes and inter­
Reish said he recently used said he and Weinstein want to CollegeGovs and begin populat­said. est rates of mortgages rose, and 
the discussion board in the eventually move the discourse ing it with the critical informa­Artnr the 11HOs financial crisis, SCHill low, middle and high­
group to see if other schools back to the CollegeGovs Web tion about their the government asked banks to income homeowners were 
have implemented Good site. Universities/Colleges and rnspnc­give longer maturity loans of 15 defaulting. 
Samaritan clauses, which pro­"It's literally like trying to solve tive student governmnnt," he to 30 ynars. To help the banks In July 2007, two Bear Stearns 
teet students from punishment a business problem," he said. said. "That will make it such an do this and remain solvent, the hndgn funds imploded from sub­
for akohol violations when they "We're using trial and error." invaluable tool." government says it will buy prime losses, and this set oil' a 
seek out help for a friend. This Heish said he is working to mortga!-{ns from banks in a crnd­financial panic. Housing prices 
recently became an issue make sure the site continues Contact Madeline Bucldey at it crunch. and so thn govnrn­plummeted as did the value of 
beeause the recent student sur-developing in the future. lie said mbucldey@nd.edu mnnt b11camn a "buyer of last mortgage-backed assets. rnsorl." Fannie and Freddie, which 
And so Fannin Man was creal­held $5 trillion in mortgages, mi. sull'erod huge losses and became 
"Tlwy crpatPd a vnry well­insolvent. functioning snrondary mortgage Thny were then taken over the market. moaning you art~ buying by tho government in September. used mortgages." Waller said. Tho investment bank industry 
But this ereatPd a moral haz­collapsed, and in mid-September anl. he said, bt~causo when you the eredit markets began to provido insurance f(lr somothing. crumble. it also providos protm:tion for "We call this a massive flight bad actions. A famous oxample, to safety," Waller said. he said. is seatbl'lts. With a seat­"Crnditors only want to hold U.S. belt. someone may feel he is pro­government debt. They don't tected from an accident, conse­trust anyone else." quently there is an incentive to Treasury Secretary llenry driv1~ faster or morn reckl(~ssly. Paulson asked for the largest 
"If you malty wanted to get the bailout of the financial markets poople to drivn safnly, you put a in Anwrican history on Sept. 19. big metal spike in tho middle of "The idea was hopefully this tho steoring wheel." Waller said. would restore confidence and "That's how you get people to trust in the credit markets and it drive safely." would reverse the flight to safe­
Banks had the incentive to ty," Waller said. dump bad loans on Fannie Mac, The government then decided so Fannin said they would only to recapitalize the banks. But buy prime mortgages, or those now banks who were not in a with credit seorfls over 650, with subprime mortgage crisis have a low crndit risk. Anyone below the government as a competitor, 650 was thought to be risky. so it is not a fair fight for those 
The seeondary mortgage mar­companies, he said. ket was running smoothly in the Waller said he does not know 1960s, but the government wor­what is coming next for the ried that Fannie was becoming a economy. monopoly, so they created "Things change, day by day," Freddie Mae. Both were priva­he said. But he said things are tized and sold ofT to invnstors, better off with the government but elassil'ied as government intervention. sponsort~d enterpris11s. The Student Senate University 
"It basically meant that we All'airs committee organized the have a special rt~lationship with speaking engagement after see­t.hnse !inns and we art~ wry con­ing from their October mock cnnwd if they get into trouble," election results that students Waller said. overwhelmingly voted the eeono­
Waller then skippnd alwad to my as the most important issue tho 1990s, when lwdge funds for tlwm, committen chair and investment banks startnd Ashlee Wright said. issuing mortgagP-baeknd securi­ties hacked by subprirne mort­Contact Kaidynn Riely at gages. Thnsn pPrfornwd "rna-kriely@nd.edu 



THE ()BSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 
Jones 8,376.24 -215.45 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,059 77 2,776 2,413,008,456 
AMEX 1,241.28 -75.25 NASDAQ 1,445.56 -46.82 NYSE 5,232.26 -173.29 S&P 500 845.22 -25.52 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 7,957.45 +34.03 FTSE 100 (London) 4,163.61 -6.35 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) ·2.31 -2.02 85.30 CITIGROUP INC (C) -5.37 -0.42 7.40 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -2.83 -0.81 27.81 FIN SELECT SPDR (XLF) ·.LOB ·0.13 11.87 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE ·3.96 -0.106 2.570 13-WEEK BILL ·66.67 ·0.010 o.oos 30-YEAR BOND ·3.14 ·0.100 3.084 5-YEAR NOTE ·6.0{) -0.098 1.534 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) ·3.12 43.67 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) ·5.00 765.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) ·0.90 91.10 
Exchange Rates YEN 92.4900 EURO 0.7838 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.2770 BRITISH POUND 0.6824 
IN BRIEF 
Banks borrow less, finns borrow more 
WASHINGTON -Commercial banks bor­rowed slightly less from the Federal Reserve's emergency lending program over the past week, while investment firms stepped up their loans. 
The Fed's report, released Thursday, showed commercial banks averaged $90.3 billion in daily borrowing over the week ending Wednesday. That was down from $93.6 billion in average daily borrowing logged over the week ended Nov. 26. 
Investment firms drew $57.2 billion over the past week. That was up from an average of $52.4 billion the previous week. This category was recently broadened to include any loans that were made to the U.S. and London-based broker-dealer subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch. 
The Fed report also showed that its net holdings of "commercial paper" averaged $297.6 billion over the week ending Wednesday, an increase of $15.4 billion from the previous week. Under the first of its kind program started Oct. 27, the Fed is buying mounds of the crucial short-term debt that companies use to pay everyday expenses. The Fed has said about $1.3 trillion worth of com­mercial paper would qualify. 
Market wary of employment report 
NEW YORK -A period of relative calm on Wall Street ended Thursday as stocks tum­bled in the final hour of trading on growing investor anxiety ahead of the government's November employment report. 
The major indexes each slid more than 
2.5 percent, including the Dow Jones indus­trial average, which dropped 216 points after rising in seven of the last eight ses­sions. 
Investors are worried that Friday's employment report would show a further deterioration in the job market; employers have already cut 1.2 million jobs in the first 10 months of the year. leaving the unem­ployment rate at a 14-year high of 6.5 per­eent. Economists expect the Labor Department will report that the jobless rate rose to 6.S pcrc~ent in November and that companies eut another 320.000 jobs. 
Amidstrecession, AT&T cuts 12,000 jobs 
Telecom giant to lose 4 percent of workforce as it loses traditional customers 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Pressured by the economic turmoil and the mounting loss of tradi­tional phone customers, AT&T Inc. is cutting 12,000 jobs, about 4 percent of its workforce. 
The Dallas-based telecom­munications company, the nation's largest, said the job cuts will begin this month and run throughout 2009. The company also plans to lower its capital spending next year, and .one analyst estimates that reduction could be as much as $2 bil­lion. 
The 300,000-person com­pany has announced layoffs several times over the past few years, including in April, when it said it would elimi­nate 4,600 jobs, but it has been hiring at the same time. This is the first time since the company bought BellSouth Corp. in 2006 that it said overall staffing would dPeline. 
The new cuts were part of a parade of layoffs tied to the recession. In addition Thursday, chemicals compa­ny DuPont announced plans to lose 2,500 jobs, Credit Suisse Group slashed 5,300 and media conglomerate Viacom Inc. jettisoned 850. Yet AT&T, which provides local phone coverage in California, Texas and 20 Randall Stephenson, president, chief executive officer and chairman of AT&T Inc., other states, is also being speaks to employees in Goldsboro, N.C. on Sept. 30. pulled by another current: the long-term trend of people with Stifel Nicolaus. Fewer about 30 percent of AT&T's their value this year. Last defecting from landline homes bought means fewer sales. Companies have been month, Sprint said it is offer­phones to wireless services landlines getting installed or cutting back spending ing voluntary buyout pack­or phone service from the transferred. And more are hecause of the recession, and ages to an unspecified num­cable company. getting disconnected as peo­this, King said, will "certainly ber of its 57,000 workers. 
In the last quarter, AT&T's ple look to save money and pinch" AT&T's revenue Verizon Communications basic voice lines in service rely only on their cell phones. growth. Inc., the nation's second­dropped 11 percent. Its wire­AT&T spokesman Walt AT&T, whose shares are largest phone company, has less customer base, mean­Sharp said the layoffs will be down about 30 percent this fared better than AT&T so while, grew 14 percent. "across the company and year -while the Dow Jones far. Its landline business is 
Reflecting that "changing across the country," but industrial average is off 35 concentrated in the business mix," the company would not specify what percent -remains prof­Northeast, which hasn't been said it still plans some hiring departments and cities would itable, and benefits from as battered by the housing in 2009 in parts of the busi­be most affected. being the sole U.S. wireless crisis as some of the markets ness that offer cell phone King expects most of the carrier for Apple Inc.'s popu­AT&T serves, like Florida service and broadband lost jobs to come from the lar iPhone. This is in sharp and California. However, Internet access. company's landline business. contrast to rival Sprint Nextel Verizon figures to be more 
The shift away from land­But he said some might also Corp., which has been hem­affected by a slowdown in lines has accelerated because come from the unit of the orrhaging wireless sub­business spending and the of the economic turmoil, said company that serves large scribers and has seen its fallout from the financial sec­Christopher King, an analyst businesses and accounts for shares lose 80 percent of tor's erisis. 
Treasury .considering lowering rates 
Associated Press Treasury is striving to use the hovers around 3 percentage points. 
"right tools for the right job" in an Analysts said that the government 
WASHINGTON -The head of the effort to help as many homeowners could use its ability to borrow money government's financial system rescue as possible, said Kashkari, the at low rates to in essence flood the effort said Thursday the Treasury department official in charge of the market for mortgage-backed securi­Department is considering a program $700 billion rescue effort. ties. This increased demand would to encourage banks to make mort­The goal of the industry's proposal tend to push down the yield on mort­gage loans at low rates to help revive would be to take advantage of the gage securities sold by Fannie and the battered housing market. unusually large difference, or spread, Freddie, which now average about 
Under the proposal being pushed between mortgage rates and yields 5.5 percent because of investor con­by the financial industry, Treasury on government debt. On Thursday, cerns about default risks. Once those would seek to lower the rate on a 30-the yield on the 10-year Treasury yields fall, the theory goes, lower year mortgage to 4.5 percent by pur­note yield sank to a reeord low of mortgage rates should follow. chasing mortgage-backed securities 2.56 percent. while the national aver­That would have two benefits for from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. age rate on a 30-year fixed rate the economy: Immediately adding It's unclear exactly how much the mortgages was 5.54 percent, accord­money to the pocketbooks of home­plan would eost. ing to financial publisher HSH owners who can refinance their 
Asked about the proposal during Associates. mortgages and reduce their monthly his testimony before a Senate In recent years, there has been payments, and eventually help arrest Appropriations subcommittee, Nee] about a 1.8 percentage point differ­the slide in home prices since much Kashkari said that it was one of the ence between the yield on a 10-year lower mortgage rates would allow options the administration had under Treasury note and a 30-ycar mort­more potential buyers to qualify for review. gage rate, but that spread currently loans. 
THE OBSERVER 

page 8 Friday, December 5, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEF Chris Hine 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay ritzpatrick John Donovan 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Mctz 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Dan Murphy Bill Brink SCENE EmTOR: Analise Lipari 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Liz Harrer 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse CONTROLLER: Stacey Gill SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriariry 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
('574) 631-7471 FAX ('574) 6.31-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@lnd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4'541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63 I -5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63 I -4540 scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independcm, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofrhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institutioq. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news i> reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt•d editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of rht· Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 1\s.o;istant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prcsem the vie-ws of the authors and nor necessarily rhosc ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and musr include contact inf(,rmation. 
Qumiom r~garding Obsertm" polities should be dirwed to Editor in C'hiifCbris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The 0b¥crvcr (USPS 51J'1 2-4000) "puhlislwd Mnml.1y rhrnugh Frid.iy ckccpt ~lurin~t cum <~nd vacalinn p<"rmda. A•uib.cription t11ll1c OhKm:r il. $100 f~,r one .ICWcmic yt'at; $,'5 fur UIIC ll('lnCIICr, 
'J11c Ob1crvcr is puhiW!~ .u: PO>TMASTER Ol4 Suuth Dinin~ ll.all Send addi'CSI corrccrions w: Nunc D1mc. IN 46'5'56--0719 The Ohscrvct rcriudkal ptlfo1<1)Ce p.ud ;u N\IICC D<&Jnt" ro. Bmr.n9 .l!ld .ulditionol m.ailin~ oHi..:cs. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nurre D.1me, IN 46S56-0n9 
~ ONcrvcr ia .1 memhc:r ut'thc k<w~t:t.ucd PrN. All rcpmductiun righu .uc rc:tcrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Joseph McMahon Bill Brink Ashley Charneley Laura Myers 
Amanda Gray Doug Farmer Graphics Viewpoint Andrea Archer Patricia Scene Fernandez Stephanie Deprez 
Keeping Weis the right move 
After back-to-hack disappointing seasons, Notre Dame ath­letic director Jack Swarbrick and University President Fr. John Jenkins decided to retain Charlie Weis as the head foot­ball coach. And they made the right call doing so. 
The University has had its name dragged through the mud over the last five years regarding its treatment of Weis, espe­cially after the early !iring of Tyrone Willingham (the first coach not to finish live years as coach since Hunk Anderson from 1931-1933). The athletic department is returning to the stability it had before Willingham's dismissal, thereby avoiding OnH: 
major problems with rebuilding the program BSERVER uct on the field. However, most of Weis' top from scratch for the second time in five recruits are still only freshmen and sophomores years. (his first class is not indicative of his recruiting
Editorial 
these are things that take time. Whoever was the coach of the Irish the last two seasons would have dealt with thesn issues; it just happened that Weis was the one who did. 
Also, college coaching is only half what you arc doing this season on the field; the other half is how you are preparing for the future with recruiting. And, according national recruiting Web sites like Scout.com and Hivals.com, Weis and his staff have been among the elite rccruitnrs since his 
arrival at South Bend. 
Some have argued that with these great recruit­
ing classes, there should have been a better prod­
One of the biggest criticisms from the media has been a racial one, that Willingham was fired because he is black and Weis was kept because he is white. The different treatment of the two men has nothing to do with their skin color, but with their abilities. Willingham was a mediocre coach and inept recruiter with Notre Dame's prestige, money and facilities behind him. He has shown his inability to produce on the field at Washington, resigning midway through a winless season. 
Wcis has shown some competence as a college football coach, though certainly not as much as what had been expected. While this past season has been subpar according to Notre Dame's high standards for the football program, the team did show signs of improvement. The offense did not rank dead last in total offense and the defense continued to grow under the tutelage of defensive coordinator Corwin Brown. 
There are still some holes left to be fixed (such as the offensive line and establishing a solid running game), but since he did not become coach until late in the 
process that year). With some already beginning to shine -such as Michael Floyd and Ethan Johnson -and many others waiting in the wings, Weis should be able to produce a much better team next year -comprised mostly of his recruits. 
But the most important reason, and one that many are drastically overlooking, is the monetary issue. Weis' buyout, whether it is $5 million or $20 million (the two extremes reported), is money that should not be spent with the econo­my in the state it is today. With Jenkins pushing every department in the University to be more frugal to save money and jobs, spending $20 million to fire ono coach and spending the additional money it would take to hire anothor would be exorbitant and hypocritical. 
By keeping Weis, the University recommitted itself to sta­bility in the football program and its own stated economic policies, while still setting up the football program for a bright future. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One kind word can warm three 
winter months. " 
Japanese proverb 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, December 5, 2008 page 9 
Do you feel lucky? 
We seniors have seen a lot of things happen in the four seasons we have cheered for Notre Dame Football as stu­dents. It seems that few classes have sat through a more tumultuous and disap­pointing span of our team's histo­ry than ours. We have experi­enced the Good, the Bad, and the Ugly of Notre Dame Football in four years, and now that it is all over I'd like to use this space to ther­apeutically remi­nisce on all that has happened, and what could still happen. 
The Good: 

Not knowing much of anything about what would happen, and then winning the first game against Pitt by a huge mar­gin.-Upsetting a top five Michigan team on the road the following week. -Pass Right.-The Stadium Pep Rally before the USC game. -College GameDay on Library Quad.-Green Jerseys (in 2005 against USC). -Brady Quinn running for the go-ahead points with under 2:00 to play against USC. -The instant before 4th and 9.-When the clock said 0:00. ­A Fiesta Bowl Berth. -Starting 2006 ranked #2.-Annihilating Penn State­The Rain Soaked 4th Quarter Comeback at Michigan State. -Samardjia's catch 

Bob Kessler 
House ofStix 
against UCLA. -Crushing Michigan in the rain earlier this year. -Ty Willingham being fired by UW after our team crushed his. 
The Bad: 
Our Decided Schematic Advantage.­Michigan State winning in OT -The flag being planted on our field. -Leinart to Jarrett on 4th and 9.-The fact that we needed Samardjia's catch to beat UCLA -Whatever happened in the Coliseum that November.-Green Jerseys (in 2006 against ARMY) -The Running Game post D-Walk.-Javon Ringer running rampant this season. -Losing 4th quar­ter leads against UNC, Pitt, and Syracuse. 
The Ugly: 
The Bush Push. -The 2006 Michigan Game.-Sugar Bowl.-The Year 2007. -The Year 2007.-The Year 2007.­The Option Offense. -Celebrations when the team beat UCLA in 2007. -Green Jerseys (in 2007 against USC)-Navy in overtime. -A Shutout at BC. -UNC Fans chanting Let's Play Football towards the end of the Maui Invitational last week. 
I think that last one was when the Notre Dame Football program hit rock­bottom. It wasn't when we lost to Navy last year. It wasn't when our team lost to Syracuse on Senior Day. It wasn't earlier this week when my roommates and I dis­cussed whether or not the Fighting Irish would be playing in the Sun Bowl or the Texas Bowl. Rock-bottom was when the North Carolina fans, some of the most die-hard basketball fans in the country 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An invitation 
'Twas the eve of exams, when all on-an-Open-Fire, ringing through their through the quad, Every Domer was young heads. There are snowflakes to studying whilst their snow mittens hang, luminaries to light Can it all be thawed. Their textbooks were open, done before Friday night?! At the hour scattered notes everywhere, desperate of seven, around our Yule pine, The for cheer, they sent out a prayer. Domers will gather to see our tree Through blustery winds and o'er lake shine. Back inside, decorated from ceil­deep and wide, The Vermin of Carroll ing to floor, Are rooms full of cider and lay nestled inside. Known for their cookies galore! "Now Howard! Now love, and holiday spirit, they're famous Badin! Now Pangborn, and PE! On on campus, though not even near it! All Lewis! On P Dub! On Lyons, and Farley! of a sudden, a voice came from above Down Carroll drive! Down towards the Commanding the Vermin to share such hall! Now dash away! Dash away! Dash warm love. "The spirit of Christmas away all! can't be kept to yourselves, You must share it, through Santi-Claus! Cocoa! Rich Schroeder, Patrick Berry And Elves!" Not a moment to waste, sophomores the Vermin sprang from their beds Carroll Hall With versions of Chestnuts-Roasting-Dec. 3 
Celebrate human rights 
We discuss Charlie's worth. We defend tion, and we all have a chance to cele­our right to throw snowballs. We define brate these rights, proving we do still the meaning of hooking up. But when a value them. Organizations and individu­Viewpoint suggests that there's a world als in the South Bend area have planned outside of the Bubble, does anyone read a party this Saturday to recognize the it? Let's see. historic anniversary of the Declaration. 
The Universal Declaration of Human On Saturday, from 2 to 5 p.m., we will Rights, for those who are not aware, is be at UAW Local No. 5 Hall, located at this cool little document that promotes 1426 S. Main St. in South Bend, with "dignity and justice for all of us." It was music, speakers, birthday cake, and passed by the United Nations after WWII, more. In the spirit of the Christmas sea­while the horrific memories of the son, and in support of Article 25, we ask Holocaust were strong. that you bring a donation for the Food 
The 30 articles express rights, which Bank. unfortunately for a great portion of the If you made it to the end of this letter, world, are not yet a reality. It calls for thank you. Come join us. The LSAT will freedoms, regardless of skin color, sex, be over, it's not finals week yet, and religion or language. Freedom from tor­there's no football game. So really, you ture. Freedom to move and travel. The have no excuse not to. right to marry and have a family. The right to be educated. And 25 other basic human rights we too often take for Katie Michel granted because we are just too "busy." senior 
Dec. 1Oth happens to mark the 60th off-campus anniversary of the declaration's adop-Dec. 4 
were more concerned with our football team than with the game that was hap­pening at that moment. 
One week, and one more loss in the Ugly column later, and coach Weis was in a meeting with Athletic Director Swarbrick. The meeting, apparently, was not to stop the bleeding but to give Coach Weis more bandages to fix this conun­drum. The two have now devised a plan for how to bring Notre Dame football back to the place that the alums expect it to be, competing for National Championships. With his decision to retain Coach Weis, the blame for what happens next sits on Athletic Director Swarbrick's shoulders just as much as it sits on Weis'. Because of this, I have to ask Mr. Swarbrick one question: Do you feel lucky? Well, do ya? 
While the student body might be mixed over whether or not Coach Weis should have been retained, it seems that most of the Alums and ALL of the media believed Weis was a dead man walking in the Coliseum last Saturday. In rolling the dice Mr. Swarbrick has figuratively got into bed with the Coach that promised to bring us hard-working, intelligent, nasty football team. He has inextricably tied his perception amongst the alums and possi­bly his future at this University to how successful a group of 19 and 20-year-old boys perform on the field next year. 
As for Coach Weis, he has to fmd a way to take the Ugly out of this school's foot­ball program. One place he can start is by holding back the arrogance and being a little more humble. If his contract truly is as large as we have been meant to believe in recent weeks, he would cer­tainly have the funds to give us seniors a refund for all of the emotional trouble we have been put through. Sixty thousand dollars can refund us all for what we saw as our last game in the student section, and I think it would be a small price to pay for some good will with the soon-to­be young alums. I think most of the sen­iors would join with me in sending the money right back to Hannah and Friends, and we would all be better off for it. 
At the very least, I think the senior class deserves an apology from the coach. On Oct. 15, 2005 we as fans were taken to the highest of heights, only to be let down again, and again, and again in the ensuing three years. We've witnessed the worst two years of Notre Dame foot­ball, after unreasonable expectations were set for us early on. I don't know if the Notre Dame family needs to lower its expectations of our football team. I don't know if the world has passed our pro­gram by, but what I do know is that it has been one hell of a four years, and I'll always remember the good times more than the bad and ugly ones. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
What about our other team_s? 
So everyone seems to think our athlet­tance of home field advantage in foot­ic program and department has gone ball; that remains the same for other down the drain; the pundits, the "pro­sports as well. fessionals" many students and profes­I know being in college, especially at sors, the analysts, and the writers all Notre Dame, doesn't allow you to do think Notre Dame's athletic success has everything you want and certainly does­dropped significantly. And why? n't allow you to attend every sporting Because our football team has slipped event on campus. Still, what's wrong into a subpar status over the last two with taking a break from partying every years. now and then to go watch the soccer 
Don't get me wrong. Football is my teams play or the baseball team play on favorite sport to watch, analyze, and a Friday? I'm sure you could still even talk about (playing, well that's a differ­make that amazing dorm party you've ent story), but what happened to every been looking forward to all week after other sport at Notre Dame? We have the the game. No.1 Women's Soccer team in the Is football important? Of course it is. nation, undefeated and in the Final There is no denying that it is the sport Four, but you wouldn't really know it. that, nine times out of 10, makes a How many headlines do these ladies school the most money and gives the get? Or how about our cross country school's name the most attention. It is and track/field teams, who consistently definitely important to focus on football. post great scores and good finishes? But it doesn't make or break our athletic How could we forget about our hockey program. I myself have many thoughts team, currently No. 1 in the country and and concerns about Notre Dame foot­playing well also? When have we heard ball, most of which I have decided to about our fencing teams constantly win­refrain from speaking of until the very ning duals and being just shy of a end of the season (as I think Notre Dame national championship for the past few should have done); maybe this will come years after winning one in 2003? in another letter to the editor. Stretching even further, what news have Regardless, every one of the sports I you seen about our tennis players doing mentioned earlier has lots to do with the well in competition and knocking off success of an athletic program. Just some tough players? because our football team is not in the 
The list goes on further and further: Top 25 doesn't mean our athletic pro­baseball, golf, lacrosse, rowing, softball, gram overall is not. Furthermore, the swimming and diving, volleyball. Until non-football athletes work just as hard recently, even basketball was a "back­to bring success to the results as the ground" sport here too. Where are the football players. They practice, they "student sections" at these sporting work out, they keep in shape, and yes, events? they are college students too. 
It's easy to read the results in The Though not a student athlete myself, Observer the next day, but it's just as I'm sure they wouldn't mind some sup­easy to go and support the teams. Most port and even more, a little attention. other events on campus are free and are a good time. It was nice to see a student Kevin Kimberly section at the women's soccer games sophomore during the Big East Championship but it O'Neill Hall was still small. We all know the impor-Dec. 4 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Friday, December 5, 2008 

By ALEXANDRA KILPATRICK Scene Writer 
The Killers' first two albums, "Hot Fuss" and "Sam's Town," were so well­done that the band surely set itself up to go nowhere but down. This is eertainly the case with The Killer's third studio album. "Day & Age." The newest album has the vibrant voeal style of "Sam's Town" and the pop sound of "!lot Fuss" without tho genius or cre­ativity of either album. 
The first single, "Human," released in late September, seemed promising, as it had the upbeat and innovative sound 
Rather than simply drawing influences from classic and glam rock, the band relies on its influences without adding new material this time. 

adding new material this time around. 

In "Joy Ride," the Las Vegas group abandons its usual sound and opts 
The Killers 
Records 
to mimic the likes of the
Recommended Tracks: "Human," "A Dustland 
Strokes and Modest 
Fairytale" 
By JESS SHAFFER Assistam Scene Editor 
Many may remember Grammy nomi­nen Sara Bareilles' appearance at Legend's Nightclub in Fall 2007 before her suecessful emergence on the popular musie seene. Others may have seen her in her 200S Summer Tour with Counting Crows and Maroon 5. Either way, seeing Sara Bareilles live is not an experience easily forgotten. Perhaps unfortunately of The Killers' previous efforts. The album as a whole, however, is quite a disappointment. The pop punk band attempts to be experimental by mixing contrasting genres and instead ends up sounding not like The Killers that we 
all know and love, but rather like a rip-off of other bands. 
The opening track, "Losing Touch" would be an excellent and innovative new pop song if it did-n't sound like it belonged on a 1970s Eric Clapton album. Rather than simply drawing influences from classic and glam rock, the band relies on its influences without 
Mouse, with an unex­pected saxophone riff that doesn't fit into the context of the song at all. 
"This is Your Life" is boring, due to a combi­nation between Flowers' 
pigeonholed by her hit "Love Song," nominated for Song of the Year at this year's Grammy's, Bareilles' real staying power will come from her appealing live performances. 
Clearly, not everyone can make it to a Sara Bareilles concert. But luckily, her most recent release, "Between the Lines: Sara Bareilles Live at the Fillmore" brings her live talent to personal music libraries everywhere for people who don't have the fortunate opportunity to catch a performance. A nice substitute 
Between The Lines: 
Sara Bareilles Live at the Fillmore 
Produced by: Sony Recommended Tracks: "Bottle It Up," "Fairytale," 

for a live viewing, Bareilles' new album is definitely worth a listen. Ultimately, her recorded performance is a relaxing, stimulating, and enjoyable experience that, just like her concert, will stay with listeners. 
Most people probably recognize Bareilles from her radio-smash, "Love Song." Though her success with "Love Song" is unde­niable, its potential to stick monotonous vocals, a lack of emotion, an almost unsurprising likeness to U2 and an absence of the edge found in "Sam's Town." "I Can't Stay" flops thanks to its annoying use of a Caribbean beat, harp, and saxophone in the background and inane lyrics. One would not exaggerate to say that this song truly belongs at a Hawaiian luau-themed party in a bingo parlor. 
"Neon Tiger" sounds mysteriously similar to MGMT, the indie rock band that broke out earlier this year with their single "Time to 
ity, although it does lack the confusing instrumentation and bafning combina­tions of musical genres that mark other songs. 
"A Dustland Fairytale," on the other hand, is a pleasant surprise. Certainly, the track starts out slow and follows the same format as many classic rock songs. But the music quickly gains momentum and you can feel the emo­tion in Flowers' vocals, reminding one of "Read My Mind" from "Sam's Town." The impassion11d ballad also has amazing lyrics, 
Pretend" and a "Out lwre the good dance-punk sound girls die. Now
Sure, the Nevada-based band
comparable to that of Cinderella, don't The Killers. In a was clearly trying to avoid you go to sleep, it's recent interview with catering to the American such a bitter form The Quietus, a rock of refuge. Why
population's musical 
music and pop cul­don't you know the ture website, even interests on Day & Age. kingdom's under Brandon Flowers siege and every-
admitted that in writ­

ing "Neon Tiger," "I was trying to write 
like MGMT," a group that probably 
drew influences from The Killers to 
begin with. 

Flowers also mentioned in the Quietus interview that with the album's second single "Spaceman," "I was look­ing for a mixture between [David Bowie's] 'Space Oddity' and [Elton John's] 'Rocket Man."' 
As with most of the other tracks on the album, the quality of "Spaceman" hardly makes up for its lack of original-
Bareilles with a one-hit-wonder status is unfortunate. "Love Song" is not the only track equipped with potential radio suc­cess, and overall, all of Bareilles' music is lovable. While "Love Song"· is undoubtedly a current feel good main­stay, it is just a small glimpse into Bareilles' true talent. 
With the soulfulness of Norah Jones, the edgy angst of Feist, the pop catchi­ness of Gavin DeGraw, and a lyrical tal­ent akin to Jason Mraz, Sara Bareilles is the perfect storm of soul, jazz, and pop­rock. Her voice has a distinct jazzy tone that is tempered with its pop appeal. With a good mix of jazzy. up-beat tracks and mellow, relaxed musings, she offers a wide range of emotions in a variety of sounds. The lyrics are intelligent and still relatable, dealing with romance, fame, and the changes life brings. Bareilles meets the daunting task of hav­ing a mature musical approach that maintains the novel touch of youth. 
Bareilles' quips and comments throughout her performance are mini­mal. The few lengthier comments are excused with self-effacing humor. Still, body needs you?" 
Sure, the Nevada-based band was clearly trying to avoid catering to the American population's musical inter­ests on "Day & Age." And it's excellent that The Killers are exploring different sounds rather than relying on the same sound for every album. However, the band simply went in the wrong direc­tion this time. Let's hope for a better one the next time around. 
Contact Alexandra Kilpatrik at 
ackilpat@hotmail.com 
the commentary is a nice peak into the artist's personality, which comes across as casual, sweet, and unpretentious. Otherwise, the commentary doesn't pro­vide deep information about her work on the whole; rather it serves to do little besides humanize the music. 
Her ability to write endearing lyrics and couple them with simple, fun accompaniment is a huge strength. But, overall, it is her charming live quality that separates her from other contempo­rary artists. Though she's often put under the umbrella genre of pop music, she has an atypical talent for d11livering a compelling live performance. Enhanced with pitch-perfect vocals, a consistent jazzy twang, this is music that is hard not to like. "Between the Lines: Sara Bareilles Live at the Fillmore" is an easy listen and also stimulating. With the holidays fast approaching, it would be a great stocking stuffer but is good enough that it could also pass as an out­and-out Christmas gift as well. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu. 

Friday, December 5, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 2 
Weekend should give fans glimpse of the future 
Tlw last time l rnmnmber being this exdted was the 1999 World Cup-that was my Super Bowl. my Olympics. I'm pretty sure the College Cup will feel the sanw for any 12-year old girl thorn this weekend. 
Mia llamm, Miclwlle Akers..I ulin Foudy, and my rwrsonal favorite. Kristine I.illy, were my idols­when I got "No. 1:r· ( Krislinn Lilly) to sign my jersny at a WUSA game, I'm pretty sun~ my dad had to drag me ofT tlw field, fnmm from shock and unable to talk. I rmnembnr going to dinner and ovnrhearing an oldnr couple at tho next table discussing America's win over China; they w11re mainly horrified that Brandi Chastain had even thought to tear oil' her shirt in victory. I couldn't have bnen proudnr. 
But from those years follow­ing the rise of women's soccer to glory in America, sonwthing has happened-it's fallen oiT the radar. Copies of Sports Illustrated with Chastain cele­brating in her sports bra on the cover are probably buried in the corner of some 20-something girl's room now, forgotten and unimportant. And with good reason. That was the last time the United Statns won a World Cup, showed hope for a nation dominated by male sports of football and baseball. 

And even though the U.S. took gold at the Olympics this sum­mer, it just didn't feel the same, maybe because I wasn't 12 or wearing at Lilly jersey at the time, but I don't think that was it. It just wasn't as exciting. Thesn weren't faces I had come to know and chner for. They were just another team. 
But the 2008 College Cup gives my hope that that's about to change. Call it a hunch, but I feel history in the making here. Notre Dame, UCLA, North Carolina, and Stanford all have something to do with it. 
Take a look at the Irish rostnr. Kerri Hanks passed Mia llamm on the career assist list, she's not too far behind in goals either. llanks, along with Carrie Dew, Brittany Bock, Michele Weissenhofer and Elise Weber are all members of the U-23 National team. Notre Dame is a microcosm of the future of women's soccer. 
But take a look at the Final Four and the list of' individuals that likely become household names. UClA boasts Lauren Cheney and Tina DiMartino, both of whom have suited up for the National Team, alongside stars like Shannon Box. North Carolina's Tobin Heath has also donned the red, white and blue. And Irish members of the U-23 team have played alongside Stanford's Marisa Abegg. 
They're not all leading scorers or offensive stars either, they're a group of young women who will compose a team that fea­tures both goal-scorers and players who will prevent goals. These players are what American soccer will look like in years to come. 
Names like Hamm and Chastain aren't likely to be for-gotten and Lilly is still playing, as a matter of fact. But there's a new generation waiting to take the turf-but first they have to take the lield this weekend in Cary, N.C. 


Hegardless of who takes the title this weekend, fans are in for a good show. They'll be able to say "I saw Kerri Hanks when she was still at Notre Dame." And when the players leave the field -many of them for their final college game -it won't be the last game they play. They'll go on to train with the national team and take up a role in the newly-formed Women's Professional Soccer league. 
Hopefully this league can sur­vive longer than three years, and I have hope that these play­ers will help that happen. 
So don't be surprised if you see some of' those faces scroll­ing across your TV screen dur­ing the 2011 World Cup, and that you actually know who they are. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Bock returns to field, will try to help team to championship 
would wear her No. 10 Irish jer­
Irish senior forward 
sey. Bock took the field again last has battled injuries Friday to help Notre Dame defeat Florida Sate 2-0 and secure a since preseason play spot in the College Cup. 
Bock didn't score either of the 
goals against Florida State, but
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
her value is measured in more
Assista111 Managing Editor 
than just statistics. Playing as both a forward and a midfielder, Thorn's nothing more frustrat­Bock is a leader on both ends of ing than getting hurt right bel'orn the field. Her physical style of tournament time, just as Brittany play and ability to turn a game in Bock did. Notre Dame's favor are what 
Bock injured lwr knee in Notre make here the glue of the top­Dame's 2-0 ranked Irish. win over "We're a country Marquette in "There are a few of stats, we love the Big East stats," Irish coach
players that always 
semifinals, Handy Waldrum
just make a team
and thnre was said. "But there are 
a dumce that click. Britt has a few players that 
it could have always just make a
epitomized that. " 
bi1(HJ the last team click. Britt has 
game of her epitomized that. 
Irish eartHJr. Randy Waldrum She's just so physieal 
But the Irish Irish coach for us." 
(:o-captai n is Despite returning 
no stranger to from injury, that 
injury and overcoming it both physical style of play has never 
mentally and physically. left Bock -that was evident as 
"It's dnf'initnly frustrating," soon as she steppnd on the field Bock said. "I was injured last against Florida State. spring and tlwn I hurt my ankle "I was a little nervous coming in the prnseason !this yearl and baek after the four games that now I have I'd missed," Bock this. This one said. "Coach asked was devastat­"My teammates have me during practice ing, in a way, been telling me, if I was confident I boeause I did­could play and I
'We're not going to let
n't know how told him yes. I was 
long I'd bP out. you sit on the bench still iffy during But l'vp for your last game."' practice but I think worked hard to in thn first 10 sec­gnl bark. And onds of thn game, I
Brittany Bock 
this team is a tackled a girl. Then super t·los<J Irish senior forward I think II tackled last won the national title. Now, send anyone paeking. The Irish It just might be one of thosn sit­group and my somnonnl 10 times the seniors want one to call their are grateful Bock is back. uations that Bock will take to the teammates after that." own. "Britt's such a key for us," bank. and all the way to her havP bPPn telling mn. 'We'w not A spot in the Final Four only And with that chance, thn Irish Waldrum said. "We're a dillimmt elass's first National going to let you sit on tlw bm1ch helped f'unl thn lin~ for Boek. The aren't taking any risks. kind of team without her ... Britt Championship. for your last game."' forward, along with elassmates Tournament play means a slower adds another dimension to us, 
As it turned out. the Marquette like Carrie lkw, was a senior in game and lower scores, games especially in the air on deadball Contact Deirdre Krasula at game wasn't the last time Bock high school when Notre Dame when deadball situations can situations and corner kicks." dkrasula@nd.edu 


Friday, December 5, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Just one thing left to do 
After compiling countless individual honors, senior Kerri Hanks looks to add a national title 

Hanks' competitiveness can frequently be seen in her emo­tional, demonstrative on -field nature. 
"She's highly competitive," Waldrum said. "What ]fans] see a little trace of on the field, we see every day in training." 
Waldrum said Hanks is seri­ous even during daily scrim­mages. 
"Kerri will always let me know what the score is in practice," Waldrum said. "If I have the wrong score, she'll let me know if I'm wrong."· 
Hanks said she knows she might rub some people the wrong way during games but said her attitude simply reflects her will to win. 
'Til be the first to tell you I'm not very nice out there," she said. "I tell everyone on the team, whether it's the reserves or even [fellow senior Brittany Bock] if they're doing something wrong." 
But Hanks said she is criti­cal ofherself, as well. 
"I expect my teammates to do the same to me, if I'm not doing my best," she said. " ... 
was actually doing after high er ever to notch 70 career without my teammates to fin­Once I step off the field it's By FRAN TOLAN school was playing with the goals and 70 assists. And after ish off those assists and set up completely different. But if I 
Associate Sports Editor 
U.S. [Under-19] national team being nominated Sunday as those free kicks for me to do anything wrong, I'd expect when they won it all." one of 15 Hermann Trophy take," she said. "Without my my teammates to step up and 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum Hanks arrived at Notre semifinalists, Hanks could teammates and [Waldrum] I yell at me." first saw senior forward Kerri Dame in the spring of 2005 become just the fourth player wouldn't be able to get those For Hanks, this weekend is Hanks play when she was just but only after the Irish put the ever to win the award twice. records." especially critical since it will 10 years old. Apparently, finishing Still, Hanks include her final NCAA game. Hanks -who has 83 goals touches on a said she would The Missing Piece to the She said she even has high and 73 assists in her Notre 24-1-1 cham­rather have a Puzzle expectations for Waldrum on Dame career-was a natural. pionship sea­"She was always national champi­Hanks and her classmates the sidelines. 
"She was just a shorter ver­son. Hanks very competitive and onship trophy have garnered virtually every "Soccer is everything to me sion of what you see now," has not yet than any individ­team and individual honor right now, especially heading
from a very young 
Waldrum said. "She was won a national ual honor. And except the national champi­into the Final Four," Hanks 
age, you could see
always very competitive and title since she said she onship. The team has made it said. "I want everyone to from a very young age, you arriving on she had some special wants to leave a to the College Cup the past leave it on the field, even could see she had some spe­campus. legacy as a good three seasons but has lost Randy ... We [potentially] have
ability."
cial ability." "I was glad teammate rather once in the semifinals and one game left so we better 
Waldrum, who like Hanks for the [2004] than a top statis­once in the championship. bring it." hails from Texas, said the team but I just Randy Waldrum tical performer. "It would be unbelievable if Hanks said despite all she state's soccer community is wished I was Irish coach "I would rather we win," Hanks said. "It has accomplished, her career very tight-knit and he met with that win than have would sum up my career will not be complete without Hanks through her family. team," Hanks the records," she here." adding two more victories to 
"Our friends were friends said. "Hopefully, this year said. "I just want the younger Waldrum said Hanks is the Notre Dame's undefeated with her parents and I can come out with a win." players to look up to me." right person to lead the team record. coached in camps with her Besides, Hanks said, it this weekend. ''I'm just focused on winning brother," Waldrum said. "It's Individual Accolades would have been much more "She [has] what separates right now," she said. "All that just a small world out there Since joining the Irish, difficult to put up such gaudy the good players from the other stuff doesn't mean any­but tha.!'s how we got our eyes Hanks has had an almost statistics if she did not play great ones," Waldrum said. thing to me yet." on her. unparalleled career. for a premier team like Notre "Great players have that con­
Hanks said she was not even She was a second-team All­Dame. stant mentality to win at all Contact Fran Tolan at completely sure how she came America selection as a fresh­"It would be impossible costs." ftolan@nd.edu to know her future coach. man before becoming the 
"It was just a family connec­youngest-ever Hermann tion, one family to another to Trophy winner as the top another," she said. "It's kind player in the country as a of hard to explain." sophomore. That season, she 
Regardless of how the two joined former North Carolina met, though, they head to the great Mia Hamm as the only College Cup in players to Cary, N.C., this lead the weekend with a nation in both chance to finish goals and off one of the assists.
'The records have 
best seasons in This season,
obviously been great 
Notre Dame his­Hanks has tory. and I'm speechless reached a new milestone vir­
about it still. " 
Just Missed tually every 
Hanks played week. When just two years of Kerri Hanks she recorded soceer at Allen Irish forward two assists in High School an NCAA before deciding quarterfinal to compete win over exclusively on Florida State United States national teams. last Friday, Hanks moved past She was recruited to come to Hamm into a tie for second Notre Dame as a freshman in place on the all-time assist 2004, the year the Irish last list. won their most recent nation­"I actually haven't thought al championship. But Hanks about all of [the honors] yet," said she elected not to join the Hanks said. "The records have team that fall because she was obviously been great and I'm busy "travelling." . speechless about it still ... It IAN GAVLICK!The 
"Kerri's actually very mod­hasn't really set in yet." Hanks dribbles downfield during Notre Dame's 2-0 win over Florida State last Friday. The senior est," Waldrum said. "What she Hanks is only the third play-notched two assists in the victory, passing Mia Hamm on the all-time assist list. 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Irish head to Cary, N.C., in pursuit of perfection 
Team looks to put finishing touches on undefeated campaign 
By FRAN TOLAN A~socia1c Spons Ediwr 
Notre Damn travels to the College Cup in Cary, N.C. this weekend with a lofty goal ­to finish ofT the best season in program history. The lop­ranked Irish are 25-0-0 and will have to dnfnal two other No. 1 seeds to bring home the National Championship tro­phy. 
"We have 25-wins going into tho Final Four and that is just so hard to do in this day and age," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. " ... If this team goes on and finishes out unde­fmttnd, this team is dearly the bnsl Iin program history I because the record shows it. If they win it all, then then~·s not much of an argument." 

Waldrum said that the 2004 Irish are the current Notre Dame gold standard -for now. 
"We have to continue to keep these players motivated because until we win it all, thn '04 Iteam] is one of-if not the best-team here," he said. 
Waldrum said he is especial­ly excited for this weekend because the Notre Dame sen­iors will have one more chance at winning a title. The class has travelled to the College Cup the past two sea­sons before going home empty-handed. 
"I am really, really happy," Waldrum said. ''I'm most happy for our senior dass to get one more shot at it." 
Senior co-captain Brittany Bock, who missed four games 

due to a leg injury, returned is better than the two that to the field last Friday in a 2-came up short in recent years. 0 win over Florida State. The "This year, we're going in forward said this year's squad with an amazing record and I 
Information Meeting 
for women interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Ryan Hall 
Thursday, December 11 • 7:00PM Thursday, January 22 • 8:00PM 
DeBartolo Hall I Room 1 02 
Applications Available January 28-February 6 homeunderthedome. nd. edu 
Learn more about Notre Dame's next newest living option 
orlh.nd.edu 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 I E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
think this is the best team I've -been on," she said. The Irish will open play at 
4:30 this afternoon against Stanford at WakeMed Soccer Park. The Cardinal, who boast a 21-1-1 record, are one of the four No. 1 seeds in the College Cup. The other semifi­nal will pit North Carolina against undefeated UCLA. 
"All four No. 1 seeds made it and I can't remember the last time that happened," Waldrum said. "Between the four teams, there are only two losses [in their combined records). Any of the four is capable of winning it all." 
Notre Dame dealt North Carolina its only loss of the season and Stanford's only setback came against UCLA. 
Waldrum said he is not con­cerned with a possible matchup with the Tar Heels in their home state. The Irish defeated North Carolina 1-0 on Sept. 5 in Chapel Hill. 
"Carolina has been a good place for us to play over the years," the coach said. "Plus, our kids kind of get motivated to play in North Carolina's backyard." 
Notre Dame has gotten a goal from 19 different players this season, but Waldrum said he is most happy with the recent play of the Irish back line. 
"We've always had a team that can score goals and cre­ate offensive opportunities but the thing I'm most proud of has been the really good defense." 
Senior co-captain Carrie Dew leads the unit, which has given up an average of .40 goals per game. Dew is the reigning Top Drawer Soccer national player of the week. The center back played last season with a knee brace but Waldrum said she has fully recovered from the injury. 
"Carrie Dew is finally healthy, but because people love stats she's just not talked about as much [as the Irish forwards]," Waldrum said. "Defense is where we made 
the  biggest  upgrade  this  
year."  
The  Irish  back line  will  

have to be stout today because goals should be hard to come by against Stanford goalie Kira Maker and the Cardinal defense. The unit has posted shutouts in 14 of its 21 wins. 
Notre Dame and Stanford will take the field today at 
4:30 p.m. The game will be broadcast live on ESPN2 and ESPNU. 


Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
• J 16V1-:-··• 


Friday, December 5, 2008 page 11 

By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Editor 

Starting tonight in the Washington Hall Lab Theater, Sarin's Theater for Charity will present its production of Eric Coble's "Bright Ideas," a dark comedy version of Shakespeare's classic tragedy, "Macbeth." The founder of Sorin's Theater for Charity, John Maltese, recently spoke to the Observer via e-mail to discuss the production, as well as the beneficiary of the show's ticket sales, St. Jude's Primary School in Uganda. 
Scene: Can you give us a synopsis of "Bright Ideas?" 
Maltese: "Bright Ideas" is a dark comedy spoof of Shakespeare's "Macbeth." I view it as a critique of our current education system. Nowadays, every Notre Dame student could relate to how stressful it is to try and gain acceptance to a selective univer­sity. Eric Coble, the playwright, turns that idea on its head, by allowing to new parents, Joshua and Genevra Bradley, to get caught up in the same high-anxiety application process, but on behalf of their three-year old son, Mac. 
"Bright Ideas" is actually a highly selective pre­

c~ool, and after reading a few too many parenting 
gmdebooks, Josh and Gen get it in their heads that 
·r Mac doesn't go to the right preschool, he will be 
ruined for life. In a desperate attempt to get him in 
off the waiting list, the parents decide that the only 
way to give Mac "a shot in life" is murdering the 
other of the boy who got in ahead of him. 
After plotting the perfect crime, Josh and Gen decide that the only way they can kill the [mother] and make it look like an accident is to invite her ()Ver for dinner and poison the pesto. 
"Bright Ideas" is a hilarious tale about how most times, the grass is not greener on the other side. 
s Josh and Gen deal with new-found power, con­flicting desires, and their own insecurities, chaos ensues. 
Scene: Why did you choose this play? 
Maltese: I chose the play because I thought that the high-pressure attitudes about getting the "best opportunities" and ensuring success through edu­cation were reflective of issues most students at 
otre Dame can relate to today. The play also has 
II sorts of comedic elements that I thought would nake for an entertaining hour and 45 minutes for student audiences. The minimalist staging was also convenient, since we try to keep a low budget to allow for the maximum amount of proceeds to go towards our charity. 
Scene: What are some highlights from the per­formance? 
Maltese: Sarin's rector, Father Jim King, C.S.C., plays two parts -a nerdy, "Office Space"-esque boss) and a crusty old athletic director,. Coach Angus. He does amazingly well in both parts in his theatrical debut. He steals the show. Also, Shay Thornton and Matt Goodrich, seasoned FTT stu­?ents, drive the show as Josh and Gen. appearing m almost every scene. In the short two-week ehearsal period they each memorized a full length 
lay and have created characters that you can see develop onstage as they [grow] from concerned parents to psychotic killers. 
"Bright Id~as" is cast of 10 performers conveying nearly 20 different characters. Each character is quirky and unique, from Miss aithness, the over­the-top drama teacher, to Mrs. Lennox, who can only speak to other parents using hand puppets, to ~he ~amboyant airline steward who engages in an m flight confrontation with Genevra over her cell phone use. 
"Bright Ideas" represents every current class at Notre Dame, and also includes students from Saint Mary's. 
The biggest highlight is the good cause that this play is all about. My number one goal is selling out every night and raising over $6,000 for St. Jude's Primary School. 
Scene: Can you tell us more about Sorin Theater for Charity and St. Jude's? Have you put on any previous plays for the same cause? 
Ma~tese: I_ started Sorin Theatre for Charity last y~ar m our maugural showing of "Rumors" by Neil Simon. The play involved constructing the largest set that has ever been used in the Lab Theatre, a two-story set with five doors. The play ran two nights in the Lab theatre and sold out each night ... We were turning people away at the door because of fire codes. This year we are back with seven nights of performances to avoid that problem. 
I t~ok an interest in Sarin's sponsorship of St. Jude s when I was selected to teach their last sum­
mer through the International Summer Service Learning Program through the Center for Social Concerns. 
I wanted to show I was serious about my decision to teach at St. Jude's -Sorin sends one Otter there every summer -and I wanted to use my knowledge and love of theatre, as a Theatre/Philosophy major, to do some good in a personal way. I assistant directed -alongside Chelsea Moore, who is acting in "Bright Ideas" and acted in "Rumors" -and this year I am directing "Bright Ideas." 

St. Jude's is a primary school that needs a lot of help. It is located in Bugembe, which is a rural, poor community in eastern Uganda. Walking around to various schools, one of the hardest things to hear when talking to principals of schools was their answer to my question: "What is your greatest need? What could help your school out the most?" One administrator responded: "Money, so we can feed our students." He didn't ask for Powerpoint projectors, white boards, or a higher salary. He didn't even ask for pens and textbooks which students there don't have either. But h~ asked for food. 
That blew me away, and proved that we need to keep working for the people there. A number of the students are also HIV-positive, and the school can't afford to give them proper nutrition, let alone pay for counseling or other appropriate actions. Many students are simply sent home because their parents cannot afford to pay their school fees. 
Our number one priority is to fill those seats in the audience so we can give St. Jude's the tools they need to make their good school even better. 
Tonight's performance will begin at 8 p.m. in the Lab Theater of Washington Hall, and will continue through Thursday, Dec. 11. Tickets cost $7 for stu-.:::~fii!Mll'" dents at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. The theater is located on the third floor of Washington Hall. 
Contact Analise Lipari at 
alipa.ri@nd.edu 


KAMPALA* 
""":~ _.,_ 

.. •; .·.~ 

ANGELA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 

GoLF 

Wie ties for lead after second round 
Associated Press 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. Weaving her way through a narrow hallway next to the grill room Thursday, Michelle Wie was stopped by a woman who asked if she would pose for a picture with her young daughter. 
Foeusing her camera, the woman asked how she played. "OK," Wie said with a smile and shrug. 
If that were an honest assessment, Wie should be in good shape at the LPGA Tour qualifying tournament. 
Changing her tactics off the tee on the more forgiving Champions course at LPGA International, the 19-year-old from Hawaii hit driver on all but two holes and ran orr four straight birdies late in her round for a 7-under 65 that put her in a tie for the lead with Shiho Oyama of Japan after the second of five rounds at Q-school. 
Oyama shot 70 on the Legends course and joined Wie at 10-under 134. The top 20 players after the 90-hole tournament Sunday earn their LPGA Tour cards for next sea­son. Through two rounds, Wie was eight shots clear of the cutoll". 
Stacy Lewis, a former NCAA champion at Arkansas who tied for third at the U.S. Women's Open in her pro debut this summer, shot a 66 for the best score this week on the Legends course and one shot behind at 9-under 135. 
It was the first time since the second round of the 2006 Evian Masters that Wie had a share of the lead after any round, and the first time since the Ladies German Open in late May that she put together consecutive rounds in the 60s -at least officially. 
Wie had three straight scores in the 60s at the LPGA State Farm Classic in July when she was disqualified for leaving the scoring area with­out signing her card after the second round, so only the first round is in the books. 
Without that disqualifica­tion, Wie might have earned enough money to avoid Q­school. She also could have skipped the worst school in golf if she had showed this form earlier in the season. 
But she is here with no other choice but to get a card, and she's making the most of it. 
The first two rounds were strong indicators that a teenager who once had unlim­ited potential is closer than ever to recovering from injured wrists, shattered con­fidence and humbling per­formances. 
Arter hitting only four driv­ers on the Legends course Wednesday -a tighter, more punishing track -Wie was far more aggressive in the second round and holed enough putts for her lowest round on the LPGA Tour since a 65 at the Samsung World International in 2005, the week of her pro debut (which also ended in disqualification). 
Swing coach David Leadbetter wasn't around, but Wie carried out his hopes ­avoid mistakes and big num­bers. There was nothing close to the quintuple-bogey 9 that knocked her out of the U.S. Women's Open this year, and even the three fairways she missed in the second round were not far from her target. 
The longest putt she had for par came on No. 11, her sec­ond hole, when she ran a 25­foot birdie attempt 4 feet past the hole. Wie took only 24 putts, helped by three simple up-and-downs and a 40-foot chip she holed for birdie on No. 17. 
She missed birdie putts of 8 feet and 6 feet on consecutive holes early on her back nine, and while she continued to hit driver, Wie also stayed conser­vative on the par 5s by laying up three times when she could have reached the green. On the fifth, she had only 210 yards off a slight hill, but played a short iron and then stuffed a wedge to 3 feet. 
That began the late run of birdies. She hit her tee shot to 7 feet on the 145-yard sixth, holed another 7-foot birdie putt on the seventh hole and closed out her birdie string with an 8-foot putt. 
Through two days on each course, Wie's only mistake has been a three-putt bogey from 25 feet Wednesday. 

NCAA FooTBALL 
Washington still looking for coach 
Associated Press 

Mike Leach has removed himself from consideration for the University of Washington's coaching posi­tion, a person·close to the Texas Tech coach said Thursday night. 
"lie's out," said the person who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the move. 
The news came on the same day Fresno State coach Pat Hill also took his name out of 
the  mix  to  replace  
Washington's  Tyrone  
Willingham, who  was  fired  

and will coach his last game Saturday. 
Tommy Tuberville's resigna­tion at Auburn began another round of college football's season-ending coaching carousel. 
A day after Tuberville sur­prised the school by resign­ing, two schools came up with new coaches Thursday: Utah State hired Utah defensive coordinator Gary Andersen and Toledo hired Oklahoma State defensive coordinator Tim Beckman. 
Texas Tech was working on a contract extension for Leach, who reportedly had met with Washington officials about the Huskies' opening earlier this week. 
Meanwhile, Auburn's wish­list to replace Tuberville includes Leach, Louisiana Tech's Derek Dooley, Arkansas' Bobby Petrino and Jimbo Fisher at Florida State and Will Muschamp at Texas. 
Hill, completing his 12th season at Fresno State, inter­viewed for the Washington job Saturday and said he had asked the school for an answer Wednesday. 
On Thursday, he said: "I had a great visit with the leadership at the University of Washington and I have a great deal of respect for them and their vision. Because of the time frame we discussed ... it's apparent that I'm not their top candidate. I appreci­ate their consideration." 
Tuberville became the third Southeastern Conference coach to depart this season. The others are Sylvester Croom at Mississippi State and Phillip Fulmer at Tennessee. Lane Kiffin replaced Fulmer on Sunday. 
Earlier this week, Missouri offensive coordinator Dave Christensen was hired at Wyoming, replacing Joe Glenn, who was fired Nov. 23. 
MLB 

Renteria rejoins National League 
AP 

Fonner Detroit shortstop Edgar Renteria swings in a July 29, 2008 game. Renteria signed a two-year contract with the Giants Thursday. 

Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Edgar Renteria is back in the National League, where he thinks he belongs. 
Renteria became the sec­ond free agent to join the San Francisco Giants in two days, receiving an $18.5 mil­lion, two-year contract Thursday to replace 11-time Gold Glove shortstop Omar Vizquel. 
A five-time N L All-Star, Renteria has spent 11 of his 13 major league seasons in the National League. He won a World Series ring with the 1997 Florida Marlins and a pennant in 2004 with St. Louis, but struggled during a pair of one-season stints in the AL, with Boston in 2005 and Detroit this year. 
"I played good in the National League. I feel real comfortable," Renteria said on a conference call. "Maybe I know more of the game in the National League. It's my type of league. I like to play the game. The American League is different-you have to go for the home run and wait for hitting. That's no excuse for what happened in the American League, but it might be why I'm so excit­ed to get back to the National League." 
Renteria gets a $2 million signing bonus, $7 million next year and $9 million in 2010. The Giants have a $10.5 million option for 2011 with a $500,000 buyout. 
Giants general manager Brian Sabean has had a busy week, signing right-handed reliever Bobby Howry to a 
one-year contract Wednesday and following that up by securing Renteria. The sides had all but finalized a deal during a meeting Wednesday. 
Renteria, a career .290 hit­ter, was back in Miami on Thursday after a quick visit to San Francisco. 
"We really appreciate his interest and look forward to a relationship that's going to be fruitful on both sides. I don't think Edgar needs any introduction," Sabean said. "We're just thrilled to put him in our No. 2 spot in the lineup and at shortstop and move on to other business." 
The Tigers declined to offer Renteria salary arbitration Monday. While he was being pursued by three or four teams, Renteria said the Giants' strong interest meant a lot to him in making the decision. 
"I want to go where the people want me to go. I don't go where they don't want me," he said. "The Giants were interested in signing me. That's a great city to play baseball." 
Renteria will be looking to have a better year in 2009. He batted .270 with 10 homers and 55 RBis this sea­son for the Tigers, who after­ward declined their $11 mil­lion option and gave him a $3 million buyout. 
Sabean isn't concerned about Renteria, especially considering he had a better second half. 
"We have no reservations of him being a shortstop and what he's going to do for our offense," the GM said. "It's an upgrade." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Furnished 2-bdrm, house. Living UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do In an old city bar Then the door opened wide The child said I've noticed room, kitchen, dining room, lull not go it alone. If you or someone That is never too far And a child came inside If one could be home 
FoR RENT bath. 6.5 blks to ND. $795/mo. Avail you love needs confidential support From the places that gather That no one in the bar They'd be already there Jan. 1. Call605·397·8135 or 574-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue The dreams that have been Had seen there before 234-3007 or 574-261-4444. Dunn, OP, at (574)631-7819 or Ann If you want to arrange it 
---------------
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 ---------------Firth at 574-631-2685. For more In the safety of night And he asked did you know This world you can change it SCHOOL YEAR. 2-10 BDRMS andersonNDrentals.com FREE information, visit our website at: With its old neon light That outside in the snow II we could somehow make this AVAILABLE. CONTACT KRAMER COMCAST! http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-It beckons to strangers That someone was lost Christmas thing last PROPERTIES 574-234-2436 OR nant.shtml And they always come in Standing outside our door KRAMERHOUSES.COM ---------------By helping a neighbor ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple And the snow it was falling And the snow it was falling Or even a stranger Affordable Graduate and Faculty looking to adopt a baby (babies), The neon was calling The neon was calling and to know who needs help Off-Campus Housing. Call for If you or someone you care about please call Marie and James The music was low The bartender turned You need only just ask Availability (574)243-2818 or has been sexually assaulted, visit (301)977-5069 or (866) 202-1424 And the night And said, not that I care (574)276-6118. http:1/osa. nd. edu/departments/csap PIN 5448. Christmas Eve But how would you know this -Trans Siberian Orchestra 
PERSONAL 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, December 5, 2008 CoMFIUD FROM T~IE OBsERVER's wmE SERVICES Page 13 
NFL 
NCAA Basketball AP Top 25 
team points previous 
1  North Carolina (72)  1,800  
2  Connecticut  1,723  
3  Pittsburgh  1,592  
4  Duke  1,526  
5  Gonzaga  1,489  
6  Oklahoma  1,437  
7  NOTRE DAME  1,359  
8  Texas  1,231  
9  Purdue  1,086  
10  Tennessee  1,016  
11  Louisville  1,003  
12  UCLA  966  
13  Michigan State  946  
14  Xavier  902  
15  Wake Forest  736  
16  Syracuse  668  
17  Villanova  570  
18  Memphis  526  
19  Arizona State  401  
20  Georgetown  388  
21  Miami (FL)  309  
22  Davidson  286  
23  Florida  281  
24  Baylor  272  
25  Marquette  221  

NCAA Basketball USA Today Top 25 
team record 
1 North Carolina (31) 7-0 2 Connecticut 6-0 3 Pittsburgh 7-0 4 Duke 7-0 5 Gonzaga 5-0 6 Oklahoma 6-0 7 NOTRE DAME 5-1 8 Texas 5-1 9 UCLA 4-1 10 Purdue 5-1 11 Louisville 2-1 12 Michigan State 4-1 13 Tennessee 5-1 14 Xavier 6-0 15 Memphis 4-1 16 Villanova 6-0 17 Wake Forest 6-0 18 Georgetown 4-1 19 Arizona State 5-1 20 Syracuse 6-0 21 Florida 5-1 22 Miami (FL) 4-1 22 Wisconsin 5-1 24 Davidson 5-1 25 Kansas 4-1 
CCHA Conference Standings 
team record 
1 Miami 8-2-2 2 NOTRE DAME 6-2-2 3 Alaska 6-3-1 4 Ferris State 6-4-2 5 Ohio State 6-5-1 6 Nebraska -Omaha 4-5-1 7 Lake Superior 3-4-3 8 Michigan 5-5 9 Bowling Green 4-5-1 10 Michigan State 2-6-2 11 Western Michigan 1-5-4 12 Northern Michigan 2-9-1 
1 2 4 7 9 11 8 6 10 12 3 13 5 16 19 NR 20 18 14 21 22 24 17 NR 15 
points 
775 738 694 680 640 601 550 535 471 463 435 420 391 322 269 248 247 234 218 206 196 158 158 96 91 
points 
19 16 14 14 14 12 10 10 9 8 7 5 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Ball State at Buffalo 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 2 

Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.-Antonio Pierce and the doctor who treated his New York Giants team­mate Plaxico Burress after he accidentally shot him­self at a Manhattan night­club will talk to investiga­tors Friday. 
Pierce and Dr. Josyann Abisaab will be accompa­nied by their lawyers when they meet with the author­ities, NYPD Deputy Commissioner for Public Information Paul Browne said. It is unclear when and where the parties will meet. 
The authorities are espe­cially interested in why neither Pierce, who drove Burress to New York­Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center, nor Abisaab called police to report the shooting early Saturday. Abisaab has since been suspended for not reporting the gunshot injury, as required by law. 
Police are trying to determine whether Pierce tried to cover up the shoot­ing. They say Pierce returned to New Jersey with Burress' gun in the glove compartment of his black Cadillac Escalade, and investigators have impounded the SUV to search it for any blood or gun residue. 
Pierce's attorney said Pierce was caught off guard early Saturday when Burress somehow fumbled his gun-.40-cal­iber Glock -in the VIP section of a Manhattan 
IN BRIEF Federal judge to decide fate 
of five suspended players 
MINNEAPOliS'-A federal judge will be asked to decide Friday whether five suspended NFL players deserve a chance to play this weekend. 
At issue is whether the league had a duty to notifY its players and their union that a dietary supplement the five took contained a banned ingredient. The NFL Players Association argues in a lawsuit filed Thursday that the NFL knew about the tainted supplement but failed to share that information with players whose careers were on the line. 
The union filed the lawsuit to block the suspensions offive ofthe six players who were benched this week for violating the league's anti-doping policy. The union wants Kevin Williams and Pat Williams of the Minnesota Vikings, and Charles Grant, Deuce McAili<;ter and Will Smith of the New Orleans Saints, to be eligible to play Sunday. 
Union attorneys will go before U.S. District Judge Paul Magnuson at 10:30 
a.m. in St. Paul on Friday to a'>k for a preliminary injunction. They said in fil­ings Thursday that the players are criti­cal to their teams' playoff hopes. 
nightclub and it dis­charged, hitting his right thigh. 
"He had no idea Plaxico had a weapon," attorney Michael Bachner said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. 
And Bachner stressed the linebacker would coop­erate with authorities and testify before a Manhattan grand jury about the inci­dent if asked to testify, which has yet to happen. 
"Antonio has always taken a position that he will be cooperative in the investigation with law enforcement," Bachner said. "Should Antonio be subpoenaed to the grand jury, and we have no idea that is going to happen, but if he is, he is going to abide by his obligations as 
Four counts dropped against
Bonds, I 0 charges remain 
-SAN FRANCISCO -Federal prose­cutors dropped four counts of lying to a grand jury against Barry Bonds, leaving him to face trial next year on 10 counts of making false statements plus an addition obstruction of justice charge. 
Bonds faces the same potential sen­tence range -probation to roughly two years in prison -if convicted. His trial is scheduled to begin March 2. 
Thursday's indictment, the third against the home-run king, came in response to U.S. District Judge Susan Illston's decision last week ordering prosecutors to again rewrite the tech­nically faulty indictment. 
Bonds was originally charged in November 2007 with four counts of pet:jury and one count of obstruction of justice. After a motion by his lawyers to dismiss the case, Illston ordered prosecutors to rewrite the indictment because multiple alleged lies were lumped into single charges. 
a citizen." 
Bachner did not immedi­ately return a telephone message Thursday evening, seeking comment on Pierce's meeting with investigators. 
Pierce was in no mood to discuss the shooting inci­dent after practice at Giants Stadium. 
Clad in a sweat-soaked gray pullover, the line­backer walked up to the wooden lectern, clenched the sides with gloved hands and spoke mostly about the Giants' game on Sunday against the Philadelphia Eagles. He insisted he won't be dis­tracted with the Giants (11-1) on the verge of clinching the NFC East title and a first-round bye in the playoffs. 

Avery meets with Bettman 
about len!!th of suspension
NEW YORI{'-Sean Avery surged past camera crews and reporters Thursday, choosing to save his com­ments this time for NHL commissioner Gary Bettman during a three-hour dis­ciplinary hearing. 
The Dallas Stars forward was sus­pended indefinitely on Tuesday just hours after he used a crude expression to describe former girlfriends now dat­ing others while speaking to reporters. 
Hockey's most notorious pest came to league headquarters in midtown Manhattan to give his version ofthe lat­est events that landed him in big trou­ble. Now it's up to Bettman to deter­mine just how long Avery will be kept offthe ice. 
The NHL said that announcement would be made Friday. 
"I haven't made a decision yet," Bettman said Thursday during his weekly radio show broadcast on NHL.com. "I want to take the opportu­nity to spend a little time thinking about what transpired at the hearing and everything that I was told and that needs to be considered. 
page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, December 5, 2008 

Friday, December 5, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SWIMMING 
S~erre~aftersurgery 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Eric Shanteau looks as healthy as any other swimmer on deck at the Georgia Tech Aquatic Center. 
But there are still those nag­ging fears that all cancer vic­tims must overcome: What if tho doctors didn't get it all? What if the dreaded disease is hiding somewhere in his body, waiting to strike again? 
Shanteau. one of the most inspiring athletes of the Beijing Olympics, is competing this week for the first time since his surgery for testicular cancer. lie hopes he thrill of the race will help him get on with the rest of his life. a minefield of doubts that revmtls itself with every little ache and pain. 
"You're like, 'Is that cancer? Is it coming back?"' said Shantcau, one of several Olympians taking part in the 
U.S. Short Course Nationals that began Thursday. "That's kind of what I've had to learn to deal with, and what I'm still just learning to deal with." 
lie's off to a good start in Atlanta. Shanteau finished sec­ond to Olympic gold medalist Hyan Lochte in the 200-yard individual medley, beating his personal best when he touched in 1 minute, 42.59 seconds. Lochte won going away in 1:40.89. 
"That came out of nowhere," a beaming Shanteau said. 
llis plight leading up to the Beijing Olympics made him a rallying figure for millions touched by cancer. 
Receiving his shocking diag­nosis shortly before the U.S. 
trials, Shanteau didn't tell any­one except those closest to him. Then, he surprisingly made the team in the 200­meter breaststroke, beating out overwhelming favorite and former world record-holder Brendan Hansen. 
Shanteau was left with an excruciating decision. He chose to pursue his lifelong goal of swimming in the Olympics, even though it meant putting off surgery until after the games and running the risk of the cancer spread­ing. He went public with his story, hoping it would show others that even the dreaded C-word doesn't have to ruin your dreams. 
While there was no llollywood ending in the pool -Shanteau was eliminated in the semifinals -the cancer remained in check, from all indications. Shanteau under­went surgery on Aug. 26, two days after the closing cere­monies, and tests since then have come back normal. He got the latest bit of good news just before Thanksgiving. 
Even so, Shanteau had to be talked out of further treat­ment. Worried that his cancer might return, he strongly con­sidered undergoing a round of chemotherapy, which likely would have been delayed his comeback while he dealt with miserable side effects such as nausea, weakness and hair loss. 
"Everyone prepares you for dealing with the cancer, the surgery, getting rid of it, yada, yada, yada," he said. "But no one prepares you for life after it. It's like, 'OK, you've had it. 
•'J\t."• ~'t:>U Vli~h·· 
· WALLC·r& t;CAJ<!VEiS ·FURSE"'' • c;,--·lAN<:iif( 
Imports 
-lNGf.:NSE, 
LOAPS OF [-?!LYER & BEArYFD .JEWELRY. SIL'VER RlNG6 At-lD TOE RINGS, TAPESTRY WALL HANGINGS/ BEDSF'REA[)S AND MU0-1 MUCH MORE 
I ,a 1--\;·;:ttHl~o.~ -· Sof'in Rnorn · Uec. 1.. () ( S.a.t.) I I 5 pm i\.-1--1.-Eves 7:.30 1Oprn 
«U<lf'o~>'l'<t'-' t-h>it. h?vin9 hond.-s c"f ${..1<.11'C.tr\-t1lc:r• as funds far i"hatr edwco:tion 
Now you have a chance of it coming back. But here, go live your life.' To be honest, I kind of freaked out." 
Shanteau turned to many of the same support groups that had called on him to serve as a face for the victims, the one who was supposed to provide hope but found himself over­whelmed by the dread of being stricken again. 
"I expected to just be free and clear and done with it after the surgery," he said. "But that's not how my thought process was. I started thinking, 'What if it comes back? Is it going to come back?'" 
That's what brought him back to the pool much quicker than Olympic stars such as Michael Phelps and Natalie Coughlin, both still on break since Beijing. 
"This was sort of a way for me to take back a little bit of control," Shanteau said. 
He returned to training about 5 1/2 weeks after his surgery. His first attempt last­ed mere seconds-as soon as he extended his arms above his head, he felt an intense stretching sensation in his groin area, where doctors made a deep incision to remove the cancerous testicle 
He took another week off, felt fine and has been training ever since. The short course meet gave him a chance to return to competition in his hometown-he grew up in suburban Atlanta-and get a feel for where he needs to be to qualify for the world cham­pionships in Rome next sum­mer. 
\,

NFL 
Browns' Dawson hopes 
for first Pro-Bo\Vl bid 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio Phil Dawson has not been to Hawaii since his honeymoon. He would like to take his wife back in February to celebrate their lOth wedding anniver­sary. 
And maybe play in his first Pro Bowl. 
"It could be two trips in one," Dawson said with a smile Thursday as he laced up his spikes before practice. "I could even play it off as, 'Honey, I'm taking you back to where it all started, and if you don't mind, I'm going to kick a few balls while we're here."' 
Shannon Dawson would not mind mixing some sun and fun with football. 
Overlooked for years, Dawson may deserve a Pro Bowl spot. 
Cleveland's rock-steady kicker has been one of the few bright spots this season for the dismal Browns (4-8), who have failed to live up to high expectations. But while his teammates commit penal­ties, drop passes and miss tackles, Dawson, as always, has been dependable, exact and consistent. 
Just like his kicks. 
The lone player left from the Browns' 1999 expansion team, Dawson has converted 26 of 30 field-goal attempts and made three of the longest kicks of his 10-year career, including a game-winning 56­yarder to beat Buffalo on Nov. 17. Dawson recently made 13 straight field goals -three over 50 yards -and his next make will match his eareer high (27) for a season. 
Only Lou Groza and Don Cockroft have scored more career points for Cleveland than Dawson, who also scored the first rushing touchdown for the new Browns on a fake field goal in 1999. 
However, one thing has remains out of Dawson's range: a Pro Bowl. 
"It's a career goal of mine," Dawson said. "Sometimes you wonder if people notice what you do. Unfortunately, I've been on a losing team eight of the last 10 years. There's been probably about three seasons sprinkled in there where I thought I had a chance. Not to take anything from the guys who were named because the AFC is loaded with great kickers, but I feel pretty good about what I've been able to do in the conditions I find myself 
in." 
Ah, the conditions. 
In Cleveland's lakefront sta­dium, the weather in November and December can be unbearable and unpre­dictable. With swirling, gust­ing winds, lake-effect snow, freezing temperatures, rain, ice and sleet, it's no place for a picnic. 
No, it is not San Diego and it is not under an inflatable roof, which is why Dawson's precision -he is currently the league's seventh most accurate kicker of all-time at 
83.2 percent-is so impres­sive. Dawson has to kick on a natural, grass surface as temperamental as the weath­er. Even on dry days, Cleveland's turf can be unfor­giving. 
"For Phil to have the career he has had here is unbeliev­able," said long snapper Ryan Pontbriand, a Pro Bowler last season. ''I'd rank him above just about everybody because 
of where he has played and what he has done.'' 
Week after week, visiting kickers and punters express their disbelief to Dawson and Browns punter Dave Zastudil about the challenge of doing their jobs well in Cleveland. In last week's 16-6 Joss to Indianapolis, Colts kicker Adam Vinatieri missed a 46­yarder and later told Dawson he cannot imagine kicking here all the time. 
"When Adam, who has made game-winning kicks in the Super Bowl, tells me how difficult it is to kick in Cleveland and how glad he is that he doesn't have to kick here, that means a lot," Dawson said. 
Never one to make excuses, Dawson was wide right with a 34-yard kick last week that he said looked perfect as it came off his right foot. 
"I did everything exactly how I wanted to, and the ball didn't go in the air the way I thought it would," he said. "That's why I say I'm close to going insane because as hard as I work and as prepared as I am, when you kick in Cleveland you are going to have kicks that don't go through that should.'' 

COME TO THE SOUTH SIDE. 

MAJOR IN FILM, TEl.EVISOl'-1. AND THEATRE. 
CLICK HERE: fH.nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 5, 2008 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Squad enters MIAA play with confidence 
By ALEX BARKER Sporrs Wri rer 

Fresh of!' il'i first conference vie­tory of' the season against Trine, Saint Mary's will try to stay unde­fi-"mtnd in thn MIAA when it hosl<> Calvin Saturday at the Angela Athldic C~ntt~r. 
Wednesday, the Belles knocked ofT Trine S0-72 in the opening gam11 of' MIAA eonf'erenee play. Senior forward Erin Newsom scored a team-high 18 poinl<> and ~-,rrabbed 10 rebounds to paee the Bellns. It was her third double-dou­bln of' the season. 
A'i a team, Saint Mary's eould not have played mud1 better. The team shot 32-f'or-50 from the floor against tlw Thunder. Their 5S per­cent shooting pereentagn was the highest percentage ever for the Belles undnr mach Jenn I hmley. 
Tho win also marked the first time sinee 2002 the Belles have won their MIM optmer. 
Over Thanksgiving break, the team played against tough compe­tition in preparation liw conference play 
"Tho Wlwaton game wa<> a great win lilr us," senior forward Nicole Beier said. "rt was frustrating to lose another dose game. but I think that the team is moving in the right direction." 
The Bolles knocked oft· Wheaton for the first time in 10 tries before dropping two games in the Saint Mary's Thanksgiving Oassic. Saint Mary's fell to eventual tournament chmnpion Otterbein by three points in the first game and dropped another against No. 21 Chicago in the second. 
"The games over break have prepared us well for our upeoming conference games," Beier said. 
Looking ahead to the MIM com­petition that awaits the Belles this season, Beier and the team have two important goals heading for­ward. 
"Our ultimate goal is to win eon­fbrenee this sea<>on and reach the finaL., of' the postseason conlbrnnce tournament," Beier said. 
Saint Mary's has perfi)rmed well in the paint this season, dominat­ing the boards by an average mar­gin of six rebounds per game. Junior forward Anna Kammrath leads the team this season with 
10.8 rebounds per game, just in front of Newsom's 9.2 boards per game. 
The Belles will have their hands full this weekend with Calvin, who finished third in the conference last season, one spot ahead of Saint Mary's. In two matchups la'it sea­son, the Knights claimed victory both times. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 

Information Meeting 
for women interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Ryan Hall 
Thursday, December 11 · 7:00PM 
•
Thursday, January 22 8:00PM 
DeBartolo Hall I Room 1 02 
Applications Available January 28-February 6 
hQ n:L~\-U}~,§':.Jj!:\g,Q,QJJ\§UlJ,;l._,_l;;l_q,v. 
Learn more about Notre Dame's next newest living option 
orlh.nd.edu 


OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Phone: 574.631.5878 l E-Mail: orlh@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles head to TYR meet in Wisconsin 
Observer Staff Repon 
The 2-2 Belles travel to Kenosha, Wis. to compete in the TYH Invitational. This is the first competition for Saint Mary's since the Patrick Woehniker Invitational in Crawfordsville, Ind., on Nov. 22. 
Frnshman Eva Cavadini fin­ished second there in the 500 freestyle with a time of 5:27.S5. 
She also finished seventh in the 200 butterfly in 2:32.32. 
Mallory Kimmel finished 14th in the 100-yard back­stroke with a time of 1:19.84. She also finished 12th in the 100-yard breaststroke with a time of 1:23.04. 
This is the last meet of the semester for the Belles. After break, they take a winter training trip before resuming competition Jan. 10 against Hope. 
THINK~'OUTSIDE-~
TACO

THE BUN® BELU 

~-----------------~ 
I I I 
I .. I I I I I I I 

I Supreme Combo Meal 
I · vtu~wx One Nacbos Supreme
I 

I •One 32oz Drink 
' ~ Offer expires }2/31/03. OOer good only at porticipoting TACO BELl® !Motions in
I 

· lbe greater Sovth Send, IN area. OOer exdudes Steak nnd Chicken versions. P!emeI ~ prtsem !his mup~n when 01derlnG.limit One wupGn per pt~n p~r •!ili1. N~l good with any other 
~ 

TACO offer. Void il rQpied, 1r~n>l$1red, re~roou(ed flJ' whtre wohiblted. Cmh 1edemption ¥Clue l/20lhI BELL rent. @2008TACO Bfll CORP 7306-B 
~-----------------­
(02008 TACO BH! CORP. 7306·8 



Friday, December 5, 2008 The Observer u SPORTS page 17 

Boilers 
continued from page 20 
geographic proximity. 
"We both have a lot of players from the Midwest, so I think that makes it a bigger rivalry, especially for the players from Indiana," she said. 
This season, both teams come into the game ranked. The Irish are No. 11 in the AP poll and No. 8 in the coaches' poll; Purdue is No. 17 and No. 20, respectively. 
McGraw said both teams' ranking will not affect the level of play on Saturday, because it is always a hard-lbught game. 
Serving Lunch f.,-Dinner Come Dine Wid1 Our Famih• And Be Ottr Friend! 
Tue:s-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun & Mon 
Our Specialties Include E'(quisite Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetmian Dishes 
11.5 Dixie \Vav North, South Bend 
(574)' 277-7239 
"It's a great game to play every year. I would say the majority of the years, at least one of us was ranked, ifnot both of us. So, I think it would be just as intense as if neither team were ranked. It's just that kind of game," she said. 
The last time out, Notre Dame beat Eastern Michigan 83-63 in Ypsilanti, Mich. Although the Irish pulled out the win, they did not shoot particularly well, going only 
38.9 percent from the floor. Sophomore forward Becca Bruszewski had a particularly disap­pointing night, making only one of her 10 shots in 27 minutes. But McGraw said Bruszewski and the rest ofthe Irish just had an offnight that night 
"I think that was an anomaly. I think that when you look at our shooting percentages overall, indi­vidually Becca is shooting 54 per­cent from the field and Erica Solomon 64 percent from the field," McGraw said. "Everybody's shooting the ball a lot better than they did in that particular game. I'm not wor­ried about that, and we're playing at home, so we are definitely going to shoot the ball a little bit better." 
Purdue fell to 5-2 Thursday night after losing to No. 8 Maryland 70-59 in the ACOBig Ten Challenge. The Terrapins held the Boilermakers to only 2-of-17 shooting from 3-point land, an impressive feat considering Purdue's prolific scoring from beyond the arc. 
After the loss to Maryland, Purdue is shooting 40 percent of its 3s as a team, with guards Jodi Howell (12­of-25) and Brittany Rayburn (13-of­
36) leading the way. Junior FahKara Malone is also shooting 34.5 percent from distance. 
"I think that those three are a threat from the perimeter. And they didn't have Rayburn or Jodi Howell last year, so they definitely have improved their shooting threat," McGraw said. 
McGraw said the Boilermaker bigs will be a test for her post play­ers, and that forward Lindsay Wisdom-Hylton is the best player her team has seen to date. 
"She gives us concern not just with her size but with her mobility. She's going to be a real tough chal­lenge for us," McGraw said. 
Tip-offfor the game is at 2 p.m. on Sunday. 
Notes: 
+The Purdue game is the first sell-out of the season for the Irish, and the third in two years for the Joyce Center. 
Although tickets are gone for fans, there are still 300 student tickets available for the game. The first 300 arriving students will also receive a free T-shirt and a McDonald's gift certificate. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING 
Teatns go to Coluinbus for OSU Invitational 
By MIKE GOTIMER Sports Writer 
This weekend, Notre Dame travels to Columbus to partici­pate in the Ohio State Invitational in what will be their final competition of 2008. 
The men's team returns to the meet after a fourth-place finish in 2007. It will face off against Ohio State, Cleveland State, Minnesota and Penn State in the swimming events while Iowa, South Carolina and Duke will only participate in the diving events. The meet will be the second time this year that Notre Dame will face off against both Ohio State and Cleveland State. In their previous meetings, the Irish lost to the Buckeyes 172.5­
86.5 but defeated the Vikings by a score of 132-109. 
"In a lot of ways this is the focal point of the fall semes­ter," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "It's the first time this season we will have a chance to swim in prelims and finals in the same event on the same 
Bulldogs 
continued from page 20 
season, they're going to come back and seek revenge," Notre Dame center Christian Hanson said. "We did it against Boston College this season, and two years ago we did it against Alaska." 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said the key to spoiling Ferris State's bid at revenge would be adjusting to the Bulldog's unique defensive trap style of play. 
"Their system is built to cre­ate turnovers," Jackson said. "And if you turn the puck over, then they transition pretty well." 
Jackson said the team has been working on puck control during the week, specifically making better plays off the boards. 
"We just have to be a lot more patient with the puck and pick the chances that we take," Hanson said. 
The Bulldogs have received balanced scoring so far this season, with five players notch­ing over 10 points on the year. Ferris State is led on defense by sophomores Zach Redmond and Scott Wietecha. 
"They've got three good lines of forwards and one of the best defensive pairs in the confer­ence," Jackson said. 
The Irish will try to counter with some scoring of their own, most notably from freshman phenom Billy Maday, who Tuesday was named the CCHA Rookie of the Month for November. Maday is tied with Hanson for the team lead in goals with nine, and has totaled 15 points on the season. 
"When you lose a kid like 
day -a similar format to the Big East Conference and NCAA Championships." 
The No. 24 Notre Dame women's team returns to the pool for the first time since its Nov. 8 victory over Purdue. 
"We're excited because it has been a few weeks since we have competed," Irish coach Brian Barnes said. "It's a good three-day meet and it gives us a chance to swim one or two times a day with a lot of rest, and that's going to favor some of our best per­formances of the year." 
The Irish women will face off against Ohio State, Bowling Green, Cleveland State, Minnesota, Miami (Fl.), and Penn State in the swimming events while Indiana, North Carolina State, Arizona State, and Florida State will only participate in the diving events. 
The action in Columbus is set to begin Friday morning and finish Sunday evening. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
Mark Van Guilder, you want to replace him with someone who's at least as good," Jackson said. "And thus far Billy's been as productive as Mark, and that bodes really well for us for this year and the future." 
Jackson also said, though, that Maday would have to adjust if he wanted his success to continue. 
"One of the dangers of play­ing as well as he had is that teams are going to start focus­ing on shutting him down," Jackson said. "That's some­thing he hasn't seen yet, and it's coming his way." 
Friday night's game will also mark Notre Dame's first game as the No. 1 team in the coun­try since the 2006-2007 season. Hanson said he expected oppo­nents to step their game up in an attempt to take down the Irish. 
"We have to realize that team's are going to give us their 'A' game every night," he said. 
This weekend's series also comes on the heels of the announcement that Irish soph­omore defensemen Ian Cole and Teddy Ruth were selected to the U.S. Junior National Team, and will play in the World Junior Championships in Ottawa Dec. 26-Jan. 5. Cole will be making his second appear­ance with the team, but it will be Ruth's first time playing for the red, white, and blue. 
''I'm just really happy for [Teddy] because he's perfect for playing in the World Juniors in Canada on the NHL sheet," Jackson said. "l-Ie's one of those blood-and-guts guys, those warriors, that every team needs to have." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

L_______________________________________________________________________________________________ ------­
Friday, December 5, 2008

page 18 The Observer u SPORTS 
Schipper 
continued from page 20 
.Junior Matt Schipper looks to eontinun his improvement from thn 2007-2008 indoor snason. wlwn he won the Blue and Gold meet with a vault of 4.75 meters and finished with a ninth-place vault of 5.06 meters at the NCAA regionals. lie's also narnnd all-confnrPnce twiee. 
"Matt Schipper is great, he's a 17-foot vaulter for us," Piane said. 
Senior Mary Saxer enters the mod as NotrP Dame's top woman pole vaulter. She won the 2008 outdoor title, setting a nnw sdwol rec~ord with a 4.06­motnr vault. 
The traek events begin at 6 
p.m. with the men's and wonum 's hO-rnnter hurdles, with distanee and sprint events alter­nating after that. 
.Junior Joanna Sehulz ent11rs as a top sprintf~r for the Irish. She finished seventh in the 400 meters at the Big East indoor championships in 2008, and earrwd two all-Big East honors at the outdoor championships, finishing third in the 400 meters and second as a part of the 4 x 400 meter r11lay. 
Senior distance runner Patrick Smyth, who finished his cross-country career with a 10th-place finish at the NCAA Championships, will look for his third track and field All­American honor this season. Smyth l'inished eighth in the 5000-meter run at the national outdoor track finals last season. 
Notre Dame also brings back some notable multi-event ath­letes. 
Senior Alyissa llasan finished the 2007-2008 indoor season at the NCAA Championships, where she broke the school record in the pentathlon and became Notre Dame's first multi-event All-American with a ninth-place finish. She finished 15th in the heptathlon at the outdoor national champi­onships. 
Sophomore Justin Schneider earned all-conference accolades a l'rnshman. finishing second in the heptathlon at the Big East indoor championships and sec­ond in the decathlon at the Big East outdoor championships. 
"We have a lot of really good kids, there's no doubt," Piane said. "It's impossible to name them all." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
'Gody 
continued from page 20 

Brey said he isn't going to try to 
rush Harangody back into the line­
up. 

''I'm going to be really cautious with this, because it i'> a big game,. but it isn't a big game either," Brey said. "I told Luke in the Los Angeles airport as he wa'i in mis­ery flying back, 'Worst ea'ie, if we have you 100 pereent as we're going over to play DePaul on New Year's Eve, that's when I need you."' 
So far, Notre Dame has played just fine in Harangody's absenee, though it ha'in't played anyone on tho same level eompetitively as Ohio State, who ic;; receiving votes in both polls and defeated No. 21/22 Miami 73-68 Tuesday. The lrL'ih defeated Furman and South Dakota by wide margins without llarangody. 
During those games, senior guard Kyle McAlarney continued hi<; hot shooting from the out'iide. In Notre Dame's la'it three games, McAlarney has hit 26-of-48 (54 percent) from three-point range ­he buried 10 against North Carolina in the finals of the Maui Invitational, nine against Furman and seven against South Dakota. 
"If I wa<; coaching again'it Kyle. I might pull the old Stephen Curry trick with a triangle-and-two on him," senior forward Zach Hillesland said, referring to the David<;on's 78-48 win over Loyola­Maryland, in which Loyola held the David'ion star to zero point<; by double-teaming him the entire game. "But the way he's been shooting ha'i been amazing." 
McAlarney added: "I credit my teammates, but I'm not expecting to be hot like this the whole sea­son. So there's other things that I feel like I'm bringing to the table that I need to be consistent with, like leadership." 
McAlarney, however, isn't the only one on a hot streak. Senior forward Ryan Ayers ha'i stepped up while Harangody has been out. 
Ayers scored 19 against Furman and had 25 point'> in the first half against South Dakota on his way to a career-high 35 for the game. 
"That's one of the things we talked about when we got back from Maui," Brey said. "I thought he· could've been a little mor<~ aggn~ssive out there and we need him to be, beeause they're going to take away Kyle or take away 'Gody and he is going to get those open looks and we don't want hin1 to be .~ashful or turn anything down. 
McAlarney and Ayers see a lot of opnn looks when tho Irish come down the floor in transition. and against Ohio State, if Notre Dame can brnak the Buckeyes' l'ull-court press, the Irish could get some open looks for thnir shooters. 
"They have a 2-2-1 press every made basket, every made free throw, and then go back to a zone," Brey said "That takes a kind of mental toughness and con­centration to attack both defenses; when to attack the press to score, and when to attack it and then attack their zone." 
ThP Buckeyes, coached by Thad Matta. average 65.8 points per game to Notrn Dame's 87.1, but Ohio State only allows 47.3 points per game to Notre Dame's 68.7. They spn~ad their seoring around their lineup, with guard Evan Turner as Ohio State's leading seorer with 13.8 points per game. 
Note: 
uMcAlarney, who is no fan of shaving, has been on his hot streak while sporting hi'> on-again, off-again board. 
"I know he rotates in and out of the Brett Favr11 look, but whatew~r he's doing with his facial hair, don't change right now," Brey said. "I don't want him to change." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Welcome to 21st century student living. 



• Close to groceries, restaurants &entertainment .. Walk to campus 
What more could you need? But hurry, units are filling fast. 
Irish 
ROW 
lrishRowApartments.com 1 lrishCrossings.com kariem@irishrowapanments,corrl I J74J77.6666 
As if living in a brand new, contemporary~ furnished apartment or luxury townhome wasn't enough. Or as if living just one block east ot 
Notre Dame wasn't enough. Now there's even more reason to live at Irish Row Apartments or Irish Crossings Townhomes. 
Your Irish Row or Irish Crossings lease now gives you tree access to the new Irish Row Fitness Center and Lounge. Tanning will be available for a fee to residents only. 
!ill) Atb)t(i( fi>cl<b 
I 
l\l•ttin'l
•
*5"'"" Ifish Cwssings
·Towntmmes 
fot Lea·H~ 
irish 
Row 
* 

Ni<llol~'f R~hlurl)n~
• 

You'll find brand new, state-of-the-art cardio equipment and free weights in the fitness center and comfortable seating, a large widescreen TV and kitchen in the lounge; all just steps outside your front door. 
Besides the new fitness area. tanning and lounge, your lease at Irish Row Apartments or Irish Crossing Townhomes gets you: 
• 
Up to tour bedrooms 

• 
Private, fuH bath in each bedroom 


• 
Furnished 

• 
42" Hat panel HDTV in each family room 

• 
Laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
FREE Internet & 200+ TV stations 


Frdiay, December 5, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by fknri Awou aPd Mik>li Af\)'rian
JJW7~JJID)1[8, 
Unscramble Jhese four Jurnbies, onh lettm to each sqvam, ID form ft)tlr ordinary words 

NECKAR 

Now arrange the circ!ed ieth1rs 
to rorm lhe surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: (II:I:J "[xxi:rJ"
(Answers tommmw) y t d . IJumbl«s.: GAUDY COCOA SQUIRM BOLERO es er ay·s Answ0r; A!thOlJg!1 the maHer was oblong. the content was -~ "CIRCULAR'' 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 
DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 27 Pacific islands in W.Vv. l! lighiing,
"ThOll a1i not with ·the"lovelier than 
30Hugh successor to 
-no·· 

(Millay sonnet Louis V as kingstart) ot Franco
7 Make even ~13 Kind d cup
1 0 Neighbor of 34 Les poisson;; Afghanistan: 
swk~1 in~~
Abbr. 35 Ch<~rter
13 Cadillac model 36 Folk wisdom,
14 jam part 2 15 Word with oicK 3 7 Doggone 
or pack · 38 Nabokov novel 
1 H With 5~)-Across. 
3H Bibilcal prophetdescription of 
tnrown
23·. 36· and 44­
ov;:nbo<:~rd by his
Acros!> 
shipmates17 Wither 
40 Forma! dress 19 Atlanta's 
shoes Cenier 
41 S;Hw 20 College square 
43 NOI\'Iegian coin 
22 Playwnght 44 End ot the folk Edward and 
wisdom others 
49 Obliquely23 Begmning of 
51 Bi~lhoprics
some folk wisdom 52 Old Eur. domain 
2€ Clod buster 53 Cu1ou1 to fill in 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

fi5 Seo 164\cmss 
57 Additionally 
58 Green: Prefix 
59 Corrida 
combatants 
no Have 

61 Shade of b!un 
62 Makeshift 
hatrac!< 

Down 1 ............ man put asund0r'' (we:Jdinq words) 
2. ·· ......... to be <llone" (words atlni:Mect 10 Greta Garbo) 
3 'Nee. quickly 4 Exact proper divisor. in math 5 Par\ ot a contract 6 French 
I~Jgislature 

7 Spanish aunt e lncia€d printing method 9 Pendant place 10 Bil of wishful thinking 11 Yearn 12 Pl1i Beta Kappa memenlos 13 Webster's, e.g .. Ab!x, " t BMd<.mcholy woodwind 21 MEdicinal
cardiac stimulant 
.....• fiml pwsident nf South Korea 
Paul, e.g, 
28 Infield cover 

29 Heavenly orbs. 
30 Scorch 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


a1 She dies with  40 Do some  47 Cnuse for an  
Radames  advance  arasure  
32 Tttlk, talk, talk :33 Robert of "The 39 Steps"  organizing 42 AyatoHah's home 4a Titania's t1USb<¥1d  4H Fighters for JBff Davis 49 Regarding  
36 Teflon, e.g.  45Dividing  50 Pk\Cfs  
mnrnbranes  54 Powe!!'s co-star  
37 Any Sonny and Cflet song  46 When doubled. combrling  in "The Thin Man"  
39 Bumps on a r16B  words  56 Speed: Abbr.  

___________________..,. 
For ;;m~wers, caH i-900·285-5(.)5$, $1A9 a minute: or, wi1h a 
cmdi1 card. 1·800-814-5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the bes1 or SLinday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888·7·ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzz!l~ and rnol'ti than 2,000 past puzzles, nytlmes.comfcrosswords ($3R95 a year}. Share lips: nytimes.comipuzz!eforum. Crosswords for yovng solvers; nytimos.com/!eoming/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
FRIDAYS WfiH FRAN

HOROSCOPE 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Are you a Cranker or a Yanker? TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your lesions make you look like a Dalmatian. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Yoda had a chota. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Antonio Pierce was just being a good friend when he tried to hide Plax's gun. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): On the first day of Christmas my true love gave to me ... a Brady in a peach tree. VIRGO(Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You've been drinking more than Gordon Bombay lately. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Eddie Winslow's flat top -what dreams are made of. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Speaking of dreaming, you give me gassy dreams. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Love the Drake. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Sorry about missing last week. I had genital warts. I'm okay now, though. AQUARIUS: (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): "Alright, alright, Mickey's a mouse, Donald's a duck, Pluto's a dog, what's Goofy?" ... "Oh, God. That's weird. What the hell is Goofy?" PISCES: (Feb. 19-March 20): Uterus or sphincter? Text your vote to (516)695­4637. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 

N D BASKETBALL 
Harangody may sit out against Ohio St. 
By CHRIS HINE Editor-in-Chief 

On Saturday, thP Irish will try to pick up another resumfl-building win whm1 they take on Ohio State at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, but they may have to do it without junior forward Luke llarangody. 
Ilarangody, who missed No. 7!7 Notre Dame's (6-1) la<>t two games lx~causn of pneumonia he contract­ed during the Maui lnvitationalla<>t week. planned on partieipating in practice Thursday and Friday. but said it will lxl a game time de<i<>ion as to wheth!lr or not he will play against th1~ Buckey1lS (4-0). 
"I talked to )coach Mike Breyl about how we need to play this safe. b!H:ause you don't want a relapse coming baek in the Big Ea.'it sea<>on when you've got a big gan1e every other day," Ilarangody said belilrn practice Thursday. 
see 'GODY/page I 8 
Top 10s vs. Big Tens 

N D TRACK AND FIELD 
Indoor season begins 
vvith Blue-Gold Meet 
By LAURA MYERS 
SportS Writer 

Tlw Irish begin their indoor s1mson Friday with a mnet that will havn big implications. 
Notrn DamP hosts Big East rivals DePaul and Marquette as wnll as l>etroit-M1~rey in the Blue and Gold Meet at the Loftus Center. 
It is tlw only rnent in DnePmlwr for the Irish, giving it addnd nwaning hnading into wintnr hrnak. 
"Thn real purposn of this meet is to havn sonwthing bnfon~ the snrnnstnr !mds," roach Jon Piann said. "Most of thnse kids have b1Hm working sincn September, and it's nice to get an early start." 
Along with being the team's first test. times gained today can help individuals qualify for the Big East championship meet in February. 
"We use this meet as a moti­vator," Piane said. "If the ath­letes do qualify. we can use those limns as a starting point. If they don't qualify. we can use it as a motivation to really work hard ovnr brnak and at thn next meets." 
At thn 2007 Blue and Gold Meet, more than 40 Big East qualifying times were reached. 
The field events open with womnn's high jump and mnn's pole vault at 5 p.m. 
see SCHIPPER/page 18 
Purdue visits, causes a Joyce Center sellout 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
On Sunday, Notre Dame renews its rivalry with Purdue, who Irish coach Muffet McGraw said will be her squad's biggest non-conference test of the season. 
The two Indiana schooL<> have met 21 times before, with Purdue holding the edge 14-7. But that trend has been reversed in recent years, with the Irish having won three of the Ia'it four games in the series. induding McGraw's first ever win in West Lafayette, Ind .• llli>t season. 
The Irish have by far the biggest win in the series, coming on April 1, 2001. 
'The fad. that we beat (Purdue) in the 12001 NCAA! Championship game, I think that makes thi<> a pretty good rivalry." MeGraw said in a tele­phone interviflw with '!be Observer. 
McGraw said the rivalry is also strong because of the two schools 
see BOILERS/page 17 
HOCKEY 

Irish travel to face Ferris State 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Writer 
On March 14. Ferris State skated off the Joyce Center ice with a 1-0 lead in the best-of-three CCIIA quarter­final series against the Irish. Notre Dame came back. though, and won the next two do-or-die games to advance to the CCHA semifi­nals and. eventually, the NCAA championship game. 
Tonight. the Irish will head to Big Hapids, Mich. in the first meeting between the two teams since a 6-3 Irish win shut the door on the Bulldogs' 2007-2008 campaign. 
"Anytime you end a team's 
see BULLDOGS/page 17 





