
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Eck gives $20 million to disease center 
Gift will benefit CGHID, multi-disciplinary research on global health crisis, biomedical sciences 
director of the CGHID. Eck's gift will give the "We want to give students 
By BECKY HOGAN According to its Web site, Center "a number of oppor­the opportunity to do 
News Writer the CGHID brings together tunities we haven't had research and work in dis­
faculty and students from before. While there are a ease-endemic field settings," 
Notre Dame alumnus several differ.ent colleges and number of faculty who are Collins said. Frank Eck has given the departments at Notre Dame, affiliated with the Center, all Additionally, Collins said University a $20 million gift focusing its research and of their funding is for very the gift will help cover some to support the Center for teaching on human specific research programs," administrative costs, central­Global Health and Infectious pathogens, diseases caused Collins said. "One of the ize all the related research Diseases (CGHID), which will by these organisms and the things we have not had is the currently underway at Notre be renamed the Eck Family impact of these diseases on ability to generate money Dame and enable the Center Center for Global Health and human society. Members of used for general educational to invite researchers to give Infectious Diseases. the CGHID are concerned activities." seminars. 
"This endowment is going with a broad range of Collins said the Center Assistant director for the to put the Center on a much research topics, from bio­plans to use the money, in Center, Jeff Schorey, said the more formal footing. It... will medical science to human part, to send graduate and gift will also allow the Center allow for more formal plan­rights issues, such as the undergraduate students to give special attention to ning which we haven't had in impact of infectious diseases overseas to participate in the past," said Fred Collins, in developing countries. research projects. see ECK/ page 4 
Forun1 debates in1n1igration, just policies 
Panelists generally agree on mistreatment, contributions ofundocumented workers to economy 
ing immigrants. 
By KATIE PERALTA 
But for the vast majority of 
Assisrant News Editor 
American citizens, Carmona said, disagreements on the issue Student government hosted a of immigration hinge· on the 
student forum on immigration belief that "to be American Tuesday, which moderator Don means to be a white Anglo­Wycliff. the University's associ­Saxon Protestant." ate vice president for News and 
McKenna echoed this senti­
Information. said was meant to 
ment. 

produce "more light than heat." "Many [citizensI complainBut no heat was produced at all 
about a change of their lifestyle
by a panel of students that tend­as a result of immigration," he ed to agree on most questions said, citing the economic impact 
regarding the nationally debat­of a larger labor force. ed issue. McKenna said immigration is The four panelists -seniors an issue that affects everyone,
Stephanie Brauer and Michael 
not just the Americans that mayMcKenna. junior Elizabeth be competing for jobs with 
Ferrufino and graduate student immigrants.
Victor Carmona -generally 
"All Americans are stakehold­agreed on the importance of ers in this debate," McKenna immigrants to the American said. "That includes [cities 
economy and what the role the United States should be regard-see FORUM/page 3 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Law-school dean to step do:wn 
O'Hara to leave post in 2009 after 10 years 
By PUJA PARIKH 
News Writer 
After a decade as dean of the Law School, Patricia O'Hara will leave her position at the University in June next year because "10 years is the optimal 
length of time to serve as dean," she said in a statement on March 26. 
O'Hara 


joined the O'Hara law school faulty in 1981 and nine years she later became vice presi­
dent of Student Affairs. After another nine years, she left the post to become the dean 
of the Law School in 1999. 
O'Hara said in her state­ment that a part of being a dean is "!knowing] when the responsibilities of leadership should be handed off to oth­ers.". 
She said 10 years in office is long enough to get good work done but at the same time "it is not so long as to threaten the possibility of either a lack of freshness and optimism. or to eompromise the sense of joy that must be 
see DEAN/page 6 


ND explores Faustian thetnes w-ith events 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
The themes of salvation. faith and knowledge will be exam­ined on <~ampus during the next two weeks as this year's aca­demic theme "Faust at Notre Dame" is explored through an opera. a play and a conference. 
According to Art<> and Letters Assoeiatn Dnan Stuart Greene, German Professor .Jan Hagens suggested making Faust this year's ar.adnmie thnme becausn 2008 is the 200th annivnrsarv of Part I of .Johann Wolfgang ~on Goethe's play of the same name. 
Faustian themes can tran­scend aeademic disciplines, such as literature, seience and religion Greene said. 
"The issues of our day are increasingly complex. and it makes sense to cross bound­aries," he said. "The issues are complex and rieh enough that we should be looking at a play like this from multiple perspec­tives." 
In addition to performances of Goethe's play, events of the "Faust at Notre Dame" initiative eenter on Christopher Marlowe's play, 'Doctor Faustus.' 
In both Goethe's and Marlowe's versions of the Faust story, the title character desires to rise above human knowledge, and. after turning to magic, for­feits his soul to the Devil in exchange for the Devil's serviee during his life. 
Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roehe said this plot uses themes relevant to the Notre Dame 
see FAUST/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Program to reach out to freshmen 
Student gov't to recruit first-years who lose bidfor Class Council to FLEX 
By JOSEPH McMAHON Assistant News Editor 

Concerned with the laek of freshman input in student government, student body president Bob Reish unveiled the new Freshman Leadership Experienee (FLEXl program at the Council of Representatives (COR) meet­ing Tuesday. 
Freshman Blair Carlin. who will help run the program next year and has conducted research at other sehools looking at similar programs, explained the purpose of FLEX to the Council. 
"The primary goal is to inte­
see CORlpage 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ma:m_a, I':m_ a big girl novv 
In about a month I will be both oflkial­
ly a college 1-,rraduate and ollieially unem­
ployed. 
But my panic about the latter is the 
topic li1r another column. 
Today I want to 

focus on the good, Marcela Berrios 
on my progress 

toward becoming Senior Staff 
a mal grown up. Writer 
I came to this 
university almost 
li1ur years not a girl. but not yet a 

woman. Alii needed was time, a moment 
that was mine while I was in between. 
And of course I got everything but that. 
During my fn~shman year I got really 
lat. I got hooknd on Faccbook, I got bom­
barded with Cs in most of my engineer­
ing classes and I got excited about dorm 
parties. 
Sophomore year I got some divine 

inspiration and transfP.rred to business, I 
got on a diet and I got a fake. !\nd so the 
age of' Fever began. 

Junior year I got addieted to working 
at The Observer, I got a little bored of 

Fever and I got a boyfriend. The best one 
IWI~r. 
Senior year I got bangs and totally 
bon~d of' Fever. 

So yes. I would say that my time in col­
loge has !wen marknd by somn very dra­
matic event.<;, and that the complexity 

and ridmnss of' my moral and psycholog­
ical evolution is paralleled only by that of' 
maybe Saint Paul or Justin Timberlake. 
I roally am proud of' the person I've 

turnnd out to bf' and just to Jill up some 
spat~t'. herP an~ a few of the reasons for 
that: 

+ 
I can now go have a nwal at tlw din­ing hall by myself'. This would've newr happmwd freshman year because I was young and weak. Today, I proudly announce that I ari1 an independent woman, capablt~ of' eating by hcrsPII'­even at South -without worrying whether pnople will think I'm a loner or not. If' that isn't inner strength then I don't know what is. 

+ 
I know more big words because I've had a chance over the last four years to watch almost nvt~ry "West Wing" episode at least twiee. If anyone deserves to meet Martin Sheen at Commpncemtmt, it should be me. 

+ 
I've diseovemd that the best way to los!i wnight is to drink lots and lots of cof­li~e. If' it doesn't make you lose your appetite entirnly, it will at least speed up your digestion. !\nd no one t:an say you have an nating disorder becausn in col­lege it's OK to drink li1ur cups of eoll'ne bnli1rn noon. 

+ 
I've learned that if you ever need extra change to do your laundry, you ean always lind some in that fountain in CoMo. 


And I've got plenty morn Iiii~ lessons for all you younglings out there, but I'm run­ning out of spaen and time. 
So my last words to you, dear rnaders, will bl' tlwse: 
c;et a fake because getting through lillrr years in South Bend is a little bit oasier that way. drink lots of eom~e. lind friends that will tako earn of you if you're drunk and may God bless you evory day. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios0Jnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional puhlicarion :111d strives lor the highest srandards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4S41 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU RATHER LOSE, YOUR CELL PHONE OR YOUR KEYS? 



Sarah Galgano  Diego Silva  Christine Lynch  Frank Vento  Matt Gibson  
senior off-campus  sophomore off-campus  sophomore Pasquerilla West  sophomore Stanford  senior Off-campus  
"/drive too much to lose my keys, so probably my phone."  "''d lose my keys -then I'd have a good excuse not to go to class."  "''d rather lose my phone, because 'best roomieofmy life' will come to  "''d rather lose my cell phone because then I can still go to Taco Bell."  ''I'd rather lose my cell phone ­I've lost itfour times already this year, so I'm  



my rescue. 


llilldale Station Post Office, said she expeeted to deal with all manner of issues when she went to work for the U.S. Post Ollice. But that was not one of them. 
!\bout five to 10 of the birds have been pecking at the postal workers as they make their rounds, and some of the birds have attacked the letter carriers with the sharp spurs on their legs. One of the birds went through the open door of a mail truck and seratehed the driver. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

Vodka company apologizes for offensive ads 
MEXICO CITY -The Absolut vodka eompany apol­ogizpd Saturday for an ad campaign depicting the southwt~stern U.S. as part of' Mexico amid angry calls for a boycott by U.S. consumers. 
The campaign, whieh pro­motes ideal seenarios under the slogan "In an !\bsolut World," showed a 1830s-era map when Mexico included California, Texas and other southwestern states. Mexico still resents losing that terri­tory in the 1848 Mexican­American War and the fight li>r Texas independence. 
But the ads, which ran only in Mexieo and have since endnd, were less than ideal for 1\rnericans undergoing a border buildup and embroiled in an emotional dcbatP over illegal immigra­tion from their southern neighbor. 
Postal workers attacked by wild turkeys 
MADISON, Wis.-Hather than rain or snow, or even dogs, postal workers in a West Side neighborhood near Owen Conservation Park are being pestered by wild turkeys this spring. Mara Wilhite, manager of the 

used to it. " 
IN BRIEF 

Rev. Hobert Dowd will give a lecture today entitled "The Religious Factor in Afriean Polities: Christians, Muslims and Politieal Culture in Nigeria, Uganda and Senegal" at 12:30 p.m. in the llesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Dr. Brandon Zabukovie of Memorial Hospital and Charlie Cornosy, professor of theology, will host a discus­sion entitlnd "Caring for the Least of' Us llealtheare and how it affects the most vul­nerable groups in the U.S." tonight at 6 in the Montgomery Hoom of LaFortune. 
The play "The Tragieal History of Doctor Faustus", a Christopher Marlow play about a professor who sells his soul to the devil, will bn performed April 8-13. 17 and 18 at 7:30 p.m. in the Deeio Mainstage Theater at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Donna Smith, from Michael Moore's movie 'Sieko,' will speak about her experience in the doeumentary and the cur­rent state of healthcare Thursday at 6 p.m. in DeBartolo room 126. 
Anne Thompson, Chief Environmental Correspondent at NBC News, will give a lee­lure ealled "Green is the 'new blaek,' but will it stay in style?" Friday at 10:40 a.m. in Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. · 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-m ail del ailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LIJ 
::::t: 
LIJ
:: ~ 
...I <( (,) 

0 
HIGH 53 HIGH 43 HIGH 53 HIGH 64
...I 
LOW 37 LOW 27 LOW 47 LOW 39 
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Candlelight service to ren1en1ber VT victin1s 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) discussed the upr.oming one-year anniversary of the Virginia Tech shootings at the first meeting Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Falvey led as the Saint Mary's student body president and vice president Tuesday. 
The anniversary, which is April 16, will be marked by a candle­light memorial service after the 9 
p.m. Mass in Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans llall. chief of staff Laura Theiss said. 
BOG will also be handing out ribbons in the Student Center dur­ing lunch and dinner hours to commemorate the event, Theiss said. 
The group also discussed their sponsorship of a woman living in Kosovo through the Women for Women International program. 
Program sponsors provide $27 per month to support a woman in war-torn regions of the world for one year. missions commissioner Sarah King said. 
King said the Division for Mission is sponsoring this woman in accordance with the theme of justice they have chosen to focus on for the 2008-2009 school year. 
The Division for Mission is encouraging clubs around campus as well as groups of students to sponsor their own woman, King said. 
In Other BOG news: 
+Next week is Hunger and Homelessness Awareness week, King said. E-mails will be sent to the student body announcing activities for the week. 
+The junior class will host a Kentucky Derby themed dance April17 from 9-11:30 p.m. at Dalloways Coffee House, Class of 2009 President Jenny Antonelli said. 
"It's just a fun themed dance on a weeknight," she said. Tickets will go on sale Monday at $5 per person. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnOl@saintmarys.edu 
Foru01 
continued from page 1 

where there is] industrial com­petition, the U.S. government, the Church and the education system." 
Ferrufino added the immi­grants' countries of origin to McKenna's list of role players. 
"Countries where immigrants are from also have a stake [on the immigration debate)," she said. "Low-income families do as well. And many companies are taking their businesses to other countries, hurting Americans and immigrants." 
But rather than from a busi­ness angle, Carmona said he views the immigration debate "through the eyes of faith." 
"We have to examine the way Catholics interpret the issue," he said, emphasizing the need for immigration poli­cies that are in line with Christian principles. 
"The issue here is to protect the common good. Causing deaths at the border is immoral," Carmona said. 
McKenna agreed with him, saying the United States has an obligation to protect human rights both at home, at the bor­ders and beyond. 
The panel also discussed the challenges immigrants must cope with, as they are often unfamiliar with the English language and exploited by their employers in jobs that were already low-paying to begin with. 
Ferrufino lamented the treat­ment undocumented workers receive in the United States. . 

McKenna complemented Brauer's argument. 
"Immigrants cannot get the [preventive] care provided to legal citizens, so there is crowding in emergency rooms, as well as crowding in schools," McKenna said. 
The panel agreed that solu­
"Corporations target migrants 

"We have to examine
because they 

are vulnera­the way Catholics ble," Ferrufino interpret the issue ... 
said. "It is 

The issue here is. to 
wrong that we 

are exploiting protect the common immigrants in good. Causing deaths 
this way." 

at the border is 
Wycliff intro­

immoral. ,,
duced the por­tion of the debate that 

Victor Carmona 
focused on the 

graduate student
benefits of migrant work­ers to the American economy by asking if immigrants are good for Social Security. 
Brauer commented that the notion does hold some truth because while many undocu­mented workers pay taxes, they can't claim many of the benefits. 
"[Undocumented immi­grants] are not getting the ben­efits from Social Security or reaping the benefits from social welfare programs," she said. 
tions to these problems are not simple. 
"Any decision we make must be comprehen­sive," Carmona said. "I think the situation will get much better." 
McKenna said the need to address both the govern­ment's actions and the citizens' 

attitudes was part of the solu­tion. 
"We have to look at the pub­lic policy as well as the lan­guage we use to describe immigrants, which is insult­ing," McKenna said. 
The forum, which was open to anyone, was meant to con­tinue the debate that started in September's Notre Dame Forum on immigration. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

Locating and Preparing for Jobs and Internships Abroad • Career Center -Flanner Hall, Room 114 -3:00pm 
SIBC Presents: "Doing Business in Asia" Sir Deryck Maughan Managing Director & Chairman of Koh!berg Kravis Roberts & Co. (Asia) -DeBartolo Hall 155 -5:00pm-6:00pm Cricket Session Everyone is welcome to playf 
-South Quad -5:00pm 
Drop-In Tai-Chi -Rockne Memorial, Room 820 -8:00pm 
Multilingual Rosary -Dillon Hall Chapel -9:00pm 

Wednesday, April 9, 2008
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
man of Advanced Drainage Systems (ADS) of Columbus,
Eck 

Ohio, and also served on the continued from page 1 College of Engineering 
Advisory Board from 1984 the areas of genomics and until his death last December. bioinf'ormaties, which are the llis contributions to the 
studios of' chro­mosomes and computer sci­enco in biology, rnspectivnly. 
"This lgiftl will go a long way in provid­ing rnsou rces for pnopln who havn a compo­nent of' genomies and bioi n f'o r rna ties in tlwir research. We are getting thousands of' organisms sequnru~1HI, and und t~ rs tanding pathogens and what tlwy codP for is going to 
"Only about one percent ofdeaths in the U.S. are caused by infectious diseases. but more than 45 percent of deaths that occur in underdeveloped countries in the world are caused by 
infectious disease that are preventable or curable in the US. " 
Fred Collins director 
CGHID 

bn koy in undnrstanding how contributed a 
University total over $55 million. In 2005, Eek contributed $21 million to tho University for the con­struction of the Eek Hall of Law. 
Eek had pre­viously under­written the construction 
of  tho  Eck  
Center  in  
1999,  the  
Frank  Eck  

Baseball Stadium in 1994 and the Eck Tennis Pavilion in 1987. lie also library collec­
disoaso is manifested," tion in chemical engineering. Schorey said. Ac1~ording to Schorey, the Contact Becky Hogan at money donated will allow tlw rhogan2@nd.edu 
CCIIII> to focus on long-term research eiTort.s. 
"Thn problem with granting agenc.iPs is that you have to gf't rPsults and papers pub­1is lw d so you I' an Iobtain I grants. With tlw endowmnnt wo will bo able to circumvent this pron~ss," Sdwrny said. 
Collins said the Center has b1wn conducting research on infoctious and tropical dis­oases for tlw past 40 years but that tlw U n i vn rsi ty has only rnci'Htly taknn intPrest in tlw o;llm. 
"Till'rn has a hnnn a 40­plus ynar tradition of n~snarrh on this campus. Tho actual nanw of' tlwso adivi­tios has rhangl'd ovPr timl', hut. thPrP has hPPn a long­term continuum in spite or t.lw namn rhangos." 
Collins said that thn late biologist. (;porgP Craig .Jr. and thl' latl' Paul WPinstl'in. who was a profnssor of biological srior11~ns at th1• Univnrsity, wnrP first to spoarlwad r n sPa r I" h PITo rts i n t h n s I' l"inlds al NotrP l>anw. 
"ThosP two pPoplo wnrl' rnally inslrumPntal in putting t.ogdhnr a VPry adivn pro­gram of rl'sParrh and train­ing in thP an•as of tropical disl'asP and global lwalt.h at Notrn l>anw," lw said. 
Collins and Sl"hon~y nmpha­siznd that tlw study of infl'c­t i o us and t r o pi r a I d is~~ asPs continul's to hn I'Xtremely important today -especially in devPloping nations wlwrn fivn million JWoplP din from IIIV, malaria and tulwrculosis Parh yPar. 
"Only about oru• percent of dPaths in the U.S. arn caused by inl'nrtious disnasns, but morl' than 45 p1•rcPnt of dnaths that orrur in undnrdn­VPiopPd rountrif'S in thn world an• nrusPd by infec­tious disPaSI' that arn prn­VPntabiP or rurahln in thn U.S.," Collins said. 
Ill' said tlw CPntPr plans to foslf'r" thP stuffy of global lwalth and disPaSPS from dif­fprmlt JH'rspnctivPs and disri­plinns. 
"l'arl of what WI' will try to do is n~al"h out and makP it r.lnar to tlw largPr community thn importanrl' of rnsnarr,h on infl'rtious and tropical dis­nasi'. " 
Eck graduatl'd from Notn~ l>anw in I944 with a baclw­lor's dngrPe in rlwmi1~al nngi­nPNing. Ill' Sl'fVPd as c~hair­end to reinforce the plot and thn themes, she said. 

Junior Kathloen llession, the assistant director of the play, said the production rnlies only on costumes and teehnological effeets to modernizo the play and uses a eombination of the two versions of Marlowe's text. She added the performance will rea­turn Faust during diiJ'erent time periods. 
"We travel through the various ages that Faust has been popular in literature and come at the end to the twenty-first eentury," she said. 
Toward the end of the play, this version will connect Faust to today's world by portraying the "Second Life" Internet virtual world. which allows participant<> to "do all the things they're not able to do in rnality," she said. 
In addition to opera and the­ater performances, FTT profes­sors Anton Juan and Mark Pilkinton. and English professor Jesse Lander will heist a seminar entitled "Doctor Faustus: Selling One's Soul to the Devil," dis­cussing issues in the tl~xt and perf(mnanee or the play today at 9:30a.m. and at 1 :30 p.m. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 

Faust 

continued from page 1 
community. 

"The works ask questions that are a superb fit for a university that seeks to explore religious and ultimate questions, such as, is God forgiving, and is salvation possible f()r a sinner?" he said. 
This year is not the University's first endeavor to incorporate a variety of academic subjects into a yearlong event, mathematics professor and eo-chair of' "Faust at Notre Dame" Alex Hahn said. 
"The idea was to bring many academic components together under one event that would have interdisciplinary themes," Hahn said. 
In conjunetion with "Faust at Notrn Dame," Mark Beudert, the director of the opera 'Faust 1859,' has worked for the past year on reconstructing this Opera Notre Dame production, which will be shown April 18-20. 
lie said that this opera will contain elements from Charles Gounod 's original version and has not been heard since it was produced in 1859. 
Beudert chose to use compo­nents of this version to more 
accurately represent Gounod's 
original idea and to include the 
dialogue Gounod wrote. 

"Performances of the original Faust were said to be more inti­mate in seale than the grand ·opera version, with dialogue that enhanced the 'human' dimen­sions of the story, a more com­plete development of the plot and an alternate and. we think, more compelling sequencfl of 
scones," he said. 

According to Beudert, the 
company had to reconstruct the 
dialogue in English and edit the 
score to creato Opera Notre 
Dame's version. 

Only two of the 56 cast mem­
bers are professional actors. 
Beudert said it was a challenge 
to cast undergraduates in an 
opera that professionals usually 
perform. 

The Film, Television and 
Theatre (FTI'l department is also 
celebrating the Faust theme with 
a rendition of Marlowe's "The 
Tragieall-listory of Dr. Faustus." 
Although Marlowe wrote this 
play more than 400 years ago, 
this production strives to make 
Faust relevant to a modern audi­
enee, Christine Sopczynski, FTT 
outreach specialist said. This 
process includes projecting mod­
ern images on a screen aftnr aet<> 









ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 CoivtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wmr SERV!CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Haitians storm presidential palace 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti -Hungry Haitians stormed the presidential palace Tuesday to demand the resignation of President Rene Preval over soaring food prices, and U.N. peacekeepers chased them away with rubber bullets and tear gas. 
Food prices, which have risen 49 percent on average since mid-2007, are causing unrest around the world. But nowhere do they pose a greater threat to democracy than in Haiti, one of' the world's poorest countries where in the best of times most people struggle to fill their bellies. 
"I think we have made progress in stabiliz­ing the country, but that progress is extremely f'ragile, highly reversible, and made even more fragile by the current socio-economic environment." U.N. envoy Hedi Annabi said Tuesday after briefing the Security CounciL 
Parisian students protest teacher cuts 
PARIS -Police sprayed tear gas Tuesday at high-school students lobbing bottles and stones during a protest over teacher job cuts. 
Thousands of students marched from Paris' Luxembourg Gardens in a rally that descend­ed into violence for the second time in a week. 
Police rounded up some of the several hun­dred protesters Tuesday. The exact number was not immediately clear. Many wore hoods or scarves to hidn their faces from police. 
Police put the number of' demonstrators at R.500, while organizers said 20,000 people took part. 
While most demonstrators marched peace­f'ully, dancing to music and carrying signs like "Teachers. an endangered species," a small group dashed with police. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Judge restricts newspaper protesters 
SANTA ANA, Ca. -A judge placed limits Tuesday on the activities of protesters who have bnen picketing a Vietnamese-language newspa­pnr because they bf1iieve it has communist lean­ings. 
Orange County Superior Court Judge Derek llunt granted a preliminary injunction against three of the protesters, saying they may not threatfm The Nguoi Viet Daily News' employees, trespass, vandalize property or interfere with customers. 
llunt said he was unmoved by arguments that restricting some of the protesters' more aggres­sive tactics would violate their freedom of speech. 
"The case appears to be far less about these things than about trespassing and allegations of intimidation," Hunt said, adding that the pro­testers may still demonstrate if they don't vio­late his conditions. 

Officials release polygamy case details 
ELDORADO, Texas -A polygamist compound with hundreds of children was rife with sexual abuse, child welfare officials allege in court doc­uments, with girls spiritually married to much older men as soon as they reached puberty and boys groomed to perpetuate the cycle. 
The documents released Tuesday also gave details about the hushed phone calls that broke open the case, by a 16-year-old girl at the West Texas ranch who said her 50-year-old husband beat and raped her. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Schellinger reveals health care plan 
INDIANAPOLIS -The state would provide incentives for small businesses to provide health coverage and increase preventive screenings at schools under a proposal Democratic gubernatorial candidate Jim Schellinger announced Tu~:Jsday. 
Schellinger said he also would push for f'ederal expansion of a program that helps states provide lwalth insurance to children f'rom lower-income families, and look for ways to get more eligible children enrolled in the program in Indiana. 
"As I have visited. all across this state ... I have consistently heard from countless Hoosier families who have struggled to gain access to affordable health care," said Schellinger, president of an Indianapolis architecture firm. who faces former U.S. Hep. Jill Long Thompson in the May 6 pri­mary. 
IRAN 
Iran pushes for nuclear power 
President Ahmadinejad announces installation and testing of uranium centrifuges 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN, Iran 
President Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad announced 
major progress in Iran's 
push for nuclear power, 
saying Tuesday that his 
nation was installing thou­
sands of new uranium­
enriching centrifuges and 
testing a much faster ver­
sion of the device. 
Ahmadinejad said scien­. tists were putting 6,000 
new centrifuges into place, 
about twice the current 
number. and testing a new 
type that works five times 
faster. 
That would represent a 
major expansion of urani­
um enrichment-a process 
that can produce either fuel 
for a nuclear reactor or 
material for a warhead. 
Secretary of State 
Condoleezza Rice cau­
tioned, however, that the 
claim could not be immedi­
ately substantiated. 
Diplomats close to the 

U.N. nuclear watchdog agency say Iran has exag­gerated its progress and seen problems operating the 3,000 centrifuges already in place. One diplo­mat said Ahmadinejad's claims of a more advanced centrifuge appeared to allude to a type known as the IR-2, which the agency and Iran said months ago sets of sanctions against produce energy, not devel­installing the 6,000 new that Iran had begun testing. Iran for its refusal to sus­op weapons as the U.S. and centrifuges. Later in a 
While expressing concern pend uranium enrichment, many of its allies fear. nationally televised speech, 
that Iran continued to defy were divided in their Iran has about 3,000 cen­he announced the testing of 
a U.N. Security Council ban response to the announce­trifuges operating at its the new, more effective 
on enrichment, a diplomat ment. underground nuclear facili­device. 
said that Ahmadinejad 's The United States and ty in Natanz. That is the Ahmadinejad said a "new 
announcement "seems to Britain quickly condemned commonly accepted figure machine was put to test" 
be little more than a public­it, and France warned that for a nuclear enrichment that is smaller but five 
ity stunt." He spoke on con­Iran could face more sanc­program that is past the times more efficient than 
dition of anonymity because tions. But Russia, an ally of experimental stage and can the P-1 centrifuges that are 
he was not authorized to Iran, dismissed the need for be used as a platform for a currently in operation at 
comment publicly. that, saying negotiators full industrial-scale pro­Natanz. 
The IR-2 is believed to be were preparing a new gram that could churn out He called the develop­
two to three times faster package of incentives enough enriched material ment a "breakthrough" and 
than the centrifuges cur­aimed at persuading Iran to for dozens of nuclear the "beginning of a speedy 
rently in use, and his claim freeze uranium enrichment. weapons over time. trend to eliminate the big 
that the new machine was Iran rejected a standing During a tour of the powers" dominance in 
five times as quick added to package of incentives Natanz facility in cere­nuclear energy. 
the skepticism of the diplo­endorsed by the five monies marking the second The U.N. has passed 
mats. Security Council members anniversary of Iran's first three sets of sanctions 
Permanent members of plus Germany last week. enrichment of uranium, against Iran for its refusal the Security Council, which Tehran says its nuclear pro­Ahmadinejad announced to suspend uranium enrich­has already imposed three gram is intended only to the start of work on ment. 



Oly111pic· torch enters U.S. a111idst protest 
activists opposing China's human diately put in a vehicle to be whisked 
Associated Press 
rights policies and a recent crack­away to a secret location, San 
SAN FRANCISCO -The Olympic down on Tibet have been protesting Francisco Olympic Torch Helay torch arrived for its only North along the torch's 85,000-mile route Committee spokesman David Perry American stop amid heavy security since the start of the flame's odyssey said. Security was heightened Tuesday, a day after its visit to Paris from Ancient Olympia in Greece to because several protests were descended into chaos and activists Beijing, host of the 2008 Summer planned before the relay. here scaled the Golden Gate Bridge Olympics. "We treated it like a head of state to protest China's human rights Rogge told The Associated Press he visit," airport spokesman Mike record. was "deeply saddened" by violent McCarron said. 
Meanwhile, International Olympic protests in London and Paris and No protesters greeted the flame at Committee president Jacques Rogge concerned about Wednesday's six­the airport, but hours later hundreds said the body's executive board mile relay in San Francisco, where gathered in United Nations Plaza, a would discuss Friday whether to end activists expressed fears that the pedestrian area near City Hall, to call the international leg of the Beijing torch's planned route through Tibet on China to cease its heavy-handed Olympic torch relay because of wide­would lead to arrests and violent rule of Tibet. They also expressed spread protests. measure_s by Chinese officials trying fears that the torch's planned route 
The torch's global journey was sup­to stifle dissent. through Tibet would lead to arrests posed to highlight China's growing The flame arrived in San Francisco and violent measures-by Chinese otli­economic and political power. But shortly before 4 a.m. and was imme-cials trying to stifle dissent. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
COR 
continued from page I 
grate freshmen into student 
government at Notre Damn," 
Carlin said. "We want to pull 
in 25 to 30 members for a 
very diverse group. It should 
be a privilege to be a part of 
this." 
Carlin said FLEX will target 
freshmen who are interested 
in student government but 
lost their bid !'or Freshman 
Class Council. The idea is 
similar to a program at 
Virginia Tech. 
"It would give !those not 
involved with Freshman Class 
Council! an opportunity to get 
involved in student govern­
ment," Carlin said. 
FLEX will also allow fresh­
men to help in different 
aspects of student govern­
mont, such as helping plan 
community servic:e projects 
and learning about policy­
making in the Student Senate. 
"The goal is to educate 
freshman about student gov­
c~rnment," Carlin said. 
Several COH members wern 
wary of tho new ideas !'or 
FLEX, and several expressed 
concerns over possible over­
lap with the Freshman Class 
Council. 
"You don't want to step on the tcws ol' the Class Council," Student Union Board (SUB) eo-director of external affairs .Jnl'f Lakusta said. 
Class of 2011 President 
Cynthia Weber echoed 
Lakusta's sentiments, and 
said FLEX should include sev­
eral Class Council members 
because it would allow them 
to diversify their experience 
in student government. 
"It's almost a good idea to have people on Freshman Class Council also on FLEX because it is good to have people with both policy and programming experience," she said. 
Some COR members sup­ported the original idea of not allowing Class Council mem­bnrs on FLEX. 
"I think a major part of this is pulling in people who weren't successful in their run for Freshman Class Council," SUB treasurer Kadeja Gaines said. 
con mnmbers were also 
divided over the prospect of 
making FLEX something 
exclusive to the dorms. While 
some members thought this 
would allow morn people to 
get involvnd, others believed 
it would hurt students in larg­
er dorms. 
"I would hate to penalize a student for being in an enthu­siastic dorm," Class of 2008 President Bridget Keating said. 
In other COR news: 
+ COH unanimously approved freshman Nicole O'Connor as the Student Union parliamentarian and junior Dennise Bayona as the SUB co-director of program­ming. 
Bayona's nomination was originally delayed due to a rule that says no person can hold two different positions in student government. Bayona deeided to step down as vice president of Walsh IIall. 
"It was a really tough call and I had trouble sleeping that night," Bayona said. "But ultimately, I decided on which position would best help me strengthen my relationship with people." 
Contact joseph"McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

Dean 
continued from page I 
experienced for good work to flourish," O'Hara said. 
Executive associate dean and law professor John Robinson praised O'Hara's leadership and commitment during the last decade. 
"Like her predecessor, Dean O'Hara has been fully committed to this law school's being recognized as both a top f1ight law school nationally and as one that, in the Catholic tradition, invites serious and sustained con­sideration of the normative dimensions of the law. She has invested an enormous amount of time and an equal amount of intelligence and imagination in achieving that objective." 
O'Hara's contributions to Notre Dame, however, were questioned in 2007, when the Law School dropped from No. 22 to No. 28 in the 
U.S. News and World Report Law School rankings. This was the program's largest drop since 2000. 
"The rankings are notori-
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES .(c... Tan for FREE at Fun Tan <'> l:leated Pool and Hot Tub ¢Pet Friendly 
-,.On Site Security 
S25SS401 
ously controversial, and sev­eral leading legal academics and law schools have point­ed out the lack of consisten­cy in the computation of these ran kings," said Katherine Kirkpatrick, sec­ond year law student and secretary of the Student Bar Association. 
She said it's natural for schools' rankings to shift from year to year. This year, 
U.S. News and World Report ranked the Law School again at No. 22. 
"I was confident that !the Law School] would rebound, and we did, back to a very solid No. 22. I think that reaffirms the notion that no one person or dean was responsible for a temporary slump." 
O'Hara said she is not cur­rently prepared to comment on her tenure because she still has a full year as dean ahead. 
"There are 15 more months before I step down as dean, and much to do during that time. Thus, I am not ready to reflect back on my tenure as dean just yet," O'Hara said. 
But in her statement she 
Furnished Studio Apartments One Bedrootn Apartments 
Two Bedroom One Bath Apartments T"l-vo Bedroom One and a lialf Bath Apartments with Fenced in Patio I} L,,.. 
----------------------~================~---­
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
(112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) 
~6. 
~:. 
Tln_n·sdny, .i\pr1l lOth 
7.00 pn1 

LaFcn·tune E~nlh·_(H)lll 
Thi,..:..' 1nonth fe.:1tunn~'' .JiexitYln t?nd :Tha1 tbod B.:.1lllpiln!f!3 1 
Eixpos1ng the ND conunurnty to the 
best etlrruc cuisine th.e Sout:b Bend. 
<:u·ert has to of:f"E·r' 

Brought 1o Y01 byMulticultur..J. S !udent Programs ani Services ''Exparuliq;; the C><>sSloads ofl.e anWll!: Through Innovation and Discovery'' 


did reflect on the ways the University's Catholic identity inf1uenced her leadership. 
"I can assure you that there has not been a day since I became dean that I have not thought about what needed to be done from the viewpoint of preserving and enhancing that [Catholic] legacy, not only for the stu­dents and faculty of the present time and for the cur­rent staff and alumni, but also for the future genera­tions of students, faculty, staff, and alumni we cannot know, but to whom we owe as great an obligation as that we owe to those who came before us," O'Hara said. 
Her decision to step down was announced more than a full year before the comple­tion of her tenure so University Provost Thomas Burish has enough time to assemble a committee to look for a replacement, O'Hara said. After taking a sabbatical she said she expects to return to teaching and continue being a part of' the Law School. 
Contact Puja Parikh at 
pparikh@nd.edu 

APARTMENTS 


Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 



Dow 12,576.44 -35.99

.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,376 109 1,940 3,606,649,934 
AMEX z,z7~'~~9'1F;;:}Mi?f·nJ>~m NASDAQ 2,348.76 -16.07 NYSE 9;15G;(iitll~#d~·l S&P 500 1,365.54 -7.00 NIKKEI (Tokyo) JJ}.IIIillilllliiH&~~IIII~IIJl; FTSE 100 (London) 5,990.20 -24.60 

COMPANY  %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
WASHINGTON MUTUAL (WM).19-0.69  -1.34  11.81  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.10  -0.14  136.82  
FORD MOTOR CO (F)  +2.67  -+0.18  6.91  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.76  -0.35  45.41  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.06  +0.002  3.558  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.74  -0.010  1.350  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.32  +0.014  4.383  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.91  --0.025  2.718  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.59  108.50  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -8.80  918.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.93  73.98  
Exchange Rates  
YEN  102.7650  
EURO  0.6371  
CANADIAN DOLLAR  1.0148  
BRITISH POUND  0.5086  

IN BRIEF 
WellPoint customer info exposed 
INDIANAPOLIS -Personal information that may have included Social Security numbers and pharmacy or medical data for about 128,000 WeliPoint Inc. customers in several states was exposed online over the past year, the health insurer said Tuesday. 
WellPoint, which has had other data security issues in the past, recently learned about the problem, fixed it and is notifying customers, spokeswoman Shannon Troughton said. The nation's largest health insurer by membership is offering free credit-monitoring services for those customers, but has received no reports of identity theft or credit fraud. 
The latest security lapse stems from two servers maintained by an outside vendor that Troughton declined to identify. The vendor spe­cializns in data management. 
WeiiPoint had learned early last year that a server was improperly secured, and that infor­mation on about 1,350 customers may have been exposed online and was vulnerable to Internet search engines. The insurer fixed that breach quickly, Troughton said. 
FDA triples heparin death count 
WASIIINGTON -Sixty-two deaths now are associated with contaminated batches of the blood thinner heparin, triple the previous esti­mate, the Food and Drug Administration said Tuesday. 
That doesn't mean people still are dying -the latest deaths the FDA knows of occurred in February, the month Baxter International recalled contaminated batches. 
But dozens of deaths weren't reported to the agency when they happem~d. only later after the tainted blood thinner made headlines. 
On Tuesday, the FDA posted a month-by-month mortality count on its Web site, showing that a sudden jump in allergic-style fatal reactions actu­ally began last November -possibly signaling the time when the contamination began. 
The FDA's investigation found a compound derived from animal cartilage sneaked into sup­plies of raw heparin coming from China. Although sdnntists haven't yet proved the com­pound triggered the rnactions, it is the chief sus­peeL 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
House Dems debate housing crisis 
Party split over response to homeowners while Senate focuses on businesses 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Democrats are split over how to respond to the housing debacle, with House leaders focusing on helping homeowners facing foreclosure while the Senate moves to take care of businesses impacted by the subprime crisis. 
The Senate could pass its bipartisan, business-friend­ly measure, which showers some $25 billion in ta,x breaks on home builders and banks, as early as Wednesday. That's also when a key House panel is to consider a rival Democratic plan that instead steers tax breaks toward first-time home buyers and investors in low-income rental housing. 
The emerging rift clouds the prospects for a broader housing rescue plan that would have the govern­ment step in and insure $300 billion in restructured loans for homeowners star..: ing at foreclosure. Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., the Banking Committee chair­man, begins hearings on that measure Wednesday. 

The housing debate is unfolding as Democratic leaders are considering using an upcoming war spending bill as a vehicle is about $109 billion, but a 10 percent credit-up to essentially a zero-interest for additional economic also what we can do ... for $7,500 -on the purchase loan to help defray the cost aid, such as an extension of summer jobs programs, of a new home. It is target­of purchasing a house." jobless benefits and food extending unemployment ed toward lower earners, Rangel's panel is sched­aid for the poor. benefits, some things that with those making $70,000 uled to consider the meas­
House Speaker Nancy would be stimulative to the (or $110,000 for a couple) ure Wednesday, and House Pelosi, D-Calif.. and Senate economy, Reid told receiving smaller credits. leaders plan to add it to the Majority Leader Harry reporters Tuesday. "We need to provide broader housing overhaul Reid, D-Nev. are calling for On housing, Pelosi has relief to the buyers and expected to come to a vote the rescue package made little secret of her families themselves, not in May. President Bush signed in distaste for the Senate's just the banks and The Senate measure ­February, including $300-approach. "Hopefully, the builders," Rep. Charles B. which easily cleared a pro­$1,200 rebates for most balance will swing to being Rangel, D-N.Y., the Ways cedural hurdle Tuesday wage earners, to be fol­more in favor of the fami­and Means Committee afternoon by a 92-6 vote­lowed up with another so­lies who are in danger of chairman, said Tuesday. instead proposes awarding called "stimulus" plan. losing their homes," she "The House bill puts fami­a $7,000 tax credit to peo­
"We're going to look at told reporters last week. lies first -offering a ple who buy foreclosed the supplemental not only The House plan would refundable tax credit to homes or homes on which for the war funding, which give first-time home buyers first-time home buyers, foreclosure has been filed. 


Energy Dept. predicts gas price increase 
price peaks around $3.60 per gallon this $1 01 a barrel this year, up from the
Associated Press 

summer, it is possible that prices at EIA's previous projection of $94. Next 
NEW YORK -Retail gas prices could some point will cross the $4 per gallon year, the EIA expects oil to average climb as high as $4 a gallon this sum­threshold," the EIA said. $92.50 a barrel, up from a previous pro­mer, but prices at such lofty levels will The government had previously esti­jection of $86. make many Americans think twice mated that average monthly prices On Tuesday, light, sweet crude for May about hitting the road this summer, the would peak near $3.50 a gallon. Many delivery fell13 cents to $108.96 a barrel Energy Department said Tuesday. analysts predict prices will peak close to on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
High prices and a weak economy are $4 a gallon. But prices fluctuated as investors kept expected to cut demand for gasoline by On Tuesday, gas prices slipped slightly an eye on the dollar and on Iran, which about 0.4 percent during the peak swn­to a national average of $3.331 a gallon announced plans to expand its uranium mer driving season, the department's from Monday's record of $3.339, accord­enrichment program. Prices rose to a Energy Information Administration said ing to MA and the Oil Price Information trading record of $111.80 a barrel last in a monthly report on petrolewn sup­Service. Prices are 55 cents higher than month. plies and demand. Overall conswnption a year ago. While high prices are damping of petroleum products will drop by Diesel prices, which arc already aver­demand in the U.S., petroleum con­90,000 barrels a day this year. aging more than $4 a gallon nationwide, sumption remains strong in China, India, Previously, the EIA had projected pntro­will average $3.62 a gallon this year, up Russia and the Middle East, the EIA leum conswnption would rise by 40,000 7 4 cents from 2007, the EIA said. Diesel said. barrels a day. fuel is used to transport the vast majority "The combination of rising world oil 
Average monthly gas prices will peak of the world's food, consumer and indus­consumption and low surplus produc­around $3.60 a gall(m in June, the EIA trial products. High diesel prices are one tion capacity is putting upward pressure said. However, prices could rise much of the reasons food prices are soaring. on oil prices," the ElA report said. "The higher than that at times. Crude oil prices are the biggest reason flow of investment money into commodi­
"It is important to note ... that even if gas and diesel prices are rising, the EIA ties has contributed to crude oil price the national averag1~ monthly gasoline said. Oil is now expected to awrage volatility." 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, April9, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Respect without admiration 
1~0. Box 779, None Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, None Dame, IN 46556. 
EI>ITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hin~ 
MANAGING E!liTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fir1.patrick Kyle West 

AssT. MANM;tNG EDITOR: Karic Kohler 
A~s·J: MANAGINt; EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EmTOR: Kara King 
Srmns EDITORS: Chris !line 
SCI:NI! EI>ITOR: 'Eu· Andrews 

SAINT MARY's EmToR: Liz ll;trter 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
Au DF . .'m;N MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obs~rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@'nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6J1-4J24 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6.31-5.323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit-wpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.I@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
~me. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhc independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of tht· University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refi.tSe advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhc Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assi,tant Mana~ing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the ;tuthors and not necessarily d10se ofThe Observer. 
Vi<wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through l<·ncrs is encouraged. Leners to rhe Editor mltSt be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions rrgarding Obmwr po/ici(s should b( dirm(d to Ediwr in ChiifChris lline. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tl..: OllM"rvcr (tJSI'S '\'}') l-<4uno) I\ pui'!l~•cfl Munday thruu~h friday cucpt tlurUig cx;un .m~l v.u.:~t1n11 ~H.·tuH.I~. A ~IIIIM.'rtj'Cinn to '01c llh.rrvcr i~ $IOU fur nnc .ac.1dcmi\ y~r;S~5fmmu:«me«lrt 
Tilt l 1PttrVl:t is publi.l1td .u l'(l~I'MASTER 
024 Smuh Oimntt H.~.ll Send .ltMrcs~ L'Utrcctiuns m: 
Nunc O.Jruc,IN 46';\6..0779 Ttw-OI,.;rrvtr 
l\:rind11;.al poA• pa1J AI Notre: D.un(' I':Ol\oxm .and ,uldlfhon.:.l nu1hntc nffica. lll4 South Dinan~ Hall 
N..•uc: Oamc:. IN 46'5~·0779 

Thc OllM"~ u. 11 mcllihct ol•lu: A:.lnLut«<l"rc:o. All tCflludm.uun riWm ~ rncrv('J, 
As I write this, the Kansas Jayhawks are battling the Memphis Tigers !'or the NCAA Men's Basketball Championship. I'm an enthusiastic !'an of college basket­ball. and as I wateh these two exceptional basketball teams com­
Aaron Bart

pete lilr this most pre­
Fricke

cious and improbable of Tournament victo­ries, and despite this Guest dazzling display of Columnist quicknnss and skill, I am lilh~d with great sense of regret. For I know that this is not really college bas­ketball that I am watching and that these exceedingly talentod basketball players are not really studont-athletes. 
In fad, though they mpresent their Universities so well in this great competi­tion, few (perhaps NONE) of these players that I am now watching will actually earn degrees from their sehools. According to the NCAA website, in the 2000-2001 school year, of those Memphis Men's Basketball players who had exhausted their eligibility, only 33 percent graduat­ed. On average, the Memphis basketball team has graduation rate of 30 percnnt. 
Kansas graduates a paltry 40 percent of il'i basketball players, on average. And perhaps saddest of all, none of the Afriean-Ameriean basketball players at the University of Memphis graduated in 2000-2001. None. Only one-third did so at Kansas in the same year. 
I mention this not to shame the players or diminish their accomplishment on the basketball court, and certainly not to make ill-conceived pronouncements regarding the role of money in college athletics, race, exploitation, or to com­pare Notre Dame athletes to those at oth­ers schools. I merely would like to sug­gest that all of us take this time to con­template how miserably these Universities, indeed all of' us, are failing these players. And I call on all of you to demand better. We should rise up and be awed by this abominable waste of poten­tial. Consider how we are all complieit in their failure. Consider how we watch silently as these players fail as students and seholars. And eonsider the vast resources that surround these students, the time and mom1y invested in these enterprises, and their failure to achieve is almost unfathomabh'l. 
What a loss for these wonderful human beings, these marvelously talented young men, who might have become our fellow professionals and eolleagues, as well as more informed and articulate citizens! What a shame! Opportunities for empow­erment, squandered. The ehance to transform families and future generations with education, frittered away. The prospoet of a new mind, an original voiee, a poet, an artist to be diseoverod, fos­tered, and opened up by the pursuit of aeademie excellence, p***** away. 
College athletes undergo a truly gruel­ing schedule. For those who take their roles as both students and athletes seri­ously, the physical and intellectual rigors are formidable. For these blessed and tal­ented young men and women to come together each day to train for many hours, all the while keeping up with the demands of family and faith, while still managing to master English Literature, History. and Physies-this is indeed a great and noble accomplishment and worthy of our admiration. 
Indeed, we are proud ofthese students because at their best they represent the best in all of us. They show us what is possible. In recognition of their example, Universities offer them scholarships because despite the faet that some of these great athletes may not be truly the best minds among us, to nonetheless suc­ceed in both arenas is exceedingly rare and requires a type of scholarly aptitude and dedication that is laudable and wor­thy of high regard. A great scholar OR a great athlete is to be respected. A great scholar AND great athlete is to be hon­ored, admired. 
On that note, I'd like to say thank you to all those NCAA student athletes here at Notre Dame and elsewhere who have 
managed to rise to this dual chalhmgc 
and succeed; you make us proud! But it is 
with great sadness that I have to eontem­
plate that so many of these groat athletes, 
from diverse ethnie and sodoeconomic 
backgrounds and from colleges a1:ross 
the nation, are not HEALLY college stu­
dents at all, and that it is not HEALLY 
"college" basketball that I am watching. 
Perhaps I am watc.hing two fine D-league 
NI~A teams, or some variation thernof, 
masquerading as 1~ollege basketball 
teams. I'm not surn, but I do know that 
they are interloping because they are . hardly college teams and the vast majori­
ty of these players can only be described 
as barely stud1ml'i. This is prolinmdly dis­
appointing. 
But much wors11, throughout the televi­
sion coverage, the interviews, the 1:olor 
commentary, not one word of this sad 
status quo was !ward. This is appalling! I 
suggest that we start to mmedy this situ­
ation by saying to anyone who will listen, 
"TillS IS NOT GOOD ENOUGH." To the 
Board of Hegents, the NCAA, the U.S. 
Congress-It simply is not good enough. 
The seconds am ticking away ... Well 
done, Kansas! Your players perfilrnwd 
brilliantly. and you overcame gnmt odds 
and a fierce and talented Mmnphis team 
to win a stunning overtimo vietory. You 
are victorious and I eongratulate you. You 
have my respect, but not my admiration. 
Aaron Bart Fricke is a 2008 Juris 
Doctor Candidate. 1/e is a graduate of 
the University ofNevada which has a 
men's basketball graduation rate of 
40%. Graduation rates at U.S. colleges 
can be found at: 
http://www2. ncaa. org/portal/academ­
ics_and_athletesleducation_and_resear 
ch/academic_reform/ grad_rate/200 7 I d 1 
_school_grad_rate_data.html. He can be 
reached at africke@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Liz Harter Pat Stynes Marcela Berrios Meaghan Veselik How far will Notre Dame Hockey Gene Noone Scene go in the Frozen Four? Graphics Chris McGrady Lose in the semis 
"It is better to be making the news 
Mary Cecilia Viewpoint Lose in the finals than taking it; to be an actor rather Mitsch John Dailey Win it all than a critic. " I didn't know they made the Frozen Four 
Winston Churchill British statesman

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Speaker ignores 
students' wishes 
Unlike Joanna Cornwell {"Appreciate your speaker," Apr. 7), we actually are upset that neither Bono {nor Stephen, nor Benedict, nor George W.) were selected as our commencement speaker. 
Since the only large gatherings on campus must be pre-approved by the University (and thus a Continental Congress is out of the question) it would seem that the most effective way of expressing our grievances is through a Viewpoint arti­cle. You may call us snotty, you may call us arrogant, but you can't call us wrong. 
This isn't a matter of whether or not a speaker is "good enough," his credibility, or his credentials. Instead, this is a complaint about what we see as one of a long list of instances in which University administration ignores student opinions and desires in its decisions and operations. 
We are not complaining that Cardinal McCarrick has nothing to say to our gradu­ating class -in fact, he probably has a lot to tell us. In choosing Cardinal McCarrick, though, it is clear that the University made no authentic attempt to con­sider student wishes, even though the administration asked for our input. It seems unrealistic to expect that the University will select the exact candidate that we request. Sure, it would have been nice to see Stephen Colbert wishing us well, but we're not complaining because the fine DFA wasn't selected. 
Rather, we are frustrated that the University asked for our opinion and then took no consideration of it whatsoever. It stands to reason that if there was a genuine concern for our desires then our speaker would at least be similar to one of the speakers we requested. This demonstrated lack of regard for students characterizes the administration's request for student "input" as nothing more than indulgent patronization. While we can't say that the administration never had any intention of listening to us it does not take a high school diploma to figure out that the end result is far from ideal from the view of the class of 2008. 
So, while this woeful attempt at a semblance of democracy may be initially com­mendable, the administration's cavalier attitude toward our requests screams of tyranny. At this point it seems far too late to change anything for our commence­ment (though throwing a "Boston Tea Party" on the quad during Senior Week may heal our wounded hearts), but we hope that by voicing our concern, the administra­tion will take heed of student desires in future issues, including, but not limited to commencement. 
In the meantime we resign ourselves to simply this message (unless of course they attempt to put a stamp tax on our diplomas, in which case we would fear a con­frontation leading to the North Quad Massacre), and we call upon the fervent under­graduate patriots who will succeed us to take up our rallying cry: No tuition without representation! Sic Semper Tyrranis! 
Andrew Hayes Conor Kelly Camille Gabriel sen tors on campus April7 



Shredding boxes woefully unsecure 
OIT: Please remove or replace your sensitive document shredding boxes from the residents halls. The current version of these boxes has an inexpensive lock that can be picked open with little training. An unscrupulous student can very easily open these boxes and have access to supposedly secure private data. 
While I commend your dedication to student privacy concerns, your current attempt was woefully inadequate. 
Andrew Carter senior Fisher Hall April6 


GOP not pro-life 
I'm tired of the hypocrisy of so many so-called Catholic pro-lifers that feel they must vote Republican in order to preserve the sanctity of life. What about capital punishment? Torture? Unjust treatment of homosexuals? Of women? Of the poor and disadvantaged? The lack of contraceptives in Africa? The ongoing destruction of our only Earth? · 
Do these not also a!Iect the sanctity of life? I hope people will rethink their deci­sions to assume that the GOP is the beacon of truth and light in the political arena. 
Francisco Zararna freshman Stanford Hall Apr. 7 

'V' word usage 
I'm only a guy and thus know less than nothing about such things. Also, I'd always hoped my first Viewpoint could be about something a little more pleasant than this. But alas, in reading Michayla Sullivan's letter ("Absurder was being satirical," Apr. 7), I won­dered why she was "bewildered" to find that a girl found the front page of the Absurder somewhat offensive. 
Don't worry, I won't resuscitate the Monologues debate; I'm only chiming in regarding that Absurder disagree­ment -namely, the other half of the play's title. And yes, I'm afraid I'm among the ranks of those "several people" who minimize naming in pub­lic what seemed to be the protagonist of said play. 
Doubtless this will seem overly Catholic to many students, and overly Puritan to many Catholics. Maybe it is. Give me a chance. 
Michayla applauds The Observer for satirizing a certain "embarrassment" and "fear" on campus about using the word. Well, satire is satire, I do know that, but I also know that many who support the article find this "embar­rassment" not only laughable, but wrong. It seems they feel that such "embarrassment" has been responsi­ble for past oppression of women and for continued violence against them, and that encouraging more people consistently to use those three sylla­bles in everyday conversation will help to end both those trends. 
That women shouldn't be made to feel ashamed of their anatomy, I agree. Of course I agree. My prudish silence is actually not meant to make my female friends ashamed of them­selves or to "put them in their place," unless that place is the station of respect that's theirs as women. Reluctance to name "it" is simply reluctance to make the word some­thing common, casual, worthless, dime-a-dozen, because it's not, and neither is any girl. 

What next? Does our culture's insis­tence on clothing likewise imply that women have something to be "ashamed of?" If people want so much to make the body part common parl­ance, simply because hiding some­thing results in unhealthy shame, then the next step might as well be a peti­tion for nudity. 
Somehow I'm guessing this would stop neither objectification nor sexual violence. As it is, the one-track attempt to get people to say the word more often can only damage what still remains of respect for girls as human beings. Having now maddened Michayla by my stubborn exclusion of the term as much as she maddened me by her use ofit, we're probably about even. It seems that what some would call an unhealthy embarrass­ment, I call a healthy respect. Most will probably say they don't need my stinking respect. They're right; they don't. It ain't worth much. But you know what? Too bad. They have my respect anyway. 
Will Erickson sophomore Morrissey Hall April7 

Alcohol the cause of numerous social ills 
I am writing to honor Kelsey Robertson on.her deep and coura­geous commentary ("Consumption thought out," Apr. 8) on the problem of alcohol consumption that has rav­aged the campuses {or is it campi?) of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
While I agree completely with Robertson, I firmly believe that she should have taken it further. It is not just often I find myself disgusted at the behavior of good people under the influence; it is always. 
People should respect themselves as humans and intellectuals for I am sure that no intellectual has ever had a drink. No one should willingly sur­render body and mind to a liquid or video game or even an animal. Like Ms. Robertson, the "recreational con­sumption of alcohol is something I will never understand." Unlike Ms. Robertson, my problem is not with being awakened by "drunk girls shrieking in the hallways at 4 a.m." or even vomit on the sidewalks. 

My problem is when people talk about things like philosophy or poli­tics or life when they're drunk. Or when people give me hugs and tell me they love me. The worst is when people think they can actually dance. It's terrible. Shouldn't they know bet­ter? As for those "inconsiderate pigs" that compromise the safety and com­fort of you and me, I have a sugges­tion. They should be forced to listen to you read your Viewpoint letter aloud every single day of the academ­ic year. That will teach them to remember that the "world does not revolve around [them] and [their] drunken escapades"! 
In the words of the great Duffman, "Duffman can never die. Only the actors who play him. 0000 YEAH!!" 
Tae Kang 
senior 
Keenan Hall 
Apr. 8 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 



'30 RocK,' 8:30 P.M. 
So far this season: The "TGS" crew returns to work after the summer ofl'. but Liz still hasn't got­ten over her break-up with boyfriend Floyd. In a moment of panic and desperation, she buys a wedding dress she doesn't need and hits rock bottom. 
Jenna comes back with some extra weight after having to eat 32 slices of pizza a week starring in "Mystic Pizza: The Musical!" She loses the weight and a good story­line. Tracy's wife kicks him out of the house, but Kenneth helps the couple get baek together. Jaek starts dating a demoeratic con­gresswoman named C.C., but the star-crossed lovers struggle to stay together as C.C. is committed to her duties in Washington and Jack faees pressure at work and a pos­sible promotion. Jack chooses work over love and reminds Liz that she did the same thing. 
Jack has to give up his collection of eookie jars, Kenneth competes in a page-ofl', the "TGS" crew goes wild at Kenneth's annual house party, Liz tips ofl' her Middle Eastern neighbor to Homeland Security only to discover that he was just auditioning for "The Amazing Race," Uz dates a much younger man. and all hell breaks loose when Jack's mother decides to ruin the holiday spirits of the Lemon family. 
Stand-out-episode: "Rosemary's Baby." It's hard to pick just one stand-out episode, but a brilliant guest appearance by Carrie 
.·; Fiseher (complete with a "Star 
'.•· Wars" referenee) makes this one of
,, 

the funniest episodes of an almost 
flawless seeond season. Fiseher 
portrays Liz's idol, Hosemary 
Howard, a eomndy writer from the 
urs 
sex and drug-ridden days of eome­dy sketeh shows who just doesn't belong in today's writing rooms. Meanwhile, Jack helps Tracy through therapy, and Alec Baldwin guarantees himself the Emmy after his one-man role play of Tracy's family. 
Stand-out character: Jenna. Jenna doesn't always have the greatest storylines. !leek, some­times she's even missing in episodes. But the "Jenna eomes baek fat" storyline was perfeet for the vain charaeter obsessed with her image. It's a storyline that eould have eome across as eruel, but instead it was just funny. Jenna inereased her eelebrity for accepting the fat and she even got her own T-shirt modeled after a truly stupid "Me want food!" idea. 
Tomorrow's episode: "MILF Island." While the "TGS" writing staff is obsessing over the season fmale of reality hit "MILF Island" (25 super hot moms, 50 eighth grade boys, no rules}, the Page Six eolumn leaks that a staffer on the show ealled Jaek a "Class A Moron." An inqui1>ition led by Jack's assistant Jonathan ensues. 
End of the season predictions: Jack loses the Chairman position to Devin Banks (after all, we can't have Jack Donaghy running so far away from "TGS") which would certainly guarantee more appear­ances by guest star Will Arnett. The Floydster leaves Cleveland and lunch at the Hock and Roll Hall of Fame with Little Richard to return to Liz. Kenneth the Page gets promoted beeause the page program technically only lasts two years, but he will refuse to surren­der his page jacket. Jenna reunites with ex-fiance David Blaine. 
•'...," ~~-.' '·' . ~~·~:,/
·.·, .... 


Scene & Heard by Cassie BeZek 

'THE OFFICE,' 9 P.M. 
So far this season: Jim and Pam are finally together -and they arc instantly boring. But while their young love blossoms, Angela and Dwight fall apart. It doesn't help that Dwight merey­kills Angela's eat, Sprinkles, and tries to replace it with new cat Garbage. Andy's speakerphone­barbershop quartet rendition of ABBA's ''Take a Chance on Me" for Angela couldn't come at a better time. 
Meanwhile, Kelly moves past Hyan and hooks her elaws into Darryl, who helps her to be less crazy. A jobless Jan moves in with Michael and quickly starts spending all the money he does­n't have. Ryan, who is now work­ing at corporate, launches Dunder Miffiin Intinity in order to bring Dunder Miffiin into thn digital age and increase sales. 
Michael hosts a Fun Hun for rabies, Jim and Pam spend a night at Schrute Farms, Dunder­Mifllin Scranton bands together to make a local ad that is ulti­mately rejected by corporate, Michael drives his car into a lake, and Jan and Miehael's rela­tionship becomes even more twisted during a company depo­sition. 
Stand-out episode: "Local Ad." It marked a refreshing return to the half-hour format after four tedious, hour-long episodes in a row and it gave us insight into Dwight's "Second Life." We also see Pam shine doing graphics and Jim get a tad jealous. "The Oflice" works best when it focus­es on the ensemble as a whole and in "Local Ad," we see the gang come together to make a commercial that really isn't all had. The episode is worth ing just to see Andy the lyrics to the "Kit 
Stand-out character: Ever since the Nard Dog returned from anger man ment last s1mson, his chai has become more and mo able. In season four, Andy becomes sweet. I lis pursu Angela is quite adorable, though Angela and Dwigh the true soul mates of "H Olliee." Let's just hope he compares Stanley to Unelt Hemus ever again. 
Tomorrow's episode: "[ Party." Jim and Pam run 1 excuses and finally have Michael's condo for ad" party. Andy and Angela invited, making Dwight e ly jealous. 
End of the season Jim and Pam an~ headed some sort of rough patch. since we found out that LiJe" Jim is a spurts plays the guitar, we've that he isn't completely even with Pam by his sid is excelling and growing person while Jim remai nant, The pair won't but they certainly won season on good terms. Toby will be there for he and Angela's relationship last long. Dwight will find way to make things up to and the two will maybo make their relationship Hyan will become j Kelly and Darryl's but it will bo too late ~ do anything about it. will try to break up wi will instead propose to 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
page 11 

ctions: 
:or :ver .cond 
Wh!} 
wn ppy, Pam a stag­
up, d the be Andy 
on't 
ship, 1im to ael 
~~n. but 
'SCRUBS,' 9:30 P.M. 
So far this season: Elliot and 

J.D. 
don't hook up in the season premiere, but Elliot realizes she doesn't want to marry Keith, and 

J.D. 
realizes that he needs to stop sabotaging his life. Kim gives birth to Sam, but J.D. doesn't love Kim so they end their relationship as a couple and begin their relationship as parents. 


Nurse Shirley appears during Kim's labor, looking remarkably like Laverne, who passed away last season. J.D. struggles with growing up now that he is a father, but Turk encourages him to keep some of his inner child. 
Dr. Kelso's real age of 65 is revealed and a board member tells him that he must step down as Chief of Medicine since 65 is the standard retirement age. Dr. Kelso wants the search for a replace­ment kept secret, Janitor gets a girlfriend, but we still don't know Janitor's name, J.D.'s brother is no longer a loser, and Dr. Cox is still Dr. Cox. 
Stand-out episode: "My Growing Pains.'' It's a standard "Scrubs" episode -goofy with a dash of sentimental drama. We see Turk and J.D. use their babies as pup­pel'l in the park and we find out about the existence of a third col­lege friend -Caramel Bear ­who disappeared after a prank gone wrong. After Dr. Cox chastis­es J.D. for not growing up, J:D. resists the temptations of Turk's many pranks. J.D. eventually gives in and we are treated to another appearance by "World's Most Giant Black Doctor.'' The episode ends on a low note -Dr. Kelso must retire. 
Stand-out character: Dr. Kelso. Every once in a while an episode hones in on the life of Dr. Kelso ­a character who at first seemed cold and heartless, but over the seasons has become increasingly multidimensional. He's the last person one would think would accept a gay son and even though he appears to hate his job, he real­ly loves it. That's why it is so heart­breaking in this season to realize that Dr. Kelso is mortal-his time at the hospital is rumiing out because he is being forced to retire. Can Sacred Heart survive without him? Maybe, but it sure won't be the same. 
Tomorrow's episode: "My Bad Too.'' Turk tries to learn Spanish to surprise Carla for the anniversary of their first date. Meanwhile, J.D. treats a burn victim and has to decide whether or not to allow the patient to attend his graduation. 
End of the season predictions: This could be the last season for "Scrubs.'' NBC didn't put the series on its fall lineup, but there's still a strong possibility that it will move to ABC since it is produced by ABC's Touchtone Television. But just in case this is the last season, here's what will happen. J.D. and Elliot will not get together. These two have never made a relation­ship with each other work and they are better together as friends. Elliot will reunite with Keith, but put marriage off. J.D. will either realize he loves Kim or he'll end up alone because he's too whiney. Dr. Kelso will retire but will be appointed to the hospital's board of directors. Dr. Cox will fmally tell 
J.D. that he's like a son to him. It will be weird. Turk and Carla will forever be both funny and adorable. J.D. and Turk's guy love will live for all eternity. 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
MLB 

Phillies beat Mets in last Shea Stadium opener 
Boston celebrates World Series win with Hall of Famers Orr and Russell; defeats Detroit 5-0 in home opener 
The Mets lost their third with it," Hollins said. 
Associated l'ress 
straight. wasting Delgado's "Especially here, it feels good." 
Carlos Delgado and the New first homer and a solid outing Rollins departed in the York Mets botched the final by Oliver Perez as they got off eighth with a sprained left Shea Stadium opener the same to a disappointing start in the ankle and is day to day. way they squandered that big lined season at Shea Stadium, Born 17 months before Shea load in the NL East last year. which opened in 1964. The Stadium opened, the 45-year­
April or September, doesn't team is set to move into an old Moyer (1-0) held New York 
seem to matter. The Mets can't intimate new park next year­to four hits. find a way to hold off Citi Pield is rising in the park­Chad Durbin and J .C. Philadelphia. ing lot. Romero each worked a score­
Jamie Moyer pitched six New York dropped to 30-17 less inning before Tom Gordon eiTeetive innings, Jayson Werth in home openers and 7-1 in got three outs for his first hit a tiebreaking single and the Shea Stadium openers against save. Phillies rallied past New York Philadelphia. "What happened last year is 5-2 Tuesday with the help of "If we're in their head, we're done," Moyer insisted. "The Delgado's key error in the sev­in their head. It's not for me to pitch to Delgado was right enth. say," Philadelphia's Shane down the middle, but I pitched 
"Definitely not the start we Victorino said. "We're not pretty well." wanted to get off to," Mets star going out there saying, 'We Perez pitched thn~e-hit ball David Wright said. own the Mets. "' for 5 2-3 innings. He hasn't 
It was another late comeback NL MVP Jimmy Rollins was allowed an extra-base hit in 11 by Philadelphia, which took booed loudly, as usual. Mets 2-3 shutout innings this sea­advantag1~ of the Mets' epic reliever Scott Schoeneweis (0-son. collapse last September to win 1) also heard it from the crowd Delgado led off the second the division title. New York led of 56,350 after he and Delgado with his 432nd home run, by seven games with 17 to let the Phillies come back from breaking a tie with Hall of play, but went 5-12 down the a 2-0 deficit in the seventh. Farner Cal Hipken Jr. for 37th stretch and missed the play­Hollins and Victorino singled place. Delgado is 30-for-68 Canada before opening up at in the majors despite the big ofTs. with one out before Utley was (.441) with eight homers home. "Now we can go about leagues' second-highest pay­
The Phillies had a lot to do hit by a pitch for the third against Moyer. the business of playing base­roll, is 0-7 for the first time with that meltdown, beating time, the first two by Perez. Ryan Church added an RBI ball and seeing how good we since dropping its first nine the Mets in their final eight That loaded the bases for Ryan groundout in the fourth for can be." games in 2003 en route to an meetings last ynar and winning Howard. who hit a grounder to New York. Buckner, a goat of the 1986 AL record 119 losses. the season series 12-6. Delgado at first base. "That's one straight loss in World Series collapse that "You get angry if people are 
Make it nine in a row now. Delgado tried for a double 2008," Wright said of the rival­helped extend the team's title going through the motions and 
"Th11re's none of us in here play, but his throw to second ry. "That's all we're concerned drought until 2004, received a if they're not trying," Tigers going, geez, the Phillies are deflected off Utley and rolled about -2007 is over, done standing ovation when he manager Jim Leyland said. coming to town. we're proba­toward center field for an with," Wright said. threw out the ceremonial first "But that's not what's happen­bly going to lose," Mets closer error that allowed the tying pitch to former teammate ing." Billy Wagner said. "I think all run to score. Red Sox 5, Tigers 0 Dwight Evans. Current Hed Kenny Rogers (0-2) allowed of us are tired of hearing the "I thought I had a lane. He The Red Sox trotted out the Sox first baseman Kevin three runs -two earned -Phils have our number. The also had a good slide to the champions of Boston's past to Youkilis went over to meet eight hits and three walks in 4 Phils don't have our number. outside part of the bag," celebrate their latest World him. 2-3 innings. The Tigers arc We shoot ourselves in the foot Delgado said. "Maybe I could Series win, with Hall of ''I've probably never almost batting just .235 and have every time w1~ go out there. have thrown it a little more to Famers Bobby Orr and Bill been in tears for somebody scored 15 runs this year, 
"When they come here, they the outside." Russell among those carrying else on a baseball field. I think ahead of only Colorado (12) bring it. They show up and Werth put Philadelphia in their sports' trophies onto the that was just the most unbe­entering play Tuesday night. they play great. That's what front with a two-out HBI single Fenway field to join the two lievable thing," Youkilis said. The Tigers didn't hit, manag­we have to do." ofT Jorge Sosa. won by the Hed Sox. "I wanted to shake his hand, ing just five singles. They did­
Chase Utley tied a major Aaron Ileilman walked the Daisuke Matsuzaka was too because that's a true man in n't field well, committing two league reeord by getting hit by leadoff batter in the eighth, busy warming up to see much. life." errors after making three in a pitch three times for the and the Phillies capitalized "I did feel a little jealous," There was red-white-and­their previous game. They did­Phillies. who won despite with Hollins' run-scoring single Matsuzaka said after. the Red blue bunting hanging from the n't pitch well, allowing 12 hits, stranding 13 runners on a and Utley's HBI double. Sox ended their three-country, stands, a Green Monster-sized six walks and a balk. ehilly, 50-degree afternoon. "We got a break and we ran 16,000-mile odyssey with a American flag on the left-field "It's frustrating. Right now, 
victory over the winless Detroit wall -covering a World Series we're the worst team in base­Tigers in their home opener banner-and an Air National ball because of the way we are Tuesday. "The ring had been Guard flyover punctuating playing, in all areas of the put in my locker at some point "The Star-Spangled Banner." game," Hogers said. "I wanted during the game. I tried it on, And, in the good ol' U.S. of to be the guy to turn things and I must say it looked pretty A., the Hed Sox haven't been around. Every player in the good." beaten. locker room wants to be that 
In an hourlong pregame cer­Youkilis had three hits and guy." emony that turned emotional two HB!s for the Hed Sox, who J.D. Drew singled and scored when once-scorned first base­began the day last in the AL in the second innings, and man Bill Buckner was given an East following a trip to Tokyo Manny Hamirez tripled and enthusiastic weleome, the Red (where they went 1-1), scored -on a rare throwing Sox received their World Oakland (2-0) and Toronto (0-error by second baseman Series rings and raised a 3). But they responded well in Placido Polanco-in the third. championship banner above their return to Fenway, where Julio Lugo singled and scored center field. Then, they began they were 51-30 during the in the fourth, moving up on to focus on the work of repeat­regular season last year and 6-another error by the Tigers ing. 1 in the postseason. infield. 
"We needed to get through Matsuzaka (2-0) allowed four Boston added two more in 
AP this day," said Boston manager hits in 6 2-3 innings with seven the sixth to make it 5-0 when Terry Francona, who took his strikeouts and four walks. Jason Grilli gave up two hits team to Japan, California and Detroit, the only winless team and three walks. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classificds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSEMATE SOUGHT PRIVATE DUBLIN VILLAGE unit for lease UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Gurl dis ain't no dance flo' ROOM. CALL631·7897. $400 2008·2009. 4BR, 3.5 bath. Largest Do not go it alone. Dis a candy sto' WANTED FoR RENT MONTHLY & most private. Call Diane 574·261· If you or someone you love needs And I'm really geeked up 
3338. confidential support or assistance, And I got mo' dro $14.25 BASE·APPT. STUDENT For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1· I pop, I roll WORK flexible, no experience Blue & Gold Homes Showing for N.D., student neighborhood, central 7819. It's soft I know needed, customer sales/service, 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" air, new appliances, very nice. 289· PERSONAL For more information, visit our web-It's da summer time conditions apply, leases bluegoldrentals.com 4071. site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-But yo Iaiiy taffy got me froze (oh) ages 18+, ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-Gone get loose (oh} 
Large house available for 2009-Quiet and Private, Furnished or PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· weekly ad in The Observer. 574-273-3835. 2010. Full renovations completed Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br ONE WHO IS? You do not have to I kno' you wanna ride www.workforstudents.com 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ available. Cable & wifi included. be alone. We want to help. Call our If you or someone you care about You a star and it shows 
square feet, 5 bathrooms. One mile from campus. 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-has been sexually assaulted, visit (What's happening? What's up? New student needs good laptop. Call 773·339·0299 for rates & avail-800-No Abort or visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. What's up? Let's go, let's go, let's 574-993·8733. MacSwain@gmail.com ability. www.lifecall.org shtml go) 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 CoMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W! RE SERVJCES page 13 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference 

team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 61·15 .803 8·2 Detroit 55·21 .724 7-3 6 Orlando 48·29 .623 5·5 13.5 Cleveland 42·35 .545 4·6 19.5 Washington 40·37 .519 6-4 21.5 Philadelphia 39·38 .506 6·4 22.5 Toronto 38·39 .494 4-6 23.5 Atlanta 36·41 .468 7-3 25.5 Indiana 33·44 .429 7-3 28.5 New Jersey 32-45 .416 4·6 29.5 Chicago 30·46 .395 4·6 31 Charlotte 29·48 .377 5·5 32.5 Milwaukee 26-50 .342 3-7 35 New York 21-56 .273 2·8 40.5 Miami 13·64 .169 1-9 48.5 
Western Conference 

team record perc. last 10 GB New Orleans 54-22 .711 9·1 San Antonio 53-24 .688 9·1 1.5 LA Lakers 53-24 .688 7·3 1.5 Utah 51-26 .662 7-3 3.5 Houston 52-25 .675 6·4 2.5 Phoenix 51-26 .662 6-4 3.5 Dallas 48-29 .623 4-6 6.5 Denver 46-31 .597. 6-4 8.5 Golden State 46·31 .597 4·6 8.5 Portland 38-39 .494 3·7 16.5 Sacramento 36-41 .468 5·5 18.5 LA Clippers 23-54 .299 2·8 31.5 Memphis 21-56 .273 5-5 33.5 Minnesota 19·57 .250 3·7 35 Seattle 18·59 .234 2·8 36.5 
NCAA Men's Baseball Baseball America Ranklngs 
rank team overall 
1 Arizona State 25•1 2 Miami 21-2 3 North Carolina 21-5 4 Missouri 20·5 5 UC Irvine 19-3 6 Florida State 23-3 7 Cal 18·5 
8 Vanderbilt 18-6 g 
South Carolina 18-7 10 Long Beach Slate 17-7 11 Nebraska 21·4 12 Wichita State 20-3 13 Stanford 12-7 14 Virginia 23·5 15 Rice 19-9 16 Texas 18·8 17 San Diego 19-10 18 Arizona 14·9 19 Florida 20·6 20 UNC Wilmington 21·4 21 Kentucky 22·4 22 Michigan 14·6 23 UCLA 12-10 24 Coastal Carolina 21·6 25 Cal State Fullerton 15·9 
around the dial 
NBA 
Celtics at Wizards 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
Suns at Spurs 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 

NFL 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Matt Stover, the Baltimore Ravens' veteran kicker, has begun a campaign to replace Gene Upshaw as executive director of the NFL Players Association by next March. 
Stover's action comes at a time when the union could be heading for crit­ical negotiations with the league on the collective bargaining agreement. 
"I feel that the board must begin to prepare for a change in leadership immediately," Stover said in an e-mail to the union's executive board and player representa­tives that was obtained Tuesday by ESPN. "I believ!'l we have the prop­er environment with our teammates and leader­ship within the board to execute the process of this selection." 
Union president Kevin Mawae of the Tennessee Titans said that Stover's opinion does not reflect the opinion of the players 
Upshaw, whose con­tract runs through 2010, has said he will not leave until the union gets through its latest negotia­tions with the owners, who are expected to opt out of their March 2006 agreement with the union next November. That would trigger a new round of negotiations. 
March 2009, the begin­ning of the last year with a salary cap if the con­tract is voided, could be a critical time in those talks 
The 40-year-old Stover, entering his 19th NFL season, said in a state­ment issued by the Ravens that it was not his intention for his e-mail to be made public. 
''I'm going to respect the process of our union leadership, executive committee and player reps. I choose to handle this matter privately," he said in a statement issued by the Ravens 
Mawae, elected last 
month as the union's new president, dismissed Stover's letter 
"Matt Stover's letter does not reflect the view of the entire executive committee or the board of player representa­tives," he said in a state­ment issued by the union. "The board is in the process of preparing for the possibility of a work stoppage and under­stands the importance of having Gene, with his experience and history, lead the direction of the NFLPA." 
Added former NFLPA president Troy Vincent: "It's absolutely ridicu­lous." 

IN BRIEF DrmPUaker to donate $10 per
stril{eout 
NEW YORK-Major league pitch­ers will soon have added incentive to strike out batters. 
Drugmaker Bayer AG will announce plans Wednesday to donate $10 to prostate cancer research for every strikeout during the regular season this year. 
Major League Baseball estimates the four-year partnership could add up to a little more than $300,000 per year. There were 32,189 strike­outs during the regular season in 2007, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Bayer, based in Leverkusen, Germany, will give an additional $1 million to the Prostate Cancer Foundation if a pitcher sets a new record by striking out 21 batters in a game. 
Bayer's One-A-Day vitamins for men are marketed as a way to maintain prostate health. 
James to miss practice
for second day in a row 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio -LeBron James didn't practice for the second straight day in order to rest his trouble­some back before the Cleveland Cavaliers begin their final push heading into the NBA playoffs. 
James, who has been dealing with back spasms for a few weeks, received treatment while his teammates pre­pared for Wednesday night's game against the New Jersey Nets. Cavs coach Mike Brown said Tuesday it's possible James could sit out. 
James was not available for inter­views. He was still on the massage table when the club wrapped up its post­practice media session. 
"We want him healthy in the playoffs," Brown said. "Yes, we want the fourth seed, but to get the fourth seed and have an unhealthy LeBron throughout the playoff run wouldn't do us any good. We've got to make sure that he's healthy and he's able to help us." 

Penn State wide receiver 
thrown off team 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Suspended Penn State receiver Chris Bell was kicked offthe team Tuesday after univer­sity police charged him with threatening another player with a knife. 
The 21-year-old from Norfolk, Va., faces charges including terroristic threats and simple assault, both misde­meanors, after the encounter Monday night at a team dining facility. No one was hurt. 
"Chris Bell, who had been previously suspended from team activities, is per­manently removed from the team and will not be reconsidered to be a part of the team in the future," said a one­line statement relea._<;ed by Penn State athletics. 
Defensive end Devon Still told police he had spoken with Bell earlier Monday· and suspected that the backup receiver had taken a cell phone case from his locker, according to the criminal com­plaint. Bell denied the accusations. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
NBA 

Okur scores 22 points in Jazz's 77-66 vvin over Hornets 
Stoudimere leads Suns in 127-113 win over Grizzlies; Powell scores career high 18 in Heat's 95-88 win over Bulls 
Associated Press 
Mehmet Okur had 22 points and 17 rebounds to help the Utah Jazz clinch the Northwest Division and snap the New Orleans llornets' 11-game home winning streak, 77-66 on Tuesday night. 
Deron Williams had 16 assists and outplayed Chris Paul as the Jazz took a 20-point lead early in the fourth quarter and cruised from there, holding New Orleans to its lowest point total of the season. 
Peja Stojakovie scored 15 points for New Orleans, which shot a woeful 3-of-14 on 3-point­ers and 37 percent overall as its live-game winning streak eame to an end. David West had 14 points. 
Paul had a rare ofl' night, fin­ishing with nine assists and only four points on 2-of-11 shooting. 
Utah has won four straight games and seven of its last eight. Okur has lml the Jazz in scoring in the last three. lie scored all but two of his points in the first throe quarters on S-of-16 shoot­ing, with a pair of 3-pointnrs. 
Carlos Boozer, Andrei Kirihmko and Paul Millsap each srornd I 0 poinL'i for Utah, which shot 44 perennt and outn~bound­ed Now Orleans 47-36. 
Paul missed his first seven shots and did not seem~ until he hit a driving floater with 7:50 left in the third quartor. That started a 6-0 run that pulled the Hornets as close as 49-46. 

Okur then hit a pair of free throws and later made a 3 dur­ing a 19-4 run to dose the third quarter. 
When Millsap muscled his way in for a tough putback as he was fouled early in the fourth, the Jazz led 70-50. 
New Orleans held a 35-34 lead in a seesaw first half after Jannero Pargo's jumper midway through the second quarter. The Hornets failed to score for the rest of the period, however, missing their last 16 shots, and Utah took advantage with a 9-0 run. 
Okur, who had 15 points in the first half, scored four during the run and capping it with a 19-foot jumper, giving Utah a 43-35 lead at halftime. 
Suns 127, Grizzlies 113 
Amare Stoudemire had 2S points and 11 rebounds, and the Phonnix Suns bnat the Memphis Grizzlies 127-113 on Tuesday night despitn playing without an injurnd Shaquille O'Neal. 
Stoudomire shot 1 0-of-13 from thP field as the Suns won their eighth straight over the Grizzlies and moved a half-game behind thn idle Jlouston Hockets for the fifth spot in the Western Conference playoffs. 
Baja Bell scored 18 points for Phoenix, while Grant llill had 
17. Stevs Nash and Leandro 
Barbosa finished with 16 points apiece, with Nash handing out eight assists. Gordan Giricek added 14 points and Boris Diaw scorod 12. 
The Suns were without center Shaquille O'Neal, who sat out with a right hip contusion. O'Neal, who was injured in Sunday's loss to Dallas, was dressed in street clothes on the Phoenix bench. 
Rudy Gay matched his career high with 36 points for Memphis. Mike Conley finished with 19 points and five assists before fouling out in the closing minute, and Kyle Lowry had 13 points ofT the Memphis bench. 
That didn't matter because 
... 

Stoudemire dominated the inside against the Grizzlies. In the sec­ond half, the Suns added the outside shooting of Bell with help from Barbosa and Giricek, and Memphis never really threatened after Phoenix built the lead to double digits in the third period. 
Gay made it a bit interesting with 16 points in the fourth quarter, hitting a 3-pointer with 
2:34 left to pull Memphis within 114-106. But a 3-pointer by Nash put Phoenix back ahead by double digits. 
Heat 95, Bulls 88 

Baek in the NBA, Kasib Powell gave the Miami Heat the type of effort they've lacked most of the season. 
Powell scored a career-high 18 points, leading the Heat to a 95­88 victory over the Chicago Bulls on Tuesday night that snapped a seven-game losing streak. 
Ricky Davis and Chris Quinn each added 16 points as five players scored in double ligures for the !!eat, the day after coach Pat Riley was elected to the Hall of Fame. 
"We got in ·such a habit of playing with talent only and thinking that talent was going to take care of the lack of efl'ort," Hiley said. "These guys are just unadulterated. Effort is a big part of what our culturo is." 


,(gwis !fall is proud to invite the following men to the Crush dance and barbeque: 
From From From From From From Morrissey Manor: St. Edwards Hall: Fisher Hall: Stanford Hall: Zahm Hall: Keenan Hall: 
Tom Bounds Michaef Eardley Josh Calton Griffin Ashkin Nick Bloom Trevor Boston Zach Einterz Matt Flood Kennedy Collins Dominic Golab Casey Engelbert Coleman Collins Kenny Jackelen Jim Goebl Tim LaBarge Greg McCool Joe Senchak Alex Deak Evan Possley Collin Goodman Mike Moriarty Ben Queen Mike Wahle Grant Frieling CJ Ramsey Chris Higgins Luke Stavole Larry Stickley Sean Gibbons 
From 

Sorin College: 
Michael Spencer Scott Jarvie Chuck Talley Seamus Jackson 

From 

Alex Freer 

O'Neill Hall: 

Fred Thwaites Joey Kuhn 

From From
Joe Ehardt Matt Hermann 

Dillon Hall: Alumni Hall: 
John Plunkett 


From
Chris Brown Ryan Emptage Jay Branham James lrcink 

Knott Hall: 
Mat Spencer 

Andrew Chronister Brian Benjamin Kurt Reister John Gallagher Justin Jameo Jarrett Styles 
Nick DeTrempe Joe Gandolfi Doug Schuda Adebola Giwa Mike Kelly Dan Thaner 
Andrew Masak Pat Lloyd Nathan Solomon Daniel Ji Hun Oh Mick Madden 
• 
Tim Treat Matt Momont Dan Reid John Thorton Danny McRae Robbie Singer 

Off-Campus:

Jim Redden Jack Thorton Trey Mohr Will Staruk

From 
Florian Placek


Sigfried Hall: 

JJ Rees Geoffrey Mooney Conor Troy 

From 
Mat Abernathy Jake Cress 

Keough Hall: 
Ryan Shay Trevor O'Brien Adam Twardzik 
Jordan Bergman Rohan Anad Sean McGarvey Will Tintor Chris Tillett 
John Sabol Robbie Bernardin David Hockridge Nelson Way 
Sean Kickham Tom Caruso 


'Barbeque is on 7hursday from 5pm-8pm in ,(gwis courtyard and 'Dance is on 'Friday from 1 Opm-1 am in ,(g'Fortune 'Ballroom 

Wednesday, April9. 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


W~uld you.like to be the voice of Fighting Irish Footballl WVFI broadcasts 
all football games. If any student is interested in becoming aWVFI Sports Announcer, please email Rok Kopp at rkopp@nd.edu by April17,2008. WVFI, Voice of the Fighting Irish 


NCAA BASKETBALL Kansas vvorried about coach leaving for OSU . 
Associated Press 
Kansas coach Bill Self slept for less than an hour after the Jayhawks stunned Memphis in one of the more memorable fmals in NCAA tournament histo­ry, wrapping up their first national title in 20 years. 
The details of the Jayhawks' 75-68 overtime victory will soon be etched in Kansas lore. After Memphis missed a series of free throws, Kansas guard. Mario Chalmers hit a 3-pointer with 2.1 seconds left to send the game to overtime, where the Jayhawks overwhelmed the Tigers. 
Now Kansas fans may begin losing sleep over whether their coach is headed for Oklahoma State. Less than 12 hours after cutting down the nets, a bleary­eyed Self returned to the Alamodome on Tuesday morning and faced questions about whether he's interested in the job at his alma mater, which parted ways with Sean Sutton on April1. 
As he has for a week, Self said he plans to meet with Kansas officials soon about a contract extension. 
"What I'd like to have is like everybody'd like to have," Self said. ''I'd like to have some secu­rity. I don't know what even Kansas would remotely be talk­ing (about). We haven't even talked about that. When I say security, I mean years, so hope­fully that'll happen." 
Citing factors such as Kansas' rich hoops tradition, Self said, ''I'm not looking for more than what Kansas provides on a daily basis." 
The school gave Self a five­year contract extension last sea­son, increasing his annual com­pensation to more than $1.3 mil­lion with a chance to make another $350,000 each year if he meets incentives. 
But Self could likely command far more money from Oklahoma State, whose billionaire alumnus Boone Pickens, gave $165 mil­lion to the school's athletic department. 
Self said he hasn't met Pickens and wasn't familiar with details about Oklahoma State's pro­g.ram. But he drew a chuckle from reporters when he said, "From the outside looking in, it appears that they have great resources." 
Kansas fans have become accustomed to a certain amount of anxiety over losing a talent coach. Roy Williams flirted with, and eventually left for, his alma mater, North Carolina. 
Kansas followers exulted when their team defeated Williams and the Tar Heels in the national semifinals, but Williams turned up at the final wearing a Jayhawks sticker on his shirt. 
U.S. Premiere at Notre Dame! The Nanovic Institute for European Studies 

premw 
HUMOR IN EUROPEAN FILM 
3person teams compete in the Superbowl of Pop Culture to win fabulous prizes: ipod shuffles, Best of Notre Dame Football DVD boxset, ~25 gift certificate to itunes, bragging rights. 
Preliminary written test, Monday, 14 April at 7pm. Sign up at wvfi.nd.edu and receive more information. Top teams compete in final round, Friday, 18 April at 9pm in the Carey Auditorium in the Library. Free food and door prizes to the audience. 
WVFI, Voice of the Fighting Irish wvfi.nd.edu 
with Angelo Spencer & L'Orchidee D'Hawai 
Saturday, April 12th Legends Doors Open at 8:30 Show at 9 Free Admission with Valid NO, SMC, or HCC ID 
Game of skill for Juno DVDs and WVFI merchandise 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
SOFTBALL 

Weather cancels gan1e against Tilinois-Chicago 
By JARED ]EDICK Spons Writer 

Notre Dame's game against Illinois-Chicago Tuesday after­noon was cancelled dun to rain in the Chicago area. 
The ganw was originally sched­ulml for March 27th at Flames Field, but tlw game will not be resdwdulml again. 
The Irish (22-I 0, 5-1) will be hack in action against Eastern Michigan WPchwsday in a double­header at Ivy Finld beginning at 4 p.m. 
Thn Irish will need to have good pitching against a potent Eaglns' offense. EMU senior Ashley Strauss is hitting .XOO in her last two games, including going 4-for-5 with a double, a homerun, an HBI. and throe runs scored against Central Michigan. 
Also hitting wPif lhr the Eagles is sophornon~ outllelder Jnnny Scherer. SdwrPr has been mon­strous litr the Eagle's at times this srmson, especially in her ofl'orts during I~MU's 12-garnn tour of California when~ she was named MAC Player of the week for the pnriod ending March 3. It was tlw second time in her career that she has won tho weekly honor. In addition to hitting for the cycle against San Dingo, Sdwrer hit .353 with a .647 slug­ging percentage for the wnek. 
totaling 12 hits, eight HBis, seVfm runs and two horne runs. Scherer also had three multi-hit games during the Eagles' swing through California. 
Taking the mound for the Irish against this impressive duo will be the one-two punch of junior Brittney Bargar (17-6) and fresh­man Jody Valdivia. 
Bargar won Big East pitcher of the week honors with a 5-0 reeord and a perl'nct 0.00 EHA while striking out 27 over 27.1 innings of work. 
Valdivia has come down some­what from her strong start of the s1mson, but the Irish ofl'ense and Bargar have lifted her, allowing tlw fn~shrnan to learn sonw valu­able lessons and work her way out ofjams. 
Senior second basemen Katie Laing took Big East Player of the year honors for the second time this season this week. 
Laing went I 0 for 19 on the wenk with 13 HBis, five runs, four home runs and one double for a .526 batting average and a 
1.211 slug1,ring pnreentage. Laing also stole two bases. 
The Irish will then begin their nnw era in newly constructed Melissa Cook Stadium against Hutgers and Villanova Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Valpo 
continued from page 20 
Snelton stayed out of trouble until thn bottom of thn fourth, whnn junior first baseman Evan Sharpley bnltnd a two-run homer just over tlw ldt-linld limen. 
Sharpley's long drive carried just ovnr th1~ fnnee. aided by a strong wind blowing out towards left. Scoring on the bomb was sopho­more designated hittnr David Mills, who had reached on a bunt single. 
The 5-2 Valparaiso lead evapo­ratnd in the sixth, as thn Irish oiTenso broke through for four runs on five hits. Pollock and Sharplny each singled to start of the inning, and Pollock madn his way home on a linlder's d10ien to r.ut the lead to 5-3. 
Senior S1~an (;m;ton pinch-hit litr freshman Camnron McConnell, and dnlivnn~d with a two-run dou­ble that knottml thP ganw up at 5. Freshman third basnman Creg Shnrry tlwn drovn honw Caston with a doubln of' his own to givn the Irish a 6-5 lnad. 
Thn Notre Dame lead was short­lived, as the Crusaders answered with a run on three hits in the top ofthn seventh to tie the game. 
Pollock took the lead back for the Irish in the bottom of the inning, crushing a 3-2 piteh just inside tho f(ml pole in left for a solo home run. Sharpley followed with a double, his third hit of the day, and was driven home by junior Jernmy Barnes single to give Notre Dame an 8-6 lead. 
The junior eloser Weiland pitehnd a pnrleet ninth to piek up the record-breaking save, the 21st of his eareer. "It's a grnat thing for [Weiland]. lie's such a great guy to have at the end of a game." 
The Irish bullpen combined to piteh 7.1 innings, giving up just one run. Notre Dame used seven pitchers in thn game, with senior Tony Langfi.lrd getting the win. 
The Irish next lheo Manchoster today at Eck Stadium, with l'rnsh­man Hyan Sharpley slated to start. First pitch against the Spartans is sdwduled filr (dl5 p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Brand new, furnished townhomes for lease for Fall Semester '08 
Hurry. You won't want to miss one of the limited number of Irish CrossingsT<mnhomes available for lease this fall. Just two blocks east ofthe ND athletic fields, off Willis Street, these three and four-bedroom townhomes come furnished, including a 42• flat panel HDTY. 
Geared for today's college sllldent. and larger than an apartment. these townhomes include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed. dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & cable 

• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer 

• 
l..argedeck 

• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 


Strict covenants enforced. 
lease today and move into your brand new townhome for Fall Semester 1008. Call Diane at 574.161.3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
~m~ 
ji 1.) 
~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 




Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies I 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 14, 2008 

Wednesday, April 9, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles to face Hope after week-long break 
Saint Mary's head coach Chuck non-conference competition.
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Rubino said. "They lost to Sophomore co-captain No. 1 
Sports Writer 
Albion 5-4, and we lost 6-3 so singles Camille Gebert led Saint that tells you where they are in Mary's in the singles wins, 
After a week off from compe­relation to us. I feel like if we defeating Olivet's Jaclyn tition, Saint Mary's is looking can win two of the doubles we Mummaw 6-1, 6-2. for its second conference win have a great chance to beat Freshman No. 2 singles Jillian when it takes on Hope in them in 3-4 singles matches." Hurley won her 11th match of Holland, Mich., Wednesday. Before its break from compet­the season, beating Abbie 
The Belles (5-8, 1-2 MIAA) ing, Saint Mary's swept Olivet utberg 6-3, 6-1, putting her are currently in sixth -just 9-0 for its first conference win personal record at 11-2. No. 3 behind the sixth-place Flying of the season on April 1. The freshman Betsy Reed defeated Dutch (8-5, 1-1 MIAA) -in the Belles won both the singles and Celeste Gruber 6-0, 6-0; No. 4 MIAA. doubles divisions, which they freshman Jessica Kosinski beat 
"Hope is a very good team," had previously done only in Katie Griffs 6-3, 6-2; No. 5 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 

(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
$10haiTcuts 1/2off
all color (reg $47-$80) foils too! 
'Schedule your appointment today with one ofour licensed apprentice stylists for this great price. Offer good with apprentice stylists only, all other stylists will be full price. Not good with any other discount. Convenient, close to campus. 
258-5080 



SALON ROUGI 
620 W. Edison, Suite 126 Mishawaka, IN. 46545 salonrougeinc.com 

sophomore co-captain Lisa Rubino defeated Leanne Schudder 6-1, 6-1; and No.6 freshman Laura Arnold finished 
· off singles for Saint Mary's with a 6-2, 6-1 win over Kristen Wolfolk. 
The Belles continued to domi­nate Olivet in doubles as they swept the division 3-0. The No. 1 pair of Gebert and Hurley won 8-1 over Mummaw and Utberg for their sixth win as a team, putting them at 6-7 this season. The No.2 duo of Rubino and Reed continued Saint Mary's streak with an 8-1 win over Gruber and Schudder. The No. 3 team of Kosinski and freshman Franca Peluso com­pleted the sweep with an 8-1 win over Griffes and Wolfolk. 
"It is a pivotal match for us this season, we're on par with them, and I think we can beat them," Rubino said. "It will be a close match either way with possibly some tie breakers and third matches that we're going to have to win." 
Saint Mary's will try to carry its domination in both divisions today, but may have some com­petition from junior Sammi Stille, senior Christine Garcia, and sophomore Danielle Werley, Hope's No. 1, 2, and 3 in singles, respectively. Stille went 2-1 this past weekend at the GLCA tournament at 
· Oberlin, Ohio, putting her at 8­6 for the season. Garcia is only at 3-10 for the 2008 season, but holds an 18-23 record for her career at Hope so far. Werley also went 2-1 over the week­end, putting her at 6-7 for this year. 
"A lot of the matches will probably be close, we have to work to get over the hump and win those matches," Lisa Rubino said. "I think we are ready to compete again, after having some time off. It was nice to get a break, but we are excited for the challenges ahead." 
Coach Rubino outlined the Belles goals for today's match, recognizing what his team needs to improve to win. 
"Our goal is to improve our consistency, and staying in the match mentally. It's going to be 
a. close match and we're going to have to win enough matches to beat them," he said. "Hopefully we have enough mental consistency to beat them at this point." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC GoLF 

Squad to co111pete in first MIAA qualifier 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will compete in the first MIAA qualifier of the spring season Wednesday. 
The Belles have their eyes set on getting off to good start and putting themselves into position to qualify for the NCAA tourna­ment. 
After the qualifiers are over, the top team in the standings will represent the MIAA in the nation­al championship event in Iowa 
Department of Irish Language & Literature Fall 2008 Course Offerings 
Litt•ratur~ Courses 

IRLL 30107  Tlte Hidden lrelaml  f'rof. Peter McQuillan  
(TR 1230-1:45)  
IRLL 30108  J.ll' Century Irish Literature  Prof Sarah McKibben  
(MW 11.45-LOO)  
IRLL 30307  The Irish Tradition 1  Prof. Hugh Fogarty  
(TR 3:30-4:45)  
LRLL40304  Pln>try and Politics in Jrelaml  Prof Breandan 6 Buachalla  
(TR 2:00-3:15)  
IRLL 60203  Smtti.~h Gaelic  Prof Peter McQuiIIan  
(TR2:00-3:15)  
IRLL 60305  Cltmtid na (iaeilge  Prof Breandan 6 Buachalla  
(W 6:00-9:00)  
Lnnguage Courses  
IRLL 1010101  B•·ginning Irish I  St11JJITBA  
TRLL 1010102  llegitming Irish I  Prof. Tum MacLeod  
IRLL 10101:03  &ginmng Irish T  Stull"fiBA  
IRLL 10 I01:04  Beginning Irish 1  Prof. Muireann N1 Hhoa~luoich  
IRLL. 10102:01  Beginning Irish ll  Prof Cicm1 Conneely  
IRL.L 10102 02  lieginning Jmh IT  Prof. Tam MucLC<xl  
IRL.L 20103:01  lntermedwte Irish  Prof. Bri11n (J Conchubhair  
IRLL 20103:02  Intermediate Irish  Prof. Sarah MacKihbcn  
lRLL 20203:01  Advanced Readings in Irish Culture  Prof Brian (l Conchubhair  
IRLL 60101:01  Begmning Irish 1  St11JIITHA  
TRLL. 60101:02  Beginning Irish I  Prof Tnm Macl..t:~)lj  
IRLL 60102:01  JJeginmng Jnsh Language 11  Pmf. Ciara Conneely  
IRLL 60102:02  Beginning Irish Language II  Pmf. Torn MacLeod  
IRLL. 60103 01  lntermedial<' Irish  Prof. Brian () t'i.lllchubhair  
IRLL 60103:02  Jmermediate irish  Prof. Sarah MacKibbcn  
IRL.L 60203:01  Advanced Rcadmgs m Irish Culture  Prof. Brian <) Concht!hhair  

Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 

May 14-16. 
The Belles. finished third in the MIAA during the fall season but will try to use the momentum from their spring season success to push them to the top of the standings. 
In their last tournament, the Tri-State Invitational, thfJ Belles finished well, placing third out of ten teams. 
Tri-State, who finished second in the MIM in the fall, finished 11 strokes behind Saint Mary's in fifth place. 
In the fall, the Belles had to count on senior Katie O'Brien to single-handedly lead the team. 
Now, others have begun to step up and place well individually. 
Freshman sensation Rosie O'Connor has used the spring to show-off her improvement..<; from the fall season. O'Connor has shot near or better than O'Brien in the Belles' last two tourna­ments. 
Freshmen Emily Gore and Junior Perri Hamma have also been playing much better taking 11th and 25th respectively in the Tri-State Invitational. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
Mia01i 
continued from page 20 
onship for 14 years. I certainly feel at home thern. It's a great eourse and I think it set up well for us." 
Aftnr shooting a 1-under 71 in tho first round, Park rnbounded from a second-round 76 to shoot a team-low 69 in the third round. 

Conway tallied a second­round 74 in addition to her first and third round 7 4s. 
Sophomore Kristin Wetzel 


Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
Byers now has 161 goals in just 48 eareer games, and she has scornd 52 times this sea­son, good for second in the nation. 
"We're in such a focused 

team mentality that thnre has­n't really been any discussion about the record," Coyne said. "There will be at the end of the sea­son because it's a great accom­plishment and Jill's worked hard for it, but I think right bounced back from a first-round 78 to card a 10-over 226, good enough for 30th overall. Fellow sophomore Annie Brophy also rebounded in later rounds, responding with second and third-round 74s after shooting an 80 Monday. She finished tied for 37th with a 12-over 226. Junior eaptain Lisa Maunu eon­tributed a 14-over 228 to end up 47th overall. 
Notre Dame hits the links again on April 20 at the Big East Championship in Batavia, Ohio. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
when the Irish take on the Wildcats. Senior captain Caitlin McKinney has scored a point in 51 consecutive games, a streak that dates back to her freshman year and is the sec­ond longest in the country. Her 144 career goals rank her third in Irish history. 
Freshman midfielder/attack Shaylyn Blaney has been solid 
"We're in such a focused team mentality that there hasn't really been any discussion about the record. " 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
with 28 goals, including four against Duke, while sophomore attack Gina Scioscia leads the Irish with 21 assists. 
Notre Dame's road trip con­cludes Saturday, when it travels to Washington, D.C., to take on a Big East foe in 
now our sole focus is to get No. 6 Georgetown (8-3, 2-1 oursnlves into the NCAA Big East). Tournament and win the Big East." Contact Matt Gamber at 
Byers will have some help mgamber@nd.edu 

Streak 
continued from page 20 
expects it to have a special atmosphere. 
"It delinitely will have a post­season feel. They're in the· same spot we were in at this point last year," Louderback said. 
On April 9, 2007, the Irish were 20-1, in the midst of a 15-game winning streak, and had already defeated 
5 junior Georgia Rose, and No. 25 sophomore Samantha Murray. 
In addition, the Wildcats have sophomore Lauren Lui who, at No. 42, is their fourth best singles player. For com­parison, Notre Dame's singles attack, which is strong and has consistently been winning five or six points a match, boasts just two ranked players -No. 41 junior Kelcy Tefft and No. 122 sophomore Cosmina Ciobanu. 
The Irish 
lineup shifted 
Northwestern, "It should be a great around for the 4-3. Later, in 6-1 win over
match and our kids

their seeond Syracuse on 
are really excited.,, 

meeting of the Sunday season, the because Wildeats got Jay Louderback Louderback their revenge opted to have
Irish coach 

with a 5-2 win. 
"It should be a great match and our kids are really excited," Louderback said. "They did a great job the last couple matches not looking ahead to Northwestern. They've talked a little bit the last few days, and they are def­initely ready for it." 
Louderback is fully aware of the elite competition coming into town but knows few teams are perfect. "They're really good at the top -their top three are all ranked nationally, and they're deep," he said. "They have been switching their doubles around, so I think winning the doubles point will be the key for us because our doubles [teams] have been really good the last half of the season." 
Northwestern's top three sin­gles players are nationally­ranked No. 3 Maria Mosolova, a freshman from Moscow, No. 
Tefft sit-out per 
NCAA rules for 
playing too many matches in 
the fall. 

The lineup shift moved soph­omore Kali Krisik up to No. 1 doubles alongside senior cap­tain Brook Buck and put fresh­man Denise Ellison on the court for the first time this dual season alongside junior Katie Potts. 
Sophomore Colleen Rielley and Ciobanu stayed together in ihe No. 2 slot, and all three pairs triumphed. Ellison also made her singles debut in the No. 6 hole, losing in three sets, 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (7-10), 1-0 (11­9). 
Louderback was pleased with Ellison's performance. 
"It was great for ·her to get her first match in. She played really well in doubles and just lost a close one in singles," he said. "l think a lot of that was just it being her first singles match, but it was great for her see what it's like playing out there." 
The shuffling also pushed Buck into No. 1 singles, and she triumphed easily 6-0, 6-1. The team is deep and even, but the prominent senior leader­ship of Buck is undeniable. 
"She played well in singles and did great in doubles, too. She and Kali IKrisik I had not played together besides one match in the fall, but [Brook] did great in both," Louderback said. 
The team's momentum has led to clinching matches early, but Louderback said the com­petition has been anything but weak and likes that his players keep the pressurn on all match long. 
"We've had a couple of matches recently that we've won 6-1 and 7-0 that were still good matches -Indiana, Iowa, and Syracuse. Especially in the Iowa match, we just played really well," Louderback said. 
The growing momentum has also coincided with the match­es starting to move outdoors. The Irish success outside serves as good preparation for the outdoor venues of postsea­son play. 
"All our singles players have looked good, and we've played so well in the doubles, too. The opportunity to get outside and play some outdoors matches has been good and will really help us," Louderback said. 
Wednesday at 3:30 at Courtney Tennis Center, the Irish will try to notch their first win in school history over the No. 1 team in the eountry. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 




Student Football Season Tickets 



www.und.com/student-tickets 
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

BLAcK DoG 
lOLLERSKATES 
THE SINGLE LIFE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Words of Bankruptcy 
willingness causes 34 Defaulter's loss Part of "snafu" 36 Members of this 
J Invite for can be found in the centers of4 ease 17-,24-,51-and 
5 Water 60-Across 
temperature 41 Flash drive filler 
tester 42 --·lion, beast
6 Ending with farm slain byor home Hercules in his 
7 Make tracks 
first labor 9 "Survivor" team 
44 Depl. of Labor 0 Mead study 
branch locale 
48 Movie theater 1 Chips that one candy might "muncha 
50 Directional lead­

buncha" 
in 2 Hotel offerings: 
51 Turkey insert 

Abbr. 
55 Authorizes 

4 Sources of ready 56 T. Boonecash Pickens, for one 
7 Cassidy 57 With full force
portrayer of TV and film 
59 I, historically 
60 Got by (on) 9 a one 

64 McEnroe rival feline 65 Bud 0 "Born Free" 
1NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
66 Calls for 67 Pundit's piece 68 Knock out 69 It helps raise 
dough 
Down 
Talk trash about 2 Lodge member 3 "Gesundheit!" 4 "Look what I 
did!" 5 Notary's item 6 Time to crow 7 "That's funny!," 
in an e-mail . 8 Antietam leader 9 Nolan Ryan, for 
years 10 Its symbol is X 11 Harvey of "The 
Piano" 12 Marchers' drums 13 Black Sea port 18 Beyond 
paramedic aid, in brief 21 Short order cook's utensil 
22 One of four in a grand slam: Abbr. 
23 Cut close 25 Add a soundtrack to. perhaps 26 Concise, in Cannes 28 Vietnam's Le 
Tho 32 Foreign law deg. 33 Absolutely 
accurate 
35 Cockney's abode 37 Bit to split 
THIS HAPPENED So n-{AT WHAT HAD BEEN SpoKEN Tl-\i<:.OL!II-11 TH£ f'I'OPHET Mi&/11 BE FULFILU:;o: 
"SAY To t)I\U6-HTEP-ZION 13EHOL1>, Yov~ KING-LoMES Tu 
Y.:>U, M'EE.K AND R.lt>IN6­0N AN 
c~'"" J.~.., ..... e ve~r.-,·...,9 ,·s 9""'"'A ~t ().\ "''1\.,+·" 
)wrt«t.• o.. <let~·· 
'() 
6 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
nil?: DISC..PL£5 WENT ANI> DID AS JESli.S HAt> 0Rl>E£E.!) rHEM. TilEY ~ROV6-HT THE AND ~E. C<ll..T ANI> 
l.Ait> THEIR c.LoAKS OVEII:. TIIEM, AND HE SAT VPllN THEM. 
DIDIER LEWIS 
LINAPAEK 

S')-\V1 Uf PttJ\) 6\~ E M£ M\.( 1-\ EA-1 ~1.\ 
WILLSHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ENDUC j 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


r~r~·l 
j -.... -~REZIFE 
rx 
WHEN THE CATS PE:RFORME:D
1 
FOR THE: ANIMAL­TI<AINS<, HE WAS--­
W'NW.Iumble.com 

HUBILS j 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answerhere: 

"[I I I I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's \ Jumbles: BATCH PRONE CHERUB MEASLY Answer: What the teen-agers turned into after a dip in the ocean -BEACH COMBERS 

Puzzle by Lee Glickstein 
38 Chat room  45 Has star power  54 Befitting of  
shorthand 39 Sore throat soother  46Mt. St. 47 Loser of 1588  umbrellas 58 "Understood"  
40 Pull suddenly  60 Rest spot  
43"  for Noose"  49 Unlikely to lose it  61 Motor City grp.  
(Sue Grafton book)  52 One way to be in love  62 Masthead figs.  
44 Best Actor  63 Period after  
nominee for  53 Ambulance  springing  
"Venus," 2006  letters  forward: Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 9, 2008 
page 20 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Squad cards round -lovv 289 to finish fourth in Mian1i 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Spons Writer 
Notre Dame eonduded its rng­ular season this week with a fourth-plaee finish at the Canes and Cardinal Classic at the 6210-yard, par-72 Don Shula Golf Club in Miami, marking the final tournament for the No. 25 Irish befon~ the Big East and NCAA tournaments at the Mid of the month. 
Notre Dame freshman So­llyun Park scored an even-par 216 for the event to finish tied for second overall, while the Irish carded a round-low 289 on Tuesday to slide into the top live. Notre Dame coach Susan Jlolt liked her team's efl'ort. 
"[The course) gave us an opportunity to shoot some good scores," Holt said. "It's impor­tant to get our confidence up heading into the Big East tour­nament." 
No. 27 Louisville, which opened the tournament Monday with a week-low 284, cruised to a comfortable first-place finish, its 7-over 871 was 13 strokes ahead of the pack. 
Furman University and Georgia State tied for second with 884, 20-over, while the Irish placed fourth with a 22­over 886. Tulsa rounded out the top-five with a 24-over 888. 
Louisville junior Cindy Lacrosse earned medalist hon­ors with a 4-under 212, four strokes ahead of Park and two others who tied for second. The top-two finish was the fifth of Park's young career, who has led the Irish in scoring six teams this season and has finished first overall twice. 
Fellow Irish freshman Katie Conway finished tied for 11th overall, shooting a personal sea­son-best 4-over 220. Holt attrib­uted the team's success to both preparation -in spite of the South Bend weather -and familiarity with the course. 
"We've been able to get out­side a bit here at home and it's the most we've been out this year and the team is putting up good scores," Holt said. "I am very familiar with the course there because when I was head coach at South Florida we'd play there every year for the Florida state collegiate champi­
see MIAMI/page 18 

BASEBALL 
Crushing the crusade 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Kyle Weiland became the all­time saves leader at Notrn Dame Tunsday allnr sealing the Irish's 8­6 comeback win over Valparaiso at Eek Stadium. 
Sophomore enntnr fielder A.J. Pollock starred fi1r the Irish in the win. going 3-filr-4 at the platn with a crucial solo honwr as well as making sew1ral spectacular plays in the finld. 
With thn Irish down 5-2 in the f'ifth inning and the Crusaders threatening with two men on. Pollock ehasnd down a long drivn into tho loft liPid gap to make an incrmliblo catch. ThP eentllr linldnr tlwn gunned down a Valparaiso base runnnr rPtrPating back to first base fi1r a rrul'ial double play. 
"Wn'rn snning a lot of his tahnll'i on display," Irish coach l>avn Sdtragn said. "lin's phnnonwnal, and his douhlo play might have hnnn tho most important play of the gamP." 
Frnshman Brian l>upra made 
see VALPO/page 16 

the start lor the Irish, and lasted just 1.2 innings against the Crusaders. The right-hander struggl11d out of the gate, working into a bases loaded jam with none out in tho first. 
A passed ball and a single by Crusader sophomore Josh Wallace gave Valparaiso an early two run lead. Dupra then settled down somewhat. inducing a double play that allownd a run and a pop out to third to escape tho inning down 3-0. 
The Crusaders continued to rough up Dupra in tho second, get­ting thron hil<; and two more runs to chase the freshman from the game. Freshman reliever Todd Miller worked out of the inning after rnpladng Dupra, who gave up filllf narnnd runs on six hib. 
l>espitn being down 5-0 early, Schrage said the team was still confident. 
"They li1el like they ean win any game," Schrage said. "They always believe they ean win and neVIlr panicknd." 
Valparaiso junior John Snnlton entnrnd tlw game against thn Irish with a 12.60 EH.A but turned in a solid start for the Crusaders. 

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 1 team comes into town 
Top-ranked Northwestern puts 13-game winning streak on the line 
By DAN MASTERTON Sports Writt•r 
Sonwthing is going to have to give this afternoon as the No. 1 Northwnstern bring its 13-garnn win streak to Notre Damn to face the No. 20 Irish (16-7) and thnir ninn-garnP win stroak. 
NorthW11stern's only loss of tlw s1mson canw at thn hands of No. 2 <inorgia Tneh in tho finals of thn National T11am Indoors in narly February. The Wildcats (I 9-1) havP bm•n ranknd No. I in six straight national polls dating hack to Feb. 20 when c;oorgia T11ch was ranked first. 
Irish coarh Jay Louderback rneognizns this is the bigg11st game of tlw year so far and 
see STREAK/ page I 8 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Undefeated Wildcats 
host streaking laxers 
Northwestern looking for 33rd straight win 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 

The road swing continues for No. 8 Notre Dame, and it won't get any easier tomorrow with a match-up at No. 1 Northwestern. 
The Irish (9-3, 2-1 Big East) have won thn first three games of a five-game road swing, including a 12-8 upset of No. 7 Duke last Thursday. The Wildcats (11-0) boast a slightly more impressive streak, though, as the three-time defending national cham pions have now won 32 straight. 
"We feel confident with our game plan and we've been working on it the last eouple of days," eoach Traey Coyne said. "I feel like we're in a position right now obviously playing to win, and in order to have that happen ... we're not going to completely shut them down, but we need to eontain some of their best offensive threats." 
The Irish do have the top seorer in program history on their side, though . .Junior attack .lillian Byers seored three goals against Duke to become the most prolifie goal­scorer in Notre Dame history, passing 2006 graduate Crysti Foote's 161 earner goals. 
see WILDCATS/page 18 










