
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By JAY FITZPATRICK News Writer 
Despite the ongoing use of per­formance-enhancing drugs, Major League Baseball (MLB) Commissioner Allan "Bud" Selig told attendees at Tuesday's annu­al baseball Opening Night Dinner he believes this is the "golden age" ofbaseball. 
"We're in the midst of an amaz­ing renaissance of baseball. The sport's never been this popular, the sport's never done this well," he told his audience in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The commissioner cited increased attendance and com­petitive balance to try to support 

OLUME 42: ISSUE 86 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 13.2008 
MLB commissioner speaks at JACC 
Bud Selig headlines Opening Night Dinner, says baseball thriving despite steroid scandals 
his claim. 
Last season, the 30 MLB teams drew a combined 79.5 million fans, and an average attendance of nearly 33,000 per game. Selig projects the MLB will break that record with 80 million fans. 
Selig also stressed the impor­tance of competitive balance, or parity, in the League. During the 2007 season, no team had a win­ning percentage above .600 or below .400-and that balance came only four years after Detroit lost 119 games (the second most all-time) and six years since Seattle tied an MLB-record with 116 wins in 2001. 
After the New York Yankees 
see BASEBALL/page 4 


Like weather, snow days unpredictable 
ND hasn't canceled classes since 2000; no formal policy exists to determine closures 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
In the past 90 years, Notre Dame has closed the campus due to severe winter weather conditions only eight times ­and the decision about whether to cancel classes can be as unpredictable as South Bend weather patterns. 
Vice President of Business Operations James Lyphout, who plays a central role in the decision to cancel classes due to inclement weather, said there is no criteria or policy used to decide when to call snow days. 
"There's no set amount of 
snow or specific temperature. Each situation is evaluated on its own circumstances. There are no specific parameters for which we would cancel class­es," he said. 
Lyphout also said the deci­sion to close campus due to weather is not dependent on what other schools and busi­nesses in the area are doing. 
"We really make independ­ent evaluations of road and weather conditions," he said. "We have our own people do assessments of parking lots, roads and the surrounding community in the early morn­ing hours." 
see SNOW/page 6 
Snow-related closures at Notre Dame 
Dec. 13, 2000: Umversity closed. Final exams postponed. 
Jan. 4, 1999: University closed. No classes affected because it happened during winter break. 
March 9 and 10, 1998: Umversity closed at 3 p.m. on March 9 and all day March 10. No classes affected because it happened during spring break. 
Jan. 16, 1997: Employees left at noon. Afternoon classes remained in session 
Feb. 23, 1993: Umversity closed. 
Jan 26, 27 and 30, 1978: University closed. 
Jan. 28, 1977: Umversity closed. 
Late Novtrm.ber I earry Dectrm.ber 1918: No date available; 
Umversity closed. 
Information courtesy of the Office of News and Information 
MADELINE NIES/Observer graphic 

Electoral ethics examined 
Professor calls campaigns 'jistfights,' discusses voter responsibility 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY News Writer 
Presidential campaigns are "a fistfight in business suits," American Studies professor Robert Schmuhl said during a lecture about ethical voting Tuesday. 
"Anything goes, figuratively speaking. Brass knuckles, switch blades, and sucker punches are commonly used political techniques," Schmuhl said of the competitive -and oftentimes vicious nature -of 
the  race to  win  the  White  
House.  DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer American Studies professor Robert Schmuhl discusses  
see POLITICS/page 4 ethics within presidential campaigns in a lecture Tuesday.  


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Annual DSLC kicks off 
Saint Mary's explores diversity in conference 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Diversity will be in focus again as Saint Mary's kicks off the third annual Diverse Student Leadership Conference (OSLO today. 
The conference is organized by the Student Diversity Board (SOB) and targets area college and high school students. The free three-day workshops will continue through Friday, highlighting the diversity in education at Saint Mary's and its social and professional impact. The DSLC includes workshops, a diversi­ty showcase, career exposition and keynote addresses. 
The mission of the DSLC is "to inform participants of the adversities and benefits within diverse academ­ic, social and professional settings," SOB vice president and conference organizer Adriana Lopez said. 
"As a senior getting ready to grad­uate, I believe that the main purpose of an education is to learn to become responsible citizens and better professionals in the work­force," Lopez said. "I think it is very important for students to attend the conference because it provides an opportunity for them to learn about a reality that they are going to encounter in life." 
The conference opens tonight at 7 when Gwendolyn Dungy delivers the first keynote address in the Student Center Lounge. Dungy has been the executive director of the National Association of Student Professional Administrators 
see DSLC/page 4 

Ethernet usage could boost vvireless speed 
By KATE McCLELLAND News Writer 
Though wireless is the Internet connection of choice for many stu­dents on campus, the Office of Information Technology (OIT) says using an Ethernet cable will help speed up the network. 
Every dorm room on campus is equipped with an Ethernet outlet and if students made more use of them, there wouldn't be as much traffic in the wireless network, said Dewitt Latimer, chief technol­ogy officer. 
"It's like the old-fashioned party line that telephones used to be connected to -the more people on the line, the worse the connec­tion becomes," Latimer said. 

However, he said OIT ultimately recommends using the connection that is appropriate to what you are trying to accomplish online. 
"If you're trying to download and play a two gigabyte movie, then you should be using the wired connection for the best results," Latimer said. "But ifyou're watch­ing TV with your friends and IM­ing or checking your e-mail at the same time, the wireless connection is what is best for you." 
For students on the run, the higher navigation speeds may be the dealbreaker. 
"I usually get on the Internet before class and I try to use the 
see WIRELESS/page 4 
Wednesday, February 13, 2008

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Save the good ol' Frosh-0 
I don't know about you, but I loved Frosh-0. 
Who wouldn't love that wonderful weekend where freshmen are foreed to endure 72 hours of solid awkwardness and where all manner of 
Griffin Dassattl 
comfortable 
conversation 
goes to die? Sports l11re Editor 
I had to sit 
in the seoreh­
ing hot basement of Pangborn eating stale 
pancakes and making painful small talk 
with God-only-knows how many girls I'd 
never remember. I had to erack an egg on 
my head as part of some perverted ver­
sion of Duek-Duek Goose. On the plus side, 
I got to run into Domer Fest drenched in 
sweat and wearing the coolest-looking 
orange beanie ever. (Can you say duck 
magnet?) 
I've heard a rumor that whoever's in 
ehargn of this ineredibly important (albeit 
uncomfortable) staple of a freshman's 
year want<; to make some ehanges. Now, if 
these changes induded requiring every­
one to wear a name tag induding their 
name, hometown, and intended major, I'd 
be all for them. These proposed adjust­
ment.:;, however, are much more drastic 
(not to mention much less convenient). 
The first proposal I've heard is that RAs should be in charge of Frosh-0. According to these rumors, there would still be a Frosh-0 staff of sophomores and they would still organize interhall event'i-but these event.:; would be attended and run byRA<>. 
A'i a result, the number of sophomores on eaeh dorm's Frosh-0 stall"would likely be cut in half. I have no real evidence to prove this. It's just that I'm a freshman this year and I want the opportunity to do to next year's rookies thn same things that were donn to me. People tell me I have anger management issues. 
The second rumor I heard wa'i the one that really annoyed me. Apparently, the people in ehargn of Frosh-0 think it's a good idna to eut the amount of time allot­ted for event<> in half so freshmen can spend morn time with thnir parent'> while they're on campus. 
As my li11low Observer stall"er Katie Peralta said in a moment of sophomore wisdom, "Baby bird's gotta fly." Does any more really need to be said? Considering I still haw~ about a hundred words of space to fill. yes, more does need to be said. 
Don't worry, reader, it'll all be over soon. 
My major problem with thi'> proposal is that freshmen have had 18 years to spend time with their parents, not to mention an entire summer to prepare for their move to college. Frosh-0 is a time when fresh­men need to learn a little self-sufficiency, and the key to this i'> to maximize their time away from their parent<>. 
It's not about meeting fellow Domers from around campus (because honestly, who remembers more than a handful of people they met during Frosh-0?). It's about being able to walk into dasses a few days later, and not just sitting there, awk­wardly staring at your perfectly arranged set of pendls, but turning to the person next to you and introducing yourself. 
So if the powers-that-be really want to weleome freshmen to Notre Dame, they should do it in the most painful and awk­ward way possible. 
The views expressed in the Inside C"olumn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regard~ itselfas a professional publication and strives l(>r the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr tiS at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH CANDIDATE -0BAMA OR CLINTON -HAS THE BEST CARD TO PLAY? 



Amanda Spiegelberg 
freshman Walsh 
"Obama because no one's sure if Clinton is really a woman." 


Katie Dorociak 
freshman 
Pangborn 
"Bob and Grant because their posters are everywhere." 
Caitlin Lambert  Paul Porto  
junior Pasquerilla East  junior Knott  

George Kiamos 
sophomore Keough 
"Hillary. There is something about she-males that gets to people." 
Jacqueline Collins 
senior Pasquerilla East 
"Why does it have to be about cards? Why can't it be about chess or backgammon?" 

"Obama  "Hillary  
because  because Caitlin  
Hillary is a  is a witch."  
witch."  

IN BRIEF 
As part of Ethics Week, Richard "Digger" Phelps will present a lecture entitled "Community Service: An Ethical Imperative" today at 
12:30 p.m. at the Mendoza College of Business. 
Women's basketball will play Marquette tonight in the Joyce Center at 7. 
Women's tennis will play Ohio State Thursday at 3:30 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Admission is free. 
The film "9 Star hotel" will be playing at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday at 7 p.m. as part of the "Immigration: A Notre Dame Perspective" film series. 
There will be Stations of the Cross Friday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The Kellogg Institute for International Studies is host­ing a lecture entitled "Unsettling Accounts: Neither Truth nor Reconciliation in Confessions of State Violence" Thursday at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is hosting its annual Black Coffeehouse Friday at 7 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets cost $6. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play against Canisius Friday at 5 p.m. in the Loftus Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obseruer, e-mail detailed information about an euent to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0 

HIGH 26 HIGH 28 LOW 23 LOW 21 

BRITI BURGESON!The Observer 
A packed student audience awaits the arrival of singer Ben Lee at Legends Saturday night_ 
OFFBEAT 
Man charged In staged sympathy shooting 
DOTHAN, Ala. -A Hartford man has been charged with two misde­meanors for allegedly stag­ing his own shooting, which put him in the hospital, to get sympathy from family members. 
Charles Gregory Hatcher was indicted by a Geneva County grand jury on charges of obstruction of justice and giving false information to law enforce­ment officers, both Class A misdemeanors. He turned himself into the Geneva County Jail last week and 

was released on $1,500 bond. 
Police found Hatcher in a cotton field with a bullet wound on his back and another on the back of his leg on Dee. 3. He spent sev­eral days in the hospital. 
Hartford Police chose not to prosecute the case, but the grand jury indieted him anyway, Geneva County District Attorney Kirke Adams said. 
Meth deposited In ATM, woman jailed 
BREMERTON. Wash. ­Credit unions accept deposits -just not of methamphetamine. A woman who allegedly dropped an envelope con­taining money and a bag of meth at a Kitsap Credit Union was arrested and charged with drug posses­sion, according to court documents. 
A bank employee report­ed the deposit to police, who eontaeted the 18-year­old customer. Officers said she might have mistakenly included the bag when she got money out of her pock­et for the deposit. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
0::: 
L&.l 
:::z::: 
~ 
L&.l 

3: 
....I 
<C 
(.) 
0 

...1 
TODAY 
HIGH 22 LOW 17 

TONIGHT 
HIGH 17 LOW 12 
THURSDAY  FRIDAY  
~~ ~3~~~~  ~t.S'fJ~ ~~  
HIGH LOW  34 19  HIGH LOW  22 10  
Atlanta 63 I 40 Boston 32 I 16 Chicago 21 I 18 Denver 46 I 22 Houston 63 I 59 Los Angeles 69149 Minneapolis 17 I 14 New York 40 I 22 Philadelphia 40 I 21 Phoenix 78 I 51 Seattle 47 I 41 St. Louis 31 I 24 Tampa 74 I 48 Washington 50 I 29 


Wednesday, February 13, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Senior class sponsors series 
Weekly events aimed at preparing students for life after college 
By LINDSAY SENA News Writer 
As seniors finish their final semester, they are forced to look toward the real. some­times intimidating world after college. 
To help ease the transition, the Senior Class Council is hosting "What's Next Wednesdays," a series of seminars co-sponsored by the Alumni Association, the Annual Fund, Career Center and Center for Social Concerns. 
The Senior Class Council hosts several senior-specific events throughout the year, senior class president Bridget Keating said. 
"We're hoping to celebrate our last year together and look ahead and prepare for lil'n beyond Notre Dame," she said. 
The sories, which will be held thn next four academic W1~dnesdays at 5 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom, will !'nature the following topics: "Staying Out of the Red: Personal Budgeting," "B1~yond the First Job: Dnvnloping a Career Plan," "Heal Estate in the Real World: Finding Your First Place" and "Turning Paychncks into Nest Eggs: Investing for the Long­term." 

The Senior Class Council in a few months." and the Career Center have The seminars, whose collaborated in the past to themes were discussed and host senior transition semi­agreed upon by each of the nars, Keating said. At the sponsoring organizations, start of the 2007 academic will feature guest speakers year, however, they decided ranging from Notre Dame to collaborate with the professors to local experts, Alumni Association, Annual Keating said. Fund and Center for Social The upcoming seminar on Concerns. personal budgeting will be 
"We saw an alignment of relatively "hands on," interests Keating said. among "It will defi­our co­"We're hoping to celebrate nitely be an 
-open,
s p o n our last year together and casual 
so r s , " forum with the
look ahead and prepare
Keating speaker pre­said. "so for .life beyond Notre senting his or w e her material
Dame." 
looked to and then plen­expand ty of room for this pro­Bridget Keating questions and gram for senior class president answers." 
seniors a n d bring as many resources to the table as possible." 
To determine which topics are most pressing to seniors, the Senior Class Council "sent out a survey in the fall semester to gauge interest in various events to see what we could offer to seniors to make our last year the best possible," Keating said. 
"When we suggested sen­ior transition seminars, these topics generated great interest and students really wanted to hear about real world issues they'll be facing 
Food and 

prizes will be offered at each of the four seminars. Students will be entered in a lottery for a pair of tickets to the first home football game of the 2008 season for each semi­nar they attend. 
"We're excited about the collaboration and serving the senior class," Keating said. Although the topics are geared toward seniors, they are open to all stu­dents. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Leaders discuss DSLC schedule, 'Monologues' 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
Abigail Hinchy, president of the Student Diversity Board, reminded the Board of Governance during its meeting Tuesday that the Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC) will begin today and run through Friday. 
Gwendolyn Dungy, executive director of the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators (NASPA), will deliv­er the keynote address at 7 tonight in the Student Center Lounge. The president emeritus of Spelman College, Johnetta Cole, will deliver the conference's closing remarks at 12:30 p.m. Friday, Hinchy said. 
Renee Woodward, the Women's Issues commissioner, said that "SMC Monologues" will be held this Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium. 
"There will a lot of new people and old favorites," Woodward said. 
Long sleeve T-shirts with the "Monologues" logo will be sold after the performances. 
The First Year class board is also selling T-shirts at the Student Center that say "Class is something more than you attend" across the back. There are several colors to choose from, and the shirts are selling for $10 each. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu ifinterested. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------··----­
page 4 Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Baseball 
continued from page 1 
won three consecutive World Series from 1998-2000, there were six different champions over the next six seasons. Boston's win l<L<>t season marked the liThi time a team won a second title in the 21st century, but Selig noted the other teams playing in the 2007 posl'il~w;on to try to show compet­itive balance in the sport. 
Excluding the Red Sox, the three other teams playing in the two league championship series were in the bottom third or the league in terms of revenue. ClevP.!and ranked 23rd at $61 mil­lion, Colorado was 25th at $54 million and Arizona was 26th at $52 million. 
Selig said competitive balance like thi'i has given more fans than ever "how~ and faith" that their team has a legitimate shot at making a post'ilmson run. 
"I've bmm studying the divi'iion races, and I rt~a.lly like what I see," Selig said. "I think every race is going to have multiph~ teams that are going to look at themselves and say, 'I ley, I've got a chance to win.'" 
Sdig also addm;snd tim ways in which M;~jor League B<L'ieball ha'i addrt~ssed thP ).,trowing problem of performance-enhancing sub­stanens over tlw liL'>t fi.lw years. 
Al'tnr an initial Congressional hearing in Mareh 2005, Selig asked former Sen. George Mitchell to conduct a thorough, mmprehensiw investigation into the use of perf(JmHulce-enh<mdng substances in the sport. The result, the 409-page Mitchell Hnport, gave biL'iPball what Snlig <"<LllPd "a road map fi1r tho futurn" in how the steroids era began and how steroids WPm distributed throughout Major League 
Ba'>l~hall. 
Selig said he is proud of the msull'> of tl1e Mitchell Heport ;md would "do it again tomorrow" in ordnr to prove that b<L'inball h<L'> nothing to hide. 
Thn mmmissiorwr <Llso said hn thinks the report and the impln­mentation of many of Mitchell's rncomnwndations am a way to show fans that ba<ieball is doing everything in il<; pownr to dmm up t.lw sport. 
"Our fans n~alize we've done sonwtlting about this. We have tlw touglwst steroid program in sports, w1~'vp banned ampheta­minPs," lw said. "We're funding a study fi1r a human growth hor­monP tPst with at UCI A witl1 Dr. IDoni Catlin with the National Football LPague. And people for­got that our minor league pro-

Wireless 
continued from page 1 
Ethm·rwt eonneetion in my room bneausP it seems to be la'iter and morn rnliable." sophomore Jim llealy said. 
But fi1r student<; who enjoy the mobility that the wireless con­nection gives tlwm, tho Ethnrnnt option is too constraining. 
''I'm not even surn when I usu­ally go on the Internet -I just dwck my e-mail whenever I sit down at my desk. And I just use the win1less network, because it's more convenient than dealing with the Ethernet eorrl," sopho­morn .Inn Valencia said. 
Sophomore Eilmm Walsh said slw uses the wimlnss eonneetion simply bneausn of' the way her f'urniturP is arrangnd. 
"Hight now my desk isn't near the Ethernet outlot so I usn thn wir!'h~ss network but last yPar I usl'(l my EtlwrnPt eonneetion all of t.lw time," Walsh said. 
gram is in its eighth year." 
One of the most important facets of Major League Baseball's steroids policy, Selig said, is the increasing independence and transparency of the testing. 
Currently, Major League Baseball uses Bryan Smith, a doc­tor employed by the MLB, as its primary doctor for steroids test, instead of turning to an outside, third party as Mitchell recom­mended in hi<> report. Selig said he is committed to Smith, but wants to increa'le his independence. 
"The things we're doing, we're trying to increase the independ­ence and I want to increase trans­parency.... I think we can have a third party and I think he can be independent, but [Smith] under­stands our sport and he under­stands our nuances," Selig said. "People compare our sport to the Olympics in temlS of penalties and it's just not fair because we play every year." 
Selig said baseball is using the best available science to combat steroids use, including the Olympic labs in UCLA and Montreal. 
The commissioner also responded to former Atlanta Braves piteher John Rocker's alle­gations that he knew Roeker was on steroids in 2000. Selig called Hocker's daims "inaccurate" and said there was no way he could have known Boeker was on steroids since there W<L'> no drug poliey in :woo and Hocker's tesl'> would have been protected by doctor-patient confidentiality. 
After a winter of steroids inves­tigations ;md Congressional hear­ings (fi1rmer New York Yankees pitcher Hoger Clemens i<> slated to testify today), Selig said the focus this week should be on the return of baseball itself. Pitehers and eatehers report this week in Arizona ;md Florida for the begin­ning of Spring Training. 
"My best days are the ones where I can concentrate on ba'le­ball," Selig said. 
The former owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, Selig was eleetnd acting commissioner in 1994 bnlbre being named to the position pennanently in 2000. 
Notre Dame baseball coach Dave Schrage and former Notre Dame shorl<>top Greg Lopez also spoke at tim event. 
Notre Dame baseball's home opener will be March 17 against Central Michigan. Schrage said Tuesday that he wanl<; to make this date a m1w tradition for the tmtm, <md the Irish will continue to open on St. Patrick's Day for at least tlw next tl1rec smL'ions. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
According to ore student com­puter usage peaks between the hours of' 5 P.M. and 3 A.M. each day. During that time, thorn is an average of' 1,400 simultaneous Ethernet connections and 3,400 simultaneous wireless eonnec­tions. 
"I usually use the Internet in the early evening -I'll eheek my mail before and after dinner," Walsh said. 
While orr·s system registers every connection -Ethernet or wirnless -it dons not distin1-,'Uish between users who use both thn wired and the wireless connec­tions, so it is possible fbr a user to be counted twice, Latimer said. 
The average network through­put on the HesNet wired network is 300 megabytes per second while the Nomad win~less net­work rate is only 150, so the wired connection will be signifi­cantly fa<;ter if you are download­ing a largP file, he said. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcdell@nd.edu 


DSLC 
continued from page 1 
(NASPA) since 1995 and has more than 30 years of experience in high­er education. 
Johnnetta Cole, president emeri­tus of both Spelman and Bennett CJ:Jllege for Women -the only two all-black historical colleges for women in the country -will deliv­er the dosing keynote address. She will deliver her lecture -titled "Are Diversity and Inclusion on Your Agenda?"-at 12:30 p.m. Friday in the little Theater. 
The speakers were chosen largely by the input or the students, Lopez said. 
"The DSLC committee wanted to know about students' concerns and bring topics to the conference that they felt needed to be addressed," she said. "So the speakers were cho­sen based on their expertise on a specific area, but most importantly, we wanted speakers that can fit the mission of the conference and con­tinue to contribute to social justice." 
Lopez expects a large turnout, thanks to advertising and pre-regis­tration options. 
"Our committee in general has done an amazing job of getting the word out, not only to Saint Mary's, but other campuses arow1d the area as well," she said. "1 think that because this is the third annual DSLC, a lot more people are fiuniliar with it and know that it is a very professional event." 
Lopez hopes this year will be as successfUl as the first two, and she wwts it to show the Saint Mary's community the daily importance of diversity. 
"We live in a world that i<> so inter­connected and part of our job is to figure our how to navigate it and be appreciative of what it is," she said. "As a Saint Mary's student I would hope that my school would be able to give me tim necessary tooL<> to do tlmt, and the DSLC will do iliat." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Politics 
continued from page 1 
Political Communication in Electing a President," Schmuhl's lecture focused on the role of ethics in campaign-· ing and picking a candidate. 
While it's expected 
"We the people have the power of holding the candi­date accountable," he said. 
Schumhl then recommend­ed several Web sites to help voters do that. One of those Web sites, FaetCheeker.com, can be found on the Washington Post home page. FactChecker evaluates differ­ent statements from politi­

that some "Today, a countless cians and uses 
candidates a "Pinocchio"
array ofoutlets in
will play rating system 
dirty, the print, online and in which ana­
constant broadcast creates this lysts rate the scrutiny of veracity of
24/7 environment."
the Internet claims on a and the seale of one to m e d i a Robert Schmuhl t h r e e 
shines a American Studies professor Pinocchios. 
spotlight on the ethical -or unethical-behaviors or key players, Schmuhl said. 
"Today, a countless array of outlets in print, online and broadcast creates this 24/7 environment," he said. 
The constant stream of information can both help and hinder voters' decision mak­ing. Quiek access to informa­tion is a plus, but separating truth from opinion ean be dif­ficult for many people, he said. 
"To a certain degree and somewhat paradoxically, it is easier to know more about a candidate and a campaign, but it is more challenging to acquire the necessary knowl­edge to judge the candidate," Sehumhl said. "Every candi­date has a Web site where one can find more than you would ever want to know, but much of this, what we now label 'spin,' is information with a bias or slant." 
Schumhl said voters have an obligation to sift through biased information and make an informed voting decision "before conferring the power of the presidency on some­one." 
The system, 
which gives slightly erroneous claims a single Pinocchio and signifi­cantly erroneous ones three, can help voters learn more about the ethical behaviors of certain candidates. 
"In pursuing the truth, you as a voter learn lwhich candi­dates I are conducting them­selves ethically," Schumhl said. 
And while the excessive media coverage of political figures can be confusing, Schmuhl said it is still an advantage for the public. 
"There is so much coverage of one kind or another," he said, "that now there is a sense that whatever a politi­cal figure says becomes [fair game for scrutinyI." 
So it's up to the general public to scrutinize. 
"Voters have the political and moral duty to investigate candidates and their aims,'' he said. 
The Center for Ethics and Culture sponsored Schmuhl's lecture as part of Ethics Week. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 





Lafayette Square Townhomes 

424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 

These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 

(574) 234-2436 

To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistani groups may form coalition 
ISLAMABAD -Leaders of Pakistan's two main opposition parties said Tuesday they would form a coalition government if-as expected -their groups win the biggest share of votes in next week's parliamentary elec­tions. 
The hour-long meeting of Benazir Bhutto's widowml husband, Asil' Ali Zardari, and for­mer Prime Ministnr Nawaz Sharif eame one day after a survey by a U.S. government-fund­ed organization predieted the opposition would seore a landslide vietory in the Feb. 18 ballot. 
Zardari told reporters his Pakistan People's Party would invite Sharif's Pakistan Muslim Lnague-N as well as "other democratic forces" to join a govprning coalition even if Bhutto's group won enough legislative seats to rule on its own. 
Peace talks give hope to Kenyans 
NAIHOBI -Peace talks to end postelec­tion bloodshed in Kenya moved to a s!'lcrp,t loeation Tuesday for a final push. Nngotiators said the opposition has pro­posed sharing power with the government for two yBars and then holding new elec­tions. 
Progress at the talks has given a sense of hope to many Kenyans, who have seen more than 1,000 people die and some 600,000 nee their homes in violence that followfld the Dec.. 27 election. Much of the upheaval has pitted ethnic groups linked to politicians against one another. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Astronaut recovers for spacewalk 
CAPE CANAVERAL -The German astronaut who was too siek to perform a spacewalk refused to say what ailed him, but insisted he's feeling great -albdt a little anxious -for Wednesday's outing. 
llans Schlflgel will float oul<>ide the linked space shuttle Atlantis and international space station two days after sitting out the flight's first space­walk, which involved installing Europe's new Columbus sdenr.e lab. 
Schlegel said he backed NASA's decision to pull him off the first spacewalk because of his illness and delay Columbus' hookup by a day, even though it was a bitter pill. 
"Nobody could have been happier than me when we finished [Monday's spacewalk] with the major objectives all done," he said in a series of broadcast interviews Tuesday. "So that's all I want to say because medical issues are private." 
Schlegel, 56, pointed out that he helped coordi­nate Monday's spacewalk from inside. 
Junior high boy shot, wounded 
OXNARD, Calif. -A 15-year-old boy was shot and wounded in a junior high school computer lab Tuesday and another eighth­grader was taken into custody, authorities said. 
Worried parents gathered outside the 1,150­student E.O. Green Junior High School, which was locked down. Students were released classroom by classroom. 
The wounded boy had improved since arriv­ing at St. John's Regional Medical Center in extremely serious condition, police spokesman David Keith said. "We are guardedly opti­mistic he will make a recovery," he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bill calls on Hoosiers to save water 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana House over­whelmingly approved a Senate bill Tuesday that calls on Indiana to join a regional compact intend­ed to prevent water-hungry states from tapping into the Great Lakes' waters. 
The bill, which was approved on a vote of 91-8 with no amendments, now goes to Gov. Mitch Daniels, who has 10 days to sign the legislation. 
Erin Crofton, a resource specialist with the Miehigan City-based Save the Dunes Council, said the bill's passage is a "great accomplishment for Indiana." 
"We are neck to neck right now with New York to get the Compact adopted. Indiana could be the first state to pass both the legislation and imple­menting language together," she said. 

Obama, McCain sweep Potomac 
Clinton falls behind for the first time after losing D.C., Maryland, Virginia primaries 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Barack Obama powered past Hillary Hodham Clinton in the race for Democratic convention delegates Tuesday on a night of triumph sweetened with outsized primary victories in Maryland, Virginia and the Distriet of Columbia. 
"Tonight we're on our way," Obama told cheering supporters in Madison, Wis. "But we know how much further we have to go," he added. celebrating eight straight victories over Clinton, the former first lady now struggling in a race she once commanded. 
The A<>sodated Press count of delegates showed Obama with 1,21 0. Clinton had 1 , 188, falling behind for the first time since the campaign began. Neither was close to the 2,025 needed to win the nomination. 
His victories were by large margins -he was gaining about 75 percent of the vote in the nation's capital and nearly two-thirds in Virginia. In Maryland, he was winning dose to 60 percent. 
By contrast, Clinton was attempting to retool her campaign in the midst of a losing streak. Her deputy campaign manager resigned, the second high-level depar­ture in as many days. are a greater threat to our In all, there were 168 Huckabee, an ordained 
Campaigning in Texas, security than the malevolent Democratic delegates at Baptist minister. where she hopes to triumph intentions of an enemy that stake Tuesday. Virginia voters could vote on March 4, she said she despises us and our ideals." Obama moved past Clinton in either primary in their was looking ahead, not back. Interviews with voters in the delegate chase on the state. In a twist, Huckabee 
''I'm tested, I'm ready. Now leaving the polls showed basis of the day's primaries was running slightly ahead let's make it happen," she Obama narrowly defeated and newly released results of McCain among independ­said. Clinton among white voters from last Saturday's ents, who cast about a fifth 
Republican front-runner in VIrginia, 52 percent to 4 7 Washington caucuses. of the Republican votes John McCain won all three percent, the first time he has Additional delegates still to there. GOP primaries, adding to his done that in a Southern state be allocated from his new There were 113 delegates insurmountable lead in dele­and only the fourth time he victories were certain to add at stake in the three GOP gates for the Republican has done so in a competitive to his lead. races. nomination. He congratulat­primary this year. Clinton McCain's victory in Vrrginia The AP count showed ed Mike Huckabee, his sole won the white vote by 10 was a relatively close one, McCain with 789 delegates. remaining major rival and a percentage points in the result of an outpouring of Former Massachusetts Gov. potential vice presidential Maryland. He won 90 per­religious conservatives who Mitt Romney, who dropped running mate, then turned cent of the black vote in backed Huckabee. out of the race last week, his focus on the Democrats. VIrginia and almost as much Four in 10 Republican vot­had 288. Huckabee had 241 
"We know where either of in Maryland. She won a ers said they were born and Texas Rep. Ron Paul had their candidates will lead majority of white women in again or evangelical 14. this country, and we dare not both states, though by less Christians -twice as many It takes 1,191 delegates to let them," he told supporters than she is accustomed to. as called themselves mem­clinch the Republican nomi­in Alexandria, Va. "They will He won among white men in bers of the religious right in nation, and McCain appears paint a picture of the world Virginia, and they split that 2000 -and nearly 70 per­to be on track to reach the in which America's mistakes vote in Maryland. cent of them supported target by late April. 

AUSTRALIA 

Parlia111ent apologizes to Aborigines 
these our fellow Australians," Rudd children under now abandoned assim­
Associated Press said in Parliament, reading from the ilation policies. CANBERRA -Aborigines organized motion. "We apologize for the laws and poli­breakfast barbecues in the Outback, Aborigines remain the country's cies of successive parliaments and giant TV screens went up in state cap­poorest and most disadvantaged governments that have inflicted pro­itals, and schools allowed students to group, and Rudel has made improving found grief, suffering and loss on watch the telecast of Australia's apol­their lives one of his government's top these our fellow Australians," the ogy Wednesday for policies that priorities. · apology motion says. degraded its indigenous people. As part of that campaign, "To the mothers and the fathers, the In a historic parliamentary vote that Aborigines were invited for the first brothers and the sisters, for the supporters said would open a new time to give a traditional welcome breaking up of families and communi­chapter in race relations, lawmakers Tuesday at the official opening of the ties, we say sorry. unanimously adopted Prime Minister Parliament session -symbolic recog­"And for the indignity and degrada­Kevin Rudel's motion to on behalf of all nition that the land on which the capi­tion thus inflicted on a proud people Australians. tal was built was taken from and a proud culture, we say sorry." "We apologize for the laws and poli­Aborigines without compensation. The apology ends years of divisive cies of successive parliaments and The apology is directed at tens of debate and a decade of refusals by the governments that have inflicted pro­thousands of Aborigines who were previous conservative government found grief, suffering and loss on forcibly taken from their families as that lost November's elections. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
Snow 
continued from page 1 
The assessments test whethnr roads are safely passabln and parking lots can bn adequately cleared, he said. 
Lyphout and Saint Mary's security director David Gariepy said conditions that have merited canceling elassns in the past include very heavy snowfall with high winds that may cause drifting. 
Any elass canceled due to weather conditions would be rescheduled at the discretion of individual professors, Lyphout said. 
Of the eight weather-relat­ed closures, five resulted in Glass cancellations. 
The last campus closure occurred in December 2000 during final exams week. According to Vice President Department, said that while snow-clearing technologies have improved over the years, most of the machinery has remained the same. 

"The !technologies] have just gotten more efficient ... and we have better pieces of machinery, but in the end a plow is a plow," Thistlethwaite said. "We've also introduced brooms and an environmentally safe liq­uid in the last 10 to 12 years." 
The liquid helps prevent ice from building up on the campus walkways. 
Other equipment used includes Bobcat machines with buckets, pick-up trucks with plows and small dump trucks with plows. 
Thistlethwaite said weath­er-related closures some­times depend on whether his crews can keep up with the snow and ice. 
"This winter has been real­ly unusual with torrential 
downpours 
of rain and 

nomic clout to force the gov­ernment to ensure safety for 
U.N. peacekeepers. 
China buys two-thirds of Sudan's oil exports. In turn, China sells weapons to the Sudanese government and has defended Khartoum in the 
U.N. Security Council. 
"How can Beijing host th e Olympic Games at home and underwrite genocide?" said Farrow, a U.N. goodwill ambassador, shivering in freezing weather outside the Chinese Mission. "Time is running out for the people of Darfur." 
Another letter signed by 120 lawmakers also called on Hu to use his "significant influ­ence" to help with peacekeep­ing and humanitarian efforts. 

Olympic speedskating gold medalist Joey Cheek, who co­founded the Team Darfur ath­letes coalition, joined activists in Washington. Rallies also were scheduled for Los Angeles, San Francisco, Houston and Chicago and for 10 other countries, including France, Germany and Egypt. 
Farrow and several humani­tarian groups had been criti­cal of Spielberg for continuing to work on the games, even as the Sudanese military said it bombed three towns in West Darfur last week. 
Spielberg, who sent a letter to H u in April urging China to take a stronger stance against Sudan, still hopes to attend the Olympics. But he said his conscience is pointing him toward spending his time and energy on the relief effort instead of the ceremonies. 
"The situation has never been more precarious," he said. "While China's represen­tatives have conveyed to me that they are working to end the terrible tragedy in Darfur, the grim realities of the suf­fering continue unabated." 
Several nations have put their athletes in a precarious position if they feel compelled to use the games as a plat­form for discussing Darfur. 
On Monday, the British Olympic Association acknowl­edged that its team agree­ment appeared to go beyond rules laid out by the International Olympic Committee barring any "demonstration or political, religious or racial propagan­da" at an Olympic venue or area. 
The U.S. Olympic Committee plans to ask American ath­letes to comply with IOC rules, but won't impose additional measures. 

of News and "This winter has been big spikes Information in temper­
really unusual with 
Dennis atures," 
Brown, exams torrential downpours of he said. 
were resched­rain and big spikes in "We get uled during rains, and
temperatures. , 
the evenings then the of the three tempera­remaining Bill Thlstlethwaite ture will exam days. superintendant fall and 
Since Saint ice every­
Landscaping Services 
Mary's is a residential campus, snow days are rare, Gariepy said. He could not say how many snow days have occurred in the College's history, but remem­bered only one in the past 17 years. 
"Most students are resi­dents on campus, so for the most part students are here," he said. "The decision basically comes down to watching weather conditions and road conditions as well as recommendations made ~y l~cal government enti­ties. 
In contrast, Indiana University-South Bend has cancelled classes three times this semester due to weather conditions, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
Gariepy also said that if roads in the College's vicinity remain open, Saint Mary's usually bases its decisions on whether Notre Dame decides to close. 
If the University were to eancel class, Lyphout said, the decision would be a col­laboration between him, Provost Tom Burish and Executive Vice President .John Affleck-Graves. 
The campuses would be notified about canceled classes and closures through e-mails and voicemails, Lyphout and Gariepy said. 
University snow-clearing operations are crucial in keeping campus roads and walkways open. 
Bill Thistlethwaite, super­intendent of Notre Dame's Landscape Services thing up at 

n i g h t which has made it really dif­ficult." 
Thistlethwaite said more employees have worked this winter in order to keep up with the weather conditions. 
"The way we run our crews has changed a lot to make [plowing] more effi­cient," he said. 
It takes about 23 people from the University's Landscape Services crew to clear snowy paths each night, including four people on the night shift and three people on the early morning shift. 
Thistlethwaite said the walks and campus roads are first priority for clearing snow, followed by faculty, staff and commuting-student parking lots. Other student lots are the Landscape Services' last priority. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 



Director quits Olympic project 
Stars urge Chinese gov't to take responsibility in Sudan conflict 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Film director 
Steven Spielberg and actress 
Mia Farrow joined activists 
worldwide Tuesday in using 
the Olympics as a backdrop to 
address human rights con­
cerns, urging Beijing to exert 
political leverage on Sudan's 
government to help end the 
crisis in Darfur. 
Spielberg announced he would no longer act as an artistic adviser for the open­ing and closing ceremonies, saying he could not reconcile working on the Olympics while China and other nations were n.ot doing enough to ease the suffering. 
"Sudan's government bears the bulk of the responsibility for these ongoing crimes but the international community, and particularly China, should be doing more," Spielberg said in a statement. "China's economic, military and diplo­matic ties to the government of Sudan continue to provide it with the opportunity and obligation to press for change." 
Farrow joined former Olympic swimmers Shannon Shakespeare and Nikki Dryden in delivering an open letter addressed to Chinese President Hu Jintao at the Chinese Mission to the United Nations, condemning Beijing's support of the Sudanese gov­ernment. 
The letter was part of a "Global Day of Action" that focused on Darfur, where more than 200,000 have died and an estimated 2.5 million have been displaced since 2003. 
"We are all aware of the tremendous potential for China to help bring an end to the conflict in Darfur," said the letter, signed by Nobel Peace Prize laureates, celebri­ties and 13 former Olympians. 
Farrow suggested China use its influence to disarm the janjaweed, the government­backed Arab militia, demand the Khartoum regime halt bombings and ground attacks on civilians, and use its eco-

Prayer from Around the World 


Christian Taize Prayer 
10:00 pm, Wednesday, February 13 Walsh Hall Chapel 
Sponsors: Walsh Hall, Campus Ministry, FOG and ISSA 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


li£B!mg

Graduate Students 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies provides grants and fellowships for graduate students studying contemporary Europe. 
Research & Travel Grants up to $5,000 

Dissertation Fellowships up to $15,000 
APPliCATION DEADliNE: FEBRUARY 29, 2008 
For more information, call 631-5253 or visit www.nd.edu/-nanovic. 




----~--~----~--~~~--~~ 
I 
I 
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 



Dow 12,373.41 +133.40
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,119 73 1,237 4,046,646,243 

AMEX 2,245,19 ,;.1.42 NASDAQ 2,320.04 -0.02 NYSE 8,965.35 +97.07 S&P 500 1,348.86 +9.73 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,021.96''i,l""''"''"o:oo FTSE 100 (London) 5,910.00 +202.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.93 +1.24 134.99 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +2.75 +0.73 27.25 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.57 -0.25 43.82 CITIGROUP INC (C) +1.55 +0.40 26.21 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.69 +0.061 3.679 13-WEEK BILL +2.74 +0.060 2.250 30-YEAR BOND +1.34 +0.059 4.464 5-YEAR NOTE +2.41 +0.064 2.721 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.81 92.78 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -15.60 911.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.25 97.38 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 107.3800 EURO 0.6857 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0014 
IN BRIEF RIM investigates Blackeberry outage 
SAN JOSE -The company that makes the ubiquitous, addictive BlackBerry smart phones said Tuesday it was still looking into what caused the second widespread service disrup­tion in less than a year. 
Hesearch in Motion Ltd. said customers in the United States and Canada "experienced intermittent delays" for about three hours Monday beginning about 3:30 p.m. EST. RIM said no messages were lost, and voice and text messaging services were unaffected. 
"It is too early to determine root cause at this time, but RIM does have a team address­ing this issue in order to define the problem and prevent it in the future," the company said in a statement. 
The BlackBerry service, which lets users check e-mail and access other data, has become a _lifeline for many business executives and is increasingly popular among consumers with smart phones like the BlackBerry Pearl. 
Outages have been rare in the BlackBerry's nine-year history, but when they do hit, sub­scribers who have become addicted to the gadgets are quick to unleash their fury. 
Venezuela ends deal with Exxon 
CARACAS -Venezuela's state oil compa­ny said Tuesday that it has stopped selling crude to Exxon Mobil Corp. in response to the U.S .. oil company's drive to use the 
courts  to  seize  billions  of dollars  in  
Venezuelan assets.  
Exxon Mobil is locked in  a  dispute  over  

tho nationalization of its oil ventures in Venezuela that has led President Hugo Chavez to threaten to cut off all Venezuelan oil supplies to tho United States. Venezuela is currently tho United States' fourth largest oil supplier. 
Tuesday's announcement by state-run Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA, was limited to Exxon Mobil, which PDVSA ar.rused of "judicial-economic. harassment" for its efforts in U.S. and European courts. 
PDVSA said it "has paralyzed sales of crude to lixxon Mobil" and suspended com­nwrcial relations with the Irving, Texas­based company. 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

General Motors hits another bump 
Company ends year with record $38.7 billion loss, announces further buyouts 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -General Motors' new Chevrolet Malibu sedan is so popular dealers can barely keep it in stock. 
Even with boosted pro­duction, it will likely be April or May before demand is met. 
"I hope we're never there," Mark LaNeve, GM's sales and marketing chief, joked last week at the Chicago Auto Show. "Those are good prob­lems." 
But for every good prob­lem at the world's largest automakcr, there are a host of bad ones. GM is being pummeled by the economy, fierce competi­tion, government regula­tions and gas prices. Even as it enjoyed near-record sales in 2007, outpacing rival Toyota Motor Corp., it ended the year with a record $38.7 billion loss and announced further buyouts Tuesday to cut costs. 
GM wouldn't say how many of its 74,000 UAW­represented hourly U.S. workers it hopes to shed or how much it expects to spend on the buyouts. But 
General Motors, headquartered in Detroit, reported a $38.7 billion annual
under its new contract 


loss Tuesday. The company also announced buyouts.

with the UAW, it will be able to replace up to America in 2007. -after it reduces its work ers into GM's showrooms. 16,000 workers doing non­Henderson also said GM is force and labor costs, GM bucked the industry in assembly jobs with new expecting U.S. sales to transfers its retiree health January, posting a 3 per­employees who will be improve in the second half care costs to a new trust cent increase in sales paid half the old wage of of the year as pent-up run by the United Auto when every other major $28 per hour. demand begins to spill into Workers and ends a costly automaker was down. 
Chief Financial Officer the market. tie-up with Delphi Corp., Sales of its Cadillac CTS Fritz Henderson said the "We see more risks than its former parts supplier, rose 95 percent in buyouts would help GM's upsides in '08 for the U.S. which is expected to January. LaNeve said GM bottom line as early as this industry," Henderson said. emerge from bankruptcy is scrambling to meet fall, and the company is "But we're not conceding soon. demand for the new Buick confident that results will '08, because certainly on a "We need to get all the Enclave crossover. improve in 2008 despite global basis we think we structural costs down," Analysts were disap­sagging U.S. demand. can actually improve from Henderson said. "We need pointed with the fourth­
For one thing, nearly 60 '07." to step on the gas in terms quarter results, particular­percent of its sales come Still, Henderson said it of how we're performing ly in North America, and from overseas, and GM will likely be 2010 or 2011 in the market as well." shares in GM fell 52 cents, was profitable in every before GM sees "signifi-New products also are or 1.9 percent, to close at region outside North cant earnings increases" helping to bring more buy-$26.60. 




Foreclosures account for home sales 
yanking their properties off the gage more affordable.
Associated Press 
market, and this means the remain­The AP's foreelosure analysis com­

WASHINGTON -A growing share ing inventory is increasingly held by pared the annual rate of existing of home sales are from foreclosures, banks eager to unload foreclosed home sales in the third quarter of especially in states hardest hit by properties at fire-sale prices rather 2007 -the most recent quarter the housing bust. In some parts of than carry the costs on their books. available from the National California lately, nearly 50 percent Property values and locar tax rev­Association of Realtors -with fore­of home sales come from foreclosed enues are suffering as a result, con­closure sales data provided by houses. sumer advocates say, especially in HealtyTrac Inc: of Irvine, Calif. The 
The trend, which is putting addi­neighborhoods with lots of minority analysis found: tional downward pressure on home residents for whom lending stan­In Colorado, foreclosure sales prices, is most notable there and in dards were weakest. accounted for 15.6 percent of home Nevada, Colorado, Tennessee and "There is a real complacency, or sales in 2007, up from 10 percent in Michigan, but is also evident in an under-appreciation of how bad 2006. Ohio, Georgia, Florida and Arizona, this is," said Ramsey Su, an investor In California, the number jumped according to an Associated Press and former real estate broker in San to 11.3 percent from 3.7 percent. comparison of 2007 sales and fore­Diego who regularly eombs through In Tennessee, it rose to 10.6 pPr­closure data. In Nevada, for exam­the local sales database to asses the cent from 5.2 pPrcent, and in ple, 17.5 percent of home sales were impact of foreelosure sales. Michigan it climlwd to 9.3 percent from foreclosures, more than Reacting to such concerns, the from 4. 9 percent. quadruple the number in 2006. Bush Administration and lenders Nationwide, induding Washington, 
The growing proportion of foredo­including Bank of America Corp. D.C., foreelosure sales grew to 4.7 sure sales is both a symptom and and Citigroup Inc. unveiled a plan percent of existing home sales, up cause of worsening conditions in the Tuesday to give seriously delinquent from 3.3 percent in 2006. weakest housing markets, real borrowers a 30-day break from Comparable data were not available estate experts say. Homeowners foreclosure while lenders try to for South Dakota and NPw who aren't on a deadline to sell are work out a way to make the mort-llampshire. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

Economic stimu~us misguided 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 S0111h Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIH Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGIN<; EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NFWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT El>ITOll: Joey King 
SPOllTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris I line SCENE EUITOR: 'lite Andrews 
SAINT MAllY's EDITOll: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EnrroR: Madeline Nics 
AllVF.llTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
All Df.~IGN MANAGER: Kdly (;ronli 
CONTROll.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AllMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6)1-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(174) 631-6900 obmvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(174) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.\J-4541 obsmel!i>nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 6)1-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudenrs ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including adverrisemenrs. is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer reserves the right 10 refi.tsc advertisements based on conrent. 
'I 'he news is reported as accurately and objectively as possibl,·. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assista!H Managing Editors and depamnem cdiwrs. Commenrari<-s. lencrs and columns prt•senr the views of tlw <IUthors and not ncet-ssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit-wpoim space is available w all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lt•rters is encouraged. Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions rygarding Obsm;tr polici•s should be dirm•d to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·n~e ()h....-rvn (llSP" c;•)'J l--itMKI) 11 pubi,Ju:d Munrl;~.y rl1mu~h Frilllly cx~.:cpt rlun•q; ~·um .md v.k,";ttlun pcnuJs. A ..ul""-·flJtriuu 1u·111c Ub.rtvct 11 SJUIJ lor nne ac.ulcluH. 
yc;tr,$'l'llurunc'IC111t::~h'l 
!'he O~rvcr 1s puhh~hcd .u POSTMA>TER 024 SoHih lJmm~t tlall Send .acldrn' corr«rioru. to: None ll.tmc, IN 461S(~0779 ThcOh.ci"Vl:r Puiutlll~l pu•tJ~c p.ud ou Nunc DJmc 1~0. Box n9 .md .addltluruJ mJIIing oflico. 024 South Dining ~I all 
N(lttc O.mtc.IN il(t~S6-0n9 
11tt Ol~rvcr t• .t member olthc AU~.~<:IJ.II:d rn:s,, Allrepwduwon tiMim arc 
le.\tfVtt.! 

Last Thursday, Congress passed an "economic stimulus package" worth $167 billion. Under the plan, Americans earning between $3,000 and $75,000 would get $300 to $600 plus $300 per child. Those earn­ing between $75,000 and $150,000 would get a $1,200 rebate. The IHS will have the checks out by the end of' tho summer. Congress hopes that tho plan will ward otT the reces­sion elnarly emerg­ing, despite the Hepublican front­runner's state­ments that the American economy is fundamentally solid. 
Listening to the triumphant and self­congratulating tone of the major play­ers in both parties, one would think that Congress might have found a cure for cancer, or at least have done something useful for a change. "There were no winners or losers in this except the American people, who saw us rise above any differences we might have had and work to agree­ment on what is the No. 1 issue, and that is our slowing economy," said Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnelL Senate majority leader Harry Reid hailed the plan as an "example of how government is sup­posed to work." Unfortunately, this is an example' of how government does work. 
Neither party seems willing to talk about where this $167 billion rebate is going to come from. In 2007, the U.S. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
federal budget was approximately $2.8 trillion. However, the U.S. gov­ernment only collected $2.4 trillion. Total expenditures exceeded revenues by an incredible $400 billion. The U.S. government simply doesn't have the money to afford such a rebate, but Congress really just doesn't care. What's another $167 billion, anyways? 
Government doesn't produce any wealth of' its own. Nearly everything it gets, it takes from the private sector. It can only get wealth in three ways. First, it can forcefully take it from individuals in the form of a tax whether they like it or not. Second, it can inflate the eu'rrcncy, essentially printing money out of thin air, which leads to poor investment decisions, inflation and eventually a bust as the American public is now witnessing. Finally, it can borrow by selling bonds to investors. 
Usually when there is a deficit, the Treasury sells government bonds to investors. The Treasury uses this money to meet the shortfall between what it wants to spend (always too mueh) and what it collected in the form of taxes {also too much, but not enough to covnr expenditures). The 
U.S. government promises to pay interest on these bonds to the bond­holders over the life of the bond, final­ly paying back the face value of the bond at the maturity date. Last year, the U.S. government paid $243 billion just on the interest on its debt. 
Supporters of the stimulus bill hail it as a plan to partially remove the heavy burden of taxation off the back of the American taxpayer. The fact is that the bill merely shifts the burden rather than remove it. When a govern­ment reduces taxes without reducing spending, it leads to even larger deficits, more gov11rnment borrowing, increased future expenditure in the form of interest. on the debt and there­forfl saddling future generations with higher future taxes. 
Supporters also elaim it will stimu­late the eeonomy beeausn morn money in the pockets of taxpayers will lead to higher spending and thus, more jobs. This eomplntnly ignores what the bondholders would have done with their dollars had they not bought tho government bonds. The investors would have eitlwr invested in the Ameriean nconomy, saved the money in a bank which the bank could then loan out to others, or spent it, all of whieh anl good things. 
The most amusing part of this whole episodll is that both partins agree on the need for lower taxes in order to improve the Anwriean 1~conomy. Tlw largely bipartisan stimulus package is indend an admission taxns do act as a drag on the American economy, how­ever fiscally irresponsible it is. For onee, it seems that Congmss is cor­rect. But what is puzzling is that if taxes are bad for tho economy, then why should Congress wait until a r·ec11ssion hits to cut taxes? If lotting Americans keep what is rightfully theirs is a good thing, then why does­n't Congress make this a permanent policy? It's too bad that Congress lacks the eourage to cut both taxes and spending. 
Mark Poyar is a senior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL Marcela Berrios Chris Hine 

How long will the
Katie Peralta Lorenzo Reyes 

Notre Dame men's basketball home 
Emma Driscoll Grffin Dassatti 
r

Graphics Scene win streak last? Madeline Nies Tae Andrews Feb. 21, Pittsburgh Viewpoint Feb. 24, Syracuse John Dailey March 5, St. John's 
Intaet through season 
?~f./ 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"! know very well that one must fight, for one is often in contradic­. tion to the sp1rit of the age." 
Auguste Rodin sculptor 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Monologues' promote discussion 
Monday marked the 150th anniver­sary of the appearance of Our Lady to St. Bernadette at Lourdes. In honor of the occasion University President Emeritus Father Hesburgh delivered the homily for the Basilica's evening mass service. This beautiful sermon, which celebrated the miracles associ­ated with Notre Dame -particularly Father Sorin's naming a (then) mere log cabin the University of Our Lady, the university's rebuilding after a dev­astating fire, and the creation of the Golden Dome -served as the recon­ciling capstone to the controversies that have afflicted the University recently. 
I was deeply disturbed to hear that the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops had retreated from its origi­nal intention to hold its seminar on the Notre Dame campus because the timing of the event might look like support for Eve Ensler's "Monologues." I understand the Conference of Catholic Bishops' semi­nar is a private event and that those who objected to holding it at Notre Dame were not doing so to reflect adversely on the university, but a con­ference in February does not indicate endorsement of a production in March. Our Lady is loved and protect­ed by the Father and nothing that human beings do can stain her, as some have claimed on-campus per­formances of the Monologues would do. What can be stained are human institutions like universities -but not by a sincere search for the truth, wherever that search leads us. Notre Dame is a Catholic university. Love and pursuit of truth, as a Catholic institution and as a university, is its absolute mission and staging the "Monologues," in an appropriate aca­demic forum, is consistent with that mission. 
The "Monologues" is not in line with Catholic doctrine. They were not meant to be. They were written from a secular perspective to explore women's identities and to acknowl­edge women's value as whole persons. Personally, I think the way the various skits articulate women's value is most­ly (though not entirely) wrong and would be greatly enhanced by includ­ing Catholic perspectives (as Notre Dame's Loyal Sons and Daughters does). But this does not destroy the fact that the production attempts, 
Firearms solve problems 

In response to Andrea Laidman's article ("The unwell, unregulated militia," Feb. 11) Ms. Laidman writes that officials in Washington, D.C. worry about lifting the city's handgun ban and "respond that lifting the ban will only make violence worse." However, she does not stop to ask an even more obvious question: Is it possible that Washington's harsh and restrictive gun laws caused the high level of violence in the first place? 
The facts seem to indicate yes. England has much more restrictive laws than America and a higher rate of violent crime than the United States (in 1996, a 25 percent higher rate of robbery in England, as seen in the study "Crime and Justice in the United States and in England and Wales, 1981-1996" by U.S. Department of Justice.) One very plausible explanation for this is that criminals in places with accessible firearm laws are deterred from some crimes by the prospect of being injured by law-abiding citizens who keep and bear arms, while in places with harsh and unconstitutional firearm laws, criminals lack this fear. 
Laidman points to acts of violence involving firearms: killing police officers, children, and parents. This is not the sign of a firearm-initiated problem, this is a sign of grave and serious family and community problems. 
Finally, Laidman claims that precedent is on the side of those who wish to ban handguns. But this is incorrect, for hunting, target shoot­ing, and self-defense have been an American tradition (and precedent) since 1776. And the part of the Second Amendment that says "the right of the people to keep and bear arms" could not be more clear. Furthermore, even George Washington said that a"free people ... ought to be armed." 
Michael Baznik 
sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
Feb. 12 

however wrongly, to acknowledge women's experience. What remains is for Catholics to take this attempt in the right direction, not to discourage an open discussion of what the char­acters in each skit are trying to con­vey about women's experience of suf­fering, joy, pleasure -and the devas­tation that abused sexuality causes. Father Jenkins made the right deci­sion in balancing the demands of aca­demic freedom with those of Notre Dame's Catholic identity. His decision has been misrepresented by the national media and he has not received much support from those on either side of the controversy. 
Father Hesburgh's sermon crystal­lized for me why I had felt this to be a particularly pernicious injustice. Father Hesburgh spoke about the rev­erence that Father Sorin had for Our Lady -that it was his particular love for her that channeled his faith in God into the creation of this university. The miracles that Father Hesburgh mentioned are visible signs of Our Lady's intercession, but they are not the only miracles. The repentance of hardened sinners, the healing of bod­ies broken by illness or sin, and the redemption of humanity by Our Lord's suffering-these are miracles. And if faith is the belief in things not seen, then faith can find Christ in the expe­riences described in the "Monologues." The faculty discussion panels that Father Jenkins' policy requires to be part of any on-campus production of the "Monologues" are the academic response to Christ's directive, "Seek and ye shall find." Catholic faculty and students have a duty to participate in these panels and discussions actively and whole-heart­edly. We are at Notre Dame to find the 
Truth: let's seek it with courage and charity, trusting that God will not mis­lead us. Father Jenkins is continuing the faithful leadership of Father Sorin, Father Hesburgh (the first Notre Dame President to admit women to the uni­versity of Our Lady), and Catholic leaders who, trusting in God's good­ness, take on the burden of turning a mustard seed into a flourishing uni­versity. Good for Notre Dame. 
Sam Cahill English Ph.D. candidate offcampus Feh. 11 


'Monologues' help reclaim sexuality 
Christina Holmstrom ("Monologues encour­
age mistreatment of women," Feb. 11) raises 
an interesting point; she claims that dis­
cussing the Vagina Monologues as an issue 
of Academic Freedom is to "woefully miss 
the mark." In this, I believe Holmstrom to be 
correct. I would, however come to a vastly 
different conclusion regarding the fate of the 
"Monologues." "The Vagina Monologues" 
seeks to reclaim the sense of what it means 
to be a woman, to stop women from being 
ashamed of their sexuality and to raise 
awareness regarding violence perpetrated 
against women. 
These goals are perfectly in keeping with 
the Catholic Church's teaching on sex and 
sexuality. The Church does not speak of sex 
as evil or morally wrong provided it is exer­
cised in the right way. Rather, the Church 
teaches that "sexuality is a source of joy and 
pleasure" (Catechism, 2362). Do the mono­
logues present an inappropriate use of sexu­. ality? The answer may well be yes. 
The play may present acts that are not 
well ordered to good relationships with God 
and others. The general ethos of the 
Monologues is, however, edifying to those 
who attend the play, provided they under­
stand something about the feminist move­
ment and approach the play with a critical 
eye. 
Further, and this point is clear, "Monologues" 
raises important questions. How do we reclaim our sexuality? What is the correct way to express that sexuality? When sexual violence has been perpetrated against a woman (or a man) how do we heal? Our esteemed President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh once said: "The University is where the Church does its thinking." Our theology department is grounded in this philosophy; I would argue that it is not simply academic theologians who are to do the thinking of the Church. Rather we are all called to engage in this discussion. 
The presence of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus is not a question of academic freedom. It is, however, necessarily tied to our Catholic character. As the premier Catholic university in this country, it is our duty to perform these monologues. Where else, if not at Notre Dame can we have this discussion? Where else can the Church do this thinking? I urge Dean Roche, Fath-er Jenkins and you, the students, to join me in this dialogue: Approach the monologues with a critical eye and engage in the thinking of the Church. 
Meli Barber 
senior 
McGlinn Hall Feb. 12 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 

Fans look forward to writers'strikeresol 



fAVORITE SHOWS TO RETURN SOON 
I was OK until they took away "30 Hock." Then I finally realized how my older brother must have felt during the 1994 Major League Baseball strike. How was I going to survive a writers' strike 
Cassie Belek 
that had no end in sight? 
Scene & Heard
In the beginning, it wasn't that bad. With the exception of "The Oflice," most of my favorite shows still had a handful of episodes left to air. But with each passing week, I felt new episodes slipping away from me. Some of my favorite series even ran out of episodes before Christmas break. 
In desperation for new TV of any variety, I began counting down the days until "American Idol" and "Hock of Love 2." I became even more dependent on my favorite soap opera, "General Hospital." In the past, I would let a few episodes at a time accumulate on my DVR, but now I found myself more excit­ed than ever to check in on the residents of Port Charles every day. 
I turned to TV on DVD as well. Season 1 of "Felicity" and Season 2 of "The Wire" comforted me, as did my brother's "Family Guy" DVDs. I even started re-watching "Arrested Development" for the 20th time. 
I think most people can agree that it got easier when late night returned. How glorious was Conan O'Brien's flaming red strike beard? I think I could watch that man spin his wedding ring on his desk forever. Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert were back on the air also, and I think that Colbert proved once and for all that he is the funnier of the two Comedy Central stars. 
I must say, though, that the can­cellation of the Golden Globes nearly killed my soul. I'm always so sad when Christmas is over, but then I realize that it is award sea­son and I will soon be treated to red carpet fashion and the occa­sional inspired acceptance speech. I was given Billy Bush and Nancy O'Dell instead. 
But how exciting was the presi­dential race during this whole strike? Why go out with friends over Christmas break when the Iowa caucuses are on? Oh, you want me to go to a movie? Well, there's a Democratic debate that I don't want to miss. Going to Corby's for Mardi Gras? No, it's Super Duper Tuesday, fools! I will always remember this election year for saving my sanity when "llow I Met Your Mother" and "Gossip Girl" ran dry. 
Despite my many complaints about TV abandoning me, I have stood behind the writers. Did the WGA make some mistakes during the strike? Yes. Why spend so much time lashing out at Ellen DeGeneres and Jay Leno when you've got bigger fish to fry? However, the writers still deserved to get compensated for all their work. 
Unfortunately, it took a $2 billion hit to the L.A. economy for produc­ers to officially recognize the potential of new media. The Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation estimates that $1.3 billion of that loss was from busi­nesses outside of the studios ­caterers, florists, costume shops, restaurants and hotels that were secondary losers. It's time for the industry and its city to get back on their feet. 
And when production does start back up and my television viewing habits are back to normal, I can return to obsessing over "30 Rock" and crossing my fingers that "Friday Night Lights" doesn't get canceled. And, I can figure out whether I'm only watching "Eli Stone" because of the strike or because I actually enjoy it. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd. edu 
RETURN BRINGS NEW APPREC 
Finally, the writers' strike is com­
T

ing to an end. The weekly worship linof my television set will return. 
theOn Saturday morning, while e­

Telmails were zipping back and forth 

wribetween the 
the" 

east and west Stephanie 
resicoast guilds, I DePrez 
T was dancing 
toll<

around my Scene & Heard 
room, announcing to 
my roommates (asleep until that moment) that our favorite shows­
"House," "Grey's Anatomy" and "Gossip Girl"-will be returning. Tears glistened in my eyes as I read the words: "We'rn telling everyone to come in on Monday." Alii can say is that it's about time. I don't think I 
r.an take another re-run. 
The cause for celebration is not only that "The Olliee" is coming back, but also that the writers suc­cessfully brought about the change they were looking li1r. 
They will be compensated for their work being viewed on what is called "new media" (basieally the Internet). But even though llollywood is going back to work this week, it is the first time in months that TV shows will be in production, and this means that we may not get new shows for weeks. My biggest fear is that some shows will be discontinued for the season. 
These past few months throw into sharp reliefjust how much telflvi­sion is integrated into my life. Even though it may not be my sole reason for living-though that is still up for debate-not having a new "House" on Tuesday nights was painful. It was like having a friend go abroad. I knew the show would come back, but it was irksome to think that we wouldn't have any rapport for a while. 
My section would gather to watch "Gossip Girl" on Wednesday nights, but once it ran out of new episodes, our weekly gatherings stopped. Television in the dorm is a social Th thing for me, and thfl lack of new umn episodes meant that I saw less or the people I live with. 
I only realized what tfllevision 
I 


If a clip of a show or movie is on the Internet, and it's not part promotion, the writer gets com-
Writers will receive compensa­for shows that are shown online if they are being supported (like downloads of "House" 
the Fox website). 
to me after it disappeared while. The bombardment of TV that I have experienced is to make me swear off VH1. amusement of "I Love New 
just isn't that great when I t balance it out with the over­lming sap of "Grey's Anatomy." 1lly is a part of my life, a subtle g of entertainment that winds ay in and out of my life. Movies L one-two-punch, but television 
stream. awkward when I don't get to someone else's life. So 
thee, WGA, for bringing this a conclusion. May the Lord you with unpredictable plot and unexpected twists for 
years to come. 
views expressed in this col­those ofthe author and not --"'",.,·"'those ofThe Observer. Stephanie DePrez at sde­edu 
-----------------------------------. 
CENE page 11 

Valentine's Day brings petal power to campus 
"That is what it has been around in the ByTAEANDREWS past," she said. On Monday alone, Scene Editor Valentine's Day pre-orders amounted 
to $2,000 dollars, more than 20 times 
Irish Gardens general manager Ann the typical take on an average day. In Marie Szymanski says she enjoys preparation for the big day, Szymanski watching romance bloom on campus said the company ordered over 3,000 almost as much as she loves flowers. roses, 400 carnations, 350 Gerber "Every employee has a cute story from daisies and more than 400 other types Irish Gardens," she said. "It's kind of of flowers. the beauty of working there." Three flower arrangements have sep­
Tales from the shop, located in the arated themselves from the rest of the basement of LaFortune Student Center, field as Irish Gardens' most popular range from feel-good affairs to roman­bouquets. Szymanski describes "The tic comedy. Whole Twelve Yards" as "your classic 
One such story occurred one day dozen roses in any color you choose." when a graduate student walked into Petal purchasers can choose from red, Irish Gardens around closing time and orange, peach, white, hot pink, light purchased seven red roses. When pink, lavender, yellow and "fire and Szymanski inquired as to why he ice" as their colors. "The Girl Next bought seven, an unusual number in Door" features five large Gerber the floral industry, the man answered daisies in bright colors. "The Classic that he was giving the odd number of Romantic" bouquet includes a stargaz­flowers to his wife to commemorate his er lily, stock. roses and spray roses. baby daughter having slept through the "It's a very elegant bouquet," she said, night for the first time since she was while noting that "Romantic" is her born. The infant slept favorite arrangement. seven hours in a row. During her time at 
On another occasion, a "Most boys just know Irish Gardens, 
man entered the store 
that red roses Szymanski has noticed a 
and asked Szymanski, pattern among male "Which types of flowers demonstrate too customers. The stereo­say that you're sorry?" typical "nervous male,"
much commitment 
With her advice, the man as she calls him, will
and that they are
settled on five approach the cases of Casablanca lilies in a definitely looking for flowers inside Irish vase. Within the next half Gardens' shop in the
something more
hour the same man basement of the
tentative."

returned and began LaFortune Student plucking more flowers Center, stare at them for purchase. After Ann Marie Szymanski for a couple of minutes Szymanski asked him and then turn "with a
general manager

what had happened, the look of panic in [his]

Irish Gardens

man replied only, "I've eyes seeking help." made someone else "This is when our mad." employees swoop in 
Stories such as these, Szymanski with tons of suggestions," she said. said, have made her three-year career "Most boys just know that red roses at Irish Gardens worthwhile. demonstrate too much commitment 
As general manager, her responsibili­and that they are definitely looking for ties include overseeing the accounting something more tentative," she said. of the shop, ordering the necessary For this reason, the Irish Gardens staff supplies and flowers, designing and created a suggestion booklet offering a procuring advertisement and putting list of 11 pre-designed bouquets to together bouquets. Financial manager "remove a lot of the guesswork." Megan Julien and products manager For young men trying to "say it with Sarah Snyder round out the Irish flowers," Irish Gardens offers a pletho­Gardens management trio. "They are ra of flora with which potential suitors both a huge help to me," Szymanski can express themselves, including said. Julien and Snyder assist in Gerber daisies, yellow roses and accounting, ordering flowers and alstromeria. These flowers are tailor­designing bouquets. Like Szymanski, made for situations "where the boy Julien has worked at Irish Gardens for likes the girl but doesn't know exactly the past three years, while Snyder has how to show it," Szymanski said. worked for Irish Gardens for two years. Bouquet business figures to remain 
Szymanski said Irish Gardens nor­busy between today and tomorrow for mally pulls in around $100 a day. The the one-stop flower shop. student-run business anticipates a $6,000 take for the four weekdays Contact Tae Andrews at through Valentine's Day on Thursday. tandrew1@nd.edu 

.---------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 



Hummel's career night propels Purdue upset 
No. 9 Butler needs overtime to take down Wisonsin-Milwaukee; No. 22 Pittsburgh handles Providence with stifling defense 
Purdue forced 14 turnovers and 
Associated Press 
held Michigan State to 37 per­
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -cent shooting before the break. Hobbie Hummel scored a career­high 24 points and No. 19 Butler 83, Wisconsin­Purdue beat No. 10 Michigan Milwaukee 75 State 60-54 Tuesday night. Mike Green scored 10 of his 24 
llummel, a freshman, also points in overtime and had 13 grabbnd 11 n~bounds and made rebounds and eight assists 4 of 7 3-pointt~rs. despite spraining his right ankle 
1\'Twaun Moore scored 12 to help No. 9 Butler rally to beat points and Ktmton Grant addnd Wiseonsin-Milwaukee on 11 for Purdue. which won its Tuesday night. · 1Oth straight game to remain Butler (22-2, 11-2 Horizon alone in first place in the Big Leahrue) eame in with its highest Ten. The Boilermakers (20-5, ranking in school history in the 11-1 Big Tnn) have won at least midst of four games in eight 20 games fhr the second straight days. But the Bulldogs came out ynar. flat, trailing by as many as 12 in 
Freshman guard Kalin Lucas the first half and seven in the scored a earner-high 20 points second before Green took over for Michigan State, and Raymar as Butler took the lead from the Morgan scored all 12 of his start of overtime and didn't points in the second half for the relinquish it. Spartans (20-4, 8-3). Milwaukee (12-11, 7-6) squan­
Michigan State guard Drew dered its big lead after too many Neitzel, the ttmm 's second-lead­turnovers. but Ricky franklin, ing scorer, was held scoreless in who had missed his previous the first half and finished with four 3-point attempts, tied the six points. game at 67 with 0.8 seconds left 
It was Purdue's second the game when he made an oll'­straight win over a Top 25 team balanee shot with Green's hand -the Boilermakers won at in his faee. Wisconsin on Saturday. Purdue's That barely deterred Green, last loss was at Michigan State who took over in overtime with a on Jan. 8. pair of slashing, circus layups 

The Boilermakers took a 40-30 and six free throws as the lead early in the second half on a Bulldogs pulled away. Green fin­dunk by Marcus Green, but the ished 1 0-of-1 0 from the line. Green, meanwhile, left the opening 11 minutes of the sec­Friars trailed by only three, 42­Spartan:; responded with a 7-0 Green's senior backcourt mate, beneh and went into a concourse ond half, allowing the Panthers 39, in the opening minute of the run that cut their deficit to 40-37 A.J. Graves had an off-game to walk off the injury. to pull away for an victory first half. and foreed Purdue to call a time­scoring just 11 points on 2-for-When he returned, he again Tuesday night. But the Friars, despite getting out. 14 shooting. Pete Campbell and sparked the Bulldogs with a 7-0 Ronald Ramon, eoming off a 15 points from Marshon Brooks 
Purdue kept the lead through­Willie Veasley added 12 points run and grabbed his 11th game-winning 3-pointer at the and 14 from Xavier, suddenly out the second half, though each for the Bulldogs. rebound with 5. 3 seconds buzzer against West Virginia, hit lost their offense as Pitt went on Michigan State cut its deficit to Milwaukee's Mareus Skinner remaining after Deonte Roberts five 3-pointers while scoring 15 runs of 8-0 and 13-0 over the one point three times. had a career-high 25 points and missed a driving shot and points and physical freshman next nine-plus minutes to seize a 
Purdue led 56-52 in the final 10 rebounds and Allan Hanson Skinner couldn't get his hand on DeJuan Blair proved a ditlicult 63-41 lead. minute before Hummel made a added 18 points on 5 of 7 shoot­the loose ball. matehup inside for Providenee Blair's basket finished off the long 2-point jumper as the shot ing from 3-point range. Green hit both free throws with 15 points and seven 8-0 run that gave Pitt its first eloek wound down to make it Trailing by as many as seven before Franklin's desperation 3 rebounds. double-figure lead at 50-39. 58-52 with 42 seconds to play. in a stretch where Green was tied the game. Pitt (19-5, 7-4 Big East) alter­Ramon hit a 3-pointer and 
Neitzel missed a 3-pointer, and whistled for a technical for argu­The Bulldogs started 4-of-21 nated wins and losses over its Benjamin scored eonsecutive Grant made two free throws at ing with the officials, Butler from the field, and 1-of-12 from previous seven games before hoops on drives to the basket as thn other end to put the game came baek, taking a slim lead 3-point range after going 6 1/2 putting away the slumping Pitt took a 63-41 lead by scoring out of reach. before Green got hurt driving to minutes without a field goal. Friars (13-11, 4-8). who lost 21 of the first 25 points of the 
Purdue set the tone defensively the basket when he appeared to Milwaukee, playing in its first their sixth in seven games and half. by foreing two shot-doek viola­sprain his right ankle with just game in 10 days, hit its first six are winless in their last eight Keith Benjamin added 10 tions in the first 2 minutes of the under 5 minutes to play. shots and led by as many as 12. against the Panthers. The Friars points for Pitt, whieh took game. The Boilermakers went Playing with just four on Butler got back into it after lit­haven't beaten Pitt sinee advantage of frequent Friars on an 11-0 run and held defense while Green limped on tle-used sub freshman Zach January 2001 and haven't won defensive lapses for its highest­Miehigan State scoreless for the other end, Skinner's slam Hahn hit three 3s after failing to in Pittsburgh since December scoring game sinee beating more than 4 minutns to take a made gave Milwaukee a 61-58 seore in more than a month. 1998. Seton Hall 84-70 on Jan. 12. Pitt 20-10 lead. lead. Milwaukee led 64-58 after Providence, 1-7 on the road, was held to 69 points or fewer in 
Purdue closed the half on a Skinner eonverted a three-point Pittsburgh 82, Providence 63 stayed close for a half, leading six of its first 10 conferenee 12-2 run that included two 3-play, but Milwaukee couldn't Sam Young scored 22 points 28-27 late in the first half after games. Providence has allowed pointers and eight points by hold it as Butler scored the next and No. 22 Pittsburgh limited Jeff Xavier hit three 3-pointers an average of 75 points over its llummel to take a 34-18 lead. seven in a row. Providence to six points in the in the opening four minutes. The last seven games. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid._ 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students 
will love living here and parents will 
love knowing their child is looked 
after and safe I Secure, upstairs, 
two-level furnished two-bedroom. 
two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space -includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveil­lance cameras, pool, clubhouse. water and rubbish removal included as part of the ownership package. Only $180 per month exterior main­tenance lees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733­5166. 


WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT 
WORK flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 574­273-3835, www. workforstudents.com 

FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 
522 Napoleon Street: 1-2 students. Newer ktchn,bath.Bsmnt storage. Washer/dryer. 5 blks W off ND Avenue. $570/mo+utl(219)629-5483 Denise 
5 bedroom house just off Angela & 
31. Available now & for next year. 2 baths & laundry. 232-6964. 

For rent: Two story house ready for immediate occu­pancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house. Laundromat next door. basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car-extra. Call 289-4071. 
3-4-5 bdrm, 3 bath homes close to campus, safe. cathedral ceilings, fireplace, 2-car garage, 1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl. Avail. for Aug. 2008-09; also Aug. 2D09-10. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 or 574-340-1844. 
Excellent Condition Single Family Dwellings close to Campus. 905 E. Washington, 3 bedrooms-$725. 911 E. Washington, 3 bedrooms -$700. 112 N. Notre Dame, 4 bedrooms 2 bath -$850. Available Now. 57 4-250-9320. 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR TO 6 BR. CALL 574­234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 


PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hollins at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
Free to a good home: Boa Constrictor. Very affectionate bull got Reslifed. Call716-361-3224 
"It seems like yesterday But it was long ago Janey was lovely, she was the queen of my nights There in the darkness with the radio playing low And the secrets that we shared The mountains that we moved Caught like a wildfire out of control Till there was nothing left to burn and nothing left to prove 
And I remember what she said to me How she swore that it never would end I remember how she held me oh so tight Wish I didnt know now what I didnt know then 
Against the wind We were runnin against the wind We were young and strong, we were runnin Against the wind" 

r--~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



OUND THE NATION 


CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
AP Top 25 Women's Basketball Poll 
rank team record points 
1 Tennessee (45) 22-1 1,245 2 Connecticut (5) 22·1 1,174 3 North Carolina 22·2 1,154 4 Maryland 25·2 1,on 5 Rutgers 19-4 1,061 6 Stanford 22·3 1,019 7 LSU 20-3 946 8 Baylor 21-2 885 9 California 21·3 819 10 Oklahoma 17-4 804 11 West Virginia 19·3 736 12 Duke 18-6 689 13 Old Dominion 20·3 670 14 George Washington 19·4 572 15 Oklahoma State 19·3 537 16 NOTRE DAME 18·5 513 17 Kansas Stale 16·6 426 18 Pittsburgh 18-5 361 19 Utah 20·3 283 20 Texas A&M 17-6 252 21 Syracuse 18-4 205 22 Wyoming 19-3 188 23 Ohio Stale 18·6 172 24 UTEP 19·2 112 25 Vanderbilt 18-6 97 
USA Today/ESPN Top 25 Women's Basketball Poll 
rank team record points 
1 Tennesee(27) 22·1 769 2 Conncecticul (3) 22·1 734 3 North Carolina 22-2 707 4 Rutgers (1) 19·4 669 5 Maryland 25·2 662 6 Stanford 22·3 626 7 LSU 20•3 583 8 Baylor 21*2 567 9 California 21·3 518 
10 Oklahoma 17-4 498 11 West Virginia 19~3 475 12 Duke 18~6 411 13 George Washington 19-4 364 14 Old Dominion 20·3 359 15 Oklahoma State 19·3 331,r .. 16 NOTRE DAME 18·5 
283 . 17 Kansas State 16·6 248 18 Pittsburgh 18-5 223 19 Texas A&M 17-6 195 20 Utah 20·3 1M 21 Wyoming 19·3 126 22 Ohio Stale 18·6 114 
23 Syracuse 18-4 100 24 Georgia· 1N 93 25 Maris! 23-2 56 
MIAA Women's Basketball Conference Standings 
rank team conference overall 
1 Hope 12-0 20-0 2 Albion 10·3 17-4 3 Calvin 8·5 12·8 4 Adrian 6-6 8·12 5 Olivet 6-6 8·12 6 Alma 5·7 H1 7 SAINT MARY'S 5-8 9·12 8 Tri-State 3-10 6-15 9 Kalamazoo 1·11 4·16 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Maryland at Duke 7 p.m., ESPN 
St. John's at Cincinnati 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Kansas State at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Roger Clemens and his accuser, Brian McNamee, will be the main witnesses at a House hearing on the Mitchell Report after New York Yankees pitcher Andy Pettitte and two others were dropped Monday night. 
Former Clemens team­mate Chuck Knoblauch and convicted steroids distributor Kirk Radomski also were taken off the witness list for Wednesday's public session. One new witness was added Monday night: a lawyer who worked with former Senate 

majority leader George Mitchell to produce December's report on drugs in baseball. 
But all attention will be focused on Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, and McNamee, his former personal trainer, who alleged he injected the pitcher with perform­ance-enhancing drugs. 
"I guess it's showtime, isn't it?" Clemens' lead lawyer, Rusty Hardin, said in a telephone inter­view. 
Earl Ward, McNamee's lead lawyer, declined to comment on the changes. 
McNamee said in the Mitchell Report that he 
IN BRIEF 

Source says Vikin~s· Udeze diagnosed with leuliemia 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. -Minnesota Vikings defensive end Kenechi Udeze has a form ofleukemia, which is cancer of the blood and bone marrow, a per­son with the team confirmed Tuesday. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the information. The Vikings declined to comment, but they issued a statement from coach Brad Childress that didn't specifically address Udeze's condition. 
"We respect the privacy of Kenechi. The thoughts and prayers of the entire Minnesota Vikings organization are with Kenechi and his family," the state­ment read. 
Two Twin Cities television stations tlrst reported the news on Monday night. KSTP-TV, without citing a source, reported that the 24-year-old Udeze was undergoing tests to deter­mine the severity of the clisease. Ethan Lock, Udeze's agent, declined to com­ment. 
injected Clemens -who ranks eighth in major league history with 354 wins -with steroids and human growth hormone at least 16 times in 1998, 2000 and 2001. Clemens' denials of those allega­tions drew the attention of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
McNamee also accused Pettitte of using HGH -Pettitte acknowledged he did so for two days in 2002 to deal with an elbow injury. Before Pettitte spoke to commit­tee lawyers under oath last week, Ward said he thought Pettitte would tell Congress he dis-
page 13 
cussed HGH with Clemens between the 2001 and 2002 seasons. 
With Monday's deci­sion, Pettitte was spared the potentially difficult situation of having to deliver public testimony that could hurt the posi­tion of Clemens, a friend, past teammate and for­mer workout partner. Portions of Pettitte 's sworn deposition, though, may be read aloud at the hearing. And the committee's ranking Republican, Tom Davis of Virginia, said in an inter­view with Newsday that Pettitte's account match­es McNamee's in most details. 

NASCAR puts Busch,
Stewart on probation for six 
races 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -It began with crunched fenders, harsh words and maybe even a punch in the face. But the final result was just a slap on the wrist from NASCAR: a six-race probation for Tony Stewart and Kurt Busch. 
Heading into Sunday's Daytona 500, it's beginning to look like NASCAR officials were serious when they said they will cut driv­ers some slack on their bad behav­ior this year. 
"We're still working into letting the drivers develop and vent in proper ways, but we're giving them some more latitude," NASCAR vice president of competi­tion Robin Pemberton said Tuesday. "We said in the offseason we would do that and I think this is another step to letting you know what we mean.'' 
Twins s~n Hernandez to 
replace S'antana 
MINNEAPOLIS -The Minnesota Twins added some seasoning to their suddenly raw rotation. 
Right-bander Livan Hernandez agreed Tuesday to a $5 million, one-year contract with the team that could earn him an additional $2 million in performance bonuses, raising the average age for a group ransacked by the departures of Johan Santana and Carlos Silva. 
Santana was traded to the New York Mets, and Silva signee! with the Seattle Mariners. Another starter from last season, Matt Garza, was dealt to the Tampa Bay Rays. 
"If we could find the right guy, we were going to add that," gener­al manager Bill Smith said. "We certainly weren't afraid to go in without veteran starters, but it's going to be give those young play­ers someone to look to." 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
NBA 

New-look Heat fall to Nuggets in overtime 
J.R. Snzith shoots career-high eight 3-pointers in 114-113 win; Billups' big fourth quarter pushes Pistons past Hawks 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -.J.It Smith made a 

earner-host Pight 3-pointnrs and 
srorml 2X points, KPnyon Martin 
addod 24. and tho Donvor 
Nuggnts ndgPd the Miami Heat 
I 14-113 in ovPrtinw Tuesday 

night. 
Carnwlo Anthony scornd six of his 22 points in ovl'rtime for l>nrlvl'r, which has won thnw straight. 
I>wyann Wadn scorPd a game­high 21J points. hut missnd a 22­footnr at thn buzzer for Miami­which has lost night straight and 2:{ of its last 24 ganws. 
Wade -who also had l 0 assists -madn a 3-pointnr with 2:](, IPft in ovnrtinw to tin the ganw at 1I 0, then dove over the first row of seats in a futile effort to grab a loose ball a minut11 Ialor. On that possession, Anthony CartPr madn two frnn throws, putting the Nuggnts up by two with I:2(, IPI't. 
Anthony addnd two morn free throws with 54.1 stH:onds to play: and Hkky Davis' :~-pointnr with :n.6 sneonds IPft got Miami within a point. Anthony missnd with about 10 seconds remain­ing, Miami controiiPd the rnbound and Wade dribbled up tho left sidn of the floor to one of his favorite spots. 
But the shot rimmnd out, and Miami left frustrated once again. 
"I know it's been a tough ymtr," Wado told fans bnfore the game, as hn thanked them for helping vote him onto the Eastern Conference All-Star tnam. "But it won't last forever." 
It only seems that way. 

Shawn Marion scored 23 points and added a Ileal season­best 1X rebounds. Dorell Wright scored 19 points and Mark Blount finished with 18 points and 13 rebounds. 
Allen Iverson scored 16 points on 5-for-20 shooting for Denver, and Marcus Camby ended up with I2 points and 16 rebounds. 
Neither team led by more than four points at any time in the last 16:1 X of the game. 
Smith scornd a career-high 37 points against the Ileal on Dee. 
X, 2006, and did similar damage to Miami on Tuesday. 
lie sparked a big Denver run from a 14-point def'ieit in the lirst half. and in the fourth quar­LPI", lw simply torched Miami with four :~-point11rs in the first 
5:07 of the final period ­answering Miami baskets with thwn of those long jumpers. 
But d11spite Smith's best nll'orts. tlw game remained dose throughout the fourth, with nei­ther team nvPr h~ading by morn than four. Iverson's jumper with I :4I rnmauung gave tho Nuggets a I 02-!JS edgn, before Wadn's layup cut the lead in half and Blount's jumpl'r from thl) IPI't basnlinn with I7.5 seconds left tind it. 
Wright blocked lvnrson's potential game-winner with 0.4 sneonds lnl't, sending the game to ovPrtinw. 
Wright, who didn't attempt a 3-pointer in 22 ganws lwtween Dnc. I!i and h•b. 7-was 2-f(H·­2 from lwyond the arr in tlw first quartPr. hPlping stakl' Miami to a :~2-2:~ IPad. 
When Marion took a nirty bounce pass in tlw lane from formPr l'hoPnix LPammat11 Marcus Banks and dunked with 
X: I7 lnl't in tiH• half. tlw llnat led 42-2H -tlwir higgPst .-dge in 
any game since leading Utah by 
I6 points on Dec. 22. 
But of course, in this Miami 
season, prosperity didn't last. 
Denver scored the next 10 
points, sparked by Smith. lie 
scored I3 points in a 4-minute 
span after Marion's dunk, and 
the Nuggets were within 63-57 
artm a wild half where Miami 
shot (,I pnreent from the floor 
and held a 22-14 rebounding 
edge, yet still ('ouldn 't pull away. 
And in the third quarter, the 
Ileal got caught. 
Iverson missed 11 of his first 13 shots before driving for an acrobatic layup while getting fouled with 3:21 lcf't in the third, pulling Denver within 76-72. It was part of a 15-2 period-end­ing run by the Nuggets, who took their first lead since the opening minutes wlwn Iverson made a six-footer with I :51 left. and wound up extending·the eushion to X4-7X entering the fourth. 

Pistons 94, Hawks 90 
Chauncey Billups missed every shot he tried through the first three quarters. 
Not to worry. The fourth is his time. 
Living up to the nickname "Mr. Big Shot," Billups scored 12 of his 16 points in the final period to rally the Detroit Pistons to their ninth win in a row, 94-90 over the Atlanta Hawks on Tuesday night. 
"You know me, man, you know me," Billups said. "Late in games, if I have an opportunity I'm going to take advantage of that, whether I'm hot or not. I always feel like that fourth quar­ter is a difl'erent game." 
Hasheed Wallace carried the load in the early going, scoring 15 straight points for the Pistons in the first quarter on his way to a 21-point night. The Hawks lost their third in a row despite 30 points from Josh Smith. 
Billups went into the final quarter at 0-for-8 from the field, but that didn't keep him from putting up some more. He ripped oll' 10 straight points for Detroit, inducting a eouple of 3s, to turn a three-point deficit into an 89-86 lead with 2:25 remain­ing. 



"It was like a lid was on the basket most of the game," Billups said. "Some of those shots [in the fourth] were the same shots I shot early in the game. I just couldn't stick them." 
Appropriately, he finished off with the biggest shot of the game, a jumper over Anthony Johnson with 22 seconds remaining for a 92-89 lead. 
"That's what type of player he is," Smith moaned. "His nick­name is 'Mr. Big Shot.' In the dutch, everybody knows he's going to take the shot." 
After Billups' final basket, Smith was fouled but made only one free throw. Richard Hamilton did what Smith could­n't, hitting both foul shots with 14 seconds left to seal the win. 
The Hawks were held to 3-of­19 shooting in the fourth by the gritty Pistons, who let an early 15-point lead slip away but rebounded at the end. 
"We had good looks," Atlanta coach Mike Woodson said. "We just couldn't get the ball to go down." 
Wallace got off to a brilliant start, hitting his first six shots ­including three 3-pointers. Detroit twice led by 15 in the second quarter before the Hawks responded. 
Atlanta dosed to 55-48 by halftime, and kept up the momentum in the third as the visitors turned cold. 
"If we had played the whole game like we did in the second half, things would have been dif­ferent," said rookie AI Horford, who had 16 rebounds to lead the Hawks to a 47-34 lead on the boards. 
The Pistons went nearly 6 minutes without a field goal, allowing the Hawks to surge ahead on llorford's three-point play midway through the third. The rookie pumped his fist after being fouled, then stepped to the line and swished the free throw. 
The Hawks led 76-74 after a frenetic final minute to the peri­od. Arron Afllalo came up with a steal and was going in for a layup, but Smith soared out of nowhere for the block. 
Atlanta took off the other way and Marvin Williams went in for a dunk, but the ball rimmed out. The Pistons tried to start a fast break of their own, but the Hawks stole it away near mid­court and Williams got another shot at the dunk. This time he didn't miss, sending the crowd into a frenzy. 

Best Value in Town Colll e See Wh v.' 
.... 

,.. Inchor/ Ou:tchor Tennis i!Uid Bas.ke:tball 
,.. Free Ti!l..Dning 
,.. Hea:teJ Paol 

,.. Hela.zing Jacuzzi 
,.. Ga:teJ Co.m.m uni:ty 
,.. Co.m.m uni:ty Business Cen:ter 
,.. N~ Applica:tio.n Fees for S:tu dents 
,.. Clase t~ everything___ far fro.m ordinary! 


Castle'Point
1.801.1. C.le~.la:.nd Rd._ South Bend, IN 466 3 7 ..·4JJtlr·flll e11ts ~one: (5741 272-81.1.0 F~~: (5741 272-81.1.4 
HFIII _ cppj -C'L."lrffl' 
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Close by campus, Martin's has what you want. 
Starbuck's Coffee® beverages WiFi free in Side Door Deli area 70+ item Salad Bar New Sandwich Express made-to-order subs Sushi selections made fresh daily Hot Deli Fried Chicken, egg rolls, sides and more Panini bar featuring meat and veggie varieties Party trays custom made Donuts made fresh daily in store College logo cakes, balloons and more Kitchen Fresh entrees, just like homemade ATM, stamps and package shipping services Party supplies 

Toll Road 



martinr 
Count On Us! 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
NHL 


Islanders fire season-best 47 shots in victory 
Trent Hunter picks up agoal, two assists in 4-3 win over Flyers; Hurricanes move into first place in Southeast Division 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. -It was 
still 2007 the last timn homP felt 
likn an advantage to tho Nnw 
York lslandors. 
That changnd Tuesday wlwn 

Trent lluntnr· broke out of' his 
oiTnnsivn funk and pa(~od the 
lsland•~rs' most productivn night 
in quitP SOIIW tiiiiP. 
lluntnr srorml a goal and sot 
up two othnrs l'or Now York, 

which brokn a pair of sevnn­
gamo skids with a 4-3 victory 
ovnr tlw slumping l'hiladnlphia 
Flyors on Tunsday night. 
Thn lslandnrs did it with a sea­

son-bnst 47 shots. 
"It was a nicn to got that win and it givos us sonwthing to build on." said lluntnr, who had­n't scon~d sirH~n .Jan. II. "We can't rnlax. Wn havn to fonts, and we've got a big job ahead of' 
us.,, 
Nnw York hadn't won at homo 

since beating NPw Jnrsny on 
I>nc. 29 (0-:i-2). Tho lslandnrs 
also didn't havn a victory any­
whore sincn a (,-:~ win at 
Carolina on Jan. 22. 
.JniT TambPilini and Soan 

Bergnnlwim added goals in the 
second pnriod li1r the lslandnrs. 
who are tind for 12th in Uw 
1\astern Conf'nrnnen, and beat 
tho Flynrs for tlw first timo in 
l'our nwntings this season. 
Huslan Fedotenko scon~d with S:SS to rnstorn tlw Islanders' two-goal lnad, lwf'oro Jofl'rey Lupul rut it to 4-3 with 59.6 sec­onds remaining. New York killed Fndotenko's roughing penalty in tho final minute to presnrvn the victory. 
"We have bonn struggling a lit­tle bit at homo and that was a big win for us, nspneially against a division team," Fedotenko said. "It's really important, espe­cially at this time of the year." 
Hick l>iPiotro made 26 saves to win for the first time since Jan. 16 and send the injury-riddled Flyers to their fourth straight regulation loss. 
Danny Briere and Seott llartnell also scored for Philadelphia, missing forwards Simon Gagne and Scottie Upshall, and defenseman Braydon Coburn. Antero Niittymaki stopped 43 shots. 
"Before Christmas, it seemed like we were carrying most of the games," said forward Mike Hichards. who failed on a sec­ond-period breakaway. "Now, we're falling behind and then showing urgency at the end. We need to play a full 60 minutes." 
The late-arriving crowd, delayed by a snowstorm, was entertained by the second-period offense and a fashion show fea­turing wives of Islanders players on "Hockey and Heels" night. 
Hunter broke the scoreless deadlock with 2:18 left in the first, netting his eighth overall and first in 14 games. 
"We've been saying for the past week or so to get bodies to the net. .Just get pucks there and eause trallic," Hunter said. "You never know where pucks are going to bounce." 
Nnw York racked up 17 shots in the period and raced only 11' despite giving Philadelphia two power plays without owning any. 
One was doubly costly to the Islanders, who lost top defense­man Brendan Witt after a knee­to-knee collision with Hartnell in the neutral zone just past the 9­minute mark. Witt was whistled 
for tripping and then sidelined 
by a bruised knee. 
Philadelphia needed only 50 seconds of its fourth power play to get even. Briere put a rebound past a sprawled DiPietro for his 21st goal 1:05 into thn sneond. 
The rnst of the period 
bPiongnd to New York. 
DiPietro kept it tied when Hiehards raced in on a short­handnd breakaway, forcing him to miss wide left about 3 minutes into thn period. 
"I thought I had him beat if' I could have kept control of the puck," Hiehards said. "It goes in, and wn'rn in the lead. Instead, tlwy took the lead right after that. You have to expect to score, not hopn to scorn." 
Tarnbnllini made it 2-1 at 5:27 when hn intereeptfJd a pass from Flyers captain .Jason Smith and wristml a shot under Niittymaki's right arm. It was the first NIIL goal this season in 12 games for Tambellini, who leads the AliL with 2S goals. 
"You don't want to gt1 too long without putting the puck in," he said. 
Nnw York nearly stretched its lnad just past the midway mark of tlw period, but Smith went from def'enseman to goalie after Niittymaki was out of' position and blocked Tambellini's shot while on his side in front of' the net. 
lie couldn't do anything about Bergenheim's breakaway goal after another turnover. Hunter sent a pass from New York's end to Bergenheim. who raced in front of defenseman Kimmo Timonen and bore down on Niittymaki. 
Timonen hooked down Bergenheim, but the Islanders forward slung in a shot to make it :~-1 with 6:19 left. 
"We were better the last two games, but we still need to win," Briere said. "We had a long meeting to talk about it. We're close, but close is not good enough." 

Hurricanes 3, Bruins 2 
Andrew Ladd's two-goal spurt set the tone for the game. 

Shawn Thornton's two-goal 
spurt came too late to make a 
difference. 
"Fortunately, we were able to prevail -even though it got a little interesting," Hurricanes goalie Cam Ward said Tuesday night after Carolina took a shutout into the iinal six minutes and held on to beat the Boston Bruins. 
"That (first) goal gave them life," Ward added. "They were able to come on and put some pressure on." 
Ladd scored twice in the first 6:33, and former Bruins first­round draft choice Sergei Samsonov gave the Hurricanes a 3-0 lead with 1:31 left in the sec­ond period. Ward protected the shutout until Thornton had two goals in a 27 -second span with around five minutes left. 
"We got our first goal a little late, but you saw the momentum that it built and the energy that it gave our team," Bruins coach Claude Julien said. "If only we could have gotten that earlier in the game." 
Rod Brind'Amour assisted on both of Ladd's goals to help the Hurricanes improve to 2-3 on their five-game road trip. With the win, Carolina moved into first place in the Southeast Division, ahead of Washington and Atlanta, who play Wednesday night. 
"We're battling for a playoff spot," Samsonov said. "For us, it's almost a playoff game." 
Boston trailed 3-0 when Thornton's shot from the right side went off the top of Ward's glove and into the net with 5:10 left in the game. The Bruins made it 3-2 with 4:43 left when Ward made a save that trickled between his pads and stopped in the crease behind him; Thornton came by to swat the idle puck into the net. 
Boston made a furious charge in the last four minutes, pulling goalie Alex Auld but failing to get the game-tying goal. 
Ward stopped 32 shots, and Auld made 20 saves for Boston. 
Thornton's goals were his first of the season, giving him his first two-goal game of his career. 
'EAA11VLKQ 



SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application fonns, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies. (154 Hurley Building. Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008 

Sponsored by the Office of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies & the Mendoza College of Business 

They also deprived Ward of his second consecutive shutout against the Bruins; he also shut out Boston on Jan. 8 and hasn't allowed a goal to the Bruins since the third period of Carolina's 4-3 victory on Dec. 28. 
The Bruins lost their second consecutive game, their fourth in five tries and their third in a row to Carolina. They now embark on a five-game trip of their own to clear the new Boston Garden for Disney's High Sehool Musieal: The Ice Tour. 
Ladd gave the Hurricanes a 1­0 lead when Brind'Amour split two defenders and pushed the puck up to Ladd just 3:01 in. Ladd made it 2-0 when he kicked the puck past Auld at the 
6:33 mark of the first. 
"I just turned my foot. It was more of a reaction more than anything else," Ladd said. "I just turned my foot, and it went in." 

Wednesday, February 13, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NHL 



Zednik moved out of ICU after neck laceration 
the 32-year-old forward's Doctors in Buffalo have pita! bedside, and NHL com­
Associated Press 
neck, cutting his carotid already told him next year is missioner Gary Bettman has 
CORAL SPRINGS, Fla. -artery and stopping just shy the realistic return target, phoned to check on Zednik's Upon hearing Richard of his jugular vein. and on Tuesday, Dr. Sonya condition and progress. Zednik's recovery from a life­As Zednik recovers, so do Noor -who operated on the "He is awake and in good threatening neck laceration the Panthers, who returned to forward Sunday night -said spirits," Noor said. "He has could last six to eight weeks, the ice Tuesday, albeit still she's recommending he not minimal neck swelling, or dis­Olli Jokinen checked his cal­somber and shaken, yet some­resume strenuous activity for comfort. He is speaking quite endar. what uplifted by the contin­three months. well. His voice is not hoarse. 
That would be playoff time ued good reports about their Still, the notion just might He's hungry. He wanted eggs in the NHL. teammate. be enough of a reason for the for breakfast." 
And suddenly, the Florida "We've got 24 games to go," playoff-starved Panthers to Noor said Zednik will be Panthers have a huge source Jokinen said. "If we do our have some hope. asked to sit up and walk a few of postseason motivation. jobs, there is a possibility "We have to set it aside now steps over the next couple 
Zednik continued what some Richard's going to play with and play hockey," said Florida days, and if he can do those termed a remarkable recov­us and join the team in the defenseman Jassen Cullimore, things, a discharge plan will ery Tuesday, when his condi­playoffs. The doctors say six who helped Zednik off the ice. be discussed. tion was upgraded to good to eight weeks ... there's a "That's what we do." Knowing that Zednik -who and he was moved out of the possibility he could play this The Panthers hope Zednik can talk and is alert -is intensive care unit at Buffalo year. So every game now, it's can travel home to South doing as well can be expect­General Hospital. That was going to be big, big for us." Florida by the weekend. ed, the Panthers also felt a just two days after Jokinen's Zednik playing again this He has a photo of his 4-sense of relief. Zednik isn't razor-sharp skate blade sliced season is a real long shot. year-old daughter at his hos-believed to have suffered any 

#16 CLUB LULU
one o our omema e rene unsFREEBIES ISU8S & CLUBS ONLY) then smothered with onions, mayo, 
Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon, lettuce, tomato,Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced lettuce, tomato, & our homemade 
& mayo. (JJ's original turkey & bacon club)cucumber. Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar. and oregano. Italian dressing. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
long-term brain or nerve damage, and one surgeon described him as "very lucky." 
"It's a sign of how good medicine can be and how good medical people can be," Panthers coach Jacques Martin said. 
The accident remains the dominant topic in the NHL, and to Clint Malarchuk -a goaltender whose neck was slashed in a similar incident in a game at Buffalo in 1989 -it resonated deeply. He won't watch the Zednik inci­dent, but has offered to meet with Zednik to talk about any­thing that's on his mind. 
"For any players who are traumatized like this, it's pretty gruesome," Malarchuk said. 
When Jokinen's skate hit Zednik's neck, a significant amount of blood immediately began pouring from a 1 ?-inch wound, leaving a wide red trail on the ice. Zednik skated to the Panthers' bench. His carotid artery -which car­ries blood to the brain -was nearly severed and emer­gency surgery that night at Buffalo General probably saved his life. 
"Shows how tough the guy is," Jokinen said. "He was able to skate to the bench, with the cut in his throat, los­ing blood like that. It was pretty amazing, you know?" 
Zednik never lost conscious­ness. He actually complained that Sabres' orthopedic sur­geon Dr. Les Bisson was applying too much pressure to his neck in an effort to stop the bleeding. 
By the time he reached the hospital, Zednik needed·five units (roughly five pints) of blood, a figure that suggests he had lost one-third of the blood in his body. 
"I think he will come back someday and play if that's what he chooses to do," Noor said. 
Practice seemed normal Tuesday for the Panthers, who had a team meeting before the 60-minute work­out, filled with all the usual skating and puck handling and shooting drills. Rob Globke, who was called up from Florida's AIIL affiliate in Rochester to fill Zednik's ros­ter spot, was with the team for the session. 
A 12-year veteran, Zednik had 15 goals and 11 assists in 54 games this season, his first with the Panthers. 
lie didn't manage a single point over 16 games between Dec. 28 and Feb. 1. But he had six goals and three assists in the four games that preceded Sunday's game in Buffalo, giving the Panthers a clear boost as the team tries to make the playoffs for the first time since 2000. 
"It's not like he wasn't hav­ing some scoring chances," Martin said. "They just weren't going in. Suddenly they started going in, and there's no doubt that the last two weeks that line had been very productive for our hock­ey team." 
The Panthers entered

1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 54570 N.IRONWOOO DR. 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
Tuesday in fourth place in the
574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.277.8500 574.968.4600 
Southeast Division, two points
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA behind Washington for first place and the No. 3 spot in the Eastern Conference play­
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!'' © off standings. 
Montreal visits Florida on 

@1985. ZGOZ. 2003. 2004. 2007 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE. LLC ILL RIGHTS BESUVEO. We Reserve Tbe Right Tu Make lay Mnu Changes. 
Wednesday night. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
I larangody ~ who is only 6-foot-8 tie room to operate," Kurz said. -to 14 poinL<; on 5-for-23 shoot­"Lin the last meeting,] I was able
Huskies 
ing from the floor. to make some jump shoLs, which continued from page 20 llarangody, who has a wider pulled Adrian away from the bas-
body and is quick-ket so he wasn't rnvenge in tonight's game, which er than Thabeet, able to double will be broadcast on ESPNU. said he will try to L u k e
"The thing I try to do
Despite a flu breakout within use those advan­[HarangodyJ." the tmtm, the Irish held olf No. 25 tages to negate is space the floor and Notre Dame Marquntte Saturday for a S6-S3 the Connecticut give {Harangody] a has not played in win. Senior captain Hob Kurz center's size. Gampell Pavillion
little room to
played sparingly after contracting "II' I can be during Brey's
operate.,,
the virus, and forwards Luke more physical and tenure in South llarangody and Zach I lillesland get into his body Bend. Each time vomitnd bnlim~ the game. more, then I can the Irish had vis­
Rob Kurz 
Coach Mike Brey said his team get my shot up ited the Huskies,
Irish forward 
the games were 
played at the 

larger Hartford Civic Center, now known as the XL Center. 
Kurz said the smaller, on-cam­pus arena will be louder than the Harford venue, but after road wins over Villanova and Seton Hall, the squad has confidence away from the Joyce Center. 
"On-campus arenas are more intimate. Sometimes they're a lit­tle bit 'louder because they're small and people are packed in," he said. "But we're used to play­ing in tough places on the road." 
The Huskies are one game back of the Irish in the Big East stand­ings, but also trail third-place Louisville, which is half a game ahead ofthem at S-3. Georgetown remains first in the conference at 10-2 after its win over Villanova Monday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
need to work on rebounding, but at least we am guarding the 3­




Eagles 

point line better." continued from page 20 Bruszewski will likely see more playing time. The fresh­ment (ACL) in her left knee. man took over when Peters left 
Peters played a dynamic role the court Sunday and added 10 in Notre Dame's full-court press, points for the Irish. Melissa but Irish coach Muffet McGraw Leehlitner also had a big game said Tuesday she still feels confi­against the Panthers, finishing dent in her defense. with 12 poinLs. 
"Really we Even though don't have to the Irish defimse change anything is looking that we're "Really we don ,t have strong, McGraw doing," McGraw realizes her
to change anything 
said. "It's just a team can't take
that we ,re doing. ,,
question of the youthful who's going to Marquette light­get more playing ly. Junior guard
Muffet McGraw 
time. So it's a Krystal Ellis and
Irish coach 
is hnalthy liJr iL'> trip east, howev­er. 
"It didn't run through the whole team," Brey said. "We're back to normal and it didn't cost us." 
Connecticut stepped out of con­

ference Saturday and took down ACC opponent Georgia Tech S0-6S at home. C,enter llasheem Thabnct lnd tho Jluskies with 24 points and 15 rebounds. During its win­ning streak. Connecticut has 


Big East 
continued from page 20 
meet is of the utmost impor­tancn for tho team. Tim compe­tition represents a culmination of all the practices. workouts, dual meets and invitationals that have led up to this point. 
"The Big East meet is our biggest and fastest meet of the year," Lytle said. "And we are all excited to see our hard work from the season pay ofT." 
On the diving side, the Irish could get some important con­

Stadiu01 
continued from page 20 
February 2006 in front of 40,000 
fans. 
Last time I cheeked, Notre l>ame Stadium held just owr HO,OOO pnople. That would set the world reeord liw most people to ever watch a hockey game, knock­ing oil' Notre l>ame 's nortlu~rn stale school nnighbors. And who wouldn't want another way to beat Michigan State and Miehigan? 
Unliwtunalnly, this is whern the logistics of an outdoor game get in the way of the iey dream. But tho biggest obstade to tlw Irish lacing up their skates inside the stadium isn't what you would think. 
It's not building the rink while preserving the stadium turf. It's not thn amount of money it would take to build an outdoor rink. And it's not the suppost~d tradition of having nothing but f(Jotball in Notre Dame Stadium. 
It's parking. 

A'isociatn Athletic Dirnetor Tom Nevala said Notre Dmne during the winter can't handle the num­ber ol'vehides an outdoor game would create. The University uses extensive amount ofgrass field parking to accommodate vehides liJr fall football games, and that parking wouldn't be accessible during the snowed-in winter and over him," Ilarangody said. 
The sophomore also said that he can do things without the ball to pull Thabeet away from the basket and open 
things up for other Irish players, includ­ing guards Tory
"If I can be more 
Jackson and Kyle
physical and get into 
McAlarney.
{Thabeet,s/ body "There's some things I can do like
more, then I can get 
ball screening for 
my shot up and over 
Kyle and Tory, too,"
him.,, 
llarangody said. "That will bring him out."
Luke Harangody 
Kurz, llarangody's 


Irish forward 
front-court mate, said if he spends 

great opportuni­ty for Brittney IMalloryJ. for B e c c a [Bruszewski] and for Mel (D'Amico]." 
McGraw also believes the injury might be a blessing in dis­guise -an opportunity for the freslunan to learn from observ­ing. 
"I think it can be a real positive for a player and I think she will learn a lot from watching and listening," McGraw said. 
The Irish defense looked like a renewed squad against Pittsburgh as it managed to defend the three better and keep the Panthers to 31 percent shooting from the field. 
Despite dramatic improve­ments on defense, the Irish allowed the Panthers to grab 30 offensive rebounds. However, McGraw said her team should perform well against Marquette. 
"After playing so well against Pitt, I think our defense is much better," McGraw said. "We still freshman guard 
Angel Hobinson 
will combine to 
form a forcible threat for the Golden Eagles. But that isn't the Golden Eagles' only strength; the Irish recognize Marquette as a well-rounded team. 
"[Ellis is] one of the best play­ers in the league, so you always have to know where she is," McGraw said. "But I think that their team, they're all capable of, on any given night, any of them having a big game. They've got some really good young players. I think they're really starting to gel as a team." 
The Irish and thn Golden Eagles have a storied history and the two teams will face ofT for the :nrd time tonight -the longest running series in the Notre Dame program's history. Notre Damn leads the series 27­5. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

knocked ofl' Indiana. Pittsburgh. Syraeuse and Louisville. 
Thabeet, who stands 7-liJOt-3, is also a defensive lim~n in the paint. In tho first meeting with Notre Damn. he hnld Big East playnr of the year candidate Luke more time away from the hoop, it will draw lluskios' forward Jeff Adrian out as well, allowing Ilarangody to work on Thabeet one-on-one. 

"The thing that I try to do is space the floor and give him a lit­
tributions from multiple com­pntitors. Junior diver Michael Bullin. who nnded the regular season with school record­breaking performances in the final two meets, will lead a confident group into the event. 
"Diving is going to play a big role in this meet," Bullin said. "The diving team has the potential to give the swimmers a very large lead to work with and aid them in bringing the Big East championship home. We've been practicing well, and all the guys are pretty con­fident and ready to head to New York." 

The divers' confidence is well founded. Irish divers dominat­ed their Big East foes through­out the regular season. 
Confidence alone, however, will not be enough to bring home the title. 
"It is not a meet we are going to be able to walk away with unless everyone is swimming and diving well," Bulfin said. "So we've been making the necessary steps in practice to get us prepared to win another Big East championship." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
months. son, the football team also doesn't 
The idea ofan outdoor Notre play a game at Notre Dame Dame game has been tossed Stadium. Those are two huge around, however, Nevala said. breaks where a rink can be con­
"If we were going to host it, a structed and the money can be place like Soldier Field [in raised through ticket sales to pay Chkagol would make sense," he for the construction. said. When Michigan State played 
It also isn't pos­Michigan at sible, Nevala said, Spartan Stadium for a hockey in 2001, the game 
game to be played Plus, who doesn ,t love was played during 
in the litH when the thought ofbeating a road weekend 
the parking loL<; for State's football 
Michigan two times
aren't covered in team. snow and the in the same year in If Michigan 
lbotball team is the stadium? State can do it, 
on tho road. The amount of lime 
needed to build the rink, he said, wouldn't make it possible to fit a 
hockey game in around the foot­
ball schedule. 
But I have a solution. 
If the snow-covered loLs make a game in the winter impossible and f(Jotball (who cares about Notre Dame liJOtball mally?l takes pmeedence in the fall, there is an alternative. From Oct. 4 to Oct. 31 next season, Notre Dame football doesn't play at home. Excluding tho one week of fall break smack in the middle of that stretch, there is a large amount of time where a rink can be built and an opponent like Michigan can be lined up to spar in the stadium. 
If that stretch doesn't work, from Nov. 2 to Nov. 22 next sea-why can't we? 
There are peo­
plo who specialize 

in constructing rinks inside, outside or wherever, and there are always long breaks in the home football schedule. Put these two things together, add in a strong dash of the increasing amount ofinterest in hoekey at Notre Dame and, voila, we have an outdoor game. 
Plus, who doesn't love the thought of beating Michigan two times in the same year in the sta­dium? 
I'm drooling. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 


Call to make a reservation for Valentine's Day. 


Serving Our Specialties Include F.xquisit.c Lun(:h. f..,. 
Meat Entrees C"' Healthy vegetarian Di.shcs 
Dinner 

.,....,.s... Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches IJ.·l; 4-9pm ~1 D' h \1 ' S l ' D 
e~....&s....d..J· '·' cat . IS cs • egetanan c et·nons • . csserts f.,. Mnud~,,. extras: Lentil Soup & (Jarlic Paste: 
Come Dine With Our Fumily And lk Our Flimd! 
.115 Di.xie Way North, Soutlt Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
February 14-16, 7:30 P.M. February 16, 2:30 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Admission: Adult-$12 Senior Citizen-$1 0 SMC/ND/HCC Staff-$8 Student-$5 
...
C)_._.,_ 
g w 
u 
"' 
1;; 
~ 
z 

~ llliillllliiiiiiM 
MoreauCenter.com 

Wednesday, February 13, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA

BLAcK DoG 

RICH PROTIVA and ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
TASTeS IAK.B FAIWJTZB &~ves YOU NOT/Ze L>AMe WeeK.BNP OHOOSB YOUTZ OkJN lll>VBNTUTZB. (FeMA.t-e VBTZ:SION) 
J YOU 6<5T l-AID! YeS OU CAN Al-WAYS 5ND 1-15125. YOU1125 A 1121.., 125M5M6512? AND rt11515 AW650M5­
'0,I!i\\:"lfl H!ifl'1r.:r~'· ~~P··•·•
~~~~~·ff'. •... 
JUMBLE 


JIIYM~JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
AUFAN 




[ J I 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

r~f~fi I I tREYMOB j
J r (]
1 
www.jumble.com
tTINTEN 

J rJ [J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

~ 
WHr:N THE: SHOPPER 
WAS~OF ~SSING PHONY tvONEY, f-E HAD A-­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 






Answer: rI I I I 1 I ] rI I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I JAunmswbeler~.: GOING DOUSE ABSURD BISHOP What the successful rancher had ­A BIG "SPREAD" 
CROSSWORD 
Across 32 See 65-Down 61 "Yikes!" Rivera of the 33 "Come here 63 Like some hands original often?," e.g. 64 _Gay (W.W. "Chicago" 35 Chewy candy II plane) 

6 "Dragnet" force, 38 River to the 68 Some votes in brief Rhone 69 Cain of "Lois & 10 Org. for which a 41 What to do after Clark" 
D.V.M. might completing this 70 China company work puzzle, with four 71 Secy. 

14 Southwestern straight lines 72 Dry sheepherders 44 Children's author 73 Jim-dandy 
15 Mythical king of Blyton and the Huns 
others Down 16 Press 
45 Chief Half a dance 17-unending pain Whitehorse, e.g. 
2 Keep all to 18 Ayatollah's land 46 Subject of illicit oneself trade
19 N.Y. neighbor 3 New issue on 47 Japanese leader 
20 With 59-Across, WallS!. hint to this of the 1960s 4 Color faintly puzzle's secret 49 "The Gift of the 5 Sanctuary Magi" gift 6 Dragon's 
· (early video'" 23 Grp. that 

conducts many 51 Ample shoe game)
width 7 Central courts 
tests 

24 Honeymoon 52 Promoted suite feature 8 Alternative if
56 Gwen of the 27 Souvenir from a original things go wrong 
bad trip? "Chicago" 9 Bread for burritos?

29 Le Figaro article 58 Berlin cry 10 Order to attack,
30 Epigram 59 See 20-Across 
with "on" 11 Made a killing,

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
say 12 Individually owned apartment 13 Former U.N. chief Kofi 21 Multiple-choice 
choices 22 Kind of approval 24 Actor Tom of 
"Amadeus" 25 Bialy flavorer 26 Some court 
attire 28 Violinist Schneider, informally 

THE OBSERVER 


WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Patrick Blindauer 

31 Curtain puller of 43 Pope after John 57 Freshen film X 
60 Be inclined

48 _ Foods, Inc.
34 Wrap up by 62 Post W. W. II36 50 degs., maybe 50 Instruments for pres.

drawing angles 
37 Former Swedish 65 With 32-Across,P.M. Palme 52 Animals a ball game

39 Beau 53 Spanish skating figures 66 Response to a
40 City north of joke in an I.M.

Cologne 54 Cain vis-a-vis 42 Any acetate, Abel 67 Rocker chemically 55 Lama Rose 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytirnes.com/learninglxwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christina Ricci, 28; Arsenio Hall, 53; Joanna Kerns, 55: Ray Manzarek, 69 
Happy Birthday: Take action when it comes to business and partnerships. Position yourself to win, no matter what yon do this year. Once vou have gained the respectand attention you deserve, you can obtain what you wain. This year, don't slacK off or even think about being a couch potato. Your numbers are 11, 25, 25, 30, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The influence you have on vour future bv the actions you take now will be long-term. Be sure you are fueling something that "will make you happy, not burden you down the road. Be self-assertive. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Open up to the people you can trust and hold back if you are questioning anyone's loyalty. Love can play a major role where your status and future are concerned. Changes to your home and short tnps will tum uut well. 3 stars · 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20).: Keep your finances, thoughts and legal matters a secret. Emotional matters will esca1ate if you let someone goad you into talking about the way you feel. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's important for you to let others know where they stand. You will make an impact and catch the attention of someone you love if you let your heart lead the way. Begin a campaign you believe in. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will lose it if you let someone get to you today. Hide your emotions if you don't want to say something that will work against you, causing grief in the future. Go through the motions without showing feeling. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love is in the picture and socializing will bring a favor­able tum of events. You will be dead-on in your assessments and fmdino solutions will be a breeze. Travel will lead to inu·igue and spark creative. profitabYe ideas. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be a sponge for information today, so put yourself in a setting that will allow you to learn. Join in conversations, take in a seminar or network with people who have something in common with you. A development will lead to a partnersfiip. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Emotions will be high on the Richter scale so don't play with fire today. Plav your cards close to your cfiest and see what everyone else is • going to do first. If you hold your ground. you will win. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to put yourself in the limelight today. 
Once you make your ideas perfectly clear, you will be surprised at the feedback yon 
get and the options you are given. Change may be necessary. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to make some personal changes to your home or take a look at real estate but don't.:;et wrapped up in committing to something. that may cost you dearly in the end. lou wilf6e abfe to talk your way into a better pnce, deal or sttuauon. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may fmd it difficult to get alono witltloved ones today. Don't let anyone play with lour emotions. Be finn and fofiow through if you want to accomplish anything. Don t let emotional matters slow you down. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be gracious in your actions and show respect and fair­ness in your dealings and you will get what vou want. Take a fresh look at where you came from and what your goals once were. Love is in the stars. -1 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are pushy, progressive and popular. You are determined and 
dedicated to doing what will benefit vou the most. You are intelligent. a free-thinker 
and have far-reaching goals. ­

Eugenia's Web sites: astrvadl'ice.comfor ftm, eugenia/ast.comjor colljideiiTial consulwtiolls 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.-.

D Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 13, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Something's got to give 
Big East Leading Scorers 
Conference only 


Two of the Big East's hottest teams square off 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
18-4 versus 18-5. No. 18 in the USA Today poll versus No. 17. No. 2 in the Big East versus No. 4. 
Notre Dame and Connecticut have nearly mirrored each other this season, and both are on a roll heading into the showdown at 7 tonight in Storrs, Conn. 
The No. 18 Irish (18-4, 8-2 Big East), winners of five straight, will invade Gampell Pavillion to take on the No. 17 Huskies (18-5, 7-3 Big East), who have won seven games in a row. 
Notre Dame beat Connecticut 73-67 in the teams' early-confer­ence meeting on Jan. 5. The Huskies will be looking for 
see HUSKIES/page 18 
0 ' •• 

Assists & Turnovers 
Big East Play '07-'08 

30  
25  
20  
15  
10  
5  
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  .  8  9  10  
WVU  UConn  MU  Cin GU VU Game  Prov.  Dep.  Seton Hall  MU  
At 1.14, Notre Dame ranks  ND Turnovers  
sth in conference play in assists to turnovers ratio.  NDAssists  

MADELINE NIES/Observer Graphic 

HOCKEY COMMENTARY 
Time for the icers to march through the tunnel 
This may be an exercise in futili­

ty, but it sounds too damn enol not 
to put it out there. lnHLf.,rine instead of lounging around in your dorm room on a Saturday aftnrnoon in 1:ebruary, kicking the cmmplnd Natty cans oil" your cof­li~e table to make room tilr a Sbarro's pizza, you could be tailgating oulo.;ide Notre Dame Stadium for a game. 
Obviously the football team isn't 

going to be playing a mid-winter bowl in South Bend ever (or a post-December one for that mat­ter, it seems). 
But thn hockey tnam could play thern. 
College hockny teams have played two separate games in football stadiums (CCHA tnams, all) bnlilfl\ and the NHL has played two outdoor games as well. All of thnm drow huge crowds, worn gmat to wateh and put hoek­ey under a spotlight it rarely receives. 
A hoekey game against Miehigan in Notre Dame Stadium makes mf' drool. It makes me want to bundle up, grab a ease from Belmont, throw down a lawn ehair in C lot and wait for the gates to opnn. 

The wondrous South Bend win­ters and city life keep us students bundled up in our dorms, apart­ments and houses all winter. The only interaction we get is when we jam ourselves up in the sweatbox of a house party or bar. 
That kind of thing is fun and all, but our student body lacks any opportunities to get together as a whole like we can on football Saturdays. An outdoor hockey game, in addition to being a hell of a sight, would do that. · 
Michigan played Michigan State at Spartan Stadium in October 2001 in front of75,000 fans, the largest crowd to ever watch a hockey game. Wisconsin and Ohio State played at Lambnau Field in 
see STADIUM/page 18 


ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Irish play first game sans Peters 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
With ehanges in Notrn Damn's lineup, tonight's game against Marquntte at 7 in the Joyce Center will give younger Irish playMs the opportunity to prove thny deserve playing time. 
No. 16 Notrf' Dame's 81-66 win over No. 15 Pittsburgh showed improvnn11mt in Notre Damn's defense, but it came at a heavy price. Early in the sneond half, fmshman Devereaux Peters eol­lapsed to the court, shaking in pain. According to MBI results released Monday the freshman torn the anterior cruciate liga-
Irish guard Undsay Schrader looks to pass in Notre Dame's 81­see EAGLES/page 21 66 win over Pittsburgh on Sunday. 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Long layoff before Big East title meet 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
With 32 days in between the regular season-ending Shamrock Invitational and the Big East championships, it takes some dedication to stay focused -and, more impor­tantly, to stay fast. 
With most of that downtime now behind the team, Notre Dame is looking to capitalize on the work it has done by staying sharp and making sure no one is worn out for the 
event in East Meadow, N.Y., on Feb. 20. 
Sophomorn John Lytle, who has consistently scored points for the Irish in freestyle events this season, said preparation involves more than just thn physical side of practice. 
"We are slowly decreasing our workout intensity in order to be physically ready to racn," Lytle said. "But at the same time we are mentally prepar­ing ourselves more each day." 
Preparation for the Big East 
see BIG EAST/page 18 








