
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Student killed in bus crash in Thailand 
Zahm Hall junior Andrew Bunikis, 20, had taken a semester off to teach English to native students 
paper, the bus crashed in the Corry Colonna, Zahm's rec­"They were in shock, devas­wrote in the e-mail. "He wasBy BILL BRINK Phitsanulok Province at 11:45 tor, said he learned of the tated," Colonna said. "It was our brother and my friend
News Editor 
p.m. Seven other people were accident Friday afternoon. not a case where he was sick and I'm sure that all of us killed and 31 were injured. "I actually received a phone or anything of that sort. You will miss him dearly. 
Andrew Bunikis, a junior "Andrew's family and the call from one of his friends, just say goodbye figuring "Andrew was an exception­from Zahm Hall, died in a bus Notre Dame family have suf­I'm not sure how she found you'd see him again. It's sad ally kind and giving young crash in Thailand Friday. fered and shared a tragic out," Colonna said. "The most he was so far from home man. He cared a lot about 
Bunikis, 20, from Phoenix, loss," University president Fr. important thing was to get when this happened." this hall and his friends." Ariz., took a semester off to John Jenkins said in the the University in the loop, After Bunikis' close friends Zahm held a mass to com­teach English to students in statement. "We assure the and spend time confirming were told, Colonna sent an e­memorate Bunikis Friday. Fr. the Asian country. He first Bunikis family of our prayers things with the U.S. con­mail to Zahm residents Mark Poorman and former worked there last summer as during this difficult time, con­sulate." informing them of the acci­Zahm rector Fr. Dan Parrish part of Notre Dame's Student fident that Andrew will be After he heard about the dent. attended, as did approximate­lnt~rnational Business embraced by the fullness of accident, Colonna called his "[Bunikisl would e-mail me ly 80 Zahm residents, Council, the University said in God's love." hall staff together and told regularly about his experi­Colonna said. a statement. Bunikis was an accountancy them. After that, he gathered ences there, and the differ­"He was pretty determined 
According to an article in major from Phoenix, Ariz., Bunikis' closest friends to ence he was making with the The Nation, a Bangkok news-the statement said. inform them in person. children he taught," Colonna see STUDENT/page 3 


Students, fans gather for unveiling of ''The Shirt 2008'' 
Committee says design came from Grantland Rice's 1924 article, meant to "send a message ofconfidence" in team's future 
At top left, Mike Colic addresses crowd. At top right, The Shirt 2008. At bottom right, people wait in line at the unveiling.
• 
PHOTOS BY VANESSA GEMPIS 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Hundreds of Notre Dame fans crowded outside Hammes Bookstore Friday for the unveil­ing of "The Shirt 2008." The marching band, Irish Guard, cheerleaders, and the Porn Squad were there to celebrate the newest shirt design. 
This year's shirt is navy blue with "Wake Up the Echoes" ris­ing out of the words "Notre Dame Football 2008" in white on the front. The back of the shirt reads: "Outlined against a blue, gray October sky ... Notre Dame will rise again." The words sur­round a picture of a player wearing a number 12 jersey, clutching his gold helmet as he looks out into the packed stadi­um. The 1977 and 1988 champi­onship banners hang over his head. 
"Creating the design is very much a team effort, but the hard work of making the design a reality was the job of Anna Jordan, a senior in Farley Hall," said Jason Gott, president of "The Shirt 2008" Committee. 
Inspiration for the Shirt came from Grantland Rice's article written about Notre Dame's foot­ball team in 1924. The opening line was, "Outlined against the gray, blue sky, the Four Horseman rode again." 
"From there, we decided we also wanted to send a message of confidence in our future," Gott said. 
The committee is made up of Gott and seven other members. 
This is the 19th version of "The Shirt," and since its first year. it has raised over $5 mil­lion for students in need of med­ical funding. The funding has been distributed to over 200 dif­ferent clubs on campus, Gott said. This year, 50 percent of this proceeds will go The Shirt Medical Fund, and the other half will go to the clubs on campus, Gott said. 
Mike Golic, former Irish foot­ball player and host of the radio show "Mike and Mike in the Morning" on ESPN, was the keynote speaker for the event. He invigorated the crowd before the Shirt was available for sale. 
see SHIRT/page 4 



Holocaust memorial remembers victims 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Wooden boards lined the paths of South Quad Friday, memorializing the millions who died in the Holocaust during the culmination of "Stand Against Hate WeeK." 
An evening prayer service at the Grotto was also performed. 
The posters on the quad por­trayed quotes and statistics describ­ing one of history's largest hate crimes. 
"The three words we kept repeating while setting up [the memorial! were 'awareness, edu­cation and action,"' Core Council for Gay and Lesbian students memorial organizer Mel Bautista said. "We want the memorial to raise awareness and encourage studenl<> to stand against hate." 
At the start of the path, the boards were painted with a varia­
see HOLOCAUST/page 3 


Clubs dispute in Crossfire debates 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
With the events of the weekend, including Saturday's annual Blue­Gold game, Notre Dame's student political groups knew the cam­pus would be bustling with people and activity Friday night, and took the opportunity to hold Campus Crossfire Debates on a makeshift stage on South Quad. 
"There's going to be be people outside [on 

Friday!," said junior Mike Scholl, treasurer of Notre Dame College Republicans. 
The event was organ­ized by three clubs along with NDVotes, a non-partisan political education campaign. 
Notre Dame College Democrats, College Republicans and College Libertarians met to dis­cuss politics in a debate setting, with two repre­sentatives from each club on a panel. Two 
__________ Political clubs take part in Crossfire see CROSSFIRE/page 4 debates on South Quad. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hope(should) spring eternal 
Spring is the season of rebirth, new beginnings and fresh starts. Flowers arc in full bloom and stu­dents emerge from their winter hibernation in their residence hall to lie out on the quad. 
This snason of rnnewal holds trun for sports, too. Baseball playnrs head south for spring training where, as thn saying goes, everyone is in first place. 
But here at Notre Dame, whern football is king, the biggest part of the spring regenera­tion is the Irish gridiron squad getting out of' the weight room and on to ·the playing field. 
Especially aftnr last season, we, as Notre Dame fans, are looking for some reason, any reason, to hope that next year will be better. We want to have hope that our Irish will win morn than three games in 2008. 
Why, then, are people so skepti­cal about the team's performance this spring? 
Whenever someone eomments about the improved play of our offensive line, the immediate response is, "Yeah, but it's proba­bly just that our defensivfl line isn't that good." Why not just at least believe that our 0-line made major improvements? Sinee spring is thn season of hope, why are we so pessimistic? 176 rushing yards in the spring game is 176 rushing yards no matter what defense you're playing against. 
It may be trun that the offensive line is just as bad as last season and Jimmy Clausen will eontinue to eat more dirt than a five-year­old playing outside, but, for now, why not just believe that they'll be better next year? 
The same goes for the passing game. Many have commented on the dropped passes in the spring game, but dropped passes ean be a good thing. Maybe they mean that Clausen's arm is so healthy that his receivers just ean't handle the laser beams he's throwing at them, and that with some throws over the summer, everything will bn alright. So what if that might be a little bit of a streteh? I per­sonally would like to think that nnxt year is going to be nothing like 2007. and if I have to stretch a little bit to get there, so be it. 
After last fall, I'm willing to do whatever I have to do to convince myself' that we'll be better next smtson. If wn're not, I'll have a pretty terrible fall. But right now, I think we're going to win a national ehampionship. and it feels pretty awesome. People that start getting depressed about next season now are just eausing them­selves an extra season of disap­pointment. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those oj'The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at su)('rner@nd. edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives f(Jr the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 54 1 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, April 21, 2008 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST MUD VOLLEYBALL TECHNIQUE? 


Ali Buch Christine Morris Kelly Collins Robert Plasschaert Katie DeMartini Dan Lohmer 
junior junior junior junior junior junior 
Farley Walsh Badin Alumni Welsh Fam Morrissey 
"Faceplant. " ''The 'Mud "Mud wrestling "Suffocating my "Destroying my "Camouflaging 



Angel."' -to distract teammates in the other team. " the mud." 



Mayor and wife embezzle $20,000 from Little League 
ADELANTO, Calif. -A former mayor of a California high desert town and his wife have been sentenced to 6 months in jail for the theft of more than $20,000 from Little League cofl'ers. 
Jim Nehmens, 50, and Kelly Nehmens, 44, pleaded guilty to grand theft by embezzlement and perjury Thursday. 
The eight-year councilman and Adelanto mayor had resigned from his post on March 31, about a week before he and his wile were arrested. 
The former mayor was 

president of the Adelanto Little League, and his wife was a board member during the years the money from the league's annual fire­works sales went missing. The money was taken over three years starting in 2004. 
Nehmens attorney Grover Porter did not immediately return a call seeking eom­ment Saturday. 
Dog and parrot rescued on remote Pacific island 
LOS ANGELES -Snickers the Sea Dog is barely more than a pup, but he's already an old salt. 
The 8-month-old pooch spent three months adrift in the Pacific with his owners and a parrot until their 48­foot sailboat ran aground in December on tiny Fanning Island, 1,000 miles south of Hawaii. Snickers and Gulliver had to be left behind as their owners hitched a ride on a cargo vessel. 
Then in. Mareh, the SOS was sent out in a boating journal that the orphaned critters were to be destroyed on Fanning, one of 33 scat­tered coral atolls that make up the remote island nation of Kiribati. 
Information compiled by The Associated Press. 


shoes." myselfin the mud." 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame Band Chamber Ensembles will per­form its spring concert today at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but ticketed. 
BCAC will hold a Greek Conference to diseuss the his­tory of various greek organi­zations tonight at 7 p.m. in the Alumni Basement Student Lounge. 
The Gender Relations Center will sponsor "Take Back the Night," a prayer service at the Grotto, followed by a march through campus and a reeeption, today at 7 p.m. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will play Chicago State Tuesday at 6:05 p.m. at Eek Stadium. 
The Student Union Board will show "Back to the Future" Tuesday on North Quad at 9 p.m. Free burgers and brats will be served. 
Students for Environmental Action will hold a Vegetarian No Waste Dinner in the Coleman-Morse Lounge at 5 
p.m. on Wednesday. 
The band "The Starting Line" will perform Friday in Legends at 10 p.m as part of the Student Union Board's AnTostal festivities. 
The Notre Dame Battle of the Bands will be at Legends Saturday at 8 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section (~{The Observer, e-m ail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 



HIGH 
67 

LOW 
48 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

....I 
c::c 
(.) 





0 

HIGH 73 69 HIGH HIGH
..J 
LOW 69 65 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
80 60 
70 45 

Atlanta 67 I 55 Boston 66 I 43 Chicago 57 I 48 Denver 77 I 38 Houston 80 I 50 Los Angeles 66 I 54 Minneapolis 57 I 39 New York 77 I 56 Philadelphia 78 I 55 Phoenix 91 I 60 Seattle 46 I 35 St. Louis 62 I 48 Tampa 821 65 Washington 81 I 57 
Monday, April 21, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
tion of the famous poem "First They Came," commonly attributed to Martin Niemoller. The first board displayed the beginning of the poem, "When they came for the Jews and the blacks, I turned away." The poem continued on several boards detailing other persecuted groups and the indif­ference of others to their plight, and concluded with the line, "And when they came for me, I turned around, and there was nobody left." 
The purpose of this poem was to show how indifference can lead 
to hate crimes, Bautista said. Declaration's plea for people to "The poem along South Quad remember the horrors of the was so that students would realize Holocaust, lined with appeals like 
that a bystander  "Never again!"  
is just as· guilty as  Another goal of  
a perpetrator," she said. "We  "We hope that the  the was  memorial to draw  
wanted students  memorial will remind  attention to other  
walking to class to stop and think about the vio­lence and hate,"  and encourage students to act against violence.,,  groups that per­ished in the Holocaust in addition to the  
Other boards  Jews,  Bautista  
lining the paths exhibited several famous  Mel Bautista memorial organizer  said. Placed intermittently among the  

Holocaust state­ments such as Elie Wiesel's declaration that silence from bystanders aids the oppressors and the Stockholm 
LIFEGUARDS WANTED 
RecSports is hiring energetic, responsible and qualified Lifeguards and Water Safety Instructors. Applicants must be at !east eighteen years old with a valid WSI and/or Lifeguard certificate with up-to­date CPR for the Professional Rescuer and First Aid certifications is required. 
Positions are open at Rolfs Aquatics Center, Rockne Memorial and St. Joseph Beach 

boards were can­
vas signs, each with a different colored triangle and the name of a group that was targeted by the Nazis. 
"The patches represent groups that were discriminated against in the Holocaust," Bautista said. The blue triangle stood for the foreign forced laborers, the pink triangle represented gay men, and the green triangle stands for the polit­ical dissidents who were mur­dered because they took a stand against Nazi violence, Bautista said. 
"The Holocaust did not only affect the Jewish community," she said. 
Nearby boards reminded onlookers that 200,000 to 300,000 political dissidents, 10.000 to 25,000 gay men, 200,000 to 800,000 Roma (Gypsies), and 2,500 to 5,000 Jehovah's Witnesses were murdered along with the five to six million Jews. 
"We hope that the memorial will remind and encourage students to act against violence," Bautista said. "This whole meet is about taking a stand, Hate crimes are still prevalent in our society." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
memorial for Bunikis' par­ents as a way to share sto­


Student 

ries and memories his par­continued from page 1 ents may not have known about their son. and working hard in the "Parents don't know all things he was doing, so he the stories," Colonna said. 
didn't  have  "This  is  a  
the  largest  chance to give  
presence  in  them  more  
the hall, but had a small, intimate  "Andrew was an exceptionally kind  memories." Colonna said there will  
group  of  and giving young  probably be  a  
friends that know him pretty well," Colonna said.  man. He cared a lot about his hall and his friends.,,  delegation of students heading to Phoenix for  
"They're tak­ the  funeral,  
ing it worst. Several fresh­ Corry Colonna Zahm Hall rector  but did not know when  

men never met him, hav­ing only lived with him for one semester. I was really touched to see how many people were [at mass]." 
Students have been griev­ing together with Colonna,. he said, reminiscing about past memories with Bunikis and telling stories. Colonna said the Zahm community may assemble some sort of 
the funeral 
was because 

of the time needed to retrieve Bunikis' body from Thailand. There will be a Mass commemo­rating Bunikis on Tuesday at 10 p.m. in the Basilica. Jenkins will preside over the mass and Parrish will give the homily. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Rev. Edrnund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Award {()r Excellence in Underf,JTaduat.e 'Teaching 
The following faculty members have had a profound influence on Notre Dame undergraduates through sustained, exemplary teaching. 
• David E. Campbell  • Edward Hums  
• Laura A. Carlson  • Yahya Kurama  
• James Collins  • Timothy Loughran  
• Lawrence Cunningham  • Julia Marvin  
• Alan DeFrees  • James J. McKenna  
• Jeffrey Diller  • Thomas Noble  
• Malgorzata Dobrowolska-Furdyna  • Catherine Schlegel  
• John Duffy  • Hannelore Weber  
• J. William Goodwine  
• Michael Hildreth  

Dockweiler Award for Excellence in lJnderf,JTaduat.e Advising 
The following individuals have demonstrated a deep commitment to Notre Dame undergraduates through outstanding mentoring, academic advising, or career counseling services. 
• 
Paul Grimstad 

• 
Catherine Pieronek 

• 
Holly Rivers 


~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office ofthe Provost 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 21, 2008 




Crossfire 
continued from page 1 
NDVotes representatives, seniors Carol Hendrickson and Mike McKenna, moderat­ed the debates. 
Hepresenting the College Democrats was outgoing co­president senior Corey Mehlos and junior Spencer Howard, freshman Ben Linskey and senior Mark Poyar for College Libertarians, and Scholl and freshman Andrew Clark for College Hepublicans. 
The panel gathered to dis­cuss their respective party's stance on three current politi­cal topics: foreign policy, domestic policy and the state of the U.S. economy. 
"We really 

intent, which was to prevent and get Americans good another [terror­wages." ist] attack," Republicans took a different Howard said. stance, favoring tax cuts and 
College Democrats. 
All three elubs agreed that Iraq and terrorism as the most press­ing issues concerning foreign policy, although each offered differing explanations and solutions for the issue. 
"We have to keep our com­mitment to Iraq," Scholl said. "We have to provide security to the people, rebuild institu­tions, end sectarian violence and make sure the govern­ment is self-reliant. Basically, we need to make sure they arn not worse ofT than they wore before [the U.S. inva­sion.!" 
College Libertarian Linskey emphasized tho importance of peace and freedom in Iraq, along with protection of the American people, and warned of the danger of engaging in "fruitless" affairs abroad. 
"We have gained nothing [from this war]. We have become alienated from our friends around the world," Linskey said. "We need to immediately begin withdraw­al in a safe and orderly man­ncr." 
Poyar said the Libertarian 


Shirt 
continued from page 1 
"This will be a better year for the Notre Dame football team," Golic said during his speech. "This has become the most tradition laden school in the land and this is a part of that tradition." 
c;olic said Notre Dame will become great again because it is a program that never dies. 

Chuck Lennon, executive director of tho Alumni Association, also took part in tho festivities. 
"We have never said we are better than anybody else, we said we are different, and we are showing that difference today," Lennon said. 

Thn eommittne brought in the world's largest grill owned by .Johnsonville Brats and gave away free brats and Vitamin Water. There was a moon bounce and a large tent to shadn the audience. The bookstore began selling the Shirts immediately after the unveiling at 6 p.m. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
solution is the only one to the sentatives argued in favor of foreign policy debate. providing affordable health 
"We cannot trust Democrats care to all Americans. and Republicans to end this "We need to look at health war. We need to be a beacon care as a right of all 
of hope for the global commu­nity," he said. 
The two Democrats agreed that the basic goal of foreign poli­cy is the pro­tection of the United States, and that the war in Iraq has not been successful. 
"We have 
"We cannot trust Democrats and Republicans to end this war. We need to be a beacon ofhope for the global community. '' 
Mark Poyar College Libertarians representative 
Americans," Mehlos said. 
College Democrats lamented the state of the American economy. 
"We need to balance the budget, which is now out of control because of the Iraq war, Mehlos said. 
lost sight of our original "We need to create green jobs 
want to get the "We have to keep our Concerning decreased spending. campus more domestic policy, Libertarians took a similar
commitment to Iraq."
aware of party both the stance, favoring tax cuts and platforms," said Libertarians reduced spending as well. Howard, the Mike Scholl and Republicans "A free market can result in current co-College Republicans agreed that uni­prosperity for all," Poyar president of versal health­said,
treasurer 

care is not a Poyar also criticized wise choice for Republican presidential nomi­
the country, saying it would necessi­tate too much "We really want to governmental 
get the campus 
involvement. 
more aware of
"Government 
should be small party platforms." and effective, not big and 
Spencer Howard 
overpowering, 
College Democrats
Clark said. College 
co-president 
Democrats, how­ever, argued in 
nee John McCain's eco­nomic creden­tials. 
"McCain once said he 'does not understand much about econom­ics,"' Poyar said. 
All three clubs said they hope Friday's debates encouraged polit­ical interest and involvement on 
favor of universal healthcare. the campus, especially in light 
"Martin Luther King once of Indiana's May 6 primary. said that injustice in health­"Even if people were here care is the most shocking and for only 30 seconds, I just inhuman thing in our coun­want them to hear what we're try," Mehios said. "One-third saying," Scholl said. of Americans have no health care." Contact Katie Peralta at 
The two Democratic repre-kperalta@nd.edu 
llndergraduate Female of the Year llndergradunte Male of the Year Caroline Nally-PE Ryan Bove.-Sorm Megan Bcschcr -Pangborn Matt llamcl ­Keenan Cynthia Curley ­PW Max Young···· Siegfried  
Cradfl<'ac/Staff l<'cmalc of the \'car Grad/Fac/Staff Malt of tht Year Jenny Borg Scan Walsh Cheryl Ramsey David Standa Jacqueline Pimcntci-Gann.)n Rob Schenkenlelder  
Gamt of the Year Siegfried vs. Keenan (lH Men's Soccer Championship) $81,000 Cash vs. Law Dawgs (GFS Flag Football Championship) Dillon vs. St.anlbrd (IH Football Playoff.~)  
Team of tht Yeat· Morrissey Basketball Zahm Ice Hockey Cavanaugll Foothall  l<"ans of the Year Alumni Hockey PWHall Keenan Foothall  

Store our Stun 
rthe Summerl 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2169 

6482 Brick Road, South Bend Located at Cleveland Rd.& US 20 Bypass, 7 minutes from campus 
t 
·.. 
Pick up your 2008 l:lo~ne yearbook 
Tuesday, A.pril 22: 11 :30-5 in 108 LaFortune (Borin Annex adjacent to matn lounge) 4:30-8 at North Dining Hall (south porch) 
Wednesday, April 23: 1 1 :30-5 in 1 08 LaFortune 4:30-9 at South Dining Hall (main lobby) 
Thursday, April 24: 1 1 :;30-5 in 108 LaFortune 
• 
No charge to undergraduates (just show ID). Grad students and others may purchase for $29 at l ...aFortune Information Desk. 

• 
2005, 2006 and 2007 yearbooks will be available in 108 LaFortune while supplies last. (No charge to undergrads). 

• 
Students who are abroad may have a friend pick up a copy for the1n, or they may come to 315 Lal<....ortune next fall. 

• 
For n1ore information, e-:rnai.l Dotne(ii?.nd.edu. 


Thartk )lOU and en}OJ' your yearbook 
VVork f'or the 2009 Don~e 
Openings for Sports ec::litors, Senior Section editors, writers and others E-mail Dome@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 21, 2008 CoMPILED FROlvt THr ()ssERVER's WIRE SERVlCEs • page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Anny to investigate cameraman's death 
JERUSALEM -The Israeli army announced Sunday it will investigate the killing of a camera­man for the Reuters news agency, after a human rights group said it found evidence suggesting that an Israeli tank crew fired recklessly or deliberately at the journalist. 
Cameraman Fadel Shana, 23, was killed in Gaza on Wednesday, the bloodiest day of fighting between Israeli troops and Gaza militants in a month. Just before his death, Shana was filming an Israeli tank in the distance, and his final footage shows the tank frring a shell in his direc­tion. 

Authorities forget prisoner for decades 
IIIPAUWA, Sri Lanka -Age may have slowed him, but P.P. James wakes up early every day to head into the fields and harvest rice. 
The short, wiry 84-year-old pulls a worn red baseball cap over his tousled gray hair, hikes up his sarong and, with quiet determination, swings his scythe through the stalks, methodically cut­ting his way across the field. While those far younger rest in the shade, he plods on, insistent that no more time be wasted -he has already had a half century stolen from him. 
Arrested for killing his father late one night in 1958. James was ruled mentally ill by a judge, sent to an asylum for the criminally insane -and forgotten. 
Decades after his doctors pronounced him cured, he remained trapped in a criminal justice nightmare. The hospital could only release him to the prisons authority. The prisons authority could only pick him up under a court order. The courts never called for him because they couldn't fmd his file. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Sect breaks silence, speaks to media 
SAN ANGELO, Texas -Before authorities raid­ed their west Texas retreat, members of a secre­tive polygamous church spent decades holding as tightly to their intense privacy as the Scriptures guiding their way of life. 
Contact with outsiders was limited. Media inquiries were rejected with either stone-faced silence or a polite "no comment." 
But after Texas officials removed 416 children belonging to members of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, the sect fired up the public relations machine. 
From newspaper stories to appearances on morning network television, "Larry King Live" and "Oprah," FLDS women are speaking publicly about the heartbreak of being separated from their children and sharing some details of their life. 
McCain prioritizes economic goals 
WASHINGTON -Republican John McCain said Sunday that cutting taxes and stimulating the economy are more important than balancing the budget, and accused both Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama of supporting tax hikes that would worsen the impact of a recession. 
"The goal right now is to get the economy going again," the GOP presidential nominee-in-waiting said on ABC's "This Week," adding that he would put the country "on a path to a balanced budget" by attacking wasteful spending. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Jackson visits low-performing schools 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. -The Rev. Jesse Jackson urged students to accept respon­sibility for their education during an hour-long assembly at Northwest High School. 
Jackson, founder of the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, came to Indianapolis Friday as part of his campaign to push students at low-performing schools to graduate. He visited after a national report highlighted low graduation rates in Indianapolis Public Schools. 
Jackson told students he wanted to "cut through the madness of why we can't learn, why we aren't learning. 
"You must accept responsibility," he said. 
He asked students to promise they would study three hours a night, reject violence and embrace their neighbors. 
IRAQ 


Rice denounces al-Sadr in Iraq visit 
Cleric threatened to declare war ifU.S. and Iraq maintain military crackdown 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice mocked anti-American cler­ic Muqtada al-Sadr as a coward on Sunday, hours after the radical leader threatened to declare war unless U.S. and Iraqi forces end a military crackdown on his followers. 
Rice, in the Iraqi capital to tout security gains and what she calls an emerging political consensus, said al­Sadr is content to issue threats and edicts from the safety of Iran, where he is studying. Al-Sadr heads an unruly militia that was the main target of an Iraqi gov­ernment assault in the oil­rich city of Basra last month, and his future role as a spoiler is an open question. 
"I know he's sitting in Iran," Rice said dismissive­ly, when asked about al­Sadr's latest threat to lift a self-imposed cease-fire with government and U.S. forces. "I guess it's all-out war for anybody but him," Rice said. "I guess that's the message; his followers can go to their deaths and he's in Iran." 
In a statement on his offi­cial Web site, al-Sadr said, "We denounce the visit of . 

U.S. secretary, asking the government to ban the only to see the Shiite-led and-largest city. The assault sive was inconclusive, with entrance of the terrorists' government of Prime was al-Maliki's most deci­Iran helping mediate a occupiers to our pure land." Minister Nouri al-Maliki sive act by far against al­truce. Fighting has contin­
The statement asked respond by closing his Sadr, a fellow Shiite and ued in the Baghdad neigh­Iraqis to express their offices and "resorting to once a political patron. borhood of Sadr City, home opposition to the visit assassinations." Kurdish and Sunni politi­to many of al-Sadr's follow­through peaceful means. He accused the govern­cians, including a chief ers. 
A full-blown uprising by ment of selling out to the rival, have since rallied to "Some of the violence is a al-Sadr, who led two rebel­Americans and branding al-Maliki, and the Bush byproduct of a good deci­lions against U.S.-led forces his followers as criminals. administration argues he sion," to take on militias in 2004, could lead to a "So I am giving my final could emerge stronger from and consolidate military dramatic increase in vio­warning ... to the Iraqi gov-what had appeared to be a power, Rice told reporters lence in Iraq at a time when ernment ... to take the path military blunder. following a few hours of the Sunni extremist group of peace and abandon vio­During five days of heavy meetings and lunch with al-Qaida in Iraq appears lence against its people, fighting last month, Iraqi Iraqi leaders. 
n 

poised for new attacks after al-Sadr said. "If the govern­troops struggled against "That, I think, is what has suffering severe blows last ment does not refrain ... we militiamen, particularly the given the sense to the Iraqis year. will declare an open war Mahdi Army. The ill-pre­that they have a new 
In a warning posted until liberation." pared Iraqi military was opportunity, a window of Saturday on his Web site, Rice praised al-Maliki for plagued by desertions and opportunity," Rice said. "I al-Sadr said he had tried to confronting al-Sadr's Mahdi poor organization and U.S. don't think you would have defuse tensions by declar­Army, which had a choke troops had to take over in seen this kind of unity," ing the truce last August, hold on Basra, Iraq's sec-some instances. The offen-before. 


Pope blesses ground zero, prays for peace 
Associated Press silent prayer for a few moments, hatred." 
then rose to light a memorial candle. Benedict invited 24 people with ties 

NEW YORK -Pope Benedict XVI Addressing a group that included to ground zero to join him: survivors, began the final day of his American survivors, clergy and public officials, relatives of victims and four rescue journey by blessing the site of the he acknowledged the many faiths of workers. He greeted each member of Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the victims at the "scene of incredible the group individually as a string the World Trade Center and pleading violence and pain." quartet played in the background. In with God to bring "peace to our vio­J'he pope also prayed for "those his prayer, he also remembered lent world." who suffered death, injury and loss" those who, "because of their pres­
The visit by Benedict to ground in the attacks at the Pentagon and in ence here that day, suffer from zero was a poignant moment in a trip the crash of United Airlines Flight 93 injuries and illness." marked by unexpectedly festive in Shanksville, Pa. More than 2,900 New York deputy fire chief James crowds anxious to see the former people were killed in the four crash­Riches, father of a fallen Sept. 11 academic who for three years has led es of the airliners hijacked by al­firefighter, said the pope's visit was the world's Roman Catholics. Qaida. important and gave him "a little con­
Benedict was driven in the pope­"God of peace, bring your peace to solation." mobile part-way down a ramp now our violent world," the pope prayed Hundreds of people stood just out­used mostly by construction trucks to on a chilly, overcast morning. "Turn side the site, behind police barri­a spot by the north tower's footprint. to your way of love those whose cades, hoping for a glimpse of the He walked the final steps, knelt in hearts and minds are consumed with pope. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 21, 2008 
Congratulations Notre Darne! ! Second place 
Deloitte would like to 
congratulate the University of Notre Dame team for placing 
second in the recent 2008 
National. Student Case Study 
Seminar. Team members 
included Serena Chan, David Hillegass, Andrew .Monahan, Caroline Schneider, Angela Sutton, and Faculty Advisor, Professor Dave Ricchiute. 


Deloitte 
Audit.Tax. Consulting. Financial Advisory. 
www.deloitte.c:om A!. used In th1s document. "Delo!tte·· mt?ans Delo1tte l.LP and its subsidiaries. Please see www delo1tte.com/us/about for a detailed descnpti~n of the legal structure of Delo1tte LLP and 1ts sub~.1diaru.."'!:. Copyright C 2008 Delo1tte Development LLC. All rights reserved 
Monday, April21, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,849.36 +228.87

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

AMEX NASDAQ NYSE 


S&P 500 1,399,:,~~ +24.77 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 1t3i72CK65 1111111':: FTSE 100 (London) 6,056.50 +76.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +1.04 +1.43 138.48 CITIGROUP INC (C) +4.49 +1.08 25.11 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +3.18 +1.44 46.71 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +2.20 +0.57 26.47 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.38 +0.014 3.743 13-WEEK BILL +9.09 +0.110 1.320 30-YEAR BOND -0.15 -0.007 4.517 5-YEAR NOTE +1.76 +0.051 2.948 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.83 117.00 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -27.70 915.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.15 77.95 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 103.9550 EURO 0.6327 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0066 BRITISH POUND 0.5004 

IN BRIEF Democrats address environment, coal 
WASHINGTON -Democrats Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are walking a delicate line as they promise to aggressively tackle global warming while trying to assure voters that they continue to believe in the future of coal. 
In states like Pennsylvania, where voters will cast ballots this Tuesday, and in West Virginia, Kentucky, Indiana and Montana ­upcoming primary states -coal sways vot­ers. 
While increased mechanization has pro­duced a dramatic decline in coal industry employment, the numbers remain substan­tial. There are 4 7,000 coal workers in Pennsylvania and West Virginia and 21,000 in Kentucky, according to the National Mining Association. The three states are the coun­try's biggest coal producers after Wyoming. 
Both Obama and Clinton have rallied envi­ronmentalists with their promises to develop windmills, solar power and other renewable energy sources and order mandatory reduc­tions in greenhouse gases from power plants to counter global warming. 

Government to increase regulation 
WASHINGTON -A heavier federal hand is reaching into American life as politicians in both parties demand an overhaul of govern­ment financial regulation and more protection for homeowners in the face of mortgage woes and a weakenitlg eccmomy. 
This rush to regulate also was apparent in the recent crackdown on the airlines, result­ing in thousands of grounded flights for safety inspections as the government beefs up its enforcement of existing laws. There have been mounting proposals for tougher govern­ment rules to address climate change. High corporate salaries have come under attack on Capitol Hill, as have oil industry profits and rising food costs. 
Advocates of more aggressive government action see it as a boon to ordinary Americans struggling in hard economic times. But those favoring a lighter federal touch worry that the pendulum will swing too far toward regula­tion, stifling economic growth and efficiency. 




THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Bush, Lee discuss trade, N. Korea 
South Korea to lift ban on U.S. beefsales, nuclear talks stalled over uranium program 
Associated Press 
CAMP DAVID -President Bush and South Korean President Lee Myung-bak said Saturday they still expect North Korea to fully declare its nuclear weapons programs and proliferation activities in a way that can be verified. Bush tamped down assertions that the 
U.S. is going soft on the communist regime so the nuclear standoff can be resolved before he leaves office. 
After two days of meet­ings at the Camp David presidential retreat, Bush and Lee urged patience, saying critics need to see what North Korea says in it long-promised declaration before deciding whether the 
U.S. and its partners are being too lenient. 
"Thanks to the six-party framework, North Korea has begun disabling the plu­tonium production facilities at Yongbyon," Bush said with Lee at his side. "Now North Korea must fulfill its other obligations: Provide a full declaration of its nuclear programs and pro­liferation activities in a veri­fiable way." 
Lee, a pro-American con­servative who took office in February, is the first South Korean president to ever accepted Lee's offer to visit enrichment program and which was due in visit the secluded wooded South Korea this summer. alleged proliferation activi­December. The Bush retreat northwest of The two talked about ties -in return for conces­administration has report­Washington. Bush's invita­prospects for a free-trade sions. The initial six-nation edly decided that the decla­tion was meant to give the agreement, South Korea's agreement did not expressly ration's exact contents are two an informal venue to decision to lift its ban on require the North to detail less important than an get acquainted and cement U.S. beef sales, exchange its proliferation activities, assurance that nuclear U.S.-South Korea ties, programs and a reposition­but the issue took on new negotiators can check to see which have been tense in ing of U.S. troops on the significance after Israel whether Kim Jong Il's gov­recent years. peninsula, but North Korea bombed a suspected Syrian ernment has told the truth. 
Lee has said that repair­was a key subject of their nuclear site last fall. "I believe if North Korea's ing relations with the discussions. North Korea made declaration is not satisfacto­United States is a top priori­Nuclear talks between unprecedented progress ry or ifthe verification is not ty -that they "lacked North Korea and five other last year, including closing satisfactory, we could prob­trust" under his more liber­nations, including the its working plutonium reac­ably have a temporary al predecessor, Rob Moo­United States and South tor at Yongbyon, but talks achievement, but in the long hyun. Lee described his Korea, are stalled over slowed in a dispute over term, that will cause a lot conversations with Bush as whether Pyongyang will how much the North had to more serious problems," "open and frank." Bush fully declare its uranium reveal in the declaration, Lee said. 

Economists fear agricultural crisis 
mist at Kansas State University. Farm economists question whether
Associated Press 
The potential problem, economists the federal backing for ethanol will 
DES MOINES -At a time of said, is that strong demand for corn continue in the face of complaints record agricultural profits, concerns and other grains has caused prices that soaring corn prices are increas­are mounting that American farmers to reach historic highs. That has led ing food costs. Corn is used in most could be edging toward a financial to record farmland values and animal feed and is a key ingredient crisis not seen since the 1980s farm­steadily increasing debt as farmers in myriad other products. economy collapse. borrow money to buy more land, "U.S. energy policy has been 
Soaring land values, increasing finance the higher costs of fertilizer friendly to ethanol in the last couple debt and a reliance on government and seed and upgrade their equip­of decades. The question is, will it subsidies for ethanol production ment. continue to be. It's running up food have prompted economists to warn As long as the demand remains, prices and that's causing pressure that what some describe as a golden good times for farmers should con­on Congress to limit mandates for age of agriculture could come to a tinue. But if demand falls, they could ethanol usage," said Neil Harl, an sudden end. At risk are the liveli­find themselves in a situation remi­emeritus professor of economics at hoods of thousands of farmers, the niscent of the early 1980s when the Iowa State University. health of hundreds of banks and the farm economy largely crumbled. The farm bill appears mired in vitality of an agricultural industry Among factors that could affect Congress as lawmakers bicker with that has been one of the nation's few demand would be a change in the the Bush administration, which has economic bright spots in recent federal government's policy on threatened a veto if any increases in months. ethanol subsidies, now estimated at spending are not offset by reduc­
"We're in a very risky time, and about $6 billion a year, revisions in tions elsewhere. Congress on yet we don't seem concerned about the farm bill that would lower sup­Thursday passed a short-term that risk nearly as much as we port payments or an increase in the extension to the 2002 farm bill that should be," said Barry L. dollar.'s value, which would hurt keeps programs funded through Flinchbaugh, an agricultural econo-exports. April 25. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, April 21, 2008 
CHINA 
More anti-Western protests en1erge in several cities 
Tibet dernonstrations along Olympic torch relay spur anger, media outlets urge for calm to quell nationalistic fervor 
Associated Press 
BI\IJING -Fresh anti­Western protests flared in sev­eral Chinese cities Sunday as people vented anger over pro­Tibet demonstrations along the Olympic torch relay. State media appealed for calm in an apparent attempt to dampen the nationalistic fervor. 
Over tho weekend, protest­nrs waving Chi llf)Se flags have rallied in 
front or the "As citizens. we have Olympics, F r e n c h the respom;ibilily lo Xinhua said. 
1\rnbassy in Xinhua
express our patriotic 

Beijing and at reported that ou tints or enthusiasm calmly and one protest Fn~nch retailer rationally and express organizer in 
Carrnfour in Xi'an, identified
patriotic aspiration in 

nine cities as Wu Sheng, 
across tlw an orderly and legal said the demon­country. They manner. strations were have threatmwd not necessarily boy1:otts of the aimed at push­
Editorial of Chinese

rntailer. whom ing customers to 
they accuse of Communist Party boycott 
supporting the 
Dalai Lama. 
Tibnt's exiled spiritual leader 
-a dutrge Carref'our denies. 
A front-page editorial in the 
t\wple's Daily rwwspaper, the 
off'icial mouthpiece for the 
Chinese Communist Party, 
called for calm. urging people 
to chnrish patriotism "while 
expressing it in a rational 
way." 
"As citizens, we have the 
responsibility to express our 
patriotic enthusiasm calmly 
and rationally and express 
patriotie aspiration in an 
orderly and legal manner," the 
commentary said. 
The editorial seemed to 
reflect concern among China's 
leaders about a growing anti­
Western backlash, fueled by 
anger over the dmnonstrations 
in Paris, London and San 
Francisco during the Olympi<~ 
torch relay. Tho relay has 
become a magnet for protests 
against China's rule in Tibet 
and its human rights record. 
Barry Sautman, a political scientist at tlw Hong Kong University of Seienee and Technology, said the govern­nwnt is trying to rein in the demonstrations in order to Pnsun• ralm and projeet an inviting imagP alwad of tlw Beijing Olympi1:s in August. 
"That's why they want d1nn on strati on s to b~~ vnr y short," Sautrnan said. "They want to wrap tlwm up as soon as possibl1~ so tlwy can go on to n~ston~ tlw image of China as welcoming to people around tlw world." 
liP said that BPijing's move to rPin in thP budding nation­alism follows similar patterns SPI'Il in tlw past. such as in I<J 1J'J whPn anti-U.S. outrage Pruptnd aftPr tlw bombing of Llw C h i n n s n nrn bassy i n Belgrade and i~l 2001 when a 
U.S. spy plann collided with a Chirwsn lightPr jnt. 
"T lw go v P r n rn n n t a II ows pnopln to VPnt tlwir splnnn but tlwn imrnndiattdy rPins it in," Sautrnan said. "Tiwy arc~ eer­tai nly afraid it wi II go too far." 
On Sunday. nwrP than 1,000 dPrnonstrators carrying ban­nPrs gatlwrPd for a SPcond day in tlw tourist city of Xi'an in front of a CarrPI'our. rhanting "Opposn TilwL lndPpl'rHinnce," "(;o China," and "<:ondPm n CN N." tlw o ffieial Xinhua IIPWS ag1•ney n~ported. 
Protests also continued in central Wuhan for a second day, when another 2,000 peo­ple, mostly students, waved the Chinese flag and sang the national anthem. 
Hallies also were staged in the cities of Harbin, Dalian, and Jinan. An estimated 1,000 demonstrators blocked traffic in Dalian, while another 1,000 protesters in Harbin held up at a 33-foot-long banner in sup­port of the 
Carrefour. 
"We do not support a boycott of French eompanres because the econo­my is globalizing. We chose Carref'our's front doors only because we draw more atten­tion thorn," Wu was quoted as saying. 
In an interview published in Journal du Dimanche, Carrefour's chief executive Jose Luis Duran said the com­pany is "taking the situation very seriously," though its earnings had not yet been affected. 
With 2 million Chinese cus­tomers, "we cannot take the reaction of some of our clients lightly," he said. "It must be understood that a large part of the Chinese population has been vnry shocked by the inci­dents that have peppered the passage of the Olym pie torch through Paris." 
Duran denied rumors spread on the Internet that Carrefour supports the Dalai Lama, say­ing the company has never supported any political or reli­gious eausn. Thn retailer is the second-largest "hypermarket in the world after Wal-Mart Stores lne. It has 122 stores in China employing 44,000 peo­ple. 
The protests began Saturday, erupting in Beijing and five other major cities -Hefei, Wuhan, Kunming, Xi'an, and Qingdao. 
In Beijing, small protests broke out at one Carrefour 
and outside the French Embassy as well as the Beijing French School. Dozens of police, some in riot gear, quickly dispersed the crowd in front of the embassy. 
Anger also has been chan­neled against Western media organizations, including CNN, for so-called "distorted" cover­age of recent unrest in Tibet 
Welcome to your new Manhattan lifestyle. With a great downtown location, these oversized apartments have living spaces that are easily shareable. 
Rent here and avoid an upfront broker fee and a security deposit. We'll even give you $1 ,000 off your tirst month's rent to help you settle in. • 
Make moving to New York easy. 
1 Bedrooms from $2,800 (convertible to a 2 bedroom) 2 Bedrooms from $3,600 (convertible to a 3 bedroom) 3 Bedrooms from l5,350 (convertible to a 4 bedroom) 
NO BROKER FEE APARTMENTS 

888.20 l .5944 
and neighboring provinces. Foreign journalists have received threatening phone calls and e-mails. 
Several thousand ethnic Chinese marched outside CNN's office in llollywood Saturday to demand the firing of a commentator who recent­ly compared China's leaders to a "bunch of goons and thugs." 

stuytown .com 
.;,,,, 
l.emlng Office: 332 first Ave. ~ 
(ot 19th St ), N"w Yor~. t~y 10009 / ··... "\.,. 
FQUAI H'''''.lli(~ <•J..PORJIJNIIY 


stuyvesant town 
·S.inf! ·h~~od in {JI limfl d: :~fl.~lf'9 diEi ro-~rw Aug!At 11, 20111~. No ~eo.J'Itv d·>po:tt roqtkod with approved aecb. love your apace 


---~-----,-----------. 
Monday, April 21, 2008 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
THE UNIVERSITY 0 F NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY IS INVITED TO ATTEND A MEMORIAL MASS ASWE MOURNTHE LOSS OF 
Junior, College of Business Zahm Hall 

BASILICA OFTHE SACRED HEART 
Tuesday, April 22, 2008 


10:00 p~rn. 
Rev. john !.Jenkins, C.S. C., Presider Rev. Daniel]. Parrish, C.S. C., Homilist Mr. Corry Colonna, Words ifRemembrance 



THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 21 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Nurre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining llall, Norre Dame, IN 46'i% 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hinc 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Jay l'irzpatri<:k Kyle West 
Ass·!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasub AssT. MANA!;IN<; EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
NEWS EDITOR: Billllrink 
VIEWPOINT E!liTOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris !-line 
S<:F.NF. EDITOR: 'lac Andrews 

SAINT M,\llY'S EDITOR: l.iz llarrcr 
PHOTO EDITOR: Jessica Lee 
GRAI'IIICS EIJIH>R: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGFR: Je"ica Corte7 
An l>FSIGN MANAGt:R: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) (dl-7471
FAX 
(~74) 6.~ 1-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(~74) 631-6'>00 obscrvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('>74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (d 1-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(S74) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sport.d@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DEsK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

Show appreciation for Mother Earth 
What dons Earth Day mean to you? 
I know, I know. You probably sit there night after night, mulling over this ques­tion. Finals and papers are ofeourse far from your mind (of' eoursn). Tax day is just a blip on Uw radar 
Jackie
sernon. a week-loll 
Mirando/a
markor before the big 
Mullen
event that's on your cal­endar. But as the spring 
Guest 
weather draws you 
Columnist 
lhnn your studying, 
rnaybn you'n~ apprndating tl1n Earth 
more than you earn to admit. 
Earth Day. Apr. 22. The first Earth Day ever was Apr. 22, 1970. It was initiatnd by a snnator from Wismnsin, Gaylord Nt'lson, who nnvisiont'd a "nation-widn grassrool'l demonstration" (good pun, too, SmuttorJ. It worked-thnrn Wl~ffl protest.<>, demonstrations and rallins. 
That was the first environnwntal move­nwnt. Associated with hippies, tren-hug­gnrs, pnaeP-lovcrs, war-protnsters ­nothing in the norm, evPrything radical. College kids. Bums. Dnfinitely not upper­middle dass, working America. And yet the holiday stw:k. It's now a national holi­day-but does everyone know that? 
We learn about Earth Day in elmnen­tary school now, maybe make some paper-macho animals or plant a tree for it, and listen to the evening news blurb covering some local rally. My sister's birthday is on Earth Day and I remember her buying the llabitat for Humanity "Earth Day is Every Day" T-shirt. I liked the shirt, too, because of all the pretty animals around the picture of the globe, but she got dibs because of the birthday double-entendre. 
But what is Earth Day'? We liked the shirt, we heard the news story, we see the marked date on all of our calendars but do we observe it? 
I once asked my mom why there wasn't a "Kids' Day," since we have both Mothers' and Fathers' Day. She told me evnry day is kids' day. A day commemo­rating something is intended to allow you to do just that-commemorate it. Takn a minute to appreciate what you otherwise take for granted. Kids are always appreci­ated because of the nature or panmthood but parents need occasional allirmation that their efl'orts -their sacrifice -is worthwhile and appreciated. 
Do we appreciate the Earth's sacrifice? I'm back to the hippie celebration of our Mother now. But stop and bracket "hip­pie" for just one minute. The eartl1 gives us life. All of our resources come from the earth. Everything man-made is man­made from materials that originated with­in the earth. We an~ one dosed eeosys­tmn, we have one (albeit enormous) mass of atoms that isn't going to change too much, even with our nfl'orts to defy the limits of eartl1's boundaries and msources. 
We take, we use, we trample, and still we i!-,'llOnl the warnings ihat Earth sends us. We "pave paradise and put up a park­ing lot" (thanks Joni Mitchell) then won­der why streams are going dry and soil erosion is uncontrollable. 
Parents need that day of appreciation to fool loved. It's easy to take advantage of someone or something that's always there and sometimes in the way of what you really want to do. Children see their par­ents as an obstade to desires, often, despite the fact that the parents provide for and bend to the child and really make life possible. Maybe the Earth never tried to enforce your curfew, but admit it -you were peeved when the downpour started just as you were going outside to play Frisbee. But didn't you like that shower 

you just took'? That water you drank with 
dinner? The fact that you ean Ilush the 
toilet, wash your hands, eat ofl' of dnan 
platns? 
I low do you want to apprndatn thn 
earth'? Maybn planting a tron isn't th1~ bnst 
way. It's niee to get your mom a prnsent 
for Mother's Day, but think of' how happy 
slw is when you do tlHJSI~ little things fiJr 
her all year long. In any n~lationship, the 
best way to show you care is through sus­
taining the lovn. Showing you earn 
through your liliJstyle. 
Hefleet on it. In what way do );.OU fail to 
appreeiatn the n~sourens of this earth­
tho flawlnss s1mms that so I'ragilely hal­
ann~. Tlw intnrwovnn livns that support 
our own existnnce an~ often outside of' our 
realm of knowlndge and our disruptions 
to the pattnrn go.unnoticnd by us. lf'wn 
want to benefit from the Earth's capabili­
ties, shouldn't we reeognizn and support 
them, as well? 
So this Earth Day, dncide what it means to you. Do you show your mother you care th1~ whole year round'? Do you sus­tain the love? Or do you just send a pn~s­ent to eountPraet any guilt that might oth­erwise <Teep up on you in the upcoming year? You have a day before this year's Earth day-still time to find that present -but you have the rest of your life to show your appreciation. 
Jackie Mirando/a Mullen is a sopho­more 1/istory and German major. She is a Jan oftrees, although unlike fans and the shade oftrees, she does not cool you off on a hot summer's day. She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advcniscmt·nts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d ,·ditorials represent the opinion of rht· majority of the Editor in Chid: Managing Editor, Ao;sistant Man•t~ing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rht• amhors and nor necessarily those ofThe (lbservcr. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t•tters ro the Editor musr be signed and must include contau information. 
Qumiom rrgflrding Obs~rver polities should be direct<·d to Editor in ChiefGnris Hine 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'ltc 01111\·tvct (USP"' '5•J1) .!-41>4111) ~ publtt.h~,.t Mumlo~y through Fru.l;~.y c:n.cpt durmg u~m .Uhl Y:l4>11tllll)"-'fUI\I<t, A •uiMo,rt.mun 111 The t>h....·rvcr i• $\011 furcmc ;audcmk: 
yc..m$'551urouc:~mc,t(t 
Ihe l..ll~«t·m:r •• puhlt,lunl.u I'OSTMAS.rER ill-1 Snuth DininK 11,~11 Send addrt"s-. correction~ IP: Num; D~n''"· IN -tMYt-nm ThcOI"~M:rvtl l'crmdt~'lll j)()lf.ttt•· p.ttll.tt Nntrc lltmt" r.o Bm:n•> .1nd ~lidJtinB41 m.ulintc utlic:.u. 024 South Dinmg 11:~11 
Suue D:~mc, IN 46'5'56-0779 

n.c OlhttVCI ••• nu:Tlllle:ttlF rhc Au.K;t.lfc:d Prat>. All rcprndunlun rit;ftu oiTC 
f('JrCJVl'd 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 


America needs Electoral College 
To bash the Electoral College ... to suggest that the "Electoral College m1eds to go" (Maggie O'Connor, Apr. 17) because it is out­dated and discourages voting in non-swing states is both poor politieal scholarship and irresponsible civics. To believe that the Electoral College was set up beeause the Founding Fathers did not trust eitizens to make an inf(Jrmed decision is to recognize only half of the issue-and the unimportant half at that. 
In the Federalist Papers No. 39, James Madison clearly indicat­nd that it was-a system set up so that both the people and the states could bn taken into account for the election of the Prnsident. This is why the numbers of' t.he Electoral College rnfleet tlw numbers of both the Senate and the Housfl of Hepmsentatives combined, !-,riving two Electoral College votes to all states mgardless of population. The states do deserve some amount of say in elPeting the Presidfmtjust as they deserve a say in law-making. After all, we are talking about tho President of the Unitnd States, not necessarily the Prnsident of the United PP.ople. 
To say that the Electoral Collegn is outdated is to be unaware of the trnnds of wide-seale government. If the Electoral College wern indeed outdatnd then the European Union probably would not have adopted a similar system to determine the number of dnlegatns each country would receive in the Europnan Parliament. The European Union gives countries themselves a disproportionately higher amount of delegates so that the small­er eountries could not be dominated by tl1e larger countries, just as we would not want the 15 most populous states (well over 50 pereent of the U.S. population) to dominate the "lesspr" 35 states. SpecilieaUy, SO million people -roughly 25 percent of the popu­lation of the United States -live in tho 15 most populous cities in the United States. Considering that at most around 50 percent of 
citizens vote in each election, this would give enormous power to 
such cities and thus encouragn candidates to foeus most of their 
campaign efforts and platform promises on 15 congested areas 
in the United States. If you were worried about .the battle not 
being fought in a "swing" state or small states such as Wyoming 
or the Dakotas under tho system of' the Electoral College, then 
you should probably be more worried undnr direet elnetions. 
Finally, to worry that your vote does not count bn1:ausn you are a Hepubliean in California or a Democrat in Texas is irrnsponsi­ble citizenry to begin with. This is the same folly voters make when they choose to vote.fiJr a candidate they only half-agren with but who has an actual chance of' winning, over a candidate they completely agree with but has a long-shot of winning. Voting is not about winning; voting is about expmssing your opinion. When you vote f()r a third party candidatn you probably won't win, but at least you have told the two bigger parties that the platforms of the third parties are rolevant and important and that if they want your vote too, they will have to incorporate thn third party platforms into thnir own platl'onn in the nnxt eleetion. The same applies to a Democrat voting in Gllorgia or a Hepublican voting in New York: You probably will not win the election but your opinion is nevertheless nxpressnd -an opinion which will not go unnoticed by the competitive world of' polities -and you will likely win in the end. 
Jonathan Toups 
JUfliOf 
Sranlord Hall 
Apr. 17 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Bill Brink Matt Gamber Emma Driscoll Sam Werner Claire Heising Andy Ziccarelli 
Graphics Scene 
Jared Wafer Hyan Haflin 
Viewpoint 
Lianna 

Brauweiler 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite Antostal Event? 
Krispy Kremes on the Quad Quarter dog eating contest Tie-dye shirts Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can lead a boy_ to college, but you cannot make'him to tftink. " 
Elbert Hubbard writer 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Monday, April 21 2008 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Morally elitist attitude unacceptable 
In his Apr. 18 guest column "Extend parietals, save your soul," junior computer science major Lenny Meehan makes it painfully clear that he is not getting any. He makes the case for expanding parietals by two hours a night as a way of promoting the Catholic value of abstinence and along the way reveals a staggering amount of social ineptitude and a paternal­istic streak so wide that he sounds like a cross between Pat Robertson and a seventh grader at his first dance. Whether or not students doing the horizontal monster mash make good Catholics is up for debate but Meehan's holier-than-thou attitude can't be winning him many friends as he points out that he's definitely a better Catholic than all you kids that are living in sin. And boy, are you all sinning it up. "It is no secret that casual sex is abundant on campus," he declares. Abundant? At Notre Dame? Someone make sure this guy never gets lost and wanders onto a state school. 
But my real beef with Meehan isn't over his (fair) declaration that doing the deed while unwed isn't the most Catholic of activities. It's not about his choice to remain celibate, as I don't have much room to criti­cize in that regard-I haven't exactly been getting many chances to play hide-the-pickle either. My problem is with the condescending way in which he presumes to know what's better for you. Why do the actions of other couples bother Mr. Meehan so much? To be blunt, how is it any of his damn business? It's bad enough that the University enforces such an ineiTective rule and restricts the autonomy of its students, but when a guy voices a desire for his fellow students to be governed by his own per­sonal morality, it's downright disturbing. Mr. Meehan argues so strongly for supplanting students' freedom of action with his personal prefer­ences that one can't help but wonder if ensuring nobody else is getting laid is supposed to make him feel better about not getting any himself. 
But perhaps I'm overreacting and parietals aren't really that bad. After all, "unless a couple has intentions of having sex, there is no reason why they can't hang out in a public place," he tells us. You and your girlfriend don't mind sharing that couch in the dorm lounge with a bunch of lonely, lonely freshmen, do you? 
Rick Adcock 
senior 
offcampus Apr. 18 
Extended parietals -­Heaven? 
Thank you, Lenny Meehan ("Extend pari­etals, save your soul" Apr. 18), for your insightful solution to the morally abom­inable issue of premarital sex on the Notre Dame campus. During the four years of college, the majority of 18 to 22-year-olds transform into mindless, sex-crazed deviants, uncontrollably succumbing to our animalistic desires. After the sun goes down, any male-female mingling within the privacy of a dorm room will inevitably escalate to debauchery and -yes -sex. Because what other purposes do relation­ships between young men and women serve? Of course friendships between .the sexes would be impossible, given that we are biologically wired to commit mortal sin every time we find ourselves alone togeth­er in a cramped dorm room. 
The only logical answer to this problem is to remove the temptation to commit this dreadful act: extended parietals. With the fear of ResLife's exacting disciplinary measures looming over our heads, we will all be forced to abandon our immoral urges and conform to lives of quiet study and meditation because it's common knowledge that students will absolutely never have sex unless it happens in a dorm room after.10 p.m. 
Lenny Meehan, I am forever indebted to you for your ingenious proposal to save my immortal soul because I haven't the capac­ity to do so on my own. It is not the respon­sibility of this Catholic university to foster an environment where each student can freely cultivate his or her own individual faith; no, the university must impose rigid constraints on the student population to ensure that all of our souls win one-way tickets to those pearly white gates. 
Lauren Knauf 
freshman 
Badin Hall 
Apr. 18 


Parietals as punishment 
I completely agree with Lenny Meehan ("Extend parietals, save your soul," Apr. 18) and his pro­posal to lengthen parietals by two hours. As someone who also does not get any, I too would like to punish those with more game than myself. 
Kevin Kray freshman Carroll Hall Apr. 18 


College not a prerequisite for wisdom 
Although the blandness of Darryl Campbell's columns generally make them easy to forget (or simply ignore), his most recent editorial ("The importance of college," Apr. 14) deserves a brief response. With his usual "I graduated from Harvard" smugness, Campbell waxes (sans eloquence) on what is supposedly the chief benefit of a liberal arts education-namely, the fostering of wisdom in young minds. That is reasonable enough. Broad intellectual pursuits can have that effect. But Campbell goes a step fur­ther and implies that the "complete person," while not created by the liberal arts cur­riculum, cannot be created without it either. This elitist stance treats the university and advanced education as the exclusive gateway to wisdom and naturally makes professors -and Campbell will surely be one someday-the gatekeepers. But even he admits that a liberal arts education can't guarantee wisdom. 
I submit that ifhe would take an honest look around, Darryl Campbell would find the reason for this. A liberal arts education is not the only path to wisdom; sometimes it seems wisdom is achieved in spite of it. In fact, there are plenty in this world with a high school education, GED or no real education at all who are wise as well. An open mind, a good deal of common sense and a humble confession of ignorance when necessary do more for building wisdom than any curriculum a university can offer. I would venture to say that it is entirely possible that the person who serves Campbell his pizza at Sbarro or cleans out his library carrel is just as wise as any professor on this campus. Spend a little time beyond the ivory tower, Mr. Campbell; you'd be surprised at how wise the uneducat­ed can be. 
Stephen Morgan 
graduate student 
offcampus 
Apr. 18 

Roe v. Wade error 
In his letter 'The pragmatically pro-life party," (Apr. 17) Andrew Dreyfuss claims that if Hoc v. Wade were overturned, "all forms of abortion" would be "illegal." This is not true. If Hoe v. Wade were overturned, the authority to permit or limit abortion would return to state legislatures, where it rested before the passage of Roe v. Wade in 1973. 
Joseph Nawrocki 
graduate student 
offcampus 
Apr. 17 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 2 I , 2008 

By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 

Jason Segel has been a card-carrying member of the Judd Apatow gang since television's "Freaks and Geeks," in 1999, but in "Forgetting Sarah Marshall," the actor successfully comes to the forefront as both writer and star. 
Segel, who has already proven himself as a televi­sion actor as Marshall in CBS's "How I Met Your Mother," took a step on the road to film stardom as one of Ben's stoner roommates in 2007's "Knocked Up." "Sarah Marshall," Segel's first screenplay, should put him in the ranks with previous Apatow stars Seth Hogen. Jonah Hill and Michael Cera. 
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall," is the self-described "romantic disaster movie" produced by Apatow. It is a much-needed relief from comedies like "Knocked Up" and "Superbad," which feature men constantly joking about sex and women using an excess of foul lan­guage meant to shock the viewer into laughing. "Sarah Marshall" still has some of the cruder ele­ments of those comedies (Segel is naked quite a bit), but they are toned down enough to give this untradi­tional romantie comedy a bigger heart and make it more accessible to a wider audience. This is truly a comedy for both sexes -not just one of those movies in the "womnn will also enjoy" category. 
Segel stars as Peter Bretter, a musician dating TV actress Sarah Marshall (Kristen Bell), who stars in the fictional "Crime Scene: Scene of the Crime." Peter composes the music for "Crime Scene," but his real dream is to finish his puppet rock opera about Dracula. However, after Sarah dumps him for rock star Aldous Snow (Hussell Brand), Peter's dreams are put on hold when he loses all motivation to do any­thing but drink and cry. Peter's step-brother, Brian (Bill Hader), convinces him to move on, so Peter deeides to take a trip to Hawaii to get his mind off of his former five-year flame. When Peter arrives at his hotel, he discovers that Sarah and Aldous are staying there too, but hotel receptionist Hache! (Mila Kunis) befriends Pnter and helps him cope with the miser­able situation. 
It may be too convenient that out of every vacation destination in the world and out of all the hotels in Hawaii, Peter and Sarah end up at the same one, but there wouldn't be a movie otherwise. Besides, there are too many other things to focus on and laugh at than this plot point, like Peter's new friendships with the hotel staff. including a surfing instructor (Paul Hudd) and nervous newlywed Darald (Jack McBrayer). Jonah Hill even shows up as a waiter creepily obsessed with Aldous Snow. 
There are no weak links in the cast, but if two actors deserved more attention they would be I Iader and Brand. Audiences will recognize Hader from "Saturday Night Live" and "Superbad," but "Sarah Marshall" marks a turn for the actor as he isn't doing an impression or playing a dumb cop. Instead, he's playing a normal person just trying to slap some sense into his step-brother. It's a role that could be easily forgettable with a lesser comedian, but Hader manages to steal scenes and stand out. 
Brand similarly establishes himself as a scene steal­er as pompous rock star Aldous Snow. Brand's acting and Segel's writing manage to make Aldous a multidi­mensional character that is sympathetic despite his many, many flaws and his mistreatment of Sarah. 
Mila Kunis, whose face has virtually been missing from any screen since "That '70s Show" (she contin­ues to voice Meg GritTin in "Family Guy"), also should not be overlooked. Kunis' character is well-devel­oped, complex and funny, and not just an unattain­able, unflawed goddess, which is so typical of Apatow films. Kunis, with her exotic looks and comical voice, is a welcome return to the screen, and serves as the ultimate foil to Bell's blond, misguided Sarah Marshall. 
"Forgetting Sarah Marshall" is a romantic comedy from the male-perspective, but it still manages to por­tray the female viewpoint well through the characters of Hache! and Sarah, making it easily accessible and entertaining to all audiences. The film is long at 112 minutes, but this does not matter since the characters are so hilarious and inviting. Peter is a lovable goof who has just lost his way for a little while, and we find ourselves wanting to help him forget Sarah Marshall too, just as long as he keeps his clothes on. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

Forgetting Sarah Marshall 
Universal Pictures Director: Nicholas Stoller Written by: Jason Segel 

Starring: Jason Segel, Mila Kunis, Kristen Bell, Russell Brand and Bill Heder 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 



THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, April 21, 2008 
provides a revealing interview 
,5555~ 

!
With their unique music and energetic live show, Minus= the Bear is one of the best rock groups out today. Scene EE5i~ had a chance to talk with Alex Rose, keyboardisVvocalist
for the band, who played at Legends on Saturday night. Rose discussed topics such as life on tour and the band's future plans. 
Scene: How's the spring tour going so far? 
Rose: Well, we had a bus breakdown but that's about the only thing that was out of our control. We had to get on a new bus for three or four days. 
Scene: Do you play university shows like this often? Rose: Yeah, we've had about one a week. A lot of smaller . clubs and colleges. Scene: How would you describe Minus the Bear's music for someone not familiar with the band? 
Rose: I usually say it's classic rock of the future. I mean, we try to play rock-and-roll that's pushing bound~ries, that's not going to become so dated that nobody Will be interested in it down the line. We want to make it last, we want to please ourselves, we want to make good music. We listen to a lot of old stuff, but we also have that electronic element. 
Scene: In the past you've toured with groups like [rap­per] P.O.S., [instrumental group] Russia~ Circles and [grind-metal act] the Number Tweh:e Looks hke Yo~. What makes the band fit into tours with so many differe~t bands? 
Rose: That one [with the Number Twelve], we just got asked to be on the tour. Their music is a little more brutal than we would usually tour with. 
Scene: "Planet of Ice" [the band's most recent album] got a very good critical response from a lot of sources, both online and in magazines. Has this attention and positive critical reaction to the album given you even more atten­tion, and are you seeing more people at shows now? 
Rose: We are seeing more people at shows, it's hard to know where each person is hearing the band. Yeah, we've been getting a decent amount of press, it certainly doesn't hurt. 
Scene: In regards to the songwriting process, do the lyrics get written first, or the instruments? 
Rose: Vocals and lyrics come last. All of us hammer out the songs in the practice space, including Jake [Snider, lead vocalisVguitarist], and I'm sure he's got some ideas brewing for vocal stuff during certain points. We tend to build from one of Dave's [Knudson, lead guitarist] guitar riffs, especially recently. For "Planet of Ice," we spent every weekday down in the practice space going over all the different possibilities and parts, throwing out parts, coming up with new ones. Some songs weren't done until four or five weeks after we started, some were done after a week. 
Scene: Which song took the longest to write? 
Rose: I think "Dr. L'ling" might have taken the longest. It's hard to say, because we would always come back to them. 

your previ­ous album, "Menos el Oso," which was pretty concise. 
Rose: Yeah, I think everyone was consciously trying to not edit themselves. Whereas before it was like "That's too boring, we have to cut it down." · 
Scene: What's changed in the way the band operates since your first album, "Highly Refined Pirates"? Is it more serious now, or is it the same as it's always been? 
Rose: I think since the earlier albums everyone has had the opportunity to quit their day jobs. So we spend more time touring, practicing and writing. 
Scene: Where do you see the band going in the future, over the next couple years? 
Rose: We're going to start writing another album this summer. We're going to try to not wait too long [between albums], it's going well now and if we take too long a break, it might fizzle. We're going to write a new album, hopefully record it next year. We'll see where it goes. 
Scene: Is "Planet of Ice" going to get the remix treatment like "Menos el Oso" did? 
Rose: Well, P.O.S. did that "Knights" remix on the bonus disc, I don't know if we'll go the same route. I'd love to try and remix a few of them, I haven't done it before and it seems like it would be fun. I might do a few, but I doubt it would get a full album. We may go the opposite way, and do stripped-down acoustic versions of these songs. Maybe an EP, or even the full album. . 
Scene: Are you going to go on any more tours this year? 
Rose: We have some festivals. We're doing Bonnaroo, we're doing Pemberton up in Canada, might be doing some European festivals. We're going to spend most of the sum­mer at home. We'll probably do a fall tour. If something came up, we'd love to do an opening tour. 
Scene: What's your favorite city or venue to play? 

Rose: I don't know, that's tough. New York was awesome a few weeks ago. Seattle recently has become very good. That was probably the most fun I had. The Norva in Norfolk, Virginia, has the best backstage ever. Foosball, video games, hot tubs. The Pabst theatre in Milwaukee is another great backstage. Anywhere that has laundry I'm pretty into. 
Scene: What's your favorite song to play live? 

Rose: It might be "Dr. L'ling" for me actually. "Double Vision Quest" is really fun to play. A lot of the new ones. Scene: What's the strangest thing to happen on tour? Rose: So much bizarre stuff has happened. I don't even 
know what the strangest thing is, it's almost like it happens on a daily basis and you don't think it's strange anymore. People break into our dressing rooms all the time. I walked into a Wal-Mart bathroom one time, and there was this 300-pound kid sitting in the stall with the stall doo~ open, just singing. Surreal things like that happen all the time. 
Scene: What's your favorite band to tour with? 

Rose: Got to love touring with [Seattle rock band] These Arms are Snakes, they're our bros from Seattle. We've lucked out, a lot of the bands we take out are totally awe­some. Helio Sequence is great, they're a great band. 
Scene: That's it, thanks for doing the interview. 
Rose: No problem. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu page 13 

--
-

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 21, 2008 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary's earns key conference wins 
-
-
-
-
S01ith 
continued from page 24 
Smith picked off a Jimmy Clausen pass intended for tight end Mike Ragone on the Blue Team's 15-yard line and ran the ball in for the touch­down. flipping over the goal line to celebrate. 
"Hagone ran an out route, and I just waited on the ball. I got set up for it and just took advantage of it," Smith said. 
Smith surprised himself with the amount of times he heard his name during the game. 
"I didn't think I would hear my name that much," he said. "I think a couple of times they [the tackles) actually belonged to [safety Kyle] McCarthy." 
Smith is part of Irish coach Charlie Weis' plan to counter three-wide receiver sets. Smith, a safety, will line up with rising senior safeties McCarthy and David Bruton. This formation, Weis said, gives the Irish the versatility to cover three-wide receiver pass plays as well as single­back runs out of similar sets. 
"We're trying to get inter­c-hangeable parts so that we can play the same defense with what we call 'base peo­ple' with linebackers with a big body like Scott Smith," Weis said. "Then play it with a smaller body that is more of a safety type like a Harrison Smith. 
"The reason why you do that is so when you're matched up with all these teams that use multiple wide receivers, if you have a three safety defense out there, and they go ahead and spread you out, you're already in position to play them. But all of a sud­den, if you put a three wide receiver and they pack it in, now you don't have to give up a lot of one back runs which we gave up last year." 
Smith will go to defensive coordinator Corwin Brown, he said, to learn about the safety position, and to assistant head coach (defense) Jon Tenuta to study being a linebacker. He said he also studies his assignments often. 
The offens~ will not scheme to allow the defense to perfect the system in practice, Smith said. Rather, the defense will react to the offensive pack­age. 
"The offense just does what they do. If they think it might be more of a pass tendency, and we might want to blitz or something, they might throw me out there," he said. "If it's maybe more of a run situa­tion, they might put Scott out there to get a bigger look on the field." 
Fifth-year senior linebacker Maurice Crum, Jr., said the implementation of the system has gone fairly well. 
"Harrison's a great athlete and anytime you have a guy like him, you just kind of have to find a way to get him on the f'ield," Crum said. "Since I've been here it's just been about getting the guys on the field. The guys who make plays and the guys who show up to practice get on the field, and Harrison has been one of those guys." 
There are no easy fixes for a defense that allowed 195.3 rushing yards per game last season, but Smith is a part of what appears to be a step in the right direction. 
"I gained some confidence,"· he said. "I can see what I did wrong and correct that, and see what I did right and keep it going into next season." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


By LAURA MYERS 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Saint Mary's positioned itself well for the postsea­son, going 3-1 against two conference teams this week­end. 
The Belles' split double­header against Hope College Friday and their sweep of Adrian College Saturday left Saint Mary's (20-7, 9-3 Mli\i\) solidly in third in the Mli\i\ with four games left to play. 
The top four teams advance to the postseason. The current top two teams, Alma and Tri-State, have yet to play each other, meaning one could fall back in the standings. 
The Belles' games at Hope were their first since the funeral of assistant coach Don Miller, who died April 13 after a battle with cancer. Head coach Erin Sullivan said Hope painted a circle in front of the Belles' dugout with the letters "DM" in the middle. 
"Hope is one of the classi­est teams I've ever seen," Sullivan said. "They made every effort to make us feel comfortable with a tough sit­uation." 
The Belles lost game one 6-0 to the Flying Dutch. !lope pitcher Leah VanEnk pitched her l'irth straight shutout. not allowing a hit until the firth inning. Junior Katie Hashid and sophomore Ashley Peterson had the only two Belles hits. 
Saint Mary's continued its trend of winning the second game of their doubleheaders 

The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classitleds is 3 p.m. Al classifleds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cems per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edir all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need reasonable. dependable Condo For Sale. Close to ND. Quiet 1 OR 2 Bdrm apt.in historic neigh-SUMMER HOUSING. 6 bdrm UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? lawncare person. Call Sue 233-community-beautifully cared for. borhood. One mile to ND. Laundry house Next 2 Clover Ridge. Big Do not go it,alone. If you or some­7719 or lv. message. Contact Paul @ 574-993-5858. &security. $510/mo. Call574-532-back yard. one you love needs confidential 
WANTED 

8718. hrocha@nd.edu support or assistance, please call SUMMER WORK $14.25 BASE-Summer daycare in my home for Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For APPT. flexible. no exp. nee, cus-children ages 5 & 8. Need depend-FoR RENT 54717 Terrace Lane, more information, visit our website 
tomer sales/service. cond. apply, able, energetic student available M-TICKETS at: ages 17+, positions available F. 7:30-5:30, $250/wk. Blue &Gold Homes Showing for South Bend 3 bedroom 1 bathroom http ://osa. nd. edu/departmentslpreg­throughout US &Canada. 247-1258 or jkerwin@ memori-08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" ranch house near ND, behind Nicks PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad www. workforstudents.com alsb.org leases bluegoldrentals.com Patio. Washer/Dryer,C/A, 1-car ONE WHO IS? in The Observer. 
garage, $725/mo. $250 security New student needs good laptop. For rent: 4 bdrrn house, walk to deposit. If you or someone you care aboutFoR SALE N.D., student neighborhood, central You do not have to be alone. has been sexually assaulted, visit 574-993-8733. air. new appliances, very nice. 289-jimc343@yahoo.com http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
$74,5001 Updated 2BR, Finished 4071. shtml Volunteer Help (1 male.1 female)to Lower Level! Minutes to Campus & 3 bdrm homes & 1 bdrm apts. We want to help. run a puppet theater for kinder-UP Mall. Bookcases, Hardwood Oakhill condo for rent -1 yr. lease. Close to ND. Shimmy shimmy ya shimmy yam garten kids in a local school in early floors, Fenced yd + more! Sweet Cozy, furnished 2 bdrrn loft apt. shimmyya afternoon on Fridays. Will train. Home! Bobbie Van Osdal C-21 $1,100. Call Jose 574-514-0900 or email: Call our 24 hour confidential hotline Gimme the mic so I can take it 
at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web away Call Bill Staunton 574-217-8063. Jim Dunfee Realty 574-235-3075. Call Amelia 509-999-1755. greatlakespg@gmail.com site at www.lifecall.org Off on a natural charge bon-voyage 
af'ter an opening loss with a 7-5 victory in game two. The Belles scored early, leading 3-0 after the bottom of the l'irst. But the Flying Dutch came back and tied it in the top of the fifth at 5-5. 
"lllope is) always a strong team with very strong base running," Sullivan said. 
The Belles rallied again in the bottom of the sixth, as sophomore Maureen Healy and junior Cathy Kurczak each scored to bring the Belles' total to seven. 
Senior McKenna Corrigan brought her record to 10-0, aiding her own effort by going 2-for-3 with four RBis. 
Saturday, the Belles played at home against the Adrian Bulldogs. In game one, jun­ior pitcher Calli Davison gave up two runs early, but the Belles tied it 2-2 in the third and scored five more in the bottom of the sixth for a final score of 7-2. 
Davison also went 2-for-3 with two RBis, and sopho­more Ashley Peterson went 2-for-3 with three HBis. 
In game two, the Belles held a 9-1 lead going into the bottom of the seventh inning. The Bulldogs put on a rally to bring the score to 9-6 before Corrigan retired the side for her 11th win. 
Sullivan said Saturday's rain, which began in the sev­enth frame, had to do with the late rally, but the team pulled through in the end. 
"Our fielders and pitchers really stepped up and played well against these hitters," she said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
LPGA 
Ochoa wins fourth in a row 
Associated Press 
REUNION, Fla. -Lorena Ochoa hustled around the corner, hoping to jump in a car and catch a flight home to Mexico. 
No chance. 
There were about 100 people waiting for her in the resort lobby, some seeking pictures and autographs, others hoisting glasses of champagne. 
Ochoa wanted to sprint away, but she paused for another few minutes. After all, this was deserving of one more celebra­tion. 
The 26-year-old Ochoa became the first LPGA Tour player in 45 years to win four tournaments in consecutive weeks. The world's No. 1 player shot a 3-under 69 in the final round of the Ginn Open on Sunday and beat rookie Yani Tseng by three strokes for her ftfth victory in six starts this year. 
''I'm very grateful. It's been a blessing, you know," Ochoa said. "But I know that bad times will come. It's just the way life is. I'm just trying to enjoy my moment, and I would like to enjoy it for a long time. So even if it's going to be an up-and-down ride, hope­fully I can stay there." 
Ochoa trailed early in the final round, but went ahead for good with three straight birdies begin­ning at No. 8. She finished 19 under and became the second player to win four times in as many weeks. 
Mickey Wright did it in 1962 and 1963. Kathy Whitworth (1969) and Annika Sorenstam (2001) also won four consecutive events, but both had a week off during their runs. 
Sorenstam (2004-05) and Nancy Lopez (1978) hold the tour record with five straight victories in events entered, but neither of those came in consecutive weeks. 
Ochoa will give her colleagues a chance to take the spotlight next week in South Florida. She will sit out the Stanford Invitation Pro-Am, and then try to make it five straight in two weeks in Tulsa, Okla. 
"She's proven that she's our top player," fellow golfer Paula Creamer said. "She's set that mark pretty high." 
Ochoa talked all week about how tiring it was to play four straight events, especially since last week's victory came in her native country and was filled with visits from friends and fami­ly members, plus countless media and sponsorship requests. 
But even with a little less ener­gy, she was better than everyone else at the Ginn. 
"She's really No.1," said Tseng, who finished 16 under and five shots ahead of third-place Teresa Lu and Suzann Pettersen. 
Ochoa was up a stroke to begin the final round, but Tseng pulled ahead with a birdie-birdie start. Ochoa had several chances to move back in front, but she just missed birdie putts on Nos. 5, 6 and 7. She finally grabbed the lead with a 12-foot birdie putt on No. 8, then followed with two more on the next two holes. 
The 19-year-old Tseng couldn't keep pace on the back nine, bogeying three of the final six holes and allowing Ochoa to cruise to her latest win. Tseng. who now has two second-place finishes and six top-25 showings in as many starts this year, said she got distracted by thoughts of winning. 
"A little bit," she said. "Maybe not just a little bit, more than that." 
Ochoa tapped in f(Jr par on No. 18, then raised both arms in cel­ebration. She congratulated Tseng and told her they were going to see each other on many Sundays. 

~----------------------­





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 21, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERvrn:s·wntE SERVICES page 15 

Inside Lacrosse Men's 

Division I Top 20  
team  record  points  
1  Duke  13-1  353  
2  Syracuse  10-1  349  
3  Virginia  10-2  314  
4  Cornell  9-2  272  
5  Gerogetown  7-3  261  
6  UMBC  8-3  228  
7  Maryland  7-4  217  
8  Navy  9-3  214  
9  Army  8-3  192  
10  Ohio State  4-5  190  
11  Johns Hopkins  8-3  167  
12  Ohio State  7-4  162  
13  Notre Dame  7-2  157  
14  Brown  8-2  143  
15  Bucknell  9-2  142  
16  Loyola  6-4  113  
17  Denver  9-4  98  
18  Drexel  10-3  81  
19  Princeton  6-4  79  
20  Hofstra  6·4  27  

Inside Lacrosse Women's Division I Top 20 
team record points 
1 Northwestern 13-0 240 2 Princeton 10·0 222 3 Maryland 12·1 220 4 Syracuse 11-2 197 5 Virginia 11·3 194 6 Penn 10-1 183 7 NOTRE DAME 10·4 146 8 Georgetown 9-4 146 9 Boston University 12-2 142 10 Duke 8-5 141 11 North Carolina 10·4 119 12 George Mason 10·2 110 13 Yale 10·4 93 14 Vanderbilt 10-4 85 15 New Hampshire 10-4 76 16 Towson 10·4 51 17 Johns Hopkins 6-7 35 18 Denver 8-5 25 19 Stanford 8-1 23 20 Cornell 7-4 21 
Baseball America NCAA Top25 
team record. prev 
1 Miami 30-3 1 2 Arizona State 30-4 2 3 Florida Stale 31-3 3 4 North Carolina 29-7 4 5 UC Irvine 23-6 7 6 Missouri 25-9 8 7 Wichita State 27-5 9 8 California 23-9 5 9 Nebraska 25-6 6 10 Stanford 17-11 10 11 Rice 27-10 11 12 San Diego 27-11 13 13 Georgia 23-12 14 14 South Carolina 25-10 15 15 CS Fullerton 20·12 16 16 Mississippi 24-12 18 17 Vanderbilt 24-10 19 18 Oklahoma State 23-10 21 19 Texas A & M 30-6 NR 20 Texas 23-12 12 21 Michigan 22·8 23 22 Costal Carolina 28·7 24 23 Pepperdine 23·11 NR 24 East Carolina 26·9 NR 25 Kentucky 26·8 17 
around the dial 
NBA PLAYOFFS Washington at Cleveland 6 p.m., TNT 
Utah at Houston 
8:30 p.m., TNT 

MLB 

Associated Press 
TORONTO -Slumping designated hitter Frank Thomas was released Sunday by the B_lue Jays, who cut the 19-year vet­eran one day after he became angry for being taken out of the lineup. 
General manager J.P. Ricciardi said he and Thomas came to "a mutual agreement" after meeting in the clubhouse early Sunday. 
"Our best opportunity is to put other guys in the lineup at this point," Ricciardi said. "Obviously, reduced play­ing time is not something that he was interested in. 
In order to let him go forward and get on with his career, I think it's fair to do it at this point." 
The move leaves the Blue Jays on the hook for $7,081,967, the remain­der of his $8 million salary this year in the $18.12 million, two-year contract the 39-year-old Thomas signed in November 2006. 
Thomas was hitless in his past 13 at-bats and had gone 4-for-35 since homering in three straight games April 5-8. Known as a slow starter, he batted .16 7 with three homers and 11 RBis for Toronto this year. 
Last season, Thomas 

IN BRIEF NL MVP Rollins to go on 
DL for first time in career 
PHILADELPHIA -Jimmy Rollins the MVP has two more capital letters next to his name: DL. 
Hollins was placed on the 15-day disabled list Sunday for the first time in his eight-year career because of a sprained left ankle, nearly two weeks after last year's NL MVP was hurt running the bases against the Mets. 
"It has gotten a lot better, but it isn't getting better from this point," Rollins said before the Phillies played New York. 
Rollins hurt the ankle on April 8 against the Mets, but seemed to believe another day's rest was all he needed to return to the lineup. Instead. their switch-hitting short­stop made no starts and had only four pinch-hit appearances since he was injured. He grounded out against Duaner Sanchez on Saturday and that worsened the ankle. 
batted .277, leading the 
team with 26 home runs 
and 95 RBis. 

"I don't know that we 
have the luxury of wait­
ing two to three months 
for somebody to kick. in 
because we can't let this 
league or this division 
get away from us," 
Ricciardi said. 

Ricciardi said the Blue 
Jays offered Thomas "a 
lesser role playing two or 
three times a week," but 
weren't surprised the 
veteran slugger chose 
not to accept. 

"Out of respect for his -career, it's not fair to him 
to sit around and become 
a part-time player," Blue 
Jays manager John 
Gibbons said. "I know he wasn't going to be happy with that and you can definitely understand." 
Center fielder Vernon Wells praised manage­ment for finding a quick resolution to the situa­tion. 
"I think it's better for (Thomas), too," Wells said. "He gets a chance to have more time to pos­sibly pick up with anoth­er team, with us it may give some of our younger guys a chance to come up. 
"We haven't been the best team so far this sea­son. We definitely have some improvements to make." 
Busch wins third straight
Nationwide race 
MEXICO CITY -Kyle Busch won his third consecutive race on NASCAR's Nationwide Series. hold­ing off Marcos Ambrose by less than a second Sunday in the Corona Mexico 200. 
Busch passed Scott Pruett on the 72nd of 80 laps to take the lead. Pruett finished third, followed by Carl Edwards. 
There isn't a driver out there on a better run than Busch, who is sec­ond in the Sprint Cup standings and entered this race in third on the Nationwide list. He's also leading the Truck Series standings. 
This was Busch's 27th career vic­tory in NASCAR's top three series­but first on a road course. 
ln a race that included two red flags, he stayed out of trouble on the 2.518-mile course at Autodromo Hermanos Hodriguez before finally moving past Pruett. 

Lethal force approved to 
stop protest to forch 
KATMANDU, Nepal-Soldiers and police in Nepal have been cleared to open fire to stop any protests during China's Olympic torch run to the summit of Mount Everest. 
Nepal's Home Ministry says the use of deadly force is only author­ized as a last resort. 
The troops will first try to per­suade protesters to leave during the torch run and will arrest those who stay. If demonstrators defy all nonvi­olent means of restraint, troops have the option of using weapons: 
Twenty-five soldiers and police­men have established camps on the mountain. Climbers will be banned from the mountain's higher eleva­tions during the torch run. 
The worldwide torch relay has been the target of demonstrators protesting China's human rights record, including its recent crack­down in Tibet. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 21, 2008 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish clinch Big East title for second titne 
I 
Senior Andrew Roth returns a shot during Notre Dame's 4-3 loss 
to William & Mary Apr. 6. 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Wri rer 
Top-seeded Notre Dame won its second consecutive Big East title with three wins this weekend on the University of South Florida campus in Tampa, Fla. 
The Irish won their quar­terfinal match against No. H seed Villanova on Friday by a score of 4-0. It was the second straight year that the Irish knocked the Wildcats out of the tourna­ment. The win also marked Notre Dame's first consecu­tive victories since February. The bottom two pairs in doubles play of junior Santiago Montoya and senior Andrew Roth and freshmen Stephen Havens and Tyler Davis were both victorious to clinch the doubles point for the Irish. 
Notre Dame clinched the win with singles victories from Havens, senior Sheeva Parbhu, and junior Brett Helgeson. Parbhu earned a 6-1, 6-1 victory over Villanova junior Brian Maher. Helgeson con­tributed his own 6-1, 6-1 victory over Wildcat senior Dimitri Chimerakis. Havens also earned a straight sets 6-2, 6-0 victory over fresh­man David Shaheen. 
With the victory, the Irish advanced to a semifinal match over fifth seeded DePaul. The Irish defeated the Blue Demons 4-1. The Irish earned their first point in the doubles point with victories from the No. 1 and No. 3 positions. The Irish then clinched the win with wins in the top-three singles positions. 
The Irish earned their 

first singles victory as 
Helgeson continued his 
dominance with a straight 
sets 6-1, 6-0 victory over 
DePaul junior Jose 
Moncada. Parbhu also 
claimed his second straight 
sets victories in two days 
with a 7-5, 6-2 victory over 
Blue Demon junior Austin 
Doerner. Hoth clinched the 
victory for the Irish with a 
6-0, 6-4 victory over 
DePaul sophomore Vanj a 
Grgec. 

With the win over . DePaul, the Irish advanced 
to the final for the 13th 
straight season, and won a 
thrilling 4-3 match over 
South Florida. 
After winning the doubles 
point, South Florida won 
three of the first four sin­
gles matches to jump out to 
a 3-2 lead. The Irish's lone 
singles win in that stretch 
was another dominant 
straight sets victory from 
Helgeson, who defeated 
South Florida freshman 
Lucas Jovita 6-0, 6-1. 
Trailing 3-2 with the Big 
East title on the line, the 
match came down to the 
singles matches of Parbhu 
and freshman Daniel Stahl. 
Parbhu defeated Bulls' sen­
ior Mahmoud Hamed in a 
closely contested 6-2, 6-4. 
With the match tied at 
three, the match came 
down to Stahl. Stahl won 
the first set in a tiebreaker 
over sophomore Diego 
Toledo 7-6 (4). He then 
won the second set 6-4 to 
clinch the title for the 
Irish. 

The Irish will wrap up 
the regular season with a 
match at Florida State next 
Saturday. 

Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish sweep Rutgers, DePaul 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Building on its late season momentum, No. 17 Notre Dame returned to the top of its confer­ence, winning the Big East Championship with three impressive victories. With wins over Rutgers, DePaul and South Florida, the Irish won the league title for the third time in four years. After shutting out both the Scarlet Knights and the Blue Demons, the tournament culminated in a 4-1 victory over the Bulls, avenging last year's defeat in the title match. 
Notre Dame 4, Rutgers 0 
As the Irish entered the tour­nament with a top seed, they faced Rutgers on Friday who came in as an eighth-seeded long shot. For the 14th time in a row, Notre Dame won the dou­bles point to get the match started, and used the momen­tum to handle the Scarlet Knights in singles play as well. 
The No. 1 tandem in the nation of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft continued their dominance, picking up a commanding 8-0 win over sen­ior Katrina Elder-Bush and sophomore Katherine Arlak. The win was their second "bagel" in as many matches, and improved their record to 35-5 on the season. 
Sophomore pair Colleen Rielley and Cosmina Ciobanu led their opponents 7-6 before the point was decided thanks to sophomore Kali Krisik and freshman Kristen Rafael's 8-5 win over sophomore Caitlin Baker and freshman Amy Zhang. 
TefTt continued her impressive streak in singles play picking up right where she left ofT, backing up her doubles bagel with a sin­gles bagel as well. The 6-0, 6-0 win over Elder-Bush marked her 25th win of the year and put the Irish up 2-0. 
Buck followed suit and gave 
SMC GOLF 
Belles finish sixth in Spring Fling 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's placed sixth in Illinois-Wesleyan's Spring Fling this weekend -a strong finish leaving the Belles optimistic as they head into next weekend's MIAA qualifier finale. 
"We played a pretty good tour­nament this weekend," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. 
"We beat a number of higher ranked teams and shot our best 36-hole score of the season." 
Leading the team for the fourth consecutive tournament was freshman Rosie O'Connor. O'Connor shot a 78 on the fmal day posting the fourth best score of the day and finished 17th over­all. 
the Irish a three-point advan­tage with her solid 6-0, 6-l ousting of Zhang at the No. 2 slot for her fifth win in a row and ninth out of 10. 
Notre Dame clinched the match with Rielley's 6-0, 6-2 win over Baker putting the score at 4-0, and giving the Irish the nod and a chance at a semifinal match with DePaul who had beaten Marquette in its quarterfinal match. 
Notre Dame 5, DePaul 0 

The Irish eventually earned a place in their 13th straight Big East final with their second straight shutout Saturday. Notre Dame stuck to its guns and clinched the doubles point, which then translated into sin­gles success. 
Buck and Tefft earned their third straight shutout in doubles play, this time over senior Beatrix Csordas and freshman Selma Salkovic. With the win, Buck and Tefft matched the number of wins they had last season with 34. 
Rielley and Ciobanu got their revenge from junior Dunja Antunovic and sophomore Kirsten Gambrell, who had beaten the Irish pair earlier in the month, with a convincing 8­1 win, sealing the doubles point for Notre Dame. 
Ciobanu took care of Salkovic in singles play, putting the match at 2-0 for the Irish with her 6-0, 6-2 victory earning her 26th win of the season. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 3-0 lead as Krisik ousted Gambrell, 6-2, 6-1. The win marked the first singles victory of the tournament and team­high 32nd of the year. 
Junior Katie Potts won for the eighth time in nine matches with her streaight set 6-3, 6-2 win over senior Anja Mihaldinec, putting the score at 4-0. 
Buck clinched the match for the Irish with her 6-4, 6-2 best­ing of Gergana Ganeva giving the senior captain 12 wins in 13 
Senior captain Katie O'Brien also took 17th place overall post­ing scores of 80 and 83 for a total of 163. 
With this tournament out of the way, Saint Mary's will turn their focus to the MIM qualifier next weekend in Angola, Ind. 
The Belles are currently 18 strokes behind rival Olivet with two rounds remaining. 
The Belles have shown great strides since the first round took place just a few weeks ago. 
They have placed well in their­last couple of tournaments includ­ing a second-place finish at the Vassar Invitational and their sixth place finish this weekend at the Spring Fling. 
The Belles will head into the last two rounds of the qualifier equipped with a new feeling of tries. Next, the Bulls loomed in the path of the Irish as the championship game would be decided Sunday. 
Notre Dame 4, South Florida 1 
The Irish took the title, taking down the hosting Bulls, placing themselves in their 13th straight NCM tournament, giv­ing Notre Dame 14 wins in 15 attempts. 
For the 15th straight lime, the Irish captured the doubles point, once again led by the nation's top tandem. 
Buck and TefTt claimed an H-5 win over junior lciri Hai and freshman Janeette Bajikova. Buck have won 19 of their last 20, and the next doubles victory they take will put them in a tie for the program's top doubles mark. 
Hielley and Ciobanu clinched the point for the Irish with their 8-2 victory over sophomore pair Jessica Zok and Lauren Schumate. The pair's 20th win put the mateh at 1-0, and began singles play. 
Buck started off the singles victories with her straight-set 6­2, 6-2 win over Zok. The senior now has won seven straight and 13of14. 
With the mateh at 2-0, Ciobanu put the Irish up three with her 6-2, 6-4 victory over sophomore Allyn Mueller. 
Bulls freshman Natalia Guevara put South Florida on the board with her 6-3, 6-2 win over Potts, but the Irish bounced back with Hielley's 22nd win of the season and the match-clinching win. The soph­omore took the cont11st 6-3, 6-4 over senior Liz Cruz. 
Notre Dame has now won two of three Big East title matches over the Bulls, and now must wait until May 9 for the NCAA tournament to begin. The Irish could be a host team depending on the pairings which will be decided in early May. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
confidence. 
"We tied Olivet on the final day of play this weekend," Hamilton said. "So we have shown that we can play with them and hopefully we will do so next weekend." 
If the Belles do not grab the top spot and automatic qualification for the national tournament, they will be thrown into a separate pool and forced to rely on a selection committee to choose them based on head-to-head competition among the other teams. 
However, Hamilton is not ready to hand the qualification spot to Olivetjust yet. 
"Our best is yet to come," Hamilton said. "There is no reason it can't happen next weekend." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1 @nd.edu 


Monday, April 21, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish split vveekend against Louisville, USF 
Crucial errors cost Notre Dame at Bulls 
By SAM WERNER Sporrs Writer 
As the old saying goes, what goes around comes around, and the Irish learned that this weekend. Notre Dame swept two games at Big East rival Louisville Saturday, then promptly lost two to South Florida the next day. 
The Irish beat the Cardinals in a nail-biter in the first game, winning 3-1 in eight innings. Louisville took a 1-0 when junior Kassie Stanfill scored after advancing to second on a passed ball. The Irish scored a run in the fourth, though, and in the top of the eighth, junior infielder Lindsay Kohan belted a two-run home run to left­center to break the dead­lock and send the Irish to victory. Junior Brittney Bargar pitched all eight innings, giving up only five hits and the one unearned run. 
In the second game, the Irish only needed five innings to dispatch of the Cardinals, earning a 12-4 win. Kohan notched anoth­er four RBis in the second game, and sophomore out­fielder Ashley Ellis added !'our more. Ellis jumpstart­ed the Irish offense in the first inning with a three­run blast to center, and sophomore first baseman Christina Lux added a solo homer in the fourth to extend the lead to 8-4. 
Freshman Jody Valdivia pitched the first four innings, giving up only three runs on three Cardinal hits. Bargar came on in the fifth, and gave up 
' 
one hit before sending Louisville down in order. 
Sunday was a new day for the Irish, though. The first game against the Bulls remained scoreless until the bottom of the third, when South Florida pushed across an unearned run. Freshman Kelly McCarver reached on an error, advanced to second on a wild pitch, and after being bunted over to third, scored on a Kit Dunbar sin­gle. 
Lux knocked a two-run shot to right in the top of the fifth to give Notre Dame a 2-1 lead, but a four-run sixth for the Bulls sealed the win. South Florida needed only one hit in its rally, but a timely error and passed ball were enough to get the win. Bargar pitched all six innings for Notre Dame, giving up only two earned runs and six hits. 
Errors continued to hurt the Irish in the second game against the Bulls. In the bottom of the l'ourth, with South Florida up 3-2 and the Irish already hav­ing given up an unearned run, an error by shortstop Katie Fleury allowed Tara Toscano to reach base. The Bulls went on to score four runs in the inning, and put the game out of reach. 
Valdivia pitched four and 2/3 innings, and Bargar fin­ished the game. The two combined to give up only three earned runs and strike out six. 
The Irish travel to Purdue for a doubleheader against the Boilermakers on Tuesday. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

Start your MCAT. prep here and finish it anywhere! 
Plus enroll with Kaplan in April and get MCAT Verbal Edge free-a S499 value!' 

MCAT course prices are going up S50-enroll now to beat the price increase! 
1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.comImeat 

.•.•, '•"' "'lo!C:.<'.._. "',....... ..;;;.7-S'>O..--.... 
·~ ·'tM•l'-':Y-4f<"""'~' .... _~~ 
HIGHER MCAT SCORE GUARANTEED-OR YOUR MONEY BACK.' 
MEN'S TRACK 
ND competes at Mount SAC 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO Sports Writer 
Notre Dame once again returns from its chase for quali­fying marks to participate in the Big East Outdoor Conference Championship held in May. 
The Irish had the chance to show their stuff at Mount SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif. The relays are renowned for being one of the biggest and competi­tive track meets of the year, hosting over 9,000 participants from high school athletes all the way to potential Olympians. As a preview for the Mount SAC relays, some members of the team participated in the VS Athletic Beach Invitational held at Long Beach State in Norwalk, California. Senior Adam Currie finished second with a time of 1:51.69 in the 800-meter run, placing him second and with season best performance. Currie would improve even more during the Mount SAC Relays where he placed fourth with a faster time of 1:51.38. 
Other partiCipants of the VS meet were sophomore Balazs Molnar and senior Austin Wechter who both participated in the 400-meter hurdles. Molnar placed fifth with a time of 53.64, earning him the No. 13 ranking for the Big East meet in May. Wechter followed close behind in eighth with a time of 54.11. 
Wechter and Molnar both ran hurdles at Mount Sac. Wechter finished 14th with a time of 
54.40 while Molnar finished 22nd. Junior Billy Buzaid ran for the Irish as well,placing 13th in the 400-meter run with a time of 49 .11. Buzaid ran the 400-meter dash the next day, running a time of 49.65 to earn him a seventh place. 
Junior Blair Macjina also par­ticipated in the VS meet and placed fourth in the high jump. Macjina would go on to place sixth in the high jump for the Mount SAC relays with a jump of 6 feet, 8 inches. 

For the rest of the field events at Mount SAC, sophomore pole vaulter Matt Schipper started the Irish off with a fifth place height of 5.05 meters. Fellow sophomore jumper Eric Quick placed ninth in the triple jump with a jump of 14.18 meters. Quick is currently a double threat for the Big East, ranked fourth in long jump and seventh in triple jump. 
The Irish will continue to strive for Big East qualifying marks as the regular season of outdoor track comes to a close. The next meets up for the Irish will be the Drake and Hillsdale Relays starting this Friday. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
Team excels at Championships 
Weber, Espinoza earn first place in three throwing events 
By ALEX BARKER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame took it to the competition in the field events at the Central Collegiate championships this weekend, hosted by the University of Western Michigan. 
The Irish won every throwing event in the meet and finished very strong in the jumping events. 
Junior thrower Anna Weber and sophomore thrower Jaclyn Espinoza accounted for three of the Irish's four first-place fin­
ishes. Weber took first in the shot-put and the hammer throw events, both in which she holds NCAA regional qualifying marks. 
Espinoza maintained her dominance in the discus throw taking first and reaching the NCAA qualify­ing mark. She also took sec­ond, behind Weber, in the shot-put. 
Sophomore thrower Elise Knutzen was a big contribu­tor for the Irish taking first place in the javelin throw. 
In the jumping events, sophomore Jaime Minor led the Irish with a second place f1nish in the triple jump and 


14th place finish in the long jump. 
Freshman Jessica Sullivan placed 13th in the Pole Vault. 
The Irish also logged some quality finishes in many of the running events. 
The 5000-meter run was a successful event for the Irish who placed three runners in the top six. Junior Heidi Rocha and seniors Amy Kohlmeier and Ann Mazur placed third, fifth and sixth, respectively. 
Junior Becca Bauman ran a strong race fn the 3000­meter steeplechase finishing in second-place. 
The Irish also sent athletes to the prestigious Mount SAC relays in Walnut, Calif. 
There, the Irish continued to be best in the field events. 
Junior Mary Saxer, the only Irish athlete to compete in field events, finished first in the Pole Vault. 
Sophomore Joanna Schultz took first in the 400-meter dash with Senior Crysta Swayzer finishing ninth. 
In the 800-meter race, the freshmen duo of Natalie Johnson and Kelly Langhans posted personal best time.s placing fourth and sixth, respectively. Each of their times was good enough to qualify them for both the Big East championship meet and the NCAA regional meet. 
In the 3000-meter steeple­chase, Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson l'inished fourth rounding out a strong Irish showing. 
Next week, the Irish will travel to compete in the Drake and Hillsdale relays. These meets will be the last chance for the Irish to improve their times and marks before they will com­pete in the Big East indoor championships. 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 21, 2008 

from the Energy Information Administration

use 
1111
1n 
half 
···r t I f"J 1.\ t.J l E-~
' ) i ....\ ;······ )
S U c
-. ""\ .. --·-··­


A NOTRE DAME FORUM ENLIGHTEN ENGAGE EMPOWER 
BEENLIGHTENED 
Notre Dame Forum 
JACC 
September 24, 3:00 p.m. 
enlighten.nd.edu 
nElUNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

..-------------------------------.-------------------­
Monday, April 21, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish bounce back from loss with huge win 
By ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Wrirer 
Resiliency has been key for Notre Dame all season long. The Irish (11-5, 4-1 Big East) have been able to come back from tough and unexpected losses to keep themselves in the picture for both the Big East and National Championships. 
Sunday proved to be the ultimate example of that 
resiliency, as the Irish bounced back from a tough loss to Vanderbilt on Wednesday with a 20-9 thumping of Rutgers (7 -9, 2-3 Big East) in Piscataway, N.J. 
Sophomore attack Gina Sciascia highlighted the Irish offense with a career-high seven points on two goals and five assists. She now leads the team with 28 assists on the season after posting her fifth five-assist game on the year. 
Junior attack Jillian Byers 
notched five first-half goals to bring her season total to 61. Senior midfielder Caitlin McKinney added six points with three goals and three assists. 
Junior goalkeeper Erin Goodman had another strong performance, limiting the Scarlet Knights to six goals during her time between the pipes. Some of that can be attributed to the shot dispari­ty, as Notre Dame out shot Rutgers 43-20. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles down Kalamazoo 
Saint Mary's wraps up conference season on positive note 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Spans Wrirer 
Saint Mary's finished its conference competition this weekend with back to back wins over Kalamazoo and Alma this Saturday and Sunday to move to fourth in conference. 
Saturday the Belles (10-9, 5-3 MIAA) defeated Kalamazoo 6-3, winning five of the six singles matches. The momentum continued Sunday in their 8-1 victory over Alma, winning all six sin­gles and two of the three dou­bles. 
Saint Mary's won only one of the three doubles matches Saturday against Kalamazoo. Saint Mary's No. 3 pair of freshmen Jessica Camp and Mary Therese Lee made their debut as a pair, winning 8-3 over the Hornet's Becky Thomson and Amanda Goumas. No. 1 doubles duo of sophomore co-captain Camille Gebert and freshman Jillian Hurley lost 8-5 to Mary Atallah and Lindsay Zulhke. No. 3 pair of sophomore co­captain Lisa Rubino and freshman Betsy Reed were defeated 8-3 by Kari Larson and Geneva Garcia. 
The Belles made up for the doubles losses by dominating the Hornets in the singles, winning five of the six match­es. No. 1 singles Gebert defeated Atallah 6-1, 6-3 for her 10th win of the season. Hurley continued her success­ful season with a 6-3, 6-1 win over Zulhke for her 16th sin­gles victory. No. 3 Reed defeated Larson 6-2, 6-1 for her ninth singles win while No. 5 Rubino went 6-1, 7-6, (7-3) over Goumas. No. 6 sin­gles, freshman Laura Arnold, won Saint Mary's fifth singles match in a 1-0 (10-6) tiebreaker after losing 4-6, and winning 6-4. No. 4 fresh­man Jessica Kosinski was defeated 6-1, 6-1 by Garcia, her 1Oth singles loss of the season. 
Saint Mary's energy carried over to Sunday as the Belles won two of the three doubles, and swept the singles division. No. 1 doubles duo of Gebert and Hurley won 8-3 over the Scots' Kelly Schwartzkopf and Margaret Curtiss, moving them to 10-9, 6-2 MIAA. No. 2 pair of Rubino and Reed were defeated for the second day in a row as they lost 9-7 to Lindsay Wagner and Laura McKendry, putting them at 7­10, 3-5 MIAA. Camp and Lee continued their play at the No. 3 doubles spot, winning their second match as a pair in their 8-1 victory over Emily Noss and Kelsey Erwin. 
The Belles dominated the Scots in singles play with Gebert, Hurley, Reed, Wagner, Kosinski, Reed and Arnold all winning. 
Saint Mary's will end its season this weekend at the MIAA Conference Tournament at Albion Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselOl @saintmarys.edu 
Notre Dame dominated the game right from the start, with the Irish jumping out to an early 4-0 under 4 minutes into the game. They would score 10 out of the game's first 11 goals, and cruised to an 11-5 halftime lead. The second half would prove to be more of the same, as Notre Dame found the back of the net 5 times in the first 10 minutes of the half, stretching their lead to 16-5 and putting the game out of reach for the Scarlet Knights. 

The game was the last regu­lar season Big East game for the Irish, and they next play in the Big East tournament, which will begin on Friday in Notre Dame Stadium. With the win, the Irish have solidi­fied the No. 2-seed heading into tournament play and will take on Georgetown on Friday night. 
Contact Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Laxers win two against Quinnipiac, Lehigh 
By GRIFFIN DASSATI 
Sports Writer 
After beating Quinnipiac 16-6 Friday in South Bend, the Irish decided just one win for the week­end wasn't enough. 
They defeated Lehigh on the road 14-7 Sunday for their second win of the weekend. Friday was the first time No. 10 Notre Dame (9-2, 3-1 GWLL) had played since losing a 9-8 heart breaker to Denver April 
5. After that loss, coach Kevin Corrigan said the team wanted to take a step back and reconsider where they stood. 
"We just said going into the break after the Denver game that we wanted to reestablish who we were and what our identity was going to be," Corrigan said Sunday. "We wanted to use those weeks to improve individually and collective­ly. We're in a stretch of three games in five days. The job was to win all there and we're just considering ourselves in the middle of it right now." 
Corrigan was referring to the stretch of Quinnipiac on Friday, Lehigh on Sunday, and Notre Dame's next game, which comes Tuesday at Air Force. 
Junior attack Ryan Hoff started off the weekend hot, scoring two quick goals against Quinnipiac with 

14:09 and 11:14 left in the first quarter. Hoff's goals sparked a 5-0 Irish run that culminated in a goal by sophomore attackman Neal Hicks and set the tone for the game. The Bobcats never recov­ered from the deficit and didn't get within five goals of the Irish for the entire contest. 
Hoff, Notre Dame's leading scor­er this season, finished the game with four goals and was supported by two goals apiece from senior attackman Alex Wharton, junior attackman Duncan Swezey, and sophomore midfielder Grant Krebs. 
After a Saturday trip to Pennsylvania, the Irish had to again gear up, this time to take on Lehigh. 
The game started off fairly even, with each team scoring two goals in the first quarter. Despite another early goal from Hoff, it looked like the Mountain Hawks would put up a much tougher fight than the Bobcats had. That is, until the Irish decided to flip the proverbial switch. 
Beginning with Hicks' goal with 
5:31 left in the second quarter, the Irish went on an astonishing 9-0 run in which seven different play­ers scored to put them up 11-2 and put the game out of reach for Lehigh. 
Hoff finished up with four goals and one assist, making Sunday the fourth time the junior has scored four or more goals in a game this season. After the game, Corrigan talked about Hoff being a product of a team-oriented offense. 
"Hyan Hoff scores a lot when wn play well offensively," Corrigan sa.id. "!In gnts the ball from other people and we have to play well together to get him the ball and get him open. Him scoring a lot is a good indication of us playing well." 
Corrigan also added that the Irish dominance was due a lot to the possession battle -Notre Dame won 17 of 25 face-offs. Corrigan spncilically credited senior mid­fielder Taylor Clagett as a main mason for the Irish's face-off suc­cess. 
"Taylor is the one who really broke today's game open," Corrigan said. "He was winning face-offs by the bunch and that rnally helpnd us." 
Aftnr the two wins, the Irish look ahead to Colorado Springs where they will play Air Force on Tuesday in their second-to-last game of the season. 
Contact Griffin Dassati at gadassat@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 21, 2008 
BASEBALL 
ND takes Big East road series 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sporrs Writer 
While Notre Dame's big win­ning streak eame to an end this weekend, the Irish took two of three on the road against Big East rival West Virginia. With the wins Notre Dame (25-10-1, 12-3 Big East) preserved its first-place stanl)ing in the con­ference, leading Cincinnati by one game. 
Notre Dame 8, West Virginia 
4 The Irish pushed their win­
ning streak to 11 games Friday 
with a big vktory to open the 
series in Morgantown. 
Junior pitehtlr David Phelps 

held the Mountaineers (28-11, 
8-7 Big East) to three runs and 
striking out I 0 in seven innings 
of work. West Virginia entered 
the series batting .364 as a 
team, tops in all of college 
baseball. 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 2-0 lead in tlw second inning, scoring two runs that reachod on walks. Freshman third basoman (;rng Shorry, who was 3-for-3 in the game, came through with a two-out HBI single to help the Irish out to an early lead. 
Junior first baseman Evan 

Sharpley then extended the 
Notre Dame lead with a solo 
home run in the third, his 
eighth of the season. 
The Irish expanded the lead to 5-0 in the fourth inning, with a Sharpley HBI single plating one of the runs. Sophomore centnr fielder A.J. Pollock was hit by a pitch with thn bases loaded to score the other run. 
West Virginia responded and closed the gap in the fourth, scoring two runs to cut the lead to 5-2. Phelps gave up anothnr run in the fifth, but held the Mountaineers score­less in his linal two innings of work. 
Notre Dame added a couple of insurance runs with sopho­more David Mills two-run dou­ble. Senior Tony Langford and junior Kyle Weiland each pitched a scoreless inning to preserve the win. 
West VIrginia 11, Notre Dame 
6 
Mountaineers starter Steve Morrison was a workhorse for West Virginia, throwing 140 pitches ov11r 8.2 innings of work to get the win on Saturday. The nation's top offense touched up the Irish for eight runs in the first five innings and cruised to victory. 
West Virginia snapped the Irish's 11-game winning streak with the win, touching up Notre Dame senior Wade Korpi with four runs in three innings. 
The Irish opened the game with an early strike, going up 1-0 ofT a sophomore designated hitter David Mills inside the park homerun. Notre Dame managed several hits off Morrison early, but left five runners on base in the first two innings. 
Morrison then settled down and allowed just one run over the next seven innings. Notre Dame rallied for four runs in the ninth to make things inter­esting, but fell short of serious­ly threatening the Mountaineer lead. 
Sophomore outfielder A.J. Pollock and senior outfielder Hoss Brezovsky each had two-hit games for the Irish to lead the team offensively. 
West Virginia first baseman Joe Agreste was 3-for-4 with four RB!s, including a solo homer. Shortstop Tyler Kuhn and center fielder Austin Markel also had three hits for the Mountaineers. 
Notre Dame 9, West VIrginia 
4 

The Irish took the rubber match Sunday, getting seven strong innings from sophomore Eric Maust and another big homerun from David Mills. 
Maust, who played in the Blue-Gold game just a day ear­lim-as a punter, picked up his fourth win of the season. The right-hander struck out six and walked none, giving up four earned runs on the game. 
The Mountaineers tagged Maust for three long balls early, getting two solo shots in the second to grab a 2-1 lead. Arter the Irish went up 3-2 West Virginia struck back with a two-run homer from Jordan Yost to take back the lead in the fourth. 
Notre Dame showed its resiliency, striking right back with two runs in the top of the fifth. Senior catcher Sean Gaston singled home a run, and A.J Pollock scored on a groundout after a double and a stolen base. 
With the Irish holding on to a one run lead, Mills sealed the win in the seventh. With the bases full Mills pulled a 1-0 pitch over the right field fence for his first career grand slam. 
Helievers Steven Mazur, Mills, and Kyle Weiland com­bined to hold the Mountaineers hitless in the final two innings. 
Notre Dame will return to action with two non-confer­ence games this week against Chicago State and IPFW Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, before a Big East showdown with third-place St. John's this weekend. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS 
•& 
0 ­

···. • INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
-0 
HONOR & PRESENT 
RONALD GRZYWINSKI Chairman and Co-Founder 
and 
MARY HOUGHTON 
President and Co-Founder 
ShoreBank Corporation 
with the 

Theodore :NL Hesburgh, C.S.C. Award for Business Ethics 
& 
the 2008 Frank Cahill Lecture 

~~social Entrepreneurship and Ethics in Banking,, 
Tuesday, April22, 2008 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College ofBusiness 4:30p.m.-5:30p.m. 
WOMEN'S ROWING 
Irish tune-up for Big East at Charles River 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame put together back-to-hack successful days at the Charles River Challenge in Boston, Mass., in preparation for next week­end's Big East champi­onships. 
On Saturday, the varsity four led the way, winning both of its races. The varsity 
eight, second varsity eight and second varsity four also won once each. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame beat Boston University in the varsity eight, second varsity eight, varsity four and novice eight races. 
The Irish will compete in the Big East championships next Sunday in Oak JUdge, Tenn. 


--------------, 
Monday, April 21, 2008 page 21
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
teams. 
"Give credit to those guys, the day after the Blue-Gold game to keep playing," Andersen said of Duncan, Turkovich and fellow football player junior Kyle McCarthy, a safety. "They were obvious­ly tired, and Turkovich was saying his ankle hurt." 
After not playing together a year ago, the Saltines are just looking to clean up some unfinished business in tonight's championship game at 8 p.m. 
"My sophomore year, we lost in the finals, so we've been looking forward to this day for two years," Lund said. "We're just hoping this year we can end it the right way." 
No. 7 Mean Girls 21, No. 5 Insurance Waivers 17 
Mean Girls used some tena­cious defense and a few time­ly jump-shots to close the game with a 4-0 run to send the higher-seeded Insurance Waivers home. 
Junior Alex Klupchak, wearing a sizeable knee brace and sporting a band­aged right hand, showed off his scrappiness by getting on the ground for several steals in the final minutes to set up the win for·Mean Girls. Senior Garret Flynn scored a game­high nine points, including and Joe Marnell all afternoon, but especially late in the game to prevent a Waivers comeback. 
"We were having some trou­ble in the half-court scoring, so we were just trying to pressure as much as possible to get out and score some easy baskets," Klupchak said. 
four of the last five for the vic­tors. 
"I was dead tired and just trying to spend all my energy on defense and getting rebounds," Flynn said. "I guess I was kind of lazy [on the offensive end] and they got off me a little bit, and they got me the ball and I 

just shot it. I just wanted to end it." 
He did so with a running lay-up after the last of Klupchak's backcourt steals. Klupchak, who also scored six points, made it tough on Waivers guards Rob Heroman 

R•,pamiblht1es 1ndude joint d~velopment of l!~r tpphciltlofls with pa"ner tlllthnology pr(l~ld11r:; l!ll'ld WP<tf"lliO,Qfartrl..af.trn...artle"rl.llbandfle!dtMting 
M!. 1n M..:;hanical EnginHnng requ1red (BS Mec:htnicill E1191""' K<lllptabte if 3+ Y.ill) e.(t)e•itfK.e in miKh•nical too•O.S•~anOdevelopl'l"'ent). tlltvJcollegegraduate (MS or PhD) a,u.ptal>le if b«ksarouM In apphed p~;u.1;ssa~r appl<catlo~. Experien'e In l65C'r l!lpplicatlan5 c.r well 
~onstruc.tronilnd•<:>mphrtionpreferred 
Murt l'r•ve •tr..noriur;on to worl<. ~rmane.,tl~ in the U.!> Pli!,oiSe vi-..11 Our website .11: www.g.tSWr.hr.ology.arq •nd apply online Ottly .:c~ing onfl.,. •pplicilfrts. I:.OE 
gti~ 


"My sophomore year, we lost in the finals, so we've been looking forward to this day for two years. We're just hoping this year we can end it the right way." 
Chris Lund Saltines senior 
"[Flynn] made a great finish there at the end, but they played great defense so we had to work hard to get our baskets down the stretch." 
The game might have turned out dif­ferently if it weren't for a controversial call that went 
against the Waivers with Mean Girls leading 19-16. The Waivers patiently moved the ball around the perimeter before finding senior forward Matt Gibson alone under the basket for an easy lay-up that would have cut the lead to two. 
But the referee had blown the whistle to stop play as the ball from the women's game at the adjacent court rolled onto the men's floor. The bas­ket was discounted, despite protests from the Waivers players, fans and even the referee from the women's game, who was heard advis­ing the men's official to count the basket. 
"Any bad call is tough, but we've got to play through it," said Waivers senior forward Matt Hamel, who scored a team-best six points. "The 
refs  don't  determine  the  
game, the players do."  
Senior Nick Possley,  a  for­ 

mer walk-on wide receiver for the Irish football team, scored six points for Mean Girls, who are looking for­ward to a tough title match­up. 
"[The Saltines] are a real talented team," Flynn said. "We're going to play some good, solid 'D' and rely on some fundamentals and hope­fully [Klupchak] can take us home." · 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Anthony Travel holds off comeback attempt 
By MATT GAMBER 
Associate Sports Editor 
No. 2 Anthony Travel 21, The Firm 19 
The Firm rallied back from a 19-3 deficit with a 6-0 run, but the comeback effort fell short as Saint Mary's senior Alison Kessler scored Anthony Travel's final two points on free throws to send her team to the title game. 
Kessler, a Divison III basket­ball All-American and Saint Mary's' all-time leading scorer, showed a calming presence at the charity stripe with the game on the line and the rest of her teammates icy cold from the field. 
"Our problem was that we slowed the ball down too much and got away from running our transition," Kessler said. "That messed with the momentum we had going and that allowed them to get back in the game." 
Anthony Travel showcased that transition game with back­to-hack fast-break lay-ups to make it 16-12, when it looked like they would cruise to an easy victory after extending an 11-8 halftime lead. 
But the outside shooting of sophomore guard Lindsay McMahon coupled with a cou­ple of put-backs from freshman forward Mary Forr kept The Firm in it, as its defense tight­ened and its shots began to fall. 
And when guard Kaitlin Robinson grabbed a rebound and went coast-to-coast through Anthony Travel's defense to cut The Firm's deficit to 20-19, it appeared the momentum had made a defini­tive turn. 
As soon as Kessler was fouled and headed to the line, though, The Firm looked resigned to defeat, as the sharpshooter nailed the final free throw to put the game on ice. 
"The shots weren't falling too well, and we were kind of pressing at the end," Kessler said. "Next time, we just need to calm down and control the ball a little bit better." 

Supreme Court 21, 8th and Main12 
A trio of Saint Mary's basketball players -Meghan Conaty and sisters Erin and Becki Newsom ­led the Supreme Court to a blow­out victory and a berth in the championship game. 
Conaty showed why she led the Belles this season with 93 assists, getting into the lane early and often and either dishing it off to her teammates or finishing the job herself. 
''I'm not much of a shooter ­never have been, never really wanted to be," Conaty said. "[My game is] just distributing the ball and driving it in and looking for the open man." 
After the teams traded baskets to open the contest, the Supreme Court took an 11-7 edge into the break. When the teams came out for the second half, though, it was all Supreme Court. 
"They definitely pulled away in the second half more so," 8th and Main guard Sierre Smith said. "Maybe we got tired, but they were good defensively and our shots just weren't falling." 
8th and Main had several two­on-one and three-on-two oppor­tunities in the second half but just couldn't finish, as several of its players expressed their frustra­tion after missing open shots from the lane. 
Though the Supreme Court did­n't exactly shoot the lights out either, Conaty's play at the point allowed the 6-foot Newsom sis­ters to get some easy chances and advance to play Anthony Travel -the team led by their old team­mate, Alison Kessler. 
"We weren't really hitting out­side, so we were trying to drive and work the ball in and set more screens," Conaty said. "We knew if we could move the ball inside the defense would have to work to stop us. 
"It'll be fun and interesting to finally play against Alison for a change." 
Contact Matt Gamber mgamber@nd.edu 

HICKEY FREEMAN 
Factory Outlet Store 6132 Broadway, Merrillville (1-65 At 61st Ave.) Mon-Sat: 9:30 am -5:00 pm Sun: 11:00 am -5:00 pm 219-884-8444 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 Monday, April 21, 2008
The Observer + SPORTS 
Blue's second drive of the Weis said, was an example of he was going to go get his Aldridge had six carries for half. linf\backer/saf'ety and taking emotion too far. elbow scoped. And it was 1 S yards and rising sopho­
Offense 
continued from page 24 
Kamara's touchdown, prn­ePdnd thrnn plays earlier by a 5S-yard pass to rising sopho­more c;oldnn Tatn ofT of a go­routn. was only the third touchdown of thn gamn. But in a gamn whern a first down earrwd one point; a sack, a I0-yard run. a 20-yard pass and a defensive stop earned two points; and a three-and­out earned the defense five points -th1~ seored climbnd quiekly. 
The offense dominated much of the first half. jump­ing out to a 32-13 lead. Hising sophomore running back Holwrt llughes carrind for 72 yards on 16 carries in the first half, and he finished with 22 carries for I 02 yards, earning offensive MVJ> hon­ors. Blue did not pass the ball on its second drivo, going 69 yards on 15 plays capped ofT by a llughes !-yard touch­down run. 
But c;old climbed its way back in the seeond half. On 
defensive MVP Harrison Smith "As far as everything else, picked Clausen of'f on Blue's what would I call it? A perfect 15 and returned it for a example to teach, that's what touchdown, giving the defense I would call it," We is said. 10 points and putting it back "That's probably five minutes in the game. of what I talked about in [the 
"I call that a happy moment locker room after the game]. watching one That was a per­of my defen­fect example to
"/ wanted to let the 
sive players teach the team scoring a offensive line tee off about compo­
You can't build 
touchdown on sure." an intercep­Blue managed
physicality ifyou
tion," coach just 45 yards the Charlie Weis don't let them tee off" rest of the half said. "And a before the final sad moment drive.
Charlie Weis 
watching my In the two 30­
Irish coach 
quarterback minutes running throw an halves, Clausen interception for a touch­went 10-for-27 for 183 yards down." the one touchdown and one 
After the play, a small fight interception. broke out in the end zone Weis said there was a differ­involving multiple players. ence in hisquarterback situa­Punches were thrown, and in tion this spring, with Clausen an actual game, penalties, the clear-cur starter, as and possibly some ejections opposed to last spring when might have ensued from the four candidates including an altercation. This spring, Weis injured Clausen were vying has tried to get his players to for the starting job. play with more emotion on "At this point last year I the field. The fight Saturday, knew that in a couple of days going to be a recovery time, and it was going to be a while before he could get his arm strength up to be able to throw the ball," Weis said. "It was really that whole quar­terback situation was a little bit of a chaotic at the time, I'd have to say. You know, because nothing was really going as I scripted it." 
That injury prevented Clausen from throwing with any regularity until the final weeks of summer camp. Clausen's also needed time to recover, and said the long pass to Tate probably would not have reached its target a few months ago. 
''I'm a lot healthier right now," Clausen said. "''m 100 percent. Last year coming off the elbow surgery, and being banged up, I really wasn't able to be 100 percent like I am now. So I'm just happy to be 100 percent." 
But Notre Dame came into the Blue-Gold Game wanting to run the football. 
Aside from llughes' 22 car­ries, rising junior .James 
more Armando Allen had 11 carries for 53 yards. 
"What we wanted to do is make sure wn ran the ball about 40 times. That's how it turned out.... " Wnis said. "I wanted to let the offensiv1~ line ten off. You can't build physicality if you don't let them ten ofT." 
Tate f'inished with three catches for 7:~ yards, while Kamara had four catches for 48 yards. 
Notes 
+The attendanee at the game was 30,286, the fifth highest total for any Blue­Gold Game. 
+ Hising f"if'th-year line­backer Maurice Crum Jr., ris­ing snnior wide receiver David Grimes and rising sen­ior safety David Bruton were named captains for next sea­son. Crum will eaptain the defense, Grimes the offense and Bruton speeial teams. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Recruits 
continued from page 24 
hitting spet'd. Pxtrnnwly elu­sivo." 
Stockton is a (l-l'oot-1, 2SO­pound defPnsivP lineman that NotrP l>amn rPcruited to play llOSI' tar.kJP. 
"liP's a guy that plays so hard all tlw time," )."rank said. "flp'IJ remind pPopiP ol' Tn'vor Laws, very physical and quick playor. evl'n though lw"II play a diflim•nt position than Trevor did. You havo your pluggPrs and then you haVP your hruys that make nnga­tivn plays in tlw backfield and lw's morn of a rwgative play kind of guy." 
Tlw Irish also had a number of ot.lwr reeruhs on eampus who didn't verbally mmmit, but Frank said overall, tlwy enjoyed their visits. 
Jordan Barrett -linebacker 
A high school tnammate of inwming freshmen Dayne Crist and Anthony McDonald from Sherman Oaks, Calif.. Barrett has Notre Dame high on his list of schools, Frank said. 
"I think NotrP Dame has a very good shot. But if some of the local schools like USC or UCLA came calling, rwither has offered yet, will lw stay loser to home?" Frank said. 

D.J. Adams-running back 
Frank said Adams might be on the fence at this point given the mmmitnwnt from Wood over the 
wm~k~~nd. 

"If lw wants the spot lw might have to do something fairly soon I think those are some of the thoughts that an~ going through his head." Frank said. "I think he really likes Notrn Dame, but if he's going to choose Notm Dame, I think he's going to do it fairly soon." 
Devonte Holloman -safety 
Frank said the Charlotte, N.C., native probably won't make a decision until summer, but likes Notre Dame's chances of landing llolloman 
"He's going to visit a few more sehools and check out some things, but I think he really likes (defensive coordinator) Corwin Brown and likes what Corwin has to say," Frank said. 
Anthony Lalota -defensive end 
LaLota received an official scholarship offer from Notre Dame over the weekend. 
"I think he wants to sit down and think about things, but I do think the offer mo-ved Notre Dame way up to the top of his list and in the nnd I'd be surprised if he didn't end up at Notre Dame. But the longor he waits, the more people are going to have an opportunity to influence him," Frank said. 
Craig Roh -defensive end 
Frank said he expeets Hoh to take more visits before ultimately deciding on a school. Hoh hails from Scottsdale, Ariz., and stands 6-foot-5, 225-pounds. 
E.J. White-defensive back 
Frank said some schools are recruiting White as a safety, while others, including Notre Dame, are recruiting him as a corner, which bodes well for the Irish. 
"I think that helps their chances. I think he loved the visit and crowd support," Frank said. "I think the fans did a great job of selling Notre Dame this weekend. lie mentioned that a lot when we 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
/7atY! 111 fa, 1-lrt WA~EN GdLF COURSE OPEN HOUSE 
April 21st, fron1 5:30 pn1 to 7:00 pm 
·See what's new this year on the course ·Prizes {Golf Equipment and Apparel) ·Sampling of the new \Xfarren Grille Menus ·Join the Lunch and Bucket Card Club 

WARREN 
• 
fST: 199~) 


Hughes 
continued from page 24 
see him run with his pads lower. 
"I think when you're 240 pounds, the higher you run, the more you're giving the dofense equalizers," Weis said. "You're letting them get shots at you. I think you have to run with a little more forward leaning, get your pads down more." 
Hughes said he and Weis had discussed pad lewd in the past. 
"We had talked about it and worked on it." Hughes said. "It's just something that I've got to focus morn on and prac­tice morn on and just take a bP1t1~r approach about it." 
Dnspite the fact that Hughes got a preponderance of car­ries, hn still must contend with rising sophomorn Armando Allen and rising junior James Aldridge. AIIPn had 50 yards on 11 carries and Aldridge had 1 S yards on six carries during thn spring game. 
"[ think all three of these running backs can play," Weis said. "I don't think there's any question that you can put any of those three guys out there and you'd have a chance of winning in the game." 
The change in speed and size of the three backs can throw off a defense much like a piteher changing speeds can confuse a batter. Allen is small, but quick, and cuts well. Hughes is a powerful downhill runner. Aldridge slides in somewhere between the two. Weis said he can ­and will -play all three with a clear conscience. 
"You're really not worrying about it. because you're going to play all three of them," Weis said. "They're all going to end up playing, and they all know it. That's a good thing." 
Ryan Grant, former Irish running back and current Green Bay Packer, said the competition between the three backs would be a positive occurrence. 
"They need to make each other better, com pete against eaeh other," said Grant, who graduated in 2005 and was invited back as an honorary coach. "In that sense will make the team better. "That competition is healthy. They can feed off each other; they can make each other better they can learn form each other. Each person has their own style." 
Hughes said the competition between the three backs gen­erates a productive yet amica­ble relationship. 
"You see a guy out there doing well and you want to do well too," he said. "You know, it's a friendly competition for all of us." 
But Saturday, it was Hughes who led in yards and carries, Hughes who coaches turned to after early passing struggles. This is still spring ball, but Hughes saw the game as a pacesetter for the fall. 
"It definitely gives us some­thing to shoot for when we get back," he said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
IN CONCERT GRAMMY & STELLAR AWARD NOMINEE 
ChicagoMac:;sChoit­

.JUST  HA.VtNG  CHURCI·t  t..  ~V1::  
DATE: PLACE: TICKETS:  Saturday. April 26. 2008 TIME: 7:00Second Baptist Church 24828 Fillmore Road. P.O. Box 3895 South Bend. Indiana 46619 $25 in advance $30 at the door  p.m.  

$7 Dollars OffEACH Ticket Purchased With A Notre Dame J.D. 
Reserve your tickets by contacting Second 13aptist Church by phone at (574) 287-3000 Church/(574) 876-9462 Secretary: OR. by visiting the following local businesses: Cutragcous Barber Shop; The I.ook !lair Salon: WUBS. Betty's Ch:aners (Benton 
BLACK DoG 

DIDIER LEWIS 

People like me should never be allowed to reproduce. 

in this spot. 

THE SINGLE LIFE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Talking maybe a 68 Nephew of Stars and 
little too fast Donald Duck Stripes, e.g. 40 Snapshot 69 For whom the bell tolls, in a
43 Sgt. Snorkel's John Donne5 Places where 

dog poem lines meet 44 Fable writer 70 Numerical prefix9 French greeting 

46 No. on which a

14 of Sandwich with -ber
magazine's ad

15 Cause of a rates are based 71 Bygone Montreal 
game ball club
48 Freudian one

cancellation 49 Persist to 
72 Quiet exercise 

16 Unaccompanied 
the freezer now!" 
53 Prefix with 

center 20 Black card 
55 Column's Down

21 Talks one's head counterpart Admit (to), with
off 
56 Interstate "up"

22 French summer entrance or exit 2 Reindeer herder
23 Twinings 57 Fish after which selections a cape is named 3 Geometry 26 Sign before 58 Logic diagram calculation 
Virgo 60 Long Island 4 "My pleasure" 27 Big Apple ave. 
airfield town 
5 Black power
64 Command

28 Be undecided hairdo, for short
center? ... or

33 _ Wednesday 6 Dunderpate
where you might34 Suds maker 
hear the starts of 7 The "C" in N.Y.C. 35 Mounted, as a 17-, 28-and 49­
8 Divided 50/50horse Across 9 Dirge 

10 Schooner fill 11 Billet-doux 12 Join 13 Old message 
system 18 Wails 19 Dueling sword 24 Perched on 25 Deposed Iranian 28 "Roots," for one 29_ofWight 30 Message on a 
shipping crate 31 Geologic time unit 32 Pigeon's sound 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Monday, April 21, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
~lJJ~)1J!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SADIE 
j

rJ r [) 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. DONSY j 
[J (  [)  
tBADCUT±J I (  J  
www.jumble.com I GRUNNE j 1 rx  (J  



THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 
This isn't my favorite chore 
WHE:N MOM SE::W~ THE:: HOL-E:: IN HIS SOCK, SHE:: CON­SIOE::R£::0 IT A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
_..., 


LINAPAEK 
WILLSHORTZ 


A:"( I I I J' rI I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MINCE ALIAS NIMBLE SHANTYSaturday's 
Answer: The workers described the nasty tycoon as -A MAN OF "MEANS" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joev Lawrence, 3~; Cannen Electra, 35; Jes­sica Lange, 59; Ryan O'Neal. 67 · 
Happy Birthday: If you haven:t made the changes you should have the past year. re­think your strategy to make up for lost time. Don't overspend or overdo but rather put your plans into motion for next year, when your tUning will be better. For now, it's a time of learning and preparation. Your numbers are s. 17. 21, 30. 34. 49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't eive up because thin~s seem overwhelming. In­stead. plug away at \Vhat needs to be Jone and you \V:ill gam respect and confidence and get ahead in the end. The realization that you have more to offer "':ill help you make better choices in the future. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Greater involvement in a partnership will help you es­tablish a better position. You can learn from people 1.vith experiem.·e and make changes Lhat will lead to respect. The possibilities are endless. 3 stars 
G~MI~ (~ay 21~June 20): Someone you are trying to work with or do business With wll1 wtthhold mformation. You have to 2:0 above and bevond the call ofdutv to stay on top of things and get ahead today. Dol11t give in to sorlleone who is asking for too much. 3 stars. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): llse yow-clout, ingenuity and fabulous memory to make the changes nece$sary to establish a favorable position. Smneone you have done favors for in the past will help you out now if you ask. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love will tempt you to put things that have to be done on the back burner. Be careful not to upset someone who counts on you. Arguments are likely to erupt if you neglect responsibilities. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will pick up interestins information regarding dif­ferent lifestyles or traditions. Learn from what you expenence and in1plement \\<"hat you can in!o your own life. You can establish your position with someone by '"·hat you offer emotmnally. not financially. 4 stars . 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It may not be a regular workday but what you can accom­plish will be well worth your efforts. De,·elop your ideas and you will see the financial possibilities open up for you. There is plenty to gain ifyou establish what you have to offer. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Emotional issues will arise and should be taken care of quit~kly, if you want to get anything else done tod..:1.y. Keep things on the straight and nam..nv: any deviation from the truth "'rill lead tn someone's uncertainty of your abili­ties. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An idea you have will allow you to help others while helping yourself. An older relative may burden you with taxing responsibilities. If you aren't careful, mishaps will lead to delays. Love is in tbe picture. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make your position clear and you will have no problem establishing what needs to be done. A trip will tum out to be emotionally draining. Avoid anyone who puts pressure on you to do something you haven't got time for. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Go over your important papers and you can see 
where you stand financially. A good idea regarding a pending scttlen1ent or deal \Vill come to mind. Don1t let others talk you into something you don't feel is right or good for you. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Behind the scenes activity will allow you to see things 
from a different perspective. A change may be required in order to move on. Someone 
will otier you sotnething you cannot refuse if you take part in an activity that benefits 
others. 3 stars 

Birthday Baby: You have tremendous resilience and fortitude.~ and the strength of char­acter to take on whateve-r comes your way. You are strong, passionate and persistent. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for ftm. l'llg('uialast.com for confidt.'ntial consultations 
-

Puzzle by Ken Bessette 
36 Big elevator manufacturer 
37 too soon 
39 Droid 
41 Wedding cake feature 
42 Killer whale 
45 Republican, Democratic, Green, etc. 
47 "Luann" or "Biondie" 50 Knight time? 51 A score 52 End result 53 French place of learning 54 Mail receiver, in brief 59 Repeat 
61 Ness monster 62 ltsy-bitsy bit 63 Winter truck attachment 65 God, in Italy 66 Brain scan, for short 67 Bounding main 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
..... 

-----------------------------------------------------~-~--­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 21, 2008 
page 24 
FooTBALL 
Blue skies ahead 
Kamara grabs late TD to lead offense in win 
Spnns Writer 
Facing fourth-and-goal from the night-yard line with 29 seconds n~maining, rising sophomores Jimmy Clausen and Duval Karnara connected 
..... on a fade pattern near the sidnlinn of the nnd zone to lift Blun (o!Tnnse) to a 47-46 vie­tory ovnr Gold (defense) in a uniqunly-seornd-and at limns heated -79th Blue­Gold (;arne. 
"When we wern on the side­lines, we were going to run a fade to onn of our receivers," Clauson said of Kamara's touchdown. "And coach is like 'We're going to 18'. And I looked at Duval and said,
,­
'Are you going to catch it or not?' And he said, 'Yeah, I'm going to catch it'. And I was like, 'You better go up and get il because I'm throwing it up."' 
see OFFENSE/page 22 
' .,,•. t 

... 
. --r-·· -" 
• I • 

/ 
IAN GAVLICK!The Observer Wide receiver Duval Kamara, right, makes the game-winning touchdown catch over defensive back Gary Gray during Saturday's Blue-Gold game. 
Wood, Stockton join Irish recruiting class 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The Blue-Gold game is a prime rneruiting opportunity for Notn~ Dame, and this weekend the Irish landed two verbal recruits ti>r the dass of 2013. 
Hunning back Cierrn Wood and defimsive lineman Tyler Stockton gave verbal commitments to Notre Dame over the weekend. 
Wood, one of the top running back prospects in the country, is an Oxnard, Calif., native who stands 6-feet, 200-punds. 
"lie's a big-time player. lie's an impact player. lie's a guy that lean! take over and change a game," said Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame for scout. com. "Notre Dame doesn't have a lot or game-changing players on their roster right !now!. though they're starting to have more as their good recruit­ing continues. lie brings a difler­ent dynamic. lie has home run 
see RECRUITS/page 22 

Smith delivers INTfor Hughes emerges from committee with 22 carries touchdown for defense 
span. lie finished the drive 
By BILL BRINK 
with a 1-yard touchdown run, 
Sports Writer 

By BILL BRINK part of a 2 2 -carry, 100-yard 
Sports Writer day that earned him offensive 
If the Blue-Gold game were Most Valuable Player honors. 
In a spring game with an real, the coaching staff would "It felt good," Hughes said of abridged scoring system and have a conniption. Two incom­his day. "It l'elt like I could a running game clock, 176 plete passes, a sack and a have got more and keep yards allowed isn't a bragging punt on the first possession pounding away." point for a defense. The play don't add up to an explosive, After Brandon Walker's 31­of Harrison Smith, however, confidence-building start. yard field goal put the Blue was. In a real game, eoaches Team ahead 10-0 (or 28-10, 
Smith, the Blue-Gold game's ·would do exactly what they depending on your scoring defnnsivf~ Most Valuable did in the spring game -system of choiee), Hughes Player. returned an intorcep­establish a run game in place busted a 20-yard run to the lion for a touchdown and of a passing game that fell left side and followed it with a made l'ive tackles in the asleep over the winter and seven-yard burst up the mid­game. was reluctant to get out of' bed dle. 
"Last year you obviously try Saturday. Hughes rushed 53 times for and help your learn with To build offensive momen­305 yards and four touch­practice and doing show team tum, coaches ran the ball, 15 downs last season. Although at and all that stuff," he said. times in a row, in fact. The 240 pounds he's already a "But getting out there with first seven of those calls went downhill runner, Irish coach tho big boys is a lot of fun." to rising sophomore running Charlie Weis said he'd like to 
back Robert Hughes, who 
see SMITH/page 14 gained 27 yards during that see HUGHES/page 22 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
-Saltines, Mean Girls to meet for championship 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Editor 
No. 2 Main St. Pub Saltines 21, No. 4 Bumped 10 
Junior Carl Andersen scored a ganw-high I 0 points, includ­ing night in tho first half. to lead the Saltines to a blow-out vktory over Bumped. 
The Saltines jumped out to a 3-0 lead and Bumped never got elosnr than that, trailing 11-5 at tho half before getting run ofT the eourt by the small­er but quicker Saltines. 
"We usually try to take our chances," Andersen said. "We're usually pretty good at rebounding and we can get it up the court quickly to !senior Chris Lund I and [seniorI Steve [Joyce!." 
The Saltines weren't intimi­dated by the imposing pres­enee of Bumped's twin towers, 6-foot-7 Paul Duncan and 6­foot-6 Mike Turkovieh -both offensive linemen for the Irish l'ootball team. Duncan was held seoreless and Turkovich scored three points -but none al'ter his jumper from the elbow made it 6-4 Saltines midway through the first half. 
"Obviously they had about 3,000 pounds on us, so we were just trying to use our quiekness to our advantage," said Lund, who scored five points. "They were playing off me a lot, guarding me with a guy who was a lot better, so that helped a lot. Carl !Anderson! was able to get me the ball and I just hit a few shots." 
Lund made a living on the glass, scoring three times ofT of' offensive rebounds and cor­railing several more on the other end. He scored the final three points of the first half to transform an 8-5 lead to an 11-5 advantage heading into the break for the Saltines. 
But Andersen stole the show, establishing his presence by scoring the game's first point on a mid-range jumper before stealing a pass on the defen­sive end and weaving through three defenders for a transi­tion lay-up for a 2-0 lead. 
"It was tough because any­time I could get a step of Carl [Andersen], the rest of the guys were quick to come in and swarm on me," said soph­omore Nick Fessler, who led Bumped with six points. "I played with him last year and he's probably the best player out here. It's tough playing against him because he's such a good competitor and such a good athlete." 
The compliments went both ways, though, after a fast­paced, physieally intense game between two of the tourna­ments' more athletically gil'tnd 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 






