
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 91 WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 20. 2008 

Memorial held for Aher, McGrath 
University community fills Basilica to remember students; Jenkins presides over Mass 
By CHRIS HINE News Writer 
University President Father John Jenkins called Sunday, the day he learned Timothy Aher and Connor McGrath died. his "worst day as president of Notre Dame." 
Jenkins presided over a Mass Tuesday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart held in memorial of Aher, a 25-year-old Law School student. and McGrath. a 20-year-old sophomore, who died in unrelated incidents over the weekend. 
Students and faculty nearly filled the Basilica and shared laughter and tears listening to stories of Aher and McGrath delivered by law professor Father John Coughlin and Keough Hall rector Father Peter McCormick. 
Aher, who was from Brookfield, Conn., and received a Bachelor's degree in linguis­tics from the University of Chicago, died Sunday in the town of IIford, a suburb of London. He was studying in the Law School's London Programme. 
McGrath, from Oklahoma City, died Sunday in Dillon. McGrath was a resident of Siegfried Hall this semester but lived in Dillon his freshman year and had 
see MASS/page 4 


Hollywood writer discusses strikes 
Stepakoff, who worked on 'Wonder Years,' 'Dawson's Creek,' shares opinions on industry 
Despite the efforts of the strikers, Stepakoff said people thought the strike itself was unsuccessful. 
'The gains that were made for the writers were not really that far from what was on the table before the strike," he said. 
Stepakoff took a different stance on the success of the most recent writer's strike, which last several months and ended last week. 
"I propose that this event was different not just because of the financial gains but because the writers stuck together," said Stepakoff, contrasting it to the 1988 strike that ended due to internal struggles. 
Stepakoff said he isn't sure whether the most recent strike was worth the loss of revenue for Hollywood. 
"I think we could not have gotten the renewed strength without hav­
see HOLLYWOOD/page 4 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Cell tovvers 
•


Increase reception 
OIT receives fewer AT&T complaints 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
AT&T's two new cell anten­nas atop the Morris Inn have reduced the number of com­plaints from students on South Quad about dropped calls, Chief Technology Officer Dewitt Latimer said. 
The antennae, Latimer said, have been operational since the middle of January and have improved service. 
"We have noticed a lack of complaints with AT&T cus­tomers," Latimer said. 
The towers, Latimer said. were specifically directed at South Quad residents. 
"AT&T just bought their 17th antenna on campus particularly to address some coverage concerns over at the Alumni and Dillon area," Latimer said. "The cus­tomers in that area were complaining about dropped calls. Students in the area of Alumni and Dillon Halls who use AT&T should notice a significant improvement in signal reach and strength." 
The initiative to improve cell phone coverage on cam-­pus began two years ago with the removal of landlines from the dorm rooms, Latimer said. The movement from landlines to cell phones. he said, presented a problem for the University. 
"We know how much stu­dents rely on cell phones," Latimer said. "We also know that over the years there has 
see CELL/ page 4 


By KARA COYLE 
News Writer 
Jeffrey Stepakoff spoke about the rise, fall and rebirth of scripted entertainment in a speech in Browning Cinema Tuesday night. 
Stepakoff, who for 18 years wrote for television programs including 'The Wonder Years" and "Dawson's Creek," as well as devel­oped two animated films for Disney, said his career did not begin with success. 
After he moved to Los Angeles in the late 1980s, Stcpakoffs debut as a Hollywood writer coincided with the 1988 Writer's Guild strike. 
This strike, Stepakoff said, result­ed in $500 million worth of dam­age to the Los Angeles economy and a nine percent decrease in viewers. 
"[The strike] was the beginning of audience erosion," he said. 
Professors weigh Democrats' obstacles to winning 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
In a Democratic presidential race that will most likely pro­duce either a black or a woman nominee, Notre Dame political science professors are debating which is more electable. · 
Professor Darren Davis said while America is not com­plPtely ready for either, condi­tions in the country make it possible. 
"America is not ready for just any woman or any black person," said Davis, who spe­cializes in public opinion and political psychology. "You can't run just any woman and think they would do as well as [HillaryJ Clinton. 
"There are unique features about Clinton and [Barack] Obama that make both of them extremely appealing, but I think it would be a mistake to think that just because they're both doing well in the primaries that America is ready for a black president." 
Still, the current political climate gives the two candi­dates a chance, Davis said. 
"We're at war; the economy and the particular features of Clinton and Obama makes it right," he said. 
Despite the factors working in Clinton and Obama's favor, Christina Wolbrecht, who spe­cializes in American politics and political parties, said she thinks the two candidates need to pay attention to how they market themselves to the public. 
"I think both candidates are walking a fine line where you want to appeal to people of all races or genders," Wolbrecht said. "You need to be a presi­dent who is going to represent and serve the entire popula­tion." 
Dianne Pinderhughes, whose teaching focuses on racial and ethnic politics in the U.S., as well as voting rights policy and American urban politics, said that may be the case, but the candi­
see DEMOCRATS/page 6 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Whovve fight for 
Every weekday afternoon since the sec­ond day back at Notrn Dame from fall brnak. I have made the long trek from Sorin College lo the JACC lhr Bengal Bouts practice. 
Going into John Tierney 
training for the 
Boul'i,l had 
absolutely no News Hire Editor 
boxing nxperi­
ence. 
Currently, just days beforo I fight in the 
preliminary round next Monday night, I've 
bmm in the ring six timns. 
Needless to say, I'm not Muhammad Ali. 
Ilow£wer, I will say that Bengal Boul'> 
IHL'> been one of the bnst experiences in 
my two years al Notrn Dame. It's taught 
me a lot about myself and it's given me a 
really good way lo let loose some aggres­
sion. 
It's also gotten me in prntty good shape, 
especially eomparnd to last winter's lazy 
plan to slay in shap1~ by going to the Rock. 
Evnr sincn the first practice, the Bengal 
Boul<> captains have insistnd that the 
Boul'i am about more than getting in 
shapn. Instnad, we light f(Jr something big­
gnr than any onn of the approximately 230 
individuals in the program, biggnr than 
the 2:m individuals put together, and even 
bigger than NotrP I>arne. 
Bengal Boul<> am about raising money 
and awareness lor the Iloly Cross Mi<;sion 
in Bangladesh. 
Tlw Iloly Cross missionaries work with 
the tribal people of' Bangladesh, who am 
t.hc poomst of' the poor in a eountry in 
which 45 pnmmt of' the population lives 
below the poverty line, according to thn 
CIA World Factbook. 
ThP missionaries have established med­
ical and educational resources f(>r the peo­
ple of' Bangladesh over the years, with 
substantial help from the Bengal Boul'> 
pro~-,rram. The Bout<; arc the largest single 
supporter of the missions on a yearly 
b<L'iiS. 
Every year is a rough one for 
Bangladnsh, but 2007 was tough even by 
Bangladesh standards. 
Cydone Sidr made landfitll in 
Banglad1~sh on Nov. 15, 2007 as a catego­
ry 4 storm, stronger than Ilurricane 
Katrina when it devastated New Orleans. 
The cyclone was responsible for the 
deaths of allea<;t 3,113 people. Aecording 
lo UNICEF, 3.2 million people were afl'ect­
nd by Sidr, which also destroyed approxi­
mately 750,000 homes in Bangladesh. 
More than ever, the people of' 
Bangladesh need the support of the Notre 
Dame l~tmily. In Bangladesh, the money of 
supporters !rom Notre Dame can go a 
long way. $40 can pay one month's salary 
f(>r a tcaeher in the lloly Cross Missions, 
and $2,000 L'l enough money to build a 
school for that teacher. 
So this year, and throughout your time 
at Notre Damn, make sure to support the 
Bengal Bouts. Just as importantly, make 
sure to remember who we fight for. 
The Boul<; begin with the preliminaries 
on Monday and the quarterlinals on 
Thursday. The semifmals and the finals 
continue the week we return from spring 
break. 
Plea<;e buy tiekets, and please make 
donations, even small ones of a couple of 
dollars. Those small donations add up. 
And even one small donation ean go a 
long way in Bangladesh. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Contact John Tierney at jtieme1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards i!Selfas a professional publication and mives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, rerognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we catl correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
QUEST10N OF THE DAY: WHATS TI-lE BEST EXCUSE YOU'VE USED WHEN YOU'VE FORGOTTEN YOUR HOMEWORK? 







Trey Mohr  Carlos Padilla  Ashley Cunningham  Michael Bruns  Stacey Gill  
junior Alumni  senior offcampus  senior offcampus  freshman Stanford  sophomore Farley  
"Reekers food gave me food poisoning.  "I couldn't find it in the Charlie Pad."  "It froze and shattered on the ground."  "J spilled chemical acid on it, but had  "J was too busy saving the world."  

no base to neutralize it." 

BRITT BURGESON!The Observer 

Notre Dame freshman Justin Schneider is featured in this ad from popular clothing store Abercrombie & Fitch. His ads will be seen around the nation and online throughout the spring season. 
OFFBEAT 
DVD In firefighter's coat blocks bullet 
WALTERBORO, S.C. -A South Carolina man is thankful for a DVD that ended up taking a bullet for him. Colleton County Fire and Rescue Director Barry McRoy says he was leaving a Wafl'le House restaurant in Walterboro on Saturday morning when two men ran in fighting over a gun. Police say a bullet hit one of the strug­gling men, shattered a window and then hit McRoy. 
The bullet hit a DVD McRoy was carrying in his pocket. He suffered a bruise but didn't realize he had been shot. As he told a police officer what hap­pened he noticed a bullet hole in his jaeket, the shat­tered DVD case and a piece of the bullet. 
"I was saved by a DVD," McRoy says. "How lucky ean you get?" 
The DVD was nicked. It was a gift from an employ­ee who had recorded a TV show about fire extinguish­ers. 
Church urges hanky panky among members 
YBOR CITY, Fla. -A southwest Florida church issued a challenge for its married members: Hanky panky every day. Relevant Church head pastor Paul Wirth issued the 30-day sex challenge to take on high divoree rates. 
"And that's no different for people who attend ehurch," Wirth said Sunday. "Sometimes life gets in the way. Our jobs get in the way." 
The challenge doesn't extend to unwed congre­gants, however. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: UJ ::z:::  
~ UJ 3:  ~ ~  ~ ~  
....I <(.) 0 ...I  HIGH LOW  19 9  HIGH LOW  9 -9  HIGH LOW  22 13  HIGH LOW  29 19  
Atlanta 65 I 39 Boston 35 I 21 Chicago 17 I 5 Denver 45 I 31 Houston 73 I 59 Los Angeles 60 I 45 Minneapolis 4 I -11 New York 35 I 21 Philadelphia 37 I 20 Phoenix 66 I 50 Seattle 53 I 40 St. Louis 24 I 15 Tampa 74 I 58 Washington 42 I 21 


IN BRIEF 
As part of the fireside chat series "Telling HERstory," theol­ogy professor Catherine Hilkert will speak today al noon in the Coleman-Morse Center lounge. 
Eucharistic Exposition will take place tonight at 9:30 in Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary's. Exposition takes place every Wednesday night and Friday at 12:30 p.m. in Hegina Chapel. 
'The Call of the Entrepreneur' will be shown on Thursday at 5:00 in the Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business. 
The men's basketball team will play against No. 22 Pittsburgh Thursday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
As part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series, professor Karen Hunt Ahmed from the department of finance at DePaul University will speak at 10:40 
a.m. Friday in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
There will be Stations of the Cross Friday al 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will be held each Friday during Lent. 
The 50th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will begin Friday at 7 p.m. with a concert featur­ing at least four different bands. The festival will conclude Saturday with an afternoon con­cert at 1 p.m. and an evening concert at 7 p.m. All events will be in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser/Jer, e-mail detailed information about an e/Jent to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
\.'\. '\''11··
·.. ;s;.;,>-·--, '/

-<r ~ 
~\ 
,-­

"PJ}J~

~ ~ 
HIGH 27 HIGH 31 LOW 21 LOW 22 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOG 
Group targets body image 
Representatives schedule forum, hope to unite residence halls 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Body imagn -and two forum<; on the subject -was the main focus of Tuesday's Board of Gvemance (BOG) meeting. 
Residence Hall Association (RHA) president Cassie Quaglia announced that communications profnssor Terri Huss will be hold­ing a body image forum, "Get it Girl," sponsored by the RHA today at 7 p.m. in Iloly Cross Parlor. 
"Body imagfl at an all-women's college is definitely a big issue," Quaglia said. "One of the goal<; of Rl!A is uniting the residence halls, and this will help do that." 
The forum will have door prizes and filOd will be provided. 
Two representatives from Notre Dame's Health and Body Image Conference, Brenna Doyle and Patriek 'fighe, eame to present the other conference to Saint Mary's student government. The forum, "Live as You Are," will be held March 11-13 in McKenna Hall. Doyle and Tighe came to give posters and registration forms to BOG in order to help publicize the confi1rnnce at the College. 
The keynote speaker for the Notrn Damn event will be Ann Simonton, a former model who has been on the covers of maga­zinns such as Vogue. She is now an activist who discusses body image and the objectification of women in the media. She also runs the non-profit organization Media Watch International. Tighe said students interested in learning more about Simonton could look at the Web site mediawatch.org. 

In other BOG news: 
+ Saint Mary's will celebrate Women's Appreciation Week from March 10-13, Student Diversity Board president Abby tlinchy said. There will be fundraisers and guest speakers throughout the week. 
+ The Board of Trustees will 
be on campus beginning Thursday evening at the Belles' home bas­ketball game, student body presi­dent Kim Hodges said. The game is in Angela Athletic Facility at 7:30p.m.
+ Hodges also announced that the new director for the Center for Career Opportunities, Stacie Jeffus, is working on publicity for the Center. She will be holding two forums open to the student body tonight at 5:30 and Thursday from 2-3 p.m. in Conference Hoom A in the Student Center basement. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO1@saintmarys.edu 
Robinson Center to receive $282,000 check 
Special to The Observer 
A $282,000 appropriations request for Notre Dame's Robinson Community Learning Center (RCLC) by Rep. Joe Donnelly, D-Ind., and Sen. Evan Bayh, D-Ind., has been funded in a bill that recently became law. 
Donnelly will present a cere­monial check at a celebration to mark the seventh anniver­sary of the RCLC at 5:30 p.m. Friday (Feb. 22) at the center. University President Father John Jenkins also will be in attendance at the event, which will feature an awards ceremo­ny and musical entertainment. 
The RCLC will receive the funding to support and develop Robinson Enterprises, a com­prehensive training, entrepre­neurship and business promo­tion initiative. The program will specifically promote busi­ness success for at-risk youths and young adults (ages 16 to 
24) through training, mentor­ing and start-up incubation for the launch of for-profit enter­prises. 
"We are grateful to Congressman Donnelly and Sen. Bayh for their leadership in funding this innovative ven­ture," said Jay Caponigro, director of the RCLC. "Robinson Enterprises will enable the University and com­munity to work together to cul­tivate entrepreneurship and self-sufficiency. 

"I was happy to learn that the Robinson Community Learning Center will receive the funding it deserves to con­tinue and expand its opera­tions," Donnelly said. "The out­standing work done at the cen­ter contributes to area revital­ization and provides employ­ment opportunities for South Bend-area residents." 
Founded by Notre Dame in 2001. the RCLC is a communi­ty-driven education center. In addition to Robinson Enterprises, the center spon­sors a number of programs and activities and hosts others led by local agencies and organizations. These include violence prevention initiatives, health education and screen­ings, GED and English-as-a­second-language classes, chil­dren's programming, youth tutoring, and after-school pro­grams. lt also features a Computer Teaching and. Learning Center, which is equipped with 20 computers and provides instruction and Internet and e-mail access. 
Some 500 residents and vol­unteers participate each week in on-site RCLC programming, and as many as 250 Notre Dame students, faculty and staff volunteer with center pro­grams. Some 35 University departments and residence halls are involved in RCLC partnerships. 
Looking for solid business and accounting experience to put on your resume? 
The Observer is accepting applications for a 2008-09 Business Manager and Controller. Responsibilities include preparing a yearly budget and handling payroll for a 200-person staff. 
Since the Controller will take over as the 2009-10 Business Manager, Controller applicants should be sophomores, or juniors staying for a fifth year. 
Both positions are salaried, about six to 10 hours a week. Please contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu or Kyle West at kwest1@nd.edu if interested. 

page 4 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
attended the University of Central Oklahoma this !'all. 
Tho University has not roleasnd information about tho eausns ol' either death, but police invnstigators said Monday that diabotns may have played a role in MeGrath 's dPath. 
McCormick, who lived next to McGrath last ynar when he was an assistant rector in Dillon llall, said he got to know him well when the two "shared a wall." 
"After living in sueh close proximity to him, I certainly have plenty of stories to tell about Connor," Md:ormiek said. "But only some that would be pulpit-ready." 
One "pulpit-ready" story McCormick did shan~ with those gathered involved a time he asked McGrath if he ever con­sidered entering the priesthood. 
"Connor kind of gave me that look and then proceeded to avoid me for the next week," McCormick said. "I figured he had other plans." 
McCormick said McGrath was a "fun-loving social young man who took the time to get to know others" and hoped people remember McGrath as a respectful, outgoing person. 
Coughlin, who spoke about Aher's death, talked about thP law student's accomplishments and mentioned that Aher devel­oped a proficiency in Hussian and studied German, French and Uzbek. 
"Not only did he enjoy learn­ing to speak a language," Coughlin said, "but he also immersed himself in the study of the culture and society in whirh the language was spo­ken." · 
Aher also had a deep appreci­ation for music, Coughlin said. Aher served as station manager at WHPK-FM, a student-run radio station at the University of Chicago, and wrote reviews of popular music groups. 
"Although I have to acknowl­edge that I have little apprecia­tion of this repertoire," Coughlin said, "I enjoyed reading Tim's well-written and clearly expert reviews." 
After graduating from the University of Chicago in 2002, Aher worked for two years at the Bank of America Securities before applying to law school, where he hoped to keep pursu­ing his love of language by becoming an international lawyer. 
Aher also had a summer internship in New York City where he helped AIDS patients deal with their legal problems. 
"Although Tim was neither a Catholic nor, from what I know, a person of obvious religious conviction, he was a man with a deep and n~fined spirit that led him to devote his considerable intellect to service to some ol' the most poor and powerless of our society," Coughlin said. "In my opinion, Tim's example rep­resents the best of what it means to be a law student at Notre Dame." 
Coughlin said Aher also dealt with much pain in his life and his death is a deep loss for him personally, f(Jr Notre Dame, and the legal profession. 
"To love deeply is to suffer deeply," Coughlin said. "Tim was no stranger to emotional suffering in his own life, and he struggled mightily to cope with 
it... Father Mark Poorman, vice president of student affairs, delivernd the homily and said members of the Notre Dame community are "blessed" to have eaeh othnr to cope with the deaths of Aher and McGrath. "Tim and Connor's lives have been wonderl'ul, further expres­sions of !God's! love and we are grateful l'or the time we spent with them," Poorman said. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Cell 
continued from page 1 
been a general disdain for having cell towers on or near campus." 
OIT installed antennas on various buildings on campus that were painted to blend in, Latimer said. Since then, he said, OJT has worked in eonj unction with the service providers to ol'fer the best eoverage possible. 
The serviee providers, and not the University, are large­ly responsible for the quality of coverage on campus, Latimer said. orr has the job of negotiating contracts with the providers, he said, but it 
is ultimately up to them to service the campus. 
"To date we have been suc­cessful in getting both Verizon and AT&T on cam­pus," he said. "Even though the system is capable of han­dling any operator, those two are the only operators that have developed the business case for investment." 
orr has since made efforts to contract other providers on campus such as T-Mobile, Nextel and Sprint, Latimer said. Those efforts have not yet been successful. 
Students with these service providers "complain very loudly," Latimer said. He did, however, offer a solution. 
"If your cellular provider is not on campus, tell them you 
would like them to hook up to Notre Dame's distributed antenna system," he said. 
Verizon is the second largest provider on campus, but has only six antennae, compared to AT&T's 17. OIT is pursuing a new contract with Verizon to install four more antennas. Latimer hopes that those will be installed before the fall semester. 
"We are getting close," he said. "Verizon wants it and we want it." 
Those antennae will signif­icantly improve the service of Verizon customers on campus, Latimer said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
Hollywood 
continued from page 1 
ing thi<> labor unrest," he said. 

One of the main issues of this writer's strike was how to evaluate a writer's work, a question that Stepakoff says he ha.<> asked him­self numerous times. 
"The value of writers, the lifeblood of writers, was really what this conflict was about," Stepakoff said. "What is the price of a writer's blood? How do you evaluate what we do? Are we worth the billions of dollars for the shows we make?" 
The answers to these questions differ greatly from studio execu­tives to writers, Stepakoff said, "[but] the lifeblood of these compa­nins is the work of writnrs." 
Stepakolf also discussed the risn of reality television and it<> implica­tions on llollywood writers. 
"Heality television is not a fad. It is not something that poppnd up arbitrarily," he said. 
lie said reality television is becoming a popular genre not because people enjoy it, but because the networks in the stu­dios are able to use writers that are not in the guild. 
Heality television is used as an intimidation devir,e against writers, Stepakoll"said. 
"A lot of this stuff is being pro­grammed as a threat to writers," he said. "It's cheap to make and it keeps writers in check." 
Contact Kara Coyle at kcoyle@nd.edu 

February 20 8:00-10:00 pm 
Lafortune, BK Lounge 
(near Burger King) 
Get your friends together and bid on a dinner with campus celebrities including: 
Anre Venter The Undertones Chuck Lennon ND Men's Swim Team ND Leprechauns Nd Cheerleaders The Sharpley Brothers Geoff Price 
Charlie Weis Fr. Hesburgh Mike Brey Monk Malloy Fr. Poorman Dean Woo Professor Hurns Brett Perkins 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bush calls for action to stop violence 
KIGAU, Rwanda -On ground haunted by one of the worst atrocities of modem times, President Bush pleaded with the global community Tuesday for decisive action to stop grisly ethnic violence now plaguing other African nations like Kenya and Sudan. 
'There is evil in the world and evil must be con­fronted," said Bush, shak~m by his visit to a muse­um that tells the story of Hwanda's 1994 genocide in which more than 800,000 Tutsis and moderate !Iutus were slaughtered in just 100 days by extremist Hutu militias. 
Bush, who once wrote "not on my watch" in the margin of a report on the Rwanda massacre, has responded to the atrocities that have raged in Sudan's western Darfur region by imposing sanc­tions, applying diplomatic pressure, and training and transporting other nations' soldiers liJr peace­keeping. But he decided not to send U.S. troops into Sudan, and it took three years after the crisis began in 2003 to announce sanctions against a few of people, prompting renewed criticism that his actions don't match his impassioned rhetoric on the topic. 
(}pJn!ition parties win Pakistan election 
ISLAMABAD -A top opposition leader called Tuesday on President Pervez Musharraf to step aside after his ruling party conceded defeat in parliamentary elections. The vote was also a slap to lslamist parties, which lost control of a province where ai-Qaida and Taliban fighters have sought refuge. 
With counting from Monday's election nearly eomplete, the two main opposition parties won a total of 154 of the 268 eontested seats, according to the Election Commission. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
NewmHiile to be shot at criooled satellite 
WASHINGTON -An attempt to blast a crippled 
U.S. spy satellite out of the sky using a Navy heat­seeking missile -possibly on Wednesday night­would be the first real-world use of this piece of the Pentagon's missile defense network. But that is not the mission for which it was intended. 
The attempted shootdown, already approved by President Bush, is seen by some as blurring the lines between defending against a weapon like a long-range missile and targeting satellites in orbit. 
The three-stage Navy missile, designated the SM-3, ha..'l chalked up a high rate of success in a series of tests since 2002 -in each case targeting a short-or medium-range ballistic missile, never a satellite. A hurry-up program to adapt the mis­sile for this anti-satellite mission was completed in a matter of weeks; Navy officials say the changes will be reversed once this satellite is down. 
Beef industry, animal groups in dispute 
DENVEH -The cattle industry and animal rights groups bickered over the treatment of beef destined for U.S. dinner plates a day after secret video triggered the nation's largest meat recall. 
Undercover video taken at the Westland!Ilallmark Meat Co. of Chino, Calif.. shows workers shocking, kicking and shoving debilitated cattle with forklifts, prompting the government to pull 143 million pounds of the eompany's beef. 
LOCAL NEWS 
l.awmakassign anti-gay maniage petition 
INDIANAPOLIS -A majority of lawmakers in the Indiana House have signed a petition showing their support for a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage -despite a decision by I louse leaders not to give the pro­posal a hearing this year. 
Hep. Jim Buck, R-Kokomo, said Tuesday that representatives wanted to do something to show voters that they support the amendment. lie said some lawmakers, both Hepublicans and Demoerats, have been criticized for not doing enough to push for the proposal. 
"We could demonstrate with our signatures our reaffirmation to those in our districts that we do support it," he said. 
Democrats hold a 51-49 majority in the House. Most Republicans and seven Democrats signed the petition, which had 55 signatures Tuesday. Buck said more representatives could sign onto the petition later if they chose. 
CUBA 
Cashu retires after half centmy of rule 
Dictator's younger brother Raul to take aver after seroing as acting president since July 2006 
Associated Press 
HAVANA -Now that Fidel Castro has retired, many Cubans are looking to his brother to let more people open businesses, own homes and even travel abroad. But it will probably fall to a new generation of leaders to ulti­mately fulfill or frustrate their dreams of prosperity. 
During his time as acting president, 76-year-old Raul Castro has hinted at reform but made few major changes -a reticence many see as a sign of respect for his beloved, more doctrinaire older brother, who survived despite the efforts of 10 U.S. presidents to bring him down. 
And while hoping that Raul and his likely No. 2, Carlos Lage, will advocate for change, they wonder how that will lly with Fidel, who stepped down but isn't going away. 
"There has to be some change, more freedom with Raul," said Andres, 63, who like many Cubans wouldn't give his last name for fear of reprisal when talking about the Castro brothers. "The other one always nipped that off at the bud." 
The resignation, announced Tuesday, should give Haul Castro the autono­my he lacked as the govern­2006. he sees his revolution going generation younger than the ment's caretaker since Fidel Many Cubans want to hear astray. Castros. He's among the was sidelined by intestinal more such talk from their "This is not my farewell to most experienced leaders in surgery in July 2006. next leader. Inspired by Raul, you," he wrote. "My only a power structure dominated 
The younger Castro raised some leading Cuban cultural wish is to fight as a soldier in by septuagenarian former expectations of openings in figures have called recently the battle of ideas. I shall rebels, and he has built a the state-controlled economy for dropping onerous visa continue to write under the reputation as a reformer. with his reported fascination requirements and other lim­title, 'Heflections of Comrade A less likely possibility with Chinese-style capital­its on their freedoms, a mes­Fidel.' It will be another could emerge from a handful ism, calls for unspecified sage that resonates with weapon you can count on. of leaders in their 30s and "structural changes," and ordinary Cubans. Perhaps my voice will be 40s, such as Foreign Minister acknowledgment that gov­"This is what we needed. I heard." Felipe Perez Roque, whose ernment wages averaging hope to God people have As the Council of State's Communist fervor earned $19 a month do not satisfy more freedom -the free­first vice president, Haul them the collective nickname basic needs. He also encour­dom to have opinions and Castro has been his brother's of "Young Talibans." aged Cubans to open a fear­always speak their minds," constitutionally designated While no less loyal to the less and critical debate, as 37 -year-old Lydis Perez said successor for decades, so the elder Castro, Lage was the long as they remember that after dropping her son off at big question is who will take architect of reforms that the final decisions will be school. "People talk in the his place as No. 2 on Sunday saved the island from eco­made by the island's hallways or the back rooms. when the National Assembly nomic collapse in the early Communist leaders. ... There's a lot of fear." selects Cuba's new leader­1990s. His moves allowed 
"That way we reach deci­Fidel Castro, however, ship. foreign investment in state sions, and I'm talking about insisted in his resignation let­A leading candidate is enterprises, a measure of big decisions," he told stu­ter Tuesday that he won't Lage, the de-facto prime self-employment, and legal dent leaders in December disappear -or stay quiet if minister, who at 56 is a full use of the U.S. dollar. 

Suprrme Courthnns downwiretapping apt'ffll 
court," said Jameel Jaffer, director of the could not prove they had been harmed
Associated Press 
ACLU's national security project. "In our by the program. 
view, it shouldn't be left to executive The government has refused to turn 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court branch officials alone to determine the over information about the closely guard­dealt a setback Tuesday to civil rights limits." ed program that could reveal who has and privacy advocates who oppose the The Terrorist Surveillance Program no been under surveillance. Bush administration's warrantless wire­longer exists, although the administra­ACLU officials described the situation tapping program. tion has maintained it was legal. as a "Catch-22" because the government 
The justices, without comment, turned The ACLU sued on behalf of itself, says the identities of people whose com­down an appeal from the American Ovil other lawyers, reporters and scholars, munications have been intercepted is Liberties Union to let it pursue a lawsuit arguing that the program was illegal and secret. But only people who know they against the program that began shortly that they had been forced to alter how have been wiretapped can sue over the after the Sept. 11 terror attacks. they communicate with foreigners who program. 
The action underscored the difficulty of were likely to have been targel'l of the A lawsuit filed by an Islamic charity mounting a challenge to the eavesdrop­wiretapping. met a similar fate. The 9th U.S. Circuit ping, which remains classified and was A federal judge in Detroit largely Court of Appeals last year ruled against confirmed by President Bush only after a agreed, but the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of the Oregon-based U.S. arm of the AI­newspaper article revealed its existence. Appeals dismissed the suit, saying the Haramain Islamic Foundation, conclud­
"It's very disturbing that the president's plaintills could not prove their communi­ing that a key piece of evidence is pro­actions will go unremarkcd upon by the cations had been monitored and thus tected as a state secret. 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
4 killed in school bus crash 
Classes cancelled at Minnesota public schools after highway accident 
Associa1cd Press 
COTTONWOOD. Minn. -A sehool bus and several othnr vnhidns eraslwd in southwest­nrn Minrwsota Tunsday. killing four studm1ts and forcing the first-arriving motorists to rush sonw of thn injul'l~d to nnarby hospitals. 
The bus was hit by a van around :{:25 p.m. on a highway north of Cottonwood. The bus thnn hit a piekup and tippnd on its side. Stall' Patrol Lt. Mark Pntnrson said. At least 14 pno­ph~ worn hurt. 
Hnscun squads and ambu­lancns from many nnarby dtios arrivnd at llw crash site. Tho Marshall lndnpm1dent reportnd that tho first motorists on the sennn wnre asknd to take somn <:hildrnn to llw hospital. 
"I parked my car and called 
911. and ran to the school bus and tho drivnr was handing kids out thn door as fast as I could takn them," Karen Mahlum told thn newspaper. 
Other motorists also stopped and took kids from the driver. "You just wantnd to make surn it was safe," she said. "They were screaming and screaming on the bus. There were so many kids." 
Pictures from the scene showed the school bus lying on 
its side on the hood and cab of 
a pickup truck. 
The bus was on its regular route, carrying childrrm from kindergarten through 12th gradn. 
Initial reports said the bus was carrying 40 people, but it actually carrind 28 students and a driver, Minnesota Public Safety spokeswoman Christine Krueger said. 
Parents wern asked to gather at Lakeview School to await word on their childrnn. 
or the 11 victims taken to Avera Marshall Hegional Medical Center, two were in critical condition while one had already been tn~ated and n~teased, spokeswoman Deann llolland said. 
Others were being treated for back and neck injuries, lacera­tions, bumps and bruises, she said. 
Two of the victims were taken by ambulance to Granite Falls Hospital, which is about 15 miles north of the accident scene. Hospital CEO George Gerlach said one was 11 years old and the other 14. 
'They were tnmted and stabi­lized in our EH," Gerlach said. Neither had life-threatening injuries, but had fractures that required a higher level of' care than could be provided in Granite Falls, he said. 
They were being taken, one by helicopter and the other by ambulance, to Avera McKennan Hospital in Sioux Falls, S.D., to undergo orthopedic surgery, Gerlach said. 
Gov. Tim Pawlenty issued a statement calling it "a sad night for Minnesota." 
"It is especially heartbreaking when young lives are lost," he said. "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those who were killed or injured in this tragic accident." 
The victims weren't immedi­ately identified, and their ages weren't immediately given. 
News of the erash swept through Cottonwood, a small town of about 1,000 people about 121 miles southwest of Minn.eapolis. About 40 people attended an evening press 
briefing  at  Swan  Lake  
Evangelical Free Church.  
When  Fire  Chief  Dale  

Louwagie was asked what the community could do, he said simply, "Pray." 
Classes were canceled Wednesday at Lakeview, which serves about 585 students in Cottonwood and Wood Lake, and plans were made to have grief counselors and clergy available to students, a school official said. 
DeiDocrats 
continued from page I 

dates do appeal to certain groups of people. 
She said she sees Clinton as a candidate who "appeals to women as a group, across racial lines." 
"Generally, women respond to her candidacy in a positive way," she said. "In terms of how !gender! hurts her, men tend not to support her strongly. It's almost as if they're judging that it's not appropriate to havn a woman as a president." 
Wolbrecht agreed, noting the stereotypes associated with the female gender. 
"When people look at candi­dates and they see a woman they make certain assump­tions, consciously or uncon­sciously, whether negative or positive," Wolbrecht said. 
Women may seem less cor­rupt or more experienced in health care and education, Wolbrecht said, but less quali­fied in areas like economics. 
Davis said while Clinton's gender could help her, Obama's race could hurt him. 
"Hace is never an advantage to begin with," Davis said. "There have been people who talk about race helping him, but race is still an incredible disadvantage within American society." 
Clinton and Obama have 
refPrred to themselves in dif­ferent ways throughout the campaign, Davis said. 
"Whereas in several debates, Clinton has referred to herself as the first remain candidate for a presidential nomination, Obama nnvPr frames or eonsiders himsnll' to be a black person running for president," Davis said. 
Davis said lw is unsure how Clinton referring to herself as the first female candidate will impaet. her campaign, but said Obama would hurt his cam­
paign if he brought up  his  
raee.  
Pinderhughes pointed  out  

the conl'lict within Obama's campaign over his raee. 
"Some of his campaign man­agers want him to dnnmpha­size his race, some of his black campaign aids want him to address the black commu­nity," she said. "So that is a tension for him, in terms or strategy." 
Overall, Pinderhughes said, more people are ready for a black male president than a female president. 
"It seems as if people are more able to say 'yes, I think we're ready for an African­American man to be presi­dent,"' she said. "[Americans! can handle a male across race better than they can handle a female, who is also white. So in this case, gender trumps race." 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 

Obama increases lead after winning Wisconsin 
in a speech in which he also working class voters in the blue In a clear sign of' their relative moment of every day in this cam­
Associa1ed Press 
pledged to end the war in Iraq in collar battleground that was prel­standing in the race, most cable paign to make sure that 
WASIIINGTON Barack his first year in office. ude to primaries in the larger television networks abruptly cut Americans are not deceived by an Obama cruised past a fading "I opposed this war in 2002. I industrial states of Ohio and away from coverage of Clinton's eloquent but empty call for Hillary Hodham Clinton in the will bring this war to an end in Pennsylvania. rally when Obama began to speak change." Wi<>eonsin primary Tuesday night, 2009. It is time to bring our troops Clinton made no mention of her in Texas. McCain's nomination has been gaining the upper hand in a home," he dedared. defeat, and showed no sign of sur­McCain won the Republican pri­assured since Super Tuesday three Democratic presidential race for Sen. John McCain, the render in an appearance in mary with ease, dispatching for­weeks ago, as first one, then the ages. Hepublican front-runner, won a Youngstown, Ohio. mer Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee another of his former rivals has 
It was Obama's ninth straight pair of primaries, in WL<>consin and "Both Senator Obama and I and edging doser to the 1,191 del­dropped out and the party estab­victory over the past three weeks Washington, to continue his march would make history," the New egates he needs to clinch the GOP lishment has closed ranks behind -with results unknown from the toward certain nomination. York senator said. "But only one of nomination at the party convention him. night's Hawaii eaueuses-and left In a race growing increasingly us is ready on day one to be com­in St. Paul, Minn. next summer. Not so in the Democratic race, the !!1rmer first lady in desperate negative, Obama cut deeply into mander in chief, ready to manage The Arizona senator al<>o won the where Obama and Clinton cam­need of a comeback in a race she Clinton's political bedrock in our economy, and ready to defeat primary in Washington, with 19 paign seven days a week, he the long commanded as front-runner. WL<>consin, splitting the support of the Republicans. Only one of us delegates at stake. strongest black presidential candi­
"The change we seek is still white women almost evenly with has spent 35 years being a doer, a In scarcely veiled criticism of date in history, she bidding to months and miles away," Obama her. According to polling place fighter and a champion f'or those Obama, the Republican nominee­become the first woman to sit in told a boisterous crowd in I Iouston interviews, he also ran well among who need a voice." in-waiting said, "I will fight every the White I louse. 

The Hills are Alive this Summer in ... 
Write News. Call 631­5323. 


Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 12,337.22 -10.99
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,899 71 1,440 3,614,306,671 
AMEX NASDAQ 
2,306.20 -15.60 NYSE 9;ai3;Q4 ,;;f~ji~i; S&P 500 1,348.78 +0.75 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13;fiQi91' :1\!fl~:;:~~; FTSE 100 (London) 5,966.90 +20.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.02 +0.38 135.52 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.59 -0.08 43.74 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -0.34 -0.04 26.79 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.79 -0.42 22.88 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +2.51 +0.095 3.875 13-WEEK BILL +1.88 +0.040 2.17 30-YEAR BOND +1.31 +0.060 4.655 5-YEAR NOTE +4.92 +0.136 2.90 
Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +4.51 100.01 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +23.70 929.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.23 95.53 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 107.8850 EURO 0.6789 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0154 BRffiSH POUND 0.5135 
IN BRIEF Toshiba ready to abandon HD DVD 
TOKYO -Sony's Blu-ray technology is emerg­ing as the likely winner in the format battle for the next generation of DVD players after Toshiba appnan~d ready to ditch its liD DVD business. 
Such a move would help consumers know which system to invest in and would likely boost sales in Btu-ray gadgets, analysts say. But it will disappoint the 1 million people around the world estimated by Toshiba who have already bought liD DVD players. 
Toshiba Corp. said Monday no decision has bnen made but acknowledged it had started a review of its HD DVD strategy. The comments fol­low a flurry of weekend Japanese media reports that the company was close to pulling the plug on the business. 
A company official, speaking on condition of anonymity because she isn't authorized to speak on the matter, said a board meeting could be held as soon as Tuesday, where a decision is likely. 
Supreme Court won't helpKatrina victims 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court refused Tuesday to offer help to Hurricane Katrina vic­tims who want their insurance companies to pay for flood damage to their homes and businesses. 
The justices rejected appeals from Xavier University and 68 other individuals and business­es seeking to allow their lawsuits against the insurers to go forward. 
Xavier asked the court to step in after the 5th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the poli­cies did not cover damage from floods, even those that resulted from man-made failures such as the collapsed levees in New Orleans. 
Other cases working their way through state courts have so far reached differing conclusions. A Louisiana appeals court has said that language excluding water damage from some insurance policies was ambiguous. The Louisiana Supreme Court will hear arguments in that case on Feb. 26. 
Xavier and the other plaintiffs had asked the federal eourt to allow the state Supreme Court to rule on their suits as well. The 5th Circuit refused and the U.S. high court upheld that ruling on Tuesday. 
The cases are Xavier University of Louisiana v. Travelers Casualty Property Company of 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Oil futures spike to record high 
Refinery explosion, falling dollar, potential OPEC production cut blamedfor price increase 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Oil futures shot higher Tuesday, closing above $1 00 for the first time as investors bet that crude prices will keep climbing despite evidence of plen­tiful supplies and falling demand. At the pump, gas prices rose further above $3 a gallon. 
There was no single driver behind oil's sharp price jump; investors seized on an explosion at a 67,000 barrel per day refinery in Texas, the falling dollar, the possi­bility that OPEC may cut production next month, and continuing tensions between the U.S. and Venezuela. 
Gasoline and heating oil prices appeared to be leading the advance, ris­ing faster in percentage terms than oil due to the explosion Monday at Alon USA's Big Spring, Texas, refinery, which could be shuttered for two months. 
"The refinery fire in Texas is making people a little concerned," said Michael Lynch, president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research Inc. in Amherst, Mass. 

Light, sweet crude for March delivery rose $4.51 to settle at a record $100.01 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange after earlier rising to $100.10, a new trading record. It was the first time since Jan. 3 that oil had been above $100. 
March gasoline jumped 
10.93 
cents to settle at $2.6031 a gallon, and March heating oil rose 

11.45 
cents to settle at $2.7614 a gallon, also a record. 


Oil prices are still with­in the range of inflation­adjusted highs set in early 1980. Depending on how the adjustment is calculated, $38 a barrel then would be worth $96 to $103 or more today. 
The dollar fell Tuesday, giving investors another reason to buy oil. Crude futures offer a hedge against a falling dollar, and oil futures bought and sold in dollars are more attractive to foreign investors whe_n the greenback is falling. 
For the moment, investors appear to have put aside concerns about the economy that have sent oil prices down into the mid-$80 range twice since crude peaked above $100 last month. Traders are instead focused on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which will meet early next month to map out production plans, and Venezuela, where President Hugo Chavez made conflicting statements this weekend about the country's legal dispute with Exxon Mobil Corp. 

OPEC could move to cut production in the second quarter, typically a peri­od of low demand, though many analysts feel that's unlikely. In Venezuela, Chavez said he was not serious about an earlier threat to cut oil sales to the U.S., but also threatened to sue Exxon Mobil. The world's largest oil company is fighting Venezuela's nationalization of an oil project, and recently con­vinced several courts to freeze $12 billion in Venezuelan oil assets. 

Bushhas no plans to lift Cuban embargo 
Fidel Castro," Bush told a news confer­"I can't imagine that happening any
Associated Press 
ence in Rwanda. "They're the ones who time soon," said Deputy Secretary of 
WASHINGTON -The Bush adminis­were put in prison because of their State John Negroponte. tration is ruling out any changes in its beliefs. They're the ones who have The ailing Castro, 81, who has called Cuba policy -including lifting a five­been denied their right to live in a free the embargo "criminal" and claims its decade trade embargo -deriding Fidel society. So I view this as a period of impact has run into the tens of billions Castro's brother and heir apparent, transition and it should be the begin­of dollars, announced earlier Tuesday Raul, as "dictator lite." ning of the democratic transition in he would not accept another term in 
Despite having openly wished for Cuba." office when parliament meets to elect a Castro's demise and the end of his rule "Eventually, this transition ought to new president this weekend. for years, U.S. officials said Tuesday lead to free and fair elections -and I Castro outlasted nine U.S. presidents that Castro's decision to step down on mean free, and I mean fair -not these who, with some minor policy adjust­his own terms leaves little hope for real kind of staged elections that the Castro ments, have steadily ramped up pres­democratic transition in communist brothers try to foist off as true democ­sure on Cuba. At least two Secretaries Cuba during Bush's final year in office, racy," Bush said. "The United States of State, Madeleine Albright and Colin although it may open options for his will help the people of Cuba realize the Powell, said publicly while in office that successor in the White House. blessings of liberty." they hoped "the actuarial tables" would 
Led by President Bush, a chorus of Even as U.S. lawmakers suggested catch up with the aging Cuban leader officials expressed hope that Castro's Castro's retirement should set off a who was a persistent thorn in departure would spark fundamental review of U.S. policy, senior State Washington's side. changes for the Cuban people. But they Department officials in Washington said Long-standing U.S. irritation with also said they doubted that would hap­there would be no lifting of the embar­Castro was evident on Tuesday with pen under Raul Castro and said there go, which has been the centerpiece of officials stressing they were not opti­was little chance the nearly 50-year-old American policy toward Cuba since it mistic for any kind of quick change 
U.S. embargo on Cuba would be lifted. was first imposed in 1960 and strength­under Raul Castro, to whom Fidel "They're the ones who suffered under ened in 1962. ceded power temporarily in July 2006. 
~-­
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
know no boundaries 


WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

TICKETS: $3 FOR STUDENTS AND $5 FOR FACULTY/STAFF • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Upcoming World View Events The Kite Runner Mareh 14 Blood Diamond April 3 Cosponsored with Center tor Social Concems 
~liNIVEilSITYOF 
r:;;,'i1i: D E B A R T 0 l 0 

WNOTREDAME ;Se' ,!,ili PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Office of the President 
.----------­
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Kosovo 
Serbs protest independence 
Militants set off small bombs, torch U.N. border checkpoints 
Associated Press 
KOSOVSKA MITROVICA ­Thousands of Serbs chanting "Kosovo is Serbia" marched Tuesday to a bridge dividing them from ethnic Albanians while others torched U.N. bor­der checkpoints and cars to protest Kosovo's declaration of independence. 
NATO troops later closed down the roads leading to the checkpoints, cutting off the only link between northern Kosovo and Serbia, said Besim Hoti, a U.N. spokesman. The move appeared to be due to fears that the reduction of U.N. control of the border could allow Serbian militants to return to fight in Kosovo, a land Serb nationalists consider the cradle of their state and religion. 
Smoke billowed from two 
checkpoints separating Kosovo from Serbia and flames engulfed several U.N. vehicles set ablaze in protest against Kosovo's weekend proclama­tion of independence and anger over international recognition of the new nation. 
For two days, Kosovo's Serbs have shown their determina­tion to shun the declaration by destroying U.N. and NATO property, setting off small bombs and staging noisy ral­lies through the Serb strong­hold of Kosovska Mitrovica. 
The attacks on U.N. border crossings showed the protest­ers' willingness to use violence to hold onto Kosovo -and could clear the way for Serbian militants to return to fight in Kosovo, a land Serb nationalists consider the cra­dle of their state and religion. 
In Belgrade, the Serbian 
Vice Presidents of Sales and Directors (all DOMERS) from Google, YouTube, MySpace, and Starcom 
Room 122, Mendoza College of Business 
Wednesday, Feb. 20 5-7pm, PIZZA DINNER INCLUDED!!! 
Media communications are ever-changing and of increasing importance in the business world, and YOU need to be kept in the loop. 
government minister for Kosovo, Slobodan Samardzic, hailed the attacks, saying "today's action is in accor­dance with the general [Serbian] government poli­cies." 
"Belgrade has the intention to take over the customs in northern Kosovo," Samardzic told private B92 television. "The customs points were intended to become part of [Kosovo's] state border and we are not going to let that hap­pen." 
Kosovo has not been under Belgrade's control since 1999, when NATO launched airstrikes to halt a Serbian crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists. A U.N. mission since has governed Kosovo, with more than 16,000 NATO troops and a multiethnic police force policing the province. 
beth sides of media markets companies using the media agencies selling them 

incredible interview talking points . genera! business knowledge hcl· c:· ' .;:!nted ,.·ww.,.;,.,,,"'· 

separate good interviews from great ones! 
Best Value 1·n Town Colile See Why.' 
,.. Intltwr/ Outtltwr Tennis anti Basketball ,.. Free Tanning ,.. Heated Puol ,.. Relaxing Jacuzzi ,.. Gated Co.m.m unity ,.. Co.m.m unity Business Center ,.. Na Applicatiru:J Fees far Stuclents ,.. CltJSe to everything__ _ far from artli.na.ry! 
Castle'Point 

1.801.1. C.leve.l.a:n:d Rd_ South Bend_. D1 466 3 'l Phone: (5'14} 2'12-81.1.0 Fax: (5'14} 2'12-81.1.4 
'fTFnT _ cppj _COfn' 
SWITZERLAND 

Tvvo stolen paintings found in backseat of car 
Associated Press 
ZURICH-A frantic search for four stolen Impressionist paint­ings led to a most unlikely place: the parking lot of a mental hospi­tal just a few hundred yards from the scene of the crime. 
There, in the back seat of an unlocked car, a painting by Claude Monet and another by Vincent van Gogh were found Monday in perfect condition, authorities said Tuesday. 
The paintings, worth $64 mil­lion combined, were still under the display glass used by the pri­vate museum from which they were stolen in a Feb. 10 armed robbery, museum director Lukas Gloor said. 
"I am incredibly relieved that two paintings have returned," Gloor said. "We're very happy that both the paintings are in absolutely impeccable shape." 


The other two paintings taken from the E.G. Buehrle Collection -by Paul Cezanne and Edgar Degas -remain missing, police said. Together, the four paintings are worth an estimated $163 mil­lion. 
Art experts have suggested that the robbers took advantage of what appeared to be an easy mark -a low-security museum -without knowing much about art or how difficult it can be to sell such well-known works. 
"The robbery was not done with knowledge about art," Gloor said. 
The robbers took the first four paintings they came across when they raided the museum shortly before closing on a Sunday after­noon. Although they managed to take the most valuable painting in the collection -Cezanne's "Boy in the Red Waistcoat" ­they passed over the second-most valuable picture, another Cezanne. 
Gloor said he suspected the robbers abandoned the two paintings, which were the largest of the four, because their size complicated transporting them. 
They were discovered Monday on the back seat of a white sedan in a parking lot in front of the University Psychiatric Clinic. It was not known how long the car had been there, police said. 
An employee of the clinic mak­ing a routine check of the lot noted the car because it was unlocked. Police immediately sealed off the area, examined the car and hauled it away. 
Police had said initially that a white vehicle might have been used by the three robbers when they made their escape. The clin­ic is about 500 yards from the museum. 
The recovered paintings ­Monet's "Poppy field at Vetheuil" and van Gogh's "Blooming Chestnut Branches" -will be returned to the museum in the coming days, Gloor said. 
"But we must not forget," he added, "that two more paintings of our collection are still missing, including our collection's land­mark 'Boy in the Red Waistcoat."' 
That painting alone is worth $91 million. The other missing painting is Degas' "Ludovic Lepie and his Daughter." worth $9 mil­lion. 
"The most valuable one and the least valuable one are still missing," said Gloor. 
Zurich police spokesman Marco Cortesi said the clinic employee who found the paint­ings would get a part of a $90,000 reward. He said the exact amount has yet to be deter­mined. 
Asked whether a ransom had been paid for the paintings, Cortesi said, "It is unknown whether a sum of money has moved." Gloor, standing next to him, said, "I can't give any infor­mation on that." 
AXA Art Insurance AG, which insures museums, said this rob­bery and the theft of two Picasso paintings a few days before underscored an increasing threat to museums and they should take steps to improve security. 
"Successful robberies are usu­ally characterized by easy access to objects and quick escape routes," the Cologne, Germany­based insurer said. 
Authorities have yet to solve the smaller theft of the two Picassos from nearby Pfaeffikon. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
Reason depends on faith 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris H!ne SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dtmin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVEIUISING MANAGER: jessica Cortez 
An DK~IGN MANAGER:· Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
N4l 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
AOVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(174) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@1nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6.31-5.323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5.)03 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63 I-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Uniwrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colleg<·. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemmts based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparnnenr editors. Commmtarics, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor mtL•t be signed and musr include contact information. 
Questions "t,arding Obsm;er polici~s should be dirrcted to Editor in ChiifMaddie fla1ma. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11M: OhM·rv~:r (llSiJS llji)'J 2.-4tMKI) I» )'UbltJh~d Mnndlly rhruugh FriJ.ay ac.:cpt durwg n.oun .uul v~~,.-ali!lll llf'i'"-{t. A ,ui.I!Cnf"inn tu 'l'bc Ob'iCrvcr a• $111{) for ~me 11Udcmk Vr:;Jr;S'i'l furullel!Cm~er 
The Ohllcrvcr i• puhli~htJ .u POSTMASTER 021 Souch Dining f !all Nnrrc o~rnc. IN olj6~56-0779 ThcOlllitrvc:r l 1woda~·11l pmfJ{tC f';ud .at Nmn: Dame r.o. Bmt779 .md ~tddirtonJI mJiling utlica;. 014 South Dining Hall 
Notre IJ.ame. IN 4(1';:%.0779 
Tlu: 0\acaver ur a mc:rnbcr of1he Aut}l;t.ued Pl'Q.\. All rcproduotnn t1gh1s arc re1ctwd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Liz Harter Francis Tolan 
Madeline Buckley Lorenzo Reyes John Tierney Pat Stynes Graphics Scene Madeline Nies Ryan Raffin Viewpoint 
J. Michael Dailey 
"What is most embarrassing to the world today," said Georgetown professor James Schall, S.J., "is that the most intelligent voice it confronts, or deliber­ately refuses to confront, is that coming from the papacy." Fr. Schall has a Charles Rice point. He was com­menting on Pope 
Right or
Benedict XVI's sec­
Wrong?
ond encyclical, 
"Spe Salvi," which 
drew its title from its opening words, 
'"SPE SALVI facti sumus'-in hope we 
were saved." The message is simple: "A 
world without God is a world without 
hope." No. 44. 
Benedict admits that "we need the ... hopes that keep us going day by day. But these are not enough without the great hope which ... can only be ... the God who has a human face and who has loved us to the end, each one of us and humanity in its entirety." No. 31. A secu­larist culture, he insists, can offer no hope for anything after death. No future. In contrast, their "encounter with Christ" gives Christians their "distin­guishing mark" which is "the fact that they have a future: it is not that they know the details ... but they know in gen­eral terms that their life will not end in emptiness. Only when the future is cer­tain as a positive reality does it become possible to live the present as well." No. 2. 
A point of interest to a university com­munity is the relation between the lack of hope and what Benedict had described at Hegensburg in 2006 as "the self-imposed limitation of reason to the empirically verifiable" so that "questions of religion and ethics no longer concern it." When reason is so limited, affirma­tions of God and objective morality are dismissed as non-rational. No one can know anything about God. And "justice" becomes, in the words of Hans Kelsen, the foremost legal positivist of the last century, "an irrational ideal." 
Benedict describes as "presumptuous and false," the idea that "[s]ince there is no God to create justice ... man himself is now called to establish justice." "It is no accident," he said, "that this idea has led to the greatest forms of cruelty and vio­lations of justice .... A world which has to create its own justice is a world without hope." No. 42. Justice will be whatever man decrees. Thus Kelsen said that Auschwitz and other Nazi extermina­tions were "valid law." In accord with his "philosophical relativism," he could not reasonably criticize them as unjust. 
"Spe Salvi" traces "the foundations of the modern age" to Francis Bacon and others who thought that "man would be redeemed through science." Nos. 16, 25. "[U]p to that time, the recovery of what man had lost through the expulsion from Paradise was expected from faith in Jesus Christ. ... Now, this 'redemption,' the restoration of the lost Paradise is no longer expected from faith, but from the newly discovered link between science and praxis [practice, action or conduct]. It is not that faith is simply denied; rather it is displaced onto another level -that of purely private and other­worldly affairs-and... it becomes ... irrelevant for the world .... This ... vision ... shapes the present-day crisis of faith which is ... a crisis of Christian hope. Thus hope too ... acquires a new form. Now it is called: faith in progress .... [T]hrough the interplay of science and praxis ... a totally new world will emerge, the kingdom of man." No. 17 
Benedict affirms the achievements and potential of science, but he cautions that "[i]f technical progress is not matched by ... progress in man's ethical formation ... it is not progress at all, but a threat for man and for the world." No. 22. The problem is that ethical formation is impossible unless reason can ofTer answers on moral right and wrong. But reason cannot do that if it is limited to the empirical, without "integration through... openness ... to the difTerentia­tion between good and evil... [R]eason ... becomes human only if it is capable of directing the will along the right path and it is capable of this only if it looks beyond itself.. .. Let us put it very simply: man needs God, otherwise he remains without hope ... God truly enters into human afTairs only when, rather than being present merely in our thinking, he himself comes towards us and speaks to 

us .... Reason ... and faith need one 
another in order to fulfill their true 
nature and their missions." No. 23 
Because of protests, Benedict XVI can­celled an address last month at La Sapienza University in Rome. In the address he had prepared, he said, "the danger for the western world ... is that. .. because of the greatness of his knowl­edge and power, man will fail to face up to the question of truth." 
That comment is pertinent to the United States, where the Supreme Court has misinterpreted the First Amendment to impose an impossible neutrality between "religion and irreligion." In the­ory, that "neutrality" forbids any public oflicial to aflirm that the Declaration of Independence is in fact true when it identifies God as the author of rights. Similarly, public education is founded on a non-theistic religious proposition, that moral questions can-and must in the public sphere -be decided without ref­erence to any controlling role of God and llis law. Instead, each person creates his own moral truth. lle is his own god. The result is not neutrality but an estab­lished agnostidsm devoid of ultimate hope. . 
"Spe Salvi" is part of Benedict's ongo­ing project to resclll~ reason by integrat­ing it with faith and objective morality. so that it can address questions beyond the empirical. He would have told the Sapienza students that "if reason, out of concern for its alleged purity, becomes deaf to the great message that comes to it from Christian faith and wisdom, then it withers like a tree whose roots can no longer reach the waters that give life to it." 
Fr. Schall described Benedict XVI as "the only universal voice in the world." He is that. His vindication of reason should be taken seriously, especially in universities that claim to be Catholic. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He may be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite local pizzeria at Notre Dame? Bruno's Rocco's Polito's Barnaby's Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsrncobserver. corn 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ was taught that the human brain 
was the crowning glory ofevolution 
so far, but I think it's a very poor 
scheme for survival. 
Kurt Vonnegut author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 page 11 
Rethinking unnecessary consumption 
Restrain yourself: wipe your hands on your jeans "Confirm thy soul in self-control"­America the Beautiful, 2nd verse. Does anyone ever sing the second verse of that song, 
Jackie Mirandola
anyways'! Maybe we should start. 
Mullen 
Ilow is it that, in our morals that 
Reusable Feet 
derived so heavily from Puritanism, we overlook the virtue of self-restraint when it comes to the economy, to our material lives? 
As Americans, we have had a long history of ideologically fighting for val­ues. If we are going to insist upon upholding our rights, however, we need to reconcile the excess of our culture with the self-restraint that we simulta­neously preach. 
I wanted to start out this column by defining luxury. Going to dictionary. com was, of course, my first and most reliable means to find such a definition (a true product of my genera­tion, I am). The first definition given was as follows: "a material object, service, etc., conducive to sumptuous living, usually a delicacy, elegance, or refinement of living rather than a necessity." 
The next five definitions rang a bit more negatively. Definition No. 6 read: "Archaic. lust; lasciviousness; lechery." Three of the four definitions preceding No. 6 included the word indulgence, which takes a negative connotation in our American society that emphasizes prudence and self-restraint. 
Hmm, America. Negative view on self-indulgence, yet positive view of luxury. How to mitigate this conflict of values? I decided to turn to my too­often forgotten arsenal of SAT vocab words. Synonym for luxury ... luxury ... Lexus? No, those are car ads speaking through me. Ah, amenity, that's close. Definition of amenity from my reliable source? 
1. 
An agreeable way or manner; courtesy; civility: the graceful amenities of society. No, that's not what I was looking for. Second? 

2. 
Any feature that provides comfort, convenience, or pleasure: The house has a swimming pool, two fireplaces, and other amenities. More like it. The definition of amenity does not explicitly use the word "material," but as the example sentence implies, "comfort, convenience or pleasure" certainly comes from material goods. 


But after assigning a word to gener­ally classify the comforts and pleasures of life, I wanted to explore what comes before them. So, opposite of amenity ... necessity (didn't even need SAT vocab for that one). 
Necessity: 
1. The condition or quality of being necessary. Well thanks, American Heritage Dictionary. Back to diction-ary.com: 
1. Something necessary or indispen­sable: food, shelter, and other necessi­ties of life. Necessities, just like ameni­ties and luxuries, are material. Well, considering we are made of materials, just like everything on this earth, this makes sense. But the catch, "the rub," as Bill Shakespeare would say, lies in the word indispensable. 
Try to think of what in your life is indispensable. The word "indispensa­ble" in itself makes this question tricky: with what in our lives do we not dis­pense? ("dispense with": to do without, forgo). What did you throw into the trash yesterday? How many food wrap­pers? Styrofoam cups? Napkins, paper towels, toilet paper, tissues? Granted, some of those last few can be neces­sary. But take a step back: why are they necessary? Because we define them as so in our lives. We certainly cannot classify them as indispensable; we dispense of them daily! Plus, life would assuredly continue were we to "go without, forgo" use of them. 
I'm not advocating that you stop using toilet paper. That you use less, well, maybe. Think about your personal use of paper towels and napkins. How is drying your hands with four paper towels necessary? It's not, that's inar­guable; your hands will still dry if you do not use any paper towels at all. 
So if it's not a necessity, it must be a luxury, right? An amenity. Something 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholic faculty maintain University's identity 
While I was quite pleased with The Observer's coverage of our townhall meet­ing this Monday, in light of Mr. Dechant's editorial ("Questioning Quotas," Feb. 19), there are a few further points that ought to be addressed. Mr. Dechant, after consid­ering the rationale behind support for mis­sion hiring, suggests that "many teachers believe departments should hire based solely on academic merit," especially as we otherwise risk sending the method that we prefer religious faith to rigorous thinking. But this glosses over two key factors to consider. 
First, the administration stresses that preferential treatment for Catholics would only factor in at the end of a selection process: that, after literally dozens of applications have been sorted through, if there are two or three equally qualified candidates and one is Catholic, the religion of the applicant should be taken into con­sideration. 
Second, and crucially, this 'other factors' approach is already a standard practice university-wide: we already grant prefer­ential treatment to female and minority applicants in precisely this manner. If the faculty as a whole does indeed believe decisions should be made "solely" on aca­demic merit, then it ought to be up in arms against affirmative action. (Lest I be mis­understood, I should add that I personally believe that preferential treatment ought to be given for diversity as well as for mis­sion-fulfillment.) 
There is yet another problem with the "academic merit alone" stance. It is that, as a matter of historical record, the most critical turn toward the secularization of the Ivies and dozens of other schools has precisely been when hiring of the faculty began to be done with an eye exclusively to prestige. Those who disbelieve me are encouraged to consult "The Dying of the Light," the monumental study of this issue by former Notre Dame Provost James Tunstead Burtchaell., C.S.C. -or to con­tact the good people at Project Sycamore for plenty of other academic sources. 
It is understandable that Mr. Dechant would assert that "the core of faith at Notre Dame does not come from the facul­ty, and never has." In the day-to-day life of a student, dorm masses, Campus Ministry, and the Center for Social Concerns are much more tangibly influential than the religious affiliation of one's chemistry or accounting professors. 
Furthermore, Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche has repeatedly and rightly stressed that every faculty member, no matter their faith or lack thereof, has the potential to contribute to our religious mission, by thoughtfully engaging the Catholic tradition. And I myself have been powerfully influenced by Professor David Solomon, director of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture, who exemplifies the way in which a faculty member can build up Notre Dame's identity without being Catholic himself. 
But all such caveats aside, in the long run, it is an historical fact that the mean­ingful adherence of a university to its reli­gious founding depends upon the prepon­derant adherence of its faculty to said denomination. 
In recognizing this and taking measures to promote Catholic hiring, the administra­tion is doing no more than seeking to ensure that when we students become alumni with children of our own to send to college, the Notre Dame we re-visit will not be a pale imitation of our secular 'aspirational peers,' but a place where it is still the case that, as Father. Hesburgh often says, "the Church does its thinking." 
Brian Boyd 
seniOr 
off campus Feb. 19 

that provides comfort and pleasure in your life. A form of self-indulgence. 
Here is the point where we need to reflect upon our lifestyles. We are choosing to indulge, to use more than is necessary, in order to uphold our val­ues of drying our hands with paper towels? A few dorms on campus have considered getting rid of paper towels in their bathrooms all together. This proposition has been met with criti­cism, sarcasm and flippancy by many decent and upstanding individuals on our campus. 
If paper towels are really that impor­tant in the pleasure we find in life, then so be it. We can continue to order them in droves so that everyone on campus can be comfortable and indulge them­selves. But maybe self-restraint really should not be that hard for us as a cul­ture when it comes to something as simple as drying your hands. Confirm thy soul in self-control. Be an American. 
Wipe your hands on your jeans. 
Jackie Mirando/a Mullen is a sopho­more German and History major. She would like to thank Dr. Peter Burns for his ENVG 10101 lecture that included the line, "You'd be flat as a pancake. Flatter! You'd be Nebraska!" She can be reached at jmirando@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
'Monologues' deserves a fair shot 
Kim Stoddard ("Letters to the Editor," Feb. 19), I would like to ask you, first of all, which "part of the script" of "The Vagina Monologues" did you read? Did you read one skit? Half a skit? Because I am baffled as to how you arrived at the exact oppo­site conclusion I did after read­ing the entirety of the play. The point of the "Monologues," which you seem to have missed, is in fact not to reduce women to "one body part," but to do the opposite. 
The "Monologues" are meant to point out that society has made women into one body part that can be objectified through things like rape and sexual assault. The "Monologues" combat this degradation of women, and enable and empower us to find our voices, which have been historically silenced because we were seen for so long (and by some, still are seen) as the "lesser sex." 
Furthermore, the "Monologues" are testimonies of women reclaiming their bod­ies and their souls, both of which have been violated. The "Monologues" are about reclaiming the part of the female body that has been seen as a shameful thing, something which makes women objects and not human beings with souls. 
Now, with regard to this whole debate about whether the "Monologues" should be allowed on campus, I would like to point out that we show SUB movies like Closer, which is rated R for "sequences of graphic sexual dialogue, nudi­ty/sexuality, and language." So why can't we have on campus a play that deals with the sexuali­ty and empowerment of women? Notre Dame wants us to expand our minds and our perspectives. 

This debate has been running in The Observer forever, now, and has been brought up in previous years also. If "The Vagina Monologues," and the discussion of them, isn't expanding our minds, then I don't know what is. The "Monologues" may not align with Catholic teaching, but isn't that the point? Seeing things from different perspectives? Discussing different perspec­tives? 
Finally, I would like to point out that you, Kim, chose to edu­cate yourself about "The Vagina Monologues" by reading the play. Only a portion of it, but still, you examined the piece for yourself. Doesn't that in and of 1 itself say that students on this campus should have the choice and the right to do the same thing, and go see the 
I
"Monologues" for themselves? (And, after all, everyone would 
.I

still have the choice NOT to go see it.) I also think that you, Kim, should go read or watch the entire play before you pass your judgment on it so entirely. 
Melanie LeMay 
sophomore 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Feb. 19 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 


"I lave you heard of the Lemon Law'?" If not then "Suit up!" because you'rn missing "llow I Met Your Mother." 
"I low I Md Your Mother" has been run­ning li1r thme years, but until last month I 
Marshall and Lily make a humorous couple iffor no other reason than their extreme height difference. 

knew nothing about it. 
Mark Witte 
I >oseribed by a friend as "Seinfi~ld" with younger people who Scene & frnquent a bar instmtd Heard of a diiwr. it piqtwd my interest, but not mwugh to start watrhing the CBS show. llowevor, my friend finally eonvineod me to sarrilko 20 minutes, and I gavo the pilot episodn a shot. I havn to admit, thn first timn I !ward Neil Patrick llarris' ehara1:tnr, Barney, tell his frinnd Ted to ment him at tlw bar and "Suit up!" I W<L'i hooked. 
I am curTPntly halfway through the first s1mson and my frinnd has dnddPd to set an ambitious goal for mn to wateh 
rnsumes il'i third season on Mardt 
17. 
I hope for tho sake of my grad1~s that I won't make it. 
ThP hook of the show is simple, Ted Mosby, playnd by Josh Hadnor in the pres­ent and voin~d-ovnr by Bob Saget in the futurn, tdls a story to his childrnn of how he nwt thnir mother. Of mursn, none of the npisodns actually involve Ted meeting his future wili~. or at least, not so far. 
The show focuses on tho lives Ted and his four f'rinnds, Marshall, Lily, Barney and Hobin, living in New York City back in 2005. Tnd and Marshall (Jason Segel) live togdhnr and although she has her own placn, Marshall's fiance. Lily (Alyson Ilanniganl. livns with them too. Marshall and I.ily make a humorous couple if li1r no other rmL'ion than thnir extreme height dif­li~nmel~. which turns into hilarity when Lily meel'i Marshall's family. 
Togetlwr the thrne frnquently go out to 
I 
bars, where in the pilot episode Ted meets Robin Scherbatsky (Cobie Smulders), a news reporter who Ted becomes con­vinced is his future wife. As we find out at the end of the episode, she isn't. In fact, as future-Ted tells his children, she's actually their aunt. 
But I almost forgot about Barney. Always in a suit and tie, Neil Patrick llarris' rharacter bumps into Ted one day in the bathroom and decides that they are going to be best friends. This doesn't bode well fi1r Ted. 
Barney's favorite game to play at the bars is "Have you met Tnd'?" In this game, he taps the shoulder of the nearest girl, says the tagline, "I lave you met Tnd'?" before seampnring ofT. lnaving Ted in an awkward lurch with the girl. 
I .ater in the first season Barney comes up with a new, revolutionary idea, that he 
calls the "Lemon 
Law." Having nothing 
to do with lemons, the 
law simply states that 
Law" and ditch them. 
The law appalls the 
others, but Barney 
daims it will eatch on, saying "It's gonna bn a thing!" And it does eateh on. Bnforn thn end of the episode one of Barney's dates use thn law on him. 
My favorite asped to the show is that every time Barney and Tnd decide to go out, Barney instmets his friend to "Suit up!" Of eourse, Ted never does and this drives Barney mad. 
"How I Met Your Mother" has grown on me in the little time I've been watching, and it's even beginning to influence my ways. During Junior Parents Weekend, my friends and I dedded to hit up the bars after dinner on Saturday and, oh yes, we suited up. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarly those ofthe Observer. 
Adult comics have made a huge come­back in America. 
I don't know how many people on campus give any attention to comic books and their "adult" counterpart, graphic novels, but comic books are no 
Mychal Stanley 
longer the stuff of adolescent boys. While Japan has 
Scene & 
never forgotten the 
Heard
appnal comics have on people of all ages, Americans have delegated comic books to mere kids' stuff. If you are one of these people, you should be ashamed of what you are missing. I know it's easy to be caught up in the hip and socially current comics like Marjane Satrapi's "Persepolis," but comics deal­ing in the realm of fantasy still have some great stories to tell. 

Series like Alan Moore's Washington D.C., to the "Watchmnn" deal with Series like Alan doctor's lab in San how superheroes would Moore's "Watchmen" Frandsen, all whiln be viewed in the real being chased by
deal with how 
world. Imagine the sce­Yorick's sister-a nario from "The superheroes would be member of tho Incredibles" in which viewed in the real Daughters of the superheroes are out­Amazon.
world.

lawed, but the topic is Tho story may bn 
dealt with in a darker tone that is more politi­cal, serious and adult. Not only that, but Watchmen was published a full 20 years ago. 
Neil Caiman's "Sandman" series deal with an extended and beautifully-com­plex mythology following the personifi­cations of Dream, Death and others, and how they operate in the world we know. 
But if these two aren't enough for you, I recommend you give "Y: The Last Man" a try. 
Written by Brian K. Vaughan, it fin­ished it's 60-issue run last month, and now would be the perfect time to pick up the graphic novel collections if for nothing else than the unboatable prem­ise. One day, every mammal with a Y­chromosome is killed simultaneously except for an immature young escape artist named Yorick and his pet monkey. 

------------------------------------------, 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 

What happens from there defies all predictions and blazes a new and excit­ing path in popular storytelling. What could have easily devolved into mean­ingless gender pandering becomes an intelligent conjecture on what the world would be like if run by women. And it's done fairly, provocatively and entertain­ingly. 
In the first few issues, it deals with the rebuilding of the American govern­ment, a fanatical feminist group called the Daughters of the Amazon who seek to destroy every last reminder of men (including sperm banks) and an Israeli gennral seeking to preserve Israel at any cost. 
Mnanwhile Yorick finds a world­renowned geneticist who seeks to understand why Yorick and his monkey survived. They are eseortnd by a gov­
emment agent from 
complex, but it is paced 

in a methodical manner, like a good action movie. It's hard not to become attached to the magnilieently­written characters as they grow and mature in the hardships they come to faee. It's about human beings coming face-to~face with the impossible, and how they react to the pressurn. 
Beyond all the breathtaking twists is a beautifully reserved ending in the after­math of a complete resolution. It makes the wacky seienee explanation bear­able. 
After all, it's not about bad things happening, but how human beings keep going anyhow. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at 
wstanley@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarly those ofthe Observer. 
all 55 episodes in thn first two and a half snasons to w~t me caught up bnfim~ tho show in the first five min­utes of a first date, if you dedde you're not into your partner, you ean evoke the "Lemon 
Photo courtesy of insidesocal.com Photo courtesy of thebraxcave.com 
The cast of CBS's sitcom series "How I Met Your Mother," including Alyson Vertigo Comics' "Y: The Last Man" is one title in the recent wave of adult orient­Hannigan, second from right, and Neil Patrick Harris, center. ed comic series. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
page 13 
Where else can you hear a deep-voiced By MYCHAL STANLEY man dejectedly opine, "0 Mr. Mistletoe I Scene Wrirer wither and die I you useless weed I for no 
one have 1." It's this unique kind of pop song­

Stephin Merritt, the frontman for The writing mentality that sustains and has main­Magnetic Fields, has an incredible talent in tained The Magnetic Fields' relevance. writing pop tunes. This album, however, is much more than 
It's strange, then, that he writes some of just the great songwriting that is typical of the most melancholy, self-deprecating pop The Magnetic Fields. The name of the record songs out there. Nothing has changed in his is very literal, and every song is accompanied 
new release, "Distortion," where Merritt and co­vocalist Claudia Gonson sing about being rejected, lonely or drunk. 
But if this all sounds too much like a Notre Dame winter, a lot of the subject matter is handled with some humor. In "Too Drunk to Dream," Merritt sings the benefits of being drunk as opposed to being sober (Sober I nobody wants you I S***faced I they're all undressing), concluding that he needs to get too drunk to dream about a absent lover. 
Gunson sings in "The Nun's Litany" as a nun 
This album, however, is much more than just the great song­writing that is typical ofThe Magnetic Fields. The name of the record is very literal, and every song is accompanied by swirling torrents ofguitar dis­tortion and noise. It's not enough to be distracting, instead providing a luxurious soundscape to disappear into when you put on your head­phones. 
by swirling torrents of gui­tar distortion and noise. It's not enough to be distract­ing, instead providing a lux­urious soundscape to disap­pear into when you put on your headphones. 
Other than the layer of distortion, The Magnetic Fields' usual sound has not changed. Merritt is obsessed with pop song structure, especially from the 1960s. He specializes in breaking down the formula to its most basic and catchy components. 
Underneath the noise, minimalist piano plunking, basic guitar chords and Merritt's deep bass or 

thinking about missed opportunities, paths she could've went down and what it would be like to be a "dominatrix I which isn't like me I but I can dream," among other things. 
In the best song on the album, Merritt laments spending Christmas alone in the form of a hate letter to that dread plant, mistletoe itself. "Mr. Mistletoe" is probably the best song about an emotion a lot of peo­ple feel on Christmas, and it's done with a brooding humor that you'd be hard-pressed to find anywhere else. 
Distortion 
The Magnetic Fields Label: Nonesuch Records Recommended Tracks: "Too Drunk to Dream," ''The Nun's Litany" 
Gunson's sweet childlike voice don't revolu­tionize or advance the sound of the band. The distortion may add a new sheen, but really, the band is just doing what it has been doing for years. And that's not a bad thing at all. 
The Magnetic Fields provide some of their catchiest tunes on this record, and you will find it difficult not to get swept away by some of their indelible hooks. Merritt has perfected the structure of a good pop song, and he knows how to lay down great tunes and 
words around them in tidy three­
minute portions. 
If you've never heard of The Magnetic Fields, you're in for a treat because "Distortion" perfectly accom­panies these gloomy winter days. The swirling distortion is the perfect soundtrack to the swirling rain and snow. 
The distant instruments feel exactly how sound is muffled in the winter air. The Magnetic Fields have put out an album that could very easily become the soundtrack of your life, especially during these sad, cold, lonely days of winter. 
Contact Mychal Stanley at wstanley@nd.edu 

page 14 Wednesday, February 20, 2008
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
LeBron's triple-double falls short to Houston 
Rockets win ninth in a row behind balanced scoring; Magic rout Pistons, snapping Detroit's 10-game winning streak 
the lane. We got him to settle for 
Associated Press 
some j urnpers." 
CLEVElAND -Shane Battier And .James' shots didn't start 
chuckled before revealing falling with regularity until the 
llouston 's defensive game plan fourth. His 3-pointer with 10:11 
to stop LeBron James. left brought the Cavaliers within 
"W1~ll. we hoped lw had a good 70-66. time in Nnw Orleans." Battier llowover, Alston sank a long 3, said. reserve Carl Landry convert11d a 
It was the Hoekets, though, throe-point play and Scola did 
who gave .lanws the headache. too -all in a less than a minute 
Hafer Alston scored 22 points, -to put the Hockets ahead by Yao Ming added 16 points and 13. 14 rebounds, and llouston tied a James tried to rally Cleveland team reeord Tuesday night with down the streteh, but every time its ninth straight road win, 93-the league's best fourth-quarter XS over the Cleveland Cavaliers. scorer made a big basket, the who wasted a triple-double from Hockets, Alston in particular, .lames. answered . 
The Hoekets entered the NBA's "I missed too many easy shots unoflieial midseason interrup­that I usually make," James said. tion as the Western Conference's Zydrunas Ilgauskas and Larry hottest team and they didn't eool Hughes had 16 points apieee for ofT. winning their ninth in a row the Cavs, who never got to improve to 18-3 since Jan. 4. untraeked offensively and shot 
"We don't want to get tiwd of just 39 percent as the Roekets winning," said Traey McGrady, swarmed them from the start. who add<~d 17 points on just 6-"What we're developing on ol'-21 shooting. "A lot of people this team is a team like the probably thought the break Pistons," McGrady said. "Great would be bad for us because we defensive team, going out there had so much momentum. so and playing together and not much swagger. But everybody relying on one or two people to eame baek and we said, 'Let's score the roek. start it ofT right."' "What we really care about is 
And so they did by digging in playing great defense and play­on defense. Houston last reeled ing together. And, it showed. oil' nine victories in a row on the road in 1993. Magic 103, Pistons 85 
Luis Seola added 15 points as A blowout at the Palace of the Rockets, one of the league's Auburn Hills is nothing new. likes losing like this." up." four days later, but couldn't do it stinf.,riest teams, won for the 12th The surprise Tuesday night The Pistons looked fine early Howard didn't have a great again Tuesday. time in 13 games. The one con­was that it was the Pistons get­in the game. On the first posses­statistical night, but Van Gundy "We should have played hard­stant during the spurt has been ting routed. Detroit trailed the sion, Rasheed Wallace blocked a felt he was the difference in the er than this," said Detroit coach a defensive mind-set that was Orlando Magic by as many as 26 dunk attempt by Howard, his game, especially in Detroit's 17-Flip Saunders. "We didn't need missing early this season. points and its 10-garne winning All-Star teammate and the new point third quarter. to come out and lay an egg like 
"It just took time for us to fig­streak was snapped with a loss. dunk champion. "Dwight had eight points and that in the second half." um it out," Battier said. "I certainly didn't foresee that Detroit, though, couldn't stop eight rebounds, and there's been Even though they are the only 
.James, who won his second happening," Magic coach Stan Orlando's outside game. The other nights when he's gone 20-team to beat Detroit in the last All-Star MVP in three years on Van Gundy said. "A lot has to go Magic shot 65 percent on 3-20, but this might have been his month, and they've now done it Sunday in New Orleans, finished right for us to beat the Pistons pointers in the game, hitting 13-best game of the season," he twice, Van Gundy doesn't think with 26 points, 13 rebounds and like that, espeeially on a night of-20. said. "In the third quarter, he the Magic will have any advan­11 assists. It was his fifth triple­when Dwight Howard scores "We started the game saying made it virtually impossible for tage in a possible postseason double this season and career eight points and Hedo Turkoglu we didn't want to let Dwight Detroit to get any offense going match up. No. 15 -the third youngest to goes 4-for-13." dunk, but you can't take away inside. He changed every shot." "This is big for our guys, rnach that mark behind Oscar Detroit extended its win streak dunks and 3-pointers," Billups Howard said that his 2-of-9 because we know how good that Hobertson and Magie Johnson. to double digits with a lopsided said. "You've got to give up shooting night, starting with team is," he said. "But this is 
Hounded by Battier, who got victory over Indiana on Feb. 13, something. They got hot and Wallac-e's blocked dunk in the only the regular season. Detroit help from his teammates, James but knew it would be tough to stayed hot." first 20 seconds, spurred him to has been through the wars, and missed all seven shots in the first keep its intensity through the The Magic outscored Detroit a better night defensively. we'll have to play at a much half. All-Star break. 63-37 over the second and third "I wasn't able to get anything higher level than this to beat 
"Anyone who says he can "You hate having a break periods, shooting 56 percent and going offensively, so I knew I them in the playoffs." guard him (James) one on one is when you are on a winning holding the Pistons to 24 per­needed to pick it up on the other Former Piston Maurice Evans lying," Battier said. "What you streak, beeause it messes with cent. end," he said. "I guess it added 16 points for the Magic, have to have is support behind your momentum," said "We played a good second worked." including eight in a 14-3 run you, great communication. Every Chauncey Billups. "That's not an quarter and a great third quar­The Magic had been the last that helped Orlando put the time LHI3ron turned the corner, exeuse, because we feel like we ter," Van Gundy said. "We team to beat Detroit, winning game away in the third quarter. one of our big men made him should have eorne in here and knocked down a lot of shots, but 102-100 at horne on Jan. 21. Orlando finished with six players think twice about going down played better than that. No one it was our defense that stepped The Pistons avenged the loss in double figures. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Oakhill Condo for Sale. Students will love living here and parents will love knowing their child is looked after and safe! Secure. upstairs, two-level furnished two-bedroom, two-bath condo unit with loft area. One thousand twenty-two square feet of beautifully redecorated living space -includes 42" HD flat screen TV and parking spaces in front of condo. Garages are available at an additional cost. Parking lot surveil­lance cameras. pool, clubhouse, water and rubbish removal included as part of the ownership package. Only $180 per month exterior main­tenance lees. Five minute walk or less to the Notre Dame campus, shopping and restaurants. Less than ten minutes to other hot spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only serious offers considered. 562-733­5166. 

WANTED 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+, 57 4-273-3835, www. workforstudents.com 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes Showing for 08/09,09/10 Now offering "flex" leases bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 08-09 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. RANGING FROM 2 BR T06 BR. CALL 574-234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUSES.COM 
PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
shtml UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If youor some one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.For more information, visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­
nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 

"When I get to the bottom I go back to the top of the slide Where I stop and I tum and then I go for a ride 'Ttl I get to the bottom and I see you again, yeh, yeh yeh Do you, don't you want me to love you I'm coming down fast, but I'm miles above you Tell me, tell me tell me, c'mon tell me the answer Well you may be a lover but you ain't no dancer. Now Heller Skelter, Heller Skelter, Heller Skelter, yeah ... a-Will you, won't you want me to make you I'm coming down last, but don't let me break you Tell me, tell me, tell me the answer You may be a lover but you ain't no dancer. Look out! Heller Skelter, Heller Skelter, Heller Skelter, oooh ... Look out, 'cause here she come" 
"Left a good job in the city, Working for The Man every night and day, And I never lost one minute of sleeping, Worrying 'bout the way things might have been. Big wheel keep on turning, Proud Mary keep on burning, Rolling, rolling, rolling on the river. Cleaned a lot of plates in Memphis, Pumped a lot of 'lane down in New Orleans, But I never saw the goud side of the city, Until I hitched a ride on a river boat queen. Big wheel keep on turning, Proud Mary keep on burning, Rolling, rolling, rolling on the river Rolling, rolling, rolling on the river. If you come down to the river, Bet you gonna lind some people who live. You don't have to worry 'cause you have no money, People on the river are happy to give." 

.---------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Division l­
NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 New Jersey 34-21-5 73 6·2·2 Pittsburgh 33-21·5 71 6·3·1 NY Rangers 30-24-7 67 6·3·1 Philadelphia 30·24·5 65 2·8·0 NY Islanders 28-25·7 63 4·5·1 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. lastlO 
Ottawa 34·20-5 73 4-5·1 
Montreal 32·19·9 73 5·4·1 
Boston 29·23·6 64 5·3·1 
Buflalo 28·23-8 64 6-2·2 
Toronto 24·27·9 57 4·5·1 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 Carolina 30·28·4 64 6-4-0 Washington 28-26·6 62 5-4-1 Atlanta 29·28·4 62 6-3-1 Florida 27·28·6 60 5-4·1 Tampa Bay 25·28·6 56 5-4-1 
Western Conference, Central Pivision 
team record pts. last 10 Detroit 42-15-5 89 4·5·1 Nashville 31-23·7 69 6-2·2 St. Louis 27-22·9 63 5·3·2 Columbus 27-25·9 63 2-5-3 Chicago 27-25-6 60 4-4-2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Minnesota  34·21·4  72  7-2·1  
Vancouver  29-22-8  66  4-3-3  
Calgary  29·22·8  66  5-5-0  
Colorado  30·25-5  65  4·5·1  
Edmonton  27·28-5  59  5·5·0  

Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team  record  pts.  last 10  
Dallas  37-21-5  79  9·1·0  
Anaheim  33-23·7  73  6-3-1  
San Jose  31·20·8  70  4·5·1  
Phoenix  31-25·4  66  4·4·2  
los Angeles  25-34-3  53  5-5"0  

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL North Carolina at NC State 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Lakers at Suns 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

1 
2 3 
4 
5 
6 
7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 14 16 17 18 19 20 
Poll 
team 
Michigan North Dakota New Hampshire Colorado College Miami (Ohio) Michigan State Boston College Denver NOTRE DAME Wisconsin Minnesota State Clarkson Minnesota-Duluth Northeastern Providence St. Cloud State Princeton Mass.·Lowell Ouinnipiac Niagara 
t(!t()rd last poll 
25-3·4-1 194d~ 3 19•N~ 4 214-;1 5 25+1 2 20·8-5 8 16·7~7 7 19-1D-1 6 21-10·3 9 14·12.-6 10 16-11-4 13 11-10·3 11 12·10-6 12 14·11-3 15 13·11-4 14 14-13-3 19 15-10-0 17 13-11-4 18 

17-9·4 16 16-8-4 20 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -Jason Kidd is a member of the Dallas Mavericks. Again. Finally. 
The long-discussed, once-scuttled and ultimate­ly reconfigured deal to bring Kidd from New Jersey back to the team that drafted him was final­ized Tuesday. He was rein­troduced in Dallas 14 years after the Mavericks made him the No. 2 pick. 
Back then, Kidd was sup­posed to help turn around one of the worst franchises in sports. Now, as one of the league's best point guards, he's seen as a cru­cial piece in the Mavs' pur­suit of a championship. 
"There's no bigger 
reward than to have that championship trophy in your hand," said Kidd, who lost in the NBA finals twice with the Nets. "That's why I'm here. Because Dallas has its eye on that prize." 
The eight-player deal, in the making since before the All-Star break and talked about a lot longer than that, sends Kidd, for­ward Malik Allen and guard Antoine Wright to Dallas. 
The primary piece head­ed to New Jersey is point guard Devin Harris. The others are center DeSagana Diop, swingman Maurice Ager, forward Trenton Hassell and retired forward Keith Van Horn. New Jersey also gets two first-round draft picks and $3 million. 

Van Horn and Hassell replace Jerry Stackhouse and Devean George in an original trade proposal. Stackhouse's presence in the deal was muddled by plans to get him back to Dallas -within the rules, although in a way the league frowned upon ­and George used his veto power to block his involve­ment. 
"It's been the most amaz­ing, interesting trade we've ever done, and we've done some doozies here," Mavericks owner Mark Cuban said. ''I've never seen anything like it, but all's well that ends well. We got the right guys." 
Kidd wasn't the answer in Dallas a decade ago, and he was shipped to Phoenix after 2 seasons. Five years later he was traded to the Nets, who went to back-to­hack NBA finals in 2002­03. 
New Jersey hasn't made a long playoff run since, and Kidd started talking trade a year ago, when he almost went to the Los Angeles Lakers. He went public with his latest trade demand last month. 
"He's a once-in-a-lifetime type of guy to play with and coach," Nets coach Lawrence Frank said. "He's had an unbelievable impact on everyone in this organization and we wish him nothing but the best." 

IN BRIEF 
Former MVP Tejada remains Aaron says baseball can sur­Potential IRL-Champ Car mer­
silent concerning steroids vive the steroids era ger talks heat up 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Houston Astros KISSIMMEE, Fla. -He's no longer the A possible unification of America's pitcher Woody Williams walked into the home run king, but he's still the Hammer. two open-wheel series is still on track, clubhouse and saw a swarm of reporters Hank Aaron hobbled into Atlanta's spring with both sides saying Tuesday gathered around Miguel Tejada. training camp on Tuasday-he needs knee­progress is being made. 
"Leave the guy alone!" Williams said replacement surgery -with no opinion on David Higdon, Champ Car World 
with a smile. whether Barry Bonds and Roger Oemens Series spokesman, said discussions No chance. deserve to be in the Hall ofFame, but saying are "heating up," but no announce­Tejada arrived at spring training with he's confident baseball is on the way to ment was expected Tuesday. "As long 
his new team on Tuesday, and within recoveringfrom 1he Steroids Era as everyone is still talking, there's minutes faced questions about the "I think baseball is trying to clean up its hope." Mitchell Report and an FBI investigation act," Aaron said, sittingin the Braves' dugout Fred Nation, a spokesman for the looking into his alleged link to perform­during batting practice. "It's unfortunate for Indy Racing League, told The ance-enhancing drugs. baseball, but baseball has been through Associated Press "there is no deal 
Tejada refused to answer any of them, some tough times. It went through the White yet." He said talks "between the prin­preferring to discuss baseball and his Sox scandal and survived. It went through a cipals from both sides" are continuing fresh start with the Astros. lot ofthing> and survived. It's going to survive and IRL officials remain "optimistic" 
'~I can't really talk about that situa­this, too." an agreement can be reached, possi­tion," he said. "Right now, I just want to Uke many baseball funs, Aaron tuned in bly as early as Thursday. talk about baseball, because that's really when the Mitchell Report was released, and Both sides have struggled for fans, my focus." he was in front of the television set again for sponsors and TV ratings since the IRL, 
The Astros acquired the four-time All­Roger Oemens' testimony before Congress founded by Indianapolis Motor Star shortstop from Baltimore on Dec. last week, when the seven-time Cy Young Speedway president Tony George, 12, the day before the Mitchell Report Award winner denied using human growth began competition in 1995, competing was released. hormone as alleged by his former tramer. against the established CART series. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
NBA 
Shaq ready for Suns debut against former team 
for the other team to get back." Those roles belong to Nash and have energized the Suns fran­Earthlings must be careful with
Associated Press 
"He's a jokester, and that's Amare Stoudemire, he said. chise since last week's trade, what they say." 
PliOENIX -Shaquille O'Neal funny, very funny," Shaq said ''I'm more like a senior adviser with the anticipation building O'Neal is part of a recent says he is ready to run with the without smiling. "Ha-ha. Very so I don't like to come in here toward Wednesday night's show­migration of talent to the Phoenix Suns. Heally. funny." and try to take over," O'Neal down with Jackson, Kobe already-tough Western 
''I'm going to be looking to get Suns eoach Mike D'Antoni says said .... "Just like your basic Bryant, newcomer Pau Gasol Conference, with Gasol going to out like Handy Moss and Terrell people will be surprised about karate movie where the young and the rest of the Lakers. the Lakers from Memphis and, in Owens," he said Tuesday after how well a motivated O'Neal can guys come to the old guys with O'Neal insisted there is nothing a trade finalized on Tuesday, going through his final workout move, and playmaker Steve Nash beards who have them do weird special about the opponent being Jason Kidd to the Dallas before making his debut with the was elated with the trade that stuff to get to the other side. the Lakers, other than the fact Mavericks from New Jersey. Suns on Wednesday night brought O'Neal from Miami for That's who I am, the old guy with that it's a tough Pacific Division There will be no time for against his old team, the Los Shawn Marion and Marcus a long beard." foe. O'Neal to ease into his new role. Angeles Lakers. Banks. Long pause. "We had more great times than After the Lakers, the Suns are 
The prospect of the 7 -foot-1, "We're going to have to adjust "You like that analogy?" he bad times together, but they've home to Boston on Friday night 325-pound O'Neal, at age 35, fit­slightly to his strengths," Nash said, obviously pleased with him­moved on, I've moved on," and Detroit on Sunday. ting in with the high-octane Suns said, "but you know where he's self. "That was pretty good?" O'Neal said. "I have a new team "We don't have three cupcakes has been ridiculed across much strong we've been weak, and Nash was a willing sidekick. now and I have a new focus." to start, but that's all right," of the NBA. that's having a big presence in "I think this is his 73rd Asian Still, Jackson's comments have Nash said. "We're going to learn 
The Lakers' Phil Jackson, the paint, taking up space and martial arts film," he said. not been brushed aside. a lot about ourselves and where O'Neal's former coach, said guarding the rim." "We're excited to learn from the "I don't take anything person­we're going, and maybe that will Shaq's role would be "taking the O'Neal says he has no desire to great master." al," O'Neal said. "I just have a give us a steeper learning curve ball out of bounds and waiting be a star with his new team. Shaq's charisma and humor certain file in my head, so to play against terrific teams." 

THE NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE PRESENTS THE FIRST ANNUAL 
Ralph Mcinerny Essay Contest 
WITH A GENEROUS GIFT FROM 
the Class of 1952, the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture proudly announces the first annual Ralph Mcinerny Essay Contest, held in honor of Ralph Mcinerny, an inspirational professor of philosophy at Notre Dame for overfiftyyears. Open to current Notre Dame Undergraduates only, the Ralph Mcinerny Essay contest seeks each year to award an exceptional student essay composed on a topic appropriate to Professor Mcinerny's lifelong work. 
ESSAYS WILL BE ACCEPTED 
on any aspect of l11omistic philosophy or theology, whether exploring the text of St. Thomas Aquinas, sources of his thought, or his influence upon subsequent thinkers, questions or debates. Essays will also be accepted on topics of the Catholic litarary imagination, and with Catholic culture more generally. Essays must consist of 10-15 typed, double spaced pages. The winner of the contest will recieve a $500 prize, ·publication in The Catholic Idler, and recognition by the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture. 
DEADLINE MAY 16, 2008 
Email ndethics@nd.edu with questions or comments. 

----~---~-~----------­
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

•BELOVED" 
Lenten Dap of Reflection 
Jpontored bp the OHice of Cl'ott Cultul'clll Minbtrp 
February 24,2008, 2pm-7pm Location: CreeR House 
Do you !:?now that you are beloved by the One who made you? 
Do you REALLY ~:?now? 
The office of Cross Cultural Ministry invites you to taf:?e a few hours this Lent and spend time thinning about who loves you. Come to the quiet and let that Love soal:? in. 
For an application or more information, contact Judy Madden in the Cross Cultural Ministry Office -102 Coleman-Morse Center. 
Email: jmadden2@nd.edu
····-····­
Applications can also be picf:?ed up in Retreats Office in 114 Coleman-Morse Center. 
*There is no cost for this Day of Reflection. *Space is limited to the first 20 people so don't wait. 
CM 
Campus r'linist•·y 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Tea111looks to ilnprove MIAA 111ark at ho111e 
Belles counting on Newsom against Adrian 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles picked up an important victory Saturday afternoon over an MIAA oppo­nent, sparked by a revamped defense anchored by junior captain Erin Newsom. 
The 71-39 win over Kalamazoo Saturday gave Saint Mary's the boost it needed to move up in MIAA standings. With a conference record of 6­8, Saint Mary's moved into a tie for fourth place with Adrian, Alma and Olivet. 
The Belles play tonight against Adrian at 7:30. in Angela Athletic Center. 
"At the Kalamazoo game we communicated and worked well together as a team on defense, and it enabled us to pick up easy steals, which led to a stronger offense," Newsom 
said. 
On Saturday, knocked down 
44.8 percent of their field goals and 57.1 percent of their free throws while grabbing 46 rebounds. 
The Belles' chief focus this season has been improving their inconsistent defense and low rebounding numbers. 
Newsom, the Belles captain, is 
the Belles 
not have a great

"These next two 
performance ingames against the first half." Adrian and Olivet are Rashid agreed 
that the Belles

crucial to the 
must concen­

conference rankings, trate on defense 
and we'd really like to beat Adrian. "At times we
to host the first round 
have played

on our home court." 
great team defense and other times we have struggled," 

Erin Newsom 
Belles center 
central to their effort on the boards. Newsom not only leads the team with 186 rebounds this season, but also is second in scoring with 242 points. 
Belles coach Jenn Henley said Newsom has also improved on defense. 
"We have really been working with Erin on her 

just like any other player does," Newsom said. "So I don't know if I am a better player each year, but my role has changed depending on what our team needs each new season." 
This season, Newsom has had the opportunity to play with her sister, freshman forward Becky Newsom. 
"Coming in as a freshman and having Erin here has made it a much easier transition to col­lege, both with basketball and school," Becky Newsom said. "As teammates we push each other to do better in practice. She is a great leader for our team. She knows when to be serious and when to have fun." 
To take down Adrian, Saint Mary's will need Erin Newsom's rebounding and newly polished defensive presence. 
"Our focus is still on team defense and rebounds," Henley said. "Both Adrian and Olivet are solid teams that present a challenge for us. The last time we played Adrian, we did 
Rashid said. "We 

have been work­ing on our communication on defense in order to improve as a team. I think our game on Saturday was a good indication of how well we are capable of playing on defense if we com­municate with each other." 
But Newsom is not satisfied, saying the squad still needs to improve at get­
post defense this ting stops. 
"It is nice to know 
season and have "To be honest 
that ifwe take a shot
seen great we have been improvements to from the perimeter playing incon­this point," sistently as a
we will have 
Henley said. "I team, especial­
somebody inside 
think she presents ly on the defen­some defensive fighting for the sive end," problems for Newsom said.
rebound." 
opponents "I don't doubt because of her that our team shooting range Katie Rashid is capable of and how well she Belles guard beating any 
runs the floor." 
Belles junior guard Katie Rashid credits Newsom with being reliable under the basket. 
"Erin has always been one of the leading rebounders for us," Rashid said. "It is nice to know that if we take a shot from the perimeter we will have some­body inside fighting for the rebound." 
This season isn't the first in which Newsom has been a key contributor for Saint Mary's. In her freshman season, she grabbed 161 rebounds and scored 240 points. She proved herself again last season when she ended the year with 212 rebounds and 281 points. Newsom was named to the MIAA second team last season. 
"I don't know how I have improved this season, if I even have at all, but I do know that with each new season I have to learn and adapt to a new team, team we come 

up against, we have the players to do it, we just need to really focus on our team defense and have the same intensity as we did Saturday versus Kalamazoo." 
The conference showdown against the Bulldogs tonight is the Belles' penultimate MIAA matchup. 
"I hope that we build off of Saturday's win and use it to win our last two conference games this week," Newsom said. "These next two games against ­Adrian and Olivet are crucial to the conference rankings, and we'd really like to host the first round on our home court." 
Note: 
Alison Kessler is 12 points away from tying the school record for most career points. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at 
mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

... 
-
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
NBA 
Suns, Nuggets to play outdoor game 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. -The Phoenix Suns and Denver Nuggets will play the first out­door game in morn than 35 years during the 2001'-09 preseason. 
The exhibition game on Oct. 11 at the 16.000-snat Indian Wells Tnnnis Carcl!m will be tHinvised by TNT. 
Thn ganw follows the NIIL's successful outdoor game on New Ynar's Day in Bull'alo, N.Y. 
"What will happen horn will be historic," Hick Welts, the Suns' prnsident and chid operating oiTiePr, said Tuesday. "More importantly, I think this will be a lot of fun. Most of us learned how to play basketball outdoors. This had tho perfect circumstances to do it in the NBA." 
It word be the first NBA game to be played outdoors. The Suns dnfeatml the Milwaukee Bucks in a preseason game on Sept. 24, 1972, at a baseball stadium in San Juan. Puerto Hieo. 
Welts said the ideal weather in October and tho facility made it possible to hold the event. The tennis stadium is home to the Paeil'ie Lifo Open, one of the major events on the men's and women's pro tours. 
Because the seating is built around the parameters of a ten­nis court, rather than a hockey rink like most NBA arenas, Welts said the game will offer a more intimate setting. 
"It's an NBA-quality facility with no roof on it," Welts said. 
Nuggets center Marcus Camby said he may have to work on his jumper to make it more wind resistant. 
"I have a high release -it's probably not too good outdoors," Camby said. "It will be fun. I've seen hockey have a couple of out­door games, so it will definitely be intnresting. I hope the weath­er's nice." 
In the unlikely event the game is rained out. Welts said it would be played the next day. 
Denver eoaeh George Karl liked the concept of an outdoor game. "I grew up playing outdoors and loved it," he said. 
Karl was asked if chain-link nets would be a natural fit for the outdoor game. 
"Or lopsided balls," Karl said with a laugh. "One of the biggest deeisions was finding a ball that wasn't lopsided." 
The Suns feature megastars Steve Nash, Amare Stoudemire and Shaquille O'Neal. The team picked the Nuggets bncause of their marquee players, Allen Iverson and Carmela Anthony, and beeause there are direct flights from Denver to Palm Springs . 
In-terested in submiccina a proposal abstract for the University Scholars Conference? 
Learn more 

Conference Application, Abstrac-1-Wri'lina, and Presentation Workshop 
Thursday, February 21, 4:30-5:30 Coleman Morse Center Student Lounge 
Writing Center staff will be on hand 
to provide guidance for developing conference abstracts. Bring drafts of your papers or proposals. 
RSVP co clucero@nd.edu by MOOII, -rhursday, February 2 I 
Don•c foraec: Deadline for University Scholars Conference Abscracc Submission is Monday, March 1o 

[)ock weiler Award f()r Excellence in The Joyce Avvard f()r Excellence in Underl,JTaduate Advising UndergTaduate 'feaching 
Student, faculty and staff nominations are sought to identify faculty or professional Student and faculty nominations are sought to identify faculty who: staff members whose involvement with undergraduates inspires students to reach their academic and career goals. Nominees may be members of the academic • Create environments that stimulate significant student learning advising and career counseling staffs or members of the faculty and staff who: • Elevate students to a new level of intellectual engagement 
• Foster students' ability to express themselves effectively within the 
• 
Facilitate learning outside the classroom discipline 

• 
Serve as mentors or role models 

• 
Encourage student participation in fellowships, internships, undergraduate Nominations due by Friday, February 29. Nineteen recipients will be selected. research and post -graduate opportunities 

• 
Cultivate relationships with organizations that recruit Notre Dame graduates 


Nominations are due Friday, February 29. Three faculty or staff will be chosen. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
Submit online nominations at pnnostawards.nd.cdu. ~NOTRE DAME 
Office of the Provost 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
No. 15 Indiana bests Hoosier-state rival Purdue 
White excels despite sprained left knee, picking up 19 points, 15 boards to end Boilermakers' 11-game winning streak 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Kelvin Sampson couldn't understand why he was still being asked if his problems over possible NCAA violations were a distraction for his team. 
Eric Gordon scored 22 points to lead No. 15 Indiana to a 77-68 victory over No. 14 Purdue on Tuesday night in the Hoosiers' last game before the completion of the school's investigation into accusations Sampson committed major rules violations. 
"I think the way our team is playing answers all the ques­tions," he said. "I think our play speaks for itself." 
ILl. White, who had 19 points and 15 rebounds despite playing on a sprained left knee, said the Hoosiers (22-4, 11-2 Big Ten) aren't thinking about what Sampson's future holds. 
"When we're on the court, that's all we're focused on," he said. "Right now, we're just try­ing to win games." 
The latest win snapped Purdue's 11-game winning streak and brought Indiana with­in one-half game of the Boilermakers (21-6, 12-2) at the top of the conference standings. 
Indiana's fans seemed to move toward Sampson's side after a giving him a lukewarm response during pregame introductions.­Chants of "Kel-vin Samp-son" rang out in the game's final min­utes. 
Sampson said he expects to be on the sideline Saturday at Northwestern. If Tuesday's game was his last at Indiana, h.e has White to thank for it ending well. 
"You learn not to take a kid like him for granted," Sampson said. "He's a horse." 
White said it would have taken a more serious injury to keep him out of the game. 
"At the beginning, I was kind of timid," he said. "It's always in your head when you have an injury like that. I got more com­fortable as the game went on." 
Armon Bassett adlded 16 points and eight rebounds for the Hoosiers. 
Robbie Hummel had 17 points for the Boilermakers, while Scott Martin added 12. 
University president Michael McRobbie said last Friday that the school would conduct a new investigation into the NCAA's accusations that Sampson com­mitted five major rules violations. 
A school investigation last year revealed Sampson and his assis­tants made inore than 100 impermissible calls. That occurred while Sampson was on NCAA probation for making 577 improper phone calls between 2000 and 2004 while coaching Oklahoma. 
Athletic director Rick Greenspan, university counsel Dorothy Frapwell and faculty representative Bruce Jaffee were asked to run the investigation and recommend by this Friday what steps the university should take. 
The Hoosiers went 30-of-34 from the free throw line while Purdue was just 11-of-21. 
Purdue coach Matt Painter said his team was aggressive in creat­ing turnovers, but couldn't turn it down enough to avoid commit­ting fouls. 
"We made careless mistakes, putting our hands on guys," he said. "We had so many situations where if we get a stop, we could take the lead, and then we'd foul." 

The Hoosiers shot 4 7 percent to make up for committing 23 turnovers. 
Sampson said his team played a great game aside from the turnovers. 
"Sometimes you have to bring them into the huddle and remind them what color jersey they're wearing," he said. 
Painter said there was no 
With an Auto Loan from Notre Dame Federal l:redit ume1~n, you'll not only gefa great low tt·llili: ,ril
· 

you'll also receive afull
1% CASH BACK 
What are you waiting for? Apply today. 
answer for Gordon and White. 
"Those guys have got to be the best 1-2 punch in the country, the best inside-outside combina­tion," he said. 
The Boilermakers shot 31 per­cent (11-of-36) in the first half but stayed in the game by forcing 12 turnovers. 
White had 10 points and six rebounds in the first half, which featured five lead changes and ended with Indiana leading 32­29. 
The Hoosiers opened the sec-
I I I I I 

I 
I I 

I 
j 
ond half on a 13-6 run capped by a long 3-pointer by Gordon that gave Indiana a 45-35 lead with 
12:28 left. 
Indiana led by 12 points before Purdue went on a 7-0 run, including a 3-pointer and a layup by Hummel, that made it 53-48 and forced the Hoosiers to call a timeout. Martin's 3-pointer with just under 7 minutes to go cut Indiana's lead to 57-55 but the Hoosiers went 17 -of-20 from the free throw line the rest of the way. 
THA TO METANIOSSIS 
(~bt-Ov-er) 
Thursday February ZI · 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
League 
continued from page 24 
Louisville enters the meet as the only Big East squad with a national ranking and boasts a team that has been steadily gathering momentum throughout the season. The Cardinals hold the top conference times in 10 events, including all five relays. 
Pittsburgh is a 19-time conference champion, and thn Panthers placed fourth in last ynar's meet. The Panthers are likely to chal­lenge Notre Dame for thn top positions in the diving events. .Junior Alex VoloviHski holds the Big East's top scorn in the 1­meter dive, while senior Jeremy Stultz boasts the higlwst 3-meter score. 
Notre Dame freshman Michael Sullivan swam the fastest 200-yard back­stroke in the conference, whiln Irish junior diver Michael Bulfin holds the second-and third-bnst scorns in the 3-meter and 1-metnr boards, respec­tively. 
"I think people arn pre­pared, and I think they're excited to swim their races," Welsh said. "This is as wide open as thn mnet has bnen in sfweral years, and placns will go to the teams that swim the fastest. There is something very purn about that." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
court we gave them a great game, but I thought we could have won. We missed some easy shots and we didn't do a good job rebounding." 
Both Notre Dame and Hutgers struggled to perform in the paint in the first half, continually missing sho.ts and combining for 19 turnovers. 
The Scarlet Knights looked to turn things around 12 min­utes into the game with a 9-0 run to cruise to a 22-14 lead with 6:21 left in the half. But that spurt ended Hutgers' out­put in the opening period. The Irish rallied to score the next eight points, with the final two coming on a buzzer-beater by guard Charel Allen to tie the game at 22. 
Notre Dame continued to play tough defense in the sec­ond half, holding Hutgers scoreless in the lirst few min­utes after halftime. 
The Scarlet Knights finally managed to put points on the board when junior center Kia Vaughn's putback in the fourth minute brought Hutgers clown only two. Vaughn's bas­ket sparked a 17-5 run over Notre Dame to give Hutgers a 41-33 lead. The Irish did not regain the lead and never managed to get closer than four points for the rest of the game. 
McGraw was happy with Notre Dame's ability to shut down Hutgers, but said she would have liked to see more from her offense. 
"I thought we did a great job defensively to hold them to 57," McGraw said. "That was our goal, we wanted to keep the game in the 50s and I felt we did a really good job of that, so I was really pleased with our defense. They're an excellent defensive team as well, and we really just missed a lot of shots that we probably could have made." 

Sophomore guard Epiphanny Prince led the Scarlet Knights in scoring with 18 points and senior guard Matee Ajavon added 15. Allen matched Prince with 18 points for the Irish and guard Lindsay Schrader chipped in 10. 
Despite the production from Allen and Schrader, the Irish struggled to score in tho paint. 
"We missed shots, we just missed too many shots," McGraw said. "We had a lot of opportunities to win the game, and we clidn 't ·rebound and we missed shots, and that was the game." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


WE PUT THE"BURRITO" IN GOURMET. 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Williams responds to Coach K's words 

'.; 20o/o OFF 
",.,. .. ,.,...TY for a permanent solution to remove unwanted hair? 
Licensed aesthetician, Peggy Dibble, 
offers safe, comfortable and affordable 
laser hair removal, using state-of-the-art 
FDA-Approved equipment. 
Ea~h hair removal procedure is tailored to your individual skin and hair type, allowing us to offer the most effective solution for hair reduction from the face and body. 
Find out which laser hair removal protocol 
fits your needs. Visit Peggy today for a 
free, personalized laser hair removal 
consultation. 
Our South Bend location is justminutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 

your 1st laser service 
Call Peggy Todayl
when you mention this ad! 
(up to $200) 
574.282.2020 

Associated Press 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -North Carolina coach Roy Williams apparently doesn't think too highly of Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski's views on injury reports. 
In a small tiff that has added the latest spice to college basket­ball's most intense rivalry, Williams took exception to a comment made by Krzyzewski on Sunday that the Blue Devils don't discuss injuries "unlike other schools." 
While Krzyzewski never men­tioned the third-ranked Tar Heels specifically, Williams felt the statement was a subtle jab at his team, which has had a much­publicized run of injuries and ail­ments in the past two weeks. 
It was enough to have Williams, in a comment on his weekly radio show Monday, telling an unspecified person to "coach their own damn team, I'll coach my team." 
On Tuesday, Williams found himself discussing the comments again instead of focusing on the Tar Heels' game at North Carolina State on Wednesday. 
"It's not like I'm getting a dadgum plane and flying it around to say, 'Roy fell against a wall and banged his nose' or anything," Williams said in a news conference. "We have to do those things [talk about injuries] and everybody's hurt. But there's different stages of being hurt. 

"If you're hurt and missing games, that's not exactly like having a hangnail. And so we do have some people that are get­ting hurt and missing games. I don't think that somebody should say we're putting it in front of the public." 
When a reporter attempted to ask a follow-up question, Williams said he didn't want to discuss the comments further and have "battles through the media." But when the news con­ference ended, Williams came back to the topic once more. 
"I said before we played Duke it's impossible to have any more respect than I do for Mike," Williams said, "but I felt like that comment was aimed towards 
us." 
Duke team spokesman Jon Jackson declined to comment Tuesday, one day before the Blue Devils (No. 4 ESPN/USA Todav, No. 5 AP) travel to Miami. · 
Krzyzewski's comment came in a radio interview after Duke's loss at Wake Forest. While not­ing that freshman Nolan Smith had been playing through a knee injury for a few weeks, Krzyzewski added, "unlike other schools we don't release our injuries," according to the Web site for radio station WRBZ-AM in Raleigh. 
PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications hom undergraduates \Vith special interests in the inter areas of poli6cul philosophy. political theory. and economic analysis. Every year about 16 motivatt!d and talented students are admitled to PPE Check it out to see if it is for you \-1 our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law. public policy. philosophy. political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for  
\ 1·}  an integrated approach to politics and justke, without all the requirements of a sec major. and  
C!)  an intellcctu{ll community of faculty and students who share your interests, then PPE \'\'ants you!  

FOR MORE: I:>IFORMATION Professor John Roos. PL>Iitical Sctence Department, 424 1 -7556, Rons. I tc~ind edu. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday February 20 204 DeBartolo 5:00-6:00 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
recruiting," White said. "We have a great school and some gnHLt facilities that allow us to bring in some of the best swimmers out there." 
But White said the most important reason for the squad's success is the development of swimmers that maximize their poten­tial. 
"It is really important to just make people faster," White said. "And that is a product of' mental prepara­tion, training, environment, coaching, support and first­rate faeilities. And wn have all of that here at Notre Dame." 
The Big East champi­onship runs from today to Saturday at the Nassau County Aquatics Center. The preliminary heats of' the individual rounds will be held in the mornings with the l'inals and the relays taking place during the evenings. The Irish will look to maximize their scores by only swimming in their best events, as each participant can compete in a limited amount of' events. 
"We hope to qualify for the !NCAA Championship! with as many girls as possi­ble," White said. 
The Irish have fared well thus far against Big East foes, taking a 2-1 confer­ence record into the cham­pionship. Their only Big East dual-meet loss was to Pittsburgh in a 150-148 nail-biter. They dominated Louisville 188-1 I I and West Virginia 249-116 in dual-meet competition this season. 
This event is the eulmina­tion of a season of' hard work for many of the swim­mers. All the training, early-morning swimming, dry workouts and the daily grind lead up to the next four days of swimming. 
"The secret to success is lasting for the entire four days," White said. "It takes a lot of focus. The girls just have to take it one event at a time." 
The wildcard for the Irish is the 25-day layoff since their last meet. But the Irish traditionally come out of' the break very strong. 
"The girls feel really good," White said. "I have never seen them looking so fast." 
Hutgers, West Virginia and Pittsburgh have the best chances to upset Notre Dame in the championship, but the Irish are confident they will add another tro­phy to their case. 
"II' we just stay focused, we will do very well," White said. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

Recycle The Observe 
ual side of the tournament was Georgia State's Joel Sjoholm, who led his team to a ninth-place finish. 
The tournament also fea­tured some solid individual performances by the Irish. 
Sophomore Doug Fortner finished the tournament with a combined score of 224, which left him in a tie for 29th. Fortner's score was 8­over par on the weekend, but was still impressive consider­ing only six players finished below par for the weekend. Irish captain and No. 1 golfer Josh Sandman finished in a tic with Fortner. 
The par-72, 6,895-yard Sawgrass Country Club is considered one of the hardest courses on the college tour. 
The tournament allowed the Irish to shake off some of the rust that has built up over the long break since the fall season. The team improved its score every day of the tournament. 
The Irish will be in action again March 3-4 at the USC Collegiate Invitational in Westlake Village, Calif. 
Contact Peter Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

Letdown 
continued from page 24 
the only sub-par score of the tournament, a four-under 
212. ller pair of 70s on Monday were the lowest two scores for the week. 
Monday afternoon's respectable team score of 
Notre Dame junior Lisa Maunu led the Irish in scor­ing for the third time this season, shooting a 12-over­par 228, tied for 15th over­all. Her Monday afternoon 7 4 was the low round of the week for the Irish. 
Freshman standout So­Hyun Park trailed Maunu by one stroke, finishing up with a 13-over-par 229, tied 
Sawgrass 
continued from page 24 

of the top teams in the tour­nament. But the Gators shot their best score of the event, 288 --a tournament-best for the day. 
Meanwhile, no team could keep up with No. 4 Alabama, 
300 indicat­ed that the 
"We put ourselves in a
Irish could 
rebound good position ... but we from their couldn't continue that 
slow start, 
momentum."
but a final­round 314 on Tuesday Susan Holt 
dashed any Irish coach hopes of matching 

w e e k e n d Sandman

the team's earlier success-Annie Brophy and Kristin 
with 10 of

es. Wetzel both shot 80s on 
the top 50 teams in the
"I was happy with Tuesday to finish up with 
nation. ,~

I Monday I afternoon because 239 and 243, tied for 50th 
No. 5 Ch adotte was the~
we held our composure and 61 st respectively. 
biggest disappointment of the
after the first round," Holt Notre Dame next hits the 
tournament, finishing in fifth
said. "Plus we didn't play links at the Hio Verde 
place, 16 strokes out of the
that bad in the windy and Collegiate Invitational, 
lead. Host North Florida
rainy conditions. We put which will be held March 7­
ended the final round at 13­
ourselves in a good position 9 in Scottsdale, Ariz. 
over par and took third place
heading into today, but we 
overall in the tournament.

couldn't continue that Contact Michael Blasco at 
The winner on the individ­
momentum." mblasco@nd.edu 
who won the tournament by
for 18th over­
all. Fellow 
f o u r 
strokes
freshman Katie 
over No. 2
Conway added 
UCLA. The
a final round 
78 to end the 
two teams 
were the
tournament 
with a 17-over­
favorites 
coming
par 233, tied 
into a
for 31st over­
highly
all. 
Sophomores 
competitive 


AnitOUJ1cing the Year 2008 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Sttidies Travel Scholarship 
ThaD:_ks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2008 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a tom1al program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will nom1ally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but arc not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urhino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students arc invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters ofrecommendation  
6)  a franscript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list ofother sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) tor the same project  
(i.e. Office ofInternational Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: \Vednesdav, Fehruarv 27, 2008 w . ~  
Alhert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Pr·ogram i.n Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

Wednesday, February 20, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

LOLLERSKATES 
The ONLY 
people eligible to do the 'Go Irish, Suck It • Cheer. 
LINAPAEK

UNTITLED 


WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by John Farmer 
39 Bert who sang "If 47 Trillion: Prefix 53 Actress Laura I Only Had the 57 Part of a
48 Language family Nerve" 
makeshift swing 

that includes 
59 Softhead 

40 A first for Finnish and Arabia? 
60 Med. insurance

Hungarian 
choice 41 Some people 50 Hockey's Bobby 61 Slip in a pothave trouble 
51 Blackened 62 Loon carrying one 
52 Sister of Albus 63 Baseball's 42 Gets engaged Hodges
Dumbledore, in 
to, old-style 
the Harry Potter 641940s 46 Milk dispensers books presidential inits. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and rnore than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JM/MliDrbrK 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NAGLD 
1 
rJ ~IJ 
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RAMOJ ± 
tGAMBLE j 

'1\H:N m:: ACUPUNc­TURE WORKED
IJ r II 

THE PATIENT SAID 
www.jumble.com 
IT WAS--­


Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
tWRALEY ~ 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ J 
1 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: A rI I JrI I I JrI I xJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterda 's  I Jumbles:  FLUKE  VALET  WOBBLE  SULTRY  
y  Answer:  Can be heard at a snooty garden p arty  - 
"FLOWERY" TALK  

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Justine Bateman, 42: Seal, 45; JeffDaniets, 
53: Smokey Robinson. 68 

Happy Birthday: You will have to take a unique approach to work and dealing with your colleagues this year. Sort out any differences ihrou~h communication and keep­ing the peace. Change will be inevitable but only difficult if you fight to keep things the same. Openness will lead to your success. Your numbers are B, 17, 20, 33, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Enjoy life and what it has to offer. Keeping an open mind to ways of making money will improve your financial situation. You may not agree with the way things are being done but the result will be good. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Before you are critical, he sure you have all vour re­sponsibilities covered. An emotional message mav he sent to you iJ von are too pushy or demanding. The innocence of a child's tale on·things will be an eye opener. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Create, decorate and make some changes at home. Sharing an idea with someone who can help you advance will lead to a better posi­tion. Love is in the stars so plan a romantic evening but don't say you love someone if you don't. .J. stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll he up and down emotionally hut don"t let that cause you to overreact, make accusations or show jealous tendencies. Plan your next move before taking action. U you travel or offer too much information. you willteave yourself vulnerable. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Entertain everyone with your Leo charm and you will gain 
popularity today. Emotional issues with someone you love will escalate if you ignore his or her complamts. Put some lime astde to take care of personal matters. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There is a secret that is best left that way. Someone you work with mav be in a difficult position: offer him or her vow-services and solutions. A strong feeling about someone or something will lead to ·profits. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do something that will alter the future. Make reforms or join a group you believe in and a new friendshiP. will turn out to be inviting. Honesty will be a must when it comes to your likes, dislikes and goals. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a serious approach to what you are doin2 and stay out of trouble. The more you interact with others. the less chance you wiD have at completing what you want to do successfully. Do not become sidetracked. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Deals can be made, money spent and contracts 
signed. You will be in the ri2ht place at the right time but don't start to waffle or 
change midstream or you wnl be right back where you started. Be willing to go the 
distance. 5 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take a serious approach to money matters and fi­nancial gains will unfold. Make your position clear and you will remain in control. This is not the time to give in to someone who wants to take advantage of you. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Just he vourself and say what vou feel and vou will find out exactly where you stand. Love is"in the stars and you can secure your posi­
tion in any relationship you are involved in. You will win any challenge you face. 3 
stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Work quietly on vour own. Avoid anyone who is trving to back you into a comer or pid: a fight wlth you. Now is not the time to argue hut rather to work, develop ideas and take care of your health. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a mastermind at creative problem-solving. You are competi­tive and unafraid of a challenge. You are strong. steadfast and sensitive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: mtroadrice.comjor fim, eugmialast.com for confidenrial consultations 
CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Club choice Vacation rental 43 Neighbor on the 
1980s sitcom "Mama's Family" Lama 
9 Paintball sound 44 Footprint or
14 Boo follower loose thread, 
15 "You know ... it's perhaps 
... um ... like 
-45 People of 
this ... " 
Burundi 16 Watchmaker 
49 All accounted for since 1848 54 Customized 
17 Extension 55 Import with a 
18 Blindly 
"cavallino 20 Possible cause rampante" logo of a swelling 
56 "Phooey!" 22 Filmmaker Gus 
58 Sen. Hatch Van 
59 Expose, with 23 Have as a focus 
"on" of one's studies 
65 Totaled 26 Place for 
66 Intrigue steamers 
67 From Cork, e.g. 31 Feeling 
68 Pittsburgh-to­32 Weekly founded 
Boston dir. by Walter 
69 Wry faces Annenberg 
70 Boston five 33 Cool guys 
71 What each set of 35 "Would to 
circled letters You?"(1985 
spells Eurythmics hit) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Down 
Challenges for daredevil motorcyclists 
2 Blood lines 
3 Actress Rebecca of "Ugly Betty" 
4 Ignominy 
5 Friend of Fran9ois 6 Part of a relay 7 Relief reactions 
8 Unbroken 
9 "In America" novelist Susan 
10 Blair, Brown and others, in brief 
11 Winner at the Second Battle of Bull Run 
12 Bronze 
13 Bronze 
19 Runnin' Rebels of the N.C.A.A. 
21 Squares and cubes, e.g.: Abbr. 
24 "_ a Putty Tat" (Friz Freleng short) 
25 One of the Low Countries: Abbr. 
27 Naturalist who appears on the California quarter 
28 Vitriol 
29 1998 Sarah Mclachlan hit 30 Bit for a basket weaver 
34 Half a mo 
36 Skater Katarina 
37 Jolly laugh 
38 Sub in a tub 
~-----~--­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 20, 2008 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Scarlet blood 
Defense not enough in loss to Rutgers in N.J. 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA SportS Writer 
It was a night about defensP. from an Irish team known morn for its high-scoring ol'fensn. 
No. 14 Notrp, Damn -aver­aging SO points per game ­was held below the 60-point mark for only the third tinw this season in its 57-51 loss to No. 5 Rutgers in Piscataway, N.J., Tunsday night. 
But it wasn't just the Searlet Knights defnnsp, that per­formed wP-11. The Irish kept Hutgers scorPiess for 11 min­utns throughout the course of tho game. 
"I felt that wP really improved since the last time we played a top-five team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "And on their home 
see RUTGERS/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Tearrtlooks to continue title streak 
By JARED )EDICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is again set to put its stamp on history as it goes for its 12th consecutive conference titln at the Big East -..championship this week in 
East Meadow, N.Y. 
The current 11-year streak 
is already the longest in Big 
East history in any sport. 
"You can't help but think 
about a streak like that," Irish 
assistant coach Joel White 
said. "But the girls all know 
that they can only take care of 
what they have control over." 
White said a variety of fac­
tors have allowed the team to 
sustain its dominance. 
"I would have to say that a 
lot of it comes down to good 
see STREAK/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish struggle, come in lOth in first competition of spring 
opening tournament of the Wilderness Golf Club. a wake-up call." strokes sepllrated the rest of
Coach disappointed 
spring schedule, finishing Notre Dame coach Susan Host No. 23 Michigan State the top five, rounded out by
with unit's effort 1Oth in a field of 15 at the Holt said she was disappoint­cruised to a comfortable 10-No. 14 Kent State (912), No. Central District Invitational in ed with the Irish squad. stroke victory, shooting 303 in 37 Ohio State (913), and No. Parrish, Fla. "We beat ourselves," Holt the final round to lead the 31 Texas (914).
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
The Irish carded a 314 in said. "I was shocked with how field with an overall S92. Michigan State's Sara Brown 
Sporrs Writer 
the final round en route to a we played. I think we lacked No. 25 Texas A&M made a took home top-golfer honors, season-worst total score of focus and discipline and that final-round push, shooting a finishing the tournament with No. 19 Notre Dame stum­929, ending up at 65-over-par hurt us. We didn't pay atten­298, to climb to second over­bled out of the gatn in its in 54 holes at the River tion to detail and hopefully it's all with a 902. Only two see LETDOWN/page 22 
MEN'S GOLF 
ND finishes strong, falls short 
Team improves every day of tournament 
By PETER REISENAUER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got the score it was hoping for, but it was just not enough. 
The Irish l'inished last in a field of 15 Tuesday at the John llayt Invitational in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. 
(~oing into Tuesday's action, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said he hoped the tnam might be able to put up a score in the 290s. The Irish met that goal, finishing the day with a seore of 296, S-ovnr par. The final-round score was an improvement on the 30 I they shot Monday. 
Kubinski thought the score might give his team a chancn to climb out of nighth place. The eoach hoped to catch florida, one 
see SAWGRASS/page 22 

MEN'S SWIMMING 

Squad aims for Big East championship 
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writer 

After a 24-day layoff filled with physical and mental preparation, the Irish enter the pool in competitive action today when the Big East championships start at the Nassau County Aquatic Center in East Meadow, N.Y. 
"It's been quite a long lay­off," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "But the focus has been wonderful. I think as we've tried to get everything sharp­ened up, we've made a lot of progress. We're very opti­mistic." 
The Irish will seek their third conference title in four years. At last year's meet, they were dethroned by West Virginia -who won by only 
4.5 points. 

Notre Dame exacted some revenge on the Mountaineers in its final regular season meet, the Shamrock Invitational, when it defeated West Virginia 219-150. In that event, as well as a victory over Pittsburgh in November and a loss to Louisville in January, Notre Dame got a chance to see its top confer­ence competition up close. 
Those three schools, along with Notre Dame and Cincinnati -last year's fifth­place team -are expected to battle it out for the top spot Saturday, the final day of com­petition. 
The defending champion Mountaineers will compete without many of last ynar's key performers, but seniors Nick Delic and Kevin Donohue have shown quality leadership this season under the dire<:­tion of new head coach Vic Riggs. 
see LEAGUE/page 20 








