
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Funds complete for building project 
Spes Unica Hall will ultimately be the most expensive construction project in College's history 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
When the 2008 fall semester begins at Saint Mary's this August, students will attend many classes in a building completed after the most expensive construction project in College history. 
Spes Unica Hall is a new aca­demic building currently under construction on the northeast side of campus. Fundraising for the building has recently been completed, and the build­ing is set to open for classes in the fall. 
The total cost of the project is $19.2 million, making it the most expensive construction project in College history. The building was entirely paid for in donations, without putting to use any other college funds, said Saint Mary's spokesperson Gwen O'Brien. More than 600 donations came in from faculty, staff, alumnae, students and friends of the College, she said. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney said the opening of the building will allow continued growth at Saint Mary's. 
"This building represents our future -a future that will see us ever more ambitious and ever more widely recognized for the excellent education of women," she said. "I am most grateful to our donors for their commitment to our mission and vision." 
The building's name, Spes Unica, is Latin for "our only hope" and refers to the cross of Jesus Christ. It is the motto of both Saint Mary's and the College's founding order, the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The name was chosen by one of the significant donors to the project, O'Brien said. 

"A number of names for the academic building were con­sidered; however, when the name Spes Unica was consid­ered, it spoke to our mission," said Shari Rodriguez, vice president of College Relations. 
Ground was broken on this 65,000 square-foot building in the fall of 2006. Spes Unica will house 13 of the 20 academic departments at Saint Mary's, as well as the Center for Academic Innovation, the Center for Spirituality and the Center for Women's 
see BUILDING/page 4 
College of A&L sells o-wn course packets 
Professors seek alternatives to limit costs for course materials using electronic reserves 
By CLAIRE REISING 
News Writer 
Students can buy Arts and Letters course packets this semester directly through the College of Arts and Letters in Decio Hall, though professors may still sell packets through the Hammes Bookstore. 
Some professors are also trying to help students save money by placing materials online on e-reserves, as an alternative to selling hard copy packets. 
Last semester, the College's decision to consolidate course packet distribution by selling all packets through the Bookstore met with dissatis­faction by students who found the packets significantly more expensive than previous semesters. 
Robert Becht, director of Finance and Administration for the College of Arts and Letters, said that with the new arrangement, the College of Arts and Letter's copy organi­zation Design, Copy and Logistic (DCL) Services can sell course packets itself and still allow students to buy them at one location and pay with their student accounts. Instead of selling course packets at multiple locations throughout campus, all of DCL Service's packets are now sold in a Decio Hall conference room. 
"We made the decision to bring the retail sales back to our [operations], and it made 
see PACKETS/page 4 


Choir tries Trappist lifestyle 
By MEG MIRSHAK News Writer 
During winter break, the Notre Dame Folk Choir spent four days on retreat at the Abbey of Gethsemani, observing the lives of Trappist Monks and reflecting in an environment with limited distraction. 
Fifty of the 55 choir members Pmbarkcd Jan. 11 for Trappist, Ky., where they focused on per­sonal rPlationships before begin­ning the second semester of the academic year. 
Founded in the 1970s, the Folk Choir combines traditional choral repertoire with contemporary music. Today, the choir uses instrumentalists such as guitar, violin and flute to accompany the organ and choral voices. 
Every two years, the Folk Choir tries to make a retreat to the Abbey of Gethsemani, said 
see CHOIR/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Dining hall theft still ra111pant 
12,960 spoons, 216 trays missing in 2007 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
It's not everyday that students 
walk out of South Dining Hall 
carrying long wooden tables and 
chairs back to their dorm rooms, 
but missing items from both 
campus dining halls have added 
up during the 2007 calendar 
year. 

Notre Dame Dining Hall man­
agers reported that losses of 
plates, utensils, bowls and cups 
have been similar to losses 
experienced in prior years, said 
Dave Prentkowski, director of 
Food Services. 
Some of the most frequently 
pilfered items are glasses, silver­
ware and bowls, said Mary Ann 
Sobieralski, head monitor at 
South Dining Hall. Since stu­
dents have been able to bring 
their backpacks into the dining 
hall, monitors do not see many 
students taking items, she said. 
The policy of students being 
able to bring their backpacks 
into dining areas has been in 
place for about five or six years, 
said Marc Poklinkowski, general 
manager of food services at 
South Dining Hall. Food Services 
has no plans to discontinue 
allowing bags in the dining halls. 
It is impossible to monitor 
everyone in dining halls, since 
South Dining Hall alone can 
accommodate between 800 and 
900 students at one time, 
Poklinkowski said. 
see THEFTIpage 6 

Stanford Hall111ourns loss ofbeloved 'Honey' 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Two weeks before they returned to campus, Stanford Hall residents were notified through e-mail about the loss of dorm dog Honey. 
Honey, a golden retriever, was 15 years old. 
Residents were affected by the loss of Honey, who was described as a "comforting presence" by Assistant Rector-Dan Sathre. 
Stanford Rector Father Tom Gaughan said Honey was "very gentle and people-friendly." 
"She was like a little person with a tail," Gaughan said. He jokingly listed Honey on the duty-board as an RA. 
"She's always on duty, always looking out for the guys here," he said. 
He said that he planned to keep up Honey's plaque for the year. Gaughan adopted her when she was nearly eight-years old, and she passed away at the age of 15 years. 
"We spent seven years, nine months and one week together," Gaughan said. 
He said that he wanted Honey's memory to encourage adoption, especially of older dogs. Priests at Notre Dame have been unable to get permission to adopt new pets since 2001, Gaughan said. Pets like Honey, who was adopted in 1999, were grandfa­thered in under the old rules that allowed pets. 
"If that policy changes [againl, I would be open to adopting again but I. don't foresee that happening soon," Gaughan said. 
see HONEY/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Thank you, trailblazers 
When I was a kid. I had a paper route. 
Like most paper boys, I quickly learned that I could deliver 
papers more efficiently if' I didn't walk baek to the sidewalk and just went straight from door to door through peoples' yards. 

This worked Chris Khorey great l'or eight-months out of' thn year. Except Sports Editor l'or thn house with the stupid waist-high brick wall that I either had to walk all the way around or vault over with a sack full of' news­papers on my back. But I digress. 
At any rate, Pight months out of' tho year. I had prntty f'rnn rnign across tlw front yards of' thn neigh­borhood. But when Michigan winters hit, my path was suddenly blocked with snow. 
But not l'or long. 
For thn first coupln days after the snow fell. I would put on my snow pants and. trudge through the route. I madn absolutely sure to walk over thn sanw route every day. 

After a f'nw rnpntitions, the snow was packed down so much that I didn't nend snow pants any more. Evnn whnn it snowed again, there was still a trench that I could walk through, leading from door to door to door with minimal snow coverage. A coupln times, I watched the mail man follow my "paper boy trail." 
I'm sure I wasn't the only kid that ever did this. So why does this merit an inside column'? 
Because I want to thank everyone that does it at Notre Dame. Last Friday, I walked from DeBartolo to the Pasquerilla Center. I cut across Library Quad at an angle without walking on a sidewalk -and with­out getting my feet wet. 
There are countless places across campus where this is possible ­another one of my favorites is the angle between the north end of O'Shaughnessy and the front door of Riley. They're shortcuts without sidewalks, but without snow either. 
Shortcuts like these are even more essential with post-football construc­tion season heating up. I live in Siegfried -almost one-third of my dorm is surrounded by fencing where the new esc building is going up. I already have to walk around that construction site to get any­where -if I had to restrict myself to just the sidewalks on the rest of my wak across campus, I'd never get to class on time. 
When the snow first fell, brave pio­neers were willing to endure wet ankles and calves and trudge through that snow. And whereas my trail helped out me and maybe one other person, their trails serve hun­dreds -maybe thousands. 
You are true heroes, paper-boy­trail makers. And I, for one, thank you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
not  necessarily  those  of  The  
Observer.  
Contact  Chris  Khorey  at  
ckhorey@nd. edu  

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publicarin and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD GO ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD, WHERE WOULD IT BE? 







Sarah Patten  Andrew Deck  Jay Samilo  Katie Szewka  John Gorski  
senior  senior  senior  senior  senior  
McCandless  Stanford  Stanford  Opus  Stanford  
"Wherever  "Kelley's Island,  "Groom Lake,  "Europe, before  "Hawaii ­ but not  
they'll give me  Ohio, just  Nevada,  the ice caps melt  the parts inside  
a job."  ,because.  because the  and it's  the volcano. ,  
truth is out  underwater."  

there." 
OFFBEAT 
Cops: Drunk took mower to store in snowstorm 
ADRIAN, Mich. -A man was charged with drunken driving after going through two bottles of wine, cutting through a snowstorm on his lawn mower and riding down the center of the street to reach a liquor store, authorities said. 
Police found Frank Kozumplik, 49, homeward bound on a John Deere trac­tor Saturday night, toting four bottles of wine in a paper bag, officials said. 
He told officers that his wife had taken their car to work, and that the mower was the only way he could expired one in his wallet wouldn't do. 


The guards at John Wayne Airport in Orange County searched his bag, he told the Charleston Daily Mail for a story published Monday. . Then he remembered picking up a copy of Charleston Magazine. Inside was a photograph of him standing in downtown Charleston and an article Jones had written as mayor welcoming visitors to the state capital. 
Only then was he allowed to board his flight home. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
reach the store, two miles from home. 
His blood alcohol level was 2 1/2 times Michigan's legal driving limit of 0.08 percent, police told WLEN-FM. They arrested him and confiscated the mower. 
Kozumplik declined to comment Monday night. 
W.Va. mayor uses magazine to prove ID 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. ­Charleston Mayor Danny Jones had a problem as he tried to get through the secu­rity gate at a California air­port: He had misplaced his driver's license, and the 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
&&.1 
:::a:: 
~ 
3: &&.1 ..... 
ct 

(.) 0 


HIGH 45 HIGH 27 HIGH 30
..... 

LOW 28 LOW 15 LOW 13 

25 
17 
IN BRIEF 
Prints from the Suite Museum of Art's collection that focus on artistic subjncts from the 17th century will be displayed today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibit, "Hembrandt and the Art of Printmaking in Holland," will highlight the goldm1 age of Dutch art. 
The Winter Career Fair and Diversity Reception will be held Wendesday at the Joyce Center. The Diversity Heception will bn held from 12 to 2::{0 p.m. The Career Fair will be held from 4 to R p.m. Further information can be found online at the Career Center Web site. 
The SugarTone Brass Band, New York's premiers New Orleans-style brass band, will perform Wednesday at 7:30p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Women's basketball will play Providence on Wednesday at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center arena. 
The film "In July" will be shown at 7 p.m. and again at 10 
p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets will cost $3 for students, $5 for faculty and staff, and $6 for gen­eral admission. 
Men's basketball will play Providence on Thursday at 7 
p.m. 
at the Joyce Center arena. 

Men's hockey will play the U.S. Under-18 Team Friday at 7:35 

p.m. 
at the Joyce Center ice rink in an exhibition. 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

25 18 

29 20 

Tuesday, January 29, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sytnposiutn applies Aquinas to Iraq vvar 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
At the 11th-annual Saint Mary's symposium on Saint Thomas Aquinas on Monday, Timothy Renick, a theologian from Georgia State University, spoke about lessons Aquinas might teach about the current war in Iraq. 
The College holds a sympo­sium each year on Jan. 28, the feast day of Aquinas, to honor excellent teaching. Aquinas, a 13th-century Dominican, was a scholar who taught theology and wrote the famous work Summa Theologica. 
Renick opened by speaking about the current situation in Iraq. 
"On May 1. 2003, President George W. Bush walked off the 
U.S.S. Abraham Lincoln with a banner behind him that read 'Mission Accomplished' and stated how major combat opera­tions in Iraq have stopped," he said. 
Henick then cited several sta­tistics. In March and April of 2003, 138 Americans were killed. Since then, 3,854 have died. He said that, according to the Washington Post, 655,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed in the war as of last week. 
After giving background on Iraq, Henick incorporated the teachings of Aquinas. According to Aquinas, "War is only to be entered as last resort." 
Henick said Aquinas would only approve of a war with cold hard evidence that it is just and necessary. 
"According to George W. Bush, the United States had enough history and facts to believe that [Saddam] Hussein posed a great danger to the United States," Henick said. "He continued to say that Bush insisted Hussein was harboring chemical war­fare and keeping him on the loose was a risk the United States just could not take." 
But, Renick said; Aquinas would take issue with this as a justification for war. 
"According to Saint Thomas Aquinas, just speculation that the weapons were in his posses­sion were not enough," he said. 
Henick brought up the fact that since St. Thomas Aquinas lived in the Holy Homan Empire, he was constantly surrounded by the Crusades. 
"If Aquinas has not left a his­torical teaching on Christian versus Christian war with any evidence of opposing it, then we can conclude that there was suf­ficient evidence for the fight­ing," Renick said. 
He concluded that Aquinas would only approve of warfare in the "rarest of circumstances" and would still find it risky. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Revue tickets snapped up 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
All free tickets for this year's Keenan Hevue were distributed in 20 minutes, said Revue direc­tor John Siegel. 
"There were a bunch of peo­ple [in line] to get tickets early. It was really good to see that peo­ple were so interested in the show based on past year's shows," Siegel said. 
The Keenan Revue, now in its 32nd year, is a long-standing hall event that has notoriously poked fun at various aspects of campus life. It will run this Thursday, Friday and Saturday. 
"When our producer Peter Viganali and I talked about what we wanted for the show, we [realized] that we are more like caretakers for the Hevue than we are making our own show," Siegel said. 'The Revue is a big tradition for our dorm, and so it's the job of the producer and the director to organize every­thing and get it ofT the ground." 
Free tickets for the annual comedy show were distributed at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center starting at 4 
p.m. last Thursday. Students eager to get tickets started lin­ing up around 2 p.m., Siegel said. Sales also took place at Saint Mary's beginning at 2 p.m. on Thursday. 
Although all three perform­ances of the Keenan Hevue sold out, tickets to Thursday and Saturday performances were the first to go. The remaining Friday tickets were gone within the twenty minutes. 

Revue sales for the past two years have boasted selling out in around twenty minutes or less, Siegel said. 
There were about 1,300 tick­ets available for each night of the show. 
Keenan Hall advertised for the show sales using posters around residence halls, classroom buildings and dining halls as well as on Saint Mary's College. 
According to Siegel, everyone 
who waited in line "I would say this is Weber, has got­was able to get ten adventur­
the 'Empire Strikes 
tickets to the ous with the
Back' ofKeenan
Revue. numbers this "We were glad Revues., year," Siegel that we sold out of said. "A couple tickets and that of them are
John Siegel 
we didn't have to more complex
Revue director 
turn anyone away," he said. 
In addition to ticket.c; given out last Thursday, Keenan residents also receive four tickets they can distribute to their own dis­cretion. Additional tickets are reserved for faculty members. 
This year's Keenan Revue, called "The Night of the Living Revue," takes its inspiration from horror films. 
The two-hour show will be performed at the O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
The Hevue has been per­formed at O'Laughlin for the past 30 years because it is the best venue for the size of audi­ence that the Revue attracts, Siegel said. Other venues on Notre Dame's campus are either too large or too small, he said. 
"There will be a lot of danc­ing, Harry Potter stuff, zombies, and some poking fun at the rec­tresses," Siegel said. "We also have some synthesizers which we are very excited about." 
All skits for the show are cre­ated and perfarmed by Keenan residents and were fmalized last Sunday. The show includes about 90 Keenanites including performers, dancers, and peo­ple working behind the scenes. 
"Our chore­
ographer, Mark 
numbers than 

usual. And the skits are really strong. This could be one of our best Hevues yet." 
Keenan residents are prepar­ing for the show for the next three days at Saint Mary's to get the acts ready for Thursday night. 
Siegel said he is very enthusi­astic about this year's Hevue. 
"Since [the show] is a movie theme, I would say this is the 'Empire Strikes Back' of Keenan Revues, instead of the 'Phantom Menace,"' Siegel said. "It should be a very good show this year. We are very excited about it." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
The Observer is accepting applications 
for the 2008-og term for the following positions: 
Managing Editor, Assistant Managing EditQr, News Editor, Sports Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Scene Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, Graphics Editor, Advertising Manager, Ad Design Manager, Web Administrator, Systems Manager, Business Manager and Controll~r 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should be 12 pages long and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. Applications for other editorial positions should be at least five pages. 
All applications should be submitted this week to Chris Hine in The Observer office, located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions to Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu or Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
page 4 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
Building 
continued from page 1 
InterCultural Leadership. The new building oll'ers state of the art elassroom, laboratory and oflice space. There are also a number of common areas where faculty and students can gather, such as a cafe, reflec­tion room and patio. 
The features· of Spes Unica will facilitate its role as a place to integrate various aspects of College life. Mooney said. 
"One of the hallmarks of a Saint Mary's education is that students and faculty work and learn together," Mooney said. "Collaborative work requires the kind of spaces that will be found in this new building. 
"This first-rate facility will match the quality of our faculty and reflect the value that we place on them and on the learn­ing environment for our stu­dents." 
Honey 
continued from page 1 
Honey was euthanized because her age put her in a lot of pain. 
"She couldn't stand or walk," Gaughan said. 
Freshman Minh Nguyen said he sometimes accompanied Gaughan as he took Iloney on walks. 
"IIoney's 
Spes Unica also utilizes "green" or environmentally­friendly materials. There are solar panels to help heat the hot water system, furniture and carpeting made from recycled materials, large areas of glass for extra lighting and operable windows to increase airflow. The building was designed by Ballinger Architects of Philadelphia and Architecture Design Group of South Bend. 
With the opening of the new building, the current main aca­demic building, Madeleva Hall, will get a minor facelift but will remain in use as an important classroom facility. 
"The Madeleva Interior Renovation Committee, consist­ing of faculty, students and administrators, is working with architects to assess needs and plan the interior renovation of the Madeleva building," Hodriguez said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at NtayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
but he said he will miss Honey. 
"Sometimes we students can get bogged down," he said. "Having a dog made it all seem more real, less intimi­dating. She made us feel more at home." 
Andrew Deck, a senior in mechanical engineering, said he had kept dog biscuits in his room when he lived on 
Stanford's first 
floor. 
"Honey would 
come by and I'd 

almost like a "Honey's almost like give her treats," part of the fam­he said.
a part ofthe family. " 

ily," Nguyen He said that a said. "It's hard few friends that to explain." Minh Nguyen didn't know father Tom Stanford freshman about Honey 
said that "every day brought" an nnjoyable experience with I Ioney. 
''I'd be out walking and I'd let her hunt," he said. "Everyone on the main quad would stop and laugh at her intensity," he said. 
Fn~shman Colin McNamara was deeply saddmwd to hear the news. 
"Sure, my eyes welled up," he said. "I loved that dog." Freshman Franco Zarama doesn't have a dog at home, 
saw the biscuits 
in his room. 
"They asked 
some awkward questions about my dietary habits," he said. 
Sathre recalled Honey's spe­cial fondness for squirrels. 
"Even though she was pretty old, when she saw a squirrel, her ears would perk up and she would just take off," he said. "That always amazed me." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
Packets 
continued from page 1 

more logistical sense to cre­ate one point for the students to come to," Becht said. 
Last semester, DCL Services produced course packets and sold them through the Bookstore to make shopping more convenient, he said. 
"The rationale for switching to the Bookstore was that so the students could purchase the text books and course packets all at the same time and so they could purchase the course packets through their student accounts," Becht said. "It was a coopera­tive venture through the entire campus." 
For some students, howev­er, the disadvantage of higher prices for course packets at the Bookstore outweighed any additional convenience. In a survey conducted by the Student Senate last October, more than 67 percent of stu­dents said they were "very dissatisfied" with the 
course packet prices. 

"Within Lthe College on Arts & Letters, they took it very seriously and encouraged DCL Services to stop selling in the Bookstore," Bant said. 
This semester, while DCL Services has -stopped selling though the Bookstore, faculty still have the option to pro­duce their course packets through Tichenor Custom Publishing or FedEx Kinkos and sell through the Bookstore, Becht said. 
Students may find, however, that Bookstore prices are not as high as they were last semester. 
Daniel Skendzel, director of Administrative Services for the University, said the Bookstore changed its policy of pricing course packets in order to rnake them more affordable for students. While the industry normally marks up copyright costs and pro­duction fees, the Bookstore has agreed to stop marking up copyright costs, he said. 
"The Bookstore has been very willing to work with the campus and students," Skendzel said. "Students should have seen· a price 
course packet 

"Within [the College 
cost last 

oj]Arts & Letters,
semester. According to they took it very Fisher Hall 
seriously and 
senator 

encouraged DCL
Stephen Bant, the College of servcies to stop 
Arts and selling in the 
Letters was 

Bookstore. " 
receptive to student and faculty con­Stephen Bant cerns with 
Fisher Hall senator 
reduction 'Tm not willing to "It was just because of use course packets so much easier that." to buy it and
anymore because of
Some profes­have it set up
how exorbitant 
sors have for you," he allowed stu­they've become for said. dents to avoid However, 50
students."
buying course percent of the packets students that through the use Susan Blum the Senate sur­of the anthropology professor veyed said they 
Hesburgh Library's elec­tronic reserves (e-reserves) or Concourse. 
Anthropology professor Susan Blum said she uses e­reserves because she believes 
course packets have become too expensive. 
"''m not will­ing to use course packets anymore because of how exorbitant they've become for students," Blum said. 
Blum said that in addition to saving stu­dents the price of a course packet, e­

reserves give professors more room in planning what read­ings to use for a course. 
"E-reserves is [a nice sys­tem] because it's flexible, and we can add things as we go," Blum said. 
Instructors in the College of Arts and Letters are not the only ones who considered alternatives to Bookstore course packets. Last semes­ter, accountancy professor Jim Fuehrmeyer tried placing PowerPoint slides on Concourse. He found, howev­er, that despite the lower price of the electronic option, most students preferred to save time by buying the course packet. 
"There's a cost to me for everything I do myself," Fuehrmeyer said. "What's the cost of my time? When could you better use the time that goes to copying and printing ... PowerPoint presenta­tions?" 
Graduate student Joe McKenna, who is in Fuehrmeyer's course, said having a printed course pack­et made it more convenient 
for him to fin­
ish his work. 
would support 
using e­reserves as "a primary means of access to course material," and 18 percent were neutral about the issue. Bant said he feels that saving money is more important than the con­venience of having a printed course packet. 
"Although it might be inconvenient for some, it's more inconvenient for people to pay $50 to $100 to buy a course packet that you could find online," he said. 
Instructor Christin DePouw, who uses e-reserves in her Education, Schooling and Society classes, said that although e-reserves can save money and are environmen­tally friendly, professors should decide which method best works for them. 
"I think it depends on the class," she said. "I think it's up to the professor to decide." 

Becht said the choice to use e-reserves or a printed course packet is a "pedagogical deci­sion" and the faculty will be able to choose what to do. 
"Our primary business is to support the faculty and the College," he said. "If that requires us to help support faculty in making the transi­tion to e-reserves, if that's what they want as a teaching tool, then we do provide scan­ning capabilities." 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 




Best Value 1n Town Come See Why.' 
,.. Indoor/ Outdoo.r Tennis a..n J Basketball ,.. Free Tanning ,.. Hea.teJ Pool ,.. Rela..:zing Jacuzzi ,.. Ga.teJ Co:m.m unit:y
Contact:­

,.. Co:m.m unit:y Business Center ,.. Nu Application Fees for StuJents ,.. Clu.se tu everything___ fa.r fro:m orcli.na.r:y! 
Castle'Point 

1.801.1. Cl.evel.a:nd Rd_ South Bend, IN 466 3 7 Pkone: l574' 272-81.1.0 Fax: l574' 272-81.1.4 
HIIU _ cppj . com­


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 Coi\,tPlLED FROM THE Ons:tRVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Post-election violence rises in Kenya 
KISUMU, Kenya-Thousands of machete­wielding youths hunted down members of Prnsident Mwai Kibaki's Kikuyu tribe Monday in western Kenya's Rift Valley, torching homes and buses. clashing with police, and blocking roads with burning tires. 
Witnesses described seeing two people pulled from cars and stoned to death, while another was burned alive in a minibus -the latest victims of a month of escalating violence triggered by a dis­puted presidential election. The death toll has soamd over 800. 
Kibaki has said he is open to direct talks with opposition leader Halla Odinga, who is from the Luo tribe, but that his position as president is not nogotiable. Odinga says Kibaki must step down and only new eleetions will bring peace. 
Gunmen end five-hour standoff 
PESHAWAR, Pakistan -Gunmen held dozens of studenl<; and teachers hostage for five hours at a school in northwestern Pakistan on Monday, but authorities allowed the captors to flee without pun­ishment to avoid bloodshed, a tribal negotiator said. 
None of the hostages were hurt. But the standoff underscored the government's fragile grip on Pakistan's borderlands near Afghanistan, where crime is rife and security forces are struggling to contain rising Islamic militancy. 
Kidnapping for ransom is common in Pakistan, particularly in the northwest, and police said the gunmen were criminals seeking profit rather than militants. 
The mounting violence has contributed to the growing unpopularity of President Pervez Musharral', who was on his last stop Monday of a European tour. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Insurgent attack kills 5 U.S. soldiers 
BAGHDAD -In a daring ambush, insur­gents blasted a U.S. patrol with a roadside bomb Monday and showered survivors with gunfire from a mosque in increasingly lawless Mosul. Five American soldiers were killed in the explosion -even as Iraqi troops moved into the northern city to challenge al-Qaida in Iraq. 
Iraqi reinforcements, along with helicopters, tanks and armored vehicles, converged on Mosul for what Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki pledged would be a decisive battle against al­Qaida in its last major urban stronghold. 
California precipitation subsides 
LOS ANGELES -Skies were clearing Monday over waterlogged California after a week of downpours and heavy snowfall that led to ava­lanche and traffic deaths but only minor flooding and slides. 
Highways closed because of heavy snow in the Sierra Nevada were reopened Monday, including a nearly 130-mile stretch of U.S. 395 just north of Bishop to the Nevada state line, state officials said. Interstate 80 through the Sierra between Sacramento and Reno, Nev., also was reopened Monday but chains were required, according to a Department of Transportation Web site. 
The storm produced wind approaching 40 mph. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Inmate freed, served over 20 years 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -A man who spent more than two decades in prison for the slaying of an 89-year-old woman walked into the Vigo County Courthouse shackled to three other prisoners and walked out a free man after a judge agreed with prosecutors that DNA evidence exonerated him. 
Vigo Superior Court Judge Michael Lewis ordered the release of David L. Scott on Monday during a brief hearing. 
"Mr. Scott, you're free to go," Lewis said. Scott nodded his head as the judge ordered his release. 
Scott and his relatives did not make public comments and avoided reporters after leaving the courtroom. 
Scott, 39, had been serving a 50-year prison sentence for the 1984 murder of Loretta Keith. who was bludgeoned to death in her bed a 
Bush delivers State of the Union 
President addresses economic concerns, urges bipartisan cooperation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, focusing on gnawing recession fears as went before Congress with his final State of the Union address, said Monday that Americans are troubled about their eco­nomic future and lawmakers should urgently approve a $150-billion rescue plan. 
On Iraq, always a main topic of his annual addresses to Congress, Bush said last year's U.S. troop buildup is succeeding after five years of a long and ·costly war that has claimed the lives of 3,940 members of the U.S. military. "AI-Qaida is on the run in Iraq and this enemy will be defeated," Bush said. 
With his approval rating near its all-time low and less than a year remaining in his presidency, Bush lacked the political clout to push bold ideas before a hostile, Democratic-led Congress. Offering modest plans, Bush proposed a $300 million "grants for kids" program to help poor children in strug­gling public schools pay for the cost of attending a private school or a better public school outside their district. 

The White House urged lawmakers, particularly in the Senate, to resist any temptation to enlarge the economic-stimulus plan that he and House leaders agreed a bipartisan solution to save Republicans from Wednesday saries have been hit hard, on last week. "At kitchen these vital programs for our through Friday at events in though "they are not yet tables across our country, children and grandchildren." California, Nevada, Colorado defeated and we can still there is concern about our A major challenge for Bush and Missouri, sandwiched expect tough fighting ahead." economic future," the presi­in his address to Congress around other appearances to The address came one year dent said. "In the long run, was simply being heard when tout themes from his speech. after Bush, defYing the wish­Americans can be confident many Americans already are As for the Democrats, pres­es of Congress and rising about our economic growth." looking beyond him to the idential candidate Hillary anti-war sentiment in the 
Excerpts of his prepared next president. Rodham Clinton said, country, ordered a major text were released in His speech came hours "Tonight is a red-letter night troop buildup in Iraq. The advance by the White House. before Florida's presidential in American history. It is the increase has helped quell vio­
On two issues that were primary election and just last time George Bush will lence, but there is no end in centerpieces of State of the eight days before Super give the State of the Union. sight to the U.S. troop com­Union addresses past -Tuesday when voters in more Next year it will be a mitment, which Bush says Social Security and immigra­than 20 states go to the polls Democratic president giving will extend beyond his presi­tion -Bush passed the buck on the biggest day of the pri­it." dency. There are 158,000 back to Congress, which had mary campaign. Republicans Bush, calling for bipartisan U.S. troops in Iraq, a number ignored the president's earli­running for president rarely cooperation in Congress, that is expected to drop to er proposals. Contending that mention Bush. preferring to said, "Let us show them that 135,000 by July. There are entitlement spending is focus on conservative hero Republicans and Democrats 28,000 in Afghanistan, the "growing faster than we can Ronald Reagan instead. Bush can compete for votes and highest number of the war, afford," he said, "I ask mem­will turn from Monday's cooperate for results at the which began there in October bers of Congress to offer your speech and plunge into poli­same time." 2001. The Iraq war began in proposals and come up with tics, raising money for In Iraq, he said, U.S. adver-March 2003. 

Sen. Ted Kennedy backs Obam_a in race 
Obama beamed as first Rhode remaining Democratic presidential
Associated Press Island Rep. Patrick Kennedy, then contenders, and he delivered it at a WASHINGTON -Summoning Caroline Kennedy and finally the pivotal time in the race. A liberal memories of his brother the slain country's best known liberal took lion in his fifth decade in the 
president, Sen. Edward M. turns bestowing their praise. Senate, the Massachusetts senator Kennedy led two generations of the "Today isn't just about politics for is in a position to help Obama court First Family of Democratic politics me. It's personal," Obama told a voting groups who so far have tilt­
Monday in endorsing Barack boisterous crowd packed into the ed Clinton's way. These include Obama for the White House, American University basketball Hispanics, rank-and-file union declaring, "I feel change is in the arena a few miles across town from workers and lower-income, older 
air." 

the White House. voters. 
Obama is a man of rare "grit and It was also about politics, though, Kennedy is expected to campaign grace," Kennedy said in remarks and a rapidly approaching set of actively for Obama beginning later salted with scarcely veiled criticism primaries and caucuses across this week, beginning in Arizona, of the Illinois senator's chief rival more than 20 states on Feb. 5, with New Mexico and California. 
for the presidential nomination, more than 1,600 national conven­Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, as tion delegates at stake. John Kennedy, who was assassinat­well as her husband, the former Kennedy's endorsement was ed in 1963, will also make cam­
president. ardently sought by all three of the paign appearances, officials said. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
Choir 
continued from page 1 
Campus Ministry intern Joe Nav<t. 
Nava, a Notre Dame graduate, is 
now in his sixth year as a mem­
ber or the choir. 
Father Dan Parrish. fimner rec­
tor ol" Zahm IIall accompanied the 
choir. 
The purpose of the abbey is to allow living without distraction, Nava said. The Folk Choir brielly experienced monastie life at the doisten~d monastery, where the monks pray out loud seven times a day. 
"It was fascinating to observe a contemplative lifi~style," said sen­ior Midmd McKmma, who joined the Folk Choir his sophomore y1mr. "It is a unique way of finding our vocation and a part of our Catholic tradition that not many an~ exposed to." 
The retreat was a profoundly religious experinncn for some attendanL'i, Nava said. 
"Finding God in the silence is the gift of Gethsnmani to the stu­denL'>," Nava said. 
The students participated in prayer and sang Gregorian chant with the monks and othnrwise kept sihmt on the abbey grounds. 
"Wn hope students can make it to the abbey," said Nava, who said he was pleasantly surprised to sen the eagerness of students to enter into the sih~nce and les­sons of the retreat. 
"I enjoyed observing the way Trappist monks live their every­day lilil," junior Mary McLaughlin said. "The monks accept others into their homes, lives, and wor­ship." 
McLaughlin particularly enjoy1~d walking the local trails in the pleasant weather the group enjoyed. 
"Gethsemani is beautiful, quiet, and peaceful," McLaughlin said. "And it is nice to be with God, nature, and friends." 
The retreat, planned by stu­dents and Nava, included talks from five students and Karen Kirner, associate director of the Folk Choir. Father Chrysogonus Waddel, a renowned musical composer, presented a guest lec­ture to the choir. The Folk Choir also performed a concert for the monks in the church of the abbey, which currently houses 65 Trappist monks. 
Also invited to the choir concert worn members of the surround­ing towns of Bethany, Nazareth, and Bethlehem. French religious missionaries, who founded the abbey in 1842, established a strong Catholic community in the arna of the abbey, Choir Director Steve Warm~r said. 
The Gethsemani Abbey shams a close history with Notre Dame, Warner said, noting that Father Badin was a missionary in the same region of Kentucky. Badin's remains are buried beneath the historic Log Chapel on campus. 
The choir had the opportunity to rnflect and listen as individuals, Wamer said, and it helped to replenish the group. 
"It was a great experience at the start of the semester, especial­ly as a senior to examine my faith life and reflect on the things I have done during my time at Notrn Dame," McKenna said. 
The Folk Choir provides the music for Sunday Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11 :45 a.m. The choir also per­forms at special University litur­gies and tours around the United States and other countries. At the end of the spring semester, the group will perform in Scotland and Ireland. 
The choir is composed mostly of undergraduate students, although a fi~w graduate students join them each year. Auditions for upper­classmen are held in May, and freshmen can audition during ori­entation week each August. 
Contact Meghan Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

Mormon leader dies at 97 
Believers mourn the death ofChurch ofLatter-day Saints's president 
Associated Press 

SALT LAKE CITY 
Thousands of believers were in 
muurning Monday following the 
dnath of Gordon B. Hinckley, the 
humble head of the Mormon 
church who added millions of 
new members and labored long 
to burnish the f~tith's image as a 
world religion. An announee­
ment of his successor was not 
expected for days. 

I linckley, the 15th president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, died Sunday of complications arising from old age, church spokesman Mike Otterson said. lie was 97. 
In a statement, President Bush praised Ilincklcy as a "deeply patriotic man." 
"While serving for over seven decades in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Gordon demonstrated the heart of a servant and the wisdom of a leader. He was a tireless worker and a talented communicator who was respected in his com­munity and beloved by his con­grngation," Bush said. 
The church presidency is a lifetime position. Before Hinekley, the oldest church pres­ident was David 0. McKay who was 96 when he died in 1970. 
Ilinckley, a grandson of Mormon pioneers, was presi­dent for nearly 13 years. He took over as president and prophet on March 12, 1995, and oversaw one of the greatest periods of expansion in church history. The number of temples worldwide more than doubled, from 49 to more than 120 and church membership grew from about 9 million to about 13 mil­lion. 
Dozens of mourners gathered Sunday night outside Mormon church headquarters to honor Hinckley. College students sang hymns by the light of their cell phones. On Monday, Kelly Ford, 28, of Kaysville stared at a painting of Hinckley in the church visitor's center as a snowstorm swirled outside and recalled how he took time to speak to teens. 
"He was a complete optimist. ... l-Ie talked about our potential and what the Lord expects of us," Ford said. "He was the greatest optimist I've ever known." 
Hinckley became by far his church's most traveled leader in history. And the number of Mormons outside the United States surpassed that of American Mormons for the first time since the church, the most 




Theft 
continued from page 1 
"We just hope for the best," he said. 
He also said that between January 2007 and January 200S, costs incurred by miss­ing dining hall items have reached over $38,000, as opposed to the $31,000 incurred in 
of replacing lost items must be drawn from other Food Services funds. 
"Unfortunately these costs must be covered from some­where so they get absorbed into dining hall costs which ultimately end up keeping us from using these funds for menu items or other enhancements to the dining program," Prentkowski said. 
Many residence halls put 
out a collection 
bin at the end 
of each aca­
losses from last 'The financial impact demic year to 
year. collect dining
has increased by as
Much of this hall items stu­rise in cost much as 20 percent dents might 
stems from as the cost ofreplac­have taken, 
increasing costs Poklinkowski
ing !missing dining 
of replacing said. The items. hall items] has impact of these 
"The financial increased.,, returns, how­impaet has ever, is not sig­increased by as nificantly high,
Dave Prentkowski
much as 20 he said. percent as the director of Food Services W h i I e 
cost of replac­ing Imissing dining hall items) has increased," Prentkowski said. 
The quantity of lost spoons was the greatest, with a total of 12,960. Next were cups, with a total 12,528 missing. The most costly item to replace, the plastic trays on which students load their food at a price of $6 each, numbered a total of 216 miss­ing. 
Not all lost items have been stolen, Poklinkowski said. Many have been accidentally broken or thrown away. 
Prentkowski said thn costs 
Sobieralski 
does not usual­
ly notice stu­dents taking items out of din­ing halls, she said that during her 18 years monitoring the doors at South Dining Hall, she has seen students taking items as large as chairs and even tables. 
She once came into work to find a table in front of South Dining Hall with a note read­ing, "Thanks for the table." 
"I have not seen that kind of thing in a long time," she said. 
Contact Katie Perlata at kperalta@nd.edu 
iJ 

UNIVERSITY.OP NOTRE DAME 
••<Uo•o_N._ .......,_~ ••" ..ooo-.,..............,,_,,,,,,,,,,,, 

COLLEGE Ol' ARTS AND l.ETI'ERS 
Design, Copy & Logistic (DCL) Services Servin2 our Notre Dame Community 
Quality Color Quality Black/\Vhite 
•· Copies & Transpar~ncies Copies & Transparencies 
Faxes Scanning Personal & Departmental Blad:!White & Color 
Jlosters/Fiyers/B roc h u res Comb-Binding Printing & Designing Various Sizes & Colors 
successful faith born in the United Statns, was founded in 1830. 
Hinckley worked to show that his faith was far mmoved from its peculiar and polygamous roots. Still. during his tenure, the Homan Catholic Church, Southern Baptist Convention and United Methodist Church ­the three largest U.S. denomina­tions -each declared that Mormon doctrines depart from mainstream Christianity. 
"The more people come to know us, the better they will understand us," Hinckley said in an interview with The Associated Press in late 2005. "We're a little different. We don't smoke. We don't drink. We do things in a little difl"erent way. That's not dishonorable. I believe that's to our credit." 
Quality Paper Choices Colors/Weight/Non-Acid 
Laminating Various sizes 
Cutting Services up to IT 

II.eat-Binding Course Packets PRINTING available on binding Produced & sold by OCL Services 
Pick-up and Delivery Service Available on Campus 
FAST+ FRIENDLY+ REASONABLE PRICES Full-Service On-Campus Locations: 301 O'Shaughnessy (copy30J@:nd.edu) 631-5632 235 Oecio Hall (dccioctr.l(Q)nd.edu) 
631-6672 ..;Now offering charges to Student Accounts 
OPEN MONDAY through FRIDAY+ 8-5 J>M 
l\1cthods of Pavment Cash+ Check+ VISA+ lVIastet·Card i FOAPAL +Student A.ccount 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,383.89 +176.72
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,376 72 1,809 610,637,442 

NYSE 
S&P 500 1,353.97 +23.36 
NIKKEI (TokyC>9 1 l]!!!llfl!1lli3'~i~!~~~~~itWtilll~~~ 
FTSE 100 (London) 5:788.90 -80.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.65 +2.20 135.24 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.77 +0.34 44.33 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +3.57 +0.97 28.15 CITIGROUP INC (C) +3.79 +1.01 27.65 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.06 +0.002 3.586 13-WEEK BILL -0.23 -0.005 2.215 30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 4.282 5-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.011 2.778 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.28 90.99 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 16.40 927.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.38 85.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 106.8450 EURO 0.6767 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0047 BRITISH POUND 0.5035 
IN BRIEF 
Iran's gasoline black market thrives 
BANDAR ABBAS, Iran -Each day, the boulevard in this port city derisively dubbed "OPEC Street" is lined with dozens of vendors selling plastic jugs of black-market gasoline to desperate driv­ers who haggle over the price of a tank­ful. 
Iran is the world's fourth-largest pro­ducer of oil. But its government imposed gasoline rationing last year in hopes of trimming extensive government subsi­dies. That has created a booming black market across the country -feeding Iranians' discontent with the economic policies of hardline President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
In the capital Tehran and other cities, the black market thrives around gasoline stations and mostly at night as drivers looking to buy fuel approach others who have high gasoline quotas, such as taxis or vans. 
CEO departs from Sears Corporation 
CHICAGO -Sears Holdings Corp. abruptly announced the departure of president and chief executive Aylwin B. Lewis on Monday, leaving a management void at the top of the department store chain controlled by Chairman Edward S. Lampert as it tries a high-stakes restructuring to reconnect with customers and reinvigorate slumping sales. 
Lewis was an executive at fast-food chain Yum Brands Inc. and had little retail experi­ence when he was hand-picked by Lampert in 2004 to run Kmart and later Sears. W. Bruce Johnson was named as interim CEO while the company looks for a permanent successor. 
Monday's announcement marked the latest chapter for the venerable retailer, which has seen its competitors snatch away customers since Lampert acquired Kmart in 2003 and Sears, Roebuck and Co. in 2005. 
!Iubbar's departure comes as Bush faces one of the biggest economic challenges of his presidency, a severe slump in housing and a credit crisis that have roiled financial mar­kets and triggered fears of a recession. 
Home sales experience record dive 
Wall Street investors believe Federal Reserve will cut interest rates again this week 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -New home sales plunged in 2007 by the largest amount on record while home prices tumbled sharply in December. Analysts forecast more trouble in 2008 as housing tries to emerge from its worst slump in more than two decades. 
The Commerce Department reported Monday that sales of new homes dropped by 26.4 per­cent last year to 774,000. That marked the biggest decline on record, surpassing the old mark of a 23.1 per­cent plunge in 1980. 
The government reported that the median price of a new home barely budged last year, edging up a slight 0.2 percent to $246,900, the poorest showing since prices fell by 2.4 percent during the 1991 housing downturn. 

And the slump in sales and prices appeared to be wors­ening at year's end. December sales fell by 4. 7 percent, a bigger-than­expected drop, while the median price of a home fell by 10.4 percent last month, when compared to December 2006, the biggest 12-month decline in 37 years. AP 
"It looks like the floor fell out of the housing market in December," said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's will likely hit bottom this July 2005. Fed will cut rates again this Economy.com. He said the spring and that construction The prolonged slump in week. The Dow Jones indus­current slump is already on will level off by this summer. housing is raising concerns trial average rose 176.72 par with the deep housing But he said prices were likely that the weakness could be points Monday to close at downturn of the 1980s and to keep falling for the entire severe enough to push the 12,383.89. could end up being the worst year as weak demand· forces country into a full-blown President Bush and House in the post-World War II peri­sellers to cut asking prices recession. In an effort to leaders reached agreement od. even further to move homes. guard against that threat, the on a $150 billion economic 
-The data on new homes Housing is slumping now Federal Reserve cut a key stimulus package last week followed earlier reports that after a five-year boom. interest rate last week by the which included items to boost sales of existing homes rfemand for both new and largest amount in more than housing by increasing the dropped 13 percent last year, existing homes hit all-time two decades with a further size of the mortgages that the biggest decline since highs for five straight years, rate cut expected on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac 1982, while construction of ending in 2005, the peak of Wednesday when the Fed and the Federal Housing new homes and apartments the boom. New home sales completes a two-day meeting. Administration can handle. fell by 24.8 percent, the fell by 18.1 percent in 2006. The bad news on housing But critics said the continued largest drop since 1980. The sales level last month is actually gave a lift to Wall plunge in housing showed 
Zandi predicted that sales now down by 56.5 percent Street with investors believ­that more dramatic action is of new and existing homes from the monthly peak hit in ing it raised the chances the needed. 

French trader causes billions in losses 
thing, he didn't take any profit for him­in losses. 
Associated Press 

self," the lawyer, Christian Charriere­Even before his massive alleged fraud 
PARIS -Societe Generate said Bournazel, told The Ac;sociated Press by came to light, Kerviel had apparently Sunday that a trader who evaded all its telephone. "The suspicion on Kerviel triggered occasional alarms at Societe controls to bet $73.5 billion -more allows the considerable losses that the Generate -France's second-largest than the French bank's market worth­bank made on subprimes to be hidden." bank -with his trading, but not to a on European markets hacked computers Officials said Kerviel was cooperating degree that led managers to investigate and "combined several fraudulent meth­with police, who held him for a second further. ods" to cover his tracks, causing billions day of questioning Sunday, seeking "Our controls basically identified from in losses. answers to what, if confirmed, would be time to time problems with this trader's 
The bank says the trader, Jerome the biggest-ever trading fraud by a sin­portfolio," Mustier said. Kerviel, did not appear to have profited gle person. But Kerviel explained away the red personally from the transactions and The questioning was "going very well flags as trading mistakes, Mustier added. seemingly worked alone -a version and the investigation led by the special­"The trade was canceled, there was reiterated Sunday by Jean-Pierre ists of the financial police is extremely no specific follow-up to do," he said. Mustier, chief executive of the bank's fruitful," said Jean-Michel Aldebert, "From our understanding today, the corporate and investment banking arm. head of the financial section of the Paris number of mistakes was not higher than 
But, in a conference call with prosecutor's office. (for) any other trader, so from our reporters, Mustier added: "I cannot Kerviel was giving "very interesting" understanding that was not a reason to guarantee to you 100 percent that there explanations, Aldebert added. "From ring a bell." was no complicity." what he told me, he was fine psychologi­Kerviel's lawyer said the trader made 
Kerviel's lawyer said the accusations cally." He refused to say whether Kerviel money for the bank through 2007 and 
of wrongdoing against his client were might face preliminary charges. has since been "thrown to the wolves of being used to hide bad investments by Kerviel, 31, has not been seen in pub­public opinion." the bank related to subprime mort­lic since the bank's bombshell revelation "He made profile; for the bank until Dec. gages in the United States. Thursday that his unauthorized trades 31. From Jan. 1, he took risky positions 
"He didn't steal anything, take any-resulted in 4.9 billion euros ($7.1 billion) like all traders," said Omrriere-Bournazel, 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 

True diversity 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining l·lall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Kyle Cassily 
AsSl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary K:tre Malone 
NEWS EDITOR! Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hinc 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDilOR! Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR! Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
Au DESIGN MANAGER! Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A~sisram Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prescnr the views of the authors and not nect"ssarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all readers. Tht· free expression ofall opinions through leaers is encouraged. Lcuers to tht· Editor must be signed and must include conracr intormation. 
Qurstiow regarding Obsm;er policies should br directed to F:ditor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ulotervrr (USPS 'I)<) l-4000) 11 ~lUbhdl«l Mnmlay duough f.:rkby ex~c:pr during uam and v;~..:.uil)n I'ICUud•. A sull'll:nplkm 10 The OIJ\t'rvcr is $Hl0 for on(' ;,cukmk yc:ar. $')S lurnrn: ~mwcr 
The 01\iC'rv.:r i5 published Jr: POSTMASTER OH Suuth Dmmg H.lll Stnd ,jddrns corrccumu to: 
Notre Dame. tN 4M'5r,.on9 Thc:Obmw:r 
Periodical prn:l.tgc pa1d al Nnuc Oamc P-0 Box 779 
md addi,unu.l m.111ing offk~$. 024 Somh Dinin~ IhH 
Notre Dame, IN 4655&-0779 

1 h~ Oh~vt'r is 11 mcmlkr ofrhc A\liOCi:ucd PrQi:.\. All reprnductiun ri!VH~ ~u: ra.crvcJ.. 
Years ago, use of racial preferences was justified mainly as social justice­blacks and Hispanics tend to be disad­vantaged relative to whites, and thus should get a hand in admissions or hir­ing. Fair enough. As someone who grew up without car or phone, I strongly agree that lower-class applicants, what­ever their color, should get a break. 
But not all blacks and Hispanics are dis­advantaged. In fact, when they marry and form stable families, they move into the mid­dle class about as well as everyone else. Moreover, not all whites are privileged. 
Far from it. 
So in giving preferential treatment to blacks and Hispanics, it often happens that schools or employers discriminate in favor of someone who's enjoyed more advantages, and against someone who's had fewer. 
The simple, obvious solution would be to favor those applicants who can actu­ally show some degree of hardship in their backgrounds, instead of trying to infer it from their races. Too sensible? 
In any case, the justification today for racial preferences seems to be the neb­ulous concept of "diversity." Schools in particular, the argument goes, have an interest in creating a student body with the broadest possible variety of stu­dents. 
I'm not denying that schools may have such an interest, though I think that interest isn't nearly so critical as many people today argue. But then, I think the main purpose of a university is intellectual in nature, whereas a large and ever-increasing part of the educa­tional establishment considers it to be social, even sociological. Sure, college can be a place where students learn to deal with people unlike themselves -if they spent their first eighteen years in 


solitary confinement. 
But what is real diversity, as it relates to an institution like Notre Dame? Is it merely seeing a wide range of melanin levels? 
Consider a silly analogy. One basket holds red grapes, green grapes, purple grapes and yellow grapes._ The other contains red meat, red wine, kidney beans and beets. Which basket is more "diverse?" 
Or a more timely example -the two political parties' fields of presidential candidates. One party has a half­Kenyan, a half-Mexican and a half­woman; but from what I can tell, they all agree on pretty much everything. The Republican field is all white men, but they're all over the spectrum on many issues. So which is really more diverse? 
When I enrolled in the graduate pro­gram at St. John's College, one of the first things that struck me about the place was how weird the undergradu­ates were. Sometimes it seemed every day was Halloween. Though St. John's is just a fraction of the size of Notre Dame, it's got a much wider variety of characters. 
There are pothead stoners, wannabe jocks, loathsome preppies, no-kidding Marxists, adorable nerds, troubled goths, D&D-ers, S&M-ers, an unlikely clutch of devout Catholics, another of Eastern Orthodox, some Nietzscheans, Ayn Rand-ophiles, neo-pagans!Wiccans, ceo-radical vegans, Zen/Buddhist posers, etc. But apart from a few kids of East or South Asian descent, the place is lily-white. 
I'm not saying Notre Dame, or any place, should strive to be racially mono­tone. What I'm saying is that diversity is about more than skin color, if it's even about that at all. Yeah, I too got kind of tired of meeting the same type of per­son over and over at Notre Dame, though with me it was mainly because that type of person wasn't one I liked. 
If you're someone who looks around your classes and bemoans how few pig­ments are on display, I suggest you switch to other courses, like differential geometry, where you'll have better things to worry about, like what the hell is that strange man writing on the board. 
I would also like to know, though, while you're wondering why there are so few black people around, do you ever wonder how come there are no red­necks? Or fundamentalists/evangeli­cals? Or hippie tokers, poor white trash, or Jews? Wouldn't people like these make Notre Dame diverse too? 
Assuming students bring a different perspective simply because they're black or Hispanic is as foolish as assum­ing they're poor. What would happen if a guy were admitted because he was black, but he turned out to be from a middle-class family, hated rap, and was Republican'? Would he get expelled for not being really black? 
And what about Hispanics who are blond? Likewise, assuming someone is just like everyone else and brings no diversity to the place, simply because he's white, is extremely offensive. Ignorant, too. 
If Notre Dame wants real diversity, I suggest that, instead of asking appli­cants' racial backgrounds, admissions should ask: How many of your relatives have done time? How much pot have you smoked? Have you ever worn clothes from Goodwill, not as a joke? Squirrels: feed 'em, or eat 'em? 
Naturally, not all diversity is good. Pederasts, al Qaeda sympathizers, and skinheads would all make Notre Dame more diverse; that doesn't mean they should be tolerated. I, myself, wish the whole school were pro-life, but we're lucky if the whole C.S.C. is. Good or bad, though, "diversity" is no excuse to dis­criminate by skin color. Notre Dame should stop doing so. 
Greg Yatarola is a 1999 alumnus. The psychiatrist he works out with tells him he's a very diverse person. His address is gregpy@hotmail. com 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
·~ 
PERSPECTIVE: MARCH 5, 1984 

What is your favorite video game? 
1 like Centipede, because my dad works for Orkin and J hate bus>. Abo my !'ioi.HH' I$ i.nfcstcd by cockroaches. 
FAd~' Lhut<) 
A.rcbil~u•ure ClaS>~of'$7 
fiJtlW<tl)\h It •s. not actually a video k,a.n1e~ .I rnost enjoy t-he intense ac­tion of US-USSR Hockey. It is !Veat to use the boo-button against the RuMia.n,. 
Tom White Math c_-:tas~ of '86 

My favorite video game is the race car dt'iving because l enjoy the sen­sation of a crash. 
Karen Juse(>b 
F..conomiC~;/CAPP 
Cla5Sof'86 
This image first appeared in the March 5, 1984 edition ofThe Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Karen Langley Jay Fitzpatrick Are you more excited about the Becky Hogan Matt Gamber 
Notre Dame men's basketball 
Katlyn Smith Laura Myers 
camouflage night or blackout 
Graphics Scene 


"0 Lord. help me to,be pure, but not 
night?
Matt Hudson Chris McGrady 
yet.

Viewpoint Maria Stohler 
Saint Augustine 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 

Catholic theologian 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER .. 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An insult to muffindom 

Brothers and sisters, we have all noticed a dra­matic drop in Letters to the Editor this semester. There are many suspicions -the tameness of the comics, a lack of humorous misogynistic remarks, a remarkable increase in the writing prowess of Ohio State University students (seriously guys?) ­but I am here to give a voice to the silent majority that can no longer muster the energy to write this letter -those who have been shocked into a comatose state by the miniaturization of South Dining Hall muffins. 
Clearly they are the gem of the pastry aisle ­when there are still dozens of glazed donuts and an entire mountain of cheese Danishes, the muf­fin bin always runs dry by 12:15. I know I'm not the only one who grab-and-goes six muffins and a juice box. It's the best calorie/bag ratio available. However, the current shrinking of the mufim 
threatens to destroy one of God's finest creations -the sanctity of the muffin. I have one relic from ancient times -a true mammoth muffin measur­ing in at a towering 8.7 em. The insult to muffind­om I snagged at lunch today tips the scales at a puny 6.3 em. 
Notre Dame: we can do better. The silent majority must remain silent no longer-rise up, and protest the desecration of the beloved institu­tion that is the South Dining Hall muffin. The issue boils down to one simple question: would you rather have more or less muffin in your muf­fin? 
John Greil freshman Keough Hall Jan. 28 
Response to racist letters 

When one receives a letter with no return label merely addressed to "occupant," one should be suspicious. However, the letters my dorm received didn't contain any conventional dangers, rather, they contained something more sinister: Hate. 
While I agree that this letter deserves none of our respect, I must disagree with Rector Colonna in his proposition of tossing the letter outright. To throw out this letter would be ignoring a major problem that still exists in our nation. 
We may like to think that racism is gone, but as this letter indicates, there are still those out there clinging to these views. I propose reading the letter. Now, I'm not asking you to read hateful junk mail. 
However, I do ask you to see the so-called "rea­soning" behind racism, to see how competent writ­ing can still be laden with terribly fallacious argu­ments, to confirm your beliefs that racism is irra­tional and abhorrent. 
The man from North Dakota wants attention and change. Let's give the problem some attention. Let's make some change in the direction of equali­
ty. 
David Crisostomo sophomore Knott Hall Jan. 28 

Truth, lies and politicians 
I was impressed to see that Andrew Nesi could muster up some righteous indignation over the fact that politicians lie. Of course, his brilliant expose on the matter simply shocked me. Politicians are not entirely truthful? Can I still believe that Bill Clinton did not have sex with that woman? That W is a uniter, not a divider? That Richard Nixon is not a crook? That George Bush the Elder would not raise taxes? That Thomas Jefferson would not expand governmental powers? What a shame that, given the impressive record of truthi­ness in American presidents, today's candidates refuse to uphold this tradition. 
Unfortunately, I believe that Mr. Nesi forgot two examples of politi­cal dishonesty in this year's campaign from his preferred candi­dates. In an act that I am sure was completely accidental, Mr. Nesi forgot to mention that Barack Obama's claims of bi-partisanship don't stand up to the light of his voting record. 
He also forgot that John McCain has lied about never receiving pork for his state. In truth, every single one of the candidates has lied at least once. It's a part of the process, and it will continue to be so until Americans learn to appreciate disappointing truths. 
Perhaps, instead of focusing on campaign promises, we should focus on a candidate's voting record or gubernatorial achievements. It would be wise to base any presumptions on what a candidate would do in office off his or Hillary's deeds instead of their words. 
Candidates lie. It's the way they all play the game. Don't vote for the candidate who can delude you the most into thinking they are an honest and upright individual. Vote for the person that has best acted out your own beliefs on government in their political careers, whether that individual is named Clinton, Obama, Romney, McCain, Huckabee or O.J. Simpson. 
Will Guappone 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Jan. 28 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
By DAMON JASON Scene Writer 
In the events of "One More Day," Marvel made the decision to end the 20-year marriage between Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson. Through various machinations, Peter and MJ struck a deal with the demonic character Mephisto to have their mar­riage erased from history in order to save the life of Peter's dying Aunt May. 
While fans met the decision to end the marriage with almost universal dis­gust, the poorly eonceived story and its ill timing angered fans even more. Nevertheless, sales of the popular wall crawler's series have never been high­er. 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

Spider-Man stopping them in the aet, and then selling these photos to the Daily Bugle. Along the way, Spidey encounters a new erime boss, Mr. Negative, and unravels his plot to take control of New York's most powerful erime families. While a servieeable story, I can't help but feel like I have read it before. 
And herein lies the problem with the changes to Spider-Man's status quo. On its own two legs, "Brand New Day" is not a bad story. It is written by Dan Slott, one of today's best writers, and is accompanied with beautiful artwork by Steve MeNiven. However, longtime fans of the series will undoubtedly feel like they have read this story before. 
It is almost as if Marvel is saying the 
last 20 years of plot 

"Brand New Day" is development simply did the name of the first not happen. The deeision story are following to basically reset the the demise of Peter It is almost as eomic's continuity leads and MJ's marriage. ifMarvel is saying to a more simplified story, Longtime fans will whieh has undoubtedly
the last 20 years

notiee many changes attracted many new read­to the eontinuity that ofplot development ers. had been constructed However, Marvel must
simply did 

over the last 20 years. be careful not to isolate
not happen. 

Peter is back to liv­long-time fans of the ing with his Aunt series, because the surge May, web shooters in sales is atypical and 
make their return, Harry Osborn (one of the various Green Goblins) is back from the dead and Peter has not revealed his secret identity to the world. · 
How these developments affect Spider-Man's cross-continuity with other characters in the Marvel Universe has not been revealed at this time; however, "Brand New Day" strives to build upon the Spider-Man legacy in a story that feels like many of the elassic Spider-Man stories from the 1960s and 70s. 
Brand New Day follows a Peter Parker who has given up his role of Spider-Man. He has resorted to bor­rowing money from his pal Harry Osborn to get by. Only when Peter's financial burdens become too much does he don the popular red and blue spandex. 
In classic Spider-Man tradition, Parker attempts to confront various criminals, photographing himself as 
simply will not continue unless Marvel strives to put out top quality story telling. 
To be completely honest, I was expecting much more from "Brand New Day," considering all the media hype it received. The story itself was functional, but was hampered by the fact that it felt so familiar as compared to the previous installments of the elas­sic comic. 
The decision to ship the title three times a month helped "Brand New Day" because there simply was not enough going on if it stayed a monthly title. I will reserve linaljudgment of this new status quo to see if writers ean continue to deliver solid story telling of everyone's favorite wall crawler. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Damon Jason at djason@nd.edu 
Photo shakingthrough.net 

Peter Parker (Tobey Ma~uire) and Mary Jane (Kirsten Dunst) "hang around" In the film adaptation of Spider-man. The couple's recent split has fans up In arms. 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
page 11 

ByBOBCOSTA Scene Writer 
Last night, Georgia-based rock band The Whigs played on CBS's "Late Show with David Letterman." The guest spot was well-deserved recognition for this emotive and bluesy rock trio, who came out with their second album "Mission Control" last Tuesday. 
The Whigs -all in their twenties and hailing from Athens, Georgia -released their self-financed and independent album "Give 'Em All A Big Fat Lip" in 2005. The band quickly gained many fans who found The Whigs' early­Nineties rock vibe refreshing in the cur­rent rock scene. The Whigs look like they could be buddies of acoustic surfer­dude Jack Johnson, but they rock with the energy of guitar-heavy, jam-band groups such as Gov't Mule and The Band. 
Their indie release helped get The Whigs the attention of another Southern rocker, Dave Matthews, who runs ATO Records in New York. ATO re-released "Give 'Em All A Big Fat Lip" in 2006 and The Whigs toured nationally, playing in the cotillion of jam-band festi­vals, Bonnaroo, in 2007. The 
Whigs spent most of 2006 and
Mission Control 
2007 on the road winning over fans and critics with their full throttle alternative pop-rock.
The Whigs 

Released by: Ato Records I Red 
"Mission Control" is definitely a masterful senior thesis for these

Recommended Tracks: "AThousand 
former college rockers. 

WNes," "Like a Vibration" and "I Got Ideas" 
Rolling Stone magazine 


declared the three-piece "the best unsigned band in America" a few years ago. Now that The Whigs are signed, they've used their new resources well on "Mission Control," giving more resonance and subtlety to their sound on songs like "Production City" Strokes and even hints of Tom Petty. and "Sleep Sunshine." "I Got Ideas" is the best track on the 

"Mission Control" was produced by album, combining energetic horns with Rob Schnapf, best known for his work Southern rock bombast, bouncing with the late Elliott Smith. Although The around like the Allman Brothers trying Whigs play much harder to sing a three-minute and louder than Smith pop song. ever did, Schnapf man­The final and title
Rolling Stone 

ages to keep the band's track, "Mission Control," songwriting as the magazine declared the is an ethereal evocation album's central focus. It three-piece "the best of the sound of early enables the lyrics to be David Bowie and recent
unsigned band in 

more. than just an material by Foo
America" a few 

addendum to all of the Fighters. Think "Space cool sonic happenings in years ago. Oddity" meets the back of each track. "Everlong." Lead singer 
"A Thousand Wives" is a cocky track, combining smooth bass lines with lyrics full of early-twenties angst. The song twists and dives from being a mellow rocker into an uplifting anthem, never deciding what it is exactly. That's what's different about this album -the music may sound familiar to rock fans, but the structure of the songs is innovative and deceptive, leading the listener on and then turning him on his head. 
"Like A Vibration" picks up the pace, pulsing with more heavy bass and pounding drums, bringing to mind the sound of bands like Kings of Leon, The 
Parker Gispert told NPR he thinks of the sound of "Mission Control" as "space blues." 
That's a pretty apt description. The music is not as esoteric and colorful as Bowie but does have the urgency and alternative-rock vibe of Pearl Jam albums like "Yield" and "Vs." 
Keep an eye out for The Whigs on their upcoming tour, since many of the tracks on "Mission Control" are just beg­ging to be let loose live by this young Southern rock band. 
Contact Bob Costa at bcostal@nd.edu 

By JAMES COSTA Scene Writer 
In a marked change from its first few albums, Sam Beam's band Iron and Wine has moved away from the hushed­lullaby song concept to a far more devel­oped sound. In their latest, "The Shepherd's Dog," the band utilizes a strong percussion element to augment intricate arrangements of vocals and instrumentals. 
Iron and Wine began as a one-man 
Sam Beam's band Iron and Wine has moved away from a hushed lullaby song concept to a far more developed sound.

,...-------------------------------. in a similar fashion. In "PaganThe Shepherd's Dog Angel and a Borrowed Car," the recording is rough until the
d W.
I
ron an me arrangement kicks in and a full 

Released by: Sub Pop Records instrumental sound takes over. Rattling along, the song pulls in Recommended Tracks: "House by the the sounds of the acoustic slide Sea" and 'White Tooth Man" guitar, the steel guitar and the 

tack piano. 
The influences are wide-rang­ing, from Sufjan Stevens to Bruce Hornsby to the falsetto period of Bruce Springsteen. And it all sounds darkly delight­ful. 
affair, Beam, who recorded bedtime songs for his son. Since then, Beam has added members and instruments to the band, with the progression seen clearly on the EP "Woman King" and 2005's full band record "In the Reins," which was a collaboration with Calexico. 
The band received some recognition in 2004 after the film "Garden State" came to theaters. The film, starring Natalie Portman, featured the song "Such Great Heights," a cover of the Postal Service song by the same name. 
Ever conscious of the band's simple 
origins, Beam began this album 

A more ambitious and intricate ele­ment of the album is Beam's incorpora­tion of international influences into his Americana focus. This is seen in the West African-inspired track "House by the Sea." 
Willing a spirit into the music that seems garnered straight from a night spent wander­ing through the coastal Senegalese city of Dakar, Beam begins with a wandering rhythmic pulse and then adds a haunting bass and woodwind section. It creates a feeling of evening darkness. 
Another highlight of the album is the richly composed, almost Persian sound­ing, "White Tooth Man." The song pounds along in a frantic, ominous pas­sion, which contrasts with the eerie and mischievous "Boy with a Coin." 
As noted, the album is different from Iron and Wine's previous offerings. It takes a few more listens to appreciate the extent of Beam's latest effort. 
Each song stands alone as an individ­
·' 

ual journey into the swelling emotions and ideas of the singer, which takes a bit of time to appreciate in its entirety. The final track, "Flightless Bird, American Mouth," delivers a restrained end to a 
record that feels held in uncomfortable suspen­sion for the preceding eleven tracks. 
With a chilling use of Beam's emotive voice, the song moves toward its final verse, asking "Have I found you? I Flightless bird, brown hair bleeding I Or lost you? I American mouth I Big bill, stuck going down." In a tragi­

cally uplifting tone, the vocals bleed to silence as the music fades slowly behind, letting the record resolve itself into a quiet, if slightly wounded fmish. 
There isn't a bad song on the disc, with each one offering a unique perspec­tive into the mind of Beam and his tal­ented collaborators as they bring us deep into the heart of the shepherd's dog. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
NBA 
Paul dishes out 10 assists in Hornets' win 
Williams tallies double-double in Utah's fifth-straight victory; Mavericks begin tough road trip by beating Memphis 
ished with three points and five 
rebounds. 

"I definitely feel like I should be in the All-Star game," Chandler said. "I've worked hard all year, I've helped my team win basketball games and r really feel like that's what being an All-Star is all about. You should be rewarded for good basketball and winning and hopefully the coaches see it in my favor." 
The second-best center in the 
game was Hornets reserve 
Melvin Ely, who had 16 points 
and nine rebounds in 23 min­
utes. 

Peja Stojakovic hit four 3­pointers and finished with 19 points for New Orleans, and Jannero Pargo and West each scored 13 points. 
Recently elected All-Star Carmelo Anthony missed his fourth straight game with a sprained left ankle, and the undermanned Nuggets strug­gled to keep pace. 
New Orleans built a 20-point lead in the first half and main­tained that margin through most of the second half. 
Iverson's driving layups on consecutive possessions gave Denver a glimmer of hope, cut­ting the score to 91-76 early in the fourth quarter. 
But with Paul running the offense, the Hornets quickly sealed it with a 12-0 run that started when Paul set up Ely for a score inside and finished when Paul tossed an alley-oop on rookie Julian Wright's dunk. 
New Orleans ended up shoot­ing 51 percent for the game and outrebounded Denver 52-33. 
Jazz 97, Spurs 91 

The Utah Jazz were ready to push back this time against the San Antonio Spurs. 
The Jazz, who were dominat­ed by the Spurs in the Western Conference finals last spring, never trailed Monday night and held off the defending NBA champions. The game was full of collisions, hard fouls and some verbal exchanges and the Jazz countered everything the Spurs had. 
Deron Williams had 11 points and 14 assists and Carlos Boozer and Andrei Kirilenko scored 23 points each for Utah, which won its fifth straight and improved to 10-2 in January. 
The Spurs committed 20 turnovers and were just 13-for­38 from the field in the second half. 
"I think our team is playing well because that's what hap­pens when you play better defensively," Utah coach Jerry Sloan said. "It's a lot of work to play defense." 
Tim Duncan had 26 points and 11 rebounds, but was the only San Antonio starter to score more than five points. Williams smothered Tony Parker and held him to five points and three assists. 
"They were better," said Manu Ginobili, who led the Spurs with 29 points. "We turned the ball over way too much. Twenty times against the Jazz is really hard to over­come." 
The Spurs finished with 11 assists, three fewer than Williams. Boozer had seven assists and Kirilenko added four steals for the Jazz, who played a much rougher game than they did in the one-sided playoff series. 
Mavericks 103, Grizzlies 83 
The Dallas Mavericks started one of their toughest road trips of the season with an easy vic­tory. 
With three games looming against Eastern Conference division leaders, Josh Howard hit his l'irst eight shots on the way to 26 points and Dallas shot 54 percent in a victory over the lowly Memphis Grizzlies on Monday night. 
"Every team is a great team, especially on its home tourt," 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS-Chris Paul nrnergnd from a serum under the basket, nimbly dribbling out to the perimeter to reset anoth­er llornets possession. 
A jubilant crowd rose to its feet, chanting, "M-V-P, M-V-P!" 
Perhaps local fans are figur­ing out tlwy don't need visits from players like Allen Iverson to bring them out to the games. They have a star of their own, not to mention one of the best teams in the NBA right now. 
Paul had 23 points, 17 assists and nine rebounds, and the New Orleans llornets ran away with their ninth straight win. 117-93 over the Denver Nuggets on Monday night. 
Down the stretch. the crowd repeatedly chanted superlatives in recognition of' a masterful performance by the Hornets' third-year guard, who is New Orleans' best hope for a repre­sentative in the All-Star game when coaches ~>.lect the reserves this week. 
Other candidates include cen­ter Tyson Chandler and forward David West, as Paul was quick to mention when asked what he thought of the MVP chants. 
"I was thinking they're exact­ly right," Paul said. "D-West and Tyson might be MVPs." 
Even in a game featuring Iverson, recently elected an All­Star starter, Paul was the best player on the floor. Iverson also scored 23, but had only three assists and got little help other than from Kenyon Martin, who scored 18. 
Hornets coach Byron Scott said he would be "shocked" if Paul wasn't invited to the All­Star game, but Paul insisted he has other short-term goals. 
"The only thing that's on my mind right now, to tell you the truth. is to get my coaches in the All-Star game," Paul said. ''I'm looking at the standings all day, every day, right now. I think that would be the greatest feeling for me if (Scott) could coach in that game." 
That will happen if the Hornets (32-12) remain in their surprising perch atop the pow­erful Western Conference until Feb. 3. 
"I am not ready to jump on their bandwagon, but they're pretty good and I'm not sure what weakness they have," Nuggets coach George Kart said. "Chris Paul is a great point guard. He can go anywhere he wants to go. They have size, they have shooters, they play as a team, they have a good bench .... One can argue that have an All-Star player at four posi­tions." 
Monday's matchup also fea­tured a pair of centers vying for a reserve spot in the All-Star game in Chandler and Denver's Marcus Camby. 
In this game, there was no comparison. Chandler finished with 10 points and 16 rebounds. Camby was a non­factor for most of the first three quarters. He didn't score until he made a free throw with 1:52 to go in the third period. He fin: 
AP 


said Howard, who was 1 0-of-17 from the floor. "We had to take [the Grizzlies] seriously. It's a great start, but we've got three more to go." 
The Mavericks still have to play Boston, Detroit and Orlando on a four-game trip before returning home Feb. 6 against Milwaukee. 
Playing on Memphis' home floor really isn't that tough for the Mavericks. Dallas has won 13 straight over the Grizzlies, including a sweep of Memphis in the opening round of the 2006 playoffs. The Mavericks have never lost at the FedExForum, which opened in 2004. The Grizzlies' last home victory over Dallas was Feb. 17, 2004, in their previous home, The Pyramid. 
Dirk Nowitzki added 20 points and 11 rebounds, and Jason Terry finished with 14 points for the Mavericks, who won their fourth straight and 12th in the last 14. Erick Dampier con­tributed 11 points and 12 rebounds. 
The Mavericks were without starting guard Devin Harris and forward Jerry Stackhouse, one of their top reserves, who sat out with injuries. 
"We pride ourselves whenever we have a man down, banning together and really putting together some great efforts," Terry said. 

Jazz forward Carlos Boozer shoots over Spurs forward Tim Duncan during Utah's 97-91 home victory Monday night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;-~~~~~~~~-~
== Oakhill Condo lor Sale. Students will love Large house available for 2009-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
FoR SALE  living here and paren1S will love knowing theirchildislookedafterandsafe!  FOR RENT  2010. Fullrenovationscompleted2007.  PERSONAL  Do not go it alone. lfyouor  
Serure, upstairs, two-level furnished two- Close to campus.  someone you love  
Fabulous condo walking distance  bedroom, two-bath condo unit with loft  3-4 bdrm. 3 bath home  4,000+ square feet.  PREGNANT OR  needs confidential support  
to Notre Dame, open concept,  area. One thousand twenty-two square  close to campus, safe,  5 bathrooms.  KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS?  or assistance, please call  
completely remodeled,  feet of beautifully redecorated living space  cathedral ceilings,  MacSwain @gmail.com  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. at 1-7819.  
granite countertops,  -includes 42" HD flat screen TV and pari<­ fireplace,  You do not have to be alone.  For more information.  
bamboo hardwoods.  ing spaces in front of condo. Garages are  2-car garage,  705 NO Ave. 3 Bedroom  visit our website at:  
Wi-Fi. approx.  available at an additional cost Prul<ing lot  1Ox20 deck, deluxe appl.  $1,000.00.  We want to help.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ 
surveillance cameras. pool. clubhouse,  Avail. for Aug. 2008.  273-4889  nant.shtml or  
1.350 sq.ft..  water and rubbish removal included as  Call 574-232·4527  Available 08/09  Call our 24 hour  see our bi-weekly ad in  
2 bedrooms. 2 baths.  part of the ownership package. Only $180  or 269-683-5038  confidential hot line at  The Observer.  
per month exterior maintenance fees.  or 57 4-340-1844.  HOUSE FOR RENT: 608 NO Ave ..  
Kristi Ryan,  FNe minute walk or less to the Notre  walk to campus.  1-800-No Abort or  If you or someone you care about  
Damecampus, shopping and restau­ Blue & Gold Homes  3 Lg.bed/2bath, sleeps up to 5.  has been sexually assaulted,  
Re/Max 100,  rants. Less than ten minutes to other hot  Showing for 08/09, 09/10  Central Air,new appl., carpet.  visit our web site at  visit  
spots and mall by car. $200,000. Only  Now offering "flex" leases  WID, off street parking.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  
57 4-532-2071  serious offers considered. 562-733-5166.  bluegoldrentals.com  Call 620-704-4663.  www.lifecall.org  shtml  


CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's \VIRE SERVICES page 13 Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
OUND THE NATION 
te.am 


1 Memphis (46) 
2 Kansas {26) 
3 Duke 4 North Carolina 5 UCLA 6 Georgetwon 7 Tennessee 8 Michigan Stale 9 Washington State 10 Texas 11 Indiana 12 Butler 
13 Wisconsin 14 Stanford 15 Xavier 16 Drake 17 Marquette 18 Pittsburgh 19 Vanderbilt 20 Florida 21 Saint Mary's 22 Kansas State 23 Texas A&M 24 Mississippi 25 Baylor 
Memphis {20) 1
2...,, ..
Kansas (11} 
Duke 3 North Carolina 4 UCLA 5 Georgetown 6 Michigan State 7 Tennessee 8 Washington State 9 Texas 10 Indiana 11 Butler 12 Wisconsin 13 Stanford 14 · Xavier 15 Marquette 16 Drake 17 Vanderbilt 18 Florida 19 Saint Mary's 20 Pittsburgh 21 Mississippi 22 Tllll:aliA&M 23 Kansas State 24 Mississippi State 25 
Women'§ AP C~~~ege Basketball Poll.,... 
team 

1 Connecticut (50) 2 Tennessee 
: :::~aroli~~ :ii•.·•····•···,,, 5 Maryland •····•··.· .··• ··· 
6 Baylor · 7 Stanford 8 LSU 
9 Duke 
10 California ·" 11 Okfahoma 12 West Virginia 13 Old Dominion 
14 Pittsburgh ····•·········· 15 Wyomiqg , . , 16 George Washington 17 Georgia 18 Kansas State 19 Ohio State 20 NOTRE DAME 21 Oklahoma State 
22 Syracuse qr 23 DePaul 24 Illinois State 25 Texas 
USFCA Fencing Polls Men's Women's 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Roger Clemens' agent released an 18,000-word statistical report Monday to rebut allegations the pitcher's career rebound­ed about the time he was accused of using perform­ance-enhancing drugs. 
"Clemens' longevity was due to his ability to adjust his style of pitching as he got older, incorporating his very effective split-finger fastball to offset the decrease in the speed of his regular fastball caused by aging," said the report, created by Randy Hendricks and two associates at his firm. 
Clemens' former trainer, Brian McNamee, claimed in last month's Mitchell Report on drugs in baseball that he injected the pitcher with steroids and human growth hormone at least 16 times in 1998, 2000 and 2001. Clemens vehemently denies the allegations, and Clemens and McNamee are among five wi1nesses scheduled to testifY before a House committee on Feb. 13. Clemens also has sued McNamee for defama­tion. 

Hendricks' report, which includes 38 charts, in some ways resembles a salary arbi­tration case. One of the charts shows Clemens' ERA was lower than the league average in all but two of his 23 major league seasons. The report also compares variations in Oemens' career with those of Randy Johnson, Curt Schilling and Nolan Ryan, and main­tains slumps often can be cor­related with injuries. 
"Of the six years that fea­ture Oemens' best ERA mar­gins, two occurred in Boston, after he had been in the major leagues for several years; two occurred in his two years in Toronto; and two occurred after he switched leagues and pitched for the Houston Astros," the report said. 
Clemens went 40-39 in his last four seasons with the Red Sox, and when the pitcher left Boston's general manager at the time, Dan Duquette, said Oemens was in the "twilight" of his career. Clemens was 192-111 with the Red Sox and won three Cy Young Awards and an MVP, then went 162­73 with Toronto, the New York Yankees and Houston, winning four Cy Youngs. 

"Clemens was far from being in the 'twilight of his career' or 'washed up' in 1996, as some have speculat­ed," the report said. "During the 1996 season Clemens ranked first in strikeouts in the American League and tied his own record by striking out 20 batters in Detroit on Sept. 18, 1996. In addition, he ranked sixth in the AL in ERA, second in the AL in hits per nine innings, and fifth in innings pitched. This perform­ance cannot be reasonably categorized as a 'twilight."' 
"''d like to thank my parents -my dad for taking the line drives off the elbow and my mom for teaching me how to talk trash," he said. 
team  team  
1  Penn State  NOTREDAME  
2  Ohio Slate  (}hio State  
3  NOTRE DAME  Colurnbia·Barnard  
4  St. John's (N.Y.)  Penn State  
5  Columbia  Harvard  
6  Pennsylvania  Northwestern  
7  Harvard  St. John's (N.Y.)  
8  Princeton  Pennsylvania  
9  Brandeis  Temple  
10  Stanford  Princeton  

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
10 

around the dial 
NBA BASKETBALL Timberwolves at Bulls 8:30 p.m., CSN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Ohio State at Penn State 7 p.m., ESPN Tennessee at Alabama 9 p.m., ESPN 
IN BRIEF 
Ryan to return as Ravens 
defensive coordinator 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. -Rex Ryan would have preferred to be a head coach. Instead, he got the second­best thing: His old job, a new title and more responsibility. 
Ryan was hired as the assistant head coach/defensive coordinator of the Baltimore Ravens on Monday. The hire was made by new head coach John Harbaugh, who prevailed over Ryan in the team's quest to find a replacement for Brian Billick. 
The 45-year-old Ryan and the rest of the coaching staff were fired with Billick after the season. Ryan was one of six people to be interviewed for the head coaching vacancy in Baltimore, and he interviewed with the Atlanta Falcons and Miami Dolphins. 
No one offered him a job, so Ryan returned for a 10th season with the Ravens, the fourth as defensive coor­dinator. 

Mariners may trade prospect
for Bedard 
SEATTLE -The Seattle Mariners have asked top prospect Adam Jones to leave his Venezuelan Winter League team and return to the U.S., amid reports he's headed to Baltimore as part of a trade for pitcher Erik Bedard. 
Mariners spokesman Tim Hevly con­firmed Sunday night the team had requested the return of Jones, who was expected to be one of Seattle's starting outfielders when the season begins. 
"We did ask Adam to come back from Venezuela." Hevly said, declining to give a reason for the request. 
That confirmation followed Sunday's Seattle Times report that Mariners general manager Bill Bavasi was mak­ing Jones the centerpiece of a deal for Bedard. The Times, citing comments obtained from a Venezuelan newspa­per, reported Jones said he'd discussed the deal with Bavasi and was going to Baltimore on Monday for a physical. 
Tour de France champion
donates bikes to N .M. "kids 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. -Johan Bruyneel and some members of cycling team Astana gave bicycles to 25 New Mexico children. 
Bruyneel and his team, including Tour de France champion Alberto Contador and USA national road champion Levi Leipheimer, are in Albuquerque for two weeks of high­altitude training. It's the first time Astana has held a training camp in the United States. 
Bruyneel spent part of the after­noon shaking hands and giving out Trek bikes of all colors and sizes as part of a new program with Bernalillo County dubbed "Johan's Kids." 
Charles Ovis, a local training camp representative, said Bruyneel want­ed to get involved with the communi­ty and the bike giveaway was a per­fect way to encourage local children to start pedaling. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
MLB 
Knoblauch agrees to meet Congress 


AP Former Yankees second baseman Chuck Knoblauch watches his game-tying home run in Game 3 of the 1999 World Series. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Chuck Knoblauch is heading to Capitol I I ill. 
Knoblauch. a four-time All­Star who played with Hoger Clemens on the New York Yankees, agreed Monday to speak to a !louse committee investigating drug use in base­ball al'ler initially failing to respond to an invitation to tes­
tify. 
llis silence prompted the llouse Oversight and Government Heform Cornmitten to issue a subpoena last week, but federal mar­shals were not able to track down Knoblaueh right away. The 11J<Jl AL Hookie of the Year eventually did make con­tact. and his twice-postponed nwnting with committne staff for a deposition or transcribed interview will be Friday. 
That session is preparation for the panni's hearing Feb. 13, when Knoblauch is among five sdwduled witnesses, including Clmnens and his former per­sonal trainer, Brian MeNamlle. 
Also seheduled to testily are Andy Petlitte, a former team­mate and workout partner of Clemens' who also trained with McNamee. and ex-New York Mots clubhouse employee Kirk Hadomski. 
"We are pleased that Mr. Knoblauch has agreed to vol­untarily partieipate in a tran­scribed interview or deposition with thn committee. As a result, tlw committee is with­drawing the subpoena," Oversight committee chairman llf1nry Waxman and ranking Hepubliean Tom Davis said in a statement. 
Members of both majority and minority stall's declined to eomment Monday when asked for details on Knoblauch's about-faee. A lawyer identilied by a cornmittPe staffer as Knoblauch's representative did not immediately return requests for comment made via telephone and e-mail. 
Pettitte is slated to be the first Feb. 13 witness to appear for a deposition or transcribed interview, with his session scheduled for Wednesday. Clemens is to follow on Feb. 5, with McNamee on Feb. 7. Hadornski's meeting with com­mittee staff, originally sched­uled for Feb. 1, then announced as "to be deter­mined," is now listed on the committee's Web site lor Feb. 12 -the day before the hear­ing. 
Hepresentatives of baseball's players and owners, mean­while, plan to meet later this week to diseuss recommenda­tions George Mitchell made in his report on baseball's steroids nra, some of which are subject to collective bar­gaining. 
Lettnrs sent by Waxman and Davis to Clemens, Pettitte and Knoblauch on Jan. 16, requesting their appearances both at the hearing and a pre­hearing meeting, said: "The committee asks that you pro­vide testimony about allega­
tions  in  Senator  George  
Mitchell's report  ...  that you  
and  other  Major  League  

Baseball players used perform­ance enhaneing drugs during your professional baseball career." 
The Mitchell Heport, released last month, included McNamee's allegations that he injected Clemens with steroids in 1998 while they were with Toronto, and with steroids and human growth hormone in 2000 and 2001 while with New York. Clemens, a seven-time Cy Young Award winner, has repeatedly denied the accusa­tions. 
Pettitte acknowledged McNamee injected him with IIGH twice while the pitcher was recovering from an injury. 
NFL 

No threats for Super Sunday 
Authorities have no specific security concerns for Super Bowl 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -The police agencies responsible for patrolling the Super Bowl say they're not aware of any threat so far. to the biggest single-day sporting event in the country, but they've organized a massive build up of security just in case. 
FBI Special Agent John Lewis said Monday that authorities have heard only "what I would call fairly rou­tine, very small incoming complaints about somebody wanting to do this or that. 
"That's very typical in these types of eases," he said. 
Nevertheless, with millions of people focused on the Super Bowl in Glendale, fed­eral security officials have again designated the game a "level one" special event. just below President Bush's State of the Union address. 
This year's Super Bowl fes­tivities also will be complicat­ed by another major sporting event, the FBH Open golf tour­nament, going on simultane­ously in Scottsdale. Security agencies have been meeting for 15 months to ensure that they keep an organized watch 
over  the entire metro  area  
this week.  
Glendale  Police  Lt.  Matt  

Apodaca said more than 800 officers from numerous city ageneies will patrol a 2­sq uare-mile security zone around the University of Phoenix Stadium. Apodaca said officers on horseback, on foot and in motorized carts will mingle with fans who are attending the game and the NFL Experience, a weeklong festival nearby. 
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives will bring packs of Labrador retrievers that are trained to sniff out com­pounds that are common among most explosives. 
"We bring in our dogs 

because they are, quite 
frankly, the best in the federal 
government," ATF Special 
Agent Tom Mangan said. 
Police also have installed 

security cameras throughout 
the stadium area. Overhead, 
U.S. 
Customs and Border Protection aircraft will circle the sky and give authorities a birds-eye view of what's going on. 

U.S. 
Customs will intercept any threat from the air with Blackhawk helicopters and Citation jets based at Davis­Monthan Air Force Base, about 100 miles to the south in Tucson, said Ken Huffer, the Secret Service special agent in charge in Phoenix. 


Huffer said federal authori­

ties will enforce a 30-rnile no­
!'Iy zone around the stadium 
below 22,000 feet on game 
day. 
The no-fly zone overlaps with Phoenix Sky llarbor International Airport, but Huffer said commercial pilots have been notified and should be able to work around the new security limits. 
"I can assure you that there will be no interference with scheduled commercial air­cral't," Huffer said. 
Security officers will be feeding information to a Joint Operations Center in down­town Phoenix. Federal ol'f'i­cials, along with representa­tives of police and fire depart­ments, opened the center this week. 
Arizona Department of Public Safety Commander Mike Orose, the liaison between local public safety agencies and the NFL, said the center will help distribute rescue crews in case there is an emergency. 
If there is a bomb threat, an ATF response vehicle will be standing by near the stadium to analyze any possible explo­sive. 
Seeurity officials say they 
hope fans won't notice most of 
their efforts. But people 
attending the Super Bowl like­
ly will have to deal with more 
restrictions than they're used 
to during the regular season. 
Super Bowl officials said they will prohibit fans from entering the stadium with anything larger than a small purse or bag. They also won't allow any binoeular and cam­era cases. 
Pregame tailgaters also will 
be forbidden from much of 
the festivities they're used to. 
Fans will be allowed to tail­gate near their vehides with their own food and drinks, but they won't be allowed to have grills. 
They're also not allowed to park in more than onn park­ing spot or pitch tents in the parking lot. 
Orose said authorities start­ed working on security plans for the Super Bowl in November 2006. 
They used this year's Fiesta Bowl as a dress rnhearsal. "Our planning process, com­munications, the joint opera­tions center -it was really a whole eombination of things that we wanted to test out," Orose said. 
Orose said a joint operations center will be espeeially nec­essary for this year's Super Bowl beeause of the FB H Open and because the Super Bowl events are spread throughout the metro area. 
The only comparable sport­ing event after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks was the 2001 World Series in Phoenix, Orose said. 
That was a huge event and had a lot of media coverage, but it occurred in just one location. Orose said. 
"The NFL and the Super Bowl is a weeklong event with a series of activities taking place across the" Phoenix area. 
NBA 

Webbermayhead to Warriors 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. -Coach Don Nelson wanl<> to bring free agent forward Chris Webber back to Golden State, nearly 14 years after a feud ended their first stint together. 
"I hope that it happens to be quite honest with you," Nelson said Sunday be!ore the Warriors beat the New York Knicks 106­
104. "I think our team needs it." 

Webber was acquired by the Warriors in a draft day trade with Orlando in 1993 after beeoming just the second sophomore ever to be the top pick in the NBA draft. He won the Hookie of the Year award and made the playoffs in his only season in Golden State. 
But Webbnr dashed with Nelson and demanded a trade before his second season, and was eventually dealt to Washington in November 1994 for Torn Gugliotta and three first-round pieks. At the time, Webber cited unhappiness over Nelson's sometimes abrasive coaching style as a main reason for his wanting out of Golden State. 
Nelson was fired shortly after the trade, only to be brought baek as Warriors coach last season. Nelson said he and Webber have talked over the years and that both men have matured since their feud more than a decade ago. 
"I've learned over the years," 
UN/VF.RMTrOJ" N01"RI> lM:\11: lill LAC 
N011U EMM£ f(lfJJJANt\ G£N£RAJ.Il!P{)f.!O PERMrT APPMCATJON ! i>UJJLI<:Nom:r.\'TA.Tl:!.U::vr / 
ffi<>Y>t'~IJ .o{~l'l'f-~.lt> f.u, J®ltt~lf<I>,AJI<,Ifl.AJ.l 
:;.:;.,~~~7::~~~;;::-.N-<t/loouM<Icutr! 
lv ~l'lif) II«: ilft/<llw.. ~ t/ hmo-r..Jl 
=1/~s":,~"'""' W <<oooqHI -Milt 1W I"''MII'M<W/1· 
U~p-11..-l<f'<t...-«•INI ..CIAo--<~: 
EE~:~:;:;;~~~·4·1:eW·--Jt~~l 
MrMI<><f>M/w<t~< •,q;,lfk.lffWY ._...,., .,.,,.,. , __ ·= 
"""6flN•Nr,.fo<<illtn~..mfl"fW<"'f • j AlfiiH~<Nf>»£$p,....f-I"U»~I<> .~q-l-0.: ~·~.,.,.,....,,..,,fl}l..-:iiUo!Apft-t""J~ot,.jll<i,! 
:::,~-"'* ~ .. -... ........,.~........ -eo~f'Hl<'*":l'! 
!A.I>I<ft41W-tt>II/M4,_~~ pv<.......J.wtll«:~..,, ti.liiM«!fvll«:i><W,..I~IM 
,___1"111«:
....... 
{¢1/ti~"IQJ tWJ ,_,_, 'fJ"U....<tl lo1 PI!(. 1""................4~
....
~ 
tm ,,.u..,;•i<l""nk.U..m~IM .........fo··~ ....~1</fl." 1() >d.!l~ '"'"l"*'•j/uU.ou<t tM ""'""1"'...-J..fw 
('W<<lil--t</1~~
... 
fFt ~Uj~""'"''m"-.l."l~flH•...,..,.......s,,tH. ,'lli'M!o.q•:mtl,...,...;t•..W>IHttHI 
llll<::::.:.""'""l>/~,.,,6~-t«<~>.<.,.rr<lmltft.<JI• 
h7'1Ki<>..,M«I.l>.J/W-Ild 
.,..,.~: ....~-·~· 
QC..·~1:H.-.-......,
t:::::..":::.:.-­
1."#/ltt ~;....,;. IWHo-d.~I•A""'w" 
--!illf.ft 
( ....."~'" 
(r..i/oMO ~U<JI 


Nelson said. "I've softened a bit through some of the experiences I've had. I look back at the time when ChrL<> and I wern here early in our careers. We were both pret­ty stubborn and I was maybe too tough and he was too young to see the. positives I was trying to bring to the table." 


CANCUN, ACAPULCO, JAMAICA, BAHAMAS, PUERTO VALIARTA, SOUTH PADRE, FLORIDA, CRUISES 

'¥ 
(-..~' Sell Trips, Earn (ash ,,. :,;;sru~iin &Travel Free i:~J!ir~:::flu 
1-800·648·4849 
www.ststravel.rom 

Tuesday, January 29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Inge disgruntled at Tigers' acquisition of Cabrera 
Third baseman asked for trade, now 'thought it was time to talk' after two months without being accommodated 
said. tion during the first or second

Associated Press 
Inge played 469 games at third day of spring training, we're not 

DETROIT -Brandon Inge is base the past three going to talk angry the Detroit Tigers seasons. The 30-about it any­acquired Miguel Cabrera to year-old Inge more and we're replace him at third base. plans to work out "But money doesn ,t going to make 
Inge asked the Tigers to trade with Detroit's the best of it."
make me happy ­

him after they made the deal at pitchers and Inge hit .236
playing baseball 

the winter meetings nearly two catchers beginning with 14 homers months ago, but Detroit hasn't Feb. 15 in does.,, and 71 RBis in accommodated him. Lakeland, Fla., 151 games last "They're still trying to trade where he will get year, when he
Brandon lnge 

me, but I need to get ready for reacquainted with had 18 errors the possibility that I'm going to catching, a posi­Tigers third baseman and probably spring training with the Tigers," tion he played for twice as many Inge said Monday, speaking for 104 games during spectacular the first time since the trade. the 2003 season. plays on defense. "People have said or written, Inge has a shot to be Ivan Cabrera's batting average last 'Take your $6 Rodriguez's pri­season in Florida was .320 and million and be mary backup he hit 34 homers with 119 HBis. happy sitting on because Vance In five seasons with the Marlins, the bench.' But Wilson has not the four-time All-Star batted money doesn't ' 'Tll play flnge] recovered from .313 with 138 home runs and make me happy everywhere but elbow surgery 523 RBis. -playing base­that kept him ofi Detroit traded for Cabrera and 
as a pitcher."

ball does." the field all of starting pitcher Dontrelle Willis 
lnge agreed to last year. in early December, dealing six a $24 million, Jim Leyland The versatile players, including two highly four-year con­Tigers manager Inge also has rated prospects: left-bander tract last winter. major league Andrew Miller and outfielder After talking to experience at all Cameron Maybin. team president three outfield Inge, one of the most accessi­D a v e positions. He ble athletes in Detroit, kept his Dombrowski on Monday, Inge played shortstop and pitched in thoughts to himself for weeks said he is ready to move on and college at Virginia and recently was criticized for it. begrudgingly accept his role as a Commonwealth. "I owe everything to my fans, utility player. ''I'll play him everywhere but but it wouldn't have done me or 
"The only reason I'm bitter, as a pitcher," Tigers manager the Tigers any good to say, 'I mad and frustrated is that I'm Jim Leyland said. "I talked to don't know what's going to hap­probably not going to play as Ingey today and we both agreed pen,' or for me to bash anybody much as I have in the past," he that after we discuss his situa-about losing my job," Inge said. 

Just like the top achievers who define excellence at the University of Notre Dame, True Partners Consulting is dedicated to the highest standards of excellence-and to providing the best career opportunities for accounting graduates. Our world-class firm is the fastest-growing tax company in the United States and the leading next-generation tax-consulting services firm for good reason: we value talent, independence and opportunity. We pride ourselves on hiring, training and retaining intelligent problem solvers. To further your career and our success, True Partners Consulting is committed to knowledge sharing and ongoing training. 
You'll find that our setting is somewhat more casual than some of the largest firms-and a bit more fun. You can work collaboratively with both senior-level talent and clients, gain exposure to a variety of tax practices, and determine your own career path. And the career advantages are amazing: 
• 
Competitive compensation and benefits, including overtime pay for all hours worked 

• 
Casual atmosphere 

• 
Career-advancement potential 

• 
Training opportunities 



Combine your strength with ours. Make the most of your career, at True Partners Consulting. To learn more and apply, visit us at: 
www.tpctax.com 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
NFL 
Judge lengthens restraining order 

AP Patriots wide receiver Randy Moss jokes around with team­mates before Monday's Super Bowl practice in Tempe, Ariz. 
Sanction against Moss extended to March 28 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A temporary restraining order against Handy Moss was extended until March 2S while the New England Patriots wide receiv­er was in Arizona on Monday preparing for the Super Bowl. 
Moss' lawyer, Hichard Sharpstein. said the decision came at a hearing in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., after he learned the player's longtime friend changed attorneys. She obtained the order Jan. 14. 
Hachelle Washington's new attorney is Darrell Thompson, who replaces David MeGill. A spokesman for Thompson confirmed the change. MeGill did not return calls. 
The tern porary order required Moss to stay at least 500 feet fnim Washington. No eriminal charge has been brought, and Moss and the woman described each other as longtime friends. 
Moss has denied the accu­sation by Washington that he eommitted "battery causing serious injury" to her at her Florida home Jan. 6. Washington did not attend Monday's session, Sharpstein said. 
"He will stay completely away from her and has no desire to have contact with her," the lawyer told The Associated Press. "He's in Phoenix busy preparing to win the Super Bowl and on a day like today his mind is elsewhere." 
Moss defnnded his conduct in the Patriots' locker room on Jan. 16. Four days later, New England beat San Diego 21-12 in the AFC champi­onship game at Foxborough. For the second straight game, he caught just one pass. 
The issue. however, was quickly ovnrtaken last week 
by  the  swirl  or  attention  
around  quartnrbaek  Tom  
Brady,  who  was  spotted  

wearing a protective boot on his right foot in New York. lie didn't commnnl on it until arriVIng in Phoenix on Sunday night. 
"It's feeling good. I'll be 
rAady to go," Brady said. 
On draft day last April, the Patriots sent a 2007 fourth­round draft choiee to Oakland for Moss. lie set an NFL sea­son record of 23 touchdown catches, breaking Jerry Hiee's mark by one. lie finished tied for eighth in the league with 98 eatches and seeond with 1,493 yards receiving. 
Moss said the woman who obtained the order has been a friend for 11 years and she asked for "six figures" for what he said was an accident in which she was hurt. 
"They're false allegations, something I've been battling for like the last couple of days of threats going public if I didn't pay X amount of dol­lars," Moss said. "This young lady by no means is hurt. I didn't hurt her." 
Sharpstein said Monday that if Moss didn't agree to pay "a great deal of money" by 5 p.m. on Jan. 11, the day before the Patriots beat the Jacksonville Jaguars 31-20 in an AFC divisional playoff game, he would go public. 
"It's blackmail," Sharpstein said. "Extortion is the techni­cal crime." 
McGill issued a statement Jan. 17, saying that Moss' representatives were the first to suggest that Moss pay the woman to keep the issue quiet. 
"She has suffered mental and physical harm as a result of his actions," the statement said. "She simply wants him to take responsibility for what he has done. As a bat­tery vietim, she has shown great strength throughout this entire ordeal. 
Washington also alleged that Moss refused to allow her to seek medical treat­ment. Moss denied that. Neither MeGill nor Sharpstein has specified the nature of an injury. 
"He has acknowledged that he was at Ms. Washington's Florida residence and that he was 'guilty' of an 'accident' whieh oeeurred," the state­ment said. 
NFL 

Crennel agrees to extension 
Browns reward league's oldest coach after surprising 10-6 season 
Associated Press 

CLEVElAND -Coach Homeo Crennel has agreed to terms on a two-year contraet extension with the Cleveland Browns, his agent said Monday night. 
The 60-year-old Crennel, the league's oldest coach, had two years remaining on the five­year deal he signed with the Browns in 2005. !lis agent, Joe Linta. said the sides have agr11ed in principle to the exten­sion but that it has not yet been signed. 
Cnmnel began the 2007 sea­son on the hot seat after going just 10-22 in his first two sea­sons. However, Crennel, who won three Super Bowl rings as New England's defensive coordi­nator before eoming to Cleveland, guided the Browns to a 1 0-6 mark -their best since 1999 -and the club just missed making the AFC playoils. 
The extension is not a sur­prise. Last month, general man­ager Phil Savage said the Browns intended to reward Crennel for turning the team around after years of disarray. 
"He really deserves an exten­siml," rookie tackle Joe Thomas said. "lie did a great job this year and you ean see that his plan is kind of taking hold, what his vision was when he first got hired. 
"It will be nice for him to finally not feel the heat from everybody." 

Crennel's extension comes after some major turnover on his coaching staiT. 
Defensive coordinator Todd Grantham was fired Jan. 11 and replaeed by Mel Tueker, who previously coached Cleveland's secondary. Also, oil"ensive coor­dinator Rob Chudzinski, who was being considered by Baltimore as its next head coach, was given a two-year extension through 2011. 
Tucker, too, got an extension and the Browns want to have Crennel in line with his eoordi­nators. 
Linta began negotiations with Savage at the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala., last week. 
Crennel's days with the Browns seemed to be down to a few after they were drubbed 34­7 at home by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the season opener. But sparked by quarterback Derek Anderson, Cleveland quiekly turned it around, went 7-1 at home, and missed the postseason because or a tiebreaker. 
The Browns eredited Crennel's calmness, poise and guidance with getting them through a diilicult stretch. He's very popular with Cleveland's players, who awarded Crennel a game ball following a season­ending win over San Francisco. 
"He's like a father figure," defensive lineman Shaun Smith said. "I feel like he should have been eoaeh of the year. lie deserves it. The team went from 4-12 to 10-6. lie's straightfor­ward. He tells the truth." 
WNBA 

Players near new labor deal 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-The WNBA players union neared ratifica­tion of a new six-year contract with the league Monday in a deal that includes increases in wages and a dual salary-cap system. 
Approval of the contract by the league's 165 players, a large number of whom are playing overseas, was running more than 95 percent in favor among ballots cast. About half of the players have voted. 
The collective bargaining agreement, reached Friday and announced Monday, includes an increase in the maximum salary from $93,000 to $95,000 this season, with $2,000 increases each year. Veteran minimums will increase by about $1,000 to $50,000, and rookie minimums will increase from $32,600 to $34,500 for the four-month sea­son. 
"We are happy with the way the deal turned out," said Pam Wheeler, exeeutive director of the WNBA players union. "We made significant eeonomie strides, we made some signifi­cant changes to the system, and enhanced the quality of life for players both during and after the season." 
The contract through 2013 includes an annual increase of 3 percent in the basie cap, from $722,000 in 2007 to $750,000 this year. Teams will now be allowed to exceed that figure by a maximum of approximately 4 percent each year, with the cap increasing to $869,000 in 2013, and a 'flex' maximum of $913,000. 
"We're extremely pleased to have long-term stability and to emerge from this process with a unified outlook among owner­ship and players," WNBA presi­dent Donna Orender said in a release announcing the deal. "The new collective bargaining agreement, coupled with our new television deal and increased aetivation on the part of our sponsors provides further affirmation regarding the growth, populari­ty and quality of 
our game." to
"We are happy with
Last July, the restricted free WNBA signed an the way the deal agents, and six eight-year deal turned out. " years to be with ESPN/ABC unrestricted. that begins in Since 2003,
Pam Wheeler
2009 and will pay teams have the league an executive director of the been able to undisclosed sum WNBA players' union designate two 
season. 
"I don't know if it was neces­sarily looking at that as the impetus to get things done early as much as just trying to get the deal done so the expansion draft can take place and other orders of business can be taken care of for the WNBA to run properly and be suceessful," Wheeler said. 
Rookies will still sign three­year deals with team options for a fourth year, though players will see increases of 10 percent in the third year and 15 percent in the fourth. Players will still need four years of expe­rience be 
for rights fees for the first time. 
The WNBA also announced the expansion draft will be held Feb. 6 for the Atlanta Dream, the 14th team in the league. The WNBA begins its 12th season May 17 when the Los Angeles Sparks play the defending champion Phoenix Mercury on ABC. 
This is the third eolleetive bar­gaining agreement for the league. In 2003, negotiations went into late April and the five­year deal was signed less than a month before the start of the 'core' players, 
who automati­

cally receive the maximum salary. That will drop to one player starling in 2009, and each player now will be allowed to have the core des­ignation a maximum of five times. The core playnr also will receive $2,500 on top of the maximum salary. 
"We feel very fortunate to have completed a dna! that we think will help veterans and younger players alike," said Indiana Fever star Tamika Catchings. 
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Volleyball defeats MSU in five games 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame won its first match in the annual "Battle of the House of Noise" against rival Michigan State 3-2 on Saturday. 
Fueled by high-powered hit­ting by middle blocker Tim Goldberg, the Irish offense was going on all cylinders in the first game, cruising to a 25-17 victory. 
Following a verbal lashing by their coach, the Spartans came out for the second set with intensity. An early run by Michigan State left the Irish in a hole for the majority of the game. Despite superb defense by outside hitter Alex Lewis, the Irish could not make up the early deficit as Michigan State held on and took the second set, 21-25. 
Early in the third set, the Spartans held onto the momen­tum generated in the previous game. The Irish were down 17­24, facing a Spartan game point, when Iibera John Tibbie went back to serve. Following blocks by Mike Nejedly and kills by outside hitter Dan Zibton, the Irish rallied back with an 8-0 run. 
Notre Dame pushed back to regain the lead at 26-25 but were unable to keep their momentum as Michigan State proceeded to score three straight points to win the third set, 26-28. 
Notre Dame entered the fourth game needing a win and played accordingly. Starting opposite Mark Iandolo was an unstoppable force, putting down a kill almost every time he touched the ball. In a back and forth game, the Irish emerged victorious, 25-22. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 3-1 lead in the fifth set. The Spartans were able to claw back and tie the game 7­
7. The Irish took a one-point lead but needed to create a larger one. 
With a trick play signaled and a perfect pass, Mark Iandolo flew into the middle and found a net with no block­ers. Iandolo spiked the ball and killed the hopes of a Spartan win. Notre Dame controlled the rest of the game and closed the match with a 15-12 fifth set. 
Bowling 
The 12th annual Blue and 
Gold Classic had one of the 
largest and strongest fields in 
the country, with 81 teams in 
attendance -53 men's and 28 
women's-including two-time 
men's national champion 
Saginaw Valley State and 
reigning women's national 
champion Wichita State. 
The two men's tournament­
high averages were both post­
ed by Saginaw Valley State as 
Dan MacLelland and Steve 
MacLelland averaged 230 and 
217. respectively. SVSU won the men's event, and Wichita came in second. 
Rocio Restrepo of Wichita State averaged 214 to lead the women's tournament, which the Shockers won. 
Nick Manieri led the Irish 
with a 179 average and had 
high games of 195, 198 and 
199, finishing in the top third 
of men's scoring. 
James Breen averaged 155, including a high game of 198. Chris Kieser rolled a 178 before posting a 148 average, Nicholas Jaffa had a 175 high game and 136 average, and 
C.J. Kaltenbach averaged 130 with a high game of 189. 
The women's squad was led by Becky Caples 149 average and 178 high game. Allie Hensley was close behind with a 142 average and 179 game. 
Lindsey Zimmerman rolled a 154 on her way to a 129 aver­age; and Alex Desch posted a high game o.f 154. Sierra McNamara and Tracy Welch also contributed to the Irish scoring. 
Almost the entire draw con­sisted of ranked scholarship varsity teams or teams just outside the top-20. 
The men's draw featured 12 of the top 20 ranked teams, including No. 1 Wichita State, No. 2 Lindenwood, No. 3 Saginaw Valley State, No. 5 Purdue, No. 8 Calumet and No. 11 Florida State. 
Thirteen of the top-20 women's teams in the country ventured to South Bend, including 
No. 2 Lindenwood, No. 3 Wichita State, No. 5 McKendree, No. 6 Purdue, No. 7 Penn State, No. 10 Robert Morris and No. 11 Martin Methodist. 
The tournament switched venues this year, moving to the Chippewa Bowl. 
Skiing 
Notre Dame took to. the slopes again this weekend, in the MCSA divisional qualifier at Crystal Mountain, finishing with 22 top-15 finishes. 
The Irish matched up against Grand Valley State, Michigan State, Western Michigan, Central Michigan and Ferris State in the meet. 
In men's slalom, Joel Sharbrough finished third, Chris Knoedler placed in sixth and captain Steve Feutz took 12th place. 
Justine Murnane also claimed third in the women's slalom, with teammate Katie Paquette in eighth. Sarah Rauenhorst was 13th, just ahead of Deirdre Murdy and Liz Keedy in 14th and 15th place, respectively. 
On Sunday, Sharbrough fin­ished third in the giant slalom, while Shaw finished in seventh, Dacey in ninth place and Knoeder 11th 
Murnane again took third in women's giant slalom, while Vosler placed seventh, Merdy was in lOth and Keedy finished 11th. 
Freshman Nick Detrempe rebounded from a nasty fall in Saturday's snowboarding to take one of the top finishes on Sunday. Captain Oliver Short took fourth overall. 
Results are not yet tabulated. for snowboarding. 
Equestrian 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's participated together at the Tournament of Champions in Virginia this weekend, an invi­tation only event for the coun­try's top clubs. 
Krista Jones, Brittany Gragg 
and their teammates failed to 
earn ribbons against the 
nation's elite teams. 
Ciobanu 
continued from page 20 
freshman year when she made it to the finals in the ITA Midwest Regionals. 
"She beat a series of very good players to get to the finals as a freshman," Louderback said. 
Along with those two eye­opening performances, Ciobanu led Notre Dame with 36 singles victories last year, which marked a tie for fourth­most in school history. Her dual-match winning percent­age of . 963 set one of several new Irish records. 
At one point, Ciobanu suf­fered through three straight losses, but then turned her play around to notch 24 straight wins. Coupled with her intense work ethic, it is no surprise that the sophomore now plays from the No. 1 sin­gles spot for Notre Dame. 

"Cosmina works really hard," Louderback said. "With tennis and school both. She's a pre-med and anthropology major and just works hard at everything. She always seems to get in early to get in extra hits. One thing she can really do is manage her time between academics and athlet­ics." 
This year, Ciobanu is 12-5 overall and 1-1 in dual match play and continues to exhibit consistently solid technique in both her singles and doubles matches. 
Not only is Ciobanu a bud­ding talent, but a great team­mate also. 
"Our three sophomore girls are really close," Louderback said. "Cosmina, Colleen [Rielley] and Kali lKrisik] all help each other with their game. We have good depth, and they just all feed off each other in practices and games." 
However, Ciobanu and her teammates didn't arrive where they are on their own. Junior Kelcy Tefft has been one of the upperclassmen who aided the rising talents transition into both university life and tennis. 
"Kelcy gets along with all of them real well," Louderback said. "She's been able to help them with anything they need, be it in tennis or in life." 
One aspect that separates excellent players and leaders from the pack is the ability to make one's teammates better and assist in their improve­ment. With Ciobanu, Louderback said there is no exception to the rule. 
"She just works so hard in practice that it kind of rubs off on her teammates," Louderback said. "She's an excellent role model as an ath­lete and a person." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
NFL 

Brady practices with slight limp 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Tom Brady was back where he belongs Monday, behind center for the New England Patriots' first practice session of Super Bowl week. 
The NFL's Most Valuable Player missed three practices last week with a tender right ankle, which was taped for Monday's training at Arizona State in nearby Tempe. According to the Chicago Tribune's Dan Pompei, the designated pool reporter, the star quarterback appeared to have a slight limp but partici­pated in all phases of prac­tice, including jogging the length of the field twice at the end of drills. 
Coach Bill Belichick, as usual, declined to comment on injuries or elaborate on Brady's presence. 
"Everybody practiced," Belichick said. "The injury report will be out Wednesday." 
Brady's return from an injury sustained in the AFC championship game against San Diego was a welcome sight to receiver Wes Welker. 
"Anytime the MVP of the league is back, it has to be a positive," Welker said. "He looks good -the same dim­ples and all." 
Brady talked about the ankle for the first time Sunday, shortly after arriving, and said it wouldn't be a problem for the game. 
''I'm not concerned about how it's going to affect my play," he said. "This won't keep me out." 
Nor do his teammates seem concerned. 
"I don't worry about Tom," tackle Matt Light said. "He can take care of himself. I have a bunch of guys in front of me from the Giants to worry about." 
Brady's health became an issue a week ago when he was spotted wearing a protec­tive boot on his right foot while visiting supermodel girl­friend Gisele Bundchen in New York. He sat out all three 
practices  in  Foxborough,  
Mass.,  when  much  of the  
game  plan  was  being  
installed.  
Fans  have  to  wonder  

whether the ankle will slow 


down the record-setting pass­er against the New York Giants in Sunday's NFL title game, when New England tries to become the first league team to go 19-0. 
"This won't keep me out of this game," he said Sunday, comparing the injury to a sim­ilar problem before the 2002 Super Bowl, in which he was the MVP. "That ankle didn't keep me out of the last game. It would have to take a hell of a lot more than an ankle." 
Before the Patriots headed to Arizona, Brady appeared at a departure rally at Gillette Stadium and walked without slipping on a light dusting of snow on the field. 
He also didn't limp when he arrived at Sky Harbor Airport and, later, at the news confer­ence. 
Monday's 1 hour, 40-minute workout was conducted in shorts and shells rather than full pads. The footing was good despite the recent rain. 
"We just wanted to get a good, crisp practice and work on our timing," Belichick said. "We had a lot of contact last week." 
Indeed. It was a week dur­ing which Brady's health overshadowed the Patriots moving in on the first perfect NFL season since the 1972 Miami Dolphins. Yes, the three-time champion quarter­back's persona has transcend­ed even the Super Bowl. 
"I feel energized down here to come into the hotel and to kind of start the process," Brady said Sunday night. "It is going to be a very fast week. I am not concerned about how it is going to affect my play­ing, and I can't run anyway, so it is not going to have much of an impact. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 29, 2008 

Shooting 
continued from page 20 
against UConn was enough to 
inspire despair in anyone. 
It wasn't that Notre Dame fell hopelessly to tlw top-ranknd team in the nation; its defense played well and the oflimse showed signs of life. The Irish managed 64 points against a team that nntered Sunday's gamn allowing only 46 points per game. But that's what makes the loss even more frus­trating. 
Aller Notre Dame got over the shell-shock of watching Iluskies freshman forward Maya Moorn drain four 3-point­ers, a jumper and a foul shot in the lirst five minutes, it got its aet togethnr and fought back. Pnters scored twice, sophomore guard Ashley Barlow hit two !hlP throws. and junior guard l.indsay Schradnr and snnior center Melissa D'Amico both hitjumpnrs to ti11 the seore at 21 with 11:12 remaining in the lirst half. 

With less than six minutes remaining in the second hall', the Irish answnn1d UConn on four straight possessions. Barlow. Pnters, senior guard Charnl Allen and Schrader all hit jurnp shots in n1sponse to Connecticut's points. 
Granted, UConn lnd by 20 at this point, but at lnast the Irish battled. The oll'!msive life was there, but it wasn't consistent. WU YUE!fhe Observer 
Notre Dame shot 33.S per­Irish point guard Tulyah Gaines attempts an off-balance shot dur­cPnt from the lloor and scored ing Notre Dame's 81-64 loss to No. 1 Connecticut on Sunday. 
only 1 (;of its {J4 points in the paint. The oll'ense endured a lane. complete reversal from the The team continued to take oll'ense that dropped trips on bad shots and forcp, bad passes Gnorgetown last week. for thp, rest of the game. 
The dif1'erence lies in Notre McGraw, however, wasn't wor­Dame's shot selection. ried about the shot selection. Throughout the game. but "I think there were times 
especially in the  when we  
second half, Notre Damn would rush its  "We could have done a little better at  rushed it, but we want Lindsay, Charel  
shots, taking pull-up jumpers on fast breaks rather than set­ attacking the basket. I think we settled for too many jumpers."  and Ashley­they have to score for us," McGraw said. "I  
ting up an  would rather  
o!l'ense or hasti­ Muffet McGraw  they went 5-for­ 
ly driving the lane only to run  Irish coach  14 than didn't take their shots.  
into a wall of  !thought  

defenders. It also rushed the Ashley had great shot selection possessions it did set up, at tonight." times fon~ing bad passes and Since Notre Dame trailed for attempting to scorp too quickly. most of the game, it's only nat­
Five minutes into the second ural that it would look for a half. down 13 points. Allen chanee to get back in the game drove the length of the floor quickly. The Irish have shot and !ired an of1'-balanee, pull­45.4 percent from the field this up jumper. A few minutes later, season. Barlow, Peters and sophomore guard Melissa sophomore center Erica LeehlitnP.r threw away a pass, Williamson all shoot over 50 causing Md;raw to call a time­percP.nt, Allen shoots 47 per­out. Aftm the timeout, Allen cent and Schrader shoots 45 drove into two defenders in the percent. You can't fault them 
tiees very hard every day. lie's got a great spirit about

Bulfin 
him and he loves to dive. You continued from page 20 can see it when he com­
petes," Welsh said. "We're l'i r s t time I did it, s·o that very proud of the suceess made it !Wen better. The goal he's had. And hopefully it 
in my sport is to ~~onsistnntly improve, and I think our team is doing a great job at that." 
But Irish coach Tim Welsh said Bull'in's great diving ability is more than just 
will continue for the next "He's got a great couple of months."
spirit about him and 
The Irish
he loves to dive. " 
and Bulfin ended the reg­ular season in victorious 
Tim Welsh 
Irish coach 
fashion, but 
there is still 
work to be 

talnnt. Welsh said he is a diver with a grPat work ethie that focuses on the team. 
"lie is reaching a peak at exactly the right time. lie earns his success and prac­for taking the shots. 
But if they aren't falling, you need to try something else. UConn did. 
Once Notre Dame found the antidote for Moore, the Huskies funneled the ball in the lane to sophomore center Tina Charles, who scored 22 points. 
Once the Irish found that their shots weren't falling, they needed to attempt to get the ball inside. This would help the consistency that the Irish lacked against the Huskies. McGraw hinted at this concept. 
"We could have done a little better at attacking the basket," McGraw said. "I think we set­tled for too many jumpers." 
With the size the Irish have under the basket (D'Amico is 6­foot-5, Williams is 6-foot-4 and Peters is 6-foot-2), they need to make an effort to penetrate and take high-percentage shots. 
Against the No. 1 team in the country, it may not have worked, but the team needs to make the attempt. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
important that we are doing the little things right. Next week we will start to go big on the boards again." 
After careful work and preparation, Bulfin and his teammates will head into the Big East meet with a 4-6 reeord, looking to reelaim the title that they won in 2005 and 2006. 
"The Big East competition is going to be tough this year, but I think Notre Dame has a great shot at winning it," Bullin said. "As a diving team everyone is performing great, so I don't think it is too far of a streteh to think that we could put six guys in the finals this year." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu and Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
do that, that's when we're at our best."

Zone 
Notre Dame sits at 4-2 in continued from page 20 the Big East, good enough for 
second plaee, and has ward Luke llarangody toueh­winnable games coming up es on most possessions to against Providence and open the floor for cutters and DePaul. Luckily for the Irish, outside shots. both games are at home, a 
Brey said the defensive plus in the chaotic Big East, switch came as which has a result of already seen 14
"But I thought we
Villanova's of 16 teams guard-heavy needed some kind of lose at least 
lineup and a change before we three confer­
need to give his ence games.
went on the
team a new "If you're a look. road again. " fan, this is "People get unbelievable into a rhythm following the
Mike Brey
playing against Big East," Brey
Irish coach 
you and say, said. "If you're 'This is how one of the 16 Notre Dame plays offensively, [Big East! coaehes, we should this is how they play defen­have our heads cheeked for sively,' but you have to keep it our sanity because this thing 
fresh and get some new looks," Brey said. 
The 1-2-2 allowed Notre Dame to cover more of the perimeter and contain Villanova's guards, specifi­cally leading scorer Seottie Reynolds, who only seored 13 points, with six 
''If you're one ofthe 16 [Big East] coaches, we should have our heads checked for our sanity because this thing is hard to predict. " 
Mike Brey Irish coach 
is hard to pre­dict. But it is fun being a part of it." 
Even though the Irish have a 31-game home winning streak, the third­longest aetive strnak in the country, Brny said they ean 't afford to take a night off against Providence and 

of those points coming in the 
final three minutes after 
Notre Dame opened up a com­
fortable lead. 
Brey also made a slight 

change in personnel, starting 
junior Zaeh llillesland in 
place of junior Ryan Ayers. 
Even though the switeh didn't 
result in a dramatic change in 
playing time for either player. 
Brey said it did motivate both 
players. 
"One of the things I think 

the change in the lineup did 
was it jacked up two guys," 
Brey said. "It kind of woke 
Zach up, and I think it had 
Ryan play with a little ehip on 
his shoulder, and he was 
more aggressive offensively. 
Now, you could also screw up 
two guys. That day, though, it 
worked and hopefully they'll 
continue to do that." 
Brey chose to put the 6:foot­

9 Hillesland and 6-foot-7 
Ayers at the top of the zone, 
using their height to prevent 
Villanova from getting good 
looks at the basket. 
"Size is a key," Brey said. 

"The length up there is help­
ful and it's hard to shoot over 
that guy· and he ean get his 
hands on things, but it gives 
you si.ze up on the top and 
they play that spot really well 
because they're rangy." 
Brey left well enough alone on the offensive end of the floor, running the offense through Harangody and allowing Hillesland and soph­omore guard Tory Jackson to penetrate and create open looks for junior guard Kyle McAlarney and senior for­ward Rob Kurz. In the two road losses against Marquette and Georgetown, the offense struggled, but was able to find its groove against 
.Villanova, who could not play 
defense on the level of 
Marquette and Georgetown. 
"I would give credit to a Marquette and Georgetown defense more than the failure of our offense," Brny said. "We couldn't establish our style of play. For whatever reason. maybe the inexperi­ence of Villanova, and the size of their front line, we were able to play inside-out ball with Harangody. When we can DePaul, who both have the potential to pull off an upset. 
"We put ourselves in good position eoming back home, but you ean't take anything for granted." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Uve in This Moment Tour Sunday March 9 • 7:00PM 
Morris P12rforming flrts C:crntcrr 
Ol't S8LE l'tOWI 
CHURCH GROUPS WElCOME 574/235-9190 
done with the Big East eham­pionships just three weeks away. 
"We're starting to really focus on some fundamentals right now," Bulfin said. "It is 

Tuesday, January 29, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 


CROSSWORD 
Across 41 Scattered about Comment not to 
42 Entre 

be taken 43 Metropolitan _
seriously 5 _Marley's 44 "Never!" ghost in "A 
47 Some 

Christmas Carol" apartments 
10 Con game 51 Uno+ due 14 Unwanted spots 52 Apartment 15 Band together window sign 16 Poi source 53 Kudrow of 17 Response to a "Friends"
knock 19 29,035 ft., for 55 Mediterranean Mt. Everest fruit 20 Have a bawl 
58 Both: Prefix 

21 Designer label 59 Discounter'sletters pitch22 Heap kudos on 62 Computer with 24 "For instance ..." an iSight camera25 Empathize with 63 Have an26 The important mystery
thing 31 A Chaplin 64 Plow pullers 32 Sluggers' slats 
65 Unit of force 33 Lhasa 
66 Teammate of 

(Tibetan dogs) 
Snider and 38 Doctor's query Hodges 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Classic computer game set on a seemingly deserted island 
Down 1975 Spielberg 
thriller 2 Eerie cave effect 3 One not 
associating with the likes of you? 4 Private eye, tor short 5 Place to find auto parts 6 Have with 7 Half of an E.P.A. mileage rating 
8 Pony players' locale, in brief 
9 Paging device 10 Incredible bargain 
11 Where the San Andreas Fault is: Abbr. 
12 "Ain't!" retort 13 Shaker's partner 
18 Genesis 
patriarch 23 Convened again 24 "Can you believe 
this?" look 25 Come clean 
26 Knocks the socks off 
27 Alternative to a Twinkie 
28 From the top 29 Steakhouse selections 
30 Attach, in a way 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld 
34 Terrible twos. 45 Armed conflict 53 Apollo's 
e.g. instrument
46 Battleship shade 35 Browse, as the 

47 Sober 54 N.Y.S.E. debuts Web 48 Rock opera with 55 Full of guile 
36 Sportscaster 
the song "Pinball 
Hershiser 
56 Tees off 37 Hang around Wizard" 
49 Densely packed, 57 Fellow 
39 Dickens's Drood in a way 60 Step on it 
40 "Can I come out 50 Pour salt on, now?" perhaps 61 Soccer 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FHOOL 
I [ J lu
©2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
JETEC 
[] 


SIPHOL 
[l] tJ 

www.jumble.com
tDILFED I
J rJ ( J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT HAPPENE:D WHE:N SHE: WE:NT OUT WITH THE: AII<.­C.ONDITIONING SALE:SMAN. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: ..
HE rI I I JrI I J.. rI I xJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: CHIME DIZZY EMBALM MANAGESaturday's 
Answer: When the little Indians got lost, the cornfield became a-MAIZE MAZE 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITU:S HORN ON THIS DAY: LeAnn Rimes. 25: Jason Priestley, 38: Shania Twain. 42; Daniel Stern, 50 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your emotions hold you hack when you have so much going for you thi' year. Don't sit idle when there is so much to do. Select what's imp<:>rtant and move full steam ahead. Your numbers are 5. 10. 13. 17. 38.47 
ARIES (March 2l·Apri119l: You need to get away from it all. A place you can relax and ponder over what. you want to do next is in order. Don't be fooled by changes going on around you at work. It is as you see it. 3 stars 
TAlJRUS tApri120-May 20): Someone may be falsifying inforntation. Don't give to a charity or group you know little about. Stick to what you know and refrain from overreacting. A surpri~e is in the works. 4 stars 
(;EMINI (May 21-June 20): Be patient, especially when dealing with colleagues and family. Emotions will be running high and saying something you'll regret is evident. Focus more on kindness, generosity and getting along with others. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've got so much going for you, so don't waste it procrastinating or thinking you can't. You should be discovering new things that you can turn into a protil:llhle venture. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: You ~hould be concentrating on financialmat.tcrs, closing deals and finalizing settlements. investments or even conu·acLs that are pending. Place your calls and corner the people who need to do their part. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Things may be up in the air today. especially where partnerships and personal matters come into play. Stand your ground but don't do so with force. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take oft· and do something different or exciting that will stimulate your imagination and captivate your mind. You arc due for a change so surround yourself with new people, places and pastimes. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct, 2:'-Nov. 21): Take a bold stance, stick to your plans and present what you have to offer. You may not grab everyone's attention but the people who do get what you are doing will be fascinated. 5 star~ 
SA(;rrTARIUS tNov. 22-Dec, 21): Don't even think about spouting off or caus­ing a ruckus. You are better off taking a wait-and-see approach and keeping your thoughts to yourself. 2 stars 
CAPRICOR.!'II (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Things are turning around for you. The deals 
that appeared to be taking so long to play out are now likely to go forward, allow­ing you the freedom to move on. 4 stars 
AQlJARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be very careful how you word things. Someone may try to misquote or misinterpret you. 3 stan; 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Man'h 201: Emotions will be hard to control. Don't let them overrule what you have to do professionally or educationally. A partner or someone you like may surprise you with his or her decision to make alterations that will inl1uence you. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, passionate and have an active mind and imagina­tion. You are adventuresome and tend to live on the edge. You have spunk and for­titude and will stand up to anyone who opposes you. 
Eu~:enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential 
consulflltions 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, January 29, 2008 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
1-2-2 punch 
Defensive szvitch helped Notre Dame beat 'Nova 
By CHRIS HINE Spons Ediror 
With a week to pn1parn for Villanova after struggling to put points on thn board against Gnorgetown, coach Mike Brny dneided something n1-1nded to change if Notre Damn was going to be suc­cessful on the road. 
"When you have a week to work on things after a tough loss, and l'vn benn in this a whiln, and you want to maybe adjust some things, but then you're careful that you don't ovnr-coach and change too many things and screw your team up," Brey said. "But I thought we IHHHied some kind of change before we went on thn road again." 
In looking at how his Irish m a t elw d u p with t he Wildcats. Brey dPcidnd the changn he nneded to make was on the dnfensivn end of thn rloor, lnaving Notrn Damn's offnnsive game mostly intact. 
For most of its 90-SO win Saturday. Notre Damn played a 1-2-2 zone. a departure from the 2-:{ zone and man­to -m a n tlw I r i s h n o r m a II y play. Ol'f'nnsivnly, tho Irish were abln to take advantage of Villanova's lack of height a n d p Ja y tin~ i r i n s i d o -o u t ganw. getting sophomore for-
see ZONE/page I R 


ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Ciobanu poised with racket 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Last March. then-No. 2 Notre Dame was on the vnrge of bning upset by No. 23 Duke ­until Cosmina Ciobanu upend­ed Blue Dnvil senior Tory Zawacki. 
"That's whnn I knew we had a spncial player in Cosmina," Irish coach .Jay Louderback said. 
Tlw Irish wnrn winning 3-1 early in the matl'h, but strug­gled and lost thP next two to the Blue Dnvils. After her mall:h was tied 5-5 in the final set, Ciobanu. now a sopho-· nwrn, stepped up and won her match -and captuwd the vie­tory for Notre Damn. 
·:nuke was a top team, and shn playml against a very expe­rient~ed and taiPnted senior." Loudnrback said. "On top of that. shn had tlw pressure of' thP wholtl matl'h riding on her. and was able to pull out a win." 
Ciobanu had shown promisn as early as OctobPr of' her 
see CIOBANU/page 17 

ND WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 
COMMENTARY 
Irish need to be 111ore selective 
Mufl'et McGraw must have some of the toughest toes in the business. 
On every game night, she squeezes them into tight point­ed shoes, all 
with three­inch-plus heels. Oddly enough, McGraw is most com­fortable when she assumes 

this position Bill Brink 
when her team's play Sports Writer pleases her, 
or the Irish are in a good gamn. 

She stands for timnouts, to call out plays or assignments ­and when she's angry. Against Connecticut on Sunday, she stood nearly the entire game. 
McGraw crouehnd once, at the beginning of' the seeond half' -for 43 seeonds. When fresh­man forward Devereaux Peters committed her third foul undor a minute into the hall', sh11 popped back to her feet. She didn't crouch again until the final two minut(ls, when the game was out of hand. 
I don't blame her for her frus­tration. Watching the Irish 
see SHOOTING/page 18 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Diver 111akes a splash in tea111 record books 
Bulfin won four state titles in high school 
By ELLYN MICHALAK and 
CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writers 
Junior diver Michael Bulfin is a natural-born diver. but he didn't begin exercising his tal­ent until the age of 13. 
"I got into diving through a friend who was on the local club team. 1 visited the coach one day and jumped off some platforms and decided I could get used to it," Bulfln said. 
Shortly after learning of his innate ability to dive, Bulf'in attended St. Aquinas lligh School in Ft. Lauderdale, f<la. The team won four state championships with Bulf'in on the roster and has sent three swimmers to the Olympics in recent years. During his four years at St. Aquinas, he set every school diving record. 
His decision to attend Notre Dame was influenced by his family background, academics and the chance to be under the instruction of Notre Dame diving coach Caiming Xie. 
"My dad graduated from here, and my sister attended here as well," 'Bull'in said. "Academically it is a privilege to attend here. That, eoupled with the fact that Caiming Xie coached an Olympic gold medalist and is one of the most distinguished coadws in the world, made it hard to pass up." 
Bulf'in has made the most of his opportunitins at Notre D a m e b y s e t t i n g an d t lw n again breaking the school record in the 3-meter dive 
(393.97) in consecutive weeks, a record which was previously held by Irish divPr Andy Maggio, who graduated in 2003. Bulf'in's family was there to see the diver achieve success. 
"It was great brnaking those records," B u ll'i n said. "My parents were at the meet thn 
see BULFIN/page 18 



