
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ELECTION 2008 
Indiana candidates prepare for election 
Students help out on local congressional campaigns 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
While the 2008 Presidential election has spurred many students to become involved in national campaigns, some Notre Dame students have turned their attPntion to the local elections that will also take place on Nov. 4. 
Incumbent Joe Donnelly is running against challenger Luke Puckett for Hepresentative of Indiana's 2nd District. Both candidates told The Observer they have seen enthusiastic support from Notre Dame students. 
"There have been a number of students and faculty who volunteer on a regular basis," Donnelly said. "We are extraordi­narily grateful for all the help that they 
see CONGRESS/page 4 

Incumbent Daniels holds lead over Long Thompson 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
With Election Day looming, incumbent Republican Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels has opened a 12-point lead over Democratic challenger Jill Long Thompson, according to a Research 2000 poll released October 25. 
Long Thompson, who narrowly defeated Jim Schellinger by less than a percentage point in the Democratic primary, also trails in campaign contributions, having raised about $4.5 million in 2008 compared to Daniels's $8.4 million, according to the Indianapolis Star. 
The difference in campaign funds has been a major factor in the election, accord­ing to adjunct professor of American 
see GOVERNOR/page 6 

By KATIE KOHLER Assistant Managing Editor 
Even though University President Fr. John Jenkins created an ad hoc committee to review football weekend safety and security protocol earlier in the month to address complaints from fans, some alumni and fans said there is still more that can be done. 
Eric Murray, a 1998 Notre Dame graduate, along with around six other alumni and several other contributors, founded the Alumni Council for Enforcement Reform to 
ND Alumni address security concerns 
New Web site, council will attempt to restore friendly atmosphere by working with University 
address these concerns. Murray is spearheading the effort to restore the atmos­phere of past seasons with­out escalating law enforce­ment. 
"Our goal is not to have a confrontational relationship with the University. We want to act as a conduit to vali­date these complaints towards a rational response," he said. 
They have received numerous responses via their website, thereal­notredame.com -some more vocal than others ­
see USHERS/page 4 

Panel discusses political involvement 
By LIZ O'DONNELL News Writer 
A panel of local community members discussed the rights of political involvement that are held by citizens living in modern socie­ty in the auditorium of the llnsburgh Center Thursday. 
With the 2008 presidential elec­tion less than a week away, stu­dents and other members of the campus community have devel­oped a heightened sense of inter­est in their ability to partake in political activities as Americans. 
This event, entitled "Beyond Voting: A Right to Political Participation in the 21st Century," is a part of the yearlong celebra­tion of the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHH). 
Jackie Smith, an associate pro­fessor of Sociology and Peace Studies, moderated the discussion, the focus of which was to educate and discuss the practice of democ­racy on a local, national, and international level. 
"Political participation has to expand far beyond the ballot box if we want it to count," Smith said. 
Participants in the panel were four people from the local South Bend community. Two of the pan-
see PANEL/page 6 


Students push for 
•


unions 

CLAP collects signatures to support ND workers 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 

Members of the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) at Notre Dame want to "break the taboo of the word 'union,"' CLAP member Sarah Lyons said, so starting today they will begin an education campaign and collect signatures in sup­port of a union for Notre Dame workers. 
"A big part of this education campaign will be showing that unions are not a ridiculous, crazy idea," CLAP member Mary DeAgostino said Thursday. "The law supports it. Catholic social teaching sup­ports it. [Executive Vice President] John Affieck-Graves said he supports workers' right to unionize. It's kind of ridicu­lous our workers have to be so afraid of talking about a union." 
CLAP will kick off its cam­paign on a home football game Friday to pick up alumni signa­tures, CLAP member Nick Krafft said. 
"If [the workers! see that a few hundred people are willing to sign something that says they support this effort, that's just a real boost in confidence," he said. 
see CLAPI page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October 31, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Catholics rock 
A woman foams at the mouth, con­
vulsing hysterically. A man howls and 
lungns, attacking the priest praying for 
him. 

Thnsn scenes seem straight out of a 
low-budget horror movie. But for Hev. 
Vincent Lampert, 

ollicial nxoreist of Tess Clvantos 
the archdiocese of 
Indianapolis, this is 
just another day's 

work. I lis tools are News Writer 
a rosary, crucifix, 
lloly Watnr and the 

ancinnt tome The Hites of Exorcism. 
Father Lampert came to speak at the Catholic Newman Center of the University of Illinois about his experi­ences a..'i an exorcist while I visited thnre, and his stories rangn from the humorous to the outright frightening. 
Most pnople think of demon possession as a superstitious tradition from the Middln Ages. 
The truth: It is a worldwide reality. Nobody knows this bettnr than Lampert, who receives live or six calls a week from people seeking an exorcist's help. lie refilrs every person psychiatric coun­snling. If the psychiatrist cannot find a medical explanation, only then will l.ampnrt bnhrin consultations. 
Thn most important qualification: the pnrson must want to be exorcised. Also, Hev. Lampert makes sure thn person ha..'> the mental and physical stamina to undergo exorcism. a demanding process. 
Dnmons go to h'Ynat lengths to distract thn exordst from his praynrs. They foree tlwir host'> to levitatn, fi>am at the mouth, speak in creepy voices and foreign tongues and have superhuman strength. Demons know a person's sins until the pnrson eonlilsses them. so demon's hosL'i will yell out the exordst's unconfessed sins. 
"That just creatns an awkward situa­tion," Hev. l.ampertjoknd. Thn demons curse God, the saint'> and anyone else -with one huge exception. "They curse everyone except for the Blessed Viq.,rin," Hev. Lampert said. 
As a Notre Dame student, I was pretty excited to know my school is under the protection of the only person the Devil won't mess with. Apparently insulting (;od's mom is further than even the Devil will go. 
Hev. Lampert's talk was one of the most interesting lectures I've attended at any college. My question: Why hasn't Notre Dame invited Hev. Lampert to speak? It's llalloween, the perfect time fi>r discussing demons; we're a Catholic university, where a priest would be a welcome speaker; and Indianapolis is much nearer to us than to the University of IllinoL'i. 
My other question: Why do those in f(Jar of supernatural forces always turn to the Catholic Church? Hev. Lampert's dients are usually non-Catholics, and when he advises them to turn to a pa..<>tor or reliJ.,rious leader of their own faith, the answer i'i always the same: their pastors told them to seek out a Catholic priest. It's as if they are admitting Catholics are the real deal, the only ones who can stand up to the devil's most powerful weapons. I've heard people joke that "Protestants are Catholics Lite." If demon possession and the very real work of exorcists is any measure, that certainly seems true. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivantos@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Ocr. 29 In Focus special edition ofThe Observer, the speech excerpt run on page 2 was from a speech Sen. John McCain gave in 2004, nor his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU EATING FOR DINNER? 


Maeve Raphelson Scott Barton Renee Rinehart Danny Buckley James DeDreo Patrick Johnson 
junior sophomore junior sophomore freshman sophomore McGlinn St. Edwards Lyons Alumni Dillon Dillon 
"A Fapita-"Chicken ''Veggies -it's "Wing Night "Tossed shells "Tomorrow's 
,
part fajita, part wings. what's for sucks." with meat balls energy. pita." dinner." and baked chicken in a basil marinara 
sauce. 
IN BRIEF 

Student Activities Office will be having a Halloween Fest today from noon to 5 
p.m. There will be free food from restaurants like Chipotle, Jimmy John's, and Chick-Fil-A. There will also be Halloween activities and games played throughout the afternoon. 
Notre Dame Glee Club will be performing at Debartolo Performing Arts Center today at S p.m. Admission will be $3 for students. 
Student Activities Office is holding a Haunted Campus Tour today starting at 10 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. The tour is part of the SAO llalloween Weekend. 
Gregory P. Crawford, Dean of the College of Science will 
give  a  lecture  entitled  
"Notre  Dame  Science:  
Making  a  Difference"  

Saturday at 11 a.m. in Room 105 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Black Images will be held on Saturday from 8:30 to 
10:30 p.m. It will be held in Washington Hall. Admission is $5. 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be holding a concert by the Alison Brown Quartet on Sunday at 2 p.m. The quartet is a bluegrass band. Tickets will be $38 for general admission and $15 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 67 HIGH 72 LOW 52 LOW 55 

Zoo uses crane to rescue polar bear that fell into moat 
MILWAUKEE -A polar bear that fell into a dry moat at his zoo enclosure more than two weeks ago was rescued Thursday by officials who hoisted him out with a crane. 
Zero the bear was play­ing with a toy on Oct. 13 at the Milwaukee County Zoo when he tumbled off the edge of his exhibit and landed unhurt on netting a metre or two above the moat floor. Zoo officials cut the net so the bear could drop safely. 
Officials had hoped the 19 year old polar bear would use a nearby stair­way in the moat to climb back to his exhibit, but he stayed where he was. The zoo tried to tempt him out with treats such as apples, peanut butter and herring, but officials were forced to physically remove him when efforts proved unsuc­cessful. 
Zoo officials anesthetized him and pulled the 500­kilogram bear out Thursday morning. 
Japanese teacher punished for horsing around 
TOKYO -A Japanese teacher was reprimanded after leaving her classes 
more than 150 times so 
she could take horse-rid­
ing lessons, the education 
board said Wednesday. 
The 50-year-old middle school teacher in western Osaka prefecture would leave her students waiting as she went out to ride horses and then return directly home. 
She took 152 riding les­sons for more than than two years until this month, mastering horse­jumping over a fence, the Osaka educational board said in a statement. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 

_, 
II( 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 65 HIGH 43 HIGH 60
...I 

LOW 43 LOW 33 LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 

Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Academic building dedicated atCollege 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Students, faculty, benefactors and University officials gath­ered Thursday to dedicate Saint Mary's new academic building Spes Unica. 
"The whole building is filled with light," vice president and the cussed Saint Mary's dedication to the growth of not only the minds of its students, but of their faith as well. 
"What is being dedicated here is a place of learning," he said. "It is a statement by Saint Mary's that not only is there no contradiction between faith and reason -between faith and 
dean of faculty ''There is real energy 
Patricia Fleming 
in this building. I 
said. "There is 
real energy in hope you have had a this building. I chance to see hope you have 
it today." 
had a chance to see it today." Visiting alum­Patricia Fleming nue, benefactors vice president and and family 
dean of faculty 
viewed the results of their generous contri­butions during the open house and tours of Spes Unica. Current students and faculty members led tours around the building, leaving from the Atrium every 15 minutes begin­ning at 1:30. 
After the open house, visitors 
received a taste of the academic programs and centers housed in Spes Unica through the aca­demic presenta­tions. There were 23 different presentations by professors and students and department open houses. 
The official blessing of Spes Unica began at 5 
p.m. with a wel­come from Fleming. The ceremony con-thanked those involved with the development of the building and explained her personal interest in this project. 
"Finally, we can show you how much you mean to us, and how much we value what you do," Prikkel said to the faculty. 
"It is a statement by Saint Mary's that not only is there no con­tradiction between faith and reason ­between faith and learning -but that education is only complete when both are nourished. " 
Rev. John M. D' Arcy Bishop of Fort Wayne ­South Bend Diocese 
tinued with a Bible reading by Student Body President Michelle Gruscinski and a reflection the Most Reverend John M. D'Arcy, Bishop of the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese. 
In his homily, D'Arcy dis-learning -but that education is only complete when both are nourished." 
After the offi­cial blessing was conducted, Saint Mary's alumna Jennifer Mathilde Prikkel, a mem­ber of the Board of Trustees, 
President Carol Ann Mooney closed the ceremony with a final word of thanks to those who made the build­ing possible and especially the donors. Their contributions totaling $19.4 million paid for the entire build­ing, so that no tuition fee is needed to be spent, said Mooney. 
A 

Thanksgiving Mass was held in the Holy Spirit Chapel of Le Mans Hall following the recep­tion held after the blessing of Spes Unica. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloneyO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Spes Unica receives positive revievvs 
Students and faculty appreciate resources ofnew academic building 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's new academic building, Spes Unica Hall, which was dedicated in a cer­emony yesterday, has already drawn positive reviews from students and professors. 
Spes Unica houses 13 of 20 academic departments and the Center for Academic Innovation, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) and the Center for Spirituality. There are also department labs which offer resources to stu­dents, study rooms, a cafe, lounge areas and wireless internet. 
Senior Katie Putz said the new building provides a big upgrade for the Saint Mary's campus. 
"It's very functional," she said. "Quite a change from Madaleva [Hall]." 
One thing that Putz said sticks out to her is the organ­ization of the departments in the building. 
"You don't have to go from the basement to the third floor [to get to professors' offices] everyone's central­ized," she said. 
Senior Deanna Molosky also approved of the new building, adding the new art­work really added a lot to the building. 
"It represents Saint Mary's in that every office has a place," she said. "There is a lot of Holy Cross representa­tion and Christian art." 
Pam Blair, an administra­tive assistant for CWIL, enjoys the centrality of her department in Spes Unica. 
"It's nice that we as a cen­ter are all together," she said, "Before we were separated." 
The "cooperate" feel of the building is the only thing that bothers Professor Amanda Littauer, Assistant Professor of History and Woman's Studies. 
"It's a little hard because the furniture and fabrics are pretty standardized," she said. 
However the technology 

and the large amount of spac·e available to both facul­ty and students is especially beneficial, she said. 
She pointed out the new resource room for the Women's Studies department located on the second floor. It's equipped with a comput­er, books, fliers and even movies to create a "commu­nity space" for students, she said. 
Professor Frances Bernard Kominkiewicz, director of the Social Work program, was very enthusiastic about the new space. 
"We've been just really blessed to have a building like this," she said. "In Social Work the students are ener­gized and have stated to me that they believe their learn­ing needs have been more than met." 
The social work depart­ment in another department with a lab, she said. In that lab, she explained, students are learning interview skills. This "makes a great world of difference," she said. 
"I rarely leave now until six or seven," Kominkiewicz said, ".~ love this building that much. 
Chair of the sociology department, professor Susan Alexander's favorite part of the building is her new office. 
"I was in the lower level of Madaleva so I was without a window for 17 years," she said. 
She is also a big fan of the new technology available to both students and teachers, she said. The only problem she has encountered are stu­dents sitting in the far corner of a classroom whose view of the projection screen is par­tially blocked by the podium provided for the computers, she said. 
Her department has two labs, one is a statistics lab, equipped with computers and other aids, and the other is more spacious. It has more equipment for students to use including computers and a large flat-screen television. The labs are Alexander's favorite part of Spes Unica. 
"This is my 17th year here and it's the first time I've had space to do research, so I'm very happy with the labs," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at mstiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 31, 2008 
Congress 
continued from page 1 
have given." 

Donnelly said students have done everything from knocking on doors and calling voters in the dis­trict to computer assistance. 
"It has been all-encompassing," he said. 
The excitement over the Obama campaign on campus has spilled over into the congressional cam­paign, Donnelly said. 
"We see a large number of Notre Dame volunteers every day," he said. 
Puckett, the Hepublican candi­date for Hepresentative, said he has also seen support from the Notre Dame community. 
"The Notre Dame College Republicans have helped out with a couple of things for us and I have spoken to a couple of class­es," Puckett said. 
Ile said the president of the Notre Dame College Hepublicans, Ed Yap has played an integral role in his campaign. Yap has organ­ized phone banks, events and would oftpn go to parades several hours early to get things set up, Puckett said. 
"He would walk the parades with me," he said. "Ed is good at that stuff." 
Puckett said working with col­lege student..'> was one of the more fun parts of campaigning. 
"[The students) have so much stinking energy," he said. 
Senior Cindy Brenner spent the summer working on Congressman Donnelly's campaign for reelec­tion. 
Brenner said she initially became involved in the local Congressional election because she enjoys working on campaigns, and she thought she would have more responsibilities on a local campaign. 
"I had the opportunity to work for Obama's campaign, but as a Donnelly person you get a lot more responsibility," she said. 
Brenner said she worked on the campaign as a field director, mak­ing phone calls, collecting and entering data and attending parades and events. 
"I think I was at probably about 50 parades this summer," she said. 
The College Democrats at Notre Dame have been campaigning strongly fi1r Obama, but they have also included the election of Congressman Donnelly in some of their project..'>, Brenner said. 
"[The College Democrats) made calls for Obama and asked about Joe too," Brenner said. 
Brenner said a Notre Dame political science class has also partidpated in the campaign as part of their curriculum. The class split up so half worked for a Hepublican campaign and half worked for a Democratic cam­paign, and the Democrat group worked for Donnelly, she said. 
Everyonl) in the group was given a prednct in which they had to contad the people who lived there by phone or in person, she said. 
Brmmer said she was drawn to Donnt~lly because of his moderate approach to polities. Although he is a Democrat, Donnelly supports the Second Amendment and he is pro-life, she said. 
"lie is a conservative Democrat so hn has the morals of a lot of the conservative areas [of Indiana)," Brenner said. "lie is a moderate candidate that everyone respects." 
Congressman Donnelly said one of his main strengths as a candi­date is the fact that he does not worry about party politics. 
"I am an independent voice for the country," he said. 
The main focus of his campaign is standing up for the working families of Indiana by creating more jobs in the area and protect­ing the retirement and homes of everyone who lives here, Donnelly said. 
"We need to make sure that we 
have a strong job base so there is 
solid employment for everyone in 
the community," he said. 
To do so, Donnelly said it is nec­essary to strengthen the credit market<>, create a strong banking system and ensure that people are buying products made in the 2nd distriet. 
Donnelly said his other main concern is achieving energy inde­pendence. Although he said he does not think drilling will auto­matically and solely solve the country's current economic prob­lems, he is willing to research the prospect of using American oil. 
"Energy independence is criti­cal," Donnelly said. 
Puckett's campaign has also taken on volunteers from Notre Dame. Yap, who is a junior, began working on the campaign last April. Yap said he was a field organizer in the campaign, setting up phone banks in several coun­ties, planning events and going door to door to talk to voters about Puckett. 
"I found that to be a lot of fun," he said. "One of the cool things I did was supervise the fllming of a commercial shoot." 
Yap said he got involved in Puckett's campaign because he disagreed with Donnelly's voting record and several of his views. 
"I looked for the alternative and found it in Luke Puckett," he said. "When I met him, he was very convineing and I agreed with him on a majority of the issues." 
In addition to agreeing with Puckett's campaign platform, Yap said he has thoroughly enjoyed working personally with Puckett. 
"lie's the type of guy that you would love to go out and get a beer with," Yap said. 
Puckett said his campaign plat­form is based on energy and the economy, and he said these two issues are linked. People are wor­ried about how they are going to afli1rd to put gas in their car, and therefore don't pay their mort­gages, he said. Then that afl'ects the banking system, which affects the economy, he said. 
"It's cyclical. One thing leads to another," Puckett said. 
Puckett said he believes energy indepnndence is key in improving the economy. 
"I firmly believe that if we are going to see gas prices stay down, our government has got to have the backbone to drill American oil," Puckett said. 
Economic improvement also rests on lowering the corporate tax rate, which is now up to about 
39.3 percent, Puckett said. 
"Individuals who have left our country to make money interna­tionally go out there and they make money, have all this capital and don't want to bring it into the States," he said. "We have to have capital corning into the market." 
Puckett said being a small busi­ness owner, he does not have a political background, but rather a business one, which he believes will help him in Washington. 
"I believe it's time we take busi­ness principles and apply them to our government," he said. 
While Donnelly favors cutting taxes for 90 percent of middle class Americans and raising taxes and raising taxes for Americans in the top income bracket, Puckett said he believes this will hurt busi­ness in the area because the peo­ple that are taxed will pull back on business in the area. The decrease in spending from the people in top ineome bracket will decrease jobs in the ar'ba, he said. 
"This isn't about tax cuts for the middle class, this is about jobs. This is all about jobs," he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

Ushers 
continued from page 1 
that cite stories of people being reprimanded or eject­ed from the Stadium without proper provocation or being wrongfully accused. 
However, Murray recog­nizes the need to work with the University rather than combat it. 
"We don't edit the content of the posts, but we try to de-emotionalize it, delete the four-letter words and get away from extremes. There are a J,Jt of emotions involved in the matter," he said. "We want the situation to improve, not the University to shut down and become defensive and unap­proachable." 
Dave Phillipson, another founding member of the Alumni Council added in an e-mail: "We are compiling the stories and following up on the most egregious ones to encourage them to submit sworn affidavits. We may decide to explore legal options, should the need arise." 
Murray, Phillipson and the other members of the group formed the committee because the problem was becoming more visible, he said. 
"We realized that the problem began to crescendo under the surface with rep­resentatives of the University, police force and ushers but also from outside sources such as SBPD and the Excise police," Murray said. "We're trying to get an understanding of the inter­action betwenn the forces. We don't think its in Notre Dame's best interest for it to be going on. There is a more rational response to be had without compromising the atmosphere of football." 
Murray described the group as "a loose-knit group of alumni" who do what they can to contribute to the site and the group. 
"We're just alums and subway alums passionate about what Notre Dame stands for." 
The group began to mobi­lize after NDNation.com was flooded with complaints after the first couple home games, Murray said. 
"Some of the complaints were so profoundly bad, we were appalled at what was going on. We all felt like somebody should be doing something." 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said there is nothing new to report on the status of game day security and ushers at this time. 
"The committee has already had one meeting and will be continuing to gather and discuss these issues, with the expectation that recommendations will be made to Father Jenkins sometime next semester," Brown said. 
The committee is com­posed of 10 people "within and without" the University with "considerable expertise and varied perspectives on matters related to game day safety, security and hospital­ity, Brown said. 
In addition to the commit­tee, the University has also created a Web site, http:nd.edu/gameday, which allows people to submit their comments or com­plaints with proper attribu­tion, not anonymously. 
Most of the complaints on the Alumni Council's mes­sage board criticize the University, including: "My friend has vowed never to return to Notre Dame Stadium as long as the ush­ers hate football," and "I have never seen the sheer numbers of law enforcement from multiple jurisdictions as I saw Saturday. It was chilling. There seemed to be enough for them to stand shoulder to shoulder. This was not the Notre Dame football experience I recall from better times." 
Murray and the other con­tributors said they are care­ful to make sure the claims are true. 
"We want to make sure these things are true and not simply to place a one up on stories with someone else. We want credibility with our stories because if we take a rational approach, the administra­tion will be more receptive in doing something posi­tive." 
So far, Murray said they have seen results such as the creation of the ad hoc committee. 
"We have seen results. 
The collective outrage has been put on the table and voiced. Enforcement needs to be Jess 'gotcha' in nature and more in facilitating a safe and fun atmosphere at games. Undercover cops, surveillance camnras at tail­gates and following people into bathrooms are not con­sistent with this," he said. "The ad hoc committee is a good first step toward acknowledging there is a problem. We've gotten over that hurdle, but we're not fully confident the people on the committee don't have a conflict of interest. They are all very close to what we see is the problem." 
Murray is hoping their success this season will carry over as needed into future seasons. 
The site offers the oppor­tunity to be anonymous, but Murray encourages contrib­utors to reveal themselves. 
"If they deal with us they have the option to be anony­mous. Some tops are out­landish and if people don't want to come forward, it will hurt our efforts." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
Available at Amazon (www.amazon.com), Barnes and Noble (www.bn.com), and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 




Thanking
Father• 
Ted 


Thrity-Five Years of Notre Dame Coeducation 

Thanking Father Ted fioundation 
<rl 

Ann Therese Darin Palmer, F.duor 
From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
ND alumnae and ND celebrities thank /<ather 1ed.for the gift of coeducation and discuss the impact oftheir ND education.r. 
Profitr benefit The Thanking Father Ted Scholarship Ftmd 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundatlon 
For more infonnation, go to www. ThankingFatherTed.com Notre Dame %men ~ Connect 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 31, 2008 CoMPILED rRObA THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Planted bombs kill61 in northeast India 
GAUHATI, India -Bombs planted in cars and rickshaws ripped through crowded marke1s in a coordinated attack Thursday in India's volatile northeast, killing at least 61 people and wounding more than 300. 
The scale and planning behind the 13 blasts sur­prised authorities, who struggled to determine who was behind the attacks -among the worst in a region plagued by separatism, ethnic violence and Islamic militan1s. 
The largest explosion took place near the office of Assam state's top government official, leaving bod­ies and charred, mangled cars and motorcycles strewn across the road. 
Bystanders dragged the wounded and dead to cars that took them to hospitals. Police officers cov­ered charred bodies with white shee1s in the street. 
Later, dozens of people angry over the blas1s took to the stree1s of the state capital, Gauhati, stoning vehicles and torching at least two fire engines. Police imposed a curfew on the city and closed roads leading in and out of the area. 
Syrians gather to protest U.S. raids 
DAMASCUS, Syria -Tens of thousands crowd­ed a Damascus square in a government-orches­trated rally Thursday to denounce a deadly U.S. raid on Syrian territory near Iraq and send a loud message to America: Leave us alone! 
A private Syrian television station also reported the government was reducing the number of sol­diers along the Iraqi border, calling it a move to reduce security cooperation with the U.S. in the wake of the attack. It showed footage of troops dismantling positions and leaving the area. 
The Syrian government did not immediately respond to reques1s for comment. 
Syria has threatened to end border security cooperation with the United States and Iraq in reaetion to Sunday's attack. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Obesity leads to increase in diabetes 
ATlANTA -The nation's obesity epidemic is exaeting a heavy toll: The rate of new diabetes cases nearly doubled in the United States in the past 10 years, the government said Thursday. 
The highest rates were in the South, according to the first state-by-state review of new diag­noses. The worst was in West VIrginia, where about 13 in 1 ,000 adults were diagnosed with the disease in 2005-07. The lowest was in Minnesota, where the rate was 5 in 1,000. 
Nationally, the rate of new cases climbed from about 5 per 1,000 in the mid-1990s to 9 per 1,000 in the middle of this decade. 
Roughly 90 percent of eases are Type 2 dia­betes, the form linked to obesity. 
The findings dovetail with trends seen in obe­sity and lack of exercise -two health measures where Southern states also rank at the bottom. 
Husband stages his wife's abduction 
MINEOlA, N.Y -It seemed like one of those classie suburban nightmares: A teacher went to school on Monday morning, sent a loving text mes­sage to her husband, then vanished on the side of the road. Her husband became distraught, making tearful pleas for her safe return. 
But police said Thursday that those pleas were fake. 
They said William Walsh confessed to strangling hi'> wife during a fight over his alleged infidelity. He then dumped her body on an embankment and staged an elaborate hoax to make it look as ifshe had been a victim of random roadside violence. 

LOCAL NEWS 
illstudents travel to China, South Korea 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Indiana University president Michael McRobbie and a delegation from the school will travel to China and South Korea to establish partnerships with universities there. 
The delegation leaves Friday on the six day trip. 
In South Korea, the group will meet with offi­cials at four Korean schools. They will also dine with the 1,000-member Korea Alumni Club in Seoul, one of the largest IU alumni groups in the world. More than 1,200 of IU's 6,000 interna­tional studen1s come from Korea each year. 
Suspect in anthrax scare interviewed 
Man has allegedly mailed 120 hoax anthrax letters, committed similar prior actions 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -A California man suspected of mailing more than 120 hoax anthrax letters to media out­lets was interviewed previous­ly by the FBI after one similar mailing in 2007, but he was not charged. 
Marc M. Keyser, 66, was interviewed by the FBI in January 2007 for allegedly sending a package containing a small aerosol can labeled "Anthrax," along with a com­pact disc, to the Sacramento News and Review newspaper, according a criminal com­plaint filed Thursday in feder­al court. 
Keyser told agents then that he was using the mailing as a publicity stunt for a novel he had penned, and "to model what would happen if terrorist were to use anthrax ... to show the amount of anthrax a ter­rorist might spray into the air conditioning system in a shop­ping mall." The can did not contain anthrax. 
Agents warned Keyser that he violated federal law and could be prosecuted, but they didn't arrest him. Agent Filip Colfescu said in the complaint that Keyser at the time apolo­gized for the hoax "and told agents they should not worry, that he would not be doing it again." 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Benjamin Wagner, who is prosecuting the current case, said Keyser was not charged and the judge assigned public cases. mum penalty of five years in in 2007 because "it was a very defender Rachelle Barbour to On Thursday, more newspa­prison and a $250,000 fine, much more limited conduct at his case. pers reported receiving the Wagner said. that point. It was one instance. Barbour declined to com­packages, including the San Keyser could also face "tens He was admonished." ment outside the courtroom. Jose Mercury News, Orange of thousands" of dollars in 
Keyser was arrested without Keyser is being held in a coun­County Register, the Star restitution payments to emer­incident at his home in ty jail until a judge rules on Tribune of Minneapolis, the gency service providers Sacramento on Wednesday whether he can be released on Boston Herald and The around the nation, Wagner and is being charged with bail. He did not enter a plea Christian Science Monitor. said. three counts of sending hoax and is due back in court So did The Courier-Journal Anthrax mailed to congres­anthrax threats by mail. At Friday. of Louisville, where haz­sional offices and others in least some of the packages The investigation began ardous-material experts "were 2001 killed five people and had Keyser's return address after The Atlantic magazine able to test the substance and sickened 17. on them, and agents found 11 received a letter Monday. it tested positive for sugar," The packages linked to more packets in Keyser's car, Media outlets in North said Kathy Harrison, spokes­Keyser contained a sugar according to the complaint. Carolina, California and woman for the Louisville packet labeled "Anthrax 
None of the packets has so Washington state also have Metro Department of Public Sample" along with a biohaz­far tested positive for haz­received the letters, as has Health and Wellness. ard symbol, the FBI said in a ardous material, the agency Rep. George Radanovich, R­Given the number of pack­news release. The CD was said Calif., and a Sacramento ages sent, the number of titled "Anthrax: Shock & Awe 
Keyser appeared briefly in McDonald's. Offices were charges could be increased. Terror," which Keyser said 
U.S. District Court Thursday, briefly evacuated in some Each count carries a maxi-was the title of his new book. 


ISRAEL 

3,cm-year-old Hebrew inscription found 

He said the relic is strong evidence that Hebrew. However, Garfinkel based his 
Associated Press 

the ancient Israelites were literate and identification on a three-letter verb from 
HIRBET QEIYAFA, Israel -An Israeli could chronicle events centuries before the the inscription meaning "to do," a word he archaeologist has discovered what he Bible was written. This could suggest that said existed only in Hebrew. believes is the oldest known Hebrew some of the Bible's accoun1s were based on "That leads us to believe that this is inscription on a 3,000-year-old pottery written records as well as oral traditions -Hebrew, and that this is the oldest Hebrew shard -a find that suggests Biblical adding credence to arguments that the inscription that has been found," he said. accounts of the ancient Israelite kingdom Biblical account of history is more than Hirbet Qeiyafa sits near the modern of David could have been based on written myth. Israeli city of Beit Shemesh in the Judean texts. The shard was found near the stairs and foothills, an area that was once the frontier 
A teenage volunteer discovered the stone washtub of an excavated home. It between the hill-dwelling Israelites and curved shard bearing five lines of faded was later discovered to bear characters their enemies, the coastal Philistines. The characters in July in the ruins of an ancient known as proto-Canaanite, a precursor of site overlooks the Elah Valley, said to be town on a hilltop south of Jerusalem. Yossi the Hebrew alphabet. the scene of the slingshot showdown Garfinkel, the Israeli archaeologist leading The Israelites were not the only ones between David and the Philistine giant the excavations at Hirbet Qeiyafa, released using the proto-Canaanite characters, and Goliath, and near the ruins of Goliath's his conclusions about the writing Thursday other scholars suggest it is difficult -per­hometown in the Philistine metropolis of after months of study. haps impossible -to conclude the text is Gath. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 31, 2008 
Governor 
continued from page 1 

Studies and political analyst for the South Bend Tribune Jack Colwell. 
"I Ie's been on TV since March and they've been consistently good spots, positive spots," Colwell said. "She had to turn ofi her TV [ads[ for most of Snptemb11r and October, which left him running almost unopposed." 
The dose presidential race in Indiana has also hurt Long Thompson's chances to win, Colwell said. 
"People in Indiana aren't focused on the governor race bm:ausn of thn presidential race," he said. "The governor race has­n't created much of a stir at all. When she eouldn 't be on TV all the time, that's what really hurt htlr." 
In the South Bend area, some of the biggnst issues in the election are the Indiana Toll Hoad and Daylight Savings Time, according to Colwnll. Despite Daniels's dou­ble-digit leads in statewide polls, "them has been some vulnerabili­ty in this area because of tho Toll Hoad and Daylight Saving Time,'' Colwell said. 
The state leased the Toll Hoad to a private corporation for 75 years. This corporation has recently raised tolls on the Toll Hoad, but the South Bend area hasn't seen any of that money. 
"A lot of the money that he got up front for that lease has been used for project<; in other parts of the state,'' Colwell said. 
Long Thompson has said that she would not favor further priva­tization, according to Colwell. 
Daniels was responsible for adopting Daylight Savings Time in 2006, Colwell said. 
"People are still kind of dis­pleased about that," he said. "It's too bad that the time to change the clocks is this Sunday." 
As governor, Daniel claims "strong leadership and pro-active business-minded skills," accord­ing to his campaign's website. He created the Indiana Economic Development Corporation, which is designed to attract new jobs to the state. 
Daniels also created the state's Oflice of Management and Budget in 2005 to help increase efficiency and savings in state government. lie balanced the state's budget for the first time in eight years in 2005 and has continued to bal­ance the budget throughout his time in office, according to his campaign 
The claim of getting the first balanced budget in eight years is somewhat disputed, according to Colwell. Daniels claims that the state was "bankrupt" when he assumed the governorship. However, this is not entirely accu­rate, because the state .constitu­tion prohibit<; the state fi·om going into debt. 
"He did get a truly balanced budget," Colwell said. 
If re-elected, Daniels will be most concerned with property taxes and education in 2009, according to his campaign. He wants to pass a constitutional amendment that will make the current caps on propPrty taxes permanent. He is also proposing tax rebates that will automatically send taxes unused by the state­provided that the budget is bal­anced and that the state has enough money saved in its "rainy­day fund" -back to the taxpay­ers. 
On the education front, Daniels has proposed requiring schools to work through the state to buy cer­tain supplies. The proposed coor­dination would allow the schools to save money because the state would negotiate the purchases in bulk. 
Daniels is also proposiing a plan that would give Indiana residents $6000 tuition discount~: for their first two years at an Indiana col­lege. 
Daniels has served as governor since being elected in 2004, when he defeated Democratic incum­bent Joe Kernan. Prior to his elec­tion, Daniels served as Direetor of the Office of Management and Budget in George W. Bush's first administration. In this role, he helped negotiate the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 and helped the United States respond to the Sept. 11 attacks on a domestic level, according to his campaign Web site. 
From 1993 until 2001, Daniels was employed by Eli Lilly and Company, serving as President of North American Pharmaceutical Operations. He previously served as CEO of the Hudson Institute, a non-profit think tank that was then based in Indianapolis. 
Long Thompson represented Indiana's 4th Congressional District in the House of Representatives from 1989 until 1995. She was defeated by Mark Souder in the Republican's huge electoral gains in 1994. 
Long Thompson was then appointed as Undersecretary of Agriculture in Bill Clinton's administration, a position she held until 2001. After leaving the public sector, Long Thompson served as CEO of the National Center for Food and Agricultural Policy. 
As a representative, Long Thompson voted against tax increases, but was a supporter of education, Medicare and Social Security, according to her cam­paign. 
Long Thompson is campaigning mostly on the job that Daniels has done in his first term in office, according to Colwell. 
"Long Thompson has suggested that he has not done a very good job, particularly with the economy and job creation," Colwell said. 
Long Thompson has used the economy, Colwell said, to tie Daniels to President Bush by talk­ing about the "Bush-Daniels econ­omy." 
"Maybe that's fair because when he ran for the first time, he ran as 'My Man Mitch,' which was a direct quote from President Bush,'' Colwell said. 
Long Thompson is blaming Daniels for the federal budget deficit, because when he became Director of the Office of Management and Budget in 20()1, there were record surpluses that quickly turned into reeord deficit<;, according to Colwell. 
With only a li.1w more days until Election Day, it will be diflieult for Long Thompson's charges of Daniels's ties to Bush to change the outcome. 
"He's probably going to win," Colwell said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu 

CLAP 
continued from page 1 

The rest of the semester, CLAP will foeus on getting stu­dents, faculty and members of the South Bend community to sign the pledges. 
The union support cards pledge that the signer does "recognize and support the right of all employees of the University of Notre Dame to be represented by a union in col­lective bargaining with the 


Panel 
continued from page 1 

elists, Fr. Hobert Dowd and pro­lilssor Hobnrt Fishman are mem­bers of tho Kellogg Institute for Intllrnational Studins. Dowd is an Assistant Professor of Political Scienen, while Fishman is a Professor of Sociology. 
Tlw panel also included Julia King, a Citizen Activist and mem­bnr of thn Women's Action for Nnw Dirnctions (WAND) and Lisa 
A. Plmu:nr, President of the South Bend chapter of the L11ague of Wom1m Votnrs. 
Fishman began the diseussion by talking about the University over rights, wages, working conditions and other grievances; and to request an election held by the National 
Labor  Helations  Board  for  
unionization."  
The  cards  are  not  actual  

union cards, the ClAP members told The Observer, but rather a sign of solidarity. 
"Our goal is to create an atmosphere on campus that is friendly and open to the idea, and the right that people have to form unions,'' Lyons said. 
Krafft said he hoped to com­pile a substantial number of 
"By lobbying on behalf
importancn of do so," said King. voting. oflegislative issues. we "We also try to "The right make face to face
are greatly expanding 
to vote is one contact with politi­
democracy for 
of the most ealleaders." important everyone, not just Plencer was the rights that final speaker of the 
females." 
humans evening, and she h a v e , " diseussed how indi­Fishman said. viduals can make a
Lisa A. Plencer "Basic human president difTerence by par­rights allow South Bend chapter tieipating political­all people, ly. Speeifically, she
League of Women Voters
rich or poor, to sham in the public decision making and in the public policy out.eomes." 
Fr. Dowd thnn addressed the dillimmees in the democratic sys­tmn in thn Unit<~d States and in Kenya. 
"Wiwn I arrived in Kenya in IIJIJO, there wa-; only one political party in Kenya, so while there wnre elnctions, they were only sin­gle-party el!1ctions,'' I>owd said. "Obviously the system hindered 
politieal participation in Kenya." 
Ile said progress has been made in African countries since that time; however, the hindrance that political executives still have the ability to eontrol and manipulate elections in Kenya and other Afriean eountries. 
"Since the process is very flawed, many people do not wish to support this and this is cause for a low voter turnout," said Dowd. 
Shilling gears from an academic lilcus to a civilian focus, Julia King spoke on some of the ways WAND participates in loeal and national politics. 
"We often write letters to the editors, or when we aren't, we are 
usually encourag­
ing each other to 
spoke on the lobby­ing efforts of the l.eague of Women's Voters. 
"By lobbying on behalf of leg­islative issues, we are greatly expanding democracy for every­one, not just females," said Plencer 
The session was concluded with a 20-minutn question and answer session. 
Contact Liz O'Donnell at edononne1 @nd.edu 
cards by the end of the semes­ter so he could present it in a public forum. 
Affleck-Graves said Wednesday afternoon that he had not heard about CLAP's intentions to distribute cards in support of Notre Dame workers unionizing. 
"It's something obviously that they have a right to do," he said. 
And workers at Notre Dame have the right to organize, Aflleck-Graves said. 
"We don't think that that's necessary, but obviously, that's up to the staff to decide, not to me,'' he said. 
But Affieck-Graves said, from his interaction with members of the Notre Dame staff, that he did not think workers wanted to unionize. 
"They haven't chosen to before," he said. "It's hard for me to respond, because I think that Notre Dame's a great place to work." 
Krafft said he disagreed with Aflleck-Graves' characterization that workers had not chosen to unionize before. 
"I think that choice is a funny word when you are talking about this campus environment, because given the climate of fear that exists, I don't think you can fairly say that workers have had the choice to try to form a union," he said. 
CLAP, which is not a student group recognized by the Student Activities Office, began as a liv­ing wage campaign, but the group has now expanded its attention to other issues, such as unionization. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 





Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

3, 4. and 5 Bedroon1 Townhon1es 6 Blocks from Campus 
2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, October 31, 2008 
page 7· 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  9,180.69  +189.73  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,747  68  668  1,981,950,050  
AMEX  1,457.41  +2f/27  

NASDAQ 1,698.52 +41.31 NYSE 5,975.03 +200.14 S&P 500 954.09 +24.00 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 8,849.79 -179.97 FTSE 100 (London) 4,291.65 +49.11 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SPDR S&P 500 (SPY) +3.46 +3.22 96.30 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +3.34 +1.06 32.84 !SHARES MSCI (EEM) +13.50 +3.05 25.65 FIN SEL SPDR (XLF) +3.49 +0.50 14.81 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +1.68 +0.065 3.939 13-WEEK BILL -33.63 -0.190 0.375 30-YEAR BOND +1.09 +0.046 4.284 5-YEAR NOTE +1.71 +0.047 2.792 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.54 65.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -15.50 738.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.63 86.75 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 98.2150 EURO 0.7742 

IN BRIEF 
Banks borrow record amoWlts from Fed 
WASIIINGTON -Banks borrowed in record amount<; from the Federal Reserve's emergency lend­ing program over the pa..'it week, while investment banks drnw loans at a slower pace. 
The Fed's report, released Thursday, showed com­men~ial banks averagnd a record-$111.9 billion in daily borrowing over the pa..'>t week. That surpassed the old rneord-a daily average of $105.8 billion­from the prior week. 
For the week ending Wednesday, investment finns dmw $87.4 billion. That was down from $111.3 billion in the previous week. This category was recently broadened to indude any loans that were made to the 
U.S. and London-based broker-dealer subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch. 
The Fnd report showed that its net holdings of "commf1reial paper" came to $144.8 billion on Wednesday. The Fed created a first-of-its kind pro­gram, which started Monday, to buy mounds of this crucial short-term debt that companies use to pay everyday expenses. The Fed ha..<; said that around $1.3 trillion worth of commercial paper would qualifY. 
Verizon approved to buy Alltel Corp. 
WASiliNGTON -The Justice Department on Thursday effectively gave Verizon Wireless the go-ahead to buy Alltel Corp. in a $28 billion deal that would create the nation's largest wireless carrier. 
Verizon Wireless, a joint venture between Verizon Communications Inc. and Britain's Vodafone Group PLC, already has agreed to the government's condition that it sell assets in 22 states.. 
"We're pleased that the Department of Justice has granted approval," said Robin Nicol, a Verizon Wireless spokeswoman. "It's another step in the right direction." 
The Federal Communications Commission is slated to vote on the merger on Nov. 4. 
Andrew Moreau, an Alltel spokesman, said the company is "looking forward to the FCC meeting scheduled for next week." 
Justice Department lawyers joined seven states in a lawsuit filed Thursday to block the merger if Verizon !'ails to divest assets in 100 markets. 
Without that aetion, the Justice Department said. the deal would hurt competition, drive up eonsumer prices and likely produce a lower­quality network. 

Wall Street begins to show stability 
Dow Jones average rises 190 points, trading calms after fear of recession 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street 
showed some welcome signs 
of stability Thursday, taking a 
downbeat gross domestic 
product report in stride and 
driving the Dow Jones indus­
trial average up nearly 190 
points in relatively calm trad­
ing. Even the last half-hour of 
the session. lately a period of 
turbulent activity, was eom­
paratively quiet. 

The market that a week 
ago was reeling from fears 
about recession was more 
composed after the 
Commerce Department's 
report that GOP fell at an 
annual rate of 0.3 percent 
during the third quarter -its 
worst showing in seven 
years. Analysts expected a 
0.5 percent decline in GOP, the broadest measure of eco­nomic growth or contraction, but while the report was bet­ter than expected, it still pointed to an economy that is shrinking. 
It's premature to say the 
market's volatility is over ­
most analysts expect trading 
to remain erratic for many 
months, and some believe 
investors will eventually test 
the lows that were reached 
on Oct. 10, when the Dow 
traded as low as 7,882.51. 
But Thursday's trading ses­
sion was the most placid in 
weeks. a sign that the market 
might be in the process of · 
bottoming, analysts say. The 
Dow was only briefly in nega­
tive territory, and traded in a move that has become almost after Starbucks Corp.'s CEO you're seeing that now." 
range of less than 300 points expected at the end of every Howard Schultz said it The Dow rose 189.73, or 
-well below the 400-and session as big funds tried to appears the coffee retailer's 2.11 percent, to 9,180.69. 
500-point swings that have raise cash to meet investors' store traffic may have Broader stock indicators 
become commonplace. calls for their money back, or already bottomed out. And also finished higher. The S&P 
"It does look like the mar­rushed to cover their short CVS Caremark Corp. said 500 index rose 24.00, or 2.58 
ket is taking a tentatively bet­positions. The last hour saw Thursday its third-quarter percent, to 954.09, while the 
ter tone today," said Alan the Dow move in a range of earnings rose 7 percent as its Nasdaq composite index rose 
Gayle, senior investment 206 points, compared with a retail pharmacy revenue 41.31, or 2.49 percent, to 
strategist, director of asset 370-point swing in the last improved. 1,698.52. 
allocation for RidgeWorth quarter-hour of Wednesday's "There's the idea that life The Russell 2000 index of 
Capital Management. session. goes on, and will go on," said smaller companies rose 
"Pessimism and skepticism Even though corporate Richard E. Cripps, chief mar­23.30, or 4.75 percent, to 
have become the dominant earnings reports and out­ket strategist for Stifel 514.18. 
mode of thinking. And that's looks have not been strong in Nicolaus, noting that the daily Advancing issues outnum­
usually when l think that the recent weeks, there is a trading range Thursday for bered decliners by about 5 to 
market is more ripe for a growing sense that business the Standard & Poor's 500 1 on the New York Stock 
rebound." is not at a standstill. On index was about half its Exchange, where consolidat­
The market did not erupt Thursday, Exxon Mobil Corp. October average. "The mar­ed volume came to 6.06 bil­into frantic buying or selling adhered to its five-year capi­ket sort of inhaled, and it was lion shares, down from 7.01 in the last 30 minutes -a tal spending forecast, a day waiting to exhale -and billion shares on Wednesday. 


Asia leads rally in world stock markets 
Associated Press index leading the charge, up 12.8 per­point. The Shanghai Composite index 
cent at 14,329.85. South Korea's key was up 2.9 percent. 
LONDON -World stock markets stock index soared a record 12 percent Markets took heart from an were stronger Thursday led by sharp to 1,084.72 and Japan's Nikkei 225 announcement that the Fed would tem­rallies in Asia and Latin America after stock average gained 10 percent to porarily supply new lines of credit worth the U.S. Federal Reserve said it would 9,029.76 as exporters like Toyota and up to $30 billion to the central banks of supply new lines of credit to Brazil, Sony got a boost from the ongoing fall in South Korea, Brazil, Mexico and Mexico, South Korea and Singapore to the value of the yen. Singapore. help them deal with the global credit Elsewhere, benchmarks in Australia, The International Monetary Fund also crisis. Singapore, Taiwan and the Philippines said Wednesday it is creating a new pro­
Gains were more moderate in Europe, added 4 percent or more. Russia's two gram to get money quickly to developing however, where focus appeared more main indices were also up sharply. countries with strong economies that set on U.S. data that showed the econo­Hong Kong's de facto central bank fol­are facing cash crunches in the global my shrank in the third quarter. lowed the Fed's half-percentage point financial crisis. 
But the Commerce Department's rate cut Wednesday by cutting its key The news brought newfound opti­report that gross domestic product fell lending by the same amount and mism to Latin American markets after a at an annual rate of 0.3 percent during Taiwan reduced its key interest rate by weeklong plunge in stock values and July-September period was taken in a quarter point. In Japan, speculation currencies. stride on Wall Street, where the Dow mounted that the central bank would Brazil's Ibovespa index finished up 7.5 industrials finished up 189.73, or 2.11 cut its key rate, already at a low 0.5 percent to 37,449, building on even pereent, to 9,180.69. percent, at a meeting Friday. stronger gains in the two previous ses­
Asian markets started the day gallop­Before the Fed acted, China also low­sions. Mexico's benchmark IPC index ing higher, with Hong Kong's Hang Seng ered its rates by just over a quarter also jumped 5.5 percent to 20,207. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, October 31, 2008 
'Gipper' haunts Washington Hall 
By AMANDA GRAY News Writer 

As Jlalloween approaches, tales about the ghosts which haunt Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses seem to rise from the grave. 
One of the biggest legends on campus is that the ghost of George "Gipper" Gipp haunts Washington flail. llowever, Ron Grisoli, Washington llall's building man­ager, is skep­year-old building can make." 
Professor of film and televi­sion Mark Pilkinton, who is cur­rently writing a book about Washington Hall, doesn't believe in the haunting either. 
"No, of course not," Pilkinton said, when asked about the Gipp haunting. 
Although he admits that he does hear the stories. 
"Those who want to believe, love to believe," he said. 
However, he can prove that 
it's most likely not the 
ghost of the Gipper 
tical. ''Those who want haunting Washington 
"I don't Hall. believe in to believe, love to The legends aren't just ghosts and I believe." carried on by residents 
don't think t h a t Washington llall is haunt­ed," Grisoli said. 
I [owever, he does admit 

of Notre Dame, either. llauntedindiana.com, a
Mark Pilkinton 
Web site dedicated to
professor of film 
the paranormal activi­and television tics of the lloosier state, 
working in the 
building can sometimes spook him, and others. 
"When tlw wind blows out­side, the smoke hatches above the main stage make the most eerie noise -like someone making a sustained 'v' sound," he said. "I can easily under­stand how someone might mis­take the erenks, groans and other odd noises that a 127­
lists several legends for 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses. The Web site is open source, and the site's creators take no cred­it for the validity of any story listed there. According to the Web site, the bell tower of LeMans Hall on Saint Mary's campus is haunted by a girl who took her own life. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@saintmarys.edu 
California to cut vvater deliveries to help ration 
Associated Press 

SACHAMENTO -California said Thursday that it plans to cut water deliveries to their second­lowest level fwnr next year, rais­ing tlw prospm~t of rationing for cities and less planting by farm­nrs. 
The Department of Water Hnsources projects that it will dPiiver just 15 percent of the amount that local water agencies throughout California req unst every year. 
Sine«~ the first Statn Water Project delivnries wew made in I1)62, the only time .less water was prornisnd was in 11J1H, but lwavy preeipitation that year ultimately allowed ageneies to r«>«~nive their full rnquesL'i. 
Tlw reservoirs that an~ most r.rudal to tlw statt~'s water deliv­~~ry system arP at their lowest l«>wls sincP 1977. after two years of dry wnather and court­orderPd rnstrictions on water pumping out of tlw Sacranwnto­San Joaquin !>Pita. This year, water agnndns rnceived just 35 p«>rc.ent of tlw water they n~q unsted. 
Farnwrs in tlw Ctmtral Valley say tlwy'll be forced to fallow fields, while cities from the San Francisco Bay an~a to San Diego might have to n~quire rnsidents to ration water. 
Mike Young, a fourth-gmwra­tion rarmPr in KPrn County, r.aiiPd the projnctions disastrous. 
"For thP amount of acres wn"vp got. wp'rp not going to havn «>nough watPr to farm." he said. 
Young said lw will IJf' forr.nd to fallow a lifth of his 5,000 acrns. WatPr will go to his pnrmarwnt crops -pistachio. almond and dwrry trPns -but most of his tom a tons and al l'alfa will not get planted. 
"We'vn got to start spending money on next year's crop now," Young said. 
Jim Beck, general manager of the Kern County Water Agency, notnd that fewer plantings would yield fewer crops and a decrease in th«~ number of farm hands hirnd. 
"We're seeing a phenomenon in the Central Valley where growers who have been in the businnss of agrieultum are laying oll" workers who have been with them li1r 20 or 30 years because they don't have the water," Beck said. "It's one thing to see brown lawns and shorter showers in urban areas. The real impact in the Central Valley is people are having to lind new jobs." 
In Southern California, the Metropolitan Water District ­thn agency that supplies watnr to about half the statn's population -has depleted more than a third of its water reserves. The agency's general manager, Jeff Kightlinger. said Californians must imnwdiatPiy reduce their water usn to stretch what little water is available. 
"We are preparing for the very roal possibility of water short­ages and rationing throughout the rngion in 2001)," Kightlinger said, adding that his board will consider rationing during its meeting nnxt month. 
The State Wat.Pr Project deliv­ers watPr to morn than 25 mil­lion rnsidents and 750.000 aerns of farmland. 
In 200(,, water agencies rncPived tlwir full allotment. in part lmeause of heavy rains and a thick Sierra snow pack that year. But last year. a federal court limitPd watm pumping out of tlw delta to protect the threat­ened delta smelt. 

Mother accused of kidnapping son 
Lawyer decried suggestion that client was responsible for abduction 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -The mother of a 6-year-old boy who was abducted from her home this mpnth had gone to police after she got a warning note in July but was told that there was no imminent threat and that she should buy a shotgun, her lawyer said Thursday. 
Lawyer Dennis Leavitt also decried any suggestion that Julie Puffinburger might because there was no immi­nent threat and advised Julie to buy a shotgun." Leavitt said she did not buy a weapon. 
"We know you have our money and you have one week to report," Leavitt quot­ed the note as saying. "We know where your family is and we don't play games." 
Leavitt said an unidentil1ed roommate of Julie Puffinburger later visited spread th1~ stories about a supposed kidnapping. Nichols also said Tinnemeycr was the focus of a federal investiga­tion "involving a ton or money, a ton of drugs and a Mexican cartel that was seri­ous about getting that money back," the Las Vegas Review­Journal reported. 
Nichols did not respond to messages from the AP. 
Robert and Julie 
Puffinburger 
divorced in 
have been .cesponsible for the several bars 2004. The moth­
"This was done in an 
abduction of her son Cole, w h e r e er was the boy's
effort to }lush out' 
after a police lieutenant told Tinnemeyer primary caregiv­a judge she had previously used to spend Julie's father to find er before the spread hoax stories that the time "and out what was going Oct. 15 abdue­boy had been kidnapped. mentioned to tion, but police
on and why she was
Cole Puffinburger was her father's returned Cole to taken by two men posing as friends that receiving threatening his father after 
police officers after they ran­Cole was notes" sacked his mother's house in missing." what police said was mes­"This was 
Dennis Leavitt 
sage from drug dealers to done in an Cole's grandfather. The boy effort to lawyer the boy was found unharmed on a Las Vegas street late Oct. 18. 
Clark County Family Court Gerald Hardcastle 
was found safe four days later. 
Police did not immediately respond to requests to con­firm Leavitt's account that Julie Puffinburger received an ominous written message directed at hf-r father, Clemens Fred Tinnemeyer. 
Police have alleged that Tinnemeyer, 51, disappeared in May after st.ealing millions of dollars in drur~ proceeds from "Mexican nationals" and methamphetamine traf­fickers. He is in federal cus­tody in California as a mate­rial witness in the kidnap­ping case. 
Leavitt said in an e-mail to The Associated Press that two detectives who met with Julie Puffinburger about the July 13 warning note "stated they could not do anything 'flush out' Julie's father to find out what was going on and why she was receiving threatening notes," Leavitt said. 
He said his client "is simply being held vicariously responsible for her father's actions and then treated extremely badly by the police and the news m-edia," Leavitt said. 
Leavitt said Cole's mother had not seen Tinnemeyer since October 2007 and did not know how to contact him. 
"To suggest (Julie) Puffinburger is guilty of a crime or somehow responsi­ble for the abduction is ludi­crous," Leavitt wrote. 
Las Vegas poliee Lt. Clinton Niehols told a judge Wednesday Puffinburger had 
Judge 

Third Day Brian Wilson 
With Revive .&  Concert  Family Comedian  & Family  
Need to Breathe  Pop Rock Legend  100% Clean &Funny  Billy Bob Thornton  
Sunday, Nov. 9  Thursday, Nov. 13  Saturday, Nov. 15  Friday, Nov. 28  





UPC()minf! 'h()W§
Sunday, Dec. 7····. South Bend Symphony 
Holiday Concert Saturday*Sunday The Nutcracker Ballet OeC;~3;.14 Southold Dance Theater 
Mond~y. Dec. 15 Jim Brickman Holiday Concert Tuesday, Dec. 16 Michael McDonald Christmas Concert 
awarded temporary custody of the boy to his rather on Wednesday. 
Bryce Duckworth, lawyer for Robert Puffinburger. said Cole was baek in school and receiving counseling while authorities probed the activi­ties of his mother. 
"We've been told by author­ities that she is under investi­gation," Duckworth said. 
Leavitt said Julie PuiTinburger received two courier deliveries of about $30,000 eaeh in June and put them in a safe deposit box. The lawyer said she assumed the money came from her· father. lie said Julie Puflinburger later told police where to find the cash. 
Willie Nelson 



ELECTION 2008 
Friday, October 31, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THr OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 9 
CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Candidates to be interviewed on ESPN 
BRISTOL, Conn. -Are Barack Obama and John McCain ready for some football? 
ESPN says the presidential candidates are plan­ning to participate in one-on-one interviews via satellite that would air at halftime of "Monday Night Football," the day before the election. 
ESPN's Chris Berman will do the segments earlier Monday, if the candidates' schedules permit, and they'll air at about 10:15 p.m. EDT. 
The interviews will give both candidates a last major chance to appeal to Americans during a cov­eted spot on prime-time television. "Monday Night Football" has averaged 12.2 million viewers this season. 
The game, between the host Washington Redskins and the Pittsburgh Steelers, will be the first NFL game played in the D.C. area on the Monday night before a presidential election in 24 years. The Hedskins defeated the Atlanta Falcons 27-14 on Nov. 5, 1984; Honald Beagan was re-elect­ed the following day. 
Obama previously appeared on "Monday Night Football" on Dec. 11. 2006, when he opened the broadcast of a game involving his hometown Chicago Bears by parodying his own upcoming offi­cial announcement of his intention to run for the presidency. 
Palin considers her political future 
JEFFERSONVILLE, Ind. -With days still to go in the White House race, backers of vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin are talking her up as a possible contender in 2012, specu­lation that irritates other Republicans who contend she's a drag on the ticket and that her lightweight image -unfair or not -will be hard to shed. 
The Alaska governor has done little to quiet the talk. In fact, she fueled the discussion this week when she signaled that she will remain on the national political scene no matter what happens Tuesday. ''I'm not doing this for naught," she said in an interview with ABC News. 
The telegenic Palin, who burst onto the national stage seven weeks ago, has divided conservatives -some energized by her strong stand on social issues and others embarrassed by her halting interview performances. On the campaign trail, she is a popular draw, attract­ing numbers that a Republican Party search­ing for female star power can't ignore. 

Biden vows to do more for middle class 
ARNOLD, Mo. -With dozens of laid off autoworkers on stage behind him, Democratic vice presidential candidate Joe Biden pledged Thursday to do more for the middle class if he and Barack Obama are elected. 
Biden said the union autoworkers did right by their employer, but 2,400 of them in nearby Fenton lost their jobs this fall as the economy soured. The workers at Chrysler's South Assembly Plant in Fenton rolled the last Dodge minivan off the assem­bly line Wednesday, two days ahead of schedule. 
"At the end of the day, it's ultimately about jobs," Biden said. 
Thousandsofpeopledecideto vote early 
Obama surges ahead in early voting, McCainforced to play catch-up before election begins 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON­Democrats are dominating early voting in six key states President Bush won four years ago, forcing Republican John McCain to play catch-up even before Election Day arrives. 
Democrats outnumber Hepublicans among early vot­ers in Iowa, North Carolina, Florida, Colorado, New Mexico and Nevada, accord­ing to statistics from election and party officials in those states. Bush won all six in 2004, and McCain needs to win most of them to claim the White House this year. 
Georgia, another red state, doesn't track early voters by party, but it does by race. About 1.4 million Georgians have already cast ballots, and blacks are voting in dispro­portionate numbers. Black voters overwhelmingly sup­port Democrat Barack Obama. who is bidding to become the nation's first black president. 
Voters can always cross party lines and no vote totals are announced until Election Day, but the early indications clearly favor Obama. It is unclear, however, whether they will translate into suc­cess on Nov. 4 because never before have so many Americans cast their votes before Election Day. 
In Florida, for example, voting lines have been so long that Gov. Charlie Crist signed an executive order Tuesday extending early voting hours. 
About a third of voters are expected to vote early this year, up from 22 percent in the last presidential election. More than 15 million voters have already cast ballots, according to statistics com­piled by Michael P. McDonald, a political scientist at George Mason University. 
"This is off the charts in some of these states," McDonald said. "They already have record turnout (among early voters) in some states." 
But is Obama, who is using his fundraising superiority on a massive early voting cam­paign, merely eating into the number of votes he would otherwise receive on Election Day? Or is McCain, who trails in most polls, falling perilous­ly behind as Election Day approaches? 
McDonald said the McCain campaign is digging itself a dangerously deep hole in states the Arizona senator cannot afford to lose. "We have yet to see the Hepublicans really gear up their get-out-the-vote cam­paign," McDonald said. 
However, he noted that Democrat John Kerry led among early voters in Iowa in the 2004 presidential race, only to lose the state to Bush on Election Day. 
Mike Duncan, chairman of the Republican National Committee, hopes McCain will do the same in numerous states this year. 
"We will send out over 200 million pieces of mail and have over a quarter of a bil­lion contacts, counting the mail, the phones and the door knocks," Duncan said. "These are numbers we've never been able to reach before." 

McDonald said the Republicans' massive get­out-the-vote campaign "took us all by surprise in 2004, and it could happen again. But this is a juggernaut oper­ation that the Obama cam­paign has." 
Democrats argue they have an advantage in voter enthu­siasm, which helped them register far more new voters this year than the Republicans. Obama's cam­paign is turning the registra­tion operation into a formida­ble get-out-the-vote effort. 
Absentee voting used to be reserved mainly for people unable to make it to the polls on Election Day, whether they were sick, away on business or serving in the military. This year, more than 30 states allow any registered voter to cast an early ballot, some in person and others by mail. 
SOUND BYTE: EDUCATION 
What will you do to improve the education system? 

"And ifI'm President, we'll give every child, every­where the skills and the knowledge they need to compete with any worker, anywhere in the world. I will not allow countries to out-teach us today so they can out-compete us tomorrow. It is time to provide every American with a world-class educa­tion. That means investing in early childhood edu­cation. That means recruiting an anny ofnew teachers, and paying them better." 

"Public education should be defined as one in which our public support for a child's educa­tion follows that child into the school the par­ent chooses. The school is charged with the responsibility ofeducating the child, and must have the resources and management authority to deliver on that responsibility. They must also report to the parents and the public on 
McCain 

their progress." 
Friday, October 31, 2008 

page I 0 The Observer + NEWS 
==================================~ 
SPAIN 
Car bomb wounds 17 at university 
Associated Press 
MAI>HII> -A powerful car bomb explodml Thursday at a univnrsity in the northern Spanish eity of Pamplona, wounding 17 people and set­ting a building on fire in an attack blamed on Basque sepa­ratists. 
There was no claim of responsibility, but officials pointed th11 linger at the mili­tant Basque group ETA. They said the blast could have causnd massive bloodshed because it went off without warning at a busy area of the campus. 
"ETA has once again dis­played its vileness," said Jose Antonio Alonso. spokesman in Parliament for Prime Minister .lose Luis Hodriguez Zapaptero's Soeialist party. 
Tho bomb went ofT in a park­ing lot at the University of Navarra. shattering windows and setting vehicles on fire. said Amaya Zaratiegui, spokes­woman for the university's clin­
ic. Navarra is the region of which Pamplona is th11 capital. 
Aparieio Caicndo, a 29-year­old Eeuadornan doetoral stu­dent, said he was studying in a library when the bomb went ol'f. 
"Suddenly the whole building shook and there was a hug11 column ol' smoke. It was tremnndous, a huge nxplosion," Caicedo told The Associated Press by phone. 
Television footage showed an unidentified building on fire at the ground-floor level and spewing thick black smoke. 
Seventeen people were slight­ly injured, some by flying glass, Interior Minister Alfredo Perez Hubaleaba said. 
lle said a man claiming to speak for ETA phoned a warn­ing to authorities in the Basque capital, Viloria, about an hour before the explosion, saying the bomb was packed in a white Peugeot and would go off at "the university campus." 
Police thought that meant Viloria's university, searched there and found nothing, the minister said. Instead, the bomb exploded without warn­ing in Pamplona, 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of Viloria. 
"Clearly, whoever placed the bomb gave a warning and either intentionally did not give all the information or made a mistake," Perez Hubalcaba said. 
"The result is that we could have suffered an enormous tragedy today at the University of Navarra," he said. 
Spanish police arrested three suspected members of ETA on Tuesday in Pamplona and another in Valencia but Hubalcaba declined to specu­late on whether that could be tho reason for Pamplona's being targeted. 
Pamplona's mayor, Yolanda Bareina, told Cadena Ser radio she was surprised the casualty toll was not higher. 
"We got lucky with the weather. It is raining, and there w11re fewer people than usual outside," the station's Web site quoted her as saying. 

Hubble update delayed 
for NASA upgrade 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Hubble Space Teleseope is working again. taking stunning cosmic photos after a breakdown a month ago. But the good news was quickly temp11red by NASA's annotmcement Thursday that a mission to upgrade the popular tnleseopn will be delayed at lnast until May. 
A key replacement part that is essential because of the tele­scope's failure in September won't be ready for at least six months. 
It was the latest twist in the long-running drama surround­ing the 18-year-old space tele­scope -one that initially took only fuzzy photos, then when fixed, provided dazzling and sci­entifically significant pictures of space, including a new one NASA showed Thursday. 
A repair and upgrade mission to the telescope was nixed a couple of years ago as too risky for the astronauts. But enthusi­asm and improvnd safety meas­ures convinced NASA's current chief. Miehanl Griflin, to go for­ward with it. 
That flight was supposed to happnn in mid-October. But the seience computer on the tele­scopP unnxpnetndly shut down, so everything was put on hold. NASA was finally able to get a backup eomputPr system to work in recent days. 
But officials can't count on that backup working indefinite­ly, so they want astronauts to install an additional system part. That part, in storage since 1991, revealed a "significant" problem during testing, said llubble program manager Preston Burch. It won't be ready to fly for at least six months, he said. 
"I don't see this as a huge insurmountable deal," he added. 

But if engineers don't get the spare box working properly, NASA will have to face a deci­sion on whether to do the upgrade mission at all, said Jon Morse, NASA's astrophysics chief. That is because of the potential futility of upgrading an observatory that could fail at any moment. 
That's not an issue right now, said NASA spokesman Ed 
Campion: "We're a  long way  
from  declaring  anything  
absolutely failed."  

The delay also may hinder another bigger NASA program, its new moon rocket that NASA hopes to launch by 2015. The spaee agency needs to spend several years reconfiguring a Kennedy Space Center launch pad for the new moon rocket testing. But that's the pad the llubble repair mission will launch from. 
Farn1e~r suspect in Illinois n1urder 
Man and wife found shot and their home burned to the ground 
Associated Press 
CARLYLE -George Weedon hid a tractor behind a false wall on his property, allegedly for a bankrupt dairy farmer who authorities say was trying to conceal assets from his cred­itors. But Weedon did not keep the secret for long. 
For some reason -A guilty conscience? Cold feet? An ad in the local weekly promising amnesty to anyone involved in the scheme? -Weedon called up the FBI and told them what farmer Joseph Diekemper was up to. 
Two days later, Weedon and his wife were found shot to death, and their home had been burned to the ground. 
Around town, suspicion immediately fell on Diekemper, an often belligerent and abra­sive figure whose neighbors so distrusted him that they secret­ly called him "Sneak" because they were convinced he was always hiding something. 
Diekemper, 60, is behind bars. awaiting trial on bank­ruptcy fraud charges, and has not been charged in the April 2007 slayings. State Police last week would not discuss any possible suspects and said there was not enough evidence to charge anyone. And Diekemper attorney Scott Rosenblum said h.is client had nothing to do with the killings. 
But according to court papers filed this month, Weedon, a trucker on medical leave, had nervously told an FBI agent he feared Diekemper would burn down his home for going to the authorities. And Diekemper's neighbors near this town of 3,400 people 70 miles east of St. Louis said they feel safer with him behind bars. 
"Everybody is worried he's going to get out," Diekemper's own brother, Wayne Diekemper, said from behind the wheel of his rusty, 1960s­model tractor. "We don't want him on the loose." 
Joseph Diekemper -"Joey" to those who know him well ­and his 64-year-old wife, Margaret, filed for bankruptcy in 2004, claiming assets of $1.7 million and liabilities of nearly $5 million. But bankruptcy offi­cials suspected they weren't telling the truth. So did the bank managing their property. 
In April 2007, the bank took out a large ad in the Carlyle Union Banner warning that anyone helping Diekemper hide his possessions could be break­ing the law. The ad promised "CIVIL AMNESTY" to anyone who confessed. 
It's not clear whether Weedon saw the ad or heard of it, or why he allegedly cooperated with Diekemper in the first place. 
But Weedon, according to an FBI summary of the call, told an FBI agent he had stashed one of Diekemper's tractors behind a false wall Diekemper helped build in a shed on Weedon's land. tucked amid corn and soybean fields four miles ofl' the highway. 
The agent assured Weedon the FBI would be careful about diselosing his identity. Weedon agreed to call back the next week to arrange a formal inter­view. 
But before he could arrange to come in, he was found dead in the front seat of a musele ear that he had been fixing up for someone else. Some 100 yards away, in the ruins of the Weedons' burned-out home. firefighters discovered the remains of Linda Weedon, a 41-year-old hospital worker. 
In the days that followed, an investigator quietly told neigh­bors to watch their backs, and they heeded the warning. 
Diekemper's 61-year-old brother slept with a high-pow­ered rifle and paeked a pistol in his bib overalls when on his traetor. Down the road, 62­year-old Ed Albat, shared a bed with a .40-caliber pistol and took it with him when he cut the grass. 
Albat recalled that he once reported Diekempflr to environ­mental regulators for dumping manure along the road. and Diekemper got even by spread­ing the waste so thick and so close to Albat's neighboring house that his four-wheel-drive machine got stuck. 
"He did that just to spite me," Albat said. "Neighbors don't do that to other neighbors." 
Wayne Diekemper said his brother was chronieally in financial trouble. 
"He always wanted to be the big cheese of the family," Wayne Diekemper said. "lie wanted to outdo everybody, outfarm everybody. lie was always bragging and carrying 
on . ., 
Authorities said Diekemper -an avid player of poker and blackjack, according to neigh­bors-blew $115,000 in 190 trips to casinos. 
Last summer, Diekemper and his wife were indicted on charges of defrauding their creditors and others by lying about -and often hiding ­millions of dollars in real estate and farm equipment. Diekember has been jailed since July, when a federal judge revoked his bail after finding he had two rifles. 


For Gay, Lesbian, BisexuaiSD.uestioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday. November 4 7:00p.m. -9:00p.m. 316 Coleman Morse 

The Core CounGil invites gay.lesbian. bisexual fi questioning members of the Notre Dame family. along with their friends and allys. to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is Welcome and Confidentiality is Assured 
Coffee andRefreshments 'IIIII Be Served 
·­

---___________________________. 
Friday, October 31, 2008 

THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick John Donovan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
NEWS EDITOR: Jenn Merz 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Bill Brink 
Dan Murphy 
ScENE EDITOR: Analise Lipari 

SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Maddie Boyer 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CoNTROLLER: Stacey Gill 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mike Moriarty 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged, Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QZ«Stiom regarding Observf!T policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefChris Hine. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Otw::m:r (USPS 599 l-4000) is publi~hed MmKby thnmgh Fnday cxupt during exam 11nd vat.ation pcr1mk A 'uba:ripuon to The Obsc:rvcr is $100 for om; aackmic year; J~~ fi.Jr nne :<;elllc.'>!a', 
'rh¢ Oh'K't'Ycr is published a': POSTMASTER 024 Soum Dirung H.JI Srnd .tddn:a: corrections to: Notre Dame. IN 46~56-0n9 Th< Ohoem:r Periodical postage paid ar No1n:: Dame P.O.Bax:n9 and addiuomtl mailing offic~. 024 South Dining H.:lll 
Notre Dan1c, IN 46556-0779 

The O~rvcr i! a member ofthe Mociated Preu. All n:produaion righu are testtVed. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
page 11 

Stipend unnecessary for student government 

After five weeks of controversy, the Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) finally approved the 2008-2009 Student Government Association (SGA) budget effectively allowing funds to be dispersed to clubs and organizations who have been waiting for their allotments since mid-September at their meeting Wednesday night. 
At the heart of the controversy was a stipend allotted for the Executive Board, who also serve as the SGA budgeting committee and therefore designed the budg­et, in the amount of $20,000. This money was to come from the $160 each full-time 
et, the Executive Board reduced the amount of the stipend and eventually removed it entirely. 
Last year's Executive Board was the first to take a mone­tary stipend in the amount of $40,000. The student body and many members of the 2007-2008 BOG did not know that this amount of money was being used to pay a stipend which amounted to salaries. This year's Executive Board should be applauded for being forthcoming with their inten­tions to take a stipend, allowing the student body to voice their opinion and ultimately listening to them. 
But why was this controversial stipend allowed to be a line item on the past two SGA budgets in the first place and why was the budget held up for so long? 
It is very clear in the fact that there are checks and bal­ances in place in the SGA Constitution that keep the Executive Board from having the final say on the budget. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

A clause in the Constitution states that BOG has final approval of the budget after the budgeting committee approves it; however, they almost were not allowed to do so because the clause was not public knowledge. Had a con­cerned student not brought the clause to the attention of the Executive Board, the budget, using student funds for a salary, would have gone into effect for the year. 
The Constitution does not stipulate whether or not the 
Executive Board can allocate funds for them­
selves; however, that does not explain why this 
practice started in the first place. student at the College pays for a student gov­OirsERVER The students who would collect a stipend were ernment fee along with tuition. After BOG unaware that they would be receiving a salary for continuously voted not to approve the budg­their service to the student body when they ran
Editorial 

for office or applied for their appointed positions. 
They were told of the stipends after taking office and had to decide whether or not they would budget for the stipend as well. If they applied for the job with no intention of receiving a stipend, why did they decide to include it in the budget? 
Had the stipend been approved this year, it would have changed the way student government functions at the College. While some students would still run for office because they love Saint Mary's and want to give back to the student body, there would be others who would run solely because they would be receiving money. 
The Executive Board clearly does a lot of work managing student government and planning events for the student body, but funding which is set aside for student government should be used for those events and activities instead of as a paycheck. 
''WE HAVE1HE MONEY SO I THOUGHT, JOE# WHY NOT BUY AN ADDIDONAL 30 MINUTES 
OFPRIM£TIM! NETWORKTVAND MAKE MY OWN CWSINGARGUMENT FOR BARACK?'' 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, October 31, 2008 
Fearful symmetry 
As our airplane descended into Seattle last weekend it rocked with some turbu­lence. While this was probably just the result of heavy winds, I couldn't help but bo reminded of Zach BrafT's night­
mare in "Garden State." Grabbing my armrests, I braced for the worst and consid­ered whether or not it would be possible to fashion a parachute out of 


a blanket if the Bob Kessler 
plane were to rip apart like in "Lost." House ofStix As the plane righted 
it's course, I not only realized that we were going to be fine, but that I might wateh too many movies. 
Like many people I try to aet like l am fearless, but with today being llalloween it is only appropriate that I admit to my fears while contemplating everybody else's. With our economy in shambles and the country on the verge of an historic yet divisive election, Americans of all backgrounds are scared of what happens next. This Halloween, more than any other in my lifetime, finds Americans more fearful than ever. 
As the presidential election enters its final weekend, websites and television programs have all reported that Americans are terrified that the candi­date of their opposition will win. As "The Daily Show" correspondent John Oliver put it, "There is no red America, no blue America, there's just one scared sh**less America." It does not matter if people support Senator Obama or Senator McCain. People across the country are terrified of what would hap­pen if the other guy wins, and they should be. 
As young Americans, we college stu­dents should be more scared than any­body. Our country is about to elect a man that will be ready and willing to push the problems of his generation on to our own without batting an eye, and I can say this without making any assumptions about who wins on Tuesday. This is because both eandi­dates only care about Joe the Plumber, and couldn't care less about his chil­dren's future. Both candidates want to spend more money while they raise less money. Both eandidates will run a record budget deficit next year. Both candidates will continue to create debt that their administrations will never find a way to pay off, and we are the generation that will be forced to solve these problems in the future. 
I almost wish that Doc Brown could swoop down in his DeLorean, pick up Messrs. McCain and Obama and say, 
LEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Mustaches unite! 
To Whom It May Concern: 

There was a time when Saturdays in the fall were greeted by men who harnessed a power that went beyond the weight room and wind sprints. Opposing teams would cringe with fear as they huddled in the tunnel, scared to death by the sight that awaited them under the golden helmets and black Adidas. For the next four hours, their names would ring out to the pleasure of 59,000 screaming fans-Zorich, Pritchett and even Donny Grimm. 
These heroes had a common bond, one that I call upon Pat Kuntz and the 2008 defense to shake from the Notre Dame graves and resuscitate this 2008-a mus­tache. Imagine the entire defense sporting the 'stache, lead by Kuntz's Mohawk, descending upon our opponents like the black angel of death cloaked in a handlebar mustache. Imagine thn 80,000 plus in the House that Rockne Built wearing fake staches, chanting our battle cry on three and three ... Mustaches unite! Mustaches unite! 
Think about it. It's about time we get baek to basics. 
Best, 
Tom Parnell alumnus Class of 1997 Oct. 9 

No reason not to vote 
Mr. MeKeon ("More reasons not to vote," Oct. 15), 
I can only hope that your letter is some kind of joke or satire, but I did not piek up on the humor. Whether it is sarcastic or sincere, your letter delivers a very destruc­tive message to those who do not possess what I hope is simply your high-function­ing wit. 
You dismiss the American system of government as "garbage," and you quote stand-up comedians as authorities on the matter. Surely if you were serious, you would have cited more qualified commentators of politics. You state that you do not vote, but that you do not discourage others from voting. I see, however, no other pur­pose in your letter than to encourage others to "solve this political dilemma" as you have by not voting. 
There are admittedly many glaring flaws in the American system of government, but these flaws will never be corrected by apathy and cynicism. Participation by the peopln is the only way to repair defects in American democracy. You may argue that American democracy does not work, but democracy, by its nature, does not work if voters do not participate. If you disapprove of the candidates, show your dissatisfac­tion by voting for a third-party candidate. The third party won't win the election, of coursn, but by voting for a minor eandidate, you show your dissatisfaction. 
The right to vote and to have a voice-however small it may be-in government is a right held dearly by millions of Americans. If you do not value that right, do not insult those who do by encouraging political apathy among your peers. You have chosen not to exercise your right to vote; please feel free not to exercise your right of free speech, as well. 
Eddie Guilbeau sophomore Duncan Hall Oct. 18 
"The problem is for your kids." He could whisk the two away to a future where Americans can't afford the flying cars that the Chinese and Japanese have because we are forced to pay ridiculous­ly high taxes just to make sure the gov­ernment doesn't collapse. If people are worried about GM and Ford in the pres­ent, I can only imagine what it will be like when Honda, Toyota, and Nissan have cornered this market on flying cars. 
That will be fine with me, though. I do have that acute fear of flying I men­tioned earlier. 
Although I might not be as troubled by a flying car that I could have control over. My fear of flight might simply be grounded (pun intended) in the notion that I have no control over the situation rather than the actual act of being so high above the ground. If this lack of control is actually what scares me, then there really is nothing more I can do, just like there is nothing more we young Americans can do to stop our parent's generation from dumping their prob­lems on us. 
The generation ahead of us destroyed this economy by purchasing houses they couldn't afford and then looking to the government when the financial system into which they put their faith collapsed. The government, in turn, produced $700 billion out of nowhere to fix this mess, leaving the governments of the 

future to balance the checkbook. As Sarah Connor might have remarked, Judgment Day was prevented. 
llowever we know better by now. We have seen T3. Judgment Day cannot be prevented; it can only be delayed. So just as John Connor was left to solve the problems that his mother could not, we will one day be left to pick up the pieces of our current eeonomic crisis. Only this will happen many years after John McCain or Barack Obama has been given four years to dig an even deeper whole of debt for this country. 
Some might say that it doesn't matter who you vote for, just as long as you vote. I agree that it doesn't matter who you vote for, and it doesn't even matter if you vote. I believe this beeause four years from now the government will have left its children with more loans to pay off, and it probably won't have the ability to save itself by fashioning a paraehute out of a blanket. On the bright side, we will probably still have a new "Saw" movie to ease our fears every Halloween. 
Bob Kessler is a senior majoring in political science and economics. You can contact him at rkessler@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Voting responsibility 
'l 
As the election draws near, there have been more and more letters about the two candidates and which one to vote for. But there is another choice, the choice not to vote. 
Robert McKeon ("More reasons not to vote," Oct. 15) says he will not because politicians practice in double speak. He claims they do not provide answers to the important questions. While just this week both candidates have outlined plans to revive our suffering economy, and spent an evening debating the issues, Barack Obama has also dis­cussed possible plans for health care. And both candidates have stated their desired strategy for handling the wars. 
Whether you support McCain, Obama, Barr or Nader it is important to vote. If you do not support any, then it is impor­tant to look at the candidates' positions and align yourself with who you think is the best. America is at a crossroads; this election could be a defming moment for our generation, and even in American history. The polieies that the upcoming president will enact will pri­marily affect our generation. 

Lastly, McKeon quotes "I ... who did not vote ... am in no way responsible for that these politicians have done" is a particularly unnerving statement. As a ehild of two lawyers, I have witnessed first hand the number of frivolous law­suits grow. The amount of people shirk­ing responsibility, and looking for others to blame is absurd. It is time for our generation to change this trend and take responsibility, beeause in a few short years the results will be ours to bear regardless of whom is to blame. 
I encourage everyone to educate themselves and vote for who they feel is best, beeause there will never be a per­fect or near perfect politician. 
Luke Ricci 
junior 
Dillon Hall 
Ocr. 21 

We are all socialists 
That is, if we are take Christina Pesavento's cookie-cutter concept of 'socialism' seriously ("Barack the Socialist," Oct. 28). 
Aeeording to the dietionary Pesavento consulted, you're a socialist if you sub­scribe to "any of various economic and political theories advoeating collective or governmental ownership and adminis­tration of the means of production and distribution of goods." Thus Pesavento ought to agree that any Senator who voted to give Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson the authority to recapitalize and buy equity stakes in the U.S. banking system -as McCain did not a month ago -is a 'socialist'. 
Similarly she should agree that any Senator who supports a top marginal .income-tax rate of 35 percent rather than 39.6 percent-rather than advo­cating doing away with progressive mcome taxes, which McCain certainly doesn't-is a soeialist. Not to mention any Senator who supports the principle of tax-payer subsidized medicine for the poor and the elderly (in the guise of Medicaid and Medicare, respeetively). And so on. 

The problem with labeling Obama a socialist is not only, pace Pesavento, that it sounds like a scare tactic. (Which it certainly is. Labeling Democrats 'Arabs' and 'terrorists' doesn't work any longer, I guess.) Worse, it prevents a serious public discussion of the genuine differ­ences between the candidates. Which, as one of McCain's own campaign aides recently admitted, is the discussion that at least one of these candidates is going to great lengths to avoid. 
Alexander Skiles grad srudem off campus Oct. 28 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, October 31, 2008 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Voting privilege 
Every morning on my way into work at the human rights bureau at the State Department, I pass by a powerful image many of you have probably seen in the media: the picture of an Iraqi woman giving the peace sign, her right index finger stained purple after she voted in the 2005 elections. It's a reminder about democracy in action ­never perfect, rarely easy -but neverthe­less the only political system built on the premise that all citizens should have a say in the governance process. That's an idea that we sort of take for granted in this country, even to the extent of getting lazy about exer­cising our constitutional right to vote. 
So many times over the past few election cycles we have heard criticism of our gener­ation as apathetic and indifferent to social issues or civic engagement. During our time at Notre Dame, we do a great deal to dispel that notion as we demonstrate our passion for an extraordinary range of issues. But there is still the possibility that when it gets down to the wire, some of us may not go to the polls or send in an absentee ballot. Maybe due to indecision, lack of spare time, or doubt that our votes will really matter this time around. Do not let that be you on Nov. 4. 
If the fact that this election is critical for the future of our country as we face daunt­ing challenges on nearly every policy front is not a sufficient reason, then I urge you to think again about the sacrifices people all over the world have made for freedom and recognition of their rights through the ballot box. Voting is fundamental to faithful citi­zenship. Voting is also easy. So let's make sure NDVOTES on Nov. 4. 
Michael McKenna alumnus Class of2008 Oct. 30 
Give e111ployees union rights 
Notre Dame claims to be a family, claims to listen to the voices of everyone at the University. But does the administration really live up to this rhetoric? 
If you talk with Notre Dame workers, they will tell you that they have no voice on this campus. We cannot truly live as a family if workers' call for change cannot be heard. When workers at Harvard, Yale and George'l!bwn. among other renowned univer· sities, called for similar change, their voices were respected and their issues were addressed. All of these universities have even achieved living wages. 
But another crucial element, which these campuses all share that ours lacks, is union protection. Unions played a key role in the living wage campaigns at all of these univer­sities because they provided a unified, strong and powerful voice for workers. The University will refuse to listen to demands for better working conditions and just wages until they are forced to, and the voice of stu­dents and workers on their own has not been enough. 
John Affieck-Graves, the executive vice president of the University, claims "Notre Dame has long recognized the right of our employees to unionize if they wish, and has stated that if they do vote to have a union the University will bargain with it 'in good faith."' It is time to put this claim to the test. The workers at Notre Dame may lack a voice, but they are calling for change. If the University will not listen, it is time to seek outside help. 
Teresa McGeeney junior Lyons Hall Oct. 29 
Partisanship separate frotn Church ideals 
In response to the Letter "Non-Partisan?" published on Oct. 28, I would like to call attention to a few points. 
The writers of the article say that the focus on abortion at the NDVotes event on Oct. 14 "demonstrates a lack of understanding of the holistic nature of Catholic social teach­ing." They forget, when they assert that "larger" issues such as immigration and dis­crimination were ignored, that the Catholic Church also teaches that not all issues carry the same weight, that life issues are of supreme importance and that abortion is a non-negotiable issue. 
They may also forget that we attend a Catholic university, where many students take the Church's teaching on weighting these issues seriously, especially when vot­ing. No one has ever accused NDVotes of being anything but fair until this Letter, and, as far as I know, the authors' complaint has been the only one. 
I believe there is an explanation for this; please keep reading. I would like to point out that many people, including the writers of the Letter, seem to be in denial of Barack Obama's actual stance on abortion and the effect his proposed policies would have on the number of abortions performed in the United States. Politicians and advocates of Obama, not to mention Obama himself. have used elusive and eloquent language to water down the facts. It would have been irrespon­sible for NDVotes not to make sure people at this event knew the facts and what is at stake in this election. 
The authors of the Letter say that "Many argue that Obama's social policies will reduce the need for abortion." Firstly, it is erroneous to say that there was ever a "need" for abortion. Secondly, this statement is simply false; Senator Obama's policy propositions cannot possibly do anything but cause a spike in the abortion rate, as Professor Carozza pointed out. 
If anyone doubts this, please research the following topics: the Hyde Amendment, which prohibits taxpayer funding of abortion and which Obama opposes, the ban on par­tial birth abortion which Obama opposes, and especially the Freedom of Choice Act, which would abolish literally all restrictions on abortions, including mandatory waiting periods, parental consent laws, informed consent laws and conscientious objection laws allowing doctors, nurses, other state­licensed professionals, hospitals and other healthcare institutions to refuse to perform or participate in abortions. 
Obama has pledged to make this the first bill he signs into law as president of the United States. To those whom these facts seem "skewed" toward a particular agenda, I would suggest re-examination of support for your candidate. 
Christine M. Romero junior Lewis Hall Oct. 28 
A ca111pus-vvide thank you 
We just want to let the students at South Dining Hall know how special they are to us. Each of you bring your own special 'sunshine' into our day. Being checker/monitor is a pleasure to look forward to, as it gives us an opportunity to get acquainted with wonderful young ladies and gentlemen, who come through our station. It is a gift that we will always remember and treasure. Thank you all for making our time here a rewarding experience. 
John and Lila Ritschard South Dining Hall employees Mishawaka, Ind. Oct. 27 

Vatnpire energy 
Think vampires are scary? Try your phone charger. 
The leaves are falling, the temper­ature is (drastically) dropping, and everyone is excited for the frighten­ing Halloween fun that will com­mence this weekend. However, ~ere's one thing that isn't falling­ou~dl'J>.olik.rgy bill. In light of Halloween, we e"'t"'"'lke this time to talk about one of tlie ""'-ariest things of all to your wa~et: vampn... Q.lflctricity. 
Yes, that IS really what It'S '-~led. Creepy, right? Vampire electricity refers to electricity used by appli­ances and electronics when they are turned off. You may not know it, but your TV, DVD player, microwave, toaster, clock radio, laptop and yes, your phone charger, all consume small amounts of energy even when you are not using them. The reason for this is that most modern electron­ics go into standby (zombie) mode when you hit the off switch -they never actually turn off. These small amounts of energy add up to a pretty spooktacular sum over time, and cost consumers a lot more money than they realize. 
The Department of Energy esti­mates that five percent of U.S. elec­tricity is wasted by vampire electron­ics every year, and that figure could increase to 20 percent by 2010. Vampire electricity is estimated at about 25 watts per household, which, when multiplied by 110 mil­lion households, gives the ghastly fig­ure of$2.7 billion per year that Americans are spending on this alone. That's enough to buy nine and a half million cauldrons worth of Hershey's Kisses. Moreover, it puts more strain on a horrifically over­loaded power grid. 

So what can you do to stop those ~;thoulish electronics that are haunt­llll;~i""ilitr house, sucking electricity, 
an e~re money, out of you? Unplug. You 0 l>...'t need to have your cell phone c~arger ~ed in when your phone lS not attached t~ Same goes for the TV lJr the toaster. The convenience factor may ._ lost, but you'll gain a lot more in terms t:A' money and energy saved. 
(Katie Woodward & William Staruk are juniors at Notre Dame who attended the CSC's Energy Policy Seminar in Washington D.C. They are not going as trees or tree huggersfor Halloween.) 
Katie Woodward William Staruk juniors Oct. 29 

Election considerations 
Dear Observer readers, 
As a member of a politically con­scious family and as a voter of the battleground state of Ohio, I would give you some thoughts to consid­er on the meaning of "pro-life." 
Someone who professes to be "pro-life" must be respectful of human life at all levels in all nations, not only toward privi­leged American fetuses. As a pro­life person, you would consider the livelihood of Americans of all ages and backgrounds, the guests of America and the citizens of the countries with whom we have relations and responsibilities. 
Consider generations besides your own when voting. While one candidate may have an attractive offer on how to fix a problem tem­porarily, it would be far wiser to consider the candidate who has a detailed plan on how to fix prob­lems with far-reaching outcomes. 
Younger Americans, consider a plan for health care which bene­fits more people. If we vote it in now, it will be substantial by the time we need it, and we will receive respect from the older generations. 
Politicians, consider admitting mistakes of previous administra­tions and withdraw from the countries who have made it clear they do not want our help. Consider respecting the military families and non-Americans who have been suffering long enough. Leaving a war is a "pro-life" action on multiple levels. Not only will we save lives, but we will be able to use the money we had been spending there on and spend it on issues that matter here at home. Consider using the money to boost our troubled economy. 

Invest in education so we can shape future American leaders and hop back on track with the global academic classroom. Invest in the environment to show our commitment to life and future life. 
Also, if you need a ride to your polling place, I will drive you there personally. Take some responsibil­ity and show your enthusiasm for your issues and your candidates. When other Americans see your passion, they will get excited, too! 
Mickey Gruscinski 
senior 
LeMans Hall Oct. 30 

P-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 
Friday October 31, 2008 

. ./ · ~ ~--------· . · 
In a ion to t signature an ems, births several romanticist ballads that call to mindBy PATRICK GRIFFIN previous works such as "Brick" and "The Luckiest." Accompanied by a subtle ore 

"Way to Normal" is the title of the latest album ambience, Folds ponders both the be:~in1!}il:lg"S produced by the cynical rocker, Ben Folds. Though failures of relationships in "Colo the title of the album may suggest otherwise, the The song draws a curious re•·~-..nr•o in citing for­musician's third full length studio album proves to mer astronaut Lisa No who, "put on a diaper be far from the norms of pop rock. and drove 18 to. kill h.er. boyfriend:".· 
The album may seem like trademark Ben Folds Concludi .. e .al~um With a ~tmtl.~r romantic, .· irony, the North Carolina native would argue that ob_sp ce, Kyh_e from Connecticut, recants t~e the album is a return to his ,____.-pas.t affatr of the long-wedded protagomst 
inspirational roots ... / Kyhe. 
"This new alb~m is really Tfi9.}&"St track is an .The f1~al track o!' t~e album .l'!lls t~e about me being free, which is ___.... account ofthe ~1stener mt~ app~ectati~e tranqml~ty ":Ith why it feels cathartic _,_r bl' h .1. . Its wandermg ptano !me and chnchmg 
· " F ld · dfi his pu lC umz zatlon string section
expressive, olds sY, 17 ld d ,fi ,' . . ..
official Web sit..~-:-/.lt s ab?ut rO s earne aJter The alb~.m s firs.t hit smgl~, You Don't track to bemg falling offthe stage Kno.w Me, featurmg the bnght vocals of ·z . Regma Spektor, may be the best track on ,---
y t ormal," which hit whz .e performzng the album. The poppy single combines /_--the stands on Sept. 16th, is zn Japan. many of Folds' best musical and lyrical expected to be a popular rein-tendencies juxtaposed with Spektor's vention for a diverse Folds fol-swooping voice. Behind a conscientious lowing. assessment of a failing relationship, the staccato. 
Though Folds' Web site promised "irresistible of an accompanying violin parallels, once again, a hooks and piano-pounding pandemonium that lis-catchy and memorable piano line. teners haven't been treated to ... since his years Folds agrees that the addition of Spektor vital­with Ben Folds Five," "Way to Normal" features izes the single: "She gave it more life. I think she's few structural differences compared to his previ-one or the best singers out there, she's just so tal­ous albums. That isn't to say that the album is a ented." failure. ft packs the same sardonic punch Many of the other tracks that has earned Ben Folds his devout fan spawn from characteristic Ben
Many of the other

base. Folds lyrical spontaneity and The album strongly opens with two tracks spawn from harsh opinion. He criticizes, crowd pleasers entitled "Hiroshima (B B characteristic Ben with tonal contrasts between B Benny IIit IIis Head)" and "Dr. Yang." verse and chorus, upper class
Folds lyrical 

The first track is an account of the public elitism in "Frown Song," and
spontaneity and

humiliation Folds earned after falling off even voraciously attacks a the stage while performing in Japan. Not harsh opinion. critic through several chal­only did the accident afford the performer lenges of the victim's integrity medical attention, it also provided the in "Brainswascht." material for one of the album's most memorable At times during "Way to Normal," Folds dis­tracks when set to the rhythmic pounding of played the musical charisma of some of the great­Folds' piano. est piano rockers: Elton John, Billy Joel or Freddie 
"Ur. Yang" similarly drives the listener deliber­Mercury. ately toward a final fuzzed and energetic crescen­The album isn't flawless, though. More than do. once, Folds deviates from the flowing structure of 
Way To Normal Ben Folds 
Released by: Sony Records Recommended Tracks: Hiroshima, You Don't Know Me (Featuring Regina Spektor), Cologne 
his typical musical style for droning conversation­al tangents. The misplaced digressions lengthen severacl songs unnecessarily, boring the listener. Fortunately, these shortcomings are limited and do not excessively taint the album's integrity. 
If you are a faithful Folds fan, "Way to Normal" will resemble the pianist's past albums -a collec­tion of both catchy anthems and emotional ballads whose appeal gradually grows on the listener. For those who are unfamiliar with the artist, the album is an excellent introduction to Folds' quirky and aeerbic tendencies. If you're looking for an album that deviates from typical pop trends, look 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, October 31, 2008 
page 15 
By SHANE STsibiB:Efi{( Scene Writer 
Try and name a Hollywood screenwriter. Just one. It seems an oxymoron to refer to anyone who has 
written a screenplay without doubling as a director as famous. Screenwriters sim­ply write the stories and show up in the credits. D'on 't tell that to Charlie Kaufman, though. 
To say that Kaufman transcends Hollywood is an understatement. He is a paradox of a writer whose work is almost indescribable and incomprehensible at times. yet always engrossing. His plots are otherworldly. His dialogue is down­right foreign. Each scene that he con­structs operates in a dreamlike fashion, allowing the audience to seamlessly sur­
render any semblance of what they're accustomed to seeing when at the movies. 
He is Charlie Kaufman, the lone star writer, and as 
Kaufman is a paradox of a writer whose work is almost indescribable and incomprehensible at times, yet always engrossing. 

of last Friday, he is now the dictate the rest of the film. writer/director. After his wife leaves him and takes their daughter 
It is only fitting that the Academy Award winning to Berlin, Caden's health begins to deteriorate. Or so writer behind "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless he thinks. A short time later he receives a MacArthur Mind," and such far out there films as "Being John Grant, which he uses to work on a theater production Malkovic" and "Adaptation" would aim for the stars of epic proportion. Inside a massive warehouse he 
in his directorial debut. So what did 
ronments in shifting time frames, creat­ing a jigsaw puzzle of a movie that those willing to follow will find tantalizing but inevitably rewarding. Yes, to say it blunt-
Kaufman conjure up this time? 
Well, he made "Synecdoche, New York", a two-hour journey into the confines of life, death, love. art, and the universal struggle to be authentic in an inauthentic world. 
Everything is ever shift­ing in Kaufman's world. Duplicate characters roam through unfamiliar envi­
One can't wait to see it again, not to try to better under­stand it, but to once again immerse one­self in Kaufman's metaphorical the­ater that so inter­estingly and beauti­fully attempts to explore life from every which way. 

reconstructs a life-size replica of New York City and auditions thousands of actors. 
From there, fiction and non-fiction blend into an almost indecipherable mix, as Kaufman continues to further mine the many themes of the film. 
In the end, Caden's grand theater piece illuminates the true silver lining of this film, that we are all authentic and important, because in life, no one is an extra, because we are all lead roles in our own stories. 
"Synecdoche, New York" is so intricate and meaningful on so many levels that it begs to be watched over and over again. One can't wait to see it again, not to try to better understand it, but to once 

By CAITLYN FERARRO Scene Writer 
"The Duchess" depicts the desperate life of Georgiana, the Duchess of Devonshire (Kiera Knightley) living in 18th century England. 
In the eyes of her public, the Duchess was one of the most fashionable and charming women around. Even high society followed in her wake, emulating her fashions and wigs. It is painfully obvious early on that the gossip line is evident, and that the Duke is "the only man in England not in love with his wife." 
While Georgiana leads an extravagant political and public life, her personal life is characterized by unhappiness due to her marriage. Ralph Fiennes per­fectly portrays the evil Duke with great subtlety that it creeps up on the viewer. The Duke does not bother to get to know his wife, but like many other stories of the time only wants her to provide him with a male heir. 
While this film does contain some soapy underpin­nings, it avoids most of the soap opera pitfalls. The 
The Duchess 

riveting performances of the actors save the film Charles Grey (Dominic Cooper), Knightley comes from this fate by demonstrating elegance, wit, and alive. power. "The Duchess" is visually sumptuous and more 
It is a beautiful period piece that delves into the honest than most costume dramas. Knightley is truly dirt and vice of the seemingly clean cut royal class. exceptional as the titular character. There is even Part of the realism translates from the Oscar buzz surrounding the actress book, which was based on a true story with this performance. that inspired the film, by Amanda "The Duchess" is After roles in "Pride and Prejudice" Foreman. visually sumptuous and "Antonement" it seems she has 
While the Duchess struggles to pro­perfected the British time period
and more honest

duce a son, she must suffer through the woman who experiences fanciful fits,
than most costume

uncomfortable love triangle that includes eloquent discourse, and sometimes a her husband and his live-in mistress, dramas. Knightley little steamy sex. It would be the sec­Lady Katherine (Charlotte Rampling), ond, and a well-deserved, nomination
is truly exceptional 

Georgiana's once best friend and confi­for Knightley.
as the titular 

dant. While Knightley certainly deserves The awkward meals that the three character. ample praise, Fiennes does just as 
share are extremely tense. When the Duchess can no longer remain calm at one of these meals, it leads to a harrowing sexual confrontation between the Duke and his wife. The film succeeds here by avoiding the cliched drama about the woman being infertile, as Georgiana births daughter after daughter. The problem here is simply bad luck. 
Full of emotions ranging from anger to love to des­peration, both Lady Katherine and Georgiana seem willing to do anything for their children. The two women are extremely strong characters in the face of a society that does not value their voice, especially in politics and ownership. Unfortunately, the men seem to only care for their children if they are males. 
To the outside word, Georgiana is a vibrant celebri­ty known for her fashions and quick wit. But when need be, Knightley carefully portrays the depression underneath her character. And when the Duchess falls passionately in love with a young politician, 
well. Since the film is entitled "The Duchess" it is expected that her char­acter will sometimes overshadow his. 
However, he holds his own as he perfectly plays the controlling villain, although his performance is cer­tainly less obvious than his Lord Voldermort persona. In a twisted way, he makes the Duke's terrible actions seem necessary, and towards the film's end he briefly reveals a hint of humanity. 
llis portrayal of the painfully aristocratic man is impeccable, as he leads the audience to consider sympathizing with him and condemn society instead. 
Cooper and Rampling round out a great cast as the supporting characters that suffer themselves due to the dysfunctional Devonshire marriage. In the end, "The Duchess" contains expansive scenery, wonderful costumes, makeup and hair, impressive dialogue, and outstanding performances. 
Contact Caitlyn Ferarro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 
ANGELA ARCHER I Observer Graphic 


page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 31, 2008 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Lyons looking for a big upset against top-seeded Welsh Fam 
Playoff-tested PW set to battle Howard; Walsh wants to avenge Farley blowout; Pangborn and McGlinn ready to go 
their winning streak." between the two teams is offensive performance. ence gained over the courseBy MOLLY SAMMON, The game will take place their playoff experience. PW However, Farley captain of the season will lead themDOUGLAS FARMER, Sunday at 1 p.m. LaBar has won two titles in the past Jenny Rolfs has noticed a def­to victory and one game clos­CHRIS MICHALSKI, and Fields. three years, but were stifled inite improvement in the Wild er to the championship.
RYAN O'CONNELL last year in the semi··finals. Women over the course of the Despite Pangborn's sub-par

Spom Writers 

Howard vs. Pasquerllla West "Our goal this year is to end regular season. This performance in their previous 
Every season, when playoffs up back in the Stadium," improvement is seen espe­game against Farley, the 
To kick off the first round of roll around, it becomes a dif­Davies said. "We're definitely cially in the Wild Women team believes it will be com­the playoffs, top-seeded ferent ballgame. Teams with looking to get defense, which petitive with any team it Welsh family has history on deep playoff experience, such back to familiar has allowed six plays. Before playing Farley, its side against as Pasquerilla ground." points or less the high-powered Pangborn No. 8 seed West, under­Last season in three of the offense averaged nearly 25 Lyons. stand this fact. the Ducks last four games points a game.
"Our defense is very 

These two But squads like reached the and has "We didn't play as well as
"I think the biggest 
teams met in Howard, with playoffs for the solid, we have held brought the we would've liked last game," the first play­challenge this only one playoff first time. Their other teams to little team's record Pangborn captain Kathy off game last Sunday is being game in team stint was short­to 3-2-1. Poploski said. "Losing the last
or no points."

season with history, don't lived though, as The Finest game of the regular season is
prepared mentally." 
the exact same necessarily they lost in the will rely on not the ideal way of entering seeds. Last know the feel­first round. Jenny Rolfs their defense, the playoffs, but it won't year, Welsh Claire Connell ing. "We're taking Farley captain which shut out affect how we play our Family won -Lyons captain But, despite it one game at a its previous remaining games." but it's a new only being sepa­time," captain opponent, On the other sideline, season, a new rated in the and sophomore Lewis, and has McGlinn plans to use the game, and standings by half quarterback been stellar momentum from its win over Lyons seems prepared for the a game, and tying each other Kayla Bishop said. "But we've throughout the season. Lyons to give the Shamrocks fight. earlier this fall, Pasquerilla always got that Stadium game "Our defense is very solid, an advantage against 
"I think the biggest chal­West (3-1-2) enters the first­in the back of our minds." we have held other teams to Pangborn. However, the lenge this Sunday is being round game B o t h little or no Shamrocks prepared mentally," Lyons against Pasquerilla West points," senior aren't content junior quarterback and co­Howard (3-2-1) and Howard are captain Jenny with merely
"I think the playoffs 
captain Claire Connell said. on Sunday with eager for a bet-Rolfs said. making the "We need to show up to the at least that ter game than The offense, are coming at the playoffs. The game ready to play with one large fac­"Our goal this year is the la,st time on the other Shamrocks
perfect time as we are 
intensity." tor in its favor. to end up back in the they played hand, was have their
playing our best
As Lyons works on their At the end of each other. unable to pro­sights set on
Stadium." 
game intensity, Welsh Family September Howard hopes duce any points football of the the champi­has a different gameplan for when the two to record its against Lewis, onship.
season. " 
securing their win, come teams last met, Cara Davies first playoff vic­and the Finest "It means a Sunday. the season was PW captain tory in history are trying to get Jot to be in 
Sarah deGroot
"We can't get complacent near its and Pasquerilla Murphy to the playoffs with the wins we have this halfway point. West is chasing repeat her per­McGlinn captain especially year and need to stay focused The two teams its third title in formance in the after the on winning our upcoming endured a four years. season opener. rough season games," Welsh Family captain defensive The Ducks and Farley is focused on improv­last year, but we are not con­Jenni G'argula said. slugfest to a 6-6 tie. Purple Weasels meet Sunday ing short yardage plays and tent with just makrng the 
During the regular season, Pasquerilla West team cap­afternoon at 2 p.m. at the moving the ball quickly. playoffs because we think we the Whirlwinds went an tain Cara Davies described LaBar Fields. The winner of this match have a chance to win it all," impressive 6-0, but almost that matchup as "an ugly, will go on to face the winner senior captain and quarter­suffered their first loss sloppy game by all accounts." Farley vs. Walsh of undefeated Welsh Family back Sarah deGroot said. "I against Breen-Phillips in Both teams relied on strong On Sunday, third-seeded and Lyons. think the playoffs are coming their last game, owing their defensive rushes to fluster Walsh will try to get redemp­at the perfect time as we are problems to struggling to the opposing quarterback. tion against the sixih-seeded Pangborn vs. McGlinn playing our best football of score in the red zone. This strategy led to Farley in a first-round playoff This Sunday, the Pangborn the season." 
Lyons finished its regular Pasquerilla West lineman matchup. Phoxes and McGlinn season at .500. Jordan Johnson recording The two teams faced off in Shamrocks will face off on Contact Molly Sammon at 
"We have not played Welsh two sacks. The Howard their season openers, with LaBar fields at 4 p.m. in the msarnmon@nd.edu, Douglas Family Hall this year, but we defense countered those the Finest tallying an easy concluding game of the first Farmer at dfarmerl@nd.edu, know that they are a strong sacks by intercepting Davies 26-0 win. Quarterback Emily playoff week. Chris Michalski at team," Connell said. "WH are twice in the first half. Murphy threw for three Both teams are hoping that jmichal2@nd.edu, and Ryan looking forward to ending The greatest difference touchdowns in the dominant their gameplan and experi-O'Connell at roconne3@nd.edu 

Read the footba Observer. Check out the rts Blog, 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

947 RIVERSIDE DR., 4 BDRMS, 
2.5 BATHS, HISTORICAL HOME FoR SALE CLOSE TO NO. CRESSY 
EVERETT, PAM DECOLA, 574­Villa ranch at 18133 Annettas Ct. in 532·0204. South Bend. 5 mins. to ND. Built in 2004. 3 bdrm. 2 bath. 1652 sq. ft. Vaulted great room, formal dining NOTICES room, oak eat-in kitchen, all appli· ances, large 3-season room, first ND,SMC &HCC students: NO Club floor laundry. Finished basement of DC bus transportation to and plumbed for bath, egress window. from MD·VA tor Thanksgiving & Patio. $249,500. Handicap accessi· Christmas. Fun &easy! Book by ble. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty 11/1 and save $$1 Contact Ann Jack Egenhoefer. 574·280·7730 Rimkus, arimkus@nd.edu 
HOUSE FOR SALE 1/2 MILE CHESS LESSONS FIDEIUSCF FROM NO. 3 BEDROOMS 2 FULL National Master Internet or In· BATHS. CRESSY EVERETT PAM Person {Michiana area) historic-DECOLA 574-532·0204 chess@comcast.net 574·277·8673 
FoR RENT 
GUESTHOUSE RENTAL 25 MILES WEST OF CAMPUS 3 large Bedrooms each with Private Bath. Great Common Room with floor to ceiling Windows and outside Deck overlooking rolling prairie. Breakfasts. No smoking; no pets. Call219·778·2585 or email share@ sharetoundation.org 
3/4 bedroom, 3 full bath deluxe homes, close to ND, fireplace, cathedral ceilings, skylights, 2-car garage, 10x20 deck. Much more. Call 574-232·4527 or 269-683· 5038. From $1,700/mo. 
HOUSES FOR LEASE 09-10 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not SCHOOLYEAR.~10BDRMS go nalone. If you or someone you love AVAILABLE. CONTACT TICKETS needs confidential support or assis-KRAMER PROPERTIES 574-lance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 234-2436 OR KRAMERHOUS-Wanted: NO football tix for family. {574)631-7819 or Ann Firth at 574­ES.COM 574-251·1570. 631-2685. For more information, visa 
Affordable Graduate and Faculty Off-Ca•llpus Housing. Call tor Availability (574)243·2818 or (574)2"76-6118. 
2-bdrrr house near NO. Very clean, garage. $675/mo. Call269-426­1570. 
1·bdrrr apt. 100 yrds to NO. All inclusive plus new appliances in your kirchen. $500/mo. Call574­243·7777. 

our websrre at: VICTORY TICKETS Buy-Sell NO foot-http:J/osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­ball tickets. www.victorytickets.com. nant.shtml 574-232·0964. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assau~ed. visit 
http:J/osa.nd.edu/departmentslcsap/
PERSONAL 

Two teachers ready to adopt ADOPTION -Loving Domer couple newborn and provide a wonderful looking to adopt a baby {babies). life for him/her. Confidential. please call Expenses paid. Marie and James Stephenandliz@aol.com or call (301 )977·5069 or us toll free 1-888·760-BABY {866) 202·1424 PIN 5448. 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 31, 2008 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team points 
1 North Carolina n5 2 Connecticut 707 3 Louisville 694 4 UCLA 650 5 Duke 578 6 PiHsburgh 576 7 Michigan State 572 8 Texas 538 9 NOTRE DAME 525 10 Purdue 465 11 Gonzaga 437 12 Memphis 425 13 Tennessee 408 14 Oklahoma 387 15 Arizona State 304 16 Miami (Fl) 233 17 Marquette 219 18 Georgetown 175 19 Florida 161 20 Davidson 158 21 usc 153 21 Wisconsin 153 23 Kansas 130 24 Wake Forest 129 25 Villanova 122 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Top 25 
pvs 
3 
NR 
6 4 16 18 13 5 19 20 
NR 
2 7 
NR NR NR 
21 12 
NR 
9 
NR 
10 1 
NR 
24 

team  points  record  
1  NOTRE DAME  850  18·0·0  
2  North Carolina  799  15·1•1  
3  Portland  764  15-1-0  
4  UCLA  763  14·0·2  
5  Stanford  733  16·0·1  
6  Florida State  677  13·2·1  
7  Florida  639  15·2·1  
8  Virginia  607  12·3·1  
9  Oklahoma State  525  15·1·2  
10  usc  505  12·3·1  
11  Duke  464  12·3-2  
12  Texas  461  12-2·3  
13  Boston College  457  11·4·2  
14  TexasA&M  449  14·3·1  
15  Colorado  367  13·3·3  
16  San Diego  364  13·3-2  
17  West Virginia  301  12·2·5  
18  UW·MIIwaukee  244  15·2·2  
19  Wake Forest  243  10·6·0  
20  Missouri  162  12·5-0  
21  Penn State  153  13·6·0  
21  Washington State  130  8·5·4  
23  Georgetown  101  13·3-2  
24  Rutgers  66  12·5·1  
25  Minnesota  59  17-2-0  

MIAA Volleyball Conference Standings 
Team League Record 
1 Hope 13·1 2 Calvin 12·2 3 Alma 11-3 4 SAINT MARY'S 9·7 5 Adrian 8·8 6 Kalamazoo 4·10 7 Albion 4·11 8 Trine 4-11 9 Olivet 2·14 
around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Celtics 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 

Spurs at Trail Blazers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE -Ken Macha was hired Thursday as manager of the Milwaukee Brewers, taking over from Dale Sveum following the team's first postseason appearance since 1982. 
The 58-year-old Macha, who managed Oakland to a pair of AL West titles, agreed to a two-year con­tract. He replaces Sveunt, who became interim manager when Ned Yost was fired with 12 games left in the regular season. 
"It means a tremendous amount to me," Macha said. "The players are the guys that go out there and win or lose the games for you, and I think the job of a manag­er and a coach is to get these players as prepared as you possibly can." 
Macha immediately tried to dispel the notion that he lost touch with his players in Oakland, including Jason Kendall, now the Brewers catcher. 
"I've got a couple things to say about that. No. 1, the job of the man­ager is really not to be buddies with all the play­ers. You have to make very difficult decisions over the course of the year, he said. "Sometimes players get a little personal and think 

IN BRIEF Witten wants to play
Sunday against Giants 
IRVING, Texas -Cowboys tight end Jason Witten feels every breath he takes because of a broken rib. Sleeping is difficult and doctors have told him that it could be three or four weeks before his side will feel any better. 
Yet, Witten still hopes to play Sunday against the NFC East-leading and rival New York Giants. 
During the early portion of practice open to reporters, Witten was in shorts and doing conditioning drills on the side with a team trainer. It was the sec­ond day in a row he didn't practice. 
Witten, the NFC leader with 46 catch­es, said he would like to get some prac­tice reps this week, but still described himself as a game-time decision. 
The Cowboys (5-3), who had lost three of four games before their 13-9 victory Sunday over Tampa Bay, are already without quarterback Tony Romo (broken pinkie) and guard Kyle Kosier (foot) on offense and several injured defenders. 
it's personal. It really isn't." 
Macha led Oakland to a 368-260 record. He was fired two days after the Athletics were swept by Detroit in the 2006 AL championship series, a result that frustrated players. 
"I think if you go back and talk to those players now, they might have a little bit of a different take," Macha said. 
Macha said he spoke with Sveum, who was dropped from considera­tion Oct. 17, and encour­aged him to keep his dream of being a manag­er one day. 
"I really feel that Dale 
Griffey on the market after 
White Sox decline option 
CHICAGO-Ken Griffey Jr.'s $16.5 million option was declined Thursday by the Chicago White Sox, making the No.5 home run hitter in major league history eligible for free agency. 
Griffey is owed a $4 million buyout, which completes a $116.5 million, nine-year contract that he agreed to with the Cincinnati Reds before the 2000 season. 
The 38-year old hit a combined .249 with 18 homers and 71 RBis in 143 games last season for the Reds and the White Sox. Griffey batted .260 with three homers and 18 RBis in 41 games with the White Sox, who acquired him July 31 in a trade that sent right-hander Nick Masset and infielder Danny Richar to Cincinnati. 
Griffey, who agreed to come to Chicago so he would have a chance to play in the postseason, went 2-for-10 in the AL playoffs as the White Sox were beaten in four games by the Tampa Bay Rays. 
will be a plus to this staff," Macha said. ''I'm hoping that he stays." 
Willie Randolph and Bob Brenly also were finalists for the job. 
Six years ago, Macha was considered the lead candidate to become the Brewers manager when Doug Melvin became GM, but Macha was promoted from bench coach to manager in Oakland. 
Milwaukee went 90-72 last season and won the wild-card berth on the final day. The Brewers then lost in four games to Philadelphia, the eventu­al World Series champs, in the first round of the playoffs. 

Judfe says that Vick 
mus appear in person 
SUSSEX, Va. -Former NFL quar­terback Michael Vick won't be allowed to plead guilty to dogfight­ing charges by videoconference, a judge ruled Tuesday. 
Vick's lawyers had requested that he be allowed to enter the plea from federal prison in Leavenworth, Kan., where he is serving a two-year term since admitting he bankrolled a dogfight­ing operation and helped execute dogs. 
But citing high public interest in the case, Surry County Circuit Judge Samuel Campbell said it would be better for Vick to appear in person. 
Prosecutor Gerald Poindexter preferred that Vick's plea wait until his release from federal prison. He objected to the video conferencing motion on grounds that it has never been used in Virginia and he didn't want the county to set a precedent. 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 31, 2008 
MLB 

Rays shift their focus to next year 

Enjoy Italian C contemporary creations in a comfortable, casual setting 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka • (574) 271-1692 
1332 Hilltop Road CATERING St. Joseph, Ml • (269) 983-9900 
for every occasion 

www.PapaVinosltalian Kitchen.com 
.. Please recycl~~The Observer. 




Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA One 

remarkable ride is over, and the 
Tampa Bay Rays are already 
planning another. 
No stepping back to savor what they accomplished over the past six months. The AL champi­ons want to make winning and going to the World Series an expectation. 
"Our minds have been 

stretched. Everything about us 
has been stretched," manager 
Joe Maddon said. "I don't think 
our guys are ever going to be 
satisfied going home in October 
again." 
A year after finishing with the worst record in baseball, the young Hays pulled ofl' one of the most improbable turnarounds in major league history. On the way to a franchise-best 97 wins, Maddon's buneh showed it does­n't take a large payroll to field a winner. 
lneluding the playoffs, they won 39 more games than in 2007. 
The team dropped the "Devil" from its nickname. took on now eolors and uniforms and said goodbye to a decade of futility in which Tampa Bay finished last in the AL East in nine of 10 sea­sons. 
"We made a powerful state­ment," Maddon said. "It's just the beginning." 
Players began dearing out their lockers at Tropieana Field in St. Petersburg on Thursday. 
''I'm having a tough time today. But seeing the guys cases the pain," slugger Carlos Pcna said. "The reason it hurts too much is because we were having too much fun. It was amazing. We were kids just living a dream. We're hungry for more. Thi~. yoar is one we'll nnvm for­get. 
Pitcher James Shields said it hurt to fall short of their ulti­mate goal, but echoed his team­mates sentiments that the future is bright. 
"It hit me this morning when I woke up. But I woke up all smiles," Shields said. "What a crazy smlson. Absolutely amaz­ing." 
Not only did the Hays outlast the big-spending Boston Hed Sox and New York Yankees to win the division, they also prospered in the playoll's, long after skep­tics figured they'd run out of gas. 
"They kept believing in them­selves to the point they were dis­appointed they didn't win this thing," principal owner Stuart Sternberg said after Wednesday night's 4-3 Series-clinching loss to the Philadelphia Phillies. 
"They never counted them­selves out at any time from the month of February on," Sternberg said. "They really believed, even down three games to one ... they felt extraordinarily confident that they were going to bring this back to St. Petersburg ... and win this thing." 
The Hays did not play well against the Phillies, however they didn't make excuses for the shoddy defense, shaky pitching and lack of timely hitting. 
Instead, Maddon focusnd on what thny did well, and how that ties into a promising future. 
In Games 2 and 3, the Hays scored eight runs, just one of them on a hit. Pushing four runs home on groundouts and scoring on a sacrifice fly, safety squeeze and throwing error delighted the manager. 
He's going to put out an instructional video and use it in spring training to reiterate how much small details mean to win­ning. He plans to the spread the message to players in the minor league system, too. 
"We need to continue to grow. There are a lot of things we have to do better," Maddon said. ''I'm into the little things .... This series really validates a lot of the concepts we have put out there." 
Madden, who spent 31 years in the Angels system before tak­ing over as Rays manager in 2006, grabbed players attention with his "98" speech on the opening day of spring training and sold them on the notion that nine players playing hard for nine innings every day could equal one of eight playoff berths. 
"Again, I think we validated and created the Ray way of play­ing baseball," he said. 'Tm very proud of that, and we have to make it better." 
Solid pitching, strong defense and timely hitting were a win­ning redpe. And, the Rays have every reason to believe they can sustain their success. 
All-Star left-hander Scott Kazmir is only 24, and he's already the team's career wins leader. He's also the youngest member of a rotation whose average age of 24.6 gave the Hays the youngest set of starters to get a team to the playoffs since the 1986 New York Mets. 
What's scary is 23-year-old David Price, who has yet to make his first big league start, may turn out to be the best of all the young pitchers. 
"I think we're going to be pret­ty good for a while," said rookie Evan Longoria, who started the season in the minors but wound up hitting 27 homers in 122 games and being selected to play in the All-Star game. 
Maddon addressed the team after Wednesday night's game, telling them how much he enjoyed their growth as people, not just baseball players. 

"I thought the way we handled this entire month for being as inexperienced as we are, and as young as we are, that was remarkable also," he said. "I wanted them to know it goes beyond a lot of difl'erent compo­nents of playing baseball." 
Clifl' Floyd, one of the veterans signed last winter to bring lead­ership and stability to the club­house, said the Rays should be able to contend for years. 
Still, he cautioned his younger teammates to beware, citing the Detroit Tigers as an example. 
"They had a great team, a great bunch of guys and added even more depth to their team and didn't quite get over the hump (in 2008). But the year before, they were an outstand­ing team," Floyd said. 
"If you want to look at any­thing, you look at that team and see how quickly it can turn. The Colorado Rockies, how quickly it can turn. You have to come pre­pared for spring training, know that this year is completely over, you're not the champions, and if you're going to be champions we got a taste of what it takes to do that." 
Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Phillies want to do it again 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Phillies are built to be more than a one-year wonder. 
Cole Hamels and Brad Lidge aren't going anywhere. Neither are Chase Utley, Ryan Howard and Jimmy Hollins. With the team's nucleus expected back next year, the Phillies have a chance to be the first repeat World Series champions since the New York Yankees won three in a row from 1998­2000. 
"Thanks for your support! And let's do it again!" general manager Pat Gillick screamed out to the delirious fans Wednesday night, moments after the Phillies beat the Tampa Bays Hays to capture the second championship in the franchise's 126-year histo­ry. 
The 71-year-old Gillick prob­ably got caught up in the euphoria of the wild celebra­tion when he said 'again.' After all. he plans to retire when his three-year contract expires Friday. That doesn't mean the Phillies can't do it without him. 
Surely, repeating won't be easy. Only the Yankees and Toronto Blue Jays (1992-93) have won consecutive titles in 
the  last  30  
years.  
But  these  

Phillies are 
young, talented "It's not easy in There are 10 
in many areas Philadelphia, but players who will and possess the be eligible for
when you win, it
intangibles -arbitration, and
makes it that much 
team chemistry many of them and resilience -sweeter." will get huge needed to main­raises. Howard tain success. ($10 million),
Jamie Moyer 
Left fielder Pat Hamels 
Phillies pitcher 
Burrell and ($500,000), cen­
and Lidge preserved the 4-3 victory for his 48th save in 48 tries this year. 
"It's not really in my hands," Burrell said of his future with the team he's spent his entire nine-year career. "It's up to them." 
Moyer had a remarkable sea­son and came back with a solid outing in Game 3 of the Series following two subpar perform­ances in the first two rounds. He walked off the field amid the chaos Wednesday night with the pitching rubber after digging it up with a shovel. 
That looked like a guy who may be ready to call it quits. "Heck, no," Moyer said after­ward. 
Moyer, who made $5.5 mil­lion this season, could get a better offer somewhere else. But he'd rather close out his career with his hometown team. Moyer grew up in the area, skipped school to attend the Phillies' 1980 champi­onship parade and will be part of it Friday. 
"It's not easy in Philadelphia," he said. "But when you win, it makes it that much sweeter." 
The Phillies have five other players who will be free agents. Only two -lefty reliev­er Scott Eyre and reserve out­
fielder So 
Taguchi 
made the post­
season roster. 

soon-to-be 46­year-old pitcher Jamie Moyer are the only significant players that will become free agents. Burrell, who hit .250 with 33 homers and 86 RB!s in the reg­ular season, wants to return. So docs Moyer, who had a team-best 16 wins. 
Burrell, 32, made $14 million this season, and he'll probably get a more lucrative offer from another team. lie started well, tailed off in the second half and struggled in the World Series after a strong NLCS. 
If Burrell played his last game with the Phillies, his last at-bat was a memorable one. He broke an 0-for-13 skid in the Series with a leadoff dou­ble in the eighth inning of Game 5. Pinch runner Eric Bruntlett scored the go-ahead run on Pedro Feliz's single, 
ter fielder 
Shane Victorino 

($480,000), right fielder Jayson Werth ($1. 7 million), starter Joe Blanton ($3. 7 million) and relievers Ryan Madson ($1.4 million) and Chad Durbin ($900,000) should make a lot more money next year. 
The Phillies' payroll on open­ing day was a franchise-record $104.5 million. Keeping it close to that total for '09 will be a challenging task for the new GM. Current assistant Ruben Amaro Jr. is the leading candidate to replace Gillick. 
It was fitting the Phillies finally won it all in a strange and wacky World Series. One game started after 10 p.m. and the clincher was delayed 46 hours by rain. And, those games were the ones in Philly. The first two were played in 
Tampa Bay's quirky, domed stadium with all the catwalks and goofy ground rules. 
This soggy Series was a microcosm of the Phillies' sea­son. Philadelphia got contribu­tions from almost everyone to beat the Rays in five games. Utley had two big homers, but batted .167. Rollins hit just .227 and Burrell .071. 
Catcher Carlos Ruiz (.375) and Feliz (.333) were among the unlikely heroes. Geoff Jenkins got his first hit of the postseason, a double that led to the go-ahead run in the sixth inning of Game 5. Werth offset some baserunning blun­ders by hitting .444. Even Blanton chipped in with a homer and a strong pitching effort in Game 4. 
"We're losers no more," said Howard, who had three homers in the Series. "The organization, we're winners. Nobody can take that away from the city of Philadelphia, and nobody can take that away from us." 
From the day pitchers and catchers reported to spring training on Feb. 14, everyone made it clear the goal was to win the World Series. Just making the playoffs wasn't going to cut it, not after getting a taste of it last season. 
The Phillies overcame a seven-game deficit with 17 remaining and surpassed the New York Mets on the final day to capture their first NL East title in 14 years in 2007. Then, they promptly got swept by the Colorado Rockies in the first round. 
Players set the tone early for '08. They walked around the clubhouse on the first day in Clearwater, Fla., wearing red T-shirts that said on the back, "Winning Starts Now." 
It didn't come easy. It never does in this city. 
The Phillies battled the Mets and Florida Marlins through­out the season, saving their best for when it mattered most. 
They were 3? games behind the Mets with 16 to play, but won 12 of the next 15 to clinch their second straight division title on the next-to-last day of the regular season. 
The celebration wasn't too crazy after the Phillies secured a playoff spot. Everyone emphasized the goal was to get a ring. They partied after beat­ing Milwaukee in the first round and Los Angeles in the NLCS, but stayed focused on their mission. 
Here they are now, champi­ons at last. Now, can they do it again? 
MLS 

Beckham going to play for Milan 
Associated Press 
MILAN, Italy David Beckham will join AC Milan in January on a three-month loan from the Los Angeles Galaxy to maintain his fitness and prolong his career with the English national team. 
The former England captain's stint in Serie A will begin Jan. 7, and he will rejoin his Galaxy teammates in March. 
"He will have to go back to Galaxy by the time the MLS starts, and training before that," Milan sporting director Umberto Gandini said Thursday. "David is committed to the LA Galaxy and the MLS. Only David knows his future, but for sure he has a commitment to go back to the MLS and fulfill that." 
Milan vice president Adriano Galliani said an agreement was reached Thursday with Beckham's lawyers, although a contract is still to be written. 
The 33-year-old midfielder is eager to play in Europe during the MLS offseason to remain fit and available for selection for England, which plays an exhibi­tion at Germany on Nov. 19 before World Cup 2010 qualifY­ing resumes in March. 
Galaxy coach Bruce Arena declined to say what the Galaxy will get in return from lending Beckham to AC Milan, and that the loan was never sought for longer than three months. 
"The terms of the agreement will remain confidential," Arena said on a conference call with reporters. "In my view, this on the part of David was a purely technical rationale. He wants to continue to play for England. He wants to be in a good environ­ment ... and what better envi­ronment can you be in than AC Milan.
?" 

The Galaxy coach added that he wasn't overly concerned that Beckham would get injured. 
"When players don't go 100 percent, they get hurt. David is a very experienced player, and knows when to go for challenges and when not to," Arena said. 
Beckham is one appearance away from matching the record 108 for an outfield player-held by 1966 World Cup-winning cap­tain Bobby Moore. Goalkeeper Peter Shilton holds the overall England record of 125. 
"Milan has made a good acquisition," said England man­ager Fabio Capello, who also coached Beckham at Real Madrid. "In Madrid, I dropped him from the team because he signed with Los Angeles. But he continued to come and train and I put him back on the team." 
Beckham will likely undergo medical tests Dec. 20 and be introduced a day later, when the club will unveil his jersey num­ber. He is set to travel with Milan to Dubai for a midwinter train­ing camp, which includes an exhibition. 
Beckham's first competitive game for Milan could come in the capital against AS Roma on Jan. 11. 
He will become the first English player to play for the club since 1987, when Ray Wilkins and Mark 1-Iateley left the club. 
Beckham will join a stellar midfield at the San Siro, includ­ing Italy's World Cup champions Andrea Pirlo and Gennaro Gattuso, plus Massimo Ambrosini, Mathieu Flamini and Clarence Seedorf. 
During the last MLS offseason, Beckham trained with Arsenal to keep fit, but did not play for the English Premier League club. 

*STUDENT DISCOUNT 
Atria Salon 2 
Specializing in color 574.271.8804 
Haircut, Highlights & Style: $79 (reg $125) Haircut, Color & Styl.e: $72 (reg $95) Women Haircut & Style: $2 5 (reg $40) 
Atria Salon 2: 2039 South Bend ave (inside the Martins shopping plaza) Must present ad before services are performed. Expires 11/19/08. No other discounts apply. 
Entries are due Nov 17th Details at green.nd.edu 
GO IRISH! BEAT SYRACUSE! 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 31, 2008 
NFL 

Henry pleads not guilty to charges 
pretrial release can be 
Associated Press 
revoked." 

BILI.INC;S, Mont. -Former Federal prosecutors in Billings NFL running back Travis Henry said they did not know the and a eo-defendant pleaded not details of the violation, but that guilty Thursday to federal it apparently occurred in cocaine traflicking charges. Denver. 
The :HJ-year-old Ilenry and Court documents list numer­29-year-old James Mack of Bow ous release terms for llenry, Mar, Colo., were arrested Sept. including a ban on drinking 30 in the D1~nver ama. alcohol, travel restricted to 
Authorities say Colorado and the two had plot-Montana, ran­ted to supply at dom substance­
least 5 kilo­"The conditions for abuse testing and 
grams of cocaine home detention. 
release are not
to customers in The defendants the Billings area. optional" each face one They were charge of con­arrested in an spiracy to pos­
Carolyn Ostby 
undereover sting sess cocaine with
Magistrate Judge
operation after intent to distrib­authorities said ute and two an assodate was charges of pos­pulled over in a traffic stop in session with intent to distribute, Montana and found to have and distribution of cocaine. cocaine and marijuana. Each eount carries a minimum 
Both men are fren on bond. of 10 years to life in prison, a $4 
In a brief arraignment hearing million fine and at least five Thursday, Magistrate Judge years of supervised release. Carolyn Ostby admonished Henry was released by the I lenry for violating the terms of Broncos in June after playing his release on at least one occa­one season of a four-year, $22.5 sion. million contract. 
"The eonditions for release Lawyers for the two men are not optional," Ostby told declined comment at Thursday's Henry, who played for the arraignment. Broncos, Titans and Bills in a The case was assigned to U.S. seven-year NFL career. "Your District Judge Richard Cebull. 
~ 

"Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" 
~~.;
~~ 

Phillip R. Sloan 
Professor, Program of Liberal Studies and ~ 
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" Graduate Program in History David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science
and Philosophy ofScience ""' 

Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science Christina K. Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science ~ »~~ ~';~ 1 0/04-Stanford ~ 
~.. ~­

"lhe Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" 
~ 

ChristopherJ. Waller, Gilbert F. Schaefer Professor of Economics 
11:00 a.m. 
~v· 
11/01-Pittsburgh
~ 

Saturday, November 1, 2008 "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies
Annenberg Auditorium, 
'tr';~ 11/22-Syracuse

Snite Museum ofArt ~-~ 

"Before a:nd Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, 
q) 

and Design Are Catholics committed to supporting "Jnrelligenr Design" against 3-1/2 hours before kickoff in rhe Annenberg Auditorium,
evolutionary theory? Sloan will examine the history ofthe response Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). q) ofChurch officials to Darwin's theory and summarize the most For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
~ 

recenr reAections in Catholic circles and in the official statements of rhe Varican. 
~
'UNIVERSITY OF 
~

NOTRE DAME 
~ 
\,..)~~~ 
NFL 

Jones approves Johnson 
against the division-leading end Jason Witten, the NFC's
Associated Press 

Giants (6-1). However, leading receiver, could be 
DALLAS -Jerry Jones is Bollinger has only been among the absences because glad Brad Johnson will be the around since Week 2 and has of a broken rib. Dallas Cowboys· starting hardly thrown to the first­After playing New York, quarterback against the New team receivers. Dallas will have a bye. The York Giants and he expects Jones said he's confident injured players are all coaches to stick with the 40-coach Wade Phillips and expected back Nov. 16 at year-old backup. offensive coordinator Jason Washington. 
"Our best chance is to have Garrett if and when to make Jones dismissed the notion him," Jones said Thursday. a change. his team is trying to get 
Johnson is 1-1 since Tony "Those guys have a good through this game and reload Romo broke the pinkie on his feel for it. I wouldn't touch against the Hedskins. throwing hand. lie threw it," Jones said. "They have "Just the opposite," he said. three interceptions in the loss spent hours and hours over "This is a pivotal game. Every and passed for only 122 the last couple of years with aspect of this game takes on yards in the win, prompting Brad. They know where the same priority as if this speculation that third­Brooks is and where he is was a playoff game.... In this stringer right now. I am case, the upside has so much B r o o k s totally and more bearing our future than Bollinger may "We have got a guy completely sat­the downside that you got go in at the {Johnson] who has isfied with welcome a game like this." first sign that their timing on Besides, players have
years and years of

Johnson is any decision revenge on their mind. New
making decisions 

struggling. they make York beat Dallas in the play­
"No, I don't here.,, regarding the offs last season. see that," quarterback." "You don't have to conjure Jones said. Jones spoke up any reasons to dislike
Jerry Jones 

"That would after a news these guys," Jones said. 
Dallas owner

not be fair to conference "They took something away our ability to announcing from us last year that was win the game. that the very important to us. That is We have got a guy who has Cowboys and Dallas all we need.... years and years of making Mavericks will co-host the "I am very confident. I decisions here. We have 2010 NBA All-Star game at know how the players are every reason to believe he the football team's new stadi­approaching the game. can make decisions and make um. Everybody has got their head the throws to win this game The Cowboys are a heavy in the right place. This is a for us." underdog Sunday, partly great opportunity for us to go 
Johnson's experience is a because of all their injuries. to New York to play the world big plus, but the Cowboys (5-Romo is among several key champs. This could really do 
3) may need Bollinger's bet­starters who will be missing something for our team to ter mobility and steonger arm on offense and defense. Tight have success." 


Fall 2008 Schedule 
»~.; 
""'
rJ... 


Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most ::.... engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of 
~
our times. 

~~ 09/06-San Diego State 4-.> "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts" 4-.> Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, Hismry 

'fr'V"

rJ~ 09/13-Michigan ~ 
~­

"Peter Pan as Cultural Icon" .....,J Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey AssCl!cia Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theam 

.,...,. 
09/27-Purdue 
~ 


-----------------------------------------------------------------...., 
. Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Deluxe Walk-to-Campus Student Apartments 
DfJN'T l\'HSS (llJT!!! 
LIMITED NUMBER OF TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAILABLE 
2009-2010 ACADEMIC YEAR 
$595 PER BED 
• 
Swimming Pool, Tennis Court, Fitness Center, Sand Volleyball 

• 
24-HOUR Fitness Center, Tanning Bed 

• 
Unlimted Parking 

• 
24-HOUR EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE 

• 
Onsite Managment 

• 
Washer/Dryer IN ALL UNITS 

• 
Free Cable & Internet 


Clover Ridge Apartments 1801 Irish Way (574) ~72-1441 www.cloverridgeapartments.com 
MLB 

Mariners mum on Griffey return 
Danny Richar to Cincinnati.
Associated Press 

Griffey had arthroscopic sur­
SEATTLE -The Seattle gery on his left knee this Mariners can have Ken month to repair torn menis­Griffey Jr. back if they want cus and torn cartilage, a con­him, now that he's a free dition that affected his power agent. numbers. 
New Mariners general man­"He will undoubtedly help ager Jack Zduriencik refused some club, both on the field 
to say whether Seattle will make a push to sign its former franchise center field­er who is still beloved in the Northwest. That was hours after the Chicago White Sox m a d e Griffey a free agent -and free 
and in the clubhouse," White Sox general man­ager Ken Williams said

"He will undoubtedly help 
Thursday. some club, both on the "Pure class." Griffey
field and in the 
passed

clubhouse. Pure class.,, 
Sammy Sosa for fifth on the Ken Williams home-run list last season
White Sox general manager 
for a potential return to the team with which he said two years ago he would like to retire. 
"We can't comment on any specific free agent at this time," Zduriencik said Thursday afternoon through a Mariners spokesman in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 
The White Sox declined Griffey's $16.5 million con­tract option for 2009. Griffey will get a $4 million buyout to complete a $116.5 million, nine-year contract he agreed to with his hometown Cincinnati Reds before the 2000 season -after he demanded a trade from Seattle. 

T h e "Never did I imagine it Griffey said Mariners then, "I don't
would be like this coming 
drafted know. That
back. I didn •t know how 
Griffey, who depends on a turns 39 much I missed being in lot of things, next month, Seattle.,, health and No. 1 over­eve;,ything all in 1987 else. 
Ken Griffey, Jr.

and put him Griffey did­in their Free agent outfielder n't specify 
and has 611, trailing only Barry Bonds (762), Hank Aaron (755), Babe Ruth 

(714) and Willie Mays (660). Griffey is 18th with 1,772 RBis. 
His fit in Seattle could be as a full-time DH, something he has resisted becoming. But he may not fit Seattle's first months of a massive rebuild­ing job that Zduriencik was hired this month to lead. The Mariners last season became the first team with a $100 million payroll to lose 100 games. 
When he came back with the Reds for an interleague series in Seattle in June 2007, Griffey said he wanted to retire as a Mariner. When 
asked to clari­fy whether he'd like to play for Seattle again, 


opening-day lineup two days later while he was still a teenager. He stayed there for the next 11 years. 
Griffey was an All-Star 10 times with Seattle. He's been an All-Star just three times since -the last time in 2007. 
He hit a combined .249 with 18 homers and 71 RBis in 143 games last season for the Reds and the White Sox, to whom he agreed to be traded so he could play in the postseason. He went 2-for-1 0 as Chicago lost in four games to Tampa Bay in the first round of the AL playoffs. 
Griffey batted .260 with three homers and 18 RBis in 41 games with the White Sox, who acquired him July 31 in a trade that .sent right-han­der Nick Masset and infielder 
whether he'd 
like to return 
to Seattle as 
an active 

player or sim­ply for a ceremonial contract before retiring. 
In the weeks leading up to his '07 return, Griffey was reluctant to talk about it and even told Mariners president Chuck Armstrong he feared getting booed. 
But then he got an extend­ed roar from the crowd before the series opener, just after Armstrong and others presented him with a framed picture of Safeco Field with the words "The House that Griffey Built" across the top. 
"Never did I imagine it would be like this coming back," Griffey told the crowd that night. "I didn't 'know how mueh I missed being in Seattle." 

Friday, October 31, 2008 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Notre Dame set to open home slate 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writt·r 
Notrf' Damn Wf'lcornns Big East li!n l'iW;burgh ( 1-0) tonight for its lirst honw IIJPPI ol' tlw snason. Barns hngin at !i:OO p.m. at tlw Bolls Aquatir Cmter. 
'This is tmP of gn•at dual-nwnt rivalries in tlw Big East, and WI~ look forward to it nvery ynar," Notrn DamP coach Tim Wnlsh said. "l'itlsburgh is a wnll­!'.oarlwd team and Vl~ry eompPti­tive. We enjoy going lwad-to-lwad with tlwm and Wf' 're exdt.ed to have tho tf'am in our pool." 
Tlw Irish last faced thn l'antlwrs in November of last year, with Notrn Dame daiming a ](,1)-B I win on tlw back of indi­vidual victories in nirw of 16 evnnL<;. 
.Juniors MacKPnzin LeBlanc and .John I.ytiP Pach won individual nvnnts. with LnBianc l'inishing tops in thn 200-yard lly (1 :!i l.X3) and thn !iOO lh!nstyle (4::H,.X7J. Lytle took lirst in the 50 frnnstyln 
(0:21.20) alongsidn lirst-plaen lin­ishns in the I00 fme (():45.(,()) and thn 200 frnn rPlay ( l :24.60). 
It was t.he linrrth straight victory against Pittsburgh for tho Irish. Notrn Damn is 4-4 all-time against thn Panthers under Welsh. 
Last week, thn Irish dropped tlwir lirst match of the season 
159.5-126.5 against rival USC in Los Angnh~s. Notre Dame senior Daniel Have. along with LeBlanc and Lytle, won individual nvents. 
Have linishnd lirst in the 200 bmaststroke (2:0X.94), while Lytle tied for l'irst in the 200 yard fn~estyln with Trojan Zoltan l'ovazsay, who rnprf1snnted his nativn Hungary at the 200X Bnijing Olympies. LPBlane daimed lirst in tlw 200 butterlly (I :52.1(,), 
The College Swimming Coaches Asso1~iation of America recog­nizPd six liwnwr and currnnt Irish swimnwrs and diVPrs liu· aeadem­ic and athletic excellence. Have, graduatP Steven Crowe, Lytle. j.,rraduate Sam Stonm~ sophomore Patri1:k Augustyn and sophomow Stevnn Brus each earned Ilonorable Mention All-Academic nods from the CSCM. 
"We were very pleased and proud of our men for their great academic accomplishments last year," Welsh said. "With tho 2007­OX season boing one of our linest in terms of academics, it is nice to be rncognized for those efforts and it serves as even more eneouragmnent to porform just as well, or even bf1ttnr. in the years to como." 
Notrn Damn finished with a tnam-avnrage 3.:~2 GPA, lil'th in tho nation. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish offto Big East Chatnpionships 
2002, said he spoke to
By LAURA MYERS 
Shay's !'ather about the 
Sports Writer 
events, but that neither he nor the team will be staying. The men's and women's "A lot of that was organ­cross country teams look to ized by thf1 guys them­repeat past selves," he glory today in said. "It's a the same eity very emo­
where a for­"There's a minimum of tional thing." 
mer Irish star five really strong As for the will be com­races Piane
teams. Ifyou do well
memorated said an out­
this weekond. against these teams come similar 
Notre Dame it's going to help you to 2005 will compf1te would be
immensely. " 
in the Big East nice, but Championships· that the this morning Joe Piane competition at Van Irish coach is tough. 
Cortlandt Park in New York City. The last time the league championships were held there, in 200!), the Irish swnpt both races. 
Many past Irish runners will gather in Nnw York this weokend to honor former Notre Dame cross country standout Hyan ~.hay, who died Nov. 4, 2007 in New York City while competing in tho U.S. Olympic 'I rials. 
Former teamma.tes o!' the nine-time All-Amnrican will run in the New York City Marathon Sunday in his honor, wearing gold and blue Notre Damf1 uniforms. 
The Staten Island Alumni Club will also host a mass for Shay on Saturday night. 
Irish coach JIJe Piane, Shay's coach from 1997­
"You've got Goorgntown, Villanova, Syracuse. There's 
a minimum of l'ive roal­ly strong teams," he said. "I!' you do woll against these teams it's going to help you immensely." 
The men finished fourth of 14 toams in 2007, and the womon 

"They trained really trainod roally hard over
hard over break. I low 
break," hn

do you get to national if 
said. "llow do you're not in the top you get to 
two ofyour region?" nationals if you're not in the top two of 

Joe Piane 
your region?" 

Irish coach The women's 6K race begins at 10:30 a.m., and the men's 
ior Lindsay Ferguson has finishod first among the Irish in threo of thoir four races. Sophomore Marissa Treoce finishod ahoad of Ferguson once and second to hor in the rest of' the con­tests. 
Ferguson said tho two onjoy training togetlwr and h a v e lw Ip e d o a c h o t h e r improvn this soason. 
For the mon. sonior Patriek Smyth has lod Notn~ Damn in tho two races in which hn has competed, including a fourth placo fin­ish in tho Pro-NCAA mol'!. on Oct. 1X. 
Piano said his loam did not got much timn to rnst over I'a II bn~ a k, as No tn~ Damn rHwds to do w1dl to havn a 
shot at making 
tho NCAA 
nwnt. 
"Thoy 

finished sixth o!' 16 teams. XK contest follows at 11:10 
Both teams wi II look to a.m. their most consistent run­ners to set tho pace once Contact Laura Myers at again. For the women, jun-lmyers2@nd.edu 


Welcome to Lake Chapin Shores, our exclusive 21-homesite development on a 600-acre all-sports lake. Everything you're looking for is right here. Spectacular open-plan homes nestled amid soaring, majestic trees. Sailing, waterskiing and canoeing on expansive Lake Chapin. Easy access to New BulTalo wineries, shops, antiques and restaurants. Your own private piece of year-round heaven, just 90 minutes from downtown Chicago. 



Inquire about introductory pricing on our lakefront homes from the $500's, and lakeview and wooded homes from the mid-$300's. 
Caii877-90-CHAPIN (877-902-4274) or visit lakeChapinShores.com 
Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
Fisher 
continued from page 28 
"It's tough having been to the playoffs before and now being in the situation that we're in," Fisher linebacker Cameron Compton said. "I guess you just find importance in whatever the situation is. We don't want to end the season winless, so that's what we're playing for." 
Following a near victory last week that saw them lose because of botched extra point attempts, the Rabid Bats (0-2-1) are in the same boat as the Green Wave. Winless and with­out any cause for celebration, they too are seeking to end their season on a good note with a win and look to next year as a remedy for this year's woes. 
Zahm's run-centered offense has been somewhat successful of late, but its defense has proven prone to giving up huge plays, which have been back­breakers for Zahm. On Sunday, senior running back Theo Ossei­Anto and company will try to power their way through a defense that has yet to be mas­tered, even by playoff-caliber teams. That matchup should prove the difference in this game. 
With their seniors dreading the thought that this will be the last Interhall football game of their college careers, and their sights set both on next year and this last game, both Zahm and Pisher are at similar places. 
This battle between the run­ning prowess of the Rabid Bats and the stalwart defense of Fisher would prove an interest­ing one on any given day, but on Sunday, it will decide which team ends its sour season on a good note and which team ends its season without having won a single game. 
Duncan vs. Siegfried 
Desperately seeking its first­ever win, Duncan (0-3) will try to take down the Siegfried Hamblers (3-0) this Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
The Highlanders have yet to savor the taste of victory, and they want to end the season on a high note by defeating Siegfried. 
"We obviously [want to] go out with a win on the schedule. Upsetting a team would be good," Duncan captain Garret Burke said. 
The Highlanders must find an answer to their offensive woes if they have any chance of an upset. They have only managed to score one touchdown the entire year, finally ending their scoring drought in their last game, a 16-6loss to Morrissey. 
The performance of Duncan wide receiver Mike Kearney, who scored the lone touchdown, will be key if the Highlanders hope to put any points on the board against a strong Siegfried defense, which has allowed just three points the entire year. 
Although the Ramblers have already locked up a playoff spot, they know they need to win to secure a favor-
The Griffins (2-1-1) and the Knights (1-1-1) faced off last year in the stadium for the 2007 Interhall Championships, with Stanford claiming victory. The results of last year's champi­onship will provide motivation to both teams, with Stanford vying to protect their victory and Keenan trying for a little revenge. 
"Expect a tough game for both teams, and expect us to fight hard in all aspects of the game," Keenan captain Barton Dear said. 
The Knights will be bringing a solid defense and a versatile offense to the field. 
"During prac­

able seeding in the playoffs. Captain Kevin  "Expect a tough game for both teams, and  tice this week, we will be focus­ing on toughness  
Kelly said that they are not tak­ing this game lightly.  expect us to fight hard in all aspects ofthe game.,  on the offensive and defensive lines, and preci­sion in our pass­ 
"We'd like to  ing game,  and  
continue intensity continue  our and our  Barton Dear Keenan captain  defending the pass," Dear said. Key players to  
execution on our  watch  on  the  

plays against Duncan," he said. Keenan squad include senior 
Siegfried is counting on its running back Alex Gonzalez, offensive stars including run­senior fullback and outside line­ning back Marcus Young, full­backer Brett Wilps, senior free back Dex Cure and quarterback safety and wide receiver Andres Max Young to break through Villalba, and sophomore center Duncan's defense, and then let and defensive end Ash Cooke. their own shut-down defense Contributors from the freshmen take care of the rest. class include tight end and 
The Ramblers have had suc­defensive end Pat Kelly, and cess this season not only quarterback Terry Mahoney. because they have such a reli­Stanford will rely experience able defense, but also because and enthusiasm to pave the way they have come together as a to victory Sunday. team. "There are a lot of guys 
"We have really good chem­returning from when we won istry and we work really well the championship last year, we together," Kelly have a lot of said. "We all heart and we
"We have really good 
know our roles." really want to
chemistry and we
Kelly also said win," Stanford he understands work really well captain John there are more Burke said. 
together. We all know 
implications to During this
our roles.,, 
this game other week's practice, than seeding Stanford concen­purposes or pre­Kevin Kelly trated on return­serving an ing to the level of 
Siegfried captain
unbeaten play that they r e c o r d had reached Momentum will be a key factor before fall break. in the playoffs, so the Ramblers "We will just be making sure want to go out with a victory, that we have everything pol­Kelly said. ished up," Burke said. 
Team leaders for the Griffins Stanford vs. Keenan include senior and fourth-year 
The Battle for the Chapel and quarterback Brian Salvi, senior a rematch of last year's champi­safety and defensive captain onship game will take place David Costanzo, and on the line, when Keenan takes on Stanford senior defensive end Karun this Sunday. Ahuja. 
"We will be corning out on Sunday ready to play, we beat Keenan two times last season and we want to win and make it to the championship," Burke said. 
Game time is 3 p.m. Sunday on Riehle Fields. 
O'Neill vs. Keough 
Pride is on the line this Sunday as Keough faces off against O'Neill in their annual rivalry game. The Roos and Mob are out of the playoff hunt, but both teams are eager to finish the season with a win. 
O'Neill (1-2-0) will try to rebound this week following a demoralizing loss to Stanford that eliminated the Mob from the playoffs. The Griffins com­pleted a two-point conversion as time ran out to capture a 15-14 victory. 
Nevertheless, the Mob will bring intensity to this rivalry. 
"We have a special group of guys that play for each other," senior captain Matt Bono said. 

Kevin Laughlin said. "We're opening up the whole playbook and pulling out all the stops." 
As the two teams see the sea­son come to a close on Sunday, neither team wants to put the pads away without getting a vic­tory against a bitter rival. 
"It's going to be intense," Laughlin said. "Any season we beat O'Neill is a good season." 
The two teams face off this Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Knott vs. Morrissey 
Knott looks to rebound from a last-minute loss last week when they face off against Morrissey in a game that has playoff impli­cations for both teams. 
After a disappointing loss to Alumni with six seconds left, Knott (1-2) captain Aidan Fitzgerald stressed the impor­tance of a win in their upcoming game against the Manorites (2­
1) on Sunday, as a win would 
put them in a three-way tie in the division at 2-2. 
"It's rare when a "We are a lit­
"We have a special
team comes tle rusty coming together like group ofguys that off the break," that." play for each other. Fitzgerald said, 
Led by Bono in "But now things
It's rare when a team
the trenches, are starting to O'Neill will try to comes together flow and we will take advantage of like that. ,, be ready for a Keough offen­Sunday." sive line that sur­Morrissey will
Matt Bono
rendered four be a tough team sacks to Dillon in O'Neill captain to beat, though. its previous game. Captain Joe Linebacker Brad McBrayer Blomstrom, who calls the plays expressed that his team's for the defense, adds experience emphasis in practice hasn't and leadership. been anything fancy or differ­
On the offensive side, sopho­ent, just a lot of repetition. more quarterback Bobby "Everybody needs to know Powers leads the Mob as they where they need to be and exe­try to establish a passing game cute. That's when our game is that has been effective all sea­as smooth as ever," MacBrayer son. Sophomore running back said. "Everybody {needs to step Tom Freel will test the Keough up], we don't just need one guy linebackers on the ground. out there and play well, we 
Still seeking its first win of the need everybody doing their season, Keough (0-2-1) will rely jobs." heavily on a defense that has With the regular season wind­emerged as the backbone of the ing down this is a must win tf:laill. game for both teams. They face 
Corning off a lackluster 2-0 off this Sunday at Riehle Field at loss to Dillon, the Roos will try 2 p.m. to establish a rhythm on offense, a key factor that has Contact Christina McDonnell at been missing all season. Junior cmcdonne@nd.edu, Shane quarterback Matt Bruggeman Steinburg at ssteinb2@nd.edu, and senior running back Nazur Kyle Smith at Ahmed will lead an offense that ksmith3l@nd.edu, Liza Navarro has only seen the end zone once at lnavarro@nd.edu, Chris this season. Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
"We're just going to have and Bobby Graham at fun," sophomore running back rgraham@nd.edu 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 31, 2008 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Syracuse comes to theJACC 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Wri[er 
The Irish end a three-game 
road trip when they return to 
aetion Saturday in the Joyce 
Center for matches against Big 
East opponents Syracuse and 
Marquotte. 
The Irish (11-11, 6-3 Big 
East) currently stand in third 
place in the eonference in a tie 
with Louisville {1 0-10, 6-3) and 
Pittsburgh {14-10, 6-:{). Ahead 
of them in the standings are St. 
John's (16-7, 7-1) and 
Cincinnati (20-5, 7 -2). 
Although they have one more 
match against St. John's left at 
home, the Irish are not in con­
trol of their own destiny and 
would still need help from 
othnr teams to win the Big East 
tilie. 
"Even if we win out and beat 
St. John's we will still need a 
lot of help," head coach Dobbie 
Brown said. "We need to win 
as many games as we can, and 
certainly we would like to have 
the higlwst seed possibln in the 
tournarnnnt." 
Frnshrnan outside hitto_r Kriston Dealy has had a strong eoupln of matches for the Irish, with doublf~-doubles in each of the tnam 's last three gamns. Dealy has a 2.84 kills per set averagn, second to only junior outside hitter Christina Kaelin, who averages 3.30 kills per set. 
The team holds the top sta­tistical spots in the Big East in hitting percentage (.277) and kills per set (14.28), and ranks second in assists per set wilh 
13.31. The Irish also rank sec­ond in digs per set with 14.5. 
But having good marks in the stat book is not enough; the first stop towards winning out the rest of the Big East season bngins this weekend against Syracuse {14-11, 5-3). 
"Syracuse is playing very well right now," Brown said. "They took Cincinnati to five sets this year and almost beat them." 
Syracuse is led by a strong middle block, highlighted by junior Sarah Morton. Brown said she does not see any easy one-on-one hitting advantages in this match, so the Irish will have to play balanced volley­ball. The Irish were too reliant on their outside during their loss to Villanova, Brown said. 
"We are going to be pushnd by Syracuse for sure," Brown said. 
Next up this weekend is another Big East foe in Marquette (8-13, 2-6) who is having a down season. Brown said she docs not believe Marquette's poor season to date is indicative of how they will play on Sunday. 
"Any given team can beat any other given team on any given night in the Big East," Brown said. "They took Syracuse to five sets in a loss. They will be ready to play." 
Marquette beat the Irish for the first time in program histo­ry last year. 
The Irish will continue their Big East stretch run next wnekend against Rutgers in Piscataway, N.J. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
MLB 

Phillies fans anxiously await parade 
full capacity. 

"Patience is going to be critical, and frankly so is common sense," said Rina Cutler, deputy mayor for transportation. 
Fans continued the cele­bration on Thursday, snap­ping up World Series T­shirts, pennants and hats. At one downtown sporting 
Tierney said. 

The Phillies' victory over the Tampa Bay Hays also means Nutter gets to enjoy a meal of Florida seafood. He won a bet with three Tampa-area officials -St. Petersburg Mayor Hick Baker, Clearwater Mayor Frank Hibbard and Tampa Mayor Pam Iorio -who 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA-Many baseball fans here would not speak the "P" word in the anxious days leading up to the city's World Series 
title, lest  they  jinx the  
team.  
But  now  that  the  

Philadelphia Phillies have claimed their second cham­pionship, everyone is talk­ing about a parade. 
Hundreds of thousands of people could crowd the sidewalks on Friday to cheer the city's first nation­al sports title in 25 years. A hundred thousand more are expected to pack the base­ball and football stadiums to watch the festivities on big screens and rally with the players. 
"This is a bright and shin­ing moment," Mayor Michael Nutter said. "We're going to have a great time." 
But he cautioned against the scattered vandalism that marred the postgame revelry late Wednesday and early Thursday. Police reported 76 arrests and 
several vandalized busi­nesses; they are also exam­ining photos and video of the crowds to identify and arrest additional offenders. 
"You can be joyous; you cannot be a jackass," Nutter said. "That kind of idiotic, destructive behavior will not be accepted in the city of Philadelphia." 
The Phillies parade begins downtown at noon on Friday, and is expected to take about 90 minutes to cover approximately four miles to the sports complex in South Philadelphia. Team officials said the players will attend a rally at Citizens Bank Park and make a brief appearance at Lincoln Financial Field, where the Eagles play. 
Free tickets to the two stadiums were gone in less than 90 minutes after becoming available on the Phillies' Web site Thursday. 
Offieials stressed the importance of using public transportation Friday, though they cautioned that buses, trains and subways are likely to be operating at 

Serving Lundt f,., Dinner 
Come Dine With 
Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
Tues-Sat 11-2; 4-9 Closed Sun & Mon 

Our Specialties Include Exquisite Meat Entrees & Healt~y Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts Dine In • Thke Out • Catering Reservations Accepted 
115 DL>cie Way North, South Bend 
(574Y 277-7239 
goods outlet, at least 100 people stood in a line wrapping around the inside of the store as they waited to pay for their mer­chandise. 
The city's two main newspapers, T h e Philadelphia Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily News, 

"You can be joyous; you cannot be a jackass. That idiotic destructive behavior will not be accepted in the city of Philadelphia. " 
Michael Nutter Philadelphia mayor 
sold out of 
their first run of 350,000 copies and ended up print­ing another 350,000 to be available by Thursday afternoon, publisher Brian will be sending him coconu-t shrimp, stone crab elaws, Cuban sand­wiches, key lime pie and cigars. 
II ad the Phillies lost, Nutter would have been send­ing cheeses­teaks, soft pret­zels and Tastykakes to Florida. 
The last time 
a Philadelphia team won a major championship was in 1983, when the 76ers won thn NBA title. The Phillies won their only other World Series in 1980. 


THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 

Hibernian Lecture 
"From Rags to Riches: The Irish in America" 
Jay P. Dolan University of Notre Dame 
Friday, October31, 2008 3p.m. Eck Visitors' Center Auditorium 

Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish can clinch division 
Team travels to Morgantown to face West Virginia Saturday 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
After one year full of gradu­ations, injuries, upsets and convincing victories, No. 19 Notre Dame enters its final game of the regular season with its Big East destiny in its own hands. 
In 2007, the Irish suited up for their final game against Georgetown two points nity for us and I know every­one is excited about that." 
Despite the division stand­ings, the team Notre Dame is most concerned with right now isn't Connecticut but West Virginia. The Irish travel to Morgantown Saturday evening, which has not been a kind location for Notre Dame in recent years. 
The Irish are 2-4-0 all-time at West Virginia, and they 
haven't won at 
Dick Dlesk 

ahead of Soccer Stadium
"We have an opportu­
Connecticut, since 2001. 
but Notre nity to win the league Notre Dame's 
Dame's tie for the second year in most recent combined with contest at West
a row and that's 
a Huskies victo­Virginia came 
ry over Seton something we've in 2006 when Hall allowed never done before." the Irish fell to Connecticut to t h e grab a share of Mountaineers
Bobby Clark 
the Big East 2-1. 
Irish coach 
Blue Division This week­
title with the Irish. 
This year, the Huskies are again the team standing in Notre Dame's way of an out­right division title, but the Irish have even more margin for error. If Connecticut does­n't beat Seton Hall tonight or Notre Dame manages at least a draw on Saturday, the Irish walk away outright division champions. 
"We have an opportunity to win the league for the second year in a row and that's some­thing we've never done here," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It would be nice to win the Big East title outright this year. It's a fabulous opportu­
end seems as 

good a time as any for Notre Dame to end their road woes. After a strong 2007 in which West Virginia went 14-6-2 and notched an NCAA Tournament appearance, the Mountaineers have scuffled to a 5-7-5 record in 2008. They have especially struggled scoring goals, averaging only 0.5 goals per game. Currently, no player on West Virginia has scored more than two goals. 
West Virginia's record would be worse had its defense not been so stingy this season. The Mountaineers are allowing an average of only 
0.62 goals per game in 2008. 
Still, West Virginia has shown the capability to play with the upper-echelon of teams. The Mountaineers are 2-3-1 against ranked oppo­nents this season including wins over Connecticut and Ohio State. 
The Irish enter Saturday night's game on a positive note after their 2-1 defeat of No. 24 Georgetown. Sophomore forward Jeb Brovsky led the way, scoring both goals. Brovsky has made his presence felt recently, scoring three of his five goals this season in Notre Dame's last four games. 
As always, the Irish will also count on forward Bright Dike to drive the team's offense. The senior leads the team in goals (10) and points (25), and his assist on Brovsky's first goal Wednesday night tied Dike with Dave Donahue for the team lead in assists at five. 
At the other end of the field, there will be a new face in the Irish goal as junior Phillip Tuttle will get the start. Although Tuttle has played in three games this year, includ­ing one start, senior Andrew Quinn has seen nearly all the playing time. Quinn, however, injured his shoulder diving for a ball against Georgetown on Wednesday and will be out for at least several weeks. 
Saturday's game will begin at 7 p.m. and can be followed via Gametracker at und.com. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
A NEW LOOK FOR OXFORD WORLD'S CLASSICS! 

""May not be combined with any other offer. Valid in-store and IN THE: ECK CENTER on selected items only. While supplies last. phone: (574) 631·6316 • www.ndcatalog.com 0700KB091908A 
HOCKEY 

Conference vvin crucial to help build confidence 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Editor 
No. 13 Notre Dame took a 10­hour bus ride to Marquette, Mich., Thursday to get ready for its weekend series against Northern Michigan. 
"It's always challenging to go on the road especially on a long trip like this. We're here a day ahead of time so hopefully we'll be refreshed for tomorrow," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
The Irish will take on their CCHA counterparts tonight and again tomorrow night in search of their first conference win on the season. 
The team opened its confer­ence schedule last week with two losses to No. 6 Miami at the Joyce Center. The RedHawks picked up a 2-0 shutout last Friday before hold­ing off a late surge on Saturday for a 3-2 win. 
"We need to get a win under our belt in the conference and it's important that we gain some confidence and get offen­sively back on track," Jackson said. 
The Irish (2-3) have had a slow start to the season against top competition. Their other loss came against then-No. 6 Denver in the season opener in Colorado. 
Jackson said before the sea­son that he expected his young, talented team to fill up the nets this season. They do have 14 goals through five games but 10 of them came against an overmatched Sacred Heart team, including seven in one game. 
"We haven't scored as much as we would like to and we start to cheat and end up get-
Top 10 
continued from page 28 
day on Oct. 14, Irish coach Mike Brey said he did not cur­rently consider the team as a top-10 squad. Not much light, though, will be shed on the issue Friday night when Notre Dame opens their exhibition schedule against Briar Cliff at the Joyce Center. 
The Chargers did go 22-12 last season. However, Briar Cliff is also a member of the 
National  Association  of  
Intercollegiate Athletics  as  
opposed to the NCAA.  

After Friday's exhibition, it will not take long to find out if the 2008-2009 Irish are truly the best squad in some time to grace the JACC. After starting the regular season against USC Upstate and Loyola Marymount, Notre Dame's schedule begins to look like a duplicate of the first Coaches' Poll. 
The top 25 includes six teams from the Big East not including the Irish -Connecticut (2), Louisville (3). Pittsburgh (6), Marquette (17). Georgetown 
(18) and Villanova (25). Notre 

ting caught defensively," Jackson said. 
The Irish defense is also a very young unit with no players with more than two years of experience at the start of the season. Sophomore Ian Cole has played well at the point so far the Irish -last week he was named the CCHA Defensive Player of the week. 
"He's been a factor in a cou­ple of games so far, he has to be careful not to get compla­cent at time," Jackson said. "But when he's playing with intensity he's one of the best players on the team." 
Cole is a big physical player who has two goals and three assists so far this season. 
Northern Michigan is also a big, strong team that has start­ed its conference schedule 1-3. The Wildcats won their opener against Michigan before losing in a shootout on day two and then being swept by the Spartans last weekend. 
"They play a pro style game and they are aggressive, not quite as aggressive at home because they play on an Olympic sheet," Jackson said. 
The Olympic-sized rink has more space behind the net and outside of the faceoff dots, giv­ing teams more room to oper­ate. 
"You just have to be a little bit smarter in certain areas of the ice. You just can't get caught outside the dots too much," Jackson said. 
The coach said his team needed to be smart and try to keep form spending too much time on the open perimeter on defense or offense. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Dame plays all six and will bat­tle Connecticut and Louisville twice. 
To take a break from its Big East schedule, Notre Dame has a road contest with No. 4 UCLA in February as well as potential match-ups against No. 1 UNC and No. 8 Texas in the Maui Invitational this November. 
"At times, I've looked at [the schedule] during the summer and wondered what I was thinking when we did all this," Brey said during his media day press conference. "The thing that's crazy -in the midst of what the Big East is this year and the midst of what we've been given in the Big East ­we're just going to go to Pauley Pavilion one weekend. We're just gonna take a break and just go play UCLA on the road. I should have my head exam­ined on that one." 
Notre Dame only lost one starter, forward Rob Kurz, to graduation. 
Notre Dame finished 25-8 last year and 14-4 in the Big East. 
Friday's game against Briar Cliff will begin at 9 p.m. at the 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

page 26 
Juniors 
continued from page 26 
talent. 
"The stall' is so, so far ahead than they have ever been," Frank said. ''I've nnver seen a more organized group or guys when it comes to getting ahead of' the game. They are light years ahead of whern they were, even at this point last year." 
With the 200H campaign shaping up in a favorable man­nor, a strong finish will go a long way in terms of gaining intnrnst. from several of these nlitn junior prospects. 
"What it means is. if Notre Dame can finish this season strong, meaning they pick up eight or nine wins, you're going to see Notre Dame have a 
treme.~ld.ous 201~) rP;.~~uiti.ng
elass, !·rank s<ud. I hny ve come in on so many of' Uw nlitn players already." 

or the numerous prospects in atl!mdance for the Pittsburgh gamo, a f'nw have already gar­rwred the attention that only elite talents receive. Offensive tackl11 Matt James. who attends the same high school as fresh­man tight end Kyle Hudolph, is no 1~xception. 
"Matt James is 6-foot-7, 2H5 pounds has otTers already from Ohio State. Michigan, Tnnnessen. and he's a big-time player coming in," Frank said. "I think a lot of peopln are going to look at him as a top ofTnnsiw~ lineman in this class for sun~." 
The Irish are looking to keep the pipeline state of California alive with their recent success in the area and are bringing in some impressive juniors from the region. 
"A guy like Brett Thomas, who is a safety at 6-foot-1, 185 pounds. will be one of the better prospects in California," Frank said. "To get California kids on campus is impressive in itself. They're coming in on their own dime. Notre Dame can't pay for their trip, so just to get so many guys from Florida, guys from Pennsylvania, guys from all ovnr the country, it says some­thing about the effort Notre Damn is putting in." 
Shawn Afryl. a 6-foot-4, 295­pound defensive end from Niles West High School in lllinois, will visit this weekend as well. Chase Rettig, a 6-foot-3, 195­pound quarterback out of LaSalle High School in California, and Dylan Davis, a 6-foot 215 pound linebacker out of St. Bonaventure High School, will both make the trip from California. 
Although the prospects are showing serious interest in the Irish, there is still work to be done. It will be essential to per­form well on the field to pick up pledges. 
"I think if Irish fans just wait for what happens, if Notre Dame wins eight or nine games, which I firmly believe they will, if they can wait for 2010, I real­ly think that Notre Dame is going to have at least a top 5 class, next year, if not the top spot. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

The Observer + SPORTS 
Rest 
continued from page 28 
tle extra rest to prepare for Sunday. The last competition Notre Dame saw came on Oct. 26, when the Irish defeated Seton Hall 6-0 in their final game of the season. The players hope that extra rest will h•:'llp them to succeed far into the post-season. 
"We're always completely driv­en," senior captain Carrie Dew said. "We're really ready and I think we'll have a little extra rest not playing on Thursday or Friday. We'll be ready to go on Sunday." 
That's always been the Irish style, to leave everything they have on the field, and the Irish plan on doing that Sunday. 
"I think it's a game where we'll go back -we've kind of felt this way every time we stepped on the field this year, some games more than others -but I feel like it's a game that, regardless of which team we play, it's about how well we perform and what we're going to do," Irish eoaeh Randy Waldrum said. "We can really only focus our execution of what we want to get done. I feel like if we do that, we'll be fine." 
Waldrum said the post-season is not likely to mean changes to Notre Dame's game either. And if it's anything like the regular sea­son, that could mean a lot of scoring from multiple faces on the field. The Irish outscored their opponents 64-8 in the regu­lar season, and 16 difl'erent Irish players pitched in. 
Senior Kerri Hanks leads the Irish with 18 goals, with Melissa Henderson in a close second with 
Friday, October 31, 2008 
15. The Irish defense hasn't been quiet either, allowing only eight goals with Dea and keeper Kelsey Lysander at its backbone. 
But Waldrum said it will be hard to tell if players will see as much rotation in the poslo;;eason. 
'That's probably going to fall on a game-by-game basis. If we can keep the rotation, we will," he said. "But if we gnt into a game where we feel like w11 need to leave our forward line on a lit­tle bit more (and] our midfielders on a little bit more, then we'll do that. That's the plus side of hav­ing the rotation and doing it as much as we've done this year. It gives us two difl'erent options." 
Options that are likely to help the Irish continue far into the postseao;;on. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


Big East 
continued from page 26 
I .ast snason, the Irish began the season 2-3-2 and had to 
"The depth of the team is bet­ter than what we've ever had," Waldrum said. "I think it's allowed us to stay sharper and a little bit more fresh all the way through. So I think that's the big dillfmmee." 

essentially dig themselves out of that early hole for the remain­der of the rngular season. The 2008 tnam is in better position to make a national title run because it has been able to stay fresh and allow numerous play­ers to contribute ofT the bench. Not to mention that immaculal.f1 1 H-0-0 record. 
"The season last year was so diflieult because we had such a slow start, you know," Irish eoaeh Handy Waldrum said. "We struggled so much early last year that we wen1 in a position whnm we had to win to keep the hopes of playing. And (it was dif­fkultl not knowing where we were going to be seeded and where wn were going to be trav­eling and things. So it's a lot dif­lilrent where we sit today than where wn sat a year ago." 
Yeah, Notre Dame now sits in a La-Z-Boy whernas last ynar they wern fighting for a seat on a run-down sofa. 
The team's ability to avoid major injuries has bnen a m<~jor dif1'11rence between this season's team and last year's edition. Neither forward Michele Weissenhofer nor defensive anchor Carrie Dew played all of last season at full stmngth. And Waldrum said seniors Kerri llanks and Brittany Bock logged so many minutes during the reg­ular season that they may have run out of gas in the 2007 post­season. 
It's a much difl'erent picture this time around. Junior defend­er llaley Ford and freshman for­ward Melissa Henderson, among others, have allowed the Irish to rest key players like Dew and llanks while hardly missing a beat. 
But the biggest difTerence 
bntween last season's team and 
this year's might actually be the 
one extra year of experience. 
The senior class -which has 
racked up seemingly countless 
Big East regular season and 
conference titles, Final Four 
appearances and individual 
honors -is on a mission to win 
the National Championship that 
has eluded them. On the deter­
mination seale, they might actu­
ally fall somewhere between 
"Hocky" and "Captain Ahab." 
"As a class. our freshman year 
we lost in the [national( quarters 
and then we lost in the finals 
and we lost in the semis so 
we're just kind of hoping this 
year will be the one to get that 
last step," Dew said. 
Waldrum said that "hoping" is 
an understatement for the sen­
iors' mindset as he compared 
them to the last class that led 
Notre Dame to a national cham­
pionship. 

"I think they're every bit as focused as any (class] we've had. They remind me a whole lot of the 12004 senior I class that won it," he said. "I said that, early in the year, this team reminded me of that team in a lot of ditTerent ways. I think part of it is the senior class this year has pretty much done every­thing except win a national championship." 
Stay posted because there's a good chance that will change in about a month. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 
NO, SMC, &HCC Students 
NO Club of DC bus transportation to and from Maryland and \rtrginia for Thanksgiving and Christmas. 

) Fun &Easy! 

Bt)Ok by 1111 and save Money!! 
Contact Ann Rimkus arimkus@nd.edu 


Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

DAVID CAVADINI 

THE DOME PIECE 
Question ofthe Day: What are you dressing up as for Halloween? 
Eve Ensler  Tyrone Willingham  Thomas Hoffman  Hillary Clinton  Freddy Nietzsche  
playwright  resident  senior  democrat  philosophisor  
Vagina Monologues  Washington  off-campus  New York  Germany  
"The hero from  
V for Vendetta:'  "A football coach:'  "Hannah Montana!"  "President:'  "Das Ubermensch:'  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..::..t":'+":-t'-+':'-i 27 Hedge word 29 'That's fine" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
53 At someone's mercy 
54 Ones needing career counseling, maybe: Abbr. 
55 Shell locations 
Down Eat out? 2 Hindu drink of the gods 3 Play with the line "Hell is other 
people" 4 Guys 5 Revolutionary 
patriot James 6 Start to smell, maybe 7 Union inits. starting in 1886 8 ·well, I'll be!," as it might be said on September 19 9 _ Santiago, 1987 N.L. Rookie of the 
Year 1 0 City near Provo 11 Scratches, with 
"out" 12 "Later!" 13 200 milligrams 14 Like soldiers 
known as 
Gurkhas 
21 Stick 23 Wiped out, slangily 24 Top 
25 What debaters debate 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Alex Boisvert 

30 Pendant 38 D.T.'s 46Joe adornments 
39 Italian restaurant 
47 'This instant!"

chain 
equipment 40 TV newswoman 49 Record Soledad 
31 Some diner 
32 It has a long 50 Bit of chicken41 Doorsteptongue feed

numbers? 
33 Student excuser 

44 -2600 (hit 51 Org. with the 34 Live folk album product of the annual Eddie of 1968 1970s-'80s) Gottlieb Trophy 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzletorum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0  Enclosed is $120 for one academic year  
0  Enclosed is $65 for one semester  
Name __________________________________________ _  
Address ______________________________________  
City ______________ State _____ Zip______  
l 
~  
i  
l  
j  

page 27 
JUMBLE 
~OOffi)1JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUPON 
[l] In
©2008 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
fi~l n 
tHUCNAH I
J rJ rJ 
www.jumble.com 
I FEWLOU
V" 'l tI "i
l .A .A
1 

A: rl?"""<"x,..,........,.,Ir?""""<:1I,.,........,Ir?""""<:1I~J r I I I I I J 
Yesterda 's  IJumbles:  RAPID  EMPTY  (Answers Monday) INLAID COUPLE  
Y  Answer:  What she experienced when she danced in  
her new shoes  -PAIN AT THE "PUMP"  

FRIDAYS WTIH FRAN
HOROSCOPE 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You never see those Swiss boys smiling, either. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If your donkey's lactate tastes like goat milk, it's probably time to eat the don­key. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Luscious, just luscious. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): According to Wikipedia, 'Jheri curl' is often incorrectly spelled 'Jerry curl' and/or 'Jeri curl.' Who the heck would search 'Jheri curl' on Wikipedia, anyway? 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Let your significant other know how much you love being Dutch-ovened. It's good to show him or her that you appreciate it. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Saddle up and stroke your hog. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): "Wheel of Fortune" rhymes with "Wheel of Foreskin." 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Enjoy joy and ensadness sadness. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21): Licking a slug or sucking on a worm? Text your vote to (620) 820-3746. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): For a blowhard, you don't blow very hard. Work on that this weekend. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Herpes defeated rabies in last week's disease-off by a final vote of 15-11. Special thanks to Ozzy Osbourne for keeping those two illnesses in the national con­sciousness. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcch 20): Do not despair, rabies fans. The best submission from last week: "Rabies, because foaming at the mouth is hot." Indeed it is . 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

THE POL-ICE ROADBL-OCK L-ED TO A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Source of 
troubles 12 of God 15 "Later!" 16 What the 1939 
50,000-word novel "Gadsby" completely lacks 
1 7 Bank offerings 18 "Uh-huh" 19 Turns down 20 Spirit 21 leaf 22 Irritation suffix 23 Irritated, after 
"in" 25 Like most music 26 Persian, e.g. 27 Not yet 
delivered, after 
IIin" 
28 W.W. II air ace who lent his name to an airport 
29 Wee hour 
30 Meyerbeer output 
31 ·-Day (September 19) 
35 How some dares are done 
36 Outline 
37 Bar tenders?: Abbr. 38 Places for dust to collect 39 Assn. 
42 Apparently is 
43 Insurance providers, for short 
44 "Super Trouper'' group, 1980 
45 Kind of delay 
46 Poke 
47 Packers QB whose #15 jersey is retired 
48 LAX datum 
49 One end of the Weiland Canal 52 Hi-_ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, October 31, 2008 
page 28 
WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Bring on the Bearcats 
Team will test perfect 
After three near­record against Cincy misses, this team 
can go the distance 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Assisranr Managing Ediror 
If the 2007 Notre Dame team 
was the equivalent of Ken 

Fnw teams ean say they've Grill'ey, Sr., then this year's ended thnir regular season unde­squad is featnd, but that's why Notre Ken Grill'ey, Damn is No. 1, and the Irish hope Jr. In other to carry that perli~r.t record right words, the to the Big East Championship. modern ver­Tho first test starLo; Sunday when sion is much tlw Irish take on Cindnnati in the better than Big East quartnrlinals on Alumni its prede­Field. eessor. 
The B1~areal'i (11-6-3) enter the Whieh is eontest having knocked ofT St. pretty .John's 1-0 Thursday night to telling, con­make the quarterfinals. .Julie sidering the Morrissey scored the Bearcats' Irish made only goal in the 56th minute. The it to the Irish are no strangers to NCAA semifinals last season. Cincinnati, having defeated the Notre Dame heads into the Big Beareal'i 6-0 on Sept. 2H, but that East tournament in b11tter shape d01~sn 't mean Notre Dame is cer­than last year's tfmm for a vari­tain or a win or a hTlJarantnnd spot ety of reasons, induding health, in the championship. depth and more experienee 
The Irish did not practicn playing with each other than Thursday or Friday, gaining a lit-NICK PAXTONfThe Observer Snoop Dogg has with cannabis. Senior forward Brittany Bock controls the ball near the goal during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Louisville on see REST/page 26 Sept. 26. ESPN The Magazine named Bock and defender Elise Weber first team Academic All-District. see BIG EAST/page 26 

MEN'S INTERHALL 

St. Edward's faces Sorin i~n battle of unbeatens 
attack on both sides of the ball. ed promises to be a diffkult task Gavin Payne would put up "a Zahm and Fisher find them­
By CHRISTINA MCDONALD, 

The Sorin defense has only this week, as St. Ed's (3-0) also mile of rushing yards." selves winless and struggling to
SHANE STEINBURG, KYLE 

given up six points on the year. comes into the game unbeaten. The St. Ed's offense will have soften the blows from what has
SMITH, LIZA NAVARRO, 

To win Sunday, the Otters The Gentlemen have n:eled off to be flawless against the Sorin so far been a season full of dis­
CHRIS MASOUD and BOBBY 

need to eontinue to maintain the a string of victories, and are defense that is sure to show up appointment.
GRAHAM 

vigor and energy that has made coming oil' a 14-12 victory over this Sunday. Fisher's downfall has been its 
Sports Wri rers 

the team one or the strongest Zahm. For them, they hope that "This game is for an unblem­otlfmse, which has yet to score contenders. Specifically. they this energy will carry over and ished record and small dorm more than a touehdown in a Two undnfealed teams will will need a big game from propel them to a strong per­league supremacy," Gallic said. game this season. Although its face ofT this Sunday when St. freshman standout Bobby formance against Sorin. The stage is set for two unde­defense has executed well on its Ed's takes on Sorin at 2 p.m. at Sullivan. St. Ed's, like Sorin, has domi­feated teams to fight for their bend-but-don't-break mentality, Hiehln Fields in the last game of "We're confident we will nated the league on both sides record in the last game of the the Green Wave (0-3), fresh ofT the regular season. emerge from this game unde­of the ball. Specifically, the season. of two conseeutive postseason 
The Otters (:~-0) have domi­feated and earn a top seed in Gentlemen hope to u~>e their runs, have no hope of making it nated all season long. Their the playoll's," Sorin captain Rob running game effectively. St. Fisher vs. Zahm to this year's playof1's. oiTense and defense coalesce to Gallic said. Ed's captain Andrew Nester Heading into Sunday's final form a powerful, cohesive However, remaining undefeat-predicted that running back regular season game, both see FISHER/page 23 
fOOTBALL 

High school junior prospects visit campus 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Although Notre Dame got ofT to a hot start on the r«H~ruiting trail despite last year's 3-9 sea­son, th1~ Irish roaching staff is aln~ady looking ahead at the dass of 20 I0. 
With 16 members or the elass of 2001) aln~ady pledging tiH~ir verbal commitments, Notre Damn will hav1~ dose to 50 high 
-
school juniors on campus for tlw game against Pittsburgh Saturday. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame football for Scout.com, spoke about the importanee of making a notable first impres­sion on many of these elite tal­ents. 
"They're going to have play­ers coming in from all over the country," Frank said. "This is essentially a junior day in Oetober, which is unheard of. This just kind of goes along with the success that they are having with reeruiling right now." 
Much of the reason as to why all th1~se high-school juniors will be visiting is a testament to the effort coach Charlie Weis and the rest of the Irish staff has invested in recruiting top 
see JUNIORS/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Season opens against Briar Cliff 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Nobody will be surprised by Notre Dame this year. 
After two consecutive years in which they began the season unranked and finished with NCAA Tournament appearances, the Irish commence the 2008-2009 season as the No. 9 team in the nation according to a USA Today/ESPN Preseason Coaches' Poll. 
The highest previous Coaches' poll preseason ranking for Notre D.:tme was No. 17 in 2000-2001. 
During the team s media 
see TOP 10/page 25 


VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer Junior forward Luke Harangody goes for a dunk In Notre Dame's 82-70 win over Pittsburgh on Feb. 21. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 31, 2008 
COMMENTARY 

Irish need win to 
prove true talent 
Wisconsin. Oregon St., Arizona, Miami (0111. Washington, San .losn State, Northern Colorado, Cnntral Michigan and Idaho. 
What do all thesn tnarns have in eornmon -other than the fact that you can probably count the players you know on their rosters with less than one hand'! 
These ar11 the teams that schools that hav11 lost to Notm Dame have beaten-all of them. 
Th11 Irish have taken down five teams thus far this season, more than most may have expected, but let's put that into perspective. Those five teams are currently a combined 9-21. Four of those wins belong to Stanford and none of the other teams have more than two. 
From that list it sounds like the grounds crew should be spray painting the turf blue. For a school that normally prides itseU' on its strength of schedule, this year's could use a little spinach. 
Notre Dame's two losses in 2008 have come on the road against No. 22 North Carolina and No. 21 Michigan State, both ranked with 6-2 records. 
So where does that leave Charlie Weis and his appanmtly rovitaliznd football team? 
They have without a doubt provod that they can win football ganws, which is an improvement from last year. But so far, they have ynt to provo thny can win a garno that hasn't been dncided beforn the coin toss. It appBars Notro Dame still has a lot of qunstions to answnr. 
Questions that kept pollsters from ranking the tnam when it started 4-1 for thn first limo in prohrram history. 
Jlownver, take away a pick six to start the second half in Chapnl IJill or a freshman fumble to start the second half in East Lansing and this eould be a very dillerent tune. Thoso plays didn't doom tlw Irish, but they cortainly could have madn a differenee. Even Ball Statn can get mnknd without a loss. 
Don't get me wrong, Notre I>ame donsn 't desnrve to be 7-0 or ranknd at this point in the sea-son. Finding a way to dose out tough wins is a big part of being a good team, something that a very young Irish team has yet to learn to do. 

These next two Wllleks are a 
huge opportunity for the Irish to 
make the next jump. Both 
Pittsburgh and Boston College 
are quality teams in the same 
pack as Notre Dame, right at the 
fringe of cracking thn Top 25. 
"[Thn players] want to be a top 25 team. You've got to beat the good teams that are on your schedule. I mean, it's really pretty simple. So you've got a team like this coming in here that's a nice solid team that's coming in and playing at home. You've got to beat them," Charlie Weis said. 
The Irish players said they were just trying to take things one game at a time, and would worry about polls and bowls when that bridge needed to be crossed. The response is generie, but it is the right one. 
The Panthers should be the only team on their minds, because right now it is the biggest game of most of the young player's collegiate earners. 
All season long the nation has watched a youthful team and its youthful players maturing right in from their eyes. The team has learnnd to win, how to create offense, and how to finish a game. This Saturday against Pittsburgh is another major step in that progression. The Irish nefld to learn how to beat a quali­ty opponnnt. 

Doing that is not quite as sim­ple a'i, well, play a little bit better. Thn psych11 of facing a team that has national superstars -like· Michigan State's Javon Hinger or Pitt's LeSean McCoy -or that is favorod to beat you is dill'erent. 
It is the type of difl'ercnce that can let an early second-half turnover take the wind out of your sails. When a team is sup­posnd to bnat you, it is much eas­inr to aecept it when it starts to happen. 
Notre Dame has the talnnt to compote with teams like Pitt and Boston College, so these games will eome down to whether or not the team has the eonfidence and maturity to assert themselves. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu 
The Observer football writers blog about the team at 
Observersportsblog.21cr.info!' 
Visit the blog to read more. 


2()08 Irish opponents 

Last week (1-7) L, 38-34, Colo. St. 
(2-6) L, 35-21, Mich. St. 
~ 
('?-2) W, 35-21, Mich. L, 17-6, Minn. 
Idle W,45-24, BC L, 33-7, ND 
L, 54-34, Rutgers L, 45-24, UNC S-3) W, 34-7, SMU Idle W, 17-10, Arizona 
This week at Wyoming at Purdue vs. Wisconsin vs. Michigan vs. Washington St. Idle at USC at Notre Dame vs. Clemson vs. Temple vs. Louisville vs. Washington 


Buy 4 Oxford World's Classics titles and get an Oxford tote bag free!* 


NofiUtDAME ~ 
ROOF(STORE 
IN THE E:CK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631·1o316 • www.ndcotolog.com 

•May not be combined with any other offer. Valid In-store and 
on selected Items only. While supplies last. 
0700KB091908A 

Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A steady ascent 
Michael Floyd's first collegiate catch was a touchdown. He hasn't looked back since. 
By BILL BRINK Spons Ediwr 
As much as Michael Floyd's play through the first half of the season has bordered on hyper­bole, his attitude and demeanor fall on the opposite end of the spectrum. 
llow does he feel about breaking the school freshman reeord for touchdown recep­tions? About being tied with Golden Tate for most receptions on the team? About becoming a favorite target of Jimmy Clausen's and playing a large role in the reversal of Notre Dame's fortune? 
"It's been pretty good," Floyd said. "I like it a lot." 
The king of understatements. 
To Floyd, though. his per­formance this season eoincides with his goals. He said he hoped to get playing time this year and worked hard over the summer, both physically and mnntq.lly, to get there. 
"It was just about paying attention a lot. I wanted to play this year," he said. "That was one of my goals, to come in here and play. Giving a lot of attention to detail, formations and stuff like that really helped me a lot." 
It's no surprise to him, then that his performance gets bet­ter and better every week. From his first reception, his role in the offense has helped Clausen find his rhythm, take pressure of Tate and revitalize the Irish ofl"ense. 
But aside from what he does for his teammates, his personal accomplishments draw the most attnntion -and rightfully so. 
San Diego State: one recep­tion, 22 yards, one touchdown 
Floyd's first catch of his eareer went for a touchdown in the second quarter of Notre Dame's 21-13 win over the Aztecs. In fact, it was the first touchdown of Notre Dame's season. Considering the Irish didn't score an offensive touch­down until week four last sea­son (on a one-yard touchdown run, no less) Floyd's presence signified the change the team hoped it had experienced in the offseason. what to look for in a corner, 
"It was pretty nice," Floyd how's he playing, stuff like said of the score. "Jimmy that," Floyd said. looked at me and gave me the When the running game got signal to run a fly. I saw it was nowhere in the first half, Notre one-on-one coverage and took Dame switched to four-and it outside." live-wide receiver spread-style 
The catch, he said, was his offense in the second half. This favorite of the suited Floyd, season. who played in 
"It was excit­the spread at ing," he said. "It "/just try to do my own Cretin­was an easy route Durham Hall
thing. The outcome will 
so I couldn't mess High School up on anything." take care ofitself I try in St. Paul, 
Floyd said the not to get a big head.,, Minn. speed of practice "For the gets him ready most part
Michael Floyd 
for the speed of high school 
Irish receiver 
the game, which kind of could have attrib-helped uted to his ability adjusting to to contribute the play call-from day one. ing here," Floyd said. "It's a lit­
"It depends on the speed of tle bit different here because practice, but when we go full go there's a lot more stuff built it is [like game speed), because into the plays and things we the corners give you lots of have to do." moves and you get used to it, so Floyd said most receivers when you go out into the game, thrive in a wide-open passing it's easier to see, you can read offense. everything," he said. "I think us wide receivers like 
that a lot," he said. "Coach Weis Michigan: two receptions, 10 has a lot of confidence in us, yards catching the ball, making big 
Lest Floyd harbor any delu­plays." sions of grandeur after his first­That rapport with Clausen game success, Michigan has continued. defenders brought him back to "Our relationship is good earth. right now. We just connect," he 
"When I caught pass against said. "He knows how I play, I Michigan, three dudes hit me, know how he plays. Getting the and told me, 'Welcome to col­routine down with the wide lege football,"' he said. "They receivers is a good thing." hit me pretty hard too. I was just laughing back to the hud­Purdue: six receptions, 100 dle." yards 
Both Clausen and Floyd say Michigan State: seven recep­the deep routes down the side­tions, 86 yards, one touch­line that put Floyd on the high­
down 
light reels this year depend on the coverage they face and the
Clausen found Floyd often in this game despite the fact that 
play call. Notre Dame lost. Watching film 
"When I'm looking at the line, together and discussing what 
the DB, it depends on how he they see helps Floyd and 
plays," Floyd said. "If I convert Clausen connect on the field, 
my route on him, [Clausen] Floyd said. In this way, Floyd knows that when I'm looking said, they stay on the same 
out there that I should convert page regarding what routes to my route. He knows when to adjust and when Clausen 
throw it up and when not to." should and shouldn't look his 
Those long go routes have way. The two watch film both of 
helped Floyd rack up 533 yards past games, where they watch 
touchdowns this season. Floyd future opposing defenses. 
was the No. 5 wide receiver in "He kind of talks to me about 
last year's class. Only one of the 

JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer 


four ahead of him -Southern Miss' DeAndre Brown -has more touchdowns than he does. The No. 1 receiver recruit, Alabama's Julio Jones, has 444 yards and four touchdowns this season. 
Floyd doesn't care. 
"I just try to do my own thing. The outcome will take care of itself," he said. "I try not to get a big head. Players help me out with that too." 
Stanford: five receptions, 115 yards, one touchdown 
Floyd displayed his hands in the previous games. Against Stanford, he showcased his physicality. 
Theoretically, Floyd had met his match in Cardinal corner­back Wopamo Osaisai, the Pac­t 0 100 meter champion. Osaisai, at 5-11, 198, gave up some size to the 6-3, 215-pound Floyd, but surely Osaisai's school-record 10.39 100 time would keep Floyd in check. 
Not so much. Floyd torched him down the sideline for a long reception and had his best game yet. 
"It's just a challenge for me knowing that he's the Pac-10 100 champion," Floyd said. "So it was a challenge for me to do what I know I can do." 
Floyd's speed and strength stems in part from his workouts before the season, he said. 
"I wanted to get stronger in the summer," Floyd said. "I know there are a lot of upper­classmen who are stronger than me, but maybe I can get them off with the quickness and the agility I have." 
Floyd said his strength and athleticism helped him run over people in high school while run­blocking, but that strategy won't work now. 
"A lot of guys are stronger, faster, you just have to use a lot of technique," he said, adding that receivers coach Rob Ianello often critiques his run blocking along with his route running. 
North Carolina: six recep­tions, 93 yards, one touch­down 

was nervous. At North Carolina, however, he said knowing what the crowd would be like helped. 
The final play of the game overshadowed another great performance. With less than a minute remaining and Notre Dame down by five, the Irish had the ball in Tar Heel territo­ry. Clausen completed a pass to Floyd over the middle, and as Floyd was tackled, the ball came loose, and North Carolina recovered. 
Floyd said he was just trying to get down as quickly as possi­ble. The route called for him to go into the end zone, but he didn't reach it. 
"I was pretty down on myself," Floyd said later. 
Weis and Clausen both told Floyd to keep his head up, and so far he has. He hasn't seen the replay. 
"I want to move on." 
Washington: four receptions, 107 yards, one touchdown 
Floyd's athleticism revealed itself again when he turned a four-yard screen pass into a 51­yard touchdown. He broke away from a tackle and outran the rest of the Huskies defense to put the Irish ahead just three minutes into the game. 
Floyd acted equally blase about the response to his play from students on campus and his friends back home. "[Friends back home] just say, 'We were watching on TV, stuff like that," he said. "They just say great game, keep going, just positive things. My room­mates always write stuff on the board, like good job." 
At least his friends aren't inflating his ego. 
Rest of season: who knows? 
Floyd has dazzled in the first half of the season and has the potential to help the Irish con­tinue to win. He speaks in sim­ple words, and he simplified the keys to Notre Dame's success for the rest of the season. 
"Just play how we know we can play," he said. "No turnovers for the offense." 
Irish receiver Michael Aoyd runs past Stanford safety Sean Wiser during Notre Dame's 28-21 win During the first road game at Contact Bill Brink at over the Cardinal on Oct. 4. Floyd has 533 yards on 31 catches and five touchdowns this season. Michigan State, Floyd said he wbrink@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 31, 2008 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT
Record: 5-2 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Charlie Weis Fourth season at Notre Dame career record: 
27-17 
against Charlie Wels Pittsburgh: head coach 
1-0 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. tit Wt. YR I Dl'inn Wctlkt•r WK f>-2 1HH FR 1 Mkhael Floyd WR f>-1 215 FR Gary Gray !Jil 5-11 1HH so i\nn,mdo Allen KB 5-10 195 so b Ray f il•rrin~ DB 5-lll 19R SR 7 Jimmy ClausL'n QB 6-3 217 so R.wshon McNt•il DB Ml 1qll JR q Ethan .ftlhnst'n DE 6-4 275 FR 4 Kyle Kudnlph TE 6-6 2~2 FR Ill D,tyne Crist QB f>-4 2.13 FR 11 David Grimt•s Wll 5-111 177 SR 12 Nkk Lczyn!iki QB 5-8 157 so 12 Robert Bl.mtun IJB t\-1 IHll FR 13 Ev.m Sh,uplq QB 6-2 215 SR 14 Br.mdon W.1lkt•r K f>-3 202 so 15 Bri,m Ca~tt•lhl QB f>-2 191 so 15 Drln McCrlrthy DB t\-2 21XI FR lh Niltt• Montan.t Qll 6-4 2110 FR IH Duval KMn.u.l WR f>-5 219 so 19 Ct•oq~t· Wt•st lr. WK 5-10 1% )R 20 Tt•rrail L.mthL•rt DB 5-11 195 SR 21 !larry Call up jr Kll 5-11 21M I Jll 22 f{arrisc.m Smith Dll f>-2 2()6 so 
2.1 Golden Tatt• WR 5-11 195 so 24 Leonard Gordon DB 5-11 IH7 )R 24 Brian Coughlin WR Ml 172 JR 2.'; Jonas Gray RB 5-10 2.10 FR 26 J<1moris Slau);htcr DB b-0 182 FR 27 David Bruton DB f>-2 212 SR 2H Kyle McC.uthy DB f>-1 203 SR 29 j.1shaad Gaint>s DB 6-(1 202 JR 29 Michat•l Carci.1 WR b-1 17H so 30 St~ve Paskorz FB t\-2 215 so 31 St>rgio Brown DB f>-2 205 JR 32 Luke Schmidt TE 6-3 246 JR 31 Robert H U);hc'S Rll 5-11 2.17 so 34 Jamc.-s Aldridge.• RB 6--0 22.~ JR 35 Kt•vin Smith LU 5-8 21Xl SR 35 Kt•vin Bwoks TE 6-2 241 JR 36 Joe Bizjak K t\-2 165 JR 36 David Po~luszny LB t\-0 220 FR 37 Mike Am•llo DB 5-10 170 SR 37 Erm~Nud RU 5--H lYU ~ 38 Chris Rathon DB 5-10 192 JR 38 Christoplwr Curries WR 5-10 181 so 39 Ryan Burkh<~rl K 5-11 190 JR 40 Maurice.• Crum Jr. Lll 6-U 235 SR 41 Scott Smith I.B b--3 235 SR 41 Nikolas Rodriguez RB 5-11 205 SR 42 Kc.•vin Washinghm LB f>-1 2.';(1 SR 42 Dan Franco WR 5-10 IHH JR 43 John Leunis DB 5-9 169 SR 41 Eric Maul-It p b--2 177 JR 44 Asaph Schwapp FB t\-0 257 SR 45 Darius Fleming LB b--1 236 FR 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 185 SR 46 Steve Filt•r l.B t\-3 2.162 FR 47 Joe Vittorid LB 5-11 44 JR 47 Mlk~ Narval.'z FB 5-11 231 JR 48 Stc.•veQuinn LB b--2 22.'; SR 49 Toryan Smith l.B b--1 244 JR 51 D.mWengcr c b--4 302 JR 52 Braxston Cave c b--3 315 FR 53 Morrin• Rkhardson DE b--2 2.';5 JR 54 Anthony McDonald LB f>-3 22.'; FR 55 EricOism OG f>-5 303 JR 5b K<•rry N<'•ll I.B b--2 246 so 
_<;7 
Mike Colic Jr. c b--3 2HO FR 58 Brian Smith LB b--3 245 so 59 Chris Stc.•wart OG 6-5 337 JR 61 Martin Quintana I.D b--1 242 )R b2 llill Fl,win c t\-3 252 so 63 )<•ff lisak OT b--3 306 SR 64 Tom Burke l.B 5-10 242 )R 65 Mike Hc.•rn..1ndl'Z OL b--2 275 FR 67 Tom Bcmc.•ndl•rft·r c t\-5 3!Xl SR 69 Carl Brophy OL f>-4 27H FR 70 Matt Romine.• OT t\-5 292 so 71 LJennis Mahunc.•y 01. b-6 29() FR 72 Paul Dunc,m OT f>-7 308 SR 74 Sam Yuung OT f>-H 330 JR 75 Taylor Dever OT b--5 30H so 75 1,1nc Cll'll,md OT t\-5 281 FR 76 Andrew Nuss DE b--5 304 so 77 Mikt• Turkovich OG 6-6 305 SR 7H Trl.'vor Robinson ex; b--5 301 FR 79 llafis Williams DE b--2 302 FR HI John Goodman WR b--3 197 FR H2 Robby Parris WR f>-4 210 JR H4 Will Yeatman TE b--6 26S so H5 Sam Vos WR 5-10 199 JR H6 Paul Kuppich TE b--3 232 SR 87 Joseph Fauria TE b--7 245 FR H~ Kapron Lewis-Moore DE b--4 257 FR 90 John Ryan LB f>-5 264 JR 91 Emcka Nwankwo DE f>-4 295 so 93 Paddy Mull<•n NT f>-3 3!Xl JR 94 Justin Brown DE t\-3 277 SR 95 lan Williams NT t\-2 310 so Y6 Pat Kuntz DE b--1 283 SR 97 Kall<'fl Wad<• LB t\-5 255 JR 9H Sean Cwynar DE b--4 283 FR 
Irish 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

Notre Dame 2008 Schedule 

Sept. 6 Sept. 13 Sept. 20 Sept. 27 Oct. 4 Oct. 11 Oct. 25 Nov.1 Nov. 8 Nov. 15 Nov. 22 Nov. 29 

SDSU-W MICH-W at MSU-L PURDUE-W STANFORD-W atUNC-L atWASH-W PITT atBC NAVY SYRACUSE at USC 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
LLI 
:!: 
ct 
Q 
LLI 0:: 
..... 
0 
z 



Bill Brink 
Sports Editor 
The Irish will re·~ycle the game plan l'rom Michigan State, because this game comes down to the same idea: stop run­ning back LeSean McCoy. McCoy will get hi<> yards-and touch­downs -but once the Irish stack the box to stop him, Panthers quarterback Bill Stull will melt. Pittsburgh's pass defense was exposed last week, so look 
fore Jimmy OatL'ifm to throw 40-plus Limes as to what those are after Rutgers dropped 
experts 

and have another big day. 54 on them last week. 
IRISH RusHING IRISH PASSING 


Things are just going right for Notre Dame right now. It won its first road gamp, handily after two dose losses earlier in the season. And with the passing and running game coming together nicely, the lrish have a good chance of exploiting Pitt's defense. Weis knows how to exploit a 
team's weaknesses and he has a lot of clues 
After his team proved it could win on the road last week, Charlie Weis' squad needs to avoid a home letdown to a Pitt team that has looked great at times and awful at others.  Jimmy Clausen start­ed hot but was lucky to escape Washington with just on•:l intercep­tion. His services weren't really needed against the lowly Huskies, but that won't be the case this week.  James Aldridge was the back du jour against Washington, posting a career day with 84 yards and a pair of' touchdowns. Freshman Jonas Gray impressed with 62 yards on nine carries as the Irish rushed for 252 yards total.  Michael Floyd needs two catches to become Notre Dame's leading freshman receiver of all-time, and his touchdown last week was his fifth, also a fresh­man record. Clausen put up career highs in his last two home games (Purdue, Stanford).  
Former Chicago Bears and Miami Dolphins head coach Dave Wannstedt has proven he can recruit in his first college coaching gig, but he has yet to lead his alma mater to a bowl game.  Bill Stull threw for a career-high 279 yards before leaving last week's game because of a concussion. His 223.1 passing yards per game rank second in the Big East, but Stull has thrown five intercep­tions compared to just five touchdowns.  The Panthers allow 122 yards per game on the ground but surrendered just 71 yards on 30 rushes to Rutgers. Iowa's Shonn Greene and Syracuse's Curtis Brinkley each ran for more than 100 yards in consecutive weeks to end September.  Pittsburgh's pass defense is usually stout, giving up 187 yards per game, but Rutgers quar­terback Mike Tee) threw for 361 yards and six touchdowns last week en route to Big East Player of the Week hon­ors.  


FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Pittsburgh 27 Pittsburgh 21 
Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
JHEAD 
Pittsburgh Panthers 

PANTHERS RUSHING PANTHERS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
The Irish allowed just 26 rushing yards to Washington last week, bolstering their per game average tO 1"20~6 'yards per game. But memories of Javon Ringer's 201­yard outburst in week three still linger.  
LeSean McCoy is scary. Through seven games, he has racked up 835 yards and 14 touchdowns, and his 12 points per game scoring average leads the nation. And he's a sopho­more.  

A rejuvenated pass rush has eased the bur­den on an overachieving Irish secondary. Notre D"ame has recorded 10 sacks over the last three games after posting just one in its first four games.  
Much of Stull's success stems from his ability to spread the ball around to multiple receivers. The Panthers have seven play­ers with at least 10 recep­tions and three more with eight on the year. McCoy is a threat here as well, aver­aging 12.1 yards on his 17 receptions.  

Brandon Walker has made his last three field goal attempts, inducting a 42-yarder last week. Explosive wide receiver Golden Tate got a shot to return punts last week and was a block or two shy of taking one to the house.  
The Panthers have blocked six kicks in seven games -three extra points, two fields goals and a punt. Conor Lee is 11-for-13 on field goals this year. He made three from at least 40 yards out last week and hasn't missed from inside the 40-yard line all year.  



In keeping with the theme of next week's presidential election, this week­end should be a ref­erendum for Notre Dame's run defense. Panthers running back LeSean McCoy has 861 yards on the ground so far this year and he currently leads the 
Pittsburgh 2008 Schedule 
Aug. 30 BGSU-L Sept. 6 BUFFALO-W Sept. 20 IOWA-W Sept. 27 at'CUSE-W Oct. 2 atUSF-W Oct. 18 atNAVY-W Oct. 25 RUTGERS-L Nov.l atNOOREDAME Nov. 8 LOUISVILLE Nov. 22 atCINCY Nov. 28 WEST VA. Dec. 6 atUCONN 
INTANGIBLES 
The leaves may have changed from the last time the Irish played at home, but the fact remains that Notre Dame's offense has looked dominant on its own field. No doubt the Irish will be fired up to host a quality opponent. 
The Panthers don't beat themselves, as they com­mit the third-fewest penal­ties per game in the nation and score on 92-percent of their red zone possessions. 
z 
0 
.....
::c 
m 
c 
>
s: 
m 
, 
a 
IXJ 
c: 
::c 
G') ::::t: 



The Irish have proved that they can win the games they are supposed to win, but they haven't yet pulled off a big victory. Home field advantage will play a factor in chang­ing that as Oausen gets back on track after a sub-par showing against the Huskies. 

The Panthers will be keying on Floyd and the 
Pittsburgh Panthers 
Dave Wannstedt Fourth season at Pittsburgh career record: 
21-21 

against Notre Dame: 

Dave Wannstedt 
0-1 
head coach 

Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht Wt. YR 1 Cedric McGee WR 6-1 205 )R 2 Dorin Dickerson TE 6-2 230 )R 3 Aaron Smith WR 6-0 180 FR 4 Andrew )anocko QB 6-1 200 FR 4 Elijah Fields DB 6-2 220 so 5 Scott Shrake DB 6-2 200 SR 5 Cameron Saddler WR 5-7 170 FR 6 Chris Bova FB 5-11 240 )R 6 Steve Dell LB 6-1 235 )R 7 )ovani Chappel DB 5-9 180 )R 8 AdamGunn LB 6-2 230 SR 9 T.). Porter WR 6-1 195 )R 10 Aundre Wright WR 5-11 180 FR 11 Bill Stull QB 6-3 215 )R 11 Dan Cafaro DB 5-10 170 JR 12 Kevan Smith QB 6-3 225 so 14 Greg Cross QB 6-2 210 JR 15 Shane Murray LB 6-1 220 JR 16 TmoSunseri QB 6-2 200 FR 16 Brian Kaiser LB 6-0 215 )R 17 Aaron Berry DB 5-11 175 JR 
p

18 Dave Brytus 6-4 230 SR 19 Pat Bostick QB 6-3 220 so 20 lrvan Brown DB 6-0 205 )R 21 Buddy jackson DB 6-0 175 FR 22 Antwuan Reed DB 5-10 180 FR 23 Ronald Hobby DB 5-10 175 FR 24 Kevin Collier RB 5-11 195 so 24 Luke Briggs PK 5-9 180 so 24 Austin Ransom DB 6-2 215 SR 25 LeSean McCoy RB 5-9 210 so 26 Ricky Gary DB 5-11 175 so 27 Henry Hynoski FB 6-0 250 FR 28 Eric Thatcher DB 5-11 195 SR 29 Chris Bums RB 6-3 190 FR 30 Conredge Collins FB 6-0 230 SR 31 Dan Hutchins PK 6-7 190 so 31 DomDeCicco DB 6-2 220 so 32 Tristan Roberst LB 6-1 230 FR 34 LaRod Stephens-RB 5-11 180 SR 35 Howling LB 6-3 230 FR 36 Brandon Lindsey DB 5-10 190 JR 37 Michael Toerper PK 6-2 200 SR 38 ConorLee LB 5-11 225 FR 39 Greg Williams DB 6-1 170 FR 40 Jarred Holley LB 6-1 240 SR 41 Scott McKillop DB 6-3 175 FR 41 Andrew Taglianetti LB 6-3 205 FR 43 Manny Williams RB 6-4 215 FR 44 Shariff Harris LB 5-10 235 so 45 Nate Nix DL 6-4 265 so 46 Tyler Tkach LB 6-2 240 FR 47 Shayne Hale PK 6-2 170 FR 48 Kevin Harper DL 6-4 255 )R 49 Doug Fulmer LB 6-6 235 FR 50 Max Gruder DL 6-3 295 SR 51 Rashaad Duncan DL 6-1 290 )R 52 Tonunie Duhart OL 6-3 300 FR 53 Lucas Nix LB 6-3 200 FR 53 )oeTrebitz OL 6-5 290 so 54 Alex Karabin OL 6-3 290 FR 55 Chris Jacobson OL 6-2 310 SR 56 C). Davis OL 6-4 300 )R 57 joe Thomas DL 6-4 290 )R 59 Craig Bokor LS 6-2 245 SR 60 Mark Esterrnyer OL 6-2 295 FR 62 Greg Gaskins OL 6-5 280 )R 63 John Bachman OL 6-6 315 FR 64 Wayne jones OL 6-7 285 )R 66 Robb Houser OL 6-2 280 so 67 Scott Corson OL 6-4 285 FR 68 DanMatha OL 6-5 290 FR 69 Jordan Gibbs OL 6-7 285 so 70 Jared Martin OL 6-3 305 SR 71 Dominic Williams OL 6-6 295 FR 72 )ohnFieger OL 6-4 330 SR 74 Chase Clowser OL 6-4 280 )R 75 john Malecki OL 6-3 300 FR 76 Ryan Turnley OL 6-3 275 SR 77 Frank Kochin OL 6-1 255 so 78 jason Pinkston OL 6-5 210 )R 80 NateByham TE 6-3 220 )R 81 Derek Kinder WR 6-5 260 SR 82 jonathan Baldwin WR 6-5 270 FR 83 JohnPelusi TE 6-3 220 )R 85 Mike Cruz TE 6-2 205 FR 87 Mike Shanahan WR 6-5 235 FR 88 Oderick Turner WR 6-4 265 )R 90 Tony Tucker DL 6-3 240 FR 91 Greg Romeus DL 6-2 280 so 92 justin Virbitsky TE 6-1 275 FR 93 Gus Mustakas DL 6-3 285 )R 94 Myles Caragein DL 6-2 250 FR 95 MickWilliams DL 6-1 250 )R 
96 )ustin Hargrove DL 6-3 275 JR 97 )abaal Sheard DL 6-4 280 so 98 Chas Alecxih DL 6-5 275 FR 
Irish 

nation in scoring. The defense could other deep threats that have become a staple 
have a tough time, but overall, Notre ofWeis' attack, so look for Rudolph to get back Dame's offense is too good right now. in the action this week and make a difference. 
experts
ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 35 ANAL SCORE: Notre Dane 34 
Pittsburgh 28 Pittsburgh 28 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 31, 2008 
Crunching the numbers 
... 
2008 SEASON AVERAGES PER GAME 
PITT points scored 
ND points scored 
PITT points allowed 
ND points allowed 


PITT rush yards PITf 162.7 ND rush yards ~-:'\H 11:!,7 
PITT rushing allowed ND rushing allowed 
PITT pass yards ND pass yards 

PITT passing allowed ND passing allowed 



What is your.fal'Oritefootball mo11Umt? 
Probably this year beating Michigan. I laving come here and having two losses my fresh­man and sophomore years and coming out and being a part of it and laying a pretty good one on them. 
In practice, who is the toughest guy to block? 
For me it's usually Ian Williams because we're always in those one-on-one battles. He's a pretty stocky guy, strong and powerful. We've had some battles in the trenches. 
Who is the strongest guy on the team? 
In tho weight room is one of our walk-ons, (junior linebackorl Tom Burke. He's just a shredder. We call him "Tomold" because he reminds us of Arnold Schwarzenegger. So I would probably say Tomold as far as weight room. lie just goes in there and throws around weights. 
Who is the funniest guy on the team? 
James Aldridge is pretty funny. But I think in our own little section of the 0-line, I think we all have our little moment<>. 
Ifwe went to your iPod right nom what is the top played song? 
Probably "Sacrifice" from The Expendables. 

What is your pre-game routine? 
I don't really have a routine. It's just I kind of put on some calming musie and get my head clearnd and get focused for the game and being in a relaxed mood for going into the game. 
Whats yourfavorite spot on campu.'i? 
My dorm room and my b1~d. 
What:'i the hardest class you've had so far? 
Probably Finance. 
Are you a bu.'iiness major? 
I was, but then I changed. I'm a sodology major now. I realizPd business is not for me. It just wasn't suited for my type of personali­ty. 
What:<~your favorite place ojJ-campu.'i? 
I would have to say Bruno's. It's pretty good food and we get a lot. It's always a good time just around with the guys. It's usually bull"et. 
Whats your favoritl~ food in the dining 
hall? 

I usually get a Jot of grilled chicken, a lot of vegetables -corn, broceoli, things like that -I might get a Caesar salad. I try to eat pretty well. 

PRI-ME STEAKS AND SEAFOOD ... SPORTS THEATRE.. ROOM: WITH 15' SCREEN SEATING FOR OVER 500 ... LARGEST M:ARTINI BAR IN THE AREA PRIVATE DINING OUTDOOR SEATING ... BANQUETS CATERING 
~C~ANAat ~ARK 
:H:o:n:i&b~ ffi.l;b.ffiotd•Ntitre Dlil.trie Football Radio Show. ~os~l!)!Y I~ck No~a.n and ~gg;ie }}rooks each Mond~y at 7:00 prn ·. i:'hrotig:h N6vexnber 24 -WSBT 960 A.M. 
Friday, October 31, 2008 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Blanton tough on the field, loud off of it 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
On the field for the Irish this season. freshman Robert Blanton's biggest contribution eame against Purdue when he returned an interception for a touchdown. 
"Coach Brown made a great eall, put me in a great position to make the play," Blanton said of the pick. "And then once I eaught the ball, my teammates were there to make the blocks left and right into the end zone." 
Off the field, he has made his biggest impact with his mouth. 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said Blanton is one of the biggest trash talkers on the team, something he has had to temper at times this season. 
"Like I've had an incident, players have had incidents, " Weis said. "Because sometimes you have to pull them aside and say, okay, you're a freshman and if you want to do this, this is what's going to come with the territory. We have had that side of the story as well." 
When asked how chirpy he is during practices or games, Blanton thought for a while and then smiled and laughed. 
"I honestly don't say too much. I try to keep it down, I just pump my teammates up, give them confidence, keep them going," he said. 
However, classmate Darius Fleming told the true story. "Honestly, he's definitely not quiet, not one bit," Fleming 
said. "I love R.J., he brings a lot of emotion to the team. And even though he's a wild guy, it's great to be like that at times. He has a lot of heart and just plays with emotion." 
Blanton opened up about his trash talking after learning that Fleming spilled the beans. 
"We've always talked a little junk back and forth with each other in high school and little league, I guess it's just kind of stuck," he said. 
Weis told one example that describes Blanton's personality in practice. 
"l-Ie had an interception in a one on one [in practice], so he intercepts the ball and he runs about ten yards to where the offensive guys are and then he just dives over the line like he was diving into the end zone, okay, and spikes the ball," he said. 
Blanton explained that play, saying he wanted to nettle the offensive players. 
"Any time you make a big play is to make the offense feel worse about it so they will make another bad play. I try to do that every time," he said. 
Blanton said he likes to rile up Irish receivers Golden Tate and Michael Floyd in practice to make them up their games. 
"If I get them riled up, I know they'll give me their best shot. So I'm just trying to get them going a little bit," he said. 
One main target of Blanton's trash talk this season has been fellow freshman, receiver Michael Floyd. Floyd said Blanton's talkativeness is neces­sary for a defensive back. 
"You gotta have swagger if you're a DB. If you don't you're not really a DB," he said. 
But Floyd can hold his own in the back-and-forth. 
"He thinks he's a good basket­ball player, but he sucks though. I never really play him because he's just average," he said of Blanton. 
Blanton is not always the smack-talker that he is when playing, however. 

.. 
said. 
But the Blanton said he thinks the one thing people should know about him is the "No. 1 woman in [his] life," at least until he gets married: his moth­er Kathrine Edwards. 
During the days off for fall break, Blanton said he returned home to North Carolina for a surprise visit to his mother. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa@nd.edu 
''I've got a personality on the football field and a personality off the football field," he said. "Off the football field, I quiet down, tone down. On the foot­ball field I try to release all my energy." 
Blanton said his life at Notre Dame is pretty simple. 
"I like to hang out with team­mates. Most times we're going back and forth from football to study hall to dinner.... And hanging out with the ladies," he 


McCoy, like Ringer, presents a challenge to ND defense 
against Rutgers showed like Ringer, for example.
By CHRIS HINE 
that. Ringer i.s not a guy who 
Editor-in-Chief 
"I thought that our offen­really spends a lot of his sive coaches had a very good time on the edge ... That is Notre Dame has already plan on how to attack not the same running back faced one big-name running Rutgers and all we have here, back this season -Michigan their move-because this State's Javon Ringer -and ments and guy can run
"Their whole offense 
will face another one this pressures. inside and run
centers around McCoy.
Saturday against Pittsburgh That's a credit outside, and in sophomore LeSean McCoy. to the blockers I know he's a they give him Ringer torched the Irish but also a an opportunity
sophomore, but he's 
for 201 yards on 39 carries credit to to do both."
definitely one ofthe
in Michigan State's 23-7 win LeSe an, But this over the Irish on Sept. 20. Wannstedt best backs in week, Notre In seven games, McCoy has said. "He knew Dame may be
the country." 
rushed for 861 yards on 161 where the able to load carries (5.2 yards per carry) crease would the box 
Charlie Weis 
good enough to rank 11th in be and he just against McCoy total rushing. He has 14 wasn't out Irish coach and contain touchdowns four in there getting him. As of Pittsburgh's 54-34 loss last the ball and press time week against Rutgers -running. He's maturing and Wednesday night, the status which has propelled him to starting to see the big pic­of Pittsburgh starting quar­the No. 1 spot nationally in ture. Yes, you have to run terback Bill Stull was uncer­scoring average. McCoy has reckless but at the same tain. Stull, who has thrown also caught 17 passes this time you have to do the little for 1,562 yards and four season for 206 yards. things and I think that's touchdowns this season, suf­
"Their whole what every­fered a concussion against offense centers one's seeing." Rutgers. Pat Bostick would around McCoy," Weis said he start in place of Stull if Stull Irish coach w a s can't go.
7McCoy] knew where 

Charlie Weis impressed Even if Stull does play, 
said Tuesday. "I the crease would be with McCoy's Notre Dame may have suc­know he's a and hejust wasn't versatility as cess at the line of scrim­sophomore, but a runner. mage due to the injury of
getting the ball and

he's definitely "I haven't center Robb Houser. Houser one of the best running. He's maturing seen every­sustained a season-ending backs in the and starting to see the body in the ankle injury against 
country. He can country. But I Rutgers. Wannstedt wasn't
big picture. " 

run and catch. know there's sure how he was going to fill 
This guy is a very few run­that hole, but regardless, 
complete back. Dave Wannstedt ning backs Notre Dame knows it will 
And he's very, Panthers coach that run see a heavy dose of McCoy. 
very good." inside and out "We're going to have to 
Pittsburgh equally as show that we can stop them coach Dave impressively," or else it's going to be a long Wannstedt said McCoy has Weis said. "There's a lot of day for the Irish," Weis said. become better as the season guys that are like cut back, has gone on, and McCoy's bounce out runners, or Contact Chris Hine at 154 yard-performance there's guys that pound it chine@nd.edu 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 31, 2008 
Fall 2008 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of

"Catholics and Evolution: our times. 
Old Tensions and ~ 09/06-San Diego State "Faith Taking Shape: Early Christianity and the Arts"New Directions" Thomas F. Noble, Professor and Chairperson, History 
~ 09/13-Michigan "Peter Pan as Cultural Icon"
~~~ 

~-Susan C. Ohmer, William T. Carey and Helen Kuhn Carey Associate Professor of Modern Communication, Film, Television, and Theatre
Phillip R. Sloan 
~ 09/27-Purdue

Professor, Program of Liberal Studies and 
"Election 2008: Race, Gender, and Faith" Graduate Program in History David E. Campbell, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., Associate Professor, Political Science
and Philosophy of Science 
Darren W. Davis, Professor, Political Science Christina K. Wolbrecht, Associate Professor, Political Science 
~ 1 0/04-Stanford "The Sub-Prime Mortgage Mess and Federal Reserve Policy" Christopher J. Waller, Gilberr F. Schaefer Professor of Economics 
11:00 a.m. 
~ 11/01-PittsburghSaturday, November 1, 2008 "Catholics and Evolution: Old Tensions and New Directions" Phillip R. Sloan, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies
Annen berg Auditorium, 
~ 11/22-Syracuse

Snite Museum of Art 
"Before and Beyond Modernism: Icons as Art" Charles E. Barber, Professor and Chairperson, Art, Art History, and Design 
Are Catholics commitred to supporting "Intelligent Design" against 
3-112 hours before kickoff in the Annen berg Auditorium, evolutionary theory? Sloan will examine the history of the response 
Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). of Church officials to Darwin's theory and summarize the most For more information, visit http:/ Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu recent reflections in Catholic circles and in the official statements of the Vatican. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 





