
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 111 THURSDAY, APRIL 3, 2008 
Construction of new donn begins 
Unnamed women's hall second offour residence buildings to be added to campus as part ofplan 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Construction has begun for a new women's residence hall adja­cent to the Hammes Bookstore, the University announced Wednesday. 
The yet-to-be-named residence hall is scheduled to open for the beginning of the 2009-2010 school year and will be 74,600 square feet and house 248 female student<;, according to a University press release. · 
The residence hall is the second in a series of four new dorms cur­rently mandated by the Urtiversity. 
The first new dorm in the plan is Duncan Hall, a men's dorm, which is scheduled to open in August. Construction on Duncan Ilall is on track for completion in time for students to move in for the fall semester and interior con­struction is ahead of schedule, said Jeff Shoup, director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
A'isistant Rectors and Hesident Assistants for Duncan Hall were hired at the same time they were selected for other halls. 
A rector has not been selected for Duncan, but Shoup said that the Office of Student Affairs is in the beginning phases of the process. An announcement may not occur until the summer, Shoup said. 
The other two planned resi­dence halls in the University's plan -one male, one female ­will be located on part of what used to be Juniper Hoad, east of Pasquerilla East and Knott Halls, Shoup said. 
There is no specific timeline for construcUon to begin on the Jumper Hoad dorms, he said. 
The University is adding the 
see DORM/page 4 



Professor honored by SMC students 
Marcy receives sixth annual 'Women Honoring Women' award; fellow co-workers honored 
Academic Council (SAC) coor­dinator. 
"These are women who the students believe exemplify the core values of the College, particularly in the intellectu­al, spiritual and personal realms," Payne said. 
Like last year, the event was open to students who nominated the finalists. Originally, the event was only attended by members of SAC, a professor of their choosing, two students from each aca­demic department and the finalist and her husband. 
The event included a cock­tail reception and formal din­ner after which the students who nominated each finalist 
see WOMENIpage 6 


By LIZ HARTER Saint Mary's Editor 
Theresa Marcy, professor of political science, received the "Women Honoring Women" award Wednesday night dur­ing Saint Mary's sixth annual Women Honoring Women cer­emony. 
Marcy was joined by fellow finalists biology professor Doris Watt and Welcome Center Receptionist Ann Sheldon, who were selected from the faculty, staff and administrators nominated by students for their dedication to Saint Mary's core values, said event organizer Kelly Payne, student body vice president and Student 

Gruscinski, Falvey begin tenure 
Juniors take over Saint Mary's gov't as Hodges, Payne near graduation 
retreat gave them a chance to an enthusiastic group of 
By LIZ HARTER 
begin planning events for women with a multitude of 
Saint Mary's Editor 
next year and get to know ideas." 
their staff, Gruscinski said. Gruscinski, a history major 
After officially assuming "Not everyone made it to from Cleveland, Ohio, said their roles as Saint Mary's the retreat but we talked she and Falvey are looking student body president and about next year and bonded," forward to holding BOG meet­vice president April 1, juniors she said. ings to begin working Mickey Gruscinski and Sarah Gruscinski and Falvey plan towards accomplishing the Falvey are off to a running to continue the work of their goals they laid out in their start. predecessors, and work to platform. 
Both attended the annual improve even more. "We really have to wait till student government retreat "We recognize we have big our board starts meeting this past weekend with most shoes to fill, and we'll try to before we can really accom­of the women who will join continue what Kim and Kelly plish anything," she said. them in making up the Board started, but we also have Those goals include extend-of Governance {BOG) for the some ideas of our own, upcoming school year. The Gruscinski said. "We've got see TURNOVER/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Catechist recognized for Echo 
Conference honors faithformation program 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
The National Conference for Catechetical Leadership (NCCL) will recognize the Notre Dame Center for Catechetical Initiatives (CCI) and its director, theology pro­fessor Gerard Baumbach, with the 2008 Catechetical Award at an NCCL meeting in Houston April 8. The award, given each year for "exempla­ry contributions to the min­istry of catechesis," recog­nizes Baumbach's work at the CCI, a part of the University's Institute for Church Life, an NCCL press release said. 
The Center's director since its inception in 2003, Baumbach helped create the Echo Faith Formation Leadership Program, a two­year program where Notre Dame graduates, as well as participants from colleges across the nation, can explore their faith and grow as Catholic catechists through service projects at partner dioceses. 
Baumbach said Echo stands out because it combines spiri­tual, professional and aca­demic work, as the program also puts participants on the road to obtaining a Master's degree in theology from the University. 
The apprentice catechetical leaders will "work in parish catechetical ministry for two years while simultaneously pursuing a Master's degree in theology from Notre Dame," he said. 
see CATECHIST/page 6 

STUDENT SENATE 


Committee chairs, chief assistant named 
organizations on campus.
By CLAIRE REISING 
Reish and Schmidt were 

News Writer 
sworn into office, and junior 
Karen Koski will serve as 
The new student senators the Chief Executive and executive council took Assistant. office Wednesday at the first Heish issued executive meeting of student body orders creating ad hoc com­president Bob Reish and vice mittees on Student Outreach president Grant Schmidt's and Campus Technology to term, and created two ad address problems on cam­hoc committees designed to pus. The Student Outreach improve communication Committee, a part of Reish between Student Government and other see SENATE/page 4 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 3, 2008 
INSIDE COLUMN 

t 
March vveather: just tnean 
It seems like every year I get provnn wrong on predictions involving my favorite sports tomns, which h11s led me to belinve thny love to tease me. Tim past thn~~ yr~<trS. I Mike Gotimer 
thought tim Yankees 
wnrn a lm~k to play 
in tim World Series. I Sports writer 
!,'li<Lr<Ultnnd my 
liirmd'i hL'it M<trch 
that Notrn I>anm's Men's Baskntba.ll team 

W<L'i a lock lilr thn Elite 8. This year, I thought 
t11n New York Gi<ml'i' ceiling would oo a first 
round playoll' viet.ory. A.'i most sporl'i fims 
could tP!l you, I W<L'i wmng on a.ll thn~~ 

munl'i, but luekily liw mn, thn Giants exceed­
ed my nxpeetatiorL'i <llld won t11n Super Bowl. 
Thi'i ymu-, my bad pn~dietions carried over 
lhnn 11m sporl'i world into the unprt~dietable 
nature 111' spring wnathnr. A.'i it's now April, 
cu1d March i'i finally over. I've rnaliznd that 
nature luL'i w;ed M<u-eh to screw witl1 our 
hnads yet again. 

Belbrn spring bn•<tk. my thoology prolbssor 
<L'iknd us to predict which day we iliought 

would br~ the hL'it snow of' thn year. I silently 
tl1ought it would bn M<trch 27111, <Uld I stored 
thP dat.t~ in 11m back of'my mind. 

The week we retumed from spring break, 
we finally had some good woathnr, and it 

appmlfl~d <L'i if'wp might finally be mnerging 
li·om the deep lh~oze 11mt is wint.t~r at Notro 
Damn. Tim sun came out and people wnrn 
finally back out on tl1e quads. On March 
13111, two wm~ks belilre my prndietion lbr 
that Ia 'it snow of'the ymu-, wn even hit the 
60s. I W<L'i so exdt.t•d 111at I quickly l.tJxted a 
lhend back hornP, who i'i dun to vi'>it ilii'i 

wnek, to let him know how good our weailinr 
was. lin WlL'i shocked <Uld couldn't beliove 
11mt drmu-y old South Bnnd had better 
weather tlum l.ong Islcmd. lt.tlld him to get 
rna.dy, bm<tusn it had 1.11 get even wanner 
when hr~ got out here in 111n first week of 
April. 
Now at this point, I'd like to a'ik all ilie 

upperdw;smen 1.11 stop chuckling m1d leave a 
JJIKII~ miive lreshm<m from ilin Nortlma'it 

alone. <Jmu-ly, my kmu:k filr bad prndietiorL'i 
livnd on. The next day wa'i almost a'i warm, 
but thtm wn saw tempnratums drop, and 
bnli1re I knnw it, it was snowing on Good 
l·'riday. 

The debauchery iliat i'i wnailier in March continurKJ ilie next week a'i ilie temperature slowly rose, and when we finally hit Mareh 27th, as chance would have it, early rain had lunuKJ to snow by ilie afternoon. It ha'in't snowed since. I had fina.lly prndicted some­11ling right, but unli1rtunately I still timllike I jinxed us. I guess looking into ilie futuro isn't mally my iliing. 
A.<; I get 1.11 ilie end ofilii'i lengthy rant about M<trch wnailinr, my ptlint is iliat ilie crazy fluctuation ofweailier la'it monili drove rnn crazier ili<m our winter weailier ilii'i ynar. For every day iliat we were teased wiili temperaturns in ilie 50s, we had anoili­er day where it snowtm an inch. For every day iliat I broke out ilie shorl'i, iliere were two morn that I had to pull my winter coat out for. I'm sure I'm not ilie only person on rmnpus iliat wa'i annoyed by ilie weailier, but now that March is finally over. we r,an only hope iliat April brings sunnier days. llowever, I oog you not to blame me if'it snows 1.t1morrow. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at rngotimer@ind. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

[ )ue to a reporting error the article "Comedy show hdps senior class" incorrectly spelled freshnlJn Laurel Javors' name. Due to a reporting error, the article "Gruskinski. Falvey prepare t(Jr ofllce" Kristle I lodges is the admissions comissionser not rhe stu­dent amhassator commisioner. Also rhe new board took office on April I, rhey will be comissioned on April 28 at the Church of Loretto. The Observer regrets rhese errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE STRANGEST FOOD YOU HAVE EVER EATEN?  
Anthony Salpino  Barbera Ho  Catherina Pinnaro  Christina Lee  Elise Bartzen  Rachel Heneghan  
senior off-campus  sophomore Farley  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  senior off-campus  
''Afriend of  "When I was a  "Sweetbreads -I  "Cactus ... in a  "I tried  "Chicken pate  
mine made beer  kid I used to  liked it until/  margarita. It  rattlesnake  -it was  
and cheese  down KFC  found out what it  tasted like  when I was  absolutely  

soup. It was gravy. was. margarita. " disgusting." 

OFFBEAT 
Chilean mayor interrupts Bond filming 
SANTIAGO -There's an unlikely new villain in James Bond's life. Carlos Lopez, the mayor of a remote northern Chilean town, burst onto the film set of the latest instal­ment of the fictional super-spy's adventures, "Quantum of Solace," on Tuesday and was detained by police. 
"He got angry, entered into a private enclosure ... and caused public dis­order and was detained," a police official said by telephone from Baquedano, declining to be named. "Now it is in the hands of the prosecu­tor." 
Lopez said he drove onto the set between the cameras and Bond actor Daniel Craig, interrupting filming, because he was angry at what he called an excessive police pres­ence in the small town because of the filming and the fact Chilean soil was being used to repre­sent neighbouring Bolivia. Burglar plays dead in funeral home 
MADRID -A burglar 
who broke into a funeral home tried to fool police by playing dead, but two things gave him away. First, he breathed. Plus, he wore grungy clothes rather than the Sunday best of those settling in for eternal rest. 
Police and the Crespo Funeral Horne said Wednesday they had no idea what the 23-year-old Spanish man was trying to steal in the March 17 break-in at Burjassot, a small town just outside Valencia. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
D:: 
UJ :::1: 
~ 
UJ 
==
..... 
6 •••

<( (.) 

....0 HIGH 55 HIGH 39 HIGH 46 LOW 37 LOW 16 LOW 33 

57 37 

twelve." disgusting. " 
IN BRIEF 

The film "Blood Diamond," which tells the story of a the diamond trade in Sierra· Leone, will be shown at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on Tonight at 7. 
I>isplace Me a night of soli­darity with refugees and inter­nally displaced people will take plaee on South Quad today. Registration to spend the night on South Quad is from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. at the camp. 
The Notre Dame men's ten­nis team will play Ball State at 
4:00 p.m. Friday at Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The third annual Saint Mary's Dance Marathon will take place from H p.m. to 8 
a.m. Friday in Angela Athletic Facility. Hegistration ·for dancers begins at 7 p.m. in the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
The first student Scrabble tournament will take place in the Dooley Room in LaFortune on Friday at 1:30 p.m. Hegistration begins at 1 p.m. A $3 minimum donations is required. 
Policy-makers, journalists, film critics, activists and geno­cide survivors from Rwanda, Darfur and the Holocaust will discuss the relationship between genocide and the media.Witnessing Genocide: Truth, Reconciliation and the Media will be in McKenna Hall on Monday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 60 LOW 43 

HIGH LOW 


Thursday, April 3, 2008 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Prof receives TIUlllan book avvard 
Father Miscamble recognized for study of origins of Cold War 
Special to The Observer 
"From Roosevelt to Truman: Potsdam, Hiroshima, and the Cold War," by Father Wilson D. Miscamble, 
professor of history, h a s received the 2008 Harry S. Truman B o o k A w a r d 


from the Miscamble Harry S. Truman Library Institute for National and International Affairs. The award recognizes the institute's selection of the best book published within a two-year period that deals with some aspect of the pub­lic career of Harry S. Truman or the history of the United States during the Truman presidency. An ear­lier book by Father Miscamble, "George F. Kennan and the Making of American Foreign Policy," received the Truman Book Award in 1994. "I am very honored to receive this award," Father Miseamble said. "My book examines a crucial period in 
the Truman presidency and helps explain the major transformation in American foreign policy during it. I'm grateful to the staff and benefactors of the Truman Library, whose valuable resources and generous support of my research helped make the book possi­
ble." · 
"We believe that Professor 
Miscamble's book will 
become a standard work on 
the origins of the Cold War," 
said Jeffrey Gall, chair of 
the award selection commit­
tee. "It directly challenges the argument held by some historians that Truman's actions as president 
represented "We believe that American for­a sharp Professor Miscamble's eign policy. He 
break with also is the
book will become a
the diplo­author of matic poli­standard work on the "Keeping the cies of his origins of the Cold Faith, Making a predecessor, Difference,"
War.,

Franklin D. editor of "Go Roosevelt, Forth and Do that he was Jeffrey Gall G o o d reckless in chair of the Harry S. Truman Memorable 
his dealings Notre Dame
Award selection committee 
with Stalin Commencement and the Addresses" and Soviet Union, and that he co-editor, with John unnecessarily provoked the Marzalek, of "Ameriean Soviet dictator and helped Political History: Essays on bring on the Cold War. the State of the Discipline." 
'From Roosevelt to Truman' is a critically important addition to the historiogra­phy of the Cold War that will figure importantly in the his­torical debate about this period in American history for years to come." 
A priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Father Miscamble was ordained in 1988 and joined the Notre Dame faculty the same year. He served as chair of the history depart­ment from 1993 to 1998. Most of his teaching and research concerns American foreign policy since World War II and the role of Catholics in 20th century 



Turnover 
continued from page 1 
ing the Student Center hours, making an online cal­endar of College events for students to access and getting reliable wireless access in the 
dorms. 
The two have attended intro­ductory meet­ings with many College admin­istrators to dis­cuss the plausi­bility of these goals and attended the most recent meeting of the Community Campus Action Coalition (CCAC) as Saint Mary's student representa­tives. 
The CCAC is a group creat­ed to foster better relations between South Bend and the local universities -Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Indiana University­South Bend (IUSB) at which they met many influential members of the South Bend community and the Notre Dame student body president and vice president for the upcoming year Bob Reish and Grant Schmidt. 
"We talked about [our respective student] the gov­ernments and we are going to get together to talk about next year," Gruscinski said. 
Falvey is also enthusiastic about beginning her new duties. 
"It's a great way to share what we love about Saint Mary's with other students and have the opportunity to make positive changes," 
Falvey said. "We're also going 
"We recognize we have big shoes to fill, and we'll try to continue what Kim and Kelly started, but we also have some ideas ofour own., 
Mickey Gruscinski Saint Mary's student body president 
to focus on get­ting students more involved on campus and we have a lot of great events planned for next year." 
Both also hope to contin­ue the work Hodges and Payne did to revise the Student Government Association constitution. 

Revision of the constitution will help to clearly define the roles of BOG members, Falvey said. 
Gruscinski believes not being on BOG in the past is a benefit for next year's board. 
''I'm aware there's a lot we need to learn, but most of [our board] is new to BOG so we're all really excited," she said. 
Mandi Stirone and Ashley Charnley contributed report-
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Visit our Job Fair 
Thu:l'sday, Ap~il 31:'d 11 :00a~n~2:30pn:i LaFo:l'tu:ne Dooley Rooft'l 
Call LVotre Dame alumni, parents, and ji·iends at the Developnzent Phone Center. 
• 
No expetience necessary 

• 
Fun environment 

• 
Paid training 



• Sunnner and '08-'09 acade1nic year positions a\railable 





DEVELOPMENT STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
.Evening hours .Merit pay increases 
Questions? Contact Matt Young or Laura Thesing, Program Managers of the Annual Fund, at 
Notre Dan1e

phcenter@nd.edu or 631-3152. 
ANNUAL FUND 


~------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 3, 2008 
more livable," Shoup said. 

In building the new West Quad dorms, the University is looking to remove beds from some of the overcrowded, oldnr halls, such as Zahm, Morrissey, and Alumni, he said. 
"People are stacked in too tight," Shoup said. 
The second phase of dorm construction­the Juniper Hoad dorms-is focused on reno­vating halls that do not currently fit with the University's idea of residence life, he said. 
Dorms such a<; 

'We're not planning to close any ofthe halls ... Even ifwe did major renovations, our goal would not be to close the hall for the renovation. We'd do it over the summer ... Most other places would take a hall offline for a year, but we don't want to do that. It disrupts the community -it might significantly change the way a community would interact with each other. " 
Jeff Shoup director of Residence Life and Housing 
our goal would not be to close the hall for the renovation. We'd do it over the summer." 
The University's desire to keep all its residence halls open during the school year, even while renovating, is unique to Notre Dame, he said. 
"Most other places would take a hall offiine for a year, but we don't want to do that," he said. "It disrupts the community ­it might significant­ly change the way a community would interact with each other." 
When asked specifically about rrnnors that Fisher, Pangborn, Stanford, and Keenan Halls are 


Senate 
continued from page 1 

and Schmidt's platform, will enable the student body to give feedback to the Senate and suggest future initiatives through a survey issued each semester. 
"During the course of our campaign, Grant and I real­ized that there's definitely a gap that we thought we could bridge between stu­dents and the administra­tion, more importantly between students and stu­dent government," Reish said. "We're hoping that through this committee, we'll be able to get more of a sense of what students want to be working on." 
Because of the range of technology-related issues discussed this past term, the Campus Technology Committee will improve com­munication between the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) and Student Government and allow all technological issues to be concentrated within one committee. 
Reish and Schmidt also appointed new committee chairs. 
McGlinn sophmore Sarah Rodts was approved as chair of the Student Outreach Committee, and junior Devin Fee, from Stanford, will head Campus Technologies. 
The Senate also unani­mously approved the nomi­nated chairs for the already existing committees. 
Ryan Brellenthin, a sopho­more in Stanford, will be the 
new Academic Affairs chair. He served on the committee last term and said this term's agenda will include planning Majors Night and making more business courses avail­able to non-business stu­dents. 
Gus Gari, last term's Keenan Hall senator, will serve as chair of the 
Community  Relations  
Committee  and  plans  to  
address the  use  of Domer  

Dollars off-campus and prob­lems with taxi services dur­ing the term. 
Keough sophomore Patrick Tighe will remain the co­chair of the Gender Issues Committee, and Lauren Cummings, a junior in Cavanaugh, will also serve as co-chair when she returns from London. In addition to the annual Health and Body Image Conference, Tighe said the committee also plans to look into policy that affects gender relations, such as the double-standard between men and women regarding dorm parties. He also wants to address the addition of sexual orientation to Notre Dame's non-discrimination clause. 
"Our community needs to figure out a way that we can make this issue and maybe present to the university that there is discrimination going on based on sexual orienta­tion, instead of just letting this be a nice tradition that we pass this resolution and nothing ever happens," Tighe said. 
Ian Secviar, a sophomore in Knott, will continue to serve as Oversight Committee Chair and said he plans to concentrate on increasing efficiency in student govern­ment. 
Cavanaugh sophomore Joy Hwang will lead the Residential Life Committee and said she will pursue free DVD rentals in The Huddle, better water quality in the Hockne Center and better workout facilities. Hwang said that when she looked at Princeton Review Rankings, she was disappointed that Notre Dame did not rank No. 1 for "Happiest Students." 
"ND was only No. 20 for happiest students, and that makes me wonder why we aren't No. 1," she said. "I feel like next year, I want to try to get us up there to No. 
1." 

Cavanaugh junior Michelle Byrne will head the Social Concerns Committee. Byrnes said she will continue last year's initiatives, as well as strengthen Senate's relation­ship with the Center for Social Concerns. 
Ashley Wright, a junior from Lewis Hall, will chair the University Affairs Community when she returns from studying abroad in London. She has previously served on the University Affairs and Community Relations committees. 
Besides installing new leaders, the Senate approved resolutions awarding Liz Brown, Maris Braun and Sheena Plamoottil for their work as student body presi­dent, vice president and chief executive assistant, respectively. 
Contact Claire Reising at creisin2@nd.edu 

DorDI 
continued from page 1 
four dorms in an attempt to alleviate problems in some of the existing dorms Shoup said. 
"We're not adding lots ofoverall beds [in the new dorms], but we're making the other halls kno1:k down some walls to make some rooms that are triples and quads." 

Shoup said the University is looking to renovate existing halL<;, and that it has no plans to close any dorms. 
"We're not planning to close any of the halls," he said. "It's not the long term goal of the University. Even if we did major renovations, 
Keenan and Stanford Halls are especially in need of renovation, Shoup said. 
It is also an attempt to give stu­dents more options within the res­idence halls, he said. 
"It's more of an issue with our philosophy to give students more options with their living arrange­ments," he said. "We want to in danger of being closed, Shoup strongly denied that the University had any such plans. 
"We're not planning on remov­ing any residence halls. We're going to renovate rather than tear them down," Shoup said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE Osst:RVER's wmr:: sr:RvicEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

France to help Colombian hostage 
PARIS -France launched a delicate mis­sion Wednesday to help an ailing hostage held by Colombian rebels, the French presi­dent's office announced. 
Former Colombian presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt may be within hours of death if she doesn't get a blood transfusion, according to her son. 
Betancourt -who is both French and Colombian -is among hundreds of hostages held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, but her release has become a cause celebre in France. 
The Colombian politician has been held in a jungle for more than six years. 
"A humanitarian mission of three facilita­tor countries, Spain, France and Switzerland, has started, in liaison with con­cerned authorities," French President Nicolas Sarkozy's office said in a brief state­ment. 
Irish prime minister to resign in May 
DUBLIN, Ireland -Prime Minister Bertie Ahern, the common-touch Dubliner who tended Ireland's economic boom and the blossoming of Belfast peace, announced his resignation Wednesday under a darkening cloud of financial scandal. 
The announcement stunned Ireland and much of his Cabinet, whose members stood by Ahern during an 18-month battle against allegations he accepted secret cash pay­ments from businessmen in the 1990s. 
Ahern, who governed Ireland through 11 years of growing prosperity at home and peace in Northern Ireland. maintained his innocence. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Explosion destroys WISConsin church 
OCONOMOWOC, Wis. -An explosion and fire in southeastern Wisconsin on Wednesday demolished a church, gutted two homes and injured seven people, including three fire­fighters, authorities said. 
Road and sewer work was being done in downtown Oconomowoc before the explosion occurred around 1:30 p.m. at First Baptist Church, said Bob Duffy, economic develop­ment director for the lakeside community 30 miles west of Milwaukee. The blast and flying debris knocked over several workers, he said. 
"It shook my house," said Joy Freudenstein, 30, who lives three blocks away and was cleaning when she heard a boom. "It sounded like someone downstairs blew something up." 

Ranger convicted of comrade's death 
ROCKVILLE, Md. -A Maryland jury has found a former Army Ranger guilty of sec­ond-degree murder in the shooting death of a fellow Ranger he had served with in Afghanistan. 
Gary Smith, 25, was accused of killing Michael McQueen, 22, with a gun shot to the head in the apartment the two shared in Gaithersburg in September 2006. 
Smith claimed McQueen's death was a sui­cide, and that McQueen was despondent over issues such as his job prospects and a break up with a girlfriend. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Kernan endores Schellinger in race 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Former Indiana Gov. Joe Kernan has endorsed Democrat Jim Schellinger for governor in this year's race. 
Kernan says he's known the Schellinger family for many years and that Schellinger is a great friend who would make a great governor. Schellinger is a native of South Bend, where Kernan onee served as mayor and now lives. 
Schellinger faces former Indiana con­gresswoman Jill Long Thompson in Indiana's May 6 primary. 
Kernan was lieutenant governor in September 2003 when then-governor Frank O'Bannon died after suffering a stroke. Kernan filled out the remainder of O'Bannon's second term and ran for gover­nor in 2004, but lost to Republican Mitch Daniels. 
ZIMBABWE 


Dictator may have stolen election 
State paper predicts presidential runoff, acknowledging Mugabe wasn't re-elected 
Associated Press 
HARARE -President Robert Mugabe's long-ruling party lost its parliamentary majority Wednesday, bolster­ing opposition claims that impoverished Zimbabweans voted for change in this struggling southern African nation. 
The opposition also claimed victory for leader Morgan Tsvangirai in Saturday's presidential vote, but the state-controlled newspaper predicted a runoff -the first official admission that Mugabe, the nation's autocratic leader of 28 years, had not won re­election. 
The Movement for Democratic Change expressed eonfidence Tsvangirai could win a runoff with an even larger margin, but there were fears an embattled Mugabe would roll out every weapon in his con­siderable political and gov­ernment arsenal to stay in power. 
Election observer Imani Countess of the Washington­based TransAfrica Forum told The Associated Press that the most frightening conversation she has had in Zimbabwe was with a senior official of the ruling ZANU-PF party discussing a runoff. 

"He was very calm and jovial but made it very, very posted outside polling sta­aecording to official results. the news conference did not clear that if there was a tions for the first time. That Tendai Biti, secretary-gen­back up his contention that runoff, that ZANU would use let independent monitors and eral of the opposition MDC, Tsvangirai won. Biti said all the state organs at its dis­party representatives make said the party's compilation 2,382,243 votes were cast, posal to ensure victory, and tallies independent of the of local returns gave and Tsvangirai got that is very, very worrisome," official electoral commission, Tsvangirai 50.3 percent of 1,171,079, which is 49 per­she said. which reported no figures in the votes in the presidential cent. Contacted soon after 
Countess, whose group the presidential race while contest, against 43.8 percent the news conference, Biti promotes Africa's interests in slowly releasing results in for Mugabe. Simba Makoni, a could not explain the di<>crep­the United States, said the parliamentary contests, former ruling party stalwart ancy. powerful elite that has bene­including losses by eight whose defection brought an The constitution provides fited from Mugabe's patron­Cabinet ministers. internal rift over Mugabe's for a runoff within three age since independence from The Electoral Commission leadership into the open, got weeks of the election if no Britain had a vested interest announced final results for about 8 percent. candidate wins more than 50 in ensuring he wins. parliamentary elections after "We maintain that we have percent plus one vote. 
The 84-year-old Mugabe, midnight, giving the opposi­won the presidential election The Herald newspaper, who hasn't commented on tion 109 seats to 97 for outright without the need for which reflects government the voting, has been accused Mugabe's party, plus one seat a runoff," Biti said at a news and ZANU-PF thinking, said of stealing previous elections to an independent in the 210-conference. But he added the Wednesday that "the pattern that Western observers said seat parliament. Three seats opposition would take part in of results in the presidential were marred by violence, must be decided in by-elec­any runoff ordered -and election shows that none of fraud and intimidation. tions since candidates died or expected to do even better in the candidates will garner 
This election was different withdrew. Eight Cabinet min­a two-way race. more than 50 percent of the because local results were isters have lost their seats, But the figures Biti gave at vote, forcing a rerun." 

Senator's husband admits to hiring prostitute 
view with The AP that she wanted informed him they were investigating
Associated Press 
"folks to know that I'm grateful for their prostitution. He told the officers he had 

TROY, Mich.-The husband of U.S. prayers and support and this is a family used the Internet to make a date with a Sen. Debbie Stabenow told authorities matter that is very difficult but we are prostitute and paid her $150 for oral that he used the Internet to arrange a going to work through it." sex at the motel, the report said. $150 sexual tryst with a prostitute at a "I think it's important to continue to Police did not bring any sex charges metropolitan Detroit hotel, police said do my job and to focus on people in against Athans but later mailed him a Wednesday. Michigan who are hurting every day ticket for driving with a suspended 
Thomas Athans, 46, co-founder of the and expect that I'm going to fight for license. liberal TalkUSA Radio network, was them every day," she said. Athans' license was suspended last stopped by police who were investigat­The Detroit Free Press and The year for failure to pay a ticket for driv­ing prostitution at the hotel, according Detroit News first reported on the case ing without proof of insurance, accord­to a police report obtained by The in stories on their Web sites Wednesday. ing to the Michigan Department of Associated Press. Troy police had set up a stakeout at State. Court records show he paid a 
Athans, in a statement issued by his the Residence Inn after learning of sus­$115 fine, and the state restored his attorney, apologized and said he "fully pected prostitution at a room there, the license March 11. cooperated with law enforcement. My police report said. Officers said they Athans was cooperative and "didn't family and I are dealing with this mat­saw Athans enter the room Feb. 26 and drop any names or ask for preferential ter in a personal and private way." leave 15 minutes later. treatment," said department 
Stabenow, D-Mich., said in an inter-They stopped Athans' car and spokesman Lt. Gerry Scherlinck. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 3, 2008 

Catechist 
continued from page 1 
But training to become a successful catechist involves moro than just having faith or the right degree, so Echo emphasizes the importance of being in touch with the com­munity's needs and also of liv­ing by the faith proclaimed. 
"To my knowledge, we're the only university developing apprentice eatechetical lead­ers in this way in the nation, if not the world," he said. 
Echo students take classes over the summer and are assignnd to dioceses across tlw country for the duration of tlw academir year. During that timn. they are expeeted to immerse themselvos in thoir assigned communities whiln taking online courses, he said. John Fahy, a graduate student in theology not enrolled in Echo, agreed that the simulta­neous academic and profes­sional work distinguished the program from its peers. 
"Echo is a great program," he said. "From what I under­stand. it provides a great way to develop two kinds of skills: practice. Iori the ability to succeed in the day-to-day challenges of ministry, and the acadnmie. I think that's an innovative way to learn," he said. Anne Hoat, the Director of Ecelesial Lay Ministry for the Diocese of Lafayette, agreed that tlw initiative was ground­brnaking. 
"It is unprecedented and unparalleled in forming cate­chetical leaders. Jerry 
-i• 
,I 

[Baumbach) is an authentic catechetical pioneer," she said. 
One such innovation is the program's use of mentors and learning covenants to guide apprentice catechetical lead­ers. Baumbach said "each of our students works with a mentor, a parish staff person who serves in parish min­istry." 
This individual is often the parish's catechetical leader, he said. With the help of the mentor. each apprentice pre­pares a "learning covenant, which helps the apprentice identify his or her areas of responsibility within the parish." he said. 
These areas of responsibili­ty might include directing a children's catechetical pro­gra:m. a program for adult faith formation or a speeial needs program, ho said. Baumbach said learning covenants were important because they provided a way for the CCI to "work with [apprentices) in their forma­tion for ministry, evon though they are serving in dioceses across the country. 
"The Echo experience is formative and perhaps unique as a shared experience and partnership between the University and the Diocese and the Diocese and the parish," he said. In its four years of existence, 47 graduates have begun or completed the two-year Echo apprentieeships. More than 80 percent of Echo graduates have chosen to stay in min­istry-related fields. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
Wonten 
continued from page 1 
read their nomination pre­sentations. 
Junior Arlene Forney nom­inated Watt because she is an "exemplary role model." 
Watt is never afraid to ask questions and encourages her students to do the same, Forney said. 
"She explores complex issues with an open mind and encourages the women of Saint Mary's to continue to search for truth through questioning. observing and engaging their community," she said. 
Watt challenges and encourages each woman to 
search for real­ "[Watt/ explores complex  my  life  by  
istic answers to pacify their curiosity, Forney said.  issues with an open mind and encourages the women ofSaint  pushing my to achieve my academ­ic poten­ 
Next, senior Kristy King spoke about why she nomi­ Mary's to continue to search for truth through questioning, observing  tial." Cetta said she took an upper level  
nated Sheldon. Sheldon's title of  and engaging their community."  course taught by Marcy in her  
Welcome  freshman  
Center recep­ Arlene Forney  year at the  
tionist does not fully illustrate  Saint Mary's junior  College and M a r c y  
her vital role  helped  and  

on campus, King said. encouraged Cetta to write a 
"I have come to know her semester long research as the warm face that greets paper that she was proud of. every prospective Saint "This was so striking to me Mary's student and campus because up to this point in 
visitor," she said. "[Ann] is constantly able to put anx­ious students and parents at ease and make them feel at home at the beginning of their Saint Mary's experi­ence." 
Finally, senior Cate Cetta said she nominated Marcy because of her dedication to the College. 
Marcy has been a part of the Saint Mary's community since she was a student in the 1950s, Cotta said. She has been a fixture of the political science department for decades. 
"Her consistency and com­mitment has been an asset to both the administration and students of Saint Mary's," she said. "[She] has had an impact on 
my academic career I simply cared about completing assignments, doing them well was just a bonus," Cetta said. 
Marcy said she was sur­prised to achieve the award because she only teaches a few courses a semester. 
"I can remember when I served on endless commit­tees that voted awards and how much we appreciated the recommendations from students," Marcy said. "I really appreciate the fact that this is a student award and that students detnr­minod it." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 


I ii 1111 I-~ 


Brand new, furnished townhomes 
for this Fall Semester, 2008 
2 blocks east of the Notre Dame athletic fields. off Willis Street 
A limited number of new Irish Crossings three and four-bedroom townhomes, specifically geared for today's college student, are now available for lease for this fall semester. 
No more old school housing. 

Larger than an apartment, these townhomes also include a full, private bath in each bedroom. Each townhome features: 
• 
42" flat panel HDTV in furnished family room 

• 
Security/alarm system on front and garage entrance doors 

• 
Furnished bedrooms with built-in desk, full-size bed, dresser, closet and full bath 

• 
Free Internet & Cable 


• 
Separate laundry room with washer &dryer included 

• 
Fully-equipped kitchen with separate pantry 

• 
Large deck 


• 
Two-car attached garage, plus three additional parking spaces 


Strict covenants enforced. 

Lease today and move into your brand new townhome for fall semester 2008. Call Diane at 574.261-3338 or email us at diane@irishcrossings.com. 
now leasing. ­

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Thursday, April 3, 2008 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Stocks  
Dow Jones  12,605.83  -48.53  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,963  98  1,360  25,687,778  
AMEX  2i25L1l  +0;34  

NASDAQ 2,361.40 -1.35 NYSE 9,.104.46 +15;97 S&P 500 1,367.53 -2.65 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 13,189.36 0.00 FTSE 100 'London~ s 915.90 +63.30
1 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPT'S (SPY) +0.07 +0.09 136.70 CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.76 +0.18 24.02 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.22 -0.10 45.49 FINANCIAL SEL (XLF) -0.08 -0.02 26.60 
Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE + 1.070 +0.038 3.583 13-WEEK BILL +0.740 +0.010 1.365 30-YEAR BOND +0.005 +0.005 4.387 5-YEAR NOTE +0.085 +0.085 2.724 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +3.85 104.83 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +12.40 900.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.80 67.88 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 102.3500 EURO 0.6375 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0152 BRITISH POUND 0.5032 
IN BRIEF 

Stocks decline as oil prices spike 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street turned lower Wndnnsday as investors wmTied that a sharp jump in oil prices eould bn another sign that consumers are under stress in an economy that is already showing si).,'llS of a recession. 
The m<\ior indexes, which spent most of the ses­sion in a tight trading range, tumbled after oil prices shot higher in response to the Energy Department's report of an unexpected jump in gasoline demand. That could lead to higher prices at the pump, a troublesome trend given that retail gas prices are expected to rise further as the sum­mer approaches and put more financial pressurn on consumers. 
Consumer spending, which makes up about two­thirds of the U.S. economy, is watched closely by the Federal Heserve. Earlier Wednesday, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke said he expecls the econ­omy to contract in the first half-a trend that would mean the U.S. is in a recession. 
Crude oil rose $3.85 to settle at $104.83 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Monthly factory orders fall again 
WAI;)J IINGTON -Orders to U.S. factories fell for a second straight month, a worse-than-expected performance that reinforced worries that the risk of rec:ession is rising. 
The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that factory orders dropped by 1.3 percent in February, about double the downturn that economisls had been expecting. Orders had fallen an even bigger 2.3 percent in January, the largest decline in five months. 
The falloff in demand was widespread, with stenp declines in orders for motor vehicles, various typos of heavy machinery and demand for iron and steel. 
Many economists believe a prolonged housing slowdown and eredit crunch have already pushed the country into a recession. Federal Heserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, testifying before the Joint Economic Committee on Wednesday, said that the economy could shrink over the first half of this year, his most pessin1istic assessment to date. 
"It now appears likely that gross domestic prod­uct will not grow much, if at all, over the first half of 2008 and could even contract slightly," Bernanke told lawmakers. 
Senate leaders agree to ease crisis 
Bipartisan bill aims to boost slumping housing marker, help families avoid foreclosure 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A bipar­tisan Senate bill designed to ease the slumping housing markPt won tepid reviPws Wednesday, and even its top sponsor acknowledged that much more is needed to help millions of familiPs threatened with foreclosure. 
The scaled-back proposal unveiled by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Christopher Dodd, D-Conn., contains an amalgam or ideas aimed at boosting demand for housing and helping homeowners sad­dled with subprime mort­gages avoid foreclosure. 
The plan contains $4 bil­lion in grants to local gov­ernments to buy and refur­bish foreclosed homes, new authority for states to issue bonds to be used to refi­nance subprime mortgages. and a temporary $7,000 tax credit for people buying new homes or properties in fore­closure. 
Those provisions, and oth­ers, were the product of a bipartisan negotiation that produced a narrow, com­mon-denominator approach to the crisis. 
"There's a lot more that needs to be done," Dodd said. "But it's a step in the right direction." 

The White House weighed in with ser.ious doubts about concerns" about other pro­people refinance adjustable­problem, at least not in the plan, and economists visions such as the home­rate mortgages and help 2008." across the spectrum were buyers' tax credit and aid to communities beset with The mPasure also contains skeptical that it would do local governments to pur­abandoned homes, many a provision dropped from much to ease the wrenching chase foreclosed homes. economists cautioned that February's stimulus meas­crisis in the housing market "Some of these provisions the measure's benefits ure that would permit and the wave of foreclosures that are purportedly to help would be modest -and homebuilders and other spreading across the coun­homeowners actually would would help banks and money-losing businesses to try. not help them and in some homebuilders while doing reclaim previously paid 
White House spokesman cases could hurt them," hardly anything for people taxes, new disclosure Tony Fratto said the admin­Fratto said. For example, he facing foreclosure. requirements aimed at pre­istration likes some provi­said, the tax credit for buy-, "They're good steps, but venting unsophistieated bor­sions, such as issuing mort­ers of foreclosed and newly they're small steps and cer­rowers from being duped by gage bonds and moderniz­constructed homes could tainly not big enough steps mortgage brokers, and addi­ing the Federal Housing force down prices for many to solve the problem," said tional money to provide Administration to boost other sellers. Mark Zandi, chief economist counsPling to people threat­access to FHA-insured While supporters said the for Moody's Economy.com. ened with foreclosure and loans. But he added that the measure would boost "I don't think it's going to be help them in negatiaiing administration has "serious demand for housing, help enough to solve the housing with their lenders. 

House approves FDA tobacco regulation 
pletely outside its regulatory experi­portive of the legislation. 
Associated Press 

ence," said Rep. Joe Barton, !\-Texas, "This bill will put a stop to decades of 
WASHINGTON -Congress on the ranking Republican on the commit­Big Tobacco marketing, aimed at Wednesday moved a step closer to tee. "It will almost necessitate a diver­addicting each new generation of young handing the Food and Drug sion from its core functions." people to their deadly products," said Administration broad new authority to Barton said the Federal Trade Daniel Smith, president of the American regulate tobacco products, despite con­Commission was bettm suited for the Cancer Society Cancer Action Network. cerns voiced by many lawmakers that job. More than 400,000 people die from the agency cannot handle its current But Rep. Henry Waxman, 0-Calif., smoking-related illnesses each year. workload. said the "unfortunate state of affairs" at Rep. Jane Harman. D-Calif., noted that 
The House Energy and Commerce the FDA did not mean the agency both of her parents died from lung can­Committee voted 38-12 for legislation should ignore the harms oftobaceo. cer, and she asked lawmakers to consid-. that would allow the FDA to reduce "It simply means that when we give er the financial toll that additional nicotine levels and require larger and the agency this additional responsibility, smokers generate when they come more informative health warnings on we also must give it the resources nec­down with smoking-related illnesses. cigarette packs. A Senate committee has essary to handle the job and to handle it Proponenls say various aspecls of the already approved similar legislation. well," Waxman said. legislation would deter people from tak­
Energy and Commerce Committee To address concerns about resources, ing up cigarettes or from using ciga­Hepublicans were divided on the legisla­the legislation calls for the assessment rettes that they may view as less dan­tion, with 11 voting for it. Those who of user fees on tobacco companies. The gerous because of their labeling. opposed it said the agency has had assessments could initially generate $90 The legislation would ban candy-fla­enough trouble ensuring the safety of million this year. By 2018, that amount vored cigarettes, which attract younger the nation's food supply and medicine. would increase to $755 million. Aides smokers. It would also prohibit terms 
"This legislation, if it becomes law, said the fees would be assessed based such as "light" or "mild" which many would require the FDA to take on a task on market share. consumers mistakenly believe means that is enormous, complex and com-Health groups have been highly sup-the producls are safer. 
page 8 The Observer + NATI0 NAL NEWS Thursday, April3, 2008 

18 states sue EPA for inaction 
Petition asks agency to respond to ruling on global warming 
dation to build a strong cli­

Associated Press 
mate policy of potential regu­

BOSTON -Officials of 18 lation and laws we can work states are taking the EPA back toward and actually see some to court to try to force it to success," Shradar said. eomply with a Supreme Court At a press conference ruling that rebuked the Bush Wednesday, David administration for inaction on Brookbinder of the Sierra global warming. Club, one of 11 environmental 
In a pi~tition filed groups involved in the suit, Wednesday, the said the EPA has plaintiffs said been talking the 5-4 ruling "The EPA's failure about a "holistic" in April 2007 approach to cli­
to act in the face of 
required the mate change for
these incontestable 
Environmental years. Protection dangers is a "In fact, they Ageney to have done
shameful 
deeide whether absolutely noth­
dereliction of duty."
to regulate ing except stand greenhouse gas in the way of emissions, Martha Coakley everybody's else's including ear-efforts," he said. 
Massachusetts 
bon dioxide, Last week's

attorney general 
from motor 
vehielns. 
The EPA has instead done 
nothing, they said. 
"The EPA's fairure to act in thn faee of these incontestable dangers is a shameful derelic­tion of duty," Massachusetts Attorney Ceneral Martha Coaklny said. 
The petition asks the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to require the EPA to act within 60 days. 
In last year's decision, the Supreme Court ruled the EPA has the authority to regulate nmissions from new cars and trucks under the Clean Air Act, and said tho rnasons the EPA gave for declining to do so wern insullident. 
EPA spokesman Jonathan Shradar said the Supreme Court required the agency to evaluatn how it would regulate greenhouse gas emissions from ears and other vehicles but set no deadline. 
The EPA plans to include the evaluation in a broader look at how to best regulate all green­house gas emissions, not just those from vehicles, he said. Otherwise, a mash of laws and regulations could emerge rathnr than the "holistic" approach the administration favors. 
"Wn want to set a good foun­announcement by 
the EPA of the formal rule-making procedure signaled the agency wanted to put greenhouse gas regulation "on indefinite hold," said Jim Milkey, chief of environmental protection at Coakley's office, who argued the case before the Supreme Court. 
"Every day that goes by without a solution, the window of opportunity to fix the prob­lem closes a bit more," he said. 
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said the EPA "has failed to lead, it has failed 
to follow the states' lead and we are prepared to force it out of the way in order to protect the environment." 
The plaintiffs in the latest court action include Coakley and attorneys general from Arizona, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and the cities of New York and Baltimore, and several envi­ronmental organizations. 

The plaintiffs contend the EPA has already completed the work needed to start regulat­ing carbon dioxide. 
The Supreme Court ruling requires the agency to regu­late carbon dioxide if it deter­mines it's a danger to public health and welfare. Senior EPA employees have told House investigators about a tentative finding from early December that carbon dioxide posed a danger because of its impact on climate. 
They also said a draft regu­lation had been circulated internally, then abandoned. EPA administrator Stephen Johnson has said the issue had to be re-examined because of tougher automobile mileage requirements enacted in December. 
The plaintiffs want the find­ing about the dangers of car­bon dioxide released within 60 days so the process for regu­lating vehicle emissions can begin. They said final rules wouldn't be ready until the next administration takes over. 
In Washington, the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming voted 12-0 Wednesday to issue a subpoe­
"Every day that goes by without a solution, the window of opportunity tofix the problem closes a bit more. 
Jim Milkey Massachusetts attorney general's chief of environmental protection 
na for all drafts of EPA docu­
ments  on  the  
issue.  
"EPA  has  

made no effort to accommo­date the com­mittee's request," said Rep. Edward Markey, D­Mass., the com­mittee's chair­man. 
Shradar declined to say 
Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, whether the agency would New Jersey, New Mexico, New produce the documents the York, Oregon, Hhode Island, subpoena will request. "We Vermont, Washington and the will review this new petition District of Columbia, plus rep­and respond appropriately," he resentatives of the said. 



Alleged bon1bn1aker questioned after arrest 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A Jamaican arrested after trying to check lug­gage containing pipe bomb-mak­ing materials onto a flight home explained that he wanted to show his friends there how to make them, authorities said Wednesday. 

Investigators were questioning whether Kevin Christopher Brown had ever been to Iraq -where he told them he'd seen similar bombs made, according to court docu­ments -and looking into his mental health history after his arrest Tuesday at Orlando International Airport. 
Authorities and airline officials repeated their assurances that passengers were never in danger. 
Transportation Security Administration officials nonethe­less touted the 32-year-old's arrest as a victory for new covert screen­ing techniques involving plain­clothes officers mingling with travelers. 
Cleveland Laycock, a manager in TSA's behavioral detection pro­gram who was walking in civilian clothes, first spotted Brown approaching the Air Jamaica tick­et counter. He told a uniformed subordinate to watch the man, and soon that officer called anoth­er for backup. 
Behavior detection officers Frank Skowronski and Jose Zengotita wouldn't specify what Brown did that looknd suspicious, saying it would undermine TSA's strategy. But they gnnerally study facial expressions and body pos­ture for fear, stress and deception. 
"When he came up to ticket counter, he wouldn't look at any­one directly," Skowronski said. 
The officers watched Brown drop off two bags to be checked, and had security officials set them immediately aside. 
Inside were two glass vodka bottles containing nitromethane, a colorless liquid used as a fuel for drag racing, in manufacturing and as a cleaning solvent, the FBI said in a court filing. Brown told offi­cials he hoped the liquor bottles would disguise the nitromethane, the document states. 
The baggage also had a model rocket ignitor, galvanized pipes, end caps, two small containers containing BB's, batteries, a lap­top, and instructions on how to make bombs, the FBI document said. 
Dave Platt, a TSA bomb appraisal officer who searched the luggage, described the instructions as something that could be downloaded from the Internet. 
He said the bags held virtually everything necessary to make a pipe bomb, and someone of his experience could have assembled it in about 15 seconds. But he said Brown's operation appeared to be "at the beginning stages of some­body starting to mess around, making pipe bombs." 
"But regardless of whether they're new at the game or not ... when you make a pipe bomb, it still could kill you, whether you're a novice at it or you're really good at it." 
Passengers were briefly cleared out of the ticketing area where Brown checked in for a flight to Montego Bay in Jamaica. Some flights departing Orlando were delayed up to two hours, airport spokeswoman Carolyn Fennell said. 
Air Jamaica executive director Shirley Williams said the itnms could not have caused an explo­sion and the aircraft and iL<> pa<>­sengers were never at risk. 
Brown first told authorities he wanted to detonate the materials on a tree stump in Jamaica, but later said he was going to show friends in his home country how to build explosives like he saw in Iraq, according to an FBI criminal complaint. 
Federal prosecutors were reviewing Brown's mental health history and trying to determine whether he was ever in Iraq. 
Brown did not speak at a brief court hearing Wednesday where he was ordered held without bail. Clarence Counts, Brown's court­appointed public defender, declined to comment as he pre­pared for a formal bond hearing Thursday. 


Best Value in Town Collle See Why.' 
,.. I.ntloor/ Outdoor Te.n.nis a:.nd Basketball 
,.. Free Ta:.n.ni.ng 
,.. Heated Pool 
,.. Hela..zi.ng Jacuzzi 
,.. Gated Co:m.m u.nit:y 

,.. Co:m.m u.nit:y Busi.ness Ce.nter 
,.. No Application: Fees for StuJe.nts 
,.. Close to ever:ythi.ng_ __ far fro:m ortli.na.r:y! 



Castle1'oint 
1.801.1. C.l.e~.l..an:d Rd. South Bend, IN 4663'1
AJJtlf'flll e11ts 
Phone: l5'l4' 2'12-81.1.0 F~: l5'14' 2'12-81.1.4 
'FIVV _ cppj _com­


~ ~----------------------------------------­
-------------------, 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Bill Ointon makes third campaign trip to Indiana 
About 1,000 in town of 18,000 attend rally, hear former president speak; Obama to appear in Muncie Friday 
time to come to a small town," 

Associated Press 
Clark said. "They mean busi­

SEYMOUR, Ind. -Bill ness. They are trying to win an Clinton's third campaign swing election." through Indiana in three weeks Clinton's trip came the same brought out stalwart support­day former Rep. Lee Hamilton, ers of his wife, along with a popular figure who repre­many people interested in see­sented the area in Congress for ing the former president in more than three decades, their small town. endorsed Obama. 
Clinton made a four-stop trip Obama's campaign also had Wednesday in a pocket of its own advocates in the state southern Indiana where the as actor Jeremy Piven, of the race between Hillary Rodham HBO series "Entourage," talked Clinton and Barack Obama for up the Illinois senator at delegates in the state's May 6 Indiana University's Indiana primary almost takes a back Memorial Union hours before seat to seeing a bit of home­Bill Clinton spoke at IU's town history. Assembly Hall after a stop in 
The trips, though, are aimed Bedford. squarely at voters like Jay Obama is scheduled to make Clark, a 41-year-old Seymour a campaign visit to Muncie on factory worker who never Friday, while supporter Ethel voted for Bill Clinton in his Kennedy, the widow of Robert presidential runs. F. Kennedy, will visit Fishers 
"I  just  a  n  d  
wanted to be able to tell my boy  "/ respect him for taking the time to come to a small  Indianapolis on Friday and South  
I saw a president," he said. But he also said  town. They mean business. They are trying to win an election.,,  Bend on Saturday. Singer Dave Matthews is  
he  would  to perform  
probably vote for Hi II a r y  Jay Clark Seymour resident  at an 0 b am a event at IU  
Clinton  on Sunday.  

after hearing Bill Clinton's About a thousand people hour-long speech. packed a Columbus fire station "I respect him for taking the for Clinton's first stop 
Wednesday morning, with sev­eral hundred more watching through the glass doors to see him. Three bus loads of stu­dents from Columbus East High School showed up there, and dozens of students were in the crowd for his next stop at Seymour High School. 
Katie Keily, an 18-year-old senior at Seymour's Trinity Lutheran High School, attend­ed Clinton's speech with some friends, even though she's not inclined to vote for Hillary Clinton. 
"It's a great opportunity to see the president, but I don't know that it will necessarily change my decision on Obama," she said. 
Veronica Miller and her hus­band, Bill, had their choice of Bill Clinton events to attend as his stops in Seymour and Columbus were both within a half-hour of their home. Veronica Miller, 70, wore a Hillary Clinton T-shirt and but­ton for Bill Clinton's Seymour speech. 
"I thought he was one of the greatest presidents we ever had and I think she'll do even better," she said. "I would have come down and camped out if I needed to to get in." 
She didn't need to, even though Clinton spoke to more than a thousand people ­which seems like a large crowd for a city of 18,000. But there was plenty of room around the back of the school's bleacher­less auxiliary gymnasium, which was used rather than the 8,000-seat main gym locat­ed across the hallway. 

The Clintons have already crossed much of the state with more than a month remaining before the Indiana primary, including stops all of its televi­sion markets. 
Hillary Clinton has visited nine cities over three days since March 20, while Bill Clinton has been in 11 cities on his three daylong trips since March 18. 
But it might be while before Indiana voters become blase about the campaigning. 
"You wouldn't think someone like this would come here," Dane Williams of Brownstown said before Clinton took the stage in Seymour. "The issues are important, but it's also that someone like him would come to a place like this." 


Custoins, border protection drone patrol prograin takes off 
Associated Press 
SIERRA VISTA, Ariz. -The pilot has gone through his ehecklist and taxied his plane into position for takeoff. 
lie gets clearance from the control tower, throttles forward and -from the ground ­guides his unmanned aircraft into the sky along the Mexican border to watch for drug traf­fiekers and illegal immigrants, part of a bird 's-eye patrol that authorities hope to expand. 
Four Predator B drones have beeome fixtures over Arizona sinee Oetober 2006, and two more will join them soon, Juan Munoz-Torres, a Customs and Border Proteetion spokesman, said Wednesday. 

Once those six are in place, the agency wants Congress to fund six drones along the Canadian border and six more on Florida's Gulf Coast and the Caribbean, said Douglas Koupash, who heads Customs and Border Protection's drone program. 
"You're talking about really, really vast spaces and our abil­ity to get to some of the remote carry long-range cameras, but even at night, operators using the drones' radar imaging and infrared capabilities can light a target with a laser visible only through the night vision gog­gles of helicopter crews who intercept some of the border crossers. 
"That's like a little red finger from God eoming down and saying, 'Hey, there's some guy under that tree right there.' Very effective," McNall said. 
From October 2006 through Feb. 16, the drones had helped in the apprehension of 3,857 



So clost to ~;ampKs yo• caa he•r 1 shoRts and stt the l lets 
Furnished Studio Apartments One Bedrootn Apartments T"\VO Bedroom One Bath Apartments Two Bedroont One and a Half Bath Apartments "vifh Fenced in Patio 
TURTLE CREEK AMENITIES ¢Tan for FREE at Fun Tan <> 1-Ieated Pool and Hot Tub <0-Pet Friendly 
<>On Site Security 
52SS5401 

spaces efficiently," Koupash said recently. 
The Predator Bs used for these missions are unarmed civilian adaptations of missile­toting drones used by the U.S. military in Iraq and Afghanistan. Each weighs five tons, has a 66-foot wingspan and can fly virtually undetected at altitudes of up to 50,000 feet, said Pete McNall, deputy director for Customs' unmanned aerial systems in the Southwest. 
The border agency's fully loaded, $10.5 million Predators 


TurtleCreek 
APARTMENTS 
1710 E .. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Phone: 574-272-8124 
{112 block east of campus on Vaness Street) Fax: 574-273-6921 
:tY''''~"v~lii~t]~~IYJ:Ug~C"r"~.~ ls"~s;"~,u:n
tile 
illegal immigrants and the seizure of more than nine tons of marijuana, according to the most recent statistics available. Those numbers don't include apprehensions and seizures credited to different kinds of drones tested in Arizona in 2004 or to a Predator B that flew from October 2005 until it crashed the following April; the National Transportation Safety Board ruled pilot error as the likely cause. 
Officials say intelligence gathering drives each flight, but critics question whether the aerial surveillance doesn't abuse the privacy of Ameriean citizens. 
Lee Tien, senior staff attor­ney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation in San Francisco, said the f1ights are likely to ereate "a civil liber­ties;,free zone along the bor­der. 
His organization has not received any complaints about Predators, but Tien said he assumed "that's because they can't see them or aren't aware of them." 
"It's Catch-22," said Barry Steinhardt, director of the American Civil Liberties Union's Technology and Liberty Project. "How can you tell if you're being pictured if you can't tell whether you're being surveilled or not?" 
Koupash said he hasn't dealt with any specific inquiries over privacy concerns, but noted the drones are flown primarily over remote border territory, not large cities. 
The first flights outside Arizona are begin this spring. A drone from Arizona will patrol the Canadian border out of Grand Forks Air Force Base, 
N.D. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 3, 2008 
THE OBSERVER 
At the movies with Hillary 

P.O. !lox 779. Norrc Dame, IN 46556 024 Suurh Dining Hall. Nurre Dome, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Chris Hine 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Jay Fitzpatrick Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Deirdre Krasula 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
N~WS EDITOR: Bill Brink 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Kara King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Chris Hine SCEN!l EDITOR: 'E•e Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Liz Harter 
PHOTO EDITOR: jessica Lee 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mary Jesse 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colk-ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofaU opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questio11s wgardi11g ObsmJrr policies should be directed UJ Editor ill ChiefChris Hi11e 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u: ( >hV'I"'ct (USPS 59l) l-'IIM)()) ~ puhl1llhcd Mon1iay thrnu~h Frid;~y CIU..'cpl durin~ c.um .:uuf Y.IO.~tJ0/1 pcri1J1l.t. AJUllll4·nprion 10 The Observt"r 11 $HHI for one ac<Klcmic yc,u; $')5·fiu ullc wm~tcr 
Thc Observer i• puhlidu:d .u POSTMASTER OH Sc)Uth Dining ll.tll Send Jddm~ comction~ to: 
Nmrc D.tmc. IN -46556-0niJ Thc:Oh~rvcr 
Pt:riotlicotl pmt.Jgc po~id .u Nouc O.llllc P.O. Boxn9 lind ~dditi,lnJJ m.uling ollie«. 1124 South Dining llall 

N111n: IJ;:~mc, IN 46'556-0779 
'!'he ()IJ'ierVcr ,. ~ mcmhc:r •ll the AU~l!;t.ucd P~. AU rcpn11h1C1ion righu arc 
te.K'.'l"Vt'J 

One of the worst things to happen to television in recent times, perhaps only surpassed in atrocity by "The IIilis," is the trend of cable networks straying from their stated purpose. TV Land is supposed to show episodes John Everett of classic televi­sion series, but Kids These good luck finding Daysllappy Days or The Dick Van Dyke Show. Instead, they've got a bunch of people who graduated high school together 20 years ago in the same house. Indeed it seems sometimes that C-SPAN is per­haps the last channel left resisting this ignoble trend, although I hear if you want to see the really good legislation, you have to go to C-SPAN 2. 
The worst offender is American Movie Classics. Their level of complici­ty is so disturbing because by includ­ing the word "classie" in their name they imply that anything they air has attained the level of classic, when in fact I once stumbled upon Catwoman, the 2004 Halle Berry vehicle, on the network. Now, I have no problem with that movie being shown on television, but isn't there a Starz: Reputation­Wrecking Performances Channel where they could show such films? 
For every Catwoman that AMC shows there is a much better movie they could be showing in its place, something that might in some circles be considered, you know, a classic. The result is that the public becomes less conversant on classic film, a prob­lem recently encountered by the real subject of this column, Hillary Clinton. 
Recently, the former First Lady, and also former prohibitive favorite for the Democratic nomination for president, began comparing herself to ultimate underdog Rocky Balboa in a remark­ably condescending appeal to Pennsylvania voters in advance of the state's April 22 primary. Mrs. Clinton's belief that the voters of Pennsylvania are stupid enough to buy the compari­son shall be left to other writers. What I am interested in is the fact that, due to the negligence of AMC, not one per­son on the Clinton campaign staff has ever seen the Best Picture winner from 1976. 
How do I know they haven't seen the movie? Well, I guess I don't, not really, but I just assume that if any of them had they would have mentioned to the candidate that Hocky loses to the black guy in the end. 
Now, I like to be helpful, just ask anybody, and I watch a lot of old movies, so I thought maybe I could help the Clinton campaign out here, and think of a more appropriate char­acter that Mrs. Clinton could claim connection to. I must admit that my immediate thoughts turned to The Godfather. Michael Corleone wouldn't let anything stand in his way, and nei­ther would Hillary. However, a google search of "Hillary Clinton+ fratricide" returned mixed results at best, so I let that one die. 
Other unflattering comparisons came to mind, mostly to female Disney villains, until I found that I was ashamed of myself: I was being mean to Mrs. Clinton. I was projecting all of the worst qualities I could think of onto her, and using that to form my comparison. No, the best way was to take the candidate at her own words, get to know her as she presents her­self, for really, I have no reason to doubt her, and use this to try and establish a resonant fictive compari­son. 
Well, I did this for a few days, and I'm proud to announce the result. Hillary Clinton is most like Forrest Gump. 
The surface likenesses are obvious, from an influential "Bubba" figure in each of their lives to their shared sta­tus as All-American Alabama football players. But the real connection here is more metaphysical. Think back to 
the movie, and what do you remem­
ber? Forrest sure was everywhere, 
wasn't he? School integrations, 
Watergate, Vietnam, opening up of 
China, heck he even met both Kennedy 
and Nixon. It seems like there wasn't a 
major event of the baby boom genera­
tion that Forrest Gump wasn't around 
for. He was never really the key figure, 
no, Forrest was more content to play a 
background role, and indeed you 
might remember the events quite well 
without remembering his involvement. 
Well, after listening to Mrs. Clinton discuss her "35 Years of Experience" at several different campaign stops recently, what better metaphor could there be for her life? This unfortunate woman has lived her whole life on the scene of the great moments of history, but no one remembers her role cor­rectly. What a pity David Trimble et at don't remember her at the peace talks in Ireland! What a shame that there is no one who can recall her so strongly protestirig the NAFTA agreements her husband championed! What an out­rage that her boss during her work on the Watergate hearings elearly misre­members her, since he elaims that she was then a deceitful, dishonest lawyer! 
Yes, like Forrest Gump, it seems no one will ever really acknowledge the pivotal role Mrs. Clinton has played in world affairs. The Clinton campaign needs to keep reminding us of this, to keep the flame alive, before Apollo Creed, I mean Barack Obama, puts it out forever. 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. He is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. lfyou have any information regarding his whereabouts, please contact jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Mandi Stirone Michael Bryan What are you most excited about 
Marcela Berrios Alex Barker 
for football season? 
Graphics Meaghan Blair Clwmidlin MeMahon 
Jon Tenuta's arrival Viewpoint Scene 
Mike Ilaywood taking over play-callingJohn Dailey Stephanie DePrez dutins 
to the Editor at 
Jimmy Clausnn's new haircut 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The gift of life is so precious that we should Jeel an obllgation to payback the un~verse for ,the gift of' bezng alwe. 
Ray Bradbury author 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 3, 2008 page 11 
God denied tenur~e, low TCEs cited 
We're approaching the time when students get the chance to evaluate their professors. This has me wonder­ing whether, after Judgment Day, we get to fill out TCEs on God? I'd be happy to complete one, but only if God Fr. Lou DeiFra swears to abide by the current 
anonymity and no-Faithpoint grade-change poli­cies. 
Not that I'd have anything particu­larly damning to say. In fact, I'd give God high scores on "Tbe instructor is well-prepared," though, granted, omniscience gives God a leg up here, and "The instructor welcomes contact with students outside of Church." But I'm still thinking about how God would rate on a few of the other crite­ria ... 
"When asked questions, the instruc­tor satisfies the students." Yikes. Question: "Teacher, where do you live?" Answer: "Come and see." Poetic, yes, but hardly satisfactory. In fact, I'm not sure He ever did answer that one. Furthermore, while some of God's communiques seem dispropor­tionately over-the-top (see parting of the Red Sea, the Incarnation, etc), He also, in these post-Biblical days, seems to skip office hours with alarm­ing regularity -maybe He already got tenure? 
Scripturally, during these 50 days of Easter, we are immersed in the heart­stirring narratives of the Resurrection -Mary Magdalene at the tomb, the two disciples on the road to Emmaus, Doubting Thomas. This should be a prime opportunity for God to answer the big questions clearly. For exam­ple, there is no greater human ques­tion than death -what lies on the other side of our deaths? If God can answer this one, perhaps we can for­give the obscurity with which He responds to many of our smaller 
. inquiries. God has great material to work with here. He resurrected his son from the dead. High score on "The class mate­rial stimulates creative thinking." If God is more powerful than death, then all kinds of horizons open up. If death is our question, the resurrection is a definitive, and admittedly quite wel­come, answer. The difficulty is that, in the days fol­lowing the Resurrection, the disciples are plagued by a striking amount of ambiguity, fear, and doubt. And, fur­thermore, Jesus' words and actions often seem to feed that ambiguity, more than clarify it. The evangelist Mark, probably the earliest canonical recorder of the Resurrection, indicates a rather unex­pected reaction from the first witness­es to the empty tomb and the announcement that the answer to the question of death is that there is more, and better, life. "Do not be amazed," says the angel at the vacant tomb. "Jesus has been raised; He is not here. Go tell the others." An assuring answer, to say the least. And yet, we read next: "So the disciples 
fled from the tomb, seized with trem­bling and bewilderment. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid." Incidentally, Mark's original Gospel probably ended on this rather sour note, which also conspicuously fails to include any positive appear­ance by the resurrected Christ. Only later generations of Christians were able to add the more positive endings of Jesus' appearance and Commissioning of the 11. These later Christians were, perhaps, as per­plexed as I am regarding Mark's ren­dering of God's pedagogical method. With outrageous love, God seems to give to the disciples at the tomb the answer key before they take the final exam. Only, when they open the key, the answers seem blurred, and the disciples, accordingly, disconcerted. 
Later evangelists' accounts confirm both of Mark's original themes -the reality of Jesus' resurrection from the dead, but also the lack of absolute clarity that this definitive answer should have provided for the disciples. Matthew captures the nearly contra­dictory experiences by recording that the disciples left the tomb "fearful, yet overjoyed." What kind of an answer produces simultaneous fear and over­abundant joy? 
Luke records that the resurrected Jesus appeared to two disciples walk­ing the road to Emmaus, took the time to explain patiently the Scriptures to them, then revealed himself fully in the breaking of the bread. This would have been a good time to hand out the TCEs-right after having the stu­dents over for that end-of-semester dinner. But not after He mysteriously vanishes from their sight, which hap­pens in the next verse. John likewise records that Jesus revealed his resur­rected self to Mary Magdalene, but when she lovingly moved to embrace him, Jesus commanded, "Do not hold on to me, for I am ascending to my Father and your Father." Again and again -the astounding and final answer of the Resurrection. Again and again-the disciples' struggle to wrap their arms around this answer. 
It's hard to fault God, generally speaking, and in this particular instance, God appears to have provid­ed as satisfactory an answer to our death as we could hope for. So why all the uncertainty and fear, laced throughout our greatest hope? Perhaps because what we hope for ­nothing short of our eventual resur­rection and divinization and union with God -is more than our human capacity currently allows us to under­stand? 
That is to suggest, the source of the confusion might lie in the students', rather than the teacher's, limitations. But that takes all the fun out of TCEs. 
Father Lou DelFra is the director of Bible studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Leave athletic 
sexism in the past 
When I started reading Greg Yatarola's column, "The tyranny of Title IX," it was April 2nd, 2008, but when I looked up from my paper it was 1950. The world had gone black and white, Notre Dame hadn't admitted women, and apparently, people cared about wrestling. 
The fact that Yatarola feels that wrestling should be priority No. 1 for the University, which frankly has more important things to worry about, isn't the worst part. Even worse is the fact that he discounted every athlete, coach, staffer, or fan of women's athlet­ics at Notre Dame and beyond. From his sweeping claims that men are physically superior, to his inappropriate and unnecessary drop-in comment about women athletes being "comfort women," Yatarola is the exact kind of person that Title IX responds to. 
There are some who agree and some who disagree with Title IX, so let me try to put it into phrasing that Yatarola might under­stand-Title IX is a disgrace. It's an absolute injustice, for no other reason than it is a relatively small attempt to apologize and make up for the massively one-sided, unfair, and unequal past treatment of women in the collegiate atmosphere. Its embarrass­ing existence is a painful reminder that our society actually had to write into law something that should have been a given in the first place -women deserve equal and just treatment. Yes there are flaws present in the implementation of Title IX, but since then, our female athletes have been able to pursue professional careers in sports, Muffet McGraw and Randy Waldrum (among others) have built nationally-ranked and recognized programs, and women's athletics has grown exponentially, and this is just at Notre Dame. 
It may be just my opinion, but if all we lost for this growth was a dead-weight wrestling program 16 years ago, I'd say we're doing just fine. And Greg, if you're hard up for some tough, hard-nosed, and "hopelessly working-class" competition, tune in Sunday to ESPN to see the coach with the most wins, male or female, in col­Jege basketball. Her name is Pat Summit and she's coaching the Tennessee Lady Volunteers. And to think, she wouldn't have 7 national championships and all those wins -if only Notre Dame kept a wrestling progFam. 
John Whitty sophomore Stanford Hall Apr. 1 
Rampant excitement for commencement speaker 
In case you haven't heard, this year's commencement speaker will be the Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, of Church fame. 
Now, I'm sure the Cardinal is a decent guy. I'm sure he's done something some­time that someone thought was real nice. Bet he mumbles a good hymn. But there'll be plenty of homilies from priests over graduation weekend. Do we need to replace the commencement speech with another? 
Commencement is our last chance to hear someone tell us important lies about the real world before we're jetti­soned into it, screaming and crying and, in all likelihood, drinking. So we'll have the Cardinal. 
But the Class of 2008 chose a different commencement speaker. A speaker with vision, who speaks from the gut, where the important decisions are made, like whether to blow all your flexpoints on Subway or Burger King. That speaker, of course, was Stephen Colbert. I know I'd pay for his appearance. He's a good look­ing gentleman. 
But apparently Our Lady disagreed. Presumably, she was offended by his notoriety, sense of humor, and relevance. These qualities are not in line with the mission of the University, it would seem. The University got so mad at Stephen she isn't even commenting on him! Oh snap! But what can we, the lowly class of 2008, do? I think the answer is obvious. 
But first, let's consider what we shouldn't do. Boycotting commencement is out of the question -who would give up the chance to stand up with hundreds of strangers then sit back down? Likewise, ignoring the Cardinal is out; no one will listen anyway, so it's not an act of defiance to do so. 
I say the best revenge is to live well. Which is to say, the best revenge is to lis­ten attentively and nod and smile and elbow neighbors and, in general, express a zealous enthusiasm for the Cardinal's speech (I believe the topic will be "The Kids These Days Don't Know What Religion Is, Why Don't You Go to Church More Often?"). 
I'd suggest taking the following addi­tional steps: Archies: forget that tiny cardboard version of the Basilica! Build one of those pointy cardinal hats on your mortarboard and write "McCarrick is my Hero!" or "We Love McCarrick!" or "Stephen Colb-who?" on it. 
Arts and Letters: I'm just saying, no one cares what you wear under that gown. Why not dress up like your favorite childhood hero, Cardinal Theodore "The Best" McCarrick? 
Business: You'll be too busy wondering where your soul went to listen to McCarrick anyway. I pity you, even though I envy your Scrooge McDuck-like piles of money. 
So, in sum: here comes McCarrick! Get ready to get really inappropriately excit­ed about something no one wanted any­way! 
And hey, Notre Dame Our Mother: maybe next time around you could put one of those giant golden arms down in your $6 billion pocket and fork over the cash for a real speaker. 
Chad Lavimoniere senior offcampus Apr. 2 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 

By KAITLYN CONWAY Scene Editor 
Looking for a movie in which a bar­ber kills all of' his clients'? Or maybe somdhing that makes you laugh as sonHHJne fantasizes about her love life with someone who won't even hold her hand'! Then "Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street" is right up your alley. 
"Sweeny Todd" follows the story of a barber who rnturns to London after 15 years in Australia, where he was ous scenes under Burton's direction. exiled on false charges. When he · Even then, the dark humor has its returns, he has lost both his wife and place in the movie. The movie is not child to the machinations of the vile supposed to be a pleasant one, but Judge Turpin. one-liners and The movie chron­antics from icles his growing While appropriate to the movie, Helena Bonham obsession with Carter's Mrs.
the excessive bloody and gory
getting revenge Lovett help ele­
scenes sometimes take away
on the judge at vate the mood in any cost. from the story ofTodd's revenge otherwise dark 
The movie has moments. In par­
on the despicable Judge Turpin. 
elements typical of director Tim Burton in it. The dim 
lighting, gothic costumes, deathly-pale characters
Sweeney Todd: 
with heavy eye makeup, fake blood and excessive gore are all examples of 

The Demon Barber of Fleet Street 
Director. lim Burton Burton's style present in the film.
Music by: Stephen Sondheim 

While appropriate to the
Starring: Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham Carter 
movie, the excessive bloody and gory scenes
andAlan Rickman 


sometimes take away from the story of Todd's revenge on the despicable Judge Turpin. Scenes that would have been poignant if not for the CGI blood and excessive violence turn into darkly humor­
ticular, her fan­
tasies during "By the Sea" are hilarious. Of course, you can't disregard Depp's acting in that 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

young Toby assures Mrs. Lovett of his devotion to her. Todd's love for his wife, Lucy, is also an important theme. It's his desire to avenge her that leads him to his obsession to kill Judge Turpin. 
In "Sweeney Todd," Depp and Bonham Carter deliver roles that arc both touching and frightening in a movie that sometimes goes overboard on the gore. Yet when you listen to Todd's bittersweet ballads and Mrs. Lovett's whimsical opening song "The Worst Pies in London," you can't help but enjoy the movie. There's some­thing entrancing about watching Todd's 
particular scene as descent into an obses­
There's something 

well, which is spot sive revenge.
entrancing about 

on and is also per­In a few words, the haps the only watching Todd's descent movie is delightfully moment when he is disturbing. If gore
into an obsessive revenge. 
not playing a venge­isn't your cup of tea, 
ful character. 

And the entire movie isn't just focused on Todd's sin­gle-minded desire for revenge; it is lightly paralleled by the love unfolding between Todd's shipmate, Anthony Ilope, and his daughter, Johanna. There is also a sweet, though eerie, mother-son bond that appears in "Not While I'm Around," in which th1~ 
then avoid it at all 

costs, as some scenes do go overboard, and the shock of Todd slitting someone's throat never goes away. But if you're looking for a darkly humorous yet moving l'ilm, this should definitely go on your list. 
Contact Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 

By JAMES COSTA 
Scene Writer 
Apparently Moby isn't done clubbing. 
After almost 25 years of frequenting the New York City club scene, digesting the beats, pulses and rhythms of elec­tronic light and reverb circuses, he offers his newest album. "Last Night," as a tribute to his many experiences of the past and his unquenchable thirst for linding new inspirations in the heat of the music. 
The album marks a return to the style of his extraordinarily popular 

Last Night 
Moby Released by: Mute 
Recommended Tracks: "Ooh Yeah," "Sweet Apocalypse" and "Mothers of the Nighf' 

1999 release "Play." While his last two releases, 2002's "18" and 2005's "llotel," moved away from the dance music formula that "Play" utilized to enthrall his audience in an atmospher­ic and near semi-con­scious realm of listen-est and most beautiful details, Moby pulls it off with characteristic ease and expertise. 
'It's not hard to trace the progress of 
the evening through the tracks on the record. Beginning with "Ooh Yeah," the 
ing, "Last Night" capi­song features a repeti­
A concept album, "Last
talizes on the best ele­tive vocal track simply 
ments of "Play" by Night" highlights the singing "ooh yeah" offering listeners a new moments ofan all-night over and over again. record of pure dance The music starts slow­
clubbing experience. 
music. It's a thumping, ly, building to a joyous 
emotional and invigor­ating series of tunes 
that never 

quite lets up for even a moment. The tunes blend into each other rather fantastically, not allowing for any respite from the constant sway of the beat, which is exactly what Moby was going for -executed to near-perfection. A concept album, "Last Night" highlights the moments of an all-night clubbing experience. While its funny to imag­ine a grown man in his 40s still exploring the metaphorical bedrock of dance music in its gritti­
frenzy, celebrating the 
beginning of an evening and all its promise and mys­tery, still waiting in the club shadows, ready to nash across the dance floor with the playing of the night's first song. 
Throughout the record, Moby barely makes an appearance himself at the microphone, and this is a good thing. While his skill with the mixer and beat machine is unquestionable, his vocals often have had a somewhat boring and dulling effect on previous albums. You just have to think back to "Play's" hit "Southside", a duet with Gwen Stefani, to remember why Moby shouldn't ever be adding his own voice to a record. 
As the album progresses, the pulses of the evening become more evident. Things start to slow down just a little 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

bit with the rather melancholy track "Degenerates." Following the first 10 tunes, it highlights the trance-like sen­sation of being awake and confused, surrounded by strangers and even stranger stimuli. It's not a bad track, but it's a bit boring. · 
After "Degenerates" come "Sweet Apocalypse" and "Mothers of the Night." While neither features any vocal tracks, both contribute to the winding-down tempo of the night. Void of the elated spirits highlighted on the album's first tracks, they are more rooted in desire for expression of dark­ened prayers. They are eerily observa­tional, showing that the clubber is quite aware of the varying levels of sensation and experienee circling through the mind as the evening pro­gresses on quickly towards dawn. 
While the album doesn't quite have moments as strong and resoundingly powerful as was found on tracks like "Play's" epic "Natural Blues" featuring Jill Scott, "Last Night" is still a wel­come return to the dance music form for Moby. lie's shown us that he's still in the dub, still listening, taking in everything and summarizing obvious complexities of thought into a thor­oughly enjoyable and solid set of tunes. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal @nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Thursday, April 3, 2008 page 13 


When the writers' strike ended a month and a half ago, I rejoiced in the metaphorieal streets in my mind. My favorite TV shows were returning and I could begin to blow off my homework and social life again so I could re-watch episodes of "30 Cassie Belek Hock" four times. 
But what I was Assistant really in for was a Scene Editor long wait until televi­sion shows resumed production and began airing new episodes. I couldn't have been happier when "How I Met Your Mother" returned on Mareh 17, but that only meant that I would still have to wait until April for the rest of my shows to finally come back. Guess what? It's April, and these are the shows I can't wait to see again. 
"Samantha Who?" Monday, April 7, 8:30p.m. 
This freshman comedy charmed me from the first moment Samantha Newly awoke from her coma. Christina Applegate stars as a former bad girl who's trying to make good after forget­ting her identity and past misdeeds. Samantha is joined by her childhood best friend she abandoned after gaining popularity. her bad-girl partner in crime who tries to get her to remember her naughty ways and her ex-boyfriend who she still harbors feelings for. In each episode, Samantha remembers a little something about her past and learns a new lesson. The format could get old, but "Samantha Who?" manages to keep it fresh and funny. 
"The Office" Thursday, April 10, 8 p.m. 
Was I disappointed in "The Oflice" this season? Heck yes. But am l still excited for "The Office" to return? Of course. I stuck through "Friends" and "The West Wing" through all their rough patches so I won't abandon "The Office" just because I think Michael Scott has lost all grounding in reality and Jim and Pam are so boring. There are so many things to look forward to in the show, like Kelly and Darryl's blossoming relationship and Angela fighting her feelings for Dwight. And then there's Toby. I really miss Toby. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
"30 Rock" Thursday, April 10, 8:30 p.m. 
What have I done without Liz Lemon and Jack Donaghy all these months? I'm really not quite sure. "30 Rock" has become my new "Arrested Development" (Jack Donaghy is my new Lucille Bluth), and the second season was on fire until the writers' strike put it out. "30 Hock" has surpassed "The Office" in comedy and excellence, and it's about time viewers started noticing. Thankfully, the show that brought us the dance hits "Werewolf Bar Mitzvah" and "Muffin Top" will be back in my life soon. My biggest hope? That the Floydster returns to Liz Lemon before she dies and meets a super-cute guy in heaven. 
"Gossip Girl" Monday, April 21,8 p.m. 

I know that I was probably the only one who watched the fourth season of "The O.C." (and people still don't believe me that it was awesome), but I was quite sad when the soapy teen drama was cancelled. And then "Gossip Girl" came to me in all its Upper East Side wealth and glamour. "Gossip Girl" has all the conniving, pretty people that "The O.C." had without Marissa (I hated her). I just hope that Serena gets less boring soon because right now, this show is all about Blair. 
"Ugly Betty" Thursday, April 24, 8 p.m. 

Is it okay that I like Gio more than Henry? Because I think Betty does too. And with Henry running off to Tuscan soon to be with his baby mama (or is she?), Betty needs someone in her life · who won't get anyone pregnant. This is a love triangle that probably won't go away any time soon, and I'm OK with that. I'm really just excited to have Wilhelmina, Marc and Amanda back in my life. My Thursdays aren't complete without their catty quips and sinister dealings. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy . 

April's Must--see Movies 
leatherheads -April 4 
Gio, left, and Betty's personalities may clash, but this duo's chemistry is enough evidence that these two belong together. Henry doesn't stand a chance. 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 3, 2008 
MLB 



Lester, Ortiz help Red Sox blank Athletics 
Bannister shuts down Detroit's vaunted offense as Kansas City improves to 2-0 for the first time in 28 years 
Associated Press 

OAKLAND. Calif. -After 
opening day in Japan, an exhi­
bition wnnknnd in Los Angeles 
and yet another opener in 
Oakland, the Boston Hnd Sox 
are finally headed baek east 
from the Far East. 

And they're still off to a 
roek-solid start to their crazy 
s1~ason. 

Jon Lester pitched three-hit ball into the seventh inning, David Ortiz broke open a scoreless game with a two-run homer and the Hed Sox beat the Athletics 5-0 Wednesday. 
Knvin Youkilis had a double and a run-seoring singln while setting the major league record for consecutive error­less games by a first baseman as the Hed Sox deft~ated the A's for the third time in a four­game series that began last wonk in Tokyo. Boston won two straight in Oakland, with Lester and Daisuke Matsuzaka carrying the Hed Sox until their hitters perk up. 
"We're certainly not on all cylinders," manager Terry Francona said. "That may be part of the trip ... but what they did today was good enough." 
The Red Sox still aren't done with a 16,000-mile trip that included two exhibitions against Japanese teams and a game in front of 115,300 fans at Los Angeles' Memorial Coliseum. Boston has a three­game weekend series in Toronto before finally getting back to Fenway Park. 
Lester (1-1 ), who lost his season debut in Japan, didn't allow an Oakland runner to reach second base after the first inning. He retired 10 straight batters before Emil Brown dropped a weak single into right field with two outs in the seventh. Lester then left to a standing ovation from a erowd made up of roughly 75 percent Red Sox fans. 
"I don't think the whole Japan thing is as big a deal as everybody is making it out to be," Lester said. "Sure, it was a long flight, but we had a few days to adjust, and now I think it's fine." 
Jason Varitek added a ninth­inning homer for Boston, and relievers Bryan Corey and Manny Delcarmen completed the shutout for the World Series champions, who held the A's to one run in the last 

CLASSIFIEDS 
two games. 

Ortiz was hitless in his first 
12 at-bats this season before a 
lifth-inning single. lie followed 
with a drive over the right­
field fence against former Red 
So"R reliever Alan Embree (0-1) 
as the A's bullpen wasted Rich 
Harden's second strong start. 

"I always do, I don't know why," Ortiz said of his pen­chant for slow starts. "It's about the same this year. It might be a little more crazy because we've been out of the country for a while." 
Lester was matched by Harden, the injury-plagued right-hander who started just four games last year. He yield­ed four hits and four walks while striking out six and repeatedly escaping trouble in live innings. 
"I wanted to keep my pitch count down and get a little deeper into the game," Harden said. "But it was one of those ones today where I kind of battled through it and threw a lot of pitches. I didn't really have any quick innings, so there's no point in pushing it. As the season goes on, we're going to extend it, definitely." 
Harden and Lester faced each other last month in Tokyo, with Harden getting the win with nine strikeouts in six innings of three-hit ball. 
Youkilis played his 194th consecutive mistake-free game at first base to break Steve Garvey's record for errorless games at their position. Youkilis even made a running, over-the-shoulder catch of Bobby Crosby's foul popup to end the seventh, and he adept­ly fielded Jack Cust's grounder to end the game. 
The A's gave first base to Youkilis in appreciation, and the ball used on his final putout was sent to the Hall of Fame. 
Royals 4, Tigers 0 

If Brian Bannister were a lefty, people would call him crafty. Instead, he'll have to settle for effective. 
Bannister stymied the Detroit Tigers' heralded offense Wednesday, allowing two singles in seven innings as the Kansas City Royals won. 
"That's a very good lineup, and they are going to score a lot of runs, but I also know that they have a lot more expectations than we do," Bannister said. "That's why I 

wanted to put them under pressure early." 
Bannister doesn't try for a lot of strikeouts, preferring to induce grounders and fly balls. 
"I get criticized for the way I pitch, but I believe in it, and it's working," said Bannister, who went 12-9 with a 3.87 ERA as·a rookie last season. 
Kansas City is 2-0 for the second time in 28 years. The Royals won their first nine games in 2003 en route to their only winning season since 1993. 
"This isn't the time to get cocky," new manager Trey Hillman said. "Banny pitched very well today, and this is a nice start, but that's still a very good team and we've got to face them again tomorrow." 
Detroit's high-paid attack has only scored four runs in 20 innings. The Tigers moved one runner into scoring posi­tion Wednesday and are hit­ting .191 with 19 strikeouts through two games. 
"If we got shut out by some­one who was hanging break­ing balls and leaving pitches in the middle of the plate, I'd be concerned," Tigers manager Jim Leyland said. "But when a guy locates like he did today, that's the way it goes. You aren't going to wear out good pitching that locates. You've got to take advantage of mis­takes, and we didn't do that." 
Edgar Renteria had Detroit's only hits, all singles. 
"He was always strike one on everybody, and when you do that, you get in a rhythm," said Gary Sheffield, who went 0-for-3. "Let's just hope that was the last shutout. We'll turn around." 
Bannister (1-0) gave up leadoff singles to Renteria in the first and fourth innings, didn't walk a batter and struck out four. Leo Nunez and Joakim Soria each threw a scoreless inning of relief. 
"I haven't gone farther than this yet this spring, and the way our bullpen is throwing, I'm happy to hand the ball to those guys," Bannister said. 
Kenny Rogers (0-1) dropped to 0-5 in nine starts since he beat Cleveland on July 4. He allowed two runs and five hits in six innings. 
''I'm disappointed that I did­n't hold us in there close enough, but all in all, those are the type of results you'll take every time out," he said. "Over the season, this is an outing that I'll win a few times." 
Rogers matched Bannister for the first five innings, allowing only a pair of singles, but got into trouble in the sixth. 
Mark Grudzielanek doubled with one out, improving to 12­for-20 {.600) against Rogers. Jose Guillen doubled with two outs and Billy Butler hit a 400­foot double to center for a 2-0 lead. 
"The second run was not very good pitching," Rogers said. "It was a dumb pitch, and Butler crushed it." 
Kansas City added two more runs in the eighth. Zach Miner struck out Alex Gordon and Guillen with runners on the corners, but Butler and Mark Teahen followed with RBI sin­gles. 
"If you can keep scoring runs with two out, you'll be a pretty good ball club," Butler said. "Banny was so good today that when we finally got some runs, it seemed huge." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

WANTED 
Child Care: Occasional evenings and weekends for our twin daugh­ters. age 7. Looking for someone who is responsible, energetic and enjoys kids. Good pay. Contact Paul at weith­man.1 @nd.edu or Maura at ryan.61 @nd.edu 
$14.25 BASE-APPT. STUDENT WORK flexible, no experience needed, customer sales/service. conditions apply, ages 18+, 574-273-3835, www.workforstudents.com 

Notre Dame Staff member seeks house sitting/furnished rental through July 31 while home is being built. Call574-360-6919. 
FoR RENT 
Newly remodeled 3 bed 1 bth home for rent walking distance to college. Call847-507-7444. 
Large house available for 2009-2010. Full renovations completed 2007. Close to campus. 4,000+ square feet, 5 bathrooms. MacSwain@gmail.com 
Housemate sought. Private room. Call631-7897. $400 monthly. 
For rent: Two story house ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage, new furnace and central air, new kitchen including appliances, large living room, free trash removal. Garage available for car-extra. Call 289-4071. 
For rent: 4 bdrm house, walk to N.D., student neighborhood, central air, new appliances, very nice. 289-4071. 
Quiet and Private, Furnished or 
Unfurnished apts for rent. 1 & 2 br available. Cable & wifi included. One mile from campus. Call 773­339-0299 for rates & availability. 


PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour con­fidential hotline at 1-8DO-No Abort or vis~ our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go ~ alone. If you or someone you love · needs confidential support or assis­tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our webs~e at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Summer In Maine: Males and females. Meet new friends! Travel! Teach your favorite activity. 'Tennis'Canoe'Water Ski*Swim'Saii'Kayak'Theatre'Vide o'Ropes'Otfice'Pottery'English Riding*Landsports and more. June to August. Residential. Enjoy our website. Apply on-line. TRIPP LAKE CAMP for Girls: 1-800-997­4347, www.tripplakecamp.com 
Blake, make me a sandwich. Peanut Butter and Jelly preferably. 
Cleveland sports are overrated. That includes St. Ed's HS. 
Big wheels keep on turning Carry me home to see my kin Singing songs about the Southland I miss Alabamy once again And I think its a sin. 
Nibblin' on sponge cake, watchin' the sun bake; All of those tourists covered with 
oil. Strummin' my six string on my front 
porch swing. Smell those shrimp They're beginnin' to boil. 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 15 
NCAA Men's _,,....,~ 1 nside Lacrosse ~roti''ll 
rank  team  
1  Syracuse  
2  Duke  
2  Maryland  
4  Virginia  
5  Georgetown  
6  North Carolina  
7  NOTReDAMe  
8  Cornell  
9  Navy  
10  Johns Hopkins  
11  Army  
12  UMBC  
13  Drexel  
14  Princeton  
15  Bucknell  
16  Brown  
17  Ohio State  
18  Delaware  
19  Hofstra  
20  Loyola Maryland  

rank team 
1 Northwestern 
2 Princeton 
2 Maryland 
4 Vil'lJinia 
5 Syracuse 
6 Georvetown 
l ll~lte 

8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 
20 

NOTRE DAME Ohio Stale Qulnnipiac Bellarmine Denver Air Force 
Big East wn~mf:!~n ~.. ~oa'lij;f\ Conference st';anatn.s!!!cs·· 
team conferert~->~<··· ;l'l(ltl'lal 
Syracuse 
2·0 

Georgetown 
2·0 

NOTRE DAME 2·1· 
Rutgers 1...1•'· Loyola Maryland 
N 

Connecticut 
0·3 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
NIT Championship Massachusetts vs. Ohio State 6 p.m., ESPN 
Slam Dunk &3-Point Championships 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Chicago at Cleveland 8 p.m., TNT 
Houston at Portland 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 
AP 

Los Angeles Dodgers manager Joe Torre, left, attempts to separate third-base coach Larry Bowa, right, from umpire Ed Montague. Bowa was thrown out of the game Tuesday for standing outside his coaching box. 
Bowa tossed, suspended after dispute 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES Dodgers third-base coach Larry Bowa was suspend­ed for three games and fined by the commission­er's office Wednesday fol­lowing a wild argument. 
Bowa was ejected from Tuesday night's game against San Francisco in the sixth inning by umpire Ed Montague, who had told him to keep within the boundaries of the coaching box. 
Bob Watson, baseball's vice president in charge of discipline, cited Bowa for "inappropriate and aggressive conduct," which included making contact with Montague several times. 
Major League Baseball announced in late February that starting this year, first-and third­base coaches must not cross the lines toward home plate or the field until batted balls pass them. Only then can they take up other spots to guide runners. 
In November, general managers decided big league base coaches must wear protective headgear this year, start­ing with exhibition games. 
Double-A first base coach Mike Coolbaugh was killed by a line drive to the neck last season. 
Third-base coaches routinely stand much closer to the plate than the lines permit, trying to get a better look at where outfielders are positioned. 
"I did it all spring, nobody said a word," Bowa said after the game. "I did it yesterday, nobody said a word. It's impossible to coach third and stay in the box with a runner at second." 
Montague said it was "probably one of the dumbest ejections he's had." 
"We got a memo and an edict, and they're adamant about the box and stuff," the umpire said. "Don't go up in front of the box toward home plate, and don't get any closer to the foul lines. I told Bo in the bot­tom of the fifth, because he got up close. And that's what caught my eye. And I just told him, 'Bo, you got the memo, we got the memo, and you've got to stay back.' I went over and told Joe in-between innings what I told Bo. And Bo just said, 'I'm going to do it the way I've always been doing it.' 

The ejection was Bowa's first since July 11, 2004, when he was managing Philadelphia and got banished after arguing balls and strikes with umpire Rob Drake. He was ejected 22 times during his four-year stint as Phillies manager, and five times while piloting San Diego-all in 1987. 
IN BRIEF McNamee sells Clemens NFL makes several changes, Knicks hire Walsh as president, 
mementos online for charity playoff reseeding voted down Thomas' future questionable 
BOSTON -Brian McNamee was plan­PALM BEACJI, Fla. -A show of hands NEW YORK-Donnie Walsh is in. ning to dump all his mementos of his made it obvious that reseeding the NFL Now he needs a little time before relationship with Roger Oemens. playoflS wasn't such a good idea. deciding if Isiah Thomas is out. 
Then a friend persuaded him to think So the league's competition committee Walsh was hired Wednesday as the better of it. withdrew the proposal Wednesday after an New York Knicks' president of basket­
Now the former personal trainer who informal vote sent it "down in flames," ball operations, taking one of Thomas' claims he injected the seven time Cy according to New York Giants co-owner jobs. Sometime soon, he will decide if Young Award winner with steroids is sell­John Mara. Thomas keeps the other one as coach. ing dozens of personal items in an online The owners did pass several resolutions, Walsh will have complete power to auction, and donating the profits to his including eliminating the forceout on recep­decide. Madison Square Garden juvenile diabetes charity. tions; allowing teams to defer their decision chairman James Dolan gave the long­
A baseball signed by Clemens and to the second half when winning the open­time Pacers executive full autonomy McNamee that started the day Thursday ing coin toss; and making field goals and to shape everything from the team's at $38 was bidding $4,000 by late after­extra points subject to replay review to roster to the organization's media pol­noon, said Phil Castinetti, a friend of determine whether the ball passes over the icy. McNamee's and owner of SportsWorld in crossbar and through the uprights. The Knicks (20-54) are finishing Saugus who is handling the sale. In addition, any direct snap from center their seventh straight losing season 
At Castinetti's suggestion, McNamee that is untouched by the quarterback now and are just as dysfunctional off the turned over 50 to 60 items including hats, will be a live ball; in the past it was consid­court. Thomas and Dolan were found uniforms, balls and pictures of Roger ered a false start and the play was blown to have sexually harassed a former Clemens, Andy Pettitte, Jose Canseco -dead. The 5-yard penalty for incidental team executive, Thomas has feuded "all the steroid guys," Castinetti says. contact with a facemask has been eliminat­with some players this season, and 
The first auction will end Friday. ed, with the 15-yarder remaining for any fans at Madison Square Garden fre­
Sorry, no syringes. grasping or twisting of the facemask. quently chant for him to be fired. 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 3, 2008 
NBA 



LeBron fouls out in Cavs victory over Bobcats 
Arenas makes return in Wizards' loss to Bucks; Celtics tie record for best single-season turnaround with win over Pacers 



Associated Press 

CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. -LeBron .lamBs seorml 29 points before fouling out for the only the fourth time in his career, but thn Cleveland Cavaliers made several big plays down the stretch and lwld off the Charlottn Bobeats 1 1 X-114 on Wednnsday night to snap a six­game road skid. 
.lames was called for his sixth foul whnn he reached in on Charlotte's Jason Hkhardson at the top of his drive to tho basket with Clnveland lnading 104-101 with 
3:56 left. 

The crowd chnered as James went to the bench, then watched Wally Szczerbiak, Devin Brown and Zydrunas llgauskas step up. 
Szczerbiak hit a jumper, Brown hit two free throws and llgauskas had two buckets as the Cavaliers took a 113-106 lead. Hichardson hit two 3­pointers to get the Bobcats to 116-114, but Brown made two free throws with 20 seconds left to put it away. 
Brown finished with 20 
Cavaliers forward LeBron James reacts after fouling out Cleveland's 118-114 win over Charlotte Wednesday. 
points, Anderson Varejao added 17 points and 12 rebounds and llgauskas had 16 points and 12 rebounds for Cleveland, which improved to 17-22 on the road. 
Hiehardson had 31 points, Emeka Okafor matched a sea­son high with 25 and Gerald Wallace scored 21 for the Bobcats, who lost their second straight game amid questions of coach Sam Vincent's future. 
With the Bobcats out of the playoff picture, part-owner Michael Jordan hasn't said if Vincent will return next sea­son. And on the same day Vincent made a passionate plea to keep his job, the Bobcats couldn't take advantage of James' absence. 
Early on James wowed the crowd which included Davidson guard Stephen Curry. James so impressed with Curry's torrid streak during the NCAA tournament he attended Davidson's upset win over Wisconsin last week in Detroit, when Curry scored 33 points. 
Bucks 110, Wizards 109 

Agent Zero is back. Now the Washington Wizards have to figure out how to win with him. 
Gilbert Arenas made a sur­prise return Wednesday night after 66 games away, but Hamon Sessions provided the Arenas-like dramatics with a 19-foot jumper at the buzzer to give the Milwaukee Bucks a victory over the Wizards. 
The Bucks, who never led by more than one point, set up the perfect inbounds play to win the game. With 1.1 seconds left, Royal Ivey threw the ball in to Andrew Bogut, who found Sessions open in the corner. There was barely a tick left on the clock as the ball left Sessions' hands, but the shot was clearly good upon instant replay review. 
Sessions gave the Bucks a chance to win by chasing down a loose ball in the backcourt after losing a jump ball to Caron Butler with 6.3 seconds left. Butler tipped the ball toward teammate Antawn Jamison, but Jamison had to dive into the second row of seats to.save it inbounds, keep­ing it alive for the hustling Sessions. 

Celtics 92 , Pacers 77 
Kevin Garnett had 20 points and 11 rebounds, and the Boston Celtics tied the NBA record for the best single-sea­son turnaround with a win over the Indiana Pacers on Wednesday night. 
With the league's best record at 60-15, the Celtics have 36 more wins than last season when they finished 24-58, the NBA's second worst mark. The only other team to improve by that much was the San Antonio Spurs, who went from 20-62 in 1996-97 to 56-26 the next sea­son, Tim Duncan's first. 
The Celtics added Garnett in the offseason and have won 60 games for the first time in 22 years. They were 67-15 in 1985-86, when they won the most recent of their 16 NBA championships. That was their sixth 60-win season in a seven­season stretch. 
Boston won its fifth straight and increased its Eastern Conference lead to 6? games over Detroit, which was idle. The Celtics lowered their magic number for clinching the No. 1 seed to two. 
Indiana dropped 3? games behind Atlanta for the final 
playoff spot in the East with each team having seven games remaining after Wednesday night, when the Hawks faced Toronto. 
The Pacers were led by Danny Granger with 14 points and Mike Dunleavy and Jermaine O'Neal with 12 each. O'Neal came off the bench for the second game since missing 33 straight with a bone bruise on his left knee. 
Hay Allen had 15 points and Leon Powe had 14 with nine rebounds for the Celtics. 
Boston hit its first four shots of· the game and Indiana missed its first six as the Celtics never trailed. They took a 35-24 lead with 7:2(> left on a 3-pointer by James Posey and led by at least 10 points the rest of the way. 



NoiRE"~ 

BOOKSIDRE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (5741631·6316 • www.ndwtalog.com 

Now available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 

OBIPCB022608A 

Thursday, April 3, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
LaRose's hat trick leads Carolina over Tampa 
Crosby scores two as Penguins clinch first division title in 10 years, Devils struggle in narrow defeat of Bruins 
for Carolina, which broke a t­Martin St. Louis had a goal Atlantic Division title only two straight win.
Associated Press 
all tie by scoring four straight and an assist, Jeff Halpern years after they had the "We are trying to move for­
RALEIGH, N.C. -After miss­goals. The Hurricanes lead scored, and Mike Smith Eastern Conference's worst ward and play well going into ing nearly two months with a Washington by two points in stopped 26 shots for last-place record and the NHL's second­the playoffs," goaltender broken leg, Chad LaRose is the Southeast race with one Tampa Bay, which lost its sec­worst mark. They also overtook Martin Brodeur said. "This is a making up for lost time. His game left. The Capitals have ond straight. The Lightning idle Montreal for the East lead big win. We didn't play our best latest effort helped the two games remaining. allowed two power-play goals by two points. The Canadiens game. We were patient in the Carolina Hurricanes stay one The Hurricanes could wrap after being perfect on the have two games remaining, at third, not trying to score right step ahead in the Southeast up the division crown and the penalty kill during their previ­home Thursday against away. We got rewarded by a Division race. No. 3 seed in the Eastern ous four games. Buffalo, and Saturday against big goal at the end." 
LaRose scored three goals to Conference playoffs by beating "It's been a tough year. We've Toronto. Pittsburgh ends the The win guarantees that the lead Carolina past the Tampa Florida on Friday in the regu­had some personnel changes. regular season Sunday at Devils won't finish lower than Bay Lightning 6-2 on lar-season finale or by having We're trying to work together Philadelphia. fifth in the Eastern Conference, Wednesday night. the Capitals lose one of their and get better as a team, but Pittsburgh hadn't won a divi­but it wasn't enough to keep 
"Sitting out for so long was so final two games in regulation. obviously, we know where sion title since taking the them alive in the division race. tough, and I promised myself "One more game to win, and we're at," St. Louis said. Northeast in 1997-98, the sea­The Pittsburgh Penguins cap­when I would get back that I'd we look forward to the chal­"We're trying to work for the son after Hall of Farner Mario tured the crown with a victory be great every shift," LaRose lenge against Florida," Staal future and trying to work hard Lemieux retired for the first over Philadelphia on said. ''I'm trying to work at it." said. "We need to come out to come together as a team." time. The Penguins have 102 Wednesday. 
Eric Staal and Tuomo Ruutu with that same energy and pas­Cam Ward turned aside 23 points to 97 for division rival The Devils can clinch fourth each had a goal and an assist, sion that we did tonight, and shots in his career-best 19th New Jersey, which beat Boston by winning at Philadelphia on and Scott Walker also scored just take it to them." straight start, the longest 3-2 in a shootout but can finish Friday or beating the New York 
streak by a Carolina goalie with no more than 101 points. Rangers at home Sunday in the since Arturs lrbe started 26 The Penguins, winning their regular-season finale. consecutive games from eighth in a row at home to "We talked about the home­February-April 2001. The assure themselves of no worse ice advantage," said Parise, Hurricanes snapped a two­than the No. 2 seeding in the. who got a shot at the game game slide that put their once­conference playoffs, trailed 2-1 winner after Brodeur stopped secure playoff position in peril. after the first before turning to Glen Metropolit, Phil Kessel, 
They frittered away most of their two stars for the game's David Krejci and Marco Sturm the six-point division lead they two biggest goals. in the shootout. "That's the had with six games left after All four were scored on the thing we need to get. It's an the Capitals beat them in a power play. important win for us." shootout last week and then Bruins goalie Tim Thomas topped them 4-1 Tuesday to Devils 3, Bruins 2 had stopped Brian Gionta, turn up the pressure inside the With the Atlantic Division Patrik Elias and Jamie dressing room. title now out of reach, the New Langenbrunner before facing 
Jersey Devils are working for Parise. Penguins 4, Flyers 2 the next best thing-home-ice Parise skated slowly down 
Sidney Crosby scored twice advantage for the first round of the middle, make a deke and and Evgeni Malkin netted the the playoffs. lifted a backhander over the go-ahead goal for the Zach Parise scored the only Thomas' glove. Pittsburgh Penguins, who goal in a four-round shootout, "I was watching what the clinched their first division title and the Devils moved within a other guys were doing, seeing in 10 years with a 4-2 win over win of assuring home ice for what Thomas was doing," the Philadelphia Flyers on the first round by beating the Parise said. "Gionta was saying Wednesday night. Boston Bruins 3-2 on he's putting his glove down. I 
The Penguins secured the Wednesday night for their third just wanted to put it over it." 

*""'­
.El3. 
'07 

UNIVERSITY OF 


NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
Sheedy Award 

MORRISSEY 
-MANOR-
Medallion Hunt Find the medallion and win $300! 


Clue #4: I tell yon you're hot on the trail The medal's where someone would sail "Bollocks!" yon say "Me find it? No way!" The fastest tomorrow can't fail 
The Manor Medallion Hunt is a week long campus-wide search for a single three-inch medallion. The Medallion is located somewhere on the Notre Dame campus-not in a residence hall, church, or at the Grotto. A new riddle will appear daily in the Observer and at the Morrissey website: 
www.nd.edu/-manor 
Bring the medallion to MoJTissey 001 bl'tWl'l'n 9-10 PM to claim you•· $300 prize!! 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean ofthe College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April14, 2008 

OLYMPICS 

Olyn1pic torch begins journey in Kazakhstan 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

Injury forces Pedro to DL 
ALMATY. Kazakhstan -The 
prosident of Kazakhstan ran 
with tlw Olympic l'lame 
Wednosday in a tightly guardnd 
cnremony that lw praised as a 
display of his country's tight 
rnlationship with China, thn 
host of llw SummPr <;ames. 

l;ronch athletPs and ol'licials promisml dissPnt ovPr Chineso policy af't1•r thP torch n1aches l·:uropn, saying that athletes ntrrying tlw torch through Paris would wnar badgos cell~­brating l'rPe Pxprnssion. The mayor of Paris said a banrwr supporting human rights would hang on city hall. 
Kazakhstan was tlw lirst stop for tho Olympic l'lanu• on its I :~O-day global tour. ProtPsts against China's policies toward Tilwt and Sudan werP expected in sevoral of tlw 21 stops alwad of tho lkijing Sumnwr Ganws. inl'luding London and San Francisco. 
About 4,GOO polkmnen werP deployod to guard thn ceremo­ny in Almaty, tlw economic cap­ital ol' the oil-rich nation fornwr Soviet n~ pub I i c, which has bnconw irHTnasingly depPndent on its economic and politi1~al tins with rwighboring China. 
"Tiw f'art that tlw city of Almaty hiH~amn tlw first point 
o I' t lw 0 I y m p ic 1'1 a rn n's r u n provns China's good atlitudn to Kazakhstan, and Chairman llu .lintao's good attitudn to mn 1wrsonally." l'rnsident Nursultan Nazarhaynv, drnss!'CI in a whitn sports outfit, said hPI'orn his short symbolic torch run at a mountain n~sort. Thousands of spectators wavml llags and rlwnrPd. 
"Wn are grateful for such good f'nPiings toward Kazakhstan," the (> 7-year old lnader said. 
A crowd grPntnd the char­tnn~d plarw that brought tlw torch from BPijing. About SO runners partiripatNI, including Kazakh athletns and govern­nwnt of'licials. 
Thn cluwring crowd mostly consisted of' uniVPrsity students who werp givPn a day ofT to participate in tlw festivities. 
Several said that thny sympa­thiznd with Tilwtans who have bnnn protesting against Chinnse ruin in rnrnnt weeks, prompt­ing a harsh cra1~kdown. But the students said tlwy chose not to disrupt tlw ceremonies, fearing dntention or nxpulsion from 



, presents 
Broker... ofCulture: Italian .Jesuits in the American We...t, 1848-1919 
(Stanford, 2007) 
Gerald McKevitt Santa Clara University 
Saturday. April 5, 2008 
9:00 a.m. -noon McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education 
university. 

Pnrf'orrnnrs in national cos­
tumes, symbolizing the multi­
ethnic: population of 
Kazakhstan. participated in a 
Iavis h n~ rerno ny. II orse and 
camel ridnrs evoked 
Kazakhstan's past as a major 
hub of' thn Creal Silk Hoad. 

Prndominantly Muslim Kazakhstan borders China's western Xinjiang region and is homn to a largo community of Uiglurrs. a Muslim minority in westPrn China whose language and culture arn distinct from llan Chirwsn. Kazakh authori­ties have arrestPd some Uighur activists who advocate inde­pendence from Beijing and nxtraditnd some to China. 
Tlw SG,OOO miles of torch relay is a record length. meant to showcase China's growing nconomic and political clout. But tlw Games have also focusnd attention on China over the protests in Tibet, the biggnst chaiiPnge to ChinesP rule in the Himalayan rngion since I 98lJ. 
David I>ouillnt, a two-time French gold medalist in judo, said torrh carriers in Paris will wear badgns as a "distinctive sign" eelnbrating free expres­sion. lin did not say what will be writtnn on thnm. 
Mayor Bertrand D1danoe said !'.ity hall will display tlw bannnr because "Paris defends human rights all over the world." 
Adivist group Heporters Without Borders has promised to protest China's crackdown on recent demonstrations in Tibet. 
Hobert Menard, the group's presidnnt. condnmned China as the biggest prison in the world" and said his mmnbers would be protnst in T-shirts emblazonnd an image of the five rings of the Olym pie logo transformed into five handcuiTs. 
Around SO athletes will carry thn torch over a 17.4-mile route that snakes round the Trocadero, down the Champs­Elysnns toward City llall. then crosses over tlw river Seine to the Lnfl Bank past the National Assembly. before ending at the Charlety track and field facility. 
The torch goes to Istanbul, Turkey on April 3; St. Petersburg, Russia on April 5; London on April 6; Paris on April 7 and San Francisco on April 9. 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Pedro Martinez will be sidelined four to six weeks with what the New York Mets said was a mild strain of his loft hamstring. 
The three-time Cy Young Award winnnr was placed on the 15-day disabled list before tlw Mots' game against the Florida Marlins on. Wednesday night. 
Martinez was injured Tuesday night, roturned to NPw York on Wednesday and was Bxamined by Dr. David Altchek at the Hospital for Spocial Surgnry. 
"We just have to play and get aftor it," Mets manag1~r Willie Handolph said after Wednesday night's 13-0 win over the Marlins. "We're going to miss him. I'm not trying to downplay losing Pedro. It's unfortunate. lie worked real hard to get back to this point. I know he was looking forward to being in the clubhouse around this team to help us win." 
The Mets will neod Oliver Perez, who threw six shutout innings Wndnesday's night, and .John Maine to pitch well until Martinez rnturns, and find another starter. 
"We're looking forward to those guys stepping up," 

Handolph said. 

Martinnz allowed four runs in :~ 1-3 innings during a 5­4, 10-inning defeat on Tuesday. limping off the mound after injuring himself during a pitch. 
"EvPryone !'nels bad about that," Perez said. "We just have to be prepared and continue to play." 
The Mets filled Martinez's roster spot by purchasing the contract of pitcher Nelson Figueroa from 
Tripln-A New Orleans. 
They eould put Figueroa in the rotation to start against Philadelphia at home next week. Jorge Sosa is a long shot possibility for thn rota­tion. 
"You can't feel sorry for yourself," Mets third base­man David Wright said. "When somebody goes down in thn lineup the hittnrs rally around onn another and pi1~k up the slack. I expnet the samn from tlw pitehnrs." 


Thursday, April 3, 2008 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
------------------------------------------------~--­
know no boundaries 

WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

-
~UNIVERSITY OF f:ii1 UNIVERSITY OF .
DEBARTO.O
WNOTREDAME .!J1 PERFORMING ARlS CE 'ITER W NOTRE DAME ...., Office ofthe President Center for Sodal Concans 

page 20 Thursday, April 3, 2008 
The Observer + SPORTS 


Battle 
continued from page 24 

Silverhawks and the Irish 
-a portion of' ticket sales 
wont toward cancer 
rosearch and tho Ara 
Parseghian Medical 
Hnsearch Foundation to light 
Nil~mann-Pick Type C 
I>isoase. 

"I just appreciate the Silverhawks to give us this opportunity to play," Schrage said. "ISilverhawks Prnsidentl Joe Kernan and lf"inld manager! Mark llaley arn both very classy individ­uals. The poople of' Miehiana got a chanco to put baseball in tlw spotlight tonight, and raisn money for a groat 1:ausn. 
Freshman Brian I>upra took tlw mound for the Irish. and from the first inning showed he was not shaken by the pressure. Dupra opnnnd the game by striking out tho side, elTeetively using his 92-mph fastball. In all thn~e at-bats [)upra located thn fastball for a l'irst-pitch strike, and thn1w only 11 pitchns in the inning. "Corning back from tlw fin ld Brian said that hP should havn signed his pro contract 1:orning out of' high school,'' Schrage said. "lie got hit a liHif! bit in thl' sncorHI. but it was a good linn and overall hn playNI great." 
Thn Irish recPived nvnn morn produetion out of' thnir talnntnd freshman class, as they showed the team was good enough to compete with a minor-leagun squad. Evan Danieli threw a shulout inning, while Hyan Sharpley gave up one run but struck in1t 'two in an inning of work. Frnshman Matt Seioseia, hit­less on the year entering the gamn, came up in a big way with a game-tying two-run 


-
double in the fifth inning, and classmate Cameron McConnell ripped an HBI double to the gap. 
"It's certainly a w11ight ofT my shouldPrs, it's a relief to finally get the hit, get my !'net wet a little bit, especial­ly in a dutch situation likn that," Scioscia said. "It helps to stay close with a pro-team like this, it helps give us more confidence, a little bit more of a swagger." The Irish used six other pitchers throughout the rest of the game, getting score­less innings from freshmen Todd Miller and Joe Spizzirri, sophomore Andrew Scheid, and senior Justin Gingerich. Junior Brett GrafTy gave up two unearned runs, while classmate Sam Elarn gave up one earned run in his outing. Dupra lead the team with four strikeouts 
in two innings of work. Dupra gave up eight runs in his collegiate debut. 
"It was cool to come. in and pitch against minor lea­guers, because you hnar about all these guys signing pro-contracts and all that," said I>upra. "But after tho way my first collogn inning went and the way the first inning went tonight, it was tough to hold back a smilo walking towards the dugout." 
The Irish will look to keep the momentum and the smiles going as they enter­tain Big East rival Hutgers at Frank Eck Stadium for a four game series beginning this Friday at 5:05pm. Junior David Phelps is slated to take the mound in the 
Contact Pat Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu 


Duke 

continued from page 24 
against the. nation's elite teams. 
Leading the Blue Devils offensively are junior attackers Carolyn Davis and Meagan Del Monte, who have combined for 55 goals on the season. Davis has also tallied 11 assists and leads Duke in points with 42. 
Coyne said the team enjoys facing top competition like Duke outside of conference play. 
"This is why we play the game," Coyne said. "We're not here to just be winning. We want to beat the best teams because we want to be the best, and that's how you make that happen." 
Notre Dame has certainly proved itself capable against lesser opponents, as it thrashed winless Conneeticut 18-11 in its last game. Junior attack Jillian Byers scored seven goals in the contest, extending her season total to 49 -best in the country and eight ahead of' William & Mary's Jaime Sellers. 
"In the Connecticut game, 
she was definitely in the flow," Coyne said. "We were wide­open and they were finding each other. Her off-ball move­ment is excellent, and she was getting herself open and capi­talizing on her opportunities." 
Despite Byers' outstanding individual achievements and play, Coyne said the junior's focus remains on doing what­ever it takes to win. 
"If' you asked her whether she wants to be leading the country in scoring or winning a national championship, she'd definitely say a national cham­pionship. The records don't really matter to her ... it's all about winning." 
Byers was recently named Big East offensive player of the week following hnr perform­ance in wins over the Huskies and Hofstra. The Irish hope Byers' succnss will continue when they face oil' against the Blue Devils at 4 p.m. 
Thn Irish will travel to play at Northwestern and Big-East foe Georgetown next wnek before returning homn to play a non-conference contnst with Vanderbilt on April 16. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Poor conditions move Belles game one day 
The doublehnader has been

Observer Staff Report 
pushed back one day and will 

The MIAA conference game now be played today with first between Saint Mary's {13-3) pitch schedulnd for 3:30 p.m. and Olivet (5-11) scheduled for The Belles are 13-3 on the Wednesday was postponed due season, 2-0 in MIAA play. Olivet to poor field conditions in brings a 5-11 record into Olivet, Mich. today's game. 
Summer Internship Position Available Concessions Supervisor Internship in Baseball 
Professional Sports Catering and the South Bend Silver Hawks are seeking a Concessions Supervisor Intern to help run the concessions operation at Coveleski Stadium. This is a great internship for a driven, hard-working student seeking a fun summer job in a promising career-oriented position! . 
The Concessions Supervisor Intern is responsible for: 
• 
Scheduling/mgmt of 1 00+ hourly FS employees 

• 
Assisting with product ordering 

• 
Overall organization, sanitation, and stocking levels of all concessions stands and food ports 

• 
Compiling concessions-related reports 


This is a full-time seasonal internship starting ASAP and going through August. This position is heavy on the hours and on the responsibility, but is also paid at $425 per week. Prior food service experience preferred. 
For more information, please view our job posting on 
GoIrish, or contact Jeff Osborn at josborn@prosportsmarketing.net. 

Write Sports. II Chris at 1-4543. 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

year," Bold said. "I should call Coach Weis and give him some
BookstoreBacks 
pointers." continued from page 24 
continued from page 24 
Manchild Nation 21, Dream 
ing from a scrape on the Team Bailers 9 Weis said, is that he can be 
having this many backs, 
knee after a loose ball, and An outmatched Dream Team confident going with any of 
there were many more tipped squad of five Saint Mary's girls the three of them in any sit­
balls. However, the Chu was unable to put up much of a uation. 
Ballzers were not to be stopped fight against the Manchild "That's one of the positions 
on this day. Nation, who dominated most of on the team where you can 
Throughout the second half, the game with its physical put three guys out there and 
they opened up the offense, prowess. feel confident that you are 
running out on the fast break Dream Team started off putting a top-flight player 
and, most notably, draining a strong scoring the first basket out there," he said. 
number of jump shots from of the game, but from then on Weis also said that the 
outside. was stifled by Manchild's tough running backs themselves 
"We'd like to make it to at defensive scheme. will "dictate how much they 
least the round of 32," said Their zone defense caused play" based on their per­
Garcia. "I think we could really several fast break lay-ups put formance in spring camp. 
surprise some people." the men from Siegfried up 11-3 But regardless of who is 
As for the Camels, however, at halftime. standing in the backfield for 
Wednesday's game marked the The Dream Team once again the first snap, Weis said that 
end of the road. tried to get out to fast start at all three can expect to see 
the beginning of the half by playing time in each game. 
So Money 21, Spitzer's scoring the first point. Weis said that he is not 
Callgirls 7 However, once again, looking at anything in partic­
The bright yellow jerseys Manchild Nation answered ular during the spring; 
worn by So Money might ini­with several blocks, steals, and rather, he is doing an overall 
tially draw a viewer to watch lay-ups to pull away. evaluation of the various stands how the system works He's a high-tempo eoach, big 
their game. Their play, howev­The Manchild Nation did skills necessary for a run­and that he supports Weis' time attitude guy and that's 
er, will certainly keep you admit they had a bit of a tough ning back to succeed. decision to play whichever how we're running the ball." 
watching. time finishing off the Dream ''I'm just looking period. tailback seems most ready 
Showcasing athleticism and Team. I'm just watching. I'm for that week's game. Notes: 
team organization not normal­watching blitz pickup. I'm "I know coach Weis is a big +Kallen Wade'> mother 
ly seen in Bookstore Bagkehbauw 21, No watching run reads. I'm fan of seeing who has the Valerie Wade pas>ed away 
Basketball, So Money disposed Bookstore For Old Men 19 watching routes. I'm watch­hot hand and that's who you this week. Saturday's prac­
of Spitzer's Callgirls. In a battle that pitted the ing their hands. I'm watch­go with. That's smart. I can't tice and coaching clinic has 
"We've been playing together young against the old, the ing their knowledge. I'm argue with that," Aldridge been moved to 7:30 a.m. at 
for the last three years," So freshmen from Bagkehbauw watching for mental errors. said. "He pretty much leaves Wade's sister's request so his 
Money captain Brad LeNoir outlasted the senior-laden "No It's all encompassing. I'm it up to us to see what we teammates can join him at 
said. Bookstore For Old Men" 21-19. looking at everything they can do." the funeral Saturday after­
The game, particularly the "They had a definite age do," he said. Aldridge also said the unit noon in Cincinnati. 
opening 10 points, was very advantage," No Bookstore for Aldridge said this system is has worked to develop the 
competitive, much more than Old Men member P.J. LeBlanc "bittersweet" because it "swagger" Weis said he +Weis and special teams 
the final score would indicate. said. "They just out ran us." means more rest, but with wanted to instill in the team coach Brian Polia.n visited 
The teams traded baskets at The weather conditions that fewer carries. this season, in large part Virginia Tech on Tuesday to 
the beginning, which resulted proved to be somewhat of an "You can get into a flow because of offensive coordi­talk with Hokies h·~ad coach 
in a 4-4 tie. From there, how­advantage for the seniors. when you get 20, 25 carries nator and running backs Frank Beemer, whllse teams 
ever, So Money would take con­"It was nice outside, but the but you also can get tired coach Mike Haywood. are known for their great 
trol. Implementing a half court wind was definitely a factor," after a while," he said. "Our swagger is up there special teams play. Weis said 
trap, it forced the Callgirls into Mat Spencer of Bagkehbauw "Naturally a person's going because we all run with an in return he talked with 
a number of turnovers and said. to get tired. Coming in and attitude. And that comes Virginia Tech's offensive 
contested shots, and So Money The game was closely con­having fresh legs is also a from the coaching. Coach coaching staff. 
drained its own shots on tested. The teams traded bas­good thing too. I've always Haywood coaches the run­
offense. They scored the final kets for most of the game and been a big fan of fresh legs." ning backs and his personal­Contact Jay Fitzpatrkk at 
seven points of the first half neither held a lead greater Aldridge said he under-ity comes out through us. jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
and ran away to a 11-4 lead. than three. "We weren't worried," Thanks to a string of jump 
LeNoir said. "But give them credit, they came out and played really well." 
In the second half, So Money cruised as it did in the first half, knocking down shots and playing tenacious defense en route to the victory. 
"We hope to win it all, but you never know," LeNoir said. "You could easily get matched up against an unseeded team who is really good. Last year, we made it to the round of 32, but this year we are hoping to go farther." 
The Callgirls, however, refused to consider themselves the losers, even after the game. 
"We may have lost, sure," Callgirl Steve Bold said. "But we were definitely well groomed, though." 
And as if that didn't make them winners already, Bold went further. 
"Overall, I think we did bet­ter than the football team this shots, Bagkehbauw took an 11­8 lead into halftime. 
The experienced seniors refused to give in and fought their way back to tie the game at 16. 
As fatigue began to set in, the younger freshmen dis­played their superior fitness and pulled away to win by two. 
"We need to work on the age thing in the offseason," LeBlanc said shortly before being reminded of his pending graduation. "They started making jump shots and we did­n't." 
Spencer is looking forward to the next round 
"It was a good win for our team," Spencer said. "We still need to work on our zone offense before next round's game." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu, Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.edu 

Coffee· at Ute Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, April 3 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian. and bisexual members of tile Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal gathering at tile Co-Mo. 



Good Luck to 
Molly Dawes 
Our 

IRISH~ IDOL! 



Love, Dad, Mom, Sheila and Colleen 
So glad you are Part ofour World! 
r I  page 22  The Observer+  SPORTS  
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS  
Irish sweep Boilermakers  
Team clinches match with four early wins, holds off Purdue's rally  

By DAN MASTERTON 
Sports Writer 

The Boilermakers staged a strong comeback, pushing three Irish singles player to three-set matches, but the drama was already over. 
Notre Dame sealed Wednesday's match early, win­ning all four early matches handily and then preventing all three Purdue comebacks for a 7-0 sweep. 
The Irish (14-7) flexed their muscles early, taking the dou­bles point on their way to sweeping the match. 
The dynamic pair of senior Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft started the sweep with an 8-2 win. Buck and Tefft were ranked the No. 1 doubles pair in the national poll for the third straight time this week. They have won 12 of their last 13 matches. 
Sophomores Colleen Rielley and Cosmina Ciobanu fell from tho national doubles rankings this past week, but extended their win streak to seven. Their 8-4 win over Cigdem l>uru and Joanna Craven improved their record to an impressive 14-1 on the dual season and gave the doubles point to Notre Dame for the eighth straight match. 
Sophomore Kali Krisik most often plays No. 3 doubles with freshman Kristen Rafael, but RaJael has been out since hav­ing to retire during the first set of her singles match on March 22 at Texas A&M. 
Against Purdue, Krisik played with junior Katie Potts for the second straight match. The duo lost against Indiana in a tiebreak but bounced back to win 8-6 over Purdue's Whitney Reys and Alejandra Boeker to complete the dou­bles sweep. 
However, the momentum did not immediately carry over to the singles matches. Purdue started strong, winning the first two sets but the tide turned quickly. 
Potts made a statement by dropping a 6-0, 6-0 "bagel" on Purdue's Boeker. The junior extended her personal win­ning streak to three and gave the Irish the momentum they needed to take the match. 
Krisik fell out of the national rankings this week but contin­ued to play like one of the country's best. After rolling to a 6-0 first set victory, Krisik pulled out a 7-6 win in the second set to improve to 18-3 in the dual season. 
Krisik is now 43-10 so far in her two years at Notre Dame, and her .811 winning percent­age is good for third in school history. 
Tefft made short work of Purdue's No. 1 player Brooke Beier, winning 6-3, 6-1. Tefft is now 10-4 in the No. 1 lineup slot, and her two-set win clinched the match for Notre Dame. 
Rielley was next off the court, rebounding from a two­set loss at the hands of Indiana's Lindsey Stuckey to win in three sets over the Boilermakers' Craven, 5-7, 7­5, 6-3. 
Ciobanu battled through a three-set thriller of her own. After splitting the first two sets, Ciobanu and Duru played an abbreviated, tiebreaker third set, which Ciobanu won 10-7. She has now played 35 singles matches this year, the most on the team. 
Buck capped the sweep by recovering from a 6-7 loss in the first set to win the last two 6-0, 6-3. Buck increased her personal win streak to six, the longest active streak of any Notre Dame player. 
The 7-0 win put Notre Dame a season-high seven games above .500. The Irish will try to carry the momentum on the road with them as they travel to Iowa City, Iowa to face the No. 46 Hawkeyes. First serve will be Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Dan Masterton at dmastert@nd.edu 
Pitching 
continued from page 24 
both of the Notre Dame's 
RBis. 
"Katie really stepped up for us today, but she has been having that kind of a great year," Gumpf said. 
Laing hit a towering home­run over the fence in left-cen­ter field on the first pitch she saw from Rockets pitcher sophomore Hannah Rockhold, Laing's third of the year. 
' "I tried something new at the plate today, and I was see­ing the ball very well," Laing said. "I hit the homerun because I was upset at miss­ing the catch on a bloop fly­ball just before." 
It was on that fly ball the Rockets put their first and only run on the board. Rockets catcher junior Alison Hess led off the second inning with a double to put a runner in scoring position with no outs. Valdivia almost snuck out of the inning unscathed, retiring the next two batters, but with two outs, Rockets sophomore Whitney Erickson hit the bloop fly-ball that Laing just couldn't quite reach. 
Laing plated the game-win­ner in the third inning with a sharp line-drive to center field that scored freshman Sadie Pitzenberger. That run would prove enough, as the Rockets never had another scoring opportunity for the rest of the game. 
Valdivia threw three innings giving up only two hits and one run with four strikeouts. 
"Jody [Valdivia] only gave 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 
up that one real hit, and then she got hurt for it because of that little blooper to right field, which she couldn't do anything about," Gumpf said. 
Bargar came into the game in the fourth inning and picked up where Valdivia left off, facing the minimum over the final four innings. Bargar notched the win with two strikeouts and no runs, hits, or walks. 
"Bargar really shut the door on them," Gumpf said. "Brittney is doing right now what I expect her to do all the time. She is leading the team, she is a very strong force out there on the mound, and she takes control of the hitters." 
The only complaint for the Gumpf Irish in this game was the runners they left on base. The Irish had two runners on base with only one out in both the second and fourth innings, and failed to capitalize in both situations. 
"We left a lot of runners on base in scoring position," Gumpf said. "And we really need to do a better job of driv­ing them in." 
In the second inning, two walks and a bunt had junior Stephanie Mola and sopho­more Christine Lux on second and third base, but the next two batters failed to get drive in the potential runs. 
"It is an issue when we have runners at second and third and can't score them early," Gumpfsaid. 

The Irish will resume Big East play this weekend with two double-headers against St. John's and Seton Hall. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


John Paul II and the Jews 
. 

Presented by ordained Rabbi Dr. David Dalin 
Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 
7:30p.m. Thursday, April 3 
Thursday, April 3, 2008 The Observer~~ TODAY page 23 

HENRl ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

JJIJJMJID11JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
BUTIC ± 
@2008 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NARCK ± 
tGURCOHj 
. J I [ [] 
www.jurnble.corn 



I GOAFER± 
rJ [ J 1 
A: 

A rI I I I JrI I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: EXUDE LIMIT CHARGE UNEASY Answer: When the mechanic installed the new muffler, it was -"EXHAUSTING" 


HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Christopher Meloni, 47; Emmylou Harris, 61; Linda Hunt, 63; Leon Russell, 66 
Happy Birthday: Don't feel pressured to move too quickly to make a decision or to finalize a deal. Study carefully each situation you face. You have far greater control than you realize --you can organize your time and your priorities to reach the maximum end result. Your numbers are 2, 13, 20, 23, 25,31 
ARIES (March it-April 19): An unusual connection will get you thinking about the possibilities that exist. Patience will be required and trimming your plans down to something that will not leave you short financially will be the key to your success. 4 stars TAURUS (April20-May 20): Stick to what benefits you and your interests. Giving your money or donating to someone else's cause will end up in personal loss. Serious thought, planning and action will pay off if you go forward alone. 2 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Don't let anyone persuade you to go in one direc­tion when you clearly want to go in another. Your imagination and intuition will lead you to the results you want. Avoid anyone who is using emotional blackmail. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): You'll be tempted to do things differently or to change your lifestyle ifyou meet someone who impresses you. Things are look­ing up and it's time for you to put your efforts into something you believe in. You won't have to go far to find what you want. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): Give more thought to your financial situation. Make creative adjustments that will help you budget efficiently. Now is nut the time to pay for others or to support someone else's needs. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll be getting attention but don't let it go to your head. A money game or power struggle may cause you to lose out ifyou allow compliments to sway a decision you must make. Have fun but don't get too seri­ous about what others are asking of you. 3 stars LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be creative when looking for answers but don't give in to something or someone who will make you angry or feel used later on. This is not the time to try to impress someone at the expense of losing out on some­thing you want for yourself. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel and communication will lead you to a lu-· crative endeavor. You may want to make a physical or mental change in order to take full advantage of an opportunity or offer that is available. 5 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): You won't be thinking clearly when it comes to emotional or personal matters and this can lead to mistakes. Refrain from shar­ing your thoughts until you know where everyone else stands. Someone is likely to put restrictions on you. 2 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't fall into the trap that someone who wants your support dangles in front of you. Ifit sounds too good to be true, it is. Do your research and make sure you understand all the possible consequences. Take the reins and make a few adjustments. 4 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't shut down due to emotional upset. Instead, make adjustments and continue in the direction that suits you best. Your strength to move forward on your own will make a statement that will be respected. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be prepared to do some damage control if a secret matter is revealed because of an emotional mishap. You can come out of what­ever sitoation looking good if you are conscious of what is fair and just for every­one involved. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, sensitive and compassionate. You are insight­ful and helpful, an advocate of justice and fair play and passionate about standing up for the underdog. 
..... 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 3, 2008 
page 24 
..-
FooTBALL 

Three-legged race 
Trio of running backs to compete for carries 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Wri tcr 
Last offseason, one of the biggest questions for Notre Dame's ofTensn was who the starting tailback would be. Darius Walker, who aeeount­ed for three quarters of the team's rushing yards and 60 percent of its carries, defect­ed for llw NFL after his jun­ior season, leaving a void in the backfield going into the spring. 
This year, running baek is one of the most solid posi­tions in the Irish offense, with three experienced rush­ers ready to handle the load. 
IUs i n g j u n i or Jam e s Aldridge and rising sopho­mores Hobert llughes and Armando Allen each bring different styles to the Irish offense. llughes is a stereo­typical "powfH baek" who mostly ran dives up the gut. Allen played more of a finesse game, running out­side the tackles and catching s1:reens and swing passes. Aldridge was a eombination 


Left, rising junior running back James Aldridge sprints during practice Wednesday. Right, rising 
sophomore running back Robert Hughes runs through drills. 
of the two, showing both carried 121 times for 463 speed and strength at differ­yards, Allen was second on ent times. the team with 86 carries and 
None of the backs received 348 yards, and Hughes as much playing time as rounded out the group with Walker did two seasons ago, 294 yards on 53 carries. As a but their even carries creat­unit, the trio carried 260 ed similar results. Aldridge times for 1,105 yards, or 
4.25 yards per carry. By comparison, last season Walker carried the ball 255 times for 1,267 yards, and average of 4.96 
The clearest advantage to 
see BACKS/page 21 

BASEBALL 
Localteams battle, help fight cancer 
By PAT STYNES Sports Writer 
For most college baseball squads, mid-week gan111s allow the younger and inex­perienced players the chance to get reps in non-conference games. But Wednesday's game was a different story ­the game itself was about more than just the final score. 
Notre Dame coach David Schrage's wife, Jody, passed away due to liver cancer last January. Despite the unimag­inable hardship of dealing with such a loss, and the burden of being a single father, Schrage chose not to take a leave of absence from the team, and instead chose to keep his commitment to his players and coach the Irish squad that season. 
Last night, 2,337 fans attended the exhibition between the South Bend 
see BATTLE/page 20 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Chu Ballzers cruise to easy victory over Flying Ca111els 
their opening round game nights and early mornings," 1 halftime lead by mostly "Put on your rally caps!" oneBy ALEX BARKER & ANDY Wednesday. In a game that was said Ballzers Kevin Garcia with pounding the ball inside. The fan yelled, after the score ofZlCCARELLI as dose as the final score indi­a laugh. team used its superior height the game reached 20-3.
Sports Writers 

cates, The Chu Ballzers made All kidding aside, Chu to its advantage. The Camels were fierce on quick work of the Flying Ballzers looked like a team that The Flying Camels, however, the boards and went after looseWhether it was draining out­Camels, defeating them by a could be a force to be reckoned refused to phone the game in, balls with vigor. There was atsidP shots or finishing layups, it score of 21-3. with. A team consisting of perhaps to appease their least one blood sighting, result-did not seem to make a differ­
"We eame out and gave it our upperclassmen from Keough cheering section that watched 
nnen to the Chu BallzPrs in 

all. It was lots of practice, late Hall, they jumped out to an 11-from the corner of the court. see BOOKSTORE/page 21 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Laxers travel to take on No. 7 Blue Devils 
By MATT GAMBER Associate Sports Ediwr 
No. 12 Notre Damn will battle its second top-1 0 oppo­rwnt of' the smtson tomorrow wlwn it takes on No. 7 Duke in Durham. N.C. 
The Irish (S-3, 2-1 Big East) will try to take the momen­

-
tum they have built over the past few weeks as winners of thnw straight and five of their last six. The Blue Devils, on the other hand, have lost two straight, induding their first home loss in two years. "I think we're in a good position going in because we do have the momentum -not just because of the games we've won. but how we've 
won them," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We struggled early but we've learned a lot as a team, whereas Duke is in the midst of their struggle ­but I still think they're very well-coached and very athlet­
ic. And traditionally, we haven't beaten them, so I don't care what their record 
is." 
Notre Dame's only blemish since two consecutive losses in California came when the Irish lost their Big East open­er to No. 6 Syracuse 16-13 in overtime on March 16. With important Big East games and the conference tournament on tap, the Irish hope to prove they can compete 
see DUKE/page 20 

ND SOFTBALL 
Laing, pitching key in 2-1 win 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 
The Irish squeaked out a 2-1 victory over Toledo Wednesday behind outstanding individual performances from senior sec­ond-baseman Katie Laing and the one-two pitching punch of freshman Jody Valdivia and junior Brittney Bargar. 
"A win is a win," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "We took care of business today to beat Toledo, but I feel like we could have done a better job of finish­ing the game and not leaving runners on base." 
Laing single-handedly accounted for almost the entire Irish offense on the day, batting 3-for-3 with a solo homerun, a double, a single, a run, and 
see PITCHING/page 22 












